

les
Machinery Merchants,
107
—FOR—
*’ and
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted In all parts of New South Wales.
Kent: street:, Sydney*
Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
New and Secondhand Plants always available.
MONEY
On all
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
N-5-W- MONT
PIETE D QI C
QH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
one: City 9325.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
I
v ■ - lv ) 9
iilNili-
LliliLlii-L
BSS^gg
si. lyyijwww
IF'*- ■■ ‘SSffiffßffVi l li"-- =lll. Hlllll'lHHHlMii:
COnrtOiS5EDP5
@ss
Supplied by the bottle, case or gallon at
wholesale price.
Richardson’s
Wine & Spirit Stores
259 Little Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
158 Russell St.,
MELBOURNE.
fdshdfs
hgdfshg
Huron’s
HamdA 6acoi\
4e4£>‘%
CHUBB’S
STEEL AND
CONCRETE
DOORS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablet#
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
ive organs.
HANSENS
dfsh
-
fo, INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
— Ufa —
dfh
are entirely free from canvas. The rubber-cord
foundation ensures greater resiliency—longer life!
The Silvertown Rubber Co.
279 George Street, Sydney;
mm
“ Not the same as others
The Paraffine Paint Co.,
Cliallis House <D. s EVANS, AustralasSan Manager), Sydney.
The Sydney City Council recently called for tenders for
some work in one of their Electrical stations . The lowest
tender was for £2OB, Malt ho id tender was for £475.
Malt ho id got the order. Doesn’t this prove absolutely
that /VI alt ho id is “not the same as others**?
Let’s send you booklets and other printed matter
showing the advantages of Maithoid Roofing.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L?
GRANVILLE,
NSW.
; LOCOMOTIVE, GENERAL & AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERS.
RAIL.WAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL 8c FARM WAGGONS. IRON 8c MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
SHREDDER DISCS.
Moulds for Making
Concrete Pipes.
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. B
STEEL TRUCK
WHEELS.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE.
Is Australian Owned as well as Australian Made. Contains the right proportion of Chlorate
of Potash to use. 1/- per large tube, 1/2 Post Free. On dozen lots we pay postage.
Sayers, All port Propt., 55 Macquarie Street, Sydney
OPALOID.
The Bulletin
Vol. 36.—N0. 1848.]
[Thursday, July 15, 1915.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW BOORS on war and other things.
Hun Svedend's In Gentlest Germi ny. Translated
from Svengalese by E. V. Lucas. A/3 (2d.).
The New Bernbardi. Ilis Latest Views on the War.
Gauss: The? German Emperor, as Shown <n his Public
Utterances. 8/6 (4d.).
Printer’s Pie. 1016. Full of Fun. T/CC M).
A Month’s German Newspapers, December, 1914.
3/6 (2d.).
The German Spy System, by Ex-Intelligence Officer.
1/3 (2d.).
Campbell’s Private Spud-Tamsou. 1/6 (2d.).
Weigall’s Egypt from 1798-1914. 14/- (4d.).
(Postages shown in parentliest
GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. TROPTY LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
HUDSONS EUNIENTHOL TOOTH POWDER
SECURES SOUND WHITE TEETH .mow to usa thi powoaa.
Some practical reasons why Hudson’s Eumenthol
Tooth Powder should be used for the
Preservation of the Teeth.
BECAUSE it contains the Germicidal and Antiseptic virtues that
have made Eumenthol Jujubes famous the world over.
BECAUSE it is not only an Antiseptic and Germicide, but cleanses
mechanically, owing to the evolution of oxygen when in con-
tact with water or moisture.
BECAUSE it is the oxygen which whitens the Teeth so wonder-
fully, and wards off decay as no other preparation for the
Teeth can or will do.
Sold by all Chemists in tins, price 1/6, forwarded
post free on receipt of stamps.
dfh
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL CO. r LTD., 19 York Street, Sydney.
{3
The Red page
Russian Literature
Tchekhoff’s short stories are like his plays.
They are, for the most part, lacking in the
action so dear to the English novel; they
are static, atmospheric; they are dainty
pastels, delicate water-colors. There is often
only the artistic evocation of a mood, a tone,
an emotion. But the art of the writer makes
Strindberg seem crude, and the best of the
English short-story writers, except Henry
James, Conrad and Kipling, seem incredibly
clumsy. The Kiss and Other Stories, by
Anton Tchekhoff (Duckworth, per Dymock’s
Library), is to be recommended for the reader
who wishes an introduction to the modern
Russian mind.
And that introduction will be useful. For
one of the few predictable results of this war
and our alliance with Russia will be the
letting loose into English translation of the
immense flood of Russian literature, hither-
to held back by the dam of English ignor-
ance and instinctive dislike of the European.
The effect of this new influence upon Eng-
lish literature —for the stream will come
not, as hitherto, in a trickle, but in a flood
—is impossible to foretell: the only sure
thing, and it is a sure thing, is that Russian
literature is going to change the tone and
quality of the English novel and the English
play.
“The Kiss” is merely the story of a shy
man who is kissed by mistake by an unknown
girl in a darkened room, with this effect: —
His neck, fresh from the embrace of two
soft, scented arms, seemed anointed with oil;
near his left moustache, where the kiss had
fallen, trembled a slight, delightful chill, as
from peppermint drops; and from head to
foot he was soaked in new and extraordinary
sensations, which continued to grow and
grow.
That is all the story; for the man never
finds out who kissed him, never has the
chance to meet the unknown girl again.
Yet Tchekhoff contrives to make an enthrall-
ingly interesting story of the change so
casually wrought in the man. “Verotchka”
is merely the disclosure by a charming girl
of her love for a man who could not love
her —an essay in delicate pathos. Tchek-
hbff shows an extraordinary insight into the
mind of the child. “The Runaway,” telling
of the flight of a child from a hospital, fren-
zied by the horrors of the death of a patient
in the next bed to his, is full of the most
delicate touches of child-psychology. Here
is an instance : —-
The waiting patients crowded round the
window. Of each the Feldscher asked patro-
nymic, age, village, dates of illness, and other
questions. From his mother’s answer, Pashka
learnt that his name was Pavl Galaktionoff,
that he was seven years old, and that he had
been ill since Easter.
That indirect evidence of the child’s utter
ignorance of himself, so naturally introduced,
renders explicable the boy’s subsequent un-
reasoning horror. The one story that has
a plot that resembles the conventional Eng-
lish story is “La Cigale,” a profound study
of the temperament of a foolish wife, done
with a delightful mingling of comedy and
pathos. For Tchekhoff writes comedy with
the most graceful of literary gestures. In
“The Head Gardener’s Tale” the Russian
point of view is dramatically stated, once for
all. Some people are discussing and
regretting the tendency of modern
Russian juries to acquit criminals, even
murderers. The old head gardener remarks
that he has no fear for the cause of morals
when he hears the verdict: Not Guilty.
“On the contrary, I am delighted. Even
when reason tells me that the jurymen have
made a mistake, even then I rejoice. I put
it to you, gentlemen; if judges and jury put
more faith in men than in clues, speeches
and articles put in evidence, is not this faith
in men a higher thing than all practical con-
siderations? Such faith is accessible only to
the few —to those who understand and feel
Christ.”
And he tells a remarkable story of a mur-
derer who was acquitted of his crime on the
ground that there could be no man alive
fallen so low as to kill such a kindly man
as the village doctor!
“It may be the verdict of acquittal caused
the townspeople harm; but, on the other
hand, reflect on the beneficent influence of
this deep faith in men, this faith which never
lies dead, which fosters our most generous
feelings, and inspires us to love and respect
our fellow-men. Aud that is a great thing.”
Tchekhoff’s comprehension of the child-
mind finds another delightful outlet in his
remarkable story called “Oysters.” This is
a masterpiece of farce and pathos. A starv-
ing child with his starving father in Mos-
cow, the father too shy to beg, the son read-
ing a notice outside a restaurant. On the
notice is written the -word, “Oysters.” The
child asks his father what oysters are. The
father explains that the oyster is a kind
of animal that lives in the sea. The child
wants to know if people can eat oysters on
fast days; and the father replies: “You eat
them aiive. They are in shells... .like tor-
toises, only in double shells.” “How hor-
rible! How hideous!” the boy exclaims.
“I imagined an animal like a frog. The
frog sat in the shell, looked out with big,
bright eyes, and moved its disgusting jaWs.
What on earth could be more horrible to a
boy who had lived in the world just eight
years and three months?... .1 saw the cook,
blinking squeamishly, take the animal by the
claws, put it on a dish, and carry it to the
dining-room. The grown-ups take it, and
eat.. ..eat it alive, eyes, teeth, claws. And
it hisses and tries to bite their lips.
“I frowned disgustedly. But why did my
teeth begin to chew? An animal, disgusting,
detestable, frightful, but still I ate it, ate it
greedily, fearing to notice its taste and smell.
I ate in imagination, and my heart beat
stronger. One animal was finished, already
I saw the bright eyes of a second, a third.
... .1 ate these also. At last I ate the table-
napkin, the plate, my father’s goloshes, the
white notice.... I ate everything before me,
because I felt that only eating would cure
my complaint. The oysters glared fright-
fully from their bright eyes, they made me
sick, I shuddered at the thought of them, but
I wanted to eat. To eat!”
From the lips of the starving child bursts
the cry, “Give me some oysters!” Two
silk-hatted men hear him, and for a joke drag
him into the restaurant and order for him
oysters.
“I ate something slippy, damp and mouldy.
I ate greedily, not chewing, not dai'ing to
look, not even knowing what I ate. It seemed
to me that if I opened my eyes I should see
at once the bright eyes, the claws, the sharp
teeth.”
To the delight of the crowd, the child
chewed the shells.
Turn from this fantasy to “Women,” a
grim essay in brutality and horror, relieved
only by Diudya’s occupation. “Diudya
rents land, keeps a drink-shop on the main
road, and trades in tar and honey and mag-
pies.” Where else but in Russia could one
find so strange a commerce as this trade in
’tar and honey and magpies”? Luckily
Tehekhoff does not explain how one trades
in tar and honey and magpies-; but some-
how one feels he would like to meet that pub-
"keeper—until he reads the story. This and
other pictures of the muzhiks are terrible
in their sordidness and drab realism.
Michael Artzibashef l-eveals himself in his
notorious novel, Sanine (Seeker), as a
writer not in Tchekhoff’s class. We might
place him in Russian literature just about
where Arnold Bennett is placed—or ought
to be placed—in English literature, though
in manner and meaning there is little be-
tween these two writers. Sanine roused
fury both in Russia and in Germany; its
sensationalism carried it through Europe;
last October, it reached England, and is now
in its fourth impression. “This book was
written in the despair which seized the
Intelligentzia of Russia after the last abor-
tive revolution, when the Constitution which
was no Constitution was wrung out of the
Grand Dukes.” The Intelligentzia asked
themselves what, supposing the revolution
had succeeded, could they have done to ren-
der society less oppressive to the life of the
individual. “How can there be good govern-
ment unless there are good individuals to be
governed—individuals, in fine, worthy of
being governed?”
Gilbert Cannan, who contributes the pre-
face, regards Sanine as a thoroughly un-
comfortable book. Its theme is that men are
brutes. “Love is rare; physical necessity is
common to all men and women. It is ab-
surd to expect the growth of the one and
the satisfaction of the other often to co-
incide. Nature is apparently indifferent and
does not demand love of human beings, but
only mutual attraction, and of that are most
children born.” Artzibashef pleads for what
used to be called “free love,” for women as
well as for men: the right of a woman to
have a child “without suffering from imper-
tinent curiosity as to whom the father may
be.” lie suggests that the brutishness of
man should be accepted frankly, cleared of
confusion with love, and slowly mastered so
that out of passion love can grow. And
Sanine is too brutal to be “naughty.”
scene is set in a Russian provincial
town, in the period of the reaction after the
revolution. The author pours scorn on the
futility of the Intelligentzia, their fondness
for grandiose programmes, their habit of
endless and profitless discussion. The trouble
with all these people is that apparently they
have nothing to do: they have too much
time to think —and most of them are occu-
pied in thinking about themselves. They
discuss life interminably; they analyse their
souls; they get drunk ; they commit suicide.
And there is not one character who does
not confess at some time or other to a feeling
of tedium. The main characteristic of
these futile lives is boredom.
Jt
Into this dull and disconsolate society
steps Vladimir Sanine, a “man of the future”
.... “His soul had developed in perfect free-
dom and independence, just as a tree in the
field.” His early life had been spent in
wandering; and on his return to his parents’
home he finds himself a stranger and a con-
temptuous critic of conventional society. His
theory of life is to satisfy his instincts,
good or bad. When an officer challenges him
to a duel, his answer is a refusal and an
insult. When that officer attempts to whip
him, he knocks him out by a punch on the
nose. Whereupon the officer has no alter-
native but to commit suicide. When chance
puts a young girl in his power he seduces
her, and shrugs his shoulders. He delib-
erately spies on naked girls bathing—since
that is the sort of thing that every man
would do if he had the chance without being
discovered. There is also a disagreeable
suggestion that Sanine was capable of worse
offences than that. And at the end he goes
off wandering alone, the free man, the super-
man. And all through there is, to the Aus-
tralian reader, the element of pose. Sanine
is Byronic, melodramatic, false.
Let him explain himself: —■
Thou shalt not steal, nor lie, nor cheat,
nor commit adultery. The funny thing is
that all that is born in one! Everybody
steals, and lies, and cheats and commits adul-
tery as much as he can.... Now a black-
guard, a real genuine blackguard, is quite
another matter. To begin with, he is a per-
fectly sincere, natural fellow. He does only
what a man naturally does. He sees some-
thing that does not belong to him, something
that he likes—and he takes it. He sees a
pretty woman who won’t give herself to him,
so he manages to get her, either by force or
craft. And that is perfectly natural, the
desire and the instinct for self-gratification
being one of the few traits that distinguish
a man from a beast. The more animal an
animal is the less it understands of enjoy-
ment, the less able is it to procure this. It
only cares to satisfy its needs....We have
branded as bestial our physical desires; we
have become ashamed of them.
Sanine is a book of a period, and thus is
already out of date. It is the product of the
ferment of a wild Nietzschism in the mind
of a disillusioned journalist. It is a tract,
exaggerated and over-stressed: not a work
of art.
The Salamander
Owen Johnson’s novel, The Salamander
(Seeker, per Dymock’s Library), is a plea-
sant concoction; but, by means of a formid-
able preface, he attempts to make of his
delightful story a serious study in sociology.
He alleges that he has discovered “a curious
and new type of modern young woman, pro-
duct of changing forces, profoundly signifi-
cant of / present unrest and prophetic of
stranger developments to come.” This is
the Salamander, the brother of the young
man who wants to “see life.” She, too, is
determined to see life. She comes to the city.
“Her name disappears under a new self-
baptism. She needs but a little money, and
so occasionally does a little work. She brings
no letters of introduction, but comes resolved
to know whom she chooses. She meets them
all, the men of New York, the mediocre, the
interesting, the powerful, the flesh-hunters,
the brutes, and those who seek only an
amused mental relaxation.... If she runs
recklessly in the paths of danger it is because
to her obsessed curiosity it is imperative to
her to try to comprehend what this danger
can mean.... She will dare only so far as she
knows she is safe... .Her passion is to know,
to leave no cranny unexplored, to see, not to
experience; to flit miraculously through the
flames—never to be consumed !. . .. Her real
occupation is exploration—how do they act,
these men, clever or stupid, rich, poor, medi-
ocre, dangerous or provokingly easy to man-
age? What is the extent of the power that
she can exert over them?”
Hm ! A new type ? The Salamander is
merely the old Eve in a modern skirt. Long
ago she was acclimatised -in Australia. You
can meet Salamanders, in their hundreds, any
night on the Manly boat. Nice girls, quite
moral, only they want to know !
But Owen Johnson’s novel needs no
pseudo-sociological excuse; it is good enough
as a story. Dore Baxter is a delightful crea-
tion, and the other inhabitants of Salaman-
derland are finely and brilliantly character-
ised. Listen to Dore at the ’phone:—
“Hello? Who is it? Who? Hun-
tington?. .. .Oh, yes, Chesterton.... of
course I remember. .. .llow do you do?. . . .
Yes, splendid dance !. .. .What?.. . .To-
night?. .. .No-0.. ..Who else is in the party?
....Just us tw0?....N0, I guess n0t!....
Aren’t you a little sudden, Mr. Chesterton?
... .Not with you alone. .. .Oh, yes ; but I’m
very formal! That’s where you make your
mistake.... Certainly, I’d go with a good
many men, but not w-itli y0u....N0t till I
really know y0u.... Now I’m going to tell
you something, Mr. Chesterton. I’m not like
other girls; I play fair. I expect men to
make mistakes-—one mistake. I always for-
give once, and I always give one warning—
just one! You understand? All right! I
won’t say any more.... No, I’m not offended.
....I’m quite used to such mistakes: they
sort of follow dances, don’t they?... .Well,
that’s nice; I’m glad you understand me....
if what?....lf it’s made a party of four?
.... That would be different, yes.... Try-
telephone me about six, and I’ll let you know.
....Why, yes, I liked y0u.... (A laugh.)
.... Well, that’s enough.... Good-bye....
Yes, oh, yes... .Not offended ! Oh, no!”
Dore, out of devilment, takes the
place of a chorus girl in a party
invited to meet a royal personage
visiting New York incognito. For the Comte
de Joncy, being profoundly bored, had re-
marked to Sassoon that what had impressed
him most was the superior equipment, physi-
cally and mentally, of the American chorus
girl; and Sassoon had promptly arranged a
little lunch. There Dol'd meets four of the
men whose subsequent pursuit of her fur-
bishes the genuine excitement of the novel.
Owen Johnson knows all the Salamander s
tricks for getting presents—and converting
them into Ihe necessary cash. For a Sala-
mander will never, never accept money from
any man, no matter how much he loves her.
When she does that she is called another
name. Thus Dord felt qualms about accept-
ing the bank-note that, in common with the
chorus girls at that delightful lunch with in-
cognito royalty, was so discreetly hidden, like
.a green leaf, in the bouquet of flowers beside
each lady’s plate. But, of course, Dore has
her arrangement with the florists. Men are
always presenting her with flowers; the florist
is happy to allow her a little on all bouquets
immediately returned. And, of course, the
donor of the flowers believes that Dore is
wearing his flowers. And when, by arrange-
ment, a peddler of dainty underclothing
arrives, just when two Salamanders are re-
ceiving two adorers in their room, they allow
those young men to give them birthday pre-
sents of stockings and other things. For
birthdays happen rather frequently to Sala-
manders. A Salamander invariably has a
birthday a month or so after she meets a new
admirer. And neither of the pleased young
men guess that the silks and laces so gener-
ously bought for the girls “would presently
return to the pack of the peddler, at 40 per
cent, off for commission.” In choosing silk
stockings the color invariably is pink. In
any group of Salamanders one pair of pink
stockings is always available, “to be borrowed
hastily and worn for a convincing effect on
the last purchaser.”
The philosophy of one of the Salamanders
is cheerfully free from prejudice. She objects
to the marriage tie —or lie.
“We swear not only to live together in a
business partnership, but to love and adore
each other, and to love no one else for the
rest of our lives. And in order to bolster up
this absurdity we have to corrupt our whole
literature. Young girls and men are brought
up with the idea that God, in some mysteri-
ous providence, has arranged for us a special
affinity—that there can be only one person
to love in the whole w0r1d....A woman
exists as a free being for 20-25 years ; then
a man comes along and says, in so many
words:—■
“ ‘lf you have lived a virtuous life —which
I have not —I will allow you to renounce all
your male friends, or retain those whom I
approve of as acquaintances, to limit your
horizon to my home, to bear my children, to
accept my opinions, never to be interested
in any other man but me, to keep my house,
amuse me w r hen I’m tired, convince me of
my superiority over all other men, go where
I go, and age before I age; and in return
for these favors I will swear to convince
you that I have loved no other women but
you, will blind my eyes to all other women
but you, and if I die first, you will find me
waiting patiently by the pearly gates!’”
Dore, “the lawless waif of a law-defying
generation,” plays one victim off against
the other, until she singes her own wings.
She falls in love. Several of the men
enamored of her beauty and her deliberately
provocative lure, even offer to divorce their
wives and marry her. But Sassoon makes
her the most remarkable offer: —
“You will marry a gentleman, Captain
Markett-Blount, an English gentleman whom
I have bought. Understand everything, I
am not putting you into the demi-monde;
I’m giving you a chanee at everything. You
will have a social position You will go
wherever I want you to go. You can re-
main married, or you can divorce, when you
want.... You will dine at my house; you
will visit me on the same footing as Mrs.
Sassoon’s friends. In a week you will join
a party on my yacht, and go with us to
cruise.... anywhere. No one will say a
word- —no one will dare! You will be in
exactly the same position as a hundred
women in society—anyone of whom would
come at a whistle from me.... Here is a
contract in black and white. Have it exam-
ined by your own lawyer. Write down
whatever sum you want. Make it for one
year or 10 —I’ll sign it! You can hold it
over me; you can blackmail me, if you
wish !....”
Thorough! But Blainey wants her, too,
is even willing to marry her —if she will
“star” in his theatres. She hasn’t art or
talent, but she has personality. “It ain’t
talent, it’s personality that counts —person-
ality and advertising. Personality, Kid, is
the reason we build the stage three feet
above the orchestra, to keep the baldheads
from coming over.” But who gets her it
would be unfair to the reader to say. For
the end of the Salamander is a conventional
marriage. And the author displays admir-
able art in selecting a husband for Dord.
“The rest can be written in a sentence.
She became a conventional member of
society—rather extreme in her conservatism.”
A clever and interesting story: not a
sociological discovery.


w aae
PRESENTS to SUIT EVERY PURSE at
Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices
Quite a feature of the many attractions in the Fine Art Gallery
is the wonderfully varied collection of English Cut and Polished
Crystal Glass. It embraces many pieces of exceptional merit, and
presents examples of crystal of the highest quality, irreproachable
style and exceptional beauty.
Finest English Cut Crystal Bowl.
Height 6in., diameter Bin. On ornamental
stand 35/-
■
Wfr.
%
HffiYJfWi gfrtTCffft'ftf
Handsome Cut Crystal Rose Bowl,
Bin. high, Sin. diameter at top. Finely cut and
polished diamond design, with untarnjshable
wire holder inside 50 j m
Graceful Flower
Vases, fine diamond
cutting, with cut star
foot.
Height 9in., 11/9 ea.
Height llfin., 16/9
each.
■l-H-lUJJMWwiMSWWiWg!
S : 5
5
k'W
Handsome Centre Piece, for fruit or
flowers. Richly cut bowl, stem, and foot.
Height 12in., diameter of top dish, BJin. ..59/6
Graceful Flower
Vases, vvith diamond
and festoon cutting
and cut star foot.
Height 9in., H/9 ea .
Height Ilf in., 15/9
m
m&mmm
Rose Bowl, effective design, deeply cut,
with best wire holder inside. Height 6£in.,
diameter at top 74in 18/6
Handsome, deeply-cut Rose Bowl,
fitted with double gilt wire, and standing
on gilt ormolu mount. The deep cutting
wonderfully enhances the brilliance of the
glass. Height 9in., diameter . . 47 /(J
Bags, Dressing Cases and Travelling Requisites
No. F29. — Leather Suit Cases. The illustration
represents a handsome and very durable steel-frame
travelling case. The foundation is of Compressed Fibre,
covered with selected Cowhide. Every corner is capped
and strongly riveted. Lined with Linen throughout—
Size 20in. 22in. 24in. 26in.
Quality DX 37/0 42 /_ 45/. 50 /.
3
No. Fss.—The Compact Folio Case, Real
Cowhide, with two side straps, centre exten-
sion strap, with nickelletl sliding - lock, wide pockets
for envelopes, papers, etc.
Size 14in. x Sin.
Similar to illustration, in Hogskin 40/-
Slightly different designs in Cowhide. 18/0, 25/-, 35/-
Hest Finish, in selected Cowhide.. 45/-, 50/-, 00/-
Size 15in. x loin.
In larger sizes, best Cowhide ■• • • 42/-, 45/-, 50/-
No. F22.—The Week-end Strapped Cowhide Kit
Bags, with single handles, plain corners and side locks, straps
all round, turnover clips—-
Quality AX, as above— Sizes
Quality BX.—Superior quality
The Gladstone Bags we offer are faith-
fully made, fitted with a superior spring
lock, and have centre division and sling
straps.
No. F2o.—Gladstone Bag. —Quality AX.
Hide and Roan, Nickel-plated shoes and
slides.
Sizes 20in. 22in. 24in. 26in.
16/6 18/6 21/- 22/6
Quality BX —All Cowhide, well lined, a strong
and useful bag.
21/- 22/6 25/- 27/6
Quality CX —All Cowhide, lined cloth, nickel-
plated shoes and slides, fitted with four
real hide corners to protect bottom.
25/- 27/6 30/- 33/-
No. FB. — Canvas Cabin Trunks, frequently
called Overland Trunks,, covered with Brown or
Green Canvas, bound with hide, leather handles,
eight hide leather pieces strengthen the corners,
straps all round, wooden battens along bottom, lined
No. F3s. —These Half Gladstone Suit Bags have
rounded corners. The smaller sizes are excellent for carry-
ing Dress Suits, and the larger for general purposes.
Sizes 20in. 22in. 24in. 26in.
Quality AX.—All Cowhide,
shallow make (No. F 35) 21/- 22/6 25/- 27/6
Quality BX. —All Cowhide,
deeper make 25/- 27/6 30/- 35/-
ANTHONY HORDERN &
Only Universal
Providers,
Palace ILxnoorinxiv
BricKneid Hill
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


li#
WINCHESTER
20, 16 AND 12 GAUGE
Lightweight Ha mmet less
Repeating Shotguns
The Winchester Model 1912 is the strongest, safest and
most perfect repeating shotgun ever made. In either of the
three gauges in which it is made, it is lighter, better
balanced and more correctly proportioned than any other
repeater. Its Nickel steel construction, solid breech,
and its cross-bolt trigger lock make it strong and safe.
This gun has a smooth and easy action, a simple
take-down system, and its shooting qualities are not
excelled by the highest priced double guns. The 20
gauge weighs about 5 } /i pounds, the 16 gauge about
6 pounds, and the 12 gauge about 7% pounds.
If in the market for a shotgun, don’t fail to
Took Over a Winchester
Model 1912 at Your Dealer’s
BLSLi
SI
MLE
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s.
6d. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Par-
ticulars posted on application to
Tins Manager.
»
L >
It serves
Attila
right
He wouldn’t give his liver a
chance. And now see how pos-
terity treats his name.
It wasn’t his liver’s fault. It
was his fault for neglecting it.
Like your liver, it was trying
always to get the poisons of
gloom and vindictiveness out of
his blood, trying to make him
sunny and sweet - tempered,
kindly and considerate. The
wonderful, persevering, well-
intentioned chemistry of his
liver was just the same as
yours, but it never was helped
to do its work. Be warned !
Gentle help at the right time —
gentle, not drastic —is all your
liver needs. And many years
of experience and comparison
have proved that the gentlest,
friendliest, most appreciated
help you can give it is to take
now and then, before your
liver is in serious trouble,
Cockle’s Pills
Sold by all Chemists, in boxes, price 1/- and 2/6.
JAMES COCKLE & CO., 4 Great Ormond St., London, Eng.
IME® A
O
£
D
m
r
o
o
©
with B.S.A 4 h.p. Engine
B.S.A. Countershaft Three-Speed Gear.
It will take a sidecar and passenger up almost any hill with
power to spare.
It is superior to high-powered machines, it requires less
attention, easier to handle, costs less to run. and is
equally suitable for solo or sidecar work.
It is perfectly balanced. The weight is evenly distributed,
the back wheel being free from over loading.
The transmission is protected against mud,
dust and wet. Smooth reliable running
in all weathers is thus assured.
“THOROUGHLY
BRITISH.”
B.S.A. Motor Bicycle List Free.
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing Co. Ltd.),
Australian Buildings, Melbourne.
Agent; MILLEDCE BROS., Sydney.
dfh
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLE3. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
ANTHONY NORPCRN (El SONS LTD.,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
GUNS, RIFLES, REVOLVERS
for SHOOTERS
and SPORTSMEN
TRADE MARK
SPLENDID 5.8.8. L. GUN, 12 gauge, choke bore, kills at extra long range.
Accurate and reliable. Holiday Price, 17/6. D.8.8.L. GIIN, fitted with
Greener cross bolt, bar and rebounding locks, choke and modified steel barrels,
walnut stock, pistol grip. GOVERNMENT TESTED. AN EXCELLENT
KILLER, Holiday Price, £3/10/* D.8.8.L. GUN, choke and modified steel
barrels. Government Tested. THE FARMER'S FRIEND. Special Price,
£2/2/- MAUSER BOLT ACTION 2.1 CAL. TAKE-DOWN RIFLE, nice and
light. A verv accurate little weapon. THE YOUTH’S FAVORITE. Holiday
Price, 14/6. CHAMPION CENTURY RIFLE, fitted with patent beaded
sight, pistol grip, steel heel plate, bent holt and patent ejector. Takes .22
long, .22 short, or shot cartridges for birds. One of our best sellers. Holiday
Price, 18/6. Write for Our Catalogue.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT THESE PRICES ONLY FROM
THE SMALL ARMS CO.
Largest Importers of Arms and Ammunition in the Commonwealth
242-4 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
‘ON THE HOP’
A superb library volume of historic interest, handsomely printed and
bound, containing upwards of Three Hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings.
Reproduced full “Bulletin” size. Price 215., from “The Bulletin” Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
ItSIS -
MlSs AUIMINu I u.\
Modern Miracles
—The beautiful daughter of
Mrs. R. A. Addington, Argent St.,
Broken Hill, is declared to have
been cured of St. Vitus' Dance by
CLEMENTS TONIC
ECENTLY in France a peasant woman whose little girl had
been bedridden with paralysis for years, had occasion to
* ' visit a churchyard which contained the statue of a well-
known saint. Some of the mould from the tomb adhered to her
handkerchief, which, upon touching her child, cured her. This
fact is vouched for upon reliable authority.
Miracles are not all confined to the older countries, for we have
heard also of similar remarkable incidents in newer countries,
and very often in Australia. A few years ago a certain section
of Broken Hill was electrified by the recovery from apparently
incurable St. Vitus’ Dance of the daughter of Mrs. R. A. Adding-
ton, of Argent Street. It was on the 10th October, 1911, when
first the mysterious cure was reported. The mother, being seen
by a special interviewer, and, overcome by gratitude that her
daughter was healthy again, told the facts at once. She said
that the disorder occurred through her daughter falling from a
tram. This gave her a great shock, and so affected her nervous
system that eventually St. Vitus’ Dance ensued. She became so
bad that it was impossible to hold a knife and fork, and going out
of the house was out of the question. This remarkable condition
continued for some time, medical skill being useless, Mrs.
Addington declared, WHEN SUDDENLY, AS THE RESULT OF
USING CLEMENTS TONIC, a wonderful change took place. She
gradually improved, and soon regained her normal condition.
Nearly two years have elapsed since her complete recovery, and
all that time she has enjoyed the best of health. “1 have great
faith in Clements Tonic, and always recommend it,” added the
mother, “and you can make what use you wish of this.”
ALL STORES ANI) CHEMISTS SELL IT EVERYWHERE.
See you get the Original Medicine. Do not accept any “just as good”
' remedy. There is only one real Clements Tonic.


ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Always
Reliable
mmmmm
Eley ‘4lO ‘Universal
Hi m
m
m
lil
Eley
‘ Universal ’
A Light-Brown
Cartridge,
loaded with 3
drs.T.S. Black
Powder and
14 oz. of shot.
Eley
‘Fourlong’
A '4lO bore
24 in. Indian
Red Gastight
Cartridge,load-,
ed with Eley
(33 gr.) Smoke-
less Powder
and No. 6 or
(smaller shot. /
dfh
dfh
Eley *3B
Automatic
For Webley
& Scott or
Colt Auto-
matic Pistols.
Eley *3BO
Automatic
Hammerless
For Webley &
Scott or Colt
Automatic Pistols.
ELEY
380
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George Street, Sydney, N S W.
Wholesale only:
ELEY BROS. L? D LONDON
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL.
at
l backed Free. All charges Prepaid to your
Port direct from our Factory Highest*
grade British-made Mil \L)
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
I Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears,
Flyer or Brook’s Saddles, etc.
ILATEST
MODELS
£ 3.10 to. £9
Tyres and accessories half usual prices.
AfiPNTQ wanted in each district. Write
HUfc-niu at once, using- sufficient postage.
Free Art Catalogue and oui
Special Offer on sample machine.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY.
Oept. A 282 LIVERPOOL,
WAR
Prompt Shipment 8 Safe Delivery
Guaranteed. No Advance in Prices
AGENT for MEAD CYCLES
\ AL. D. COLfc'. Book Arcade, Melbourne.
LABOR STOCKS ON HAND. ATT, Mmv-'T.S.
Exclusive Agent
Wanted
to sell our portrait
enlargements, picture
frames and novelties
in art goods. Excellent
opportunity for any
Merchant or Agent
The sale of this
line of goods is very re-
numerative. You may
charge good prices for our
. portrait novelties. No ex-
perience required. We will send free of charge, our
book of instructions and general catalog. We furnish
bank references. 20 successful years in the export
business is our best reference.
Consolidated Portrait & Frame Co.
1029—D-10 W. Adams St„ Chicago, 111.. U. S. A.
m
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing-, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post you a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
-—“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
Mr. Frank Ford (Black all P. 0., Q’land)
writes: “1 teas a heavy smoker for 65 years,
but after taking your treatment for ll t days I
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now.’’
♦ -
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G, 29 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
[B.
Bonningtorrs
BONr
A
PcCTO*
CARRA
IRISH MOS
CEOkCEBONN
For Boys
Boys dislike medicine and won’t take it
unless it is pleasant. They are, however
rnr e rfi e liable to COUGHS and
1 Bonnington’s Irish Moss’’ is
both PLEASANT and EFFECTIVE. The
best household remedy for Colds, Influenza
and Bronchitis. Take none but—
Avoid all
Imitation*
BONININGTON’S
THIN WOMEN!
What is more pitiable than a pretty woman whose neck, arms and
scraggy chest destroy her every chance of being really charming’
Nothing gives charm to a woman so much as does a full, well-rounded"
perfectly-developed figure. If you lack it, science will enable you to’
obtain it. J
WHEN you look into the mirror and your
hollow cheeks, thin neck and scrawny
arms mock even you, what effect do
you suppose they have on those with whom
you mix socially ?.... A woman's chief charm
is a well-rounded figure and full bosom. With
these, thin arms and hollow cheeks are a
rarity.
If your bust lacks development, and you
are seraggly and attenuated, we will advise
you free and gladly as to how you may im-
prove your figure and beautify your bust.
We are only too pleased to tell you the
secret, for we know it cannot fail, and that
in a few weeks you will be happier, healthier
and more sought after socially than in your
present undeveloped, emaciated condition.
Thousands of women suffering the ravages
of ill-health have sought and accepted this ad-
vice, and to-day are models of womanly de-
velopment and examples of perfect health.
The same success awaits your call. In the
wake of attenuation follow such complaints
as constipation, indigestion, bilious head-
aches, internal functional derangements, etc.
As your development advances and weight im-
proves, these gradually disappear and perfect
health results.
Every case is accepted under a guarantee
to refund fee if satisfactory results do not
follow the use of the treatment. SEND FOR
SPECIMEN COPY OF GUARANTEE. j
Pleased Beyond
Expression.
m
wm
Spring Hill,
Queensland.
The Manager.
Dear Sir, —Words fail to express my
gratitude for wliat yodr wonderful
remedy has done for me. Since taking
Flesh-Food my health is much better,
niy appetite is keen, I enjoy my meals,
and 1 can see that they nourish me
properly now. My weight increased
nicely, and my bust has enlarged by
four inches, and has not stopped de-
veloping yet. My hips are now nicely
rounded, and my health is splendid.
Yours faithfully, HOSE WAGNER.
FREE SAMPLE. FREE BOOK.
Send a 2d. stamp and let ns tell you the
secret free, and also send you a free sample
of treatment. No matter where or how far
away you live you can be properly treated by
post. Write to-day. Lady attendant to callers.
FALLIERE FEESH-FOOD CO.,
1103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY. [lB2Ol
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely
and bound; containing upwards of
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings
Bulletin size. Price, 2Js.
printed
Three
. Full
Constipation
The case of Rheumatism or Gout
which Kruschen Salts cannot benefit
has yet to be discovered. This
famous British remedy is also
recommended by Medical Men in
cases of Lumbago, Sciatica, Eczema,
Constipation, and Liver and Kidney
Disorders.
KRUSCHEN AT THE FRONT
Since the outbreak of the War, enormous
quantities of Kruschen Salts have been ordered
by, and delivered to the British Authorities, for
the use of the British Forces overseas and in
the Base Hospitals at Home. Kruschen Salts
are prescribed by Medical Men the world over.
THE WORD KRUSCHEN
The trade mark “ Kruschen ” is a legacy—
handed down from generation to generation of
the family of Evan Griffiths Hughes, the sole
Manufacturers of Kruschen Salts, and one of
the oldest firms o.f Manufacturing Chemists in
the County of Lancashire. Established 1754 —
160 years ago.
df
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754.
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers,
and stores throughout Australia,
Wholesale Distributing Agents :
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Stiseet,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
68, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester,
England.
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Beyond the Hills.
Beyond the hills —beyond the hills that stand
up like a wedge
Against the sunset’s afterglow and mark the
world’s dim edge—
’Tis there the treasury of dreams is snugly
hid away,
And I draw comfort from my store at close
of every clay.
Beyond the hills where all is still and Day
gives place to Night,
There is a gathering of ghosts-—dear spectres
of delight;
Old friends long dead —dear absent ones!
Upon my world’s grey rim,
I see you with the eyes of thought that age
can never dim.
Beyond the hills in mystic groves that know
no stormy blast,
Unguessed, inviolate I keep the treasure of
the Past;
It is my secret shrine, and I in spirit ven-
ture there
When Night’s at hand and shadowy birds
wing frightened through still air.
Beyond the hills, the .distant hills, beyond
the blinding strife,
Lies what the fighting heart has won, the
winnowed grain of life;
And who, clear-eyed, will gaze thereon has
high, clear thoughts that burn
Like torches in this stumbling maze that
wounds at ev’ry turn. .. .
Ah, undismayed, he journeys on until the
journey kills
Whose heart has made a half-way house be-
yond the evening hills.
N.S.W.
E. O’F.
Fugitive.
We were twain who heard the hound
Lift his faint and far-off note,
All the menace of the sound
Brought the heart into the throat.
All the terror of the night,
Gripping on the soul like steel,
Brought a madness to our flight,
Laid a flame against the heel.
Mere and highway, mire and bog,
Turned we ever ; feint and feint;
Still we knew the baying dog
Hung upon the murder-taint.
Turned and turned the loping hound,
Strong with Nature’s primal law’s,
With its muzzle to the ground
And its padding, padding paws.
There before us as we fled
Oddly lay the planet Mars,
Waxing, waning, white and red,
Bleeding on its bed of stars ;
Staring like the wound which bled
Richly to the dagger-thrust,
When we left him in his bed.
Grim as hate and grey as dust;
Like a new wound opened wide,
Gushing to the vital spark ;
And we took it for our guide.
Stumbling, stumbling through the dark.
So we followed, and anon
Stretched a glowing path of blood,
Where the murder-planet shone
Straight across a river-flood.
Never hound could keep the scent,
Never human eye could give
Answei to the way we went
Through the waters fugitive!
Safe we stood, and faint and far
Heard the baying fade away,
While we blessed the murder-star
Slinking downward to the day !
MAORIXAN d.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
The Dancers.
Keefe came up from Banagh fair
Drunk as decent man could be —
“Girl with night upon your hair,
Will you dance a jig with me?”
Ocli, the, wind was mad that night,
Playing Capers in the moon.
All the fairies, tripping light,
Brought their pipes to set the tune.
Quick and quicker went their feet—
Arms on hips and chins held high—
Sure, with music made so sweet
Lamest heels would learn to fly.
Och, a girl to dance like this
Must be kind of lip and waist.
Keefe was hungry for her kiss.
Thinking long her mouth to taste.
Tlapn.v breath the pipers blew.
Fairies clapped their hands with glee,
Keefe, while hot brogues hotter grew,
Burst his breeches at the knee.
Morning light—och, man, for shame !
Black the sin upon your head.
Wind and moon may share the blame —
Surely you have danced her dead 1
Keefe looked sober, strange and wise.
Spread before him, cold and still,
Sure, he saw with his two eyes
Kelly’s scarecrow on the hill.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
A Love Episode.
He trusted her well, knew her true, thought
her splendid ;
His manhood lay yielded, a toy in her lap.
So she tore it to bits, and the chapter was
ended.
But she screamed to the crowd that he'd
failed- her. T 7 er7>. sap.
MAORILAND. SELWYN RIDER.


MOTOR-CAR HEADLIGHTS
HERE’S A GRAND OPPORTUNITY
FOR YOU, MR MOTOR-CAR OWNER.
We have a beautiful pair of Solid Brass, 15-inch Search Lights left on our hands. We offer
them, complete with Electric Bulbs and Pillars, Silver Reflector. Lamps are adjustable and
focussing—drawn from one piece steel. Absolutely watertight.
These lights are so brilliant that one could read a newspaper half a mile distant from them. For
country travellers this is a real snap.
London Price, £2O. OUR PRICE, £2O.
W. G. WATSON & CO. LTD.
“Suppliers of Everything Electrical,”
279 CLARENCE STREET; 426=430 KENT STREET, SYDNEY
(Just round from the Town Hall).
VICTORIAN REPRESENTATIVE: George Smith Morison, Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Leading
Residential Hotel of Melbourne
sliHBMi
Et-LEP
IEN'
M°S&s
|MPRO^&=
Re cS?oSS
Single Rooms from 4/- per day
Special Weekly Rates =~lariff Card posted on application.
Letters & Telegrams to Manager Grand Hotel
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
tt
THere
Are Three
Standard Sizes
of .22 calibre cartridges—the short, long and
long rifle.
The Remington UMC .22’s are just as carefully ,
made as the larger calibres., and all three sizes may
be used in the Remington .22 Repeater without
mechanical adjustment.
Your dealer has them
We shall be pleased to send, postpaid to any address, interest-
ing information for shooters. Whi't writing, send us the
name of your dealer.
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
Wooiworth Building, New York City
D. D. BKYANT, Australian Representative,
P.O. Box 68G, Melbourne.
hdf
hdf
tutu
LAM)
Write for
particulars to
'DROIT
Swedish
CRUDE-OIL ENGINES
for all purposes on
hfd
MARINE.
HARM, STATION, COUNTRY MOUSE OR MOTOR« BOAT.
WOOD AND CHAFF CUTTING, PUMPING, ELECTRIC LIGHTING.
Crude oil is cheaper than kerosene and safer. Power costs only
one-third that of a petrol engine with our system of water infection.
Our Marine type, for Fishing Bo.tts anJ small Tugs, a Speciality,
Swedish Drott Motors,
c. HILDEBRAND, A sent,
306 Kent Street, Sydney.
P.O. Box 2097.
IT IS NEVER TOO LATE FOR
A MACINTOSH
In this country one never knows when
to expect the next shower, and a
PERDRIAD MACINTOSH
Will be found extremely useful all the
year round.
Send to-day for complete ranye of patterns
and illustrated Price List \o. -1/3.
We quote three lines from this List: —-
MEN’S.
TWEEDS, in good assortment of )
Dark Grey Shades /
3 51-
SUPERIOR CASHMERE, in latest \
shades of Fawn and Olive. ... J
45/-
WOMEN’S.
INDIAN AS, in Green and Dark
shades
25/-
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
Manufactured entirely in Australia by
/
*9*
/
X
c . \
mm
tf
Rubber
Co. Ltd.
270 George Street, Sydney.
105 Elizabeth Street, Melbourm
67a Gawler Plaee, Adelaide.
307 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
The Newest Idea in
Sleeping' vSuits for Men
Obtainable only at
GRACE BROS.
The illustration below shows the newest idea in Pyjamas
for men.
You will note that this garment has no draw string round
the waist (a distinct advantage over the ordinary Pyjamas).
Other features of this new garment are as follows:
Only one thickness of material throughout, thus avoiding
the wrinkling or bunching which are such undesirable features
of the old-style Pyjamas and Night Shirts alike. Another
feature of this garment is that it cannot drag at the heels like
an ordinary garment, nor flap around the legs like a Night
Shirt. The weaver has only to put on a pair of socks to be
fully dressed for any emergency.
r
V
V
B. US': stim
m
V
i s
Made in strong Flannelette Shirting, and can he had in
any size.
Price 8/6.
The Model
Store,
GRACE BROS.
Broadway,
SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post) as a Newspaper.
VOL. 36.—N0. 1848.
THURSDAY, JULY 15, 1915.
Price 6d.
THE RECRUITING AGENT.
“Donnerblitzen, it vos all wrong! I kill der babies all right, but I vake der men!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per Annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac
ticabls, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say.
3000 xvords, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. wher,
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
tending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.J Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — -Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 535
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co..
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt.— lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. — Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon.— TP. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Postage Kates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth. Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
lOoz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id., B ioz. to lOoz., 2id.;
10oz. to 120 z., Sd.; elsewhere, ioz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
ffluT%£xzlldz/7i.
THURSDAY, JULY 15, 1915.
TWO DAUBS OF MUD AND A
HANDFUL OF SAND.
The objections to the submission of the
Referenda Bills divide up naturally into
three. Melbourne Age put them concisely
last week. In the first place, a Constitu-
tional change, such as the Age itself advo-
cated the other day, is superfluous now, it is
claimed, on account of the War Precautions
Act:—-
The Referendum Bills are evidently unnecessary to
the conduct of the war. Australia can be organised
just as effectively without them. Parliament has
abundant power to do all that is required to that
end. Its war powers, indeed, are illimitable and
infinite.
In any case why this sudden excitement?
The war has already lasted 11 months, and we
have, so far, done fairly well without the Bills. If
they are essential now were they not essential last
August? The Government did not introduce them
to Parliament until a few days ago. Did Labor
only discover they are essential so very recently?
If so, it has been extremely tardy in realising its
obligations to the people.
And, finally:—
Why are the Referendum Bills not to be put imme-
diately before the people? We have the Prime Min-
ister’s assurance that they will not be referred to the
nation for several months. Yet the Government
cannot organise the nation until the Constitution is
amended by the Bills with the people’s consent, and
national organisation is immediately imperative.
Tlio patent and unworthy nonsense—the
mere daubs of mud—can be dealt with first.
The war has indeed lasted 11 months, and
Australia has muddled along somehow. But
it is an unpatriotic lie to say that we have
done even “fairly well.” It is only lately
that the Censor has let us know how grave
the position is, and how miserably little we
have been doing to improve it. Our sol-
diers are training in dungarees and going
short of overcoats, to their own discomfort
and the prejudice of recruiting, because the
supply of military clothing has been short
since the war began. We have sent away a
number of batteries of Field Artillery. But
every gun which they took was imported.
The I'e-inforcements in this arm are leaving
without guns, and none are being made
in the Commonwealth. The supply of rifles
has been short from the beginning. It was
alleged in Parliament last week that in one
camp there were only 30 rifles available for
500 men, that the weapons were obsolete,
and that some of them were defective. An-
other member said :—-
It is because of the insufficient output of the Small
Arms Factory that we have not been able to take all
the recruits that have offered. It is because of it
that we have not been able to arm 6ur men in
■sufficient time.
The exigencies of the situation have forced
*he Government to buy its remounts at a
high figure from private dealers, and there
is good evidence that in a vast number of
cases it has been swindled. The wicked un-
justifiableness of the Age’s flippant
assertion that we have done so “fairly
well” up to the present that there
is no need for anxiety, may best
be appreciated by a glance at the way in
which other nations —France, for example—
are organising their businesses. Equally sick-
ening at such a time as this is the school-
boy “score” which the Melbourne paper seeks
to make by asking why, if the Referenda
Bills are wanted at all, they are not dashed
at the people without a minute’s delay. Such
cheap stuff is not designed to be helpful. It
is pure party talk. It belongs to the dregs of
political controversy. The nation needs to
recognise that this is going to be a long war.
During nearly a year the Commonwealth, in
common with the rest of the Empire, has
been learning the art of Militarism in the
bitter school of error. So must every country
pay for unpreparedness. But we know Ger-
many now—its strength and the misery
which defeat at its hands would represent.
It is not too late to start organising to make
the overthrow of this burglar nation a cer-
tainty. It will not be too late by the end
of the year. But it is certainly not a work
that can be begun at a day’s notice.
* * * *
The most specious argument is the asser-
tion that Parliament has acquired, under
the War Precautions Act, powers which, in
the Age’s words, are “illimitable and in-
finite.” The trouble arises from the fact
that the lie is a sort of quarter-truth. To
suggest that the Parliament has any more
power at the present moment than it had
this time last year is of course absurd. The
reason is plain. It was itself responsible
for the War Precautions Act. A first prin-
ciple of law lays it down that you cannot
delegate what you haven’t got. If Parlia-
ment could at any time seize on the occasion
of a war (great or small), or a riot, or a
dog-fight, to enable it to pass an Act giving
itself permission to interfere with intra-
state trade, nationalise State monopolies,
control State railways, and so on, the High
Court would be a superfluity. All that
would be needed to nullify the Court’s in-
terpretations of the Constitution would
be a majority hostile to the latter
in both Houses, and (say) a rebel-
lion in New Guinea, or a “push” row in
AVoolloomooloo. It is perhaps unnecessary
to mention that no such demented position
exists. The Parliament has
authority which is “illimitable and infinite.”
Every day the cables tell of the delegation
by Parliament to the Government of fresh
and revolutionary powers—powers to insti-
tute fair rents in munition areas ; to suspend
trades union rules; to nationalise factories;
to do all sorts of unprecedentedly Socialistic
things. But our Constitution, for good or
evil, was made a Federal one by its authors.
It is still a Federal Constitution. That is
to say, a written instrument which rigidly
limits the powers of the National Parlia-
ment How far Parliament could go last
year in the way of fresh legislation depended
on the construction put on that legislation by
the High Court; and how far Parliament
can go this year depends on the same
chance;
* * * *
The handful of truth in the vast super-
structure of mendacity which Liberalism has
built round this issue may be admitted with-
out danger to the Referenda cause. The
idea is that the Empire being engaged in a
mighty war, and the situation being strained,
if not. actually perilous, the High Court may
be relied on to give Parliament extensions of
power where necessary. To show the per-
nicious effect of the nonsense which Joseph
Cook, the Melbourne Age and others have
been talking on this subject, someone wx-ote
to the papers the other day and stated that,
under the War Precautions Act, the Federal
Parliament had power, if it wished, to close
down every State Assembly and Council in
the Commonwealth. The opinion is no
more preposterous than others which have
been set forth in this connection. The
Australian Parliament no doubt could pass
a measure wiping out the State Houses ; and
the latter would be duly exterminated —
always provided the High Court was willing
to so far stultify itself as to say that such
a step was constitutionally valid. And
this is the difficulty which the Government
is up against all the time. It is faced,
after 11 months of optimism and self-decep-
tion, with the necessity of arming, equip-
ping and finding transports for exactly ten
times as many men as the Cook Government
made preparations for handling. It has to
increase its output of rifles not ten-fold, but
nearly fifty-fold. It has to initiate a shell-
making industry, and lay the foundations of
an arsenal. It cannot achieve one of these
aims without the possibility of being dragged
into court by some unpatriotic employer
or cantankerous working-man. The Fisher
Government has no more power now than it
ever had to control the Queensland branch
of the -.U.'S. Beef Trust —though, in view
of the war, the High Court might decide
that its former interpretation of the Trade
and Commerce clause was incorrect. The
Commonwealth has no power to touch the
State railways, though it might do so on the
chance that the High Court would incor-
rectly decide, as a matter of patriotism, that
the action was legal. Such a position is
manifestly unjust to the High Court, and
it is more than hampering to those whose
duty it is to organise the war. Liberalism
will do no good for itself by lying about
the powers which the Federal Parliament
necessarily hasn’t got. What it must show,
or hold its peace, is why the Australian Par-
liament is not to be trusted as far as the
Parliaments of the rest of the belligerent
nations.
HIS HONOR GIVES EVIDENCE.
At the May Sessions of the Sydney Central
Criminal Court James Richard Walton
was put on trial for his life. The charge
was rape, the Judge was Docker, and the
sentence was death. Early in July the case
came up for review by the Court of Criminal
Appeal. Several grounds were taken, but
the only one dealt with was that of comment
by the Judge in his summing-up. The recent
Criminal Appeal Act says that in criminal
proceedings an official shorthand note shall
be taken; so the Court had a verbatim
script, and it set aside the conviction after
it had seen Judge Docker’s words. In read-
ing them it is hard to believe that they were
spoken on a capital charge by a Judge or
any member of the profession to which he
belongs. Indeed, one can only conclude from
his Honor’s observations that he had never
heard of the decision in which the Court of
Criminal Appeal in London laid it down that
unless the prisoner’s case is put fairly to the
jury the conviction must be quashed.
Two samples will do. The Judge was try-
ing to prove to the jury that screams, which
were alleged and denied, need not necessarily
have been heard. The crime was charged to
have occurred at Bingara, near Armidale.'
The Judge said : —-
If you have been in the country perhaps you
may have sometimes experienced such weather as has
been described. I remember many years ago, only
a few miles away from Bingara, being caught in one
of these furious storms, and I was afraid that my
buggy would be torn to pieces, and the hood rent off
by the fury of the wind —branches of trees falling
down all round. Of course, a storm like that makes
a very great noise, besides calling the attention of
persons who happen to be near, and who are in it, to
the atmospheric conditions.
A little later he made a statement about the
inhabitants of Bingara which the Chief Jus-
tice subsequently said amounted to a charge
that “in all probability there is not one
young man in Bingara who is not capable of
committing the crime of rape.” Both the
other Judges made similar comments. The
statement was as follows, its point being that
it related to the district from which the
accused came:—
If you knew as much about it [the district of
Bingara] as I do, I don’t suppose you would be very
surprised. I don’t know that I am doing any harm
if I tell you an anecdote relating to that district.
The very last time I was sitting in court at Bingara
[here followed an unpublishable account of a case].
This account was practically admitted by the
accused, but the jury found him not guilty. One of
the barristers standings in the court knew one of the
jurymen, and after the case was over spoke to him
and asked how it was they acquitted the young fellow.
The answer was, “Well, if I had been in his place
the would not have got off so lightly as she
did.” Well, when you find a juryman selected to
represent the manhood of the locality making such
an admission as that, 'can you be surprised when this
young man says he is the same as the other young
men in the district f Will you believe him on his
frankness, or will you come to the conclusion that he
is such an abandoned character that you cannot
believe him when he swears to these tilings? His
account of himself makes one think of the awful
description given by the Apostle St. Paul of the
heathen world in his day, as regards morality, in
the Epistle to the Romans. He winds up by saying
that “They do the things which they know are
worthy of death, and not only do they do them them-
selves but take pleasure in those that do them” —
a most awful state of morals; what hope can we
have in the future for, young men and young women
of this kind? They simply ruin the country. Well,
gentlemen, that is the case you have to decideand
that is the evidence upon which you are to decide it.
* * * *
On appeal the matter came before the
Chief Justice and Justices Bring and
Gordon. In delivering judgment the Chief
Justice said that “the jury had been invited
to pronounce judgment in a capital case, on
matters, which were clearly outside the evi-
dence, in a manner which, if done by a
Crown Prosecutor, would have called for
strong comment by the presiding Judge.
Such comments and such irrelevancies were
calculated to distract the attention of the
jury from the solemn functions they had to
perform.” Interrupting argument by coun-
sel for the Grown, the Chief Justice said
that miscarriages of justice occur when
Judges go out of their way to present views
of the case, and much more so facts which
have nothing to do with the case, unneces-
sarily.” Justice Gordon asked: “What did
his Honor tell it to the jury for if it wasn’t
to affect their minds? It amounts to this.
His Honor gave evidence not on oath.” Jus-
tice Pring said that “it was a very wrong
thing to do,” and he added: “If a Crown
Prosecutor addressed the jury in that
fashion, do you think the Judge would per-
mit it? I’d very soon stop him. If it’s
wrong for the Crown Prosecutor it’s a
fortiori wrong for the Judge.” It must be
remembered that the men who said these
things are Judge Docker’s friends. Every
one of them has appeared before him. He is
an old man, and they belong to a type which
respects age. He belongs to their own pro-
fession, and the best types do not willingly
decry a member of their own profession
unless they feel that he cannot any longer
fittingly belong to it. These men, who have
every prompting to regard him leniently,
have felt called upon to say these things.
What must their mental reservations be?
* * * *
It is an anomaly, in the first place, that
Judge Docker should sit as a Judge of
Assize at all. He is a Judge of the inferior
Courts. To the framers of the Common Law
it would seem grotesque that he should be
trying the greater felonies. And grotesque
it is. Even if he were fitted for it to begin
with, this Judge’s whole training unfits him
for the work now. The system which pre-
vails in District Courts of trying cases with-
out juries gets Judges into the habit, in cases
where the law is doubtful or difficult, of re-
fraining from stating the law applicable to
the facts before them, as they would have to
do if they were directing a jury, and of con-
fining themselves to a finding on the facts.
The result is that their findings are as un-
appealable as the findings of juries. Up to
the passage of the recent Criminal Appeal
Act the proceedings in Criminal Courts were
equally unappealable. “Appeal Court fever”
—the recognised steadying influence of the
superior Courts —has been unknown to Judge
Docker, He never knew of any Court to
check him. By the time the sorely-needed
Act arrived it was too late. The new fashion
of recording the spoken word in cold print
failed to burn in its meaning. The old dog
was unable to learn the new tricks. This
Judge can be removed by Resolution of Par-
liament in terms provided by the District
Court Act. Any member of the N. S. Wales
Parliament who doubts the necessity for his
removal need only call upon the Attorney-
General to produce the shorthand note in
Walton’s case. It presents Judge Docker
as a serious public danger.
THE RUSSIAN MARCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Russian mist, and cold, and darkness, on
the weary Russian roads ;
And the whip of Russian swear-words, and
the whack of Russian goads;
There’s the jerk of tautened traces and of
tautened bullock-chains—
’Tis the siege guns and-- the field guns and
the ammunition trains.
There’s the grind of tyres unceasing, where
the metal caps the clay ;
And the “clock,” “clock,” “clock” of axles
all the night and through the day,
And the groan of undercarriage and of king-
pin and the wheel—
Of the rear wheels, which are fore wheels,
with their murd’rous load of steel.
There’s the sound of fretting cattle in the
mist and in the sleet;
And the scrambling start of horses, and the
ceaseless splosh of feet.
There’s the short, sharp, sudden order such
as drivers give to slaves,
And a ceaseless soughing, sighing, like tlm
sound of sea-worn caves
When a gale is slowly dying and the dark-
ness hides the waves ;
And the ghostly phosphorescence flashes
past the rocky arch
Like the wraiths of vanished armies—it i
Ivan on the march !
* * * .
Clamp of bits and gathering silence, here
and there a horse’s stamp ;
Sounds of chains relaxed, and harness, like
the Teamsters come to camp.
Sounds of boxes moved in waggons, and of
axes on a log,
And the wild and joyous barking of the
Grey Battalion’s dog!
Sounds of pots and pans and buckets, and
the clink of chain and hook,
And the blasphemous complaining of the
Universal Cook.
Mist and mist and mellowed moonlight;
Night in more than ghostly robes ;
And the lanterns and the camp fires like
dim lights in frosted globes.
Silence deep of satisfaction. Sounds cf
laughter murmuring.
Then the fragrance of tobacco ! Are you
Ivan? Ivan, sing!
* * * *
“I am Ivan ! Yes, I’m Ivan, from the mist
and from the mirk ;
From the night of ‘Darkest Russia,’ where
Oppression used to lurk.
It is many weary winters since I started
Christian work ;
But you feared the power of Ivan, and you
nursed the Moslem Turk.
Nurse him now ! Or nurse him later, when
his green-black blood hath laved
Wounds upon your hands and ‘honor’ that
his ‘gratitude’ engraved—
Poison teeth on hands that shielded, poison
fangs on hands that saved.
“No one doubted Ivan’s honor, no one
doubted Ivan’s vow,
And the simple word of Ivan none would
dream of doubting now.
Yet you cherished, for your purpose, lies
you heard and lies you spread,
And you triumphed for a Spectre ovei
Ivan’s murdered dead !
You were fearful of my power in the rolling
of my drums —
Now you tremble lest it fail me when To
morrow's Morrotv comes!
I had sought to conquer no land save wha'
was by right my own—
I took Finland, I took Poland, but I left
their creeds alone.
I, the greater, kindlier Tyrant, bade them
live, and showed them how.
They are free, and they are happy, and
they're marching with me now.
Marching to the War of Ages, marching to
the War of Wars—
Hear the rebel songs of Warsaw ! Hear the
hymn of Helsingfors !
From the Danube to Siberia and the
Northern lights aflame
Many freed and peaceful millions bless the
day when Ivan came.
Travel through the mighty Russland —
study, learn and understand
That my people are contented, for my
people have their land
“It was spring-time in Crimea, coming cold
and dark and late,
When I signed the terms you offered —Ivan
knew that he could wait ;
And he bowed to stronger Nations —or to
Universal Fate.
And the roofs of guiltless kinsmen blazed
across my frontiers still
Where the bloody hordes of Islam came to
ravish, rob and kill;
And the lands were laid in ashes over manj
a field and hill;
And the groans of tortured peasants (dream-
ing yet and sullen-mad))
And the shrieks of outraged daughters
echoed still in Petrograd ;
So we taught and trained and struggled.
and we cursed the Western Powers
While we suffered in the awful silence of
your God and ours.
“For the safety of the White Race and the
memory of Christ,
Once again I marched on Turkey, once
again was sacrificed
To the Sea-Greed of the Nations, to the
pandering of the weak,
And the treachery in Athens of the lying,
cheating Greek.
Once again I forced the Balkans over snow
and rock and moss ;
Once again I saw the passes stormed with
unavailing loss ;
Once again I saw the Crescent reeling back
before the Cross,
And the ships of many nations on the bil-
lows dip and toss.
Once again my grey battalions, that had
come with Christian aid,
Stood before Constantinople—ah, you wish
that we had stayed !
But the Powers raised their fingers, fearful
ever, once again,
With the jealous fear that lingers even now
(and shall remain) ;
Frigid as the Polar Regions were your
hearts to others’ pain.
So I dragged my weary legions back to
Russia — cnce aaain.


“Thrice again they raised their fingers when
I came with purpose true.
And I bowed and smirked and grovelled as
I had been used to do. .
Till my kin in bloody visions saw then
homes in ruins laid.
From the Danube to the ocean, tiom the
ocean to Belgrade,
I was ready for the last time when they
called on me for aid.
From the Dardanelles, denied me, shall my
outward march be set;
You shall see my fleets of Commerce sail
the Adriatic yet.”
* * * *
Daybreak on the world of Europe! Day-
break from the Eastern arch !
Hear the startling cry of bugles ! Load and
limber up and march .
On, for Ivan and his children, Peace and
Rest and Morning Star !
On for Truth and Right and Justice—on
for Russia and the Czar .
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON. `
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Wood and Water Joeyism Wins.
So the tariff goes overboard for the present,
and Australian industry is left at this criti-
cal stage to become a burnt offering at the
altar of party. An unwise, profoundly un-
patriotic step ; and in taking it the 1 kSiiEi:
Government has shown itself blind to one of
its heaviest obligations. The alleged justifi-
cation for the abandonment of duty and the
sacrifice of promise has not even the merit
of plausibility. It can provoke no other feed-
ing than of derision, universally extended to
men who, having boasted of their readiness
to face the storm, run cowering for shelter
when the gale approaches. The encourage-
ment of Australian industry a party matter !
The rescue of the nation from the conse-
quences of the hideous industrial blunders
revealed to the people during the last few
months a matter to be deferred ! In defer-
ence to what? In deference to nothing, ex-
cept the flustered anxiety of a group of poli-
ticians to escape from turmoil. Less than
any other subject that can be submitted to
the Federal Parliament does the tariff come
within the ambit of party. There may be
acute differences about detail; but in the
Legislature and the country there is a broad
general acceptance of the policy fol-
lowed. And if there was one thing the
workers of Australia expected this .Parlia-
ment to do, it was to approach the tariff with
courageous determination to end the scandals
and anomalies associated with the nation’s
trade. It is no use pretending that all is
well because trade with the _ Huns is,
for the time being, not possible. The
weary old farce which made that trade
an evil is still in progress, the only
change being in direction. The removal of
Teutonic hands from the national windpipe
has merely left an opening for others. Eco-
nomically the situation is unchanged, and
will remain so. If the task of reformation
be difficult to-day it will be more so later
on, as the inevitable consequences of the war
begin to nip the world’s finance and trade.
Yet, after all’.the pious promises of recent
days, after all the cheers for Australian
enterprise, after all the fierce resolutions
from a thousand public meetings and ban-
quet-rooms —the fiery speeches about “never
again’* and the open confession of past sin-
fulness —national ambitions, hopes and con-
siderations of safety wreck on the rocks of
Party Government. The tragedy of it all is
almost beyond expression. Three months ago
such a thing would only have been believable
by the most embittered cynic.
♦ :
The Sydney “Underground.”
N. S. Wales has a trifle of £4,000,000 to
pay every year as interest on its public debt
alone; which means that, in order to keep
its accounts square, it must produce and
export that much more than it imports, and
lately its exports haven’t even equalled its
imports, so that it is simply falling headlong
into the bog. For the first 10 months of
this fiscal year Australia went to the bad
£6,000,000. Our exports were only
£49,000,000, while our imports were
£54;,000,000. Thus, so far from having, sur-
plus exports to pay the interest bill, w r e
didn’t even pay for the chiffons and other
things we imported. When nearly 12 months
ago, in the early days of the war, the small
prattlers talked of the need to keep things
going just as if there was no war, The
Bulletin shouted at the top of its voice
that the country’s need was to produce—to
cut down imports wherever it could and
make and grow things for itself and to
satisfy the hunger of its foreign creditor.
That need is far greater now than it was
even then. The State’s interest burden has
been piling up fast, while tens of thousands
of good wealth-producers have left the coun-
try. It does not matter why they have left.
The simple fact of importance at present is
that they have not taken any of the interest
burden with them. Those who remain
■behind must produce enough to pay not only
their own share of the annual debt, but also
the share of the men who have gone away
on the Empire’s business. To add to the
difficulties of the situation, some of our
lordinary means of production are out of
,action. The hundreds of thousands of zinc
ore, for instance, which we used to sell and
’ship to Germany are not marketable now.
Further, the drought has cut most seriously
into the flocks and herds, and the export of
wool and butter and fat stock must be
affected for two or three years to come. To
make good these national losses we must do
two things more strenuously than ever we
have done them before —substitute Aus-
tralian manufactures for foreign goods wher-
ever possible, so as to redu.ee our bill for
imports; and produce every grain of wheat
and every pound of other staples for which
we can find a foreign market so as to enhance
. our exports. From the national point of
view, every man employed on public works
which do not either materially and promptly
reduce our imports or increase our exports
is a man wasted. It is for this reason that
the Sydney City Railway, on which the
Government -proposes to forthwith spend
over £3,000,000, and ultimately over
£5,000.000, is singularly ill-timed. The occa-
sion demands not that men shall merely be
found employment, as Ministers appear to
think, but that they shall be found employ-
ment in directions that will keep us from
national bankruptcy; and they will never do
that by enticing men to the city to be em-
ployed in great numbers on the job ot
making it easier for the importer’s clerk to
get from his home at Bondi to York-street.
♦ •
The Industrial Peril.
“Feng-shui’s” warning to the land of his
birth: —*
The other day we had a good bird's-eye view of
Shanghai, from the top of a new theatre, native-
owned. towering above the tall surrounding architec-
ture. ’ Wfi paid 20 cents to go up in a gaudy lift
to a roof-garden crowded with well-dressed Chinese
drinking tea in sunlight made murky by clouds of
drifting smoke. The smoko came from factory chim-
neys. There they were, sticking up everywhere, tall,
thin stalks carrying plumes of black. The forerun-
ners these of a larger number which will spread
their pall over wider and wider areas in China.
Shanghai already threatens Bombay and Calcutta as
a manufacturing centre. The Chinese workman is
better than the Indian, as intelligent as the Euro-
pean. The supply of labor is inexhaustible; the
wages dreadfully low. In mills owned and managed
by foreigners women get from fivepence to tenpence
for a day of 12 working hours. They would
work for less. There is no limit to the possibilities
of sweating where the mass of the population
struggles on the verge of starvation. Already there
are 18 cotton mills in Shanghai, running nearly half
a million spindles.
Administration is in the hands of the foreign muni-
cipalities, and the municipalities are in the hands of
the capitalists. Into the administration of these
factories it is forbidden to inquire. I spent a
fruitless morning once trying to gain admission to
some of the grimy portals along the Yangitszepoo-
road. The Japanese and Chinese mills were alike
obdurate. A Sikh watchman barred our entrance
lil! a native manager arrived and waved us off with
smiles and protestations. An English mill, one of the
largest in Shanghai, was more complaisant. We went
over it late in the evening. The place was crammed.
Wide-eyed children huddled about in groups amidst
the intricate machinery tended by deft-handed women.
In this best-run of all the mills, labor was lavishly
used, but it was extremely wasteful. The solitary
Englishman in charge said that six women or 10 chil-
dren were required for work which one Lancashire
operator could do. Despite the low wages paid, he
said, native labor was more expensive than white.
Against this statement place the profits of the firm —
last year 57| per cent, on the invested capital!
Few men could be seen. Women and girls, even
children of eight and nine, were tottering about the
place on crumpled feet like pigmies in a nightmare
; , o-Ip. From the localities in which they are re-
cruited they are carried in barrows, 10 of them to a
barrow, pushed by a sweating coolie. Their bound
feet preventing them from walking any distance after
work, they are carried home in the same way. The
hours of labor are usually from six to six, day and
night, except Saturday, when the night shift extends
till 10 the next morning, the last four hours being
spent in cleaning up, the mill remaining closed till
0 p.m. the same day. This gives a working week of
72 and 88 hours, alternately. No interval is -allowed
for meals. Food must be taken at the looms or not
at all. The labor is usually farmed out on a simple
system. The overseer receives so much wages for so
many pounds of yarn; consequently he finds it profit-
able in place of a man to employ two children,
whose joint wages are less than those of one adult.
Most safeguards against accident are missing, and
the Chinese coolie, anyhow, doesn’t value his life at
more than 10 or 20 dollars, cash in advance.
The cotton industry is not the only one that is
being transferred to China: Boots and shoes, cigars,
paper and matches are all being made by Chinese
labor in foreign-owned factories. Scores of big bosses
are winging to the sweater’s paradise. One English
firm is preparing to open a vast soap-making business
with potentialities for washing the whole universe, as
conditions become more settled and Chinese opposi-
tion less acute. These men will then spread their
businesses into the provinces along China’s magnificent
waterways, drawing fresh supplies of labor from an
illimitable field. In one of the factories it costs
threepence in labor to make a pair of shoes. The
capitalist, forced to yield terms in his European
market, finds here a pitch unspoiled by the agitator,
the demagogue and the altruist. No trades unions
make his sleep uneasy. He fears not the visits of
prying Government inspectors. Immense profits are
prepared for him, and in the act of making them he
is forging a weapon that will be used with tre-
mendous weight in the industrial wars of his own
country.
The Chinese Government, allured by the immense
considerations foreign trusts are ready to give, is
gradually throwing open the country. The Stan-
dard Oil Company has already started to work the
oil; the exploitation of coal and iron has virtually
been handed to the foreigner. Who can doubt that
the teeming Chinese population will be passed over
for exploitation in the same ruthless way by a Gov-
ernment never very conscious of responsibility ?
Take a map and look at the Yangtsze River basin.
It will be some day the richest, most productive
region in the world. It supports two hundred mil-
lion people, who with primitive implements culti-
vate an incomparable soil. A few months ago it
was supposed to be an exclusively British sphere of
influence. That idea has been exploded. Japanese
own most of the Yangtsze shipping; French and
Belgian interests have hands on railway develop-
ment. In a few years the country thereabouts will
be covered with railways. Production, with modern
methods, could be increased a hundredfold:; the
resources are immense; the adaptable area, fed by
detritus from the mountains, is actually increasing.
There is a network of canals and navigable streams
crowded with merchandise carried in native vessels
between hundreds of walled towns busy with special
industries. Shanghai is the natural seaport of this
vast district. The atmosphere above the inland
towns is still clear; but a pall of smoke hangs above
Shanghai and another pall above Hankow, the second
centre of the new industrialism
——
The Cant of Naturalisation.
Melbourne University Council has
; belatedly come to the conclusion that
MMnaturalised Germans are' now out of
place on the University teaching staff. So
far so good ; but the- assumption .that
naturalised Germans are 'necessarily differ-
ent in sentiment from wnnaturalised ditto
was contradicted by the very proposer of
the first motion when ‘lie pointed out that
the German Consul in Australia had ex-
plained to his compatriots lmw the swearing
of allegiance to-the King of:England doesn?t
deprive a hypocritical liar of his rights and
privileges and Obligations -as a--German
citizen. It is time Australia cleared its
mind of the old “naturalisation” cant. There
are two distinct classes of German residents
here. They are Germans who have expected
and predicted with misgivings, if not with
actual fear, the accomplishment of tne
Prussian design of world conquest—citizens
who smiled sadly at Australian blindness
to the danger which threatened- —and those
other very numerous Huns who have, ex-
pected, but have not openly predicted, the
annexation of Australia by Germany, and
have secretly endeavored. to put themselves
in a position to be gainers, rather than
losers, when the change should come. The
Germans who never anticipated war between
Britain and their Fatherland are a negli-
gible quantity. The active professional spies
are few, and most of them are, presumably,
interned at present. But the dissimulating
naturalised humbugs, always talking con-
spiracy amongst themselves —these are the
largest and most dangerous class. The
community at large should learn to distin-
guish between the harmless and the harmful
naturalised Germans, between those who
didn’t look joyful over the Lusitania out-
rage, for instance, and those unquestionable
hogs who couldn’t conceal their satisfaction,
and who in many cases are known to have
celebrated the tragedy with hisrh jinks at
home. If the Commonwealth Government
wants any evidence that certain influential
naturalised Huns did jubilate over the sink-
ing of the Lusitania, it can get all the evi-
dence it wants by the usual police investiga-
tion.
* ~
The Law Ceases to be an Ass and
Becomes a Worm.
A law that stops dead because a potential
law-breaker declares that he does not intend
to treat it with respect earns for its admin-
istrators all the scorn the contumacious per-
son throws upon them. There is a current
case in point in N. S. Wales. An award has
been made by the Coalmining (South)
Group No. 3 Board, and cross appeals by
the Sydney Harbor Colliery Company Ltd.,
and the employees have been entered ; where-
on the Illawarra Colliery Employees’ Union,
which looks after the men’s interests, has
threatened that, unless they get what they
want, they will not work. The award was
supposed to settle matters that have, fbr years
caused trouble at the Sydney Harbor Col-
lieries, but apparently it leaves them unset-
tled. The Industrial Court sitting to con-
sider the appeals discovered that the
employees put in no appearance; and,
mindful of the threat that had been made, it
humbly adjourned to enable the union to give
an assurance that whatever award was made
would be respected. Otherwise, it observed,
the Court might as well not _ sit at all.
Wherein, of course, the Court is altogether
wrong. Being appointed to settle industrial
conditions it should proceed with its work
quite oblivious of the threats of any of the
parties. Afterwards, if any of the parties
fail to pay the respect that is due to the
award of a properly appointed Court, they
become plain law-breakers, and the Law
should know how to deal with them.
Apparently it doesn’t; or, if it does,
the Holman Government hasn’t the pluck
to set the machinery in operation
against its own crowd. That _ the
judgments of presumably non-partisan
Courts should be set aside or suspended in-
definitely by partisan Ministers is one of the
most sinister features of Government in Aus-
tralia to-day.
♦ ■ ——
The Canberra Mess and the Australian
Capital.
The awfulness of Canberra is taking a new
turn. The big swindle of the capital site
having been perpetrated with the conniv-
ance of the majority of politicians of both
parties, it would have seemed good policy
to make the best of the thing by the use of
the ablest brains available, so hiding from
the eyes of the Australian voter the extent
to which he was being victimised. But
there has been a perpetual undercurrent of
suspicion about the whole venture, which
culminated in the declaration of Minister
for Home Affairs Archibald that he had
“turned down the scheme which the Federal
capital designer had submitted.” The whole
thing is bad business for the mere citizen
who provides the cash. Archibald states
that the half-million already spent has not
been wasted; but that is a matter on which
the word of one Minister who is not an ex-
pert can hardly be accepted at face value.
The occasion calls for explanation, and
very explicit explanation. First of all, it
must be taken as axiomatic that the site is
a bad one, and that the town to be built
cannot at best be more than a temporary
capital; but the urgent question to be an-
swered is whether, after the lavish expendi-
ture to date on preliminaries, the best way
out of a bad job is to write off the half mil-
lion as dead loss and select a new and suit-
able site, or whether there is still a possi-
bility of making a temporary capital at
Canberra which will answer all reasonable
purposes for a generation or so. The in-
quiry into the condition of affairs should be
no ordinary one. A speech by Andrew
Fisher declaring that matters are all
right where they appear to be all wrong
will not suffice ; a report by Commonwealth
engineers will not fill the bill; a Royal Com-
mission of the ordinary semi-political kind
will be worse than useless. Andrew
Fisher’s opinion is only the opinion of
one man who cannot know much about such
a matter ; Commonwealth engineers are men
of ability, but they are too closely in touch
with their political bosses —the bosses who
selected the site —to give an opinion which
can satisfy the public; a Commission un-
less very specially chosen would be merely
.like so many other Commissions. The men
chosen to probe the scandal must be selected
with something more than ordinary care.
They must be experts; they must be free
from all. 1 political ties; they must be con-
versant with Australian needs and Austra-
lian aspirations; they must be : witjhout
leaning to either Sydney or'Melbburne in-
fluences ; and, lastly, they must be men
,v?hose word will command respect. If such
a Commission were chosen the exact posi-
tion of .affairs at Canberra could be known
within a’ few weeks. The finding 1 of such a
body could hardly fail to reflect upon the
bulk of the prominent men in Federal p01i-
tics. For this reason it could not reason-
ably be left to Federal politicians them-
selves to act upon the report. When the
facts of the special Commission’s finding
were fairly before the people, the least the
Government could honorably do would be
to take a referendum upon the question of
Canberra or no Canberra. It would be ob-
jected that the cost would be very great,
and that left to themselves the politicians
could patch things up and muddle through
to the creation of some sort of city in the
desert. Such an objection must be thrust
aside. Already the Federal capital busi-
ness has cost £700,000; and, if things are
allowed to drift on, that amount will be
enormously increased before anything really
worth doing is done. The cost of a refer-
endum, especially if taken in conjunction
with something else, would probably be a
real economy as compared with the expense
of trusting the politicians to pursue the pre-
sent course further. In point of fact, Can-
berra looks about the worst sink for throw-
ing away good Australian money that has
yet been devised, and anything may be worth
while that will stop the waste.
♦
The calamitous Inter-State Commission
exploded again lately—this time with a
report oil apparel. Taking apparel classi-
fied as woollen or containing wool, imports
in 1930 were valued at £1,815,245; in 1913
at £1,821,389. Most of these goods were
composed of wool grown in Australia,
thrown into ships, carried to the other end
of the world, there made up and flung back
into ships some more and hurried home
again, to be dragged around on wharves,
piled up on carts, stacked up in warehouses,
and ultimately, when no more pawing and
shifting about was possible, sold to Aus-
tralian citizens. The rest was just plain
shoddy. Every pound of wool employed in
manufacturing these piles of clothes could
have been worked up in Australian mills;
but as it was “cheaper” to give the job. to
workers in Germany and other countries,
the local share of the business was mainly
one of hauling and hoisting and paying the
other fellow to do the rest. The Inter-
State Commission, being profoundly im-
pressed by the capacity shown by Aus-
tralians in lifting bales and shifting boxes,
cheerfully exhorts the Ministry not to in-
crease the tariff on apparel, in order, it
seems, that the working classes may have a
fair chance to go and look for a sheep-
minding job becomingly clad in foreign-
made attire, while two millions are sent off
every year to make strangers strong enough
to attack us.
Melbotjkne’s reorganised but still incom-
petent Fever Hospital Committee is at log-
gerheads with the State’s Minister of Health,
J. Dry Brown, and Brown holds the thick
end of the stick. The trouble arose over
the maintenance estimates, which have been
drawn up on a generous, not to say lavish,
scale; and Brown, having had them reported
on by an expert, declines to pass them. Most
of the inmates are sick children, and the
committee thinks they want vast quantities
of food. It therefore allows each inmate
12oz. of meat per day, butter,. lOoz.
bread, 16oz. potatoes and milk, and copious
groceries. In the matter of salaries the
committee has been equally generous. Not
only has it about twice, as large an adminis-
trative staff as the Children’s Hospital, but
it pays about twice as much —more even than-
the big Melbourne Hospital does its officers.
Of course Brown is being upbraided by
various Bumbles for his “unnecessary inter-
ference” ; but if he would. interfere these
amateur committees now mismanaging pub-
lic institutions right out of existence he
would perpetrate a great blessing.
“Magpie” : The most heavily starred mili-
tary rumorist I know says that a request
was lately received from somewhere or
other requesting someone or other to ~ee
that the departing reinforcements were
taught a bit more shooting. We read a
good deal about Turkish snipers, and we
know that one of the tribe did his side great
service by picking off the valuable General
Bridges. But hardly anything is heard
about our own efforts in this line. We are
regaled with great accounts of bayonet work
and so on ; but very few soldier-correspond-
ents seem to have anything to say about
fine work with the rifle as a rifle. The end
and moral of this discourse is that, out at
Randwick Range one day lately, the writer
saw a batch of recruits patiently practising
how to present arms and go through other
parade-ground stuff. When men who are
about to set out for the Gallipoli rough and
tumble are amongst targets, it would seem
a better use of opportunity to give them
rifles and as much ammunition as they can
burn. We can’t have too many snipers of
our own, and the ceremonial sort of drill
doesn’t help to manufacture them.
♦
From the shade of a sheltering palm
Tonga is a British Protectorate under treaty-
engagement not to have direct official dealings with
other countries. Everything of that nature must he
done through Great Britain. One of the trading
concerns established in the protectorate has its head
office at Hamburg, and all its shareholders are there.
This Arm is still importing goods in British bottoms
from Maoriland and Australia. Nearly every steamer
calling at Nukualofa brings cargo which is sold for
the profit of Hamburg. Thus an enemy firm in a
British protectorate is being provided by Australia
and Maoriland with cash and goods which are car-
ried in British bottoms protected' by the Australian
Navy, and is shipping in the same ships produce to
earn money for the shareholders in the enemy coun-
try. H.M.S. Encounter on April 24 seized as a prize
this firm’s trading schooner, but at the same time
there was, and is, a vessel owned by Maoriland citi-
zens, and cleared by the Maoriland Customs, carrying
trade for. the same firm. The managers of this
concern are Prussian reservists. It seems to be
time that someone asked questions.
♦—
THE war is going to give locally-made knit-
ting wool a chance in Maoriland, and per-
haps in Australia. Several of the Maori-
land factories used to make a first-class
article, but because of an idiotic
tariff and the , stupid idea that the
foreigner can do things better, the
demand in the shops was always for “Im-
i ported, please!” So the M.L. factories
knocked off making the goods, and Ragbag
and / Co. went on dragging material from


Hotel Steyne,
Manly, N.S.W.
(SYDNEY).
Victorians,
South and West Australians,
Tasmanians,
Queenslanders,
And people of our own State
Should Winter in Manly,
the most fascinating and delightful of
all Seaside Resorts.
The Brighton and Folkestone of
Australia.
Hot Salt-water Baths and Golf
Links (18 holes) in close proximity.
Surf-bathing all the year round.
WINTER TARIFF, from May to
September, from £3/3/- per week
dfh
COLUMBIA CRAPHOPHONES
dfh
Famous all the World Over as “the Instruments that NEVER Break Down !”
fdh
POPULAR SERIES.
10-inch, 3/- (n.z., 3/6)
12-inch, 5/- (n z., s/s>
DOUBLE-SIDED.
&
COLUMBIA CRAPHOPHONES
HORN MODELS
75/- to £l5 15/-
HORNLESS
80/- to £45
NEW ZEALAND, £5 to £5O
dfh
liTfi
CELEBRITY SERIES
from «
10-inch, 5/- <n.z„ 5/6)
12-inch, 7/6 (n.z., s/->
DOUBLE-SIDED.
fd
COLUMBIA RECORDS They Wear TWICE as Long as Any Others!
hfd
Berlin and other places. When the foreign
supply lately dropped dead the demand for
knitting wool for balaclavas, scarves and
mittens became gigantic, and frenzied people
demanded to be told why a wool-growing
country should be short of something to knit
with when soldiers were freezing through
lack of comforters. Of course, they are
never going to be such unpatriotic idiots
again; but if, taking them at their word,
you suggest that we might as well in that
case put on a prohibitive duty of 100 per
cent., there is mostly a squirm and a whine
about the unwisdom of going to extremes. As
though the enemy wasn’t using the money
we’ve supplied him with to go to the furthest
extreme he knows.
♦
Australia’s Rally to Arms.
Those atrabilious citizens who had lately
been giving the word “shirker” a quite
reckless, because general, application, may
perhaps be now prevailed upon to keep their
objectionable tongues quiet. The number of
men offering for service in Australia is far
greater than the Defence Department can
immediately absorb. In Victoria last week
over 14,000 came forward in response to the
appeal made by the Federal and State
Governments. There a belated recruiting
campaign had been in nrogress for some
days, and similar activities will commence
very shortly in N. S. Wales. Indeed, the
response throughout Australia to this latest
summons has been almost as splendid
as the conduct of the lads already in
the field. It says plainly that there
would have been no need for the
urgent call had Australia not been kept in
a Fool’s Paradise about the progress of the
war. Even now, when the truth about the
struggle is beginning to come within grasp
of _ the public mind, officialdom remains
stricken by flustered timidity; and the
awakening has been in spite rather than
because of the people in whose hands the
conduct of affairs has rested. That it is
to be a long, exhausting struggle no one
can have any further doubt; that every man
capable of rendering assistance is wanted
at the Front is tragically clear; that victory
will only be secured after superhuman effort
is a commonplace of which the meaning is
only now beginning to be properly under-
stood. Viewed broadly, the military posi-
tion shows little if any recent change. News
of the old lying, glozing sort drifts along
about the Turk being tired of the war and
so forth ; but the only safe thing is to cut out
all “information” of this kind, and remem-
ber that the enemy has been saying the same
things about us for months past. What-
ever damage is being done to the Unspeak-
able, the inescapable facts remain that he is
holding his ground with sreat tenacity, that
he is striking back effectively, and that
many more men. are wanted for the job of
turning him upside down. That Young Aus-
tralia is coming forward so willingly to lend
a hand is a reason for national rejoicing,
just as the need for the coming forward is
a matter for national grief.
John Mc.Farlane, who died at Sydney on
July 9, aged 62. represented the Clarence in
11 N.S.W. Parliaments extending over 28
years. His only senior is C. A. Lee, the
father of the House, who has sat in 13 Par-
liaments, covering 33 years. Thomas Waddell
was elected to the same Parliament as Mr.
McFarlane —10 days later. But Waddell
has moved around, whereas both Lee and
McFarlane have sat tight all the time.
After having, without let or hindrance,
transported compressed humanity for 29
years, the Melbourne Tramway Co. was
haled before the beak the other day and
fined 10s. on each of two charges of over-
crowding. The enterprising Law had stopped
a tram with 47 passengers on the back car,
instead of the 34 allowed by the regulations,
and 37 of a legal 20) on the
dummy. The co. was shocked and pained at
being thus attacked in its old age, when the
tomb is almost ripe, and huskily asked for a
stay of proceedings. This was granted. The
Court, too, was visibly affected, and observed
with emotion that there had been only a
“technical” breach.
The main building of the Fort-street
(Sydney) Model Public School,
On whose grey front one yet may view,
Deep graved, the date of Waterloo,
celebrates its hundredth birthday this month.
One of Macquarie’s old-fashioned orders in
the Sydney Gazette of July 20, 1815, an-
nounces : “Head Quarters, Sydney.—-The new
Military General Hospital being now com-
pleted and ready for the accommodation of
the sick, Colonel Molle, commanding the
46th Regiment, will be pleased to direct the
sick of that corps to be removed to the new
hospital on Monday next, the 24th instant.
By His Excellency’s command, H. C.
Antill, Major of Brigade.” And so it re-
mained the military hospital till 1849, when
it was handed over to the Education Depart-
ment for the establishment of a model pub-
lic school —the first in Australia. Macquarie
was blamed for his extravagance in building
so many establishments. The old grey
schoolhouse standing to-day shows that his
jobs were at least well done.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Marriage Market”
Royal “The Glad Eye”
Criterion . “The Law of the Land”
Palace The Royal Strollers
Dttle “The Wrong Mr. Wright”
'Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
Repertory Louise Mack
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Girl on the Film”
Royal “Potash and Perlmutter”
Princess’s “The Wedding Ring”
King’s “On Our Selection”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Ruou Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville Go.
Hoyt’s Own & Olympia Hoyt’s Pictures
Glaciarium Real Ice Skating
♦
If) was unfortunately “The Wrong Mr.
Wright” at the Little Theatre (Sydney)
on Saturday, when George Willoughby
opened a comedy season. Mr. Wright was
all rivht a dozen years ago. The breezy
gentleman who wears bright red garments
and bluffs liis way through absurd complica-
tions was in those innocent days a delightful
“THE MARRIAGE MARKET,” AT
HER MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
Sheriff Bald-faced Sandy (Harry Burgess)
rings the wedding bell of Mendocino Bluff.
P erson to meet. He was so hilarious, so
confident of your approval of his success,
that the utterly unreal complications of the
„iot and the crudity of the construction of
the situations were overlooked, and there
was always the “curtain,” with the gro-
tesquely attired gentleman in a grotesque
Ration. But Mr. Wright has aged of
lata ’ , J* 1 ! reappearance before an audience
gfsa^p )med t( k mu , more subtle charac-
tensation and the cleverer humor of the
modern polite farce is disappointing. Thus
« Th W] T Mr Wriirht » a Genuine success
in the earlv davs of force Droved
a t the Lttle Theatre list Saturdav P more
of a resurrection than arevivtlU is the
SO rt of play wherein everybody pretends to
be somebody else—including, on the opening
night, the prompter. It is still funny, but
hardly funny enough to an audience now so
sophisticated. George Willoughby himself
is not to blame. His Mr. Wright is an ad-
mirable conception of unctuous humor and
natural comedy. He has not aged with the
P la y- _ Rather he has mellowed. And in
Tom Can Dam he has an actor of the right
temperament for such a part as that of Bel-
Stuyvesant a “Johnnie” of utter
probably, for the name-part of
T uif rl^ S 4 un V , wh £ h 18 also down on the
Llttle The atre list. Harry Halley portrays
ar T- °7 th « n °7 co ,nventional lines of
The. Private Secretary.” Hai-court Hare,
who is almost too tall for a Little Theatre,
manages, without arousing tumultuous en-
thusiasm, to provide a manly hero. The
women, Shirley Huxley, Connie Milne,
Florence Fanning and Nellie Clavin,. do
well, without doing very well,
* * * *
For brilliance of dialogue, crispness of
comedy, novelty of handling, and the tantal-
ising way in which the unsuspecting house
is lured on to the closing scenes, where the
climax arrives with a crash unequalled for
suddenness in the history of the Sydney
Adelphi, “A Girl’s Good Luck” j’ustifies all
that the advertisement writer has said of it.
It stands alone—a masterpiece. It leaves
the well-worn ruts of bellowdrama and
clears tracks through the thick timber of
public prejudice. Consider the amazing
plot—amazing not only in subtle conception,
but in the grandeur of its simplicity. Felicity
Summers is a poor relation staying with her
rich uncle, Lord Crowder—a iarge, bloated
gentleman like an intoxicated jelly-fish—
and her aunt Lady Fitzgarvon—a dear old
girl who wears cast-iron corsets and carries
a large cargo of powder. They use her for
everything except an ash-tray and a spittoon,
lhat’s Act 1. A rich uncle dies. The com-
mon or vulgar dramatist would have caused
him to leave everything to the bloated lord
and nothing to Felicity. Not so the author
of “A Girl’s Good Luck.” Felicity gets
everything. Result: There appear a vil-
lain and a hero, characters hitherto unheard
of in bellowdrama, and the villain sets about
doing dark deeds. Act 2 sees Dark Deed
No. 1 fall flat (excellent idea). But the
dramatist’s brain is stili active. The villain
conceives the astoundingly clever notion of
dropping Felicity under a train and marry-
ing Lord Jellyfish, or something like that.
(The Bulletin got lost for a few
minutes in the maze of intricacies.) He
wastes Act 3 on that job, but the mangled
remains are those of Lord Crayfish, not
Felicity. There’s only one thing for it —
an Act. 4. . The author rises to the occasion.
The villain unfolds further plots to the
trombone and the bass drum. He will steal
in in the dead of night and commit deeds
that will unnerve even von Tirpitz. But
the audience is cruel and unsympathetic. It
yawns. The dramatist guessed it would,
and arranged for the climax. It arrives
with a crash. The hero and Felicity get
married —the villain gets worse. With such
a wealth of melodramatic gems is it any
wonder that George Marlow is negotiating
with the Cricket Ground for overflow meet-
ings?
* * *
“The Marriage Market” is playing to
great houses—a powerful tribute to Leslie
Holland and Phil Smith, who are most of
the show at Sydney Her Majesty’s. However,
the two new girls are extremely taking, and
Derek Hudson sings well, and the scenery is
beautiful, and there is nothing wrong with
the orchestra. In; fact, but for the people
who come in late and stumble out in quest
of alcohol in the, intervals, the entertain-
ment would be beyond cavil. So the expla-
nation of its success may lie almost any-
where.
* * * *
It was a rousing night in the Palace when
the Royal Strollers, appearing for the first
time in Sydney, promptly shook from a big-
audience the mental dust-and-ashes of the
week, and went rollicking through a spark-
ling entertainment. The seven or eight people
in the show hadn’t a dull item concealed
“THE WRONG MR. WRIGHT ,” AT
THE LITTLE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
George Willoughby arrested by two supers.
about them. The dancing of Madeline Ros-
siter and G. W. Desmond, the whirling bur-
lesque of Mena Brae and Frank Halpin, the
part-singing and the songs of the bunch
were calculated to make even William
Holman temporarily forget the prospects of
Ma’s boom-and-bust policy. The most divert-
ing Stroller was Sydney James, ventriloquist,
mimic and whistler. Working with a dummy,
lie cut out all the old wheezes of the “frog-
in-the-belly” business, and created a new in-
terest in an ancient amusement that is
always in danger of “the bird.” A good show.
* * * *
“The Glad Eye” opens at Sydney Royal
on Saturday night, July 17, with Miss Ethel
Dane as the fascinating little milliner. All
curates and sub-deacons who missed the
moral treat when it was last in Sydney
will do well to throw aside their tracts and
umbrellas directly after reading this intima-
tion and fly straight as a flock of crows for
the box office. For, dearly beloved, there
will only be six nights and a matinee.
* * *
When the Bert Bailey co. shut off its
season at Sydney Royal on Monday, the
585th Australian performance of “On Our
Selection” was reached. That record is the
work of Australian author, adapters, produ-
cers, managers and, practically without ex-
ception, players. And the gold reef discov-
ered in the Selection is far from being
worked out.
* * * *
The last nights are announced at
Sydney Criterion of “The Law of the Land”
—which law, by the wav. is mentioned only
once, and then in the first act, being appar-
ently overlooked afterwards in the search for
the bloodstain and the spot marked “X.”
❖ * * *
James E. Britt and General Pisano are
once more called on in the name of Law
and Order and Peace at any Price to find
a millionaire husband for the Yankee dialect
comedienne, so that she can get off the
Sydney Tivoli programme. Failing that,
the writer, who has more than the usual
Sydneysider’s hatred of Melbourne, begs H.
D. Mclntosh to book her passage south and
try there. Otherwise all is well at the
Tivoli. It could hardly be unwell with the
exceptionally fine Randel Jackson Co. on
the bill, supported by Jarvis and Dare and
Eileen Watson.
* * * $
Tips for to-night’s picture shows: —
Colonial: “War,” which is bound to upset the
“hook-gloomy-during--the-war” Party, being a
Yankee view of the brighter and more humorous
view of the scrap.
Empress: “The Fencing Master,” concerning a
youth named Claude, a maiden named Yvette and a
bad man from Paris named Morode. Two reels of
Cupid armed with a sword. Blood to taste.
Lyric : “A Sister’s Burden,” something more sub-
stantial than the usual half-knitted sock —to wit,
washing-up and making beds.
Crystal Palace : “Rupert of Hentzau,” five reels
of the sequel to “The Prisoner of Zenda.”
* sis *
“Potash and Perlmiitter,” the ’Murkan play
that struck Australia at Melbourne Royal
last Saturday, is a primitive melodrama
travelling on its comic relief. The principles
of its plot are quite elementary, but its
droll characterisations and “sayings” (some
have been familiarised by predatory vaude-
ville comedians of “The Grafters” type) are
distinctly artful. In fact, “Potash and Perl-
mlitter” is a Yiddisher back-talk melo-
drama with a purpose, its purpose being the
glorification of ’Murkan-Jew dollar-vetters
in general and the Teutonic sort of them in
particular. After noting for five minutes the
astounding kindness and sweet commercial-
ism of the name characters and their most
devoted employees—Miss Cohen and Miss-
Goldman—one naturally looks for the name
of the author of this pro-Hebrew piece.
Monty Glass and Charles Klein were the
joint creators of the amusing fiction, funni-
est in the first act and comparatively dull
in the last, because mawkish sentimen-
tality then gets the joke down.
Abe Potash and Mawruss Perlmiitter run
an incredible costume and mantle factory,
where the girl-models are called down to
the counting-house to parade the latest
things in gowns before Marks Pasinsky, who
comes in to buy costly goods by the dozen.
Marks, by the way, is just the easiest-going
Yiddisher on record. When he takes a fancy
to a gaudy lady’s “coat” or what-not at
20 dollars, and its price is suddenly raised
to 40 dollars by turning a part of the gar-
ment inside out, he orders 75 replicas with-
out stopping to argue. No haggling over
the price. No disparaging comments on the
material. Marks places the £OOO order with
P. and P. in a devil-may-care spirit that is
characteristically Jewish —what do you think?
“THE WRONG MR. WRIGHT,” AT
THE LITTLE
THEATRE,
SYDNEY.
Lieutenant Crosby (Harcourt Hare) and
Rev. Clingstone (Harry Halley).
Miss Goldman was the high-minded genius
who doubles the trade price of the garment
aforesaid by pinning the lining back, -and
she accepts the position of designer to
P. and P. on their “own terms,” after being
invited to take it on her own terms. Her
reason for this unparalleled generosity is the
interest she takes in a young Polish Jew
musician, a struggling stranger in a strange
land, whom P. and P. have engaged (with-
out a reference) to keep their books. The
melodrama radiates from Boris Andi'ieff
aforesaid. Miss Irma Potash loves him for
his musical talent, and her parents, never
thinking of monish in the matter, accept


The heroic flying leap of the Kangaroo up
the bullet-swept cliffs of the Dardanelles
inspires the loyal emulation of every brave
brother. As does that loyal spirit, King
George IV. topnotch Scotch.*
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
vw-siiSiSiiiiislr . _______
Write for Book. CURES Write for Book.
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEIjL 210, Lambeth Road, London, Bn|i
Jndsran “ Singleton V —refuse all substitutes-
HOW “FOUL MOUTH” CAUSES DISEASE.
“A foul, unhealthy conditon of the mouth is very
prevalent,” says a President of the British Medical
Association. Foul mouth, he explains, leads to
many dangerous germ-diseases. He says: “It is
desirable to pay special attention to the state of the
mouth, and the application of suitable antiseptics
works wonders.” The best antiseptic for this pur-
pose is Formamint, the germ-killing throat tablet.
A few of these tablets should be sucked every day
to keep the mouth and throat thoroughly clean and
healthy, and so prevent infectious diseases. Forma-
mint is also an ideal cure for sore throat. Buy a
bottle at your chemist’s to-day, price 2/6.*
FOB SALE.
COCOANUT PLANTATION, FIJI.
Splendid opportunity. £5OOO, includ-
ing good Residence, Plant, Cattle, etc. Per-
fect Climate. Ideal Life. Will produce
£l5OO per annum.
Full particulars—
MORGAN & FYFFE, Solicitors,
159 Queen Street, Melbourne.
A GREAT CURE
FOR COLDS & CATARRH.
“NAZETHA’’
The Big Cold Cure in the Little Bottle.
....
The most pleasing and efficacious remedy you
could possibly procure. No need to take drugs
internally. Just two drops of Nazetha on your
handkerchief, inhaled through the nose, reduces
the inflammation and clears the head almost
immediately. A trial will convince and make it
indispensable in the household.
ASK YOUR CHEMIST—I/6 BOTTLE
or write to A. P. MILLER & SON,
Hobart. Sent Post Free. Sydney (Wholesale) :
Australian Drug Co., Elliott Bros., Brausch and
Delaney.
“NAZETHA.”
THE BEST FOR COLDS.
Boris as their son-in-law-elect. Therefore
when the Russian Consul gets Boris arrested
on false suspicion of bomb-throwing in
Moscow, the firm of P. and P. goes bail for
him, and Miss Goldman, the gifted designer
of frocks, implores an archangelic German-
Jewish-American imulti-millionaire named
Steuerman to use his influence on Boris’s
behalf, whilst the benevolent Potash secretly
advises the young man to skip to Canada,
being under the impression that the bail
money will not be estreated. All the fat
is in the fire when it appears that the bail
is forfeit. P. and P. are about to be sold
up. Mrs. Potash is up to her fleshy neck
in debts incurred at “bridge”; the multi-
millionaire philanthropist expresses his re-
grets by telephone. But the chivalrous Miss
Goldman determines to save the firm by
marrying Perlmutter, her unassuming
adorer. Perlmutter remarks that she would
have preferred to marry Boris. The chival-
rous lady replies that she merely admired
the young musical artist. Her love is given
to him, Perlmutter—“the real man, the
business man.” A cable message from Rus-
sia proclaims the in-no-cence of Boris, and
his sudden return to Noo York sets the joy-
bells ringing.
* * * *
It is the plot that besprinkles the perform-
ance with, mushy sentiment and mock pathos
when it is not being redeemed by Yiddish
WITH THE PUBS CLOSED.
THE FIRST INTERVAL.
The real hit of the evening.
humor. P. and P. are forever wrangling
together and vying with one another in kind
deeds. The idealised Cheeryble Bros., of
Dickens, were not better-hearted partners
than these contentious Yids. Paul Burns, as
Potash, is weaker in the bathetic passages
that Sam Le Bert as Perlmiitter, but he has
the fatter slices of humorous dialogue, and
his make-up is likeable, whereas the rather
hawk-like appearance of the other actor
makes it hard to accept him as a born bene-
factor. In truth, Le Bert resembles Barney
Allen, the bookmaker of yore. Miss Vinton,
somewhat, stiff and angular in method, gives
a refreshingly unaffected impersonation of
the. inspired shop lady; Sam Howard is a
typically Yiddish Pasinsky, and Lizzie Wil-
son, the other newcomer from America, plays
Mrs.. Potash, who is at her best in her sug-
gestions of jealousy concerning poor old Abe
and his girl employees. The unimported por-
tion of the cast includes Lewis Willoughby
as a much too heavy young lover ; Delaney,
as a blowhard commercial traveller; Miss
Bremer, as Potash’s colorless daughter; and
De Lacey, as a loud, rascally lawyer and
estate agent, who mixes trade-union delegacy
with his other offences. Edwin Lester and
others play still more minor parts, and
George Upward puts in the pleasing scenic
interiors. “Potash and Perlmiitter” has
enough of bourgeois wit and novelty to carry
it along for some weeks. Besides, it has
something of drapery interest for women, and
a lot of insidious flattery for the Chosen
People.
** * *
Th e most distracting circumstance about
A Daughter of Israel” at Melbourne
Princess’s is the tumult of the daughter
lamenting her young. The lady’s anguish
commences when she discovers that her
early “error” has survived its muvver’s cruel
neglect, and become the long-legged protegee
of a dowdy person who inhabits a caravan
in a forest glade. Naturally the kid spoils
the success of its mamma’s pose as a marriage-
able damsel without spot or stain, and when
the encumbrance dashes away the cup of
matrimony which a noble lord holds to
Israel’s lips, she lodges the infant in a
dungeon and waits for slow staravation to
do the rest. But the dreadful cheild will
not. be denied. Its plaintive howls, made
shriller by a lessening menu, eventually
reach the ears of a casual prisoner, who
uses his knowledge of the child’s plight to
force his attentions on its abandoned gaoler.
This courtship, however, ends in blood and
bad. language, whereat the lady’s aristo-
cratic suitor, before-mentioned, gets cold
feet and withdraws with his cheque-book in
shameful disorder. Denied the comfort of
the peer’s arm and cash-box, Miss Israel
cuddles the brandy bottle and wears out her
vituperation in a madhouse, while the afore-
said patrician weds a flapper who has waited
for three acts for her unparalleled beauty to
dawn on his mind. Miss Oriel Hotson is
the Hebrew female, and requires two changes
of voice to present the Flossie on realistic
lines. She has to twitter like a canary as
the in-no-cent maiden, and then manage a
discordant shriek of four octaves to express
her rage at the existence of her cheild.
George Cross is the great lord who owns ali
the. blue blood in the play, and attempts to
achieve a rainbow mixture by mingling it
with the base fluid of Israel’s dotter; while
John Kirby may be honorably mentioned for
a study of a johnny that is dainty and
doncherknowing. Medals are also being
struck for the orchestra, who played
Mendelssohn’s “Spring Song” as a subtle
corroboration of the statement that Israel’s
illicit offspring was born in the month of
May. Next Saturday “The Wedding Ring”
will be considered.
* * * *
“The Girl on the Film” promises to serve
her turn at Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) like
many better (or worse) Girls that have gone
before. The first act, especially the curtain
end of it, is exceptionally feeble, and the in-
fatuation of fair Winifred for a serio-comic
Max is a poor excuse for the proceedings.
But the show, as a whole, gets the glad hand
and good w r ord of the majority. Three or
four of the airs are pretty in their strictly
unoriginal way, whilst the Recruiting Song,
which Dorothy Brunton sings, with pretty
sisterly effect, is a very opportune aid to the
final chapter.
* * * *
The Bert Bailey management takes posses-
sion of Melbourne King’s this week for keeps,
and on Saturday the co. will start a house-
warming season with another revival of “On
Our Selection.”
** * *
Saturday’s orchestral concert at the Mel-
bourne Town Hall will have an Italian con-
ductor —Ekio Kost—in place of the custom-
ary Slap., and a Polish violinist for the
Svendsen “Romance” item. The pro-
gramme otherwise is the “Saul” overture
(Bazzini), Dvorak’s New World Symphony,
some, ballet music, and Sneezowsky’s Italian
Caprice. At a subsequent concert for the
Wounded Warriors’ Fund there will be re-
lapse into the music of the great German
composers who never thought of themselves
as Huns.
** * *
At Melbourne Tivoli the revival of
Johnnie Fields is more interesting than the
first appearance of Marie Terry. Marie’s
substantial asset is the figure of a principal
boy, but she needs something more than
gracefulness to get Ijer alleged charm as
a singer into circulation. On Saturday
THE SECOND INTERVAL.
she warbled one or two moderately pleasing
numbers with an unremarkable voice. The
rest of the programme is embellished by the
muscles of the Arco Bros., the slick hands
of conjurer Galvin, and the pungent per-
sonality of Ida Barr. Ida’s nights, how-
ever, are numbered,_ somewhat to the regret
of this influential journal, which will miss
her item, “Beautiful Eyes,” containing the
solemn warning to imprudent maidens.
** * *
“Central 3251” is engaging Bert Le Blanc
and his supporters in numerous altercations
at Melbourne Bijou this week. The New
York Comedy Four and a mixed chorus
occasionally interrupt the absurd proceed-
ings with comparatively reasonable conduct,
but for the most part the show is a vocal
scrimmage with Le Blanc, Carlton Chase
and Jake Mack as the principal disputants.
In the first section of the bill Mandeno’s
Dogs are new arrivals, while Matilda and
Elvira are reviving the dances of poor old
Spain for another brief season.
** * *
A handsome film production of Oscar
Asche’s “Kismet” was the top-liner on
Hoyt’s bill at Bourke-street, Melbourne, on
Saturday. The second favorite was “A
Daughter of Eve,” a heady Dago story
loaded up with heaving bosoms and other
evidences of deep feeling. At Hoyt’s
Olympia “A Millionaire Engineer” held the
leading place, a comedy entitled “Father
was a Loafer” being the most promising in
the rest of the field.
** * *
Frederic Shipman is now disclosing
Annette Kellermann at Melbourne Audi-
torium. In “Neptune’s Daughter” Annette
is the slim and adventurous offspring of a
battered old royalty who roams about in the
seaweed mostly wearing a trident and a
large suit of whiskers. Annette, of course,
is a great success, and both as mermaid and
mortal she shows off with a skill that makes
her worth seeing at popular prices.
** * *
Adelaide Royal has got busy at last, with
the spy-detector who Stayed at Home.
Frank Harvey is the Sherlock who elects
to pass for a silly ass, and he Pimpernels
through the part effectively. The Tivoli com-
petes vigorously, with the old Bloodstained
Bridal. The tin-can band is as noisy and
as popular as ever. Brandon Cremer has
brought over Little Gertie to play the smart
child; she is not as Little as she used to
be, but she knows more. Adelaide weather
has been horrible for all sorts of shows, but
the Steele-Payne entertainers draw the
public to the Town Hall. Wondergraph
has a really worth-while film in Upton Sin-
clair’s “Jungle,” and West’s another in
“Rupert of Hentzau,” with the beauteous
Henry Ainley as Rudolf. By the way, the
Pav. and Wondergraph are keenly contest-
ing ah alleged monopoly of one Charlie
Chaplin on the screen. It wouldn’t seem to
matter a hang to anybody; but so great is
the power of advertisement that the public;
is really beginning to take notice, and to
support a given picture because Chaplin is
in it.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Sketch” (from London) : Hope Char-
teris, the Queensland songbird who spent
her fledgling days at Charters Towers, has
“arrived.” Her name is up in big letters
on the front of the Shaftesbury, and inside
she appears as Sombra, in “The Arcadians.”
Her voice is far above that of the average
musical-comedy soprano. Cicely Court-
neidge. a fellow student with Hope at the
Royal Academy, told pa about her fiiend,
and pa made the Bananalander understudy
to Florence Smithson. Now, three years
later, she has a shadow of her own.
“Norbell” : The late Temple Harrison was
for years with the Holloway and Bilander-
son shows. Back in the ’9o’s the co. was
in Charters Towers (Q.), when an epidemic
of dengue was also afflicting the town.
Everyone had a “temperature,” and one
night Harrison’s went up to 102 in the lime-
THE THIRD INTER-
VAL.
“Gome on out and
have a chocolate, old
chap! Come on—
don’t he a wowser!"
THE FOURTH INTER-
VAL.
THE WIFE: “You
don’t go out to see
about that dog any-
more, dear.”
light. After the show he casually mentioned
the fact to a newspaper man, who dropped
it into the next day’s paper. At 9 a.m.
Charles Holloway strode into Harrison’s
pub and ordered him off to see a doctor.
“I’ll show these (something) reporters that
they can’t damn my show with impunity!”
said the enraged Charles. “When the doctor
certifies that you are quite normal, I’ll shut
down the season, and sue the (something)
rag for a thousand pounds damages!” But
the prosaic medicine-man spoilt the cheerful
scheme by ordering Harrison into the hospi-
tal and an ice-pack—he had “gone up” to
103 overnight.
During Harrington Reynolds’s forthcom-
ing season at Brisbane he will produce “The
Tame Cat,” an Australian comedy by
Arthur H. Adams.
The recent death of Ernie Hosking recalls
the exposure in 1904 of Mrs. Mellon and her
three spooks, Cissie, Geordie and Josephine.
Architect T. S. Henry, being a keen inquirer,
grabbed a “spook,” and when lights were
brougl was found holding one of Mellon’s
legs. There was a violent artillery duel in the
Sydney papers. Hosking, scenting good
business, built a set of Mrs. Mellon’s
dummies, and Williamson and Mus-
grove ran him around Australia, the
show getting all the boost it required
from letters in the dailies from be-
lievers and unbelievers. Hosking had served
his apprenticeship as a printer on a “spirit”
paper, and had learned all the "Sock tricks.
He was associated with Prof. Baldwin, the
Yankee conjurer, in exposing Dr. Slade in
Melbourne. Of late years he had been in
the advertising-expert line.
“Private Boxer”: Still another Yankee
production for Australia! “Inside the
Lanes,” now being rehearsed at Sydney Cri-
terion, is by a gentleman rejoicing in the
name of Earl Derr Biggars (at least I hope
he rejoices in it). He was responsible for
Niblo’s “Seven Keys to Baldpate,” inasmuch
as he wrote the book from which the
comedy was adapted. “Inside the Lines”
is another “spy play,” and bears a strong
resemblance to “The Man Who Stayed at
Home.” It is to have a new leading lady
and gent, from England.”
Reg Roberts played a turn at the Pad-
dington (Sydney) Police Court last week.
Roberts lives next door to a naturalised Hun-
garian named Blau. One night Blau hired
a wandering musician to stand on his front
lawn and play the violin. Roberts put up
with it until the fiddler began to saw out
Schubert’s “Serenade.” Then in the name
of the Empire he mobilised his revolver. The
two or three shots did no harm, but Reginald
sang ballads that upset both Blau and
Schubert. Wherefore Schubert, financed by
Hungary, caused Roberts to appear on the
bill for using language and trying to murder
him. Smithers, S.M., dismissed the revol-
ver part of the business, evidently on the
ground that people who play Schubert on the
front lawn don’t count. The language was
a more serious matter, and there was a fine
for that. Still the whole advt. didn’t cost
Roberts above a couple of guineas.
From London
Exit Charles Cartwright, once popular in melo-
drama, but not much seen on the stage during recent
years. He made a couple of Australian tours, the
first in company with Olga Nethersole. Both trips
were lengthy and remunerative. His earliest appren-
ticeship was served with .Mrs. Langtry, but he gained
his best experience as a member of Henry Irving’s
company at the Lyceum. At the Adelphi, a London
headquarters of popular melodrama, he specialised for
mapy years in vicious interference with the hand-
some hero and the virtuous heroine.
(Continued on page 88.)
Professor Bragg, who was for 20 years
Professor of Mathematics at Adelaide, and
has just accepted the Chair of Physics at
London, receives a big honor in the Bar-
nard gold medal from Columbia University
(U.S.A.). It is given only once in five
years, for the most brilliant “novel appli-
cation of science to purposes beneficial to
the human race.” Bragg has for years
specialised in X-rays and radium ; in fact,
his main reason for going to Leeds when
he left Adelaide was to be near at hand
for European developments. He married,
soon after coming to Australia, a daughter
of the late postmaster Charles Todd, and
his son William —of whom Sir Oliver Lodge
spoke highly when here —is coupled with
him in the Columbia awmrd.
Wrecked at the Gilberts the Chinese-owned
Brunner, one of the oldest vessels on the
Sydney register. She hari-karied herself on
a coral pinnacle, and the large crowd of
native passengers scrambled ashore. The un-
gainly-looking old duck was all the rage on
one occasion in 1900, when she collided with
the then-fashionable Manly ferry-boat Brigh-
ton. To save the latter’s passengers from an
overdose of Pacific she was hurriedly beached
in Chowder Bay.
If G. Reid isn’t getting on John Bull’s
nerves it is surprising. John is feeling
more serious than he has for years, and one
of his gravest moments was at the opening
of the new recruiting campaign at the Guild-
hall. Kitchener, Carson, Churchill and
Derby made thoughtful and dignified
speeches, and the huge audience was keyed to
a high pitch when the voice of the Com-
monwealth waddled forward. Did he speak
so that those present would know that we,
too, are alive to the gravity of the crisis ? Not
George ! The cable reports him as mentioning
that England was generally able to “muddle
through” wars, and then repeating his jape
to the effect that he was willing to go to the
Front as a fort. If Kitchener had said pre-
cisely what he thought of Reid’s oration the
right-thinking cable combine would probably
have refused to transmit the remarks.
An encouraging war item has come from
the U.S. Embassy at Berlin. It reported
last Saturday that British prisoners at a
number of German camps were being
decently housed and fed, and the wounded
received “excellent care and treatment.” In
short, the American inquirers found things
very different from what they were two
months ago, when Kitchener officially ad-
mitted that British prisoners in Germany
were having a rotten time. The change in
the spirit of the Hun is significant. Clearly
it isn’t humanity that dictates the new
policy. The Kaiser must be taking a long
look ahead to the time when the prisoners
will be released and the blessed Fatherland
will be begging the vorldt to let pygones be
pygones.
THE PALPABLE HIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Eggs are dear enough now, goodness knows, but
the poultry stock cannot be renewed in a hurry, and
in a little while eggs will be pearls.-— Melb. weekly.
He was a literary gent.
Employed to puff a splendid show;
But all his cunning tricks were spent—
The Muse had bogged and wouldn’t go.
At working the inspiring puff
They said he wasn’t up to snuff.
He thought of fires and wild alarms,
Of burglars and a job they’d done,
And of the actress, up in arms,
Who’d put seven bullet-holes in one.
The manager would only scold—
He said such stuff was rotten old.
But came the grand idea at length;
’Twas printed oft, and made a hit—
The house was filling on its strength.
Subjoined, you’ll find the gist of it:
The leading lady, ’Genie Solon,
Has had her famous eggs all stolen!
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


Ti
MILITARY CLOTHING
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
We have pleasure in advising that we are making a
specialty of Military Outfits. These include every
article of clothing required.
_ Having secured from London the services of a
Special Military Cutter, we can guarantee perfect
satisfaction, and will be pleased to forward any infor-
mation desired.
Interesting booklet will be sent on request.
DAVID JONES, LTD.,
OPP. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
TRY MAGNESIA FOR YOUR
STOMACH TROUBLE.
IT NEUTRALISES ACIDITY AND
PREVENTS FERMENTATION.
Doubtless you have already tried pepsin,
bismuth, soda, charcoal, drugs, etc., and so
you know that these things will not cure
your trouble —in some cases they do not even
give relief; but before giving up hope and
deciding that you are a chronic dyspeptic
just try the effect of a little magnesia—not
the ordinary carbonate, oxides or citrates,
but pure Msurated magnesia, which you can
obtain from practically any chemist in either
powder or tablet form. Take half a tea-
spconful of the powder or two compressed
tablets with a litle water after your next
meal, and see what a difference this makes.
If will instantly neutralise the harmful acid
which now causes your food to ferment, giv-
ing rise to wind, heartburn, flatulence and
many other unpleasant Symptoms, and you
will find that, provided' you take a little
bisurated magnesia immediately afterwards,
you can eat almost anything and enjoy it
without any danger of pain and discomfort
to follow.’ 1 '
I
If you ure
anxious to de-
velop your talent
for Drawing so
that you can
make nr one v.
COPY THIS
SKETCH and
send it to us for
FREE CRITI-
CISM. Black-and-
white artists
command b i g
salaries always,
while some are making huge fortunes.
Drawing is not a gift. It is all a
matter of . training and practice. Copy
this sketch and let us sec what you can
do with it.
The AUSTRALIAN SCHOOL OF SKETCHING.
Bond Street, SYDNEY.
c\
SOCIETY
Now that hotel-closing at 9.30 is a more
or less accomplished fact in Victoria, the
L.V.A. is seeking outlets for its after-hours’
energy. _ In regard to Vittles which are not
intoxicating, the Association’s solicitor has
declared that it is “permissible for a licensee
of. an hotel to erect a counter, over which
drinks other than alcoholic drinks may be
served before the hours of 9 a.m. and after
9.30 p.m.” So at 9.30 the semi submerged
will drift from the beer fountain to the
soda cascade, and there follow his Majesty
till bedtime.
THE DRONE IN THE BEEHIVE.
The new early-closing regulation which
locks the pub door in Melbourne at 9.30
came in so quietly and so swiftly that a great
many didn’t know wliat had happened on
the first nights. One small, round citizen
pounded down Swanston-street on that Tues-
day evening at about 10 o’clock. His gait
fluctuated a little ; possibly Tie had been din-
ing well. Presently he came to his favorite
stepping-in place and turned aside with
such confidence that he stubbed his nose on
the closed door. Fie tried the handle; he
looked at his watch. He tried the
handle again, shaking the door with
some asperity. Once more he looked
at his watch ; then, watch in hand, he swayed
thp kprh nnrl lnnlrprl nn q+ flio Tnwrn Wall
to tne Kelt), and looked up at the town Hall
clock. It was seven minutes to ten. He
rubbed his forehead: he was thinking hard,
Then he looked again at his watch and again
he looked at the clock. There was no doubt
about it. He felt it was time to take definite
steps “Excuse me ”he said to a
“Cm mixed! I’m ft this
“Harassed Cook” on an important detail:
Complaints about the bad cooking in N. S. Wales
military camps will never lessen while the old open
cauldrons, such as Noah installed upon his Ark, con-
tinue to be used. The authorities are well aware of
this. Long before the war the Commonwealth Quar-
ter-Master-General’s staff subjected various travelling
ovens to severe trials, and were so impressed with the
saving in fuel, labor, transport and variegated lan-
guage, as well as with the outstanding superiority of
the food turned out, that they recommended the
kitchens should be put into every standing camp.
This recommendation was approved by the various
State Commandants —and then quietly laid to rest in
some departmental pigeon-hole, where it was discovered
just in time to enable 30 of the ovens to be shipped
with the expeditionary force. In Maoriland, when
it was decided to obtain the ovens for the camps,
they materialised at once, and in May 60 of thorn
were doing highly satisfactory cooking for 15,00$
men. The kitchens enable roasting, boiling, frying
and baking to be done simultaneously, besides which
they provide a continuous supply of boiling water.
From the Commandant to the cook’s off-sider it is
admitted that they are “just the thing.” Mean-
while, there are none in the camps on this side, and
the men who are reminded every five minutes what
fine chaps they are and how much the country owes
them have their food cooked in a manner that even
South Sea Islanders have long reckoned out-of-date.
“Vagabond” : In any estimate of the num-
bers that Australia is giving to the Empire
you must count in the thousands of good
Australians and Maorilanders who are
floating along ihe Western Front. I’ve met
anything up to two score myself; and con-
sidering that any one man’s acquaintance
with units outside his own is mighty limited,
and that one has little time or energy to
spare for wandering round with visiting
cards, it may be taken that there must be
a big total altogether. Many of these men
were, like myself, in Europe when the Mad
Dog broke loose; others were in America,
and made a dash across the pond. At that
time we all knew it was going to take
months for the Australians to throw their
boomerangs into the scrum ; and being highly
impatient to get killed off we just hustled
round and joined in with any push we
thought would be early in the rumpus.
Crowds flocked to “Colonial Corps” like
King Edward’s Horse. Others who were in
Australia made off to England to join some
crowd they had been with before, or, as I’ve
known in a few cases, with which their dads
or their uncles had served.
The lonely man who catches the last tram
home with richly-jewellcfl hands is asking for
assault and robbery, and sooner or later gets
it. Charles Duckett, a Melbourne magnate
of the hardware trade, provided three foot-
pads with a haul the other Friday midnight.
He got off the car in the peaceful Parkville
district, and They didn’t hurt him much,
but they took his watch and fittings, pulled
the diamond rings off his fingers and got away
comfortably. The belongings were valued
at £l3O. The temptation of it! Houses
are burgled for less than that, and they
don’t considerately wander into dark places
to be operated on’!
This man Yarrington is
still wandering in Queens-
land with his absurd tar;
diddles about “Darkest
Sydney,” its opium dens, its
fallen sisters, and its awful
sinfulness generally. Before
they rush off to sample the
sins he tells them about —
admission a shilling, children
half-price the backblocks
of Queensland ought to be
sure of their authority.
Therefore, since Yarrington
is still “the Rev. S. D.
Yarrington,” and travels on
his cloth, and libels the city
that fed him, The Bulletin
calls on his former ecclesi-
astical bosses in Sydney to
give him the plain, unvar-
nished certificate which his
conduct called for up to the time he left
Sydney.
* * * *
“Flinderino”: Some extracts from the
rule-book issued at Yarrabah abo. station
(N.Q.) : —-
Married people must sleep at their homes, not
camp about unless they have leave to do so.
Married couples quarrelling and coming to .blows
to be separated for a period to be decided bv the
Court.
Any girl falling into disgrace, necessitating mar-
riage hurriedly, no bridesmaids, best-man, wedding
dress, decorations or cake allowed at the wedding.
Boys.—-No shirts allowed in summer. Red sulus
on Sundays, blue on week days.
Girls.—At all times only one garment to cover the
chest. Short petticoat allowed under the dress. Dress
straight yoke. Boots not allowed.
Married men.—White shirts and sulus on Sundays,
blue dungaree sulus week days. Trousers prohibited.
Lads growing up on the station not allowed to
smoke until married. Old women receive a small
ration of tobacco each day.
A isitors not to use the terms “gin,” “nigger,”
“Mary”, or “Benjamin.”
Marking the flesh with glass is prohibited.
Birds and nests must not be interfered with.
Married women must accompany their husbands to
and from church in the evening.
NO CARDS.
THE READER: “I see by the paper that that bloke who was jackerooin’ ’ere ’as married
a toffy girl in Sydney. It says at the bottom, ‘No cards.’ Wot’s that mean?”
THE S AGE: “Oh, well, I s’pose he’s got some other way of puttin’ in his evenin’s.”
Several cases o’ whusky were recently
raffled at Dunedin (M.L.) in aid of the
wounded soldiers’ fund. Tickets were sax-
pence. This method of snaring cash dis :
closed (1) that 17,000 canny souls named
Mac Something are not following the King
so close as to damage his heels, and (2)
that before Sandy could be separated from
his siller he had mostly to be given a wee
drap, just as a sample, ye ken.
War begirts the English, yet they cannot
cease from bleating. One of the “society”
rags of London puts out the thrilling infor-
mation that “Queen Mary has not only con-
ferred a delicate compliment to General
Joffre, but has also bestowed immortality
on him by wearing a veil of Joffre blue.”
Fitting prattle for a people that punished
with six months’ gaol the traitors who sold
coal and iron to the enemy.
* * * *
While “town-planning” associations are
putting side elevations and cross sections on
paper, the Vic. Lands Department and Water
Commission have started building a garden
city 12 miles west of Rochester, in the irri-
gated North country. The plans provide for
wide streets with garden plots down the
centre. Certain streets will be reserved for
business premises, others for official estab-
lishments, others for professional residences,
and others again for common houses. The
scheme is not amazing, still it is at
least a start to do something more useful
than talk. The only chance that is coming
the way of the N. S. Wales enthusiasts just
now 7 is in connection with the new Zoo.
Director Le Souef had that business in
hand ; but when the Government wauted a
hand.v-to-town outlet for a little borrowed
money, and consequently took the job over,
the town-planners were given a chance, and
since then some of them have been simply
revelling in the discussion of monkey-cages
and bear-pits.
From “The Oldest Inhabitant” :
This patriotic idea of putting a thing up to auc-
tion and selling it a dozen times over without giving
delivery to anybody isn’t the novelty some of us seem
to think. We are not the first generation of artful
cadgers, by : a long chalk. Fifty years ago the
Melbourne Hospital sadly needed funds. John Agnew
Bruce, of the firm of Cornish and Bruce, railway-
contractors (they built the Melbourne-to-Mount Alex-
ander railway), suggested that donations in kind
should be gathered in and sold by auction. The idea
caught on. Vanmen, carriers and others gave a day,
and an enormous quantity of stuff was collected. All
the leading auctioneers turned up for the sale, which
took place on a public holiday in the Agricultural
Show Grounds, Royal Park. It was a huge success.
Mr. Bruce’s hat was sold seven times at a guinea a
time. That was the origin of the Bruce auction,
which, though well enough understood for some years,
is now confounded with Dutch auction.
ALL TEE DIFFERENCE.
MADGE: “You know Miss Gideon, don’t you?”
M AUDE: “Oh, you don’t recognise HER, do
you?”
MAUGE: “She’s just come into £30,000.”
MAUDE: “What, dear little Mabel?”
THE DENTISTS WAR-SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The causes that have robbed many brave men of
the honor of going to the Front are easily prevent-
able. Bad teeth are due to neglect. A little atten-
tion will prevent the mischief at its beginnings, and
appreciably decrease the indigestion and malnutri-
tion, etc.- — Melb. Age.
The dentist makes the warrior bold
(The tailor makes the man) ;
’Twas he who placed that bit of gold
AVhere black decay began.
’Twas thanks to him the growing youth
Enjoyed the toughest food.
The dentist tapped each doubtful tooth
And kept it strong and good.
The dentist is the cruel foe
Of microbes and of germs;
He drills them out, and off they go
Pursued by Latin terms.
A careless kid whose molar aches
May deem his friend a brute;
He knows not that the dentist makes
The gallant young recruit.
And then the girt, the maiden fair!
The blushing, saucy miss
Doth need indeed a dentist’s care
To purify her kiss.
The breath of spinster or of wife
Is oft, you must confess,
The cause of happy married life,
Or single wretchedness.
Is life a boon? AVell, if it be,
Lose not another day,
But to a dental surgery
Go gladly on your way.
There comes too soon a time for rest,
For coffin, hearse and wreath,
So in the meantime do your best
To save your set of teeth.
VICTORIA.
EDMUND FISHER.
THE GOOD KAISER AND THE BAD PRINCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Crown Prince is despised since he
Hath dandled Love upon his knee.
The Kaiser’s loved by all the State—
He sitteth ever nursing Hate !
VICTORIA.
E. D.


Keep Free
From Colds
by taking,
Of all Chemists,
1/3. 2/9, 4/6.
To resist and repel colds, influenza, bron-
chitis, there is nothing better 'han a course
of Angler’s Emulsion. Its soothing, healing
effects and its tonic invigorating influence
upon all the bodily functions make it
unequalled for the prevention of colds
and catarrhal affections. If the cold or
cough has already commenced, Angier’s
is the best means, of throwing it off
and repairing the damage it has caused.
FREE TRIAL
BOTTLE.
Send name and address, 4d. postage, and mention this pi'per,
Angier Chemical Co., Ltd., 7, Barrack Street, Sydney.
PROTECTION—and GOOD STYLE!
ttain may pelt, or cold winds blow, yet always you would be
snug and dry inside the coat we illustrate. Note its shapely
lines, its graceful fall, the close-fitting collar, wind-strapped
sleeves and roomy skirt. Being of dependable British Gabar-
dine it is light in weight, yet thoroughly weatherproof. It
contains no rubber. An excellent Coat. Colors: Fawn or Grey.
All sizes.
release state chest and height measurement.
Catalogue of Men’s Wear on request.
PE.APES & CO. LTD.
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
30*9 © 311 George Street, Sydney
hfd
“Man Overboard” does some moralising:
Curious how near you can be to an accident and
not see anything of it. The ferry was placidly
steaming out when there was a unanimous uprising,
followed quickly by the clang- of the engine-room
telegraph. “Somebody overboard!” and passengers
streamed to the side and hung over the black water,
streaked and blotched with reflections. Nothing
visible; and, although an uncanny silence hung
over the boat, we could hear no calls for help.
After a thoughtful interval, during which many a
full-dressed swimmer could have drowned, the tele-
graph clanged again, and we shuddered slowly back-
wards through sizzling- water. A white patch in the
water materialised into a folded evening paper—
nothing else. The ferry continued sedately astern
till the lighted jetty was almost against us. Quite
unexpectedly a little launch slipped into view and
there was an interchange of echoing shouts.
“They’ve got him!” translated a man with keen
hearing—“the police have got him!” And we went
comforted on our way. Next day I read at my
case that the rescued unknown was (1) a Russian,
(2) had lately endured eight operations, (3) had
fallen in from the top deck, and (4) had been seen
and heard by the police on the launch, (5) that a
good swimmer had jumped in after him, and (6)
he was in hospital in a serious condition —a perfect
welter of information, all got by sitting quietly in
a chair. It’s no use being on the spot for acci-
dents—they are too impromptu.
* * * *
Large numbers of that jellyfish which
takes the benefits secured by unionism while
holding disdainfully aloof from the degrading
practice of paying union fees will be sorry
for themselves during the next few months.
Upon the application of various shopkeepers
the N.S.W. Industrial Court has suspended
the operation of the Shop Assistants’ award ;
and slashing cuts in the wages of the people
who hand things over counters is therefore
a certainty. It is hard luck for the shop
employee who ha's stuck to his union and
tried to make it strong; but it is only what
the many who have benefited by the union
awards without giving the union their sup-
port deserve. That they are responsible for
their own position will be pretty clear to
them if they try to imagine the Industrial
Court suspending an award of, say, the mili-
tant Wharf Laborers’ Union.
* *■ * *
Now that the John Murray training-ship
has been acquitted without a stain on its
character, Melbourne is beginning to re-
mark that the management has deserved
more assistance than it has got from ship-
owners and city men in general. At an
“Ancient Mariners’ ” shivoo the other night
Captain Newman made out a very good case
for the floating school. Of his old boys 35
have gone into the navy, 70 into the mer-
chant service, and 49 to the Front, and of
the 120 or so who are now aboard the lugger
he would recommend a good few for billets
if he were applied to. But he rarely gets
applications from any shipping firm save
Howard Smith’s. So the Ancient Mariners
were earnestly requested to lend a hand.
THE ODIOUS COMPARISON.
“Marvellous complexion Mrs. Enamuel’s
got.”
“Yes, isn’t it? But I think the one she had
last week suited her better.”
CLIMATE, NO DOUBT.
WIDOW (who has persuaded artist to paint the late lamented from description only):
“Yes, it’s exactly like him. But how the poor dear has changed!”
“T. 0.1.”: Broughton Hall, built in the
first ’so’s, on the waters of Iron Cove, Syd-
ney Harbor, has been offered by the owner,
Mr. Langdon, for the use of wounded sol-
diers. The place was built, it is said, for
Bishop Broughton, the first and only Angli-
can Gaiters of Australia. William Grant
Broughton was a little, lame man, who had
worked for a good many years in the East
India House before he commenced to study
for the Church. He
was ordained in due
course, and became
curate of Hartley.
The Duke of Wel-
lington, who lived
near, took a fancy to
the plodding,
methodical curate
and made him chap-
lain of the Tower.
Soon afterwards he
was offered the Arch-
deaconry of N. S.
Wales and Van Die-
men’s Land, vacant
by the resignation of
Thomas Hobbes
Scott, the ex-wine-
merchant who had
come first as secre-
tary to Commissioner
Bigge. Broughton
came in 1829, and
presently was sworn
in as a member of
the Executive Coun-
cil. Five years later
he went to England,
and on the recom-
mendation of Gover-
nor Bourke was con-
secrated first Bishop
of Australia. He
lived for a long while
at Tusculum, which
still stands in
Macleay-street, and
afterwards in Gode-
rich, Bay s w a ter-
road; and if Broughton Hall was built
for him he certainly never occupied it. He
went on Church business to England in
1852, and stayed there, dying in the house
of Lady Gipps, widow of a former Governor.
His tomb is in Canterbury Cathedral.
The shepherd kings of Maoriland are still
setting the pace. A few days ago their
representatives in Wairarapa foregathered
and auctioned a flag. When the last bid
was made the accumulated cheques totalled
over £21,000. The Soldiers’ Fund collects
that little lot. Incidentally, a Chinaman
butted in and owned the flag for 31Jsec. It
cost £lOO, but he seemed to like it.
“Afric” on Botha’s great job :
German South-West Africa, which, thanks to Botha
and his tough men, now becomes British, has had
its share of “Kultur,” and a pitiable experience it
has been for the natives. Driven to revolt they had
a bellyful of “frightfulness” for about 10 years.
Ghastly tales are told of that atrocity, the imprison-
ment of Herero women and children, on an island off
Luderitz Bay, during the Herero rebellion, which
AMONG GIRLS.
M ABEL: “I am charging 10s. each for kisses
at the Red Cross bazaar. Do you think
that too much?"
M OLLY: “Oh, no; people always expect to
be robbed at such affairs.”
lasted from 1904 to 190 S. Hundreds of women and
children were huddled on an exposed, windswept
island, bare of shelter, and allowed to subsist almost
entirely on the shellfish which might by chance be
found. Many went raving mad as the result of sea-
water taken in lieu of fresh. A few escaped to the
mainland. The very many who died would have been
better had they been murdered outright.
Few male prisoners were taken during these native
wars. There was an exception, however, a striking
and horrible incident which occurred at the end of
the rebellion of the Africander tribe—a rebellion
which occurred several years previous to the Herero
outbreak. When it was suppressed a batch of help-
less blacks were spared to provide a German holiday
at Geetmanshoep. From the scene of fighting to
Geetmanshoep wayside graves marked the route. The
wounded who may have hampered the rate of march-
ing were shot and thrown hurriedly into shallow
holes.
At length the triumphal entry and the official
order for a public execution. It must be a great
day. It must be a lasting lesson to the natives. It
must show the utter hopelessness and the sinfulness
of protest against, or resistance to, German rule.
On a calm, peaceful day the residents and the garri-
son of Geetmanshoep made carnival! The prisoners
met death bravely and unflinchingly, for, in their
opinion, justifying circumstances and right stood to
their account. The audience, the representatives o f
German civilisation, stood round viewing light-
heartedly the butchery. The victims one by one were
placed against a tree and blown into Eternity with
little formality in quick succession—eight Mauser
bullets for each, volleyed at close range. A medical
man stood near, revolver in hand, to shoot through
the head those whom the rifles failed to kill out-
right. Yet the spirit of the doomed natives re-
mained unconquered to the end. Little acts are re-
corded, acts of consideration for each other, though
all stood facing death, which proved the utter fear-
lessness with which they regarded the dark un-
known. The majority refused the bandage with
scorn. In a short while the massive tree trunk was
cut through. The branching top fell away, but the
splintered trunk remained as the ghastly altar of
“Kultur.” It stands there yet, shattered, but defiant,
and maybe the cryptic saying of the natives will
come true under British rule—“lt will sprout
again! ”
“Spasmcde” on the glories of the past:—
An answer to a correspondent (B. l/7/’l5) tilts
righteously at one who has been narking about the
better old times. Turn up Holy Writ. Ecclesiastes
vii, 10: “Say not thou, What is the cause that the
former days were better than these? for thou dost
not enquire wisely concerning this.” So they were
at it even then. No, bless you, Solomon wasn’t a
patch on grand old Mahershalal-hashbag, from whom
he stole everything! I found a theatrical paper of
the time when the matchless Edmund Kean was act-
ing, and it declared that the palmy days of the
drama were gone for ever ! Don't we hear it on the
press? I declare, from knowledge of more than a
generation, that the newspaper men of to-day,
especially the younger ones, are better than those of
the past. Why, I have seen the two chief reporters
of an Australian leading daily come in drunk from a
public meeting at night (good men!) and slobbering
over their copy, ask: “Whash that he said?” That
would be blankly impossible now. So it is with the
statesmen and barristers. Because those of the past
were more racy it is mistakenly said they were
better. Those of to-day are better men of affairs.
Then go to the abominably ignorant and slaughterous
doctors of the past, by whom scientific knowledge
was held in contempt, while empirical rule of thumb
prevailed.
* * * *
John H. Humphreys, secretary of the
British Proportional Representation Society,
who is studying the Hare-Clark electoral
system in Tasmania before it goes into the
melting-pot, thinks Britain will try to strug-
gle along without party government even
after the war. He says that if the National
Government proves the right thing for the
war crisis there is no reason to suppose that
the electors will have enough lack of sense
to let it be dropped as soon as the fight is
through.
THEIR SMALL JOB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My new gun can shoot comfortably across the
Channel. It will fire about 261 miles, that is over
five miles farther than the distance from Calais to
Dover. —The Kaiser.
Symbols of triumph intertwine,
The German soldiers form in line.
The Prussian eagles screech.
Friedrich, and Fritz and Hans are there.
They've washed themselves and brushed their hair.
Their eyes are blue. Their heads are square.
They wait their Kaiser’s speech.
The Kaiser says: “i-loch Himmel, boys!
lam the goods—the great big noise—
And what I say is done.
While European nations dozed,
Dreaming- of peace with eyelids closed,
I’ve painted, written and composed.
Now I’ve produced a gun.”
“And when it fires, the County Kent
Will leap up thiough the firmament,
Collapsing on the spot.
If any gunner tries to run
When it’s proposed to fire my gun,
He’ll perish with the setting sun:
In brief, I’ll have him shot.
“And now, my lads, my work is done.
There are the shells, and there’s the gun.
The moment’s come to rally.
The only thing you’ve got to do —-
It’s children’s work for boys like you—-
Is take the gun and run her through to Calais.”
N.S.W.
QUADRANT ANGLE.


THE “NO CONTENTIOUS LEGISLATION” CRY.
The Motto of the McMillans: “Business as usual, as lona as it isn’t the People’s business.”


MOSTLY OUR FRIEND THE ENEMY.
Jewellers are flourishing. One bl*
London firm received orders to » »«*
for £l5OO worth of wedding rings, and
was unable to execute them.
What" about tbs
"zjq m r °t
?
ftausvagr-
Lisbdtfo , 1
\oJt fell
Wie , »ss>
S' mc?rt hate
liy. OrT stra^h^T
Count von Reventlow, the well-known
German pubUcist, who is regarded' as
the mouthpiece of Grand Admiral von
Tirpitz, Minister of the Navy, haswrlt-
ten a letter in which he warns Germany
not to stop her anti-British hatred.
Dr. von Bethmann Hollweg ridiculed
the British Government’s publication of .
the evidence of unnamed witnesses on
alleged cruelties in Belgium—cruelties r
so monstrpus that only mad brains could
believe them.—News item.
zgt T?
3efom ami -
* "These 'Behans {
actually kill and maim
•Ifremselvics in order To defile
*K«W \oor fellow* r e^o tkfibn ?
A Rotterdam message states that the
peace manifesto issued by the Socialistic
newspaper “Voerwarts” has created rage
and consternation in official circles in
Germany.
Swt DE
MAij?Kil;T GARDEIM
Sweden is said to be making warlike
preparations.—Cable.*
e *V* e '■Pce,'..
~*=Ss^
wcfi I sort • <c>,d ne^y^V
k 1& ?? r J calh'g atTen-TTorr oor \
jKd’? *? We, ‘ T^^vX^'WctN
Jl eall.ll altSntTon Qur
| j t qj r > We must" be irm l'
A new American Note is being pre-
pared for despatch to Great Britain. It
will insist that non-contraband cargo,
consigned to neutral ports, regardless of
it# eventual destination, shall not be ■
molested.
V^VRussia : "S-sh 1 V
Did 1 bear a
Hoijje (tke a "Torni|>?"
\fow TTrbiiy : *No ! I will
«oT sfo|> irit.l dec lasT
{as sunk ! “


GERM DTSEASKS IN TIIE BRITISH ARMY.
Thanks to inoculation there have been few cases
of typhoid among our soldiers. To prevent minor
infectious ailments Formamint Tablets have been
successfully used by the Royal Army Medical Corps.
The Medical Officer of the Officers’ Trainin'? Corps,
Aldershot, reports: “I had a memo, circulated
recommending Formamints general use, and the
result has far more than justified my anticipations.”
You should use Formamint to protect you from in-
fectious illness, and as a cure for sore throat, etc.
Buy a bottle at your chemist’s to-day. price 2/o.*
Missing Friends.
poi’N'l), EKNEST (sometimes known as George
*—■' Tierney), son of Thomas and Esther Bound, last
heard of at Junee about 20 years ago, or anyone
acquainted with his whereabouts. Please eommuni-
eate with National Trustees Company, 113 Queen
Street, Melbourne.
JAIJEZ BEDFORD, DECEASED.
■AT ESTOK BEDFORD (a son of the
above-named), who emigrated to Aus-
tralia many years ago. and who was last
heard of in Melbourne in 1910, is requested
to communicate at once with Mr. F. W.
Livesey, Solicitor, 16 John Dalton Street,
Manchester, England.
Henry w. Morgan, late of Pium-
stead, Kent. England, anxiously en-
quired for bv his parents. Information
required by 11. Morgan. Paisley Villa, 64
Park Road. Plumstead, Kent, England.
m
iiljlp
§B§tn
dvN
hfd
r The
m
Wherever you go, the world over, leading men wear WOUJLmOW
HATS. They are unequalled in quality, style, durabality and
comfort. ALL STORES.
LEWIS&WMITTY
*0
14WP
ME
OUf\NE& SYDNEY
HYGEIA
Shaving
Stick.
X!OX
In
Hygeia
oil-foam
hard
bristles
grow soft
SOAPKO.
It Surpasse
Soap.
TOILET AND MOTOR IN TABLETS;
HOUSEHOLD IN BARS.
Send Six Penny Stamps for Box containing Sample
Manager, eaß h kind.
SOAPKO PROPY., Box 685 G.P.0., ADELAIDE.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
lhe new i . Aus. Assembly, which mot
ai / i-n- 1 ' ls il _ relniU 'kal>l.v young one.
MeGillivray, at To, stands out alone now
(lint Burgoyne (90) has been defeated.
Kirkpatrick (recently Agent-General in
London), Richard Butler and Miller are in
the middle sixties. Butler and O’Loughlin
have the longest record of service—they
have been in the house since 1890. McDon-
ald, who topped them by three years, re-
signed so that ex-Premior Peake might come
mick. At the other etui of the scale are a
lot of men about 30, Parish,at 25 being the
junior of all. Crawford Vaughan finds
lumself Premier at 41. and his colleagues
are all a trifle over or under 40.
* Charlie Johnston, the neiv Speaker of
Maoriland i.eg. Council, is a mere stripling
ot TO who wears a red face and his hair
parted.in the middle. 11 is father —who had
been a London stockin' >ker —migrated to
the Loanly Isles in distant days, -and be-
sides founding a payable business sat in the
earliest Parliaments. John, the Speaker’s
cider brother, was Minister for Works in
the Atkinson Ministry. The familv con-
nection with public life is not confined to
the men. for Charles married a daughter of
Dr. Featlierston, one of the first Super-
intendents. a famous man in his time; and
a sister is widow of Morgan Grace, a
sprightly Irish surgeon who. before becoming
an M.L.C.. bandaged the wounded in the
Maori war and accumulated cash by run-
ning the old horse cars in Wellington. As
the clan are heavily gilded, Charles may
now land a knighthood.
"SHARKS.”
There s at least one bootmaker in Aus-
tralia with original ideas. lie hangs ont in
a small thoroughfare in Melbourne. In his
window he has this sign in large letters:
“The Governor-General does not deal here
—that’s his fault.”
Bishop Green, of Ballarat (Vic.), has
informed the local Anglicans that he will
cease to bish after September 80. He re-
signed once before, as a protest against
the flock’s refusal to subdivide his diocese,
but on that occasion thought better of it.
This time he announces that he is in dead
earnest. lie will live at Greensborough.
near Melbourne, and will probably become
coadjutor to Archbishop Clarke. Though
still under 60, Green is in point of conse-
ejation the senior Anglican prelate still in
office in Australia, having worn an apron
since 1804, when he was elected to succeed
Dr. ’Turner as Bishop of the joint diocese
of Grafton and Armidale (N.S.W.), now
divided. A few years later, on the death
of Dr. Webber. Brisbane Anglicans invited
Green to fill the void, but he declined' the
offer, thus missing the chance of becoming
an archbishop when Brisbane was put in
that grade shortly afterwards. He has
bished in Ballarat since 1900. Though born
in the Cold Country, Green came to Aus-
tralia as an infant, and is of local education
and training. He holds degrees as M.A. of
Melbourne Uni. and LL.D. of Sydney, and
was the first graduate of an Australian
university to be made a bishop. Judge
Docker, of N.S.W. District Court, is his
hi other-in-law. A son shortly leaves for
the Front as chaplain with Australian
troops. On Green’s retirement, Archbishop
Riley, of. Perth (W.A.), who was also con-
secrated in 1894, will become the senior pre-
late, though Barlow, who resigned the Goul-
burn see last Easter, is senior to both, and
so far as age is concerned all three are
callow youths compared with Bishop
‘‘Teddy” Cooper, of Armidale (N.S.W.).
who can still take a fall out of Beelzebub
though well ru in the seventies.
PERFECTLY SANITARY.
“I noticed a very unpleasant odor out at
the camp to day.”
“Well, it can't he the drains, because there
aren't any.”
As a duck takes to water so young Henry
Herd, of Maoriland, hustled to war and
wounds at Gallipoli. His father served
with Beresford in Egypt, and was with the
force that went to the relief of Gordon.
Grandpa mixed it in the Crimea, the China
War and the Mutiny, and great-grandad
•swung a cutlass aboard the Victory at Tra-
falgar. Henry-boy couldn’t help getting
busy unless he’d been swallowed by a whale.
The freaks of fate and other things. One
of the first Australian landing party in Gal-
lipoli (only two others were
left alive or nnwonnded in
his boat) fought for three
days without being hit. On
the fourth he had the hack
of his tunic carried off by
a bursting shell, and fell
partly paralysed. The men
on either side were killed,
and several others were
damaged, but apart from
slight flesh wounds on the
thighs this favorite of for-
tune escaped, for the slight
paralysis passed off within
a day or two, leaving no
after effects. After being
dropped lie lay all day un-
der the raking fire of
machine guns, but received
no further injuries, and is
ii 'w hack on the job again.
From Rees R. Jones (Q.) :
/.V that Bulpktix par. stating that A. IV. Castle
and Joint Ebcnezer Bowden were Ihe senior solici-
tors of N. S. Wales. Mr. Castle died lately. .1. E.
Bowden was admitted a solicitor of the Supreme
Court of X. S. Wales on March 25. 1805, and of
Queensland on May 20, 1805. I was admitted in
X. S. Wales on June 2, 1804, and therefore claim
to be senior solicitor of the State.
Adelaide lost perhaps its most brilliant
all-round citizen in quiet Archbishop
O’Reily, who died last week at 68. Sen-
sible South Aus. knows hardly anything of
yellow-and-green animosity, and Anglican
Bishop vied with Methodist Chief Justice
and the Chief Rabbi in publicly proclaiming
the virtues of the R.C. who has gone. Be-
sides being a great churchman he was an
admitted authority on music, horticulture,
mathematics, military history and finance!
OUR RIFLE CLUB LINES UP.
“The greatest all-round scholar I have ever
met,” said a much-travelled man and a
good judge. Incidentally, he was for some
years editor of the Record' in Westralia.
In 1888 he became first R.C. bishop of Port
Augusta (S.A.), where his talent for
finance had full scope, and he moved on to
the archbishopric of Adelaide almost as a
matter of course in 1805. Wearing a chin
beard, Dr. O’Reily did not look at all the
typical prelate; and he did not talk like
one, either. In a quite-recent interview be
said that, while keeping the church accounts
“most accurately, in ledgers on the double-
entry system,” his own spare cash lay about
in a drawer, and his bank account was as
often overdrawn as not. His evidence be-
fore the Aged Poor Commission has often
been quoted. Not only did he make no
objection to receiving tote fractions or other
sporting taxes, but “I do not see any wrong
in racing or in betting, so long as a man
does not go beyond the bounds, and does not
spend that which he should keep for his
wife and children, or does not rob his em-
ployer or something of that sort. So long
as he breaks no law, human or divine. I do
not object.” The Archbishop leaves an aged
mother in Ireland and two nephews in the
Church in Sydney. He had been in failing
health for r year or two. and Prior Spence
• —also an Irishman-—has been his helper.
Alderman Wiseman. of Wollongong
(N.S.W.), holds a unique record. He has
been 50 years an alderman—a notable in-
stance of the human capacity to endure the
weariness of small things.
“Vic”: The childless Bishop Moorhouse
leaves over £54.000. I; is niece, Miss Sale,
gets £40,000, and now can help some ecclesi-
astical fortune-hunter make the best of both
worlds. Yet Moorhouse is rather low down
for plunder among the bishops. One left
£BOO,OOO, another £150.000, and Dean
Stanley £OO,OOO. Dean Donaghy, of Mel-
bourne, left twopence. “And he would not
have left that.” said Archbishop Carr, "if
he- had met a poor person the last time he
came up Bourke-street.” Spurgeon had a
lovely estate at Beulah Hill. London, which
he displayed before the Rev. Dr. Hatcher,
from America. Hatcher: “What would
Paul say to this?” Spurgeon: “lie would
say that I am luckier than lie was.” Then
they pinched the backs of tbe fat pigs, and
smoked Spurgeon’s eighteenpenny cigars.
The scenic artists of Australia have at
least one military representative. Coleman
junior is off to “do his bit.” A bright,
dapper young soldier, somewhat on the busy-
bantam side, this Coleman has been work-
ing with his dad in the J.OAV. painting-
rooms. He is a shining example to a lot of
minor actors and chorus singers. The gal-
lant heroes of drama are, of course, mostly
past the age of usefulness in warfare. It
is only on the stage that they can do much
to save the Flag. The same objection
applies to most of the representative vil-
lains (though, by the way, Godfrey Cass
has gone, after being once rejected on
account of scire trifling defect). But the
young and nr derately young mummers—
the small fry who line up at the back of the
girls in musical comedy and place chairs for
them to sit upon, and who raise their bell-
toppers as one dude when they go prancing
off to the wings—why don't they go and do
their bits?
If the just-dead Lawrence Hargrave had
been a hustler and self-advertiser his name
would have been gilded large in the history
of aviation. As it was, probably few of the
world’s fliers ever heard of the man who din
most to revive interest in mechanical flight.
It is 8.1 years ago since Hargrave contri-
buted his historical paper on "Flying Inven-
tions” to the Royal Society of N. S. Wales.
In this he declared that his very numerous
models, embodying the principle of the flight
of birds nnd the movements
of animals generally, proved
flight in heavier-than-air
machines to be possible. Six
years later Octave Channte
(now recognised as "tlm
Pioneer of Flight") and
Hiram Maxim became inter-
ested in Hargrave’s work
and wrote to him for par-
ticulars of his investiga-
tions. Then followed a long
correspondence and exchange
of data that ultimately re-
sulted in the success of the
Wright brothers in 1908.
The hundreds of models
constructed by Hargrave
are now in the Museum at
Munich. It was the only
home Hargrave could find
for them; when offered to
Australian and English
museum authorities he
could get no guarantee that
they would be given space.
By many curators they were
frankly regarded as the mere play-
■ c’j <rs of a “crank.” Born in London in
1850, Hargrave came to Sydney when Hi
and worked for a Sydney engineering firm.
Later he went exploring in Papua, and after-
wards was an astronomical observer under
the late 11. C. Bussell. Lucky speculation
in boom times allowed him to retire to his
work of evolving the bird-man.
Killed in Flanders, George Macartney,
son of now-dead parson Hussey Burgh
Macartney, of Melbourne, and grandson of
old-time Dean Macartney, of the same vil-
lage. Macartney took a hand in the
rumpus in which a Mauser bullet,
passing through his head, took away with
it his memory. ID' came out of hospital
practically as an untaught child, with his
mind a blank, and he had to begin his educa-
tion over again. Later, he took up farming
in Canada, and was doing well; but when
the Hun began killing babies in Belgium.
Macartney went off with the first Canadian
contingent to tell him it was wrong. He
had ivon a commission and climbed tip to
a captaincy when another bullet arrived—
and this one left nothing more to be done.
MITGUELL, K.C., of the Victorian Bar.
Last week the Vaughan Ministry of
South Aus. commenced its experiment with
women justices of the peace. Four were
appointed—Mrs. T. Price, widow of S.A.’s
first Labor Premier; Mrs. K. W. Nicliolls,
president of the W.C.T.U. ; Mrs. E. Cullen,
of the Hospital Board; and Miss E. C.
Dixon, who consumes much energy in
Y.W.C.A. operations. The idea is to utilise
these Jane Peas mostly in connection with
eases in which women are particularly con-
cerned.
THE WICKED PRINCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To-dav tlie Kaiser is popular and beloved. His
virtues are on every lip. But the Crown Prince is
openly scorned because of his misbehavior. — Cable.
All Germans Wilhelm do adore;
He is a good and holy man.
lie plunged this wicked world in war—
Stern retribution was his plan.
To punish nations for their sins
He loosed his hordes on Belgian soil,
Contrived the guns and shells and gins,
The fearful modern javelins,
And gases that do burn and spoil.
Me ask God's blessing on his toil!
The Kaiser holy is. He'll kill.
Let torch and rapine loose ou earth.
Yet, instrument of High Heav’n’s will,
All men must recognise his worth.
Alas! How different is the Prince,
M ho scorns his mission from above,
And while his father strives to mince
The swinish French, will nought evince
But tender softness of the dove,
And give his energies to Love.
M hat shame, what wickedness is here !
Mith poison, fire and iron rain
On British wives and children dear
He might be dropping death and pain.
Hut he has beat (oh, sinful ore)
His sword into a carving-knife,
And where the blinded Russians run
The Kaiser mourns a wayward son
Mho in the city's cheery strife
Is leading an improper life-!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


1
■THREE CASTLES
THE FAMOUS BRAND
W.D.&H.O.WILLS.
CIG ARETTES.
(Heavy Weight)
1X
I
9
LW'»
k
\b
L
r
//
i
&
x x
i
i
A PERFECT CIGARETTE
Obtainable m
PACKETS and FLAT TINS
New upright tins
AIRTIGHT ROUND TINS
"THREE CASTLES”
There’s no sweeter Tobacco comes from Virginia,
and no better brand than the “ Three Castles.’ ”
“ 7he Virginians ”
(\V. M. THACKERAY).


IRRIGATION.
We carry Large Stocks of Steam- and
Power-driven Reciprocating Pumps.
Also Large Stocks of Centrifugal Pumps suitable for Irrigation Work.
Cash or Teriria.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Lawson House,
49 Clarence St., Sydney
BUCYRUS CO • Milwaukee
•Steam Shovels, Drag Line Excavators.
Sole Agents— WILLIAM ADAMS fSb COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Pertb.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
General-manager T. A. Dibbs retires this
week from the service of the Commercial
Bank of Sydney, of which he has been the
chief for no less than 48 years. He has
been more than a great banker in the sense
of doing great things for his shareholders:
he has done great things also for his clients.
. It was never enough for him that he lent a
customer money; he wanted his customer
to make money out of the loan too. There
was a characteristic transaction in the
G.M.’s room not very many years ago. Two
young men in business had made rather a
mess of things. They went to Dibbs and
explained their position—of which he knew
something already. With him the personal
equation counted for a lot. It wasn’t
with him a question only of the security he
had in his safe. He would be content with
a good deal less of that if the men who
were borrowing the money were of the right
stamp. These two young men had im-
pressed him well. Yet they had a bad time
or. the mat. They never realised before
quite what blundering idiots they had been.
Of course they wanted more help, and when
they were told to call in the afternoon it
was only as a matter of courtesy that they
went back. The advance was plainly out
of the question. In the afternoon, when the
G.M. called them in, it was to hear this:
“I have been considering whether the
amount you asked for is sufficient. I don’t
think it is. You can’t pull through on it.
Ton will want so-much more. You may
draw it. I can depend on you both to work
diligently. Come and see me if you think
my advice will serve you in any difficulty.
Good-bye/’ It explains the loyalty of the
Commercial’s customers to the bank. And
precisely the same kind of treatment ex-
plains why the Commercial has the most
loyal and contented staff amongst all the
big banks in Australia.
George Meudell suggests, as a means of
raising money, the very good plan of issuing
immediate or deferred annuities. It is, of
course, not new; it has long been possible to
buy annuities up to £5O per annum at post
offices in Great Britain. -No medical exami-
nation is wanted to keep out the medically
unfit. If a man is under-standard, and there-
fore has less than the average expectation of
years, so much the better for the authority
that issues the annuity policy. Hundreds
ot people who want to make provision for
their old age, and who have been saving up
for it, would be willing to transfer their sav-
ings to the Commonwealth, knowing that
they could not possibly have better securitv.
It is better than raising a loan in the ordi-
nary way, because the liability must sooner
or later expire; in other words, the capital
debt will be gradually paid off, as every debt
raised for war purposes should be. And
there would be no possibility whatever of
the capital debt falling due in large lumps,
to be financed at most inconvenient times
( as so many State loans have to be at pre-
sent). Tbe plan ought to particularly recom-
mend itself to a Government which was re-
sponsible for Old Age Pensions.
* * * *
The Bank of North Queensland :
Writ- Added
ten to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
„ £ £ £ £ £
Dec., 1907.. 3371 4 p.c. = 2122 4000 21,678
June, 1908.. 3677 4 „ „ 2129 1548 23,226
Dec., 1908.. 4070 5 „ „ 2652 4500 20 144
June, 1909.. 4314 5 ~,, 2658 1656 21,800
Dec., 1909.. 4641 5 „ „ 2666 1975 23 775
June, 1910.. 4717 5 „ „ 2668 5000 20,824
Dec., 1910.. 4838 5 „ „ 2671 2167 22,991
June, 1911.. 4851 5 „ „ 2671 4000 21,171
Dec., 1911.. 5383 6 „ „ 3197 2186 23,357
June, 1912.. 6062 6 ~,, 3214 2848 26,205
Dec., 1912.. 7001 6 „ „ 4192 —■ 3409 29,614
June, 1913.. 8376 7 „ „ 5445 2931 32,545
Dec., 1913.. 8406 7 „ „ 5688 2718 35,263
June, 1914.. 5479 7 „ „ 5688 2500 291 35,554
Dec., 1914.. 7496 6 „ „ 4875 2621 38,175
June, 1915.. 6462 6 ~ „ 4875 1587 39,762
Safety is a prudent bank’s first concern
these days; after that, consideration for
clients who are worth cultivating; then
profits. It is no discredit to a bank,
therefore, that its profits are less than they
were 12 months ago. In this case, no doubt,
they have been smaller even than they would
have been if last season’s sugar harvest had
been less of a failure and if there had been
more meat bills to buy and other exchange
business to do. However, if the disclosed
profits are not glittering, the position as
disclosed by the balance-sheet is quite
satisfactory. Here are some comparisons :
1905. 1914. 1915.
Deposits .. . . £300,056 £1,046*290 £1,134,157
Bills, etc 61,423 94,067 41,797
Liquid assets .. 131,655 508,433 493,192
Advances . . . . 325,486 770,666 815,190
Premises .. .. 25,762 67,500 75,000
In assets. of the most liquid character—
coin, bullion, cash balances, Australian
notes and a trifle of Government stock—
the bank holds just upon 40 p.c. of all that
it owes to the public. In coin, bullion and
cash balances, from which it can be getting
little or no return, it holds 30 p.c. These
figures are comforting enough to depositors
and other creditors; but while it is thought
well to maintain a strength of that sort,
there can be nothing exciting in the way
of profits. Naturally, the strength of the
cash position has encouraged deposits,
which have increased materially during the
year in spite of all the troubles of the 12
months. So the B.N.Q. has been in a
comfortable position to give customers
further reasonable assistance where the
pressing circumstances of the times have
called for it: and it remains in a position
to do some more of the same thing.
* * * *
The Country Producers’ Selling Co.,
Ltd. (Sydney), a more or less co-operative
concern, dealing in farm and station —
chiefly station —produce :
Bonus Writ-
to Con- ten
March, Loss. Dividend. signors. Off. Deficit.
1911.. £660 £660
Pi ofit. Reserves.
1912.. 3590 5 p.c. = £984 £869 1077
1913.. 6975 71 „ „ 1731 2872 3449
1914.. 9058 8 „ „ 2000 4237 £lOOO 5270
1915.. 6081 7 „ „ 1750 3498 500 5603
Taking all things into account this young-
ster did very well last year. Of course, like
all the others it wasn’t able to sell all the !
wool its clients sent it, and that meant not
only loss of commission but very consider-
able expense in handling and storing the
bales. “The cost, including insurance, has
been borne by the co. without any charge
to consignors,” the directors say. It is very
creditable that in such circumstances the
co.. should be able to pay not only a 7 p.c.
dividend, but also the usual bonus to wool
consignors. This bonus amounts to 20 p.c.
or the selling commission, reducing the lat-
ter to 2 p.c.; and there are substantial
-V ses^, on ot^ier consignments as well,
vyhile German Kultur cut into profits as
above-mentioned it had the effect also of
piling up the liabilities, since the co., hav-
ing none of its own capital available for
financing its customers, was compelled to
lean on the bank. Advances of one sort and
another stood at £36.501 on March 31; and
the co. s own liabilities were £37,011. No
doubt the figures on both sides have been
much reduced as the wool, etc., in store lias
reached a market. Anyhow% seeing that the
co. paid over £38,000 for its premises and
2o- n nnn an / d . t , hat its share capital is only
x_.0,000 (with a few more pounds paid in
advance of calls), it has done astonishingly
well in five years to have only about £5OO
more liabilities than assets apart from pre-
mises and plant. It means that before pay-
ing the present dividend and bonus the co.
had s »rpliis profit within about £5OO of the
£13.000 which the premises and plant cost
in excess of the capital.
The South Aus. Land Mortgage and
Agency Go. :
Towards
■June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1906 . . £14,242 Nil £14,242 £1,637
Reserves.
• • 15 ’ 804 Nil 15,804 14,167
1908 .. 20,053 5 p.c.= £6,955 13,098 27,265
1909 .. 17,733 7i „ „ 10,433 7,300 34,565
1910 .. 18,995 74 „ „ 10,433 8,562 43,127
Debenture issue expenses written off, £6971.. 36,156.
1911 .. 12,906 74 p.c. = 10,433 2,473 38,629
1912 . . 6,582 5 „ „ 6,955 38,256
1913 .. 8,/29 5 „„ 6,955 1,774 40,030
Dec.,
1913 . . 3,003 10 ~ ~ 6,955 36 078
1914 .. 6,431 5* „ „ 6,955 _ 3d’,554
The table starts off with two pretty good
years and no dividend; and that tells of
trouble. But the table doesn’t whisper half
the trouble there really was. In the old
days when the banks as well as the Govern-
ments lost their heads, this English concern
had a share capital of nearly £600.000, and
it owed the public, mainly on debentures,
about £1,000,000. Most of this money was
out on mortgage in S. Aus. and Queensland.
W hen the dreadful things happened all
parties did a starve for a few years, while
the co. struggled to realise the securities
which had been unloaded upon it. Unfor-
tunately no amount of starving would make
things square; and eventually—in 1900—
three-fourths of the share capital had to be
written oft. That allowed of some writing
down of assets. But not enough; and the
profits made during the next few years had
to go towards making up the weight.
The co. owes comparatively little now.
Its 44 p.c. debentures outstanding total
£114,000, and all other liabilities amount to
about £BOOO. Big slices have been shorn
off the debt by the sale of properties, mostly
in S. Australia; and the co. is now chiefly a
Queensland squatting concern, with £72,414
invested also in “foreign and colonial
stocks.” The value put on these stocks is,
by the way, the ante-war value; so there
may be some hard writing down to do out
of profits presently. But the co. should be
able to do it comfortably out of the
higher value that can fairly be put on its
live stock.
The Nortiicote Brick Co., Ltd. (Mel-
bourne) :
. . To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Mar., L9IQ. .£5268 8 p.c. =£5625 £lO 064
Sept., 1910.. 9684 11 3-7 ~,, 7500 £2184 12,248
Mar., 1911.. 8223 10 „ „ 6562 1661 13,909
Sept., 1911.. 9504 11 3-7,,,, 7500 2004 15 913
Mar., 1912.. 9139 11 3-7 ~,, 7500 1639 17,552
Sept., 1912.. 9835 11 3-7,,,, 7500 2335 19,887
Mar., 1913.. 5135 10 „ „ 6562 1573 21,460
Sept., 1913.. 7993 11 3-7 ~,, 7500 493 21 953
Mar., 1914.. 8681 11 3-7 ~,, 7500 1181 23 134
Sept., 1914... 8703 11 3-7,, „ 7500 1203 24 337
Mar., 1915.. 3003 5 5-7 „ „ 3750 23,590
That settles any doubt as to what has hap-
pened to the building boom. If a brick
co.’s figures won’t show it, nothing will.
Gross manufacturing balance, rents, etc
amounted to £10.129 for the six months to
September, 1914; for the past half-year,
*f4oS. It isn’t much on a capital of
£lol.2.»0. Yet after so many good years,
naturally the co.’s finances are easy. Debts
are a very moderate £1624, while liquid
assets total £29.620. For the rest, there are
freeholds and buildings (£108,024) and plant
and sundries (£22,869). Five years’ move-
ment is shown here :
T . . , Mar., 1910. Mar., 1914. Mar., 1915.
Liquid assets <.£25,909 £35,141 £29,629
Liabilities .. 774 943 1,624
Surplus ..£25,135 £34,103 £28,0-05
In these days of uncertainty, few people
care to plunge into new bricks and mortar,
liow long the slump will last it is not pos-
sible to say. For some time after the end
oi the war money is likely to be dear, and
local borrowings won’t be plentiful; on the
other hand those high prices for foods, etc.,
which usually continue for years after a
niS war are likely to make things prosper-
o.us in Victoria. It isn't therefore neces-
sary to take a pessimistic view of this co.’s
future. Reserves, by the way, include a de-
preciation fund of £ll,OOO. This has been
built up at the rate of usually £2OOO a year
since 1008. Before 1008 there was a similar
leserve of £lO,OOO, but it was all written
oil against wear and tear not otherwise pro-
vided for. If the present accumulation is
to be treated similarly, the reserves are
overstated h.y that amount, and the profits
are also overstated hy the amount of the
half-yearly additions. For the past half-
ycar nothing went that way; to September,
1014, £lOOO. If £lOOO may be regarded as
a fair allowance for depreciation, the co.
sailed close to the wind last September, and
paid much more than it earned net this last
term.
* * * »
Melbourne Co-operative Brewery Co. :
„ Trade Written Re-
-1 ront. Bonus. Dividends. Off. serves.
Jan., £ £ £ £ £
05.. 8,858 2,782 50 p.c. = 2,816 1,715 1,354
Premiums on new shares, £6,094.. 7.448
06..27,679 10,276 110 p.e. = 10,180 4,000 10,671
Premiums on new shares, £18,084. . 28,755
07..32,325 12,567 761 p.c. = 12,543 2,347 .33,623
Premiums on new shares, £299.. 33^922
08. .36,154 14,175 781 p.c. = 14,001 3,703 38,197
Premiums on new shares, £473.. 38 670
09. .32,536 16,167 86§ p.c. = 15,540 2,049 37 450
Premiums on new shares, £17,347. . 54’797
10. .31,691 15,020 731 p.c. = 15,679 1,000 54,’789
Premiums on new shares, £1,323.. 56 112
11.. 48,849 18,778 90 p.c. = 19,006 6,505 60’e72
Premiums on new shares, £445 - 61 ’l 17
12. .62,871 21,868 100 p.c. = 21,635 7,703 72,’782
Premiums on new shares, £27,021. . 99,803
13.. 62.684 24,437 90 p.c. = 24,328 9,037 104,685
Premiums on new shares, £488.. 105 173
14. .60,611 23,558 88 p.c. = 23,906 9,669 10s’g51
~ _ „ Premiums on new shares, £396. . 109,047
. <3,022 26,041 96 p.c. = 26,209 13,067 116,752
They are following the king— at a respectful
distance. btill the figures don’t bring us
past the end of January, and it wasn’t till
after that dry month had finished that we
began to think we could do without our beer.
i,9°‘ was > i ll tlm first place, a kind of
rebellion against Private Enterprise. A few
big publicans got together and asked them-
selves, in the manner of common Socialists,
why they shouldn’t be their own brewer and
save themselves a lot of “travelling” ex-
penses, etc., etc. The figures in tin” table
are the eloquent result. Of course the divi-
dend isn t really 90 p.e. on the capital sub-
scribed. _ After the thing had been started it
was obviously so good that a big premium
was commanded on subsequent issues. So,
though nominally the paid share capital is
only £27,131, the actual amount put in bv
shareholders has been £99,100; and on that
sum the dividend is equal to about 26 p.c.
Even that is more than you could make by
running a coffee palace. Apart from the pre-
mium capital the co. hasn’t put much by—
under £45,000. Still what reserves there are
appear to be the real thing. That is to say,
they don’t seem to be a mere set-off against
depreciation, the latter being provided for
otherwise—and amply provided for, this
paper judges. Anyway, very nearly half of
the plant and machinery has been paid for
out of revenue. As for the future, the cam-
paign in favor of early closing isn’t likely
to do this or any other brewery any good ;
but this co. may be less affected by existing
and threatened legislation than those which
have large sums in pub property. Appar-
ently this co. has no such assets. It is a
brewer, and nothing else. For that reason,
among others, it has managed to keep fairly
well out of debt. Its liabilities on all ac-
counts amount to only about £15,000, mostly
ordinary trade accounts.
* * * *
Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. (Q.) :
Gross
~ Revenue. Expenditure. Profit.
May, 1908 .. £911,723 £648,360 £263,363
May, 1909 .. 901,838 673,622 228,216
May, 1910 .. 1,079,914 721,722 358,192
Nov., 1910 .. 484,755 408,450 76.305
May, 1911 .. 468,538 350,867 117,671
Nov., 1911 .. 452,336 381,730 70,606
May, 1912 .. 537,378 349,985 187,393
Nov., 1912 .. 640,712 387,585 253,127
May, 1913 .. 499,317 351,314 148,003
Nov., 1913 .. 496,936 351,973 144 963
May, 1914 .. 459,606 328,217 131,389
Nov., 1914 . . 502,382 438,546 63,836
May, 1915 .. 503,018 400,215 102,803
That’s better, but nothing to give three
cheers about. Apparently the directors could
have made things look rosier if they had
wanted to. Whatever metal was on hand at
the end of November was valued at £55 per
ton. It actually realised £57 14s. 10d.. which
didn’t give much of a surplus to help this
half-year’s figures. “That produced during the
half-year has been disposed of at an average
of £75 Bs. lOd. Although the output of the
past six months has been sold, 2190 tons have
not yet been shipped. This tonnage has been
valued, as hitherto, at £55 per ton.” In other
words, the co. is to get upwards of
£44,500 more for the half-year’s out-
put than it has taken credit for.
Further, one can’t tell from the data
furnished what was the average per ton
realised for the metal that was sold and
shipped and taken full credit for. Appar-
ently, however, it was considerably under the
average of £75 Bs. 10d. Altogether, then,
the profits shown in the accounts are
a long way from fully reflecting the
glories of the recent copper market.
With the £44.500 or more to be
realised from surpluses on copper pro-
duced last half-year and to he paid for this
term, the profits for the current six months
should show un 100 p.c. better—unless, of
course, the market suffers a sudden collapse;
and that isn’t at all likely.
The half-year’s disclosed profit on an out-
put of 4481 tons of metal was equal to nearly
£23 per ton ; but as before pointed out. very
nearly half of the six months’ output, though
sold at over £75 per ton, lias been assumed
for the purposes of these accounts to be worth
only £55. The half-year’s costs, apart from
depreciation charges, but including office
exes., may be reckoned at £380,000. The
gold recovered during the past half-year was
58,1960 z., worth say £239,000. That left the
copper to carry £141,000 of the costs, which
would be equal to about £3l 10s. per ton.
In other words, anything over £3l 10s. per
ton for copper should be profit; and from
that something like £5 may be struck off
against depreciation of plant. Thus
£3O 10s. or thereabouts will at present cover
all costs and give enough over to provide for
the reinstatement of plant. The present
London price of electrolytic copper, such as
is produced at the Port Kembla works,
which Mount Morgan helped to establish, is
about £93 per ton. At an average of £B5
per ton the half-year’s net profit should be
£2l 0,000. And though very cheap working is
out of the question, there is no reason why
costs should not come down. Last half-year
the average, including mining, development,
smelting and realisation, was 40s. 3.8 d. per
ton of Mount Morgan ore. The previous
half-year the total was 475. 3.7 d. That im-
provement means about £ll per ton of cop-
per. Many things were, however, in a state
of transition in the previous half-year; and
readjustments are still in progress, especially
in relation to the feeding of the concentrates
into the furnaces and in regard to the Min-
erals Separation plant. The concentrates
have been pugged ; but a pot sintering plant
is now being erected.
And there have been satisfactory mine
developments. Of the ore fed to the plant
no less than 29 p.c. was taken from outside
the reserves—4B.ls6 tons out of a total of
161,741 tons. That indicates a very much
larger quantity really in reserve than the
1,060,637 tons high grade and 1,786,560
tons medium grade which are alone
reckoned in the official figures. On the
half-year’s figures the high-grade ore would
last something under nine years, and the
medium-gra.de ore about 14 years—figures
which make it plain that, though the co.
is working a lot of ore outside the accepted
reserves, it is also biting into its best ore
much more rapidly than it is into its second
best. _ But the prospecting in the old Sugarloaf
workings, undertaken on the recommenda-
tion of Colin Fraser, is likely to add con-
siderably to the tonnage of rather better
than medium-grade stuff. There is a big
bodv there assaying 2.67 p.c. copper and
10.02dwt. gold, whereas the average recov-
eries from the mixed crude ore treated dur-
ing last half were 2.73 p.c. copper and
B.o7dwt. gold.
Having now discovered what it means to
send ores out of the country for smelting
presumably Australia will take steps to shut
down on the shipping of tin concentrates
Knibbs’s “Year Book” for 1914, just pub-
lished, shows that in the previous year no
less than £447.875 of ore and concentrates
had been sent to Straits Settlements’ fur-
naces. _ The Straits have been collaring the
Australian tin-smelting business in this as-
tonishing fashion :
1901 •• £4,096 | 1911 .. ..£277,961
1909 •• •• 186,191 I 1912 .. .. 387,524
1910 .. .. 194,066 | 1913 .. .. 447,875
There are no technical difficulties about tin-
smelting. and there is not half as much
excuse for exporting tin oxide as for sending
away zinc concentrates. The simple fact
is _ that a A\ hite Australian Government per-
mits its metallurgists and smelters to eome
into unchecked competition with the cheap
Chinese labor of the Malay Peninsula, and
naturally the man with the higher standard
of living goes down.
* * * *
B. 11. Junction North is on the call-pay-
ing list again, and shares are a gamble, on
the strength mainly of the demand which
may exist for its particular brew of concen-
trates. What it has on hand it cannot sell
at a profitable price. The metallurgy of
lead is usually simple; but the Junction
North’s concentrates, derived chiefly from
bought slimes, are very fine, and require
special treatment, so there is no smelter in
S.A. or N.S.W. anxious to take on the job.
Melbourne-owned Bangadang, near Adel-
ong (N.S.W.), talks of hugging to its
ample bosom some of the blocks at the new
Jackalass find. Whether Harry Wesley
gives these a good name isn’t told. Pre-
sumption says “Yes.” Its own original
show is still no more than a big prospecting
venture.
* * *■ *
W. J. Nichol shifts from the Lord Nelson.
St. Arnaud (Vic.), to run the Bodangora,
Wellington (N.S.W.)_. Engineer Dyason
took over the mine, which had fair profes-
sional backing. Bob Turner cast a bit of
cash that way. and now says that if the oz.
average of the 1000-ton lot of ore put
through is kept up he will get back a bit of
what he lost over Lode Hill. That 1000-
ton lot represents the second bulk sampling
donte under Dyason’s eye. To date the
Bodangora in its second time on earth has
yielded the new Melbourne co. £6352 of gold
and concentrates from 1459 tons crushed.
AH the ore came from development, consist-
ing of the opening-up of the reef at No. 7
level, and driving No. 8 level 393 ft. The
shoot here is narrow, averaging 28in., but
the grade is 0.K., running £3 16s. lOd. per
ton in the level and over £4 in the rises.
Nichol is to sink another lift (150 ft.). When
the level at that depth is open there ought
to be a decent reserve for the mill to play
on if the lode lives down. The reef at No. 8
is less faulted and stronger than at No. 6, so
Nichol thinks the mine has a future.
* * * *
The first consignment of 300 tons of
spelter purchased from the Broken Hill
Piop. has reached Westralia and is being
distributed as shavings among the cos.
associated with the Chamber of Mines. The
mines over there are now assured of an
ample supply until the end of the year, and


The British
i/N
W/&
&
m
m
Electric & Manufacturing C? L*?,
ELECTRIC WINDERS.
The winding- gear of a mine must, above all things, be absolutely reliable.
It is a tribute, then, to the reputation of the British Westinghouse Coy. for reliability that
equipments amounting to 100,000h.p. have been installed by them.
Write for a list of winders installed.
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRAEIA:
QUEENSLAND BUILDING, 84 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
New Zealand Agents: TURNBULL. & JONES, Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch,
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS : Dunedin.
STANDARD, WAYGOOD HERCULES Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
ELDER, SMITH & CO., Ltd.,
BOURNE.
MEL-
ELDER, SHENTON & CO., Ltd., PERTH.
EEDER, SMITH & CO., Etd., ADELAIDE.
WORKS, MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
ALUMINOFERRIC is used by the Sydney Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply" Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards and graziers
toi precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is simply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours’
time the most discolored water will be as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless,
bole agents: William Adams & Company Limited
bydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.*
* * *
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills lave proved to the Calumet and Hecla
Mining Co that grinding is not such a difficult
prodem ; they have installed 64 of them, and say
. ® Hardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the
mi? a° . In l n, b mmiagers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are
‘ h o e s° le representatives for them in the Common-
wealth, and will be glad to forward particulars.* [1
* * * *
, from The Policy-Holder, London, Novcm-
-26 > “The Colonial Mutual has long had
the reputation of being one of the most enterprising
and ambitious of life assurance institutions, and to
be enterprising and ambitious is to the modern mind
so very much preferable to being inert and liyper-
cautious that the Australian office may well secure the
respectful, consideration of many persons for the com-
modities it offers because of its up-to-date pushfulness
alone. Only 40 years old—almost a youngster com-
pared with some of our ancient offices—the Colonial
Mutual has, from the commencement of its career
pressed forward with uncommon determination and
energy. Its growth has been remarkable.”* [7
PIONEER WOOD PIPE is light and easy to handle.
Its suitability for all classes of work gives it a place
“ where piping is required. It has been
adopted by all the State Governments on account of
its high efficiency. Catalogue from The Australian
offi°c°e )* PIPe C °” U ” 57 York Street > s y dlle y (hea l
* * * *
Patents. Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
i> P " rt Kembla works of the Electrolytic
Refining Company are freely buying ores containing
copper, silver, gold from all parts of the Common”
gum' c! le °J e , Purchase Department is at
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.*
* * *
‘ ‘Robey- Leplast rier’ ’ Road-Building Machinery
means big saving. One shire in N.S.W. saved last
year £4OOO. Sixty shires equipped already. Apply
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., head office, Sydney.*
* * *
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.*
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colli son * Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H B
Silberberg & Co., l td., 8 O’Connell Street, Svdnev ;
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.*
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £545,660
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155 451
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 80,’500
0 0
0 0
0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
£781,611 Q Q
Gen. Man.: Edwd. D. Day. ' Asst.’Man.: E. H. Matthews
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Canncn Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C. ’
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
are Born to
Insure in
Th ‘ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Fire Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Capital ..£250,000
Subscribed... 165,000
Paid=up ... 82,500
AGENTS WANTED,
Branches in every State
Write for particulars.
W R. CAVE
263
General Manager.
George Street. Svdnev.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
at a cost considerably lower (ban would
have been the case if they had trusted to
luck in getting supplies abroad.
Westralian Mines Department report for
1914 gives the State’s mineral output for
that year as £5,533.990, or £502,125 less
than for 1913. Gold accounted for
£5,237,353, or 94.64 p.c. of the total. Other
principal contributions were coal £148,684,
copper £38,174, tin £35,649, lead £46,315.
Gold stone treated showed a drop of 85,265
tons. Working costs (20s. 6d.) were up
Is. Area held under lease for all minerals
was 50,520 acres, or 3023 acres less than
for the previous year. The number of men
engaged in the industry was 13,174, a de-
crease of 864.
* * * . *
Westralia produced 604,3770 z. fine gold
during the first half of this year, or about
10,000 oz. less than for the corresponding six
months of last year. The State’s aggregate
output now approximates 29,000,0000 z., and
minerals other than gold £3,700,000.
The Westralian Chamber of Mines is
going to have a shot at the State Commis-
sioner of Taxation for his refusal to deduct
the whole amount expended on mine develop-
ment from profits. A test case has been
cited on behalf of the Lake View and Oroya,
and all preliminary arrangements for a
terrific bombardment have been made.
To a great extent it is the cos.’ own fault.
If they hadn’t for share-booming purposes
contracted the habit of treating mine devel-
opment as capital expenditure, instead of
charging it up to working account, the
Commissioner would most likely never have
raised the question. lie merely seeks to
hang the cos. with their own rope.
Edna May Deep Levels! W.A.) soon ran
short of money. Between November and
May it received £11,962 in share subscrip-
tions and calls, and after paying out £7500
as purchase consideration and other amounts
for mine development its financial position
on May 31 was: Liabilities £1340; liquid
assets, £6BB. A Is. call due this month
should bring in £2OOO, and the co. can get
in another £6OOO.
Empress (W.A.) claims to be going down
in the shaft below 250 ft. on a few feet of
3oz. quartz. The reef at this point is de-
scribed as a fine body of laminated stone,
and is declared to be “improving and widen-
ing” with depth. The mill was officially
tipped to start running a fortnight ago, but
it has since been decided to delay crushing
until arrangements can be made to drain
the mine down to 250 ft. This will enable
shaft-sinking to be continued in fairto dry
ground. A winze is to be started 100 ft.
north of the shaft at 250 ft., and the ore
mined there and from the shaft (estimated
at 100 tons a week) will, according to the
management, be sufficient to keep the five
head mill going. But it is a rather hand-to-
mouth way of working the property.
* * * *
From another man who examined the lot:
“A man who lately examined the lot” (B.
10/6/T5) says that the Edna May belt is a. large one.
It is not! On the contrary, it is remarkably cir-
cumscribed. The gneissic granite belt, is contained
in Edna May, Central, Deeps, Consolidated, and a
small portion of it is in a few other leases, but the
belt is not spread over a wide area. “The schoolboy
rivalry of the two mines, Edna and Central, is
funny.” It is, and it is easy to see in which camp
the other fellow took up his abode. Undoubtedly he
was given the glad eye by the Central. He works.
out the value of the Edna to the No. 4 level at £5
per share. This calculation is based on the ore
reserves at present exposed above No. 3 level plus his
own idea of ore likely to be available between No. 3
and No. 4. No sane person dreams there is no ore
in the Edna other than what is in sight. For in-
stance, there is reported to be 6000 tons reserves
above the No. 1 level, and yet here there is a face
of quartz 30ft. wide, worth 15dwt. But, at present,
no one can tell , what is out of sight at the back of
this. The co. has been breaking from No. 1 level for two
years, and from time to time fresh ore reserves are
located, and it is now safe to say that, allowing for
ore reasonably supposed to be available at No. 1,
this level will not be exhausted by next Christmas.
Much the same applies to lower levels. Ore left in
walls for the time being can neither be estimated nor
valued, and it is a dead certainty that there is a
considerable quantity ore out of view in the lower
levels. “The reef is poorer at the 225 level than at
the 150, and, as usual,” he says, “the value will be
poorer at the No. 4 or 300 level.” I do not agree ;
but, if he is right on the point, why all the hope
expressed concerning the possibility of the Central
getting a continuation of Edna’s rich shoot with
depth? If this be eventually accomplished the shoot
will be valueless by the time it dips into the Cen-
tral.
“Greenstone showing in footwall in open cut is
apparently the southerly limit of ore. Everything
goes N.E., and that will mean Central is an Edna
with depth.” Everything does not go N.E. The
greenstone goes west of north, and this is just what
will prevent Central ever becoming an Edna with
depth. “Edna barrackers passionately deny the possi-
bility of the Central getting ore bodies at all.” Non-
sense! Central has, and always has had, the con-
tinuation of the Edna reef. It is a certainty, how-
ever, that Edna’s rich shoot will never dip into Cen-
tral ground. If the reef steepens the rich shoot will
remain in Edna ; if not, the shoot will underlie into
Deeps.
As to the Central ore being “mined and treated by
the cheapest practice on the field,” Edna, at a cost
of thousands, is draining the Central workings, sup-
plying the Central with free water for treatment,
also sands for stope filling, besides taking the role of
kind foster-mother generally; and, as the Central’s
efforts have been confined to mining in soft cbuntry
only, and as development work has been on a most
limited scale, the practice ought to be cheap. But
there ought to be very little said about it, all the
same. Much has been talked about the flat make of
alluvial in the Central. This contains a large quan-
tity 3dwt. and 4dwt. ore, and there is practically no
profit in it. As for the high values near Edna
boundary, the assay values may be obtained from
there, but the average value of the ore in this part
of mine is 7dwt. Possibly there are 5000 tons of this
grade, certainly not more. So far, Central has pro-
duced nothing more than unlimited optimism and
disappointing results.
-X- * * *
Central and Central Extended, Southern
Cross (W.A.), go into a new co., the
promoters being Alex. Sanderson and a syn-
dicate of mostly Nor’-West cattlemen. This
country was pegged by Joe Rogers 27 years
ago, and was put off on to small Perth cos.
with little capital. With practically no
water supply and gold-saving appliances
that were only bad jokes, these cos., with
the Frasers and Frasers South, produced a
million pounds’ worth of gold and paid
£400,000 in dividends. Costs in the old days
were nearly an ounce—poor power, light
stamps, little water and no cyanide saw to
that. The “saving” appliances may be esti-
mated by the fact of the high cyaniding
value of the tails, though the crude ore was
clean quartz and the gold free. The line
can now be worked very cheaply (for
W.A.) ; it is a true fissure, is only in its
youth, and good judges believe it will carry
values to depth.
St. Mungo (Q.) made a profit of £3286
for the half-year. The capital is only £5OOO
(40.000 at 2s. 6d.), so the! co. isn’t over-
loaded. As a reward for this unusual
modesty Charters Towers can boast of own-
ing a copper mine which, though still young,
has returned £14,000 in divs., or more than
double the capital. Still, it is difficult to
estimate reserves, because the lode is irregu-
lar and often merely a replacement of the
granite. The ore sold last half-year realised
£5878; costs were £2553, plus depreciation
£39, leaving the £3286 mentioned above.
At the mine No. 5 level is out 62ft. from
the-shaft, and for 45ft. along this level there
has been a strong body of chalcopyrite. The
deepest level is at 290 ft., and there are good
prospects of more ore being made available
by the sinking now in progress.
* * * *
Lode Hill has been sized up by little J. B.
Lewis, whose reputation as a tin man stands
high. _ After reading his report the sole
question is why people were so mad as to
send shares up to 17s. Lewis doesn’t at-
tempt to tell how much ground there is left
of the kind from which the first big wash-up
came, but he scoffs at the yarn that there
are no boulders or stones. Not only that,
but he shaves down a lot of the ground to
ilb. stuff, and very little of what’s left will
reach 21b. to the cubic yard. About the
only chance he sees is to sluice out the
Roaring Meg lease ground, and meantime
try to open up the co.’s old claim some-
where where stones won’t be troublesome,
and where pay tin _ may be found. This
means that Lode Hill ought never to have
got out of the small-party stage, and that
Brennan and Watt have as much chance of
meeting at the Front as the buyers at 17s.
have of getting their money back.
* * * *
“Mainshaft” : Seeing that Hampden yield
is just about 10 p.c., the Duchess must be
finding practically all the copper. The
Hampden Consols looks like being a white
elephant for the Elliott, which is a very
considerable animal of the same sort itself;
and of the Elliott’s old shows only the Sel-
wyn produces ore of 10 p.c. or better. The
Elliott will get the Dobbin Cloncurry shows ; ;
one is the derelict Great Australian, which
may get a shallow make of good ore in the
new prospecting shaft, but looks hopeless
for depth. The Dobbin Freehold and the
Mount Oxide are the only big things left,
and the Oxide is easily first. The Elliott
in securing it makes the lesser include the
greater. Oxide goes over for 90.000 Elliott
shares (or one for five in the Oxide Co.),
which means mostly that Mr. Edmund
Davies, of London, shifts the contents of
one pocket to another.
* * * *
Woodlark Island, Papua, isn’t feeling
well. The King, which had been sending
up very rich stuff, was under offer to Eng-
lish people; but ,T. Bull wouldn’t think of
it at present. An Australian option syndi-
cate then took it in hand and sank; but,
besides a bothersome increase in the water
trouble, the reef in the bottom wasn’t satis-
factory. That cast gloom over the island:
and the refusal of B. 11. Block 10 to spend
the £70,000 which it would be necessary to
lay out (so it said) if it took over the
Kulamadau didn’t help matters.
Victoria’s gold yield for the June half-
year (160,4250 z.) is 53,5470 z. less than in
the same part of 1914. Causes: the flat
state' of alluvial mining, the dreary condi-
tion of Bendigo and the gradual closing-up
of the mines in the mountains.
* * * *
A mining pitch which has seen more
downs than ups in the last year is the
Savage River iridium field (Tas.). Two
months before the war started the buyers
made a violent raid on the price for the
metal—then £ll 7s. 6d. per oz.—reducing
it to £B. After that it slumped to £5, and
later, after the war started, the stuff was
practically unsaleable for a time. The
number of diggers decreased from 150 to
00. A contingent of those remaining
reckoned they were being exploited, and
made a smart counter-attack by hanging on
to their metal —a move which biffed the
price up to £8 again. At that figure J2ooz.
was sold and close on lOOoz. is held for a
further rise. The metal in most demand
consists of solid rounded specks, about
seven or eight to the grain. These are used
for tipping fountain pens and instruments
of precision. The very fine and the coarse
and flaky metal is put in an inferior class,
and is only worth £4 10s. in Tasmania, but
brings £6 in New York for melting pur-
poses. Savage River is the only place in
the world where the former class is pro-
duced in any quantity; and as it is being
rapidly exhausted those who can afford to
hold may score big prices later on. In the
head waters of the 19 Mile Creek, which has
fed the iridium into the Savage River, some
fine nuggets have been unearthed, varying
from a few dwts. to 2oz. Bdwt., which is said
to be the largest piece found on this planet.
Analyses' of ore from different parts of the
field show the metal to contain from 33 p.c.
to 46 p.c, iridium, the balance being chiefly
osmium and ruthenium; the, platinum con-
tents can always be expressed in decimals.
As was expected, the alluvial has been
traced to its source at the head of
McKenty’s Creek, the finder being W.
Caudry, a miner of much Australian experi-
ence. The metal is confined to an ill-de-
fined line of enrichment. The eye fails to
detect any difference between the matrix and
the country rock, both being, serpentine;
perhaps a microscopic difference might be
found. An option was taken over this pro-
perty (allegedly by Johnston Mathey and
Co., the London platinum dealers), and a
small plant erected to give it a trial. The
results were never made public; but. as the
holders did not close on the option, it is
generally thought the find is only valuable
as a geological curio. Finds in the stone
were reported from several other parts of
the field ; some' of them, at any rate, were
only crude attempts at salting.
* * * *
Numerous and frequent forfeitures have'
swept 239,240 Tasman and Crown Lyell shares
into John Brandon’s safe keeping, until some
crowd consents to shindicate them. Before
that is likely to be done the new geology of
the mine will have to be assimilated. The idea
that a fissure lode carried the ore has been
pigeon-holed. It is now said that light has
been thrown on the problem by means of
crosscuts, on which manager Carter has
built up the theory that Tasman and Crown
Lyell is the proud owner of a series of lens-
shaped ore-bodies a, la Lyell. He, therefore,
comes round to Prof. Gregory’s ideas as to
the Lyell ore deposition—but unfortunately
only when five-sixths of the scrip is for-
feited. When times are better, the fact that
there are 90,000 tons of proved and probable
ore to play with may bring in the shindicate
to test the new geology of the mine.
It was mentioned last week that to pro-
vide funds for completing the second dredge
without unduly postponing divs. Kampong
Ivamunting would probably send 10,000
shares to market. They have now been
placed in a lump at 245.
* * * *
Pernatty (S.A.) has at present 143,000
shares of 10s. each. Wainwright, of the
B. 11. South, estimated this copper deposit to
contain 145,000 tons, worth 2.8 p.c. Against
143,000 shares 145,000 tons of low-grade ore
isn’t much, though it is alleged that recent
discoveries have increased the reserves. And
treatment isn’t a dead-sure thing either. The
ore is to be crushed, screened and roasted
with salt, and the copper is then expected to
be soluble, after which precipitation on
scrap-iron will be easy. Chlorination and
leaching have probably been adopted in pre-
ference to flotation because of the oxidised
condition of some of the. ore. Still, the Ana-
conda (U.S.A.) has abandoned leaching in
favor of flotation, and Mount Morgan, with
all its experience of leaching, has installed a
frothing plant.
The Timor Petroleum Concessions—a Syd-
ney-Melbourne concern with J. 11. Carru-
thers as chairman—has issued a report sum-
marising the conclusions of A. J. Staughton,
one of the directors, who was in Timor when
the annual accounts were lately issued.
There is still nothing conclusive, though a
while ago, after some jambed casing had
been withdrawn, first oil and then oil and
water shot into the air 70ft. The drill
afterwards went down a further 100 ft. to
420 ft., and then there was another breakage
and another of the delays which this co.
ought to be used to by now. “At the time
operations ceased the formation in the bore
\vas similar to that which overlies the big
oil flows in Borneo and Sumatra, and it is
expected that when this strata is pierced the
main oil region will be tapped.” On all the
reports available the prospects are certainly
rosy.
L.L. •: Dr. Wade’s report on the Railton
Latrobe oil-shale deposits is just the tiling
expected from that expert. He reports 5i
miliion tons of 40-gallon shale, and on that
the Commonwealth is advised to buy. If
the Commonwealth does buy, it has bought a
eat which blew out one eo., and has made a
second seemingly anxious to sell. The average
ot .Scotch shale is ISgal., but the business
is a long-established vested interest, has
cheap labor and line organisation, and has
followed the grade of shale down to van-
ishing point. Crude oil being worth 2-id.
per gal. normally in Australia, 40-gal. shale
is worth Bs. 4d. a ton in the bord. Any
other profits are profits of refining, and the
residue as manure will show little more
than _ the cost of handling. Latrobe oil-
winning from shale is equal to mining coal
m a dirty seam, and then having only a re-
tortable product after mining, instead of a
marketable fuel. Latrobe isn’t in the same
street with Wolgan or Capertee for size of
seam, gallons per tori or milling costs, '.fun-
nelling is not possible from what I saw of
it five years ago, when all the beds pros-
pected were opened from shallow shafts,
lhe Commonwealth Oil Co. has blown nearly
a million and three-quarters at Wolgan; if
the Commonwealth takes on Latrobe it will
blow more money than If millions, because
it has more to blow.


Heeiingfs
Est. 1818.
Co
en
en
9 & *
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
WENTWORTH
HOTEL,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
The elegantly appointed “verandah cafe” is now
closed in and heated for the winter months, and
diners are assured of every comfort as well as
perfect service and delightful cuisine.
Having engaged the services of a chef who was 17
years at the Vienna Caf6, Melbourne—vve are
supplying special luncheons, dinners and after-
noon teas superior to any Hotel in the Common-
wealth.
The Wentworth Orchestra is in attendance every even-
ing, and on all special occasions.
Reservations for supper should he received not later
than 8 p.m.
Telephone: City 1203, 1583.
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FESQ a CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
BRAN DV
COGNAC
OTARD
15 YEARS OLD 4* * *
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER `
Sydney, July 12, 1913..
My Dear Ahum, —
The news that Governor Strickland has
become sole owner of the old Westmoreland
< hustle has just leaked out in England.
Some of the co-owners have died, and the
others have been bought out. The keep
tower of the old fortress Sizergh was built
for a forefather who was held as a hostage
by John during the Great Charter row. The
• state covers 1000 acres in Westmoreland
and 12,000 acres in Yorkshire, with the
lordship of the Manor of Sedberg thrown in
for luck.
A pillar of the local Historical Society,
Frank Walker, gave a lucid account the
other evening of the X.S.W. Government
Houses which have crumbled into memories.
Pictures were screened to show the evolu-
tion from watt le-and-daub to Gothic arches.
Because Society always absents itself from
these highbrow meetings it missed, on this
occasion, ihe wild thrill of seeing Sizergh
Castle on the screen. This ancient pile, the
home of the Stricklands since the days when
the Anglo-Saxon nobility scratched rushes
together to make their best beds, is still in
perfect preservation.
The big fete for the Belgians at Alount
Joy. Ashfield, was one of the best-arranged
affairs of its kind. The owner of the
property, which is sliced through by an
avenue of Norfolk Island pines, is Air.
Peters, the contractor who had a lot to do
with the work at Burrin Jack. lie is a
patriot who makes up full wages to several
employees who have gone to the Big Fight,
and in case of accidents has insured their
lives for £230 or so apiece. Being a modest
man, he hid himself in the crowd on
Saturday afternoon, so that he hadn’t to
blush at tin 1 public recital of his good works.
Mrs. Peters, who originated the notion of the
fair, encouraged hubby to pay all the ex-
penses. so that the whole proceeds go to the
lions of Liege. £lOOO is mentioned as a
likely minimum.
The Alount Joy party was officially de-
clared open by Ashfield’s Alayor Hammond,
a slim, Byronic man, who looked more like
an elegant Professor of Sonnets than a local
alderman concerned with culverts and blue
metal. The Alayoress, also on the youthful
side, beamed over the edge of a presentation
bouquet, while her Alayor bowed his head
as a list of his virtues were chanted by a
speaker who had known the victim’s knicker-
bockers. French Consul Chayet slowly ex-
pressed his sentiments towards King Albert’s
bruised kingdom. Acting-Consul Doutre-
band (for Belgium) addressed the congrega-
tion in fluent English. Tom Henley, AI.L.A.,
added his unshaken belief that “kind ’earts
are more than coronets.” John Stinson
waved aloft the oratorical banner of free-
dom, and didn't seem inclined to haul it
down again. J. J. Cohen, AI.L.A.. merci-
fully abstained from following suit, and
pruned his feelings to a two-minute display.
The Allies' music having played the com-
pany to its feet, the lady pirates fell, upon
those present with great slaughter.
The Hospice Concert on July 19 has
secured Dolores as its star A'oice. The usual
auction is going to make a sandwich of the
musical menu. Airs. Alex. Gordon is leud-
ng her aid. and Alalcolm AlcEaeharn is on
the list. The Hospice for the Dying is in
actual need of this preliminary effort to hunt
the wolf away.
Veteran Tom Dibbs will close his office
desk on July 19. Governor Strickland gives
a lunch to mark the end of his OS years with
the Commercial Bank of Sydney, no less
than 48 years of it spent in the general-
manager's chair. Every notable person in
(he banking community will be invited to
toast the grand, upright old man's health on
this occasion. For some years past son-in-
law 11. H. Alassie has been assistant g.m.,
so there isn’t much doubt a pout the succes-
sion. In one respect, anyhow, lie 1 will uphold
the traditions of the office* Air. Dibbs never
! Red to see anybody on the premises much
after banking hours. The young men ought
to be out on the cricket ground or in the
tennis court; the elders pottering in their
gardens. As a great athlete and the father of
a still greater one—just wounded alongside
the Dardanelles —Air. Alassie isn’t likely to
root up that tradition.
For 50 years the haughty Royal Sydney
Yacht Club has never fluttered any flag but
the blue ensign over its official lair. Next
Saturday, the 17th. the Ited Cross will wave
in any breeze that happens to be floating
round Kirribilli Point. This big effort for
your last farthing is to equip Graythwaite,
riven for our wounded heroes by ex-Commo-
dore Tom Dibbs. The entertainment, which
is amphibious, will go on till about 10 p.m.
That reminds me of a recent Sydney exam,
for admission as nurse-probationers. Miss
was asked the meaning of “ambiguous.” She
didn’t know, but thought it had something to
do with being mean. Afterwards, in great
distress, she met two duffing pals. “Oh, no.
dear,” said one —“it's a second wedding when
a man lias a wife.” The other said that was
a different word altogether. “Ambiguous”
meant living on either sea or land. But the
Girl Who Didn't Know would make a capi-
tal nurse, for all that. Why must they
know what “ambiguous” means?
The organisers mention in a soft whisper
that some astonishing naval demonstrations
have been arranged by marine-architect
Walter Reeks for the Graythwaite fete.
The late Justice Foster, who once grew a
luxuriant crop of whiskers and pine trees
out Newtown way. left a grandson, young
Maclaidy, who has been in the firing-line of
late. Two granddaughters, sisters of the sol-
dier. have married subalterns, who are also
helping our side of the argument.
The delicacy which has marked the French
residents’ attitude towards our war funds has
again to be recorded with cheers. They have
postponed the rally for their own folks on
July 14. This decision enables the Freneli-
Anstralian League to organise all its re-
sources to help Australia Day. Airs. Play-
oust. who was in charge of a recent meeting
at which the whole thing was talked over,
records the fact that a picturesque humpy
outside the Exchange Hotel will be used as
a base for highway robbery on July 30.
Louise Mack, a little rounder, but other-
wise not much more than five minutes older
than she was when she wrote The lift.
letin’s “Woman’s Letter,” is greedily
drinking in the beauty of Sydney-by-the-Sea.
In the intervals, of course, she is going to
tell us what she saw in Belgium. Prosperity
has mellowed and sweetened the plump little
lady, who nowadays turns out serials for
London papers by the half-mile. Her com-
plexion has retained the peachy softness of
years ago, and her feminine interest in high-
heeled boots is firmly rooted in the same
place. Brussels, under the enemy’s hoof,
looked, she says, “as a beautiful house would
look if it had cockroaches in the best bed-
rooms, and climbing up the front stairs.”
The available members of the Mack fam-
ily foregathered to welcome Louise home
in the Cremorne flat of sister Alice (Airs.
Pilcher). There were 13 of the lively,
brainy brood, but some are scattered. Amy
(Airs. Harrison) is at Cambridge with her
husband, and the youngest of the late par-
son’s quiverful. Gertrude, is also in Eng-
land. Another group of old Sydney friends
drank tea next day at the Australia around
the returned writer. The company noticed
over its tea-cup that a small close-fitting
toque, voluminous skirts and high boots
with a three-inch heel are It.
Tom Curran, junior, who has been leading
gentleman in a recent will case, married
Alarie Brooke. Some years ago she was very
pretty in a slight, beautiful-eyed fashion,
and was a charming dancer. She may have
been a Victorian; at any rate, she was a
pupil of Airs. G. B. Lewis. She and Airs.
.1. C. Williamson were child players at the
same time, and sometimes on the same stage.
When she put up her hair and let out the
tucks in her frock. Alarie Brooke appeared
in comic opera and pantomime, and uplifted
a nice little voice in both. The cable that
describes her as a “tight-rope dancer” there-
fore maligned her—unless she turned to cir-
cus tricks late in life. She met Tom Curran,
then ALP., in London, whither she had gone
to try her luck on the boards. Tom, by the
way. was a star pupil of River view College
in his fledgling days.
Even in these quaking days the Workers’
Educational Association marches steadily
forward, and ceases on occasion to con-
sider merely mundane affairs. • One of the
Association’s honorary lecturers is F. B.
Cooke, of Sydney Observatory, a Fellow of
the Royal Astronomical Society. He de-
livered on Wednesday night the first of a
series of illustrated stories, in which he
undertakes to review 'the history of astron-
omy from the da vs when the celestial
mechanism first attracted the eye of the
shepherds. The third lecture will be devoted
to comets, which flick their prodigious tails
towards us occasionally and bolt away again
like scalded eats before the watchers here
below can get their tape measures out of the
tool box and up-end the step-ladder. The
study of comets has always seemed to me a
most exhausting form of exercise, but it is a
splendid thing to know that the chance of
Guv’ment House being hit by one of the
glittering vagrants scarcely calls for such
earnest prayer as it received in gran’ma’s
day.
St. Vincent's Hospital is willing to house a
number of the wounded now on their way
from the Dardanelles. To find ways of rais-
ing extra comforts for them, a meeting fore-
gathered there early this week.
A queer wish occurs in the will of the
late Lord Northland, killed in France. The
oldest son of Ataoriland’s ex-Governor Ran-
furly has left on record his hope that his
widow will marry again.
Surgeon-Colonel Luther, in charge of the
huge military hospital at Boulogne, is the
man who married Shirley Sly, of the legal
family that; grows roses in our best suburbs.
Captain Barrington Dickson, of the Ist
Northampton Regiment, was killed in
Flanders a few weeks ago. lie was a Syd-
ney man, the eldest son of Mr. and Mrs
IX I*. Dickson.
Geoffrey Elkington and his new wife (who
used to be Bunty in Moffat's play) are put-
ting in a snow-shod holiday at Kosciusko.
The W. Camerons, of Melbourne, are also
trying on skis; and so are Mrs. and Miss
I)'Ebro, from the southern city. Miss
D’Ebro, an upstanding girl, makes an
annual ascent of the snowy heights. Two
Homebush girls, the Misses Kenna. are off
to the carnival. Barrister A. G. Pitt, who
makes a hobby of Kosciusko sport, took a
party up the other day. He is an expert
in skis. Under his wing are the Italians,
from Mudgee, with Mamma Pitt and a young
sister. Barbara Gordon, the girl who won
the ladies’ championship at a carnival in
1913, or thereabouts, is going to. lead the
way at this year’s games.
The impressive presence of Mrs. Spencer
Brnnton has been temporarily lost to Red
Cross work in Sydney. After 10 months’
hard labor she has gone to Ihe U.S.A., via
Vancouver, for a holiday. A daughter went
with mamma. They’re going to leave their
cards on three nieces, who used to be the
Misses King, of Potts Point, and are now
married to Noo Yark citizens.
A likeable youngster, the lieutenant son
of Henderson Smith, who used to manage
IX and W. Murray’s wholesale house in
Sydney, fills a grave in one of the long
lines at Gallipoli. When father left Syd-
ney he went to look to the Westralian side
of the business, and the boy (who had got
his first taste of soldiering with the Sydney
Grammar Cadets) joined in Perth. lie
told of his own luck —the boat with his
machine-gun section was knocked to bits,
and there were only he and another to
scramble ashore with his precious weapon.
Others told of his pluck—among them a
battered private whom he took down to
shelter under fire.
Young Champion, a son of the parson who
used to be headmaster of King’s School, is
convalescing at Cairo after getting into an
argument at Gallipoli. Father is now shop
herd of souls at Canberra. Two more of the
boys are in training to join in the great
trouble.
Artist Ethel Stephens’s show of oils and
tempera at Hordern’s Gallery includes a fine
portrait of the late Emmaline Woolley—on
. loan. The best nude study, "The Bather.’’
is handled with skill and delicacy, and adds
to the strength of an exhibition in which
still life is the biggest feature. A canvas
that’s alive with a magnificent posy of hy-
drangeas, and some notable rose studies lack-
ing onlv the scent of the genuine article, are
yours for a modest sum.
A crowd of very astonished clerics mur-
mured soft applause to a recent sermon by
the Gaud Mayor. Mr. Richards is a versa-
tile man, whose early predilection for the
drama gives him an easy manner on a plat-
form. When old St. Philip’s Church had
its 300th or something birthday on July 7.
the Blackcoats gathered together in the local
school hall. Richards was asked to pre-
side. Instead of the usual chairman’s
platitudes, his Worship gave out a text from
Timothy, beginning “Endure hardness,”
then fieri to Hebrews xi. to show that even
mountains might be removed by faith.
When the gaiters present had recovered the
shock of hearing the laity propound the
Word, they admitted that the sermon was
one of the best on the problems of war time.
Hurrying back from North Queensland on
account of the sudden death of junior-col-
league Richardson. Chief Commissioner
Harper spent three days at the Railway
offices, and then collapsed again—as he was
medically warned he would. This time
other people had their way, and he was
handed three months’ leave of absence and
told to go fishing. That will leave only one
Commissioner on duty. But the energetic
and übiquitous Joe Davis, of the Public
Works Department, is looking that way.
Pianist Lawrence Godfrey Smith, who
went forth valiantly to meet the foe, has had
his belligerent intentions trampled on by the
British authorities. Still they’re keeping him
busy; since he isn’t considered Hercules
enough to stand the physical strain of battle
he is provided with some civilian billet in the
same cause.
Sydney has just begun to appreciate the
fact that the so-called “band” of Belgian
players is one of the most delightful orches-
tras the Town Hall has housed for a long
time. Conductor Phillipe Meny. an accom-
plished musician and composer, like several
other members of the company, has done his
bit in the firing-line for home and Albert.
But the musical fraternity are not made of
iron that can survive much trench work.
So they seized the chance of earning their
keep and incidentally doing something for
their compatriots, instead of swelling the
refugees in England. To hear tins orchestra
play “Butterfly” or “Faust” music is to hear
the operas brilliantly reduced to sparkling
tabloids of the originals.
Tasmania's veteran Colonel Cameron,
who offered his services to the Afar Office
some months ago, has been invalided to
England with serious heart trouble. A son .
is or was, in the thick of the light.
Favors for Australia Day —to be sold for
anything you like to give—are not entire]!
shutting out the local charities. Meetings
to help St. Martha’s Industrial Home On
the backwoods of Eeicliliardt I have boiled
down to a big show in the Town Hall on
September 1. The Tom Hughes lady pre-
sides over these machinations. St. Martha,
by the way, takes in the female orphan,
feeds and clothes her, and trains her in the
way she should go with a broom or a
needle.
In these days of fat-famine—even mar-
garine got to 15 pence a pound in Sydney
an ingenious damsel recently raffled a few
pounds of butter with great success at a
Cafe Chantant. The sale of man-fodder
will be a feature of a Universal Fair in the
Town Hall c-ellarette on July 30. The
committee implores you to send along any
thing you can steal from your own larder
for the sale.
The Girls’ Realm Motor Ambulance will
be handed over at Victoria Barracks on July
28. It is only a month or so since the
Wahroonga dame, Mrs. Critchley Smith, got
the notion of raising £550 amongst the Young
Persons who are sworn to deeds of Good
Fellowship. Two heads being better than
one, she conspired with organising-see. Grace
Burrows—and there’s the result.
Mrs. Francis Anderson, wife of one of our
’Varsity dons, is a happy woman at last.
The Wentworth Playground for the young-
sters of mean streets has been one of this
Free-Kindergarten advocate’s work-a-day
dreams. Now some legal ditlieulties have
been ironed out; and when the necessary
cash rolls in the kiddies in Sydney’s most-
congested area will not only have an open
space reserved for their play, but lots of
things to play with.
Colonel Osborne’s wife and their daughter
Val have gone off in the Mongolia, either to
England or to stay at a half-way port, while
dad is at Gallipoli. Fie is one of the few
Permanent men the Defence Minister has
been able to spare for active service up to
date. A few more are so insistent in their
demands that the next month or so is likely
to bring developments at headquarters.
Ilanburv Davies’s daughter has gone to
Egypt to have a look at the Bed Cross with
its sleeves tucked up for action.
You are herewith invited by the Sewing
Circle, which has Mayoress Richards in
command, to help supply fly nets for our
soldiers while thev’re fighting the Turk.
Suburban State schools are sewing their
fingers to the bone for Australia Day. Peter-
sham’s big establishment —whose headmaster
Rickard has just retired, by the way—is
bustling the Young Idea through miles of
crinkled paper. Junior girls are going to
disguise themselves as Christmas Bells and
hop round a maypole, while Wattle Blooms
kick up their juvenile toes alongside. The
rehearsals come to a climax on July 31 on
the Cricket Ground.
Hats seem to be shrinking visibly. The
Very Smart will have to take to green-lined
umbrellas if headgear is still the size of a
poached egg when summer comes. They have
a saucy effect on young and comely faces, but
the large matron with a Wellington nose who
dares these tiny millinery platters looks like
North Head with a beetle on its brow. The
posies that trim the miniature chapeau are
modern miracles of artificial flower-culture,
with fluffy-faced forget-me-nots sitting up
round the edges.
A bloodless battle has been fought on Syd-
ney soil over the lieel-less sock. Fortu-
nately in (his case there is something in the
shape of an international policeman to step
in and pull the combatants asunder. This
part is played by a Red Cross depot, which
issues its ultimatum to the effect that it will
slam its front door on any of Sister Susie’s
straight foot garments. The enemy hauls
off and argues—claims that some men like
knitted footgear which they can turn when
the heel wears through. The heel-less cham-
pions therefore intend to continue experi-
ments on their personal friends.
Floriculture may lie observed on the new
spring goods which are already peeping out
under the snows of much tissue paper. The
tiny Dolly Yarden sprigs of years ago will
again be reproduced on the frocks of the
coming summer. The craze for larger pat-
terns grows into designs of baskets of flowers
garlanded with evergreens. The young man
who returns from the war —say in February
-—will be dazzled by the floral visions wait-
ing on the wharf. What he may mistake for
a flowered bolster set on end. and trimmed
with billowy flounces, will really be his best
girl in her newest summer gown.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


VICE-REGAL
dfh
JEWELLERS
BY APPOINTMENT.
HARDY BROTHERS LTD.
THE LEADING HOUSE IN THE COMMONWEALTH FOR
HIGH-GRADE WEDDING PRESENTS
6 “Chippendale” Pattern Soup Spoons in Case,
in the Best Quality Silver Plate • £l/17/-
“Old English” Pattern ... - £l/10/-
HARDY BROS. LTD. INVITE AN INSPECTION OF THEIR EXTEN-
SIVE STOCK OF SOLID SILVER AND SILVER-PLATED GOODS,
SUITABLE FOR WEDDING AND COMPLIMENTARY PRESENTS,
SELECTIONS OF WHICH CAN BE FORWARDED ON APPROVAL.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE ON REQUEST.
13 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
113-118 Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
LONDON AGENCY: 32 OLD BURLINGTON STREET W.
“LET
IE
HAVE
MUSIC!
There is a longing in every human
breast for music that inspires and
elevates.
An instrument that will realise your
highest musical aspirations is a valu-
able asset, as well as a means of enjoy-
ment.
Broadwood ” and “Allison
Pianos
are splendid instruments, with the most superb tonal qualities.
These British-made Pianos enable the performer to produce that
harmony and expression which is appreciated by all music
lovers.
The “Apollo”
Player Piano.
Accurately and perfectly con-
structed, this splendid Player
interprets the most difficult music
with the greatest ease—the only
Player Piano that plays down on
the keys and possesses a human
touch.
Our Player
Library Fees
are remarkably low, and are
within the reach of all. The
wide selection of Rolls includes
58-, 65- or 88-note Sizes, suitable
for any Standard Cabinet or Com-
bination Player. Enrol to-day.
Library List sent on request.
STRING AND BRASS INSTRUMENTS.
A large variety to select from —instruments by the world’s best
makers. May Ave send you Price List?
The British Pianoforte Depot Ltd
45 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. WYNYARD STREET).
For every figure
suitable and up=
to-Jate models.
'GUARANTEED 1
‘Rust‘Proof I
Corsets,/
Every pait
Guaranteed.
r
dfh
LWAYS well in advance of
the latest and most ap-
proved styles in corsetry,
Warner's new season's models dis-
play good taste in design and the
perfection of cut, material and
workmanship for which they are
justly famous.
Xote the GUARANTEE!
These Corsets will not rust, break or tear. Every
pair carries a guarantee, and your draper will replace
any not up to standard.
/)
; K
m
V V
Tr T ~
i ti
ifyme/ s
j£ust\ProdJ*
\s
ONCE YOU HAVE USED a
Crowley Dress Model
yon will never do without this most useful aid to successful
dressmaking.
With this stand before you. you can tell at a glance what altera-
tions are necessary, and thus save many an hour twisting and
turning before a mirror. This is a reliable and reputable stand
that always pleases and brings "recommendation” orders every
day.
Come in and inspect.
Or ring City 7918 for particulars.
STOCK SIZES.
C. CROWLEY & SONS,
5 Q. V. Markets, George Street, SYDNEY. Prices from 14/6
EVA N S
Pastilles
fd
hfd
£
J
&
a®
IS
THESE wonderfully efficacious Throat Pastilles are made to a
formula of the Liverpool Throat Hospital, and act like a
charm in keeping the voice and throat in perfect condition
for prolonged vocal exercise.
Used by the leading singers throughout the wcrld.
The celebrated Madame Tetrazzini writes : “ 1 thank you for
the boxes of Evans’ Pastilles sent me, which 1 find excellent and
efficacious.”
Sole Manufacturers :— ■
EVANS SONS LESCHER, & WEBB, Ltd., LONDON.
Ask for “ EVANS ” Pastilles and see you get them.
m
jm
8-Hour Diamond Jubilee Art Union
PRIZES VALUE £4OOO.
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
DRAWN OCTOBER 30, 1915.
Ist Prize, Aalue £B5O. 2nd Prize, value £450.
3rd Prize, value £3OO.
And 397 other Valuable Prizes.
■Th? Pri ? c last year was ' von Mr. M. M. Whitt, Sydney
N.S.W., for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
GET A TICKET & HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1915.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 4.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list
of the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from
Agents in all towns, or direct from
JOHN AV. DOYLE, Secretary, Trades Hall, Sydney.


SPECIAL SALE OPFEK
MEN’S TO ORDER TAILORING
100/-
SAC
SUITS
90/-
And Less JO per cent. Cash Bonos.
Farmer’s hand-finished Sac Suits, in Pure Indigo Blue Rough
Serge, regular £5 value for 90/-, and less 10 per cent. (2/- in the
£). The shortage in Woollens increases daily, and on market
values Suits in this quality Serge are worth more than the usual
price. But we bought well, and customers get the benefit while
present stocks last. Do not fail to profit at once by the wonderful
value in this special concession.
The Sale closes on Saturday, but all letter orders containing
remittance, and which bear Saturday’s postmark, will be executed
at the reduced price.
100/-
SAC
SUITS
90/
CARRIAGE
PAID
ANYWHERE IN
AUSTRALIA.
And Less 10 per cent.
FARMER’S,
Pitt, Market and
George Streets,
Sydney
hfd
HATS, BLOUSES, FROCKS, etc.
PAULINE et CIE
(3rd Floor, Denison House, George St., Sydney),
Announce that they have received their latest
models for Spring and Summer, and will show
them on and after MONDAY, JULY 19.
Government Notices.
W.l 12/7/52.
Pepartment of Defence,
Melbourne, Sth July, £915.
Appointment of Medical Officer—New
Guinea.
APPLICATIONS, are invited from duly-
qualified Medical Men desirous of em-
ployment under the British. Administration
(late German), New Guinea.
Successful applicants, whose age must not
be more than 40 years, wiU be granted the
rank of Captain in the Naval and Military
Expeditionary Force, with pay at the rate of
£l/2/6 per day, 3/6 of which is deferred,
and 3/6 per day field allowance. Free pas-
sage will be granted to place of duty and
back to Australia on termination of engage-
ment, which will be for at least 12 months.
Applications to reach the Acting Director-
General of Medical Services, Victoria Bar-
racks, Melbourne, not later than 7th August,
T. TRUMBLE,
Acting Secretary.
ARNOTTS
New Delicacies
FOR
Afternoon Tea
"CRISS-CROSS” "KIDDIES”
“ORANGE SLICE”
& “ROYAL CROWN” BISCUITS
Baked by Arnott!
Sure to be good!
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, July 12, 1915.
My Dear Yarrie, — *
_ Most of our Nicest people were at the
Grand National on Saturday. Now that
one has got used to the new fashions they
appear less dreadful; in fact, many of the
girls managed to look dreams. Even the
men were subtly alluring in many cases.
Victor Hood, for example, whose coat flared
from the waist in an extravagantly up-to-
date fashion. However, the neat little
State Governor kept to an unpretentious
sac costume. Amongst those absent were
the G.-G. and all the feminine Guv’ment
Housers.
Mrs. Fan Dango Mackay exhibited an
adorable hat (it had blue velvet streamers),
and her taffeta skirts were gloriously volu-
minous. Her step-dauglier, Elsie, wore a
picture hat, a picture face and crinolines.
They were both heavily rugged with furs.
The day started coldly and then warmed up
in an exasperating manner to the embarrass-
ment of those who suffered from the heat,
and yet wanted to show their skin-trophies.
Mrs. Tom Hogan sacrificed her real seal and
skunk, and two smart little Tasmanians
simply had to get rid of their ’possum coats.
Essie Perrin Ivcrouse wore ermine, with
good effect. I did not see Melba, but her
daughter-in-law, Mrs. George Armstrong,
was resplendent in the new old-fashioned
glacg—very wide and crinoliney under a
short shirt coat of Astrakhan. (Don’t the
fashions read like a century ago, my dear?)
The completest Modern on the course was
Clive Leonard’s wife’s cousin—a sweet girl
with ash-blonde hair and a hat the size of a
sardine-tin. Her tan coat was yards and
yards round at the ankles, and was stiffened
out with sable. She even put in the shade a
girl with grey spats and an enormous grey
wolf hung over her shoulders. Mrs. Richards,
from India (Jessie Rowe, that was), was
pinked out delightfully in crisp frills and
dark furs. Her spats were wonders. She lias
the slim and tiny feet which go well with
those decorations.
Mrs. Crebin, a Russian, is interesting us
with lectures on the literature of her coun-
try. Do you remember a Miss Dreyfus who
lectured on French literature? Well, the
new arrival is like her, only better. She
handles Tolstoy, Turgenev, Dostoievsky,
Gogol, Pushkin, and I don’t know how many
others with the touch of the expert. Mrs.
Crebin speaks half a dozen languages, and
her English is excellent. But, then, Russians
and Spaniards find it hard to pronounce Eng-
lish badly, just as German and French people
can hardly pronounce it well. Lady Munro
Ferguson is interested in the Crebin lady.
As one of the cultivated Dufferin family she
knows a lot about Russia’s literature herself.
Colonel “Plevna” Ryan fell dangerously
ill at the Dardanelles, where he took more
risks than when he was surgeoning for the
Turks v. the Russians in long, long ago.
The plump little doctor is adored in the
Melbourne Hospital by all the nurses, who
consequently follow the news of his doings
with eagerness. On the day of the big
charge he began operating at 7 a.m. and
continued until three the next morning.
Or anyhow folks say he did. Another story
concerns some Turkish doctors, who are
alleged to have caught sight of the Turkish
war ribbon upon his breast. Two of them
immediately embraced him, though why he
was wearing his ribbon in action, and how
the Turks got near enough to see it, and
why they were allowed to walk into the
Australian lines and start embracing sur-
geons was not explained to me. The really
interesting parts of these yarns never are
explained, somehow.
Lady Stanley will open the exhibition of
Australian-grown products at the Tourist
Bureau next Monday. Mrs. John Murray,
who arranged for the exhibition, will pass
on the proceeds of sale to Lady Stanley’s
fund for wounded soldiers. The Austra-
lian products are to be donated, and Mrs.
Murray hopes to keep the affair going like
a shop for an indefinite time. Wild flowers
from country districts, honey, preserved
fruits and jams will be some of the stock.
Everybody knows how well the Australian
country housekeeper preserves fruit —especi-
ally with some competition from her neigh-
bors to put her on her mettle. There ought
to be plenty of business doing.
The Malvern Ladies’ Rifle Club fired its
first official shot, by the hand of the local
Mayoress, the other Saturday. This Mayor-
ess is rather unusual. In fact, aldermani-
cally speaking, she is unique. She is young
and dimpled and otherwise adorable, and in
her fascinating shooting-kit—well, she defied
comment and left admiration speechless.
The club has the enthusiastic patronage of
Lady Stanley. Dame Forrest is also a
member; the Westralian lady being able to
pot the bull’s-eye at ever so many yards.
The men’s club, under the able field-marshal-
ship of Mayor Rogers Thompson, has helped
the other concern most nobly. Captain
Prosser and Mr. O. S. Williams are acting
as instructors. One of the Hope Campbell
girls—they are mighty shootists —-acts as
secretary and helps in other ways.
Melba will give a concert at the end of
•Tidy. It will be just a Melba concert.
No hand-springs, no flags, no auction sales,
but a plain, ordinary concert dependent on
the Voice itself. It will be the Voice’s last
appearance in Melbourne for months and
months or years and years, and the Red
Cross is to have the benefit of it.
Essie Perrin Kcrouse is off in a hurry,
her husband having decided to make the
great adventure. Her people live in Man-
chester, so she has decided that, while he is
at the war, she will scrub floors at the Man-
chester Hospital for the wounded —that is,
if they will let her.
Prom my Adelaide correspondent:—-
Herewith a resume of the week’s patriotism. On
Saturday night the Orpheus Society filled the Exhibi-
tion Building, and on Tuesday another drawing-room
concert was given at Mrs. Frank Goode’s Marryat-
ville house —both entertainments being for the Red
Cross Fund. Australia Day arrangements are afoot.
The stands for Belgian Button Day have been
allotted, and a Stock Exchange Patriotic Concert is
billed for the Exhibition Building on the night of
the same Day.
The Sandfords are now at Rose Park, and Mrs.
Sandford and her daughter have already started Red
Crossing there.
Mrs. Humphrey Makin has come over from Vic-
toria, and will stay with her husband’s people in
North Adelaide while he is at the war.
The Penfold Hylands have gone east for a week
or so.
The embargo on watering gardens has been re-
moved. So anyone who wishes to turn his garden
from the mass of slush which it is at present into
a fathomless lake need not be baffled.
Josiah Symon’s son Oliver has been appointed
second-in-command of Torpedo Boat No. 17. Lieut.-
Col. Brand, D. 5.0., who was wounded, is on duty
again in charge of the Sth Battalion, and Lieut. Neil
Campbell is convalescing in England. His younger
brother, Gordon, is in camp getting ready for the
Front.
Miss de Lissa, who has been in Europe for some
time picking up wrinkles in Kindergarten work, re-
turned by the Malwa.
News has come that Joseph, second son of the
William Gilberts, of Pewsey Vale, was killed at the
Dardanelles on May 2S. He was in thjj Westing-
house works (England), and enlisted as ! a private
v-ith the Lancaster Territorials.
Prior Spence, who was appointed coadjutor-Arch-
bishop in April of last year, will take Dr. O’Reily’s
place as head of the R.C.’s in this State.
Obit, Miss L. M. Scammell, of Unley, who was one
of the hardest workers for the library at the Royal
Institution for the Blind. She learned Braille, and
compiled a number of books for the institution. Also,
she was the writer of “Laughter and Life,” a book
for the young.
Young ,T. M. Sheppard is engaged to Miss
Emily Meagher. He is a motoring enthusi-
ast ; she belongs to N. S. Wales, being a
grand-daughter of John Meagher, M.L.C.,
a sturdy old Irish patriot who has never in
his life feared to speak of ’9B.
The Melbourne Repertorians are running
a series of card parties, to raise funds to
buy materials to enable the Sewing-Club
ladies to make clothes for the British and
French hospitals. (The sentence looks
queer, but it’s what I mean.) Mrs. Marsh
was responsible for the scheme. There have
been two parties already, and a third is
booked for August 3.
Harrie Ireland is slowly getting better.
You remember that she injured her hip by
a fall on the stage. She is convalescing on
a bright balcony overlooking a busy street,
where there are birds and flowers to tend
and numerous visitors to keep her amused.
Kindly Mrs. Bland Holt never missed a
Thursday afternoon chat for months. Miss
Ireland, from being an absolute cripple, now
takes an occasional walk in the garden—a
tremendous adventure which is made with
the help of a big stick. Her mother and
little sister (who has lately attached a
husband, by the way) live with her in a
happy, companionable fashion.
Jack Monks, of Tasmania, a brother of
Senator Keating’s wife, has been killed at
the Dardanelles. He was on the staff of
some Colonel or other, and was hit at the
same time as his chief. Mrs. Keating has still
another brother on active service. He is
in charge of a wireless show.
Mrs. Shelley, widow of a rich Sydney
merchant, was in Melbourne last week.* She
arrived, en route to Sydney, aboard the
Malwa. Methuens brought out her latest
book without showing her the proofs—she
was too ill to read them. Now she is seeth-
ing with eagerness to learn how the firm’s
readers have treated her. She is large and
handsome, with pale hair and brown eyes,
and her interviewing costume is a fetching
neglige of pale pink-purple silk, interspersed
with bebe ribbons.
The Willie Smith matron, who, with her
two girls, decided to run a convalescent
home in Paris, has now received official
sanction for the scheme, so she will get to
work immediately. The funds are prosper-
ing. Mrs. Bob Blackwood and Dr. Helen
Sexton subscribed cash as well as their ser-
vices, and about a dozen other Toorakians
have sent along handsome cheques. Daugh-
ters Alison and Lorna will run the kitchen
department and they are expected to do well.
'"They became Senior Wranglers in the Cook-
ery School in very early youth.
Toorak waits feverishly, visiting card in
hand, for Mr. Horsfall and his new bride
to settle down at Orrong, the family palace.
It has been empty for years, and now good
old Rumor states that entertainments are
to be held there—entertainments that will
surpass the finest efforts of Sardanapalus.
Or was it Bucephalus?
The Hodges have hired a South Yarra
flat. They mean to desert their Macedon
domicile once a week or so.
Our old friend S’Rupert Clarke is now at
the Dardanelles. His job is that of lieu-
tenant in the Army Service Corps. In plain
English, he is a “shover.”
From “Ilosna,” between Zeppelins in
London: —
The sudden arrival of wounded Tommy Kangaroo
drew Mr., Mrs. and the Misses Australia-in-London
to the Trocadero to see what could be done about it.
Having survived the inevitable speeches by Commis-
sioners and Agent-Generals, they entered into a
solemn covenant to guard the battered heroes like
diamonds; and houses, motors and knitting-needles
were flung at the Australian War Association Com-
mittee. Proceedings divulged the fact that the
Association is sending 1000 newspapers a week to
Egypt, and that there is £12,000 in hand on which
Tommy in Malta, Egypt and Britain can draw.
T. E. Donne is guiding the Records Office that has
been created to deal with the Maoriland warriors,
wounded and otherwise; and there is a refreshing
slickness and an unusual absence of Red Tape in the
business. Friends or relatives of men killed or
wounded at the Front can get notification, directly
after the next-of-kin, simply by registering their
names and addresses. Other measures are adopted to
put them in touch with wounded pals with astonish-
ing celerity. If you seek such news from the
British War Office you are handed from one clerk to
419 others for 369 days in succession, and then pro-
bably told you are not a British subject because you
were born in Sydney. I know a pair of parents who
could no news whatever of their wounded son
after the first message. So they searched the. hospi-
tals of France, and then discovered that at the
time the ; first word had come to them he was already
on the way to St. Thomas’s in London, and had
throughout their search been within a ha’penny tram-
ride of his own home.
The old Melbourne idolaters of Bishop
Moorjiouse must have been a trifle shocked
to learn that he had bequeathed £40,000 of
his fortune to a niece. One can almost for-
give the gaitered disciple of Christ for being
a wealthy man if he got most of the money
from his late wife, as is stated ; but his
£40.000 bequest to an elderly spinster was
distinctly over the odds. Even a bishop with
luxurious notions must admit that forty
thousand golden goblins would suffice to
keep the wolf from the door of, say, 15 gen-
teel nieces. Here was Moorhouse —a pro-
fessing democrat among bishops—making it
harder for one female relative to enter the
Kingdom of Heaven than for ninety and
nine weary and heavily-laden camels to pass
through “the eye of a needle.” The incon-
sistency of it!
One of Dr. Crevelli’s two boys (they have
been dealing out lead in a French regiment
ever since the beginning of the confusion)
has had his name mentioned in despatches.
So has Lieutenant Hugh Armytage, a son
of the Harry Armytages of Lara.
One of the odd things among social in-
stitutions is the Circumnavigators’ Club of
Noo Yark, whose 300 members are scattered
most of the time and are never in a big
bunch. D. H. Ross, who represents the
Canadian Government in Melbourne, is one
Circumnavigator who but seldom strikes a
fellow-member. They pay 10 dollars a head
a year and are understood to have warm
hearts. For a card of identification each
has a booklet printed on vellum, which
says of itself: —
It is wired with good copper, faced with strong
khaki (inside a pigskin cover), and printed to rest
in the pocket of a unit of the crew until he presents
it as a pass to the boatman ; whether in the mean-
time he spends scorching hours in Australian deserts
or hopeless nights under snowbanks in Siberia. It
is a key to the heart of any man who holds tho
duplicate.
Perhaps it’s worth 10 dollars a year—l
don’t know. This weather I’d rather have
something in furs for the neck than in pig-
skin for the vest-pocket if you don’t mind.
The Governor-General is taking a very
special interest in the Australian Siege
Brigade, which is camped practically on his
doormat. The warriors are having q greqt
time. Not only does the G.-G. greet them
with cheers, but the ladies of the household,
during their daily walks, discourse pleas-
antly with them over the garden fence.
The 135th Conservatorium Students’ con-
cert happens in the Town Ilall on the 26th.
Melba will direct the show, and the proceeds
go to the Red Cross. Two Governors, their
ladies and Heaven knows how many Mayors
are- to be present.
The Freddie Shipmans have arrived with
Annette Kellermann —or, at any rate, a film
presentment of her in company with
crowds of seal-like mermaids, all doing
bewildering sea tricks.
Louise Mack passed through Melbourne
last week on her way to Sydney, home and
mother. She has had exciting times. You
all know, of course, Of her feats in the Ant-
werp coal cellar. The noise of the bom-
bardment made her quite deaf and turned
her eyebrows white. She has recovered her
hearing, but the eyebrows have never been
quite the same since. Men war correspon-
dents left Antwerp imploring her “not to
be silly.” Some even threatened to drag
her away by the hair of her head. However,
her copy instincts won. Eventually she
escaped in a car driven by a Belgian, dis-
guised as his wife.
Miss Mack got some more excitement
when leaving England on the Malwa. Two
hours out of harbor they were recalled by
wireless and rushed back to shelter. When
they re-started they had a destroyer to port
and another to starboard, and had guns
mounted fore and aft. The big ship carried
naval troops bound for Gibraltar—which
accounted for some of the fuss, no doubt.
At Malta all the passengers visited the Aus-
tralians in hospital. They turned out to be
a most cheery lot. Louise was hit
with the terse descriptiveness of- their talk.
“Belgians,” she says, “can talk in that
descriptive way also, but the English sol-
dier says nothing. He gives sometimes an
abrupt word or two, with a lot staring out
from the back of his eyes—unexpressed.”
As. regards the war she is an optimist.
The feeling of perfect confidence only slack-
ened once in England—that was in Novem-
ber when Calais was threatened. Since then
there has been no other slump. The name
of Australia rings in England, she says, and
the Australian recruiting record is looked
upon as splendid.
A gap was made in a supper party the
other evening when one of the women guests
who had been called to the ’phone returned
in an agitated state and announced that she
must go home at once. Asinine inquiries as
to whether there was “anything the matter”
were received with"sobs and distracted ges-
tures. So the company lapsed into sympa-
thetic silence, while a male friend of the
grief-stricken girl wrapped her up and wafted
her into a taxi. The drive home was of
anguish all compact. A distracted mother
was discovered on the doorstep ; also a serv-
ing-maid armed with brandy and eau-de-
Cologne. Dreading to utter his half-spoken
thoughts, the man who had paid for the
taxi stood miserably by and awaited details.
When the cries had died down and the out-
raged appeals to the Deity had subsided lie
learned the awful truth. The news had
just arrived that the bright young son of the
house had married a barlady. Returning to
the supper-partv he found that the shadow
of the unknown tragedy had chased the revel-
lers home. Peace has her Frightfulness no
less than war.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.
The truth is mighty and will prevail. In
a yelp in the Daily Telegraph recently
Cocks, a stout Liberal member of Ma’s
Assembly, put question and answer thus-
wise:—•
Are the roads everywhere not going to ruin? Are
the unskilled workers doing an honest day’s work?
Are the railways not demoralised? AVho is responsi-
ble for the disorder ?—-Yours, etc. Arthur A. C.
Cocks.
Honest, of course; but there was no need
to take all the blame.
Nothing is too mean for the Melbourne
morning dailies to use in the attempt to
discredit the Fisher Government. The Argus
rails at Pearce for saving £20,000 or so by
foresight in buying fodder for army horses
before the great rise. Says the ancient
idiot: —•
Had a merchant done this, what would Senator
Pearce have said? He would have been branded as
a cold-blooded exploiter preying upon the vitals of
the community—a vampire, a friend of Germany and
other things.
And that is what Pearce might have looked
like had he held the purchased fodder for a
rise to his individual profit, instead of buy-
ing it for Australia and holding it to feed
Australian horses to carry the Australian
Army against the German. One of these
days a strong and nasty man in power will
suppress the Argus as being sufficiently anti-
Australian to be pro-German.


hi
A
/
*T?
X
/
- V. ;
X
rn
S/'. % : . '.‘ . . •>**
. V/*' % Vv «
.
rv /
«.t»
T
©
\d
*
✓
5^
g*
/r
Born 1820 —
Still going
strong.
Volunteer : “We want to go to the front at once, Sir ! ”
Officer (good humouredly): “All in good time, my lads!
You must first get into perfect condition, like ‘Johnnie
Walker.’ Then you’ll be in front —and not easily shifted.
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whiskv Distillers, KILMARNOCK.


r S if your baby is not thriving use the
A ‘AUenburys’ Foods. They develop
firm flesh and bone and promote robust health and vigour.
No digestive disturbance need be feared from the use of
these pure milk and malted foods.
MILK FOOD NO, I.
From birth to 3 months,
MILK FOOD NO. 2.
From 3 to 6 months.
MALTED FOOD NO. 3.
From 6 months upwards.
iSllenburgs Foods
fUSF” Pamphlet on
Infant Feeding and
Management Free.
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd.. Jsondon, Sng.,
and MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
:: THE NEW ::
AUSTRALIAN NIB
GOLDEN WATTLE
hf
DOES NOT BREAK OR CORRODE, AND
WRITES WITHOUT HARSHNESS AND
SCRATCHING. IT HELPS TO FORM
THE LETTERS NEATLY, SO AS TO GIVE
CHARACTER TO THE WRITING. LADIRB
LIKE IT FOR ITS SILKEN SMOOTHNESS.
SIXPENCE PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALER*
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
321 FLINDERS LANE
: MELBOURNE :
A Reconnoitre with Benno.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
iCAME across with our old friend Benno
on the Horse Ferry from Blue’s Point
about nine o’clock yesterday morning.
He wasn’t surprised to see me there at that
time, and I wasn’t surprised to see him. He
had a relic of the early ’seventies, front Nar-
rabeen Lakes, towing behind his cart; also
a full load of bottles, with some bags of old
window-curtains, etc., on top of them, and a
cart-wheel on top of all. He’d got his cargo
mostly for nothing, for Benno has an agent
out Middle Harbor way with a canvas,
board, tin and tar dinghy, who visits picnic
grounds and collects boating empty bottles
from the harbor —thrown over from pleasure
launches, etc. A sort of marine collector of
dead marines, in fact. It must have been a
two-days’ round for Benno.
The ancient four-wheeled trap, towing be-
hind, had been mended in so many ways
with bar-iron, hoop-iron, fencing wire, Aus-
tralian hardwood, etc., that it couldn’t pos-
sibly be mended any more. And that’s the
limit. No two wheels were alike or the
same height, and they went from a light
dray-wheel to the hind wheel of a buggy.
They were fixed on somehow. I could ex-
plain how —having been a coach-painter,
among many other things—but you wouldn’t
understand. The “box” of the dray-wheel,
for instance, was too long for the shaft of
the original axle, so a “cup” was dispensed
with and the wheel fastened'on by bolts
going through the hub and the inside revolv-
ing plate. And the wheels were of various
degrees of “dishiness,” and they all ran out
of plumb and tried to run in different direc-
iions. But the old trap stuck to them with
1 icketty tenaciousness —which is often the
strongest and most lasting—and yanked the
dray-wheel along like a tired working mother
yanks a dragging, peevish, squalling
child —one of those children about
whom you can’t say, “It isn’t the
child’s fault,” for they seem to have
determined to come into the world, anyhow,
and make it as miserable as themselves. The
old shandradan looked like the Early Settle-
ment of Australia, or the Deserted Farm.
It had only one shaft, which Benno
had tied under the back of his cart
with a piece of clothes-line; so Australia’s
Past came along like a last-stage drunk,
with a policeman’s hand on his wrist. But
Benno remarked that it “had a character,”
with a slight inimitable inflexion which left
it to be inferred that that was more than I
bad.
I understood from him that the rag-and-
old-iron branch of the bottle-o trade had
looked up surprisingly since the war broke
out, and I left him, reclining on his cart-
wheel on top of the load, driving easily up
Elder Man’s Lane, and looking lazily into a
brighter bottle-o future.
But Benno and his relic remind me of
(•caches, waggons, drays and lighter vehicles
I have known in the country in the past,
when Cobb and Co.’s coaches, with their
three great lamps and teams of five or six,
and their 12-mile stages-—shorter in some
places—ran from Mudgee to Wallerawang
nearly as fast as the miserable cow-cocky
train on its cheap spiked line does now, and
seemed to travel much faster—on the branch
line that appears to serve no other purposes
lhan to carry the eternal butter down to the
junction, and the city spielers up to
the “race week,” which lasts a fortnight
and occurs on every possible and impossible
occasion throughout the year.
There was the great horse-team, with the
driver asleep on the tarpaulin on top of the
load, if it wasn’t too hot. and the sleek and
mighty horses, in well-kept leather and pol-
ished brass-work, stamping along the levels
and up and down hill, with the shadows of
the branches passing over horses, load and
driver; mile after mile, hour after hour; the
driver rousing himself instinctively from his
drowsy day-dream to set the brakes. Gro-
ceries, drapery, ironmongery. crockery, glass-
ware, hops, gin—almost everything but flour.
The district grew its own wheat then, and.
made its own wine, beer and spirits. It
grows nothing now save cows and rabbits,
and breeds nothing save increasingly hateful
and well-to-do eow-cockyism.
There were the bullock-drays—cruellest of
all to bullocks in blazing heat and smother-
ing dust —lurching along on awful unmade
further tracks, with their great loads of
wool balanced on the necks of the two
“polers” ; the wheels turning so slowly that
you’d almost think the tyres would have
time to rust. You could count every spoke
round to the same old spoke with the scar
or split in it —and then start counting again
to verify. But so Australia was “settled.”
And the great bullock-waggons. Wool
down and mostly fencing-wire on the way
up. Damn that fencing wire! It strangled
a Nation at its birth.
Then there was the brave old “spring-
cart,” of good Australian hardwood in earlier
years, and only redeemed by its springs from
being a dray ; but lighter and lighter later
on with the introduction of hickory and
steam-curved felloes, and the decay of the
farming spirit. The dog-cart and the gig
were the aristocrats of the old days, and,
later on, the single and double buggy. I re-
member the time when the becoming pos-
sessed of a trap like Benno’s find, provided
it had its original wheels and another shaft,
would have been considered on the selections
a sign of growing affluence and worldly
pride, and all very well for “them as has it”
I “the “it” meaning the money.
The dog-cart was a rather heavy affair, as
light vehicles go nowadays, and very stiff,
upright, confined and uncomfortable to look
at. Such as Gabriel Varden might have used,
or, later on, the willing 'Barkis in his van-
less trips, or Pecksniff, or Mrs. Lupin of the
Blue Dragon. But I believe she had a chair
put in hers ; she must have had the seat re-
moved. You’ll see the kind of cart described
and illustrated in several places in Dickens.
The dog-cart I have in, mind had a basket
or imitation-basket panel let into each side
and the back board. It belonged to an old
Mrs. Westwick, who used to drive her old
blind chestnut horse into town twice a week'
with butter and eggs, and a little fruit in
season from the already neglected and decay-
ing farm. Not a sign of the farm remains
now. The sons were, already all gone.
“They went into the Great North-West,
where all the_ rovers go”—with the excep-
tion of the inevitable school-teacher —and
the girls were married and' away from home,
and the old man was very feeble. She had
a hedge of roses round the little lucerne
ONLY ON SPECIAL, OCCASIONS.
MRS. O’DONOVAN: “Oi didn't see ye at Pat's fun'rab Mrs. O'Dowd."
MRS. O’DOWD: “No , mum, Oi niver injoy fun’rails onless they're in me own fondly.”
field below the house. Mrs. Westwick had
gone over the Mountains, like the rest, when
the trip from Sydney took a fortnight, at
the least, by dray, the only conveyance for
women then. She “went through it all,”
and she died as she had lived, and had
always been, an English lady.
The gig—sometimes erroneously referred
to as a “sulky”—had two seats with a com-
mon back, one facing the front and the other
the rear, with (I think) the tail-board let
down at an angle to form a comfortable
footboard for those behind and leave
more room for parcels under the seat.
Say. in front the old couple; the old
man (in his clean things) leaning
comfortably forward, elbows on knees, reins
in hands, and pipe in mouth, smoking medi-
tatively ; the old lady also rather relaxed —
towards herself and him and the hard, new
world they had fought together for 45 years
or so. And both pairs of old eyes looking
brqvely, hopefully, but none the less care-
fully, into the future. The two youngest
unmarried daughters on the back seat, with
the youngest boy—the “baby” of the family
and probably spoilt—between them for
safety. (The elder young fellows of the dis-
trict preferred to ride, and looked with con-
tempt on anything on wheels, except a dray
or waggon, and were ill at ease in cart or
gig or buggy.) The three on the back seat
are looking sullenly, resentfully and sulkily
into their past. The old horse is falling
along sleepily, and looking at nothing at all
till he puts his foot into a rut. He stumbles
and props to save himself; the old people
are jerked more forward and sit up smartly
to save t/iemselves, or their noses, from the
dash-board ; the young people are also jerked
forward —which is backward to them —
against the hard back of the seat. The old
horse opens his eyes to see what woke him.
He remembers where he is, and lurches for-
ward suddenly as a sort of equine apology to
those behind. The old people are jambed
harder against the back of the seat; and the
young people thrust backward (which is
ward to them), clawing painfully at the
seat-back to save themselves. Then they all
settle down as they w r ere before, and the old
horse, after one or two attempts to keep
awake, goes to sleep again, and his legs and
the wheels take them all on into town. And so
they vanish in the summer haze of years;
the girls to drift discontentedly to the city,
perhaps, and drag out their lives, like other
city women, as workmen’s wives in mean
streets; the spoilt boy to drift in the end to
where most spoilt boys drift—the gaol, or
wowserism, or both. And the old people
to whatever reward awaits those who give
a lifetime of upending toil, hardship and
trouble in an endeavor to make homes and
gardens in one of God’s countries.
And last comes old Mrs. Porter (“Mrs.
Porterwick,” of my childhood; which con-
founded her name with that of Mrs. West-
wick) in her quarter-acre dray, with her
several fathoms of clothes-line reins, and
her bony old hammer-headed, hare-lipped,
coffin-shaped, flea-bitten grey horse that was
half-way between a draught and a light cart-
horse, half-way between a plough-horse and
a pack-horse, half-way between any two
opposite kinds in the equine world. Half-
way, too, between a wall-eyed old working
bullock and a ghostly old, grey-rotted native-
appletree bark humpy sticking out of the
scrub at daybreak. With what Ould Bage
used to call “her bit of projuce” on the floor
of the dray; butter and eggs—the butter
covered with thick layers of wetted butter-
cloths, and clean, well-soaked tliree-busliel bags
over the box, all of which she wetted again,
from a sheoak-shaded pool, when she came
to the “crick.” All this to keep the butter
cool; for the days were hot and the ways
were long and the drays were slow. And
maybe a bag of wheat to change at the mill
for flour, pollard and bran, the whole of
which seemed surprisingly to exceed the
bulk of the original bag. Then old Mrs.
Porter went home again, late in the
summer’s afternoon, with the flour and the
bran and the pollard and a box of groceries
on the floor of the dray behind her, and in
the box a generous packet of what we used
to call “fish lollies” on account of their
shape—as hard as granite and about as
sweet. For old Mrs. Porter had grand-
children. She had been, and remained to the
end, like Mrs. Westwick, an English lady.
There were many of them round there. Like
Mrs. Westwick, she always dressed to go to
town, in a decent old black silk or alpaca,
with a, black bonnet. She had a box in the
dray for a seat, with a pillow on it for a
cushion, and always a clean slip on the
pillow, in spite of the dust. They say that
the old man’s temper had driven the boys
away from home. ’Twas a common enough
saying round there, where I was brought
up. I think if some of us had been a little
less hot-blooded and headstrong, and a tittle
older, we might have reflected that the “old
man” had had a much harder, sterner bring-
ing-up than we, in a colder country, and
often a foreign one. We might have tried to
imagine his early manhood, the awful home-
sickness, the high hopes and black dis-
appointments, the long brave fight to make
a home in the wilds of a strange land. And
the old man’s dreams of the land of his
youth, which was a foreign land to us. We
might have tried to understand him better.
We might at least, in our free democracy,
and with our greater cleverness, have tried
to be a little more forbearing with the old
man. and put up with him just a little
longer. I wish one of us had.
“They” said worse things of one of Mrs.
Porter’s daughters, and bad things of one
of Mrs. Porter’s sons-in-law, who was sup-
posed to have gone to the dogs. “They”
used to say many things, as they do now.
They might have broken old Mrs. Porter’s
heart, but. they couldn’t break old Mrs.
Porter’s spirit. The old black bonnet never
went down —-except perhaps in private. And
so she goes past in the heat and the dust,
with her apple-dried old face, and her
shrewd old eyes, always looking bravely and
hopefully ahead, and vanishes behind the
curtain of 40 years.
There is nothing there now but the ruins
of an old house with blackened shingles
caving in, uncultivated fields, barbed wire
and wire netting, rabbit burrows and
“kyows.” There are three classes now in
the narrow little township; and the cow
cockies have tranq or “sulkies” in which to
drive Mother and a married daughter into
church on Sunday morning, and in which
the young fellows drive to the World, the
Flesh and the Devil in the evening. And on
race da,ys.
Those brave old black bonnets ! I’ve just
seen one of them bobbing past our back
gate on its way to church; and I can
imagine the horror and indignation of
“Granny” were it possible for the old lady
to catch me now, in my shirt sleeves, with
bottle, glass and pipe on the table, at this
time on Sunday morning—writing Poetry
and Such.
HENRY LAWSON.
War.
Marching away as heroes to-day, as berees
away they go;
And we cheer and; cheer, and the cheery are
borne on the wintry winds that blow.
The grey of the sky and the red of the sun
and the wing of the bird we feel
Are at one with us, and each in its way is
a part of our common weal.
The high gods seated above the world are
cheering our heroes too,
For when we’re at war unto us and ours the
cheers of the gods are due.
And we hiss and curse in rage and scorn
when the name of the foe is heard;
At the name of the foe we hear a hiss in the
wing of each flying bird.
We read a curse in the grey of the sky, and
a hiss and a curse in the flow
Of the fire of the sun at the sound of the
name of the nation that is our foe.
And the high gods, oh, we can hear them
too ; they stamp and hiss and curse.
They’re just like us. and they loathe our
foes, those, gt ds of the Universe!
N.S.W.
Y.


. w'
***
m
Z"
■
W.
m
w
%
6
-■■ 'si
a
■■:~i
l m
-:
I
Np
m
% t i\
V K' J / J !
■
Lord l ishot 1
MAKERS OF HISTORY.
THE above reproduced portrait drawing of Lord Fisher, Chairman of tne Invention Board,
is the sixth of a series of Twelve Present Day Men who are Makers of History.
The series, specially drawn for as by W. Jardine, have been reproduced on the finest
art paper, and retain the freshness and technique of the original drawings, and, being
entirely free from advertising, are suitable for framing. We will be pleased to forward che complete
set to any address in Australia and New Zealand on receipt of a 6d. postage stamp to cover
cost of mailing, etc. Owing to a limited number of these sets, we advise you to write early to
JAMES WATSON & CO. LTD., Bromley House, Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ID
i
m
s
KY


WHEN “OUT OF SORTS" take
“CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
If fretful,’feverish, constipated, bilious
or tongue coated, take this delicious
“fruit laxative” at once.
The vagrte. general discomfort of being
“out of sorts.’’ when the stomach turns
against food, the eye is dij.ll and the tongue
coated and heavy, can b<* bknislwMj. a few
hours by a dose of ”Caliisi'hia fli <i|yrup of
Figs." 'There is uo neoii to put Uffli'ith these
things until to-morrow, waiting for bedtime
to take medicine. “California Syrup of Figs"
will begin to do you good the moment you
take it—at any hour —and cause no discom-
fort. This pleasant-fasting, refreshing fruit
laxative cleanses the stomach, gently sweeps
away all accumulations of undigested food,
and stimulates the liver to'assist in relieving
the . bowels. By evening the tongue will be
dear again and the overflow of bile swept
away: you will be yourself again, with a
good appetite and digestion. This is the
medicine which does such wonders for chil-
dren of all ages: but it is every bit as good
/or grown-up people, and there are full direc-
tions for every age with the bottle. Take
care to buy the genuine, as there are imita-
tions on the market. Ask for “California
Syrup of Figs,” and look for the name and
trade mark cff the “California Fig Syrup Co.”
All leading chemists sell “California Syrup of
Figs,” 1/li and 1/9 per bottle.
“TOP NOTCH”
<scotc/fWfliss
w y.L
££3-3*2!
THE "TOP NOTCH” SCOTCH.
“KING GEORGE IV.”
WHISKY.
A UNIFORM STANDARD of QUALITY.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
Plain JCnglish from I)albv ((,).) llerald
(2/6/’l5): —-
Wasted. —Babhglor wants a wife; R.C. ; Irish
colleen preferred; colonial maid or widow will do;
one williifg to live in a hut on a scrub selection.
Now, if there is a good sport in the whole district
let her apply to , via Chinchilla. If more than
one woman applies I will keep the names a secret
For further particulars, apply to , via Chin-
chilla. (X.B. —Open for selection for one month
only.)
“Kareoo": Sonic time back, not far from
Cannnoweal, close to the Queensland-N.T. border, an'
underground stream or river was discovered. Some-
one noticed, during rains, a fair-sized stream of water
disappearing down what appeared like a “blowhole.”
The aperture was large enough to allow of a man
being lowered, and he found at some distance from
the surface a huge cave with a sandstone floor. At
the end of this was another outlet. The investigator,
with the aid of ropes, found two more such caves,
each with similar outlets. The third floor was down
about 120 ft., and from there clear water, fit for
drinkiig, was hauled rp.
THE SUPERIOR SEX.
SHE: "I admit that women tell lies as well
as men."
HE: “ Rather! A darned sight better
usually."
Lau I >iba ’ : The Papuan measures time
mostly by the length of his indentured service. I
was explaining to my cookboy, a rather intelligent
youth, that it was the anniversary of my wedding,
tor some time he was puzzled as to what I meant,
but later came to me with a beaming face. “Sin-
bada, he said, “I savvy this one annaversaly. You
been finish time belong you 12 months along- Tau-
bada ; now-you sign paper along ’nother 12 months.”
“Ilisfque” : A cheerful feature of the crack
in the drought in northern Vic, is the return of the
wild birds. They are back like long-lost relations
and look mighty pleased to revisit the old home.
They are of all shapes, sizes, colors and noises. But
where hare they been? The first-comers were the
redbreasts, which arrived with the first frosts. Then
others came in flocks and singly to keep the crows
and magpies company. The black coats have been
having a feast on the farmer’s losses, while Maggie
has a stain on her reputation as a wheat-destroyer
since she turns up her beak at carrion. How Willie
Wagtail managed to exist is a mystery. But Willie
always was a shy eater!
‘•Barrier”: Found at Burke and Wills’s
depoi: on the Cooper, a few miles below Nappa
Merrie, what rust has left of a knife, reputed to be
taken there b,y the explorers. The implement was dis-
covered in the hollow end of a stub that had been
pulled out of a barricade built to protect provisions.
Any one that doubts me can see the cutlery ou per-
sonal application to the finder, “Lock” Mclntyre, of
Quinyambie station, which is not quite 150 miles
north of Broken Hill. There are only 166 sandhills
to cross on the road, and the coach leaves once a
fortnight.
* * * *
“Yancy”: All I can say to “G.J.H.’s” ad-
vice (B. 27/5/T5), that lucerne should be withheld
from cows until it has been cut 24 hours, is that I
lost two yearling heifers through their getting to a
stack which had been cut three weeks. Mine isn’t
an isolated case, either; other settlers on Yanco can
corroborate my experience.
* * * *
“Ibis” : The main road by Tuucurry, N. g.
Males North Coast, travels for many miles through
loose, sandy country. Years ago timber-getters spread
the road a couple of feet-deep with sawdust from the
mills, that being just a little better than sand for
the bullocks. When the road became “national” the
Works Dept, put a fine dressing of metal over the
sawdust, and the compression seems to have had the
effect of making the wood-powder highly attractive
to bandicoots. I went over eight miles of the road the
other day, and it reminded me of some of Sydney’s
streets. Chain after chain had been eaten through
to the sawdust by ’coots, and the metal ’bad fallen
in. The question now is whether to kill the ’coots,
scrape out hundreds of tons of sawdust, ""or forget
about it. I bet the Dept, forgets about it.
“Ess”: As a rule the black duck makes
its rest in deep rush beds or thick grass ; but occa-
sionally it leaves the marshes and reedy swamps, even
when these offer excellent
facilities, in order to lay
and sit in hollow limbs of
trees. When the young
are hatched it carries
them down one by one in
its beak. The clutch is
usually about 10. Each
little one hides away as
soon as it is put in the
water, and when the last
one has been brought down
a soft call-note from the
mother brings them all to
her side, and she swims
proudly away to some
feeding place. Even when
freshly hatched they show
all the instinct of an old
bird, their sense of danger
being developed in a • re-
markable degree. I caught
three little ones after a
hard chase in shallow
water at Woodlands
(N.S.W.). They could dive
splendidly, and after
swimming a considerable
distance under water would
thrust just the tip of the
beak above the surface for
air. One, finding itself
closely pursued each time,
changed its tactics by div-
ing down and coming up
after a while in the same
spot. I took the three home
and put them in a big
washtub at the back of the
house, which stood on a
hill about 300yds. from
the swamp. All three
scrambled out in quick
order, ran round the
house, through the garden,
and straight down to the
swamp without an in-
stant's hesitation. I re-
. caught them and carried
them m my hat, which I covered. I put them back
in the tub and threw bags over it; then I carried
it to the fowlhouse, 20yds. away, spun the tub round
several times, and uncovered it. Out they jumped,
and straight off to the swamp again. Every yard of
(lie way was through thick grass from 2ft. to 3ft.
high, while no portion of the swamp was at any time
visible to them.
PREPARED FOR FIRE.
COHEN: “The insurance company maKes me keep dese things in ease of fire. Rebecca."
REBECCA: “Vy — rot vas in dose things, Ikey?”
COHEN: "T ell, I don't know vot vos in ’em, but it isn't in ’em now."
“Smoko”: I want to nominate Yackan-
dandah (Vic.) as the possessor of the champion im-
ported big tree. Sixty years ago a clergyman brought
from the Cold Land an acorn, which he buried in his
garden in Yack. The vegetable that grew therefrom
now measures 10ft. round the waist, is over GOft.
high, and has branches reaching sideways in every
direction more than 50ft.
* * # *
“Biddy B.”: Let me nominate kurrajong
as the best all-round vegetable-friend the dry-country
farmer can have. At ordinary times there isn’t a
better shade-tree for the horses, and it earns its keep
then if it only acts as an umbrella. But during dry
spells it earns that much and a lot over. I cut mine
at the beginning of 1914. By December, although
it had been a dry year, they were ready to lop
again; and as we were up to our ears in drought by
that time the loppings kept all my stock going for
six weeks when there was nothing else for them to
eat. After four months’ more drought I’ve just
lopped them again, and I reckon they’ll keep the
stock afloat till there’s enough grass to pick. There’s
only one thing I’m not too certain about —can the
branches do the horses any harm ?
“Harrison O.”: I note that a Maoriland
naturalist whoops over a 4ft. lOin. earthworm which
he came across in the Nelson district. South Gipps-
land’s great natural resources can beat this. Direc-
tor Le Souef, of Melbourne Zoo, has a preserved
Gippsland earthworm sft. long, and 6ft. specimens
have been seen by blokes of undoubted sobriety. The
South Gippsland worms are the largest in the world,
but their size doesn’t frighten the kookaburra, who
will cheerfully spend, an hour scrapping with one of
them. Every time his breakfast tries to escape
down a burrow Jack jerks it back again, till the meal
gets the tired feeling and allows itself to be eaten.
Sometimes the early Jack gets too much worm, and
a while back one of him was found nearly dead,
entirely surrounded by his dinner, which was giving
a convincing impersonation, of a boa-constrictor.
* * *-
“J.A.W.”: “Paddy M.’s” yarn (B.
17/6/’l5) about the astonishing feat of rounding up
cattle on a bike smells very much as though he got
it from an English curate who had spent six weeks
in Sydney. Every morning our man rounds up the
horses on a bike, and horses are usually harder to
deal with than “Paddy’s” cows. I was at a neigh-
bor’s place a while back when word came in that
the sheep had broken through the fence about six
miles away and were at the crop. We went out
in the motor (a big 25-horse), rounded the jum-
bucks out of the crop and drove them to, a fresh
paddock a few miles on, without once getting out
of the car, and without a .dog. Of course the car
didn’t do the crop any good, but neither did the
sheep.
“Scallywag”: Somebody was saying that
it isn’t healthy to play it low down out on the
Never-Never. Neither it is. There was Binks, a
school-teacher, who, though engaged secretly to two
local girls, yet landed back after his long vacation
with a city-bred wife and a refusal from the Depart-
ment to sanction his removal. Binks scented trouble,
but the absence of open ho-tility soon settled his
qualms. A cricket match gave the opportunity
for a reprisal which Binks could not anticipate. All
he remembered was driving towards home in the
sulky, and being aroused at daybreak by a policeman
outside the young gins’ tent on the aborigines'
reserve. Result, a heavy fine, the sack, and the
flight of the affronted missus. When I last saw
Binks he was a beer-sparrer in Wyalong. He never
made out how he came to be found drunk at the
niggers’ camp, nor could he recollect when and
where he left the sulky. I might have told him if
he had asked me. I dunno.
“Billy T.”: Five lumpers were lounging
among piles of cargo om a Yana wharf yesterday
afternoon. Mike and “Croppy” were having a bitter
war argument. “ ’Tis pizehous rot ye’re talkin’,” said
Mike. “War’s war, ’n’ them’s goes in fer it has got
t put up wid what s coinin’ to ’em. Divil a matter
it matters if yeh knock a man out wid ha'f a ton iv
pig-iron, or choke him wid a pint iv sewer-gas, he
gets t’ Hell Jist the same.” “But it’s agin’ the
decent usages of war t’ use pizen gas,” insisted
“Croppy.” “Dacent usages iv yer gran’mother’s
pat!” Mike retorted. “There’s niver ho sich thing
as dacent usages iv war-r. There’s killin’ wid
swords, ’n’ killin’ wid guns, V killin’ wid star-rva-
tion, V disease, ’n’ all manner iv infimy, ’n’ t’ get
yei back up over a thrifle iv gas is blither, iv ye ask
me. The Jarmin is as good a man as army other
man! ’ “Hear, hear!” said a man draped across a
bag of onions. “What's that?” said Mike with a
startled air. “I say ‘Hear, hear’!” replied the man
on tlie onions. “You’re right, the German is as good
a man as any other man. I’m of German blood
myself, and I don’t care who knows it.” Mike was
visibly perturbed. “Did i say that?” said he. “You
did. IV ell, nif I did, who in blazes give you the
right to agree wid me? Good ez anny other, is he?
Ye re a liar, n’ a mis rabje, dirthy, low Proosian liar
et that, ’n’ wan iv a cowardly, crawlin’ race would use
pizen gas to a man fer the terror iv fightin’ him fair
'n’ ortherly. Get up, TT sthrike me back, if yeh
dar ’ ! ”. There was a wild, rolling fight that lasted
fom minutes. It was stopped by a friendly constable.
“Whin I’m sayin’ compliriienthry things iv Jarmins ”
grumbled Mike as he pulled on his coat, “I’ll not be
agreed wid be anny man, lave alone a murtherin’
Proosian.”
(Continued on page 26.)
MY OLD PINT POT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
i heal- an -endless;,-strain of songs
Mount upward to the sky
From men who rhyme of rights and wroigs,
The wherefore and the why ;
Of summer rains that patter,
Of loves that do hot matter,
Of fruitless friends that scatter,
And hopes that mostly die.
But I will sing a sturdy soi-g
Of honest love begot,
Of friendship true arid tested long,
Of you, my old pint pot.
The years inarch on a*tether.
In storm or sunny Weather.
We’ve battled them together,
And,..wherefore, should we not?
\o life I ask to share my life,
My pewter stands for all
That I shall need in-joy or strife
Till ; old man Death shall call.
Here’s hand upon your own hand,
flood luck unto our lone stand
Till Time shall turn the Hour Sand,
Aiid someone spreads the pall.
K.S.W.
THE SNAKE.


LooK the Whole
World in the Face
You can’t afford to go around as if you’d lost your
grip on the world. If you want the world to smile
on you —smile, and keep on smiling.
BE A MURDOCH MAN
iP::
wi
mm.
This cut
shows
the latest
American
Style.
But—
have your
Suit as
YOU
want it.
Dressed to play your part in an
“EVERRITE”
BLUE SERGE
SUIT-TO-MEASURE
63-
Then your appearance will count— -“Lverrite
Serge is right on the pinnacle of Serge Quality; an
uufaclable Dlue that Sun arid Rain can t conquer.
Tailored in the Murdoch way to please you in fit
and style—let us tailor you an “Everrite.” W e
guarantee satisfaction. ,
TO-DAY IS A GOOD TIME TO ORDER.
MESSRS. MURDOC H’S IN PARK ST.,
LTD., SYDNEY. DESK R.
please send Patterns of e ‘Everrite'’ Blue Serges.
Same
Address
MURDOCH’S
In Park Street, Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
Australia’s Mammoth Men’s Wear Store
a
AUSTRALIA’S GREATNESS depends upon the
MANUFACTURE, within her shores, of all her
needs. Buy only AUSTRALIAN GOODS.
“SILVER STAR”
STARCH
“THE BEST IN THE WORLD.”
Will give a lovely finish to all white-work, and will
never stick to tire iron. You can get it in *lb.
and lib. packets. Also, in 41b. to 51b. parcels; be
sure to look for the “Silver Star ’ label when you
buy.
“EMPIRE " ESSENCE COCOA
“THE NATION’S STRENGTH.”
Pure, strong, and nourishing', “Empire” Cocoa forms
the ideal health beverage. It will build up the
nerves and strengthen the whole system. Your gxocer
sells it in jib. and 41b. tins.
“EMPIRE RAISI
FLOUR
“LIGHTENS ALL THINGS.”
You cannot find a better flour for making light-
scones and cakes than “Empire” Self-Raising. Only
the best and purest ingredients, thoroughly mixed,
are used in its manufacture. 21b. packets and
calico bags.
EMPIRE 99 Golden Orange Tips TEA
“A TONIC FOR THE TIRED.”
The delightful fragrance and delicate flavor of
“Empire” tea pleases the best tea connoisseuis. As
a refresher and invigorant it has no equal. Try a
packet or tin —you will like it.
Harper’s “Star”
Oatmeal
ORDINARY AND FLAKED.
Porridge is never so enjoyable as when Harper s
“Star” Oatmeals are used. Whether you prefer
“flaked” or “ordinary” is a matter of taste. Both
kinds are sold in calico bags—the “flaked” in 21b.
packets also.
Express” Custard Powder
“DELICIOUSLY TEMPTING.”
Makes a smooth, delicious custard with a flavor you
will appreciate. You should always keep a supply
in the house for emergencies. Delicious custard can
be prepared in a moment. Sold in Penny Packets.
Sold by Storekeepers throughout the Commonwealth.
For further particulars write to the Manufacturers—
Robert Harper 8 Co. Ltd.
390 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Empire Chambers, York St., Sydney.
Albert and Mary Streets, Brisbane.
30 Currie Street, Adelaide.
And Pliillimore Street, Fremantle.
“VICTORY” Dispensers
BAR ARM.
—t"-"”
w #jgsp?
SIMPLICITY and EFFICIENCY
The SIMPLER your method of serving drinks —the QUICKER customers are served -the
MORE TRADE each assistant handles, the LOWER your cost of doing business.
The “VICTORY” DISPENSER’S BAR ARM provides a Simple, Easy, Hygienic ami
■ Inexpensive way of doing - business. Among the many NELSON Specialties which has
, brought admitted advantages to the drink-supplying business none has been accoided a
■ . greater or more enthusiastic reception than this novel plant. It is a matter of common
knowledge among the leading hotel-keepers that the “VICTORY” BAR ARM Leads. tou
cannot afford to do business in the old-fashioned style. The “NEW WAY means a
big help along on the Golden Path to Success.
Write us and let us enlighten you further on this subject.
NELSON’S Iceless Interior.
Now is the time to place your order for the famous NELSON “ICELESS INTERIOR
Soda Fountain. , , ,
Quite a number are placing orders for installing, to catch next season s trade t»
not a bit too soon. Get it early and avoid disappointment; the rush will soon be on m.
You will save in the cost by placing your order early. . ... , ...
Without any desire to boast we can franklv say that you will find it lole to get
better results than those obtained from the NELSON “ICELESS INTERIOR. I hats■the
conviction, too, of hundreds of successful Fountain Drink Suppliers. Get in touch with us
right away. We’ll post you right up with helpful information.
NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. LTD.,
219 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at Turbot Buildings, Turbot St., Brisbane. SUTHERLAND & CO., 632-4 Bourke St., Melbourne.
MEAN’S ESSENCE
The Great Money =Saving Remedy for
* ss, * ' ''' \
Coughs, Colds g Throat If oubks
Costs 2 1- Makes One Pint. Gives Quick Relief.
Mr. GRAHAM MOFFAT, the celebrated producer of the inimitable
Scottish plays, “Bunty Pulls the Strings” and “A Scrape o’ the Pen,”
after proving - the medicinal qualities of Hean s Essence, wrote tins
letter of appreciation: —
Palace Theatre,
Sydney, June 22, 1913.
The Manager Hean’s Essence Proprietary.
Pear Sir, —
When recently an epidemic cold affected several members
of “The Scrape o’ the Pen” Company I was one of the suffer-
ers. For two or three nights my voice was very rough; but
after using Hean’s mixture I experienced great relief; the
hoarseness disappeared, and I was able to speak on the stage
without the least discomfort.
•I remain, yours faithfully, GRAHAM MOFFAT.
MR. JOHN W. DOYLE, whose name as secretary of the Eight-Hour
and Labor Demonstration Committee, is familiar throughout Australia,
is among the number who is pleased to recommend Hean’s Essence, his
good opinion being expressed in the following letter: —
Trades Hall, Sydney,
July 1, 1915.
The Proprietor, Hean’s Essence.
Pear Sir,—
It gives me much pleasure to state that I have found your
Essence an exceptionally good remedy for cohls.
Its moderate price and rapidity of action should make a
special appeal to workers with families, who are frequently in
doubt as to the best and most reliable means of curing coughs,
colds and throat troubles.
In this respect it seems to me Hean’s Essence supplies
a long-felt want in the home.
Yours truly, JOHN W. POYEE.
Mr. GRAHAM MOFFAT.
Mr. JOHN W. DOYLE.
The experience of Mr. Moffat and Mr. Boyle is that of thousands of other
users all over Australia.
Besides being such a quick relief-giver, Hean’s Essence is a wonderful money-
saver. A bottle added to water and sweetening, as per simple directions, makes
a pint of the finished mixture, which users praise so highly. A pint is as much as
can be bought of ordinary cough mixtures for 12s. Ilean’s Essence only costs 2/-,
and nothing is better for colds, bronchitis, whooping and croupy coughs, influenza,
asthma, catarrh, inflamed and relaxed throats, etc.
Obtainable from chemists and stores, or by post, for 2s. from 0. W. lIEAN,
Chemist. 178 Castlereagli Street, Sydney; and BEAN'S PHARMACY, Wanganui.
New Zealand.


MAKE YOUR OWN HAIR
STAIN.
This Home-made Mixture Darkens Grey
Hair and Makes It Soft and Glossy. '
To a half-pint of water add
Bay Itmn loz
Oriex Compound A small box
Glycerine i oz
These are all simple ingredients that you
can buy from any chemist at very little cost,
and mix them yourself. Apply to the scalp
jnce a day for two weeks, then once every
other week until all the mixture is used. A
haif-pxnt should be enough to rid the head of
dandruff and kill the dandruff germs. It
stops the hair from falling out, relieves itch-
ing and scalp troubles.
Although it is not a dye, it acts upon the
hair roots and will darken streaked, faded
grey hair in 10 or 15 days. It promotes the
giowth of the hair and makes harsh hair soft
glossy. j^g
Martin’s Pills are sold by W. H. Soul
lattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them!
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
WHEN "»
BRISBANE
STAY AT
GIiESIUN
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-14 TARTIN PLACE, SVDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
lUi-J
45'
W TMt BO
tripled
emasculator.
HQKmtfWI Airno bunnus pur buimn
■.“ SAFETY"
Emascnlator
does away with all
risk of bleeding-.
Postage Free 45/-
Hints on Castrating”
enable any man used to Stock
to cut with the “Safety”
either Colts, Dulls, Rams, or
Hoars.
Other patterns of
E maseulators from
30/- to 50/
Zoeller’s “Handy”
Castrating Knife, 3/6
is a lovely bit of Steel.
Carl Zoeller,
246 Queen St.,
BRISBANE, Q.
Send for complete
Veterinary Catalog.
It’s FREE
“Mary McCommonwealtli” meets a dan-
gerous-looking animal:—
the apostle .wore no hat. He had long hair and
a bag and a book under his arm. I was sitting on
the front verandah strengthening a weak spot in
Ueoige s second-best pants when lie came to the
gate. He stopped abruptly, threw out his long right
arm and adjured me to flee from the wrath to come
Is it coming this way?” 1 asked mildly, looking
with apprehension along’ the road.
He threw, the gate open and strode in.
‘tV oman,” he said in a solemn voice, “do von
know the Scriptewers?”
Let me think....No, I can’t remember. Per-
haps they’re new people in the district?”
His tone changed to one of infinite sadness
‘lt is the written Scriptewers of which I speak—
the word that tells of the sinner’s doom—the Book
of the Prophet Hester Pinks of New Jersey.”
Hester Pinks,” I said. “Is that a stage name
or did she grow up with it?”
He pushed his hand violently through his Ion"-
hair. 3
‘Don’t do that,” I said. “Let me get von a
comb.”
He came towards me fiercely.
“Woman,” he said, “I perceive that von are in
the gall’ of bitterness.”
(l I* l the - • Oh, dear no!" T said, remembering.
I never wear them. This is a kimono. Does Hester
Pinks wear What did you call them?”
‘‘You are clothed with sin as with a mantle.”
“Mon never understand these things,” I remarked
“This is Japanese silk. But do tell me about the
lady.”
He took three solemn strides towards the gate
and then lifted his apostolic arm. He had two
long white teeth in front, and they made him look
like a very large rabbit robbed of its prey.
“Hear, then, the word of Hester Pinks!”
He dropped his bag and took the large book from
under his arm.
“Oh, don’t read to me! Don’t!” I cried. “I
can t bear people reading aloud. It makes my head
ache. Just tell me about Miss Pinks.”
Tlie frown on his brow deepened.
“Or perhaps she might call herself. So pleased
to see her any afternoon after three.”
“Hester Pinks,” he boomed, “is dead. It is
her warning that is alive.”
/‘How sad! But I suppose you often read to her
when she was alive!”
His mouth opened as if to speak and remained
open for half a minute. Then his brow cleared.
“Madam,” he said quite brisklv, “can I sell von
some of the interesting literature' I have here?”'
He dived for his bag and opened it.
“Nothing to-day, thank you,” I said brightlv.
‘‘The works are most interesting” .
to-day, thank you,” I said sweetlv.
Lm! if you would look them over”
Nothing to-day, thank you,” I said firmlv.
Now why did that apostle bang the gate so'rudelv
as he went out?
“Viking”: Recently at Memerambi (Q.)
a corn-pulling match was decided. The conditions
were: Each man to pull three acres of maize, 3sec.
to be deducted for each cob slung out on the wrong
side. The crop averaged 14 bags to the acre, and
the winner tore the cobs from their parents in 71ir.
35min. The performance cost the loser a tenner.
Y.Z. : I was in a Melbourne suburban
railway carriage the other day, travelling in com-
pany with a relation who, in spite of 50 years’ resi-
dence in Australia, is still “Lancashire” in speech
and in natural love and affection. The next com-
partment was occupied by a brood fresh from “home.”
There were seven of them, and they all talked
together, and such talk! I got on to a word here
and there, but Uncle was fairly greedy over it. lie
drank in the gabble as if it were a favorite alcoholic
stimulant. “My, but yon’s a rare lot o’ Lankies,” he
said. “It’s fine to hear them.” “Yes,” I said, “but
what the deuce are they talking about?” “Nowt of
consequence,” said Uncle. “They’re no but creeticisin’
the English talked by these Australians.”
THE GENTLE INFLUENCE OF
KULTUR.
THE CHIEF OF STAFF: “A German mis-
sionary has arrived at oar neighbors’
island—a fat missionary, O King!”
THE CANNIBAL KING: “Then let as mobilise
at once!”
lancy : TV lien the survey party reached
Tauwhareparae (M.L.) the boss ordered a hundred-
weight of potatoes from the Maoris at the pa. Two
hours later a perspiring Henare deposited the goods
and inquired who was t’ pay t’ money. “I’ll pay,”
sa\s the boss, “but is there a hundredweight there?”
‘Tick pound oyer t’ weight,” replied Henare. “Well
we'll soon see,” said the boss, who proceeded to focus
his theodolite on the spuds. Henare took on a
serious face and waited anxiously for the result.
tou re 101 b. short,” was the judgment of the sur-
veyor. “Well, py Hell, Ino unnerstan’ t’ t’ing’t all
T’at wahine o’ mine she do t’ weighin’. I give ’ini
t plurry ’iding when I get ’ome.”
“LET SOME DROP PIEPING FALL ON ME."
Aorbell’ : The pee-wee or mud-lark has
a curious habit that 1 have not noticed in other birds.
He loves to find a window in which he can see his
own reflection, and then he will flutter round and
dart at it for half an hour at a stretch. At various
places I have remarked this caper of his, and used
to think it was vanity, but now I believe it’s only
P. Wee s idea of a joke. Lately, while lying in bed in
a country hospital, a pee-wee paid a daily visit to the
loom I was in, not to inquire after my temperature,
but to have a sham-fight with himself against a big
window which had a dark blind behind it, and so
made an admirable looking-glass.
“Archie the Native”: By the old Anglo-
Saxon gold-mine on Limestone Creek (N.Q.), the other
day, I met Harry Harboard, a pro-
spector who for 40 years has battled
with fortune on almost every creek
on the Palmer. He is 63 years of age,
hale and hearty, and was humping a
“drum” big enough for a horse. (He
weighs Bst. 91b.) A half-caste Chow
had “pinched” his horses from Mt.
Mulligan, where he was coal-cutting,
and lie was taking a short cut across
precipitous ranges to Mavtown. It
was he who 40 years ago discovered
the Anglo-Saxon mine, and made
AlBO,OOO in two years for a couple
of lords in the Cold Country, and
netted £20,000 for himself. ’lt all
went into the Peninsula, and Harboard
is now toiling on wages at the May-
town mines trying to rake together
enough of the needful to have one
more go for a “punch.” The old
battler is a living lie to the moneyed
crowd of the southern States, whose
cry has always been that the North is no place for
white labor.
* * * *
“Norbell”: Willy Wagtail’s nocturnal
music is referred to by (B. 10/6/’l5) as
“chirruping,” but it is something more melodious
than that. I’ve never heard the much-advertised
nightingale, nor the poet’s dearly-beloved bul-bul, but
I have often heard William making night harmonious,
and as a brilliant specimen of Australia’s “birds
without song,” he’ll do me. He has a fine full note
for such a little chap, and his warble can be heard
in most parts of Australia. I have listened to him
in the Far North, and have frequently heard him in
Sydney Domain.
U * * *
Lou . The old practice of riding the
rough horse in a small, round yard is going out.
the younger school of breakers prefer to mount the
pupil in a big enclosure where he has room to buck
straight ahead. The more ground the brute covers
the quicker he blows out. Another point. The good
horseman now never pats the beast he is breaking in.
He strokes or rubs him, that being nearer to an
animal’s natural caress.
“Eddyson” : This is the story of the prac-
tical joke they put up on Miss Amelia Gleet, of
Canary House, Dogear, in. the year 1894. Miss
Amelia Gleet had lived to be 52 without sustaining’
any discoverable harm at the hand of man, but still
lived in hourly expectation. Her ribald servant
reported that every night Amelia looked carefully
under every bed before retiring, investigated every
cupboard, and poked a long rake up each chimney.
What Miss Amelia would do if she really found a
man had long been a subject of local speculation,
and when the new kitchen-maid came to Davy’s hotel
ft was determined to set the matter at rest. “Gentle
Annie,” the stranger at Davy’s, was not a man, but
the difference was not worth mentioning. She was
as big as a middling man, and somewhat uglier than
ordinary, and cropped her hair short, and wore coats
and a skirt that wanted trifling readjustment to be
paired pants. The plot was to persuade Gentle
Annie to make it actual pants, and to seize an
opportunity to steal into the sacred apartment of
Miss Amelia, and creep under the lady’s bed. Annie
needed a formidable bribe and great persuasion, but
she went, and Dogear gathered under the hedge
around Canary House at 10 p.m. and awaited de-
velopments. General expectation looked for a terrific
outburst of emotion, with the sudden appearance of
Miss Amelia rushing for assistance and screaming
the clouds down. Nothing happened. At half-past
11 two shrinking men, a deputation from the con-
spirators, knocked at the front door of Canary House.
After seven minutes Miss Amelia, clad in a bath
robe, opened the door three inches on a chain. “We
do not wish to alarm you, Miss Cleet,” said the
deputation, “but some time ago a man was seen to
enter your house in a stealthy way. We hope you
won’t be frightened, but” “I’m not frightened,”
said Amelia. “Not at all. I thought I would bo,
but I’m not.” “Then there was a man, Miss Cleet?”
“There were two!” said Amelia, firmly. “Two!” the
deputation faltered. “Yes,” said Amelia. “They
were fighting under my bed.” A great wonder felt
upon the deputation. Evidently for once there actu-
ally had been a would-be thief under the spinster’s
downy couch, and Gentle Annie had had the miser-
able luck to hit on him. “Can we be of any assist-
ance?” I asked. “No, thank you,” replied Amelia.
“I have them both in the cellar. I shall send to
Berwick for the police in the morning.” Only after
two hours’ stealthy digging did we get into Miss
Gleet’s cellar. Our conjecture was accurate. Gentle
Annie had crept under a bed when there was at
length a legitimate male intruder, a “beat” and a
stranger in Dogear, and Amelia and her maid had
dumped both in the cellar while they were still in
holts. Unfortunately we had to liberate the legiti-
mate man from under, and let him go, too.
* * * *
“’J.F.H.” (from London) : The emu is the
most bigoted Australian that was ever dragged from
home. He.obstinately sticks to the Australian calendar
in whatever part of the world he may be. Here in
England he persistently refuses to recognise the
reversal of the seasons. In the gloomy horrors of the
frost of Christmas he make-believes to be romping
and revelling in brilliant sunshine on the Aus-
tralian plains. It is very foolish of him, for he
catches cold, and the little emus come into the
world at the wrong time, and various other ills ensue.
At the London Zoo the stock was reduced of late to
a solitary bird. Four more have, however, now been
acquired ; and it is proposed to give them a regular
schooling in climatology, and try to make them for-
get Australia and realise the advisability of adapt-
ing themselves to their new environment.
SHE AGREED.
MISTRESS: “ Really, Mary, if you can't do
better than this, I'll have to get another
girl."
MARY: "Yes, mum, I could do with a hit of
’elp."
“Robby”: “Hamer” (B. 19/6/’l5) re-
minds me of our parson. He had a long ride, per
horse, to take up the collection, and he was a great
smoker. One Sunday he was going head-on to a
howling gale. He had already struck six matches,
but couldn’t light his pipe. So he turned the horse
lound with his back to the wind, struck four more
matches, and finally lit his pipe. Then he sighed a
large sigh of satisfaction and rode straight on. It
was a very surprised parson who landed home instead
of at the church an hour later.
THE PHILANTHROPY OF JONES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In knitting socks or giving tracts,
We in our various ways
Our philanthropic strivings show ;
But Jones’s forte is crays.
IVhen Jones in “full” array appears,
At night, when liquor flows,
'lo every place where Jones may go
A lobster surely goes.
He puzzles, while j'ou have a drink,
On something wrong. “Oh, you,”
He cries, with pity in his voice,
“Should have a lobster, too!”
J hen at the place where lobsters blush
At being much desired,
\\ ith thoughts of unfed barmaids Jones
Is most humanely fired.
He buys a dozen at a time,
And makes me share his load;
And vain it is to part with them
By stealth along the road.
I’ve left the things in dustbins, and
In passing cabs have thrown
A fish or so, or dropped the curse
I did not wish to own ;
But ever someone with the lost
Our fleeting forms pursues—-
So honest are all men about
A thing you want to lose.
And if by stealthy means, and bars,
Our blushing stock falls low,
Jones once again insists that I
Must have a cray or so.
I ve tried the plan of boarding trams
And throwing fish away;
A score of guards have stopped their cars
To let me get my cray.
Yet Jones informed me, when we two
One night were on the roam,
With choking sobs: “I never yet
Have got a lobster home!”
I know the cause of it, of course;
The tram-men on his line
Whenever Jones is on the spree
On claws of lobster dine.
The soul of Jones, when he seeks Heav’n,
Saint Peter will amaze ;
For Jones for angel friends will bring
A last debauch of crays!
N.S.W.
HAMER.


kV , s ?i alcl r
- th.ir Ju.t;ti.?VGr e
&
THE
fcfTES
o£
if*
L*PU
The New Sixpenny Packet
Virginia Leaf No. 333 (Red Packing)
SfWE^PRBSS
B
unique
veNs
**
XS.
■j.^
v*x
ct<CC° C
o f .
ftO*
V
6
i° x
\0
%
e 5
g
G'°
s
C 6W ur u9w e
i!»«*
o'*
oH°
e°
t<? \-
o'*
o**
CO°
VJ\^
-to
-tr
\
pfi.
«o<
CIGARETTES.
Created for our Australian friends
to provide High-Class Cigarettes at
MODERATE PRICES.
yHE STATE EXPRESS CIGARETTES forcibly refute
the dictum that high quality necessarily means a high
price. The Ardath Tobacco Co., Ltd., are more than delighted
to be able to offer these remarkable cigarettes to the Australian
consumers.
When we were first commissioned by a good many business
lO
50
we had it strongly impressed upon us that something special
was essential.
So we concentrated our efforts on creating a cigarette
possessing that note of distinction which is characteristic of
“State Express” itself.
WE SUCCEEDED.
Your palate will appreciate the delicate quality of these
cigarettes —cigarettes that are something special at the price—-
something different—something better than you have ever
smoked before.
**»****&
S§3
y
y
y
S 0
Or
5F
m
y
>
>
7 00,
dh
Virginia
Leaf.
No.
Of all High Class Tobacconists and Stores throughout Australasia,
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO., LTD., LONDON.


Take Sanatogen
It's sure to give you
Better Health, Strength
and Nerve-power.
If you are in need of a
tonic, nothing- will do you
so much good as a course
of Sanatogen.
Whether you are only a
little weak and run down,
or suffering from some
definite disorder of nerves,
digestion or nutrition —
there is no doubt that a
course of Sanatogen will
be of real and lasting
benefit to you.
Remarkable Statements
by Famous Men and
Women.
Start that course of Sanatogen
to-day. You won't have to wait
long to feel the good of it. Never
mind if you are a little sceptical
now. Only give Sanatogen a fair
trial, and you will soon be con-
vinca!, enthusiastic.
“Sceptical as I was,” Avrites
Sir William Bull, M.P., “I am
bound to say that Sanatogen per-
forms what it promises to do.
It has a wonderfully restorative
effect.”
V.
P 5
ATO
sS
&
W
<m.
“It is only fair to say/’ writes Sir Alexander
Cross, Bart., “that I have been surprised at the
results of Sanatogen. They have been just what
was predicted —a material increase in vigor and
physical fitness/’
Again, Mr. Arnold Bennett,, the leading novelist
and playwright (author of “Milestones,” “The
Old Wives’ Tale,” etc.), writes: “The tonic effect
of Sanatogen on me is simply wonderful.” _ And
Mrs. Kensington, wife of Mr. Justice Kensington,
Lahore, India, writes: “I and Mr. Kensington have
tried Sanatogen, and have both found it a wonder-
ful reviver and tonic. It is also the best cure for
digestive troubles that I have come across.”
Let Sanatogen Improve Your Health-
Such statements —typical of thousands of
others—cannot fail to impress even a prejudiced
reader. For they were sent voluntarily by
shrewd men and women, of high character and
position —not at all the sort of people to be
carried away by facile enthusiasms, or to be
deceived by illusory sensations of benefit.
Will you do as they did? Will you, in fairness
to your own health, give Sanatogen a thorough
trial?
Write To=day for a Free Booklet.
Simply drop a post-card, mentioning this paper,
to The Sanatogen Co., 17 Bond Street, Sydney,
X.S.W. They will send you, free, an interesting
booklet, called “How to Live Healthily,” which
tells you all about, Sanatogen.
Afterwards, a regular course of Sanatogen (sold
by all Chemists from 2/6 per tin), will cost you
about sevenpence a day—not a “speculation,” but
a sound “investment,”- yielding you as guaranteed
dividends “a wonderfully restorative effect” and “a
material increase in vigor and physical fitness!”
And there is no risk —Sanatogen cannot hurt you
in any way, and cannot fail to do you good. Take
the first step now —there’s no time like the
present!
SANATOGEN IS BRITISH-MADE.
“P.F.”: War making us familiar with
hard tack, we have come to be very tolerant
of “blanky.” But note how it is always
Tommy and never or hai;dly ever Tommy's
officer who blankies. What is your own
experience? As for mine, I recall a State
Cabinet, most of whose members had en-
joyed a superior education, and therein
“b —y” was the universal and übiquitous
adjective. The only Minister who never
used it was the working-man member of
the Cabinet. He wanted to set his col-
leagues a decent example.
“Y.Z.”: I witnessed a gallant rescue the
other day. In the jostling to get aboard a
•Tap. warship a comfortably-covered citizen
in a polished hat was pushed into the sea.
The crowd was looking about in a foolish
way giving foolish orders, while the stout
person in the swim was bobbing up and
down in pathetic helplessness, swallowing
large quantities of salt water. A thin,
miserable-looking young man who was fish-
ing put his lines aside in a leisurely way,
took off the fragments of a coat he was
wearing, and dived in. He was holding up
the waterlogged party when a boat arrived,
and man-overboard was hauled in. Then
the rescuer and the rescued were parted,
the former having gone under temporarily.
While efforts were being made to
recover the hero the rescued man gave
tongue. He was very blue and unspeak-
ably miserable, and his teeth chattered
desperately. “Co-co-couldn’t you put me
ashore and kuck-kuek-come back for him?”
he said.
“Wayfarer”: I have been reading an
enthusiastic outbreak in a newspaper about
a Melbourne firm turning out a complete
shell. Marvellous ! At the entrance to Gee-
long Gardens stands a cannon bearing the
words: “The Melbourne Coal, Shipping and
Engineering Co., Williamstown.” I’m not
wise wheh it comes to cannon, but this
appears to be about a 6-in. gun. The breech
can be opened, it has a raising and lowering
arrangement, and works on a turntable. It
appears we used to make guns as •well as
shells and torpedo boats in the ’Bo’s, but
now we are told “colonials” are unable to
produce these things. What’s wrong? Is
John Murray running Australia? Can’t we
do even as much as little Mafeking did in
the Boer war? There are artillery officers
in Australia who saw the gun made at that
village, and they don’t speak of it with any
contempt, either.
“Em Quad” from London: —
Is Harmsworth the only journalist who knows
what news is and how to handle it ? It has seemed
so lately. My friend Swinks says Harmsworth ought
to be shot. Perhaps so—most of us deserve to be.
But there’s a big side to the man. While all the
London dailies —Lord, what poor things they be!—
were snuffling round with inconsequential trash, lick-
ing the bones cast forth by the censor, crying “All’s
Well,” and serving up their spineless commentary,
Hurmsworth slashes open the carcase and has a look.
Things are going to the Devil, and he says so; he
tells the censor to get out of the way, and puts up
exalted persons under the microscope. The rest of
Fleet-street yelled “Traitor 1” But the Times and
Mail sold like butter in Sydney, the drowning Gov-
ernment shouted for help, and Ministers made confes-
sion of blunder, failure and ineptitude. To me,
Harmsworth politics are the last wold in abomina-
tion, but I lift a battered tile to a news-man of fine
discernment and equal courage.
Died while acting surgeon at a lied Cross
hospital in Scotland, Dr. Cedric Hordern,
a big and brainy Australian—son of a Mel-
bourne lawyer. Will Hordern, the father,
was a first cousin of Sam the elder; and his
father came to Australia to die of consump-
tion, and postponed his death by 40 years or
so. The lawyer acted for a client against
Amy Roselle and Arthur Dacre. When it
was all over the Daeres thanked him for his
kindness—an unusual tribute to the shark
on the other side. Later, when the Daeres
suicided, Will Hordern took it so badly that
he abandoned practice and became a partner
of Van Assche, of Melbourne Stock Ex-
change and Consul for the Netherlands.
The death of Cedric leaves a son and daugh-
ter —Guy, an engineer; and May, a Master
of Arts. The just-deceased was a hard and
brainy worker, and a fine surgeon who would
have gone far.
“Tiaki” : Driven to it, the Defence Depart-
ment of Maoriland is accepting much locally-
made gear, though only the other day it was
declared that most of the things could only
be purchased from the Cold Country or from
Germany. In the Defence stores, if they’ll
let you in, you can see pack-saddles, the
trees and iron gear of which were made in
our own country ; stirrup-irons manufactured
from gun-metal that are better than anything
ever imported; spurs that would not be
known from the “best foreign” only that
they are stronger in make and better in
finish; gun-stands; water-jackets for the
guns, and water-bags in which to carry
water for the “machines”; clips for the
ammunition, and the ammunition itself; and
all sorts of brass saddle-“furniture.” _Of
course, I know price doesn’t matter just
now. But price would never matter if the
Customs duty was high enough to block the
foreign competitor.
Sundry municipal councils in N. S. Wales
are howling a little on theft own-because the
Board of Health has been invested with
power not only to condemn insanitary build-
ings. but to see about their demolition.
Hitherto the Health authority’s power prac-
tically ceased with an advisory report. Then
the council’s inspector might declare demoli-
tion unnecessary, or the council (elected
always on a Propputy vote) could decide to
let things rip—which it did, frequently. That
is the reason why it was decided to give the
Health people the extra powers, and explains
why a score of insanitary councils are bit-
terly complaining about their vanished
authority to deal with unhygienic situations
in a spirit of dignified shirk.
A N.S.W. politician whose bitter com-
plaint was that he never got an opportunity
of showing his paces was given a chance by
being asked to put a framed-up question.
This was to be the stepping-stone to fame.
An enraged Minister still curses when that
member’s name is mentioned. The tawful ass
mangled the innocent interrogation, the
answer to which would have placated a host
of hopeful Jay Pees, into a suggestion that
appointments were only secured by bribery
and corruption.
It was a Scot who first showed the Turk
the defensive possibilities of the Narrows.
John Frost was an engineer by calling, and
landed in London fra’ Aberdeen wi’out - a
schillun. He got work at Woolwich Arsenal,
and made good. Later, when the Sultan
wanted someone to take charge of his forti-
fications, John got the job, which involved
wearing baggy pants and a fez and holding
no communication with the British Consul-
ate. Every Friday he had to wait on the
Sultan. John had three sons —Constantine,
Osman and Plevna. They went to Aberdeen
University, and there are Australian medi-
cal men now in Gallipoli who wmre fellow-
students with them. Frost’s works still
stand, though Yon der Goltz mounted new
guns.
Montagu Marks and his wife (Stella
Lewis), two well-known Australians, have
friends in this part of tire world who will
be glad to hear of their making good in
N’Yark. Stella’s miniatures made the
Yankee sit up and take notice, and many
affluent women have been treated at high
fees. Four miniatures sent to the National
Academy were gladly accepted. Her “Girl
in White,” exhibited at Melbourne Athen-
aeum Hall early last year, sold for 50
(guineas, my dear, not dallers). Mr. Marks
left in Australia most of his finished works,
but his “Gum Tree,” which has been sus-
pended in Australia, found a place on the
line at the American Water Color Society’s
most recent exhibition. Among Mrs.
Marks’s recent patients was Mary Fuller,
the famous “Movies” actress, and she is to
“do” Caruso next season.
The parties were a bustling Liberal
League female, stout and stern, and a
fatigued-looking leader of the Equity Bar,
and they talked as the. tram fled gradually
through the night. The Leaguer was
enraged at the idea of the Australian
Ambassadorship being taken from George
Beid, and given possibly to some low Labor
person. At last she said: “They say the
Chief Justice of the High Court is resign-
iug. Don’t you think it would be a graceful
act to give the Chief Justiceship to our High
Commissioner?” “Yes, madam!” said the
K.C., absently. “In fact, more than grace-
ful. Disgraceful.”
Despite the compulsory provisions of the
Queensland Electoral Act, very nearly _ 12
per cent, of the electors on the roll failed
to vote. In plain words, 85,821 citizens
rendered themselves liable to a fine of £2
apiece—a total of £70,000. And Queens-
land is probably in for a deficit, too!
Maoriland has just touched its hat to its
new Brigadier-General—A. W. Robin, C.B.
He commanded the First Contingent of
Maorilanders that took part in the argument
with Brother Boer, and despatches spoke
highly of him several times. While in the
field he was made a Lieutenant-Colonel, and
two years later, after returning home, he
was given command of the Otago district
and branded Colonel. General Godley, ms
predecessor as Commander of the M.L.
Defence forces, lias gone to the Dardanelles.
“Itan”: The Gerliogs’ use of a fire souii't
in Flanders reminds me of what I saw a
few years ago at Wamberal (N.S.W.).
There I struck old Jimmy McGarrigal, an
illiterate though a genius, who seemed to
have just missed being a second Edison. He
told me about his fire squirt and how the
Australian military authorities had turned
it down as being opposed to international
law. After some persuasion he gave a
demonstration, but hedged around it so much
secrecy that I saw nothing but a tongue of
flame about 20 feet long, which he assured
me he could increase according to the pneu-
matic pressure. His laboratory, a small
room of about 15 feet square, right in the
heart of a scrub, was full of all sorts of
things he had invented. There were syn-
thetic rubber, explosives, cements, tiles,
leather dressings, and dozens of others, all
in various stages of development. His syn-
thetic rubber was tested in Sydney, but
failed in resiliency, and he was invited to
continue his investigations. Its cost _ lie
estimated at a shilling a pound at a time
when the real article was at about half a
sov. Several of his inventions looked good
propositions, but he had a mania that every-
body wanted to take him down, and he
asked fabulous royalties. He told me that
on a visit to Germany he sold a couple of
patents, and the news from the Front
makes a suggestion. He offered to use his
fire squirt to destroy the prickly-pear
growths in Queensland, but his terms were
considered to be out of all reason.
“F.H.” : Butter and margarine compete in
Yankeeland with solidified cotton-seed oil,
got up a buttery-yellow, like our own artifi-
cially-colored cow-product, and absorbed in
large quantities by people who can’t afford
the real churned goods, Misses’ boarding-
schools, hospitals, niggers, Sabbath-school tea-
meetings and various charitable institutions
assimilate a good deal of it, while the “Down
South” farmer falls back on “ile” when cow
lubricant is returning a high rate. Many
quiet attempts have been made to introduce
this substance to Australia. Some
a leading Melbourne firm was fined for selling
it, mixed with whale oil, as “salad oil, olive
brand.” The magistrate said 10 sovs. and
costs. It would be interesting, and perhaps
horrifying, to some of us to have complete
particulars as to the ultimate destination of
the cotton-seed oil imported into this country
during the present year.
TO A MAGENTA VEGETABLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ah, rose, that I were you,
To lie at rest,
And sleep my life away
Upon Priscilla’s breast —-
How sweet were death!
N.s.w.
BILLY B.


m
rS
SL«
<2
22
5$
m
&
m
6rvjnny £m/imberl/1!n
CCoPY(?iGnTEOJ
/'
Xf
T\i\
i
Why Best For Babies.
“ I am often asked why Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is best for babies.
Well, there are several reasons :
First: It is perfectly harm’ess and can be given with every confidence to
the youngest or most delicate child.
Secondly : It contains no alcohol, opium, chloroform, morphine or any other narcotic, and you not
only have the manufacturers’ assurance of this, but the wrapper around each bottle bears the Government
analysis showing that it has been officially declared free from all narcotics.
Thirdly : Children like it and no persuasion is needed to get them to take it.
For the above reasons alone it is impossible to get a better cough remedy for babies than
Vi
A
O
A
REMEDY
(MADE IN AUSTRALIA)
But aside from its safety it cures coughs and colds, is the best remedy known for croup, and when given
as soon as the croupy cough appears it will even prevent the attack/’
DOCTORS, DENTISTS, LAYMEN•
Here is the pain remedy
you have been looking for.
DR. STOHR’S KEPHALDOL,
The most successful and nearly
perfect 'PAIN-KILLER,
ANTIPYRETIC,
ANT INEUHALGrI C,
and ANTIHIBROTIO
YET DISCOVERED BY SCIENCE.
Before this preparation
was given to the public as a
■proprietary" it had already
been extensively used in all the
leading European and British
hospitals with the most con-
spicuous andgratifying success,
as has been shown in numerous
clinical reports reproduced in
the many medical journals of the
various countries since 1906.
These reports are signed by men
well known over the entire
world for their achievements
in science and medicine.
Doctors who have used this
preparation have reported in
hundreds on its efficacy and
have given it preference over
all other products generally
adopted for similar purposes.
Dentists have found it un-
equalled in giving relief from
pain immediately following
difficult extractions and in
cases of abscesses under treat-
ment and of facial neuralgia,
Kephaldol has acted where
all other preparations failed.
Being of Chemical composi-
tion, and not purely a mixture,
and, even though each sgr, tab-
let contains 34% of phenacetin,
large doses are possible and
absolutely harmless.
As many a 3 18 tablets a day
have been administered for six
weeks continuously in a very
severe case without any dis-
agreeable secondary phenomena
in respect to the heart.
Sold by all Chemists and
Storekeepers, in tubes, 1/6&3/6,
Manufactured Entirely in Austral


Combination Case 4 o’clock Cake
Forks, Teaspoons and Sugar Tongs, Pure
Silver-plated, complete in Silk-lined Case,
10/6.
POSTAGE
PAID
TO ANY
ADDRESS.
Oak Cutlery Canteen, containing J-doz. Table Knives, 1-doz.
Dessert Knives, 5-piece Meat and Game Carvers, finest Sheffield Steel,
Xylonite Handles, i-doz. Table Forks, J-doz. Dessert Forks, J-doz.
Table Spoons, i doz. Dessert Spoons, J-doz. Tea Spoons, 1 pair
Sugar Tongs, and 1 pair Silver-plated Knife Rests.
In A Quality, £9/9/. B Quality, £B/10/- C Quality, £7/10/-
807=817 GEORGE
CAT-
ALOG
FREE
Good Cutlery
A. SAUNDERS
The House with the Largest Variety of A 1 Up-to-date Goods. Write for Free Catalog.
==i=aas»UNPEnsi=
= UONDGN r; ir-3YDME.V
SaeMWil
3 Piece Carving Set, stag Handles, Silver-plated Ferrules and Mounts, finest
Sheffield Silver Steel Blade, complete in Velvet-lined Case, 15/6.
a
6 Pairs Dessert Knives and Porks, Pure Silver plated,
Carved Xylonite Handles, Hand-engraved Blades, £2/10/-
STREET, SYDNEY.
CAT-
ALOG
FREE
Cutlery Set, comprising i-doz. Table
Knives and Forks, Finest Sheffield Steel,
Xylonite Handles. Complete in Case,
20/-
Polished English Oak Cutlery
Canteen, lined throughout, containing
1 doz. Table Knives, 1 doz Dessert Knives,
5-piece Meat and Game Carvers, Finest Shef-
field Steel, Xylonite Handles, 1 doz. Table
Forks, 1 doz. Dessert Forks, 6 Tablespoons,
12 Dessert Spoons, 12 Teaspoons, 6 Egg
Spoons, 4 Salt Spoons, 1 Mustard Spoon, 1
Butter Knife, 2 pair Knife Rests.
In A Quality, £l7/10/- B Quality, £l5.
C Quality, £l2/10/-
PILE PILLS
HAVE PERMANENTLY CURED.
Established 1891.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
Non-aperient. Have cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
MADE AND SOLD BY A. MURPHY, WOY
WOY, N.S.W., Sole Proprietor.
Price 3/- per box, or a course of 8
boxes for £l. All postage Free,
under plain cover.
On sale at all leading Druggists, Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout the States.
TELESCOPES
A good Telescope affords a view of delight-
ful experiences, and makes each outing highly
instructive, as well as intensely interesting.
The “RANGER” is made of solid brass,
three draw tubes, cap for object glass, and
revolving disc for eye-piece, to keep out dust.
Good definition, and magnifies over eight
diameters, with splendid range.
The “Ranger” Telescope
Post Free, 12/0.
Only obtainable from
A.P. Greenfield 8 Co. Ltd.,
189-191 George Street, BRISBANE.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
QUICKLY REMOVES.
SKIN ERUPTIONS
ENSURING
A CLEAR COMPLEXION-
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable
Pimples, disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema
disappear by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
Bottles 1/- and 2/9.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS THH REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
Scurf
Acnc
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin
Specialists, J. Pepper & Co., Ltd., Bedford
Laboratories, London, S.E., and can be obtained
direct from them by post or from
M | (1 IK MISTS A NT> STORES THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.
Sulpholine quickly removes the effects of Sunscorch
VTI
HHH
~AN
PET R O I T
MARINE MOTORS
Built for service.
Low fuel consumption and cost.
Will run on Kerosene or other
light oils.
All sizes from 2 to 30 h.p.
SEND FOR OUR LARGE CATALOGUE.
American Engine Company,
504 Boston Street, DETROIT, MICH., U.S.A.
SPECIAL, AGENTS.
GUITERMAN, ROSENPIEEI), Adelaide, S.A.
PAGE CYCEE COMPANY, Townsville, Q.
R. R. HUNT & COMPANY, Auckland, N.Z.
Cable:
AMECO.
&S 9
m
■
7
lit*
ail:
am
1»
■ ■
«SgTO
saga
£S$
SiHE
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
KYNOCH “P.G.” (perfectly gas-
tight) CARTRIDGE —the highest
class imported into Australasia. It is a
Miperb cartridge for match shooting, being
used by the best shots. The specially-deep
brass head ensures perfect ejection. 2f
inches long.
Always specify KYNOCH “P.G.”
yhen you want the very best.
All British
Manufacture.
m
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
Works: Birmingham, England
m
m
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Legal Notices.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Court of
Chancery of the County Palatine of
Lancaster, England, made in the matter of
the estate of ROGER HASLAM, deceased,
and in an action Greenhalgh against Slater
(1915 Letter G. No. 60), whereby the fol-
lowing enquiries were directed :
(1) An enquiry whether Joseph Slater in
the Will of the above-named _ testator
Roger Ilaslam named is living or
dead and if dead whether he died before or
after the said testator and if he died
before the said testator whether he
left any issue who survived the said testa-
tor and attained the age of 21 years or mar-
ried and whether such issue (if any) are
all now living or if any of them are dead
when they respectively died and who are
their respective legal personal representa-
tives and if the said Joseph Slater died after
the said testator who are his legal personal
representatives.
(2) An enquiry what children there were
of Emily Berry in the said Will named and
whether they are all living and if any of
them are dead when they respectively died
and if any of them died before the said testa-
tor whether they left any issue who sur-
vived the said testator and attained the age
of 21 years or married and whether such
issue (if any) are all now living and if any
of them are dead when they respectively died
and who are now their respective legal per-
sonal representatives and if any of the
children of the said Emily Berry died after
the said testator who are their respective
legal personal representatives.
All persons claiming to be any of the
persons mentioned in the above-mentioned
enquiries are by their Solicitors on or before
the 23rd day of August 1915 to come in and
prove their claims at the Chambers of the
Registrar of the Manchester District situate
at Duchy Chambers. 4 Clarence Street, Man-
chester, or in default thereof they will be
peremptorily excluded from the benefit of the
said Order. Tuesday the sth day of October
1915 at 11 o’clock in the forenoon at the
said Chambers is appointed for hearing and
adjudicating upon the claims.
The said Joseph Slater (who is believed
to have gone to Australia many years ago)
was the son of James Slater formerly of
Bolton Lancashire who died in 1833.
The said Emily Berry was the wife of
John Berry formerly of Bolton aforesaid and
is believed to have had two sons Ernest and
Percy William of whom the former is be-
lieved to have gone to Australia.
The testator Roger Ilaslam died on the
17th August 1892.
Dated this sth day of May 1915.
HUBERT WINSTANLEY.
Registrar.
E. A. W. WRAGG,
14 St. Ann’s Square. Manchester,
Plaintiff’s Solicitor.
‘ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.


nE4RME'JS
There’s a Life-Saving Power about
BEAUNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
that raises this remedy right out
of the Ruck. Read this and reflect:
“When my little girl was 3 years old, she contracted
“Measles upon which supervened Bronchitis, Pneu-
“monia and Congestion of the Lungs. She was attended
“by a Doctor of high standing whose treatment however
“was not successful. On Saturday, 21st October, he
“said that her life was in danger—that there was very
“little hope for her. For eight days and nights she had
“been prostrated with Cough, Pain and Fever, and
“was lying like a statue, Unconscious. At this
“stage, I was persuaded by a friend to obtain
“Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, with its auxili- )
“ary medicine for the Fever and Congestion of
“the Lungs, as directed in the Catalogue
“of Medicines which accompanies each /;
“bottle of the Bronchitis Cure. I gave the
“Medicine as directed, and there was an
“improvement from the First Bose
“of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
“The improvement continued
“steadily after each dose of the
“Medicine. In a week she was
“perfectly free from the Pneu-
monia, Congestion, Cough, Pain
“and Fever, and was well, except
“that she was still weak. In a fort-
night she was quite Recovered,
“and is now in splendid health and
“Stronger than ever. It Abso-
lutely Snatched %iy Child
“from an Early Grave.”
DANIEL GARDINER,
Railway Hotel,
Meredith.
h
m
m
\ x
i
m
4
»
ft
ini^y
5Sf
*&■
t^Av
aonCHir />s
sP
O
f\j
$Ol
rf
£
I
s«
£
£
ONSUMPTIOM
Price 2/6 and 4/6
If not obtainable locally
send direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co. Ltd.
Geelong, Victoria
“Quarter Single”: Evening-paper slaves,
who have recently outstripped their
shadows in the effort to give the
special war editions in record time, should
have an inky tear to spare for the woes of
the Japanese daily newspaper, the Osaka
Mainichi. “Our office,” recently announced
the editor, “is upset by the Empress Dowa-
ger’s death. It is not officially announced
yet. but it is a known fact that she is dead.
The reason why the official announcement
has not been made yet is, we understand,
because she died not in Tokio. Pier remains
have arrived in Tokio, and we expect that
the announcement will be made late to-night.
We devoted many pages to her death. We
printed the extra about her Majesty’s death
this afternoon, and it was sent out already
to our agents. As soon as the official an-
nouncement of her death is made we will
telegraph to them to circulate the extra. If
the announcement is not made late to-night or
to-morrow, the extra will not be circulated
at all.” Evidently the intelligent censor is a
feature of Japan, too.
“North Terrace” : Dingley Dell, _ Adam
Lindsay Gordon’s old home —it’s in the
scrub off the main road near Port Mac Do-
nnell (S.A.) —is still standing. The present
owner, Mr. A. Rook, intends to have
the timeworn cottage repaired; but
there will be no structural altera-
tions, so that the historic interest may
be Gordon cch?
b e ■ t mbier the news of the
G J° f t he A dmella, near Port MacDon-
wia , , 1 o F -q an(i t hat “From the
neU m August &
vviecx n
matter.of the poet was; n t ne am
toct atithefame, pSerß^gg
the news ot the disaster was xreLcr *»egg,
who owned a small pastoral property neat
Bake Bonney.
“Master Mariner”: The woes of the
o-yy. coa sting skipper are deeper than
gince war exam i na tion service
f ree-nla-
was put into force, lhe Admiralty reguia
tions for defended ports are the same a
over the Empire, “®tead of bMng elatstic to
suit particular circumstances. Phey are
specially irksome at Port
to the congestion policy whoie c
State s sea-boiaie tratrc converges at Syd
ney except a - htt ® goes fc Ntw
castle. The regulations prevent inwaid-
bound vessels entering between dusk and
dawn, so that every sun-up sees a fleet _ of
co lliers, coasters and bigger vessels dodging
o( y the Heads. Up to 50 vessels can some-
times be counted waiting the formality of
the examination steamer. They are all so
we ]j known that the examination after
( say ) the 100th time is a farce. Mean-
wtiile up in town a horde of coal-lumpers,
fish-merchants. wharf-laborers, carters,
dealers, produce-buyers and -sellers, and
assorted women-folk impatiently awaits the
delayed arks. The harassed masters, too,
have to face a pained expression on the face
of the boss. All these things lead every
morning to a dash up narrow-gutted Port
Jackson by the held-up fleet. There have
already been two nasty accidents. A week
or so back two colliers were doing their best
off the Sow and Pigs when a third tried to
squeeze between them. There was the
nautical novelty of a double broadside colli-
sion. The intruder cannoned off the vessel
on the starboard side, and fell foul of the
one on the port hand. Two of the mob were
seriously damaged. One of these days the
whole crowd will make a simultaneous dash,
and becoming wedged together will block
up the entrance to Port Jackson. Or some
big fellow will be sunk in the narrow fair-
way and save the examination steamer fur-
ther trouble.
“Bichloride”: British scientists have been
hammering the War Office for not mobilising
them just as Germany has mobilised her
men of science. And that recalls that when
the Science Congress was gathered in thi
Commonwealth last year, its members in-
cluded a handful of leading German scien-
tists —men who no doubt have been, and
are still likely to be, responsible for
fearful gaps in the Allies’ fighting line. At
that time some far-seeing people urged that
these dangerous agents should be interned
and not allowed to leave Australia : but they
were indignantly urged not to make hogs of
themselves. Men of science were not influ-
enced by boundaries, it was said, but were
working for all humanity.
In these hours of trial, when we mustn’t
do any serious work, let us consider the
heinous crime of Treason. No one knows
what it is, but everybody else does; where-
fore let us consider what it was. A few
instances: Bagging the King’s stag, seduc-
ing the King’s cook, believing the then King
to be married to Anne of Cleves, believing
any old king to be married to anyone to
whom he did not think he ought to be
married. The punishment was precise:—
To return to the place from whence you came and
from thence to be drawn to the place of execution;
when you come there you must be hanged by the
neck, but not till you are dead, for you must be cut
down alive [here follows a direction for the mutila-
tion of the prisoner whilst alive], then your head
must be severed from your body, and your body
divided into four quarters, and these must be at the
King’s disposal.
That was for the ordinary individual. Peers
were merely beheaded —without the details.
Women were tied to the stake and then
strangled and burnt, just to show they were
not the old man’s equals even unto death.
But times have changed—and so on.


CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
\
n r
IN
!)
/
n:
a?
«rr4
/Vx.
S 3
M
A
IS
YA
A
/a***
-
i^s
r
H
-■v
€~Y.
m
&
'&#■
r'-5
i
m
U 3
<*
r
•SV
5#
r\
Mf*.
Y
*
AY
'/
m.
m
/?
y
"V
X.-J
e/
scagg
sF\.fi
Sffisg
.■■■.■
sSf
VS
/YYAY
s/
sYi
</ A
ETHsa.
' fc 's
v;
/
X
V
\
{/
As/s
Wi
m
Y.
m
! ).
%
y.
&&&*-
y<a.
f.
sm
Y
\
m
A
n
jff
■iy/i
m
m.
JpHtX. / '** &*
<*
Cobra,” Boot PolisH.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Unto* whom
All honors due
Looks down on
His loyal men -
Lre he leads
Them forth aoain.
o
As the Mahdi
He is hailed,
Rre the foeman
Is assailed.
When the “COBRA’
Tribesmen close,
Woe to all
Ol Britain’s foes !


The Waterman
Porto Motor
The Original Detachable Rowboat Motor
MAKES A MOTOR-BOAT OF ANY CRAFT
IN FIVE MINUTES.
m
?
Fastens over tlie
stern by means of
two clamps. High-
est grade design,
workmanship and
equipment. Beau-
tifully finished.
Ball thrust-bear-
ing. gear driven
water pump, inde-
pendent rudd e r.
skeg protected
propeller, float
feed carburetter
underwater exhaust
—an outfit designed
for hard work, yet
handsome in ap-
pearance.
Bosch Magneto Ignition can he furnished
as an extra where required. 3 b.li.p.
(70in/m bore x 75m/m stroke.)
Petrol or Paraffin Motors —
INBOARD TYPE—2 to 24 b.li.p.
BOCAE DISTRIBUTORS WANTED.
Baldridge Reverse Gear
Makes Your lioat Safe!
Gives Instant Control.
Forward—Neutral—
Astern.
Used by lea d i n jjt
engine builders
tliroufj li o u t the
world.
Tlie Rear
with the
unbroken
main wliaft.
fdh
J. E. SITTERLEY
Suite No. 32. 17 Broadway, New York City,
IT.S.A.
Pinkettes for Constipation.
Pinkettes, the new laxative, are of special
value in the treatment of chronic constipa-
tion. They correct this unnatural and
dangerous condition by assisting the slug-
gish bowels and torpid liver to regain their
normal activity, so that the use of an open-
ing medicine will not bo a constant necessity.
Pinkettes are entirely vegetable, free from
any lmbit-creating drug' a safe medicine to
have always at hand in every home, and as
good for children as adults.
Send your name and address on a post-
dat'd. mentioning Tiie Bulletin, and you
will be sent "4 free trial sample. On sale
everywhere, Is. per bottle; or from The Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Sydney.*
Needless Fear of Heart
Trouble.
Many people have needless fears about the
state of their hearts. Sharp, shooting pains
that are sometimes present round the heart
Worry the sufferer into dread of heart dis-
ease. As a matter of fact, pain in the heart
is scarcely ever present in organic heart
disease. The pain is nearly always from the
stomach.
When your digestion is out of order it
often affects the heart, and even causes an
irregularity in its beat. The gas produced
by undigested and fermented food may cause
pressure that affects the heart unpleasantly.
Put these pains do not mean that you have
heart disease, nor need you fear sudden
death.
Tone up the stomach, correct any errors
of diet. Eat the right things and not too
much of them. Don’t pamper your stomach
with pre-digested food and artificial aids to
digestion. Tone up your stomach so that it
will do its own proper work. Don’t worry
about your heart; worry causes and aggra-
vates indigestion.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are the best
digestive tonic. First you notice an increase
in your appetite. Then you see that the
food does not distress you ; that you are no
lpnger troubled with wind, sour risings in
the throat, and those misleading pains
found the heart. Strength and energy re-
turn. A useful booklet on “What to Eat
and Ilow to Eat,” will be sent to anyone
sending name and address to The Dr. Wil-
liams’ Medicine Co., Sydney.*
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
Over 30 years ago the late Lord
Beaconsfield testified to the benefits
he received Irora Himrod’s
Asthma Powder, and every
post brings similar letters
to-day.
'ftoi
ASTHMA
-BfiT
ASTW4A
Famed for 40 Years.
Best remedy for Asthma,
Hay Fever, Rose Cold, or
ord nary Cough.
Sold m Tins by all Chtmists and Sum
throughout Australasia.
Ray’s Hair Dye.
O'*
When Grey Hair begins
to show, rejuvenate
your ap p e arance
with
KAY’S
DYE,
Harmless and In-
stantaneous.
33 different shades.
Post pattern of
hair with order.
4/10,7/11,10/9,
POSTED.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 33 Block Arcade, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Thirsty?
Don’t be! All you need is a
wax=wrapped packet of this
delicious chewing sweet —
WRIGLEYS
SPEARMINT
It’s refreshing, soothing and
cooling. When you’re dry
and hot it hits the spot. It
helps appetite and digestion.
3d. per packet of five big bars, at
Chemists, Confectioners and Stores.
Sample packet by post for three penny stamps from
J. C. GAMBLES & CO., Commerce House, Melbourne.
BE SURE IFS
WRIGLEY’S!
&
&
»
N
o
4S
*
G
Chew it
after every meal!
“gUNYIP"
Forest Devil.
■
mm
mm
!?SH
1
rnvr>;
<mm.
ism
MH
7(03/0
TURNS FORESTS into FIELDS
Farmers who have had practical experience of the BUN YIP
FOREST DEVIL assert that it is the Quickest, Easiest , Sorest,
Cheapest method yet devised for uprooting giant trees, stumps,
boulders, dec., without exception. Read the following testimonial:
I had four acre* cleared by contract in the old-fashioned way, the
price being £9 per acre. I am now clearing another 6 acres, and on this
piece alone | shall save the price of the machine This, I think, speaks for
itself." (Signs J), S. BROWN, Gembrook Station, via Pakenham, Victoria.
Write for full particulars.
JOHN COOPER & SONS
"ironmongery!” 2*7-289 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne (
DIAMONDS
Reduced Enormously.
Three Fine Sap-
phires and Dia-
monds, set in
Platinum,
choicelv eased,
£B'/ 8/-
Fine Whole
Pearl and Dia-
monds, set in
Platinum,
choicely eased,
£lO/10/-
Three Fine
White Dia-
monds, set in
Platinum,
choieelv eased,
£25.
Four years ago we took on a Sole Agency, calling for an enormous output of Diamonds, and
with a view to making the turnover, we offered them at merely a broker's commission on the
Antwerp cutter’s cost.
It barfly .paid us the first year, the second year the sales were so great it did better, and the
third year better still, and so we are continuing tl»e experiment further.
We only stock the best grades of Diamonds, but our prices for these are THE LOWEST.
There is no duty on Diamonds.
We are the Sole Agents for one of the largest, cutters of Antwerp and Amsterdam.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.
PLAIN FIGURES. » ■ ■ ■■■■■■ CASH ONLY.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter St.
%
Abbey
Shoes.
The good qualities of ABBEY
SHOES will bring you back for
others of the same kind when in
need of footwear.
The illustration shows our very
latest model —a Choice, All-Patent
Derby Bal.
Price - - - 351“
Also in highest-grade Tan Willow
Calf, 32/6.
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
Write for our New Catalog.
A BITEY.
3X3 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
OPEN
■Z: ■
&
sa
Portable
Folding
Organs.
“ FOLD LIKE A
SUIT CASE."
For Camp, Church
or Home.
Used by Chapman-Alexander Missions, Dr.
Mawson’s South Pole Expedition, Military and
Seaside Camps.
PRICES.
“Wonder” Folding Organ, £5/10/-
“Marvel” Folding Organ, £6/10/-
“Gein” Folding Organ, £9/10/-
Sole Agents for Australia: —
SUTTON’S,
290 & 292 Bourke St.,
MELBOURNE.
BALLARAT,
BENDIGO,
GEELONG.
“Everything
but the meat."
TRY THE B3STO WAY
of preparing tastier
and more nourishing
dishes. Bisto means
economy at every
meal.
AISTO
Gravy
Maker.
All Grocers. In Tins. Made by CEREBOS, Ltd.
ORIENT POCKET STOVE
Portable Comfort. Jap-
anese Hot-Box or Body
Warmer. A real luxury
... cold weather for inva
lids, travellers and every-
one. No trouble, no dan-
ger, ready in one minute.
Carry it in pocket or muff
and you feel warm ah
uver, or when travelling place it between your feet and be
cosy and comfortable. Relieves bronchitis, neuralgia, co ic,
&c. Warms a cold bed. Emits neither smoke nor smell.
Perfectly safe ; cannot cause fire. Made of hardened oppe
with cotton covering 1/6 and 2/6, velvet covering / »
velvet covering in velvet satchel 4/6, co “ l P{* te wnrmt Vj*
Fuels Six Pence per packet,giving about
The Union CO.. Elizabeth Street. Melbourne.
fd


FOR
TOURISTS.
HOTEL DANIELL,
BRISBANE.
Tariff from
12/6.
Overall, McCray, Ltd.
44 Campbell Street
SYDNEY.
SPECIALTY: ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS—Deep and Shallow—
.* (Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES.
Large Stocks also on hand—Samson Windmills, Galvanised Water Pipe and Fittings,
Sheep and Cattle Troughing, Pumps, &c. Send for Catalogue.
Comfort Means Satisfaction
5*
\s:
It’s a fine thing to be able to have a comfortable shave morning after
morning.
AND A “PLUM” GIVES IT.
The “Plum” Itazor slips over your face without you feeling’
it, and leaves nothing behind it; and this grand attribute is a lasting
feature with a “Plum.” You try it.
SEND YOUR ORDER TO-DAY—IO/6 POST FREE.
We keep it in perfect order for two .years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
All the Above Post Free.
This line makes a handsome present.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
G 54 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED OVEU SO YEARS.
CONGESTION OF THE LIVER
CORRECTED BY DR. MORSE’S INDIAN
ROOT PILES TWELVE YEARS AGO.
GOOD HEALTH ENJOYED EVER
SINCE, SAY'S NARRABRI LADY.
“For years 1 was under the doctors and
only obtained temporary relief,” says Mrs.
Jane Clarke, of Denison Street, Narrabri,
N.SAV. “I would usually under their
treatment be right for a week and then be
down with my old complain, liver trouble,
again. The doctors stated my complaint
was congestion of the liver and constipation.
Being in such delicate health for years a
lady friend in Victoria wrote over to me
when I was a resident of Bourke, advising
my trying Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
I was prone to accept this good advice at
that period, but removing some time later
to Narrabri and still being subject to my
old complaint, I then decided upon a course
of your medicine. I persevered with your
remedy for several months with remarkable
results, and then only took occasional doses,
so much did my health improve. _ I have
never had to seek medical aid since my
recovery, which I attribute absolutely to Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and that was
twelve years ago, which should be suffi-
ciently convincing to the most sceptical per-
son. Needless to say, I have recommended
them to many people, and you have my full
consent to use this testimony.””
POLITICAL
POINTS
A Melbourne importer of cigars has pub-
lished a pamphlet advocating the wiping
out of cigar manufacture in Australia. His
argument is based on the usual assumption
that Australian tobacco leaf will never be
“fit to make cigars of,” and he pleads that
the 300 cigar makers cost the country
£04,000 per annum more than they draw in
wages. In other words, if as many cigars
as they produce were extra imports, and
yielded extra Customs duty, the country
would save £04,000 a year. It’s the same
foolish old “argument” that has been fired
at every industry that ever came into the
world. On the same principle every infant
that arrives in Australia ought to be
smothered. The human baby is a puling,
useless thing, which costs money and
trouble for years, and often dies, and fre-
quently isn’t much good if it lives. It would
be far cheaper to let somebody else rear
children and import full-grown immigrants.
I igures show that the grape-grower is
gradually going out of business in Victoria.
Australian dry wines hold a high place in
the. estimation of experts. Yet the Vic-
torian acreage grows less year by year; and
the newspapers print all sorts of reasons
and excuses—all but the chief one, which is
that the handling and marketing of the
small man’s wine is controlled by a few
people who give him so trifling a return for
ms labor that he is deliberately packing up
his Wine-cellar to go in for spud-growing or
tomato-culture. The State, Avliieh super-
Auses wine-making and attempts to educate
the producer, might sensibly go a little
further and see that its supervising and edu-
cating result in something worth Avhile.
the innards of the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment's arrangement with Norton Griffiths
have uoav been pretty well exposed—so far
s they ever Avill be exposed. Norton
Griffiths signs the agreement. Just Nor-
ton Griffiths. As there Avas no proof, ap-
parently, that Griffiths is a millionaire, a
guarantor was wanted. Lord Leeonfield
signed a bond that his friend would duly
execute the work. Leeonfield, the Agent-
General told Holman, is Avorth more than
±(>0,000 a year. Behind Norton Griffiths
there are apparently three cos. —Norton
Griffiths and Co., Contractors, Australia,
Ltd.; Norton Griffiths and Co., Ltd.; and
Public Works Finance Syndicate, Ltd. And
behind them again is the London, County
and Westminster Bank. Avhich guarantees
£4,000.000 before November, 1910, and a
further £0.000,000 before November, 1920;
and someAvhere or other Nivison ajid Co.,
the N.S.W. Government brokers, come in.
All that N. S. Wales has to do is to pay this
nice expensive London lot.
INTERNED.
Federal Session.—Tariff to be Postponed.—Parlia-
ment to Adjourn. —Daily paper headings.
Victoria’s House of Fat has acquired fur-
ther disrepute through its effort to white-
wash brother Angliss, the local meat mag-
nate. When Angliss, M.L.C., was accused
of flouting the State Government’s prohibi-
tion of the export of frozen carcases to
Britain, bis Leg. Council pals appointed a
select committee to inquire into the matter,
and the result was as might have been
expected. The select committee exonerated
brother Angliss. Next week came the
report of Justice Hood, whom the Govern-
ment had chosen as a commission to report
on the recent action of meat exporters. Jus-
tice Hoed, after hearing counsel on both
sides, found :
(1) That Mr. Angliss loaded the transport A 36 in
order to avoid a probable prohibition occasioning
loss to himself, and in violation of the duty of ex-
treme candor which his relation to the Government
in this matter acquired. A
(2) That Mr. Angliss loaded the transport A 37 in
wiltnl disobedience of the decision of the Govern-
ment. .
In short, Angliss, M.L.C.* finding that his
personal interests conflicted with the inter-
ests of the State, decided to serve his own
interests and let the State’s go. And when
he denied his wrong doing the Council of
Fat endorsed his denial. Where Justice
Hood saw black the Parliamentary repre-
sentatives of capital and vested interests
had seen white—which is what the old bluf-
fers of the Legislative Council may call a
scandalous aspersion on their honor. As
tor its bearing on Angliss, M.L.C., it is
chiefly a reminder of the fact that that
gentleman is the meat trade authority who
Persistently declares that the operations of
the Beef Trust are a myth as far as Aus-
tralia is concerned.
THE OLD LADY SMELLS SOMETHING.
A point worth noting' is that in the year July,
1-913, to June, 1914, America bought from us
87,533 sheepskins with wool, as against 125,529
skins without wool. During the 12 months of war
she lias bought 389,549 sheepskins with wool, as
against 169,541 without wool. — S. M. Herald.
Premier Vaughan the other day told a
deputation of hotel employees who wanted
the early doors dosed as gently as possible
that the S. Aus. Government intended to
give effect to the lately-expressed will of the
people; but —the question of absorbing the
employees who would suffer avus to be con-
sidered before “anything drastic” was done,
hence the new order would probably not
come into effect until after the existing
licenses expire on March 30. Plainly South
Ans. isn’t going to bed without its Avhisky
and soda for a long Avliile yet—thanks to
vested interests, labor ones this time.
The skipper of a Yankee sailing vessel
which bIeAV into Hobart the other day knows
a good deal about henv Woodrow Wilson
feels, lie was president of a nation of 10
typical “Amurkan” souls. The officers were.
United States citizens (they have to be to
hold their jobs on a Murrican ship), but
they were citizens only by naturalisation.
By birth the captain Avas a Dane and the
mates were Norwegians. The rest of the
population avos made up of three Nor-
wegians, tAvo Swedes, two Finns, tAvo Ger-
mans, a Maorilander, a Scot, a Siamese
(the cook), and a Spaniard.
Henry F. Surface, a “wood products ex-
pert” from Wisconsin (U.S.A.), avlio got a
fat fee for his advice, has told the Tasmanian
Government that making woodpulp and
naner out of the native timbers is
not a good Commercial proposition.
The trees, he says, avouUl make good
enough paper, but the fibre being
short the yield of pulp would be low. Bui
why make paper of it? he Avants to knoAV.
Why neglect and Avaste the island’s splendid
timbers and import inferior stuff from North
America or Siberia or some other far-away
place? He suggests a “publicity campaign”
to teach the people the value of their own
goods. But, adopting Henry E. Surface’s
own argument, Avhy use slabs of butter to
choke the foreign trade when you can do it
ever so.much more surely with a tariff that
no foreign trade could possibly swallow ?
A DESERVING APPLICANT.
Clerk wanted. Testimonials. Only applicants
unfit for service at the Front will be considered.
Advt.
Percival Juniper Jones submits his
testimonial.
Yawn Murray the other day asked the
Vic. Leg. Ass. to increase the maximum ex-
penditure of the commission appointed to in-
quire into the management of the training
ship that bears his name from £250 to £550.
'l?he inquiry came about because somebody
alleged that the boys on the ship avctc not
given enough treacle and wore given too
many “cuts.” In May a public officer was
appointed as commissioner and given a pub-
lic-service inspector to assist him. Next, a
Gent. One Avas appointed to assist some
more, and then another to look after "the in-
terest of the ship’s committee. The idea,
apparently, was for one lawyer to elicit the
truth and the other to obscure it if it didn’t
happen to suit the committee. Both _ were
paid by the Government. The Commission
sat 1!) times at Melbourne and five times at
Geelong, and the account shoAVS that £-100
of the £550 went in counsel’s fees, at the
rate of £lO 13s. 4d. a sitting, although the
men engaged were of the most oidinary
calibre. A few accounts of this sort would
explain to the complete dissatisfaction of the
taxpayer how it is that in five years the
expenditure of the Chief Sec.’s Department
has mounted from £740,000 to £920.000.
From Federal llaxsard (l/7/’l5) :
Mr. Kelly: Our business now is to do the best we
can at the present time and to put past struggles
behind us. It is not as if we wen: facing an election
and had to be constantly taking liberties with the
truth.
Yet if anyone put it to the leaders of
Federal Liberalism that their doctrine in-
A'olved a habit of lying for electioneering
purposes the protests Avould be something
tremendous.
DANGEROUS.
Yesterday we had a dip in the surf under shrapnel
[?]. —Billjim of Gallipoli.
TYHE BATTHER: “ ’Strath, Rill, I 'ope there's
no sharks about."
\ hinny's next day of prayer will be for the
continuance of war. for while it rages wire-
netting is on the list of things that we will
have to do without. Imported stocks are
practically nil, while orders for more have
been refused. The article is made in Aus-
tralia, hut, in accordance with the best tra-
ditions, the wire is imported from Germany.
Or, rather, it used to be. And though we
have hundreds of thousands of tons of zinc
ore Ave haven’t enough metallic zinc to give
the wire a decent coat. It is twin to the
position that Australia finds herself in re-
garding wool. Having the best supply of
sheep’s fur in the world, and not knowing
Avhat: to do with it except sell it raw to for-
eigners, she has to scratch around in these
clays of shortage abroad to find sufficient of
the spun material to supply her soldiers with
mits and comforters.
From a man inside :
The kick against Pearce’s Defence administration is
not all deserved. Most Ministers are swayed by the
permanent heads of their departments, and in war
time the Ministerial inclination is more quickly
noticed. Pearce wanted a second shift at the ammu-
nition factory, and couldn’t get it—there being no
official so sure of his own importance as the mili-
tary person. Pearce, too, allowed himself to be leg-
pulled into appointing chaplains at colonel’s pay; but
as soon as he discovered it he kicked hard enough.
Taken all round, his work has been thorough, even
though his vision be limited. But his preoccupa-
tion and immersion in detail work (when he should
master only policy) is. getting him the quite false
reputation of swollen head in his own party, and
that is as inconvenient as undeserved. At the worst,
he is only showing the irritability of the overworked
man.
THE MOUNTAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ah, the road lay fair before us,
And the sun went round the dial
Pointing out the golden moment?,
Kre our hearts were put to trial 1
Underfoot 'twas easy faring,
And above us skies were glowing;
And a thousand good things nigh us
Made it smooth and pleasant going.
Here and there a song- would reach us,
Or good fellowship give greeting ;
Shade and sunlight gently stealing
From arched trees above us meeting.
Yea, though some had cause to cavil,
Peace and light and plenty scorning,
Ye t we inarched, a banded people,
Through the glamor of the morning.
At here in all the round world’s highways
AYas there road like ours, I wonder,
With such kindly skies above us,
And such even footway under?
Ah, that broad and gracious highway
Through the fertile landscape setting,
Where good bread was easy winning
And red meat was easy getting 1
All entrancing was the prospect
As we pushed our way together,
We Australians, through the sunshine,
Through the bright, enticing weather.
Far in front, and smiling ever
(Like white queens in old romances).
Stood fair hopes and high ideals,
And great dreams and noble chances.
Were we fools if we exulted,
Singing loud in joyous chorus
Of our pathway in the future
And the wondrous years before us?
For our feet were young, unfettered,
And our shoulders were unweighted ;
And our spirits, lit with promise,
Faced what Fate might send, elated.
We were this —all this, mv comrades,
In the days of sweet way-faring,
When the road was broad and level
And we trod it little earing.
But the task, the trial, found r.s—-
Yea, the perilous high mountain.
So we left the land of sunshine
And of song, and flower, and fountain.
For, while yet we trod the roadway,
Hating none that all might love us,
On a sudden we looked upward,
And the mountain towered above us.
Bough, uncouth it looms before us,
Doubt and dread upon its shoulders;
And ’tis not the fire of sunset
That makes red its granite boulders.
’Tis the way of evil-faring—
Iron rocks and cliffs and gravel.
Yet the road across the mountain
Is the road we now must travel.
Let us east one look behind us
At the pleasant Land of Leisure,
Where we wandered through the sunshine
Hand in hand with Peace and Pleasure.
Just one look! And then, my comrades,
With the call of Duty ringing,
Through our spirits—up and onward!
Breast the mountain, blithely singing!
N.S.AV.
RODERIC QUINN.


SAMES PI A N
ALL BRITISH MARE
The singing quality of
tone and fine worK-
manship of these
pianos will surprise
and delight you. They
are so carefully built
by expert British work-
men that we feel sure
they will, with reason-
able care, last you a
lifetime. Write for Free
Catalogue and latest
Price hist.
We are Sole Agents for SAMES Pianos,
also CHAPPELL Pianos, ESTEY Pianos,
VICTOR Pianos and BELLING Pianos.
We sell on Easy Time Payment.
Old Pianos taKen in exchange.
The greatest care is
taken by the makers of
these beautiful pianos
to ensure nothing but
tbe very best material
being used in tbeir
construction.
Our illustration
shows SAMES Model
94, a piano we guar-
antee to give perma-
nent satisfaction.
W. H. PALING CO. LTD
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, LISMORE and TOOWOOMBA
$ m
W\
■
U
ma
n
0
ws.
0
Off the Cost of Yotir
Next Suit to Order
“Money is money” just at present, and an
Actual Saving of 10% on the cost of your
next Suit to order is worth considering. This
Timely Offer in
‘‘Lincoln Stuart” Tailoring
is being made mainly to ensure Sufficient
Work to keep every member of our Big
Tailoring Staff employed during our Short
“Slack” Season. The “Saving” is absolutely
Genuine.
but—You Must Pay Cash
and Order in July
if vou are to effect. (These are the only
conditions.) Big Buying and Early Buying
have given us possession of a Magnificent Lot
of Suitings—a Stock even bigger than usual.
Stuffs ajmost unobtainable elsewhere we have
in plenty—so
Write for Patterns TO=DAY.
They're Post Free to anvwhere. We make to
a fl-'DVY SCHEDULE—WE PAY FREIGHT-
WE GUARANTEE SATISFACTION at all
prices.
55/-, 63/-, 70/-, 84/-, 90/-, 95/-,
105/-, 110/-, 115/- (less 10%).
Lincoln, Stuart 8 Co. Pty. Ltd
“Specialists in Outfitting by Mail,’*
244-254 Flinders Street— MELBOURNE.
&
IT HAS ARRIVED 1
THE ALL-BRITISH PROJECTOR.
THE
ii
INVINCIBLE SUPERB
BETTER THAN ANY FOREIGN MAKE.
See it Demonstrated and be Convinced of these
OUTSTANDING FEATURES—
Projects a perfectly steady Picture; Without Flicker; Sihnt in. Action; Reliable;
Ease of Film Threading' and Manipulation; Fireproof: Wear Resisting.
The most cursory examination of the “Invincible'’ reveals at once that
neither expense nor brains have been spared to perfect these details. The massive
construction, accuracy of manufacture, finish, and materials used will he immedi-
ately detected.
Every detail, seen or unseen, has received the same closest scientific thought to
bring the “Invincible” to perfection; that is why users are so enthusiastic
about it. . s
The whole apparatus is British made, of British material, and by British labor,
in one English Factory.
If you cannot call, write to us about this Machine, and also
about our SPECIAL “Roll of Honor” Lantern Slide Offer.
We are still the Leading Cinematograph Supply House in Australasia.
UJ?
Photographic and Cinematograph Suppliers,
386 GEORGE STREET , SYDNEY
Also at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
AUCKLAND and WELLINGTON, N.Z.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LIHITED, Redfern, Sydney.
a
tafrn
h
Immediately you enter “Scott’s” you
are impressed with the comfort, sump-
tuousness, convenience of its accommo-
dation—for everything in modern
‘‘hotel service” is at YOUR service.
Stay at Scott’s” is the recommenda-
tion of those who have experienced
its comforts and advantages.
Single. Rooms or Private Suites,
including Bedrooms, Sitting-room,
Bathroom, etc.
Private-attendance ’phones in allrooms.
Pm excellence Cuisine. Hotel orchestra.
SCOTT’S HOTEL-,
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
T elegrams—“Scott’s, ’ ’ Melbourne.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
hfd
BY
APPOINTMENT
h
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
Price 1/- per Bottle. Ofa.ll Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubta & Co. on each Bottle.
fdh
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Recruiting appeals are finding a place in
the annual reports of Australian cricket clubs. Two
from last week's budget: Western Suburbs (Sydney)
Club. We feel that at this time, so momentous in
the history of the Empire, when its very existence
depends upon the success of our troops, it is the
duty ot the sporting community in particular to
respond with alacrity to the call to arms.” Peter-
sham (Sydney) Club: “The place of the young
cricketer at the present juncture is on the battle-
held. the executive committee of N.S.W. Associa-
tion has issued a special appeal “to the cricketers
of the State and also followers of the game to at
once enlist.
* * * *
One reason why enlistment in Victoria
S , b c e , eil , as frequent as it might have been is
illustrated by the case of Challis, a speedy wing
brnnpln lo ” l 7° p, /® nlier f °otball club, Carlton,
bi ought ovei horn Tasmania three years ago. He
° i " 1 kl a ck . Wl * b .either foot, and is obviously sound in
of ■ ,i 'u P hysi ,^ ally bt > yet he was rejected because
ot a slight maliormation of two toes 1
* * * ' *
i “Cropon” : These eternal railings at foot-
weari S me r ~l mrnediate l y going to the Front
Iw l football is merely the week-end amuse-
„® of men and youths who work through the week,
often at some job just as important to the Empire
as getting into the trenches. Many ’Scray ba”ack-
factorv 1 'ftfri -! 011 ! 81 the Maribyrnong cordite
• • ' , Dut "hat about the followers of pony-
the meetings of which are never held on a
S anVoT ft™! Wbe “ Gaud Mayor Hen-
hnll^hnrrait '’ ad<cn bave finished recruiting hoof-
er, bariack|gs they might put in a Monday and
M ednesday afternoon addressing the pony-racin«-
crowds at Richmond and Ascot. P°ny racing
, ¥ ee i: nt ts “for service abroad” in-
clude Dr Eric Barbour, who has worn a NSW
first r CrIC - ket f p ’ and showed up in the
Urst flight of tennis and baseball.
Ba?7i Tareha, who lias held the Hawkes
Mr n, L ) amateur championship challenge cup
7,1.7 yenrs in succession, swapped his set of
clubs for the deadliest war-outfit he could get his
the' V 7 f OT tu the ° ther day ’ and lo P ed out on
tie ti.ol lus fathers had followed so often. Tareha
chief lo fiTr• NU1 ’ -I 1 , 18 grandfather, was a “friendly”
Unef fighting with the British during the uprising
fitbe, w? ge Hauh f ,s ’• and Karupo Tareha, Kapi’s
lathei, had a sword, no less, presented him when
as a. member of the Maori Contingent, he saluted
.{ ue k cn , 'ctoria m London on the occasion of her
Diamond Jubilee.
* * * *
7 rs £ boxer to pass over as
them'(suit Q f a Turkish bullet was J. W. Boreham
lie was a younger brother of the more famous ;)'
Boreham, who represented M.L. in the Australasian
championships as a middleweight in 1912 He took
part in many contests with a lot of success. Another
M.L. boxer who was put out of the game in the
hist l oil lid of the Dardanelles affair through bein"-
wounded was C. McQuarrie, who had done much am;i°
teur fighting. He was a brother of the well-known
iam McOuarrie, who represented Loan Land as a
heavyweight at Brisbane in 1911, and was just beaten
in the final after a hurricane scrap with Thompson
ot Sydney. ’
i John P.”: The three prominent toe-
ballers of Christchurch (M.L.)—Buttle, Sapsford and
1 arson who went to the Front in a bunch, as “The
three Musketeers ” and were all outed at the begin-
ning of the Gallipoli disturbance, have been quite
outdone by The Six Musketeers”—Fountain, Cros-
san, Wilson, Sinclair, Stewart and Perry—who joined
m a. bunch from the famous Kaikorai Club in' Dun-
edln;. lh ®y w ere all close chums, and were all downed
shortly after landing at the Dardanelles. Crossan,
fountain and Perry were killed, Wilson, Stewart and
Sinclair were badly wounded.
Victoria has done the fashionable thing
and called off the annual tennis match with N.S W
tor this year. The big game has been an annual
fixture since 188. a, and this will be the first blank
In the absence of the O’Hara Woods and Rod Heath
who are on the other side of the map, Victoria
couldn t have put a representative team into the
held, anyway.
With four jumping events on the hill (0.1
miles of travel m all), last Saturday at Fkmingtdn
offeied the best spectacular day’s racing of the season.
But the punters and prophets were wrong again as re-
gards the big Stee-ile. The £l5OO or so for first
“ ent to Flash Jack, whilst Tim Doolan and
Booligal picked up the consolation prizes. But for
7® , deavy , rain . that fell th e week Booligal
would piobablv have carried Ins 12st. in front to the
bitter end. As it was, he led the field over 20
obstacles, and was not quite beaten till they turned
into the straight. Then Flash Jack (lOst. 3ib )
win? 6 ., a i'7"Li a " d Ti "u- ! )00lau (10st 11Ib -> ca,lle
"ith a belated run, which placed him second. The
tune (6mm. 39sec.), though 16sec. slower than
/ephuions record last year, was quite respectable
considering that parts of the course were bestrewn
" ith tan to mop up the wet. Of the 13 starters
only four came to grief, and Guncap, safest of jump-
ers in a general way, was one of ’em. His own bro-
hnt ’nnr 00 k g ’ 3t th ® ba ® k ° f th ® Course,
lost n int th t° Ugh a , fa ! dty Jump - Tin » Doolan also
lost a lot of giound when his fallen mate, The Pole
interfered with him. So Flash Jack was lucky to
to ™A nybow ’ he had done nothing in steeplechasing
to make him any sort of a public fancy, and hit
starting price—l 4 to I—seemed under the odds
'unreliable F He WaS th ° Ught 0f as ancie,,t a ' ld
unreliable. Four years ago, when in the Millers’
stable, he could only run second for the big Hurdle
Race at Caulfield, with 9st. up. The winner then
gave him more than 2st.
. Anaehrion after being bottled up for a whole year
on*’ the w al l d 7 atlol v al ; proVed t 0 be ver >' out of sorts
on the Wednesday before the race. He was tested
in commonplace steeplechase company, and could run
only second. After making such a holy show of him-
self the jaded steed was scratched for the big event
Some day, when he is in bloom, Anachrion may re-
cover his reputation. J
Lord Grey, the runner-up to Rathfarnham in the
(». N. Hurdle, testified to the goodness of that iin-
posing animal by getting away easily with the Doutta
Galla last Saturday. All things considered, the han-
dicapper dealt very gently with Lord Grey in giving
a' 1 ') 1 + onl / m °re than his Grand National weight.
A lot of others that he beat by many lengths in the
longer race were also up in the weights this time.
ft, 01 /* 1 P Ol n ted. to Lord Grey as a pretty certain winner
l ui °l foint didn’t do the trick, and something
settled the favorite’s chance by falling just in front
of him.
.-^ n ®ther of Sydney’s turf identities, War-
wick C hafte, passed the Judge last week, aged 72.
lie was a successful jockey in the more or less good
old days, and stuck to the trainer’s job for close on
halt a century. Chaffe was the “early bird” of Rand-
wick ; and those who desired to “clock” horse's under
his charge had to get out of bed long before the
jackass. A surer way was not to go to bed for two
nights previous.
L. (x. Rouse, who recently resigned the
A.J.C. stipendiary steward, was a fearless
official whom racing can ill afford to lose. As com-
pilei of the “Stud Book” Rouse has done much to
inform the public why Stiff is brother to Crook. .
• '' * 't*ibson (who has dabbled in horse-racing in
boot": aiK * us^la^a ) D u ts on the vacant stipendiary^
* * *
The A.J.C. Lust season distributed £97,344
m prize-money for 20 days’ racing—£80,000 of
which came out of its coffers, and £17,344 in for-
feits and sweepstakes. The club’s anxiety to pass the
six-hgnre mark is only temporarily checked by Bill
ot Yarmany.
Before the (treat Bash commenced the
horses of Hugo Friedlander, a well-known Maori-
land racing man, used to be ridden in colors corres-
ponding with those of Prussia. Incidentally, Fried-
landei came from Prussia, or thereabouts, but is
“ ahSe< - J ’, l Al, S ust last he threw the old jackets
fy ay :. aild ordered new ones—red, white and blue
this time since which one of the Griggs, of Long-
beach, who is also a horse-owner, has been making
aide remarks. And great has been the uproar, for
r nedlaiider is a local potentate, with cash and huge
HFaVrs + nd , habit of butting into public
affairs At last advices he was leaping wildly in the
atmosphere challenging Grigg to a “debate,” and
was 1,1 har( l training for the event. Round at
the Synagogue Priediander is a firm favorite. He is
L H fbrew and two of his sons are helping stoush
the Hun in Flanders.
* jt.
According to the latest despatch the race
WpHrVf championship of Maoriland 'between
U ebb and Hannan is definitely fixed for September
10. Ao guarantee came with the allegation.
THERE WAS, NO SPORTING CARICA-
TURE EAST WEEK.
Before the end of the first round in the
collision between “Red” Watson and Billy Yates at
Sydney Stadium on Saturday, the American had
unpacked his kit and displayed an iron chin and a
hard punch. As a boxer he is worth nothing; as a
fighter _he is certainly a proposition of exceedin'”
pugnacity. Aates banged him in the face with a
hard left to start with, and followed with a right
to the ear. Watson’s head scarcely moved on his
thick neck. He went after Yates, who had skipped
back, got some more on the same place, went on vet
again, and then suddenly swung a blow of terrific
force at where Yates’s nose appeared to be. It
missed by a foot; Yates connected with an eye
hopped away from another devastating bash and
won the round handsomely. And thus it went on
Watson throwing terrific haymakers about, pressing
after the enemy and taking all that came his way ;
l ates hitting 1 whenever he liked and scoring all the
points. But the swish of those menacing- smites and
the fact that the stranger seemed to like bein'”
Punched began to worry Yates, lie grew a pprehem
sivc of what would certainly happen if his jaw took
delivery and though he worked a smother which
leit \\ atson puzzled and impotent, reflection on the
dreadful possibilities reduced the Tamworth lad to
demoralisation. Perhaps he felt himself growing
tired, and the combination of physical fatigue and
mental distress is fatal at the Stadium. Anvhow
in the ninth, when Watson’s glove had swished" with
horrid violence past his ear, Yates’s quaking knees
refused their office longer. He just went down to
safety and supported himself spread out on the floor
It was the queerest encounter staged in Sydney, for
many a day Watson will be worth seeing again
it put up before someone who can hit really hard
for his methods are those of the cave man and his
skull as tough as a bull’s.
It was no friend who induced Frank
Carroll to rush round'with £lOO looking for trouble .
Jack Clune was to have met him, but influenza
stepped in and outed Clune first, whereupon the
ancient Hughie Mehegan was brought up. When
they met the other night at the Melbourne Stadium
there was a crowded house of vacant spaces. In the
third round, after four falls, Carroll came to the
conclusion that his leg had been pulled, and he
gracefully retired.
* * *• *.
Beg L. Baker is to put on the gloves
again. Jimmy Britt, ex-champion lightweight of
the world, is to go up against him on July 24 at
toe stadium in aid of Australia Day funds.
Yunker” Colton, one of the fastest and
most successful among three-quarters Queensland ever
possessed, died last week. Consumption stopped him
, tlle age of 38. He played with the old Milduras
when this team was at its zenith. Later, he was the
nianistay of Toombul in its great contests with the
to JNorth Brisbane team, which included the late A.
Dore > two °f the finest backs then in
- istraiia. Colton was a man apt to turn defeat
into victory at any time. Give him the ball and a
fl en i run ,’. and he was hardly stopable. His streaks
roi the line in inter-State matches are bright
were°riiQ S • ° n „ 011e occasion when the Maorilanders
e e playing Bananaiand a sensational race occurred
between Asher and Colton. There had been much
were h 1 ? 1 - as whlch was tlle faster, and all eyes
Asher n'fh' 8 su , dde,d - v Colton got the ball, with
Whini S1 u- e> and streaked with his knees nearly
tiventv fivl Ch i Hl i f lhe ,? co started in Queensland’s
twenty-in e, and before they had got 10 vards the
mass* -rf'l * °Y- ltt! feet cheering' and waving like a
a ‘u*L ot funatics. As the pair neared the M.L. line
inches ma pi*i* a desperate diving' tackle, missing by
'A™?* the ball, and the crowd
uent oaiesaik. lor several minutes they cheered and
whistle' al 'd shrieked ; then as the clamoi died out a
vhistle was faintly heard. Colton liad knocked-on as
t k a d o.^t the ball at the hotfnni'* ol his rui
U /Wtis a gieat occasion.
The crowd at the chief League Mine at
Melbourne on Saturday was noticeable for the ,nr
enjistnfeirt ° f ifS
a»-r “? &Jssv&iSir*sz
1 lay was spirited. Tlie “same old” gained a st-'ono-
SooZ- tmjsas
Richmond, Melbourne walloped Geelong ,
wood utterly demolished St. (flda § ’ The
S l ®. 0 24 points to ’Wood’s 122 suggests
about forgottCU aJI th °y knew
' * * *
The best Assoc, game of the dav in,mon,„i
between Norths and Brunswick, the leading teams
sortSti' 0 f“£ '•err'r . a“w“h
ivorthcote. A team that can’t smother the littor
d oem't deserve to reach the finals?
* * *
A game that so far as the Southern Ilemi-
sphere is concerned flourishes in only one
spot is the ancient Scawtch sport of curl-
the spot is Central Otago (M.L )
At the old mining township of Naseby’
where the winters are always of Antarctic
seventy and where even a raw Scawtch-
man couldn t exist without plentiful hot
whusky there is a good sheet of thick ice
available for four months in the year, and
on this the Mount Ida Curling Club per-
forms. Curling is really a kind of bowls
played on ice; but instead of a round,
wooden bowl the implement is a stone
shaped something like a small cheese, with
a handle on the upper side. The game
consists of sliding this stone along the ice
towards a mark known as the tee. The
other ingredients of the game are (of
course i whusky and a braw Scawtch ac-
cent. Naseby has been enjoying four
inches of ice for some weeks already this
season, and when the last mail left the
wild Scawtchmen were anxiously inspect-
ing the surface of the big dam and de-
claring - that it would be in a satisfactory
state shortly for the “bonspiel.” A bori-
spiel is a sort of curling tournament, but
exactly what takes place at it is buried
in mystery, for the participants usually
don’t wake up for a couple of days, and
when they do they have awful heads and
the past is a blank.
Clunky : The bottom has fallen out of
the Bendigo football competition at a most interest-
ing- stage owing- to the Rochester boys deciding to dis-
band their club until more important business is
decided. Two strong recruiting rallies have since
been held in the shire hall, and amongst the first
to enlist was that football-field genius, Bobby Cur-
tavne. If he can fight as well as lie can play, the
beard of the Prophet will have the time of its life,
the good example of Rochester was promptly fol-
lowed by 13 of the Bendigo City Club.
* » * *
Even the League had nothing of much
interest to offer football “fans” this week-end in
Sydney, except that one senior referee was “din-
g-oed”—howled at and pelted. That grand old
pastime of referee-baiting seems to have gone 1 out
of fashion lately. Balmain and Glebe (16 points
each) are leading in the competition. Newtown and
South Sydney follow with 11; Eastern Suburbs
claims 10; Western Suburbs, four; Annandale and
N. Sydney, two.
Gilbert, of N.S.W., just back after three
years’ Northern Union football with Hull (Eng.),
gave strenuous service for the retainer. Of a pos-
sible 125 matches lie played in 114, and scored 56
tries (168 points). He is playing again in Sydney
League for South Sydney, but he has shown no form
worth notice so far.
* * * *
•‘Vic”: Benjamin Baxter, who died the
other day, was son of Capt. Baxter, who arrived in
Melbourne in 1837. Dad was a founder of the Mel-
bourne Cricket Club, along with Macarthur, of the
Bank of Australasia. The club retains its first trades-
man s bill for supply of bats, balls and wickets.
The playing ground was not in those days in Rich-
mond Paddock, but lay between Melbourne and
Emerald Hill, towards Sandridge. It had retreated
to this from the foot of Batman’s Hill, where it
played first, in 1838. The Hill has long been
shovelled down to make place for Spencer-street
Railway Station.
* * *- *
11. Y. Hordern, Australia’s googly bowler,
has forsaken bosies for bogies. Playing at “Kenso”
(N.S.W.) on a recent afternoon he went round the
links in 76, which is “warm goff.” The war has flat-
tened big cricket, but golf is superior to wars,
the high price of butter and other minor annoy-
ances. Corns and ingrowing toenails are its real
troubles.
The ladies were the chief feature this
year in the S. Aus. Waterloo Cup, run over sporting
Strathalbyn country. The dogs, some of whom have
big Plumpton reputations, did not shine in the long
gruelling courses ; only two of them got into the last
eight, and only one into the last foux\ The final was
won by “Bob” Lee's Belle Fleetfoot. of James-
town. Runner-up a southerner, Votre L’une —which
ought to mean “Your Moon,” but is understood to be
Early (2 a.m.) French for “You’re the One.” The
lady is an elderly matron, but is still pretty quick
over the ground.
* * * *
“Chinky”: Every dog has his day, but
Mindful Elsie, the speedy and consistent winner of
the Vic. Waterloo Cup, run at Geelong, and worth
£2OO and a valuable ornament, has had a marvellous
sequence of “days” this season. Her speed and
cleverness have won over £.350 in stakes. Her
owner is C. A. Watt, of Huntly, near Bendigo, and
the occupants of his kennels have earned their
meat for many a kill to come. Mindful Elsie has
not had a flag raised against her this season. First
she won the principal stake at the Kilmore meeting,
and followed with the champion event at Mary-
borough. It was at Geelong that Comedy King, which
won the Australian Waterloo Cup at Rooty Hill
(N.S.W.), met his Waterloo, Mindful Elsie being-
tlie conqueror. Latter is by the fine dog Mindful
Still, by Elsie McPherson. Huntly, Goornong and
Elmore, just north of Bendigo, are all keen coursing
centres.
* * # *
The amateur championship of billiards in
South Aus. is retained by the holder, S. P. Wilson,
of the little River township, Mannum. Demodena
(better known as a mandolin-teacher), from whom
Wilson won the title last year, beat all others this
time, and went very close to winning the 1000 chal-
lenge round, keeping a good lead up to 400. At 700
Wilson led by 100; at 950 they were level; then
Wilson, who is consistent rather than brilliant, ran
out with an unfinished 48. The best break in the
tournament was 79, made by Flannagan, who was
knocked out in the last round by Demodena.
“0.K.” : George Gray is still a little less
than champion billiardist. Playing with ivory, in-
stead of bonzoline, young George lias succumbed a
second time to the pertinacious Inman in a game of
18,000 up. He looked like winning this go, for he
was in front at a critical stage of the struggle.
But Inman bucked up as usual, and won by 700
points. Inman is both the most plucky and the most
careful billiard player that ever was. He never takes
things too easily, nor suffers from over-anxiety. He
plugs along until he gets on his opponent’s nerves,
and then it’s only one man’s game. A remarkably
cold-blooded Hebrew is Melbourne Inman.
* * ** *
The Red Cross will pocket the proceeds
from _ next Saturday’s motor-cycle carnival at
Victoria Park Racecourse (Sydney). There are five
events on the programme, the two big ones being the
10-mile championship and a 600 c.c. championship.
Booth and Dickson (Vic.) will make their presence
felt - in the two championships.
* * * *
P. Bland (Botany Harriers) is the most
promising ped. in Sydney just now. In the past
three weeks lie has won the four-mile road-race and
N.S.W. five-mile novice cross-country championship,
and finished second to 11. Hayden in the three-mile
Botany Club championship. ' In the cross-country-
event Bland won by 58sec. from the next best.
“T.F.”: N.S.W. A.A.A. might do worse
than run the rule over the distances set out for
championship events. The recent novice cross-coun-
try was held over a portion of the same course which
has been used for the past five years. Although
land subdivisions have cut corners off, the A.A.A.
didn’t worry, the distance being still labelled “five
miles. ’ The figures for the race show up (lie
fraud: 1911, 32min. llsec. ; 1912, 33min. 22Isec. ■
1913, 38min. 30sec. ; 1914, 28min. lOsec. ; 1915*
26min. 55sec. Either this year’s figures' are phenoni-
enal, or the course is ridiculously short. It looks
very much like the latter.
“T.F.”: Mention of Waverley schoolboy
basebal! pitcher Alan Kippax (B. 8/7/T5) reminds
that G. Campbell (Petersham) is another topnotch
boy twirler. Kippax (right-hand) has pitched in
1° winning games out of 12; Campbell (left-hand)
. although badly used by Petersham—has pitched
m seven successful games out of nine. Thev should
make a sparkling pair in the days ahead.
*-* * *
One Tris Speaker, a famous “fence-breaker”
and centrefielder in the Boston Red Sox baseball
team, is credited with receiving £2500 a year for his
contributions to his nation’s gaiety.
There was some hearty baseball smiting
at kogarah (Sydney) on Saturday, when a local team
of Congregattonahsts fell .on visiting brethren and
hit them to the four winds by 67 runs to 9 In
the sixth innings Kogarah piled up 30 runs—which
must be very close to a record in Australian base-


Learn to Fight Your Way Out of a Scrape.
Perhaps you’re game, gritty, and of good physique. But still your
chance is mighty small, if you’re up against a skilful boxer.
The usual type of “bully” generally relies on “bluff” and brute
strength. He’s a hot-headed individual, whose temper ALWAYS gets
the upper hand.
That is to say, he’s just the type that would get a sound drubbing
from the man who knows how to use his hands properly.
I can teach you how you can use your hands to the best possible ad-
vantage—and can teach you in your own home.
a
I Teach Boxing by Post!
tcacli it in a practical, simple way that’s easily
understood. I thoroughly explain and illustrate every
serviceable move in Scientific Boxing.
Here is what one pupil reported:—
“Before starting on your instructions I
thought a fighter was born. I am now satisfied
that your lessons will make almost any man an
efficient fighter.”—G.M.R., Peeramon, Q.
You ought to write for my illustrated Booklet,
“Scientific Boxing in Your Home,” which gives fuller
particulars, cost of tuition, etc. Just write your
name and address on this advertisement and post to
me. I’ll know what you mean. Send three penny
stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
416 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
THE
-
9PV»
pr-K
Ride it to work-
Ride it for fun
Write for
Catalogue “ D.”
HENDEE MANUFACTURING CO., 109-111-113 Russell Street, Melbourn
rsm
.
■i
Smokers Who Prefer a
LIGHT CIGAR
will thoroughly enjoy my
Glut Royal.
It is a particularly good smoke, being
made from the finest HAVANA Leaf
—mild in flavor and delightful in
aroma.
Put up in handsome cedar cabinets of
50 20/-
Postage on 50 in N.S.W., 9d.
Inter-State, 1/2.
SAMPLE PACKET OF FIVE, POST
FREE, 2/6.
My catalog, “A Discriminating Smoker’s
Guide,” is sure to interest you. Write for a
free copy.
A. M. SOLOMON,
“CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
fV
a
"Keep Smiling!'
In other words t
i
-jShell
'-'^Benzine
O BTAI'NABtE
EVE R-Y WHERE
Noughts
fIAPn TOBACCO
A Cool, Satisfy ng Smoke
of Delightful Fragrance.
Not Made by
ANY TRUST
or COMBINE.
All Tobacconists—
Cut and Plug:.
1 TOBACCO
HOTELKEEPERS ! HOTELKEEPERS !
ECKERSLEY’S DISPENSER
For the Rapid Production of Pure,
Crystal, Effervescent, Draught Lemon-
ade, Sodawater and every variety of
Aerated Drink.
NO LABOR! NO BOTTLE-WASIIING!
NO BOTTLE FILLING. NO LABELLING OF
BOTTLES! NO BROKEN BOTTLES!
WORKS AUTOMATICALLY.
B.v Electric or Water Power.
Bar attendant simply pulls a lever and mechanical
power instantly supplies the required drink.
Write for descriptive Catalog to
ECKERSLEY’S,
25a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
or S. MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: Messrs. ELLIOTT DONALDSON &
DOUGLAS, 529-33 Queen Street, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
fd
WHEN YOU BUY RIGNEY SHOES
hfd
you set the BEST Stylo, the BEST Work-
manship and the BEST Leathers. RIG-
NEY SHOES are made in all shapes,
styles and sizes.
The illustration shows a Tan Willow Calf
Three-Button Shoe, Smart American Shape,
“Non-Tread-Over” Brand, Best English
Manufacture.
Price - 32|6
Also in Patent Leather, 32/6 and 357-
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Building's, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
of all CAem/sts
h
Horlick’s is absolutely pure
because it comes to you
pasteurised.'!
Horlick’s will refresh you more than anything
else you can take, and will assist nature to
build bone, nerve and muscle.
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
11
*/**TS.
augwy t}****,
Sample will be sent on receipt
of 2d. in stamps. —Hutchinson
and Co., 26, Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Il
iry it at
the Soda Fountain^
.“Garnishor” : If “The Oldest Inhabitant”
thinks W. A. Long, of Sydney, never held a
brief (B. 8/7/’l5), he clearly does not know
the West. Though Long and the late Ted
Lee, of Bathurst, were both very wealthy,
they assiduously “went circuit”—in coaches
loaded with cargoes of champagne and joie
gras. Long had a Sydney practice to which,
it is said, Judge Backhouse succeeded when
William chucked law for racing, and
Backhouse left his architect’s office to
be “called.” Years later Long and a co-
defendant were sued in the District Court.
The sum was trivial, but Long turned up to
defend, on principle. The co-defendant was
away, and Long said he would represent
him. On the objection taken that one lay-
man couldn’t “represent” another, the usher
dug up the practically-forgotten fact that
Long was a member of the Bar. Objection
was then taken that counsel couldn’t appear
“in person” with robes, and couldn’t appear
for anyone else without them. Overruled,
on the ground that Long couldn’t be expected
to take his robes off when he made a point
for himself and put them on again before
putting in a word on behalf of his friend.
Plaintiff, cross-examining Long, said, “You
are a lawyer, aren’t you, Mr. Long?” “No!
only a barrister!”- —which was possibly true,
as he had been “called” at the time when
“eating dinners” at the Temple was the sole
qualification. Long not only held briefs but
delivered judgments. They made him a
J.P.. and used to pester him to sit. One day
he did —and awarded the entire list of drunks
six months apiece. lie was never bothered
again.
l /u
/ I '
fdh
fd
Walk on
Soft Rubber
it is far more comfortable—besides
being cheaper—than on hard leather
heels which rack and jar the nerves.
DUNLOP
RUBBER HEELS
being made of soft pliable rubber, give better
wear and more elasticity than hard,
cheap compounds. They
make hard pavements feel
like pile carpets.
★ ★
OBTAINABLE IN VARIOUS STYLES
FROM ALL BOOT SHOPS.
SPECIFY “ DUNLOP ” BRAND.
* *
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., All States and NX
i w///////////////////m
■ P-w-r
■fen
r'f
§3
m
m


m
se
WkMk W m
k -
>».•
(5Uh
Mothers know
the worry
when baby does not get on well.
Often the teething period is a
particularly trying time for the
mother.
Baby becomes feverish, restless
and suffers pain from swollen
gums, sleeplessness, constipa-
tion, diarrhoea or skin troubles.
Often, too, baby becomes subject
to coughs, colds or even
bronchitis.
Still more often, appetite fails
and the poor child becomes
thin, miserable and weak.
&
A course of Scott's
Emulsion saves all
this. It gives the
child strength to
carry over this
trying period,
whilst its valuable
lime salts aid the
easy formation of
s t rong, white teeth.
Insist on genuine
scorn
Emulsion
IMITATED BUT NEYER EQUALLED.
Have You a BAD LEG
perhaps surrounded with inflammation and
swollen, that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Per-
haps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated, the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored, the disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. Von may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Try the great British Remedy;—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which you will find a certain restorer.
Can ne obtained at any Drug Store.
Also a certain remedy for
Poisoned Hands, Housemaid
Knees, Carbuncles, Abscesses,
Snake and Insect Hites.
British Prices, 1/I}£ and 2/9.
ALBERT & CO.. Albert House, Farringdon St.,
Agknts— LONDON, Eng.
ELLIOTT BROS.
W. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS. etc.
font I
bi
Dr B. Allen’s (U-SA)
MxiQm i
WALNUT
STAIN
FOR
GREY
hAIR.
London’s Beauty Writers.
Weekly Selections from Noted Beauty Experts Writing for
the English Press. Simple and Effective Methods.
By OLGA AMSDELL, Special Correspondent, London, Eng.
Grey Hair —Home Remedy.
There are plenty of reasons why grey hair
is not desirable, and plenty ol' reasons why
hair dyes should not be used. But. on the
other hand, there is no reason why you
should have grey hair if you do not want it.
To turn the hair back to a natural color is
really a very simple matter. One has only to
get, from the chemist an ounce of concen-
trate of tammalite and mix it with four
ounces of bay rum. Apply to the hair with a
small sponge for a few nights and the grey-
ness will gradually disappear. This liquid
is not sticky or greasy, and does not injure
the hair in any way. It has been used for
generations with most satisfactory results by
those who have known the formula.
Blackheads Ply Away.
A practically instantaneous remedy for
blackheads, greasy skins and enlarged pores,
recently discovered, is now coming into gen-
eral use in the boudoir. It is very simple,
harmless and pleasant. Drop a stymol tablet,
obtained at the chemist’s, in a tumbler full of
hot water. After the effervescence has sub-
sided bathe the face in the liquid, using a
small sponge or soft cloth. In a few minutes
dry the face and the offensive blackheads will
come right off on the towel. Also the large,
oily pores immediately close up and efface
themselves naturally. The greasiness dis-
appears. and the skin is left smooth, soft and
cool. This simple treatment is then repeated
a few times at intervals of four or live days
to ensure the permanence of the result.
Emergency Complexions.
Even a complexion which is hopelessly dull
or greasy can be made beautiful in a moment
by a perfectly harmless home recipe. If you
have no cleminite in the house, get about' an
ounce from your chemist, and add only
enough water to dissolve it. The process
defies detection, and the result is an immedi-
ate appearance of velvety, youthful “bloom’’
which every woman desires. The effect will
last all day under the most trying conditions,
indoors or out. and renders powdering quite
unnecessary. This simple substance is also
very good for the skin, and no possible harm
can come from its regular use.
Effectually Killing Superfluous Hair.
Many women know how to remove ugly
growths of superfluous hair temporarily, but
few know how to remove it permanently For
this purpose pure powdered pheminol may be
used. Get about an ounce'from your chemist
and apply a little directly to the objection-
able hair. The purpose of the recommended
treatment is not merely to remove the super-
fluous hair instantly, but also to kill the hair
roots completely in a comparative! v short
time.
How Nature Makes New Complexions.
It is well known that the human skin is
constantly undergoing a .tearing down and
building up process. With advancing years
<r waning vitality this tissue-change lags:
I lie lifeless, soiled surface skin stays on so
i<mg that ils owner gets a “poor complexion:"
Common-sense, tells us this dead skin cannot
bo enlivened or beautified by any cosmetic,
lotion or powder. The natural thing to do is
to actually remove the offensive skin remove
Ihe bad complexion. It lias been found that
ordinary inercolised wax completely absorbs
the devitalised skin, in minute partijflos. so
gently, gradually, as to cause no i neon von i-
enee. Mereolised wax, which anv chemist can
supply, is put on at night like cold cream,
and washed off in the morning. If you would
have a brilliantly beautiful and youthful com-
plexion just use this simple treatment.
Falling Hair.
How often one hears the lament : “I have
tried everything on the market, and my hair
comes out in handfuls.” Not so surprising
either when you come to think it over. Hair
tonics to be effective must be fresh, and there
is no earthly reason why every woman should
not make her own lotion at home. The finest
vegetable tonic obtainable is made by mixing
a packet of boraninm with j-pint of bay ruin
and adding sufficient water to fill a half-pint
bottle. This lotion rubbed briskly into the
scalp sets the hair roots tingling with new
life, and will, if persevered with, give you
back your “crowning glory.”
How to Have Thick and Pretty Hail 1 .
Soaps and artificial shampoos ruin many
beautiful heads of hair. Few people know
that a teaspoonful of good stallax dissolved
in a cup of hot water has a natural affinity
for the hair and makes the most delightful
shampoo imaginable. It leaves the hair bril-
liant. soft and wavy, cleanses the scalp com-
pletely, and greatly stimulates the hair-
growth. The only drawback is that stallax
seems rather expensive. It comes to flu
chemist only in sealed jib. packages, which
retail at about four shillings. However, as
this is sufficent for 2d or :!0 shampoos, it
really works out very cheaply in the end. [ff
'Jr*
Very " faddy ” with his food
Was Mr. w ell, let’s call him ' A ’
He shrank from eating, and his meals
They simply bored him in a w'ay.
The Chef’s most wonderful creation.
Merely made him take to flight /
But ‘ Jelloids, ’ happy inspiration 1
Soon found for him his appetite.
After taking Iron ‘Jelloids ’ the blood becomes enriched and
strengthened, the appetite is restored, vitality is renewed. Anaemia
quickly disappears, giving place to vigorous and buoyant spirits.
ft
Hvatt, Isleworth, writes: —“ I have derived considerable
(j benefit from Iron ‘Jelloids ’ —my appetite has returned, and I am feeling
quite well again. They are the best and most convenient tonic to take.”
A fortnight’s trial {Price 1/6) will convince you.
For "Women, No. 2. Special Tonic for Men, No. 2A. (containing Quinine).
For Children, No. 1. Sold in England at 1/11 and 2/9 per box.
Obtainable at all Chemists throughout Australia.
Wholesale: Druggists' Sundries Ltd., 82, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
«
EVERYTiIiHG
m Rinos SEfID FOR OUR SPECIAL RIFIG CATALOGUE
CHOICK DIAMONDS mountbo in sou© 18 «r COLD
'
M
5/-
mm
K" *■
3/w/-,:
Hiii
I j I
BSOO 7/(5/'
*7
w
P 73
OF RINGS IN WHICH THE STONES
STAY.
'Y'lW^h
Get More & Better Wool
-s.
3^
42k
This Season by Shearing with this
Stewart Bail-bearing
Shearing Machine.
It takes the wool off evenly all over.
Gets from a half-pound up more from
each sheep, and the job is done easier,
quicker and better. It has the old
hand shears beat a mile.
Price, with Four Sets of Knives, only £3 10s.
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LTD,
134 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
t Marine” : I liumbly suggest that
J. C. \\ llliamson Ltd. should put iis actors
through a short course of seamanship when
the firm is staging a piece dealing with the
*V a ' i f,“ second act of “The Marriage
Market Derek Hudson swings himself
into the rigging of Gilroy’s steam
yacht, and proceeds to “seize” on a ratline.
And he does the job as though he were
threading a bootlace, using both ends of
the seizing” instead of splicing one end
into the ratline, and then passing the “seiz-
ing with one end only. Also the standing
rigging of that yacht is a disgrace to the
chief officer. It is so slack that if the yacht
rolled heavily the masts would go by tin-
board. Incidentally, in the same scene,
which depicts San Francisco Harbor, the
moon is rising over the Golden Gate from
the westward, a phenomenon which should
greatly interest The Bulletin’s astronomer.
“G. Ockney”: The news censors having
had so much limelight, the British dramatic
ditto has now got busy. lie last month
issued a warning to all managers of theatres
and music-halls, in which (dear soul!) be
“regretted to notice that there is a tend-
ency towards suggestiveness and impropriety
ot language, as well as scantiness of dress,”
and he went on most politely to remind
managers that “regulations strictly forbid
any impropriety of language or indecency of
dress, dance or gesture on the stage.” The
only result has been to give the languishing
vaudeville “revue” a needed fillip. lam
not at all surprised to learn from cabled
reports of a few days ago that the London
theatres are _ doing shocking business, but
that the music-halls are being rushed. The
censors seem all mischievous alike.
“Busk” : I think the most common name
on our I’overt.y Point has been Roberts. There
was Dick; and his son is PI. R. Roberts, the
comedian, was with Garner's first com-
pany. Little Roberts appeared as the "New
Boy.” Gilbert Roberts was a Melbourne
junior reporter, who climbed quickly to the
management of the Ilaymarket Theatre/re-
cliristened Duke of Edinburgh, under Mont-
gomery’s patronage. Another Roberts was
leading man with Minnie Palmer. Yet
another has performed here as a monologist,
with a clever sketch of Dick Turpin, etc.
All these on the male side. On the other
there have been Maggie, Carrie, Decima,
Laima (playing Sarah in “On Our Selec-
tion”), and a smart vaudevilliste from the
T .S. W e have had of Fords a father and two
daughters, and of Fordes Martin and Jack
and their sister. The Careys have been Lena,
W . G.. G. P. and Rege. The Younges, Richard
and Fred, were distinct from the Youngs,
Charley and Fanny. The Stewart family
yielded seven to the boards, including
Nancye. The llowsons formed a large
theatrical and musical family. The Caran-
dinis were mother and four daughters.
Their father was Harlequin in the first Mel-
bourne Theatre Royal panto.. 1850. The
Leopolds were four men and two women.
Ned Holloway and Jim Holloway wore not
related to one another, nor were they
kin to W. J. and C. Holloway, the brothers.
Three Wallaces may be noted, and three
Seftons. Of the Edouin family, six; the
Nelson family, six; and three Wiseman
sisters.
“Screen” : The film of “The Old Chemist”
displayed in Melbourne introduces two per-
formers of Australian interest, Jennie Lee
and Thomas Jefferson, son of the great Joe
Jefferson, who was grandson of an equally
famous Joe. Jennie Lee, the celebrated
little Jo of “Bleak House,” is over 60. The
Melbourne cast supporting her included
Eloise Juno. Maggie Knight. I.illio Bryer.
Burnett, Hoskins, Harwood. W. B. Warner,
O’Brien. Daniels, and big fat Jack Bryan,
great as the Beadle and equally great as
the cabman in “The Silver King.” I
thought Beatrice Holloway’s Jo better than
Jennie’s, which had lost the freshness of the
peach. Three thousand performances would
be somewhere about the number given to
her Jo. Jennie visited Australia again
about a decade ago. I met her on the Mel-
bourne Post Office steps, a plump little
woman in black, rather like Queen Vic-
toria. Thomas Jefferson as a boy accom-
panied his father Joseph, then a widower,
from San Francisco to Sydney. Tom is
about 64. and much like his father in
appearance. He never tried to do much as
an actor, but was a good manager. When
aged theatricals appear on the screen it is
an indication that they haven’t got much
coal in the shed for the winter. Australia
has lately thus witnessed again Louise
Beaudet, G. W. Anson and F. M. Clark, as
well as Duquesne and Angelo, of Bern-
hardt’s company.
“Norbell”: Only an anaesthetic will stop
the average comedian from gagging, and
most of his banal gags badly ne- d the
chloroform. But I heard a neat impromptu
lately—if it was impromptu. It was in
“Charley’s Aunt.” The comedian bad to
be interrupted in a long speech by a servant
dropping a tea-tray. “What was that?”
he exclaims testily. “The tray, sir,” says
the servant. “Then don’t let if occur
again.” is the orthodox reply. On this occa-
sion the comedian roared : “What was
that?” “The tray, sir." “The trey? It
sounded like the deuce!”
WHEN LOVE DYES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tliue you forgotten? Are you consoled?
Love fruit we plucked in the days of old,
And all its blisses were ouis to share,
My heart J gave to your tender care,
lon gave your waist to my arm to mould.
Youth's scented manuscript we unrolled
To learn the talc that its pages told,
And see our histories mirror'd there —■
Have you forgotten?
J hough maids he pliant and men be bold,
I'aney is fickle and hearts grow cold.
1 worshipped your beauty beyond compare—
Tour eyes brown-velvet (or blue?), your hair
Of burnished copper (or was it gold?).
Have you forgotten?
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


Come, Make this a Dickens Winter
Enjoy the Living Delig'Ht of
Reading' these Great Books.
t
■pppp
lt' e
la'"
ta
Mrs Gamp
L
The Two Wellers
Mr PiCKwick
JT is unnecessary to ask whether Dickens is or
is not a great writer. Readers for the past
generation have decided that for you. Your
pleasure is, therefore, quite certain. All you have
to do is to read his works yourself. What has
delighted thousands must also delight you. Your
enjoyment is certain.
In taking up the novels of Charles Dickens
you are insured against disappointment. Every
one of his books has its chorus of admirers, and his
readers form a great brotherhood in every part of the
world.
Better join these admirers this Winter and
become a whole-hearted enthusiast. A feast of
enjoyment will then be yours, and you will find the
FEDERAL EDITION OF DICKENS is a
library in itself.
The Federal Edition of Dickens is contained
in thirty volumes, clearly printed, well bound, and
possessing many attractive features, which all
Booklovers appreciate. Many illustrations in color,
broad margins to the page, uncut edges, good paper,
all make this edition a most desirable set of books.
The Federal Dickens includes all the Short Stories, Plays, etc., that
Dickens wrote. Edwin Drood is also included. The set contains 9600
pages and nearly four million words.
The complete set is delivered free for a first subscription of 6(6,
and, after three days’ approval, the balance may either be settled in full or
paid for by a few monthly instalments which do not amount, to 6d. a day.
A special steel engraving, entitled “The Dickens
Reception,” is being given to all subscribers as long as the
present supply lasts. This interesting picture contains all
Dickens’ characters, and provides endless entertainment in
finding out one’s favorites.
Please use the attached inquiry form at once, and
so obtain post free, but with no necessity to buy, our six-
page illustrated prospectus without delay.
Qc k
sniti
L>sil MKeS
doo crarcner
and Tiny Tim
N
m i
%
\
■m
FREE BOOKLET
To THE STANDARD PUBLISHING CO.
PTY. LTD.
100 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
19 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Commonwealth Buildings, Adelaide.
Please send me, post free, and with
absolutely no obligation to buy, your
illustrated prospectus of The Federal Set
of Dickens, and describe how 1 can
obtain the Thirty Volumes delivered
free for a first payment of 0/0, the
balance being paid either by cash or by
a few monthly instalments.
Name
(Please send this form or a postcard, mentioning'
The Bulletin 1575.)
Address
O N
Cut Off Coupon and Mfoif Today


IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort, and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
The hunters
triple Alliance
—The hunter’s skill plus a
Ross .280 Rifle and Ross .280
Sporting ammunition
with copper tube
expanding bullet —are
sure winners. The Ross
.2SO Rifle delivers your
message straight and
strong and the Ross
copper tube expand-
ing bullet fells the
largest game with its
smashing blow, which
equals at 500 yards,
1500 foot pounds.
Ross Rifles
are sold by best dealers
everywhere .
80 Galibro
High Velocity
hfd
hfd
Illustrated Catalogue free on request. 215
Rossßifle Co.,Quebec, Canada.
The EDISON
Diamond Disc
Phonograph
plays its way into the heart
of every music lover.
Now for the first time there, is an adequate
means of supplying; all the world’s music to
all the world's musie - lovers.
This; grand Instrument marks the attainment
of an ideal by a man whose ideals are many
years in advance of the age in which he lives.
The tone of the Edison Diamond Disc Phono-
graph is beautiful; you cannot imagine how
true to nature it is until you have heard it
play.
The genuine diamond point-reproducer which
never needs changing has completely elimin-
ated the troublesome needle.
Write for further literature, or for the name
of the nearest dealer, where you may hear it
demonstrated.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent St., Sydney.
NYAL’S FACE CREAM
(with
Peroxide)
Made in
Australia.
1
si
This daintilv perfumed, vanishing, peroxide
cream does NOT promote the growth of hair.
Non-greasy, nourishing and easily absorbed—
leaves no shine. Ideal for sunburn, and acts
as a mild skin bleach. Applied freely it will
keep the skin soft and elastic.
Price 1/6 & 2/6 per Jar, from Retail Chemists only.
FREDERICK STEARNS & COMPANY,
358 Harris Street, Pyrmont, Sydney.
Send 2d. Stamp for Sample Jar and Name of
Nearest Agent. -
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop's” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold City
or Suburban Properties, or on Freehold 1
and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security of Government
Debentures Inscribed Sto'ck or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or flew
Zealand! lnscrl,,etl sloc WAT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; The Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; The
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; The Hon. F. E Winchcombe, M.L.C., Adria:»
Knox, Esq K.C. ; Sir Alex. MacCormick, M.D. General Manager and Actuary: Richard Teece, F.1.A,,
FF A FSS HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPKRLY, Secretary.
BP
r
4
*
I i®
I
fjA^AT}
Satisfaction
Safety
Speed
These three points —so im-
portant to Motor Cyclists—
are guaranteed to users of
“8.G.” Tyres. The stan-
dard of rubber used, the
thorough workmanship put
in and the severe test they
are put through, guarantee
entire satisfaction. Don t jog
along with your old tyres.
Tyre your machine with
tyres that mean “More
Mileage" and therefore less
cost. Any dealer will supply
you.
BARNET GLASS
/IffIORCTCLE TYRES
BARNET GLASS RUBBER. C° LT?
289“95 Swanson SITMelb All Sidles a (New Zealand.
h
Shave Yourself.
You shaved this morning —but
how? Easily and naturally, with a
Gillette Safety Razor and the luxury
of the keen Gillette Blades ? Or with
an. old-fashioned razor stropping,
irritation, and perhaps a bit of plaster
to hide mistakes ? British made.
Gillette Standard Sets. One Guinea. Sold Everywhere.
Write for illustrated and descriptive booklet. Mention this paper.
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA t
S. HOFFNUNG & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR LTD.. LONDON. ENGLAND.
NO STROPPING NO HONINC
I
ALL women are agreed upon the de-
lightful feeling of confidence that
comes of being well-dressed in every
respect—gown, gloves, shoes —every detail
correct.
Bostoek Shoes therefore, which are in
the first rank of Fashion, renowned for
their elegance of design and graceful
modelling, and as comfortable as heart
can desire, are certain to find favor with
those women who care about all the
details of dress.
New shipments are constantly arriving
at the leading stores, and should be in-
spected at once ere the most attractive
styles are sold. The name Bostoek is
stamped on the soles of every pair.
mm
824
Bostock No.
P. 6402
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
11.M.A. : Certainly Constantine, of
Greece, is “of German descent,” as stated by this
paper. His father, King George, was a son of Chris-
tian IX., of Denmark, who was a son of the Duke of
Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Glucksburg and Louise
of Hesse-Cassel. From Hanau, in the latter State,
come some of the best fighters which the Germans
are sending against the Allies... .The Australian:
Thanks... .0.J.: Ditto; we’ll pass it on to Lindsay.
....Oliver Oatmeal: You don't say who stole the
goods. .. .Mulga Hut Subscriber: About 2t miles to
the S.S.W. of Central Mount Stuart (or Sturt, as it
was named by Stuart), McDonnell Range. .. .V.McM.:
Glad to see it, of course; but haven't got much
hope of finding room for extract. .. .Red Cross: Ring
off. . . .Shovel: We struggled for half an hour through
inky barbed wire, dugouts and bayonets, and then
came to a gaping pit full of emptiness. .. .Follow the
King: Hooray! And don’t drop out of the ranks to
write letters to this paper about it... . Scharlee:
Hush! the phenomenal-appetite liars are sleeping.
For Heaven’s sake, let ’em alone... .Nix: The writer
of ecclesiastical notes tried a left hook on it, and
McGoorty’s favorite won....Swingle-tree: Ode to
Gabette's pyjamas reverentially put under the pillow.
....Moon: Billjim found those jokes about the
Kaiser’s mo. on an Egyptian brick... .Allie S.: Can’t
reply by letter. It’s immature verse, but you may
do better. But don’t give up butter-making or
cooking, or whatever useful job you’re at. . . .C.V.K. :
Nice sentiment; but the verses, though they have a
fine feeling of sincerity, are rough... .J.8.M.: Poem
tinkles along to rejection. .. .William L.: Here goes:
....Stan E. (M.L.) : Good theme; not enough
■punch s’... Ponderosus: It’s humorous, but too per-
sonal. No, he is still writing H.T. (M.L.) : Not
the right brand.... Fatigued Party: The humor is
rather forced. .. .Mrs. 1). W. : Simple tribute too late
for the funeral. .. .Reay: Too many others have
juggled with the idea.... Warregai: Plain boiled
verse for heroes. . . .John B. (Vic.) : Seen it before,
thanks. Can’t reprint.... Wm. B. M.: Not worth while.
. .. . Tomki: Decent try ; but it -has been done several
times. .. .H.G.K.: Too conventional. .. .L.B.: They’re
just pleasant rhymes. .. .S.D.: Sorry, can’t use them.
Returning MS. .. .H.G.L.: You have stormed the
trench and carried the basket. .. .H.W.S.: Mild,
humorous parody. We can’t trade E.H. (Q.) :
Fifteen-year-old’s verse. Now, how about a game of
tennis?....Another Resident: Do you seriously say
the blacks, driven to the mission-station under police
escort, were handcuffed and leg-ironed?....Skeeter:
Might do for one of the “Pansy” series. So far as The
B. is concerned it has no use for faint pencilling on
shiny paper. The stuff may be worth a lot, but the
staff’s eyes are worth more... . J.M.F.: It’s a ubiqui-
tous dog. The same yarn has been coming in from
all over the shop. .. .M.K. (Q.).: No need to be
backward.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.R.B.: You don't know anything about the job;.
. ...S.T.: Too late and too flat C.C.: Feathery
dwarfs seem ' to be your terrible specialty.
Adam Lindsay Gordon’s mate in the S.
Aus. police force, George S. Scott, is still
living at Parkside, near Adelaide —retired,
of course, these many years. Scott came
from England in 1S53, joined as a trooper
along with Gordon, and they served together
in the south-east, mostly at Penola. The
poet wasn’t a cheerful mate, by all accounts.
“Vagabond”: The raising of the Kitchener
millions was bound to lead to complications
in Army routine, and the most noticeable
at the moment are the queer anomalies in
matters of seniority and promotion. There
is a good deal of soreness in the Regulars
over the matter, and it can hardly be won-
dered at. In the New armies there were
more vacancies for higher ranks than there
were trained men to fill them, and promo-
tions were made at a rate to turn a Regular
green with envy. That was all right so
long as the New and the Old armies were
funning on separate rails. But when ori-
ginal Regulars began to be casualtied off
aid the Reserves were insufficient to fill up
the wastage, the New army (or “temporary
commission”) officers began to be shipped
out to take up their job in Regular units.
The result is that a man who was commis-
sioned in, say, January, 1915, and was pro-
moted from second to full lieutenant or
captain in England, comes out here and
finds himself senior in rank to Regulars who
have been right through the rumpus from
Mons, and perhaps had a course of military
training and soldiering for some years be-
fore that. Then, again, some fellows (I’m
one) with “temporary commissions” dating
September were lucky enough to get pushed
out here in October and the beginning of
November. Being posted to Regular units
we, of course, follow the Regular routine of
seniority for promotion. The result is that
we read every day in the Gazettes of pro-
motion coming to men in England who
joined months after we did, and who haven’t
had a day’s active service or heard a shot
fired, while we have no hope. Some of these
men are actually coming out now, to join
the units we’ve been in for months, as our
seniors. There are even cases where the
men out here have been recommended for
“accelerated promotion” by their Regular
C. but the recommendation has been
turned down. To most of us, perhaps, pro-
motion is not of vital consequence, because
when the war is done with we’ve done with
war. But, all the same, it is hardly a fair
thing, and it is a serious question for young
fellows who have chosen khaki as a pro-
fession,
Our sailors brave, behind their guns,
Bequeathed their lives away,
That Right might dwell upon this earth
With Love and Liberty.
Our soldiers in their trenches cold,
Hurl back their savage toe
To drive them out of outraged homes
Their presence violates.
And when the “Lion” needs his cubs
He hears their answering growl.
And straight across the distant seas
They hurry to his call.


%
i
The 1-14 Meters for Continued Accuracy
:: under Severe Service Conditions ss
■
K
K
m
M&r:'-
B
You should Insist on 1-14 METERS
because:
1. They are of mechanically robust design.
2. Do not creep on shunt.
3. tdave both high and continued accuracy.
4. Unaffected by variations of voltage and frequency.
5. Accurate on inductive loads as low as ‘5 P.F.
6. Wave form variations have practically no effect on
the accuracy.
7. Will not be affected by short circuits or stray fields.
The 1-14 METER is the Last Word in INDUCTION METERS,
and should be on every Up-to-date Supply System
9
A
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
—Agents—
‘Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock and Co., Ltd., Launceston: Oliver & Oliver. Ltd.. MacQuarie Street. Hobart
fd
DINNEFORD’S
DINNEFORD'S
Magnesia
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
/
*7
Dust —D amp—
Grease Proof.
The “Miner’s” Watch is proof against all the enemies
of accurate timekeeping. The Movement is hinged
to the Case—the FRONT SCREWING ON with a
dust-damp and air-tight screw. The Movement is
beautifully made, and will keep accurate time under
the roughest conditions.
We can recommend this Watch especially to
Miners, Quarrymen, Engineers, Electricians,
Tramway Men, and every man who has to
work under dusty, dirt conditions. We guar-
antee the SERVICE of this Watch, and cheer-
fully refund your money if the Watch is not
up to expectations.
The Miner s’
Watch
201-
Post
Free
Write for our special Watch Catalogue post
free.
Stewart Dawson’s,
Strand Corner, 412 George Street, SYDNEY.
Are YOU One
of the Army
who use “His Master’s Voice” records?
Its ranks are swelling every week —and though the
giant “His Master’s Voice” factories are now mak-
ing munitions you can still get new
His Master’s Voice
The Watch Bogs:
—including the most recent Patriotic Successes.
By the way, you should be SURE to hear No. 4-2513, “Tipperary, by John
McCormack and male chorus, with orchestra. It’s grand—absolutely the best
rendering of the soldier’s song.
You get the LATEST—and the BEST—on “His Master’s Voice.”
Instrument Catalogue, Becord Lists, and name of nearest accredited dealeis on
request.
The Gramophone
Co. Ltd.,
163 Pitt Street SYDNEY.
hfd


Public Companies. Sic.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners—
R. A. WARDEN (President). W. H. O'M. WOOD,
H. D. HALL.
SECURITY AND SATISFACTORY
INTEREST FOR YOUR SAVINGS.
DEPOSITS received from 1/- upwards.
at 3 - P er cent, on first
i-ZOO and 3 per cent, on excess to £5OO.
ERNMFNT rS GUARANTEED BY THE GOV-
MONEY TO LEND TO FARMERS
AND SETTLERS
in amounts up to £5OO, repayable by instal-
ments extending over 31 years. Interest, 5 per
cent. e
Branches ami Agencies throughout the
State. I ost Offices are not now Agencies for
this Bank.
By Order of the Commissioners,
J- H. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
limited.
c , AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capita] and Reserves, £385,000.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY'
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, M L A •
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C. ' ’
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Ollice: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian jjank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £RI9B 679
PAID-UP (31st December, 1914) .. £1’195’591
RESERVE FUND ._. ... .. £55,000
HEAD OFFICE : George & King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37ThreadneedleStreet, E.C.
D!RECTORS— Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman ;
George j. Sly, LL.D. ; Arthur S. Barton
Esq. ; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq. ; Herbert r’
Lysaght, Esq. ; Gecrge F. Todman, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
erencies thronsrbont the Australian Commonwealth
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of *he
world., C, M, C, SHANNON, General Manager.'
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 178,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Jas. Munro, Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L C •
James Love, Esq. ; Jas. Milne, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Brandies—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland. Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial ganking (Jo.
of Sydney, [imileif.
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
..£2,000,000 0
.. 1,755,000 0
.. 2,000,000 0
£6,755,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Ivater. M.L.C. . . Deputv-Chairrnan
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.
T. F. Knox, Esq.
Auditors: F. W. Hixson, Esq., and W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dihbs
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. 11. MXssie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birch in Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S.
Littleton: N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager i F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of |}eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock..
Preference Shares..
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up . . ....
Uncalled Canital
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
£528,988,-
750,000'
975,710
524,290
2,057,170
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea
land, Fiji, Great Bri
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
;at Interest for
1 fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Pe Colonial (Jjutual fjife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments ami
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office ;
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated funds, . £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £0,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office For New South Walejs:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts. C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith. K.C., M.P.
Shipping, &c.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA
-E'N GLAN D.
ORAMA DE • -bearedTurbine 15,000 Regd
ORAMA
ORVIETO
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA
ORpNTES
OMR AH
• Triple-Screw
• . Twin-Screw
13,000
12,130
12,129
12,124
12,077
12,036
9,023
“ .282
Tons.
ous W p el , e ? s Tel e&raphy. New and luxuri-
bedsteads ™i Ca t ) bll l e u S 'l e ' luxe J Staterooms, with
iS«o ! £i,S"S
/tt°vS BRI SBANE, SYDNEY,
- LfJjtsOUKjSE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
ORIENT S.N. CO., Eta.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
(UNDER THE BRITISH FIAC)
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.), .RAROTONGA,
and PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Ll Wr°Fmr A 800 l ^ S to any part of
AAlliililGA or EUROPE. '
with all United States
Railways.
and
connection
Canadian
open at San
i 4- > unest ana newest
between Sydney and San Francisco.
Panama Pacific Exhibition nov
1 randisco.
Return Tickets available by various routes,
the Padfic!’’ Stay 24 h ° UrS at Ba P ecte > “The Pearl of
Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy
Particulars and pamphlets obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.
209 George Street, Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
*CAIRNS
for
this and other
Qu eensla nd ports )..
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney July 17.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne July 21.
Leaves Sydney July 24.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne July 28.
Leaves Sydney July 31.
MELBOURNE . )
(Transhipping; for [
S.A. and W.A. ports) J
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney -July 24.
QUEENSLAND MAIL SERVICE.
S.S. Peregrine (3500 tons) leaves Brisbane every
Friday at 8 a.m. for TOWNSVILLE, calling at
GLADSTONE, FLAT TOP and BOWEN, connecting
at TOWNSVILLE with t.s.s. MOURILYAN for ports
as far as COOKTOWN.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
The Great 1915 Trip,
7 WEEKS ONLY. /
Visit the
Panama-Pacific Exposition
AT SAN FRANCISCO.
Now Open. Closes Dec. 4.
Sydney to San Francisco in 18 days
via Honolulu Beautiful Hawaii
giving
12 days to see the Exposition
and be delighted with
World-famed Californian Sights.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
July 31; August 28; Sept. 25; Oct. 23
AppIy:— OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City ‘2282.
m
So
8 SCAT]
i* X
KUR
V %
' © \
m
IS BAM £
/ f
~ «ORfOU) I?
ayoNfy
L3RD
MOWS
M£LOOURH£
FI
•'fIOIiIDAY-'
’■CRUISES
to Pac/f/c Isles.
BurnsPh/lp& cpbp
sencf for Pamphlet.
TO PAPUA &RABAUL
TO SOLOMON IS
TO NEW HEBRIDES
TO MARSHALL#,
TO GILBERT I?
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
m
DIRECTORS
£3,500,000
£2,550,000
£3,500,000
£9,550.000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C.,
President.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Robert Lionel Eaithfull, Esq., M.D.
ihe lion. James T. Walker.
The lion. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Bucldand, Esq.
„ .• AUniT-ORSV-WiiUam'- Harrington Palmer, -Es% : ""Shepheard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq.
Head Office George St., Sydney. London office—29 Threadrieedle St, EC
' : 3 f 6 Ranches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London ‘
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated- and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the world
J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
lnn^ it nVr e « r o li filU eSS e Pot f ntial , iti T S ’ stiU in the P rocess of initial development, Queens-
pfo d spe?tTve a settLr an^toTh^on^ 6 work^. 1^68401 * the the tolirist ’ tlle
lor Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. HESTON, Local Director.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
h
JBaiik ot 3u6tralta
SYDNEY ■
£? e a n n General Banking Business P M£u
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
f'able remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth,
United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened Interest paid on fixed deposits.
Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at over
1/'
Minimum
Deposit
2550
Post Offices
I in Australia
and Papua
Interest at O o>
per annum <*/ 0
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL pavings
JAMES KELI , Depu:y Governor. . June, 1915
Bank Facilities
DENIS >N MILLEH, Governor
#1
Spl?Qdid Winter ToCirs
'TO THE
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
FIJI
Quaint Customs,
Rugged Scenery.
TONGA
Palm-fringed
Coral Islands.
SAMOA
The Gem of the Pacific.
Union Company’s GRAND PACIFIC HOTEL at SUVA is NOW OPEN^'
PAMPHLETS AND ALL INFORMATION. FROM
UNION STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND, LTD.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIBIE
And GULP PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to ail North-Western Ports.
T.S.S. WARILDA (8000
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
July 31 and Aug. 28.
(Carrying First and
Second Saloon and
Steerage Passengers.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
MORIALTA, July 17.
INNAMINCKA, July 24.
GRANTALA, July 31.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUIIX & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
. VIA NEW ZEALAND, FIJI AND
HONOLULU.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
GANADIAN-AUSTRAT:ASIAN lI.M.
LlNE-
in.conjunction with Canadian" Pacific-■ Kailway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND.
OPERATING THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST
AND BEST-EQUIPPED VESSELS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN
CONTINENT.
SAILINGS :
fTwimSterew. *Triple-Screw. Fitted- with Cabins
de luxe, suites, bedstead rooms, laundry, - nursery,
'wireless, etc. •.- -
PANAMA PACIFIC EXHIBITION AT SAN
FRANCISCO NOW OPEN.
Passengers stopping off at Suva can obtain ever?
comfort and convenience . at the new. and palatial
Grand Pacific Hotel, Coupons at specially-reduced
rates are available to passengers.
For full particulars ari'd pamphlets apply
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast
“Zealandia,”
“Ulimaroa,”
“Riverina,”
Passenger Steamships
“Westralia,”
“Wimmera,”
“Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy,
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HU Dp ART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Ami All Ports.
North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER, '<
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, GOFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Muvwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners lor SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer', £6 Bs. Cd. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d. ”
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 2CI GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
Capital Subscribed .. .. .. ..£250,000
Capital Paid up £lOO,OOO
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits .. £15,365
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
The Company acts as Executor, Joint Executor, Trustee,
Administrat< r or Attorney under Power for absentees,’
and is the only Trustee Company empowered by Act
cf Parliament to operate in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 48 \Young Street.
The Hon. Sir CHARLES K.° MACKELLAII, M.L.C.
H. Y. BRADDON, Esq.
H. W. BELL. Esq.
JAMES KIDD, Esq
R. M. PITT, Esq.
Full information as to terms, etc., obtainable on
application to JOHN MAIlt, Manager.
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORIiS- _
Just wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and- you’ll have the skin healed and healthy
quicker than with any other ointment on earth.
Everypne says so who has used it. Write for a
tiu now. :/fi. posted 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist.
J~T- Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane.
ALL AUiSTLALIANB visiting London
should read the British Austhat-
asxan, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.-


fdh
This £l4 Machine
With 5 Drawers
Automatic Lift
£6 10s. cash
IO YEARS’WRITTEN
GUARANTEE
Paqked& Delivered Free
A.N.A. Sewing
Machine To.
•25 Queen Victoria Markets (near Town Hall), Sydney.
M,
G
EORGE HOTEL.
St. Kilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria-
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 16 - per day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It
is the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL AND SUPPER
ROOM.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
EXCELLENT CUISINE EVERY AFTER-
NOON AND EVENING.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 1874.
FOR
COUGHS
nwirldq
es
UJungTon
ic
FOR
COLDS
Public Speakers Singers, and all who
suffer from Throat Weakness find
it safe and effective*
SOLD BY RETAIL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
STOCKED BY ALL WHOLESALE
DRUG HOUSES in AUSIRALIA.
Prepared by W. T. OWBRIDGE, LTD.
HULL, ENGLAND.
(flPILLdRINE
CROWS MOUSTACHES
QUICKLY !
w
Sure and speedy is
the way Capillarine
works. While you
sleep it coaxes your
moustache to a
growth that is most
satisfying. Men whe
wish to improve
their appearance
should certainly pur
chase a jar right ayyav.
Order a Jar To-day—lo/6 Post Free.
Craig & Aitken.
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established Over 80 Years.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORO STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE', VIG.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all pans of the world.
s
hi.
"Nl'v
Siv
*2 A
*jk
'd. a
m
Don’t remain
“Weak, Anaemic,
“Nervy,” “Run-down”
Get well the “Wincarnis” way —the quick, sure and safe way to new and
vigorous health. It is the Quick way—because the benefit begins from the first
wineglassful, and increases with every additional wiheglassful. The Sure waj
—because it has given new health and new life to countless thousands of
sufferers. And because it is recommended by over 10,000 Doctors. Tlie Safe
way —because it contains no drugs. The first effect of “Wincarnis” is an
immediate stimulation and invigoration of the whole system. This is followed
by an actual up-building of bodily vigor—an up-building that you can feel—and
which gives you more strength and vitality than vou had before. And each
succeeding wineglassful of “Wincarnis” creates still more strength and
still more vitality, until soon your whole body thrills with new health and new
life. Then you can stop taking “Wincarnis.”
But you can still enjoy to the full the glorious new health it has given you.
That is where
mm
mi
rrffT?
•^gf
AAA
i
r»
proves itself of enormous advantage over drugs and drugged wines. Drugs
stimulate, it is true, but it is false stimulation. And drugs make you feel worse
afterwards, because they depress the heart. Bead what Mr. Edmunds says: —
“Dear Sirs, —I am delighted with the new health your world-famed
‘Wincarnis 5 has given me. I have had such a busy season that I got ‘run-
down/ I was intensely weak, and quickly got exhausted. I was induced to
take a wine tonic, which unfortunately made me feel worse than ever. I
discovered afterwards that it contained drugs. So I quickly gave it up and
tried ‘Wincarnis 5 instead. And it is wonderful how speedily ‘Wincarnis 5 has
made me feel a different being. It seemed to put new life into me. I should
never have believed that anything could do me so much good, or do it as quickly
as ‘Wincarnis’ has done. I only wish I had tried it before.—Yours faithfully,
“A. S. EDMUNDS, 8-12 Selwyn Eoad, Cliftonville.”
So you see that the health that “Wincarnis” gives is real and lasting health.
That is the health you want if you suffer from Anaemia, Weakness, Nerves,
Sleeplessness, Exhaustion, Indigestion, or if you are “Bun-down.” And it is
real and lasting health that “Wincarnis” offers you. Will von try just one
bottle ?
Begin to get weSl TO-DAY.
“Wincarnis” is made in England by COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Wincarnis Works,
Norwich. 4 You can buy “Wincarnis” from any Wine Merchant, Licensed
Chemist, or Grocer, but if you experience any difficulty in obtaining it write
direct to the Sole Distributing Agents, Eassett & Johnson, 5-7 Barrack Street,
Sydney. „ " »
f J\J/
m
a*
K
*7*7
W
£
gll
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices in this list are those at which the
various books are published in London. The
prices in parentheses are those at which the
books are supplied by retail booksellers in Vic-
toria, New South Wales and South Australia.
Postage is extra, at the rale of 2d. per pound
within the Australian Commonwealth.
NOW COMPLETE IN 6 VOLS.
MACAULAY’S HISTORY OP ENG-
LAND. ILLUSTRATED EDI-
TION. Edited by C. H. FIRTH,
M.A. With 900 Illustrations, includ-
ing 44 in Color and Photogravure
Portrait. In 6 vols. Super royal
Bvo. 10s. 6d. net each. (12s. Gd.)
Illustrated Prospectus post free on
application.
Daily News : “This is a great edition of a
great book. We do not know of any more
nobly illustrated history in the English lan-
guage.”
1915 ISSUE JUST READY.
THE STATESMAN’S YEAR BOOK.
Statistical and Historical Annual of
the States of the World for the Year
1915. Edited by J. SCOTT KELTIE,
LL.D. Assisted by M. EPSTEIN,
M.A., Ph.D. Crown Bvo. 10s. 6d.
net. (12s. 6d.)
THE BRITISH EMPIRE. By Sir
CHARLES P. LUCAS, K.C.8.,
K.C.M.G. With Maps. Crown Bvo.
2s. net. (2s. 6d.)
The British Empire Review: “In any-
thing that Sir Charles writes we look for ripe
scholarship and the fruits of long and honor-
able official experience in dealing with Colonial
and Imperial problems, and we are not dis-
appointed. The volume will, no doubt, as it
deserves, have many readers.”
THE WAR AND DEMOCRACY.
By R. W. SETON-WATSON, D.Litt.,
J. DOVER WILSON, ALFRED E.
ZIMMERN, and ARTHUR GREEN-
WOOD. With 8 Maps. Crown Bvo.
2s. net. (2s. 6d.)
The Nation : “A remarkably vivid and inter-
esting book, which throws a great deal of light
on the nature and history of the problems that
we have to solve.”
W. & A. K. JOHNSTON’S
WAR MAP OF THE DARDA-
NELLES, showing Forts, Main
Roads and Railways. 25 x2O inches.
Colored, Unmounted, 6d. net (9d.).
Cloth, Is. 3d. net (Is. 6d.)
Also —
(1) Between Paris and Berlin, Is. 6d.
net. (Is. 9d.)
(2) Between Petrograd and Berlin,
including the whole of Austria. Is.
6d. net. (Is. 9d.)
STORIES FROM NATURE. By J.
A. FLETCHER. With Illustrations.
Is. 6d. Contents include: Tommy
Oystercatchor —How Robbie Watched
the Corroboree —Bennie’s Wabbalee,
etc., etc.
MACMILLAN’S EMPIRE LIBRARY.
Paper Covers, 2/6; Cloth, 3/6 per
Volume.
WINSTON CHURCHILL’S NEW
NOVEL.
646 A FAR COUNTRY. By WIN-
STON CHURCHILL. Author of
“The Inside of the Cup,” etc.
The title of this novel is taken from that
passage of the Parable of the Prodigal Son,
where we are told that he “took his journey
into a far country, and there wasted his sub-
stance with riotous living.” This fact suffici-
ently indicates the theme of the work, and it
is only necessary to say that the treatment
is marked by the author’s customary boldness
and power of holding the reader’s attention.
JAMES LANE ALLEN’S NEW
STORY.
647 THE SWORD OF YOUTH. By
JAMES LANE ALLEN, Author of
“The Choir Invisible,” ete.
Country Life : “This is a book worth,.a hun*..
dred war books, crammed with red-hot, brand-
new impressions of the war of to-day. It has
the advantage of having matured for half a
century, and possesses all the gravity and
distinction of its years.”
A CompleteXatalogue of Macmillan’s Empire
Library will be sent on application.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers .
MACMILLAN SCO.LTD.
MELBOURNE and LONDON.


Elastic Sides
that won’t
stretch out after
a few weeks’
wear.
Price:
Black, 16/6 pr.
Tan, 18/6 pr.
fd
WE PAY THE POSTAGE.
Next time you need
Riding: Boots, buy
“WALLABY
EMPERORS.”
They are soft and light. They
are strong and durable. Made
in Queensland from genuine
Wallaby Hides,, fitted with
comfortable elastic sides that
will not perish or stretch after
a few weeks’ wear.
SEND FOll A PAIR ON APPROVAL, STATING SIZE AND COLOR PREFERRED.
PIKE BROTHERS, LIMITED,
Toowoomba. BRISBANE. Townsville.
tut sSSSKSfes
\\
An Odorless
Breath
is but one of t]ae many advantages that Pebeco provides.
Cleaner, whiter, stronger teeth, firmer, healthier gums,
and a high standard of mouth health all inevitably
follow its night and morning use.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube, with useful Book and interesting test, Free
for three penny stamps, on application to the
Manufacturer.
G. ARNOLD
(Dept. A), 6 O’Connell St., Sydney.
(WHOLESALE ONLY.)
IN
BANANA LAND
Nearly 1000 persons left Hamburg in one
month of 1865 for Queensland by the ships
Helene, Peter Godeffroy and Susanne Godef-
froy. These were the settlers who levelled
the Logan forests and founded its home-
steads. Prussian militarism dr.ove them out,
and to-day scores of their descendants are off
to Europe to fight the same curse.
What piffle these politicians do put for-
ward to justify themselves! Here is Hard-
acre giving the press the letter of a little
school-girl thanking him for abolishing all
home-work. If Hardacre would abolish all
schools at one fell swoop, the whole juvenile
population from Cape York to ‘the Tweed
would joyfully sit down and send him two
letters apiece.
“Politicus” : A movement is beginning in
Brisbane for the six o’clock closing of: pubs,
club bars and wine-shops. There can be little
doubt that if the matter goes to a referendum
as in S. Aus., the public, by a big majority,
will say yes; and it isn’t easy to see how a
democratic government is going to say to the
people that they shall not have the oppor-
tunity to decide the question.
Wullie Kidston had the salt rubbed in the
other day. As Land Court Judge he was
shown around the Jimbour estate so that he
might view the desolation of the place, in
view of the application of the settlers for
extension of time and alleviation of pay-
ments. It was the Kidston Govt, which pur-
chased this estate and cut it up for settle-
ment, in spite of many warnings as to its
liability to devastating droughts.
Just 50 years ago a dinner, attended by
leading Queenslanders, was tendered in Syd-
ney to John Plunkett, then known as the
“Father of Australian Politics.” In speak-
ing to the toast the N.S.W. Governor of the
day referred to the fact that all the Gover-
nors in Australia (excepting Darling) had
come from Ireland, and that at that moment
Irishmen were Governors in Canada and;
Nova Scotia. “Both Sir Chas. Darling’s
wives,” says the old Brisbane Courier
account of the gathering, “also were born in
Ireland,” though what Sir Charles was doing
with two wives it didn’t stop to explain.
“Milor”: Tell “Milo” (B. l/7/’l5) that
any Brummagem tailor can do that memory-
measuring trick with which a Northern
Chow astonished him. This is how it’s
done. The mug is wheeled into the measur-
ing room and Brummagem says to his off-
sider, “Take this down, Mr. Swivelnose.”
Silence here while the tape is run over.
Then out it comes: “17-33-83-11-15. Side-
pockets, sir? Yes. American shoulders?
Yes. Try-on on Monday? Yes. Usual to
leave a deposit, sir. Thank you. Good-
day” Then the mug departs and a length
of cloth is sent to an adjacent factory to be
made up as “Size 5” or “Size 6” or what-
ever the practised eye has figured the occa-
sion calls for.
Ministers are the victims of a furious
attack of deputation. The disease seems
likely to develop rather than diminish, being
stimulated by encouraging replies. Local
authorities, farmers and railway promoters
have swarmed round the Government offices,
anxious to catch Ministers in the first flush
of new-found power. So far only one man
has fled for shelter. Railway requests have
been hurled at Adamson in such profusion
that he has had to get behind the commit-
ments for two and a half millions left him
as a legacy by the late Government.
War has no respect at all for the law of
averages. John Baldie, of Teneriffe, sent his
only two sons to the war, and the old man
is now informed that both have been killed.
Yet one South Brisbane family has four sons
at the Front, and not one has so far received
a scratch.
Labor inspected the Parliamentary fruit
tree last Friday, and the two remaining
plums were handed to Jack Fihelly and
John Huxham. Both had been passed over
in the first pick for Cabinet honors, much
to the unconcealed amazement of many
people, including two men named Fihelly
and Huxham. However, as Hon. Ministers
they will both swim in the “pool.” Fihelly
was secretary to the Party, and did big
work during the election campaign. Young,
aggressive and capable, he may go far
if he keeps a block of ice in his hat. Hux-
ham is the husband of Mrs. Huxham, one
of the most energetic Labor speakers in
Queensland. George Barber, who won the
Bundaberg seat, will replace Fihelly as
party sec. Bill Hamilton will “lead” for
the Government in the Ice House, and will
have a tough jbb to hold his end up against
A. J. Thynne, the leader of the £sd party.
HOBSETRALIAN.
BOUNDARY RIDER (in disgust): “This dark mare is a cow ter ride."
ROUSEABOUT (sympathetic): “Yes, my oath he's a fair swine.”
“P.F.” : John Wren lately bought a Bris-
bane daily, which thereupon advertised a
sweep and carried it through successfully,
distributing dividends among some 28 Bris-
bane citizens. Sweeps and other gambles
are expressly forbidden under Queensland
law, a permit from the Attorney-General
being necessary even for the holding of a
simple raffle for charities. Why was this
gamble allowed? Wren’s paper professes
Labor sentiments. Is that a mantle that
Covers all sins?
One of the first acts of the new Govern-
ment was to hit the timber people —with its
mouth. On inquiry Premier Ryan found
that the available supply for milling 1000
million super feet, was being used up at the
rate of 45 millions, a year. It does not
require an actuary to see the seriousness
of this position. One of Ryan’s ideas is to
have the forests so supervised that the best
use may be made of mature timber and the
growing trees protected. - Another is to use
the revenues from the forests for purposes
of reafforestation. Dozens of politicians
before Jt.van have had the same ideas, of
course. The only difference possible between
Ryan and his predecessors, in fact, is that
the latter all dropped their beautiful schemes
down a crack, while Ryan has still the
chance to carry his into effect.
By Meuse and Marne.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
By Meuse and Marne the willows wave, ,
Forgetful how the tempest drave;
The daisies nod it to and fro
As gaily as a year ago
Before the war-hound ’gan to rave.
Was there no voice to warn and save
From shot and shell -and foreign glaive
The meadows sweet that used to blow
By Meuse and Marne?
Their rest is sweet, the young, the brave,
Beneath the sod those waters lave ;
And oft at eventide, I trow,
Come gentle girls with voices low,
And tend’rest tears for some dear grave
By Meuse or Marne.
QUEENSLAND.
F. B.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, July 10, 1915.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
The episode of the week was the visit of
Monsignor Ceretti, Papal Delegate. Bishop
Shiel, of Rockhampton, and Bishop Heaney,
of Cooktown, added to the impressiveness Of
the landing. They had joined the stranger at
Ip.wkh and helped to hearten him up. All
the way from Wallangarra he had a sort of
triumphal progress. Archbishop Duhig met
him at Central Station, as well as a number
of other R.C. shepherds and various lOU
Parliamentarians and the Mayor. From
the station Monsignor proceeded to Dara,
where Archbishop Dunne urged him to
consider the place his own and hang the
expense. The fine old man made quite a
long speech, but only those immediately
around his chair could hear what he said.
This morning the Pope’s plenipotentiary
fafied a civic reception at the Town Hall
and afterwards shared a chop with Premier
Ryan. Later in the day the Governor and
her Ex. handed out afternoon tea and
damper; and the long day closed with a
helping of Amy Gastles at the Exhibition
Hall.
The Jananese cruisers roiled into port
on Wednesday; and on Thursday morning
the officers were interned in the Town
Hall while the Municipal Admiral
addressed them from the quarter-deck. At
the conclusion of his remarks he roared:
‘#Ul hands splice the main teapot!” or
something like that; and the liquor that
cheers wa« served out lavishly. The visitors
meant to trip round the country a little,
and had planned a visit to Gympie, but in
consequence of the indisposition of the Rear-
Admiral this voyage is off. On Friday and
Saturday nights large parties of officers
were entertained by the J.C.W. management
at “Pinafore.” On Friday his Ex. and
Lady Goold-Adams gave a luncheon party
on the Lucinda. Premier Ryan and his
picturesque wife were among the guests,
and the two Mayors, the Military and
Naval Commandants, Chief Justice Pope
Cooper, and most of the Consuls were
rounded up.
The men wear their quaint woollen gloves
everywhere. They are antiseptic, it seems.
Wearing a pair of these you couldn’t pick
up a germ even if it cried pitifully to you
from the gutter.
The Red Cross Society held its first
annual meeting at the Exhibition Hall on
Thursday nigh.t. The big hall was
comfortably full, and most of the women
present had brought their war-knitting. The
audience had been told to be in its roost
before 7.30, as there was to be a procession.
This consisted of Judges in scarlet robes
and poodle-dog wigs, barristers in black
robes and neat white curls, naval and
military men, boy scouts, naval cadets,
University graduates, army nurses, and the
committee of the Red Cross Society. Oh,
and I nearly forgot. There were two or
three females in military cloaks, plumed
hats, and, peeping from under the cloaks,
dear little brown military boots and gaiters.
No one can tell me whether they were girl
aids, women -scouts or mere pathfinder’s.
When the procession had removed itself the
Governor made a speech, and the annual
report followed hard on his heels.
Another device for raising money for
incapacitated warriors. Mrs. Chubb has
made a large number of stout canvas bags,
each one to hold £1 in pennies. She has set
out to raise £lOOO that way, and the start
is encouraging.
Eric Hayne, the young Queensland
violinist who has just come home after-
seven years’ study in Europe and America,
is to be the chief attraction at the
Liedertafel concert on July 26. He gave a
recital in Ipswich on Tuesday last —he was
born there —and the natives agreed that
their prophecies had been fulfilled.
From a girl in London
All the papers have been talking about George
Lambert’s portrait of Mrs. Derwent Wood —who was
Florence Schmidt, of Rockhampton, before she
married. Florence has been painted and sculpted
as much as most women. One of the best is a
full length life-size portrait by George Henry,
A.R.A., which originally appeared at the Royal
Academy and was exhibited again two years ago at
the Exhibition of Fair Women at the Grosvenor.
This was a wedding present. Next-best, perhaps, is
a bust by Wood himself which was exhibited at the
Academy about seven years ago. The Woods live
in Carlyle Square, Chelsea, and the Lamberts live
adjacently in Glebe Place. Florence and her spouse
give a. Salon every week end. These Saturday nights
are features of Chelsea life. One finds artists,
singers, actors, barristers and Australians. Every-]
one can do something or other, from a rendering of
Debussy or Macbeth to supper-time speeches. The
wall decorations in this room are remarkable, and
were done by Wood and Charles Sims, A.R.A.
Florence collects glass, and has amongst other
specimens some rare pieces given her by Hugh Lane,
the famous expert in objets d’art, who went down
with the Lusitania, Amongst the pictures are some
unique examples by David Cox and a Hogarth. Also
what is probably the finest collection of Legros
drawings extant.
Of the two new Ministers, Messrs.
Huxham and Fihelly, the latter is the
youngest (and incidentally the best-looking
member) of the Government. His wife was
one of the handsome Murphy girls, daughters
of Peter, M.L.C. Mr. Huxham is a popular
member. His wife, Mrs. Huxham, is
Queensland’s finest woman-speaker and an
enthusiastic Laborite.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Private Hellmuth, a Brisbane man, on the
ways of the gentle Moslem :
The people here [Lemnos] were very timid, as the
Turk used to make periodical raids on these islands
and take away all the young girls. You could never
see a girl over 12 in the place.
A perfect gentleman, as his Ex. of Queens-
land says—see how he looks after the ladies!
Prickly pear certainly is a hard-doer. In
August, 1911, the shire clerk at Gin Gin
stuck a single leaf on an iron hook in his
office. To-day it is a fine, healthy-looking
plant with eight or nine leaves. It has had
no moisture, and the only nourishment it
has got has been the sulphurous language
of embittered cockies when they have called
to pay their rates.
Queensland recruits have not looked with
too friendly an eye on a batch of pew-chums
who a while ago offered to go forth and slay
the Turk. The Bananalander swears that
the “chummy” might have recruited in the
Cold Land, but migrated to Queensland to
secure the higher pay. The joke of the thing
is that the immigrant was State-assisted to
Brisbane, where he forthwith made his appli-
cation.
Frederick Manson Bailey’s son has
succeeded to the billet of Director of the
Brisbane Botanical Gardens and also to the
pest of Government Botanist. He is a
capable man; but nobody can be expected to
have quite the old man’s zeal. Years ago
a retrenching Government abolished the
warrior’s billet and emoluments, hoping to
save a few pounds. The tidings found the
veteran quite unconcerned. He went on
just the same as ever, saying that salary
was no object, but the continuance of inves-
tigation and work was all-important. In
time a shamefaced community gave back
the salary.


A Correspondev t writes :
“Of course, the great thing
about Thermogene, apart from
its wonderful properties, is the
extremely convenient and easy
manner in which it can be
applied. Unlike a hot poul-
tice it can be worn night
and day next the skin without
the slightest inconvenience or
interference with the ordinary
habits of life. No one need
know you are wearing it—in
fact you are not conscious of
any feeling yourself, save the
sensation of freedom from pain
which the application of Ther-
mogene brings.”
a
% %
/7a
•''•jh..-:, Vl
r/
d
Vs
Thermogene is suitable for
everyone, .young and old. It
needs no warming or prepara-
tion, but is ready to apply at
once. In most cases the wad-
ding is sufficiently secured in
position merely by the pressure
of the underclothing. If neces-
sary, however, you simply tack
a little piece of Thermogene to
the underclothing just where
the pain is, or it can be applied
to the skin and kept in place
with a piece of lint, tape, linen
or any kind of bandage, and
you can go about your work
and forget you are wearing it.
HERMOGENE
L ABSORBENT WADDING
Nothing equals! the pain-easing properties of Thermogene. It
relieves by aiding nature, by stimulating a natural comforting warmth.
Thermogene thrills the blood and makes it tingle with new life from the
smallest capillary to the larger blood vessels,
* The joint that is throbbing, the chest that is racked with coughing, the
back, the head, or limb that is achirjg with pain, will find immediate relief
when Thermogene is applied. Pain will subside, the throbbing will cease,
and the comforting warmth will permeate the whole affected part
The soothing influence of the inner warmth generated by Thermo-
gene quickly relieves the pam caused by
RHEUMATISM SCIATICA SORE THROAT
Sprains
Swollen Joints
Backache
Chest Colds
Bronchitis
Pneumonia
Quinsy
Inflammation
Neuritis
Neuralgia
Pleurisy
Lumbago
During the year hundreds of thousands of men and women have been
relieved by Thermogene. Why not let Thermogene help you?
.... .... ..... • 09< - .
Buy a Box to - day and be free from pain to - night.
At All Chemists, 1/3 Per Box.
FREE
Write for illustra-
ted book on the
Thermogene treatment, which tells how
to get the best results. Send a post
card to-day to Bureau,
5 & 7, Barrack Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Sole Agents for Australasia :
FASSETT & JOHNSON,
5 & 7, Barrack St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Look for the orange-
coloured boxes in the
chemists’ window*.
tmtm
hit' 5 ’
m
thi" 8
0
tisC
IS
p V<ff<* c *
m
ft »
tHt
iG
nr
9fic e
r<* c
&
e sS
n/a^ 1
il
Thermogene is used by the British
Red. Cross Society and the Royal Navy.
It is British owned and British made
and is used and recommended by
Doctors and Nurses throughout the
world.
Manufactured by
THERMOGENE Co., Ltd.,
Hayward’s Heath, Sussex, England.
Look for the orange-
coloured boxes in the
chemists’ windows.
BRITISH - MADE
BRITISH-OWNED


Arnott’s Milß Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE: CHILDRENS FOOD.”
Government Notices.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 26th June, 1915.
Tenders for Power Station Plant and
Equipment for the Commonwealth
Naval Dockyard, Cockatoo Island,
Sydney, N.S.W.
riIENDERS will be received, subject to
JL the Conditions of Tendering, for the
Supply, Delivery and Erection of Rower Sta-
tion, Riant and Equipment for the Common-
wealth Naval Dockyard, Cockatoo Island,
Sydney, New South Wales, until 12 noon
on MONDAY, 25th OCTOBER, 1915.
In cases where supply and delivery is re-
quired at Sydney, the prices tendered are to be
c.i.f. Sydney. The rate of freight is to be
taken as being 30s. per ton from the port of
shipment to Sydney, and if the actual freight
exceeds this aniount the excess charges will
be paid by the Commonwealth Government
upon satisfactory evidence being produced.
If, on the other hand, the- actual freight is
less than 80s. per ton, a deduction will be
made in a similar manner.
Rians and specifications may be seen at
the Office of the Director of Navy Contracts,
Navy Office, Melbourne; at the Common-
wealth Naval Dockyard, Cockatoo Island,
Sydney; and at the Offices of the District
Naval Officers at Brisbane, Largs Bay
(S.A.), Fremantle, and Ilobart.
Copies can be obtained on payment of a
deposit of £25, which will be refunded on
the receipt of a bona-fide tender and the
return of the documents.
Tenders are to be endorsed, “Tender for
Power Station Plant for Commonwealth
Dockyard, Cockatoo Island, on the top
left-hand corner of the envelope and addres-
sed (if by post prepaid) to the Director of
Navy Contracts, Navy Office, Melbourne;
or to the Director of Navy Contracts, care
The Commonwealth Naval Dockyard, Cock-
atoo Island, Sydney; or to the Director of
Navy Contracts, care District Naval Officer-
Brisbane, Largs Bay (S.A.), Fremantle, or
Hobart, as the case may be.
Tenders to be in all cases on the printed
form, which can be obtained as above.
The lowest or any tender not necessarilv
aecepted.
G. F. PEARCE,
Minister of State for Defence.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 26th June, |915.
Tenders for Machine Tools for the Com-
monwealth Naval Dockyard, Cockatoo
Island, Sydney, N.S.W.
HHENDERS will be received, subject to
-L the Conditions of Tendering, until
32 noon on WEDNESDAY, 27th OCTO-
BER, 1915, for the Supply and Deliv-
ery of MACHINE TOOLS to the Common-
wealth Naval Dockyard. Cockatoo Island,
Sidney, N.S.W.
. Delivery is to be c.i.f. Sydney.
The rate of freight is to be taken as being
80s. per ton from the port of shipment to
Sydney, and if the actual freight exceeds this
hmount, the excess charges will be paid by
the Commonwealth Government upon satis-
factory evidence being produced. If, on the
other hand, the actual freight is less than
80s. per ton a deduction will be made in a
similar manner.
About 180 machines of various types are
required.
Tender forms and separate specifications
for each machine may be seen at the Office
of the Director of Navy Contracts, Navy
Office, Melbourne; at the Commonwealth
Naval Dockyard, Cockatoo Island, Sydney:
and at the Offices of the District Naval Offi-
cers at Brisbane, Largs Bay (S.A.), Fre-
mantle and Hobart. Copies can (>e obtained
by approved Firms on payment of a deposit
of 2s. fid. each, which will be refunded on
the receipt of a bona-fide tender and the re-
turn of the documents.
Tenders are to be endorsed, “Tender for
Machine Tools for the Commonwealth Naval
Dockyard, Cockatoo Island,” on the top left-
hand corner of envelope, and addressed (if
by post, prepaid), to the-Director of Navy
Contracts, Navy Office. Melbourne ; or to the
Director of Navy Contracts, care the
Commonwealth Naval Dockyard, Cockatoo
Island. Sydney; or to the Director of Navy
Contracts, care District Naval Officer, Bris-
bane, Largs Bay (S.A.), 'Eremantle, or
Hobart, as the case may be.
Tenders to be in all cases on the printed
form, which can be obtained as abGve."
The lowmst or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
G. r F. PEARCE,
Minister- of State for Defence.
Business Announcements.
•For PATRIOTIC DISPLAYS
HIRE YOUR COSTUME FROM
THE BOTTONHOLE FANCY
COSTUME CO.
whose characters are handsomely and completely
finished in everv detail, whether dressed for FANCY-
DRESS BALLS, OPERAS, PLAYS, AMATEUR
THEATRICALS, CARNIVALS, or CHILDREN’S
FA TRY PLAYS.
Ladies’ Hairdressing- and all kinds of hair work,
wig?, beards, moustaches, grease-paint, and make-up
material at
THE BUTTONHOLE FANCY COSTUME CO.,
1.0.0. F. Temple, Elizabeth Btreet
(opposite Mark Foy's), SYDNEY.
OVER-FATNESS PERMANENTLY
RANISHED AT LAST.
HOW TO REDUCE ONE POUND A DAY
Without Drugs, medicines, Exercises or Starvation Diet.
Famous physician’s generous plan for the relief of all men or women suffering
from excessive fat. In exclusive interview, he explains the danger of
indiscriminate drug taking and of other harmful methods of
temporarily reducing weight.
Without the expense of consulting this distinguished specialist 5000 Sydney “ Bulletin ” readers are offered
an exceptional opportunity to quickly, permanently and safely reduce weight in the privacy of
their own homes, by sending for this wonderful book. Distribution to be absolutely
free until Special Gift Edition of 5000 copies is exhausted.
By C. A. Mackenzie.
The more I tried to reduce my weight the
stouter I became. If there is any kind of pill
or prescription I haven’t swallowed, any
“treatment” I haven’t followed, or any pro-
cess, system, or other nonsense I have not
been guilty of trying, I frankly confess it is
because I never heard of it or saw it adver-
tised. I swallowed medicines until my
hfd
stomach refused to
submit to further
abuse, I exercised
until my weakened
heart began to throb
as though it would
burst, I patiently
tried massage, baths,
appliances, appara-
tus, starving, purg-
ing physics, sweat-
ing—in fact, I did
everything but the
one thing I should
have done —namely,
consult a competent
physician.
Fat on the out-
side of my body
hindered my move-
ments and formed a
burden that sapped
my already waning
vitality. Fat inside
seemed to be gradu-
ally smothering me
and stifling my vital
organs. I could not
work, concentrate
my mind, sleep at
night, or digest my
food. Yet I felt
weak and tired all the time, dull and heavy
in mind, clumsy in body, and discouraged
beyond expression. Of course, T lost a little
weight, also my health, and nearly my life.
But my fat returned again far more rapidly
than my health did. Finally my health
reached a state so serious that I was com-
pelled to consult a famous specialist, for my
life was now hanging by a mere thread.
I had been under the care of the physician
only a few days when my weight began to
steadily decrease. Within a week I was
averaging a loss of one pound a day, with
health and vitality increasing with every
pound I lost. Strange to say, no drugs or
medicines whatever were used. I ate every-
thing and as much of everything as I de-
sired. I practised no tiresome exercises and
used no apparatus or appliance. There was
uothing to wear, rub on, or cause the slight-
est inconvenience, but my weight was re-
duced two stone in the first month. To-day
my weight is exactly correct for my height, I
These pictures
hear eloquent-
testimony to the
wonderful effects
of the new dis-
covery explained in this article. No one
can now doubt that a sure and harmless
means of permanently banishing exces-
sive fat has been found at last.
hf
am in a perfect state of health and vigor,
and in the three months that have passed
since my weight reached normal not an
ounce of superfluous flesh has ever returned.
I follow no special rules of living and make
no special effort of any kind to avoid obesity.
I have a good appetite and eat far more
now than when fat, but the conditions
that were formerly responsible for food
I ate turning to fat instead of nourishing
my body and forming firm, healthy flesh
and building up vitality have simply been
corrected.
When speaking re-
cently to the distin-
guished physician
who worked such
miracles in restor-
ing me to normal
health - and weight, I
happened to men-
tion what a pity it
is that stout people
are barred from the
benefit of his mar-
vellous skill unless
they can afford to
pay the very high
fees a specialist is
justified in asking.
His reply was that
the method could
easily be adapted to
any particular case
by following direc-
tions contained in a
new book which he
has just written, a
sample copy of
which he kindly presented to me. I after-
wards read the hook carefully through, and
realised with much pleasure that here at last
was a means of enabling all stout people to
benefit just as I had, and without the neces-
sity of paying the very high fee which might
be prohibitive to many who are most in need
of the method.
I am pleased to announce that after con-
siderable persuasion I gained the physician’s
permission, and was able to arrange with
the publishers of the book to distribute 1000
free of charge to all men or women readers
sufficiently interested to forward ,the coupon
below, and if convenient two penny stamps
for posting expenses. All who receive the
book are requested to recommend it to their
friends, as this is purely an advertising and
introductory offer. Only one book can be
sent for each coupon, and as the 1000
copies are estimated to last only about
60 days, it will be necessary to send
promptly., •
free weight reduction coupon.-
The Turner Publishing Co. (Suite 926 B.), 214 Great Portland Street, London W. ( England.
Ip?- How I
Ip:; Reduced
| [:'■ ; My Weight
I fei 100 Pounds
I send this Coupon as evidence that I am entitled to receive the
tree book ,on weight reduction referred to in an article bv O' A
Mackenzie in the Sydney Bulletin. I enclose two peiiriy
stamps for postage, and it is understood 'that after seeing just
what this method consists of I need not try it unless I wish to
do so, and I assume no obligation of any kind in writing for the
ovi k ‘ / f i h i 100 il . c0 P ies available for free distribution are
exhausted when this is received, my postage is to be returned in
Name
Address
Sydney Bulletin Free Coupon, No. 926 B.
Jokes, Puzzles,
Tricks, Novelties.
I
[OJ
2
3
Write for our New
Catalog, a Novelty
in itself, sent FREE.
4
Here are four more New Puzzle?, somethin- to set you thinking' for a while Solidlv made and
nickel plated, Post free, with full directions, 6d. each, or the Four for 1/6. “ ’
Also a Box of Six Puzzles (different from the above), post free, with full
instructions, 1/3, or the box of six and the four Puzzles illustrated for 2/6,
"post tree* *
H. L. HUTCHINSON LTD.—New York Novelty Co.
708-710 GEORGE STREET, HA.YMARKET, SYDNEY
K/EQ-XSTEIR. EID
LINIMENT
No.l
This is fhe' famous Liniment that has
been used at the well-known Willows
Hospital with unfailing success for nearly
sixty years in all cases of Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Lumbago, Stiff Joints. Fluid on
the . Knee, etc.
Athletes and Sportsmen will find it
an ideal Embrocation tor training purposes,-
it being very soothing, invigorating, and'
penetrating.
SOLD EVERYWHERE HT
Price 2 Per3oil/e.
PREPARED ONLY BY
W, H. SCHOLZ & SON,
WILLOWS HOSPITAL,
NURIOOTPA, S.A.
Wholesale at all Warehouses.
HOW TO GET RID OF YOUR
GREY HAIR
A Simple, Sprs, Harmless Treatment
which can be used at home with
complete success. Age no obstacle.
COMPLETE INSTRUCTIONS
FREE!
I AM A WOMAN who belongs to a prematurely
grey haired family. My father was grey be'ore he
was 30, and two of my brothers as well as my sister
became grey early in life. Before the age of 25 I
developed grey hairs, which became quite embar-
rassing to me socially, and also in business I
LOST THREE COOD POSITIONS for no other reason
than my iading hair. The greyness increased with
alarming rapidity, and at 28 I LOOKED LIKE A
WOMAN OF 45. One day I was seriously thinking
of buying one of the many Grey Hair Restorers
that are extensively advertised, when I casually
mentioned the subject to an acquaintance -a scien-
tific man, and, as I after-
wards learnt, a great
student of the Che-
mistry of the Hair.
He strongly ad-
vised me to have
nothing what-
ever to do-with
these concoc-
tions. jHelpoin-
ted but ' that
SUCH PREPAR-
ATIONS EVkINT-
UALLY RUINED
THE HAIR and
in the meantime
rarely deceived
even the casual
observer. Hesug-
-7 gested that T try a
formula that he had
perfected after a con-
siderable time, which,
~ by a certain chemical
ac,.ion on the pigmentary colouring cells restored
the. hair to its normal colour. In repH to nry en-
quiries, he assured me that, the formula was not
only absolutely harmless, hot would develop A
STRONG AND BEAUTIFUL CROWTH OF HAIR. My
friend wrote out his prescription, which T had [made
uPi and after carefully following the instructions for
a few days. I was surprised and delighted to fihd mv
hair becoming richer and darker in tone. The re-
colouring process continued until after some few
weeks my hair actually once again possessed the
natural shade of my girlish davs. Since then l‘ HAVE
BEEN INUNDATED WITH ENQUIRIES from friends
and also persons unknown to me, who came tb hear
of this wonderful preparation. Having become con-
vinced that I have found A REMEDY OF EXTRA-
ORDINARY MERIT, and which is quite harmless, I
have resolved to offer it for sale, as I am dertain
from my own experience that it will prove an ines-
timable boon to any man or woman who finss grey
hair ter be the same serious Bandicap 't whs to me.
It is a Guaranteed Genu'ne Preparation, and I
OFFER A REWARD OF £lOO if it will not re-colour
Grey Hair to Original, Natural Shade.
If you are interested in this wonderful prepa-
ration I am willing to send you COMPLETE IN-
STRUCTIONS FREE
under plain sealed
cover. Simply write
your name and full ad- ?: - tt'-
dress plainly and enclose 2 stamps for postage, and I
will writo you by return post, or if convenient call.
Mrs. MARY K. CHAPMAM
Suite 88 Linden Court. fi/DNEY
X--
h


1
Jr
f i
V--
'A
7
GRIPPED BY
CATARRH!
YOU are in the grip of Catarrh. Isn’t
it a most discomforting and humiliating
affliction? The indications are unmis-
takeable —
—the uncomfortable stuffiness in
the nose.
-the constant snifF, sniff, caused by
moist accumulations;
-the difficulty of breathing through
the nostrils,
—the persistent necessity of clearing
the throat by hawking, and
—the frequent soreness of the throat,
—or you may suffer from frontal
headaches,
—your hearing may be affected,
—you may have nerve-racking noises
in the head,
you may be subject to frequent
colds, or
awake always with a heavy, tired
feeling.
This teirible Catarrli makes you down-
hearted, and is ruining your life, wreck-
ing your hopes and threatening you
with even greater pain and misery.
WHAT ARE YOU GOlfcG TO DO
ABOUT IT?
You can’t go on suffering; you cannot
neglect your condition, because that
would be fatal. Perhaps you ha\ ett icd
many tilings without securing any last-
ing relief; perhaps you’re so down-
hearted and discouraged that you feel
there is no hope. Put THERE IS A
WORLD OF HOPE FOR YOU in my
great “KAT-AR-AH,” and the proof
is FREE.
TrialTrestment Free
Try “KAT-AR-AH” at my expense.
You’ll marvel at tlie results. Let mb*
send you a trial bottle at once.
Its healing effects aro simply remark-
able. You can notice an immediate
improvement. It quickly starts its 1
woik of killing the disease germs, of
reducing and eventually stopping the
discomforting mucous discharges in
the nose and throat —mucous that is
finding its way inio your stomadi and
I oisoning } our system. It docs this in
the only sane and fafe way—by its
health-giving and purifying aerO-saha-
tive effect on the diseased parts and by
cleansing all the passages of accumul-
ated mucous.
Wiih the trial bottle of “KAT-AR-AH,’?
I will also send you a copy of my new
illustrated book. It imparts informa-
tion of the greatest value to sufferers.
The trial bottle and boc>k will bn sent
by mail in a plain wrapper to all who
answer this announcement.
Write to-day. Pe sure to mention tin's
paper and answer at once if you really
wish to he released from the terrible
grip of Catarrh. Enclose 3d. in stamps
to help pay postage.
HERBERT HERDER,
22 Dak in g House, Sydney.
r
Runs on Alcohol
fd
Aguardiente, Rhurn and simi-
lar liquids, anywhere without
electricity, springs or bat-
teries. Superb construction.
12in. blades. Adjustable Roller
Bearing. Reliable. A proved
comfort. Prompt delivery.
KEEP COOL.
Shipped to any port in any part of the world,
carriage prepaid, for $2O gold. Send remittance
by International Money Order, Bank draft:, Or
order through your commission merchant. I
WM. J. H. STRONG, 114 North Jefferson St.,
CHICAGO, ILL., U.S.A.
w.
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
■' A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘AUAIiIS
; l>B}’iJtiaii Uenna before all ( others; at is the best and
cheapest 1 have ever used.” , .
“Arabia” Egvjitian Henna has the largest sale o
anv Hair Stain'on the Australian Market Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive y-m. Look {ot the
ture of Alfred Ardley on genuine. Price 1 /- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
*
Johnson’s Prepared y/ax
—for Motor-Cars
and Motor Boats
i*L
&
»» ■;
.
y-’
Johnson’s Prepared Wax
—for furniture:
the standard Polish
I
I :
n
Johnson’s Prepared Wax
—for
all Floors
. 11$
Johnson’s Wood Dye
• —for colouring
all woods
hfd
May We Send
You Postpaid
a Tin of
B
A
—enough for polishing a small
floor, piano, several pieces of
furniture or a motor car ?
Please use the Coupon below-
JOHNSON’S Prepared Wax is a splen-
did and complete finish and polish for
Floors
Linoleum
Woodwork
Desks
Pianos
Victrolas
Furniture
Golf Clubs
Motor Cars
Over varnish, shellac, oil and French
polish it imparts a velvety, protecting
finish of great beauty and durability.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is in paste
form, clean and easy to use and very
economical. It gives a hard, dry and
artistic finish.
Every housewife who takes pride in
keeping her furniture attractive and
her home sanitary needs Johnson’s
Prepared Wax.
|| SB
1
is for the artistic colouring of all
woods. With it inexpensive soft woods
may be finished so that they are as
beautiful as hard woods.
With Johnson’s Wood Dye you can complete
work promptly. It is very easily applied, very
economical and dries rapidly. Unequalled for
finishing new furniture, woodwork ana floors,
for staining reed and wicker work, and for
refinishing old work.
'
Made in seventeen shades, including Mahog-
any, Early English and several shades of
browns and greens.
Johnson’s Artistic Wood Finishes
are for sale by Paint Dealers and
Ironmongers everywhere.
USE THE COUPON for a free copy of our
1/- Book, “THE PROPER TREATMENT OF
FLOORS, WOODWORK AND FURNITURE,”
and a generous tin of Johnson’s Prepared Wax
—sufficient for polishing a small floor, several
pieces of furniture or a motor car. This book-,
let. which is offered gratis, is the work of fam-
ous experts—it is beautifully illustrated in
nine colours, and is full of valuable ideas on
home beautifying.
Post the Coupon at once to any of our
Australian distributors:—
SYDNEY: —Holtfsworth, McPherson & Co.,
GJL. Gee & Co. Ltd.
JibUtOVBNE:—G. b. Gee & Co. Ltd., H. J.
Cordor Prop. Ltd., das. Hardie & Co.
ADELAIDE: —King & Co.
BRISBANE:—I. D. Sloan & Co.
AI'CKLANI) (N.Z ) :—Hill, Plummer & Co. Ltd.
WELLINGTON (N.Z.) G. L. Gee & Co. Ltd.
CHRISTCHURCH (N.Z.) G. L. Gee & Co. Ltd.
S. C. JOHNSON & SOM, ‘ The Wood Furnishing
Authorities,” Factory: Racine, Wisconsin. U. S. A.
Gabie Address : “Johnson. Rac'tia.”
To S. C. Johnson & Son _
(Address Care of Nearest Distributor)
I enclose 6d. for a generous tin of Johnson’s Prepared
Wax and for a free copy of your 1/- Colour Book.
Name ..
Address
My Dealer’s Name.
hf
Buy British made
Underwear.
h
1
BESISF
IKABLEI
fd
UNDERWEAR
*Jason is honest value through and through. The wool used is best quality
Ausiralasian long strands —woven by expert British labour, and branded by the
makers as a guarantee of {British quality and excellence.
'Jason is soft as silk —never irritates, gives long and trustworthy service, and is guaranteed thus:
“Any garment that shrinks will be replaced free of cost.’’
Shun the shoddy German-made Underwear —and support honest british labour and brains— you
will get better value lor your money ! •
Ask your dealer for Jason Underwear for every
member of your family.
Sole Manufacturers:
The Jason Underwear Co., Leicester, England.
m
Aafs3
hfd
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and-bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Wayfarer”: “Croson” (B. 24/6/’l5)
states that there were recently 300,000 car-
cases of lamb and mutton' in the Geelong
(Vic.) Freezing Works. It was there all
right. The works were crammed full. Lamb
was sold at 3d. a lb. ; prime mutton at from
34d. to 4d. a lb—not less than the half-
sheep at a time. Butchers have been buy-
ing this meat and retailing it at from 7d.
to Bd. Freezing works at Melbourne are
also heavily stocked. The idea seems to be
that by holding on and keeping the
prices up locally, owners and freezers will
ultimately receive still higher prices. Isn t
it time the referenda went- through?
* * * .*
“Mujik”: “Anti-Snuffle” (B. 17/6/T5)
is quite right in saying that “regiments of
women who never had a profession before
are doing well.” One of the regiments mobi-
lised in a big hall has just been thrown open
for inspection by Olive Schreiner in London.
They are women who are working for con-
tractors, and by paying a silver coin the
public can go and see the ladies doing well.
The coin goes to the Red Cross. They are
finishing trousers and making overcoats,
themselves finding the cotton and delivering
the completed articles at the warehouse.
Pay is at the rate of 24d. for pants and
5Jd. for the big coats; time required on
each garment, two and four hours respect-
ively. Doing well? My oath, they are!
The contractors,''l mean.
* * * *
“Chug” : What time and Worry might be
saved to the people who have to do with
bankruptcy cases if somebody could tell
them that decimal fractions have been in-
vented to avoid " the ‘ complexities of the
vulgar sort. Some recent dividends in burst
estates are published as follows: “One
penny thirty-five forty-eighths of a penny
in the pound,” “three shillings and eleven-
pence eleven-sixteenths of a penny in the
pound,” “two shillings and ninepence seven-
teen-twentieths of a in the pound,”
and “one penny eleven twenty-fourths of a
penny in the pound.” Surely there are
easier and more accurate ways of saying
these things. It is as easy to reckon in
decimals of pennies as in twentieths and
twenty-fourths even under our present cur-
rency ; but a decimal money system which
would give us an imaginary coin as low as
the French centime would make the whole
thing as simple as leaning against a post.
“Rags”: Does anyone know why Aus-
tralian manufacturers of blankets and rugs
are ashamed’of their product? They turn
out a good article, unbeaten by any im-
ported line, unless it be the stuff Maoriland
can fashion. No Loanly inhabitant dreams
of buying a foreign blanket. The label
“Kaiapoi” or “Petone” or the brand of some
other mill sells the home goods. In Aus-
tralia when a customer asks for “real Aus-
tralian” we have nothing to support our
assurances on the point. Are York-street
and Flinders-lane responsible? The patri-
ots !
* * * *
“Hamer”: When the average citizen
receives a notice from a bill-collecting firm
reminding him of previous mbre polite com-
munications, and hinting at tremendous con-
sequences unless he pays up forthwith, he
usually either settles or continues to take
no notice. Either way is safe. The business
is risky only when the dunned loses control
of his head, and lets it fly open. When the
other day a Sydney debtor wrote direct to
his creditor,’ and’ mentioned the latter’s
“scavenging bill firm,” the principal of that
firm assessed his hurt at £5OO. The jury
thought he was entitled to that much divided
by 25. Thus was a debt of two guineas
lifted to £27 2s.—and costs.
“F.H.”: While the D.S.O. for meanness
very properly goes to the person who stole
£S from the prostrate victim of a recent
Melbourne street accident, there have been
others equally deserving. One of these
lately performed his dashing deed at Caul-
field," when a grocer’s assistant was thrown
out of a cart and seriously damaged. When
the sufferer was taken into a near-by shop,
somebody suggested whisky. A helper vol-
unteered to go, but had no money, where-
upon the injured one groped painfully for a
shilling. The helper eagerly grabbed
the coin and bolted for the pub ; but nobody
ever heard what pub it was or what the
wowser bought.
* * * *
“Jwosp”: It happened at Christchurch
(M.L.). A meeting of milk vendors, being
attended by only the secretary and a re-
porter, crossed to a pub to have a soda and
glycerine. To them presently came two of
the missing traders, one decidedly
loquacious. “They never roll up, the cows.”
he said ; “but come on, we’ll fix it up. Last
time it was all right when only Joe and
me turned up, and we put up the priqe Id.
per quart. After we advertised it, they : all
followed suit,” At' this stage the secretary
managed to inform the talkative one that
the stranger .was a reporter. “Oh, are
yer!” said milk-oh with a grin. “Well, you
won’t say anything about the meeting?”
“Oh. no,” came obligingly, “not about the
meeting to-night.” But the price of milk
went up just the same.
THE COLLECTOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
lie was a slim, black-coated lad,
With countenance not wholly bad.
Appearances, 1 will allow,
Were very much against him now.
The fact is lie was taken with
His hand deep in the fob of Smith.
Smith gripped his wrist, and heaved a sigh,
And looked him coldly in the eye.
The man who lias his fingers caught
Down in another’s pocket ought
To frankly see that, on the whole,
He’s in the devil of a hole.
But this one did not blink a lash.
His digits in his neighbor’s cash,
Said he: “I am, as you infer,
Collecting for the Belgians, sir!”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


/fePic is too
ours are
ro-
curame m
TO
V;
Be
AS oyi e
H
m
m
YOU SHOULD SKCI'KK
FAMOUS PLAYERS gLASKY
Productions for your Patrons. Get
inquisitive—write* for full particulars.
AUSTRALIAN FEATURE FILMS LTD.,
Cinema Housg. 68 PRUITT STREET, SYDNEY
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres I,td.
Governing Director .... HUGH I). McINTOSH.
TIVOII TIfKA T R K. SYDNEY.
■ WEEK COMMENCING JULY 17.
SYDNEY" JARVIS, assisted by VIRGINIA DARE.
NELLA WEBB.
James e. britt, general pisano, arci
BROTHERS, EILEEN WATSON and TIVOLI GIRLS,
FRANK WILSON, DORA SAWYER, etc.
Plan: Nicholson’s and Tivoli.
* f |" 1 V()r,T THEATRE. MEhIiOCItNE.
CLEMONS and DEAN:,
ROCHEZ’S MONKEYS. WALLACE GALVIN.
LOUTS STONE. PAUL STEVENS.
MARIE TERRY". BALTUS TRIO. EXCELLAS, and
RAN,DELL JACKSON CONCERT CO.
Plan at Glen’s.
IVO LI THEATRE, BRISBANE.
NECKELSON. IDA BARR.
SYDNEY JONES. AL RIPON.
MAY ERNE and HE.
LE TFY AVARS. VIOLET TREVENYON.
ECLAIR BROS. VAUDE & VERNE, etc.
E P T U N E ’ S DAUGHTER,
The greatest Photo-Play the Wprld has seen,
Starring
ANNETTE ICELLERMAN
ifl an 8400-feet Romance of the Sea.
THREE STATEMENTS THAT DEFY
CHALLENGE.
NEPTUNE'S DAUGHTER, has received the biggest
weekly rental ever paid for any film in, Australia.
NEPTUNE’S DAUGHTER has received the biggest
nightly rental ever paid in Australia,
NEPTUNE’S- DAUGHTER up to date has Yo its
credit on the sharing basis the highest percentage
ever paid. for any film in Australia.
Add to the above indisputable proof of the drawing
power of this wonderful film the fact that three
copies are now booked months ahead, and that the
number of return dates constitute a record; and it
can be readily understood that NEPTUNE’S
DAUGHTER is breaking box-office records at almost
every point where it is screened.
For all dates and information apply only to
FREDERIC SHIPMAN,
HOTEL AUSTRALIA, SYDNEY.
THEATRE BOYAL, SYDNEY.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 17.
A season of laughing plays, opening with
THE GLAD EYE.
(FOR SIX NIGHTS ONLY.)
JULY 24th—WHO’S THE LADY?
Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Reserved, 4/-.
Plan at Paling’s.
QBITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MURIEL STARR’S FAREWELL PRODUCTION,
THE LAW OE THE LAND.
Acclaimed as this fine actress’s greatest interpretation.
I’lans at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
HE 11-X.IIE theatre
CASTLEREAGII STREET, SYDNEY.
Personal Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY.
FARCE COMEDY SEASON.
Nightly at 8.15. Ma!tin£e Wednesday, 2.30.
George Willoughby presents himself and Specially
Selected Company of Comedians in
THE WRONG MR. WRIGHT.
Prices: H-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Booked Seats, 5/-.
Plans at. Paling’s and Hotel Australia. ;
P A LACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
MatinCes WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30.
J. & N. TAIT present
THE ROYAL STROLLERS.
(By arrangement with Austral Gardens—Mr
J. Waller.)
THE BRIGHTEST SHOW IN SYDNEY.
Popular Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Reserved 4/-.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
x (Pnotfr.
The Onoto is the pen that fills
itself and cleans itself in filling.
You just push the rod and it’s
filled in a flash. The Onoto is the
premier self - filling fountain pen.
No lost squirt-—no mess—no bother.
The Onoto is British made. It is designed
to last a lifetime; and is guaranteed by its
makers.
Onoto
Pen
The Self-filling
Safety Fountain
application to Thos De I . Ren f^ c on
E.C°"or T ,h;
Norman S R a [ aSlan , R fP rese ntatives
"“.IS!'"’""
Ask for \
ONOTO INK—V
Best for all Pens
mis 3ffj
«N| ONli
'••r
&
The "LEONARDHEAT” Radiator.
Prices ; £2 12s. tO £3 12s.
Consumption: Half a Unit per hour*
Cost; |d. per hour.
■»■ The ■■ ■
ff I 11 a 99
Radiator.
invented by an Australian,
Made in Australia
by Australian Workmen
By taking a half-turn on two thumb
wheels at the rear of the Radiator, the
Reflector can be placed at any desired
height, or used as a Foot-warmer.
Like, the rays of the sun,, the rays of' heat frpm the “Iteonardheat” Radiator
are diffused Evenly and Strongly t«j> every corner of your room or office. The
“l/eonardheat” line of Electric Heaters, is the finest development of Radiators
to-day. It is the acme of' efficiency ; the' result of able experimentation for an
Australian article for an Australian Winter. These Radiators are as simple to
operate and as PRACTICABLE for use in the Home, Office, Hospital or Sick
Ropm as Electric Light.
The. “Leonardheat” is t built on a new principle. Each unit attains a tempera-
ture of about 2000 degrees Fahrenheit. Pure air is induced into the lower end
of each vertical unit, and, passing through an incandescent tube, strikes the
concaye surface of a specially-designed Reflector, and is deflected throughout the
Roojn. Finely modelled and finished, the Radiator is suitable for Drawing-rooms,
Dining-rooms, Bedrooms, Public Rooms, Offices, Surgeries, Hotels, etc.
"“KS Electrical Utilities Supply Co.
605 George Street, SYDNEY.
Write for Full Particulars. : : Agents Required in other States.
H
R K M A .1 E S T Y ’ S. S y I) NKI.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.55.
THE FAMOUS ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in a
charming and novel Musical Comedy, in three Acts,
THE MARRIAGE MARKET.
Pl ans at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
DEPERTORY THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, JULY 17.
LOUISE MACK,
WAR LECTURER.
“ ’MID SHOT, SHELL AND SHRAPNEL
IN BELGIUM.”
Brilliantly Illustrated by Films and Slides.
Plans at Nicholson’s. Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
Aou haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
THE PICTURE CLOCK THEATRES.
* In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world’s best films.
- Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER .J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD
W. Bar ring Toy Miller, General Manager.
A
MADAME MELBA’S
MADAME MELBA’S
MADAME MELBA’S
CSTRALIA DAY’
USTRALIA DAY
AUSTRALIA DAY
CONCERT
CONCERT.
CONCER T.
FOR RED CROSS WORK
AMONGST THE
WOUNDED AUSTRALIAN SOLDIERS.
TOWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
THURSDAY, 29th JULY.
FAREWELL.
FARE W E L L
F A R E W E L L .
FAREW E L L.
FAREW E L L.
FAREWELL.
FAREW E L L-
FAREW E L L.
, NEA & HALF A GUINEA.
Box Plan opens at Allan’s, Fridaj', 23rd of July.
PRELIMINARY BOOKING.
Written applications for One Guinea Seats, enclos-
ing cheque, .will be received at Allan’s up to Thurs-
day, 22nd of July. These will be allotted in order
of receipt prior to opening of plan on Friday, 23rd
July. >
TH 15 AT RE It OYA L, SIISU BOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present something new in
Comedy,
POTASH AND PERLM UTTER.
Prices: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/- ; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
ISR .MAJESTY’S THEATRE. .MELBOURNE
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
H
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present the Delightful Skit
on the Movies,
THE GIRL ON THE FILM.
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and 1/-.
DRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietors: GEORGE MARLOW LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JULY 17.
George Marlow Ltd. present the Military and Domestic
Drama,
THU WEDDING RING.
Prices.:,2/-,'l/- and 6d.
Plan at Pianola.
KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessees: Bert Bailey and Julius Grant.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JULY 17.
Reappearance of the Ever Popular BERT BAILEY
CO. in
ON OUR SELECTION.
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-, Plan at Allan’s.
R I j o U T H E A T R E. M E L B O U It N E.
FULLER-,BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE.
Governing Director BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
AFTERNOON. 2.30. EVENING AT 8.
MANDENO’S CANINE MARVELS, MATILDA and
ELVIRA, THE ATLAS BROTHERS, AND BERT LE
BLANC’S TRAVESTY STARS IN CENTRAL 3251.
Prices: 2/6, 21- & 6d. Matinees: 1/6, 1/- & 6d.
M ELBOURNE GLACIARIUM.
REAL ICE SKATING.
AFTERNOONS, 3 to 5.
EVENINGS, 7.45 to 10.
RICCO’S ORCHESTRA.
HOYT’S PICTURES, MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST,
TWO BIG SHOWS.
HOYT’S OWN: Bourke Street, next Theatre Royal.
OLYMPIA : Ptince’s Bridge.
Direction ARTHtIR F. RUSSELL.
BRISBANE^
OPENING JULY 31.
pALACE GARDENS THEATRE.
HARRINGTON REYNOLDS
ASSOCIATE PLAYERS.
IN HIGH-CLASS COMEDY,
BIRCH & CARROL
(Queensland)
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from ToowodVnba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE,


WOlllfl YOU Life
Hair UKe this
*>
Cutlcura Soap
win Help you
Realize this am bition, when
assisted by Cuticura Oint-
ment, by keeping your scalo
clean and free from dandruff,
itching and irritation.
Samples Free by Mail
Cuticura Soap and Ointment sold everywhere.
Liberal sample of each, with 32-page book, sent post-
free. Address R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
hdf
After Shooting,
Clean your Gun with
“3-in-One” Oil!
You will shoot all the better next
time !
“ 3-in-One” Oil goes right to
contact-points, reduces friction,
and makes action-parts work
smoothly.
Polishes the stock.
Removes residue of burnt powder
from barrel and breech. Free from
grease; never thickens; keeps
guns in perfect condition !
“Three-in-One” Oil is highly
refined, water-white, sweet smell-
ing, and most cleanly in use.
Obtainable everywhere.
Free Sample Bottle on request!
REID & RCID,
Australasian Agents,
82 R, Harris Street, Wellington, N.Z.
h
10-HAINES ADV.
15
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF P
look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
Lockyer’s
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOOK OLD.
J*iT'
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Hava you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance tlia.t is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. Tins is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE,
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collin»-at., Melbourne, Vic.
A Watchlike Alarm Clock
Big Ben is known as
the watchlike alarm
clock with a human
brain—a clock smart
enough to call just
when and as he’s
told.
He’s ringing up more
than three million fami-
lies each day of the year —
some with a steady five-
minute call, and some on
the instalment plan.
Big Ben stands seven
inches from tip to toe- —
big, faithful and exact —
with bold numerals and
clean-cut hands which
show plainly in the dim,
early morning light.
Big Ben is made in La Salle,
Illinois, U.S.A., by Westclox. His
price is 12/6, postage 1/- extra. If
you cannot find him in your town,
send a money order to the makers’
Australian office, Westclox, cr. King
and Kent Sts., Sydney. They will
have one mailed to you by the
nearest jeweller.
firestone
I -sff ' '
Non-SKid Tyres.
For the hard road—for the hot pace—for the long
grind—for true economy and service .
HE success of Firestone Tyres has proved that the motorist
can have comfort, safety and the ** most miles per shilling.”
Firestone Tyres are preferred because of highest quality at the least
cost—as the greatest value, even though there are “cheaper” tyres.
The rubber in them is supremely good. It has the quality of greatest heat-
resistance, of greatest wear endurance. Every Firestone Tyre contains an extra quantity
of this extremely good rubber.
The Non-skid lettering is an imprint of safety. On every highway of the world it
challenges the need of other anti-skid safeguards. It holds the standard for endurance
and economy. The letters prevent spin or skid in any direction, they radiate the heat
of road friction, insure perfect traction with gasoline economy, car-protection and
comfort beyond contradiction.
Firestone Tyres are made by specialists in the largest
exclusive tyre factory in the world. This year’s Firestone
output has increased 78 per cent. Firestone are tyres of
greatest strength, sturdiness and safety—-
'4
pi
m
for the Price of Only Ordinary Tyres.
Leading dealers everywhere endorse Firestone quality, and
motorists praise Firestone service.
TO DEALERS,
A Firestone Representative—from
the factory at Akron, Ohio, U.S.A.—
will shortly make calls on dealers and garages In person. Inter-
ested people may make appointments by writing to Firestone
Tyre & Rubber Co., C.P.O. Box 2521, Sydney.
Firestone Tyre & Rubber Co.,
Factory : Akron, Ohio, U.S.A.
Manufacturers of Pneumatic and Solid
Tyres; Motor Lorry Tyres; Fire Engine
Tyres ; Rims, Tyre Accessories, etc.
We are
prepared
to supply
all sizes of
pneumatio
tyres.
The Inky Way.
Ilume Cook, the Deakinite whom the
electors of Bourke (Vic.) threw out because
lie fused with Joe Cook, has come forward
in the Age with a Poem on the War. The
opening couplet:—
What are you waiting for? Some more dead?
Wake up, and brush the webs from your head!
Another portion
What are you waiting for ? Melbourne Cup ?
Give it a rest, and your mouth shut up !
If God doesn't punish Wilhelm the muses
will.
“Copy Boy”: Keith Murdoch, of Mel-
bourne, goes to help Sydney Sun shine in
the Fog, a job at present attended to by
Campbell Jones. Jones returns to Australia
and follows poor dead Redmond in the Syd-
ney office. Keith, a son of the manse, made
a start in his godless profession on the Age,
and acquired the reputation of being the best
man who had ever done the Federal depart-
ments. When the Federal Government
asked the A.J.A. to select a war correspon-
dent Murdoch was runner-up to Bean, who
beat him by a vote.
* *• * *
A sensation was caused in journalistic
London by the sudden stoppage of the Echo,
the new evening paper started by the Daily
Chronicle, after a brief career of six
weeks. With ajl the wealth of the million-
aire Lloyd family at its back, and the splen-
didly organised news service of the Daily
Chronicle at its front, the paper looked
sure of a fair run. It was most elab-
orately advertised, and up to almost its last
issue it printed big figures showing a steadily
increasing circulation. But exes, were too
heavy, and the London advertiser didn’t
want it. The Ilarmswortlis, of the Daily
Mail, who have no love for the Lloyds, of
the Daily Chronicle, gloat over the fiasco,
and ascribe it to the “uncompromising sup-
port given to the unpopular blunders of the
Government,” and add that “it will be long
before Fleet-street recovers from the shock.”
“Quill”: Just dead, Andy Spence, of
Maoriland, in his special line head and
shoulders, above any other pressman in Aus-
tralia, and the equal of any man who lias
written in English in the last 15 years. A
brilliant student at Otago University, Andy
became a schoolmaster, but after a year or
two of agony drifted to the Inky Way. As
a reporter dozens of dullards could run all
round him. As a commentator on affairs
of the moment he would have been unthink-
able. Study of the art and practice of war
—of military history, of the evolution of
tactics, of the developments in munitions
and the science of offence and defence —was
with him a passion. He knew his subject
as few professional soldiers know it, and
in this field wielded a critical pen of sin-
gular boldness and lucidity. Most of his
work was done for the Dunedin Star. What
he wrote about the Boer war was not excel-
led anywhere. Then followed the Russo-
Japanese disturbance. On and about this
ha wrote with such discernment that re-
quests came for copy from the Army and
Navy Gazette. His articles written at the
outbreak of Armageddon shine like stars.
In any other country Andv might have been
a big man, but where the fates had dropped
him he was cribbed, cabined and confined.
And in all things of this world he was
supremely careless. Incidentally he could
write about football as few men have ever
been able to. There’s a widow, besides two
little children.
* * * *
Some of the boys at the Front can take
more than Turkish trenches. One of them
who wanted to make his home letter worthy
of print collared a cheerful page or so from
a recent Lone Hand war article by artist
Harry Julius, who in life early youth at-
tended the Boers as a bugler-in-arms. It
brightened up the letter so much that an
evening newspaper printed it with en-
thusiasm. .
* * * *
The first Maoriland newspaper to be
blown out by the war . is the Taieri Advo-
cate. Advts. fell off until there was nothing
for it but to tie a bunch of crepe to the
door-handle.
* * * *
“Cheetah”: Country linesmen are having a
tough time since the War-god smote his gong.
The dailies have a big bill to foot for war
stuff, so the district correspondent writes in
vain about bunfiglits and cows. While the
parsons are yapping about the mania the
average ’Orsetralian has for- gambling they
might poke their tongues out at the lottery
of literature as a calling in the rural soli-
tudes. A country scribe can safely bet on
the fool sub-editor of the average daily turn-
ing down the report about a bushman being
hurt by a fall from a horse, and publishing,
instead, a war cable which might easily have
been held over until no one fell off a nag.
THE ASSET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Many in the cities affect to despise the cow ; but,
after ail, when we look carefully into matte .
find her to be one of Australia's most valuable asset*.
—Melbourne agricultural icntei.
True, true, O King! And it is time
We recognised her splendid worth !
This is the ninety-seventh rhyme
In which, to raise the vulgar mirth,
I’ve dealt with cow, her manners, and
Her customs in our sunny land.
So, to the Cow it happens that
I gladly raise my old grey hat.
For her I have a great respect.
A sort of muse she is of mine,
Invigorating intellect,
And gifting me with notions fine.
I’ve written stories by the score,
All built on local dairy lore ;
A comedy that’s not yet placed
On blessedness of her is based.
Not I alone ! Five hundred bards
Their lines are casting, long or short,
In milking sheds, and sloppy yards,
And pleasant places of the sort.
So scribes may well unite to bow
A reverential knee to cow,
And sing a hyrnnlet to our fin-
Est literary asset —Kine !
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


SPORTING RIFLES
of Reliability and Accuracy.
fdh
“WINCHESTER,” Single Shot, 1902 Model,
22 Cal. Rim Fire, peep or V sights, scroll
trigger guard, rubber heel plate,
weight 2flb.
The above Rifle, fitted with sporting ladder rear sight,
Postage—l/6 N.S.W., 2/8 Inter-State,
19 6
22 6
fd
''THE MAINE
- y^rr
(Shewing Pif/e A parr.
hfd
“THE MAINE” S.S. Rifle
designed for 22 short, long, or extra long cartridges, Him Fire. It
is a take-down, and can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore arm. The action
used on this rifle is of the safety bolt type, and is exceedingly simple, con-
sisting of very few parts. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored and rifled
with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed ac-
curate; about 31b., fitted with sporting rear sight to 300yds.
Postage on one Rifle—l/3 N.S.W. ; 2/2 Inter-State.
16/6
GUN and
RIFLE
REPAIRS
a Speciality.
Send for our Price
List of Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition and
all Sporting Goods.
Post Free, Anywhere,
BUM
Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906 Model,
10 shot, 20in. round barrel, plain trigger, straight grip, slide action,
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges.
Postage—2/- N.S.W., 3/8 Inter-State.
47 6
hfd
BAYARD SEMI-AUTOMATIC RIFLE,
C ounc J Steel Barrel, length over
, sln->5 ln -> weight Sflh., handles short or
long cartridges,
24j
Postage—l/6 N.S.W., 2/8 Inter-State.
SC
Stevens'“FAVORITE,”
or 22 Calibre Rim Eire, half-octagon 22in. barrel,
case-hardened frame, solid breech block, take down action, open front and rear
s.ghts, weight 4ilb. Postage-1/9 N.S.W., 3/2 Inter-State
" e can supply the above Rifles fitted with Beach Combination Front Siirht and Vernier Rear 40 -
25 or 32 Rim Fire Calibres, same description as above, 2/6 each extra.
24 -
I>:fgr
“ Winchester ” Single Shot
Rifle, 1904 Model,
_ for 22 short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy
round steel barrel, plain trigger, holt action, ladder rear sight, length of rifle over
all, STgin., bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish ; weight, about 4lb.
Postage—l/9 N.B.W. ; 3/2 Inter-State.
261-
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W.
City Sports Depot: 119 King Street, Sydney;
and at Newcastle and Brisbane.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial
OFFICES : 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE PERMANENT
TRUSTEE COMPANY
of New
South Wales
Limited
Funds under Administration, Upwards of £3,200,000.
Incorporated ISBB by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Executors, Trustees, Attorneys, Agents, etc.
Cost of Estate Administration Largely Curtailed under this Company's Method.
AMPLE SECURITY AND EFFICIENT MANAGEMENT ASSURED.
Write for Full Particulars, sent Post Free.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. a. perceval Bedford, Manager.
[4
R
'LOCAL!
mfl
a
i
..a < s -
M
.PATRIOTISM
Your
Aim? e
Then have a J
at smoking
Referee
The Australian Tobacco,
~1
1
T
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
HOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mkreik
JCngland, Od. How To Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's Silent Friend, Is Cd. Ned Donnelly's Art
ok Boxing, new enlarged edition. 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Monti
FiiANDK.rs, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston's Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola'.-,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Madk Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comic Reciter, Is. posted. I low to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s Od posted. Riddle ok the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handbook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Advkntuhks of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s (id. A ust. Min bus’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamers Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandows Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris. Is 6d. History ok the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blaich-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, fid. Britain foe the
British, fid. How t<s Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses.
is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/8.
How to Make Sweets. Jams and Syrups. Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s fid. AUSTRALIAN PASTRYCOOKS GUIDE, IS fid
m
f
m
m
i
i
BOOdsELLCR TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS- LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, fee., with yfulf* directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets* and -How to
Win at Cards. Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Kitting,, gee., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
Card Games (Rules for ,$,ll Games), Is. How to
"IMesmerisk, ,Is 3d. .\|as? From Snowy River, 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, is
posted. The White - 'slave Traffic, Is. Evert
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Rf.adt Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made East, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations ana portraits, is: post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
• '■ Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 124 S Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Ski,f Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Like of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougali, Topped
the Score, & Other A’erses, is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hkptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. Io!r“Established 25 Years.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS A DVT.
Write for niy....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. N kwTricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Odd Bush Songs, Is 3d »ost. Dr. Mir,ford's Mid-
wife's Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the
King, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan's Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New' Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
Ingersoll's Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarp. Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d, Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, is ?-i, Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyant k,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (w'ords and music com.’
piete), Is fid posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).


DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY
for Coughs
and Colds.
Best for Children and Grown FolK too.
\
ft
z..%
m
Safeguard
the Children.
TAKE NOTICE OF
THEIR LITTLE
COLDS.
It is only a little
cold, you say —still it
often means a lot of
suffering for the little
folk and worry for
mother, so be wise and
get the best that can
he had. Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery is a
wonderful remedy for
all Coughs and Colds,
preventing Influenza,
Pneumonia and Bron-
chitis. It is the safe-
guard of many a home,
and robs the winter of
all its terrors. See
that your children keep
bright, healthy and
rosy with the help_ of
Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery.
PROTECTS FROM WINTER’S ILLS.
Winter is now here, and we are all
liable to sudden chills and colds, so be pre-
pared and have a bottle of Dr. Sheldon's
New Discovery close at hand, and take a
dose at the first sign of a cold. It will
relieve and soothe you, and prevent further
trouble.
Stops Coughs —Banishes Colds.
Men, Women and Children all over the country use and know the worth
of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery. Are you one of them? If not, don’t
delay, but buy a bottle at once, and be ready to pounce on to the first
cold that makes its appearance. Don’t forget, Dr Sheldon’s New Dis-
covery is the ever-ready friend that should be in every household to
protect you from all Winter Ills.
Price I/O and 3/-
New Discovery
h
fdh
■
,ll %i
««
UA!
Queen Irene
For to rule was hern.
Like most of her charming Sex-;
But she had, to own
That cooking was clean
When she bought PORK AST) BRA AS
Of the brand called “REX.”
Serve to-day a meal of
REX Pork and Beans
REX
HfT
Note their mellowness and tang—mark the
fresh flavor.
“REX” PORK AND BEANS are not merely
one brand of many—they are distinct
and inimitable.
“REX” PORK AND BEANS are Austra-
lian-made —packed under conditions
which render them pure and nourishing.
Note the ease with which you
oau serve them. Simply im-
merse the tin in boiling water
for 15 minutes —to make a good
meal.
Always order “REX” Brand—take no sub-
stitute. Sold in Ijlb. Tins by all Grocers.
UHL
Other “ REX ” CANNED DELICACIES
include:—
“Ilex” Ham Pate.
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pigs’ Feet in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Funeli Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Buncheon Cheese, in decorated tins.
And
“Rex” Brand Bard, for cooking purposes, in
lib. prints.
Foggitt, Jones 8 Co. Ltd.
Curers of
“ Rex ” Hams and Bacon,
Packers of
«* Rex ” Pure Food Products.
r J, yu.W" 4 ',' , < ,
W
<^v
RE
•- • .fe>Sfci -.^'Mn
The Mute Farewell.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f ||HE crowds are gathered on the pier,
I The trippers lean against the rails;
A whistle sounds —the noon is here,
And, sharp to time, the liner sails.
There stands a woman on her deck
Attired in rich brocaded silk,
The whiteness of whose rounded neck
Is like the whiteness of new milk.
The sky above is blue, benign,
And over all there breathes a spell;
A band is playing “Auld Lang Syne,”
And white hands wave a mute farewell.
The seabirds wheel above the bay.
The silent sea-tides ebb and flow ;
Upon a day. and such a day,
There was a parting years ago.
Another golden noontide glows ;
And. framed in blue and vivid green,
A picture in the sunshine grows,
And I behold a vanished scene.
We have our past, though we are young—
Old memories that troop like ghosts ;
And though she came unseen, unsung,
Romance has visited our coasts.
The harbor in the noonday sheen
Lies spread, a glory and a dream;
In ninety grey-haired years, I ween,
Its lustre has not lost one gleam.
The shore-heights, trending east and. west,
And north and south, as man ordains
May change and change; but on its breast
A splendid permanency reigns.
There lie the lights that Phillip saw ;
There range the tides tha t moved his ships ;
There burns the beauty without flaw
That knew not, nor can know, eclipse.
Where now yon ocean-liner glides,
Her house flag floating joyously,
With flag apeak and painted sides,
A ship made ready for the sea.
A woman stood upon her deck.
Attired in rich brocaded silk.
The whiteness of whose rounded neck
Was like the whiteness of new milk.
A small hand rested on her head.
The other pressed the burnished rail;
One wondered if her blood were red —-
She looked so pale, so rarely pale.
A-nigh her stood a man of strength,
Bull-necked, thick-limbed and ruddy-faced,
With queue and braided coat of length,
And sword-hilt glittering at his waist.
Tier husband sure....and yet, I trow,
He little knew the way to woo,
Though he had honored scars to show,
Won gallantly at Waterloo.
There stood a watcher on the shore,
.V felon garbed in felon guise;
Across ten fathoms’ length and more
He looked into the woman’s eyes.
And nothing else in truth he saw
Than that white figure whitely dressed,
And scarce a breath he seemed to draw,
So still lie was, so all-repressed.
The rock, whereon the watcher stood,
Is gone; ’twas where these black planks
rest
On sheathed piles of iron wood
That once were tall trees in" the West.
The ship made sail; the sailors sang :
A gun boomed out from yonder hill;
From cove to cove its echoes rang.
And then—far off and faint —grew still.
The canvas swelled, the wind blow free,
And to and fro the sailors ran.
Now who was he, and who was she,
And who was that lone watching man?
I do not know, but this I say,
Though ninety years have drifted by,
That ’twist a. twain of them there lay
A broken dream, a love awry.
Why else did she so vex her lord
With look and gesture not for him,
That he laid hand upon his sword
And spoke a curse in accents grim?
Why else did she remain so dumb,
So marble-faced, so pale that while,
As though she knew the hour had come
When life held nothing worth a smile?
The helmsman, grey and bronzed and old,
Beheld them, gave a glance.... no more.
The woman, carven-stone and cold;
The man death-still upon the shore.
Their flesh is dust, their hearts are dust,
But were they less than lovers, say—
Her hands out-thrust, his hands out-thrust,
Upon that old colonial day?
And thus across the harbor swell
That broke in foam on reef and beach,
With steadfast eyes, in mute farewell,
They gazed, till each was lost to each.
A sudden blast! A shrill good-bye,
Round yonder point the liner steers;
A drift of smoke across the sky,
A hand-wave. .. .and she disappears.
The crowds break up. surge off. forsake
The scene, and each man homeward hies ;
Yet. gazing on the liner’s wake,
One watcher stands with steadfast eyes.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Fomorians.
AN IRISH DAY-DREAM IN FIVE ACTS,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Act I.
Scene: 1 great, green mound. On one side
arc two or three, thorn bushes. A straggling
hedge crosses the fields near the end of the
mound.
Time : Warm afternoon.
(Terry and Norah Murphy come in
through a gap in the hedge. They are bare-
footed children. The boy is twelve and the
girl a year younger. Terry carries a long
Irish spade.)
Terry: It’s this way, Norah. Creep under
the thorn and put your ear low down on
the ground. You can hear them now.
(They both creep under the. thorn and
kneel down listening.)
Norah: ’Tis talking they are, and there s a
sound like tin-cans hit with sticks. Can
you hear what they’re saying, Terry :
Terry: I can not. But one day when I was
here there was one making a speech and
some of them clapping. Maybe tis a mem-
ber of Parliament was shut in there tor
speaking bad of the landlords.
Norah: Can you hear a sound like water
running now, and it all quiet? What will
that be, Terry?
Terry: Sure, that sound’s always there when
there is no talking. It will be them drink-
ing ; or maybe ’tis the potheen running
out of a big bottle into the cup. \\ ill you
stand back now, Norah? I’m going to dig
down and see them.
(Terry tics a cloth round his bare foot,
and starts digging and throwing out soil.
Presently he stops and wipes his forehead.)
Hard work never was easy, but the
ground’s softer now I’m through the grass
there is on the top.
Norah: Are they still talking, Terry?
Terry (listening ): They’re all talking to-
gether, but I can hear no tin-cans now.
Listen! You can hear them yourself.
(A murmur of voices is heard coming up
from the ground.)
Norah: Will you go on digging, Terry? Is
it not frightened you are of what you
might see?
Terry: ’Tis no harm at all, Norah, girl. If
there was harm in them would they be
living there quietly, and me only 12 years
old able to dig down to them with an old
spade?
(lie digs harder than before. As he digs
the noise increases.)
Norah: Och, Terry! I'm afraid.
Terry (suspending his digging and waving
his spade) : Whisht! Whisht! There’s a
voice talking plain. Listen !
Voice from the mound: Will you let us out,
strong men of the upper world? Will you
let us out to see the blessed sun? And we
will serve you in all ways for ever. ’Tis
10,000 years we are keeping drunk in the
dark till the red wine is no more to us
than sweet milk. Och, let us out! Let
us out!
Terry ( digging harder) : ’Tis myself will let
you out, my bold boys. Hold on till my
spade is through.
(Tie leaps back suddenly and a giant head
comes up through the ground. It is Indech,
the Fomorian.)
Norah: Och, Terry. What have you done
now?
Indech: High king and queen of the world,
it is a good day that I see the white sun
shining.
Terry (timidly): Will you come out, big
man? How many more of you are in
there?
Indech: There are four of us, high king.
(Indech lifts his huge body out of the
hole. Net, Elatha and Tethra follow. All
are Fomorians, and there is nothing grotes-
que about them but their size. As they come
out they bow low to Terry and Norah and
stand to attention.)
Norah: Och, Terry. I’m afraid.
Terry: Whisht, girl. Can you not see they
are decent men and quiet? There is no
harm in them at all, surely. [To Fomori-
ans] How is it you are so tall?
Elatha: Is it the size of us the high king
does not like? Sure, the size is nothing at
all. We can creep through the small hole
of a mouse or stand up and pluck out
handfuls of the soft cloud. It is handy
men we are, high king, and strong to do
your bidding. For you have shown us
great kindness, and it is not a Fomorian
that can forget easily.
Terry: Och. it is a line size you are, surely.
I suppose now you could lift up a heavy
weight?
Elatha: What is it the high king would have
'us lift? Surely the four of us pulling
together could hold up a corner of the
green world.
Norah: Och, Terry, don’t let them be pulling
the world up; for the houses would fall
down maybe, and there would be no place
to sleep this night.
Terry: No, no. Leave the world be. But
will one of you lift up this big stone and
throw it a piece?
(He points to a rock four feet high and
six feet broad. Net comes forward, lifts it
over his head, and throws it away.)
Norah: It is gone out of sight, surely. Big
man, where will it fall?
Net: It will fall in the sea when it comes
down, I did not throw it hard.
Terry: In the sea! Och, now how could
that be? It is across two counties with
rivers and hills and black bogs that you
must walk to come to the sea.
Net: It is coming down now, and perhaps it
will not be in the sea if the high king
says it; but it is about as far as a swallow
would go in a day’s flying.
Terry: Will you always be doing the Ailing
that we tell you, tall men?
(The Fomorians lay their hands, palms
outwards, on their foreheads.)
The Fomorians: Till the sea is dry, till the
sun is black in the daytime, till the world
breaks in two pieces we will do as the
high king and queen of the world say.
Norah : And will you go away down and stay
in your hole except when we call you out?
The Formorians : We will, surely. We will
listen for no other voices at all.
Terry: Sure, it was a great thing bringing
the old spade out to dig. It is better.
Norah, than having four horses of our
own. Tall men, will you take us up on
your shoulders and walk with us a short
way over the hills? It will be a fine view
■ we will be having.
(Elatha picks up Norah and Tethra takes
(Conti nurd on next page.)


D
O
I
%
%
TO SOOTHE & HEAL YOUR
■
&
USE ZAM-BUK DAILY
CHAPPED HANDS, sore lips, chilblains and cold sores
generally are not only dangerous but annoying,
and girls with sensitive skins often suffer untold misery.
In the worst cases the skin burns and smarts so fiercely that
every movement causes pain. There are cracks at the knuckles,
bleeding begins, and if the wound remains open, cold, dirt
and disease germs get into it, and festering is set up.
Hands which suffer under winter conditions can be restored
to a sound and healthy condition by the judicious application
of Zam-Buk. This pure balm exerts a delightfully cooling
and soothing influence, and quickly renders the skin soft and
strong. Zam-Buk is the ideal skin-protector, because its
unique skin-healing powers are helped by the absolute purity
and the great antiseptic value of its ingredients.
Zam-Buk contains none of the rancid animal fats such as
are found in ordinary ointments and salves. A nightly
dressing with Zam-Buk is the ideal way to keep the skin soft,
healthy and strong in winter.
CHAPS AND PAINFUL CRACKS HEALED.
“Last winter my hands got in a terrible state from the cold,” says
Mrs. Emslev, of Clifton and Phillis Streets, Maylands, Adelaide. “They
chapped and cracked fearfully, and I dared not put them in water for
fear the cracks would bleed. My nails broke away in fissures, right
down to the quicks. Having Zam-Buk handy I dressed my hands with
the Balm on retiring at night, and put an old pair of gloves on, and
soon the cracks and painful fissures healed up nicely, and the skin was
made soft, sound and pliable.”
Every Home Needs Zam-Buk
Chilblains Banished,
Mrs. A. M. Paterson, of
9 Union Street, Port Mel-
bourne, says : “ Each
winter my husband and
little girl endured much
suffering from chilblains,
which would swell up to
an awful size and burst.
‘ Hearing ofZam-Buk,
we obtained a supply, and
dressed the chilblains
with it. Both the suf-
ferers were soon eased of
the irritation, and after
continuing with Zam-Fuk
for a short time the chtl-
blains were bat is led
altogether.”
Sore Throat 8 Chest.
In cases of sore throat,
Zam-Buk is particularly
effective when rubbed on
the sides of the throat.
Rubbing Zam-Buk well
into the chest, throat and
back is pleasant and
most beneficial treat-
ment for a cold and
“tightness” of the
chest.
Mothers who use Zam-
Buk as soon as the chil-
dren complain of sore
throat will be amply re-
paid for their foresight.
Zam - Buk is in-
valuable for
chaps, chilblains,
cold-sores, cuts,
bruises, rheuma-
tism, eczema and
all winter affec-
tions; 1/6 and 3/6
per pot, all chem-
ists and stores.
I
** SOOTHING AND HEALING.••
Y
Hats capS
AND
HELMETS
of all First-class Hatters
throughout the Commonwealth.
The name TRESS stands for the height
of English fashion and quality.
Makers—Tress & Co., Ltd., London, Eng.
Wholesale Agents —Cox & Mailer,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, B isbane
and Christchurch,
fd
hf
Choose a “ Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer—those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and Avin
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
“Swan Safety”
Can’t L^aK,
Elot, Miss,
or Scratch !
a
Catalogue free on request.
MA£3£, TODD & CO., London
and
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
Branches.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J. A. BURKE/ 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St,, Sydney.
Terry. They set the children on their shoul-
ders. )
Norah: Och, Terry, I can see the lough, and
it shining in the sun!
Tory: If we go up through the whins to
Kelly’s hill we can see all the world. Tall
men, if you see any cows, lift your feet
high not to walk on them.
( They all go out.)
Act 11.
Scene : An open place in a very small village.
Two or three whitewashed cottages are
seen at the back. There are some roofless
walls of a larger building a little to the
left. Time: Noon of the day after Act I.
(James Ryan, the patriarch of the village,
and Pat McErelane, his son-in-law, are sit-
ting at the roadside looking at an old news-
paper. Terry and Norah come running out
of one of the cottages, and linger near, listen-
ing to the men's talk.)
Ryan: ’Tis no use talking at all. The Ger-
mans will not be stopped. It is not the
English that will stop them, nor the Rus-
sians, nor the Italians, nor the Irish boys
themselves. It is Belgium now, and it
will be England to-morrow, and, after that,
it will be Ireland. It is then we will be
knowing what it is to be invaded. It is
800 years, they do be saying, since the
Danes went and the Sassenach came to
Ireland, and they were bad years all of
them: but the worst of them were sweet
milk a small taste sour to the bitter of
what is to come.
McErelane: ’Tis the sore thought you have
since Kelly’s boy was killed in the war.
Sure, the newspapers know, and they tell
you every day of the way we beat the
Germans.
Ryan: Ay, we beat the Germans one day, and
the Germans beat us the next, and every
day there are more Germans killed than
would fill Banagh-street; but there will be
as many to kill next week, and the week
after; and we will advance a small piece
now and then, but be in the same place
after we have advanced six times. Ay, the
newspapers know ; but do the newspapers
tell what they know? Will you tell me
that?
McErelane: Och, well. Time is on our side.
They may win a while, but they will not
win in the end.
Ryan: Sure, there were men like you said
that when Rury was king in Ireland ; but
could Rory O’Moore or Wolfe Tone or
Napper Tandy, or any of them at all. win
us back our liberty? No, sir, the Sassen-
ach came and stayed, and the German
comes and stays, for all we beat him every
day. There will be houses and towns burn-
ing in Ireland, and blood running into the
Liffey and the Shannon and the Bann, and
women crying for their childer, and childer
for their mothers before the black end.
McErelane: ’Tis a bad prophet you are,
Ryan. Sure, the war will be over in a
short while, and never a gunshot in all
Ireland.
Ryan: Och, ’tis easy to talk. Did you ever
hear tell before of the English being proud
to go back bravely? Was it not forward
they went all the time? The man that
runs away is not beat, they say. Now
how would that be? Answer me that, if
you can.
McErelane: Sure, there are new armies and
millions on millions of men. And then
there is the fleet. No, we will not be beat.
Ryan: Maybe we will not be beat. But the
Kaiser will come here, and there will be
big guns shooting over Murphy’s corn, and
smoke burning up the poor man’s cow feed,
and cannon balls hitting the houses and
killing women in their beds. Och, no,
maybe we will not be beat, maybe not.
(Mrs. McErelane comes to a cottage door.)
Mrs. McErelane: Will you men come in now
to your dinner, for the table’s set?
Ryan: Och, maybe, we will not be beat. Och,
maybe not.
(Ryan and McErelane go in.)
Norah: Did you hear what they were saying?
Terry: I did hear, Norah; and I knew about
it all before. The Kaiser is a terrible
great man with guns that send out a shot
as big as a house door. ’Tis cruel he is,
and kills all them that fight him and them
that will not fight him, too. It is a hard
war, surely, and the men that are in the
battle are killed like small flies.
Norah: Can the Kaiser man throw as big a
stone as Net threw when you bid him do
it?
Terry: Sure, I was thinking that, too, Norah.
Now, can the Germans that would come
to destroy Ireland fight our four Fomori-
ans? Can you tell me that, Norah?
Norah: They could lift the corner of the
world.
Terry: They could lift the corner of the
world, surely. Will we let them loose,
Norah? Will we tell them to go and
destroy Germany ? Will we make them
throw all the rocks on Kelly’s hill at the
Kaiser man?
Norah: Maybe they could throw Kelly’s hill
itself.
Terry: Och, Norah, that would not do at all.
How could they throw Kelly’s hill with-
out throwing the cows? Is it good cows,
and them giving sweet milk, you would
have me throw at the Germans?
Norah: Och, Terry, it would be a great
waste, surely. Can you think of no other
way ?
Terry: Do you mind the sea we saw when
they carried us far up on Kelly’s hill?
Norah: Sure, they are not able to throw the
sea, and it wet water, and they do say
salt to taste.
Terry: Norah, girl, it is not the sea they will
be throwing, but the stone rocks that are
on the bottom of the sea and round the
sides. It is the stone rocks that break
the ships in the great storms that they
will throw, and nothing hurt but the Ger-
mans, and. maybe, a few small fishes swim-
ming round our men’s boots.
Norah: But will they know the way to be
throwing, and us not knowing where the
Germans live?
Terry: Sure, I do know. Have we not the
map in our school-book? Were they
not showing us they could reach up to the
clouds and see all the world ?
Nor ah: Then we will let them loose, and they
will fight the great war their own way, and
only us knowing it at all.
Terry: We will go now and tell them to take
us to the sea.
Norah: Och, what will Ftfffier Clancy and
the King of England and Mr. Redmond say
when they know?
Terry: Did our Fomorians not call us high
king and queen of the world? We will be
king and queen surely ; but we will not let
James Ryan and Pat McErelane know, for
we have no boots and stockings, and they
would, maybe, laugh.
(They go out.)
Act 111.
Scene : Anywhere in England.
Jones: Now they are getting what they
looked for, and the bogie of conscription is
laid. Science against science, we have
them at the last ditch. Once that poison-
gas business began I knew what would
happen.
Smith: The French Government has kept
very quiet about it. I see Professor Lid-
combe has a statement that the upheavals
are due to the application of radio-activity
probably induced by the ultra-violet rays.
Robinson: Well, Heligoland is gone, and
Westphalia seems to be turned upside
down, and the whole German connections
are a mass of ruins. What I want to see
is the destruction of Berlin itself. Ilit
them at the'centre, I say. Make sure that
the capital where the war was hatched gets
its due.
Jones (holding up paper) : Did you see this
item in the Evening Standard? (He
reads.)
Immense rocks crashed down for more than an
hour on the German lines behind Lille. Gun posi-
tions were destroyed, trenches levelled, roads and rail-
ways broken up and thousands of the enemy killed as
they fled. The panic was indescribable. All observ-
ers [he raises his voice\ are agreed that the rain of
destruction came from the north-west. The falling
rocks are of a granite peculiar to the west of Ireland.
What do you think of that? We’ve been
giving credit to the French; but this looks
like our own work.
Smith: Great Scott! This is the end of
warfare as far as civilised nations are con-
cerned. If rocks can be thrown for hun-
dreds of miles, what’s the use of building
ships and guns? Hello! What’s that boy
yelling in the street?
(He rushes out to get a paper, and comes
hael: in a, state of great excitement.)
Hooray ! They’ve got the Kiel Canal! A
clean knock-out. Rocks are raining all
over Germany. Fifty masses of stone have
already fallen in Berlin. Hope to Heaven
the Kaiser gets a bump !
Jones: great! This is worth being alive
for. Who said conscription was necessary?
By Jove, consols will go up !
Act IV.
Scene : A wild place on the west coast of
Ireland. In the distance the huge shadows
of the Fomorians, now grown to their larg-
est size, are seen dipping their arms into
the sea and hurling dripping masses of
rod:. The sough of the yielding water is
heard as each rode is lifted.
Time : Sunset. Terry and Noruh are sitting
on a rock with a tattered school atlas
spread before them.
Terry: Now, there’s Berlin on the River
Spree, like we learned it. It’s a big black
dot. We must try and get Tetlira to see
that.
Norah: But, look, Terry, this bit is Holland,
where the Dutchmen live. Don’t let them
hit that. Tell them the yellow part isn’t
to be hit.
Terry: It isn’t yellow at all, Norah, girl.
Tis only that color on the map to show it
has a different king. Tethra will know.
Look. There’s the Kiel Canal, where the
Kaiser has his ships put away safe; but
we must not hit Denmark, for that
wouldn’t be fair.
Norah: ’Tis from Denmark the red Danes
used to come to destroy Ireland.
Terry: Sure, that doesn’t matter at all. It
was too long ago. ’Tis quiet and decent
they are now since Brian Born beat them
at Clontarf. Och, Mr. Maloney says they
are no fighters at all now. They just milk
their own cows, and sit down to churn
butter till it is time to milk them again.
Norah: Here’s a place on the map with a
queer name. ’Tis Munster. Sure, they
stole that name out of Ireland.
Terry: The murdering thieves! Let me see
that. Munster! Sure, a. few small stones
must be dropped on that place. Munster!
Did ever you hear of cheating a country
out of its good name like that? Now,
Norah, I’m going up again to talk some
sense in Tethra’s ear. ’Tis he is the bold
boy that can see very far. (He puts his
hand to his mouth and calls Tethra!)
(A huge shadow comes toicards the shore,
growing less in height as it climbs the rocks.
Presently Tethra appears, as in the first
Act, and sets the boy and girl on his two
broad shoulders. The trio j)ass out toicards
the sea, and the rock-throwing continues.)
Act V.
Scene: Inside Murphy's cottage.
Time : Late evening.
(Mrs. Murphy is heard hushing the baby
to sleep in the end room. Murphy stands by
the turf fire smoking an inch of black clay
pipe. The remains of the evening meal are
on the table. It is nearly dark.)
(Terry and Norah creep in timidly.)
Murphy: Now, where have you two childer
been, and you keeping out this whole night
after the sun has set? ’Tis breaking your
mother’s heart, you are, with your wild
ways.
Terry: ’Tis playing a while we were at the
old rath. Sure, we didn’t think it was so
late.
Murphy: Norah, girl, do you go now to your
bed. ’Tis no supper you will get this night.
Terence, do you come here, sir. ’Tis time
I was teaching a great gossoon like you not
to keep your little sister out all night at
tlie old raths; and you, maybe, getting
queer in your head with thinking of the
small people and all. Mother! Will you
be bringing me the small stick is behind
the door?
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


NCROYITE;
LEATHER
dh
f
has been awarded the Gov-
ernment Contracts for 1915-
1916.
It is All-Australian—from
Australian Hides, tanned
and manufactured by Aus-
tralian Workmen.
Sole Manufacturer and Proprietor:
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 WYNYARD SQUARE. SYDNEY.
2& ;
A BUFFALO
FOR EVERY SERVICE.
VOLUME BLOWERS an i EXHAUST FANS
... for ...
VENTILATING & COOLING
Shops, Factories, Engine Rooms, etc.
BLOWING
Supplying blast to Cupolas, Forges, Fur-
naces, etc. -
EXHAUSTING
Steam, Smoke. Gas, Fumes, etc., and
Refuse from Woodworking Plants.
Write for full, descriptive Buffalo Catalogue
—it fully describes the Fan best suited for
your requirements.
AGEMTS—
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
It is the Power
Your Belt
Transmits
that
Counts.
£
£=
w
t«£ZQES£an
Be
Sure
and
Specify
DICK’S
BELTING
SOTjB Agkntb -
Jas. Hardie 8 Co.
Circular Quay,
SYDNEY.
And MELBOURNE.
Is “Economy
Your
Watchword ?
If so you will be deeply
interested in the increased
steaming power of your boiler,
the more satisfactory working
of your engine, the greater
efficiency of your whole plant,
and, further, the big reduction
in your fuel bill, all of which
can be accomplished by the
adoption of
Newall’s Magnesia
Sectional Steam
Pipe Coverings and
Plastic Boiler
Covering
the EXCEPTIONAL EFFICIENCY of which has placed it
FAR ABOVE ALL OTHER MATERIALS.
The above claims are not merely “idle words,” but are all
clinched by FACTS in evidence of which we might mention
that Newall’s Coverings have been adopted exclusively by the
N.S.W. and Victorian Governments, and have been used throughout
Ultimo and White Bay Power Houses, in addition to which we have
orders on hand for the insulating throughout of Perth, Melbourne
and Canberra Power Stations.
Should further argument be necessary, we append the comparative
covering capacities of Newall’s Plastic Boiler Covering and ordinary
asbestos.
lcwt. ordinary asbestos will cover 40 sq. ft. x lin. thick.
lcwt. Newall’s Plastic Magnesia will cover 100 StJ. ft. x lin.
thick.
J. WILDRIDGE 8 SINCLAIR LTD., 82 Pitt Street, Sydney ; Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Wellington, N .l.
ME PH AN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Fluming,
Patent e ‘ Nelyambo ” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work .
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
J. A. Fay § Egan Co.’s Woodworking Machinery.
FURNITURE, PIANO AND WOODWORKING SHOPS WILL BE
INTERESTED
to know that we have opened up, in our Showroom, a
No. 225 TRIPLE DRUM SAND PAPERING MACHINE,
and, if perfect surfaces are wanted, either for varnishing or painting, this is the
machine for YOU.
Also in Stock—Arm, Column, Sash and Door Sanders.
No. 50 Special Patent Band Saw, for all kinds of plain or intricate scroll
sawing. This machine represents the “Aeme” of perfection in Band Saws.
PLANERS, MATCHERS, MOLDERS, JOINTERS,
DOOR CLAMPS, SURFACERS, TEN ONERS.
Carried in stock by Sole Agents:
H. P. GREGORY <a CO.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
NAT SEMI-DIESEL
OIL ENGINES
V • »
MARINE or STATIONARY.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, Ltd
307-311 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
4l
4l|l
f irTT Ci
lllflllllllllll
1111111111'
..1111111l
—rmn m
a
i innti m a ||l ■
uS.IUf.,
l.rrrTTl 11! I(T
||i hi imn ii ii m
iiiiii MiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimimtiiHiuiiiimiiimiiim
111 l
lul
A!
**p
ASTHE BRITISH EMPIRE
ISA POWER FOR JUSTICE
STRENGTHS REPUTATION
SO THE LISTER
ALL BRITISH
SHEEP SHEARING
MACHINERY IS A POWER IN
SHEARING FOR EFFICIENCY,
v ECONOMY& QUALITY >
SUB-AGENTS T
MITCHELL & CO. PROPY. LTD.
W. footscray, Melbourne,
Vic.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Townsville,Q.
MALLOCH BROS.,
Perth, W.A.
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS, ITD„
Hobart, Tas.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD.,
Brisbane, Q.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN FARMERS’
CO-OP. UNION, LTD.,
Adelaide, S.A.
THE “CARD” ORE CONCENTRATOR
is
9
■ :,5
4,
- •
*
British Owned and
British Built. (
Will Treat Coarse or Finest Material
according to Style of Deck.
N. GUTHRIDGE Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, London.


An Economical Portable Outfit
CONSISTING OF
A WESTINGHOUSE “CROSS” OIL ENGINE
I
wmfsfa
MOUNTED ON A
STEEL GIRDER
UNDERCARRIAGE.
The Engine has NO
delicate Mechanism to
get out of order, and con-
sumes the MINIMUM
amount of kerosene
per B.H.P.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET
8.0.5 to —
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike, Wellington.
Concord West, N.S.W.
BOILER TROUBLES
and THEIR REMEDY
riflPExioß
flPEXlOR
NOT A
JOILER
FLUID
Let Your Boilerman Make a Test
Give him a Two-gallon Drum of Apexior—see that he applies it
in the right way- -and after a few months ask him if it has
not stopped corrosion and pitting—if there is more scale on the
parts not covered with Apexior—-if the small amount of scale
adhering to the part that is covered with Apexior falls off with
the slightest tap—if he thinks the efficiency of the Boiler would
be increased by its exclusive use. We are willing to let Apexior
be judged by his answer. But send for a trial drum while you
think of it.
Tried and Tested and Now Used Regularly by many of the
Largest Steam Users in Australia.
SOLE AGENTS—
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
O sizes in one tool—
the best all-round
die-stock you can own.
BULLDOG
No. 104*
OSTER
BULL-
DOG |
Die-Stocks
The Oster Mfg. Co.,
Cleveland, Ohio, U.5.A.
FOR SALE BY LEADING
DEALERS IN ALL CITIES.
hfd
r to 2'
8 Sizes.
COMMERCIAL Lamps
WILL NOT BREAK OR RATTLE.
Single Solid Aluminium Casting
Lasts indefinitely, Saves Expense and Worry.
COMMERCIAL
SPEEDOMETERS.
COMMERCIAL
GENERATORS.
Managing Agents:
1
EasSa**-
PRICE 50s
COMMERCIAL
CARBURETTERS.
COMMERCIAL
TYRES.
I
■
ERIC
79=81 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY
Telephone—ClTY 2401.
Flizabeth House,
ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
CENTRAL 9527.
A CJood IHaxW
To tenvember
<===>
v.
X
ysiy
iS'5
,omj
u
Tills
«
AxjlISL \mx. Uvjo \ IKsl < V\&aR
This advertisement is of particular interest, it being the work of an
Officer fn charge of a Machine Gun at the Front. He writes.*,,:-
44 my pencil sketch was actually drawn in the trenches and the idea was
an inspiration which occurred to me when I was endeavouring to be
cheerful whilst reclining in six inches of mud and water at the bottom
of my dug-out
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices In
England—
-1/I*, 2/9 & 4/b.
tifittrodf*
Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks el
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
*he cough of BROHCHtTIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Act* like a charm In
DIARRH(EA and simple DYSENTERY.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS TOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (O O) Whisky.
Dog's Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Petrol Unions
from 7d. each.
We Cater to Supply the Wants of
No matter what Fitment you require for
THE EXPLOSIVE ENGINE we can fix you up.
OUR STOCKS COMPRISE
Crease Cups
from 9d. each.
Petrol, Oil and Air Cocks,
Valves, Lubricators,
Grease Cups, Strainers,
etc,, etc,, etc.
Q ©
M
All kinds of Copper, Brass,
Iron, Tin, Aluminium and
other Metallic Sheets,
Tubes and Fittings.
Send for Illustrated Catalogues—
Free.
Petrol Strainers
from 4/- each.
Priming: Cocks from 1/3 each.
Sole Agents for the SCHEBLER CARBURETTER
Robert C. Swan 8 Co. Ltd.
304 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
Extra Air Cocks
from 1 9 each.
