

’S3- —the Veteran of Whiskies
R. O. WATKINS dfc 00-,
Machinery Merchants, 10*7 Kent Street, Sydney"*
—FOR— _ .
Mining- and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
M-5 W MONT DE PIETE D SI C? LIR
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. And at Telephone: City 9325.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
* 159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
.’ ■ : •' *' « ‘l . y i' \ “ V • "3
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, Caneral Manager.
802 imn
.w
ii I
fi .kI
3BCOJE3 A, 13E%, “X".
—aftes —
Ijadlcys Orient fiotel.
Richardson’s
Wine 8 Spirit Stores,
68 Market Street,
SYDNEY.
158 Russell Street,
MELBOURNE.
PK .
Bottle, Case or Gallon at Wholesale Price.
ITTnRI
i
i
i
u
PINEAPPLE” HAMS & BACON
CHUBB'S
ANTI BLOWPIPE
SAFES
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HA N S E NS
J
gfdg
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
.
'
• I i
The Best for Rough Roads.
The impregnated rubber-cord foundation of these tyres enables
them to resist moisture, strain and friction. Catalogue free.
THE SSLYERTOWN RUBBER CO., Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne.
• IN*
i
Royal
Dutch
A
SUPERIOR
IN
EVERYWAY.
df
m
B
u
n
:
adds charm
\
to any room
With Amiwud wood you can, at a fraction of the cost of the old-time panelling, get the same effect as the old craftsmen got with their Oaks and
Mahoganies. Amiwud has all the beauty of grain and color of the Hardwoods, but it is lower in price, easier to use, and more convenient in every
way. You can have the choice of Golden Oak, Weathered Oak, Mahogany or Jenisero. Let us send you Samples and Booklets.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO., CHallis House
/ D. S. EVANS, \
VAustralasian Manager/,
Sydney.
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
BL
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPEC! At
MINING
MACHINERY
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. „
Roll Shells, Shoes
and Dies, and all
STEEL CASTINGS.
HELIDON SPA
Please choose your “SPA” carefully .
You may be penalised otherwise .
STARKEYS LTD., Agents,
Phillip St., Sydney, and Redfern
The Bulletin
Yol. 36.—N0. 1831.]
[Thursday, March 18, 1915.
Eegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


STANDARD LITERATURE
At 1/6 per voL Posted, 1/8.
Barrie's Little White Bird; Beach’s Silver Horde; Connor’s Doctor of w
Saint; Ferguson’s Bush Life; Jacob’s Odd Craft; The Lady of the Decora ting* mSi’ I^ ga ™ ro ® Tll , e
The Scarlet Pimpernel; Orczy’s The Emperor’s • si™* rr’/ o d S Bar ‘ 2o = Orczy’s
Tarkington’a The Two Vanrevels; White’s The Riverman; Wright? The Shepherd of the Hills Smihng;
HUNDREDS OF TITLES. SEND FOR LIST
GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP’T’Y ITB., 23* PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MUSTDIE. I
NON POISONOUS PDWOCR.
au.
Flies.
Fleas.
Boos.
(tajqoSoo.
*• 9?
vjzrsst <rr
The New Non-Poisonous Powder.
“ Mustdie ”
Certain Death to All Insects.
Full directions with each Tin.
Burn it —that’s one way.
Sprinkle with the “MUSTDIE” Blower
—that’s the other way.
But even a small quantity dusted on
the pillow at bedtime will keep
away Mosquitoes.
The “MUSTDIE” Blower is recom-
mended to be used, for it is not only
economical, but the powder is distri-
buted more effectively, and we want
you to get the best results out of every
ounce of the powder.
Sold everywhere. Chemists, Grocers,
Storekeepers, 9d. per Mb. [2
The Red Page
Instead of the English book-trade breaking
all records last year, the war left it in the
position it was in 1911. In 1913 over 12,000
books were published; the total for 1914 was
11,537. Though there was a great falling
off during the early months of the war, the
trade recovered by the end of the year, more
books being published in December than in
the previous December. Fiction had the
heaviest slump, there being 400 less novels
published in 1914 than in 1913. However,
poetry and the drama have kept their end
up; and there has been an increase for the
12 months of 80 books dealing with religion.
Sociology, fine arts, philosophy, description,
travel and biography all suffered by Wil-
helm’s meglomania.
A GUIDE FOR POITS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I ain't no verse-’og. When I busts in song
An' fills the air wif choonful melerdy,
I likes fer uvver coves to come along
An' biff the lyre in company wif me.
So, when I secs some peb beguile an hour
Be joinin’ in the chorus o' me song,
I never sees no use in turnin' sour;
Fer singin’ days wif no one larsts too long.
I’d like to see the Rocks an' Little Lon.
Grow centres for the art uv weavin’ rhyme,
Wif dinky ’arps fer blokes to plunk upon,
An ’ spruikin ’ poits workin’ overtime.
I’d love to listen to each choonful lay
Uv soulful coots who scorn to write fer
gain;
To see True Art bloom down in Choivder
Bay,
An’ Culcher jump the joint in Spadger’s
Lane.
Gorstrooth! Fer us life’s got no joy to
spare,
We’re short on bird-songs, “ soarin’ clear
an’ pure.”
A bloke is ’ardly orf the bottle there
Before ’e’s in the jug—a bird fer sure.
So ’oo am I to say no blokes shall sing
Jist ’ow an’ where an’ when sich blokes
may choose?
She’s got no lines to show, nor yet no ring.
Lor’ bli’me! I ain’t married to me muse!
An’, square an’ all, to show there’s no offence,
To shotv that in me 'eart true friendship
lies,
I gives free gratis, an’ wifout ixpense,
A few iggsamples, jist to put ’em wise.
First, choose some swingin’ metre, sich as
this,
That Omar used —per Fitz.—to boost the
wine.
An’ ’ere’s a point true artists shouldn’t miss:
Sling in a bit o’ slang to ev’ry line.
An’ when yer full o’ them alternate rhymes —
As orl the true push poits is at times —
Jist ring the changes, as I’m doin’ now;
An’ find ixcuse to say: “The bloomin’ cow!”
Or, cornin’ back to Omar’s style again,
It’s easy fer to pen a sweet refrain
Wif this ’ere jist a dead-’ead sorter line,
An’ this one rhymin’ wif the former twain.
An’, though this style me soul ’as often vext,
Wif care an’ pains the knack is easy cort:
This line’s rhymed wif the first, an’ then the
next
Is cut orf short.
An' if yeh leant to round it orf orl neat
Jist add a couplet ’ere of equil feet.
An’ ’ere’s a style I’ve very often done:
You swing orf 'ere, an’ find a second rhyme,
Then hitch the third line to the leadin’ one,
An’ make the fourth lap wif the second
chime,
An’ then you sorter come another time,
An” jist end up the same as you begun.
It’s orl dead easy when yeh know the way,
An’ ave the time to practise it. — But, say,
Although it sorter takes the eye, no doubt
(An, mind yeh, I’m not sayin ’ but it may)
Wifout a stock o’ rhymes to see you out
This style o’ rhymin’s like to turn yeh gray.
The triplets comes much ’arder than the
twins ;
But I ’ave 'ad to bear ’em fer me sins.
'Ere, fer a single line, yeh change the style,
Switch orf an’ rhyme the same as you begins;
An’ then yeh comes back at it wif a smile,
Pertendin’ it’s dead easy orl the while.
Them sawed-orf lines ’as often stood me
friends;
Fer you kin cut ’em up to serve yer ends.
An’ frequent I ’ave slung the dotin’ throng
This sorter song.
To ring su’prtzes on the eye an’ ear
18 ’arf the game. It seems to kind o’ queer
The dull monotony. Yeh make a miss,
An’ then do this.
Aw, strutli! it’s pretty; but you take my tip,
It gives a bloke the everlasting pip
’Oo tries to live upon the game and
gets....
Corns on ’is brain an’ melancholy debts!
Wif sweat an’ tears, wif misery an’ sighs,
Yeh wring yer soul-case fer one drop of
bliss
To give the cold, ’ard world; an’ it replies,
“Prompt payment will erblige. Please settle
this.”
The rarest treasures of yer ’eart yeh spend
On callous, thankless coots; an’ in the end
It comes to this: if you can’t find a muse
’Oo takes in washin’, wat’s the flaming use?
VICTOBIA.
DEN.
Titterton in the Quartser
Let us hail Titterton! W. R. Titterton,
man-model in Paris art-schools, author,
lover, sundowner in Murger’s sea-sunken
Bohemia. For Bohemia is still to be found
in Paris, if you go in the company of a Titter-
ton. Me as a Model (Palmer, 65.) is a book
to buy and keep. Its many delightful illus-
trations by Edmund Blampied do not illus-
trate Titterton’s vagrant and delightful
wanderings through the studios and the
forest; they friendlily accompany him.
“This book is neither fact nor fiction; it is
the golden mean between them which the
conscientious writer must ever seek to find.
If you have a lust for autobiographical dis-
section read no further.” So Titterton
warns us, yet adds that if we were in Paris
at the time we would have met all his
friends. “Perhaps the most of us are still
there” —that is, if we have not forgotten
the magic word that bids its secret gates
unbar—the word known only to the young.
A sculptor discovered that Titterton—
apparently, or for fictional purposes, a
London clerk —had a magnificent body, and
carried him off to Paris to pose for a master-
piece. Titterton tells us of the agony of the
pose. “I am stretched on a mattress-covered
stand of rough wood, four-legged and wheel-
able ; the right hand in the height, gripping
nothing; the face turned earthwards, kissing
a bolster. Fourteen days, and the stand will
hold another clutcher at the empty air, this
time a woman—the complement of my pose.
In turn the plastic clay will grow to our
several shapes. The Salon will know us as
marble figures, inseparably joined for the
statue’s lease of eternity. Perhaps we shall
never see each other. If we pass in the
streets the eye will have no glance, the body
no thrill of recognition.... And I have
kissed her lips—only it was the bolster.
“From my pent-house shadow I look won-
deringly at this madman, this exalU. Now
running to the other end of the atelier to
focus the whole picture, now with a spring
close to me following the ripple of a muscle;
crouching to the ground, up on tip-toe,
climbing steps, making mystic sweeps in the
air with his sculptor’s thumb —eyes never
leaving me—those terrible eyes, those eyes
that devour. Then at last, with a dart, his
hands are on the clay, savagely modelling,
and _ the plastic, sentient clay turns into
musical flesh at his compelling touch.
“ ‘Oh, not to be too late! To get that
impression! That momentary thought of the
light on liquid limbs. Quick before the sight
leaves me.’ He hurries to a huge bath of
clay, claws a lump, then rushes back to
his embryo; moulds, gazes, stoops, springs,
runs, till the reluctant eye sees the inexor-
able clock, and he sighs, ‘C’est V heure’ —It
is time.
“Then I take my arm down.... The first
minutes are pumpkins. I lie on my back and
cast scornery at the clerking of this work-
aday world. Till Gravity begins to laugh—
and to tug. A very soft laugh, and a very
gentle tug. Just enough to make the muscles
pride themselves as supporters. Then
click! and a ton-weight is at the elbow-
joint, trying to wobble, and the muscles hold
all the aches of the ages. The arm must
drop! No, this portentous figure of flame
forbids it with closed lips. The gallant
muscles stiffen to their task. And stiffen.
And stiffen. The pain flickers out. All sen-
sation goes. _ The shoulder holds up some-
thing that is not I.... Then the cramp
comes.... (Poor old out-of-date Dante!)
Titterton poses at Julian’s ; and we accom-
pany him. He introduces us to all the
models and tells us, charmingly, of all their
love affairs; he becomes for us a new
student at Julian’s and gives us his recep-
tion ; he lets us see the tragedies of the
model grown ugly, of the model who never
was beautiful; he discourses admirably upon
the student from the Neutrited States, and
wonders pleasantly why the Yankees are
the laziest race on earth —unless their bound-
less power of talking sermons be a sign of
energy ; he introduces us to the Rapin and
the hard-working model; he invites us to
the Carnival, and to the thieves’ kitchen of
Melun; but he does not take us to the
Quatzarts Ball, because that is only for
men-students and women-models; but he
notes the naive decree of the Committee:
Le Nu, comme toujours. est absolument
INTERDIT! —though afterwards he met
“a flaccid goddess, who had diddled the
prohibition on the strength of her ear-
rings” ; and he tells the finely tragic story
of Bertholet’s model, whose awful ugliness
made her the favorite model of the schools—
till she found out. “What adorable ugli-
ness !” was the phrase that, overhearing,
froze her blood. She had thought they
painted her body for its beauty. And when
Bertholet, genuinely interested, found beauty
in that adorable ugliness, found splendor and
divinity in her fierce lines, and asked her to
pose to him, she refused. He told her she
could bring a woman friend with her. She
replied coldly: “I will bring not a friend,
but a knife.” And she did—which is the
story.
Titterton has his literary affectations, his
unnecesary adjectives, his rotten verses; but
pose is forgiven in a professional model. He
may be remembered as the author of From
Theatre to Music Hall, cheerfully hailed last
year by this page.
«
The competition in which a paltry half-
guinea will be paid for the best definition
ot a german closes on March 27. This war
has made it evident that we need a new
definition of a person we thought we knew
quite well Definitions may be in prose or
verse—and the briefer the better.
More About the Bruteon
How Belgium Saved Europe, by Charles
Sarolea (Heinemann, 25.), ably stresses a
fact the importance of which can never be
minimised no matter what sacrifices are
necessary on the part of the other Allies.
But for Belgium the Bruteon would have
over-run Europe. “The French army, hypno-
tised by Alsace-Lorraine, and mainly con-
cerned about the immediate liberation of the
Alsatian people, made a forward movement
towards Mulhouse which could not be fol-
lowed up, which could only result in a
patriotic demonstration and a spectacular
display,_ and which could not yield any deci-
sive military advantage. In consequence,
the northern French frontier was nearly
denuded of troops, and a mighty tidal wave
of two. million German soldiers threatened
the plains of Belgium and France. But for
Belgian heroism, that mighty tide would
have carried everything before it.”
Belgium was not in strict honor bound
to resist to the bitter end. She would have
fulfilled her treaty obligations if she had
pleaded that a fight of 100,000 against a
million could lead only to needless slaughter.
And she had everything to gain and nothing
to lose, so far as material prosperity was
concerned, from the victory of Germany.
She would have been incorporated within
the Greater German Confederation, while
retaining a large measure of autonomy.
“Antwerp would have risen into the most
flourishing port on the Continent, Brussels
into the most popular German capital.” But
“she allowed herself to become a battlefield
in order that France might be free from
becoming a shambles.” Was ever a delibe-
rate national choice more heroic? And this
in a State that is actually an artificial crea-
tion of politics and diplomacy. There are
in Belgium two countries and two races.
The north is Flemish, the south is Walloon;
the former is Catholic and Conservative, the
latter. agnostic, and more Socialistic than
the miners of Saxony. The Bruteonic and
the Latin races have had to live together in
Belgium from time immemorial. They have
never been welded into one homogeneous
whole. And yet, in face of an invasion of
its liberty, Belgium showed itself, as no
other nation has yet showed itself, indivisibly
one.
“The Belgian plan of campaign was ex-
traordinarily simple, but it implied two
assumptions. The Belgians were to limit
themselves to a vigorous defensive; the
French were to follow up with a vigorous
offensive. .Both assumptions were falsified.
Belgium did . not limit herself to the defen-
sive. Belgium diverted against herself
the whole weight of the German attack.
France did not at once take up a vigorous
offensive. France made her imprudent and
premature effort in the direction of Alsace-
Lorraine.”
And, writing in November, the author has
no hope that the end of the martyrdom of
Belgium is even distantly in sight. In pro-
portion as the Allies drive back the Hogmen,
the Belgian people are bound to suffer more.
“Before the end of November the whole of
Belgium will probably be transformed into
one huge military camp occupied in the
north and east by two millions of Germans
and in the south and west by two millions
of the Allied armies.... .The Germans will
be entrenched behind a formidable ring of
fortresses. They will have to be bombarded
out of Antwerp, Namur and Ligge. They
will even have to be bombarded out of Brus-
sels, for even Brussels has become a fortified
city. Guns will be mounted upon the
Cathedral of Sainte Gudule. The most
beautiful church in Belgium, the most per-
fect town hall of Europe, will share the
fate of the Cathedral of Reims, and the fate
of Brussels is most probably the fate of all
the remaining cities of Belgium. Belgium
will have lost everything.” Except her
honor.
The present pitiable appeal to save from
starvation a whole nation would receive an
added impetus by a widespread perusal of
this interesting work.
&
The theme of Cecil Chesterton’s The
Prussian Hath Said in His Heart (Chap-
man and Hall, per Dymock’s Library) is
that: “Prussia as it existed before the war
was incompatible with a civilised and
Christian Europe. Sooner or later the one
had to be crushed, if the other were not to
be destroyed or (what would be worse) cor-
rupted.” What the Allies are really fight-
ing against is a spirit, a tradition, a creed.
“The thing which has defied Europe and
has challenged Europe in arms is not a man,
or a class, or a nation, or an Empire, but a
religion.” The whole aim of the Prussian
discipline is to make the soldier more
frightened of his officer than of any possible
adversary. The Prussian State is founded
not on Right but on Force—on Terror. The
mistake the Bruteon made was to think
that what terrified a Hogman private would
terrify the world. Chesterton aptly calls
our attention to the fact that the “scrap
of paper” argument is not original; it dates,
like everything else Prussian, from Frederick
the Great; he also called treaties “pretty
filigree work.” And what else was to be ex-
pected of a nation whose greatest statesman,
Bismarck, brought about the Franco-
Prussian war by deliberately forging a
public document, the notorious Ems tele-
gram?
Chesterton puts with force, but fairly, the
answer of the Prussian to his organised
atrocities in Belgium. “These things horrify
you. That is why we do them. The con-
gregation regard the priest as a holy man;
therefore his death (the more if he is inno-
cent of any offence) will impress their
memories. Women in civilised war are held
sacred; therefore we murder and outrage
them to show that we are not waging civil-
ised war. The helplessness of a child appeals
irresistibly to the human heart; therefore
we cut off its fingers to show that we are not
human. Call us Supermen, call us Devils;
it does not matter so long as you are afraid
©f us. The more you think we are Devils,
the less likely you are to come within a mile
of us, and your fear of our devilry will be a
better protection of our lines of communica-
tion than three or four army corps could
afford. The Belgians value their historic
monuments and will dislike their being de-
stroyed. If we choose the one which they hold
most sacred, every other town which possesses
and values similar treasures will be put in
fear. We will burn Louvain, taking special
care to destroy its valuable library. Then
such towns as Ghent, Bruges, Brussels itself,
Antwerp will be the less likely to offer re-
sistance, if we should need to occupy them.
That Louvain has not in fact offered any
resistance does not matter in the least. Its
fate, innocent or guilty, will be equally an
example to others. It will create terror;
and that is all we want.”
There is a certain danger in England t®
which the author rightly calls public atten-
tion. That is the British Pacifist, or Qocoa
Press. Already we hear, from guarded refer-
ences by the Prime Minister, that there is
talk of peace. The Daily News and The
Stab are the property of the Quaker Cad-
bury, the former paper being up to the very
moment of the outbreak of the war fiercely
Pro-German. The Daily News was sud-
denly converted; but Chesterton suggests
that another conversion, equally sudden and
miraculous, might appear as the first result
of a decisive victory of the Allies. He asks:
Is the old Cadbury dead, or only sleeping?
Another Liberal organ, The Westminstek
Gazette, is mainly in the hands of Sir
Alfred Moritz Mond, a wealthy manufacturer
of chemicals; and an article advocating
England’s abstention from the war, from
this paper of July 30, was given prominence
in all the Berlin newspapers. But the
moment war broke out The West-
minsteb Gazette became warlike. Also
there are in London a number of great finan-
ciers of German birth or family connections —
one is chairman of a great English bank,
another is virtual master of London’s transit.
The names of J. Ramsay Macdonald, and
Norman Angell were among the signatures
affixed to a secret circular, one of whose
aims was to prevent “the humiliation of the
defeated nation.” It is evident that there
is the nucleus of a powerful movement in
England that aims at letting Hogmany down
gently; and from the recent cabled refer-
ences it is anparent that already that
nucleus is flying pacifist kites made in Ger-
many.
J*
From The Hibbert Journal is reprinted
what is described as Field-Marshal Roberts’
last message to his fellow-countrymen, The
Supreme Duty of the Citizen at the Present
Crisis (3d.). It is a lucid and masterly
summing of the situation, without any
suggestion of “I told you so.”
“The accusation that we Britons are not
fitted to continue our Imperial work is abso-
lutely without foundation. Nowhere in the
world are there more pushing, more thriving,
more virile communities than the self-govern-
ing dominions of overseas Britain; nowhere
in the world is there greater freedom of
speech and thought, more democratic govern-
ment, greater religious toleration, than in
Canada, Australia and New Zealand.” And
Roberts, who ought to know, scorns the plea-
sant idea that this war means the end of
war, that it is bound to lead to a great reduc-
tion of armaments. “There is nothing in the
history of the world to justify any such con-
clusion. Nor is it consonant with ordinary
common-sense. For who would recommend
the breaking up of a fire-brigade which had
justified its existence by the prompt extinc-
tion of a dangerous fire? Who would plead
for the disbandment of a police force which
had just shown its efficiency by capturing
and bringing to justice a dangerous gang of
burglars?” Nor is this war the “doom of
conscription.” “If the system of universal
service has placed a powerful weapon in the
hands of the Kaiser and his advisers, and
they have made a bad use of it, we must also
remember that a similar system has enabled
Republican France to speak with her
enemies in the gate, and the Czar of Russia
to summon his hosts even from the borders
of Mongolia.” And he pertinently asks why
French, at the most critical moment of the
war, had only two army corps at his disposal
instead of the three corps which make up
England’s full Expeditionary Force? A ques-
tion that the British Government has not so
far answered.
Jt
Bernhard R. Wise has written an admirable
shilling booklet, entitled The War of Nations
(George Robertson, C.A.), explaining for
the general reader the inevitability of the
present unpleasantness. It is a brilliant and
succinct exposition of the whole subject.


JL
vae
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for SILVERWARE SATISFACTION
No. Cx34. —Dinner Cruet,
Electro Silver-plate on Nickel Sil-
ver, with 4 Cut Class Bottles, 21 /-
Consult our Illustrated Price List of ELECTROPLATED WARE, CUTLERY and CLOCKS. Write
for a copy, post free on request; it places selections from the immense variety we offer at the
command of everyone in Australia.
No. 1049.—Entree Dishes,
oblong shape, Electro Silver-plate
on Nickel Silver, loin., choice de-
sign 77/(5 P a ' r
No. Cx29.—Cut Glass But-
ter Dish and Knife, Kloc-
tro Silver-plate on Nickel Sil-
No. 1047.—Entree Dishes,
Kkctro-phite on Nickel Sil-
ver > 58/6 pair
mk
wm
11 f
v-3!
No. Cx7.—Cut Glass Jam
ov Honey Jar, mounted
Electro Silver-plate on Nickel
Silver, with 5p00n.... 20/-
Ao, Cx9. — Teapot, Electro Silver-plate on
Britannia Metal, embossed design.... 21/-
No. Cxl2.—Cake Basket, Electro Silver-
plate on Nickel Silver, Chased design, 22/6
No. CxlB. — lnkstand, Electro Silver-plate on Britannia
Metal, engraved design 32/-
o. 1029.—Afternoon Tea Spoons and Tongs, Electro
Silver-plate, in Silk and Plush-lined Case 15/-
Various Other Designs from 8/- to 19/-
'■'l
a?
No. Cx2B. Biscuit Bov, Electro Sil-
ver-plate on Britannia Metal, fern de-
sign - 45/-
No. 0\27.—Dinner Cruet, Elec-
tro Silver-plate on Nickel Silver, 4
Crystal Glass Bottles ... 22/-
No. Cx32.—L u n c li
Cruet, Electro Silver-
plate on Nickel Silver,
with 4 Cut Glass
Bottles 21 /-
No. Cx2l. Inkstand, Electro Silver-plate on Britannia
Metal, engraved Glass Flower Vase 52/6
I
m
PT*
No. Cx2s.— Jj u n c h
Cruet, Electro Silver-
plate on Nickel Silver,
with 4 Cut Glass
Bottles 14/6
Postage must
be added to
the prices
quoted.
JVo. Cxll. — Flower Stand, Electro Silver-
plate on Nickel Silver, pretty design.. 42/-
Price List of
Electroplate
post free on
request.
r®
No. Cx3o.—Sugar & Cream Stand,
Electro Silver-plate on Nickel Silver —-
32/6
No. Cx22. —Cake Basket, Klect.ro Silver-
plate on Nickel Silver, embossed design 30/-
WS
No. Cxls. Waiter, Electro Sliver Plate on
Nickel Silver, engraved design, length, 14m.—
32/0
—Afternoon Tea or Cake l 1 oiks,
'.Electro Silver-plate on Nickel SUwr, halMozen. m
Silk and Plusli lined Case, with 1 earl Handles 17/
Without Case, half-dozen
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


WINCHESTER
New Rival”
Loaded Shotgun Cartridges
With any practical combination of powder and shot, in
any make of gun, Winchester “New Rival” Loaded
Shotgun Cartridges give the best obtainable results.
Strong, fast and uniform shooting qualities are theirs.
They make fine even patterns and give excellent penetrat-
ion. These features help to make good bags in the field.
Their patented corrugated head construction adds to their
strength and reduces “cutting off” of the cartridges to a
minimum. Try them and you will be convinced of their
superiority. They can be bought in all gauges of dealers
anywhere. Ask for
\
Grown on British owned plantations
in the British West Indian Island
of Montserrat.
„ Shipped in British vessels. „
Montserrat
Lime Juice
The finest health beverage. Warranted
by a British firm of world-wide renown.
Of All Storekeepers.
Evans Sons Lescher & Webb, Ltd. Liverpool & London,
BROOKS 8302 Light Road Saddle. Also 302 L for Ladies.
Only by possessing the BROOKS experience is it possible
to produce of BROOKS excellence. And
BROOKS experience is admittedly unapproached by that
of any other maker.
BROOKS
OF ALL
DEALERS.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
*c
&
%
fr
Nervy' tod Rundown
New Health for the Weak
and the Ailing.
There is nothing to equal “Wincarnis”
for Anaemia, Weakness, Nerve
I roubles, Sleeplessness, Weariness,
Indigestion or that “Run-down” feel-
ing because “Wincarnis” is a Tonic, a
Restorative, a Blood-maker and , a
Nerve hood —all in one. It is recom-
mended by over 10,000 Doctors.
And it is the only wine tonic of any
repute that does not contain drugs.
You really ought to try it.
Old English Proverb illustrated No. 1
One good torn deserves another.'’
Arc you Weak?
Do you feel incapable of exer-
tion ? Does your work exhaust
you ? Do you feel intensely
weary in all your limbs? If
so, take “Wincarnis” three
times a clay, and it will give
you new strength and new
vigor. And each day more
strength and more vigor, until,
step by step, it rebuilds your
weakened constitution and re-
creates your lost vitality.
Are you “Nervy”?
Do you jump at a sudden
sound? Do you feel irritable?
Are you nervous ? Do you get
headaches? Do you have neur-
algia? Do you suffer from
nervous debility? That is be-
cause your nerves want “ton-
ing up.” You need a short
course of “Wincarnis.” “Win-
carnis” is a powerful nerve
builder which acts directly
upon the nerve centres and
thus transmits new vigor and
and new life to the nerves all
over the body.
Are you Anaemic?
Is your face white? Are your
lips and gums bloodless? xkre
your eyes dull? Does your
heart palpitate? If so, you
need “Wincarnis” to till your
veins with new, rich, red blood.
Take “Wincarnis” three times
a day. You will feel better
from even the first wineglass-
ful—-you will feel the new, rich
blood dancing through your
veins like a stream of new life.
Arc you Run-down?
Do you feel listless, low-
spirited and weary of every-
thing? Do you find your
work irksome and your recrea-
tion exhausting? If so, you
are “Run-down” and “out-of-
sorts.” But a few doses of
“Wincarnis” will quickly put
you right. Take a wineglass-
ful of “Wincarnis” in the
middle of the morning, and
another the last thing at night.
v ou will be delighted with
the neiv vigor and new vitality
it will give you.
UAM AAAAAAAAAAi
y yyvtymtff t tv mr?
Begin to get well TO-DAY
“Wincarnis” is made in England by COLEMAN & CO., LTD.,
“Wiricarnis” Works, Norwich. You can buy “Wincarnis” from
any Wine Merchant, Licensed Chemist or Grocer, but if you
experience any difficulty in obtaining it, write direct to the Sole
Distributing Agents, Eassett & Johnson, 5-7 Barrack Street,
Sydney.


t
BENGER’S
is the
most easily
digested
Food
obtainable.
It is expressly-
devised to be fully
nourishing when
natural digestion
isenfeebled, whether’
in child or adult.
It is prepared with fresh
new milk and forms a dainty
and delicious cream, which
fully satisfies “hunger-faint-
ness,” and soothes internal
discomfort. Benger’s is the
safe food in illness, and in
convalescence promotes
rapid recovery.
Delicate children thrive on it.
gfdg
Food
For CHILDREN.
Invalids and the aged
is sold by Druggists, etc., every whet e.
Bender's Booklet—A litt'e work of authority on
the special feeding: of Children, Invalids,and the
Aired, will he sent post free on application to:
BENGERS FOOD, Ltd.,Manchester, Eng.
Branch Omces— NKW YORK (H.S.A.I 92, William Street
SYDNEY IN.S.W.) 117. Pitt Street.
Canadian Agents— SittMUi Drug Co., Ltd., Montreal
1
RNATIL
-alcum
owder
Tf/t
\
srJt
Don’t Throw
Away Your
Williams’
Talc. Tins.
Post four empty
tins (any odor)
to the J. B.
Williams Co.,
Box 98, G.P.0.,
Sydney, and we
will send you
without charge
Williams’
exquisite Silver-
plated Vanity
Box, with
Powder
Puff and
Concentra-
ting Mir-
ror, exact-
ly like il-
lustration.
LjC
M .
Proved by independent
scientific investigation
to have a Body-Build-
ing Power of 10 to
20 times the amount
taken.
JASON
Unshrinkable
HOSIERY.
s
■
ilSitti
fdg
ilWi
f
dg
fd
HIITII&
MMMm
1
..4
5#
& f/K'Z-v,
MAKE UP YOUR
MIND TO HAVE
A PERFECT
BUST
There are to-day hundreds of women who were once thin, flal-
bosomed, hollow-cheeked and generally scraggly in appearance, and
suffering the effects of aiuvmia and defective digestion, who are now tor
the first time in their lives healthy, full-bosomed and pink-cheeked, and
enjoying the full vigor of robust womanhood, as the result of a tew
weeks under our wonderful
«« FLESH-FOOD ” TREATMENT.
Many women whose figures have .been spoiled by maternal duties
have been entirely restored to splendid form, and Hat-chested young
women who suffered slow development have had the fault corrected by
this treatment with lasting effect. " .
Flesh-Food is totally harmless in every respect. Its efficacy is
beyond question, and its use no demand upon the subject's tune. Many
eases gained up to six pounds a week, and an increase in bust measure-
ment up to S and 10 inches. Guarantee given in every case.
ANY WOMAN who lacks good bust development lacks the one. essential that creates a pci e
appearance. Lack of proper bust development, hollow cheeks and salt-cellars quickl.v take timm
a woman the bloom and freshness of healthy womanhood. Misfortune may h£ve >t .. , - encv
so far as natural development is concerned, but science lias found a way to collect i:Z’
Even though you have never been full-bosomed, and though you -have been attepm •, . e( j
if you suffer from no wasting disease, your bosom can be fully developed and yoi
to normal. /7 - HAS BEEN DONE FOR THOUSANDS-r— WHY NOT YOU ?
You can readily see the effect of an increase in your weight:- measurements It is not neces-
sary to imagine you are being benefited. See what Miss M. BOURkL, oi lamwoi.th, s>ays
“Yours to hand, and am pleased to state that y our treatment increased my
weight considerably over two stone, and my bust measuremen h y j rera
inches. Since using it I am much belter in health, and my flesh is now nrm
and I feel stronger and more vigorous. I thank you for the trouble you
taken, and am grateful for all you have done for me.
We publish an interesting book on the subject of attenuation and deve op-
ment and will send same and a FREE SAMPLE TREATMENT to y|i
OF CHARGE upon receipt of a 2d. stamp to pay part postage. All commumca
tions private and confidential. Write or call to-day for full particulars. [lBlB
FALbIKItE FLESH-FOOD CO., 1108 ASH STREET, SYDNEY.
FREE
SAMPLE
OSTER
Hill I lf'
When it comes to Threading Tubes
there is a special tool to fit your particular use
in the Oster line. 20 years of specialisation
guarantees their quality an Oster means
clean threads quickly cut.
FOR SALE BY LEADING DEALERS
IN ALL CITIES.
The Oster Mfg. Co.,
Cleveland, 0., U,S.A.
[i
OSTER
FREE TO
SMOKERS !
Mr. R. J. llinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W.v
VU - l ‘U gives me great pleasure to inform you that 1
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 12 months since I last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, 1 do not have the least desire to
smoke, therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect ; all my former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizzi-
ness, Nervousness and Stomach 1 rouble, which I
ave every reason to believe were caused through the
use of tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are
onlv remembered as a hideous nightmare. I eat
and sleep well, and feel fit to face the world again
It will give me great pleasure to recommend your
remedy to others.’’
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet, Testi-
monials, etc. .
N. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
[i.
a LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
\ Should read the British Austral-
: s 7an 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
home. Australians are cordially m-
vfted to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High Hol-
born. London. W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet . their friends. use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE. Established 1891.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all
cases of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after
suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
Price, 3/- per box, or a course of 8
Boxes for £l. Post free under
plain cover.
On Sale at all Druggists, Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout the States.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Hava you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us. and we will
Bend you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUBHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tri®d everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad if* ■}2. a r e °:
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collin*.st., Melbourne, Vic.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Black Wings.
Black wings on a blue sky,
And an old dream drifting by!
The arch is white where the green leaves
blow.
There’s a call of trees from the lane below.
The little lane where the roses grow....
Black wings on a blue sky,
Take a message from where I lie.
Tell him away by the opal sea,
There is only joy where his lips may be;
Whisper him back....to my heart and me.
Biack wings on a blue sky,
.V rose leaned 0ut.... but you soared too
high.. . .
The wind from the breast of the fickle sea
Blows with an ancient mockery ;
There are other Ups where his Ups may he.
Black wings on a blue sky
You did not heed me as you went by. . ..
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The God in the Car.
There was a time when I went well
With half the darling girls I knew ;
The whispered tale I had to tell
Would cast the necessary spell—
They never failed to hear it through.
But now when I’m for going gay
They will not even look my way.
I’m not too old, and just as smart
As in the other days when I
Could give my friends a thumping start,
And grab the little loving heart.
Give ear and I will tell you why
They pass me by, and fades my star —
I do not own a motor-car!
Once Love went on his downy wings ;
To-day he goes on wheels, alas!
His damsels want those goggled things
That grunt, and smell, and scream. He flings
A lemon to me as I pass.
No longer fast, I make my bow,
For Cupid is a chauffeur now !
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.
Fairy Rose.
The world was all white with the snow,
But it made a cold darkness to me;
It’s a heavy, long way he must go
With a. stick when a man cannot see.
There’s a house at the top of the glen,
And there’s one at the foot of the rise—
Och, it’s walking is hard on dark men,
Though it’s lightsome for them that have
eyes.
She came through the road in the trees,
She set her soft hand in my own —
“Will you buy a red rose, if you please,
Dark man, that are walking your lone?
“ ’Tis a penny in summer they are,
But in winter they sell for a kiss”—
Och, I’ve travelled the land near and far
And never heard talking like this.
And would I be heeding at all
A wild word like that she might speak?
Sure, I laid my cold hand on her shawl — _
“Would you mock a blind man to his
cheek?”
’Twas like a warm wind from the south,
She lifted the rose small and sweet —
“W T ill you give me a kiss on the mouth.
Dark man with your eyes in your feet?”
’Twas a voice like a bird in the spring,
And what would a man do at all?
Och, she kissed like a butterfly’s wing
When it touches a weed on the wall!
’Twas lightsome. ’Twas more.... ’Twas the
light— .
The blessed white light on the snow.
Sure, that kiss gave a man his plain sight,
I saw the small houses below.
There was laughter along in the trees,
And a patter of light-running feet —
Och. the fairies are good when they please
To the dark men they happen to meet.
Sure, I went like a man in a dream
Near the black hedges dropping the snow,
And over the bridge at the stream
To the little warm houses below.
“Is it Ryan, the dark man?” they said,
And the childer came round me to feel.
“Is it eyes that you have in your head
Since you went down the road to Ivilkeel /
“ ’Tis the wonder of God. to be sure!”
And I thought of the girl on the hill.
When the fairies will bring you the cure
’Tis best that your tongue should be still.
And the spring came up over the land —
Och, the wonder of blossom and tree .
For the world lay all new to my hand,
With the sun throwing gold upon me.
There’s a house near the top of the glen,
And there’s one at the foot of the rise,
And it’s good to be seeing like men,
With the long, open road in your eyes.
But I think, will she come through the trees?
Will she put her soft hand into mine?
Will she say, “Buy a rose, if you please,
Tall man that are seeing so fine?
“ ’Tis in winter for healing they are,
’Tis in summer to make your heart
light”
Och, girl. I’ll be looking too far
And it’s hungry I am for one sight.
Will she come like a bird in the spring?
Och. what will a man do at all?
Sure, she kist like a butterfly’s wing,
When it touches a weed on the wall.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


g
In Addition to Electric Light You Can Have
the benefits ck Electrical help to wash, iron, sew, cook,
clean the hou <e ; you can have coolness in Summer and
abundant warmth in Winter. Out in the farm buildings
the wires will carry ample power to run separators, pump
water, and do all other farm pow’er jobs. Electricity in
YOUR home will help and save —you can have all its
benefits
with a “ L,ister-Brtlstcm ,,
Eledric Lighting Set.
The whole system only takes up about ox 4 feet
floor space. Let us furnish YOU with full particulars.
Write NOW.
AGENTS : N.S.W.—W. G. Watson & Co., Ltd., 279 Clarence Street, Sydney
VlC.—Sutherland & Ashman, Flinders Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND—Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd., Cree'i Street, Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALlA—Clutterbuck Bros., Adelaide.
WE ARE STILL SELLING FANCY AND GLASS
ELECTRIC SHADES AT LOW PEACE-TIME PRICES
despite the fact that wholesale cost prices have {tone up
with a bound since War was declared. We were fortunate
in having- huge stocks in before hostilities commenced —
bought on the lowest market they are selling at the lowest
prices NOW —and will not advance till prime cost advances.
Will YOU share our good fortune? Order early, please,
from this announcement. Quotations given on anything
Electrical.
W. G. WATSON O. CO.,
Suppliers of Everything! Electrical,
279 Clarence Street; 426=430 Kent Street,
(.Just round from the Town Hall).
Melbourne Representative: Geo. SMITH MORISON, Collins House,
LTD.,
SYDNEY
Collins Street.
fdg
ll*
r GIVES INSTANT BELIEF.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from—
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough —you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australia.
HEALS ANY WOUND OR SORE -
If you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won't
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind,
no matter of how long standing, you can cure it
quickly and surelv with
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price 1/6, posted 1/6. J. WILKINSON, Chemist
1] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries*
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT,
In use since 1596.
Write for Book. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng,
Insist on “ Singleton’s* —refuse all substitutes.
The Mmer’s Right —
Pate.
There is no value in a gold mine
till you work it. Neither is there
any value in knowing “Bex” Ham
Pate only from the outside of the
package.
m
m
-sm
■
Buy a tin and take it home to-night. Let the whole family
taste it. If they don't ask for
35ESj!|
HAM PATE
at every meal thereafter it will be strange.
“Rex” Ham Pate is made from perfectly-matured. Sugar-
cured “Rex” Ham, ground to a consistency that makes it easy
to spread, and flavored with pure spices in the “Rex’ way.
It’s as fine for the Miners’ Crib as for the daintiest Evening
Supper.
Procurable at all' Grocers, Ask for “Rex” Brand—there’s no
Substitute.
OTHER “REX” BRAND CANNED DELICACIES:
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese, in decor-
ated tins only.
Veal & Tongue Pate, lib. tins.
Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
Pork & Beans, 131 b. tins.
Pigs’ Peet in Jelly, lib. tins.
Lunch Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib tins.
Also Butter in lib. tins specially
put up for campers in Queensland.
“BEX” FRESH SMALL GOODS
procurable at all Grocers and
Smail-goods’ shops and carts in
Brisbane and District and Bendigo
and District only.
Saveloys.
Strassburg Sausage.
Veal German Sausage.
White Puddings.
Black Puddings.
Pork Sausages.
Frankfurt Sausages.
FOGG ITT, JONES & CO. Ltd.
Curers of “Rex” Hams & Bacon; Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products;
Makers of “Rex” Small Goods.
§
rl
m
p3lf
BUY
PERDRIAU
Australian-Made
RUBBER GOODS
and help to make this country
self-supporting.
We manufacture :
MOTOR TYRES and all accessories for the
car.
RUBBER FOOTWEAR—GoIoshes, Rubber
Boots, Play Shoes, lleels, etc.
RUBBER HOSE—I \>r Garden, Steam, De-
livery, Suction and every other require-
ment.
WATER PROOF CLOT HING —M aci n tosh
Coats, Oilskins, Rugs, etc.
MECHANICAL RUBBER GOODS —Belt
ing, Packings, Sheet Rubber, etc.
DOMESTIC RUBBER GOODS—Hot
Water Bags, Air Cushions, Waterproof
Sheeting, etc.
Catalogues sent Post Free Anywhere.
' l
0 s
rr
PFRMIAII Rubber go. ltd.,
A a\ A A flk Australian Manufacturers of all Rubber Goods,
270 George Street, SYDNEY. 67a Gawler Place, ADELAIDE.
105 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE. 307 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
POLISHES FLOORS
PERFECTLY.
Shi-noleum gives a better shine in •,
less time than any other Polish—-does it more economically, too. A
little goes a long way, and the effect is lasting. It does not gather
the dust and is a preservative, doubling the life of the Linoleum.
Shi-noleum is good for wood floors, furniture, tan boots, and all
leather goods.
Do not accept a substitute said to be “ just as good.” If your storekeeper cannot
supply you. send his name to the Paget Manufacturing Co., I/td., 109 Regent
Street, Sydney, and a free sample will be sent you.
V
•/a
. '• j?F a< rr
i
BiACK S«H AKr
| tMM&i
“t.'.iv ;
l
ui
Absolutely reliable —just what you should offer your
friends —just what you should call for yourself. Its
smooth, mellow quality, richness and purity have been
maintained for over 80 years. The connoisseur says:
“Incomparable”
m


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 36.—N0. 1831.
THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 1915.
Price 6d.
“NEVERMORE.”
Great Britain resembles the fantastic bird of Poe’s poem. Like the Raven, she repeats to Germany’s maritime trade, .“Nevermore.”— Paris Temps,
AUSTRALIA: “Well, I’d have a lot more faith in the bird’s talk if the wall was higher.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia i'or the White Alan.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman. for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERM Ft TO RIJBFCRTBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £ 1 6s. 6d. ner Annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
i/erar, including Special Christmas Number, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., ivhich should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Fditor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, 'whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
°r Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length or, say.
WOO ivords. are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it ivill be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending' MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted fo-
niRECT reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction- — i.e.. any picture
which, has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.. — The Central Neivs Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg ; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., bl/l Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A.— Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego.
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co.. Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Postage Rates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth. Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
Woz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz.. Id., Bioz. to 10nz., 2\d. ;
Woz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, J/oz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
ffi^SShzHdEi/n,.
THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 1915.
WHY THEY DON’T ENLIST.
Every now and then an Australian news-
paper utters a dejected cry headed “The
Truth About the War,” or something similar,
and proceeds to give the lie to everything
that it has been saying during the preceding
months. One of them did it last week.
There was nothing in this article about
German “routs” and Austrian “debacles,” or
the “Imperial spirit.” All the usual gags
were blanketed. Instead, such plain truths
were presented as the following:—
The British Empire must rise to the occasion.
Not only liberty, but the very right to live, is now
in pledge. Here at this end of the Empire a multi-
tude of our young men are still absorbed in the
results of the latest prize fights, in the betting lists
for coming horse races, and in a score of surface
enterprises which represent the froth of life instead
of its deep currents and vital interests. The war is
far away; nobody they know is yet hurt; and, any-
how, they have decided to let “the other fellow”
fight. The British, wherever they may be set, must
fight as a nation in arms. They must subordinate
everything to war. Our games, our complacent read-
ing of the war news, and our settled convictions
about the certainty of victory must give way to
better knowledge of the facts.
There was a lot more to the same effect —
everjit; line of it the poignant cry of Propputy
unnerved.
A vast number of young Australians have
volunteered, and others are doing it every
day; but there is still a big crowd available
to consume the “froth of life.” Whose fault
is it? Primarily that of the people who are
now imploring our youths to step forward
and protect their assets. The longer a man
lives, and the deeper he delves into the ques-
tion, the more clearly he realises that there
is little material advantage to be gained per-
sonally from being one of the Empire’s
defenders. During the Boer war there was
a; certain measure of antecedent reclame to
be got out of enlisting. This was due largely
to the fact that one political party dis-
approved of the war. The other party made
a point of feting the departing warriors in a
flamboyant manner, not from patriotism, but
to emphasise the miserable disloyalty of the
Opposition. In this war there is no Oppo-
sition. Everyone is pro-British, and the
Empire Leagues are dead. One effect is
that the man in khaki is accepted as a matter
of course, and if anyone thinks about him
it is mostly to wonder, with a tinge of resent-
ment, why he lingers on, irstead of getting
briskly off to business. The present-day
soldier does not march to the troopship
through streets lined with admiring fellow-
countrymen. He/' is not seen off at the
wharf by cheering, weeping crowds. His
exit is almost furtive. Truhper lias earned
more glory by making a century in a test-
match than most of our expeditionaries can
* or in . a . The soldier’s pay,
high though it is as such things go, is nothing
to what he could earn, with greater security
and comfort, if he stayed behind. And he
understands, if .he has any knowledge of
history, that it is going to be no picnic for
him if, and when, he comes back. It is a
gloomy fact that society, for as long as the
written word extends, has always regarded
the warrior whose work is done as rather a
nuisance. The indentors and others, who
want to forget the whole unpleasantness and
start trading with the late enemy as soon as
possible, give him cold shoulder, very thinly
disguised. The young men who didn’t go
desire to recreate the glad era when no one
was expected to do more for the Empire
than talk about it. The Peace enthusiasts
emerge from hiding and demonstrate, with-
out rebuke, that there never should have
been a war, and that those who took part in
it ought to be ashamed of themselves. There
was a time, after the Boer upheaval, when a
man hardly cared to admit that he had
assisted to uphold the Empire’s might.
* * * *
And as if these considerations were not
enough, the potential volunteer has iced
water poured on his patriotism from another
vessel. The adult Australian is not deceived
when stout persons in belltoppers and tail-
coats orate at him upon the necessity of
saving his country. He knows that they
mean their businesses. And the question he
asks is: “What part are they taking in the
venture?” When he investigates he finds
that they are playing a very paltry role
indeed. . There are millionaires, or there-
abouts, in some of the States who have not
publicly given a farthing to any of the
relief funds ; and as they are people who do
not customarily shun advertisement, it may
be. taken that they have given nothing
privately. There are wealthy young men
who show no disposition to fight, and
wealthy old men who decline to let their
sons fight. There are firms which penalise
their employees for even doing the trifling
amount of military service which is
demanded by the Defence Act, and there
are other firms which have let their hands
understand that any nonsense in the matter
of volunteering for the Front will mean the
sack. The Australian of fighting age notes
these and other portents, and they do not
enthuse him. The most desirable type of
soldier does not, of course, go to the wars
for money, or glory, or to save his own
personal belongings. Patriotism is a com-
posite emotion which includes not only those
ideas, but others of a higher order. Still
there is in every man a natural reluctance
to have his leg pulled. Thousands of those
who remain here absorbed in “surface enter-
prises” are neither cowards nor disloyalists.
They are simply perceptive citizens who
consider that their intelligences are being
insulted when they are urged to pull the
chestnuts out of the biggest fire in history by
loafers who won’t even help with adequate
cheques.
* * * *
Most of those who have already volun-
teered belong to a small class. They are the
exceptionally virile and the ultra-adven-
turous, the wildly patriotic and the furi-
ously restless, with a few other varieties.
Recent recruiting returns provide the best
proof that there are not many more of these
left. Yet, as our newspapers are now
beginning to admit, the position of Germany
continues to be strong. The Kaiser’s troops
are firmly anchored in Belgium, and they
are holding with ramparts of appalling
strength one of the richest parts of France.
Germany remains inviolate, and according to
recently-returned and observant travellers,
the stories About famine and anarchy there
are war-myths. The Turk is rather a dis-
hevelled old scrapper these days. His uni-
form is torn and his boots are burst; his
fez is often lost and his wages unpaid. But
things were the same when he was the
terror of Europe ; he can subsist for months
on what he is able to steal; and fighting is
his hobby. There are 350,000 of him, all
fanatical. Unquestionably Australia is
called upon to rise to a tremendous occasion,
and if it is to do it without conscription it
must devise a means to bring into the ranks
the young men of fighting age from the
moment that the supply of what may be
called the natural fighters begins to peter out.
* * * *
The Australian Government has done all
it can. No troops in history have been better
paid, provisioned and treated than ours.
What remains to be done is largely the affair
of Private Enterprise. The nation will only
fight as a nation in arms when its units
anpreciate that everyone is co-operating to
the best of his ability. The lax volunteer
is not going to be driven to the recruiting
table by the voice of public reprobation, so
long as the lax capitalist remains prominent.
The indigent are not likely to face the
anguish of warfare in lerm numbers, while
they observe that the rich are doing nothing
if they are young, and urging their sons to join
rifle-clubs if they are old. Australia’s rich
men have never displayed much political
imagination. Each fresh development has
come as a stunning shock to them—equally
so whether it was alien restriction, or arbi-
tration. or a local navy. Tbov see no further
now than they ever did. Those who have
not helped at all point to the Land Tax, to
the fact that a Labor Government is in
power, and to similar irrelevancies as a com-
plete explanation of their attitude. Others
who have gone so far as to divert two or
three hundred sovereigns from investment,
on behalf of the cause, consider that their
dn+v to the Empire is done. It isn’t. They
will have to do far more in the months to
oome if this country is to remain British and
free.
ANOTHER SCRAP OF PAPER.
Patriotism is the last refuge of politicians
and pawnbrokers and some other people,
which may perhaps be the reason for Prime
Minister Fisher’s advocacy of a “strategi-
cal” railway, from Port Augusta to Brisbane,
in Fisher’s own State of Queensland, and
to the back-door and ash-barrel of
Fisher’s own electorate. Nobodv has ever
accused Andrew Fisher of much military
strategy, but with political strateirv he is pro-
bably acquainted. And political strategy con-
sists in greasing the rotund hog; in building
railways where there are most railways—
and consequently most population and votes —
already; and in substituting the slum spirit
of the old cities for the pioneering enter-
prise which once promised to make Aus-
tralia a great land, but which unfortunately
burst by reason of congestion, and big loans,
and the importing disease, and other miseries.
* * * *
The Northern Territory is a Federal pro-
perty. More than half of it is a cool, high,
fertile tableland, with splendid prospects for
settlement; but because it is lacking in rail-
ways Australia knows practically nothing of
it save the little, hot, muddy area about
Port Darwin, where the occasional steam-
ship calls in. The chief objection to a great
part of the tableland is that it is occasion-
ally rather cold in winter. The Federal
Government is pledged, on its honor as a
gentleman and according to the terms of the
agreement by which it acquired the Terri-
tory for a mere song, to complete the railway
from Adelaide to Darwin. Until the railway
is completed there is no chance of much
population accumulating in Central Aus-
tralia, and consequently votes are scarce at
the moment. And unless a politician thinks
more of the future of Australia than of the
chance to secure support on next election
day, there is little hope for the central line.
The object of the moment is not to develop
the country but to bring the end of this
great work right up to Smith’s side en-
trance, so that Smith and all his relations
may vote for Jones, who brought the line
there; and Jones, being returned by a large
majority, may get a portfolio in Brown’s
Ministry.
* * * *
There are quite a number of reasons for
not diverting the Northern Territory rail-
way from Adelaide to Brisbane, even though
Brisbane may be in Fisher’s own State.
But the all-sufficient one is that the diversion
cannot be made without Australia being
something of a liar and a considerable
amount of a corruptionist, seeing that the
Adelaide-Darwin line was embodied in the
terms under . which the Territory was
acquired. It; is all very good to discourse
at large about the surreptitiousness of
I'eancis Joseph and about William Two’s
lack of faith and contempt for the “scrap of
paper” which bound him to respect Belgian
neutrality, but if the Fisher Government
has no more respect for a scrap of paper
than Kaiser William it is better to drop
the William subject. If the Australian
kettle is a fraud there is nothing to be gained
by vast dissertations about the unreliability
of the German pot.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Andrew Fisher’s “Strategy.”
Andrew Fisher in his recent attempt to
holster up his “strategic” railway fell over
his mvn boots. First there was his quota-
tion from Kitchener :
Railway construction has, while developing the
country, resulted in lines that; would be more favor-
able to an enemy invading. Australia than to the
defence of the country.
And according to Fisher the remedy is to
neglect the standardisation of railway
gauges, delay the construction of the trans-
continental railway to the Northern Terri-
and tinker up a new line which, while
it might be of little value to the invader,
would be of still less use as a means of
keeping him out. Again, the Prime Minister
admitted that in 1911 the War Railway
Council recommended the immediate adoption
of a uniform 4ft. 81in. gauge on all rail-
ways; but this he declared missed the vital
point in the observations of Kitchener :—-
Different gauges in most of the States’ isolated
systems, and the want of systematic interior connec-
tion, make the present lines running inland of little
use for defence purposes.
If the War Council’s recommendation missed
Kitchener’s point, Fisher ought to explain
how it missed it, for it is certainly not ex-
pjained by the quotation. On, the contrary,
Kitchener put a uniform gauge first,
exactly as the Council did. There is only
one ground on which the construction of a
raihvay from Port Augusta to Brisbane
could be advocated, and that is on the under-
standing that the northern portion of Aus-
tralia cannot be defended, and that the
enemy is to be allowed to land in the unde-
fended portion and be faced by our troops
only when he is about to attack the closely-
settled south-eastern corner. If Andrew
Fisher reallv thinks that the only parts of
Australia which are worth defending are the
district around Adelaide, the States of N. S-
Wales and Victoria and the Brisbane end of
Queensland, then his proposal is almost sen-
sible. If, on the other hand, this continent
is to remain whole and undivided in ■ the
hands of its people, uniform gauge on the
existing lines and the completion of the rail-
way to the Northern Territory must be the
Prime Minister’s first concern.
♦ —-—.
The Dove of Peace.
All his life W. J. Bryan, of the U.S., has
been a peace enthusiast. He is his coun-
try’s loudest apostle of disarmament, or. if
not of that, of the completest measure of it
that the screaming eagle will stand. He has
written libraries and orated by the square-
“Eyewitness” in Paradise.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Early and late, early and late,
St. Peter watched by Paradise Gate,
And ever he turned his glances down
The road that leads to Paradise Town,
Where the taximeteors flash all day
By the starry lamps on the Mirny Way.
Grand and grim, grand and grim,
The marching strain of a battle-hymn
Hose faint and far down the silent road,
Till the head of a war-worn column showed,
And the challenge rang on the heavenly air,
Prom the anger sentry: “Halt! who goes
there?”
Joyous and clear to St. Peter’s ear
Came the answer back again: “Ail friends
here!
We are the men who blocked the way
When a ‘cultured’ braggart proclaimed The
Day;
Who gave our lives for our country’s word,
For a scrap of paper, a broken sword.
“From north to south, from east to west,
We heard the call and we gave our best.
We flouted death with a barrack joke
When the shrapnel snarled through the battle
smoke,
And played the game with a joyful pride
Till the unseen Umpire declared ‘off-side.’
“Be we sinner or be we saint,
We saved the ship and we damned the paint.
The Belgian women’ll tell you straight
Y\ ho wait for their men by Calais gate.
Grey and white, ’neath the whimpering sky,
The North Sea knows how the English die.
“Numbed and stunned in the ghastly trench,
Where the blood-reek strangled the lyddite
stench,
Sleepless and stiff in the frozen mud,
Our eyelids caked with the sweat and blood—
To the God of Battles our chaplains name,
We, who have also served Him, came.”
The gates swung wide with a mighty clang,
The silver trumpets a greeting sang,
And in through the portals of Paradise
With heads erect and with shining eyes,
Through a roar of welcome, a flame of
swords.
Marched the men who had baffled the
Kaiser’s hordes.
But scarcely a month had passed away,
Ere in Paradise Town was the deuce to pay.
For the newcomers’ ways in truth gave
handle
To quite a surprising amount of scandal;
Till the Elders murmured they scarcely knew
What the place could really be coming to.
For some of the Tommies were heard to
swear;
And some of the prettiest angels there
(’Twas said with a shudder) were seen to
wink ;
And some complained there was naught to
drink.
They would pawn their haloes, they vowed,
to quaff
A good long pewter of half-and-half!
Then letters apneared.in the daily press
Deploring the spread of ungodliness,
And a German saint whitewashed the Kaiser
In hhe New Jerusalem Advertiser.
And the Lord was asked by a. denutation
For some drastic social legislation.
Deep in God’s passionless, patient eyes,
And over His features, grave and wise
A twinkle glimmered: and, smiling, He
Bade Captain Ithuriel, A.D.C.,
Send one of the Royal Cherubim
To bring the offending souls to Him.
Into the King’s hall, dim and vast,
The awestrucK souls of the heroes passed,
And stood to attention before the King....
“What tales are these that My people bring?
Do you tire so soon of your hard-won ease
That you needs must trouble My city’s
peace?”
Out of the ranks a sergeant stepped,
And hand to forehead saluting swept;
Five feet eleven from sole to crown,
Straight as a bayonet, scarred and brown,
With his firm-set mouth, and his steadfast
eyes
That were blue and cold as the Polar skies.
Straight was his glance, and high his head,
And, “Well, it’s this way, Sire,” he said ;
“We ask Your pardon; for what we done,
And sorry we are if a bit of fun
’As given offence—but the facts is -dear,
We can’t feel some’ow contented ’ere.
“There’s some of us wrestled with dropghts
Out Back,
Or followed the sheds on the wallaby track,
Who’ve mushed through the long Alaskan
nights
With a blizzard fit for to freeze your lights,
Or fought the scare in a cholera camp,
While their own brows dripped with the
fever damp.
“There’s chaps fresh-faced from their English
school,
Or pasty yet from an office-stool;
From a Khyber fort or a Canada farm,
They came when the Empire called to arm.
But (beggin’ Your pardon) they never come
For a pair o’ wings or a ’arp to strum.
“We mean no ’arm, but we can’t forget
The blokes wot’s down in the trenches yet,
The same as stuck to us firm as glue,
And kept us going when things looked blue;
And I put it to You —is it right or fair
To be loafing ’ere while our pals is here?
“We’re not ungrateful—but wot we swore
Was to stick till the end of the bloomin’ war.
It looks as though it ’ud just begun,
And, blimey! we want to be in the fun!
This ’eaven’s for angels, not for Men—
Let us go back to our pals agen!”
Saints and Seraphs and Elders all
Watched for the wrath of the Lord to fall
Swift on the impious mortal’s head.
But “Loyally spoken!” the good Lord said;
And His great voice rang like a bugle call
Through the crystal deeps of the vasty hall.
“Where the Dreadnought reels to the blind-
ing gale,
Where the shrapnel scatters its deadly hail,
Where the searchlights stab through the
frozen dark,
Like Death’s pale fingers, their prey to
mark—
Soldiers, My soldiers, brave and true,
Go where your hearts are calling you!”
Out of the gates of Paradise,
With smiling faces and shining eyes,
Shoulder to shoulder, closely pressed.
The long, lean column swung, four abreast,
In faded putties arrayed once more,
And khaki tattered and stained with gore.
Long and late, long and late,
St. Peter watched from Paradise gate,
Till the rea midst figure had faded down
The road that leads from Paradise .Town,
And faint and far on the heavenly,air he
Caught the echoes of “Tipperary.”’
N.S.W.
FRITZ S. BURNELL.


mile on the folly of militarism. To a large
extent his propaganda has been a success,
llis countrymen have for years accepted the
view that it is letter to chase fresh dollars
than to ens”.o the safety of those they have.
And now urn horror which the Peace Society
experts were accustomed to brush aside as
unthinkable has smitten the world’s great
nations, and the U.S. amongst the rest.
The Land of the Wooden Ham has not been
called upon to tread anything in the
nature of a Calvary—yet. In point
of fact, the great upheaval has done
its trade good in some directions. But what
it has gained here and there in commerce it
has trebly lost in national prestige. If
its merchant ships are sunk or seized,
it can do nothing but register futile
protests. If its citizens are ill-treated,
it can only utter more protests, which
are completely . disregarded. Its posi-
tion is that of the feeble individual who, upon
being severely kicked, says, in a threatening
manner, “You do that again,” and is at once
obliged. This is a painful situation for a
country which boasts a population of 100
millions and the greatest natural resources
on earth. Even the Peace champions have
begun to feel it of late, and so the other day
W. J. Bryan broke out in this fashion: —
The President knows that if this country needed
a million men, and needed them in a day, the call
would go out at sunrise, and the sun would go down
on a million men in arms.
Childish bombast! Even if the U.S. could
in one day uniform a million men, and equip
them with the requisite rifles, bayonets, siege
guns, field guns, trained horses, ammunition,
ammunition waggons, ambulances, transport-
waggons, horses and gear, field kitenens,
machine guns, and the countless other things
that are required iu warfare—which, of
course, it couldn’t —the new army would still
be a rabble. Its officers would not know
their jobs, and its men would fall over their
own feet. No man fully appreciates the
obtrusiveness of his feet till he tries to
become a soldier. Kitchener, with three-
parts of the world to draw on for equipment,
arms and ammunition, and with a vast re-
serve of trained officers and non-coms,
to his hand for instructional purposes, has
taken seven months to produce an army fit
to face European troops. How long would
U.S.A. take, situated as it is? And even
when the new army was created there would
be no navy capable of convoying it any-
where that the Sea Powers disapproved of its
going. Bryan’s pronouncement, like so much
Peace talk, is nonsense. There is but ore
way in which a nation can be secure and
self-respecting ; and that is by arming and
remaining armed.
: — «
A Privilege of the Affluent.
A number of soldiers suffering from vene-
real diseases arrived in Australia aboard the
Kyarra recently. The military authorities
have no quarrel with them. It has been
expressly stated that those who get well will
be allowed to rejoin their units. They have
been sent home solely in order that they
may not contaminate their comrades. In
every case they are to be segregated until
their treatment is finished. In N. S. Wales,
by virtue of the best Act which the Wade
Government ever brought into being, the
authorities are empowered to take the same
course with people who are under arrest.
And that is as far as the State’s enterprise
in grappling with the venereal disease pro-
blem goes. It comes to this, then. The
State may compulsorily detain and treat,
for their own good and the protection of the
community, its criminals and semi-criminals;
but non-offenders it cannot touch. There
is no hindrance in the way of men or women
being, so many perambulating disease-beds
provided their station in life is such that
they are not disposed to commit petty lar-
cenies or get drunk and disorderly in the
streets. Was there ever such an unreason-
able situation? When a rich man gets
small-pox, plague or diphtheria the autho-
rities rightly say to him: “You are a public
danger—as great a danger as any burglar
with your complaint would be.” But when
a rich man contracts syphilis the State says
in effect: “Go in peace. You have, by virtue
of your position, exceptional temptations
and exceptional opportunities to spread this
most hideous of afflictions. The morally-
guilty may suffer from the license you are
allowed; also the morally innocent. That
is not the State’s affair. Till you smash a
window, or assault a policeman, or break
mutinous or alcoholic, you are free to
open a till or go to the war and prove
spread pollution.” What would reason-
able citizens say of a State which, on dis-
covering that it was being ravaged by the
plague, decided to treat only those sufferers
who were left-handed or the possessors of
red hair? Our selective process in regard
to those who contract syphilis is just as
fortuitous. Smith is seized on and cured
with the utmost vigor; Smytiie is allowed
to be as infectious as he likes. Nothing
but the party system could produce a posi-
tion so insane. The importance of checking
syphilis, at whatever cost to the liberty of
the subject, is recognised in the case of
criminals who are disfranchised by law.
But in the case of those who have votes.
Labor and Liberal Governments alike will
do nothing—the reason being that such vast
numbers of votes are likely to be affected.
If only a handful of our right-thinking, hard-
voting electors were venereally affected, the
different State Governments would spring
off their tails with terrific speed and force
upon the invalids the cure of a lifetime.
But as about 55 ner cent, of males of all
classes become diseased in one way or
another, nothing drastic is done. When a
party politician has to choose between votes
and the greatest misery-producer of the age
the votes have it every time.
*>
A Bakers’ Reduction Board.
“The Pariah” takes a ride on the cart: —
About the price of cotnmodities, one thing seems
clear—that the bread market is kept at a fictitious
level through the extraordinary number of super-
fluous bakers. Why, then, not establish a Bakers’
Reduction Board and gradually eliminate the surplus
baker? Jones and Smith could cater comfortably
for a suburb. Each pays a high rent, a big horse-
feed bill, and needs two or three carts to deliver the
stuff on time. After two horses, chauffeured by
two expensive drivers, have dragged two gaudy carts
to one street, bread is delivered at six houses there
by each driver. Then the charioteers drive away,
one east and one west, where they each meet a rival
cart and go through the same performance. The
whole work could be done by two, or at the outside
three, carts. The upkeep of all the unnecessary carts
and their admirals is charged ultimately to the
hungry citizen who must eat something, and prefers
bread to road-metal. Bad is made worse when
Robinson invests £lOOO in a bakery in the same
suburb. There is now a- heap of unnecessary labor,
rent, horse-meat, horse-feed, cart-paint, bread-con-
ductor, shoe-iron and sundries to do what was already
done too expensively. In course of a year or two
the same thing happens in a dozen suburbs, and the
bakers begin to yell that they are working at a loss —-
which is probably a poetical way of saying that they
are not making as much as they would like to. The
Master Pirates’ Association then lays low till an
advance of 10s. or so in the price of flour (which,
spread over 1345 loaves, works out at about one-tenth
of a penny per loaf) causes them to howl unani-
mously to the effect that, in order to cover the 10s.
rise, they must lift the price Id. per loaf. Possibly
owing to too much competition some of the poor
devils have a hard time; but why should the public
be compelled to charitably support these surplus
middlemen? It is better that the public should
protect itself by some means such as a Bakers’
Shops Reduction Board. In the sacred cause of
Beer, Victoria declared that a certain number of
pubs sufficed for a certain number of throats; now
in the sacreder cause of Bread let us establish a
certain proportion between population and bakeries.
Where bakers’ shops were in excess of the statutory
number, the Board could take evidence, and the
shop with the worst record would go first.
Prosecuting from the Bench.
Last week Judge Docker —the “old brown
jug” of the N.S.W. District Court Bench
for the past 30 years—perpetuated a bad
old local tradition by informing an acquitted
prisoner that he had been “extremely lucky
in his jury.” No Judge has a right to pro-
nounce on facts as opposed to law, and no
Judge has a right to insult a jury, which is
debarred from answering him back, by im-
plying that it is perjured, squared or incom-
petent. In any case the more correct for-
mula nowadays is that the prisoner was
“extremely lucky in his Judge.” The jury
comes into court usually with a great re-
spect for the Bench; but the Bench has a
million opportunities of making a fool of it-
self, and once it does that the jury’s respect
is lost. It is then that dangerous criminals
get loose; for juries will not take responsi-
bilities after it has become evident that the
Judge is biased and has ceased to be loyal
to them. The classic instance is the Harles-
den murder trial in London. Accused was a
barman. There was bad blood between him
and the manager. After closing hours one
night, in the presence of several witnesses,
he shot the manager dead. The case was so
simple that but for the fact that pleas of
guilty are never entered in capital cases,
there was little point in putting up a defence
at all. But it happened that the Judge was
one who had a habit of taking sides. Also
St. John Macdonald, . who defended, is
bitter, stubborn and sardonic. The trial
developed after a while into so fierce a per-
sonal conflict between Macdonald and the
Judge that it even went so far as the ex-
change of personal insults. When the Judge
summed up strongly for a conviction the
matter was clinched—in the prisoner’s favor.
The jury, seeing that it was impossible to
rely upon the Judge, refused to take the
responsibility of a human life upon its own
shoulders, despite the clearness of the evi-
dence. When Judge Docker next feels im-
pelled to insult a body of citizens who are
performing a public duty at personal in-
convenience and loss, he should first inquire
whether he himself isn’t the misfit. From
the days, 25 years ago, when Joseph Abbott
made the famous attack on him down to the
present, he has been so often told so that
he will find plenty of support assuming he
decides the question against himself.
Hungry Mendicants Who Wear Aprons.
The “urgent necessity” found by Anglican
bishops in Australia for going to England
and there passing round the hat for this
poverty-stricken country, which can’t drop
the traybit into the plate with sufficient fre-
quency to keep the gaiters in good condition,
is becoming more scandalous than ever. The
Bulletin is not the only paper to sniff at
the odor of sanctity or something else which
hangs round these proceedings. The aroma
has "Become so strong that even the Anglican
denominational paper, the Church Stan-
dard, has begun to detect it. Two of the
four Anglican bishons in W.A.— Trower. of
the North-West, and Golding-Bird, of Kal-
goorlie—are at present in England trying to
pick up whatever thrums have not been
absorbed by patriotic funds and the like.
Only quite recently Australian Anglicans—
aided to less than the usual extent by coin
cadged at ’Ome—put up the endowment
necessary to create these two sees and
provide their occupants with steady jobs and
safe screws. Says the outraged Standard :
It is, therefore, somewhat galling to realise that
with his few scattered clergy needing all a Father
in God’s sympathy and guidance, the Bishop of the
North-West has already been eight months in London,
and there is,-no news as .to the date of his return.
Then is added the surprise that the occupant of the
other newly-formed see in the same newly-formed
province has proceeded to the battlefields of Europe
as a chaplain to the Ithperial forces. Surely in-
congruity can go no further.
The richness of the latter fl : ght lies in the
fact that Bishop Golding-Bird explained
before his departure that he would, in any
case, have gone on the usual tour to England
before long, and that as soon as practicable
after his arrival in Europe he would resign
his military chaplaincy and start “collecting”
for his diocese. The astute prelate, there-
fore, has had a free passage to the other
side, where he is cadging for objects in which
the great majority of Australian taxpayers
are not interested, and to which all outside
his own sect —ffrom Holy Romans, on the
one hand, to Seventh Day Adventists on the
other:—are more or less actively hostile. In
addition, unless he was a conspicuous excep-
tion, he drew pay from the Commonwealth
Treasury equivalent to that of a field officer
while classed as chaplain; and when his men-
dicant tour of England is over he will doubt-
less, if he thinks of it. barrack hard, with a
good chance of success, for a free passage
back to this long-suffering corntrv as a re-
tired officer. Yet there are still some simple
folk who say that the poor dear clergy have
no head for business!
Joe Cook has again been saying what
“Liberalism” theoretically stands for. Why
he should continue these academic outbursts
has not been explained. However, taking
his utterances for what they are worth, it
seems that the Liberalism of Joseph still
stands for a pea-soup fog of obscurity. Lib-
eralism, he says, is for the fair deal, is
against monopoly, is in favor of measures
resting on a fundamentally sound economic
basis. Mere wind! No one outside of a
mental hospital is going to come forward
and say that he believes in the crooked
transaction, in fostering monopolists or in
legislation based on a foundation supplied
by a firm of fraudulent contractors. On the
contrary, let any public man be the most
unscrupulous rascal who ever betrayed the
public interests, his parade of adherence to
the most lofty principles will be everlasting.
The point, however, for Joseph and other
Australians is not what Liberalism stands
for, but the conduct of individuals who call
themselves “Liberals” ; and in the same way
the people are becoming much more inter-
ested in the behavior of Labor members
than in the symmetrical beauties of “Labor”
platforms. Liberal thought has been a
powerful influence in such emancipation as
democracies now enjoy. Labor has of
modern years introduced a fresh and vigor-
ous, and, on the whole, an honest influence
into the political and social arena. Yet the
world knows by sad experience that Liberal-
ism is often enough the refuge of the most
mischievous of obscurantists; that Labor
may depart from the most essential of its
principles. So if Joseph is going to con-
tinue in the business, what the electors
will want to hear from him is a more full,
true and particular account of the color of
his coat and of the goods he has to sell, and
less about the nebulosities of his mystical
political religion. And from Labor men
they will require an inventory on the same
lines instead of old-time clamor about “the
cause.” The brands of L and £ are becom-
ing hopelessly mixed.
The fatuity of the mischievous wowsers goes
further past intelligent understanding than
the peace of God to which they lay particu-
lar claim. The anti-derrinkers are just
now “protesting emphatically” against the
nationalisation of the liquor trade in the
Northern Territory. Their only reason is
that Government control gives “respecta-
bility” to the immoral practice. The fact
that it abolishes drunkenness from bar-rooms
and benefits the health of the temperate com-
munity by safeguarding it from poisonous
liquor and disease-crawling drinking uten-
sils, doesn’t count for virtue in their blink-
ing eyes. Its advantages in this way merely
strengthen their objection. As hypocritical
barrackers for the abolition of all pleasant
sins, they abhor the thought of protective
legislation for sinners. They would have
no mere mitigation of the evils of immorality.
Their protest against liquor-trade reform is
the protest against prostitution reform over
again. They denounce the legalising of the
totalisator for the same reason. Surely a sane
community will give this attitude no quarter.
As well abolish insurance companies in order
to make people careful with fire. And
parsons, too, so that men may be kept on
the narrow path through being surer of going
to hell fire if once they sinfully get off the
track.
♦
For the annual conference of the Vic. Politi-
cal Labor Council, occurring in Melbourne
at Easter, the Geelong branch is well to the
front with a suggestion that “interest, rent
and profit on wealth shall be declared illegal,
present owners to be compensated by giving
them deposit receipts, to corresponding value,
in the State Bank.” Presumably the idea of
the bank giving deposit receipts is that the
holder shall collect interest —and what then?
He may not, it seems, start any new enter-
prise with his money—mustn’t even buy a
spade to dig his back-yard, if thereby he pro-
duces a crop of cabbages. The Shop Assist-
ants’ Union wants a “conference called of
delegates representing the workers of the
world, with a view to having all disputes
among different nations referred to arbitra-
tion.” The union doesn’t describe the police-
man who will see that the award is carried
out. Minor proposals are that it shall not
be necessary for sitting members who have
fulfilled their pledges to seek re-election
(which means that a mere machine that votes
the right way shouldn’t be disturbed) ; that
Federal members shall pav £24 and State
dittos £l2 per annum to the organising fund
(which signifies that M’s.P. don’t really earn
their wages in the same sense that a car-
penter or a blacksmith earns his) ; that the
exemption of £5OO in the State land tax be
abolished, the resulting revenue being de-
voted to abolishing fares and freights on the
railways (which recalls the man who gave
up smoking in order to run two motor-cars
and a private yacht) ; that the State be em-
powered to resume all land at its present
rateable value (which it can do now if it has
the mind and the cash); that cheap housing
and destitute pensions be provided; that
medicine be nationalised (and milk, too —
milk is much more important) : that the
principle of one man one job be affirmed, etc.,
etc. It is a large, wide programme, with
occasional bright patches. The trouble is
that the cost would run into the price of
three European wars. Meanwhile, it hasn’t
apparently struck any of the wholesale
saviors that we are just now spending
monev faster than we are earning it; that
productive citizens are being steadily drawn
away; and that the urgent call is
for us to get busy at increasing our collective
wealth, human included. At any rate, not
one of the delegates has made any proposal
for securing and guaranteeing real protection
to all existing and possible industries, or for
largely increasing our production, or for run-
ning public affairs on a sound—that is to
say, an honest —financial basis. Yet 95) per
cent, of the windbags will make exclamatory
remarks about the apparent anomaly of
prices of necessaries being high, while money
is scarce and wages falling.
♦
Eighty-four trainers, according to the
chairman of the V.R.C.. have lodged a joint
and several protest against the club’s inter-
ference on behalf of the Tote. Behind those
trainers stand the ignoble brigade of jock-
eys, the bloated army of “metallicians,” with
the camp-following of mannikins and dere-
licts who carry cronk tidings around the
ring, and the various cliques of dishonest
owners, swindle-riggers (weal thy or other-
wise) and “sports” who earn a precarious
living through their knowledge of the stiff
and the dead.. This is the Rev. Obadiaii
Wowser’s large and motley gathering of
colleagues in the campaign to keep the Flag
of Rascality flying. Even the press is mis-
used in the interests of the bad cause. For
instance, a winner named Euretta was re-
ported as starting at 33 to one, whereas a
punter who inquired its price couldn’t get a
better offer than B’s or 10’s to one. In
most other cases the starting prices in the
newspapers (especially of the beaten horses)
were a lot longer than any average punter
had . got for his money. These false
statements are designed, of course, to
satisfy the public that Moses offers a fair'
thing, and they don’t hurt the starting-price
bookmaker in town. What did it matter to
him that Euretta was said to have started
at 33 to one and Thraso at 20 to one? His
limit prices for the minor races was 10 to
one, which, by the way, is also the limit of
many vociferous pedlars of odds on the
course. To the Rev. Obadiaii’s weird col-
lection of colleagues must therefore be added
the deception of which otherwise respectable
newspapers are made the vehicles.
«
First of all. Judge Somebody-or-Otiier re-
buked a soldier in uniform for not appearing
in his dusty court in the plain dress of a
citizen. Then Justice Somebody Else took
half a column to explain that Chief Justice
Horsehair, from over the way, was wrong
in imagining that his correct title was merely
“Judge.” Finally a Minister of the Crown
resigned because he wasn’t made Acting-
Premier when the Premier and his First
Mate happened to be out of town at the
same time. Have these people no real
work to do, or is the war going to the hair-
splitters’ heads?
♦
“J.JiK.” : “W.8.D.,” under the heading “A
Kink in the Law,” lately overstated his case.
While giving evidence on his own behalf, a
prisoner who was not too remotely convicted
(say) of perjury or false swearing,. ought
certainly to be open to cross-examination
thereon, not, of course, as proof that he is
likely to have committed the offence now
charged, but as some proof that he is an
unreliable witness. If he has other more
reliable witnesses on the same point, not
much harm has been done him. On the
other hand, it is obviously unjust to allow
a prisoner charged with some offence involv-
ing dishonesty to be cross-examined as to a
previous conviction for an offence involving
violence. Hence the N. S. Wales Legis-
lature, recognising that it would be difficult
to lay down any hard and fast rule, left the
matter to the discretion of the Judges.
It is the Judges that have gone
wrong, not the Legislature. “No such
person... .shall be liable.... to be ques-
tioned.... as to his previous character
....without the leave of the Judge”
(vide “Grimes Act”). This intended safety-
valve is practically choked up and out of use,
as all the Judges, with one notable exception,
allow a prisoner to be cross-examined as to
any previous conviction, so long as it is not
too ancient; and that even without the
Crown Prosecutors as much as saying “by
your leave.”
♦
“Croson” suggests that the censor be made
a permanent institution :
I don’t mean our present military blue-pencillers.
Before the war is concluded they will be doing
something else. The censor I call for is one who
will consider public morals in general and Aus-
tralian interests in particular. He will he
appointed by the Australian Government and will
have strict instructions to suppress all remarks or
criticisms of a stinking-fish or nest-fouling descrip-
tion. Articles and paragraphs belittling Australian
works or enterprises or advocating the importation
of foreign “experts” will be remorselessly cut out;
and advertisements calling for tenders will not
appear unless they offer a definite preference to
Australian tenderers. The official will also be
told to stamp firmly on the sectarian snake, and
wildernesses of letters like those appearing in
Melbourne about the imaginary “camp of evil” at
Broadmeadows will be ruthlessly cut down to 10 or
12 lines. A weighty blue pencil will be run
through many matrimonial, missing friends, bar-
gain sale and other advertisments; and the casual
notifications that Gwyllym de Smythe was fined
ss. for travelling in the wrong class and that Bill
Smith was mulct in 10s. for assaulting a John
Hop will also be suppressed. These accidents are
of no public moment. There are also many other
matters that a censor might attend to with advan-
tage. In fact, he will be a busy man. If any-
body objects he will be told that it is done in the
public interest and for the public safety; and if
he doesn’t like it he can lump it. He lumps it as
it is.
■ O
“Enid McGush’s” suggestion
Why not a monster lottery conducted all over Aus-
tralia by means of sovereign-in-the-slot machines,
the first prize a Belgian dukedom, the second a
marquisate, the third a countship, and the next
25 tin crosses of the Legion of the Soup Kitchen or
something? I am prepared to wager any sum up
to sixpence that, if the scheme were set going in
earnest, with an appeal by King Albert and a
suggestion that the winners would be allowed special
privileges of grovel at the restored court of Brussels,
the ordinary citizen would never see the sovereign-
in-the-slot machines owing to the extent of waistcoat
which would surround them night and day. Of
course there would be dangers. Bill Smith, of
Woolloomooloo, might drop a sovereign in the box
when drunk and so pull off the dukedom, and in
consequence his wife might become the Duchess of
Zeebrugge, while still working at the wash-tub ; but
life is full of such chances and the risk must be
taken. The great advantage of the scheme would
lie in the fact that, while the future peers could
at worst do nothing more than moderately irritate
the Belgian Court, the daily emptying of the lottery
machines would mean milk for dying babies and
bread and soup for their hungry mothers. The
matter is far too serious for nice quibbles about
methods. The rich are too mean to bear their
share in a big humanitarian movement, and it is
difficult to see in what other way they can be
induced to disgorge. Abo it is difficult to see how, if
they don’t disgorge, the Belgians are to be kept
alive long enough to see the Kaiser hanged.


fW*C. «f
GAELIC WHISKY
THE OLD SMUGGLER
f
B
w
to*
GAELIC
The Perfect Whisky
... in ...
The Perfect Bottle.
DISTILLED IN THE
HIGHLANDS of SCOTLAND.
r
w
0OOBD& a SO N
FINEST DRY GIN
&.OLD TOM
%
DI
.Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney.
The first round of the Spring meeting in
Europe closes with the Hun going back to his
corner badly damaged about both eyes in
Flanders, his nose in a sling in Alsace and
a tooth or two missing in Poland. In the
Champagne district —it was here that Yon
Kluck came to bay on well-chosen ground
after the battle of the Marne —the fighting
seems to have been of the fiercest description,
victory finally resting with the French after
nearly three weeks’ desperate work with the
bayonet. The French troops have carried
themselves with magnificent courage during
the whole campaign, and this success ap-
pears to be one of more than local advan-
tage. Further advance in the same direc-
tion would seriously imperil the German
line running eastward to Soissons and the
Oise, already jeopardised on its northern
bend towards Arras by the British victory
of a few days ago near La Bassee. Whereas
during the winter mud-burrow the advance
at any sector of the far-flung front could
only be determined by examination under a
microscope, quite appreciable distances are
again being either lost or won. The ex-
planation, of course, is that with the appear-
ance of the daffodil the frantic shindy pro-
ceeds on the blood-letting lines which were
interrupted by frost. Since everybody dug
themselves in nice and comfortably up to the
waist in water, France has repaired her
wastage, and Britain has had time to put in
the field an army anproaching adequacy. On
the battlegrounds of the East the Bear per-
sists in his refusal to keep out of Prussia,
and is impressing upon Von Hindenburg
that the argument can end only one way.
How terrific the Germanic losses have been
in this struggle at the gate can only be
guessed at. Down in the South the knock
on the door at the Dardanelles grows louder,
and Rou mania and Bulgaria stand by
thoughtfully examining their tools of
destruction. How and where these will be
used depends largely on the progress made
by Queen Elizabeth; and that ponderous
lady is making quite satisfactory headway.
Rumors floating along the deep-sea cable
mention expeditionary forces to be landed
along the Dardanelles —and the Australasian
lads are handy. From the sea comes word
of the surrender of the cruiser Dresden,
which had fled full speed ahead from the
fight off the Falkland Islands. Good news,
of course, but in this mighty conflict not of
much more real moment than the destruc-
tion of one mosquito by a badgered surf-
bather. Things like the Dresden were, after
all, mere pests. One only now remains
lurking in some hidden bay—the Karlsruhe.
The great mercantile navy of Germany has
disappeared; the fleet skulks behind mine-
fields and dock gates. Of her sea power the
only outward, visible signs are a few
maurauding submarines chasing colliers and
fishing smacks. It seems almost time Von
Tirpitz got another Iron Cross.
Among the batch of 11—all Labor men —
returned unopposed for the next Assembly
in S. Aus., are John Verran, ex-Premier,
who, now the farming district of Yorke’s
Peninsula has been cut off from the mining
district of Moonta, has an unopposable grip
on the latter; W. J. Denny, sportsman and
lawyer, formerly Attorney-General in Ver-
ran’s Ministry; McGillivray, who has sat
for Port Adelaide since 1893, and whom the
“Liberal” party has at last got tired of
opposing; and (as his new colleague for the
Port) young J. L. Price, who has all the
keenness of his late father, Premier Tom
Price, with the added advantages of the
education and training that Australia offers
a young politician.
Bishop Grimes, of Christchurch (M.L.),
who died this week in Sydney, was a
scholarly prelate who built his own. monu-
ment in a massive cathedral —one
of the finest churches in Maoriland.
' The work was undertaken at the
suggestion of an Irish bishop.
While Dr. Grimes was in Ireland
in 1898, waiting for some priests
and wondering how he would fill
in time, this friend proposed that
he should collect funds for some-
thing or other. “Have you a cathe-
dral?” he inquired. “No, but we
want one badly.” “Well, start
off!” And he did. So well did he
work that the cathedral was com-
pleted 12 years before the amiable
old man had finished rebuking Sin.
One of his stories was about Leo
XIII., who appointed him to the
new see of Christchurch in 1887.
Five years later he went to tell his
Holiness how Christchurch was getting
on, and had a bad cold when he called. He
made his next visit to the Pontiff seven
years afterwards. “You had a cold when
last I met you—are you now quite well?”
came the anxious inquiry. The astonished
Bishop said he thought he’d shaken it off,
thank you very much.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s .' “Cinderella”
Royal “A Royal Divorce”
Criterion “Bougrht and Paid For”
Adelphi “What Women Will Do for Love”
Palace “Neptune’s Daughter”
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
White City Various Shows
Prince Alfred Park ; , Wirths’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s Gilbert and Sullivan Opera
Royal “Seven Keys to Baldpate”
Princess’s “Her Road to Ruin”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Bijou Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville Co.
Olympia & Nation al Hoyt’s Pictures
Auditorium The Royal Strollers
♦
Must all our modern drama come from the
U.S.A.? Aren’t any plays being written in
England, or even by our Allies ? And does this
continent particularly want such large doses
of American slang, American mispronuncia-
tion and American self-made man? These
questions arise from the performance at
Sydney Criterion, last Saturday, of
the latest concoction from the U.S.,
“Bought and Paid For,” by George
Broadhurst, in which Muriel Starr and
a company of U.S. exportations ap-
peared. A thin and unconvincing drama, it
is only notable because in it the dramatist
has smashed two stage conventions. He
has taken the “eternal triangle”—two men
and a woman, or two women and a man —
removed one side, and still left a play. The
married life of the Staffords comes to grief
without the interposition of a third party,
though this is only managed by making two
different men out of the husband, the hus-
band sober and the husband drunk. The
second smashed convention is that of the
locked door. When a stage wife locked her
bedroom against her husband that was
the end of the scene. It occurred to George
Broadhurst that though a door may be locked
it might be broken open. This is making
stage history.
* * * *
Robert Stafford, a rich “financier,” mar-
ries a poor girl. They are happy, until the
husband begins to come home drunk. And
when he is drunk he is uxorious. The wife
objects; but instead of taking the obvious
chance of leaving the house with her sister,
and returning when her husband is sober
and repentant, she remains for the necessary
“big scene.” Stafford kisses her so hard
that her hair comes down, and she flies from
the room and locks the door. Whereupon
Stafford smashes the door. While drunk he
has told her some home-truths, the chief of
which is that he has bought and paid for her.
This is obviously true. He has paid for
everything, but there is no evidence that she
has paid anything back. She makes no effort
to manage her maudlin husband ; she does not
bring him to his senses by simply leaving
him till he is sober; but next morning she
offers him the choice of giving up drink or of
losing her for ever. He refuses to be dic-
tated to, though doubtless he could have been
persuaded; and she leaves the house. But
she leaves in expensive clothes, even grabbing
up a smart muff, all of which Stafford had
bought and paid for. The inevitable fourth
act brings about the inevitable stage recon-
ciliation.
* * * *
As the young wife who takes herself so
tragically Muriel Starr gets every ounce out
of a theatrical part. Her tendency to gabble
has, however, not been curbed since her last
appearance in Sydney; and on Saturday
night it spoiled several of her speeches. But
she has a rare personality, and that can be
depended upon to carry her through even
less convincing parts. It is just this vague
“LADY GODIVA,” AT SYDNEY
ADELPHI.
Polite supers remove the dead villain (Rutland
Beckett) from the happy-ending tableau.
thing that Charles A. Millward lacks. The
dullness of the first act is chiefly due, after
we have pardoned the dramatist, to Mill-
ward’s failure to suggest a magnetic and
forceful personality. In his difficult maud-
lin scene, which occupies almost the whole of
the second act, Millward is to be congratu-
lated upon his genial drunkenness. It is a
cleverly characterised study, marred only by
the actor’s lapses into obvious poses. There
is one gesture of a gracefully-waved arm
that proclaims itself as over-studied. Wil-
liam Harrigan, speaking in a vile N’York
accent, and Dorothy Davies are responsible
for the comedy of the play. Harrigan makes
of the blatant youth a real personality: he
is better placed than he has hitherto been
in Australia. Dorothy Davies is neither
good nor bad. The only other parts are
those of Gertrude Boswell, who made of a
colorless French maid an artistic study,
and Leonard Stephens, who, though failing
to make up as a Japanese valet, managed
not to caricature the part.
* * * *
When the Australian has held this coun-
try a little longer and learned how to make
himself comfortable, there will be theatres
so well ventilated that a costume drama will
be bearable even after the hottest day.
When Julius Knight and co. started “Beau-
caire” on Saturday, Sydney Royal had just
finished a 10-hour sun-bake, and the purple
faces of the gallery girls, packed under the
hot roof, looked like the following day’s
corned beef. If the drama’s devoted lunatics
were asked to work in such an atmosphere
there would be shrieks of indignation, and
a few strikes; but people (especially
women) will endure anything so long as
they have to pay for it. The most admirable
points about the present one-week revival
are (1) the coolness of Knight, and (2) the
freshness of Lizette Parkes, who looks like
a good-morning advertisement for some-
body’s soap. Irene Browne, as the frigid
Mary Carlisle, has an ideal summer part;
but she fails to convey the impression of
an old English beau-freezing works. The
reliable Leslie Victor (Francois and Mar-
quis de Mirepois) makes a success of two
French parts, and Eardley Turner, as Beau
Nash, hangs an interesting portrait of a
super-snob. Good mounting helps out a
play which is otherwise growing threadbare.
Weather and other calamities permitting,
“A Royal Divorce” will be roasted on Satur-
day.
"MONSIEUR BEAUCAIRE."
Old Bicksit (George Chalmers) and Beau
Nash (Eardley Turner) occupied in the serious
business of taking snuff.
• “High Jinks” is in its last nights at Her
Majesty’s (Sydney). The management sig-
nalised the finish of the run by handing over
Australian Eileen Cottee’s Dart to an im-
portation, who, to put it mildly, does no
better than her predecessor. Considering
the good service that Australian artists are
doing for the Firm just now, it is a wonder
that the old gospel, in regard to the essential
superiority of the import, has not perished.
The pantomime —a thing of overwhelming
splendor —is due at the Pitt-street playhouse
on Saturday.
** * *
Although “Mother of Ten” and “Chronic
Wowser” have been at it for over a week,
Thos. Henley and A. G. Huie and a few
other regular contributors have _ still hung
off the correspondence in the dailies relating
to Lady Godiva’s ride across the
Adelphi stage. Wherefore the management
is sorely disappointed and threatens to with-
draw Lady Godiva from public view on
Friday night. The substitute will be “What
Women Will Do for Love,” which is sup-
posed to be a sequel to that pathetic bellow-
farce, “What Actresses Will Do for Adver-
tisement.”
:Jc
George Mozart and his unnamed assistant
still lead the field at Sydney Tivoli, with
Odiva and Dooley and Sayles following close
behind. Odiva’s turn now includes
swimming competitions, and weighty is the
reward offered to the winner. Johnnie
Fields, the Tramp Comedian, and the cycling
Westwoods are most prominent among the
others who help the Mclntosh to feel not a
bit ashamed to take the money.
sk
The circus comes to town again on Satur-
day, and the big tents will arise and bellow
in the wind at Prince Alfred Park (Syd-
ney). Last time it was billed as “the
greatest show on earth”; this time, The
Bulletin is assured by the brothers Wirth
that there is nothing like it even in Mars or
Jupiter. The most popular of the 1914
season’s performers are again with the show,
and the new turns are spoken about with
bated breath by the entire staff with _ the
exception of the nress agent. He mentions
them with a megaphone.
* * * *
Freddie Shipman has arrived with a new
film. When he discusses it superlatives
fail him. Its name is “Neptune’s Daugh-
ter” ; it features Annette Kellerman, re-
garded in the U.S. as “the Melba of
natation” (phrase patented by Shipman) ;
and a shipload of film actors was sent
specially to the Bermudas to get the right
effects. Shipman expects to hit Sydney in
a ruthless manner with “Neptune’s Daugh-
ter.” The slaughter will be at the Palace.
“MONSIEUR BEAUCAIREAT
SYDNEY ROYAL.
Beaucaire (Julius Knight) to Major Moly-
neanx (Martin Lewis): “A secret and a
woman , Monsieur! You cannot have
both at the same time."
A “Lucky Spot” Carnival and a troupe
of aerialists are the two new features at the
White City (Sydney) for the coming week.
The Farokas tie themselves in knots on a
wire 60ft. skywards, and then, to show how
simple the whole business is, elevate the
family furniture to their perch and make
themselves a mansion in the sky. As to the
Carnival on Thursday night (March 18),
The Bulletin merely remarks that the
“lucky spot” is worth £2O to the successful
prospector.
“Seven Keys to Baldpate” seems quite
likely to flourish exceedingly at Melbourne
Royal, as it flourished in Sydney, for it is
the most ingeniously-constructed specimen
of “dream play” that ever travelled under
false pretences; and if the present writer
feels cold, it is only because he is full-up of
Yankee crime and criminals for entertain-
ment purposes, and is tired of Niblo’s brand
of heroism. Niblo, no doubt, is in perfect
harmony with the easy artificiality of the
whole proceedings (which get their one
touch of nature from Fred Cambourne as the
Baldpate caretaker), but his invariable air
of self-possession grows monotonous all the
same.
* * * *
The Gilbert and Sullivan Co., at Her
Majesty’s, Melbourne, had a new prima donna
last week in Miss Gladys Moncrieff, who
plays the parts which Ruth Lincoln left open
to local talent when her engagement expired.
The new young lady, a Queenslander, is a
good-looker, a light, bright and promising
actress, and a singer of some pretensions.
Her voice is of silver bell-like purity, and
SEVEN KEYS TO BALDPATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Fred Niblo came to Baldpate Inn
A stagey wager for to win.
The task was set;
He’d made a bet
That he would type a novelette,
A tale of love and hate and crime,
At Baldpate in the winter time —
An up-to-date 10,000-worder,
Containing one atrocious murder.
Ten thousand dollars was the stake,
And Fred had backed himself to take
But four-and-twenty hours to win it;
So, if 10,000 words were in it,
The average was seven a minute,
With ne’er a pause to doze or think,
Or stoke himself with food and drink—
A task for literary striplings.
But Niblo, scorning fiery tipplings,
Is equal to a dozen Kiplings.
Oh, never author ’neath the sun
Who wrote for lucre, fame or fun,
Resembled Niblo in the play.
His faultless togs, his manners gay,
His ready wit, his breezy way
Of reeling off his lines of matter,
Like vaudeville back-talkers’ patter,
His arts and graces, tailor-made,
Are to enraptured eyes displayed
As by a bagman in the trade.
Well, Niblo, rapid, bright and clean,
A story typed on his machine,
And never since the world began
Was story more American- —
A tale of thieving politicians,
Of same old “crooks” in new positions,
Who chase two hundred-thousand dollars,
Which cute young lady-writer collars
For evidence of “grafters’ ” guilt
(Whereon the sordid yarn is built).
The rogues, disheartened by their loss,
Betray to a black-hearted boss
Their schemes of “cross” and “double-cross.”
We learn what a policeman did
To get those fifty thousand quid,
And how the whole darned plot to rob—
Each incidental thrill and throb —
Was but a spoofter’s put-up job.
Thus all that happens on the stage—
The murder, thefts, despair and rage—■
Are said to be creations vain
Of Niblo’s visionary brain.
And through the open sliding roof
The Heavens whisper: “Double-spoof!”
VICTORIA.
O. K.


Otard Brandy
15 YEARS OLD
IS A TRUE COGNAC BRANDY.
Otard Brandy is the pure distillation of the grape,
matured for years in the famous historic Chateau de
Cognac, where Francois 1., King of France, was born.
This Chateau now forms the cellars and premises of
THE MAISON OTARD-DUPUY. For sickness or
health, as a liqueur or as a beverage, there is no spirit
to equal.
OTARD (15 Year) BRANDY.
sJoQ irri*s
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
Pitt & King Streets, SYDNEY.
Victorian Branch: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne, s. j, fowler, Manager.
Queensland Branch : 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane, j. a. watson, Manager.
FIRE, ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, etc.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
’Phone No. 236 Central. SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
ring, with a distinctive quality of sweetness,
which is said to be particularly effective in
“Pinafore.” The bill just now is “The
Pirates” and “Trial by Jury.” “Pinafore”
comes on Saturday, and three last nights of
“Mikado” begin on Wednesday. Then
descends the musical comedy co. from Syd-
ney with “High Jinks.”
THE CAFE CHANTANT (MELBOURNE
ROYAL).
The poor artist in his lonely seat longing
for cash. (Muriel Starr is selling kisses
for five guineas.)
A second edition of the Follies at the
Tivoli (Melb.) introduces a few new items,
and repeats the long D’Armond-Cannot turn,
which might have been abbreviated. The
Follies section suffers from a superfluity of:
-Cannot, and the programme as a whole gives
too much prominence to boxing. First,
there’s the funny dumb-show stoushing
tournament wherein the little referee and
timekeeper does a lot of execution with a
mallet. Then Thorne and Leopold, a pleas-
ing pair of entertainers most of the time,
shed their refinement when they put on
gloves. Finally, James Corbett comes along
in the character of a raconteur who was
formerly a champion heavy-weight pug.
Corbett’s first batch of “stories of his travels
round the world” had a reference to stoush
in every one of them. It was always a neat
and jocular reference to his former self that
the tall, lean, gentlemanly James had to
make, but it was never sufficiently side-
splitting to convince the audience that his
tongue is mightier than his punch. If he
were not a very likeable personality, with
a large, impressive voice and a prize-ring
record, Corbett’s stories would hardly last
six rounds.
* * * *
The Rev. Storm again suffered from a
rush of Glory Quayle to the head at Mel-
bourne Princess’s on Saturday, and a mostly
youthful audience almost forgot its appetite
for peanuts and ice-cream in the excitement
of the infatuation. George Cross appears as
the foolish Christian, and strenuously over-
acts in the buttered-muffin manner. Still, he
isn’t all strenuosity. The inherent piety of
the parson, for instance, forbids him giving
anything stronger than a ceremonious little
peck in response to the “Kiss Me, John” —
which makes the episode a hurried counter-
lunch rather than a principal meal. The
cool matter-of-factness of Miss Remee illu-
minates the part of Glory like a taper in a
cavern, while the job of rendering Polly
Love’s grief over her decrepit rag-infant turns
the amateurish Miss Bowman into a mechan-
ical appliance. Maurice Nodin is Horatio
Drake; R. Bellairs depicts Archdeacon
Wealthy with a diligence worthy of a better
pair of pants, and P. V. Scully and J. J.
Ennis have more than their fair share of con-
versation. The most satisfactory member of
the co. is Ronald Riley, who, as Lord Robert
Ure, has much Cholly-like profligacy to
answer for. Next Saturday night Geo. Wil-
loughby Ltd. commences a six-nights’ view of
“Her Road to Ruin.”
$ $
The King’s (Melbourne) will open again
on Easter Saturday, under the management
of Alf Lumsden, a versatile Melbourne citi-
zen, who once had a narrow escape from
getting into Parliament. Lumsden has leased
the theatre for a few weeks, with a view to
producing an original comedy. The bold
project is entitled, “Bill Adams, the Hero
of Waterloo,” and a good company will give
it a fair chance.
$$ $ $
The Royal Strollers come due at the Mel-
bourne Auditorium next Saturday, and the
Taits are calling attention to the allegation
that this Costume Comedy Party boasts the
special distinction of having been com-
manded to appear before King George.
Sydney James heads the company of nine.
Carrie Moore, reappearing at Melbourne
Bijou, is a minor circumstance by compari-
son with Rosa Loader, the recently-added
slavey-atthe-piano. Rosa’s powers of mim-
icry are unusual, and help her to success
in a turn which would probably fail if it had
only its humor to stand on. All other indi-
vidual acts at the Bijou are good this week,
but the brief “80-Peep” panto, in which the
management presents a set of thinly-disguised
suburban amateurs, is a dull festivity for
most of the time. James Gerald as the
Dame is the best, but hardly compensates
for the shortcomings of a couple of others,
who should be heavily bribed to go away.
The liveliest part of the show is a lurid
scenic background, said to represent a humble
farmscape, but appearing to this short-
sighted critic like a Futurist drawing of a
hornet’s malevolence.
* * * *
From an Adelaide critic: —
Archibald Collins and Miss Church, master and
pupil, have an attractive show of paintings in the
Society of Arts Gallery. The lady, who has had all
her training locally, has some unpretending figures
and flowers; her chief asset at present is a good
sense of color. Collins, who has been in Australia
some 15 years, and was instructor at the School of
Design in Adelaide at one time, had the advantage
of a Royal Academy training under Leighton, Millais,
Orchardson and co., and handles full-length figures
with ease and certainty. His “Captive,” only gauzily
draped, has been shown at the V.A.S. in Melbourne,
and balances a brown-clad “Memories” maiden at
the other end of the hall. A view of the G.P.0.,
Adelaide, is good, and a bit of old Oxford is better.
In fact, several moderate-sized paintings done before
he left England are probably his best, notably a
figure-subject shown at the R.B.A. and (particularly)
a head that got into the Academy. One result of his
present exhibition should be to get him representa-
tion in the Adelaide Art Gallery, which so far knows
him not.
** * $
The clever Strollers are in their last nights
at Adelaide, and will shortly be in Melbourne.
They are good all round, with items of spe-
cial quality in Miss Rossiter, a dark-skinned
dancer and actress, and Sydney James, who
does a bit of everything and is best in
impromptu effects. “Sinbad” continues a*t
“LOLANTHE” AT HER MAJESTY’S,
MELBOURNE.
The Lord Chancellor (Chas. Strephon (G.
R. Walenn) in a giddy mood. Villiers Arnold).
the Royal, with Olive Marston as she-hero.
Athletics and dancing are good, “spectacle”
good enough, acting good in spots, singing
good in more spots, “book” doubtful; busi-
ness tremendous. Martin, a Belgian, has
been lecturing with success on the woes and
virtues of his country, and Lady Galway is
developing as a fluent speaker on this and
other subjects. West’s has a military drama,
and Wondergraph the old classic, “Fauntle-
roy.” Also ran: Methodist Conference and
unlimited political meetings.
“Women and War,” a new Australian war
song, composed by Amy Bellamy, with words
by Ailsa King, of Charlton (Q.), was mod-
estly sung for the first time in public this
week. Amy Bellamy was a Kemmis, niece
of the late Canon Kemmis, of Darling Point.
The song lingers in the memory, but plays
rather sadly on the minds of women who
have given their sons.
“Melb”: Widow Caroline Gladstone, the
veteran actress, aged 86, sang a “Hunting
Song” at the Pioneers’ Gathering this week.
Youthful reporters subsequently miked her
up with Mary Gladstone, the American star
of 40 years ago, wife of her manager Bay-
liss. Caroline Gladstone and her husband,
G. Gladstone, date back 60 years. They
supported Brooke, and afterwards Barry
Sullivan, at the Royal. Gladstone was
Horatio to both these stars. Almost the
only youth who “placed” her rightly said
wrongly that she is the only survivor of
Sullivan’s company. There are certainly
three, all widows —Mrs. Gladstone, Mrs. L.
L. Lewis (Rosa Dunn), and Mrs. G. B. W.
Lewis (Rose Edouin) —and possibly another
one or two.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Lady Maud Warrender, remembered in
Melbourne as a pleasant amateur contralto
with vice-regal party style, was figuring
lately in a series of concerts at Leighton
House, London. The profits went first to aid
a field hospital, but afterwards were for the
benefit of British musicians, who are Aostly
having a bad time. The time that German
musicians in London are having is some-
thing awful.
Australian pianist Percy Grainger lias
struck oil in New York, where the critics
are oiling his abundant locks, whether they
regard him as pianist or composer. He pro-
poses to stay with Uncle a long while.
“Mil”: A lot of Australians will say good-
bye to the alleged Gilbert and Sullivan
Opera Co. very cheerfully. Some superior
person on Melbourne Age discounts Gilbert
and Sullivan as great comic-opera manufac-
turers, and hands out butter to the utterly
incompetent company. It was a very ordi-
nary co. when it first struck Australia, but
now it has become so keen on its own fool-
ishness that it walks through the music and
is too tired to get out of its own way. All the
sparkle is out of the operas once this dull
collection takes charge, and it becomes
more and more English, which is to say more
and more dull.
“C. Ockney”: I recall that a Sydney daily,
when “Baldpate” was produced at the Cri-
terion, headed its fulsome notice with the
line “Better than Shakspeare.” The author
(or adapter) of “Baldpate,” George Cohan,
who is one of America’s foremost managers,
downs old Shak. in this fashion in an article
in a current N’Yark monthly:—
Shakspeare wouldn’t go over for my money in this
day and age. I believe that if another Shakspeare
rose up right now out of the literary fog and began
peddling his plays around to the managers, he
couldn’t find a market to save his life. And if, by
any chance, a manager did produce one of his plays,
the public would laugh it off the boards. We are
putting out plays right now that are as good as any
Shakspeare ever wrote. But his press-agents have
been working for centuries.
There now! If anyone hints that Cohan is
getting swollen-headed, I would respectfully
suggest that it’s all the fault of a Sydney
press-notice.
“Stargazer”: One character in “Bought
and Paid For” almost justifies the existence
of the play, despite the damning fact that
George Broadhurst’s is another of the greasy
and graceless efforts to glorify the American
millionaire. The special creation is Jimmy
Gilley. Jimmy is actual and true to the
breed; he is a person. Where the other
people of the story are more or less play-
house puppets, Jimmy is an individual,
“TOLANTHE,”
AT HER
MAJESTY’S ,
MELBOURNE.
The Fairy Queen
(Ethel Morrison)
under the influence
of love.
piquant in his very mortal inferiority, and
he goes out of the drama as he came into it
with all his imperfections thick upon him.
How Broadhurst came in this one instance
to resist the terrible temptation of the
dramatist to improve the intellectual outlook
and common morality of all his sympathetic
characters before passing them out, I cannot
understand. But I like J. Gilley because
he’s no damned good when all’s over, just as
he was in the beginning, and just as most of
us are all the time, thank God !
Mrs. Gladstone, whose late husband out-
lived her on the Melbourne stage, came to
light the other evening at a social roll-up of
Early Victorians. The lady is now a slim
young thing of 85, with a voice to match,
and her singing of “A Hunting Day”
“knocked” the audience. “A Hunting Day”
is an ancient ditty in eight verses; so the
songstress, who was excused from standing,
posed herself on her chair in a way that
permitted of dramatic gesture. She’d make
a good turn at a charity matinde.
The Naval Combat, which starts at Mel-
bourne Glaciarium building on Easter Satur-
day, will depict the bombardment of a pic-
turesque city of the scenic artist’s imagina-
tion by Australia’s naval forces. The vessels
are up-to-date models ( large enough to carry
operators) of battle cruisers, light cruisers,
destroyers and submarines. Also, air craft
will figure in the proceedings. The Glaci-
arium basin, where the ice-rink comes in the
winter, will be filled with water, and when
the ships have steamed around the harbor
they will open fire on the doomed city and
bombard it to ruins. Each performance is
to last 80 minutes or so, and between bom-
bardments the fleet will be dry-docked and
the shattered buildings restored.
A Maoriland Supreme Court Judge lias
been wrestling again with the weary and
utterly unnecessary old problem of where,
what, when or which is “a public place” in
regard to “language.” As the sulphur in this
case flowed from the debatable spot over and
into and beyond the broad highway, discus-
sion about where it was propelled from was
about the last word in legal fatuity.
“Nuki”: Before the departure of the
Maoriland forces an energetic band of
enthusiasts ran through the land and col-
lected all manner of gifts, necessary, useful
and merely superfluous, to gladden the
future days of the heroes. When the troop-
ships put back unexpectedly rumors
travelled of high canteen prices for com-
modities that had been showered in free.
An official denial made it appear that truth
was not the outstanding virtue of the
expeditioner. Now from Egypt complaint
comes with every mail, and about every
article. The Maoriland soldier buys a
packet of cigarettes, and finds inside a note
from Angelina, of Waitakaruru, wishing
him a safe return. He bangs Is. for a stick
of chocolate, and discovers from internal
information that little Lucy, of Auckland,
would like him to let her know if he is
alive. He indignantly sends the intelligence
along to his people, who publish it, and
bring on themselves a haughty official denial.
The thing has happened so often that the
Government cabled inquiries, and the same
denial from headquarters came duly along.
The latest protest is from a canning com-
pany that sent 500 tins of mullet, as
a present to the troops, but found that they
had apparently all been sold by someone
able to indulge in a little business. More
denials, of course. A bewildered public is
now asking if all Maorilanders are addicted
to wholesale lying, and if not, who is ?
Except Flowers, who is still Vice-Presi-
dent of the Executive Council, there isn’t
now one N. S. Wales Labor Minister in the
place he had when McGowen started the
Labor team off on October 21, 1910. Griffith
was the last to be shifted; he has gone from
Works to Education. Cann takes the Works.
His wonderful syntax made him impossible
in Carmichael’s place; so Griffith was
changed over, his special qualification for
Education being that once he had a minor
job at Sydney Grammar School.
“Business as usual” has been the motto
of striking unionists since the war broke out.
There were 337 “industrial disputes” in Aus-
tralia in 1914, and 78 of them occurred
during the last quarter of the year. N. S.
Wales, where 235 of the upheavals happened,
showed itself more ready than the whole of
the rest of the continent to uphold the glori-
ous right of losing pay, and the total cash
dropped by its striking workmen amounted to
£363,326, out of £500,475 lost in wages
throughout Australia. Incidentally, the pro-
strike party in the unions is mostly also the
red rag party, which hates wars and soldiers,
and demands that the disputes of the world
shall be settled by arbitration.
It’s a long way between teetotallers. The
N.S.W. Rechabites held their annual cor-
roboree last week, and the organiser proudly
reported that, during the year, he had
travelled 6000 miles and gathered in 200 new
haters of strong drink, some of them adults.
This works out at one teetote for every 30
miles. It must be dry work.
“Bo’sun”: The loss by fire at sea of the
old barque Loch Torridon, one of the last
of the famous clippers that used to race from
England to. Australian ports in 10 weeks,
touches ancient mariners and water-fronters
in a tender spot. For 30 years she and her
equally well-known skipper, Captain Pat-
man, sailed under the Jack, but, latterly,
the Russian flag replaced it. In 1885, when
the Sydney wool ships used to lie at Cir-
cular Quay, where the Mosman ferry now
berths, the Cutty Sark, the Thermopylse,
the Loch Torridon and others were as fami-
liar as the P. and O. steamers are now. The
Torridon’s record passage was 69 days from
London to Melbourne; another expeditious
run was 72 days London to Sydney. Talking
about these old immigrant ships (the Tor-
ridon had accommodation for 75 passengers),
officialdom doesn’t recognise their oblitera-
tion. On February 24 last the N. S. Wales
Marine Department published a new set of
life-saving appliance rules for sea-going
ships, and among them were solemnly set
out the requirements for “foreign-going sail-
ing ships, including emigrant sailing-ships.”
These rules originated 50 years • ago, and
they are carefully brought up-to-date each
year. It would be just as sensible to draw
up new regulations for travel by stage-
coach.
A NEW STUNT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Second-Lieutenant Richard Lambart, the actor-
manager, has been awarded the D.S.O.
I’ve shown as Hamlet, Captain Swift, Macbeth and
Loehinvar,
In works by Shakspeare, Sophocles and Shaw;
In towns as far apart as Burrumbeet and Potter’s Bar
I’ve had them rising at me with a roar.
I’ve played with Henry Irving, wiped the floor with
Herbert Tree,
Left Julius Knight and Waller standing still;
I’ve run to riot business from Perth to Tennessee;
At Athens (Mich.) they’ve starred ,ipq 011 the bill.
I’ve known the inort—l thank you, Madam, I will
pour it out —
I’ve known the mortal wound, the lover’s kiss.
I’ve conquered, and surrendered, and I’ve put a host
to rout;
But damme if I’ve seen the like of this.
N.S.W.
FUR COAT.


NEW SOFT FELTS
FOR AUTUMN AND WINTER
We have just opened up a special shipment of the latest
headwear for men, a large portion being the most up-to-date
soft felts. A shape that will be most popular this season
is illustrated here.
We have them with the plain-cut edge or sewn down. In
shades of Serpent Green, Light and Dark Slate, Brown, and
Light Grey, with Black or Self-colored Bands; bows trimmed
back or side.
PRICES:
13/6, 14 6, 15 6, 16/6.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
dg
DAVID JONES, LTD.
Opp. G.P.O.
SYDNEY.
df
WHO WOULDN’T SLEEP
IN THESE PYJAMAS?
T*iey have every essential feature to attract the notice of keen,
I discriminating men, who. as a rule, when choosing pyjamas, like some-
thing smart,, and here we offer something quite new.
The materials are of a thoroughly durable character, being WHITE
MATT OXFORD, fvith collar, cuffs and bands down the front in pale
grey or blue colors. Guaranteed not to fade. The garments are
splendidly made, and cut with due regard to ease and comfort. This is
the best value ever offered.
8/6
POST FREE—
any part of the
Commonwealth.
BEST VALUE
YET OFFERED.
POST FREE—
any part of the
Commonwealth.
S/6
Our fine, new, illustrated Men’s Wear Catalog is yours, by sending
name and address. It introduces everything- smart and up to date,
with Special Values.
CHAS. LANE fi? CO.
PTY„
LTD.,
“The Mail-order
House for Men.”
Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
SOCIETY
A COMFORTABLE ARRANGEMENT.
MRS. SPANKER: “Oh, yes, Tom and I get along very well together. I never find him
at home:, and he never finds me out.”
“Rimu”: Have you noticed the persist-
ence with which German bombs aimed at
railway stations and fortifications fall on
cemeteries? That is probably the reason
why all Berlin rejoices as one barrel-organ
when something as live as a nursemaid is
knocked out. It must be weary business
flying over leagues of country and wasting
good petrol only to land an explosive on the
grandmother of a gentleman who died before
the French Revolution. The old lady is so
dead already and so many of her descendants
are alive and hurtful.
The recent pronouncement of the C.J. of
N. S. Wales that the President of the Court
of Industrial Arbitration has no right to be
called “Mr. Justice” has evoked a bitter
reply from Judge Heydon. Shorn of the
circumlocutory civilities of convention, the
reply amounts to this:—
I didn’t confer the title on myself. When I came
back, after my holiday over two years ago, I found
that it was in general use. What was I to do ?
And, anyhow, what has it got to do with Cullen,
and why, if he has authority to speak, did he let
the alleged abuse continue for about 2} years
without exposing it ? To my mind it is a case of
professional jealousy. And very paltry jealousy at
that. Here is a young man who is only Chief Justice
by chance, as it were—one who was elevated to the
C.J.-ship because he happened to be the only eligible
or fairly eligible barrister available when the office
became vacant. (It is not, of course, the custom
to take a C.J. from the Bench.) Through no per-
sonal merit, but solely because of his judicial office,
he has become “His Excellency the Lieutenant-
Governor,” a K.C.M.G. and Chancellor of the Uni-
versity of Sydney. And yet he can’t bear that one
who is old enough to be his father should wear the
comparatively insignificant plume of “Mr. Justice.”
The most humorous feature of the row is
the fact that 99 people out of every hundred
know little distinction between “Mr. Justice”
and “Judge.” In fact, the average citizen
regards “Judge” as, if anything, the higher
title. If you referred to a P.M. as Judge
Brown the average citizen would scoff at
you. If you spoke of the same official as
Mr. Justice Brown the same citizen would
guess there was something wrong, but not
enough to matter. And the average citizen
would be more nearly right than these
Judges, who, by barking over shadows,
weaken the public’s confidence in them to
deal properly with substances.
* * * *
The Victorian Education Department is
sizzling with concern as to which of its
officers should be styled “esquire” and which
“mister.” “Esq.” has one advantage: there
is nothing in front of the man’s name block-
ing the view. “John Brown, Esq.”
is, for that reason, preferable to “Mr.
J. Brown.” The name without affix
or prefix is best of all; but as the
world isn’t educated up to that yet,
why doesn’t the Department crawl out
of the difficulty by calling everybody Mr.
after his name —“John Brown, Mr.”? Inei
dentally, there is no doubt whatever tha
the plain name is the thing for foreign cor-
respondence. John Brown, being in Swit-
zerland, never could get his mail at the post-
office until he happened to catch sight of a
big bundle of envelopes in the rack. “Those
are mine,” said the tourist. “No,” answered
the polite fossil behind the counter; “they
are for the Monsieur Esk who nevaire come.”
“S.S.”: My neighbor, Peter Gray, told
me six months ago: “Eef Shermany do nod
vin dis vars, I eat mein hat.” I see that
Pfrofessor Friedenthal, of Berlin, claims to
have discovered a method of adapting com-
mon straw for human consumption. Is it
possible that Germans have undertaken
Gray’s contract in such numbers as to have
made Professor Friedenthal’s investigations
worth while? Anyhow, he has performed a
noble, patriotic duty. When the moment
comes, Germany, thanks to the great Fried-
enthal, will be able to eat its hat with relish.
ALL THAT WAS
NECESSARY.
"How did Percy come to lose his money?"
“ Oh , he simply had it.”
“Gray’s Inn”: Judge Docker, of N. S,
Wales, is reported to have said last week: —
It was invariably the rule in the English courts
that military witnesses or other persons wlio have
to go to a court should not appear in their Uniform.
The reason is a very simple one. The uniform is
regarded as the symbol of the King's power, and it
is of the greatest importance for citizens generally
that the courts should not in any way be dominated
or influenced by military power. It was degrading
the King’s uniform for a person accused of a serious
offence to appear in his uniform.
No such rule exists in English courts. At
the present moment barristers and solicitors
are appearing daily in courts all over Eng-
land in uniform. Until he left for the Front,
F. E. Smith, K.C., one of the leading men
of the English Common Law Bar, was ap-
pearing day after day in uniform. An
advocate who recently attended before Judge
Shortt —one of the English County Court
Judges—apologised for the fact that he was
not in his robes. The Judge said that what
he wore was much more honorable, and
added that nowadays it was happily as usual
as robes in English courts. Judge Docker’s
remarks about the King’s power are amazing
as coming from a lawyer. Any Judge pre-
siding over any Court of Criminal Sessions
which is higher than a Court of Summary
Jurisdiction draws his authority from the
fact that he symbolises the exclusive preroga-
tive of the Crown to deal with persons in-
dicted. More particularly in Australia,
where we have no Grand Jury, the prisoner
himself is only presented on the authority of
the King’s Attorney-General, and if and after
judgment has been passed upon him —-by an
agent of the Crown —he is imprisoned, it is
in a gaol belonging to the Crown, and he may
be released from it whenever the Crown so
wills it.
* * * *
“W.M.A.”: Do you know what this is a
list of?—“Wiping the Dish,” “Drawn through
a Narrow Window,” “Liquor and Royalty,”
“What about that £40,000?” “Recruits
Wanted,” “Fearfully and Wonderfully Made,”
“Death of Plucky Willie”? Names of forth-
coming plays by Australian authors ? Wrong.
Locally-made flickergraphs ? Wrong again !
Speeches by Holman? No, they are not.
They are the advertised titles, taken from
the S. M. Herald, of the sermons to be
preached on Sunday by meek suburban par-
sons.
Maoriland’s detach-
ment for the Front
wears’ in its helmet a
small bronze badge
with the following in-
scription :: “Te Hoko>
Whitu a Tu„” which
means “The Seventy
of the God of War.”
Who the original' 70
were and what went
they forth for to do
is information that
was mislaid
somewhere in
the Remote
Past.. But it
has always
been under-
stood that they
were specially
picked for the
performance of
some mighty
deed of valor.
To lay before the
Melbourne Methody
conference, old bones
have been dug up
apropos the Australian
Centennial (1815-
19151. H. Reed, a
Tasmanian “local
preacher,” went over
to Melbourne in 1835
and held services in a
sod hut. He seems to
have been the first of
the sect to mention fire
and brimstone to Port
Phillip. Next year the
Rev. Orton crossed
from Tasmania and
took 10 weary days to
do it —the Loongana
now does it in a night.
He held services in
Batman’s premises, on
Batman’s Hill. The
first Wesleyan church,
a little brick affair,
was on the corner of
Swanston-street and
Flinders-lane ; but the
Methodists had previ-
ously joined with Ang-
licans, Presbyterians
and others in running
up a small weather-
board tabernacle on
the site of St. James’s.
Rater on the Methodies
erected a church on the
corner of Collins and Queen streets; but
they sold the site in 1857 to the Bank of
Australasia for nearly £40,000. and moved
out from among the money changers.
“F.N.”: Speaking of cow-slaves, how is
this for the limit? It appeared in a health
magazine published in Sydney:—
“Blank” writes about her daughter, aged 21 years.
“At nine years of age two doctors declared that she
was suffering from valvular trouble (heart)... .Of
late her hair has lost its brightness and is coming
out very much.... Her appetite is variable. . . .A :
doctor treated her 12 months ago for neuritis, of the
right hand, and as she has much milking to do it
was very hard on her. Kindly give me a reply at
your earliest convenience, as the milking season is
at its height.”
The reply was: “Don’t worry; she’ll soon
be dead.” Or it should have been.
* * * *
From “The Old Soldier” :
To me this is the great mystery. Wellington,
depending on volunteers, at no time had more than
40,000 British troops under his commaiid. Once
in the winter of 1854, 40 years later, the British
army before Sebastopol, depending on the same
enlistment, could not turn out 12,000 men lit for
duty. When the trouble broke out in India a few
years later it was suppressed by the approximately
20,000 European troops then in the country. In
the Mutiny, as soon as our demand for recruits
became insistent, the quality of the supply fell off,
till we could only get the numbers required by
accepting men who fell a little below the standard.
Yet in this present war we are asked to believe,
and do believe, that recruits are coming in in num-
bers sufficient to satisfy the most extravagant de-
mands. Kitchener says he is satisfied, and as he
has pledged himself to put something like another
million of men into the field in the spring, which is
apparently April, we know what it means to satisfy
him. While this million of men are being quietly
collected, the force in the field in the north of
France is kept up to its full strength by regular
drafts of recruits and convalescents. This is a new
and amazing thing in British military history. Never
before has an army of ours been able to repair the
waste of six months’ continuous fighting, and stand
at the end of the time as strong as it was at the
beginning. Very much stronger, in fact; for the
weaklings have been weeded out, and the men who
have gone through it all are hardened to an in-
credible degree. What has produced this extraor-
dinary change in numbers offering? I can only conclude
that the responsibility rests with those new means
which we possess for stirring up the public—popular
education; a wide Parliamentary franchise and the
consequent habit we have of holding public meetings;
railways and cheap and swift transit, which have
made Lloyd George and Asquith almost personally
known everywhere in Britain; and, above all, the
cheap newspaper.
THE SUBURBAN VIEW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have been a constant traveller on the Milson’s
Point line for the past 12 years, and I have never
in my life before experienced such discomfort in
travelling. There is practically no consideration
given to one’s feelings. I refer to the constant
jolting and buffeting of the carriages. As soon as
one takes his seat he is treated to severe jerks from
the engine. Then there is the often unnecessary
shrieking of the whistle, and the constant hard blow-
ing off of steam for quite a long time. Before the
war this nuisance was very rarely noticeable. On
looking at the engine plate lately I find that youths
and you rig men have replaced older ones.
—Sydney Sun correspondent.
They talk of warfare’s horrors;
They talk about Louvain ;
They tell of thousands dying
In misery and pain.
Rot! Would ye sit with Agony?
Then come to Milson’s Point with me.
See yonder railway carriage !
When dragged along, it jerks.
Its guard is careless; also
It has defective works.
A trip in it is worse by far
Than weeks in Ypres or Arras.
The thunder of war’s cannon
Is nothing to the row,
The wild and needless uproar
Which —there! you hear it now!
The whistle’s ear-destroying yell,
The hiss of steam, the porter’s bell.
No thought of people’s feelings;
No wish to spare them bumps;
No tender care that cushions
Shall be devoid of lumps!
No need to talk of anguish fine
To them that use the North Shore line!
Ah! Curses on the persons
Who sent away our boys,
And left us to be tortured
By jerks and bumps and noise.
War’s tragedy is clear to me
Each time I catch the seven-three.
v.s.iv.
BAG HUMPER.


LOGICAL DYSPEPSIA TREATMENT.
IMPORTANCE OIP ELIMINATING
ACIDITY AND FOOD FERMENTA-
TION.
During the past two or three years reports
have frequently appeared in the press con-
cerning the remarkable value of bisurated
magnesia as an antacid; and its ability to
promote normal, healthy digestion by pre-
venting food fermentation and neutralising
dangerous stomach acid has often been
demonstrated. Until recently chemists could
supply bisurated magnesia in powder form
only, half a teaspoonful of which, taken in
a little water after meals, almost instantly
stops all ferementation and neutralises acid,
but sufferers from stomach trouble will be
glad to learn that, after a long series of
experiments, a leading firm of manufacturing
chemists has now succeeded in producing a
5-grain mint-flavored tablet and also an
effervescent tablet, both of which combine
all the valuable antacid properties of the
ordinary bisurated magnesia in a very con-
venient form. These new tablets of bisurated
magnesia can now be obtained of chemists
everywhere, and many physicians are already
prescribing them instead of the powder form.'*
3
rfV 5
Kgg
\Q
o
o
O'
2P
O>G
VJ^ 1
nA'*
•fC
f|N
ftV>
0^
e*
0*
Mother’s
Friend.
PEDIC POMADE for the HEAD
Strikes Infesting' Vermin Dead.
EVERY SOLDIER AND NURSE should carry a
box of PEDIC POMADE. Kills Vermin on man
and horse. Ensures perfect cleanliness, heals
sores, wounds, broken knee, saddle galls. Prices
posted to Egypt: Small, 1/4; Large, 2/6;
Extra Large, 4/2. Sold by all Chemists and
Stores. Svdney Agents: TALBOT’S, 206 George
Street, and Washington, Soul, who will will pack
and post on receipt of amount. "■
The “LIEGE” Self-acting Boot Tree,
Thp T.jog-e Patent Boot or Shoe Tree will
appeal to men because it is not cumbersome,
and because it is self-adjusting to any size
of boot or shoe.
It will keep footwear in correct shape, while
not being worn, and will restore it to shape
immediately after wear. It will effect an
appreciable saving in boots and shoes —especi-
ally during wet weather —and keep them
uncreased and uncrushed during the entire
term Of service. It is made of nickel-p]at<-
metal, light in weight, strong and quite
inexpensive.
Gent.’s sizes (only), 5-10, for boots, 2/9.
For shoes, 2/6 per pair. Postage 6d. extra.
Please state size and whether for boot or shoe.
2/9
g
PEAPES 8 CO., LTD.
Men’s Outfitters,
309 S 311 George St., Sydney
“Jermyn Street” explains :
“Mil” (B. 11/3/’l5) is annoyed at my suggestion
that exclusion from the world’s most highly organ-
ised feather-shooting, fox-hunting and so on will
be regarded as a tragedy by many rich
Germans. It provides a good example of the pro-
vincial outlook—the sort of outlook that one so
often finds in indifferently educated and unimagina-
tive people. “Mil” has never ridden across country
or shot driven birds himself, and so it is inexplicable
to him that anyone should feel the loss of such
things. Just so would an Eskimo be bewildered if
he were told of the hard lot of one who was debarred
for ever from reading a newspaper or having a
bath, and in a similar manner a Cannibal Islander
would fail to understand a European’s misery at
being obliged to go naked. Nearly all mankind’s
hardships, discomforts and embarrassments are
affairs of place, temperament and habit —mainly
habit. The average Australian doesn’t want to hunt
in Leicestershire or Meath any more than he wants
to consume Bortsch, or chew betel nut, or drink
Calvados. He has never acquired such habits, and
therefore misses them no more than a Birmingham
man would miss surf-bathing. But to an Austrian,
like (say) Prince K insky, the well-known steeple-
chase rider, the thought that he was never again
to follow a pack of hounds in England or Ireland
would be appalling. “Mil” may perhaps understand
if he pictures what his own emotions would be on
suddenly learning that he was never again to enter
a local pub ; never to exchange badinage with another
barmaid. Only by some such device may one of his
stamp get a line as to the feelings of others when
shut off from the chief diversions of their lives.
* * * *
Amongst the many possessions of the
Wentworth family in N. S. Wales was a
block of 2200 acres known as the Five
Islands .Estate, at Port Kembla. It was the
first alienation in the Illawarra district,
and was given to David Allan, the Deputy
Commissary-General, who came out in 1813
to succeed John Palmer. The grant was
dated January 24, 1817. It was from this
land, . called Illawarra in the deed, that
the district got its name. Allan farmed the
block for a few years; then it passed for a
trifle to the Wentworths, who did nothing
but hang on to it while others made the
country valuable. Incidentally, the Govern-
ment spent hundreds of thousands on Port
Kembla, and that bloated the unearned incre-
ment more than ever. Ex-Minister Car-
michael wanted a block there the other day
for a school, and was asked £lOOO an acre
for it. A subdivision of ihe same estate was
put up to auction a few days later, and the
It.C. Church bought two blocks adjoining
the corner required by the Education De-
partment for 30s. per foot, while other
frontages realised as much as 455.
* * * *
One of Nature’s dukes was being arrested
the other night by a Sydney policeman for
some trifling matter. During the ceremony
he bit one of the Law’s fingers to the bone,
and did not release his grip till legal rein-
forcements arrived. Later, in court, he
sought to excuse himself for his breach of
etiquette by saying that he supposed he must
have been drunk. In push society—and there
are many pushes—drink is regarded as a
TRAINED FOUR YEARS FOR IT.
“ Good luck, young fellow, and I hope you'll
know how to play the man.”
"Cripes! I reckon I orter after playin' forward
with the Rovers four years running . ”
good excuse for almost anything. At a Mel-
bourne social once a gentleman tried to kiss
a lady who had openly encouraged him, and
was at once felled with a lemonade bottle
hurled by his fascinator. To the sympa-
thisers who revived him she complained bit-
terly : “But, blimey, she let me kiss ’er larst
night!” To which the erring girl’s chum re-
plied tenderly: “Yes, but you mus’ re-member
she didn’t ’ave any drink larst night! She’s
’ad a few ter-night; an 1 w’en she’s that way
she’s a perfec’ wowser! Don’ you take no
notice of ’er.”
A PROBLEM.
CISSY : “Tell me, mother, is he glad or is he sad when he plays?”
“N. or M.”: The general opinion that
nothing more will be seen of the trawler
Endeavor is endorsed by the Federal Govern-
ment, which has ceased to remit pay to the
families of the men lost. All likely and unlikely
islands where the vessel, if disabled, might
have run for shelter have been searched,
and have yielded not a trace of wreckage.
The chances are that the clumsy craft rolled
completely over, as she so often threatened
to do, and went down plunk. Letters from
members of the crew and scientific staff show
that they went to their fate having no illu-
sions about the vessel’s sea-going qualities.
She was strongly built, and would have been
a hard nut for the ice to crack ; but, even in
moderate weather she rolled like a dray. So
short was she in build that, with a following
sea, there was always danger of her being
thrown right over; indeed, two or three dives
she made whilst in no rougher waters than
those of the Australian coast went within an
inch of a somersault. Now we have only the
widows and orphans left. And to them, as
I said just now, the Australian Government
has ceased to make payments. After all,
there are advantages in being the widow of a
Belgian.
* * * *
“Rifleman”: Because | bated to rush in
and look absurd before jt was absolutely
necessary, I held off the local rifle club
until the right man said the word. Directly
Defence Minister Pearce stated that it was
the duty of every man who couldn’t go to the
Front to join a club, I joined forthwith and
began to fumble with a rifle. Since then
various politicians (including the ruffled
Carmichael, late of N.S.W. Ministry) have
used the well-intentioned riflemen as" a polit-
ical advertising medium. Newspaper space
is available for any chattering M.L.A. who
has nothing to say about “the movement”
and wants to say if, and the opportunity has
been seized by all the other tireless seekers
after publicity. The reports of the rifles
are thus drowned in a Niagara of mostly
uninstructed criticism and flagrantly insin-
cere praise, till the married suburbanites
who are honestly on the job begin to wonder
whether, after all, they are really anything
more than advertising hoardings. " For every
man with a rifle there seem to be 77 critics
who can shoot off nothing but their mouths
and one critic who is writing a book about
it. At the best, this uproar behind the
firing mound is very wearisome and spoils
the practice; but if it will reassure those
perturbed politicians who fear that the rifle
clubs provide handy escape doors for unen-
cumbered young men who want to avoid
active service, I don’t think any of us
married ones would object to make a sort of
family census return on the backs of our
enrolment forms. Then the restless seekers
after recruits could call round at the parade
ground and “address” the blushing bachelors
on the subject of the firing line.
The submarine isn’t unite the young thing
it pretends to be. A man named Bushnell
built one at the end of the eighteenth cen-
tury, and the thing was actually used and
knocked out by British gun-fire in the Ameri-
can War of Independence. James I. made
a trip in a much earlier submarine built by
aDutchman called Van Drebbel. A Frenchman
showed another vessel of the type at Amster-
dam in 1653. Other submarines were built
in England by Fulton in ISOI, and some
attempts were made to use them at Brest
and Havre. Like mechanical flight, the prin-
ciple of which was proved in the days of
Nero, the underwater craft wasn’t first
thought of the day before yesterday.
* * * *
“Lex” : In November a young couple were
married in Sydney. The girl was a few
months short of 20. The man omitted to
ask her father’s con-
sent, and she con-
cealed from the par-
son the fact that she
was under age. Since
then, according to all
the evidence —which
included the testimony
of the slighted parent
—the couple have
lived in peace and
happiness. Last week
the criminal law fell
upon them. They
were ranged up, as
though they had been
burglars or anything
else but the valuable
citizens they were, and
convicted. Of course,
the Judge let them
down lightly. But
technically they are
criminals. When the
patria potestas busi-
ness can effect this
kind of tragic injus-
tice, it is about time it
was wiped out, and
contemporaneously the
Legislature might ad-
vantageously decree
that any healthy girl
over the age of con-
sent is eligible to be
married and no ques-
tions asked.
Private letters have at fast been allowed
to pass the censor and break the silence as to
the convoy of the transports that carried
the Australian and Maoriland soldier-men to
Egypt. There were in all 42 transports and
warships in the first big consignment.
H.M.S. Minotaur was in the lead. Flanking
guards were H.M.A.S. Sydney and a Jap
battle cruiser. The bulldogs at the tail of
the mob were H.M.S. Pyramus and
H.M.A.S. Melbourne.
A dead whale riddled with German shells
came ashore in Holland recently. Doubtless
some proud naval person earned an Iron
Cross by heroically knocking-out the “sub-
marine.” The only other moral is that
neutral whales should keep out of the dead-
funk area.
“Marianne” : M. “Jean Sibi” makes a refer-
ence (B. 25/2/T5) to my country not com-
plimentary. I agree with Monsieur in that
the Germans cannot justly gibe at the Eng-
lish for decadent taste in art; and in the
matter of German taste in postcards I can
vouch that in the numerous prosecutions in
Paris instituted by the police against ven-
dors it has been invariably found that the
goods are labelled “Made in Germany.”
But why does M. “Sibi” say : “The decadent
Yiddish dramatist, whose works even Paris
could not stomach”? Is Paris the last word
in depravity and in vitiated artistic taste?
Does M. “Sibi” know intimately the Parisian
stomach, intellectual as well as physical. For
my part, I find in both a delicacy missing
in the English organs. To enjoy a naughti-
ness, for the Parisian there must be an
espieglere, a sublety, which is not to be
found in translations adapted for the Eng-
lish stage. The Parisian, for instance, gives
a cold welcome to the nude dance. Maud
Allan made no impression in Paris. Many
musical comedies and medleys and so-called
farces which I have witnessed in Australia
would not be tolerated among my people of
Paris, being gross without wit. A
Parisian audience never welcomes a work of
art for its decadence. Decadent works have
gained popularity, but only when they have
some other feature, which fascinates the
taste —some feature other than grossness. I
would point out to M. “Jean” that in statistics
compiled by eminent scientists, Paris does
not take first place on the European ladder
of certain vice. Berlin is on top, London
next, Paris third. Doubtless in Paris, as in
the rest of the world, there is mud on the
footpaths. Still one need not walk in it
unless one wills.
“Ruru”: Some of the beef and mutton
manipulators of Australia are putting a
cleaver into their own necks, or killing the
golden sausage, or doing some other un-
healthy thing. The papers swarm with
dishes made of dried beans and lentils and
other cheap fodder, and Mary Smith is doing
her best to cut out the butcher altogether.
At present this doesn’t worry the butcher or
his owners, who supply the bulk goods, but
it will worry them in days to come. Once
the vegetarian habit is established, beef and
mutton are as great an abomination to a
man as fruit to a cat, or Brazil nuts to an
oyster.
THE ECONOMIST.
"Yes, but you should save your money—you
know everything is going to be a lot dearer
before the war is osier!”
"Well, hadn’t I better spend it now? The
longer I keep it the less I’ll be able to
buy with it.”


The enemy that attempts
to invade “The Bulletin”
office is in for a hot time.
) The staff’s patriotic feelings
have been roused, and pre-
parations for Der Tag pro-
ceed enthusiastically.
morning arrival a la
goose-step has be- ■
come one of the
standing attractions
of Qeorge-street North.
.«v<-
*X
Norman Lindsay is now
expert in sketching the
positions of fortifications,
pubs. etc., from mid-air.
Sharpshooting is prac-
tised daily with the kind
assistance of the Intelli-
gence Department.
Hop and the Managing
Director have sworn to de-
fend the office .to the last
bowl.
Vandorian, in charge of
the Red Cross, loses no
opportunity of practising—
chiefly on Low, being the
most convenient.
V*\ .f fair b^niTs
ic^ ,n r i M
a^ uT
The Red Page’s reputa-
tion for foresight earned him
the commissariat job.
“THE BULLETIN” CLEARS FOR ACTION.


Nothing can surpass
HORROCKSES’
SHEETINGS for
durability
When Buying see HORROCKSES’ name on Face-plait,
and decline all substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers
HIGHEST AWARDS AT ALL THE GREAT EXHIBITIONS. 2
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
SYDNEY: John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE: Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH: McLean Bros. & Rig".
Aus. Rep.—T. Nieholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
:
WALNUT
FOR
GREY
HAIR.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Te Babarantiko”: To the unbiased
heathen onlooker the average Islands missionary
provides material for much cud-chewing. The
Prodesdan brand is frankly indolent and fond of the
best that is going. He is a rabid foe of smoking
and the natives’ sinful fashion in clothes. As a
grasper he has few equals and no superiors; takes
frequent cash-and-kind collections and does many
things calculated to earn the contempt of the un-
regenerate white. On the other hand, Mission le
Sacre Cceur never accepts any presents from the
natives. Instead of cadging from the niggers these
li.C.’s give freely, even to tobacco, when their
heathen brother is in need. They cannot see that
smoking is a sin, nor that a native lady in a vege-
table loin-covering lias, less show of getting to
Heaven than'has her sister in the infrequent cotton-
print dress. The padre extends his helpfulness to
his white brother as well. I have seen him help,
cheerfully, his most rabid traducers. He is a hard
and unceasing manual worker and' a jack-of-all-
trades. Often he is delightfully simple. Discussing the
ever-smouldering question of the cost of living in the
Islands, a “brother” told me that he had an allow-
ance of £l2, and a “father” £l4 per annum,
which must pay for food, clothing and every other
requirement. He added, in good faith, too: “We
are not allowed to save anything out of it.”
Anything left over must go to charity. I didn’t
mention that my personal food-bill was never under
£6 per month, and I didn’t have many gastronomic
orgies either.
5f * * £
“E.T.”: The gentleman in khaki has a
strange language of his own. I was standing on
the steps of the (This Space To Let) Hotel when
a -1-full private drew up in front of me and saluted.
I did my best to return the salute in true regimental
style. I’ve seen them do it on the stage. Said
the soldier behind his saluting hand: “ ’Ow does a
fag go, Captain?” I was puzzled; also discon-
certed. To be addressed as Captain in the hearing
of the hall-porter and not to know the meaning of
a simple military phrase like “ 'Ow does a fag go" !
I said: “I didn’t quite catch your remark,” which
was perhaps hardly what an officer would say
to a private, but I had to say something. “What
price a cig. ?” replied the warrior bold. This was
worse than ever. I couldn’t have given an answer
to save my life. In despair I turned to the porter.
He kindly offered to “put me wise.” “The bloke
wants a cigarette,” he interpreted. “Ah, yes,”
said I, “of course.” I produced my case. The
soldier boy took a cigarette and lit it. But before
he could salute me again I was well on my way
to the Public Library to look up a few military
terms. One mustn’t be caught napping these war
times.
“Jaygee” I won’t say this is the best way
to capture freshwater crabs, but it’s well worth
the courteous attention of the naturally lazy. Take
an iron hoop off your beer cask and sew hessian on
to it, so that a kind of net is made. Let there be
plenty of sag - . Then fix a wire on the hoop in the
form of a bucket-handle and, for raising and lower-
ing the contraption, a long rope. Bait the trap
with a few bones upon which are scraps of
meat, and sink the lot in a likely spot. Buoy the
rope, meander up to the pub, have a drink or three,
return in an hour and haul the bowline. If it’s a
good catch you can hear 100 yards away the crabs
crunching the bones and sucking the marrow.
THE WELCOME STRANGER.
CISS: "Why ain't muvver here?"
COCKY: “She's busy in bed. You've got a little baby brother; he came last night."
CISS: “Can he milk?"
IF BEER WAS BANISHED.
“I ’ear some blokes sayin' the pubs orter be shut up till the war’s over ter make 'em
eagerer ter defend the country."
“’Struth! W’y, the country 'oodn’t be worth defendin'."
“L.N.”: The natives in the Solomons and
Santa Cruz take a cane noose with empty cocoanut
shells attached to it when they go sharking. One
boy stands on a platform on the outrigger of the
catamaran shaking and rattling the implement in
the water. When the inquisitive shark hovers near
a fish is dangled over the side in one hand, whilst
in the other is poised the noose just above the water.
Presently the shark grabs at the bait, and the noose
is dexterously slipped over his head and pulled
taut —generally clinching somewhere near the tail.
A rope attached to the noose is tied to the bow of
the catamaran, and as the big fish departs hurriedly
through the deep in his excitement, the elated nigs,
sit back with folded arms and “kid” themselves that
their flying canoe is a mile-a-minute motor-launch.
Sometimes the engine dives for the bottom, and the
motor-launch then becomes a submarine. But the
shark eventually drowns, whatever happens.
“McNorth” : A necessary tool in tlie white
man’s outfit in Papua is a tin-opener. (Corkscrews
are optional, as you can always knock the head off
a bottle.) Of course there are attachments on most
tinned stuff's which are alleged to open a way to
the goods without the aid of additional machinery,
but I 11 ba< k most “cook-boys” to have a large per-
centage of failures with them. One nigger I had
used a case of meat in a week, and as 1 was the
only consumer, and couldn’t have eaten three dozen
tins in the time, I had a formal interview with
my chef. He explained that the patent attachment
wouldn’t open the tins worth tuppence; it would go
so far and no farther. So he threw the half-opened
tins away till he fluked one that did open. I got
a new cook then : also a dozen tin-openers.
“Outcast”: Tattoo (lesions in Papua
almost invariably have, significance. A man who has
taken life has a special line on his back, breast and
cheek. A girl is not admitted to womanhood until
she is tattooed from the waist to the knee, and until
a certain design is made on the inside of a girl's
thighs she is considered to be of no value as a
wife. Some designs are made for curative purposes ;
for instance, for the treatment of rheumatism and
palpitation of the heart. And there is a design on
the forehead to cure headache.
“Billy Blue”: Apropos of “The Oldest
Inhabitant's” chatty par on the Hurley family and
Cootamundrv Station (B. 11/2/’lo), the Lands office
records of the '6o’s give John Hurley’s station as named
Cootamondra, in the Lachlan district; area 49,920
acres; grazing capability, 1920 head of cattle; first
appraised at £lOO per annum, but then reappraised
at £133 6s. Bd. The post town, established in 1863,
when town lots were sold at the Gundagai Crown
Lands office, was called Coramundra, and was officially
so named till the latter ’seventies. About 1880 it
was changed to Cootramundra; and after that it shed
an “r,” though how or when or under what circum-
stances I don’t know.
“The Reefer’’: The betel-nut palm is the
most exquisitely proportioned vegetable growing. No
matter what plants may be its neighbors, the betel
will draw your gaze and hold it. Mere words cannot
convey an adequate idea of its 40ft. of polished
and imperceptibly tapering bole, surmounted by a
cascade of feather fronds. It is a thing of beauty,
the queen of all palms, peerless.
“Clinker” : The drought and the quantity
of hay that is not cut and stored in a good season
but ought to be reminds me of the first reaper and
binder brought to the Grabben Gullen (N.S.W.)
district. It was bought by a neighbor of mine, an
Irishman, who had a very fine crop of hay. An
expert came out to start file machine. lie showed
how to oil it, alter levers, etc., saw it working
satisfactorily, and left for town. In the evening of
the same day my neighbor sent to ask me to go
over, as the machine had jibbed. My knowledge
of binders was very limited, but I managed to dis-
cover that the twine had run out. I pointed out
that that seemed to be the trouble, and suggested
that another ball should be put in. “Twoine,” he
snorted. “Twoine, is ut! And this the lovely four
fut stuff! Will yez be after fellin’ me whoi she
can't make the hay-bands for herself!”
*
“Peri-Winkle”: Owing to tisli in the Cam-
paspe (Vic.) having been on strike against hooked
provisions, the impression spread that the river in-
habitants had departed or unanimously died. This
was dispelled the other day when a five-feet freshet
brought along a cargo of fish which astonished the
natives of Elmore. Some weighed 401 b., and the
smell of cod cutlets being cooked ascended to the
nose of the Prophet.
A HYMN OF CONTENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I sometimes think on how I might have been a
different chap
Had things been any otherwise than as they are.
Mayhap
I might have been an Englishman—and there are
• worse than that.
(Hooray! And now’ let each of us uplift his flag
and hat!)
But I’ve no kick at what the Fates decided I should
be,
The friendly Fates that made a mere Australian bloke
of me.
Methinks, if it had been ordained, I could have made
a bush
Bank-manager, distinguished for good manners, tact
and push.
1 might have been a lawyer, of the sort that cannot
lie,
Or even a prim parson, pointing others to the sky;
But, as it is, I do not deal in pound-notes, prayers
or pleas— >
I am the mere Australian bloke who pays the par-
son’s fees.
Had Fortune favored me, I might have won a prize
in Tatt.’s.
And with the proceeds learned to be a gentleman—-
and that’s
The way that leads one on to end one’s days as
M.L.G.,
Jouncing adown the road of years in pleasant com-
pany ;
I might have won a pot in Tatt.’s, and reached the
House of Stout,
A mere Australian bloke, no more—a patriot down
and out.
I might have been a pleeceman, had I studied really
hard,
With presently a chair at Russell-street or Scotland
Yard ;
Had but the Fates arranged it so, I might have won
to fame
By beating half the world at chess, or some such
splendid game ;
But —well, there’s cause for some delight that I am
only I,
And shall be just a mere Australian bloke until 1
die.
Yes, I have cause to rise and cheer because, un-
doubtedly,
Had things been otherwise I might have been The
Enemy —-
Extremely painful thought! Aye, had the high
gods so decreed,
I might have been a Deutschlander —I might have
been, indeed !
Oh, therefore, I do thank my stars, son of Gum-
sucker- folk,
For that I am, whate’er I am, a mere Australian
bloke!
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.
“Frank Reid” : The Nieu islanders have a
pretty custom. On May Day, their great church
festival of the year, the women of each of the eleven
villages dress in a material of distinctive hue,
different from that of any of the other villages.
When they all meet in Alofi, the principal village,
and are grouped in bright colors varying from pure
white the whole range of aniline dyes, the
effect is unique. The Nieu women have much love
for personal adornment. Disdaining the plaited hats
she makes, and which are worn in Australia and
Maoriland, she demands. the latest thing in straws,
and flips off to church on Sundays with her hair
neatly done up and surmounted with a dream of a
creation prettily trimmed. The wife of one of
the Nieu traders happened to be a leading ladies’
decorator in Brisbane before she reached Nieu. She
has taught the island girls the art of high-class
dressmaking. incidentally, she declares that, from a
dressmaker’s point of view, the figures of the Niue
girts would make their white sisters green with envy.


STOPS FALLING HAIR.
This Home-iwatle Mixture Stops Dandruff
and Falling Hair and Aids Its Growth.
To a half-pint of water add :
Bay Rum • • • ■ • • loz.
Orlex Compound .. •• A small box.
Glycerine . . • • • • ioz.
These are all simple ingredients that you
can buy from any chemist at very little cost,
and mix them yourself. Apply to the scalp
once a day for two weeks, then once every
other week until all the mixture is used. A
half-pint should be enough to rid the head of
dandruff and kill the dandruff germs. It
stops the hair from falling out, relieves
itching and all scalp troubles.
Although it is not a dye, it acts upon the
hair roots and will darken streaked, faded
grey hair in 10 or lo days. It promotes thft
growth of the hair and makes harsh hair
•soft and glossy.* ——. 13
Martin's Pills are sold by W. H. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
Those who believe that “ The Best is
Cheapest in the End ” will assuredly
select.the World=famous
nOSGIEL
RUG
The World’s Finest Travellirig Rug.
Made of the Purest Wool, and
Wonderfully Cosy.
Sold at all
the Best Shops. [3
TO SEND AWAY a nicely-penned letter or order
without mark of copying either back or front is more
polite,- and adds to your own prestige. The Zanetic
Penduplicate books ensure this advantage. Easy to
use. Octavo Is. size sent post free for 12 stamps to
Zanetic Works, Leicester, England.*
I IDEAS
•FOUNDED 1888
PHILLIPS - ORMONDE&O
Consu/r/op engineers , ecr/enA /JZ/brnevS
onaf Z?pcnA3 ■ 17 QUEEN S T
MELBOURNE
PEBECO
Tooth Paste.
If our teeth could talk —-they
would say something like this:
“Yes, we are thankful for our
friends—the millions of Tooth
Brushes. They do a splendid
work —so far as they go. We
are grateful for the hundreds of
dentifrices. They in turn do a
splendid work —so far as they go.
But both together fall far short of
protecting our enamel —our only
weapon of tooth protection. Is
there no escape from these
‘MOUTH ACIDS’ —these ever-
present mouth fluids which, un-
seen, unbidden, are working dby
and night to break down our
armor plate—and then make the
soft inside tooth structure easy
prey to decay-germs?’’
We answer:
“There IS escape from ‘Acid
Mouth.’ Pebeco Tooth Paste is
the one dentifrice to-day which
prevents ‘Acid Mouth’ —the direct
cause of 95 % of all tooth-decay.”
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
Made in Australia by
G. ARNOLD,
6 O’Connell St., Sydney.
(WHOLESALE ONLY.) [4
“W. 11. Blackfill”: Here is a page from
the life of one of our pioneers. She had spent the
weary night in a rough-built but, 70 miles back
from Gladstone (Q.). She was starving, and her
three babies —one yet unweaned —were alternately
sleeping and crying for food. There was a handful
of flour in the hut —nothing else. When supplies
had run short her husband had gone into Gladstone,
and should have been back two days ago. He was
still absent. In the morning she made a paste of
the flour, cooked it, and doled it out to the children,
who cried piteously for more. That night, when
sleep had overcome thein, she determined that she
must wait no longer for her husband; she must
find him. So, at daylight, she put the few crusts
that remained in a bag, and with her babies set
out on the 70-mile tramp to Gladstone. Towards
sundown the children collapsed front exhaustion.
Next day the baby died and was buried in a
grave scratched by the almost demented mother in
the bush. The rest of the journey was almost a
blank to the woman. Now running, now walking,
carrying the girl and dragging the boy, then
carrying the boy and dragging the girl, she at
last reached the town and struggled to the
hospital. Across a bed whereon lay her husband
she fell senseless. He had met with an accident
and was still unconscious. They both recovered
and the children were nourished back to life. The
woman was my mother. The little boy was me.
* * * *
“Rag”: I dislike the clumsy pack-eantel
(dromedary) as heartily as anyone, but the totally-
different riding camel is, in my opinion, a better
hackney than any other beast I’m acquainted with.
His best pace is an even, loping sort of sideways
trot, and he’ll bowl along at eight miles an hour
for as long' as you let him. Once he is set to a
pace, he sticks to it, without any further urging. In-
stead of sitting erect, or with a slight forward inclina-
tion, as when riding a horse, you press the stirrups-
slightly forward, with legs straight, and lean back
against the buttock pads of the saddle (which, by
the way, is usually built for two). There is just
as much difference between riding and draught
camels as there is between a well-bred hack and a
hulking Clydesdale.
“Moana”: George Newman, of Blenheim
(M.L.), has put up something of a record in coach-
driving. He was on the box seat regularly for nearly
20 years six days a week, and rumbled in that time
over nearly 400,000 miles. For six years he did 60
miles a day down the famous Buller Gorge-road,
pointing out crags and peaks on the skyline to
tourists, and guiding the best-horsed coach south of
the line along a track which left six inches to spare
between the wheels and perdition. Then for nine
years he did the 80 miles from Blenheim to Nelson —
right through each time with five teams. Nowadays
he steers a motor-car.
“QUOTH THE RAVEN, NEVERMORE!”
“Lagani-N.”: Formerly the tattooing
which was general in the South Seas, was emblemati-
cal, denoting family or inter-tribal connections, deeds
of prowess, and the individual’s status. To have
assumed any of the designs without being entitled fo
tlieiii would have been risky. Latterly, however, since
We forbid natives punishing tribal impostors, tattoo-
ing is executed simply for personal adornment, and
without any regard for its original purport. As the
natives covet more and more of their skins with
clothing, tattooing i- slowly but surely being dis-
used, and in.a few decades it will be as infrequent as
it how is-amongst Archbishops.
DESPERATION IN THE DOMAIN.
THE SEATED RUIN (in sudden passion): :Blarst the war! Pm sick o' bein' arst why
I don' go to it. Damme , if I don't go an' — an'—an work!"
From Pharaoh’s old settlement: —•
A cold wind was blowing from the desert, and
the marrow in the bones of the Australian sentry
was beginning to freeze. Presently he separ-
ated himself from his perishing rifle, and went
over to the camp fire to thaw. To him
presently appeared an officer without any out-
ward and visible signs of his rank, and said:
“What are you doing here?” “Oh, a bit o’ sentry
duty,” said the swaddy, without disturbing himself.
“Don’t you know your list of officers?’’ “A bit of
it.” “Well, I’m a bit of a major.” “Orright, wait
till I go over to my post and get my rifle, and I’ll
give y’ a bit of a blanky salute.” The court-martial
made it 40 days’ confinement to camp.
“Gus Gosh”: A recent Abo-larian wanted
to back his entry in the thunderstorm competition.
Let him put up his coin. A few years ago the
Murchison (W.A.) sent up prayers for rain for
several months. I happened to be in Cue when
the accumulated supplications were passed on to
Pluvius, with a memo, attached: “Please
see into it.” Most likely Pin. runs his
end of the show like some of the State
Ministries do theirs. Anyhow, his staff
and works were in a complete state of
disorganisation, and when the order came
through everybody fell over everyone else
in the general endeavor to get busy. The
din made by. the departmental tanks as
they were heaved into position for ser-
vice, and the clatter of departmental
taps, refractory from long idleness, being'
hammered and wrenched into obedience,
was awful. Also, the junior members of
the staff must have been in a vile temper
at having had their sleep disturbed, be-
cause the lurid language of youth lit up
the whole heavens. Just as a lot of de-
partmental understrappers like to take
out of an innocent public what the boss
has taken out of them, these hirelings of
Pluvius seemed determined- to give the
Murchison more than enough water for
Monday’s washing. By the time their spite
had burned itself out, they had - poured down sufficient
fluid to cover the country roundabouts to a depth of
feet. Fervent prayers to turn it up were completely
ignored.
“Grenada”: While camped at Billilingra
station, near Cooma (N.S.W.), not long back, my
mate and I had as neighbors over a dozen peacocks,
with their families. Most of them were full-grown,
but there were a few flappers who were not sure
whether they were dressed in fur or feathers. Neither
were we. The old birds were in beautiful condition.
The people who owned an adjacent station had had
a few pairs of peafowl in the homestead gardens.
These had been turned loose 20 j'ears ago to breed ;
but the experiment hasn’t been much of a success,
owing to the fox curse.
Everybody’s doing it! Over 250 members
of the Maoriland Shearers’ Association have joined
the Expeditionary Forces.
“Wandi”: The overseer was smoking a
pipe in the men’s hut. “On most squattages,’’ he
said, as he glanced round with a superior air,
“there’s a lonely little place away by itself, like
a dead-house or a quarantine depot, if you under-
stand me, for the special accommodation of uncom-
mercial travellers. As a rule, the squatter built it
years ago, when men were scarce and not so given
to camping out. It kept strangers away from the
sheds and stables and aloof from the. men’s hut.
The only difference, between the two huts is that
each is worse than the other. Most travellers in
the uncommercial line nowadays prefer to camp out.
Given a tree, a bit of grass for a liipper, a water-
hole and a fire, and they’re; at home. For a reason-
ably civilised and intellectual person, if you under-
stand me, the average hut is an abomination. The
occupants are good fellows, but some of them are
awful bores. There’s Bullocky Bill, blatherskiting
for hours about what Strawberry and Rattier can do;
and Sam, the blacksmith, lecturing on the mending
of cracked saucepans; and the boundary-rider gassing
as to how long- the water will last in the Spare-me-
days tank. If there was a sheep bogged in the
tank he will be a solid hour relating how he pulled
it out. ‘Ever been to Brisbane?’ I once asked a
boundary hand, by way of a change. ‘Well, no,’ he
said, ‘but I was dashed close to Roma once. Pulled
up at Winkle’s and got paralytic.’ That’s some
people’s ambition, to get paralytic occasionally, and
make history of it in the hut on Skeleton Greek or
Dead Man’s Hole. It’s mostly vulgar ‘shop’ talk,
intermingled with profanity ; nothing intellectual, if
you understand me. There’s always someone wanting
to get a pitch on, or to sing ‘The Old Bark Hut,’ or
the ‘Old Homestead,’ just when you’re absorbed in
Shelley or Rossetti. Some. want the door shut;
some want it open ; and there's always a row over the
slush-lamp. Some can’t sleep with the light burn-
ing; other’s can’t smoke in the dark. Some one
blows it out; voices call him things unprintable;
and then someone lights ,it again. It jars on one’s
finer senses, if you understand me. I’ve waltzed
Matilda more than once myself,” he went on.
“We’re all in the gluepot so far as that’s concerned.
One wet night found me with an old fellow under
a lean-to. We were on a slope, and towards mid-
night he complained of water running in. ‘Ain’t
you gettin’ wet?’ lie asked, his teeth chattering.
No; I was quite dry. ‘Jumpin’ Jerusalem!’ he
gasped, ‘the whole seethin’ Murrumbidgee’s agin me.’
He raised himself, the water rushed, through, and
I in turn was swamped. ‘That was unneighborly,
Jack,’ I said to him. ‘You couldn't have got any
wetter, so what was the use of. wetting me?’ ‘What
are yer giyin’ us?’ he returned. ‘Do you take me
for a ruby dam?’ We sat the rest of the night
leaning against one another. It's an interesting
business, taken all in all; but there’s nothing of
the supremely sublime in it, if you understand me.”
“Trapper”: In regard to the monotony of
“Please shut the gate,” how’s this for a break:
“Please shut the gate and use • manures”? Saw
this between Emerald and Gembrook (Vic.).
“The Shearers’ Cook” : The river was “a
swim,” and the pommy rouseabout who had been
cut off couldn’t cross. Presently up rode our jackeroo
and invited the other innocent to double-bank the
horse. Some of the station niggers saw the per-
formance from the opposite side and yelled to the
ncwchunis not to attempt to cross in that war .
but they couldn't have comprehended the pidgin
Australian advice, because in they went, and didn t
come out until we dragged the bodies up two days
later. For the benefit of others, let these hints
prevail. Never double-bank on a horse crossing
a flooded stream. Let the heavier wade in behind
the prad until waist deep; then he can collect
tlie animal's tail without any fear of being kicked.
As the horse swims, lie straight out behind, and
you’ll do the trip “like a bird.” Most horses can
swim, but some won’t with a rider aboard; so be-
fore embarking you want to be certaiu that your neddy
isn’t one of the latter sort. Be sure that there's
a getting-out place lower down on the othei side,
allowing for the strength of the' stream. Always
undo the buckle holding the reins together, so
that in case of accident they will not loop around
the horse’s legs and drown him. Throw the stirrups
over the saddle and ride with your legs raise. 1
backward so as to impede the horse as little as pos-
sible. If he’s struggling, slip off him (on the down- /
stream side ) and lie alongside, holding quietly to
his mane. The merest touch on either rein is ail
that may be used, else you’ll either pull the horse's
nose under and frighten or upset him. A light
switch is the best for a horse you are strange to.
A touch on either side of the neck or jaw will
divert him in the desired direction. Don’t forget
when contemplating the crossing of unfamiliar
water that there may be snags anywhere. If you
must leave the nag —I say this again—don’t forget
to leave on the down-stream side. This gives you
a better chance to keep clear of him; for lie's sure
to follow you, like a dog.
* * * ■ *
“Masetto”: At Cressy (Vic.), a farmer's
wife, having put her 18-months old child down to
sleep, was surprised in the course of a few minutes
to hear it laughing as if amused. Going into the
room, she found the child scrambling over the bed
as if looking for something that had recently dis-
appeared. Just then the mother heard a soft substance
fall off the bed, and, stooping to see what it was,
found a snake waiting to shake hands with her
Mrs. Farmer terminated the interview by an abrupt
departure. When Mr. Farmer returned that night
he started a hunt. A lighted candle was placed
on the floor and the piano played. No use. Thr.i
the sewing machine was tried and that fetched him.
He crawled from his recess to the candle, and lie
never smiled again. When the child was brought
in to see the victim—a tiger snake fully grown-
it laughed just as the mother had heard it in the
afternoon, and she is convinced that the child had
played with Eve’s lodger before. Constantly the
infant showed a desire to be put up on the bed,
which was evidently a favored resort of the reptile.
NATURALLY.
COUSIN JAKC: “Maaster Chairman, would
'ee mind repeatin' that again? I ded'n
see the point , ’ zackly.”
THE CHARIMAS : “if thee would awnly keep
thy ears open thee would see the point."
SEVILLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s Seville, in Spain, a dainty city.
With marble founts and Moorish walls,
With her beauties famed in amorous ditty,
And bull-fights, and gipsies, and bright mask-balls.
Each street, each stone, lias a song or story
(An El Dorado once Spain could win),
Though Seville forgets her ancient glory
As she sways, in the dance, to the mandolin.
But Music, Romance, will linger ever
'Mong the orange groves by the Guadalquiver.
And here’s .a Seville, brand new, ungainly
(No Spanish casa or Moslem gate).
The traveller asks for her legend, vainly,
The grass is yellow, the rains are late.
But thrushes sing in the gum-trees, olden,
The creek can tell of the blue o' the sky,
And the sun looks down on a forest golden,
When children are chasing the dragon-fly.
Is this her tale, but, the wind and weather?
Tt was here we crossed the hills together.
VICTORIA.
LOUIS ESSON.


HIS PINAL ROLE.
IMPERIAL SHADE: “I’ll teach you how to ferry the dead, old fool! Give ME the oars.”


HYGEIA
Shaving
Stick.
XOX
You
won’t
know
yourself
behind
Hygeia
oil-foam,
gpCESF
XT.
::::::::::::::::
«8B
anaonSIISaHBBBBaoEna
g»«B»BBBBBB
,K!
mil
SBSb
cm
m
M
fd
r °^~THE
g
U irnc Vh mu Ver 50,1 go ’ the world over, leading men
lhey are unequalled in quality, style,
comlort. ALL STORES.
wear W OoimOW
durabality and
fdg
/z
HOW THIN PEOPLE MAY PUT ON
FLESH.
GREAT DISCOVERY BY EMINENT
SPECIALIST. .
Judging from the countless preparations
and treatments which are continually being
advertised for the purpose of making thin
people fleshy, developing the arms, neck and
bust, and replacing ugly hollows and angles
by the soft curved lines of health and
beauty, there are evidently thousands of men
and women who keenly feel their excessive
thinness, and it therefore gives us
pleasure to publish herewith a simple pre-
scription which by correcting faulty metabol-
ism and stimulating the activity of certain
sluggish vital organs, quicklv produces a mar-
vellous transformation in the appearance;
the increase in weight frequently averaging
from 4 to 5 pounds the first week, and very
rarely less than 2. This increase in weight
also carries with it a general improvement in
the health. Catarrh, dyspepsia and nervous-
ness, which nearly always accompany exces-
sive thinness, all gradually disappear; dull
eyes become bright, and pale cheeks glow with
a bloom of perfect health.
The prescription, which is absolutely harm-
less, calls for inx. Tincture Cardamoms
Compound 8.P., 2ox. Salrado Compound,
3oz. Elixir Simplex and enough water to
fill an Soz. bottle, and can readily be pre-
pared by any chemist. One to two table-
spoonfuls should be taken about 20 minutes
before each meal. Eat all you want, but
chew your food thoroughly.
Caution : A Ithouah the above prescription
is unequalled for reliering nervousness,
gestion and catarrhal troubles, it should not,
owing to its remarkable flesh-growing pro-
perties. be used by anyone who does not
desire to put on flesh *
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The whole of the Will Dyson “Ivultur”
cartoon drawings in his Leicester Galleries
exhibition were sold, and in two instances
bids for pictures for Australian Galleries
arrived too late.
Thomas Burgoyne, who is 87 and has been
in the South Aus. Parliament 31 years, is
going through the State’s election campaign
like one less than half his age, and is
travelling over a big territory, despite the
fact that he has now to use a crutch.
SHELTERING BEHIND LIITLE
MARV.
General von Blame, writing in t he NORDDUTSCIHE
ZEITHUNG, says it would be criminal folly to be led
away by the hope that the war would be terminated
by a victory of arms before the adequacy of Ger-
many's food supplies was tested. —Cable item.
HERR HOGWURST : “ You haf to get rid of
dis, mein Triendt, before I vos beaten ”
The European battlefield is now the meet-
ing place of the world. Recently Col. G. K.
GoJquhoun, well known on the trout waters
of Maoriland, while leading a bayonet charge
in French territory, was shot in the leg and
brought down. His men went on, leaving
him to curse bis luck. Presently there went
by a detachment of Canadians, one of whom
dropped out and carried Colquhouu to, the
rear. “Much obliged,” said the winged offi-
cer. and requested the young man’s name
and regiment. “Colquhoun,” said he, and in
two minutes a father had discovered a young
broth of a son who had “cleared out” to
Canada six years previously and joined the
North-West Mounted Police.
Australia’s Pie Commissioner, who mourn-
fully confesses that he is no longer able to
march or shoot or do any active military
work, suggested to lan Hamilton that he
might be converted into an armored fort.
Hamilton shook his head. “Tell you what,
though,” he said. “We might be able to
make a base of you.”
Lieut. Maclean, of the Fourth Fusiliers,
who has just been decorated for conspicuous
bravery at Ypres, is a Maorilander, the son
of a parson and himself in orders. When
the Hun started on the warpath young
Maclean, then in London doing “slum work,”
threw off his shovel hat and black coat, dis-
guised himself as a plain Tommy, and rushed
at the enemy behind such a purposeful
bayonet that he quickly got a commission.
Wanganui College and old St. John’s at
Auckland, where Cutlibert Maclean hardened
bis muscles and struggled with Greek, are
feeling prouder of him than ever.
“WHEN CROOK MEEIS CROOKN."
A shire councillor at Demondrille suggested that
all criminals and chronic unemployed be sent to the
front. —S. M HERALD.
AUSTRALIAN SIKES : “Hands up! "
THE CROWN : "Vot! Audi drob all
my beautiful Belgian boodle? Handts up
yourself!”
Australia’s most ancient Supreme Court
Judge (retired list) is Edward Dundas Ilol-
royd. of Victoria, who had his S7th birthday
lately. The next oldest, Matthew Henry
Stephen (N.S.W.) ; was 86 in December.
The third on the list, James Penn Boucaut,
aged 884 years, is South Australia’s only
pensioner.
Captain Thomas, who was believed to be
the last Tasmanian half-caste,. has died at
Cafie Bai'ren Island, leaving a widow, eight
children, 24 grandchildren, and two great-
grandchildren. The last male full-blooded
aboriginal of Tasmania was William Lanne,
better known as '.“King Billy”; with three
native women lie . was present at a Govern-
ment House ball at Hobart in 1862. He
died seven years later; and seven years still
later the last of the females—Trucanini—
went to the big camp.
Killed in action, Guy Du Maurier, elder
son of Du Maurier, of Punch. The elder
Du Maurier invented the mid-Victorian
Englishwoman, as preposterously unreal a
creation as the Dana Gibson girl. After
that he never looked back. One son went
into the British Army, became its best
amateur actor, won a D.S.O< in Africa, and
wrote “An Englishman’s Home” —a play
which had a lot to do with preparing Britain
for its present struggle. From then on-
wards, till the other day in France, he
never looked back. The other son, Gerald,
went on the stage, “found” himself at once,
secured a big public within half a dozen
years, married one of the prettiest women
in England, and since then he has never
looked back, The habit of not looking back
amounts, with this family, to a hobby.
The ancient borough of Windsor (N.S.W.),
which is chiefly remarkable for its oldest in-
habitants, claims to have outdone its own
record by burying Enoch Pugh (better
known as “Larry”) at the age of 102 years.
There certainly is a record of a christening
at old St. Philip’s on Church Hill 301 years
ago, and Enoch is alleged to have been the
infant concerned. Nobody knows how long ago
it was since he started in the adjoining town
of Richmond at his trade as a blacksmith,
but it was over 70 years ago. He was re-
markable for two tilings—one, his great
strength, of which the old hands tell weird
stories ; the other, his wonderful capacity to
surround rum, and he was always held up as
an “awful example”; but he stuck to it to
the last, and perhaps had something to do
with Hawkesbury lately voting for continu-
ance instead of reduction, as it formerly did.
Just to further annoy the wowsers, he. was a
smoker also.
The first marriage service celebrated in
what is now Victoria made Richard Garrett
and Hannah Harvey man and wife. “Bobby”
Ivnopwood was the parson. He had, by the
way, had a christening three days earlier.
On February 22, 100 years ago, Maori-
iand s first little home-grown white immi-
grant arrived at Rangihora, Bay of Islands.
The infant was the son of John King and
his wife, and was christened by Sam Mars-
den. The second was a girl. Her parents
were a shipbuilder named William Hall and
his wife. The first white child recorded as
born in the South Island is still alive—
Captain John Guard, of Port Underwood,
born at the famous old whaling station, Te
Awaiti, over SO years ago.
Nettie Palmer, nee Higgins, a niece of the
Judge, has brought out her first volume of
verse. “The Soothing South Wind” is the
name of the first poem, and it gives the
volume its title. The lady is the wife of
Vance Palmer, a Queenslander, who writes,
mainly for Amurkan magazines, from a cosy
flat in London.
“Rolf Boldrewood” (T. A. Browne) was
last week laid in the “acre” at Brighton
(Vic.) which holds Jhe remains of Adam
Lindsay Gordon. Mr. Browne was in his
89th year, and all but four of the long span
had been spent in Australia. The father, Syl-
vester John Browne, coining to Sydney* in
1880, established himself as a merchant in
Macquarie-place, which then had but two
other occupants, Simeon Lord and Mrs.
Reibey. In 1840 the head of the familv
was attracted to Port Phillip, and went
there in his own ship, laden with his family
and household gods. “There were carriage
horses and cows, the boys’ ponies, children’s
canaries, poultry and pigeons, dogs and cats,
baliies and nurses, furniture, flower pots,
workmen, house servants, all the component
portions of a large household shifted bodily
from a suburban home [Enmore House], and
ready to be transferred to the first suitable
dwelling in the new settlement.” They were
one week doing the trip. The father at first
purchased some 40 acres at Toorak, which
subsequently became the Governor’s resi-
dence. but forsook it for Heidelberg. At IS
“Rolf” started squatting for himself at Port
Fairy, naming his place Squattlesea Mere.
He remained there till 1856, when he shifted
on to the Murray, and in 1864 purchased
Bundidjanee, on the Murrumbidgee. A suc-
cession of droughts flattened him, and he
entered the Civil Service as a Goldfields’
Commissioner and Police Magistrate. In his
leisure he produced, besides “Robbery Under
Arms,” innumerable magazine and news-
paper articles, and a number of readable
novels. He was a keen sportsman, and one
of the earliest members of Melbourne Club.
The wife of the late Chief Justice Harley
was a sister, and a brother. Sylvester, is
well known in sporting and mining circles.
THE LATE “ ROLF BOLDREAOOD.”
“Tom” Pope was farewelled in Adelaide
last week by his brother lawyers, most of
the Judges being present too. He is retiring
from the Bar. at the age of 62. to settle in
England. Not that he visited the Bar much
personally, being content to work up a
commercial and family business. In his
parting speech he claimed it as a probable
Australian law record that his partnership
with his elder brother William had stood for
35 years without a change in the firm’s name
or constitution.
SCHAFER, of S. A us., chief enemy of the
S.A. publican, and field-marshal in the refer-
endum campaign to close down the beer-pumps
at six.
The retirement of Melbourne’s Town
Clerk, John Clayton, after 81 years’ service,
with a bonus of £ISOO, calls to mind his
father, a city lawyer, who dwelt near where
Clayton station, on the Gippsland line, now
stands. The father was no more notable
than the son, but he called attention to him-
self by his habit of riding to town every
morning on a stout bay cob, in correct city
costume, carrying his belltopper in his hand
until St. Kilda came in view.
The German Crown Prince will reach the
fatal age of 83 in May. He lias four sons.
In 1910 there happened to be read in a
New York court a letter from him to Count
Ilochberg, written in 1907. In it he com-
plained that, like Edward, Prince of Wales
under Queen Victoria, he was shut out from
knowledge of public affairs: “I am like a
seaman never allowed to steer, and yet may
be summoned to the helm.” This percolated
to Germany, and next year the Prince for
the first time commanded at the spring review
of the Berlin garrison. It was then that a
cranky Russian flung a tin at his carriage.
The thing hit a policeman, burst, and let
out a shower of harmless white beans. This
incident, as usual, increased the popularity
of the “victim,” and he was in high favor
towards the end of 1910. In 1911 he was
“banished” to Dantzig—the result, it was
■said, of too much fondness for the recrea-
tions of the capital. Then came his dash
to Berlin, his jingo utterances, and after
that the war —and zero.
“Parisine”: So Eugenie, the ex-Empress,
sees another war. She is many milestones
ahead of Bernhardt on the road of Time ; if
she lives till next year she will be 90. When
Napoleon 111. hesitated about fighting
Prussia, she is alleged to have slapped her
hand on the table and exclaimed: “This is
my war!”' They say that in her young
spinster time she tried to poison herself with
a bottle of blacking because she had been
scorned by Count Galva, a Spaniard. That
was her nature, anyway. As for Nap. 111.
it is doubtful whether there was a drop of
Napoleonic blood in his veins. His father
was supposed to be Admiral Verhuel. He
wanted Eugenie by the left hand; but she
4 said : “The only door by which I join you is
the Church.” She will lie in St. Michael’s
Chapel, Farnborough, Surrey, beside her
husband and son. Another door!
THE VANGUARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They say, in all kindness, I’m out of the hunt —
Too old and too deaf to be sent to the Front.
A scribbler of stories, a maker of songs,
To the fireside and armchair my valor belongs!
Yet in campaigns all hopeless, in bitterest strife,
1 have been at the Front all the days of my life.
Oh, your girl feels a princess, your people are proud,
As you march down the street ’midst the cheers of
the crowd ;
And the Nation’s behind you and cloudless your sky,
And you come back to Honor, or gloriously die ;
While for each thing that brightens, and each thing
that cheers,
I have starved in the trenches these forty long years.
The cities were silent, the people were glum,
No sound of a bugle, no tap of a drum ;
Our enemies mighty and Parliaments sour,
Our Land’s lovers few, and no Man of the Hour.
The Girl turned her nose up (maybe ’twas before),
And they voted us Cracked when we marched to the
war.
Our army was small and ’twas scattered afar,
And our headquarters down where the Poor People
are.
But I knew the great hearts of the Jims and the
Bills,
And we signalled by wireless as old as the hills.
There were songs that could reach to our furthermost
wing,
And Sorrow and Poverty taught me to sing.
Our War ITyinn the war hymn that ever prevails -
Oh, we sang it of old when we marched from Mar-
seilles !.
And our army traditions are cherished with pride
In streets and in woods where we triumphed, or died ;
Where, rebel or loyal, by farmhouse and town,
The chorus waxed faint as they volleyed us down.
No V.C. comes to us, no rest nor release,
Though hardest of all is this fighting in peace.
Small honor to wife or to daughter or son.
Though noblest of all are the deeds that are done.
But we never are conquered, we never can die,
For we live through the ages, my army and I!
x.s.w.
HENRY LAWSON.


f
t
Be
@3 £ g
gjp I i 1
■SS3P
/*&
iitslßsH!
gi®
is
i -
fe»
Pis;
8»
K
2?
mm
m
xZ-i.
1111111
m
mmm
mm
1 Wd^'#3?
1
■
OUR GREATEST SOCIAL GATHERING.
is at Easter. It is the time when the Man from the Country and the Man in Town meet and fraternise at tiie Show, the Racecourse or the Theatre. If they
wish to meet on equal terms of Good Clothing, Good Appearance and Good Taste, let them put themselves in our hands for their Easter Outfit.
AN AUSTRAL SUIT FOR RASTER
is the main thing, and we have on hand a splendid stock of the latest designs and patterns. Our “Austral” Sac Suits
are made from the finest All Wool Marrickville Tweeds, Worsteds, etc., or from best British materials. Their Fit,
Style and Quality have become the Standard for Australian manhood.
Prices —63/-, 70.-, 75/-; Hand-made-84/-, 90/-, 95-, 105/-, 115/-, 126/-
Send for our Pattern Books and Self-Measurement Forms. If you require a Hat, or Shirts and Boots, or anything in the Clothing Line, to go with the New
Suit, just ask for our Illustrated Catalogue of Men’s and Boys’ Wear. We send them Post Free, and Pay Carriage on all Orders throughout Australia.
484-490 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Pioneer Distributors Goods
3 to 17 Royal Arcade,
SYDNEY.


IRRIGATION.
We carry Large Stocks of Steam- and
Power-driven Reciprocating Pumps.
Also Large Stocks of Centrifugal Pumps suitable for Irrigation Work.
Cash or Terms.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Lawson House,
49 Clarence St., Sydney
ALKA
The Reliable
Swedish
Detachable ROW-BOAT MOTOR
WITH THE VERY LATEST IMPROVEMENTS.
MAGNETO ICNITION, also for a Stern Drive.
AUTOMATIC SELF-LOCKING STEERING DEVICE,
Propeller turns with the rudder. Rudder protects
propeller. Submersible parts rust-proof! Smallest
petrol consumption! If you want a perfectly
reliable Out-board Motor, write for particulars and
testimonials to Swedish Australian Trading: Company,
Chamber of Commerce Buildings. Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Westbalian Goldfields Water Supply :
Interest
and
Working Writ- Sinking- Deficit
Ex- ten Fund for
June, Revenue, penses. Off. Required. Year.
1904. . ? ? £155,911 £101,911
1905. . £141,067 £42,835 179,032 80,800
1900.. 159,425 44,550 £ 11,000 181,717 77,842
1907.. 167,146 53,928 11,000 186,789 84,571
1908.. 172,550 63,882 11,000 188,565 90,897
1909.. 183,200 62,205 11,000 191,239 81,244
1910.. 221,406 61,118 11,000 192,135 42,847
1911.. 237,668 59,973 11,000 192,311 25,616
1912.. 243,521 67,240 11,000 192,463 27,182
1913.. 254,920 78,387 11,000 197,484 31,952
1914.. 255,076 91,333 11,000 199,698 46,955
There is a year’s deficit of £46,955 showing-
up there; and still the position is a great
deal better than that of many another Aus-
tralian “permanent and reproductive under-
taking” which pretends to be doing
splendidly. Bigjohn Forrest is mainly re-
sponsible for this, inasmuch as, when he bor-
rowed the money to take water away east
to the droughty goldfields, he realised that
the moisture would be used really to under-
mine the foundations of the whole concern.
Wherefore Bigjohn decided to get to safety
before the inevitable collapse, and provided
for a sinking fund to extinguish the debt in
25 years. The big mining cos. were so suc-
cessful that they could easily have paid the
money. In fact, it was a scandal that they
didn’t do it. But they naturally preferred
to pull- the strings and evade payment by
getting the price of water reduced; and that
started the'long and unbroken succession of
deficits—most scandalous in their obesity
until Wilson did one of the few good things
of Ms' career in the Premier’s office and put
up the prices. That brought the deficit
down with a jerk in 1911. But the baneful
thing is steadily creeping up again.
There are really two sinking funds because
there are two debts. What is called the
main capital, appropriated from the General
Loan Fund of the State, amounts to
£2.866,454, to which must be added £113,571,
a supplementary advance out of the same
fund. Then there is the debenture account,
£388.046, raised to pay for additional works
by the people who have been managing the
business. The sinking fund on the last-
named amount, £13,566, is kept paid up ; but
of the £77,473 of sinking fund for which the
Treasury is responsible, only £30,518 was
provided last year. In other words, the
general taxpayer had to subsidise the rich
gold cos.’ water-supply to the extent of
£46,955. This isn’t so bad under present
circumstances ; but in the days of the gold-
fields’ tremendous affluence it was an out-
rage that the people of the State should pay
for the water supplied to the London and
Paris Jews who had got hold of the Kal-
goorlie mines,
When the strings were being pulled to re-
duce rates it used to be said that a quick
return of capital was quite unnecessary be-
cause the water-scheme would presently
serve vast irrigation purposes. All flam!
The total revenue for the past year was
£255.075, of which only £2179 was contri-
buted for water drawn for “farming and
market gardens”—and that in a drought
year!
* * * *
The N.S.W. Mont de Piete Deposit and
Investment Co. (Sydney) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. stives, serves.
Dec., 1907. . £4568 10 p.c.=£3733 £835 £27,437
June, 1908. . 3938 10 „„ 3734 204 27,641
Dec.. 1908.. 4077 10 „,, 3740 337 27,978
June, 1909.. 4JIO 10 „ „ 3740 370 28,348
Dec., 1909.. 4937 12} „ „ 4683 254 28,602
Premiums on new shares 19 28.621
June, 1910.. 4687 12} p.c.= 4687 28,621
Premiums on new shares 3095 31,716
Dec., 1910.. 5858 12} p.e.= 4859 999 32,715
Premiums on new shares 12 32,727
June, 1911.. 6081 121 p.c.= 4881 1200 33,927
Dee., 1911.. 5981 121 „ „ 4881 1100 35,027
June, 1912.. 6024 121.,,, 4882 1142 .36,169
Dec., 1912.. 6468 121 „ „ 5410 1058 37,227
Premiums on new shares 2915 40,142
June, 1913.. 6972 12} p.c.= 6216 756 40,898
Dec.. 1913.. 8766 12},,,. 6571 2195 43,093
June,- 1914.. 7531 121 ~,, 6640 891 43,984
Dec., 1914.. 5198 10 „ „ 5312 43,870
It. is a business of anomalies. One money-
lender said the other day: “The man who
comes with securitv in his hand is no good
to me. I want a man who is really secure
without having tangible security. I can
charge him anything I like, and be safe into
the bargain.” This co., without a doubt,
carries on its business on the straightest
lines. But it can’t escape the risks of the
profession. Under ordinary circumstances,
one would say, it should do best in bad
times. But for lots of people times never
are good enough ; and the people who borrow
for extravagances are generally in a position
to pay more than those who do it to get
necessities. That partly explains the steady
rise of profits during the Ma State’s years
of affluence; and the position must have
been helped by the fewness of bad debts.
Last half-year the tide ran out fast. For
one thing, the co. probably wanted more
solid security, which would naturally mean
less earnings. It wasn’t the time to finance
the mere Juggins. Also, there would be
more bad debts. One way and another,
therefore, although there was only £140.540
advanced on June 30. the interest earnings
(less provision for bad and doubtful debts)
were in that half-year £13,629, whereas in
the past half-year the earnings were only
£12.245, though the advances amounted to
£144,343 on December 31. Meantime ex-
penses had grown—from £OO9B to £7ll0 —-
partly, but apparently not to any very great
extent, owing to the bigger interest bill
which the co. itself had to pay. The lia-
bilities amount to only £15,i892, mostly over-
draft. The co. has had a. long run of very
profitable years ; it makes its excellent profit
practically by risking only its own money ;
and. though it is liable to be affected by
sudden changes of national fortune, such as
we have had lately, it is in the fine position
of being able to make a bit both ways—out
of either rain or sunshine.
* * *
It. 11. Gordon and Co., Ltd., furniture
and time-payment salesmen, etc. (Sydney) :
To Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
June, 1909.. £U,410
Dec., 190!).. £7,942 10 p.c. .= . £2500 £5,442 5,974
June, 1910.. 7,.033 10 ~ ~ 2571 4,402 1,512
Reserves.
Dec., 1910.. 10,600 10 ~ ,2080 7,914 6,402
f :J.
Pref.
6 p.c. Ord.
June, 1911.. 10,432 £260T0 p.c. = '2745 7,427 13,829
Dec., 1911.. 13,065 533 10 „ ~ 2705 9,767 23,596
June, 1912 .. 11,112 Div., and Bonus 3896 7,216 30,812
Dec., 1912.. 13,317 ~ '‘ ~ 3719 9,59 S 40,410
Reserves transferred to capital or
distributed, £12,393 .. 28,017
June, 1913.. 11,495- 600 10 p.c. = 3297- 7,598 35,615
Dec., 1913.. 16,982 600 124 „ „ 5550 10,832 46,447
Dec., 1914.. 23,469 1200 10“,, ~ 7998 14,271 60,718
The profits shown in the table are not the
net profits shown in the published accounts.
For the past year, for example, the P. and
L account claims only £15,141, after making
“provision for incomplete transactions.”
The provision for incomplete transactions—
all or part of it—is contained in a general
reserve, which had been built up to £45,202
prior to December 31. The net additions
to this fund are included as profits in the
table. Dissecting them, this is the position ;
Profit (as per Unexplained
P. and L. Additions to
Account). Reserve Fund.
June, 1909 .. .. £4,137 ?
Dec., 1909 .. .. 5,822 £2120
June, 1910 .. .. 5,5.85 1448 -
Dec., 1910 .. .. 7,339 3261
June, 1911 .. .. 6,840 3592
Dec., 1911 8,156 4909
June, 1912 . . . . 7,212 3900
Dec., 1912 . . . . 8,618 4699
June, 1913 .. -.. 7,228 4267
Dee., 1913-.. .. 8,622 8360
Dec., 1914 . . . . 15.141 8328
The amounts put aside to provide for possible
losses on uncompleted transactions have not
been called for—a natural thing in a time
ot prosperity and generally rising values—
and the accumulation is now regarded as
“more than ample to meet any contingency
that may arise.” It probably is. All book
debts on December 31 amounted to £99.618,
and it certainly shouldn’t require £50,000
or thereabouts to cover possible losses on
that lot. Therefore the co. is capitalising
£40,000 of the reserves, giving one new
for every two old ordinary shares. That will
make £120,000 in ordinary and £20,000 in
pref. capital. One would certainly say, as
a general thing, that this wasn’t, a good
time to issue bonus shares, to be paid for out
of reserves, in a co. with most of its capital
out in time-payment bargains. It may have
been more prudent not to do it; but, on the
co.’s figures, and in view of the contingent
profits made and now ascertained to be
it is not a case that calls for a
brick. Still, if the co. can go on paying 10
p.c. on the much increased capital it will be
very lucky. Business is going to slump
badly in time-payment lines; for though the
people are better able to pay cash in good
times, it is notorious that it is just then
that most people want most credit, except
for actual bread and butter. The co.’s great
advantage is that it has had five astonish-
ingly fat years in which to pile up profits,
and as it hasn’t lost its head and forced
credit on people, it lias been able to finance
the business without going far into debt
itself, notwithstanding that it lias £88,805
in freeholds, stock and assets other than
book debts. Total liabilities at the end of the
year were only £23,706. The success of the
co thus far has been phenomenal. But it
makes one sad to think this success has been
due mostly to the improvidence and hard-
borrowing habits of the people. The only
comforting reflection is that, if the people
were left to back-street harpies, they would
pay much more for worse service and less
accommodation.
The Shamrock Brewing and Malting
Co. (Melbourne) :
Net _ To Re- Re-
o v., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1903 .. £4377 8 p.c. =£3612 £765 £18,964
1904 .. 5008 8 „ „ 3612 1396 20,360
1905 .. 4628 8 „ „ 3612 1016 21,376
1906 .. 1452 6 „,, 2709 20,119
Dec.,
1907 .. 624 4 „ „ 1806 18,937
1908 .. 1608 4 ~ ~ 1806 • • —■ 18,739
1909 .. 3904 8 „ „ 3612 292 19,031
1910 .. 7293 10 „ „ 4515 2778 21,809
1911 .. 6817 10 ~ 4515 2302 24,111
Transferred from Assets Realisation
Account, £BOOO .. .. 32,111
1912 j 7006 10 p.c. = 4515 2491 34,’602
I Transferred to Capital, £33,373 1,229
Transferred from Realisation
account, £17,715 .. .. 18,944
1913 . . 6219 8 p.c. = 6282 18,881
1914 . . 7795 8 „ „ 6282 1513 20,394
This is one of the cos. in the Melbourne
Brewery Combine, and it therefore does no
brewing on its own account. When thev
were at work the brewery, etc., at Abbotsford
were valued at just under £40.000. The
closing of the gates when the Combine
arrived of course knocked out the value of
the property, and it stands now in the books
at £16,000. But as a recompense for
destroying the value of the beer factory, the
Combine allotted this co. 72.500 £1 shares,
which was about three times more than the
value of the tangible assets handed over in
exchange. Recently the existence of this
large paper asset allowed the co. •to write
up the formerly written-down capital, so
that the 78,525 shares are all once more
nominally fully paid to £l. In addition to
the capital there are. it is claimed, assets
totalling £20,394, as the table shows. But
it lias to be remembered that an amount
almost equal to the capital is represented by
shares in the Combine, whose capital is
mostly represented by paper. If anything
went wrong with the Combine the bloom
would consequently be olf the beer. So far
there is no reason to fear that anything will
go wrong. For one thing, the Combine
doesn't own pubs; so its assets are not
affected by the gradual closing of hotels, and
probably its output isn’t much affected
either. Moreover, the competition in view,
though fairly energetic, isn't large enough
to be serious; and the dividend paid by the
Combine, added to the trifle drawn from
rents, etc., comfortably provided 10 p.c. on
■this co.’s until it was recently
watered. Even after paying 8 p.c. on the
watered capital there was a very fair margin
for the past year, which certainly, was one
of the Combine’s best. Summed up. the
security consists largely of Faith ; but while
that remains afloat, the outlook for dividends
is satisfactory.
* * * *
North Coast Steam Navigation Co.
(N.S.W.)
Unex-
Busi- plained Writ-
ness Addi- ten
Pro- tions to off lie- Re-
fits. Reserves. Dividends, serves, serves.
& & £ £ £
Dec., ’06.. 8,021 1500 8 p.c. = 7,000 56,630
June, ’07.. 8,791 1573 8 „ „ 8,266 58,728
Dec., ’07.. 8,733 8 „ „ 8,750 2274 56,487
June, ’OB.. 6,239 3526 8 „ ~ 8,750 57,502
Dec., ’OB.. 8,959 1756 8 „ „ 8,750 59,467
June, ’09.. 9,296 8 „ „ 8,750 162 59,851
Dec., ’09.. 9,038 2020 8 „ ~ 8,750 62,159
June, ’lO.. 8,887 8 „ „ 8,750 136 62,160
Dec., ’lO.. 9,016 4149 8 „ ~ 8,750 66,575
June, ’11..10,587 8 „ „ 8,750 656 67,756
Dec., ’11..10,123 8 „ „ 9,879 2589 65,411
June, ’12.. 11,938 1428 8 „ „ 11,420 67,357
Dec., ’12.. 12,824 1361 8 „ ~ 12,000 69,542
June, ’13..13,839 2331 9 „ ~ 13,500 72,212
Dec., ’13..13,868 2135 9 „ „ 13,500 74,715
Dec., ’14..27,234 1953 9 „ „ 27,000 76,902
The figures for 1914 (the accounts are now
made up only once a year) show a slight re-
duction when compared with those for 1913.
Apart from the inconvenience caused by the
war there was no visible reason why the
figures should be seriously affected, since the
North Coast hasn’t felt the drought to any-
thing like the same extent as the rest of the
State. During the year a new reserve, the
“Seaman’s and Workman’s Accident Fund,”
has been created by the transfer of £16,155
from the Insurance and Renewal Account,
which now stands at £45,884. Even includ-
ing the amounts transferred to these funds
out of profits (shown in the table as “unex-
plained additions to reserves”), it would
appear that the co. has been cutting it pretty
fine in paying the 9 p.c. dividend. Nearly
everything depends, though, on whether
fully-sufficient allowance is made for the de-
preciation of assets. One can’t speak defi-
nitely on that subject; but this table may
help
Dec., Dec., Dec.,
1904. 1913. 1914.
Capital .. .. £131,250 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities . . . . 8,599 24,323 26,249
Ships 134,250 268,585 257,223
Wharves, works, etc. .. 22,043 26,981 26,998
Cash and book debts .. 29,550 81,789 96,452
Sundry assets .. .. 5,238 35,183 35,978
At June, 1913, the ships stood at £292,322.
The coastal steamer depreciates pretty
rapidly, but not quite so rapidly as that —
£292,322; £208,585; £257,223. On the other
hand, there may have been wrecks or sales,
though the accounts make no mention of
any. If in 18 months £35,099 has been writ-
ten off profit ostensibly against depreciation,
it looks as though a very liberal allowance
has been made. This suggests that the dis-
closed profits are at any rate not at all over-
stated. Another good feature is the size of-
the cash item—there is £45,075 on deposit.
Now for the flies in the butter. The co. has
to look forward to (1) the competition of
the North Coast railway, and (2) the chance
that, when the railway is completed, the
Government will spend less on the Northern
River entrances. Still, these insects may be
very small ones. With the railways will
come further development and more produc-
tion. and the co. will no doubt get its share
of the increase; and when the North Coast
can talk with a bigger voice, it may have at
least one decent port opened up.
* * * ft
Paul and Gray, Ltd. (Sydney), carrying
on business as ship chandlers, etc., at Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane and elsewhere: —
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
£££ £ &
Oct., ’06.. 2,151
Oct., ’07.. 14,389 17Jp.c.= 12,020 2369 4,520
Premiums on new shares . . 1000 5,520
Oct., ’OB.. 9,142 10 p.c.= 7,468 1674 7,194
Dec. ’09.. 6,440 81 „ „ 7.46 S 342 5,824
Dec., ’lO.. 8,387 10 „„ 7.468 124 795 6,619
Dec., ’ll.. 7,551 10 „„ 7,46 S 83 6,702
Premiums on new shares .. 1330 8,032
Dec., ’12.. 12,876 10 p.c. = 8,060 4876 12,908
Dec., ’13.. 12,747 10 „ „ 9,306 3441 16,349
Premiums on new shares . . 122 16,471
Dec., ’14.. 13,417 10 p.c. = 11,580 1837 18,308
When one eye runs down the profit column
the other had better be occupied looking at
the increase of capital, which of course
affects the situation. Still, even allowing
for the enlarged capital, there _ has been a
substantial improvement, due in part, no
doubt, to a better time in Melbourne,
where the co.’s early experiences were not
very pleasant. The innards of the concern,
so far as the accounts disclose them, are
shown in this comparison
1909. 1912. 1913. 1914.
Share capital . . £74,682 £BO,OOO £llO,OOO £120,000
Sundry creditors 35,343 58,467 53,373 45,130
Premises . . 17,850 21,475 21,475 24,575
Stock in trade 76,478 98,146 125,097 121,293
Book debts . . 20,369 31.951 35,209 38,808
Sundries . . 5,227 4,434 5,265 5,617
Sundry creditors include overdraft, which
has been worked down a little as capital
lias been subscribed; but the total reduction
in liabilities has amounted to only £13,337,
while £40,000 of new capital has been got
m The other £26,663, plus undivided pro-
fits and a few pounds of premium capital,
has gone mainly into stocks and book
debts. The former are no doubt first-class
property just now, in view of the steadily-
rising market for most necessary commodi-
ties ; as for book-debts—well, so far as ship-
ping debts in particular are concerned, they
are now rather a gamble. For last year £1055
was written off against gross profits to
cover stale accounts; and there doesn't
appear to be any reserve against the £3B,SOS
now outstanding. Maybe nothing is neces-
sary—nobody can tell from the outside.
One good feature is that, anyhow, none of
the capital is represented by goodwill. Some
day, having lost the services of the few—
probably very few —men who have made the
business, the thing may wilt; and though
that won’t be satisfactory; it would be still
less satisfactory if shareholders knew that
when the goodwill wilted a lot of their
capital wilted too.
* * * *
Standard Mutual Building Society
(Melbourne) :—•
Profit on Writ-
Property ten Re-
Profits. Sales. Dividends. Off. serves.
July, 1907.. 1958 313 7J p.c.=1752 150 18,681
Jan., 1908.. 1952 288 7i) „ „ 1752 19,172
July, 1908.. 2102 753 8' „ „ 1912 700 19,415
Jan., 1909.. 2009 379 8 ~ „ 1912 19,891
July, 1909.. 2211 161 8 „ „ 1912 20,351
Jan., 1910.. 2319 294 8 „ „ 1912 21,052
July, 1910.. 2233 1239 8 „ „ 1912 501 22,111
Jan., 1911.. 2342 1043 8 „ „ 1912 23,584
July, 1911.. 2626 1710 8 „ „ 1912 26,008
Jan., 1912.. 2714 2956 9J „ „ 2231 29,447
July, 1912.. 3132 859 8 „ „ 2294 31,144
£9560 Reserves transferred to Capital.. 21,584
Jan., 1913.. 3038 486 8 p.c.= 2294 22,814
July, 1913.. 3237 122 8 „ „ 2294 23,879
Jan., 1914.. 3295‘ 423 8 „ „ 2294 25,303
July, 1914.. 3471 778 8 „ „ 2294 27,258
Jan., 1915.. 3612 360 8 „ „ 2294 28,930
“Profit on property sales” tells the usual
tale. When the co. looked round on the
remains of the lobster and on the litter of
corks it realised what sort of a time Mel-
bourne had had. So did this society’s cred-
itors. With the odor of beer and lobster
still fresh, and with some of the fumes still
in its head, it undertook to pay back all
debts in seven years, and meantime allow in-
terest at 5 p.c. That was in 1893. By 1895
Melbourne was more sober, and this , society
better realised how things stood. It begged
the. creitors then to hold off, and mean-
while to be satisfied with 2} p.c. After five
years of this it decided that the quickest way
was to write off half the capital and start
afresh. Till then it had paid no dividend
since 1893. After the reconstruction things
began to look up again, and a run of ex-
cellent seasons, has helped it to unload fore-
closed properties very satisfactorily. This
shows the fashion of jt:—
July, ’Ol. Jan., ’l4. July, ’l4. Jan., T 5.
Liabilities .. £37,015 £41,052 £45,813 £40,766
Advances .. 19,998 111,683 121,991 119,881
Foreclosures .. 72,305 13,969 10,576 8,481
Cash, etc. .. 2,778 355 165 990
From £72,301 to £S4SI in 14 years isn’t bad
going, and most of the sales have been made
at a profit. But the profit from that source
can t go on much longer. Still even when
the last block of land is sold the society
will still have no difficulty in paying the pre-
sent rate of dividend, if ordinary business '
isn’t badly affected by war, drought or pesti-
lence. Certainly recent events are not likely
to do it any good; on the other hand, as
there has been no sudden slump, there
shouldn’t be any great losses, and the busi-
ness in hand, with the little that is bound
to drop in, should keep the concern going
pretty well—anyway, until the tide comes
in again. As for depositors and other
creditors, their security is excellent. As
shown in the table, liabilities of all descrip-
tions amount to £40.766. Against these
there are, among other things, advances of
£ll9,BBl—which is a situation very different
from that of 22 years back.
* * * *
The l ie. and Tas. Methodist Conference
presented a balance-sheet of the denomina-
tional Fire Insurance Fund showing a cash
reserve of £4OOO. Reserves Bad been in-
creased by £750 during 1914. This is one of
the very few fire companies which are con-
tent to wait and draw their dividends in
Heaven.
* * * #
“Blue Geebung”: Re Sydney and Sub-
urban Hydraulic Power Co. (B. 4/3/’l5).
Although not mentioned in his address to
shareholders, Grimley was during the meet-
ing compelled to admit that he had installed
electric lifts in his own recently-erected
building. (Sensation among shareholders.)
Grimley’s explanation, that the tenants abso-
lutely refused to have hydraulic, probablv
accounts for a good deal of the co.’s stagna-
tion. As The Bulletin remarks, there is
something very wrong somewhere, and the
shareholders will probably find what by
insisting that whoever is trusted with the
position of .chairman must be able to spare
sufficient time to properly attend to the
interests of their co. But the amalgamation,
with its sequent economies in management,
should be the wise shareholder’s Tipperary,
however long the way.
* * * *
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co. has in
hand a scheme to cut itself in two, one co.
taking over the Australian business and the
other the Maori land and Fiji end. Natu-
rally, as the official circular says, the
arrangement won’t affect the earning power
one way or the other; but “it will enable
those concerned in our affairs to compare
more accurately than is possible now the
profit made with the cost of the assets from
which it is derived.” But nobody will seri-
ously suppose that that is what is at the
back of the management’s head. In cutting
up the assets there will probably be some
internal reserves to disclose; but the market
has been pushing prices up. so that present
buyers are paying stiffly for anything that
may be coming to them that way.


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
DIRECTORS.
WALTER C. WATT
(Chairman).
Hon. R. J. BLACK,
Hon. HENRY MOSES,
M.L.C.
T. H. KELLY.
HARRY S. LEVY.
Subscribed Capital
£1,000,000 0
Uncalled Capital 950,000 0
Reserves and
Undivided Profits 70,000 0
Perpetual Deposit
with Government 20,000 0
0
0
0
0
THE LARGEST and STRONGEST TRUSTEE
COMPANY IN AUSTRALASIA
Acts as
Trustees of Wills and
Settlements.
THE CHARGES ARE LOW,
and the Management is in the hands of Experts.
A Booklet setting out its Methods and Charges will
be sent on application.
2,4 & 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
A J. MACKENZIE, Manager.
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited.
(“THE M.L.C.”)
Assets Exceed £8,750,000
Annual Income Exceeds ■ £1,400,000
The Company is prepared to consider
applications for
MORTGAGE LOANS
on
FARMING AND GRAZING LANDS.
“Experience is a good teacher, but the school fees
are heavy,” wrote someone with good truth. You can
avoid a bad experience with belting if you profit
by the knowledge others have gained of "Pioneer”
leather betling. Prom the Tropics to the Antarctic
it has proved itself best. Let it work for you and
give all-time pulley runs, no slipping and next to no
stretching. Try a trial length now. Order direct
from the makers, J. O. Ludowici & Son Ltd., “Pioneer
Leather Works,’’ 117 York Street, Sydney (opp., Q. V.
Markets) ; or in Victoria from Geo. Russell P’t’y
Ltd., Flinders Street, Melbourne; South Australia:
J. McKell, Timpson Street, Port Adelaide; Queens-
land: Queensland Machinery Co. Ltd., Brisbane;'
West Australia: Horace Summers, Howard Street,
Perth; Broken Hill: Geo. G. Dempster, Argent Street.*.
-**-**
C. A. Parsons & Co. Ltd., Newcastle-on-Tyne, are
now making their geared turbines whereby the
Parsons’ Steam Turbine may be geared to a slow-
running dynamo, pump, etc. Sets up to 4000 k.w.
are already running, and a large geared turbo pump-
ing set is shortly arriving for the Metropolitan Board
of Water Supply and Sewerage, Sydney. IlVrh
efficiency is secured and the economy of the high-
speed turbine is still maintained. The Union
steamer Maheno has recently been re-engined and fitted
with geared turbines, and numerous other boats are
now running. Sole agents. William Adams and Com-
pany Limited, Sydney, Melbourne. Brisbane and
Perth.*
* * * *
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. Sd.. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is. ;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. — a saving of sd.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow ioin. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.* [2
* * • *
Extract from Tub City Review, London, January
17, 1914, re The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society Ltd.: —“This led to the appointment by the
Lieutenant-Governor of Victoria of certain distin-
guished actuaries to investigate the affairs of the
Society, with the result that we anticipated. Those
gentlemen reported that at the date of their investiga-
tion (December 31, 1911) the Society' was sound and
solvent, and able to meet all its liabilities, immedi-
ate and prospective, and they expressed the emphatic
opinion that the charges of fraud, dishonesty, mis-
management and incapacity made against the direc-
tors and managers were wholly unjustified.”* [4
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Pipe is the logical solution of
the corroded pipe difficulty. Minerals and other
chemicals in solution do not affect wood pipe.
Catalogue from The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
contractors to all State Governments, 57 York Street,
Sydney (Head Office).*
* * » #
The Australian Provincial Assurance Asso-
ciation, Limited, continues to make steady
progress in all departments, not only at Head Office,
but in Victoria, Queensland and South Australia,
where branches have been established. The Associa-
tion has a fine organisation in the various States
where it is transacting business, and a spirit of
enthusiasm prevails generally throughout the whole
organisation both on the indoor and outdoor staffs.
The A.P.A. is pushing forward with its organisation
in connection with its personal accident department,
and there is no doubt that a large volume of business
will be written in this connection, Queensland being
particularly prominent in this department of the
Association.*
In time of war as in peace, the British Govern-
ment are large buyers of the “Hornsby" Oil Engine.
The Irish Lights Board and the Trinity House Cor-
poration, who are responsible for the lighting of the
British coast, have ordered a large number of these
engines, direct coupled to Air Compressors, for safe-
guarding the world’s shipping. For full-particulars
apply R. Hornsby & Sons Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne
and Brisbane.* [1
George D. Meudell, oil wells sharebroker, 8 Scott’s
Court, Collins Street, Melbourne, executes orders in
shares of oil wells companies on commission.*
* * * *
J. Malcolm Newman, Consulting Mining
Engineer, Pratten Building, Jamieson Street,
Sydney.* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Ilassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 77 Castlereagli Street,
Sydney.*
* » * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
In'- addition to making Wrought Iron, Steel and
Cast Iron Pipes, Messrs. Mephan Ferguson Pro-
prietary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description.*
“National” Gas Engines, Oil and Petrol Engines,
and Suction Gas Plants. Upwards of 10,000 brake-
horse working in Australia. Represented by Arthur
Leplastrier and Co., Head Office, Sydney.*
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.*
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s &
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Silberberg & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney ;
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Chailis House,Sydney
Bruce Smith and J. B. Nicholson have
done the right thing and retired from the
Board of Sydney Hydraulic.
* * * *
George D. Meudell discourses amiably:—
This is not an apologia for my life as a company
promoter, not an excuse for my defeat at the Aus-
tralian Oil Wells Co. meeting. There I was beaten
on proxies, because the men to whom I gave 27,000
shares for nothing at the birth of this pioneer oil
wells company opposed me. The directors told the
shareholders they did not take up more oil areas
and float more oil wells companies because the Board
disapproved of forming “wild-cat cos., without capi-
tal, merely to hold land.” There’s where my col-
leagues and I disagreed. My exposition of faith as
a mining man, a creed as orthodox as that of old
Athanasius or Hilary, contains as its first article:
“I do believe in wild-cats.” Without wild-cats there
would be no mining.
Wild-cats are not mere components of mining.
They are the genesis and the basis of it. How many
wild-cats were floated in Bendigo when I was a boy
there in 1870-1? Hundreds, literally hundreds,
formed to prospect the network of parallel reefs, and
they served the useful purpose of doing dead work
for the big companies with the large capitals which
followed, and opened up that wonderful goldfield.
Then I had the great good fortune to be behind the
scenes in the Broken Hill boom, and wrote many a
wild-cat prospectus of mines long since forgotten,
born to fail, but none the less necessary. They did
useful exploration work and vanished. Next my
good luck persisted, and I drew prospectuses and
acted as broker for a round dozen of Mount Lyell
wild-cats on behalf of the big, broad-minded, far-
sighted men who made great Mount Lyell what it is
to-day. These wild-cats did not fructify, but the
good they did lives after them.
The Great Boulder Prop, was a well-bred wild-cat
when floated in London. Never was a more worth-
less mine floated, and never was there a more cer-
tain failure ahead, until Arthur Holroyd discovered
the tellurium in the Boulder ore.
And the Australian Oil "Wells Co. was a wild-cat.
I ought to know because I bred it. I found its
foster-mother in a coal-box in Temple Court, and
named it, in cynicism, “The Standard Oil Co. of
Australia.” This was a small wild-kitten syndicate
with a capital of £2OO, and asthinatieal. He was
hard to rear. Investors looked askance at him, yet
he served his purpose of enabling me to act as a
muezzin on the housetops, and cry aloud continually
like the cherubim, “There must be petroleum in
Australia!” Without letting J. D. Rockefeller
know, I drowned poor Standard one dark night. The
A.O.W. Co. collected £2OOO cash to pay to float the
South Australian Oil Wells Co., with £lO,OOO cash,
painfully and slowly gathered together. And the
S.A.O.W. Co. is drilling for oil, and will strike it.
All the same, the A.O.W. Co. when born was a
pure wild-cat pf neutral sex, undersized, mangy,
bronchitic. We had' to feed him on liquid para-
graphs through a fountain-pen. To-day he forms
an excellent illustration of my thesis that a wild-
cat, of low degree by blood and birth, may evolve
with proper training into a stud pussy of docile
habits, with a bank balance, and properties, and the
light to be “called” on ’Change.
**• * *
Broken Hill mineral exports were valued
at £191,623 last month, following £153,129
in January, and £.179,531 in December. In
February lead concentrates were valued at
£142,851; under recent conditions silver-
lead has supplied over 75 p.c. of the total
shipments. Zinc concentrates were valued last
month at £39,074; but as the B. H. Prop, is
exporting zincs to U.S.A. there should be a
big jump there.
*• « * *
The Occidental, Cobar, just about squared
its bills this last half-year: 13,049 tons gave
£23,571, and the cost seems to have been
£23,560. The tonnage was less than in the
previous half-year, and the average value
also slightly less. Scarcity of water and a
strike shrank the output. Another factor,
not mentioned in the report, is the continual
breakdown of worn-out machinery and the
non-efficiency of the battery. Twelve months
ago the manager (and three years ago Tiie
Bulletin) drew the attention of the co. to
the state of the plant; but it hasn’t been
thrown on the scrap-heap, because the
co. hasn’t the money to put anything
else in its place. If the £10,150 of
uncalled capital could be got in, it
could be used to very great advan-
tage to assist in supplying a new crushing-
plant, with a tube mill or two. One bright
spot in the report is the increased gold re-
covery. Twelve months ago it was 79.38
p.c.; now it is 85.50 p.c. Residue values
have been reduced to the extent of 9|d. per
ton, while cyanide consumption has come
down from 3.88 to 1.9981 b. per ton of ore.
The manager’s report refers to the extreme
hardness of the ore, but says that “the 540
and 640 levels may be taken to have reached
the maximum of hardness.” Heaven alone
knows his reason for making that assertion.
No one knows anything about the ore on the
next level, because it hasn’t been seen yet.
Manager A. L. Brain has sent in his resig-
nation, and leaves someone else to find out
what’s below. Chas. R. McKenzie, a direc-
tor of the co. and late manager of the
C.S.A., is likely in future to lead the co. on
to glory or the grave.
* * * *
Sample of the guff which passes for
mining news in the Sydney dailies. It is
part of the regular correspondent’s whoop
from Ardlethan, and refers to a poor little
10-liead plant: “The mill is a perfect laby-
rinth of machinery, and when lighted up by
electricity looks well!” What more can a
hungry shareholder want to know?
* * * *
A dead-set was made against the old direc-
tors of the Carpathia; but at least chairman.
Daly kept his seat. He deserved it, too, for
nobody else has done half so much work for
the co. Most of the trouble comes from the
old boomsters, who have to somehow explain
the vast difference between their prognostica-
tions and the actual results; and the easiest
explanation is that the mine is mismanaged.
The ballot for directors had an interesting
side-issue. A shareholder had his lot cut up
into three parcels, which, he argued, would
improve his voting power. Say his name was
John Jones Smith, a thousand were regis-
tered as John Jones’s, a thousand as John
Smith’s and a thousand as Jones Smith’s.
The shareholder claimed to vote for all three,
and the scrutineers passed the lot out.
Probably they were wrong; but an interest-
ing point is involved.
The Sulphide Corporation has had thus
far another streak of luck. In the accounts
for the 12 months to June, 1913, it ad-
mitted having received £01,425 from the
Hydraulic Co., of London, as a forfeit for
non-performance of a contract. The Sul-
phide Corporation had sold the other co.
concentrates which the other co. couldn’t
take. The N.S.W. Taxation Commission-
ers wanted income tax on this money, and
Judge Murray said it must pay. Against
that there was an appeal. Justice Pring
agreed with Judge Murray; Justices Gordon
and Ferguson thought that as the co. hadn’t
sold any N.S.W. ore, N. S. Wales couldn’t
recover income tax. On the same principle,
it! Smith, K.C., takes a fee for appearing for
the defendant, and the plaintiff throws up the
sponge, Smith, Iv.C., is not justified in call-
ing that a fee for law work. Supposing the
contract had been an appallingly bad one,
and the Sulphide Corporation had lost
£150,000 the first year through it, wouldn’t
the loss have been charged against the
N.S.W. ore, to the detriment of the N.S.W.
income tax? The case seems bound to go to
the High Court.
* * ' # *
Traces of gold having been found in the
beach sand at Waratah Bay, South Gipps-
land, the surrounding sea and land have been
pegged out. The original syndicate calls
itself the Golden Sands. It is believed by
some that the gold comes from a sunken reef
in the bay; hence four sea-dredging leases
are among those applied for.
-X- * * #
“J.G.”: Bill Lang, lately pug. and now
pub-keeper in Melbourne, is one of the
owners of a mine at Beveridge, about 23
miles out from the city. Nearly half a
century ago a party of prospectors sank a
shaft there and struck a good-sized quartz
reef carrying gold. After a while, however,
they chucked it, as news came in of much
richer reefs at Bendigo. For many years the
old mine was neglected. Then another
party came along and went down the old
hole, and cleaned it up and got on to the
reef, and after securing a few bagfuls of
stone, dollied out the gold, and on the
strength of it went to Melbourne and had
a good time for a day or two. They told
Bill Lang about their mine, and after due
inquiry and inspection Bill bought it. The
new party has had the shaft sunk to 150 ft.,
and a big reef of low-grade stone lias been
located. -So Bill Lang and party are having
a five-head battery and a pumping plant
installed, and the usual great hopes are
entertained.
* * * *
After all, Ajax North, Daylesford, was not
dead—only gone behind. Roughly, the co.
shows £15,314 gold won for an outgo of
£31.000 for general purposes. This covers
£15,782 wages and £12,500 for plant, fuel
and timber. In tlie last six months the stone
went about 7dwt. and netted enough
profits to pay Board fees and office exes.
Costs were 21s. Gd. per ton, including no less
than 7s. Id. for development. The hunt
after stone has therefore been pretty strenu-
ous ; and it looks as though something en-
couraging has been got, too, for scrip- has
doubled in price. Still, they are a canny
lot, and their outpost work must not be
taken too seriously. All that Harry Dick
certifies to is Gdwt. or 7dwt. stone, save off
No. 1 rise, where the shoot is 12dwt. stuff.
That doesn’t tally with the yarns current
about blobs of 2oz. quartz. Anything of this
kind would help the clever crowd to quit.
And even that wouldn’t be grudged if it
meant a decent development at the north end
of Daylesford, where so far the gold has all
flowed down the shaft instead of out of the
battery.
* # * *
Of the Die Hard order is New Salak
South, Melbourne-owned. There has been
no financial bliss from the outset, and A. S.
Carroll has had to make two or three trips to
Malaya to straighten matters out. His latest
success was to get an extension of time from
the vendors, whereby the co. has two years’
grace in which to wipe out the purchase
debt. That fixed up, lie fastened down a
couple of Chinese bosses to take the mine
on tribute on a 10 and 11 p.c. royalty. The
royalty will be used first to wipe out the
purchase debt, and then to refund capital
outlay. Meantime, however, the working
account has to be squared and a call is
made.
* * *• *
Lode Hill tin yields:—
Cub. yds. Tin oxide,
treated. tons.
Jan. 14 to Feb. 27, 1914 .. 40,000 214
March 9 to April 21, 1914 . . 80,000 15 1-10
April 27 to June, 1914 . . 55,000 llj
June, ’l4, to March 9, 1915 .. 9
The last run was intermittent. The faces
were worked till about September; then
there was a stop till February. Whether
the Board knows it or not, word got to Mel-
bourne a fortnight before the nine-ton clean
up that iron sand was more abundant than
tin oxide, and that boulders were as plentiful
as shells round Ypres. Two of the directors
put their backs to the job of stemming the
tide of sales, but when the yield was posted
the flood got out of bounds. The worst
that can be said of the mine is said. While
the Board is making up its mind how much
to call up, it might take the old-time sug-
gestion of The Bulletin to have an out-
side examination of the claim, with check
boring. Till that is done there can be no
confidence in Lode Hill.
Coolgardje (W.A.) lias received another
hard crack, this time from Burbanks Main
Lode. The co., which worked for nearly 20
years and laid out a heap of money in plant
and development, has shut down. Last
year the Board decided to issue additional
shares, but the war stopped it.
A persuasive person has got a promise
from the W.A. State Government to subsi-
dise prospecting expeditions of a new brand.
Instead of here, there and everywhere wan-
derings, “systematic searches over given
areas” are to be made, and the dolly-pot and
dish superseded by a State-paid assayer. A
geologist is also to be included, to tell the
prospectors what’s what, and 50 camels are
to be added to the outfit. Meanwhile efforts
are being made to form syndicates on the
£3 down and £1 a month basis to back 100
half-interest half-wages prospectors; but
there have been so many wasters and thieves
in this line that the promoters find some
difficulty in inducing the public to come in.
* * * *
Associated Northern (W.A.) deserves a
cuff for not letting Australian shareholders
know sooner that an increase of arsenic at
Ora Banda had seriously affected extraction.
London got this information about the
middle of January, but it was not until the
’ome papers came to hand that the public
at this end knew anything about it. What
with erratic values and poison in its system,
the co. is keeping company with death.
* * * *
Golden Pole (W.A.) is liquidating.
Accounts for seven months - ded February
5 show a loss of £204. I.iaoilities on that
date totalled a tenner and cash assets £134.
Other assets, such as leases, plant, buildings
and machinery, are estimated at £3256 and
stores at £609. But when a property is
worked out the leases are valueless, the
machinery does not as a rule fetch more
than the price of old iron, and buildings and
stores can generally be bought for the price
of rags and bones.
Westralia produced 5511 oz. more gold in
February than in January, and 9630 z. more
than in February, 1914. In fact, the return
was a record for February since 1911.
Activity at Westonia and on the Murchison
has done it.
South Kalgurli (W.A.) had an idea that
the lode worked in the adjoining Kalgurli
would wander into its lease at depth, and
drilling has proved this to be the case. One
horizontal bore put in at 1800 ft. shows
54dwt. for 14t't., while Bft. of core of another
put down from the same level assays Tdwt.
Whether these values have any lateral ex-
tension remains to be proved. Judging by
the poor results obtained in the bottom of
the Kalgurli. the chances are against the
South Kalgurli getting very much.
* -X- * *
Boulder No. l’s position is being much
discussed in Westralia. Cash now in hand
is declared to be equal to 9d. per share, and
the break-up value of the plant would, it is
estimated, increase this amount to Is. 3d.
The co. is too tired to work the mine itself
and quite content to let tribute parties root
about in search of something, which, if big
enough, can be taken away from them later
on. As lazy cos. like the Boulder No. 1
generally gamble away reserve funds when
they have them, or part with them in one
lump for some far-off delusion, two sugges-
tions are put forward: (1) To at once
realise assets, and divide among share-
holders a sum more than double that now
represented by the market value of the
shares, or (2) Get work. The show has
prospects at depth.
Speakman’s Find (W.A.), though not
thought much of by the market, hopes to
make good now that its 10-liead battery
has started crushing. Three trial returns
taken from various points in its show on
Hampton Plains averaged 9dwt., and the
first clean-up from the new mill is expected
to yield from Bto 10 dwt. per ton. This, it
is claimed, will enable the co. to pay divs.
in time. So far the property has only been
proved to a depth of about 120 ft., and for
the present its shares are entirely specula-
tive.
* * * *
The first extensive dredging in Papua is
likely to be on the Laltekamu, the newest of
the goldfields. The syndicate which has the
project in hand consists of Capt. Richard,
formerly of Mount Morgan, and his friends ;
and T. W. Horton, formerly of Sydney, who
has had a lot of experience in boring, and
J. O. Armstrong are now trying to tind out
what the property is stuffed with.
* *• * *
Ratrut Basin, having now fixed up its
leases iu Siam, has let a contract to Ru-
wolt’s, in Melbourne, for a dredge, delivery
to be made in nine months. Certain doubts
as to whether the bore results will be estab-
lished by the dredge keep the shares below
par.


Charles
IIEIDSIECKS
Vintage 1906
QWfllM
HE PLUS ULTRA
WJS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
APPENDICITIS FREQUENT.
NUMBERLESS SOCIETY PATIENTS.
[From Our Special Representative.]
London, Wednesday, 11.10 p.m.
Operations for appendicitis are becoming common
amongst society folk. The latest case is that of Sir
Charles Gust, equerry to the King, who accompanied
him on his Australian tour when Duke of York.
Appendicitis during recent years has become very
ordinary throughout the civilised world, and it is
held in many professional centres that before appen-
dicitis was correctly diagnosed numberless deaths
resulted, the physicians being at that time under the
impression the cause of death was peritonitis or in-
flammation of the bowels. Medical men, with the
educated finger-touch that comes with active prac-
tice, readily diagnose the complaint to-day, aided by
symptoms only too easily recognised.
Medical science of to-day has reduced this opera-
tion to an almost painless nature, but prolonged
weakness often ensues, as. is shown in the case of Mr.
P. R. Miles, who was operated on in Melbourne last
year. In an appendicitis sense, his case was similar
to that of thousands of others, but the weakness that
ensued baffled all attempts to cure, and as he repre-
sented one of the largest commercial firms resident
in Australasia, his life was a very valuable one.
Prescriptions and medicines were alike useless to him
until he, as a last resource, took Clements Tonic,
the great nerve and brain medicine, and in a mirac-
ulously short time his strength and health were re-
stored. His nerves are now as sound as steel; he says
he is completely cured. As all chemists and stores
sell this medicine, it would be wise for all weak-
nerved people to get it and get well.*
fd
RED
[Daniel Crawfords
*"•**» Vi*r 0«o
Scotch Mwstf
2L.
S'-/
C%!
%
if
STAR
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, March 15, 1915.
My Dear Arini, —
The new Queensland Excellency, Governor
Goold-Adams, made an agreeable impression
during his brief stay under the Strickland
roof. A number of Bananalanders in
Sydney were asked to meet the stranger,
who turned out to be all intelligence and
affability. The A.D.O. tribe is for the moment
mostly clad in khaki ; so Goold-Adams, who
lost his private secretary by death almost
at the moment of leaving England, comes
alone. One Sydney man who met him says
lie is quite able to run the whole glittering
show with the help simply of his attractive
American wife. They’ve been married about
three years and there are no little Goold-
Adamses.
Governor Strickland has invited the Vic-
torian and South Australian Excellencies to
spend ’part of April at Cranbroolc. They
have said “Yes,” and will come this way
after race-week festivities have gone the
way of all chiffons. Their trip is to be
crammed with information about this State.
< )nr sub-royalty means to motor them to
Burrinjuck, among other places.
The devoted women who run the Ilospice
for the Dying at Darlinghurst had a bitter
disappointment lately, when the deeds of the
building were not forthcoming when called
for. The financial loss of the gentle nuns
stood at £12,000 —£10,000 being capital and
£2OOO representing the interest. Since the
date of that first stunning shock £7OOO has
been repaid to them, which leaves them still
£5OOO short. When they dry their eyes for
another big effort to pay this sum (for the
second time! the public will help them liber-
ally. Meanwhile, the Rev. Mother, full of
other peoples’ woes, thinks she should not
intrude at the present time. But she is brim-
ming over with gratitude for services already
rendered and kindnesses already received.
In the long negotiations and so on which
resulted in the recovery of the £7OOO, Adrian
Knox, K. 0., represented the nuns. I can’t
tell you what his bill was, because you might
want his services ,on the same terms. But
the Rev. Mother’s eyes fill with tears —of
gratitude this time—as she speaks.of him and
others who have added a silver lining to the
Hospice’s dark cloud.
Lieut. Pope. R.N., sends a line from our
own Sydney, which is doing something or
other (don’t tell the enemy!) in a place
you’d never guess. Mr. Pope is the agree-
able young tar who was on the instructional
staff when the Naval College was at Gee-
long. By a lucky fluke he contrived to take
the place of a sick man on the Sydney, and
climbed over the bulwarks at the last
moment. Since then he has had no time
for tea and tennis.
Women surged round this week’s exhibits
at the Belgian Babies’ Kit depot in the
Equitable Building. Half the goods were
packed in big bags, addressed to Miss Harriet
Newcomb, who is waiting on the Thames
shore to distribute them. The rest were
open for inspection. As an incentive to go
and do likewise, a fascinating collection of
knitted and crochet garments, with all kinds
of fancy touches, were stretched out on
view. A few almost summery and frivolous
little frocks gave relief to strong-minded
woollen goods. Most of the work is of the
best the Australian woman can turn out.
The Belgian flag, worked in silk on little
red coats, caught the eye of visiting Mothers
of Nine and others who are merely Aunties
of Ten. “For the Allies’ Babies” loomed
on infants’ kit-bags so securely packed that
it appears the war has revived a lost
feminine craft- —the doing up of parcels so
that the insides don’t fall out.
A Sydneysider, now in ’Frisco, says that
Australian pressmen are wcff to the fore in
that hustling town. Among the group are
David B. Edward, director of the Publicity
department (Panama Exhibition) for the
Commonwealth; Billy Unmack, formerly of
Brisbane Courier, now sporting editor of
’Frisco Call; H. C. Johns, R. White and
Joe Niesigh. Niesigh has a cosy billet in the
train of ex-politician Nielsen, who does him-
self very well in the TJ.S.A. IJ. D. Merrick,
of Melbourne Argus, back in ’Frisco from
the w r ar zone in Europe, has his little steam-
heated flat in Post-street. White divides his
time between Chinatown, the Barbary Coast
and the Red Light district. Alfred Deakin,
who arrived in the City of the Golden Gate
at midnight, brought his wife and daughter
with him, and the Press Club soon had him
to a complimentary feast.
Robert Harper, who went out of Victorian
politics a year or so back, -was a sick man
in ’Frisco during February. lie contracted
pneumonia in N’York, and arrived at his
hotel in the former town in an ambulance.
Mrs. Harper and a few secretaries, valets,
maids and nurses comprise the party. E. J.
Hart, formerly of Sydney, hurried off to meet
the Alfred Deakin cavalcade, on behalf of
Mr. Harper, who was too ill to leave his
blankets.
While Robert II arper and his cohorts were
preparing to leave ’Frisco, the Mcßobert
family (J. W. Mcßobert was the director of
the Sydney side of the Harper business) was
preparing to dodge German torpedoes in the
English Channel. A message from Gibraltar
last week said they and the other passengers
by the Maloja had reached that haven in
safety.
Artist Julian Ashton and the great Rodin
—the French sculptor who lately said
“Thank you” to England by handing over 20
examples of his work —have been interchang-
ing compliments. The root of the business is
a delicate hint, on Julian Ashton’s part, that
Australia would be very pleased to house
even one of Rodin’s marks of affection. To
which the veteran replies that he is desolate
not to be able to serve us at present. He for-
wards his best wishes and compliments, and
hopes later to do all in his power to facili-
tate our desire to own some more of his
handiwork. Very vague and polite is M.
Rodin, you see.
Dr. Emma Buckley has been appointed
resident-medical woman at the Eenwick Hos-
pital for babes. She steps into the boots of
the superintendent, who has put on his
khaki for the Big Fight. Dr. Emma is the
strenuous lady who has been spending spare
evenings in lecturing the Girls’ Realm ban-
dage classes.
On the Maoriland gift ship. 11.M.5. New
Zealand, is Commander 11. E. Grace, the
one son of cricketer W. G., who never
wanted to dazzle the girls with his form at
the wickets.
Mrs. Hugh Dixson, the tobacco peeress,
has offered £2OO to the Massage Association.
The authorities are to choose a specially-
qualified nurse in the rubbing and kneading
business, and send her forthwith to the
embittered Front. A gift of this. kind is
right “on the snot,” and other millionaire
ladies might note its helpful appearance.
Like Mrs. Dixson, they, too, may possibly
have rheumatic husbands, and will in that
case know what a little massaging means to
the tortured victim.
Harry Gullett, who in these days has a
desk in George Reid’s office in London, has
been writing to Uncle Somer. His chief
plaint was that lie couldn’t get a billet in the
trenches—the place where our best young-
men are enjoying wet feet. Now, he can
hand the baby and the pram over to Mrs.
Penelope Gullett, for he has been chosen as
one of the journalists who are to have a
seven-days’ personally-conducted tour of the
battle lines.
Major Everard Digby, who used lo live at
Neutral Bay, was still waiting for orders
when he gummed-up his last letter from
England. Ilis regiment was whiling away
the frosty hours with steeplechase meets and
similar horsey exercise.
Dr. Kate Ardill, a daughter of the Ardill
who runs the soup-kitchens, has been chosen
as lion, surgeon of the headquarters’ brigade
attached to St. John Ambulance. I under-
stand hers is the first petticoat to whisk
round the premises with a stethoscope.
Professor David has collected another
medal for his industry in pecking at mother
Earth to find out her age and her domestic
habits. This time the Geological Society
of London has handed over the Woollaston
medal to the Sydney ’Varsity man, who got
so thumping an advt. out of the Antarctica
jaunt.
The War (the general scapegoat just
now) will keep the Agricultural Show-
grounds locked up at nights during the great
Easter parade. This year was to have
seen a big electric flare switched on to the
exhibits after dark. But the council drew
in its horns and decided to go slowly with
experiments. Toronto, which runs the big-
gest Horns and Hoofs display, keeps going
night and day for nearly three weeks, and
grabs gate money from about a million
people in the process.
Women riders at the Easter Show booked
very few entries for the side-saddle section.
The old horned perch, nevertheless, has a
few faithful followers, such as Mrs. Stace.
This lady, a notable goer over big timber,
hasn’t taken to the astride seat with en-
thusiasm. Dolly Fogg, the Tasmanian girl
whose big hair-bows stand out behind like
small windmills, is one of the best of the
newer brigade. Myra Smith, a dashing
cross-country rider from the Coonamble dis-
trict, and a Moruya girl, Miss Reid, are
also triers over the 1915 Show hurdles. A
Gippsland rider who is likely to be very
fast over the timber is Miss Goodridge.
Miss Vic Julian, from the Macleay River,
will handle her nag from the old side-saddle.
Grace Waugh, the youngster in her teens
who rode from Melbourne last year, is
entered for some of the hurdle events.
Another girl, Phyllis Elliott, from the South
Coast, is going to give a good account of
herself. She is a daughter of the redoubt-
able Mrs. Elliott, who used to be Mrs.
Stace’s great rival over high jumps. G.-G.
Ferguson is to make the necessary remarks
on the official opening day, to a bellowing
chorus from the Prime Beef parade.
Gerald Ward, a brother of Lord Dudley,
has been reported wounded and a prisoner.
His wife, the daughter of an Irish peer,
Baron Fermanagh, began her matrimonial
career by seeing Gerald off to the South
African war, before the wedding speeches
were quite cold. He turned up intact after
that argument, but is less lucky in the
present row.
_ The it. J. C. Maddrell family, of Beder
Vale, Braidwood, have returned from a trip
to the other side. They left here a year
ago, in the booming days of peace, and had
the war thrill in London as an unexpected
extra. Daughters Thelma and May came
back in the parental train, and Braidwood
is sitting up to observe whether a new car
is included in the excess baggage, Maddrell
pcre being addicted to bringing home the last
word in petrol carriages. Cousin Coral is
still in the home nest at Braidwood, as her
young man is facing the foe, somewhere or
other. She is a daughter of H. Coghill Mad-
drell, of Mona,, whose offspring made a glit-
tering procession from the baptismal font.
They were sprinkled in succcession Garnet,
Onyx, Ruby, Pearl, Coral and Beryl.
Maurice Hordern, a son of E. Carr Hor-
dern, of this city, was married a few weeks
ago in England. The girl was Miss. Dorothy
Beer, of Kent, the place where the hops
flourish.
The Fred Niblo farewell the other even-
ing in the Criterion brought forth a few
miles of colored streamers from stage to
auditorium. Speeches from the stars and
(behind the scenes) Josephine. Cohan's con-
gratulations to Marian Marcus Clarke on
her excellent performance punctuated the
show. (Marian, who is a daughter of the
late novelist, has had a successful career on
the stage. She got her first chance with
Bland Holt, then went to TJ.S.A. and made
good in character parts. In the ’Frisco
earthquake the Australian girl lost every-
thing—except her nerve. She continued her
travels, and had a busy time in Canada.
Now she returns to U.S.A., the chances of
continuous engagements in her own country-
being about down to zero. “There’s only one
big theatrical firm here,”, she says. “Over
there they are plentiful.” The home pad-
dock always looks the barest of grass.
The Artists’ War Fund Conversazione had
the frizzling weather on which any. show at
the Royal Art Society’s Rooms may depend
with certainty. The organiser in chief, artist
Ethel P. Fox, and artist Ethel Stephens,
with E. 11. Oxnard Smith, shook the limp
hands of a very warm company. The half-
crown entrance money goes to swell the
fund.
Woman, who is in a majestic majority
at these entertainments even in time of
peace, now weighs down the scale in the
proportion of about 40 to one. The abashed
minority sat tight on Its chairs the other
evening. Later on it will probably demand
chaperones and expect a police escort home.
In the audience, which talked in whispers
during the musical programme, was G. W.
Hadfield, who still wears a Shakspearian
beard in these days of the Great Shave.
A step-daughter, Mrs. Knight, tossed her
fluffy curls at papa’s elbow, as part of the
company became deeply embedded in the art
settees. Mowat Carter, behind the fiddle, was
the star musical Item. Artist Alfred
Coffee gave an alleged lightning sketch with
a maddening bit of charcoal. A brief and
lurid scene from Herod, in which Mrs. Fox
as Mariamne gave Herod (otherwise Mont-
gomery Stuart) the rounds of the kitchen,
was served up between the music.
Miss Isabelle Ramsay, of the Sun, went
to the U.S.A. for a holiday trip in the
Sonoma. She hopes to have a look at the
Panama Exhibition before wiping her pen
again on local frills. Isabelle only made up
her mind to go a few days before the ’Frisco
boat slipped its moorings, and she had
barely time to blow a farewell kiss to her
friends.
There was a rare tuning-up of strings at
a recent wedding in London, when violiniste
Leslie Ilarbutt was married to violinist
Ennio Caprara. The principal bridesmaid
was Florence Hood, the musical daughter
(fiddle, too) of the Melbourne Judge. A
’cellist groomsman and a heavy bass father-
in-law completed the arrangement. At the
reception there was a finely-rendered chorus
of congratulations, in which Carrie Lanceley
(soprano), Ethel Liggins (contralto) and
Margaret Edson (attacking the pianissimo
passages) took the leading parts. Other
Sydneyites who walked on at the function
were Leslie Curnow, the journalist, and
John Lydall, who has forsaken organ-playing
to devote his time to law at Oxford. The
bride, who comes from North Sydney, was
given away by her uncle, ffm. Harbutt, the
inventor of plasticene, mostly used for model-
ling, but which the War Office has found to
be a good substitute for wadding, and is now
plugged in gunners’ ears to save the drums
thereof.
A youngster’s pageant, “Children Through
the Centuries,” is to trail through the Nor-
land College grounds shortly. The funds
will go into the hat for the Belgian babes. I
hope the little Princes in the Tower, and the
small Princess in a lace frock saying good-
bye to Papa Charles I. of England, won’t be
forgotten in the rush to wear foreign peas-
ants’ drapery. Cossacks are enormously
popular at kiddies’ entertainments this year.
Fortunately the weather will soon become
more seasonable for their fur tunics and bear
hats.
The horticultural Miss Brace writes that
she was meditating a visit to Swanage when
the last mail left London. After about
eight years on Australasian soil, the farm-
ing Englishwoman was curious .to see the
Swanage College for Girls. You can gain
“Colonial experience” there, she hears.
Thus young ladies are taught to draw water
from wells, light and extinguish “bush” fires
in the vicinity of the front lawn, chop logs,
kill snakes and bunyips, and cook on open
fires—in fact, do all the things that every-
body in Australia has to do every morning
before breakfast.
Mrs. Harry, Morris, widow of the late
Artillery Major, has been ruralising in a cot
perched on the side of a breezy hill at Leura.
Manager Freddie Shipman and his bright
little missus have come this way again
and carry in their baggage the Annette
Kellerman film, “Neptune’s Daughter.” I
understand it is a most satisfactory company
to travel with. It can’t answer back if it
doesn’t get the best rooms in the hotels.
It remains dumb if dressing-rooms are any-
how, and it has no Union to rage round the
managerial den. After Annette had appeared
as Venus and Diana in one U.S. town, the
stores ran out of tape measures. The sus-
picious male mind, which believes it knows
Our little ways, inferred that every girl in
the place had hurriedly acquired a tape to
find out just how many inches she was on the
wrong side of the Yenus outline. Annette’s
gambols are on at the Palace Theatre this
week.
Louise Mack’s late husband, John Creed,
wasn’t a son of Dr. Creed, M.L.C., though
casual acquaintances had the erroneous idea
that he was related to the Crematorium
apostle.
From a studio in London :
The war has brought stagnation to studio land, but
with it came a slice of luck to .lames Quinn, one of
tlie early winners of the Travelling Scholarship of
Melbourne Gallery. Within three weeks lie has had
pictures bought for the Sydney Gallery and the
Walker Gallery at Liverpool, and his picture at the
R.A. War- Relief Exhibition has been purchased by
Sir Thomas Brock, R.A., one of the sculptor panjan-
drums. Quinn’s wife, a French woman, sat for him
as the original of “The Rendezvous” in the Sydney
Gallery.
Monsignor O’Brien, tlie long, picturesque
cleric in charge of St. John’s R.C. College,
is a very sick man in St. Vincent's Hospital.
By the hand of Mrs. George Earp a
knitting brigade recently passed over to the
French Australian League a fearsome
assortment of socks, babies’ bootees and
mufflers, some cash, and heaps of promises
of more help. Miss Soubeiran replied for
the League in a speech that was very much
to the point. She was a small child of the
Era neo-Prussian war, sent orphaned and
helpless to Switzerland, and thence to Eng-
land to be educated. Consul Chayet gal-
lantly attacked the subject of socks behind
a small unfortified table. Young Stuart, a
smaller and unimportant spectacled edition
of his imposing parent, Professor Andy
Stuart, was the only other man on the
premises, till Neville Mayman assisted to
untangle a skein of wool. The Queen Vic-
toria _ Club, at which this mild revel was
held, is rejoicing in new carpets, so any lady
with dusty shoes tucked them out of sight.
Mrs. John Waugh and daughter Sylvia
pressed refreshments on the company, some
of which was too heated to untie the knots
in its veils. Mrs. MeMurray, flounced in
blush pink, and Mrs. Neville Mayman, in
silky raven drapery, mercifully refrained
from _ airing their technical knowledge of 1
“turning a heel.” A small girl who had
caught the knitting germ feverishly dug her
flashing steel needles into much wool during
the long, hot afternoon, and refused to be
comforted with cakes.
The notion of trying the French language
on the Young Person, and watching how she
takes it, was successfully achieved by
French-consul Chayet a while ago. This
was at the mid-summer prize-day of the
Girls’ High School, in the shabby old barn
in _ Castlereagh-street. The Young Person’s
hair bows evidently showed an intelligent
understanding of the Chayet remarks and
bobbed responsively at the right moment.
Now there’s to be a French circle at the
G. 11.5., and the Department of Public In-
struction will mother the new baby.
The venerable Charles Santley—Bl not
out —-was booked to sing at a London con-
cert for Belgian refugees a few weeks ago.
Santley is still devoted to his pipe; he
makes the familiar excuse that matrimony
drove him to it.
I'ours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


“ CHUNDER ” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
n
&
. #2
*y£S>c
*£3
*K
r
4/
/
1
\
!
fcs'
/if 4
to
4
o
\
.m
2^J
■f
€>
\
Js
jfe?
-y
$5
r y"'.
:^»WV
Stf
£
*
**•*£
:K
"df/
era
Mm
7.
V
w*'
af
\
s>y
i
'"“V
w&
\
Jp.-I
v;
m
i
&2
«#
\
vt-d A
■ i
»■•.'
a.._ v -»
”'--i
•fV
?
'■
If
I
\
f
-' ' :
fto . :J
ui
sSs
V
y;
|?|
£3
r.^ r^
V- Tf ■jr’
VN
2WS?
+/S
■ r fJ' / r A'
4*".
*
/
as
:&5:
33fi
r #
g&s
4
<4ie2£
/mm
Pom.
m
■;;v
Cr
((
Cobra,” s>fre Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Oi Akim F 00,
Helps to gather
Heroes too.
In the city
Park and slum,
He tells English-
Men to come
Where the foe maw,
Full of hate,
Knocks upon
The outer gate.
Still at foeman
We can scoff;
“COBRA” quick
Cleans them off.


Tohe
STYLE PR IS.
“Burberry” Weather Coats are world-famous, and
fulfil every essential for complete comfort in the
changeable weather of late Autumn and Winter.
“Burberry” Coats combine unmatched protection
from wind or weather, with lightness, coolness and
comfort. Refinement of coloring and distinction in
design are always associated with these garments.
The new colorings include distinctive effects in
(trey, Fawn and Brown shades. Farmer’s have a
full stock suitable for all climates from the light
Tropical Cloth to the heavier Urbitor Coating with
wool-combine linings.
PRICES
FROM
84 -
CARRIAGE
PAID.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY.
PITT, MARKET ANI) GEORGE STREETS.
m
*
'
mm
in
It
s
CO
There’s Comfort
and Wear fa_
DUNLOP
RUBBER
HEELS*
They not only
absorb all jarring,
but will outwear
several pairs of
leather Heels.
TRY A PAIR!
STOCKED IN; VARIOUS STYLES
ALL LEADING BOOT SHOPS.
ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTES.
•* m ■
jntmEOP RUBBER £<a „ afll States* NX
MOTORISTS
can have Extra Service
without Extra Cost
if they fit their Can with
DUNLOP
TYRES
This is the experience of
thousands of motorists in this
country—they having tried all
makes, and found M Dualops”
easily the BEST for Wear
and Satisfaction.
Try one of the latest
“ PUNLOPS,” and note
the mileage!
OBTAINABLE ALL DEPOTS
DUNLOP RUBIER CO.
AU States
and NX
S3*’'*
JHC
SSI
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, March 15, 1915.
My Dear Yarrie, —
I turned up at the Big charity matinee at
the Royal on Thursday. Everybody I had
ever seen or heard of was there, and a few
others. In the boxes were the Richest, in
the stalls the Next Richest, and so on to the
back of the gallery, where, I presume, the
insolvents were clustered. It was a brilliant
gathering. The scenery on the deep, deep
Blandholtian stage had been shoved back to
nowhere, and bridge tables were spread
thickly about the boards. Sassiety and semi-
Sassiety played cards in a furious, stagey
way that simply reeked of bad declarations
and revokes. The quality of the games could
not have been improved by the fact that
vaudeville turns and ragtimes were raging in
the foreground.
At the back of the dress circle, and
very beautiful in the softened lights, I
came upon someone who looked like Willie
Kelly. He did not know me. I felt rather
like the Duchess de Staggiamento watching
.Napoleon at Foutaiuebleu. A waitress—
palpably of the Blood— was regarding him
with a certain amount of virtuous disfavor.
Said Willie (we’ll call him Willie), with a
disarming air of diffidence, “Could we get
some teaT’ “000, I suppose so-o-o,” she re-
plied aloofly, posing with one hand on her
aristocratic .hip, what time her gaze soared
superciliously past Willie’s left ear. “What,”
enquired he, in a soft, persuasive voice,
“what, may I ask, is the normal procedure
he-ah when one wants tea?” “O-o-h, Ai
sup pose Ai bring it,” said the maid in a
thoughtful tone. It was what is known as
a deadlock. In the embarrassing pause
which ensued Willie bought- an empty sweets
box and paid ss. for it. “The young man
is dazzled,” suggested a neighbor. “He is
unnerved. He has bought a box without
any sweets in it.” “The Belgian colors,”
murmured Willie, in a voice broken with
emotion. “I couldn’t resist them.” “He is
a Belgian refugee.” whispered an elderly
man on the left. The waitress was galvan-
ised to instant action. “Who-o-p are you ?”
she gushed at the exquisite clothes and the
neat platinum-and-pearl watchguard by her
side; and., as Willie did not answer, “Ai
was in Belgium for sir weeks”. . . . "Tea,”
murmured the alleged refugee weakly, and at
the order, she fled wildly, falling over her
own feet several times in her haste, and re-
turned .presently with ambrosia and special
cakes, which she heaped on the nation’s
pride. “Would you like to buy my wrist-
ribbon?” she asked coyly. “I make a point
of never buying more than one wrist-ribbon
per diem,” lie answered, "end I bought one
for a liver only 10 minutes ago. However”
—impressively-—“I shall always remember
the ribbon I didn’t buy”. . . .And so she faded
away and was seen no more.
Another woman-doctor forsakes the
operating-table for the altar. While knitting-
needles flashed and cholera-belts for Tommies
lengthened at the Lyceum Club’s At Home
the other night, members discussed the
engagement of Dr. Mary Henderson, a plump
little body with a plump little practice, to
Dr. A. F. Bell, also a Collins-street man.
She was aforetime his patient.
Mrs. McGregor lent the big ballroom at
Royston, Dandenong-road, for a Food-for-
Belgians concert last Thursday, and a smart
audience found that it was good. Evelyn
Ashley, Mollie O’Neill, Claude Hall. Weston
I’ett. Rowley Brennan and others threw in
their warbles, whilst the Zingari Amateur
Orchestra supplied accompaniments- -N
photo, of the Zingaris on thy Lack of the
programme reminds one .* I,ar the enthusiastic
six helve fapAp this sort of tiling for
rnaiy -> ears - The orchestra was started in
On Friday afternoon Marshall Hall will
start his second innings at the University
with an inaugural lecture in the Melba Hall,
the Chancellor and members of the Uni.
Council being present. Why not also the
Censor? The Prof, is to lecture on “Real-
ism and Idealism.” Remembering the boyish
glee with which he used to quote Nietzsche,
his views on German “kultur” should be
calculated to make each particular hair of
the British Lion’s mane bristle with inter-
est. Yet. if he did disapprove of the Kaiser’s
“kultur,” how could he hurt the feelings of
his profoudly-German associates?
One of the British naval aviators reported
“missing” after the Ostend air-raid was
Desmond O’Brien. He was in Melbourne
only a year ago visiting the Hope-Campbells
at Toorak. lie is (or was) the youngest
son of the late Lord Inchiquin and half-
brother to the present Baron. One of his
many sisters is married to Marconi.
Wynne Maeoboy, of the big. young con-
tralto voice, got a good hearing at her
“benefit.” She will probably give Wagner
a lift when the war-hatreds have died away
and goods imported from Germany are
starred broadcast by our patriot traders once
more. She has just the sort of voice and
figure that the Teuton master would have
loved. Emily Dyason and Rita Hope smote
the piano; Alberto Zelinan fiddled; his wife,
Maud Harrington, sang; and Weston Pett
and Amadio fluted. The audience got so
much for its money that the waiting chauf-
feurs used language that caused their radia-
tors to boil.
Muriel Starr sold £5O worth of tickets in
advance for the big Patriotic matinee of last
Thursday, and Mrs. Tallis did a lot of the
organising. Amy Castles sold sweets, and
Mrs. Thiel and her daughter, Mavis, ran a
bridge table (or it may have been a faro
board). The front of the house was an auc-
tion-room. Mrs. Geoffrey Syme bid high for
a number of things she didn’t want, and the
little Burch bride, who is over here from
Sydney looking very sweet, got so excited
that she threw all her money, her gold chain
and a purse on to the stage. They were
gathered up in due course, and auctioned
with the rest.
The Automobile Club did its duty in the
shape of a motor gymkhana at Richmond
Racecourse on Saturday. The gate money
was on a Patriotic scale. Motors were
“parked” (also at a Patriotic price) in the
oval usually dedicated to the fiatites. The
Fairrgussons were led to a large blue and
gold cage, hastily improvised beneath the
roof of the grandstand. Lady Helen added
14in. to her height with immense ostrich
plumes, but her lord and master did not
nearly rise to the occasion as regards clothes.
In fact, he wore a bowler hat and a bored
and dusty look. So did the Mayor. Secre-
tary Chenoweth made heroic efforts to liven
up the proceedings—and they needed enliven-
ment, I don’t mind telling you. A ladies’
motor-driving contest was particularly dull.
Women cut about all over Melbourne in their
own cars knocking down interlopers with the
greatest gang fro id. But the publicity of a
public racecourse seemed to ruin their dash.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
The public meeting in connection with the Belgian
Relief Fund filled the Town Hall, but only £BB
resulted, and £25 of that came from the ehairman-
Governor. It was a feeble response considering the
wealth of the gathering. Lady Galway spoke well.
She always does, as a matter of fact. Father le
Maitre, Mayor Simpson and Henry Howard also
weighed in with a word or two of a stimulating
sort. All to little or no effect, however.
The really big business is done by the wool-sellers.
Some bales sold and resold on the “Bugler” system
realised £730. Talking of cash, the Wattle Day
League now has sufficient to buy a motor-ainbulance.
.The Tom Popes left for Europe' via S’Afriea in
the Anchises. He was farewelled at the South Aus-
tralian Hotel on Monday by the Church and Bar.
Judge Gordon was in the chair, and Bishop Thomas
was amongst those who orated.
Arnold Davev, of the Chamber of Commerce, is
also off, in company with a son who is going to be a
soldier.
E. Layton Bean, 8.A., has won the Merton (Ox-
ford) Scholarship. It is worth £6O a year for four
years. Incidentally he has joined the University
Training Corps.
Alfred N. Day, the Railway Commissioner's sec-
retary, has written a book about the State’s railway
stations. In it he runs to earth the reason, or excuse,
for the christening of most of them. Some men
would write a book about anything.
Archibald Collins and Miss M. C. Church have a
joint show at the Society’s rooms on North Terrace.
It was opened by Rep. Glynn on Wednesday after-
noon, and will last for a fortnight.
The Governor returned from Melbourne on Tuesday,
and was almost immediately the guest of the Adel-
aide Bowling Club. He is understood to class
bowls with big-game shoe*; ns ao ihe most thrilling
sport he knows.
ooit last week, Hugh TTevanion, the second son
of the Langdon Bonythons. His wife died only three
weeks ago. A boy of four years old survives.
John Jude, best-known of our builders, also passed
over the range this week.
A special lawn fete is to be held at the Children’s
Hospital on March 27. The organisers are relying on
children’s dances and marches to garner in badly-
needed cash.
The Elsey cattle run, where Mrs. .Eneas Gunn
pitched her story, “We of the Never-Never,” has been
sold. The purchasers of this little section of the
Territory—nearly three and three-quarter million,
acres—are, the Thonemans, of Melbourne. The
Bananaland member of the firm leaves straight away
for a ride round the Elsey’s boundaries. They don’t
post-and-rail them up in the North, and as a result
there are some exciting moments at rounding-up
time. The Chinese cook who was such a treasure to
the Never-Never household is now engaged in his
profession at Singapore, where the postman regu-
larly delivers him a letter from his one-time “Missy.”
Mrs. Cottrell Dormer, nee one of the well-
dowered Brock family, has been over from
Tasmania to wave a farewell hanky at her
soldier-husband, who has left for England
to take up his military duties. She camps
at Hobart, and will there watch the apples
ripen against the time of his coming home
again.
To Heathfield the W. L. Baillieus invited
the other night a few people to bid good-bye
to son Harry, who is oil to the evasive
Front. Mrs. Willie, who gives a very good
imitation, as far as looks go, of Melba, was
a very proud mother indeed. The clan has
many ramifications, and the Arthur, E. L.,
Clive, George and Lambert Baillieus made
the ordinary guests appear an inglorious
minority.
Mrs. Stewart Balmain, George Fairbairn's
handsome daughter, is receiving many con-
gratulations—her husband has cut a wisdom
tooth, gone into long pants, and been pro-
moted to the rank of Major. Mrs. Balmain
is soon off to the Fog City to join him and
give him moral support in teaching the Ter-
ritorials to be Terrible.
Carmen Pinschof-Harris, back from her
budding triumph in Vienna, is to sing at
the Robert Parker concert at the Town Hall
on Easter Saturday night. She is more
lovely than ever —and attributes it largely
to a new diet of apples, oatmeal and nuts.
There are evidently points about vegetarian-
ism. Nebuchadnezzar, as you, my dear, being
a tireless student of Bible matters will re-
member, grew dazzlingly handsome on a
regimen of unmown hay.
The Zionists sounded the loud timbrel at
the Athenaeum last Saturday night. Cr.
,T. Waxman (brother of Albert Whelan, the
comedian; Louis Waxman, the solicitor-
poet ; and Meryl Waxman, the tennis cham-
pion) was musical director, and everything
was highly melodious and devotional. No
one seemed to know quite what any of the
service or entertainment oi\ whatever it was
meant, but it was thoroughly enjoyed.
The Francatelli was crowded on Friday
afternoon when Napoleon Boffard sang for
the Belgians, and followed up each of his
pretty little warbles by shaking a be-ribboned
belltopper around the tables. After “Adieu,
Marie,” notes and gold were fairly shoved
into the crush-hat. Agnes Caples (who
used to embellish the Castles singers) was
at the piano, and Nellie McEwen’s orchestra
was where orchestras usually are.
Mu file Huon and Ken Field were married
without uproar at Christ Church, St. Kilda, on
March 11. It was one of the quietest wed-
dings of the season. Not a cannon was fired.
Not even so much as a cracker exploded.
Elwood Huon, wearing a stricken appear-
ance which was a good advt. of the maiden’s
home virtues, gave his sister away. She
wore a white crepe-de-chine coat and skirt:,
and, as it was cold, ermine furs. .Tack
Goodall held the bridegroom’s fan, smelling-
salts, etc. The elder Field has presented the
pair with a house and numerous sheep acres
in the Apple Island. Whitford, I think, is
the name of the place—but I couldn’t be
sure.
The much-travelled R. S. Smythe cele-
brated a birthday last Saturday at
Highgate-on-Hill, Balwyn. A fine adver-
tisement for the roving showman’s life
is R.S.S, at the age of four-score years
and two. All the same, the male celebrities
of the Smythe circuit almost invariably died
in their later middle-age. Being stocked with
so many personal reminiscences of interest-
ing men who couldn’t protest against post-
mortem criticism, the veteran manager cer-
tainly ought to burst into authorship on the
Lady Dorothy Nevill plan. A Book of
Platform Stars would be good reading.
Commander Henry C. Carr, R.N.. who is
reported missing through the sinking of
H.M.S. Bayano, was much beloved in Aus-
tralia when in command of H.M.S. Psyche.
A fine man, a great sport, and a splendid
pal to many, “Tommy” (as his wife and best
friends called him) owned a. nature worth a
bag o£ diamonds.
The Overseas Club’s party to the Mayoress
was a woman’s affair, and so bumpers of
coffee and foaming beakers of lemon-squash
graced the board Mrs. Major James
was hostess. Paceid Mrs. Prime Min-
ister Fisher was there, and the cheery For-
rest dame. The Mayor was one of the few
men present, and struck me as looking-
chivvied and weary. There was the usual
music, and a Mrs. Vincent, a recent-arrival
from England, recited in a very impressive
manner.
Colonel Percy Owen has been fined one
guinea without the option of “working it
out,” for not renewing his motor license.
Incidentally, he has been sentenced to a
further term of grass-widowerhood by his.
wife, who was one of the Floods of Sydney.
She yearns to come back to her native land,
but is terrified of the intervening mines, and
intends to go on scrubbing cups and
plates for Belgian refugees till the clouds of
war roll by. Her mother is helping in the
scrubbing business; she is married to a medi-
cal admiral or surgical field-marshal, or
something equally elevated.
Vanda Clarke plunged head first into the
charitable maelstrom immediately upon her
arrival. She wrested the Auditorium lolly-
license from its owner for one day, and will
fight her sweets-selling crusade on March 19,
when the big Physical Kultur display is
attracting Sassiety in aid of the Victoria
Hospital for women.
Everyone is lending a hand. The girls who
are taking part are selling tickets frantically,
and cynical men who want to assure them-
selves that the maidens’ figures are all they
pretend to be are buying. As I mentioned last
week, white silk tights and Grecian tunic and
ballet shoes are among the misleading fea-
tures. The living statuary will have an artis-
tic significance to the Learned. The Aegina
Pediment figures are to be displayed, also the
Crouching Archer and the Discobolus. One
daring young thing proposes to perch or roost
on toetips on a small sphere for 48 seconds,
not counting encores.
The Consul-General for Belgium will pre-
side at the Jumble Sale organised in the Bel-
gians’ behalf by Miss Frances Frazer, and
to be held at the Athepseum on March 19.
Esther, daughter of Hugh, Patterson in-
tends to stage her show in the lofty Besant
Hall (take the lift in the Centrewav) on
March 24. There will be posters, paintings
and black-and-white work, in addition to the
pretty artist herself.
Fred Thiel, the. whisky man, has added a
model farm to his numerous interests and
anxieties. He has purchased Belmont
Park, near Warragul, together with all
the sheep, cattle and horses within
its fences. Belmont Park was awarded-
second place in a recent competition
tor a prize offered for the best estate in the
district. The homestead is a large roomy
modernised place with gas and water taps
everj r where, and all the other comforts and
luxuries of home. About the only thing it
lacks is a long surfing beach. The new owner
intends to breed stud stock and 18-liole golf
links, and things like that.
There is a very annoyed young man in
Sydney owing to the ready tongue of a
smart, heavyweight Melbourne girl, whose
pals have been telling the story. It was in
a favorite hotel dining-room, where, after a
week’s glad eyeing, he decided to put his
fate to the test, and address' liis charmer.
The lady surveyed him gravely and. then
called an elderly servitor. “Waiter,” she
said in icy tones; “will you please have this
put hack in the cheese,” and then swept
out to the lounge, leaving a flustered young
man and an uncomfortable man-servant to
pass an embarrassing moment.
The war thus far has not engloomed the
spirit .of Mrs. Marjorie Norpian Raphael,
who prattles in her latest letter from Lon-
don :—•
Norman has joined the Fusiliers and is in training - .
They will not go to the Front for two or three
months. My brother-in-law is right in the trouble at
Ypres. Everyone knits now and sews—or helps in
a hospital a few hours a day, which is more
enlivening.
Then she goes on to chat of Australians in
London, and remarks incidentally that “Roy
Cook, who used to be with J.0.W., is in the
front rank at the Alhambra revue. lie takes
a big part and is a wonderful dancer.”
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


I?
r»
W
r
*1 ■
mm
1
.
I
II
li
i
ffiPn w
/
■
■
*%%
M
i
t«
i
*r
*
*«
If
i
)
.
I
am
. '
1
11
X
r*t
S
fi
f
iSI
I!
HI
II
m
• i
m
%r-
-m
m
m
MM
/
1/
a
■
i
11
1
MQi
-
AR
xr-l;.
m
m
m
*4
a if
m
m
:
II
m
ft
sm
€
Copyright.
IRRESISTIBLE
REPRODUCED FROM THE ORIGNAL PAINTING IN THE POSSESSION OF
JOHN DEWAR & SONS, L T °" scotch whisky Distillers, Perth <Ss? London
g


A Good Corn
Remover.
Those who suffer from corns and hard skin
on the soles of the feet will find it a great
boon to apply a little Atla Resin to the corn,
which, when applied to the corn or hard skin,
and a little covering of cotton wool on the
the top to prevent it sticking to the stocking,
will remove the corn in a day or two. The
Atla Resin seems to act by getting thor-
oughly into complete contact 'with the corn,
and thus being able to penetrate it, and not
to act on the surface only. It is certainly
the latest cure for these troublesome and
painful structures, and, according to all re-
ports by those who have used it, one of the
best.*
m
B®.
AO
■SK
nvj
NV
mQ
dOH
VAIVW
HAVE YOU a BAD LEG
perhaps surrounded with inflammation and
swollen, that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Per-
haps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated, the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored, the disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Trv the great British Remedy: —
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which you will find a certain restorer. Can
be obtained at any Drug Store.
British Prices, 1/1 Vz and 2/9.
Also a certain remedy for
Poisoned Hands, Housemaid
Knees, Carbuncles, Abscesses,
Snake and Insect Bites.
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farringdon St.
Agents— LONDON, E.C.
ELLIOTT BROS.
W. 11. SOUL.
PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS.
HOW I MADE MY HAIR GROW.
WOMAN WITH MARVELLOUSLY
BEAUTIFUL HAIR GIVES SIMPLE
HOME PRESCRIPTION WHICH SHE
USES WITH MOST REMARKABLE
RESULTS.
I was greatly troubled with dandruff and
falling hair. I tried many advertised hair
preparations and various prescriptions, but
they all signally failed ; many of them made
my hair so greasy that it was impossible to
comb it or do it up properly. I think that
many of the things I tried were positively
injurious, and from my own experience I
cannot too strongly caution you against
using preparations containing wood-alcohol
and other poisonous substances. I believe
they injure the roots of the hair. After my
long list of failures I finally found a simple
prescription which I used with most remark-
able results, and I can unhesitatingly state
that it is beyond doubt the most wonderful
thing for the hair I have ever seen. Many
of my friends have also used it and obtained
wonderful effects theyefrom. It not only is
a powerful stimulant to the growth of the
hair, and for restoring grey hair to its nat-
ural color, but it is equally good for remov-
ing dandruff, giving the hair life and bril-
liancy, etc., and for the purpose of keeping
the scalp in first-class condition. It also
makes the hair much easier to cpmb and
arrange in nice form. I have a friend who
used it two months, and during that time it
not only stopped the falling of his hair and
wonderfully increased its growth, _ but _it
practically restored all his grey hair to its
natural color. This wonderful prescription
is easily made by dissolving 1 dram of Men-
thol Crystals in 3oz. Bay Rum and then
adding loz. Lavona de Composee. All these
ingredients can be obtained from any
chemist, and the preparation should be
rubbed well into the scalp every night and
morning. If properly used it will soon pro-
duce most astonishing results. Be careful
not to get it on the face or any part °\ “ ie
body where you do not want to produce hair ■
POLITICAL
POINTS
The price of matches has already advanced
by 133 per cent, wholesale ; and a scarcity
is looming. Stocks in Australia are small,
and there is likely to be a difficulty in obtain-
ing fresh supplies while the war lasts. _ Of
course, if Australia had been in the habit of
making all its own matches there would be
no difficulty ; but now there is just a chance
that the foolish importing craze may be
responsible for a return to our black
brother’s tinder and flint.
“Quill”: Billo, the barrowman, having
accepted a pot, disclosed the whole business:
In yer ear’ole. It's all kid about ’Olman and
Carmichael havin’ ’ad a barney over who waster ’ave
the moniker o’ boss when Borrowin’ Bill went away
to the seaside rekooperatin’. Car. just did ’is block,
and that’s all about it. I knoo ’e would. Told me
cobber ’ow it ’ud go w’cn I red in one o’ the briefs
about them apples. Wot a lurk! There was Car.
sittin’ as good as yer like be’ind a couple o’ thou-
sand quids a year, and ’e goes and takes on apples!
LorTumme. ’Ere ’ave I bin doin’ apples and pines
and bananas or a bitter fish or clo’es-props in Sydney
ior years—sometimes workin’ a cart round the suburbs
an’ other times pushin’ me joint in Pitt or George.
Know how ter get rid o’ me specks, too, and always
’ave a tale readied up —an’ 1 ’aven’t got tuppence.
If ’e’d come ter me or Micko we’d ha’ given ’im the
stren’th of it. But, no! Takes it on ’imself all on
’is pat. Does ’is own spruikin’, too. Take it from
me, it’s one o’ the worst games in the world —Cere’s
a go!)—-wears a man to a shadder, wot with everyone
squeakin’ at ’im about crook'uns and short weight.
Send yer clean barmy ! An’ there he prats in with
a few ’undred cases o’ apples the kids at Mittergong
’ad, and ses he’ll deliver to anyone who sends a dollar
and a sprat. ’Course ’e got millions o’ letters, and
’adn’t the apples, and all ’ands was ringin’ im up
and roustin’ over the ’phone about the bloomin
apples ’e'’adn’t sent. Course ’e fell off his perch
and did er mike. Yet there ’e was, with is couple o’
thou., kiddin’ ’imself about Tim Koglan’s job and
fellin’ old wimmin ’ow ter cook cat’s-meat, aid
bein’ interviewed by reporters—all nice and comfort-
able —and he does ’is block over apples ! ’Course he
got wild at somethin’. W’en a man’s done ’imself
in ’awkin’ fruit, take it from me, ’e’ll squeak like a
guinea-pig if ’e on’y gets a pot with a fly in it.
The position as regards Melbourne’s cable-
tramway system has'become further involved
through the Tramway Trust’s threatened
intention to act on the opinion of Mitchell,
K.C., that it has the implied power to buy
the co.’s outfit when the lease terminates
next year and run the concern for the
benefit of the 11 inner municipalities it
represents. Mitchell advises that the Trust
could borrow the needed cash from a bank
on the security of the whole property, and
thinks that the profits would liquidate the
debt in two years, after which penny sec-
tions and cheaper fares might be inaugu-
rated. This scheme, however, takes no
account of the equally interested councils
outside the Trust, nor of the extensive
systems already working in the outer sub-
urbs. Peacock’s Greater . Melbourne Bill is
supposed to make provision for one con-
trolling body, but Heaven only knows when
Peacock’s bill will transpire and what will
happen to it when it does transpire. Mean-
while, as has been remarked all along, the
co. lays low and says nothing.
THE EFFECT OF “ CULTURE .
The people, poets and thinkers have transformed
themselves into a united people in arms. —The Kaiser.
THE KAISER : “A wonderful transformation ,
comrade!”
THE MILATARY SYSTE M: “ Marvellous , Excel-
lency! We have so bent them to our will
that they will sack a city, molest women
and murder children and unarmed civilians
with the best of us."
How good Australian money may be sent
out of the country to pay foreign laborers
when our own are unemployed was shown
at the last meeting of Adelaide City Council,
when a councillor queried an item passed
by the works committee and just on the
point of being finalised. It was a contract
for City Market shop-fronts, £1975, and
some g.enius who needs talking to had put in
the specifications that “Belgian” marble
must be used. Apart from the question
whether this imported stuff comes from Bel-
gium at all, and whether if it does it could
now be got, and whether if it does and could
it would not involve trading with the enemy,
South Australia itself produces as good
marble as any one need want for shop fronts.
The Council unanimously voted for the home-
made article when the point was; brought to
its notice; but if the one councillor, Gunn,
had not had a keen eye for detail, the other
thing would have gone through cheerfully.
Thus a Maoriland medical man serving in
one of the North Sea destroyers to relatives
in Wellington: —
The cablegrams about the war in the M.L. papers
vou send me have caused immense amusement in the
flotilla, and everyone shrieks with merriment on
reading them.
No doubt, but it’s the kind of joke that can
be overdone.
BACK TO THE OLD LOVE.
Melbourne street scene on a recent Saturday
afternoon.
The Fatherland, a German journal pub-
lished in Noo Yark, tells us the way :
If the German sympathisers in the United States
wish to retaliate upon the English, they can do so
in a material way. Nothing hurts the small shop-
keeper soul of the English nation so much as to
touch their pocket. If only 10,000,000 German
sympathisers were to stop buying goods made in
England they could readily even matters up. They
could broaden their held of usefulness by employing
whatever influence they might command upon others,
and thus extend the circle of their own retaliation
to indefinite proportions. To hurt England is to
shut her shops. Ask your dealer whether he patron-
ises English industries, and then buy elsewhere.
And in precisely the same way the Aus-
tralian can best hurt Germany by patronis-
ing the traders who push Australian manu-
factures in direct opposition to the Huns’
wares.
The blessing and the virtue of a republic
is that it changes its presidents every three
years or so, while they are yet the new
brooms that sweep clean, and before they
have become so used to the saddle that they
vaingloriously spur the liorse. The original
of the first dynasty that ever was had to lie.
a man, anyhow; he was either the
most able-bodied liar or the
hardest lighter of his tribe. Then
he grew comfortable and lazy, and
his heir waxed fat and kicked, and
their rule depended on oppressing
the people till the people became
too spiritless to resist oppression.
The well-chosen president of a re-
public would become no better than
a king if he were given time, but
just as he is beginning to swell in
the head the clock strikes 12, and
another citizen succeeds. Yuan
Sliih Kai as a sweeper of the
Augean stable at Pekin promised
to do splendidly. But having tasted
power, the thought of the clock
striking 12 terrified him. He
therefore declared himself presi-
dent for life, with the right to
nominate liis successor. Thus he virtually
establishes a new dynasty, and the question
is how much for’arder, after all, has China
got?
Half a dozen years ago every member of
the Cook party pointed out, with a tremen-
dous air of superiority, that none but persons
who were ignorant of naval and military
strategy would dream of defending Australia
in Australia. At that time there was no
battleship Australia in the South Pacific,
no Melbourne or Sydney or any other up-to-
date and powerful warship. On the other
hand, there were various new and exceed-
ingly dangerous German battleships—and
Germany was the scare-Power of the period.
Now Australia has a fleet which is well
capable of protecting it, and the Germans
have nothing. The Commonwealth is, _in
fact, so patently secure that it is sending
troops to Egypt and France. Yet it is at
this moment that thousands of Liberals
begin to identify themselves with local de-
fence. The rifle clubs, started with their
blessing, are full of their sons. They express
themselves willing to defend Australia to
the last. They wouldn’t do a thing when
their country badly needed to be secured
against direct attack ; now that it can only
be harmed 12,000 miles away they are pre-
pared to defend it against all the hosts
that Germany may send !
Theodore Roosevelt, who is very keen on
Kaiser-smashing these days, declares that
when he put his name to the Hague Con-
vention he really meant it. Probably he
did ; but the private intention of the repre-
sentative of a country with no army and
only a middling fleet doesn’t amount to more
than a blot of ink.
The other day two
of the Bulldog breed
appeared at Melbourne
City Court on vag-
rancy charges, and
both were remanded
for medical observa-
tion. One had been
shipped to Australia
by his brother and
abandoned. lie was
“of good family.”
The other had no evi-
dence of “being of
good family” beyond
the fact that he was
stuttering in the brain.
Apparently any old
thing can be dropped
into Australia without
question if it be only
English enough; bill
if Australia sends of
its best to tight for
the Motherland it
seems only a fair
thing of the Mother-
land to see that idiot
paupers are not dropped on us in a Chinese
kind of gratitude.
There are exciting times ahead of us.
Having spent millions and millions on works
that don’t pay interest, and often don’t even
provide their own working expenses, we
must now dredge the money out of our
pockets. So long as we could go on borrow-
ing we didn’t feel it, because we naid Isaac
with what we borrowed from Moses; but
when both Isaac and Moses shut down, and
we can’t get any fresh loans, and have to
pay more for the old loans when they come
up for renewal, and when the public works
are earning less even than usual, things are
liable to be strenuous. Maoriland is more
or less facing the situation, and it is scarcely
safe now to go out with threepence in your
pocket if you don’t want the Government to
get it. One hard-up council put up a toll-
gate in a furtive kind of way last year; and
the experiment snared so many thrippences
that very shortly you will be liable to fall
over a toll-gate anywhere.
Treasurer Allen, who looks after renewal
of the frequent p.n. across in the Maori-
land, says a war tax will have to be faced.
A tax? Nonsense! Surely there must be
.something left to pawn! Why not get an
advance on the national conscience?
HOW MANY LIVES?
A number of the actions of the N.S.W. State
Government would come up at the P.L.L. Confer-
ence at Easter, and it was to be hoped that those
present would deal more severely with the Labor
party than had been the case in the past.
—Statement by A.W.U. delegate.
THE HEART OF THE DOVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If we were animated by the spirit of conquest
no Power could stop us from taking the entire
American continent, from Greenland to Cape Horn;
nor even prevent us from turning into American
colonies the entire world outside of Europe. -
Quarterly International Trade Magazine, of
Chicago.
Say, 80, this little Yewropean war
It grieves our gloryus nation to the core —
The vurry core of its great, strung, red heart,
We’re tur-ble sore;
That’s what.
We got
A reel sawft heart.
Naw, son! we air not takin’ any part.
We Aggered that ahl out, right from the start.
The great Amurkan nation stan’s aside:
She keeps apart—
An’ jaws,
Becaws
We gat our pride.
But don’t yew Agger ahn no fancy play
With U ncle Sam ; he’s ready for the fray.
An’ wance that ’Murkan eagle’s screech is heard
Watch out! An’, say,
Geewhiz!
He is
Some bird!
He is some eagle, yew kin' take my word.
If wance that great, Aerce heart of his was sturred —
Aw, shucks! that little Yewropean stunt
Would look ab-surd !
If he
Cast free
You’d see some hunt!
When wance that Bird o’ Freedom hit the front
Why, Gee! them dinky Kings would have to shunt!
Old Yew rope would be right clean oA the map !
I put it blunt:
That lot
Would not
Put up a scrap.
Wance we cut loose —Aw, Hully Gee! the gap
In Yewrope’s rank ’ud make them howl for pap.
We'd wipe the airth out of the Kasmic plan
An’ on the map
This ball
They’d call
Amur-i-can.
The true Amur’kan, sir, he is a man
Who'd lick this un-i-verse, wance he began;
Say, it’s a cinch; becaws we hold the dough
If we should plan
To crunch
The bunch,
None could say no.
Them Kings and Kaisers all would have to go.
He’d do ’em up right praper! Get me, Bo ?
He’d eat hull crate-loads of their wan-harse ships!
He’d smash the show,
He’d swat
The lot,
Wance come to grips!
Aw, shucks ! This great, strang nation, sir, it whips
Crea’tion! Wance the word has pas’d our lips
We’d just reach out, an’ take the hull darn world !
We’d get the ships
An’ men;
An’ then
Things would get whirled !
Yep ! Wance that starry banner was unfurled
We’d roast the Kaiser till his whiskers curled !
Say, do you get me? Wance we j’ined the
fray
The hull darn wurld
Would scoot,
Per boot,
Out of our way.
Wance we were roused —what matter, anyway?
We air nat takin’ war in ours to-day.
Naw, Bo ; we got no quar’l, we play the part
Of pained dismay,
To show,
You know,
Our great, sawft, strang, red heart.
VICTORIA.
DEN.


GET A RECEIPT
“If He Only Knew Its Value.”
“. . . / don't think that any business man that has a shop
would be without this most perfect till if he only knew its
value . . .it is one of the best investments / ever made."
This is a statement made in a letter recently received from
a user of “Nationals.”
Do you know the value of an up-to-date National
Cash Register suitable for your business ? Its value to you
is just what it would mean in increased profits. You are
in business to make money, and a “National” is one of the
greatest aids to business success ever invented, and you
need it.
We want the opportunity to explain exactly how our Cash
Registers pay for themselves, and assist in building up and
increasing trade and profit. Write to us—while you think
of it. judge the value of “Nationals” for yourself.
The National Cash Register Company
of Australasia Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE —119 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY
BRANCHES IN ALL PRINCIPAL CITIES.
fd
“INVINCIBLE—ModeI “S-
-2-Cylinder Marine Engines
(slow speed, heavy duty, four-cycle
type).
m
j - ij
“INVINCIBLE”—ModeI
“S” —4-Cylinder
Marine Engines
(slow speed, heavy duty, four-cycle
type).
g
“INVINCIBLE—ModeI
“P” —4-Cylinder
Marine Engines
(medium speed, four-cycle
1
“INVINCIBLE—ModeI “SA"
—Horizontal Gas Engines
and Suction Gas Plants.
fdg
“INVINCIBLE”—ModeI N
—Horizontal Oil Engines
IYz to 65 h.p.
All “INVINCIBLE” Engines are
guaranteed for Five Years.
Invincible Motor Construction Co. Ltd.
WORKS : WOOLWICH, N.S.W.
Showrooms—ss Pitt Street, Sydney; 529 Queen Street, Brisbane.
More Than
Mere Clothes.
A Fox’s Serge Suit
Tailor-made to
Your Order,
77/6
You will be delighted with the
appearance and worth of this genuine
box’s Navy Serge (Fine or Rough),
it is Indigo-d.ved and proved to be
fadeless by acid test.
Good piaterials need good tailoring
to produce a suit satisfactory in Fit,
Style and Workmanship.
You receive all that in
Leviathan Tailoring.
You do not take our word for
granted—-for with every order a
signed pledge is sent which
guarantees satisfaction from
your standpoint, or money back
on return.
The attached coupon brings
you Free Patterns, Catalog
and Self-Measurement Forms.
Post it TO-DAY.
i
. »
F.
'
m
Corner Swanston and Bourke Streets, Melbourne.
COUPON FOR PATTERNS-FOX’S SERGE.
■ j -
Name
Address
B’m, 18/3/’l5.
04
5N
The British
4>
I
Electric & Manufacturing C? L 1 1?,
I I
*?. * J .1;
---***
a**
ztW-i t*
HP!
\
V
5
Ml
*..,*■
• ;«
1£
BBM
V* . * ,*^3^***
Tiiliiw--
4-Cylinder vertical gas engine, direct coupled to A.C. generator.
GAS ENGINES.
Vertical-Tandem and Horizontal.
From 1 to 1000 Horse-power.
Head Office for Australia:
Queensland Building, 84 William Street, Melbourne.
AGENTS:
Standard Waygood Hercules Ltd.
77 King Street, Sydney.
Elder, Shenton & Co. Ltd.,
Williams Street, Perth.
Elder, Smith & Co. Ltd.,
27-31 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Elder, Smith & Co. Ltd.,
84=88 William Street, Melbourne.
WORKS—MANCHESTER,
ENGLAND.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, UNITED, Redfern, Sydney.
Amusements.
I) ELi PhT HAST Jilt ATTRACTION.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, MARCH 27.
WM. ANDERSON’S Gorgeous version of the Old
English Pantomime,
SIN BAD THE SATLOB.
OLIVE MARSTON as SINBAD.
MAGGIE MOORE ...as... THE DAME.
SPRAINS &" BRUISES.
COMSTOCK’S NERVE AND BONE
LINIMENT USED WITH WONDER-
FUL SUCCESS. A BALMAIN RESI-
DENT'S TESTIMONY.
“Some months ago,” writes Mr. .T. Bur-
gess, of Balmain, Sydney, “I had a nasty
fall, severely bruising the kneecap and
spraining my wrist. Having been recom-
mended Comstock’s Nerve and Bone Lini-
ment on a previous occasion, I had the
balance of the bottle in the house, and got
my wife to apply it, after bathing the parts
with warm water. It gave me almost in-
stant relief, and in a few days all traces of
the accident had disappeared. I really think
the liniment saved me several days of in-
capacitation.”
A sprain is an injury to the ligaments
of a joint, usually the wrist or the. ankle,
by accident or over-straining. . Sprains are
usually attended with much pain and swell-
ing of the part, and sometimes produce faint-
ing and vomiting. Comstock’s Nerve and
Bone Liniment is an ideal remedy for
sprains, and should be applied frequently
and well rubbed in until all traces have dis-
appeared. As sprains are one of the most
frequent accidents, every household should
contain a bottle of this valuable liniment
for this purpose, if for nothing else. Sold
bv all leading chemists and storekeepers,
price 2s. 6d., or will be forwarded by post
at same price by The W. 11. Comstock Co.,
Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney.’"
SPORTING
NOTIONS
“0.K.”: The sweetest story never told
about the tote dates back to the time, not so long
ago, when the machine seemed not unlikely to happen
in N. S. Wales, and lkey Mo was suffering one of his
occasional periods of anxiety. A wily Hebrew in Mel-
bourne, connected with both the betting ring and the
cinematograph business, suggested to a film merchant
that he should get a moving picture taken of the
tote in operation on a Maoriland racecourse. The
wowsers, under instructions from the books, had been
talking and Writing of how the men and women of
M.L. were demoralised by the tote —how they fought
like fiends, their faces distorted by gambling passion,
to put their money on with the accursed machine.
The idea was to show one of these awful scenes on
the screen, that the wowsers and the hooks might
direct public attention to it, and invite the State
Government to come and see and be warned in time.
So a 2000 ft. picture of “Gambling in Maoriland” was
duly taken and shipped to the Melbourne firm. The
wily Hebrew was present at a private view. Alas
for the intended revelation! It had not been
“readied up” according to the lkey Mo’s design.
There stood the quiet, respectable tote, registering
the contributions of virtuous-looking citizens who
came along- in a highly decorous manner, like saints
at a church parade. No excitement. No suggestions
of wild, despairing hopes shortly to he blasted when
the numbers went up. No evidence of a people
“doing in” their socks and boots. “My God!”
groaned the Wily Hebrew, “if the public see that
they’ll want it!” So the public didn’t see it. The
film was purchased by the lkey Mo Defence Associa-
tion and destroyed, apparently. Anyhow, it
became dead to the world. The only objection
to the publication of this story is that it may in-
spire the I.M.D.A. to organise a great mob of
spielers and harlots for the purpose of rushing them
at a racecourse tote (in Westralia, or somewhere),
what time a photographer is recording the ugly spec-
tacle. A few weeping women and the corpse of a
suicided gambler in the foreground would complete
. the moral and adorn the film.
* * * *
"That the tote cart be a valuable asset in
time of trouble is likely to be demonstrated in
Maoriland, where a super-tax of 5 per cent, on the
investments is being advocated. This would, it is
reckoned, provide £lBO,OOO per annum in spot cash
towards the war bill. Will some anti-tote maniac
kindly step forward and explain how .it is possible to
induce Moses McShortodds to disgorge £lBO,OOO per
annum for the defence of the country?
* * * *
Master Lupin’s celerity in the Wanganui
(M.L.) Cup the other day (1-J miles in 3min. 3-ssec.)
was just a trifle worse than Dumont’s 3min. jsec.,
registered at ltandwick in 1904. Sire Lupin belongs
to the Government, and is dad also of Tree Lucerne,
so that he was responsible for the winners of the
Wanganui “double.”
* * * *
Maoriland’s most notable trainer, Edward
Cutts, who died recently, had a remarkable career,
during the years he was with George Clifford. Since
<l. G. Stead went, Clifford has gathered in practi-
cally ail the w.f.a. plums. In the .Middle Park Plate
lie has had eight wins since 1905 ; the
C.J.C. Champagne Stakes, eight; C.J.C. Chal-
lenge Stakes, five; Great Northern Foal Stakes,
four; Great Northern Derby, two; Canterbury
Derby, two; C.J.C. Oaks, three; Dunedin Cham-
pagne Stakes, seven; Manawatu Stakes, two ; besides
Palmerston Stakes, Taranaki Stakes, Wanganui
Guineas, Jackson Stakes, Wellesley Stakes, North
Island Challenge Stakes, M.L. St. Leger and Welling-
ton Stakes. And that is not the entire list.
“E.L.C.W.”: Chesney, tliat fine horse
bred in Australia in 1896, has died in Bethlehem,
Orange Free State. Chesney’s most exciting event
was when the steamer on which he was being trans-
ported to England went ashore at the Cape. The
well-blooded animal swam to Africa and, later, was
taken on to his destination. After racing for a
while in England he was moved back to S. Africa, and
there again the son of Malua made a name for him-
self. In the De Wet-Maritz shindy the rebels com-
mandeered most of the horses in the Bethlehem dis-
trict, that grand horse-breeding country on the
Basutoland border. Chesney was amongst the bunch,
and maybe the insult was too much for his proud
spirit.
* * * *
Edward (‘“Teddy”) Nathan, a well-known
figure in western N. S." ’Wales' Tri Cobb and Co.’s
coaching days,'passed out, suddenly, in Sydney, aged
77. He was for years stationed at Orange as Cobb
and Co.’s agent. Mr. Mulholland, now town clerk,
was at one time his office-lad. Ted had a long con-
nection with the turf —was president or patron of
half a dozen country racing clubs, and owned a. horse
or two. His head was as bare of hair as a bladder
of lard, but he always wore a wig well oiled and so
neatly kept that he won many a drink wagering with
strangers that they could not lift him from the floor
by the hair of his head.
* * * *
Les Darcy in his match against Fritz
Holland at Sydney Stadium on Saturday showed to
better advantage than at any time before. He had
on two previous occasions been in the ring with
Fritz, but in neither of these disturbances were the
proceedings altogether satisfactory. This time no
possible doubt remained at the end of 20 vigorous
rounds. Darcy won with a fair margin. Of the two,
Holland is much the brainier man —the better general,
the cooler, the craftier —and infinitely the better
boxer. Darcy’s strength lies in his physique, his
forcefulness. Put into the ring with a man rela-
tively as much his superior in fighting power as he
himself is to Holland, the only hope Darcy could have
of survival would be his capacity to take punishment.
He certainly, were the conditions so reversed, would
not make anything like the showing Holland did on
Saturday, because Holland has qualities and a special
skill which Darcy never will have.
They boxed the first round at a good fast clip and
it was Holland’s all the way. The second, third and
fourth were taken at the same rapid gait, and Darcy
had none the best of the proceedings. Holland hit
him hard and often, and cleverly avoided most of the
goods the other had to offer. Then Darcy wisely
decided that he’d had enough of boxing, as in truth
he had; and throwing away the, to him, useless
scientific baggage he had been cumbered with while
training, waded in to fight. He was the natural
Darcy then and at his best. He pursued Holland with
the resolution of one to whom biff is an inherent in-
stinct, and soon piled up a long lead of points.
Holland defended with rare skill. It was seldom he
took a blow of full power—Darcy hits hard and
quickly, but not with any particular judgment—and
he smothered the other’s repeated attacks promptly.
Holland seemed at times to be waiting for Darcy to
tire hhpfelf out. A mistake. That purposeful young-
man takes a lot of tiring at any time, and was in
remarkably fine condition on Saturday evening. He
fought rather wildly in the 13th, 14th and 15th
rounds, and Holland got some of own back with a
judiciously-used right, but recovered his lead in the
succeeding two or three. Early in the last round
Holland laid open one of the winner’s eyes, which he
had already put in mourning, and banged his glove
on the same spot three times before the bell sounded
stop. It was with blood streaming all over his face
that Darcy felt the hand of Baker resting on his fore-
head. The lad deserved his win and the cheers. So
too did Holland the generous applause of the crowd,
for he had fought a clean, gallant fight and again
showed himself to be one of the most skilful, re- ■
sourceful boxers seen in a .Sydney ring of recent
times. In Holland’s fight with D. Smith the latter
was the winner, hut the honors were Holland’s. It
was to some extent the same on Saturday with Darcy.
* * * *
James J. Corbett, now on the Rickards-
Mclntosh circuit of vaudeville, will be 49 on Sep-
tember 1; but most people, seeing him for the first
time, would say the reference-books had overloaded
him by 10 years. It’s about 30 years ago that the
big' man skied his job as a bank clerk and set up in
business as a stoush trader. In that line he reached
the limit when, at New Orleans on September 1, 1892,
he lambasted the world's heavyweight championship
out of John L. Sullivan in 21 rounds. That was
Corbett’s biggest purse—about £9OOO. His Marathon
battle was with Peter Jackson, at San Francisco, in
1891. It went 61 rounds, and ended in a draw.
Between the time of his victory over Sullivan and
the dousing of his star by Bob Fitzsimmons —18 years
ago yesterday—“ Pompadour Jim” fought but little,
and after his knock-out by the Maorilander he met
considerable trouble in the ring. Nevertheless, he was
always a picturesque figure in the big game, and
his personal popularity has never waned.
At the Sydney reception to “Gentleman 'Jim” (he
had a play written for him under that title) there
was told a yarn that after Fitzsimmons had relieved
Corbett of the championship, the latter, while travel-
ling by train in U.S.A. pulled up at a country sta-
tion. One of the lads of the village was there with
his girl, and she and the boxer seem to have ex-
changed the paradise eye what time the yokel fed
an internal volcano. When the train was pulling out,
the cheers that went up for the bruiser were almost
obliterated in the bellow that arose from the bruised
yokel: “Three cheers for Bob Fitzsimmons!”
* * * *
“I believe ‘Griffo’ to have been the finest
boxer the world has even seen.”— James J. Corbett, at
Sydney last week.
* * * *
“Moana”: Catching swordfish with a rod
and line is the latest sport in Maoriland. The
other day an Auckland
man, playing at Rus-
sell (Bay of Islands),
hooked one weighing
2331 b. and succeeded
in landing the big
fellow after a great
and memorable shindy.
For excitement in the
Isaak Walton pastime
a good, well-found
swordfish is about
the best sport you
can hook and your
troubles aren’t all
over even when you
get him on dry
land. He is diffi-
cult to kill and a
recalcitrant cus-
tomer generally.
Since the above-
mentioned struggle
the same angler
hooked another
swordfish about twice
the size of the previ-
ous specimen, but it
broke the hawser and
got away. This seems
to show that sword-
fish will take bait.
Almost any fish will if
it is hungry enough.
Even flounders. At
Lake Logan, near Dun-
edin, fishermen have
recently enjoyed good
sport catching the flat
fish with ordinary rod
and line.
JIM CORBETT,
a pug of the past.
On Saturday, March 6, at Juarez, Mexico,
Jack Johnson was, according to alleged authoritative
parties (including the so-called dictator, Villa), to
have defended his title against Jess Willard, the
Kansas cow-hand. In his invitation to the pro-
moter, “Jack” Curley, to go-ahead at Juarez, Villa
wrote that those “of the great American public that
will attend the match will see for themselves that
.. 1 .we are a law-abiding people.” As nothing has
been heard to the contrary at this end, the pro-
babilities are that the periodical Mexican revolution
broke out prior to March 6, and the inhabitants not
actively engaged had rushed in a body to back their
fancy for the Presidency (pro tern.). In the circs.,
Curley probably postponed the fight.
What should have been the first. Austra-
lian lawsuit over lacrosse has been settled out of
court in Adelaide. The S.A. Lacrosse Association
was about the first sporting body to reckon that
war ought to stop inter-State fixtures; and, having
a team due to go to Melbourne just when the first
financial scare was on, and no man knew if his
billet would be still there when he came back, it
decided to scratch the fixture. _ There was a lot _of
newspaper talk over this, and a North Adelaide
club delegate admitted the authorship of some, of it.
More, ho declined to withdraw anything- he had said.
Also, on being deprived (f his seat on the com-
mittee, he made a sporting claim for £5OO
damages. However, in six or seven months things
have simmered down, and last week, just as all
parties were due in the Supreme Court, they decided
to “settle” without troubling a Judge over it.
A. F. Thorpe, of South Sydney Harriers,
was the star of the second day’s programme of the
N. S. Wales A.A.A. championship meeting. He won
the 880yds. in lmin. 59sec.- —good time considering
that he was not challenged—and shrank the Aus-
tralasian 1000yds. record to 2min. 15 4-ssec. The
previous best was 2min. 16 3-ssec., credited to ex-
amateur A. W. Dormer (M.L.). Thorpe also
assisted the S.S. Harriers to win the one-mile relay
championship. The 220yds. championship was W.
J. Ryan’s (Western Suburbs) share of the day’s exer-
tions. His time was 33 2-ssec., which doesn’t
indicate anything- special in the way of exer-
tion. Maher, of East Sydney, was the De-
cathlon winner. He secured 3252 points.
The nearest man, A. O. Hodgson (a club-
mate), accumulated 2391, and the third, W. Biden
(Y.M.C.A.), got 2022. The figures look big, but
that’s all there was big about the job.
The healthy meet of amateur cyclists at
Sydney closed last week, and it should be ticked off
as a bright revival of a good sport. . Two Australian
championships were fought out on Tuesday evening
—the half-mile and the ten miles. As in the two
championship races on the opening night (Saturday,
March 6), N.S.W. riders raged to the front—Bur-
tinshaw in the dash and Taylor in the long dis-
tance. Wherefore Ma’s pedallers hold the honors in
the half-mile, mile, five miles and 10 miles. But
there was an element of luck to that scoop. No
man can safely take the germ-harborer in his ri<>'lit
hand and declare that McDonald (Vic.) might "not
have won the mile had he not fallen when the call
came for the last kick. There was also a spill in
the 10-mile race, which retired Millington (Tas.)
and Zeigler (Q.), but had no bearing on the result.
There was nothing in the bunch that could have
beaten Taylor, just as there was nothing on wheels
in the vicinity that could have called Burtinshaw
to heel in the half-mile. McDonald tried desperately
in the latter, but was half a wheel to the bad
when the contract expired.
* * * •
Stanley Burtinshaw (N.S.W.) has gathered
in more Australian cycling championships than any
other pedaller. The only other rider with a record
within cooee is Percy Berry (Q.). Their records are:
Burtinshaw- —half-mile, one mile and 10 miles (1912-
13) ; half-mile, one mile, five miles and 10 miles
; (1914-15) ; half-mile and one mile (1915-16).
Berry—Half-mile, one mile ,and 10 miles (1903-4);
one mile, five miles and 10 miles (1904-5) ; one mile
and five miles (1906-7). Besides those nine wins
Burtinshaw has six State championships.
Cyclist Taylor (N.S.W.), who ran away ■
with the five- and 10-mile championships at Sydney
The other day, won the American Western amateur
championship two years ago. Next.month he departs
for Uncle Dollar’s country to see if he can repeat the
dose.
* * * *
The popularity of the motor-cycle: In
Great Britain and John Redmond’s country it is
estimated that 300,000 are in use.
Frank Birtles was in Adelaide last week,
accompanied only by his bulldog “Wowser” and
several cameras;, but open, lie said, to take on a Con-
genial companion. He left Sydney on February 13,
'drove his 20-h.p. car by Bourke and Broken Hill,
i- and reached Adelaide on March 1. His plan is, after
a few days’ rest, to go by . Port. Augusta and Hergott,
along the track of Burke -and-Wills as much as
possible, to the Gulf of Carpentaria—with the body
of the car much lightened to make room for petrol
enough for 1500 miles. The bush tracks are very .
quiet these days, Birtles says. “I think the reason
is that the times have been too good. But the
bad times will make people ‘go bush’ again.”
* * * *
“Three-Star”: This is the newest on the
links of the ——■ club (name censored), where the
brand is easily ascertainable. Blank arrived home
the other Saturday evening, and after dropping his
load of clubs (it was nothing to his Other load)
received the usual salute from his budding child.
Miss screwed up her nose. “Wha’smatter?” said
pa. “Oh, nothing,” replied the hopeful. “Only you
do smell of golf.”
* * * *
“Tee” : N.S.W. Golf Association has found
a small solution for a large question by arranging
that occasional prizes during the war are to be bronze
medals of no intrinsic value. This idea is the property
of the Prince of Wales, who launched it in England.
All entrance fees are to be on the usual scale and are
to go to the Patriotic funds. As a scheme for making
an infinitesimal contribution to the war chest this may
he put ,in the highly-commended class; but as
a seriously-considered offset against an apparently im-
plied charge that golfers should he more.patriotically
employed than chasing' a ball around a paddock, it
has its limitations.
Melbourne’s football clubs hold their
annual meetings this month, and their treasurers
mostly wear the doleful countenance and tell players
that the cream is off the milk. Few of the clubs
finished up last season with anything in the cash-
box, while, among others, Richmond got £73 into
debt, and Collingwood converted a credit balance of
£176 into an overdraft of £lB3, which was pretty
fair going for the 20 weeks of a good season. The
further slump this; winter is certain to be consider-
able. Most of the clubs, by the way, are represented
at the Pyramids ; ’Wood has sent four, Coburg four,
and Richmond seven.
* * * *
“Coot”: If members of Victorian junior
football teams respond to the call to the fighting
line as well as the players of the Burnley Club,
either there will be very little junior football during
the coming winter, or many new players will have to
be forthcoming. The Burnley Club went through
last season without a single defeat, winning the
Richmond District Junior Association premiership
easily. Since then, more than half the players have
enlisted, and the majority of them were last heard
of bivouacked near the Sphinx.
* * * *
N.S.W. Football Association (Soccer) is
looking forward to a busy time during the coming
colil days. Queensland and Victoria will send teams
to Sydney, and a N. S. Wales invasion of Maoriland is
booked. The N. S. Wales Ass. has secured the right
to kick in the University Oval, and the row in the
stable last season (when many players formed a rival
concern) is simmering down. Anyhow, the olive leaf
or chaff bag is held out to the other donkey to return
before May 31 and secure pardon.
A noted Rugby player snuffed out recently
in Dunedin (M.L.) in Dr. ,T. B. Thomson at the
early age of 45. In 1888, the year that Stoddart’s
famous Rugby team visited Otago, “Jack” Thomson
was only 18, but he was the crack toe-baller of
the South, and the idol of the crowd. He played
brilliantly at half-back for the Scotch (and soda)
province against the hard-whirling, all-in English-
men, and, per medium of their admiration, made a
notable reputation for himself in the Cold Country.
He gained his medical degree in Edinburgh in 1892
and returned to Maoriland to practise. Four months
ago he was appointed medical inspector of schools
at Auckland, but persistent ill-health dogged him
to an untimely end.
Although horses and men take up a fair
amount of room on the transports, they can
still find room for a bottle or two of “Sarto.”
One troopship is alleged to have had 220,000
bottles of this non-intoxicating moistener in
its “dry” canteen.
A. P. James, who played for S.A. in al
the Sheffield Shield games this season, goes to Lorn on
this week. He came to Australia, like Crawford,
a master at St. Peter’s College, Adelaide, ami JJ'
returns to apply for a commission in an Hugos
regiment.
The Sydney First-grade Cricket Competi-
tion has drifted into an unsatisfactory position.
North Sydney, which played University last round,
will meet that team again. Western Suburbs which
is second on the list, plays Sydney, a weak side,
just promoted to the first division. If N.S. doesn t
beat ’Varsity, and if W.S. downs Sydney, then the
men from the west will be at the top of the table.
On performances this would be most unsatisfactory ,
yet it appears to be an unavoidable contingency.
Owing to the number of teams entered it is not
possible to carry out the pennant contest on the only
really' equitable system of each club meeting a l
other outfits twice. There are a couple of weak
clubs playing that some cricketers think should be
excised, but the Association takes the view that it
is better to interest a wide circle of suburbs m the
competition than to make way for a winner at the
expense of that interest.
* * * *
Baiting tlie umpire is an increasing item
in Sydney grade cricket. Playing at Ohatswood the
other day Charles lvelleway was no-balled three times
by umpire Waugh. The bowler, however, did not let
the ball go on the last occasion, thus fooling both
batsman and umpire; and a wild guffaw rent the
air. The Cricket Association could get over this
smart-Alec business by giving wider powers to
umpires (as in baseball, where fooling a batsman
means a base). There’s another trouble that requires
checking. That’s the bowler and batter wlio snarl
or gesticulate indignantly at decisions of which they
disapprove. In the 'ball game they’re known as
“kickers” and are handed a bench check quick and
lively.
* * * *
A. O. Jones, who died lately in England,
took part in 463 first-class matches, played 774
innings (47 not out), made 22,949 runs and accumu-
lated 34 centuries. His average was 31.56 per inn-
ings. A great field, his record of 575 catches in
first-class cricket has, outside the ranks of wicket-
keepers, only been exceeded by John Tunnicliffe. He
scored more runs for his county, Notts, than any
batsman who has ever played for it and his 492
catches for the team beats the record of any
other fieldsman, including the wicket-keepers. Against
Gloucestershire, in 1903, he made 296, which
was the best score ever made for Notts. Against
the same team, in 1899, he helped Arthur Shrews-
bury to put on 391 for the first wicket —another
record for Notts and second best in the world.
Jones was never seen at his top in Australia. lie
played in 21 matches, made 747 runs and pulled out
with an average of 23.34. Against Australian teams
here and in Fogland, however, his average was
31,56, so he was as successful against international
bowling as he was against county stuff.
A hostile stand for the last wicket was
made at Dunedin (M.L.) the other day in a first-
grade match, when “the Colts” were playing St.
Kilda. Going to the sticks first they had 177 for
nine ; Galland 57 not out. Then Crawford, who had
made himself last man because of a bad foot, went
in, and he and his partner pasted the bowling to
the 54 winds of Dunedin. They added 134 for the
last stick and rushed up the total to 311 before
Galland was bowled with his total at 115. v Craw-
ford hobbled back to the pavilion unbeaten with 76
against his name, having smitten six Sixes and six
fours.
* * * *
While N.S.W. and Queensland are grunt-
ling about the strenuousness of playing-off two or
three sectional struggles, the southern State rolls out
Pennant (B and C) contests, single-handed rink and
pairs championships and champion of champions
games. The bowls season is too short to allow of all
these being concluded on Saturdays ; but that doesn’t
matter—there are other days when a spare hour or
two are available. Result: the advancing standard of
play in the Cabbage Garden threatens to leave Ma at
the bottom.
* * * *
Unusual item from programme of the
present S.A. tennis tournament: “Men’s doubles,
class 1 ; Galway. Sir Henry L. and Mulholland, Hon.
J. G,, receive 15.” These are the Governor of South
Aus.'and his private secretary, and the former has
entered for the veterans’ doubles, too. Talking
of veterans, the Fitehetts, father and son, played in
the Vic. six against S.A.
* * * *
There’s a chance that Maoriland Lawn
Tennis Association will, “before long, have the coach-
ing' services of P. Lambert, the professional covered-
courts champion, of London. He has made over-
tures, and terms arc being negotiated.
* * w- *
Hamian, who will meet Webb on the
Wanganui on May 29 for the championship of Maori-
land, has been trumpeting lately about the sur-
passing merits, as a sculling course, of a strip of
water on the Wairau River, in Marlborough. As he
has decided to do his training' there, he is getting
the local inhabitants wildly interested in boat push-
ing. If Hannan beats Webb he will probably sit
down on the Wairau and prepare to defy all comers
there. The highly-flattered local inhabitants have
plenty of cash, and will probably be prepared to back
their new toy for any amount so long as the races
are rowed on local water. So far, Wairau River's
only claim to fame rests on an early-day massacre
of whites by infuriated Maoris.
* . * * *
Mick Simmons’s “Angler’s Guide for 1915”
contains just about everything that a fisherman wants
to know—tides, fishing spots, moon’s working hours,
artificial respiration hints, lawful length of fish, and
a fishing-resort directory ; everything, in fact, except
a list of reliable fish shops, indispensable to the mar-
ried amateur.


Royal
show
Moore Pork, Sydney,
50th MARCH to
7th APRIL, 1915.
GREATER THAN EVER.
Nothing dims the Magnificence of our
Great Exhibition.
1100 HORSES 1100
800 SLEEK AND BEAUTIFUL
CATTLE 800
100 JUMPING HORSES & PONIES 150
thrilling hunting contests.
SPARKLING TROTTING TRIALS.
14 acres MACHINERY 14 acres.
LARGEST EXHIBITION HALL IN
THE WORLD.
WONDERFUL DISPLAY OF AGRI-
CULTURAL PRODUCTS.
All for
ONE SHILLING ADMISSION.
H. M. SOMER,
Ocean House, Sydney. Secretary.
MY CIGARILLOS
ARE SMALL CIGARS.
i
Put up in three sizes, as illus-
trated, and, being of excep-
tional QUALITY, they are
ideal short smokes
something be-
tween a pipe or
cigar, yet more than
a cigarette. Try a
sample lot, and you
will always smoke
them.
In Tins of
20:
No. N'o. No.
1. 2. 3.
2/3 2 - 1/9
In Cedar
Boxes of 50:
No. No. No.
5/3 4/9 4/3
In Cedar
Boxes of
100:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
10/- 9/- 8/-
Postage Extra
on 100:
N.S.W. 6d.
Other States Bd.
Write for a
Copy of my
111 u s trated
C a t a 1 o g
Post Free.
Actual Size of Cigarillos.
AM. SOLOMON,
“ CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Armoured cars of the
AHi es are run on
SHELL'
BENZINE
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO.LTD.
1915
INDIAN BIG TWIN.
There are to-day 100,000 Indians of the
Big - Twin type on the road. No single Model
of any Motor-Cycle has behind it such a his-
tory of satisfied riders as the Indian Twin.
Call and see what the New 1915 Models,
built especially for Australian roads, are
made of. Complete range of sectional parts
in the various stages of manufacture.
Don’t let them fool yon about such make-
shifts as “Floating Saddle Posts” or “Spiral
Springs” making a “Spring Frame.” The
* Indian Cradle-Spring Frame is protected from
imitators by patents and high cost of produc-
tion. When riding an Indian you have the
satisfaction of knowing that whatever you meet
on the road cannot touch you for speed, relia-
bility or comfort.
CATALOGUE “D” ON REQUEST.
Hendee Manufacturing Co.
109-111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
AIR-SHIPS
f
Truly wonderful and mysterious, most
surprising and interesting toys. Com-'
plete apparatus for flying and control-
ling “electric air-ships,” that can be
made to rise to the ceiling, to race around a
room, to sail away calmly or to toss about in a
r storm. There are a dozen games that ca,n be played with
[this outfit, including “jumping torpedoes,” that is a really,
I amazing exhibition of electric power. Peeked in a box
(complete with illustrated, directions. Price 2/9, post free
THE ELECTRIC SHOOTING GAME
Shoot Lions, "Tigers,
.Elephants, Deer,.
Rabbits, Bears,
v Giraffes, /
Kangaroo, &c.\
a.
Will amuse and puzzle'
.everybody. Quite
exciting contests.
| Very surprising
' and novel.
The “Electric Gun” shoots “electric bullets” into the'
“game preserve,”.in which are 80 beasts, birds and reptiles,'
and points arc scored according to the number allotted to'
each animal shot. Many interesting experiments,
including an incipient display of thunder and lightning, can
be done with the outfit, that is packed in a box with full
illustrated directions. Price 3/-, post free anywhere.
The UNION COMPANY, 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
The two Electrical Novelties, if ordered together, may
be had for 5/*, carriage paid to any address. 1
Purity and
Perfection”
« 5 ,
Produced in model
factories uni er
perfect hygienic
conditions.
RIGNEY SHOES
mean made-to-order - satisfaction without
the delay and extra cost of being measured,
they are quality shoes, and made in all
styles and sizes.
The illustration shows a Choice Willow Calf
Derby Shoe. Fine-stitched Welts, Perforated
' amp, Lace Face, and Cap.
Prise - 22/6 and 25/-
In Black or Tan.
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR A COPY OF OUR
CATALOG,
dg
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“ The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
All Athletes
Use
BOSISTOS
EUCALYPTUS OIL.
* PARROT
BRAND •»
r 1
Wm§
Pf¥%:.v imamum
iwmxiKimmiisisim
<V - * .. * ' 4 4 \J
f. ■
E>
w
r.
S*
■ :
1
mmM
• j.
br
.
1
§1
■t
M
g£sH * ‘.^ < \>'\\ 1 1
. ■ ■
mmmmmmmmmtmmrnmuatm
mi
Bosisto’s •• Parrot Brand ** Eucalyptus Oil,
the Famed Remedy for Rheumatism, Sprains,
Bruises, Wounds, Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis
This “Wearite” Model
AT 20% BELOW ITS MARKET VALUE
Nowhere else in the Commonwealth would you he likely to find the
equal of this “Wearite” model, buyable at the price quoted below.
%'
ss
The Price of Leather has been
Steadily on the Up-grade for some
time, and the Tremendous De-
mands that the Equipment of Sol-
diers is making on the World’s
Stocks is sending it up some more,
and will send it still higher.
Under present conditions we could
not possibly buy this Boot to sell
at
16/6
POST
FREE.
THE REASON
OF THE REDUCTION
is that, months ago, we bought for future delivery, on a scale that
placed us in a unique position as to cost, and we have thus beaten
the Market. We now offer you the BENEFIT OF OUR BUYING.
The “WEARITE” at 16/6 is stoutly constructed in Fine, Soft, Fully-
seasoned Box Calf, with extra-strong Sole—Blucher Fronts—Leather
Lining Anti-Damp Filling. In Natural, Round and Medium Toes,
and in y 2 -sizes to each shape.(Also obtainable with Plain Fronts.)
A Boot for any and every wear.
POST— -YOUR ORDER
and Post it at once. Remember “We Guarantee Satisfaction,” under
penalty of a full refund.
LINCOLN, STUART & Co. Pty. Ltd.
“Specialists in Outfitting by Mail.”
244-254 FLINDERS STREET
MELBOURNE,


iraas
V*V&V s&s■'*
m
Js&'&t i •• v ■»«& ,y*' ;•]
<••■••. VfV-: ' : .as
M 2
Siiil
n
asg
w*
Tfsfr
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
KYNOCH “SWIFT” is
THE Cartridge for the
“man on the land.”
Smokeless—effective—
reliable—it is a really
good, low-priced Cart-
ridge, and is deservedly
popular.
Factory loaded; uni-
form in pattern and
penetration.
BRITISH MADE.
;
IMPROVED
Compass
Clynometer
For Taking LEVELS and ANGLES
Reading inclinations in inches
per yard or degrees.
Invaluable to Prospector, Miner, Geologist
Engineer and Squatter.
Strong, Compact. Best lacquer brass,
in. dia., Solid Leather Case.
Printed Instructions, POSTLD
22 6
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.,
189=191 George Street, Brisbane.
Government Notices.
PROSPECTUS.
Victorian Government
Loan Conversion.
Under the Authority of Act No. 2026.
Interest at Four per centum free of
State Income Tax.
Principal and Interest payable in
Melbourne.
Redemption Fund of Ten Shillings per
centum will be provided annually.
Act No. 1982 Treasury Bonds 3* per
cent., maturing Ist April, 1910 £1,248,500,
of which £1,000,000
is offered for conversion.
Applications will be received at the Revenue and
Pay Office, Treasury, Melbourne, until the Ist day of
April, 1915, from Holders of 34 per cent. Treasury
Bonds due Ist April, 1916, for the surrender and
conversion of such Bonds' into —
(a) Four per cent. Victorian Government De-
bentures under Act No. 2026. bear.ng date
Ist April, 1915, and due Ist April, 1927, or
(b) Four per cent. Victorian Government In-
scribed Stock under Act No. 2026, bearing
date Ist April, 1915, and inatur.ng Ist
April, 1927.
Conversion will be at the rate of .£lOO of De-
bentures or Inscribed Stock for each £lOO of
Bonds surrendered, and will take effect from Ist
April, 1915.
Interest at Four per cent., free of .State Income
Tffx, will be payable on Ist April and Ist October
in each year, the first half-year’s interest to be
payable on Ist October. 1915.
Applicants must specify which Security is _ re-
quired, and in the case of Debentures the Denomina-
tion desired.
Stock may be inscribed in the name of —
(1) Sole proprietor;
(2) Joint proprietors not exceeding four (4) ;
(3) Corporations.
In case of joint proprietors the principal can be
dealt with only on the signatures of all the joint
holders.
Interest may be paid-
fad to the proprietor on application at the Treas-
ury or at any Treasury Office in Victoria ;
(b) by ’cheque posted to the proprietor’s registered
address;
(c) by payment into the proprietors account in a
bank at Melbourne.
Applications addressed to the Honorable the Trea-
surer, accompanied by the Bonds with the interest
coupons for the unexpired term attached, must be
lodged at the • Treasury, Melbourne, on or before the
date named. , , , „
Receipts v ill be given for Bonds lodged for con-
version, and pending the delivery of Debentures or
inscription of Stock the rights held under the
receipts may be transferred either wholly or in part
on application at the Treasury.
Members of recognised Stock' Exchanges of Aus-
tralasia will be allowed Brokerage of One-half per
cent, upon all conversions applied for through them.
Brokerage will be payable on lodgment of the Bonds.
Forms of Application may be obtained at the
Revenue and Pay Office, State Treasury, Melbourne,
where a copy of the authorising Act may he in-
SpeCted ’ A .T PEACOCK.
The Treasury. Treasurer, of Victoria.
Melbourne! 2ml March. 1915.
Savoy Hotel, Perth
(The Ritz of the West).
80 Luxurious Apartments.
Ball, Banquet, Reception and English Grill
Room.
SAVOY LOUNGE TEAS.
Perth’s Fashionable Function,
EXCLUSIVE ORCHESTRA.
'
MM.
m
Recherche Dinners.
Smart Lunches.
Exquisite Suppers.
American Bar.
Wire “SAVOY, PERTH.”
G. D. PORT VS, Proprietor.
G>
4
\
/
THE IDEAL COUNTRY LIGHT
A Complete House
Plant for
£l6/17/6
No machinery, weights or derricks.
No possible chance of explosion.
500 candle-power light per '/ 2 d. an hour.
The GLORIA is the Cheapest Light in Installation and
Maintenance. No smell.
No condensation. No danger.
FREE TRlftl GIVEN
Write for Particulars and Catalogue to
GLORIA CHAMBERS, 155 a Clarence Street,
___ SYDNEY..
45
fil
Jokes, Puzzles, Tricks, Novelties.
Write for
New Catalogue,
Post Free.
art 1 wz «
The Radium Pack of Cards.
Over 100 card tricks can be worked without, any skill,
('aids can be used as ordinary playing cards. Post free
with full instructions, 1/9.
The Joker’s Packet,
containing—
The Touch-me-not Matchbox, |
Joker’s Plate latter,
Joker’s Scent Bottle, '
These three good jokes
post free for 2/6.
Our New Catalog, which is a Novelty in itself, is Free.
H. L. HUTCHINSON LTD.- New York Novelty Co.,
708-710 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office, Sydney.
— LxjfVuna —
CURES ECZEMA
And all Irritations of the Skin.
From the very first application the skin becomes healthy and clean
again, and every disfiguring pimple or rash completely disappears.
The Greatest Skin Cure of the Age.
Exzerma is a household remedy, and no home should be without it.
Compounded from Australian herbs and roots.
Large Bottle,
5/-
Obtainable from all Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout
Australasia.
None genuine without the signaturt
S. FIELDER.
Small Bottle,
26
P
Real Hair Grower
Found at Last!
The Great American Discovery tc CrystoliS ”
“ Grows Hair in 30 Days.”
We Can Prove Our Claim. Read Our Guarantee.
Try It at Our Risk. Post Coupon To=day.
Here’s good news at last for men and women
whose hair is falling, who are growing bald and
grey, whose scalps are covered with dandruff that
nothing seems to keep away, and whose heads itch
like mad.
Good news even for those who imagine themselves
hopelessly and incurably bald, or who suffer from
hair or scalp trouble of any kind.
We have had granted to us the sole Australasian
rights for the great American discovery, “Crystolis,”
the new hair remedy, that in Europe and America has
been called the most wonderful discovery of the
century, having been awarded Gold Medals at the
big Paris and Brussels Expositions.
Hundreds of men and women have written us to
tell of phei omenal results obtained by its "se.
People who have been bald for years tell how they
iow glorv in their beautiful hair, ' fliers wvo have
had dandruff all their lives say they have now a
clean, healthy scalp and that hair stopped falling
after a few applications of this wonderful new'
treatment.
We don’t care whether you are bothered with
falling hair, prematurely grey hair, matte 1 hair <”•
stringy hair: dandruff, itching scalp, or any or all
forms'of hair trouble, we want you to try “GU YS
TOLIS,” at our risk.
Wc give you a binding guarantee without any
“strings” or ml tape, that il won’t cost you a
cent if we do not prove to you that “Crystolis” will
do all w : e claim for it. Cut, out the coupon below
and post it to-<l-v to Cveslo Laboratories. D-'king
House. D-pt. 200-B, Rawson Place, Sydney, N.S.W.
FREE COUPON.
I'lk' Credo La'oratories, Dakins' House, Dept.
200-B, Rawson Place, Sydney, N.S.W.
I am a reader of Tmt Bcllutix. Prove
to me without cost how “Crystolis” stops falling
hair, banishes dandruff and itching scalps arid
restores grey and faded hair to natural color.
Write your name and address plainly and
PIN THIS COUPON TO YOUR LETTER.
Beautiful Hair and lots of it—if you use "C" rystolii
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENT.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of comm.unications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
G.G.: Whv should a woman who has
qualified in law meekly stand aside in the profes-
sional backyard until all the “briefless barristers”
(that is, male barristers) have found a job? Why
should the brainy daughter of a Judge not fill the
same post as a son could be (and frequently is)
appointed to without attracting anyone’s attention?
....Nib: It’s just plain lunacy to suggest that by
popularising what is now criminal “a remedy will
be found in the drastic alteration of our social laws.”
As well talk of putting an end to thieving by in-
structing everyone to thieve good and hard, at the
same time abolishing all the penalties imposed on
theft. .. . S.E.A.: Thanks. As you say, it was pro-
bably a mistake to resurrect it —further, anyway,
than the first par. on the subject.... Matey: Try
again. Could stand a quarter-column on that subject
f it were handled with thoroughness. .. .N.E.: The
censor holds back the flood. Wait. .. .5.11. W.:
Cannot acknowledge clippings from other papers.
They come in clouds. .. .Nuki: That yarn about the
Maoriland grocer’s wife who found £lOOO packed in
a picture frame has been reaching us 15 times a day
for weeks. . . .G. Tracy: Apparently not procurable in
Australia. Order from nearest bookseller. .. .
L.C.M.K.: Something rather resembling the lines you
so callously misquote are to be found in Words-
worth’s ode on “The Intimations of Immortality”-
last two lines....E. S. Jerdan: “The Terrible Meek,”
by Charles Rann Kennedy, author df “The Servant in
the House,” recently produced by the Sydney Reper-
tory Society... .Ephraim Adams: Your volume of
sacred poems has failed to reach this office for re-
view. Even the Religious Editor denies all know-
ledge of it, though he wears a furtive look behind his
whiskers. The suspense is becoming unbearable.
Judging by vdur samples of secular verse we should
advise you to continue in the sacred vein. There is
--at least, on this paper —much less competition in
that line. .. .G.A.W. (M.L ) : Can’t identify quota-
tion—and doubt if it is really worth while....
Helensburgh Navvy: All right; we’ll tell him not to
mistake counter-lunch wolves for respectable navvies
again.... Rabbo: Glad to hear the school children
Outback didn’t know the name of the Governor. By
the way, what is his name ?... . Bilcrest: Can’t you
thatch?. .. .Whaffor: Better tell it to Adelaide Health
Department... .Chloe: (1) “Montalex” does know;
(2) where did you get. the idea that “a picturesque
lie is much better than a common-place truth”?....
J.P.: Your sporting copy is always late; shake it
up....C.M.: Faint pencil-written par. to hand;
kindly forward the telescope.... Leo: Paragraph
beginning: “Now I looked, and, behold, a whirlwind
came out of the north,” is not much good. In fact,
it’s no good. Incidentally, the man you cribbed
the phrase from wrote “and” where you wrote
“n0w.”... .Inquirer: There may be something in the
drink cure you mention, but from all accounts the
odds are in favor of alcohol —about a thousand to
one 0n... .R.J.L.: Nonsense! Archdeacon Boyce,
principal driver of the water-waggon in N. S. Wales,
can sniff the perfumes of two breweries as he rounds
up the thrums in his tabernacle.... Scamp: Can’t
make out whether he went from the bier to the pier
'or from the pier to the beer.. Anyhow, where is he
now, and what does it matter?. .. .Avon: So for a
woman to steal a p. 0.0. out of a letter addressed to
her husband “sounds like comic opera.” You’re
going to have some great fun. young man, when
you marry a maid. .. . R.E.E.: It isn’t a poem; it’s
a groan and three howls. . . .G.E.: This is your place,
marked with an X: —-
In peace or war I’ll back the chopper,
if vou’re tired of kids and missus
well 1 a rifle often misses,
and' then the missus hisses,
there’s the copper at the door ;
but if you use a chopper
& expose the late lamented
all laid out on the floor —•
but we can’t give any more hints for 6d Camp-
bell: You’ve discovered the way to the basket....
F.8.Q.: Leave you wrenching the organ-handle in
front of your literary motor. Can’t wait to see the
result.... Ernest C.: “Distant Star” fails. Others
are possibles. .. .E.F.L.: Must you- continue to reel
off this stuff ?. .. .A.H.8.: Cheery rhyme which filled
us with deep depression. .. .W.N.R.: Give it to your
Bananaland editor. . . .Lalla: Story unsuitable for B.
No name or address on copy. .. . J.A.F.: Your in-
articulate rage would not interest the public.. . .
.. . . Fernleaf: Nine yawns... .U.E. (M.L.) : Amiable
sort of domestic story, but not the type we are
after. .. .8.1. J.: Sigh for whisky somewhere else.


The more pleasant your Easter holiday
the more you’ll need a Premoette Jr.
An efficient Camera for
30
p
, w
m
i!3
mt-y.
<a3»»
A marvellously compact Camera, just a trifle larger tlian the pictures it
makes, and so well made, so carefully equipped and tested, that it makes
pictures equal in quality to those made by much larger and more
expensive cameras.
It will go into any coat pocket or a lady’s handbag, and will produce sharp,
crisp negatives which will yield good size pictures by contact, or excellent
enlargements of almost any size.
The Premoette Jr. No. lis well made in every respedt. It loads in daylight,
is fitted with ball-bearing automatic shutter and carefully tested lens, and
makes 2Jin. x 3Jin. pidlures. Weighs only 11 ounces. Dimensions
lj x3x 4J inches. Price 30/-
The Premo-excellent for holiday snapshots.
Light, compact, simple and highly efficient, a Premo can be easily carried anywhere, and will make pictures for
you with practically no effort on your part.
Premos load in daylight, they are fitted with tested lenses, fully accurate, reliable shutters, and are thoroughly
dependable cameras in every respect. A model we specially recommend is the
POCKET PREMO C.
For Quarter Plates or Film, £2/10/- For Postcard Plates or Film, £3/3/-
Get genuine Kodak goods—quality and experience are behind them. Ask for the latest Kodak Catalogue.
&
KODAK
(Australasia)
fl
Incorporating Baker Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY—379 George Street.
MELBOURNE—“The Block,” 284 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE —37 Bundle Street.
BRISBANE—2SO-252 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA—Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE—FIinders Street.
ROCKHAMPTON —Denham Street.
BROKEN HILL—346 Argent Street.
WELLINGTON (N.Z.) —Dixon Street.
AUCKLAND (N.Z.) —3 Lome Street.
DUNEDIN (N.Z.) —76 Stuart Street.
"Deering" Chain Grain Drive
—lt cannot change unless
YOU change it.
!, DEER!NG" SAT I S FACT IQ IN '
A man will never know absolute drill-satisfaction until he has used the "Deering" Chain. Drive
Grain Drill—that satisfaction obtainable only from perfection in every detail of seed-sowing.
In several important features the "Deering" is entirely different to any other drill, sold, and it’s
these features that make it so sought after. No other drill (except the * McCormick*), has • -'Swk-oSfet'
this New Grain Sowing Device that plants just the quantity of seed set for—no more and
"no less—and does it acre after acre and day after day—it cannot change unless YOU change it.
Look up our local agent in your town and inspect sample, or send now for
post free pamphlet containing full illustrated and descriptive particulars.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER CO. OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
Brisbane Sydney Melbourne Adelaide Perth Launceston
V v
: .
• .
WBBBSBBSBSBSm
■
M . :
I N
8
m
* w
, ■


Weatherproof
TULLE
<1 Ordinary Tulle—when exposed to
moist, damp air or rain—quickly loses the
distinctive charm of the fabric.
*1 Don’t buy ordinary Tulle when you can get
“Dynamo” Rainproof Tulle. If your Hat
is tr mmed with “ Dynamo ” you know before-
h nd that weather can t mir its beauty.
“Dynamo” Tulle is proof against climate
and weather. The hat you trim with it can be
worn fearlessly anywhere —-everywhere. Damp
atmosphere and rain won’t worry you because
D/namo ’' is waterproof.
Q The economy of “ Dynamo ” is self-apparent
%fO#>
—-months after ordinary Tulle
has become limp and lifeless it
still looks the same as when
purchased. Frequent renewals
are entirely dispensed with.
:
PROOF Tulle
36 ins. wide. In Black, White
and all fashionable shades.
9d., 10R, 1/-, 1/3 and 1/6
per yirJ upwi.ds.
d, All the best Milliner's us* ** Dynamo” Rainproof
Tulle. All the best Stores sell it by the yard. But
be sure you get the genuine. The name is on the end
of the card on which the Tulle is wound. If any
difiiculty ; in obtaining locally, send direct to address
below, statin' colour, quanti y and price per yard, and
we will sees Shat you are imm diately supplied.
“DYNAMO” ENQUIRY DEPT.,
Carlton House, York Street, Sydney.
Fisher's Adver isinz Agency.
r
□
KIT 2*
£9
m
ss®
KITZ'S
CIDER.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
QUICKLY REMOVES.
SKIN ERUPTIONS
ENSURING
A CLEAR COMPLEXION •
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable
Pimples, - disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema
disappear by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
Bottles 1/- and 2/9.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema.
Scurf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin
Specialists, J. Pepper & Co., Ltd., Bedford
Laboratories, London, S.E., and can be obtained
direct from them by post or from
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.
Sulpholine quickly removes the effects of Sunscorch
ke
egg
' f
r
Isis Downs, Queensland—6o Stands
SHEAR WITH THE
BEST MACHINERY
Bring your shearing uo-to-date by using only
the FALKINER ELECTRIC Sheep Shearing Ma-
chinery, invented by a man who knew what was
wanted in Australia, and supplied that want.
The following are some of the special advantages of the famous
Falkiner Electric Shearing Equipment
1. It is easy to erect.
2. Entire absence o f troublesome
line shafting.
3. Independent motor for each man.
4. Electric power available for shed
lighting.
5. The patent universal joint enables
the shearer to work with ease
and comfort.
6. Any hand piece may be used.
7. Silent running and practically no
vibration.
8. No special type of shed necessary
—FALKINER ELECTRIC MA-
CHINERY will fit any shed, old
or new.
9. Electricity is the safest, cheapest
and cleanest power.
Write for full details, also for our illustrated leaflet, dealing with the Electric Lighting of Shearing Sheds
FALKINER ELECTRIC CO.
103-5 William Street, Melbourne, and
Somerset House, 5 Moore Street, Sydney
Mr. H. GRIN DELL MATTHEWS (the Inventor Mr. ROBERT RADFORD (the well-knoWtt
ot Wireless Telephony) write^— ‘T sutlerej from Singer) writes:—“l have derived the greatest
sl°««s4psßg fat
irrMjuJjfat Jffll d
some conditions, or for dejection, ihd it imriie- ..
, _ , _ , vocally relaxed, Phosferine immediately restores
dtately renews the strength of my nerves, and , , . , . ,
. . „ . .I, resonance and brightness to the voice, banishes
exercises a stimulating effect Ml the whole of . „ , ~
B lassitude, and generally tones up the system.
the nervous ®m. 63, Haverstock Hill, London, England.
fered from Singer) writes: —“I have derived the greatest
Miss EM
Actress, v
and exi^H
the talented and charming
have used Phosferine with really
@JMKV general health. The unusual exertions
make one nervously anxious and
much 'induces dull
effectually
\ tonic for
Votes the
P*
*-‘XIX
ly miracu
iMMii
iiliiti
mßsm
? In al
r) therr
H
hosferine
will find it
self.*—l64, High Rd.,
any invalf
mother
Mr. B. C. HUCKS (the w jfj*
Englishman to " Loop thg,
-eally must express my ap]
PKne back I felt myself in a
brought on, no doubt, by theS
under all sorts of weather
tour last summer. I had
becoming shaken. I was advised
quite astonished at the beneficial
the first few doses. 1 am now
and ready to start upon a season's promises to
onsiderable more arduous than the la#.”— ll6, Piccadilly
London, England
tog dreary
weather.
order, and
iityasmy
ndon, Eng.
At the hands of any Chemist this is what you should obtain
PHOSFERINE is a World-wide Remedy for
HONORED
v
COMMAND;
Indigestion
Anaemia
Insomnia
Lassitude
Debility
Neuralgia
Loss of Appetite
All Nerve Trouble
Just sto 10 drops of this golden remedy in a wineglass of water.
The original and Genuine PHOSFERINE is in buff packages, and be particular to
notice th ti is spelt P-H-O-S-F-E-R-l-N-E. Price —l", 2/6 & 4/6. If you find any diffi-
culty in obtaining supplies send Postal Note to Ashton & Parsons, 408 Collins St. Melb.
One of the Best !
Me ALL 8 STE R’S
Crystal Palace Hotel
GEORGE STREET, opp. Railway Stn„, Sydney
Highest quality Liquors kept on stock. Wholesale and
retail Bottle Department, Quay Street.
Intending visitors to Sydney should write and secure
accommodation at *the above first class up-to-date Hotel.
Every Convenience :: :: Charges Moderate
Private Entrance through vestibule, Quay Street
Mrs. E. McAllister, Proprietress
(U This Hotel has been thoroughly renovated and -furnished
throughout, and is now complete with every convenience.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings. I ull
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.
Richard Baker, who died last week at
Elsternwick (Vic.)* aged 84, was the last
survivor of the J. B. Patterson Ministry of
1892-4. Baker, born in IS3O in the Isle of
Wight, arrived in Victoria at the age of 24,
and was one of the promoters of the Bal-
larat Miners’ Association. In 1883 he en-
tered Parliament as member for Wimmera,
and, on the subdivision of that electorate, he
sat for Lowan. He was first of all ap-
pointed an honorary Minister by Patterson,
but subsequently had charge first* of Educa-
tion and then of the Customs. At the Pat-
tersonian rout Baker was defeated by Ice-
berg Irvine, who on two previous occasions
had run him very close. Baker subsequently
appeared as a candidate for the Senate in
the first Federal election, but was the tooth-
less old tike that chased the mob home.
The Turk was more than usually imbecile
in letting Germany bully him into this war.
Up to August last year Asia Minor was in
a fair way to be peacefully annexed by the
Kaiser, i.e., as peacefully as any annexation
could be accomplished by diplomatists who
offered the Sultan the option of cloinsr busi-
ness .with the Deutscher Bank or the
Deutscher Army. But Germany didn't own
Turkey-in-Asia. Its financial agents, with
the army at the back of them, had merely
got the Baghdad railway, certain rights in
the land about it, and vast prospective gains.
When the war broke out, Britain, France
and Russia became at once the probable
future possessors of Germany’s property in
that line and the rights appertaining thereto.
The suzerainty—more valuable under the
new conditions—would still have remained
with the Sultan. But Germany bullied the
deluded ass into an alliance for the protec-
tion of the Germany property—this in spite
of Sir Edward Grey’s repeated warnings—
and now the Allies are going to take control
of the whole Turkish kingdom, leaving the
Government no rights whatever in the Bagh-
dad railway.
When .Tack Scaddan established his three
State mills in the forests of the south-
west (W.A.) lie anticipated an order for a
million and a half powellised karri sleepers
for the trans-Australian railway. Owing to
a bungle, the contract was unsigned when
To Cook took charge of things. Presently
Jo cut down the order to half a million, and
that lot is now nearly ready. There are no
other big orders on hand. To make matters
worse, Millars’’Co., the State’s most powerful
competitor in the sleeper line, reports that as
there is nothing doing abroad on account of
the big blaze in Europe, it will be com-
pelled to close all but tw-o or three of its 13
mills at the end of March. But “Happy
Jack” still doesn’t worry. He smilingly in-
terviews unemployed deputations, views
his million deficit with calmness and dignity,
and turns to consider a brilliant scheme for
establishing State works to pickle porcu-
pines or something of the sort.
“T.A.”: Customs Minister Tudor’s reply
to the deputation which came to him to cry
over the duty on chairs was cheerful reading.
Good old Bill Lyne, who put up such a fight
for the first Federal Tariff, proposed a duty
of 7s. 6d. on chairs —a crude proposition,
though it would have been effective if
carried. The duty that got through then
was -simply one to produce revenue. The
impost on doors at that time effectually shut
out the thousands which had been arriving
from the U.S.A., and gave local makers a
chance; but we still had to use American
timber. Now there are several factories on
the N.S.W. North Coast and Queensland
making the goods of local timber and making
them equal to anything imported. War rates
on lumber have given the necessary lift.
So, too, there is nothing to prevent chairs
being made. There are timbers in our scrubs
as good as any in the world for this work.
If the present duty is maintained every
human perch required for ordinary use in
Australia should be made locally. And the
more the better for the local cocky, as well
as other people. Even now, at some towns,
nearly half the supply of butter made at the
dairy factory is consumed in the district, and,
the consumers usually pay about 10s. per
cwt. more than the producers could net for
the same butter if they had to dispose of it
in Sydney.
Love moves in a liysterious way its blun-
ders to perform. A Victorian woman whose
husband had not been home for a couple of
days met him with a revolver on his return,
and poured some lead into his body. At
this stage they became quite friendly, and
when the woman was tried she was released
upon her husband going surety for her
future conduct. She was luckier than the
woman who presented her lover with four
bullets in Napier (M.L.). She will have
to stand her trial for murder; and a Sydney
man who shot the woman who wouldn’t
marry him has a “lifer” to work out. These
cases were mentioned in a single day’s
paper, and no paper knows more than a frac-
tion of such happenings. In fact, they only
come into prominence, as a rule, when a
corpse decorated with holes has been left
untidily on the premises.
Hard cases may make bad law, but that
is merely because of the legal ass’s slavish
regard for precedent—which often isn’t
precedent, the facts being wholly unlike.
But whatever the effect on “the law,”
clemency might be extended in regard to a
. case which came before the Sydney Quarter
Sessions the other day. The charge affected
a Katoomba man whose wife was not living
with him —was alleged to be doing worse
than that, in fact. He had taken unto him-
self a “housekeeper” to look after his chil-
dren, and the two were regarded as man
and wife. Largely in the interests of the
other children, when an infant was born
the man made a declaration to the Regis-
trar of Births that the woman was his wife;
whereon the Law fell upon him and put
him up behind the spikes. The accused’s
employer, giving evidence on his behalf,
said the accused was the best man in his
employ; but Judge,Docker merely remarked,
in his usual affable way, that the prisoner
was liable to seven years’ imprisonment, but
would only . get 12 months. So, for
an act that was doubtless foolish, though
it may have been rather to the credit of the
man than otherwise, and which did nobody
harm, the State will be charged with the
keep of a citizen whose work is wanted out-
side, a lid his dependents will either starve or
also be a charge on the State; and it will
be amazing if he comes out of gaol as good
and useful as he went in.


$
Beale Player-Pianos
are Made in Australia.
therefore merit your consideration, but , your
i custom is not sought for “patriotic reasons,” but
because we conscientiously believe the Beale Player-
Piano superior to any imported player-piano.
•• ; ' '* • Y . •** ~'V i • • % /&'
We have many times been urged by our customers,
agents and travellers to add a player-piano to out lists,
but we have always declined until now we can offer the
first perfect player mechanism, an instrument upon which
any kind of music can be played by any person with any
degree of tone color or expression, and the durability of
which in our extreme climate is beyond doubt.
The Beale Player-Piano is manufactured on a
unique principle from non-corrosive metal instead of
wood. Ihe efficiency of a player-piano depending abso-
lutely upon its remaining air-tight, the use of metal
mainly aluminium —instead of porous wood will be
appreciated, but the full advantage of its application on
the Beale Player-Piano principle can only be fully realised
by your personal comparison of the Beale Player-Piano and
any high-grade imported instrument. Such comparison
must convince you of the superiority of the Beale Player-
Piano as a beautiful musical instrument, and a reliable and
durable specimen of the finest art of the piano makei.
Cost of workmanship and materials has never
entered into our manufacturing calculations. The beauti-
ful rich, mellow tone of the piano and the exti erne
sensitiveness, expressiveness and ease of operation of the
plaver are an inspiration to the artist and amateur alike.
I
M
lead Office and Factories: 41-47 Trafalgar Street, Annandale, SYDNEY,
Showrooms: 136 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY; and at
Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange, Wagga, Lismore, Broken Hill, Brisbane,
Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville, Cairns, Mackay, Melbourne,
Adelaide and Perth.


£4/10/-
Presentation 8-Day White Onyx Clock,
Gilt Ornamentations, Porcelain Dial, Visible Escape-
ment. Strikes hours and half-hours.
£2.
1 4-day Cabinet Clock, Solid Oak Case, Fancy Embossed
Dial, strikes hours and half-hours on deep-toned Gong.
SEND TO-DAY FOR OUR FREE CLOCK CATALOGUE.’
GOOD CLOCKS!
handsome, modern, reliable—can always be procured from the
Clock House of A. Saunders. Send for our beautiful Clock
Catalogue, and then give us a trial.
FREIGHT
EXTRA.
Oiled,
Regulated
and
Guaranteed
to be in
First-class
Order
before,
leaving
our
Showrooms.
%
10
2
9
3
1
8
a
mnnnnvmmnr
FREIGHT
EXTRA.
Promptly
Selected,
Carefully
Packed
and
Strongly
Cased
by our
Clock
Experts.
£7/10/-
Westminster Chiming 8-Day Hall ClocI:,
Solid Oak Case, Silvered Dial. Chimes full West-
minster Chime every quarter-hour.
A. SAUNDERS,
807-817 GEORGE STREET (Opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY.
25/-
8-Day Marblette ( lock, Bronze Caps and Feet,
Ivorine Dial, strikes liours on (Cathedral-tone Gong, and
halt-hour on Bell. THIS CLOCK IS SPECIAL VALUE.
2
0
9
3
; ■ ■■ ■
£2.
8-Day Inlaid Mahogany Clock, ivorine Dial, strikes
hours and half-hours.
FREIGHT MUST BE ADDED ON COUNTRY ORDERS.
New Blue Amberol
Records for March.
Special Patriotic Selections.
df
This month sees the introduction of the finest range of
patriotic airs yet offered in one month. You need but to glance
through this list to realise the variety and excellence of those
now ready.
Included are some grand old airs, and some of the latest. All
are good. ...
We specially draw your attention to “It’s a Long Way to
Tipperary” (Albert Farrington) ; “La Marseillaise” (New
York Military Band) ; “Hearts of Oak” (Peter Dawson) ; “Sol-
diers of the King” (Joseph A. Phillips and Chorus) ; Russian
and Belgian Airs (New York Military Band) ; and “Rule
Britannia” (Albert Farrington and Chorus).
Call at your nearest Edison dealer’s and have him play any
you fancy.
Blue Amberol Regular Records
2439
2461
2483
2486
2487
2331 S
23328
23329
23330
23331
23332
23333
La Marseillaise —
New York Military Band
.1
Soldiers of tlie King-—Baritone, oreh.,
acc. Joseph A. Phillips & Chorus
Russian and Belgian Airs—
New York Military Band
Rule Britannia —Baritone, Band acc.
Albert Farrington & Chorus
It’s a Long Way to Tipperary—Baritone,
orch. acc. Albert Farrington '
God Save the King—
Peter Dawson & National Military Band
Regimental
Regimental
Cavalry 'Charge Edison Military Baiid
Sons of the Brave—March-r-
National Military Band
Triumphal March —
New York Military Band
Hearts of Oak—Baritone, orch. acc.
Peter Dawson
Marches No.
•’2-7-
; Military
■Military BaiuP
Li: -
23334 So You Want to be a Soldier. Little
MaiiiI—Baritone, 1 —Baritone, mob. aoo.
David Brawll
23333 The Trumpeter -Baritone, urcb. aee.
Peter Dawson
23330 Two Grenadiers— Baritone, ot'ell ate.
Earl Cartwright
* . %r > I
2333“ The March of llie Cameron Men —Bari-
tone, orch. ace. T. I’. Kinniburgh
23338 The Admiral's Broom -Baritone, oreli.
acc, Peter Dawson
23339 Passing Review —Patrol
National Guard Fife and Drum Corps
-23340 Our Troops National Military Band
23341 Gems of England-
National Military Band
■• r *
23342 Gems of Ireland—
National Military Band
„3343 Gems of Scotland-
National Military Band
23344 Gems of Wales —
National Military Band
22310 The I'D ina S<(uadron
National Mildal'} Bailil
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
SIEMENS
Machine Switchgear WorKs: STAFFORD, ENGLAND
Cable &. Telegraph WorKs: WOOLWICH, LONDON
Incandescent Lamp WorKs: DALSTON, LONDON
STOCK MACHINES
; B
AC and DC Machines ready for immediate
delivery. Let us have your enquiries.
They will receive prompt attention.
vSiemens Bros. Dynamo
WorKs Limited
Head Office —London.
Australian Offices :
59 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
42 Bridge Street.
SYDNEY.


FORCRUTGHING OR SHEARING
HERE IS A MACHINE THAT STANDS SUPREME THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.
The COOPER LITTLE WONDER
Has everything that could be desired in a Portable Crutching or Shearing
™ant.
It can be taken to the Paddock or elsewhere, chocks placed on wheels and
set to work at once. No shed or installing necessary. Strong, compact and effi-
cient ; weighs under 4001 b. It has a standard 2-brake h.p. engine, which can be
used after crutching or shearing, for pumping water and other work. Engine,
Grinder, Tool Box, and all mounted on a good, strong hand lorry. Everything is
of the finest material and workmanship throughout, and all extras are included
ready for work.
Price, Complete as described ... £6O
Without Hand Lorry £5O
CAN SHIP PROMPTLY FROM ANY STATE CAPITAL.
COOPER ENGINEERING CO., 6 Young Street, Sydney
COOPER Shearing
Machinery will
be Exhibited at
the Sydney Show.
‘ Music washes away from the soul,
—The dust of everyday life.”
— Auerbach.
frxz
y&
m
Qrapt
mstim
M
TJSIC is above all an up-
lifting art, and finds
its fullest expression
in the “Melville Clark”
Player Piano, with its wonderful shading of tone
and expression.
You will find your Player Piano never becomes
an “old story” when you acquire the habit of get-
ting new rolls from
The British Pianoforte Depot
Player-Library.
Anyone can join. There are four good reasons
why YOU should do so. First —greater selection.
We have by far the largest number and the most
varied selection of Polls in the Southern Hemi-
sphere, and these are augmented by monthly sup-
plies. Second —We supply Polls for 58, 65 or 88
note music. Third —Our subscription is lower
than any other Library; and, fourth, anyone can
join, because our Library is suited to all standard
cabinet or combination Players.,
Terms on application to the Library
Department. Inquire now.
The British Pianoforte Depot Ltd.,
45 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. WYNYARD STREET).
AQQREQATE BALANCE-SHEET
OF THE
COMMONWEALTH BANK Of AUSTRALIA
at 31st DECEMBER, 1914.
LIABILITIES.
Deposits, Accrued Interest and
Rebate £4,970,881 6 9
Bills Payable and other Liabilities 285,050 17 7
Savings Bank Department—•
Depositors’ Bal-
ances .. £6,007,975 12 10
(With Interest
Accrued) . . 70,416 14 1
6,078,392 6 11
Capital—Debentures Issued - - -
Reserve Fund .... - * *
Redemption Fund .... - - -
Contingent Liabilities-
Outstanding Credits per Contra
£11,334,324 11 ,3
26,179 11 9
£11,360,504 3 0
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion and Cash Balances .. £3,611,707
Australian Commonwealth Notes . . 379,890
Money at Short Call in London . . 394,999
Investments —
British, Colonial and Government
Securities (face value, £3,364,606
14s. 4d.) .. .. 3,292,209
Commonwealth Securities
Fixed Deposits of other Banks .. 922,500
Bills Receivable in London and Re-
mittances in Transit . . . . 455,784
Bills Discounted, Loans and Ad-
vances to Customers and other
sums due to the Bank .. . . 2,178,477
Bank Premises . . • . • • 75,188
Profit and Loss . . .. • • 23,566
3 2
0 0
15 5
7 4
0 0
16 8
12 5
19 4
16 11
£11,334,324 11 3
Liabilities of Customers and others
on Letters of Credit per Contra , 26,179 11 9
£11,360,504 3 0
Dr.
PROFIT AND DOSS.
Cr.
To Amount from last Account .. £36,995 14 10
„ Reserve Fund . . .. • • - •
~ Redemption Fund . . . . - ■
£36,995 14 10
By Profits for Half-year ended 31st
December, 1914 .. .. •• £13,428 17 11
„ Balance carried to next Half-year 23,566 16 11
£36,995 14 10
Gold Coin and Bullion held for the Treasurer of the Commonwealth.
The Bank also holds in Gold Coin and Bullion for the Treasurer of the Commonwealth £2,739,972 17 0
certify that the above Balance-Sheet, compiled-,
from Statements furnished by the several offices |
of the Bank, is true and correct.
H. T. ARMITAGE.
D. B. MURDOCH. J
DENISON MIDLER, Governor.
Sydney, 18th February, 1915.
AUDITOR-GENERAL’S REPORT.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 20 of the Commonwealth Bank Act, 1911, I have to
report that the Aggregate Balance-Sheet of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia for the half-year ended
the 31st December, 1914, has been examined by officers under my direction as well as by myself. The
several items of the account, as above set forth, have been verified with the books and vouchers, with the
securities held by the Bank, and with Statements certified by the respective Managers and Accountants
° f *l®have" obtained all the information and explanations required by me. The said Balance-Sheet has
been prepared in the form prescribed by the Regulations under the Act, and, in my opinion, it exhibits
a correct view of the affairs of the Bank. „ ~ i 11 r. j/u -o i
I have also to report that the sum of £2,739,972 17s. Od above set forth was held by the Bank in
Gold Coin and Bullion for the Treasurer of the Commonwealth.
sth March, 1915. J- W. ISRAEL, Auditor-General for the Commonwealth.
Pen
The Self-filling
Safety Fountain
52
Pieces
for
£4
post free.
: •" I': .
Stewart Dawson’s Special
£4 Cutlery Cabinet
containing 52 pieces of the best Sheffield Cutlery, specially packed for
STEWART DAWSON’S by one of the largest English Cutlers. The
Forks and Spoons are SOLID POLISHED NICKEL, and can be depended
upon to wear white for a lifetime. They never tarnish or stain. Each Set
complete in solid Leather-covered Case, lined in Purple. Contents:
6 Best Xylonite Handle Table Knives
fi Best Xylonite Handle Dessert Knives
1 Pair Best Xylonite Handle Carvers
1 only Best Quick-sharpening Steel
6 Solid Nickel Table Forks
6 Solid Nickel Dessert Forks
2 Solid Nickel Table Spoons
6 Solid Nickel Dessert Spoons
6 Solid Nickel Tea Spoons
6 Solid Nickel Afternoon Tea Spoons
1 Solid Nickel Sugar Spoon
2 Solid Nickel Salt Spoons
2 Solid Nickel Mustard Spoons
52 Pieces, posted free . . . .
801-
Other Cabinets at £6/17/6, £9/10/-, £l2/10/-, £23/10/-,
£35, £47/10/-
Mail-order Catalogue posted free anywhere.
STEWART DAWSON’S
Strand Corner,
412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


Hanking;, Public Companies, &c.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners—•
R. A. WARDEN (President), W. H. O’M. WOOD,
H. D. HALL.
Security and Satisfactory
Interest
are the leading features of this Institution.
Deposits received from 1/- upwards.
Interest paid at 31% on first £2OO, and 3%
on excess to £5OO.
The Bank has 130 Branches and over 500
Agencies. No Agencies at Post Offices.
DEPOSITS Guaranteed by the Government,
Bv order of the Commissioners,
J. IT DAVIES. Secretary.
THE.
Bank of North Queensland
• LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL,, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £385,000.
Directors: Don. Sir ALFRED COWLEY;
Hon. ROBERT PHILP, M.L.A.;
lion. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager : J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Oltice: 258 George Street.
Melbourne Oltice: 41 Queen Street.
London Oltice: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout OUE'ENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian gank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (31st December, 1914) .. £1,195,591
RESERVE FUND £55,000
HEAT) OFFICE: George & King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man ; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.: Mark Sheldon,
Esq. ; Arthur S. Barton, Esq. ; Frank N.
Yarwood, Esq.; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. •480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 178,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 6
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edvvd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Jas. Munro, Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ;
James Love, Esq.; Jas. Milne, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking go.
of Sydney, [tailed.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,755,000 0 0
Reserve Capital . . . . 2,000,000 0 0
£5,755,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Gotten, Esq. . . . . Chairman. >
Hon. H. E. Kater. M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.
T. F. Knox, Esq.
Auditors: F. W. Hixson, Esq., and W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief inspector:
H. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Bi r chin Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. 11. S.
Littleton: N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of Dem Z^land.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING.
GEOROE STREET. >
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares .. v . . . . 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000.000) Paid-
up * 506.000
Uncalled Canital . . . . . . 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,601,608
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea
land, Fiji, Great liri
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts
all other usual IJankin
g business.
The Colonial [fjutual pe
assurance society limited
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South 'Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Dirf.ctors :
The Hon. C. J. Roberts. 0.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith. K.C., M.P.
Shipping. &c.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
ORMONDE . . Geared Turbine
ORAMA . .Triple-Screw
OR VIETO ..Twin-Screw
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOYA . ,
ORONTES .
OMR AH
Fitted with Wireless r
ous Steamers. Cabines
15,000 Regd. Tons.
13,000 „
12.130 „
12,129 „
12.124
1 2.077 „
12.036 „
9.023 ~ „
8,282
elegraphy. New and luxuri-
, , , , , Staterooms, witli
bedsteads;. Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Tafts and Laundries..
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE. SYDNEY
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Pi, ack, Sviinmi.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Vii» WELLINGTON (NX), RAROTONGA,
and PAPEETE (TAHITI).
BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE, in connection
with all United States and Canadian
Railways.
A. A. A.,
10,500 tons displacement, 6500 tons register; the
largest, newest and finest steamer trading between
Sydhey and San Francisco.
Sails MARCH.
Following Sailings: APRIL, MAY.
Panama Pacific Exhibition now open at San
r rancisco.
Around Pacific Tours, returning from Vancouver
bv Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line or via
Japan and China.
Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
Particulars and pamphlets obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney,
Australian Steamships Line
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACK AY
TOWNSVILLE
*CAIRNS
(■“Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports).^
NORTH.
COOMA (4000 tons).
Leaves Sydney March 20.
CANBERRA (8000 tons).
Leaves Melbourne March 24.
Leaves Sydney March 27.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne March 31.
-Leaves Sydney April 3.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports)
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney March 27.
QUEENSLAND MAIL SERVICE.
S.S. COOMA (4000 tons) leaves Brisbane everv Friday
at 10 a.m. for TOWNSVILLE, calling at GLAD-
STONE, FLAT TOP and BOWEN, connecting at
TOWNSVILLE with t.s.s. MOURILYAN for. ports as
far as COOKTOWN.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
The Great 191 i Trip.
7 WEEKS ONLY.
Visit
Panama-Pacific Exposition
AT SAN FRANCISCO.
Now Open. Closes Dec. 4.
Sydney to San Francisco in 18 days
via Honolulu Beautiful Hawaii
giving
12 days to see the Exposition
and be delighted with
World-famed Californian Sights.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
April 10; May 8; June 5; July 3.
AppIy:— OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To PAPUA and PACIFIC ISLES.
To Papua.
To Solomon Islands.
To the New Hebrides.
SEND FOR PARTICULARS OF FARES AND SAILINGS TO
.<>-
ii
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK. OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1317.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS
£3,500,000
£2,500,000
£3,500,000
£9,500.000
The Hon. Sir Charles Iv. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C.,
President.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Robert Lionel Eaithfull, Esq., M.D.
due Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Blaek, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
AUDITORS: —William Harrington Palmer, Esq. Shepbeard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq.
Head Office-George St.. Sydney. London office i 9 i hreadnceaie St., E.C.
347 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and ‘collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the world
,T RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting: Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
.With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land oilers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars.
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director. ,
Branch Office:'ll6 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.SAV. A. HESTON, Local Director.
Commonwealth
m
JBank * Australia
IIEA1) OFFICE
SYDNEY
Open
■Tor all
General Banking Business
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
in the
principa.l
Cable remittances made to ana drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills negotiated and collected,
setters oi credit issued to any part 6. the world. Hills negotiated or forwarded for collection Banking and
Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth, United Kingdom and abroad
Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Saving's Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at
Deposits
from
1/- to £3OO 2000
Post Offices
in Australi
and Paau
oj a
Interest at
per annum
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings
J VM'RS KELL. Deputy Governor.
Bank Facilities
HUMS >N JIILT.RR. Governor.
°|"HE Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The .Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to Sc,
TWEED, IHCB-MOND, CLARENCE, RELUNGER,
NAMBIJCCA, macleay and manning
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COED’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer, to Murwillumbah,
rail to ' Bvron Bay, Richmond of Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. — Eirst-class rail and saloon on
steamer. £6 'Ss. fid. : second-class rail-and steerage
on steamdr. £4 2s. fid.
For Guide and all particulars nnplv:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 2fil GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. £545,634 10 ,0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders v .. 155,476 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 79,500 0 0
£780.611 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. - ■—-
Gen. Man. : Edwd. D. Day Asst. Mhn.: E..H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, Lonuon,
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. e.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout, the World.
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop's” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
T.S.S. WARILDA (8000
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
April 10 and May 8.
(Carrying First and
Second Saloon and
Steerage Passengers.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
WANDILLA (8000 tons),
March 27.
TNNAMINCKA, April 3.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all _ services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained om application ajt the Company's Office.
G. S. YUIUb & CO4 LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
VIA NEW ZEALAND, FIJI AND
HONOLULU.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE.
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND.
OPERATING THE LARGEST, NEWEST AND
FINEST VESSELS TRADING BETWEEN AUS-
TRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
SAILINGS:
*Triple-Screw Steamer, fitted with Cabins de luxe en
suite, Bedstead Rooms, Nursery, Laundry, Electric
Lift, t Twin-Screw Steamer.
Panama Pacific Exhibition is now the great
attraction.
AROUND PACIFIC TOURS, returning from San
Francisco by Union S.S. Co.’s Royal Mail Line or
via Japan and China.
Steamers fitted with Wireless .Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION SIT AM SHIP COMPANY OP N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
Steam
to Liverpool and London
via Suez Canal.
One class of accommodation only.
T.S.S. WA/PARA.
9000 Tons. CAPTAIN HUTCHISON.
BRISBANE .. About MARCH 20, 1915.
SYDNEY . . About MARCH 24, 1915.
Entered in Imperial Government War Risk Scheme,
under which War Risk Insurance effected if required.
Fares to Liverpool: £l3/13/- to £l7/17/-
From Brisbane: £l/1/- extra.
Accommodation in two-, three- and four-berth
cabins, well-lighted and ventilated.
Passengers supplied with fresh provisions from cool
chambers throughout the voyage.
Electric Light throughout. Fitted with Wireless.
For illustrated pamphlet and full information apply
to —■
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney.
BRITISH INDIA & QUEENSLAND AGENCY CO.
LTD., Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACIIARN & CO., LTD., Mel-
bourne and Newcastle.
ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO. LTD., Hobart.
fkddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
'/ All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Aueiaiue, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,000 tons
T.S.S. “ KANOWNA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ KYARRA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEAIA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel by
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company’s steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fiji Trade;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Daily Papers. ■
BURNS, PHILP g COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.


V
"
'.'■M
-
>
A
Here’s the Reason
It matters not how good a man’s
clothes are, he never looks correctly
attired unless his shoes are rightly
chosen. This is the reason why
all well-dressed men wear
ABBEY SHOES
The Boot illustrated is a Patent
Golosh Bal., Dull Calf Tops, per-
forated Golosh. Price 27/6 and
32/6.
Also in Tan Willow Calf, 25/-
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
IF YOU SUFFER FROM
RHEUMATISM
YOU HAVEN’T TRIED DE WITT’S
KIDNEY AND BLADDER PILLS.
Why is it that thousands of people are
content to suffer the excruciating agonies
of rheumatism without even trying to rid
themselves of their terrible suffering?
If every sufferer from rheumatism or
any other form of kidney trouble would
just give De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills a trial, we should hear hardly any-
thing of the terrible agonies of these com-
plaints—because these wonderful little pills
have proved over and over again that they
do not merely give temporary relief, but
do really effect permanent cures, in almost
every case.
“Why is it that
DE WITT’S KIDNEY and BLADDER PILLS
are such a phenomenal success?” is a
question which many people ask. It is
because De Witt’s Pills are so finely com-
pounded that they pass from the stomach
straight into the kidneys and from thence
into the bladder. That is why De Witt’s
give such amazingly quick relief every time,
and why a permanent cure follows in almost
every case. Do not be put off with ordinary
kidney or backache pills, because you don’t
know and you have no proof that they have
touched the kidneys. When you take De
Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills you know
beyond all doubt that they have gone straight
to the affected parts. This is positively
proved to you when you see the blue colored
urine.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills can
be obtained at any of the branches of Wash-
ington H. Soul, Pattinson & Co., Ltd., Syd-
ney ; Longmore’s The Melbourne Pharmacy,
Bourke Street, Melbourne, and all leading
chemists at 2/9 and 5/6 per large box.
The 5/6 size is two and a half times as
large as the 2/9 size, and contains enough
doses to last you three weeks.
Try your nearest chemist, but if you have
any difficulty in obtaining De Witt’s Pills,
send the price of the package „ required to
either of the firms mentioned above and the
goods will be sent by return, post free.
‘EORGE HOTEL.
•St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria-
G. 6.
The Best Tyre:
0.
m
/T<N
t
A Michelin Red Inner Tubs
in
A Michelin Cover*
Both are made in
ONE QUALITY ONLY—THE BEST.
MICHELIN TYRES AND ACCESSORIES
can be obtained from all the leading Agents.
(Michelin TVres are made in France).
Rest and Comfort
for
the mother, and health for the baby follow the
use of the ‘Allenburys’ Foods. They resemble
healthy human mjlk, in composition, nutri-
tive value and digestibility. Babies fed on
the ‘Allenburys’ Foods invariably thrive well.
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING
AND MANAGEMENT FREE.
MILK FOOD No. 1.
From birth to 3 months.
MILK FOOD No. 2.
From 3 to 6 months.
MALTED FOOD NO. 3,
' From o months upwards.
The *ABlenbwpys' Rusks
(Malted).
A valuable addition to the baby’s dietary when
ten months old and after. They provide an
excellent, nourishing and appetising meal,
specially useful during the troublesome time
of teething. Eaten dry they mechanically aid
the cutting of teeth.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, England, and Mapkei Strssl, Sydnsy.
i&llenburys Foods
V
Ask for
at the
Horlick’s Malted Milk—
the invigorating Food-Drink
in cases of Mental Exhaus-
tion, impaired digestion, in
fact all nerve troubles.
II!
111
7^
in. '
Horlick’s
Soda Fountain.
Sample v.-ilt be sent on
receipt of 2d. in stamps,
Write Hutchinson & Co., 26,
Jamieson Street, Sydney,
N.S.W. <
MALTED
MILK
“EVERYTH mo IN RIMGS" 'SC FID fOR OUR SPECIAL RfMG CATALOGUE
CHOICE "DIAMONDS MOUNTED IN SOUQ Ta«. T "< CSM.D . .
mm
□I *
Horn
I**R¥£
IS
r
.
ISBP
5/10/"
IJ »
)
X V*
f*
a coo
QS
mo
«ATi«?Acrioi*!flVTOßnVlVSnPßVHnfkruNoeo |
•;.Op RitiOS fM WHICH THE STON
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 16 - per day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It
is the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOFS DINING HALL AND SUPPER
ROOM.
H A NDSOM E DR A WING - ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
EXCELLENT CUISINE EVERY AFTER-
NOON AND EVENING.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,.
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.


99
Straw Boater
Pearl bleach.
Jap. rustic plait.
Made in the new dimensions.
Crown, 3% in-
Brim, 2% in.
Black Silk Bands lfin. wide.
Neat Bow, with loose ends.
SPECIAL VALUE,
Post Free.
Finney, isles U Co.
LIMITED,
The Big Block, Brisbane
NEW SOUTH
g
WALES,
PUBLIC TRUST OFFICE.
STATE GUARANTEE.
The Public Trustee can Act as
TRUSTEE, EXECUTOR, ADMINISTRATOR, ATTORNEY OR AGENT.
Reduced Charges—Lowest in Australasia.
MONEYS TO LEND on Approved Security Town and Country Lands.
For full particulars apply:—
Public Trust Office, Culwulla Cliambers, Sydney.
T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
The German circus of submarine savagery
is. so far, miles behind their sensational
advance announcements. Fortunately Teu-
tonic claims are never as reliable as those
inspired by honor and King George IV. top-
notch Scotch.*
BRISBANE'S LEADING HOTEL
The Gresham
is under new management and has
been made right up to date, having all
the most modern improvements.
The Sewerage System has been in-
stalled on an elaborate scale, which
. overcomes Brisbane’s greatest menace.
Proprietor,
T. M. AHERN.
IN
BANANA LAND
Frederick Manson Bailey, Queensland’s
fine old botanist, passed into his 89th year
last week. He came to South Australia in
1539 and worked awhile with his father, the
late John Bailey, first botanist of that State.
Afterwards he went to Queensland, and for 20
years from 1861 onwards was engaged in
sugar-growing and dairying. Then he took the
job of Government Botanist, mainly to con-
tinue his work of indexing the plant growth
of the North.
“Manx”: “Queenslander” (B. 4/3/’l5)
flies off the handle at the idea of importing
Californian oil-drilling rigs and crews, and
remarks in support of his objection that
“there’s plenty of energy and ability in Aus-
tralia, not only to bore, but to construct and
design plant and tools that our cute cousins
never dreamed of.” I’d rather have tools
that needn’t be dreamed of; give. me plants
that have proved themselves in similar con-
ditions to those of Australia. No' one
doubts the energy and ability of Australians
(I’m a fanatic Australian myself) ; but the
Australian’s ability and energy get the best
show when he most carefully adopts the
methods of older neople in the game.
“Queenslander” surely won’t deny that the
Americans are oil-well drillers. Who were
the “20 alleged oil drillers” who “had to
learn their business here”? All told, have
there been 20 oil-drillers in Australia, and,
if so, where did they drill? Isn’t “Queens-
lander” mixing up oil-well drillers with some
hot-air Canadians who came to Australia to
drill water wells?
The oldest link in a family chain stretch-
ing back to Bananaland’s beginnings broke
on March 4, when George Grenier, son of
old Tom Grenier, who ran a business in
Brisbane in 1845, when there were stumps in
Queen-street, gave up the struggle with the
dreadful climate. The patriarchal Tom
washed his hands of trade before the colony
had left off being part of N. S. Wales, and
went farming at Cooper’s Plains, a remote,
savage land fully eight miles from Brisbane.
Those of the plentiful Grenier family who are
not still above ground mostly remain in the
vicinity of the old home, grandfather Tom
having thoughtfully established a private
cemetery there. The just-deceased George
married a Miss Greenwood, one of Bris-
bane’s beauties half a century ago. She still
survives, along with several successive
crops of Greniers. Her sister was the wife
of Brigadier-General Denniss.
AN EXPERT.
FOREMAN (to applicant for job): “But do you know anything abou machinery?”
CUPPEY : “ Me? Machinery? Why, dere’s de startin' machine out at der course, and
der poker machine up at Jimmy de barber's, an’ I ain’t been watchin' dem de
larst six year fer nothin’ ."
New idea to popularise church services in
Queensland
Meetings for Prayer and Intercession will be held
every —— evening when the volunteers who have
gone forth from this district will be prayed for by
"? me \ , ~, t . ~ ,
So that God shall not make any mistal e
about it, and scatter His blessings on the
wrong head. And now, brethren, our text
for to-day is Matthew vi., s:
And when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the
hypocrites are ; for they love to pray standing in
the synagogues that they may be seen of men. Verily,
they have their reward.
Referring, of course, to the extra sixpence in
the collection plate.
* . .
In Queensland s laws there are yawning
holes big enough to let corpses fall through.
The citizen who wants thruppence-worth ot
Paris green has to explain to the chemist
that he is buying it for his tomato-plants
and has nothing on his mind. Also, he has
to look the chemist in the eye and sign a
book. But there is no law to prevent a
child, maniac, aboriginal or jealous wife
buying from a storekeeper enough cyanide
of potassium to kill a picture-show full of
people. This stuff is one of the deadliest of
poisons, and is as commonly stocked as
* , il
__. ■ .
“Rangan”: The fire brigades of Banana-
land’s chief cities, bar Brisbane, are pasft a
joke. One recent evening an excited citizen
of a town which sometimes says it is “the
i • uic nmVTi-
second in the State rushed into g
bor’s house to telephone the local volunteer
brigade that his house was on fire. He
nearly pulled the ’phone down, but couldn’t
attract a reply. “Try the pub opposite,” called
the neighbor from the verandah, “and hurry
up ” The demented man raised the pub, and
a messengei- was sent over to the depot,
Presently came the information that the bri-
gade was not at home. About an hour later
three men rushed up to the ruins with a
hand-reel and half a dozen buckets. They
were the missing firemen, discovered at a
picture show.' 1 ,
“Flinderino”: Some of the black Queens-
landers who still hunt wallaby and spear
fish in the Johnstone River district have
their own method of promoting hair growth.
In the scrub thereabouts is the tree called
beeratbah, which has large flanges on its
trunk. When the tribe is on a walk-about
and happens across one of these vegetables
the young bucks are halted while the Nellies
and Maggies and Marys are given a broad
hint, with the nulla-nulla if necessary, to
become absentees. Then the chief and the
other office-bearers of the tribe hold a sort
of spiritualistic meeting and chant the
doxology. The young men join in the chorus,
after which each lad rubs his upper lip or
chin, or both, against the flange of the tree.
At the conclusion of this ceremony the
congregation moves slowly away, not daring
to look back nor to talk until a certain
distance away from the place.
“F. 8.”: People express doubts as to the
ability of the Queensland Expeditionaries to
stand the Belgian winter. Why not? Num-
bers of Queensland cane-cutters and miners
drifted to Klondyke some years ago, returned
to Bananaland hale and hearty, and got back
to Alaskan glaciers again. Their troubles!
“Flinderino”: The treks mentioned by
“Nunawading” (B. 25/2/T5) recall the
feat of the two Jardine boys, John and
Alec, 22 and 20 years of age, who pro-
menaded a mob of cattle from Rockhampton
to the extreme top of Cape York Peninsula
in 1863. The journey was beset with in-
numerable difficulties—dense scrubs to be
traversed and dangerous streams to be
crossed. Worse still, the blacks were numer-
ous and murderously-inclined. Only a few
years previous the Kennedy expedition had
been almost wiped out by these Cape York
niggers. Yet the youthful drovers delivered
the beasts in good order and with but little
loss.
“Globe Cairns”: “McNorth” (B. 4/2/T5)
has been the receptacle of some ragged in-
formation concerning the need of a meteoro-
logical station in the North. If the argu-
ments he uses were those brought forward in
support of the application for the station, it
is not to be wondered at that we are still
without it. Being a telegraphist, I can give
“McNorth” the straight, unwavering tip
that North Bananaland has been isolated
from Brisbane for only two days in the last
four years, at least. All warnings are
invariably sent even previous to the
“quiet before the storm,” when lines
work well. Incidentally, the admoni-
tions are from Brisbane, not Melbourne, as
“McNorth” says. As for there being no
weather exhortations on Sundays, if there
is the slightest suspicion of a disturbance —
and disturbances are discernible days ahead
—operators are required to be in attendance
on that day at Townsville, Cardwell, Cairns,
Port Douglas and Cooktown. to warn ship-
ping, the general public and parsons. Of
course the lighthouses are always in com-
munication.
Vae Victis!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s a pipe a-skirling madly as the sol-
diers march along,
There’s a pipe a-wailing sadly and a snatch
of bitter song;
And the tumult as it rises and pours the
ranks between
Seems to pierce you like a dagger with a
naked blade and keen —
For it’s woe to the conquered, woe!
Aye, and was always so.
What a fool is Pity
To be weeping o’er a city—
Woe to the conquered, woe!
When the shrapnel rises shrieking a cry of
Hell and Death,
When the hidden mine is bursting and you
feel its stifling breath,
When the big guns in their revels toss their
murder mile on mile,
When the Heav’ns could weep with sorrow
and the Powers of Hades smile—
It’s woe to the conquered, woe!
Cold the night-winds blow,
Heaping scorn on Pity
That is weeping o’er a city—-
Woe to the conquered, woe!
There’s a little town in ashes, there’s a big
town in flame ;
There’s a voice of women shrieking (Oh!
my curse upon “the Game”!)
There are old men, pleading, helpless, as the
Victor dashes by,
There are children, barefoot, begging, beneath
the bitter sky.
For it’s woe to the conquered, woe!
Hark how the drum-beats go!
What a fool is Pity
To be weeping o’er a city—
Woe to the conquered, woe!
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORBN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, March 13 r 1915.
My Dear Tiiargomindah,—
The new member of the Governors’ 1 Union,,
H. Goold-Adams, who has been delegated
by the President (George V.) to Banana-
land, is to arrive on Monday. The city has
been dressed in flags for the momentous
occasion, and our leading political trades-
men have their little speeches off pat. lo
make way for the newcomers the genial
Morgans have returned to the shelter ot
their own roof-tree.
This afternoon the Locum Tenens made
his last-but-one public appearance, when he
unveiled Oscar Fristrom’s portrait of vet-
eran journalist George Wool non gh, given to
the Art Gallery by the original, and pre-
sented to him by a number of commercial
and professional friends on his BUth
birthday. Premier Denham was amongst
the also spokes.
Another marriage conspiracy has been
discovered. The culprits are Miss May
Thurlow, one of Queensland’s best tennis
players, and Dr. Eric Cowlishaw, son or
the managing director of the Telegraph.
The station folk are gathering in Brisbane
preparatory to their annual flight to
Sydney and the Easter show. Some of the
assembled plumage to be worn is beautiful
and very expensive. One must really have
something to wear, dear, even if the horrid
war is on.
Mrs. Benjamin, whose son is developing
into a fine piano-tamer in London, has been
working long and diligently for destitute
Belgian babies exiled in England. Several
other Brisbane sympathisers are’ helping her,
and, to date, some hundreds of tiny garments
have been sent oversea for the infant victims
of the hob-nailed Prussian.
The Brisbane Women’s Club held its first
meeting this year on Thursday night and
discussed the subject of co-operative house-
keeping. It is a fascinating question, and
hinges half a dozen problems upon itself.
If you can spare us an expert or two, Thar-
gomindah, there’s a highly instructive winter
ahead of us.
The National Council of Women also got
busy this week on its bush-nursing scheme.
A mere man, one Daniel Jones, who has
lived most of his life in the bush, dropped
into the meeting and distributed some
straight , and sensible talk to accumulated
woman. As the 40 or so societies affiliated
with the N.C.W. are anxious to help along
the nursing scheme, it seems within reason-
able distance of becoming a going concern.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Queensland local authorities are an
unctuous lot of Bumbles. On the retire-
ment of Home Sec. Appel they poured melted
butter on that politician ad nauseam. On
Grant’s accession they filled the bucket and
joyfully emptied it on the head of the new
Minister. Probably the name _ of the new
man was to them as sweet-sounding as Meso-
potamia ; for their cry to the Treasury has
been “Grant! Grant!” for the last 30 years.
For 40 years or so Brisbane has been
getting from the household tap with-
out extra charge a supply of diluted
earth, specimens of native weed, and little
creatures suitable for museums. The pre-
sence of the little creatures was a good
excuse for adding something to kill them,
till it came to be known that in other
places people drank water neat and sur-
vived. Three or four years ago a Water
and Sewerage Board was formed (N.B. —
The water is officially distinct from the
sewage) and it got such a hustle on that
works for the removal of the extras from
the water have already been commenced, and
it probably won’t be more than two years
before they are finished.
“S.S.”: The late W. H. Ryder, for a
generation Under-Sec. of the Home Office,
was first of all a diplomatist, secondly an
administrator, and lastly a wily bird who
knew how to push off the useless troublers
of his Ministers, with whom in consequence
he was a prime favorite. If he would have
written his private impressions of those
departmental heads, the book would have
had a wide circulation, for he had a fine
fund of humor and a good style on paper.
After his retirement a couple of years ago
he made no secret of his preference among
all the men who had come to the chair of
the Home Office. Peter Airey (“P. Luftig”
for verse purposes) was his favorite. Said
the old man: “I had less anxiety and less
unpleasantness with him than anybody else,
and had he not been tied to the heels of a
particularly stupid caucus he would have
developed into one of the strong men of
the State. He had remarkable business
ability and a fine sense of justice.” Late
Minister Appel, on the other hand, was
about as troublesome a problem as the old
man ever had; but to do Appel justice, he
had the grace to be thankful for his many
deliverances.


npipil
■1
|MH
MR
M—
■l
11 - Hi m
e mm
,-x. ....
■
“The Old Spirit
Still Prevail'd
WAT SON 5 N? 10
SUPPLIED ONLY IN BOTTLE.


YOUR
HEALTH
is far too valuable for exper-
iment with unknown reme-
dies, when natural strength
and vigour can be renewed
by taking SCOTT’S Emul-
sion. More than a medicine,
more than a food, this pure
strength-maker enriches the
blood, creates
healthy tissue,
and distributes
energy and vig-
our through-
out the body.
Weakly babes,
growing chil-
dren, anaemic
mothers and all
exhausted by
illness and dis-
ease gain new
strength, renewed vitality and
good health by taking genuine
SCOTTS
Emulsion
as recommended by doctors
in every part of the civi-
lized world.
TRADE MARK.
V TYRES
Miles
Barnet Glass "Rubber fe ltd.
All States & Hew Zealand ,
52
Va
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “i like the Celebrated ‘AltAlilS'
Kgvptian lleima before all others; it is the best ami
cheapest I have ever
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain* on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive v-m. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardley on genuine, brier 1 and °A.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
You Will Be Astonished
How It Removes Wrinßles.’
TOILET TALKS.
SIMPLICITY is the order of the day as
regards beauty culture. Many women
regularly visit the specialist to have their
wrinkles ironed out with the help of hot
applications, cold creams and massage.
Most of us realise that there comes a time
when no amount of persuasion of this sort
will avail. This process of "wrinkle remov-
ing” is wrong in principle. Both
the hot water and the massag-
ing tend to expand and loosen
the skin, besides softening the
muscular foundation. The very
opposite result should be aimed
at. The tissue should be strength-
ened and the skin tightened to
smooth out the wrinkles. For
this purpose ordinary parsidium
jelly, obtainable at all chemists,
may be used with beneficial
effects. Get about one shilling’s-
worth and apply like cold cream.
The face will quickly look years
younger.
IT is astonishing the number of women
whose faces show a more or less pro-
nounced growth of superfluous hair, and it
is much to be regretted that through ignor-
ance, or wrong treatment, the majority of
them have made matters considerably worse
by causing the hairs to grow more quickly
and stronger than before. It only requires
a little thought to realise the folly of it all.
Removing the surface growth for a few days
may give temporary relief, but in order to
obtain permanent results the hair roots
must be killed. Caustic depilatories are
worse than useless, and on no account
m
should the hairs be pulled out. Apart from
the electric needle, which is a costly and
painful process, any chemist will tell you
that the most reliable home treatment is
pure powdered pheminol. This substance
has a devitalising effect upon the hair roots,
in addition to which it removes all trace of
the objectionable hair in a few seconds. The'
recommended treatment gradu-
ally, but surely, dissolves out the
hair follicles, which is the only
method of permanently ridding
oneself of this embarrassing
disfigurement.
HOW often do you see one
of the old-fashioned pow-
der pots on your friend’s dress-
ing table? Not very frequently,
lam sure. Thev are fast being
converted to a more useful pur-
pose. The truth of the matter
is, women are at last beginning
to realise that powder is the
“root of all evil” as far as their
complexions are concerned, at any rate, and
are wisely discarding the powder puff
for that ordinary, innocent-looking sub-
stance known as cleminite. What they
do is to obtain about an ounce from
their chemist and dissolve it in four table-
spoonfuls of water. This gives a lotion
which immediately imparts a delightful
bloomy appearance to the skin ; removes that
horrid greasy appearance, and renders pow-
dering quite unnecessary. The result lasts
all day long under the most trying condi-
tions, and what is far more important, im-
proves the comnlexion instead of ruininsr it. T 5
IfISK TO-OAY FOR rOUR COLOUR FOLDER
Berger’s Paints
£r Varnishes
»
WEAR WELL EVERYWHERE UNDER THE SDN.
T T isn’t the paint but the painting that costs the
* money, and poor paint costs as much to put
on as good paint. What you save by using cheap
paint therefore, is practically nothing at all.
Ask your painter to use Berger’s Paints and Var-
nishes and so get the maximum of protection plus
the best appearance—at the lowest possible cost.
Berger’s Paints postpone the day of repainting.
“B-P” Berger’s Paint (prepared) is guaranteed to work easier, cover
more surface, look better and wear longer than any other paint.
“ Matone ” is a really washable matt wall paint.
“Enamelac” is the highest grade of enamel-paint.
“Varnol” gives enamel finish at paint price.
Lewis Berger & Sons
(Australia), Ltd.,
18. Young Street, SYDNEY,
Makers of Paints, Colours and
Varnishes at
HOMERTON, LONDON. ENG.
Sinca. 1760.
!E39a
fd
Get Colour Folders and
Particulars, together with
name of local Agent,
from Head Office, 18
Young Street, Sydney.
g
THEY are called “Bostoek Gold Medal Shoes”
in most stores. The great reputation they
enjoy to-day throughout Australasia has been
won by sincerity of manufacture. Honest through
and through, they prove in wear to be as good as
they look. Under their beautiful finish are always
found the choicest of materials; and, whether on
the foot or in the hand, the skilful work, con-
spicuous in every pair, never fails to command
one’s admiration.
Bostocks are the cream of imported shoes.
Special shipments have recently arrived at the
leading stores, and ladies should call before the
choicest styles are sold.
-
Style P 6386
803
None Genuine unless stamped
“BOSTOCK.
SOAPKO.
It Surpasses
Soap.
TOILET AND MOTOR IN TABLETS ;
HOUSEHOLD IN BARS.
Send Six Penny Stamps for Box containing Sample
Manager, " of each kind -
SOAPKO PROPY., Box 685 G.P.0., ADELAIDE.
jTHE FASCINATING FOREIGNER;
1 Be a Belgian Hero or a French Boulevardier ]
fdg
Lots of Fun with these Wonderful
Whiskers. Slip on or off in a few seconds.
Comical Changes, Amazing Alterations.
Why, your best girl won’t know you,
but will hugely admire you ! Make an
fellow handsome and a beauty boy '
vxv
/irresistible. Moustache only, any color, NINE PENCE;
(Moustache and Chin Whiskers, any color, 1/9, carriage free.
J The UNION COMPANY, 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
The Inky Way.
There was a row in the editorial depart-
ment of a very great Australian daily a
few weeks back. In the course of the row
one member of the staff said shockingly
uncomplimentary things of the paper and
its proprietary. lie was given the minimum
notice. At the office door the scornful scribe
paused. “I’m sacked?” he said. “I’m glad
of it. I’m delighted to go. When I hear
this rag called a great organ I am convinced
people form their opinion from the number
of gibbering monkeys on it.”
* * * *
“D” : So “Banjo” Paterson is on his way
back to Australia, his job as war-correspon-
dent over. The mystery was that any news-
paper employed him at work so manifestly
out of his line. The ideal correspondent—-
Henry Lawson—is still hanging about
Sydney. Henry has his known defects.
There is little of the ascetic about him. But,
under the stern discipline of military life,
his consumption of cakes and ale could be
limited, if not shut off altogether. What
priceless pictures he could then proyide of
Tommy Cornstalk’s habits, whims, preju-
dices, failings and virtues! A great prose
writer is Henry Lawson, howsoever trivial
the subject which he handles. When he
writes you hear a real man talking. When
the average newspaper correspondent writes
you only fiearlthe office typing machine and
smell an overpowering odor of paraffin.
The legal powers which preserve Mel-
bourne’s Sabbath from “desecration” recently
rose up and fiercely smote two persons for
selling “newspapers” on the day of gloom.
The “newspapers” consisted' of pamphlets
on political economy, and were offered for
sale in Flinders Park. Various churches
have publications which are openly sold on
Sundays ; but the police never work a case
in that quarter. It’s not that you sell but
what you sell that matters.
* * * *
Passed out, at Moonee Ponds (Vic.), Mel-
bourne Charnock Mott, aged 56. He launched
the Tatiara Mail at Bordertown in 1880,
and, buying the Essendon Gazette in 1801,
piloted it thereafter for 24 years. His
father used to be managing director of
Gordon and Gotch.
* * * *
“Rotunda”: The question of transport
might be solved if a few newspaper rounds-
men enlisted in the army service corps. The
roundsmen in search of a scoop, or on his
way back to the office with one, has, in his
time, adopted every means of locomotion ex-
cept perhaps that of the serpent upon a rock
which puzzled King Solomon. More than
one Melbourne pressman has brought pars,
down from the sky in an aeroplane; motor-
cars, hansoms and furniture vans have been
pressed into service; the old horse-drawn
Black Maria and the new motor variety
have served as pressmen’s chariots ; and be-
fore now a disconsolate Age roundsman has
stood on Prince’s Bridge at midnight gazing
after a retreating hose-cart on to which the
Argus man had taken a flying leap to a
suburban fire. That agile youth is now a
news editor and waiting for his last dash-
fway on the hearse. Customs launches have
fforded precarious passage, while horses,
bikes, motor-bikes and canoes have served
their turn. The other day Melbourne Herald’s
roundsman came gloriously gonging down
Swanston-street on the seat of a motor-
ambulance; and once that same reporter
took a ride back to town in the vehicle
which carries the Morgue corpses.
4‘C.W.”: The German Socialist paper
Vorwarts, which manages occasionally to
print little bits of truth about the genesis of
the war, was started 31 years ago, under the
name of the Bereineß Voltcsrlatt. It
began with a circulation of 2000. At the
paper’s 25th birthday, in 1909, this had
jumped to 140.000. It was then calculated
that the editorial staff had spent more than 10
years in gaol, and been fined £sso—which is
something for the red ragger to think over.
His wild idea is ant to be that it doesn’t
matter who runs the country.
* * * *
“Adelaide” : Old George Matson, who has
died suddenly in the Perth railway station,
was a South Australian really, though lat-
terly he had been doing free-lance work for
Perth papers. He will be remembered in
Port Adelaide particularly as about the
most persistent writer of minor verse and
newspaper letters that ever earned writer’s
cramn. Much of it was good, printable
“copy,” too.
LIFE’S LITTLE INTERRUPTIONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The door is on a well-oiled spring,
It opens at a touch;
And callers take it on the wing
To preen themselves awhile and sing—
They think I like it much.
And so I do! Dear fellows all,
I love to hear their views
And olden jests that they recall;
Their ehirps of scandal sweetly fall
On ears a-strain for news.
But work is long and life is short,
And clocks will not reverse; .
So, while they linger on, I snort
And in a panic say, “This sort
Of friend becomes a curse! ”
Anon they note my rolling eye
And from their hard chairs rise;
With loud apologies they fly;
I fondly shout a last good-bye
And fiercely d—n their eyes.
I hate them not —I love them all;
Yet in my room I lurk
Ahd hope to Heaven no man will call;
I shudder at each light footfall,
Because I want to work.
Amidst my friends I swear and sigh
While planning things to do.
Confound my friends! (You ask me why
They call on me each day? Well, I-
I weakly beg them to!)
N.S.W.
INDOOR JOURNALIST.


A
'
11 I Uim?
V *
|/l?iJiillWl
iTTriTi
ELECTRICITY’S HUNDRED USES.
Using Electricity for lighting only is like using a telephone in the evenings and
neglecting its daytime convenience.
Electricity has a hundred uses in addition to lighting —at the turn of a switch this mar-
vellous force produces a flameless heat in scores of heating and cooking devices like those
shown above. Electrically-heated cereal cookers, frying-pans, grids, boilers, hot-plate
ovens and ranges, are a few more of the many modern electrical conveniences manufac-
tured by the GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.
That the GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. has made it possible for you to cook by electricity
is due primarily to “Calorite,” a metal alloy which transforms electricity into heat as
effectively as the metal filament of the Mazda Lamps turns electricity into light.
“Calorite” only is used in the heating devices manufactured by this Company.
Write us for illustrated Bulletin, “Heating & Cooking.”
Australian General Electric Company
Mazda House, cr. Wentworth Avenue & Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Cr. Queen & Little Collins Streets, MELBOURNE.
Agents
(PERTH (W.A.) : Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.) Ltd., Hay Street.
ADELAIDE (S.A.) : Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., Currie Street.
BRISBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia, Ltd. (E.S.C.A.), Edward and
Charlotte Streets.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co., Ltd., Auckland, Christchurch,
Dunedin, Wellington
Ams No. 98AT.
Double Seamer.
*!rjirj>o
tm
r r j
The Seal
of Safety.
Ams Automatic
Double Seamers.
The Trade Standard.
Progressive Seamers for
Progressive Canners.
Make Your Cans with Ams Machinery
We furnish machines for mak-
ing tin cans of every descrip-
tion, for Sardines, Peas, Fruit,
all Food Products, Spices, Teas,
Coffee, Tobacco, Paint and Oil
Cans.
These machines are automatic throughout, and are fitted with Covei
Feed, Can Straightener and Plunger, and make a very complete and service-
able Double Seamer. They are rigid in construction, complete lubricating
system, ease and convenience in operating, plenty of speed, and will do the
work cut out for them. The can stands still during the seaming operation
and boy or girl can run these double seamers.
Takes all standard sizes including No. 3s. Out-
put over 50 per minute. The 988 for gallon cans
from 40 per minute. We are specialists in this
line. It is not a side issue.
We build complete can-making equipments.
Write to us about your intentions. We are in
business to answer questions. Experiment if you
like, but come to Ams for standard.
Send us a sample of what you want to make.
CORRESPONDENCE AND ESTIMATES IN EVERY
LANGUAGE.
MAX AMS MACHINE COMPANY,
MOUNT VERNON, N.Y., U.S.A.
CHARLES M. AMS, President.
Address us direct or through any EXPORT
COMMISSION HOUSE.
m
m
—while yon are in the city for the Show, take the opportunity
to visit an “Ilis Master’s Voice” dealer, who will gladly give
you a free recital by
Gramophones.
We want you to hear these wonderful instru-
ments-and records —want you to realise how
they will help you to pass the coming Winter
nights with good fun and good music.
Your neighbors from miles around will be
anxious to spend an evening with you when
you can treat them to “His Master’s Voice”
Concerts.
Buy an instrument and records while you
are in town.
Instruments from
£5/18/6 to £6O.
Records from
4/5 each.
Instrument catalogue and record lists
request.
vim
ACCREDITED
DEALERS
EVERYWHERE.
V" ■
k 'Hn Masters Voice*
The Gramophone
Co. Limited
163 Pitt St., Sydney.


NOTICE TO AGENTS*
Please note that the usual issue of
** The Bulletin/' due April 1, will be
PUBLISHED ONE DAY EARLIER
(Wednesday, March 31, 1915).
No More Bustless
and
Undeveloped Women.
HOW TO CREATE Boz. TO lib. OF FIRM,
HEALTHY FEESH UPON BUST, NECK,
ARMS OR SHOULDERS IN FOUR
WEEKS.
To Introduce Eatest Scientific Triumph in this
Country, Complete Information and In-
structions will be sent to 1000
Readers of Sydney “Bulletin.”
Dr. Colonnay, the distinguished physician of the
Faculty of Medicine, Paris, has at iast made public
the secret of his latest discovery. All readers of the
French medical publications and journals devoted to
feminine interests are now familiar with the aston-
ishing results of his unique experiment upon 200
ladies, ranging from 16 to 60 years of age,
some of them in the most weakly and anaemic state
of health, and all absolutely lacking in bust develop-
ment. Within five days the rapid growth of new
flesh was noticeable in all cases. In three to six
weeks busts that were flabby, sagging and almost
non-existent had developed from sin. to Bin. by
actual measurement. Convincing statistical evidence
shows that in 46 per cent, of the cases patients were
compelled to stop treatment within four weeks on
account of threatened over-development.
i-SS
These photographs show more plainly than
any words how an angular, masculine
figure may now be quickly transformed to
one of beautiful curves by means of the new
met hud explained in this article.
Dr. Colonnay was the first to discover that various
medicines, nostrums, prescriptions, dieting, apparatus,
appliances, greasy creams, massage, and other ex-
pensive advertised methods always fail because they
overlook the basic fact, that the mammary glands of
the bust are the only organs which lie idle the
greater part of a woman's lifetime, hence they can
never be developed like muscles. A full description
of just how this triumph of modern science causes
new, firm 'and healthy tissue to be created ,at will,,
and just why its stimulating action is exerted only
upon the bust, neck, shoulders or arms, but never
upon abdomen, hips or other part of the body, would
require more space than is available for this special
article, but arrangements have just been made
whereby readers of the Sydney Bulletin are enabled
to obtain all necessary information by. promptly
using coupon below. There is no charge for this,
but, if convenient, two penny stamps may be enclosed
for posting expenses.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.-—Readers are particularly
cautioned not to use this new method where more
flesh is not desired, as the enlargement, when once
produced, is absolutely permanent, and cannot be
reduced afterwards. It is usually advisable to stop
treatment about three days before the bust attains
the exact size and firmness desired, as the stimulating
effect may continue for two or three days, but never
longer.
——FREE COUPON.—
FBENCH BUST-DEVELOPING METHOD.
Coupon positively void after May 13, 1915.
Entitling (name)
Address , . . .
to receive under plain, sealed cover, absolutely
free of cost, full particulars in regard to new
method for developing the bust to any desired
size and firmness.
Enclose this coupon or mention number given
below, as evidence that you are entitled to accept
this offer, which is exclusively for the benefit of
Sydnev Bulletin readers. Only one member of
each family may apply.
Addres ; M 'VRGARET'TE MEBLAIN, Secretary,
Pembroke House, Oxford Street, London, W.,
England.
Sydney Bulletin Coupon No. 1024 G.
V
if
THE SOLUTION OF
ALL HORSE ILLS!
Every man who owns a horse
should have a jar of Solomon
Solution handy. It is invaluable
for Broken Knees, Sore Shoul-
ders, Girth Galls, Cuts. Wounds,
Swellings, Greasy Heels, Lame-
ness, Spavin, J'plint, etc. —and
absolutely the FINEST BLIS-
-IER KNOWN. :
Si- Jars everywhere or post
free for 5/6 from
SOLOMON COX & SON
439 Bourke St., Melbourne.
SOLOMON
OLUTION
Missing: Friends.
WANTED
TO know the whereabouts of JOHN E.
A. FOSTER, last heard of at Pelican
Bend —postal address: Swan Hill, Victoria.
Last letter dated October 1, 1898. Descrip-
tion : Height, sft. 9 inches ; thick-set, light
blue eyes, very curly light brown hair.
Age now, if alive, 46 vears. Mother in-
quiring. Address: Mrs. E. A. Foster, c/o
W. R. Foster, Hughes Street, North Unley,
Adelaide, South Australia.
AMES HENRY STURE.—lnformation
would be gladly received by anyone
knowing anything of this person’s estate.
Kindly address c/o Sydney Bulletin.
MELLON, JAMES, grandson of late
James Bourke, of' McKillop Street,
Geelong, or anyone acquainted with his
whereabouts, please communicate with
National Trustees Company, 113 Queen
Street, Melbourne.
£
<
£
v
1-000^
Alcock
and
Pierce’s
Fishing Tackle
Is just as good as
“AP” celebrated
Guns & Cartridges
Get Preliminary List now, so as to
get your Tackle into shape ready
for the Season.
This Department is in charge of one of
the most experienced anglers in Victoria,
and any information you want, write to
“ Angling Department,”
ALCOCK & PIERCE,
3IS Little Collins St. Melbourne
<?
>
FOR
'QUICK RESULTS^
USE
You can grow a manly moustache
if you use Capi'llarine. It never
fails to develop a full hair-
growth. Apply at night before
retiring; you will be surprised
with the result.
CET A JAR TO-DAY 10/6 Post Free.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
654 Ceorere St.
SYDNEY.
Established Over 30 Years.
Amusements.
Harry Kicltards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
Twice Daily, at 2.30 and 8.
Twice Daily, at 2.30 and 8.
JIVOII THEATRE, SYDNEY.
GEORGE MOZART, in his Thumb-nail Sketches.
ODIVA AND HER SEALS AND SEA LIONS.
FRANCTS DOOLEY, assisted by CORINNE SALES.
THE WESTWOODS, Cycling Equilibrists.
AND MANY OTHERS.
Box Plan at Theatre and Nicholson’s.
’Phone 9924 for Reserves.
IVOLI THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING.
TIVOLI FOLLIES,
including:
JAMES J. CORBETT, ISABELLE D’ARMOND.
JACK CANNOT, ALEX. YAKOVLENKO,
ALVARETTO, REGO k STOPPIT. VERA PEARCE,
THORNE & LEOPOLD.
Box Plan at Glen’s. Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/6 and 1/-.
E K MAJESTY’S. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF HIGH JINKS.
SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 20.
H
Stupendous Pantomime Extravaganza,
CINDERELLA.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
RI T ERION THE aTt RE, SYDNEY.
Lessee FRANK MUSGROVE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MURIEL STARR, CHARLES A. MILLWARD,
WILLIAM lIARRIGAN & DOROTHY DAVIES,
In the Great American Success,
BOUGHT AND PAID POE,.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
Business Announcements.
T'V URING the Summer a most pleasant,
refreshing, invigorating Tonic Bever-
age may be made by adding a few drops of
Phos to a glass of cold water. Though
Phos is, primarily, a children’s tonic, yet
weary adults should always keep a bottle
handy. Get it now, and don’t be without
it when the hot, fatiguing days come round.
Sold in shilling bottles. If not obtainable
locally, send 1/3 in stamps to the proprie-
tors,
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.,
Melbourne.
fdg
E. BURNHAM’S
Celebrated KALOS
Toilet Preparations
Kalos Skin Reju Venator (Skin Food)
prevents wrinkles.
Kalos Fairy Fluff Face Powder, deli-
cate and adhesive.
Kalos Chin Mask reduces double chin and supports
sagging muscles.
Kalos Perfumes and Toilet Waters, “Blue Violets”,
“Lily of the Valley”, “Lilac”, etc.
Write for Free Booklet, “Beauty’s Charm”
Attractive offer to'representative
dealers throughout the world.
E. BURNHAM
Established. 1871
G 138-140 N. State St. Chicago, U. S. A.
THE “PLUM” FOR SATISFACTION.
y
If you want your daily shave to be a real pleasure—use
A “PLUM” RAZOR.
You’ll enjoy the caress of this keen-edged razor. The blade of a “Plum”
glides over the face- and leaves it soft and clear as a babe’s. We are
practical tradesmen, and-guarantee to put an edge on the “Plum” that
will give full satisfaction.
SEND FOR A “PLUM” TO-DAY—IO/6 post free.
We keep it in perfect order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- This line makes a handsome present.
All the Above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654-
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
fd
Dinneford's
Magnesia
DINNEFORDS
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DiNNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
Our Soldiers’
Watches
Should be of the most re-
liable make possible.
The “Fx. and R.” watch
is the most extraordinary
watch of the age.
It is a f-plate Lever;
Jewelled in 15 holes.
It has an expansion bal-
ance and brequet hair-
spring.
It embodies every latest improvement known to Ilorological Science.
It stands the roughest work, and yet goes with profound accuracy. In fact, so accurate is it that
a ship could be steered to England by it.
It has a radium dial, so that the time may be seen in the dark.
We have these watches specially made to suit the hard-wear conditions of the Backblocks.
In heavy gold eases on leather straps, £6/10/- upwards.
We also stock them in Silver and Metal Cases.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney,
PLAIN FIGURES—CASH ONLY.
23 8 25 Hunter Street.
Absolutely reliable Gold “Fx. and R.” fully jewelled Lever Watch,
with gold buckle. £6/10/-
Amusements.
Til EAT It E ROYAL, SYDNE If.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
Last Two Nights of MONSIEUR BEAUCAIRE.
SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 20.
JULIUS KNIGHT, supported by IRENE BROWNE
in
A 110 YAL DIVORCE.
Plans at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
1" HE WHITE CITY, SYDNEY.
Now Dispensing a Unique Brand of Solid
Enjoyment to All-comers.
FREE ATTRACTIONS.
BAND CONCERTS.
BALLROOM.
CARNIVALS.
And a Host of Amusements, Theatres.
Entertainments and Shows.
Nightly, 7.30 to 11. Admission 6d.
T. H.'ESLICK, C.E., General Manager.
Annette kellerman.
NNETTE KELLERMAN.
The Diving Venus.
In the Alluring, Thrilling, Stupendous, Spectacular
Fantasy of the Sea,
NEPTUNE’S DAUGHTER.
NEPTUNE’S DAUGHTER.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Every Afternoon and Evening.
Prices: 6d., 1/-, 1/6 and (reserved) 2/-, at Paling’s.
A DELPHI THEATRE, SYDNEY
Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY. LTD.
Last Two Nights of LADY GODIVA.
SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 20, AT MATINEE.
George Willoughby Ltd.’s new Dramatic Co. in
WHAT WOMEN WILL DO
FOR LOVE.
War Prices: 2/-, 1/6, 1/- and 6d.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Day Sales at White Rose.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
The picture block theatres,
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS.
The finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barhington Miller, General Manager.
WIRTII BROS., LTD., GREATEST SHOW
ON EARTH.
OPENING SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 20.
LOCATION: PRINCE ALFRED PARK, SYDNEY.
NEW ARTISTS ! NEW ATTRACTIONS !
NEW SENSATIONS!
EVERYTHING NEW AND NOVEL.
READ WHAT THE PAPERS SAY:—
“The most magnificent and sensational and novel
bill ever presented in Australasia.” “The biggest
thing Wirths have ever done, and that is saying a
lot.”
Admission to Combined Shows: 6/- (Reserved
Chairs), 4/-, 3/-, and Gallery 2/-. Children Half-
price to all parts. Box Plan at Paling’s and Hotel
Australia. Book early and avoid the crush.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL
HOLIDAYS.
|_j ICR MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
■ 1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MARCH 20.
Brief Farewell of Gilbert and Sullivan Opera Co., in
PINAFORE & TRIAL BY JURY
for three nights and matinee.
THE MIKADO.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 24.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 65., 45., 2s. and Is.
-r*II E A T R E ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Lti.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present
FRED NIBLO & JOSEPHINE COHAN,
In the Famous Mystery Farce,
SEVEN KEYS TO BALDPATE.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls. 6/-;
Stalls, 4/- ; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
RINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietors: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MARCH 20.
Geo. Willoughby, Ltd., present a Great Drama of
London Life,
HER ROAD TO RUIN.
Prices: 2/-, 1/- and 6d. Plan at Pianola.
A UDITORIUM. Collins Street, .Melbourne.
** COMMENCING SATURDAY, MARCH 20.
J. & N. TAIT, by arrangement with Mr. Jack
Waller, present THE ROYAL STROLLERS.
From Palace Theatre, London.
The London Daily Telegraph says:—
“A cleverer or more diverting company of artists
it would be indeed hard to find.”
The Royal Strollers had the honor of appearing by
Royal Command before the King and Queen in
London on July 1 last.
Plan at Allan’s. 3/-, 2/- and 1/-.
BI J O U THEATRE, MELBOURNE
FULLF.R-BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE.
Governing Director BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
AFTERNOON. 2.30. EVENING AT 8.
STANLEY McKAY’S PANTOMIME CO. in LITTLE
BO PEEP; also CARRIE MOORE, ROSA LOADER,
ARMSTRONG & HOWARTH, THREE NEWMANS,
ROWLEY & TOINTON, etc.
Prices: 2/6. 2/-. II- & 6d. Matinees; 1/6, 1/- & 6d.
|_|OYT’S PICTURES, MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.
THREE BIG SHOWS.
OLYMPIA, Princes Bridge.
NATIONAL THEATRE. Bourke Street (Eastern end).
HOYT’S OWN, Bourke Street, centre (now building).
Direction ARTHUR F. RUSSELL.
I R C H & CARROLL
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Companv of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.


All Over Their Bodies. Alsoon Heads.
Red and Inflamed. Clothes Irri-
tated Dreadfully. Cuticura Soap
and Ointment Healed.
74 Kilbirnie Crescent, S Kilbirnie, N. Z.
—“My three children broke out in sores
all over their bodies, one boy 7, one girl 3
and one 2 years of age. The trouble began
on the children one after another. The
sores came on then- heads as well as their
bodies and they used to scratch them until
they bled. The skin all round the sores was
red and inflamed and clothes used to irri-
tate the sores dreadfully. I purchased a
tin of the Cuticura Ointment and washed
them with warm water and Cuticura Soap
and then applied the Cuticura Ointment
which cured them completely.
“I washed my youngest little girl from
a baby with the Cuticura Soap and she has
a lovely skin and-hair and was the only one
who did not get the sores.
“When my sister had a baby I advised
her to wash it from birth with the CuMcura
Soap and she has always done so and like
myself is a great believer in Cuticura Soap
and thinks it is the best skin soap we have
tried." (Signed) Mrs. Annie Rudd, Mar.
2, 1914.
Samples Free by Post
Cuticura Soap and Ointment are world
favorites because so effective in restoring
the natural purity and beauty of the skin,
scalp, hair and hands when marred by un-
sightly conditions. They satisfy in purity,
delicacy and fragrance the most discrim-
inating. Cuticura Soap and Ointment sold
everywhere. A sample of each with 32-p.
book sent-free upon request so that if you
wish you may try them before you buy them.
Address R. Towns & Co.. Sydney, N. S. W.
i m
y
Washable
Tubular
Ties
Ask for Cash’s
Seamless
Poplin
Ties
Ask for Cash 's
rr
IWfllWj
DOTTLES
Keep Hot Things Hot 24 Hours
Or Cold Things Cold 3 Days
Icy-Hot
Bottles
TIT OT or
11 drinks when
needed, while up-
country-hunting,
motoring, picnic-
in g; while in
town - for early
morning shaving
water, coffee, hur-
ried meals. Keep
baby’s milk at
right temperature,
or invalid’s food
hot or cold all
night, without
heat, ice or bother
of preparation.
Icu-Hot
Jam
ICY-HOTBottles ,for water, tea, milk, soup,
etc. Pints, 5/6 up, Quarts, 11/ —up. Nickel
B/6up; Quarts, 15/—up. ICY-
HOT Carafe takes place of unsanitary water
bottle. Quarts, 22/ up, with specially pro-
tected neck. 30/- up. ICY-HOT Jars for
hot stews, vegetables, frozen ice cream. Can
also be used for beverages. Nickel plated,
Pints i5/-up,Quarts,2B/6 up. AIsoICY-HOT
Lunch Kits. Inner glass bottle within metal
casing protected against
breakage, easily sterilized
and cheaply replaced if
broken. Liquids touch only
glass—absolutely sanitary.
MADE IN THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA FROM
AMERICAN MATERIALS
Look for name ICY-HOT
on bottom. If your dealer
does not stock it, we mail
direct, prepaid, on receipt
of price.
Send for Catalogue No. 159
Dealers are invited to
write for special terms.
The ‘ICY-HOT' Bottle Co.
Factory: Cincinnati, Ohio, U.S.A.
Icy-Hot Carafe
Quart, 3-Pint.
We invite you to buy a box of “ De
Reszke” Cigarettes and compare them
with any brand you please. Their quality
will appeal to you.
Deßeszke
Australian
Established 1549.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold City
- or Suburban Properties, or on Freehold
and G.P. (Combined). Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security of Government
•Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New
ealand - W*AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borroweis the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine!
Try
this!
>
i
s
i
r~
m
m
fi
noitJf* meZZrJILV nil n l Str "Yl ' hO,Vn > a i ove - The ” ,nha,e porously throng,, me
imitriie'i„;JJl lVar S T, e * ha e ; aso through the nostrils. Do both, of course whi.e hold no the
air-passaaes can be W> Ibe noth t ing less than a surprising revelation of how the nasal
P g can be enabled to convey an increased supply of oxygen to the respiratory organs .
HAVE YOU GOT
CATARRH ?
If you have a dropping of phlegm into the throat,
If your nose is stopped up,
If crusts form in your nose,
If you are easily susceptible to colds,
If you suffer from frontal-headaches,
If you have noises in the head,
If your hearing is affected,
If you have to clear your throat and expectorate often,
If a change in the weather affects you,
If you are a victim to shortness of breath,
If you sneeze frequently,
If your sense of smell is affected,
If you have a heavy, tired feeling on awaking,
If you suffer from a husky throat,
if you are affected with any of the above symptoms,
the Chances are that you are suffering from
Catarrh. It is an exceedingly dangerous com-
plaint, and is so insidious that the sufferer hardly
realises how serious is his or her condition untij
matters have reached an almost chronic stage.
Catarrh often begins with a cold in the head, but it never stops there.
The simple cold becomes a protracted one, while the discharge from the
nose grows more profuse and uncomfortable.
The inflammation extends to the throat and bronchial tubes, causing
hoarseness, a tickling sensation, and an aggravating cough. The matter
that is continually dropping back into the throat finds its way into the
stomach, resulting in a distressing form of dyspepsia, nausea, and loss of
appetite and strength.
The catarrhal poisons are absorbed into the blood, and all the membranes
of the body become infected. What was supposed to be a purely local
disease has become constitutional, deep-seated, and chronic, and may
eventually result in Deafness, Bronchitis, Asthma, Neuritis, Catarrh of
the Stomach, or that dread scourge of the human race, Consumption.
A Sample Bottle of “KAT-AR-AH” INHALANT
FREE to SUFFERERS.
“ Kat-ar-ah ” Treatment for Catarrh is based on scientific principles,
and aims at the curing of the trouble on an entirely new and logical
basis. I know it is right by personal experience—the best Catarrh
Remedy in existence, and I am ready to prove it to you. Hundreds
acknowledge its worth. No matter how many remedies you may have
tried do not consider your case hopeless until you have tried “Kat-ar-ah "
Treaiment.
In order that you may prove the value of this Treatment to your own
satisfaction I will supply you with a trial bottle of “Kat-ar-ah ” Inhalant
FREE OF CHARGE. It will give immediate relief to the inflamed
membranes, clear the head, convey health-giving, purifying and germ-
destroying medicated air to the affected parts, and cleanse the nasal
passages of the accumulated mucous. I will also send you a copy of my
new and booklet—“ Catarrh Cause, Symptoms and
Treatment.” Be sure to mention this paper when writing, give your
full name and address, and enclose 3d. in stamps to cover cost of postage.
Send to-day The trial bottle will be sent you by return mail. HERBERT
HERDER, Daking House, Sydney.
g
HEAR
LATEST 8-TONE
Mears Ear-phone
The final triumph of the inventor of the first successful multi-tone
Ear-phone. IF YOU ARE DEAF, this perfected instrument will enable
you to hear DISTINCTLY, PERFECTLY.
Eight Tones 1 8 different adjustments to suit every condi-
tion of the ear. Instantly changed by a touch of the
finger. Just as easily and as satisfactorily regulated for
the hearing as field-glasses are for the sight. Thus ensur-
ing perfect hearing in all degrees of deafness.
ronrortnpirKT nrinoiole HiVblv T he Mears Ear-phone is based on the mierophonic sound-
J'C ,33i, "f„f v ! “ft™ and self-adjusting it intensifies the faintest sounds to just
“fie fS S 5 oJV“nS fTbS""' »' >” «*, oh r, h Hall Couifottabl, eatried
Qvnxrirv a u^P use - "nil and test it free, or write for full particulars.
mritAirntn; “ S i ade > Bernard's Buildings, 387 George Street.
RPTcn U t xTft NE^: L - G- Callaway & Down, Tuckett Chambers, 361 Collins Street.
Anl S T B A A rnl : 9i rl Zo ® ll , er Ltd - 246 Queen Street.
[inn tt)'i! ias A Balfour, Central Chambers, Charles Street.
im-uvn oll ™' Da ™ Ltd ‘> Elizabeth Street.
AUCKLAND: Clem Bartley, 8 Ponsonby Road.
Mears Ear-phone Co, Inc., 45 West 34th St., New York, U.S.A.
Australasian
Representative—
A. E. SLADE,
Bernard’s Buildings,
387 Ceorge Street,
SYDNEY.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
One of Kaiser Bill’s ex-subjects, dwelling
in a southern suburb, rejoiced too openly
over the early successes of the Gerliogs. He
kept a butter, egg and saveloy emporium,
and about the time the invaders were within
sight of Paris a red-faced woman stepped
into his shop and asked for a pound of
butter. Conversation turned on the war,
and as Hans rolled up the grease he grunted
with great satisfaction: “Huh ! That’s how
ter Shermans vill deal mit der Pritish ven
tay liaf finished mit ter French.” The
woman hadn’t said much, but she had her
own opinions; and when Hans passed her
the butter she hit him in the eye with it.
Also, she added a flitch of bacon and a bowl
of eggs. Then she went out and spoke of it
to the world at large. So Hans’s business
fell off; his exhibition of a large notice
affirming that he was really a Patagonian
didn’t stay the rout, and the advent of a
business rival completed the disaster. A
fortnight ago an official assignee overhauled
his estate and opined that the assets would
pay about 7s. in the £l. And Paris is
farther away than ever.
* * * *
“Billy Blue” : One of the romances of the
land in Australia concerns two properties
known as Underbank, near Dungog. and
Cryan station, on the Liverpool Plains, both
in N. S. Wales. They together formed the
nrst prize in the lottery held in January,
1549, to dispose of the lands held by the
distressed Bank of Australia. There were
31,248 prizes, ranging from small town lots,
and situate in all parts of the Colony. The
properties were conveyed to the winners
tree of charge. The ticket that won first
prize was No. 8374, held by Angus McDon-
ald, a Scotch farm laborer working for Dr.
Lang’s brother at Dunmore, Paterson River
The Underbank Estate consisted of 8320
acres, and with it went 3700 head of cattle
and about 40 horses; Cryan station con-
sisted of 04,000 acres. All McDonald had
to pay for his ticket was £4. To add to his
luck, within two years the first gold dis-
covery took place, and land and stock
boomed. There are still some of the clan
McDonald at Underbank, and one of them
bears the name of Angus. The lottery took
place in the old City Theatre, then in Market-
street, opposite where the Evening News
office, now stands. An Act of Parliament
was passed to legalise it.
* * * * Jrt
This is a tangled world,'as the cabbv is
finding out. His trouble is that the Stale
has regulated the wages which he receives-,
or (if he is an employer) which he must pav.
and also the price of what lie sells. But it
has left to Private Enterprise the fixing of
the prices of what he buys. Thus he must
pay the legal wages and may only charge
the legal fares ; but the chaff that ordinarily
costs him £3 is just now at the immoral
figure of £B, with other fodder at a like
altitude. And instead of extra trade coming
to him to make up for his extra outlay, or
-odd sixpences being thrown in for luck,
whole crowds of people have cut out cabs
as luxuries they can do without, and the
legal fare is the. maximum fare nine times
out of 10.
* * * *
The new motor-’bus co. in Adelaide has
made a definite start at last. Its only car
had been running seaside trips during the
summer; but now, six having been put on
the roads, a suburban time-table is being-
worked. Chairman Nitschke, at the opening
ceremony, undertook that they would as far
as possible avoid existing tram-routes, having
no wish to run in opposition to the Municipal
Tramways Trust, “of which we, as rate-
payers, are all virtually shareholders.”
* * * *
TV here do these suckers come' from ? A
man, out of work in Sydney, was accosted
the other day by a stranger who knew the
address of a job at 355. a week. After fur-
ther conversation and vague, aimless run-
ning-about alter a phantom parcel, the
strange gentleman suddenly asked whether
355.-a-week had change for' £5O, but finding-
lie hadn’t took £4 10s. from him, remarked
something about being back shortly, and
disappeared into a near-by pub. The police
were called in to diagnose the mystery later
on. From the frequency of these cases it
seems clear that for the safety of the nation
a very considerable section of the commu-
nity should be compelled to deposit its cash
in a public place under the combined feet of
17 J. Hops.
* * *
Adyt. in a newspaper published in one of
Maoriland’s “dry” districts, signed by three
local business people:—
Wanted, all those persons who accepted the
hospitality of the undersigned during the Christmas
holidays to report at our respective premises during
business hours. —, f
The trouble is that the suspicious Law feels
dubious about the “hospitality,” and is ask-
ing how much a gallon it was.
* * * *
“H O.”: There are tricks in the fruit
trade besides Floradora packing by the
“crook” agent. Some growers themselves
use schienter” cases. In spite of an Act
prohibiting "topping,” the mixing of in-
ferior fruit with high-grade stuff is still rife.
But as buyers nowadays are not satisfied
with being shown merely a top layer, and
demand that a case shall be opened in the
centre, the grower packs high-quality stuff in
a certain place and makes a mark on the
case to show the agent where to open it.
Alien to these are added the tricks of the
retailer, which are as multitudinous as sand-
flies by the seashore, the chances of the con-
sumer getting a fair deal are remoter than
Tipperary.
“Boronia”: It is up to someone to ascer-
*f in 3 ust wkat percentage of tannin lurks in
the Vyestralian red-gum. From this vegetable
a resin at certain times exudes freely-; and
is largely used in the bush for making kan-
garoo and ’possum skins into leather, and a
splendid job it does, too. A few handfuls of
the gum is usually boiled in a couple of
gallons of water, and when the solution is
cold the skins are put into it, and left from
seven to 10 days I know of skins cured
bj this method that are as good after 20
years service as the day they were plucked.


The BEST HOUSE for all
SHOOTING REQUISITES
fd
8.8. A. Rifle, Showing Silencer attached.
B.S.A. MINIATURE RIFLE, No. 2 MODEL,
22-calibre, bolt action, self-cocking, 24in. round steel barrel;
• i over 41in.; weight, about 541 b.; screw adjusting
rear sight to 200 yards, barleycorn front sight, walnut stock, 35/-
„ , Postage on one Rifle, 2/3 N.S.W. ; 4/2 Inter-State.
B.S.A. MINIATURE WAR OFFICE RIFLE, No. 3 MODEL, same
style as No. 2 Model, but improved, and fitted with target sights.
Delivered 57/6
B.S.A. MINIATURE WAR OFFICE REPEATING RIFLE, 22-
calibre; same description as No. 3 Model. Delivered.. 67/6
THE MAXIM SILENCER, for attaching to rifles. Improves
your marksmanship. Ensures noiseless shooting. The
marvel of the shooting world.
Silencer for 22-eal. rifles... £l/5/-
Silencer for all other calibi’e rifles £2/2/6
Postage on one Silencer, N.S.W., 9d. ; Inter-State, 1/2.
Wedging Silencer on barrel... 7/6 extra
Screwing Silencer on barrel 12/6 extra
We Repair
All Kinds
of GUNS
and
RIFLES.
Send for our
Price List of
Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition and
aii Sporting Goods
Post Free Anywhere.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
Head Depot: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
City Sports Depots 119 King Street,
and at 105-7 Hunter Street, Newcastle.
fas?
L-
MAUSER CARBINE AND PISTOL COMBINED; 10-shot,
automatic self-feeding, self-ejecting, sighted to 1000 yards.
Delivered £6/10/-
THE SAVAGE” Repeating Hammer-
less Rifle, 22-calibre rim fire, 24in. octagon
barrel, slide action, demountable, pistol grip,
handles short, long, or long rifle cartridges ; is loaded with a
clip similar to the Military Rifle, two clips with each rifle,
each clip holds 7 cartridges; weight about sfllb. Delivered..
Extra Clips, 1/6 each.
£3/3/
gf
REMINGTON RIFLES,
No. 6 Model, 22-calibre R.F.
20in. round blued steel barrel,
weight 341 b 17/6
With ladder rear sights, 21/-
Postage—l/6 N.S.W.
2/8 Inter-State.
k mmu
STEVENS’ MARKSMAN RIFLE,
22-cal. R.F., round barrel, 20in. chambered for long
rifle cartridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut
stock, open front and rear sights, weight, 41b., 19/6
Postage—N.S.W. 1/9; Inter-State 3/2.
The EVINRUDE
Detachable Rowboat Motor
— A
I
1
SIZES:
i L A hp.
2 hp.
3Vs bp.
Attached to the stern, the Evinrude
£~\ Motor makes your rowboat self-
propelling — an efficient motor-boat
with a speed of 8 miles an hour.
Its weight, 50 lbs., permits easy
transportation.
Nine Governments use the
Evinrude Motor on rivers
and seas the world over.
Its adaptability and dura-
bility have appealed to
25,000 users.
Driven by Petrol (gasoline) at low
up-keep cost. Steered by the Propeller
—no rudder required, but supplied if de-
si red. Reversible; battery ignition or Magneto,
and automatic lubrication. Fully guaranteed.
Write for Booklet illustrating and explaining the
many uses of this wonderful little motor.
H. A. GODDARD, 404 Queen St., Brisbane; 82
Pitt St., Sydney; 88 Queen St., Melbourne;
Cliffe St., Fremantle; Remington Chambers
(opp. G.P.0.), Auckland.
m
m
[2
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial
OFFICES : 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
4-
=c
s?i
m
•1
P«
O
ct
At night
and again
in the morning
your teeth ought to have that
thorough antiseptic cleansing
which is so readily provided
by the use of
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 eti-
gravings, new 1013 edition, 2s fid posted. Mkrrik
England, 6d. How to Gut Rich, Is posted. Dit. Lamar-
tine's Silent Friend, Is 6d. Nkd Donnelly's Art
ok Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Danck, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola's,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating thk
Horsk, Is. Vr.ntriloqulsm Madk Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comic Rkcitrr, Is. posted. liow to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bull’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of thk
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth. 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & G ames,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales. 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.. Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life.
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Bod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatcn-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
Rritish, 6d. How to Read Faces. Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
ir 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s fid. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is fid
m
■
HOME CYCLOPEDIR
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. “3WI
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &e., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cap.ds, Is 3d. Metal-working fop. Ama-
tkurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is: post
Is 2d. Elrctricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping. 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan's Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hbptamkron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
yqur cash. 25 Tears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
15E GOT .FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my....
♦
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Mark Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Hr. Milford’s Mid-
wipe’s Handbook, 93 practical illustrations, 2s Gd.
Aristotle, 3/0. AdamJj. Goruon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions op the
King, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. Gd. Secret
History Court op England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan's Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is ' posted. "Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s Gd post.
Ingkrsoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d Dosted. Chkvassk’s Advice to a
Wipe. 3s Gd posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bhnnarr Macfadden's Works, all at os pos ed.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar.
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wipe’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits op Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Us-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, IGOOillus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
o-uineas). "Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Univursai
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cioth
bound. 10s Gd posted. The Secrets op Clairvoyant e,
Is post. 200 Old-Time SONGS (words and music com.
nlete). Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY


r
Miss NANCE
McINERNEY
{From, a photo.)
The Champion Surf Siren
tells how she Benefited by
the use of REXONA
SKIN and FACIAL SOAP.
Miss Nance Mclnerney, West’s Pictures’
Champion Surf Siren, is one of Sydney’s
fairest daughters. Not only did she win the
first heat of the Surf Sirens’ Competition by
a large surplus of votes, but she was also the
winner of the Challenge Competiton.
Miss Mclnerney is certainly a picture of
health and beauty, and in the accompanying
letter she tells how she has found Rexona
Skin and Facial Soap indispensable for her
toilet.
The Manager,
“Rexona,” Sydney.
Dear Sir, —
I have long found your Rexona Skin and
Facial Soap indispensable for my toilet. I
use it for my face, and it keeps my skin fair
and delicate; also for my hair, which it keeps
in perfectly healthy condition. For my teeth
I find it unsurpassed; its disinfectant quali-
ties keeping my mouth sweet and my teeth
pearly. I would never be without Rexona
Soap.
Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) NANCE McINERNEY.
THE: REXONA HABIT.
A habit formed is hard to break. Bad habits are easily formed, but good habits can be attained
almost as easily. The Rexona habit results in health and beauty, and once formed will never be
broken.
There are two Rexona hab-
its —that of using Rexona
Ointment to heal all injuries
to the skin, and the Rexona
Soap habit, which consists of
keeping oneself clean and pure
with a delicately-scented and
medicated soap. Rexona Oint-
ment and Rexona Soap mean
skin health and beauty, com-
fort to the user, and immu-
nity from disease. So, form
the Rexona habit. Start with
a cake of Rexona Soap and a
1/6 pot of Ointment. Soon
you will be glad to know that
Rexona Soap is put in dainty-
boxes containing three cakes
each, and that Rexona Oint-
ment is also sold in larger-size
triangular pots, containing
nearly four times the quantity
of the 1/6 size, which are
sold at 3/- each.
lu
z
-HttRUKY
V
riAi_
S&V -
M E.D\CATE.D
i
SOAP
REFRESHING SOOTHING^
2l HEALING ANTISEPTIC SOAP
MEDICATED ON THE SAME PRINCIPLE
famous Rexona ointment.
v;.
These
Getting-on-to-Easter”
Days mean H-U-R-R-Y
if you are to walk out in a
new Suit on the Easter
morn. Hand your Easter
Suit order to Murdoch’s to-
day, Sir, and you will get
100 per cent, value, style and
comfort. As to choice of
Fabric, you have the pro-
ducts of the World’s best
Mills at your call, and
55
is the “MURDOCH”
EASTER SUIT PRICE
At this figure are firm and
rough-finish Marrickville
Grey, Brown and Mixed Tweeds, and a big range of British Tweeds and
Worsteds in dressy pin-head, bird’s-eye, hair-line stripe and other favored
patterns. Post the coupon NOW to Desk R. Every Suit delivered under
guarantee of satisfaction or money back.
Other Suitings
50/-
55/-
63/-
70/-
75/-
Messrs. Murdoch's in Park Street Ltd., Kidney.
DESK R.
Please send patterns of New Easter Suitii gs.
Name
Address
“ Everrite ”
Blue Serges.
55/-
63/-
75/-
MURDOCH’S
IN PARK STREET LTD.,
SYDNEY.
Australia’s Mammoth Men’s Wear Store.
A Night Out with Mother Night.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
UPON the pillows of the west
Night put that gay old sun to rest,
Red flannels round her wheezy chest,
And then, in robes of hodden grey,
She dragged her crooning, weary way
Across the skies, and “Lackaday !”
She sighed. “I’m sick of being sad.
I wish for once I could be glad.”
It chanced the same complaint was mine,
I said : “Old lady, don’t repine.
The thing is simple ; have some wine.
This world, if only one be tight,
Is just a roaring farce. To-night
We’ll have a spree !” She said : “All right!
I hope it’s really true, my son,
That getting tight will give us fun.”
So, arm in arm, we started out,
And shout just followed after shout.
I filled her up with English stout.
Till, with a most improper grin,
She said she thought some Plymouth gin
Would make her nice and warm within.
The sly old puss knew what imparts
The glow of health to female hearts!
There seemed no other thing to do;
So, swearing I would see it through,
I said : “Righto, till all is blue!
But, pardon me, I’m short of cash ;
In fact, my boodle’s done its dash!”
She looked at me and leered and.... crash.
Then crash and crash and crash again,
As golden stars fell down like rain.
Yes, thunders pealed and lightnings flashed,
And stars to little bits were smashed,
And planet things were sternly bashed
With jingling clank upon the road.
Till all the gutters overflowed
With yellow spilth, not a la mode;
But no less welcome on that score
To me, unlearned in lover’s lore.
But it was not my cue to blame
This largesse of the dear old Dame.
I grabbed (you would have done the same)
The golden wealth each bursting star
Splashed o’er the roadway near and far.
Then bolted for the nearest bar —
With close behind the muffled beat
Of Mother Night’s wool-stockinged feet.
Upon the counter down I flung
A fistful of the comets young,
And ordered, with imperious tongue,
A magnum of the very best
The cellars of the inn possest.
The barmaid went upon her quest;
But, ere she went, a voice said “Two!
Together we’ll get fu’ the noo!”
My partner was a grey old dame.
I looked at her and blushed with shame,
What time the gold-haired barmaid came
And gazed at me in loving wise
And sighed with soft commercial sighs,
Then set the wine down with surprise
To see so fine a blood as I
In this old beldame’s company.
For in her robes of hodden grey
Night sat and sipped the hours away.
Crooning a maudlin rondelay
That didn’t seem to fit the case.
I said : “Old Mother, shut your face
And let us lilt in merry pace:
Come, sing and dance and frolic free—
What odds the morrow, let it be !”
My memories aren’t exactly clear
What happened next —but there and here
Are hints that come and disappear—
Fat, gaitered bishops dancing jigs.
Large buildings turning whirligigs,
Lord Mayors dolled up as guinea-pigs,
While she, the dear old Night and I,
Went corybanting through the sky.
Beered asteroids, they whizzed along
In wailing, pale, anaemic throng;
And moons, a golden million strong
Prankt all around in drunken play,
What time they roared some festive lay
Of bottled stout and crimson cray.
Then all at once the world went black
And I was sprawling on my back.
And as I lay so I recall
That Night let all her grey hair fall
About me in a drowsy pall,
And, looking up through wasted years,
I felt the downfall of her tears
Descend upon me and my fears.
I woke to find me in the park,
And Dawn-gold grappling with the Dark.
MAORILAND.
KUSCOBIN.
Behind the Scenes.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AS a boy I read with wonderment of
the gilded rakes who “frequented the
~ coulisses of the theatres.” Ouida re-
presented them lounging, cigarette or cigar
in hand, about these romantic haunts, chaff-
ing the comedians, fawned on by the
coryphees, deferred to by author and pro-
ducer alike. It was a stirring picture. Be-
ing older I know now that it was also a
lying one. I pervaded the coulisses of Syd-
ney Adelphi the other night. There is
nothing in it from the point of view of the
outsider. The comedians are not taking any
badinage. For one thing they are too busy.
Their attitude may be described as civility
diluted with gloom. No beautiful girls attempt
to fawn on one. The authorities are so occu-
pied hurrying about, cursing, pulling ineffec-
tually at pieces of scenery, telling people to
stop doing something instantly, and directing
others to go and poison themselves, that they
would not defer to an archbishop. After
the show, perhaps; but in the heat of busi-
ness, no.
. Dife behind the scenes consists of perspira-
tion, dust, frantic haste, movement, excita-
bility, more dust, annoyance, thirst, exaspera-
tion and the sort of futile unsatisfying
oaths which are necessitated by the presence
of clouds of children. If a man of fashion
attempted to lounge in the Ouida or Le
Quex manner, in this environment —that is
to say at a Louis seize table, with a Havana
poised in his gloved hand, and a bottle of
champagne at his side —he would be fallen
over a dozen times a minute, and the whole
effect of his posturing destroyed The
pleasantest and safest way to haunt the
coulisses is to get one’s back to one of the
fire-proof doors—as being the sort that are
least likely to be opened, unexpectedly, from
behind —and there remain till the dust and
the heat become unendurable. This applies
not merely to Sydney Adelphi, but to the
coulisses everywhere.
Just as the Spirit of Cood prevails on the
stage, so the Spirit of Incongruity rules
behind the scenes. A gap in a set-piece shows
the Wicked Uncles fighting over the Babes
After almost killing one another, the bad
uncles send for a bottle of gingerbeer.
who cower in a horrified manner upstage.
The Uncles employ every sort of weapon—-
swords, revolvers, knives, axes, stones,
daggers and machine-guns. It is warm work.
At the end of their conflict they reel off;
the Babes fluttering before them with panic-
stricken cries. In another second the men
of blood stand in the wings mopping their
brows, their victims at their sides. The
latter look as innocent and fragile as ever ;
their oppressors as cynically brutal. It is
queer to hear the more horrible of the Uncles
say pleasantly to a Babe: “My ,oa— word,
it’s hot! Run and get’s a bottle of ginger-
beer for me, Cis, there’s a good girl.”
Pantomime, by the way, teems with chil-
dren. In the words of a scene-shifter:
“They’re all over the place, like bees, and
’ow in blazes they don’t queer the show
ev’ry night is a mystery.” They play about,
apparently at will. Under a table, in a re-
mote corner, eight very small legs appear.
Their owners are pretending to be in a house.
Half a dozen little girls dressed as birds
practise fancy steps on a mossy bank which
has been constructed half a minute pre-
viously. Others peer through holes at the
performance which is in progress on the
other side of the drop curtain, or chase each
other, or fall over things, or grimace, or
argue, or do one of the countless other things
which amuse children. But there must be
method in this seeming anarchy. They are
never in the way at a crucial moment, and
they never miss their own cues by a second.
The Dame, the Baron and the "rest of the
preposterous characters are ordinary, modern
human beings the instant they arrive in the
wings. They are interested in the War,
racing, the latest news from the Stadium—
the serious things of life. The effect is
strange; something as though an alderman
reddened his nose and put on a false
stomach, to discuss a drainage problem. The
mind of the experienced performer acts
automatically as regards his work. He is
thus enabled to detach himself from his part
until the last possible fraction of time. The
effect is curious. At 9.7 p.m. a stout man in
woman’s clothes,, and with a face the color
of a sunset, is saying feelingly: “Yes, mister,
a feller’s heart bleeds to think of those poor,
homeless Belgians driven out into the world
ruined and friendless.” At 9.74 he is on
the stage, the centre of a blizzard of howls,
abuse, assault and battery.
It may be, however, that it is not the
characters, but ourselves and the producer
and his minions, who look most out of place.
As a case in point, dawn is breaking on the
stage. The fairies go to cover. The leaves
stir. The birds, begin to whistle. Behind
the scenes we can see them at it. They
wear the wide-brimmed and bashed bowler
hats of the scene-shifting class. In the
midst of a poignant trill one of them turns
the page of the evening paper which he is
reading.
Very striking is the contrast between the
elaborate gaiety that is provided for those
on the other side of the footlights and the
epileptic rage of the gentleman directing
The Dame gives a good tip for the races.
the proceedings. 'The public sees a bevy of
smiling maidens, leaping about in a care-
free manner and carolling “This is the life
for me.” The girls, and also those in the
(Continued on next page.)


DON’T NEGLECT YOUR KIDNEYS.
The kidneys and bladder need occasional attention just as much as the bowels, especially
after colds, exposure and over-work, or when the kidneys are over-excited by beer, spirits or tea.
The brain rests while we sleep. So do the muscles. Even the digestive system slackens.
But the kidneys never rest. Night as well as day they keep on with their great work of filter-
ing the blood —if they did not you could not live more than a few days, for the urinous waste
lejt in the blood would poison the whole system.
That is why the early symptoms of kidney trouble are much the same as those of slow
poisoning—you feel as if you could fall off to sleep at any time of the day; you seem to
have no energy, no ambition ; the ankles and limbs may be dropsical, the joints get rheu-
matic. The water contains a brickdust sediment, there is pain in emptying the bladder, and
you may be obliged to seek relief every few minutes.
When the kidneys are in a weak and exhausted condition they have no chance to rest
and pick up their strength. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills give them just the help they
need. This remedy is solely for the kidneys and bladder ; its ingredients are of the highest
quality and absolute purity, and quickly help the kidneys to throw off the poisonous waste
and surplus water which cause dropsy, inflammation of the kidneys and bladder gravel,
stone, lumbago and rheumatism.
X
S
rr
\
/yh
‘‘Every Picturh
tells a SlcriJ,'*
SYDNEY PEOPLE CURED.
12 YEARS CURED
Mr. James Rees, 31 Lower Campbell Street, Surr.v Hills, Sydney, says: “For
over 12 years now I have seen my name appearing in the Sydney papers in con-
nection wilh Doan's Backache Kidney Fills. The statement set out that these pills
had cured me of lumbago-like pains in the small of my back, and it is quite true.
Twelve years have now passed since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me, and
I have been right ever since. 1 had been having a lot of trouble with my back
before I got this remedy. I am a painter, and no doubt my work caused the
trouble. Six weeks before I first used Doan's Backache Kidney Pills 1 was worse
than usual, my back never stopped paining, and I felt tired out. I felt that I
could not go on suffering like 1 was, and you will realise how grateful I am to
Doan's Backache Kidney Pills for ha ving cured me; they cannot be equalled for
curing backache. I always keep a. bottle in the house, and take a dose occasionally,
as 1 am sure they keep the kidneys in a healthy state, and improve my general
health.”
4 YEARS CURED
Mrs. C. Horne, Boot. Store, 52 Abercrombie Street, Sydney, says: “For years
I suffered from severe pains in my back and hips, caused through my kidneys
being weak and disordered. Other symptoms were loss of appetite, sleepless
nights, bad headaches, and a dull, tired feeling, which I could not get rid of. No
one has any idea how I suffered, aud I was beginning to think life was a misery
to me; blit. I am thankful to say all that is changed now. I heard Someone speak-
ing very well of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, so got a bottle to try them, and
this wonderful remedy soon drove the pain out of my back, and restored my
kidneys to a healthy state. I now feel a different woman, and I am very grateful
to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for my lasting cure. I have been perfectly well
since these pills cured me two years ago, and I have no fear of .my ailment ever
returning.”
Mrs. Horne confirms the above two years later: “I have had no trouble with
my kidneys since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills restored them to unhealthy state
four years ago. I need say no more, the facts speak for themselves.”
DOANS
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
At all Chemists and Stores, 2/9 per
bottle, or from Foster-McClellan
Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
wings, see a furiously excited little man in
his shirt-sleeves, who bounds into the air,
waves his arms, and hisses angry directions
as though the show were falling to ruins.
Behind the scenes one can see the Kaiser
and his generals fraternising with the Allies ;
Kaiser and whistling-bird reading war newsw.
the Fairy Queen reading a novel and eating
sweets ; the principal boy dusting a child-bird
which has tripped over a cardboard howit-
zer ; the goat talking about surfing to the
chief ballerina, and other unexpected sights.
If the looker-on were not in a position to
see the furious way in which the performers
behave on the stage, he might think that
theirs was a life of leisure, and that the
The goat is always willing to talk of
surf-bat king.
only workers on the premises are the aston-
ishing people who dash about with huge
pieces of scenery on their backs. It is heat-
ing merely to watch these strenuous toilers.
A visit to the wings has several advan-
tages. It is an effective antidote to the
(flamor of the Boal'ds; and it produces a
peerless thirst.
J.B.D.
The Scenery Merchant.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AFTER many years of wicked sunsets
on Westralian lakes and the Indian
Ocean; of Northern jungles and half
a mile of water falling over 800 ft. of cliff
like a mountain of scoured wool become a
cataract; of the Barrier Reef by moonlight
and the fruit sampans of Johnson River put-
ting forth in the dawn; of the heights of
Etna and the caves of Girofla, I said unto
myself: “Dawn and noon, moonlight and
sunlight, water and rain are no longer
miracles ; and 1 am a scenery merchant no
more.”
And then in contradiction come the pines
of Talingaboolla and Ardiethau, trees with a
faint moss, little more than the green of
painted grass upon a stage-cloth; the new
grass at Brown’s Creek covering up great
red excavations and the scars of mining—an
old garden growing on the edge of an open-
cut —wallflowers and bees, iris and violet
and lilac getting ready to break, and the
chequers of bushy mine clearing, chocolate
field and delicate green of new wheat —all so
wonderfully new again that involuntarily
the little note of color and sunlight put itself
down in the book among mine areas,
measurements and descriptions.
That had not been until the beauty had
become insistent so as to fool the beholder
with the physical sense of youth, returned,
quite physically, and almost mentally so,
but not completely, for the mental quality of
youth belongs to the foolish capacity for
illusion.
There is nothing finer than speed
in youth ; a flashing car in spring
through the winding fields about
Blayney; over the limestone and up
to Forest Reefs; the Ballarat of
N.S.W. as they call it —not at Bal-
larat. All the earth new washed
and with its face clean as a Mon-
day schoolboy’s; wattles, all splen-
dors of gold in fields all green ; and
the Canoblas, like a crouched ele-
phant, brown behind a league of
lawn.
The only sign of time here made
upon the world is a wattle-and-dab-
and-slab hut with a thatched roof
of the generation before last, and a
fine avenue of pines leading to the
hovel, which is anti-climax; and
behind it a garden of bees, the grey-
foam of tree lucerne and a Blue
Mountain parrot in a cage looking
out at the liberty of the spring. But
that part of Australia is not a fair
sample of Australia, because it has been long-
settled by people who were not Australian,
and the paddocks are little fields, and the
hills are not rolled out flat as in three-
fourths of the continent. Wellington, far-
ther west, escapes the cold. Scotch air of
Blayney, and has that rare atmosphere
which naturally calls for the pepper-tree;
but farther west than that the real Aus-
tralia is.
Westerly from Melbourne I found it at
Wolseley, once Bordertown (S.A.). I left
the train at about three in the morning, and
found a flat, white road under the moonlight,
and a belt of gums straight as a gunbarrel
coming from the moonrise and going to the
western horizon It is all plain and spirit-
level country about here; and was not. sur-
yeyed b.v the wheels ot a buggy driven by a
.
mere were noises of men changing sheep
from gauge to gauge m the moonlight—men
barking like dogs, and dogs trying to talk to
the sheep like men. I found an hotel
brilliantly lighted, and with open doors, but
not a soul awake. There is a keyboard with
room-numbers in squares upon it and keys
hanging over the squares; if a square be
empty that room is in occupation ; if the key
be there it is free to you, and every man is
his own night-porter. Mine host does not
know whom he has sheltered until the day
breaks and the shadows flee away ; if they
leave without payment, truly he lias been
entertaining devils unawares. From year-
end to year-end the place is left open; 1
see them not doing this in America—say, at:
San Francisco, where the night-porter told
’“ y i b a°o°v S i T ßi £oii f i I i deßirea , to
f h ™ T ( beie a day
(, ; j- a nnubii f ? auge b° Mount
iFfFFTC" d iJ long - the f nt, k ! f\ l f
!i and the
“ill " , ' , s ee P and eu calypti down
rilm fitlkfi-,, ei ....
, n,t'’ 'f noo r the f lUU low-gauge
5" U * IT f 1 limestone and the
of the volcanic country;
;! L.l Vf .; V • Sal E A T-y
slowed rl uni t'l! T,l 01U a tiaii y ai i U , , as 'll 1 '
’ f? tf f >Salv. Army band blew the
1 Kn, i* i i C M C? 1 ! 1 •*.
n i if w a m " d r 1 c clt k,u ba<1 1 1 ! lck I v l s
iVivl ovo h, S ?i b- le coaching
Rui'i” ‘niii u,i Tffk ihe of Boots
~ • . 1 | "stors Bell still in
dale s Hotel; and the sign over room 13 is
“I” and the next room is twelve. Thus
superstition tries to balk its fate and
cscane if* lmndon
c
oiJl fLf—l “ W V r °“ e of the v V y
, 1, ' ' .. bele f 1S a geai °f a
A entrance to system of
rni,2 ,ls . cb takes all the storm-water,
a ok r r ance ls M l . nos .t hiddden by roses
i ! i ( A l ' cu zinnias and sunflower
r fiT Beyond it is a fine lawn
o e strong, volcanic soil, a group of stone-
li,!! TT" p 1 rosai li a , rid '. outer wall.
e m.a. s o a marble town hall and creepers
barrier of dolomite. The storm-
. * oi makes its way through the cave sys-
t m to Macdonnel Bay, -0 miles away; the
sewage oi l lie town goes to sea, two shafts
bemg sunk through oOtt. of lava to the
poious strata, and so to the Southern Ocean,
In that garden, below the yucca and the
agapantbus, there are rows of apparently
seedless sunflowers—the centre a big yellow
boss like an exaggerated chrysanthemum.
Larkspurs and picotees. hollyhocks each
with his orchestra of one bee and bloom to
frame the big limestone arch below. Around
this jewel passed waggon-loads of glistening
yellow straw from the harvest.
Gambier will be unapproachable as the
capital of the new State that must come as
S. Australia grows older; art belongs to
volcanic country, and mountains of marble
in the sunlight, and Gambier has these. It
lies as in a saucer of the hills, and from a
score of points in the saucer white roads
sweep upwards to hills ~f pines. Around
the Blue Lake and the Mutton Lake and
the Valley Lake are hills of pines; deep
green against the blue of the mountain
waters. Town-ward you see streets of pine
.and poplar bisecting flowerland. All around
this country of the south-east of South Aus-
tralia are serried rows of pines, white roads,
potato fields, threshers spilling straw from
the elevator like spun gold to the fresh
easterly, and the scented white flowering box
and the green of the native hop-bush. It is
a rich country to the far limits of the basaltic
flow. And the fraudulent pioneer in al l its
wealth and beauty used to yelp of his priva-
tions in paradise. Whichever way you
approach Gambier—only one of many
valleys—it is beautiful ; a deliciously green
and flowering place cupped in the hills as
in a. hollowed hand. Its fields often know
two seasons, and it has the climate of King
Island without the sometimes boisterous
chills that Bass Straits know.
can be made the city of beauty which
wdl bring the artist and make the artist
because 0 f its fi ne building-stone—workable
as cheese, and, after weathering, permanent
as bronze. It is already leaning to the
architecture the climate and its building
material demand. They use the loggi
a i,. eadv and by-and-bye the local stonq will
make them abaud()n the Gothic and intro-
duce the dome . It has the finest chance
of any town in Australia; and no other
town in Australia has so much beauty and
)h( , potentialities of a great artistic centre are
ill the hands of 4000 people. It doesn’t shout
its wares either, even to the tourists —
because it is too comfortable and lazy; but
j„ Europe lesser pine-woods than these, as
the one asset of a town, can make that town
famous
rm „ ~ . , ~ r , , .
, ’ ihe , SoU . th Australian Government is
doing fine forestry in planting great areas
of pines just outside Millicent. Adelaide
University now confers degrees for Forest
Science. You can become a Bachelor of
Trees. And the South-East has great com-
mercial probabilities below ground, as above.
iv rom Gambier to Port Macdonnel along the
ocean beach, westerly to Beachport and
easterly inland from Millicent to Narra-
coorte, there are great tracts of country so
]ik e to the oil country of California and
Ohio that in the first flush of recognition
the word that comes is “Petroleum.” Marine
tertiary beds, lime stones, sand stones, brine
deposits and jetsam of bitumen are all here;
and there are the governing indications of
g,5 p er cen t. 0 f the world’s oil fields. If oil
was found here, the new State, with Gambier
f or its capital, would be not far awav.
.... ...... , 1
ri)e towu of Millicent has been made by
M reclamation of marshes, and should be
fa mous for its possession of a dachshund
rooster > who is built very low down to his
own tracks. r l lie South-East is also the
onl - v P lace m Australia where I have seen
an old gentleman with his long whiskers tied
behind his neck, riding a high-geared bicycle
and wearing a tall hat and a frock coat to
d .° lL But the people of the South-East are
rlch f'uough to afford any eccentricity,
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


Westinghouse-Cross
FOUR-CYCLE i
Marine Oil Engines
i N l " : . • . ‘
■
* VS&
Fishing Boats,
Cargo Vessels,
Large Auxiliaries,
Barges, etc.,
> . . are . . .
Simply Constructed,
Effectively Controlled,
and Extremely Flexible
in Speed and Power.
BUILT IN SIZES FROM
7 to 120 H.P.
Write for Pi
The Westift
, ' f
se
_
of Australasia Ltd.
t,
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agtents: Philips & Pike. Wellington.
WiF\m
and
r
fIPEXIOR
99
im
3110
V lON
Let Your Boilerman Make a Test
Give him a Two-gallon Drum of Apexior—see that he applies it
in the right way—and after a few months ask him if it has
not stopped corrosion and pitting—if there is more scale on the
parts not covered with Apexior—if the small amount of scale
adhering to the part that is covered with Apexior falls off with
the slightest tap—if he thinks the efficiency of the Boiler would
be increased by its exclusive use. We are willing to let Apexior
be judged by his answer. But send for a trial drum while you
think of it.
Tried and Tested and Now Used Regularly by many of the
Largest Steam Users in Australia.
SOLE AGENTS
i Austral Engineering Supply Go. Ltd.,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
“*> * ' '
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
* • ■■ -
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Remjngoti
Results with these Cartridges in your
SMITH & WESSON Revolver or Pistol
REMINGTON
I IMP
THE secret of the results you get with Reminton-
UMC Cartridges is their uniform quality, their
absolute dependability. All shooters know and recognize this.
Remington-UMC Cartridges are made for eve/V standard make of
Revolver, Pistol and Automatic Colt, Smith & Wesson, Savage,
Browning, Liiger, Mauser, Webley, Iver Johnson, Hopkins & Allen.
Harrington & Richardson, etc. Each kind and caliber tested in the
arm for which it is made.
Shooting quality demonstrated time and again, on the range, in
the field, and all over the world.
Beading dealers everywhere sell Remington-UMC Cartridges and are com-
manding the patronage of the wide-awake users of arms and ammunition. In-
teresting facts about shooting sent free on request.
REMINGTON ARMS-UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE COMPANY .
299 Broadway New York
dg
IT IS REALLY NECESSARY
for everybody to undergo a periodical cleansing of the bodily
system in order that all impurities may be eliminated and
sluggish organs assisted to perform their work in a satisfactory
manner. As a remedy with gently aperient and tonic properties,
Beecham’s Pills are unequalled for this purpose. There is
no remedy “just as good” and certainly nothing better
TO TAKE
than this old and well-tried medicine which is wholly free from,
any harmful drug, and prepared from the purest vegetable
ingredients of great curative value. As it exerts a most bene-
ficial influence upon the stomach, liver, kidneys and bowels.
Most of the disorders due to derangement of the digestive
system speedily disappear after a course of
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/lb (56 pills) & 2j9 (168 pills).
firestone
Non-Skid Tyres.
For the hard road—for the hot pace—for the long
true economy and service .
The success of Firestone Tyres has proved that the motorist
can have comfort, safety and the “most miles per shilling.”
Firestone Tyres are preferred because of highest quality at the least
cost —as the greatest value, even though there are “ cheaper *’ tyres.
The rubber in them is supremely good. It has the quality of greatest heat-
resistance, of greatest wear endurance. Every Firestone Tyre contains an extra quantity
of this extremely good rubber.
The Non-skid lettering is an imprint of safety. On every highway of the world it
challenges the need of other anti-skid safeguards. It holds the standard for endurance
and economy. The letters prevent spin or skid in any direction, they radiate the heat
of road Mction, insure - perfect traction with gasoline economy, car-protection and
comfort beyond contradiction. «
•j \mri
I =s2>Z\t&.
Mi
m
Si
Firestone Tyres are madb by specialists in the _ largest
exclusive tyre factory in the world. This year’s Firestone
outprit has increased 78 per cent. Firestone are tyres of
greatest strength, sturdiness and safety—
for the Price of Only Ordinary Tyres.
Leading dealers everywhere endorse Firestone quality, and
motorists praise Firestone service.
TO DEALERS.
A Firestone Representative—from
the factory at Akron, Ohio, U.S.A.—
will shortly make calls on dealers and garages in person. Inter-
ested people may make appointments by writing to Firestone
Tyre & Rubber Co., c/o the Office of the Sydney “ Bulletin.”
Firestone Tyre & Rubber Co.,
Factory: Akron, Ohio, U.S.A.
Manufacturers of Pneumatic and Solid
Tyres; Motor Lorry Tyres; Fire Engine
Tyres; Rims, Tyre Accessories, etc.
We are
prepared
to supply
all sizes of
pneumatio
DR. J. COLLIS BROWN
The Original anti Only Genuine
saar*
Testimony
with eech
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMIBT&
Prices In
England—
1/I*. 2/9 & 4/6. Made in England.
fdg
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
‘he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Aotc like a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF P
look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
Lockyer’s
xcv
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON'T LOOK OLD.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wb Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS' HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.'
68 h PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.


SIMANGROVITEI
cx
LEATHER
vxcv
is the AIL AUSTRALIAN BELT.
In buying it jou are not trading with the
enemy, nor adding to the profits of foreigi
shareholders.
Sole Manufacturer and Proprietor:—
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 York Street, Wynyard Square, SYDNEY
(only).
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
FOR
“THAT
A
‘i
A DRINK
A TONIC
A MEDICINE
#
SCHNAPPS
TIRED
Hardie’s Genuine
Used in place of Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions
FIRE, ROT, HEAT, ACID g ANT PROOF.
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS,
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES NARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
and at Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
TANGYE Portable Lampless Oil Engine
w
Tangye “ Special ” Steam Pump.
Big- Stocks of Pumps—all types.
Machinery Merchants, Miller’s Point, Sydney
AGENCIES—
TANCYE’S Oil and Benzine Engines, Suction Cas Plants,
“““ Pumps of all descriptions, Irrigation Plants.
CLAYTON & SHUTTLE WORTH Portable Steam Engines and
Tractors.
CANE Milking Machines. WOLSELEY Shearing Machines.
NICHOLSON & MORROW Drills, Harvesters, Ploughs, etc.
MONRO Chaffcutters.
' .
TANCYE
Suction Gas Engine and Producer Plant,
Clayton and Shuttieworth
Portable Steam Engine.
5fE TM E I 915
WOWS
S H E, E P
SHEARING MACHINES.
serf
o.
V
ST
rs
a
y
c
ox
WOODWORKERS
■nox jssaajU! pinoqs
uopisodojj )iag
The MATTISON PNEUMATIC BELT SANDER
HAS BEEN DESIGNED TO HANDLE “TO-DAY’S
WORK UNDER TO-DAY’S CONDITIONS.”
In every Factory where TABLE LEGS, CHAIR LEGS, DRAWER FRONTS, TOILET
FRAMES, CHAIR BACKS and SEATS, O.G. MOULDINGS and other small, irregular
patterns are made, it will pay for itself in a few weeks, with its CAPACITY, HIGHER
GRADE OF WORK and ACCURATE SANDING.
If you have a sanding problem there is a good reason why you should allow
MATTISON CO. to help you solve it. You have only to write. Sole Agents:
' v,
jm
PARKE <a LACY CO. LTD..
Engineers (Sb Machinery Merchants,
GO Clarence Street, Sydney.
IV,
aoaviHsi
EDINBURGH
Dynamos, Motors, Peebles Lacour
Patent Motor Converters, Alternators.
PHILLIPS
LONDON
Transformers, Arc Lamps,
Switchgear, Cables, etc.
PLEASE ADDRESS ENQUIRIES
PROMPT ATTENTION.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Sydney and Melbourne.
GORDON FAINE L-TD., London Bank chambers, Brisbane.
