

the Veteran
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers 7 “and Sawmill Machinery, Mining E,eqnisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
M-5-W- MONT DE PIETE D &I Cg
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH
Opposite National Amphitheatre. And at
STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Telephone: City 9325.
18$ C»stlereagh Street, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
BMtffyywtl_*>b» |nm
.
EH
COnMOISe>EL)RS
or <
2k*
W AfO'
Supplied by the bottle, case or gallon at
wholesale price.
R i c h ardson’s
Wine & Spirit Stores
259 Little Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
158 Russell
MELBOURI
gss
Hutton's
Fitveo f» ”
HomdA 6acoi\
-6£e -&e4£> /$
CHUBB'S
SPRINGLESS
LOCKS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
Junket,
HANSEN’S
gs
For INDIGESTION
anti DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
ECOBA3EIX.
m
adleys Orient hotel
M
The Best for Rough Roads.
The impregnated rubber=cord foundation of these tyres enables
them to resist moisture, strain and friction. Catalogue free.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne.
There are two kinds of Malthoid Roofing
—the old kind, with the great-black sur-
face, which has been the leader amongst
prepared roofings for so many years-
and the new kind, White Malthoid,
which is the old kind, plus a coating or
skin of Asbestos.
The Paraffine Paint Co.
(D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager),
Ctiallis House, Sydney.
B,
IB
iiii
White Malthoid will not crack, nor rust,
nor catch fire, nor blow off in a gale.
It is absolutely waterproof, and proof
against extremes of temperature. From
time to time we publish photos of White
Malthoid houses in this paper. Seen
them? We’d like to send you our
Booklets.
The Paraffine Paint Co,
(D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager),
Challis House, Sydney.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L-
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, GENERAL 8c AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERS.
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL 8c FARM WAGGONS. IRON 8c MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
SHREDDER DISCS.
HADFIELD
Stone-Breakers
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. [1
ROAD-MAKING
MACHINERY.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE.
Its use gives a delicious sense of clean freshness to the mouth.
It is genuine British, Made in Australia with Australian and British Products.
Th e Bulletin
Vol. 36.—N0. 1844.]
[Thursday, June 17, 1915.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW WAR BOORS
( Postages shown
in parentheses.)
THE GRAPHIC EXTRAS. THE SECOND PHASE
This brings the story up to the Fall of Antwerp. Graphically told
Black and White. Price, 6/6.
OF THE GREAT WAR.
and well illustrated in Color and
Booth: The Gentle Cultured
Liddell: The Track of the War
Palmer’s Th# Last Shot (Third
Garstin:
Verg net:
Hupffer'«
Friendly gussia. 4/6 (Sd.).
: France in Danger. 3/6 (2d,),
i When Blood is Their Argument. 3/6 (3d.)
OuMterlon: The Btrlxariem of Berlin. Dr3. O'U.
At GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROPTY LTD.. 23S PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
The Best Safeguard Against Disease is
CLEAN MOUTH 8 TEETH.
Hudson’s EUMENTHOL
TOOTH POWDER.
Secure Sound White Teeth and a Healthy
Mouth.
The Lancet, London, January 17, 1914,
states:—
“Hudson’s Eumenthol Tooth Powder.—This
Powder is designed on sound principles, and
is very agreeable to use. The distinctive
feature about it is that, in addition to some
approved germicides it contains— mg. .02,
which readily parts with free oxygen, as our
experiments have shown
“The Powder is finely divided, and is free
from harmful constituents and gritty sub-
stances. Analysis showed that the Powder
was capable of giving off oxygen equal to one
cubic centimetre per gramme.”
HOW TO USB THB HOWOIII
116
per
tin
gs
1/6
per
tin
E 6
Some Plays
The Red Page
Tie modern French drama owes its
existence to the “Free Theatre” founded by
waf r l^ A e ntolne m Paris > 1887. Antoine
?? ars an em Ployee of the Gas
o f . Pa . ns ; but his interest in the
drama led him to found his famous Theatre
ijibre m a tiny improvised playhouse. He
had a strenuous struggle for recognition;
his first year exhausted his capital, but the
adverse criticism and abuse from the liter-
ary schools and sects gave him the needed
advertisement that meant ultimate popu-
larity. He appealed for original, uncon-
ventional plays, plays which no manager in
Haris, hide-bound in alleged classicism and
normality, was willing to accept—and the
unacted playwrights responded. Sarcey and
the exponents of the “well-made” play of
the iscribe school shrieked that the Free
Iheatre plays were not plays. They were
not—judged by the rules of the Scribe-
Sarcey school. Most of the modern play-
wrights of France owe their success to the
acceptance of their first plays by Antoine.
Hut Antoine suffered the reformer’s penalty.
He was too successful. “So well had
Antoine combatted the conventions he had
set himself to destroy that seven years after
the attack his enemies had for the most
part become friends, or at least distant ad-
mirers and sympathisers, or else imitators
••••The public had become accustomed to
the novelty of the ideas set forth by the
new movement; every one became in a sense
revolutionary, so that there was nothing to
revolt against.” The Commercial theatres,
as is the way, of commercial theatres the
world over, seeing that the Free Theatre
plays were valuable, eagerly accepted the
plays of the authors discovered for them by
Antoine. And the actors, trained by
Antoine, could not resist the large salaries
ottered them by the commercial theatres.
Antoine found himself merely teaching the
converted commercial managers how to make
money. ll e resigned, became an actor, and
ultimately became director of the Od6on,
the Government theatre. Even he had to go
over to the enemy. The latest news of
Antoine is that, worn out with his gigantic
task and ruined financially, he has resigned.
But he had done his work. He had ren-
dered obsolete conventional plays, conven-
tional acting and conventional stage-setting.
Of extreme interest, therefore, is the
translation of Four Plays of the Free
Theatre, by Barrett H. Clark, with a pre-
face by Brieux (Stewart and Kidd, Cincin-
natti, U.S.A., 7s. 6d.). The plays selected
are: The Fossils, by Francois de Curel;
The Serenade, by Jean Julien; Frangoise’
Luck, by Georges de Porto-Riche; The
Dupe, by George Ancey. The first impres-
sion of the modern reader who has at his
disposal many published plays of the modern
Repertory movement is one of disappoint-
ment. These plays, heralded as so wildly
original, seem already “dated.” The solilo-
quy and the aside —scorned in theory by
Antoine —abound; the naturalism of plot
and character has been rendered almost
artificial by the triumphs of repertory
naturalism; and one of the plays, Frangoise’
Luck, has for recommendation only its old-
fashioned charm. Again this is a tribute to
Antoine. These plays were among the first
selected by that director; and their innova-
tions have been so eagerly seized upon by
the modern dramatist that they are no
longer innovations. The only comparison
they should be forced to meet is that of the
Scribe play that they superseded.'
Les Fossiles is the story of a family of
aristocrats which sacrifices everything—
happiness, honor, life —in order to save the
family name. The situation is this: The
only son of the Duke is threatened with an
early death, leaving no heir. But he
announces that a companion of his sister’s
is his mistress, and that by her he has had
a son. He is willing to marry this woman
in order to legitimise the succession. But
the unpleasant facts come out that the girl
has also been the mistress of the old Duke,
and her son is really his. Confronted with
this situation, which is known to the sister,
the family decide that everything must be
sacrificed to the family name. The son
marries the girl, and, learning that his
father is the father of the child, deliberately
refuses his one chance of life and practi-
cally kills himself. As the old Duke says :
“A crime? Perhaps! We must not do
things by halves, and the old must help as
well as the young! What difference whose
is the child? Our blood runs in his veins,
and I can ask no more!” The mother, too,
must pay with the family to which she has
brought an heir. She must submit to the
sister’s complete control of his upbringing,
so that when he is a man he will be capable
of also dying for the sake of an idea!
J*
On its production, La S4r6nade became a
sort of confession of faith for the Free
Theatre. Its author’s theory that “a play
is a slice of life presented artistically on the
stage,” is here exemplified by the brutality
and ugliness of this bourgeoise drama. It
is a savage revolt against the lay-figures of
the conventional drama, and naturally its
protest is too shrill. The main situation
somewhat resembles that in The Fossils. A
respectable mother has a lover. He is seen
by the husband coming at midnight from
bis wife’s room. “To receive a lover in
your room!” he indignantly says. “A room
that even I respect, a room that connects
with your daughter’s room! My chil-
dren are not going to have such an example
of mother-love near them!” But the simple
little ingSnue daughter Genevi&ve inter-
venes. She explains that it was her room
that the man came from; and when her
outraged father goes to choke the lover she
holds him back with the exclamation:
“Papa, don’t kill him! He is—think of —
my—child!” Genevi&ve is the author s re-
tort to _ the sweet simplicity of the conven-
tional ingenue. . Things are fixed up with-
out the necessity of the father killing any-
body. It is necessary, to preserve the family
honor, for the lover to marry gentle Gene-
vi&ve; and at the wedding-feast the mother
says simply to the seducer: “Sit by me —
son-in-law!”
La Chance de Frangoise, a one-act com-
edy, and La Dupe, a five-act comedy, deal
with wives whose love for their husbands
persists in spite of their knowledge of their
infidelity. There are only four persons in
the latter comedy. Adble is married, at the
orders of her mother and her elder sister,
to a rotter of a man whom she does not
love. But marriage, even though she dis-
covers that her husband,, beside being an
embezzler, is keeping up his affair with
another woman, lias inspired her with a
helpless passion, for the deceiver. She is the
dupe of him and her relations all through ;
but when he beats her she is reluctantly
compelled to get a separation from him.
The end is,. shall we say, typical? The
husband’s mistress sends him packing; and
he turns up at his wife’s flat to borrow more
money. Adfele lends him all her money,
and even acquiesces in the suggestion that,
frankly, she should become his mistress.
He says he will set up a ground-floor apart-
ment. lie insists on paying the rent. She
will come when he writes? Yes.
. And the dupe, still helplessly in love with
him, is left sadly asking herself, “But will
ho write?”
it*
The work of the modern Russian drama-
tist —at least such work as has been trans-
lated —is as characteristic as the work of
the modern Russian novelist. There is a
wildness, a barbaric strength, an audacity, a
formlessness in this work that show' how
little either Russian novelist or dramatist has
considered European civilisation. The growth
of both Russian novel and drama has been
a separate growth, springing from Russian
soil, not an offshoot of the parent European
stock. And the dramas of Leonidas Andreiev
are, perhaps, the most typically Russian work
yet produced. The Life of Alan (Allen and
Unwin, per Dymock’s Library) is really a
morality play, constructed on the simplest
plan. The first act is entitled “The Birth of
the Man,” and the last act shows us “The
Heath of the Man,” and in between there is
his life.
The prologue is spoken by the Being in
Grey. The curtain rises on a large, square,
empty room without doors or windows.
Everything in the room is grey; The dim
light throws no shadows. “Without a sound
the Being in Grey detaches himself from the
wall, with which he has almost seemed to
mingle. He "is clothed in a loose, grey, shape-
less habit, roughly outlining a gigantic frame,
and his head is veiled in a cowl of the all-
pervading hue. This cowl throws the upper
portion of his face into deep shadow, so
that no eyes, but only a nose, mouth and
prominent chin are visible.. . .He begins to
speak in a voice as destitute of passion or
emotion as that of some hired clerk reading
aloud, with dry nonchalance, the records of
a court of law.”
“In the night of non-existence there bursts
forth a little candle, lit by an unseen hand.
It is the life of that man. Mark well its
flame; for it is the life of that man In
blind nescience, in an agony of foreboding,
in a whirl of hopes and fears, he completes
the sorry cycle of an iron destiny Come
from darkness, into darkness he returns, and
is reabsorbed, without a trace left, into the
illimitable void of time. There there is
neither thought nor feling, nor any inter-
course with men. And I, the Unknown, shall
remain ever the fellow-traveller of that man
—■through all the days of his life, through all
his journeyings.... And ye who have come
hither for sport and laughter (ye who none
the less must die also), look ye and listen-
for there is about to pass before you, and to
reyeai to you its joys and its sorrows, the
brief, fleeting life of a Man.”
And in e.ach scene this gigantic Being in
Grey appears: in some darkened corner he
stands, shrouded, holding the candle of life:
At the moment of the birth of the man he is
seen with the tall candle new-lighted: as the
successive stages of the man’s life appear,
the candle burns lower and lower, and at his
death flickers out. In addition to this obvi-
?J^ S symbolism, Andreiev uses the chorus of
the Greek dramatists. A group of hor-
rible old women introduce and end the play
We see them first waiting for the child to be
born, ghoulishly interested in the stifled cries
of the woman in the next room.
“Why need there be births at all? They are
such painful things!” one asks.
“Well, why need there be deaths either?
Ihey are still more painful, are they not?”
And the old women chuckle and discuss
the screams of the woman! Babies, too, the
old crones are interested in. One likes them
best when they are dying. Then they grow
less clamorous they just stretch themselves
out, and require rocking to sleep no more.”
But they are such playful little dears!
How I love to wash them just after they are
born!
, And I to wash them just after they are
dead!
J*
After the birth of the child, the doctor, the
father and a group of grotesque relations
enter. Hut all Andreiev’s groups are gro-
tesque. Each of his musicians bears a
caricatured resemblance to the instrument he
plays; all the instruments are slightly out
ot tune with each other”; and they play the
same air all through one act! Of his group
o f Ao r u nkar * ds the dramatist tells us that:
All have faces both horrible and repulsive,
out in such infinite variety or ugliness that
they resemble, rather, an assortment of
hideous masks. Likewise the majority of
them have one or more features either gro-
tesquely exaggerated or wholly absent (such,
for instance, as a gigantic nose or no nose at
all. ...). The women are indistinguishable
from the men, save for the fact that they are,
if anything, the more uncouth.” The chatter
of the guests and relations during the play
is excessively banal when it happens not to
be malicious. Only one scene suggests an
atmosphere of happiness. It shows the man,
destined to become a great architect, poor
but happy with his young wife. Here we
see the neighbors bringing food and gifts to
the starving couple.
In the next act the man is already famous,
fawned upon by his guests, flattered and
bitterly envied. Ruin comes to him- in the
next act; his acquaintances gloat over his
misfortune, and his son dies. Then the man
curses the Being in Grey. The victory, he
tells the Grey Destiny, is his, because there
is nothing more that the Being in Grey can
do to hurt him. And so, in a cellar without
doors or windows, but which is entered by a
ladder leading down from a trapdoor in the
ceiling, the man dies. The room is crowded
with degraded drunkards. These slowly file
out, climbing the ladder, and their places are
taken by the group of old crones who wit-
nessed the man’s birth. Cursing the Being
in Grey, the man dies, and the grey crones
whirl in a bestial dance about the dead
man.
Let us look on pleasanter scenes.
Barrie seems to have come to the end of
his inspiration. His playlet, Her Tag, was
plain piffle; his burlesque, Rosy Rapture, is,
according to the London critics, utterly inept.
But luckily he has published a volume of
comparatively recent short plays that gives
us something to remember the dead Barrie by.
Half Hours (ITodder and Stoughton, per
Sydney Book Club) contains four comedies:
1 antaloon, The Twelve-Pound Look, Rosa-
lind, and The JVill. Two of these plays have
been recently presented by Repertory organ-
isations in Australia.
. Sha_w was the first to make his stage direc-
tions interesting, to make them, in fact, part
or the action of his dramas. Barrie proves
himself a most apt pupil in the art of illum-
inative stage direction. Some of the most
delightful touches in these comedies appear
tor the first time, now that the stage direc-
tions are printed. In Pantaloon, which is a
charming story of. Harlequin, Pantaloon,
Clown and Columbine, Barrie shows us the
home-life of this quaint family. Columbine
and Harlequin love each other, but they
?i? ve u their love. Barrie tells us why in
the these two never speak. “I
don t know whether they were what we call
dumb. Perhaps if they had tried to talk
with their tongues they could have done So,
but they never thought of it. They were
such exquisite dancers that they did all their
talking with their legs. There is nothing
that may be said which they could not
express with this leg or that. It is the
loveliest of all languages, and as soft as the
fall of snow.”
. We see the characters at home, in their
immemorial stage costumes and make-up.
1 antaloon is the father of Columbine; but he
is getting old, and when he asks the lovers
whether they would like him to be funny,
or shall we have tea first?” they prefer to
have tea first. And the clown wants to
marry Columbine; and what the clown wants
he gets. Joey. is the head of the company,
the only capitalist... .and he knows, too, that
I antaloon is not as funny as he used to be.
If Joey were to leave him he would never get
another shop. But Harlequin rescues Colum-
bine and runs away from the clown. The
prodigals return years after to Panta-
loon in his poverty. They are poor, too, but
they have a child. It had been the greatest
disappointment of Pantaloon’s life that his
child was only a Columbine: he had so
wished for a clown. And the child enters—
dressed as a clown.
It is the daintiest of fancies, done with the
inimitable Barrie touch.
•Of The Tioelve-Pound Look, the author
says : “If quite convenient (as they say about
cheques) you are to conceive that the scene
is laid in your own house, and that Harry
Sims is you.” But at the curtain he lets us
off: “We have a comfortable- feeling, you and
I, that there is nothing of Harry Sims in us.”
In Rosalind, he even goes out of his way, after
describing his scene, an interior, to suggest
that “the exterior of the cottage is probably
picturesque, but we shall never know for cer-
tain, it being against the rules of the game
to step outside and look.” And in this
delightful comedy of an actress who lets her-
self flop into'her middle-age, passing for her
own mother in obscure seaside lodgings, and
is there encountered by the nice boy who loves
her in her assumed stage youth, Barrie notes
an interesting fact about the modern drama:
“Have you noticed that there are no parts
in them for middle-aged ladies? Not for
stars? There is nothing for them between
the ages of 29 and 60. Occasionally one of
the less experienced dramatists may write
such a part, but with a little coaxing we can
always make him say, ‘She needn’t be more
than 20.’ And so we have succeeded in keep-
irsr middle-age for women off the stage
When you come to write my epitaph, Charles,
let it be in these delicious words, ‘She had a
long 20.’ ”
This study of a famous star is full of inti-
mate touches. Barrie notes that when she
mentions that she got out of a train, “she
makes a movement to get out of the train
here. We begin to note how she suits the
action to the word in obedience to Shakes-
peare’s lamentable injunction; she cannot
mention the tongs without forking two of
her fingers.” And he even tells us all the
contents of her bag, though in the play she
does not need to unpack it. It contains,
among other things, “Letters from nobodies,
postal orders for them, a piece of cretonne
that must match she forgets what, bits of
string she forgets why, part of a watch-chain,
such a neat parcel tied with ribbon (golden
gift or biscuits? She means to find out some
day), a purse, but not the right one ”
And Here is another discovery that one c
verify from one’s stage memories: “J 3
curves toward him in one of tho
swallow-flights which will haunt
stage long after she is but a memor
W hat they say and how they sa
it soon passes away; what lives on is th
pretty movements like Beatrice’s swallow
flights. All else may go, even the golde
voices go, but the pretty movements rema
and play about the stage for ever. They a
the only ghosts of the theatre.”
The Will is slighter in content and chara
ter than the preceding plays. It is interes
mg, however, because here Barrie uses tl
same method that was used in > Milestone
and his theme is the slow deterioration \
character from youth to age, as shown b
setting the acts at intervals of long years.
As a memento of a Barrie that is to th
theatre dead, this collection of his little play
should be cherished.
■ •
The Red Page (B. 27/5/T5) asked
anyone knew an old Frenchman in Sydne
who might be the original character intro
duced by J. Conrad in Within the Tides
Conrad makes him a villain, huge in body
without hands, “and with long black hai
brushed back off a high forehead like
bard’s.” J.H.R. thinks he has found th
man
“I knew a pleasant old fellow who
answers this physical description exceptin
that he had lost only one hand instead o
two. (But then Dickens gave Squeer
only one eye, while his model had two.)
met this man in a cosmopolitan cafe abou
five years ago and played him dominoes fo
three years without knowing his name. The
easy politeness of the French ‘monsieur
makes one careless of names. He was quite
18 stone, and in summer always wore
roomy white pants, an alpaca coat tha
fell to his knees, and an old-fashioned bell
topper. He told me he was 75, but he
looked like 50, owing to his cheerful, large
sunburnt face, clean shaved, his high un
wrinkled forehead, and his stupendous mop
of glossy black hair that sprouted en
brosse from his forehead, but, instead o:
ending in stubble, flowed over his pate in
luxurious waves and fell over his-coat col-
lar. I thought at first he was a German
piano-tuner. He had lived many years in
Sydney, and at one time had an hotel. Then
he bought racehorses and took them for
sale to the French-speaking isle of Mauri-
tius. Thence he went to Zanzibar, and lived
for ten- years with the people as a Moham-
medan. He followed the fashion of shaving
his head, and he told t me that that
accounted for his having a crow-black mane
at 75. He recommended all persons who
were about to become bald to shave their
heads every day for three months —that is,
if they, wished to avoid baldness. He came
back to Sydney to retire, and found relaxa-
tion m dominoes and squabbling with the
Harbor Trust. He- had invented a water
bicycle (it may still be lying near the naval
depCt at Rushcutter’s Bay) on which he
was going to fix a hoarding for advertise-
ments, and on Saturday afternoons and
Sundays it was his idea to pedal,about the
harbor spreading the glad tidings of the
omnipotent pill. However, the Trust
stopped him on the ground that he didn’t
carry a sufficient number of periscopes, but
the real reason was because there was a
campaign against harbor advertisements at
that time. So then lie applied for a fisher-
man s license for his ‘boat.’ and the Trust
was working up an answer to that when
the old fellow died —about two years ago.
He was a genial old soul; certainly not a
villain. He could roll his cigarettes easily
enough on one knee with his one hand. In
place of his missing hand he had a hook
like Captain Cuttle, but ordinarily he had
this unscrewed and carried it in his pocket.
He was a fine linguist—his English was
flawless—and several times he acted as
interpreter in courts. He was particularly
proud of one occasion when he translated
French, Danish. Turkish, and the Zanzibar
dialect of Arabic to help square up a fight
on an Italian sailing ship. But I don’t
think he played dominoes very well; I used
to beat him once a month or so.”
Captain John Strachan, J.P. (with por-
trait), is the author of An Unheeded Warn-
ing (6d.), a lecture originally delivered at
Brisbane in 1909, in which he pointed out
that Germany, and not Japan, was our poten-
tial enemy.


nee
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for PRESENTATION CLOCKS.
The Aden Ansonia, Black Walnut
Eight-Day Clock; Ilalf-hour Strike.
Height, 22in.; Dial, 6in 12/-
Ansonia Clocks set a standard of Accuracy that place them
in the front rank of popular timekeepers. The assort=
ment of Marble, Wood, Bronze, Enamelled Iron and Por=
celain Clocks we offer cannot be equalled south of the line.
The Venice Ansonia (as illustrated, but with
visible escapements), Black Enamelled Iron
Clock, Eight-dav Time, Half-hour Strike, Cathe-
dral Gong'; Sin. Dial. Height, lOgin.; Width,
lOlin. 35/-
The Berlin Enamelled iron
Ansonia, Eight-Day Clock, Half-
hour Strike, Cathedral Gong.
Height, 9lin.; Width, lljin. ; Dial,
Sin 25/-
The Arlington Ansonia, »ia< k
Walnut Eight-Day Clock, Half-hour
Strike, Cathedral Cong. Height,
; Dial, 6in ..... 13/6
II
The Capri Ansoilia, Enamelled Iron Eight-Day Clock ; Half-
hour Strike, Cathedral Cong. Height, 12Jin. ; Width, 15in.
Dial, Sin 41/
The Bright Ansonia, Fancy
Gilt Clock; One-dav Time.
Height, (Min. ; Porcelain Dial,
2 in. 10/G
The Brook Ansoma,
Fancy Gilt Clock, One-Day
Time. Height, sfin. ; ’2in.
The Pinafore Alisoilia, Eight-Dav Marble Clock, Half-
hour Strike, Cathedral Gong. Height, 9Jin. ; Width,
14jin.; Dial, Sin 50 1 -
The Dover Ansonia,
Iron Eight-Day Clock;
Strike; Cathedral Gong
lOjin. ; 'Width, 9 2 in. ;
Enamelled
Half-hour
•. Height,
Dial, sAin.
ill . *'i
W I 1
m
12
10
6 A
4 00-Da y Gilt Clock, Enamelled
Dial, complete with Glass Shade.
Height, llin. Runs for 400 days
without rewinding. A Reliable
Timekeeper and a Handsome
Present 27/6, 30/-
f / Mra
peg:
S4s»|
The King Ansonia, Black
Walnut Eight-Day Clock, Half-
hour Strike, Cathedral Gong.
Height, 24in. ; Dial, 6in. With
Alarm ;. 22/-
Without Alarm ...... 21/-
The Windsor Ansonia,
Black Walnut Eight-Day Clock,
•Silvered Cupids, Plate Glass
Mirrors, Half-hour Strike, Cathe-
dral Gong. Height, 21jin. ;
Dial, sin 23/-
The Parisian Ansonia,
Black Walnut Eight-Day Clock,
Half-hour Cathedral Gong
Strike. Height, 23in. ; Dial,
Gin 18/6
The Barco Eight-Day
Ansoilia, Marble Clock, Half-
hour Strike. lbei?ht, 12lin. ;
Width, 9in. ; Dial, Sin. 42/-
SEND
FOR
PRICE
LISTS,
POSTED
FREE
ON
REQUEST.
12
30
The Cliopin Ansonia, Eight-Day Marble Clock, Half-hour Strike ; Cathedral
Gong ; Height, 9iin. ; Width, 15jin. ; Dial, sin 50/-
FREIGHT
MUST
BE
ADDED
TO
THE
PRICES
QUOTED.
Th« Triumph Ansonia, Black Wal-
nut, Plate Glass Mirrors, Silver
Cupids, Eight-Day, Half-hour Strike,
Cathedral Gong. . Height, 2 4-yin.;
Dial, 29/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


WINCHESTER
.22 CALIBER
«§gbl
j|»‘:
Mm
m?' %;
m
' ' .*** ■ ■ -
>;x
- wi*
AUTOMATIC
** RIFLE
Firing and
Reloading
By The Trigger Fiifer
✓
✓
A
FTER filling the magazine and throw-
, ing a cartridge into the chamber of
this rifle all that it is necessary to do to
shoot it ten times is to pull the trigger for each
shot. Being loaded by the recoil it is very easy to
shoot a series of shots with this rifle with great rapidity.
This makes it particularly desirable for practicing rapid fire
shooting or shooting at moving game such as ducks, geese,
rabbits, etc. As a means of sport this rifle is not equalled
by any other twenty-two caliber. It handles inexpensive
rim fire cartridges, those of Winchester make being
clean to handle as they are loaded with Winchester
Greaseless bullets. If in the market for a small
caliber rifle
THIS WINCHESTER WIEE
PEEASE YOU
The\
W
Br^nd
HIM
HOTEL
METROPQIE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes front
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s.
bd. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Par-
ticulars posted on application to
The Mamager.
Cd
i
What was
the matter
with Nero ?
We know now. Rome wouldn’t
have burned, and all would have
been happier, if he had had
Cockle’s Pills.
The same internal reasons
that made him cheerful or
depressed are the reasons
that make you cheerful or
depressed. If your diges-
tion is faulty, if wastes
and poisons accumulate
in the system, your outlook
on life becomes poisoned
too. All gloomy and
vindictive people are con-
stipated. Poor old Nero
might have been as cheery
and kindly as you are, if he
could have had —as easily
as you can get them —
Cockle’s Pills
Sold by all Chemists, in boxes, price 1/- and 2/6.
JAMES COCKLE & CO., 4 Great Ormond St,, London, Eng.
RIDE A. BICYCLE
BUILT OF GENUINE
ERA
FITTINGS
“THOROUGHLY
BRITISH”
fVH: n
o
1 M
V
IJERE are five reasons why you
* * should have a bicycle built of
Genuine B.S.A. Fittings in preference
to a cheap pattern’ machine: —
1. You get far better value.
2. You get greater reliability.
3. You get an easier running machine.
4. You get economy in upkeep.
5. You get a much higher price for the
bicycle when you want to sell it.
In fact you get more enjoyable cycling always.
There’s no doubt a B.S.A. is cheapest in the end.
But apart from that you have a machine you will
always be proud of. How would you like to go out
with friends all riding B.S.A’s—yours a cheap
pattern machine? Not at all! Then ride a bicycle
built of genuine B.S.A. fittings.
B.S.A. Handbook Free .
D. Y. RENNIE, (Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
Australian Buildings, MELBOURNE.
B.S.A. CHEAPEST IN THE END
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front=r!m Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write ior Price List, post free.
ANTHONY NORPCRN <&. SONS LTP.,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
CUNS, RIFLES, REVOLVERS
for SHOOTERS
and SPORTSMEN
TRADE MARK
THE SMALL ARMS CO.
SPLENDID 5.8.8. L. GUN, 12 gauge, choke bore, kills at extra long range.
Accurate and reliable. Holiday Price, 17/6. D.8.8.L. GUN, fitted with
Greener cross bolt, bar and rebounding locks, choke and modified steel barrels,
walnut stock, pistol grip. GOVERNMENT TESTED. AN EXCELLENT
KILLER. Holiday Price, £JJ / 10/- D.8.8.L. GUN, choke and modified steel
barrels. Government Tested. THE FARMER’S FRIEND. Special Price,
£2/2/- MAUSER BOLT ACTION 2: CAL. TAKE-DOWN RIFLE, nice and
light. A very accurate little weapon. THE YOUTH’S FAVORITE. Holiday
Price, 14/6. CHAMPION CENTURY RIFLE, fitted with patent beaded
sight, pistol grip, steel heel plate, bent bolt and patent ejector. Takes _ .22
long, .22 short, or shot cartridges for birds. One of our best sellers. Holiday
Price, 18/6. Write for Our Catalogue.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT THESE PRICES ONLY FROM
Largest Importers of Arms and Ammunition in the Commonwealth
242-4 BOURKE STREET* MELBOURNE.
‘ON THE HOP
A superb library volume of historic interest, handsomely printed and
bound, containing upwards of Three Hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings.
Reproduced full “Bulletin” size. Price 215.. from “The Bulletin” Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
jvikSo aUuIINj i o.
Modern Miracles
—The beautiful daughter of—
Mrs. R. A. Addington, Argent St.,
Broken Hill, is declared to have
been cured of St. Vitus* Dance by
CLEMENTS TONIC
ECENTLY in France a peasant woman whose little girl had
been bedridden with paralysis for years, had occasion to
* ' visit a churchyard which contained the statue of a well-
known saint. Some of the mould from the tomb adhered to her
handkerchief, which, upon touching her child, cured her. This
fact is vouched for upon reliable authority.
Miracles are not all confined to the older countries, for we have
heard also of similar remarkable incidents in newer countries,
and very often in Australia. A few years ago a certain section
of Broken Hill was electrified by the recovery from apparently
incurable St. Vitus’ Dance of the daughter of Mrs. R. A. Adding-
ton, of Argent Street. It was on the 10th October, 1911, when
first the mysterious cure was reported. The mother, being seen
by a special interviewer, and, overcome by gratitude that her
daughter was healthy again, told the facts at once. She said
that the disorder occurred through her daughter falling from a
tram. This gave her a great shock, and so affected her nervous
system that eventually St. Vitus’ Dance ensued. She became so
bad that it was impossible to hold a knife and fork, and going out
of the house was out of the question. This remarkable condition
continued for some time, medical skill being useless, Mrs.
Addington declared, WHEN SUDDENLY, AS THE RESULT OF
USING CLEMENTS TONIC, a wonderful change took place. She
gradually improved, and soon regained her normal condition.
Nearly two years have elapsed since her complete recovery, and
all that time she has enjoyed the best of health. “I have great
faith in Clements Tonic, and always recommend it,” added the
mother, “and you can make what use you wish of this.”
ALL STORES AND CHEMISTS SELL IT EVERYWHERE.
See you get the Original Medicine* Do not accept any “just as good’
remedy. There is only one real Clements Tonic.


ELEY
CARTRIDGE CASES
were used by the winner of the
CLAY-BIRD
CHAMPIONSHIP
at the Clay-Bird Shooting Asso-
ciation Champion-ship Meeting
held at Hendon, June 24-27, 1914
No matter what powder is selected,
ELEY Cartridge Cases give the
best results. For instance :
PRIX DU CINQUANTENAIRE,
MONTE CARLO (Dec 9, 1913)
—won with ELEY Cartridge
Cases loaded with Ballistite.
GRAND PRIX DU CASINO
MONTE CARLO (Feb. 12,1914)
—First & Second Prizes won
with ELEY Cartridge Cases
loaded with Rottweiler and
Smokeless <s> Diamond
respectively.
CLAY-BIRD CHAMPIONSHIP
HENDON (June 27, 1914) —
winner used ELEY Cartridge
Cases loaded with Mullerite
& Clermonite (right and
left barrels).
WHOLESALE ONLY:
ELEY BROS., LTD.
LONDON.
Agent: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N S W.
PREPAID TO YOUR PORT.
gs
Ten Days’ Trial allowed. Direct from
Factory. Highest-grade British MEAD
Coventry Flyer*
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture- Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears, Flyer
or Brook’s Saddles, etc.
LATEST
MODELS
£3mlO to £3
Tyres and accessories at half usual prices.
Write at om e. using sufficient postage,
for Free Art Catalogue and special
Offer on sample machine. Agents wanted.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
DeciA2B2 LIVE.RFCOL.
WAR
Prompt Shipment 8 Safe Delivery
Guaranteed. No Advance in Prices
AGENT for MEAD CYCLES—
VAL. D. COLE. Book Arcade, Melbourne.
LAIiGE STOCKS ON HAND. ALL MODELS.
Exclusive Agent
Wanted
to sell our portrait
enlargements, picture
frames and novelties
in art goods. Excellent
opportunity for any
Merchant or Agent
The sale of this
line of goods is very re-
numerative. You may
charge good prices for our
portrait novelties. No ex-
perience required. We will send free of
book of instructions and general catalog. We furnish
[bank references. 20 successful years m the export
business is our best reference.
Consolidated Portrait & Frame Co,
I 1029—D-10 W. Adams St.. Chicago. 111.. U, S. A.
< 7>
»
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knevv they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user 01
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the erav -
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post you a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLE L
—“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.
Mr. Frank Ford (Blackall P. 0., Q’land)
writes: “l was a heavy smoker for 65 years ,
but after taking your treatment for 11, days I
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now."
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G. 29 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
5^
/
For Elderly People
Elderly people so often suffer from BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, and other complaints of the throat and
chest. A neglected COLD leads to more serious
troubles. Instant relief is given by “ Bonnington’s
Irish Moss,” and young and old benefit alike. Take
none but—
Beware of
Imitation*
BONNINGTON'S
fi
Ns
A
A
Kl2O
4003) '
KEPHALDOL
(MADE IN AUSTRALIA)
STOPS
PAIN !
IS the best, surest,
safest and most re-
liable remedy for
pain ever known to
science. It quickly and
permanently relieves the
worst nervous headache*,
neuralgia, neuritis, rheu-
matism, sciatica, lumbago,
and is especially useful for
pa in ful menstruation.
Sold by all Chemists and
Storekeepers in tabes, small
size, 1/6, large size, 3/6.
The large size contains three
times the quantity of the
smaller. TRY IT TO-DAY.
ONTHENOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of "Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Eutxettn size. Price, 21s.
Rheumatism
The case of Rheumatism or Gout
which Kruschen Salts cannot benefit
has yet to be discovered. This
famous British remedy is also
recommended by Medical Men in
cases of Lumbago, Sciatica, Eczema,
Constipation, and Liver and Kidney
Disorders.
KRUSCHEN AT THE FRONT
Since the outbreak of the War, enormous
quantities of Kruschen Salts have been ordered
by, and delivered to the British Authorities, for
the use of the British Forces overseas and in
the Base Hospitals at Home. Kruschen Salts
are prescribed by Medical Men the world over.
THE WORD KRUSCHEN
The trade mark “ Kruschen ” is a legacy-
handed down from generation to generation of
the family, of Evan Griffiths Hughes, the sole
Manufacturers of Kruschen Salts, and one ot
the oldest firms of Manufacturing Chemists in
the County of Lancashire. Established 1754
160 years ago.
Kruschen Salts
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754.
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers,
and stores throughout Australia,
Wholesale Distributing Agents:
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES
. (KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
68, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester,
England.
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
21-
Per Bottle.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Pee-wits.
At dawn, when bushland shadows shrink,
And tired leaves faint and fall.
The pee-wits whistle "Bob-o-link” —
A rich-toned bushland call.
It is as though the singers sought
Each other, in the grey
Of morning, ere the hills have caught
The sun’s first royal ray.
Through gloomy glades the clear notes pass,
But when, o’er tree-topped hill,
The sunbeams shine on leaf and grass,
The pee-wit’s call is shrill.
Oh, flying low,
And crying so,
They slowly wing away,
To marshy lands by river-sides,
Where dawn-lit stream in radiance glides
Between the mudbanks grey.
With ringing cry,
And winging high,
The pee-wits greet the day.
The pee-wits call amid the grass,
Where winds of summer are,
In notes of blended reeds ami brass
That ring both wide and far.
They play, in magpie plumage clean,
Where stream to mudbank sings,
Or to a tall tree’s height serene
Ascend on flashing wings.
To watch the farmer at the plough,
Or drovers brown, who go,
’Mid dust and toil and sweat of brow,
Along the road below.
And o’er the thongs
That roar the songs
Of labor to the teams,
They chant their cheery challenge-call,
Soaring aloft, to swoop and fall,
On whistling wing that gleams.
Oh, all day long
The same gay song
Swells through my idle dreams.
The sunset sends them winging home
To trees beside the hill.
In slowly-moving ranks they come,
St'ill crying loud and shrill.
And. silent on the friendly trees,
They see the white moon rise,
Beyond the margin of the seas
Into the purple skies.
Onlv at dawn, when fairies clink
Their dew-cups, nectar-filled,
Bv that sweet bird-call, “Bob-o’-link, ?
Are bushland whispers thrilled.
Like muffled bells
Through ruffled dells
The dawn-winds bear afar
The music of this bushland sound.
Whose notes are pure and sweet and
round.
As though the morning star
Were calling through
Tin' falling dew
To where the pee-wits are.
MAORTLAND.
WILL LAWSON.
The Vibrant String.
When a hidden sprite shall sing;
Through the copse and clearing,
Plucking on a vibrant string,
You must lend a hearing.
Round vour heart is twined about
Love of height and hollow ;
Where that music leads you out,
You, perforce, must follow.
You shall part from walls of gloom.
Harsh, and cramped, and clouded,
Leave the desk, forsake the loom,
Quit the buildings crowded ;
Breathe again the outer air,
Turn to open spaces—
When you catch that cadence rare
From secluded places.
Pleasant paths your feet shall tread,
Clear from fear and fretting,
Fortune-free and fancy-led.
All mean things forgetting.
Far outrunning anxious care,
You shall have in keeping
Roses here, and poppies there;
All your own for reaping.
So you hear that mystic note
Quavering through the gloaming.
Mount your horse, or board your boat,
Set about your roaming.
Strap your swag, or sling your gun ;
Get your traps together—
Yours the roadway in the sun
With your friend, the weather.
VICTORIA.
C. G. A. COLLES.
At Sea.
The shoulders of the surging sea
Our ship towards Heaven flung;
Across a host of dizzy stars
The swaying mastheads swung.
Then sank we from the white stars, with
A stagger wild and gay,
And noises such as bottles make
When rattled on a tray.
I watched the reeling stars, upon
My wood and canvas throne
Reclining, in a joyous ease,
And laughed, and held my own.
The stagger of our onward course
A pleasure was to me ;
’Twas not, by far, the first time I
At night had been at sea.
Oft had I known the upward soar
When streets seemed oceans rough ;
The stagger on the passing wave,
The slither to its trough !
And here I had a comrade true
That lurched and leapt and slunk;
We wandered under dancing stars,
The ship and I —both drunk!
N.SAV.
HAMER.


It’s C-c-cold without
WATSON’S
ELECTRICAL
RADIATORS.
W. G. WATSON <a CO., LTD.,
Suppliers of Everything- Electrical,
279 Clarence Street; 426-430 Kent Street, Sydney
(Just round from the Town Hall).
Victar.au Representative: GEO. SMITH MORi'SON, Collins House, Collins St., Melbourne.
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORfc'S-
Just wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and you’ll have the skin healed and healthy
quicker than with any other ointment on earth.
Everyone says so who has used it. Write for a
tin now. I/fi. ported 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist.
-1 Wickham Street, Valiev. Brisbane.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
Write for Book. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road. London, Eng,
Insist on “ Singleton s' —refuse all substitutes-
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, vSydney
For Sugar-cane Cultivation.
. : '
i
mm M - ' '
K 5
-
* - “ = 1
' ';■;■■ v r\
The “SUN QUEEN"
Straddle Cultivator.
Hade in Australia and perfectly adapted to Queensland condi-
tions. Embodies all desirable adjustments. Light Draught.
Easily Managed. Comfortable Seat for Driver. Sturdily Built
to give Long Years of Service.
The iSuntop Disc Plough.
Made in one-furrow and two-furrow sizes, with 28-inch Discs
for Deep Ploughing in Sugar and Corn Country. Unequalled
for Strength and Adjustability.
Sunshine Petrol Engines
Start Instantly. Run Continuously. The Simplest and Best
Engine for Farm Conditions. Sizes made—3, 5, 7 and 10 h.p.
Stationary or Portable.
“Sunshine Farm Implements/* 48 pages, is
worth having. Posted gratis on request.
H. V. McKAY, Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine
Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
27 George Street West, Sydney.
102 Spencer Street, Melbourne.
56 North Terrace, Adelaide.
YOUR
MACINTOSH
IS
HERE.
1
A
For Protection through
a Cold, Wet Winter you
must have something
more than a Raincoat,
something that WILL
keep out the rain and
wind. We have just
what is required in the
Perdriau
PURE RUBBER-PROOFED
Macintosh
ange. Man’s Material. Price.
L Tweed. Dark Grey shades .. .. .. .. ..35/-
O Superior Cashmere Olive shade .. ». 50/-
We Pay Carriage and Guarantee Every Coat absolutely Waterproof.
Catalogue and Patterns of Materials past free.
PERDRIAU
Co. Ltd.
O
George St., Sydney.
Elizabeth St., Melbourne,
C7a Gawler Place, Adelaide.
307 Adelaide St,, Brisbane.
§
m
gs
I
<sfoe Model Store
BROADWAY, SYDNEY
mOsL
To
MIL
m
wmvi
|ppr
j
Are You Interested
in Good Furniture?
We mean the type of Furniture that appeals to the
eye because artistically conceived, .and to the sense of
economy because obviously the best quality—therefore
the BEST VALUE?
This is the type we exclusively stock —the type you
will see profusely illustrated and pithily described in
our Catalogue.
New 128-Page Furniture
Catalogue FREE!
There are upwards of 860 designs shown —Furni-
ture for the complete Home; Period and Modern styles
Avell represented.
It would be a safe and simple matter to buy from
its pages all you need, for to see you get absolute satis-
faction is "up to us.”
Whether you furnish now or later, a copy of our
Catalogue will prove of exceptional value to you.
Please mention The Bulletin - when writing, and
make your name and address perfectly legible.
GRACE BROS.
The Model Store,
Broadway SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 36.—150. 1844.
THURSDAY, JUNE 17, 1915.
PlilCE 6d.
LUMBERING THE PATH TO VICTORY.
OLIVER CROMWELL BURL: “Take away these baubles!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,-at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. ner Annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. I'he right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and. where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the. form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say.
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. wher,
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amdteurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
i/f sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.c., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — -Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. IF. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; IF. E. Lenelian, 535
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt.—lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
llono Kong. — Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. —lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Postage Rates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper shoxild be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id., Bioz. to 10oz., 21d.;
lOoz. to 120 z.. 3d.; elsewhere, l/oz., Id., and id, each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JUNE 17, 1915.
THE STRIKE OF HODGE AND
STODGE.
This war lias shown the Briton to be as
good a fighting-man as ever he was. He is
being well led, too, by men whom he trusts.
The pull which Germany has over him,
when bedrock is reached, is partly a matter
of fisealism, and partly a question of that
old Liberal menace, the Socialistic tiger.
* * * *
The Empire’s newspapers have published
many encouraging stories about Germany—
how it is hungry, and short of copper, and
rubber, and gold, and other commodi-
ties barring lager; but not one word has
been printed about a strike. There are
several reasons why strikes are always rare
in that country; but the chief of them is
Socialism. The State treats the worker
well; in fact, it “pampers him with grand-
motherly domestic legislation,” and it “saps
his self-dependence and initiative” by
arranging to look after him if he gets ill or
old. It finds that such things pay. It has
had an Invalidity Insurance system for
years. Under that scheme the em-
ployer contributes one half and the State
the other half, and the sick worker gets the
benefit. Lloyd Geokge introduced a milk-
and-water imitation of the German Act in
the United Kingdom a few years ago, and
the protests of the Anti-Socialists have
hardly died down yet. The Socialistic spirit
of modern Germany exceeds anything that
the British individualistic politician has pic-
tured in his most fevered orations. An
American writer saw something of it at
Krupp’s in March last, and communicated
his observations to the New York World.
He found an army of trained mechanics liv-
ing with no other aim in life than to turn
out on behalf of their country all the good
work of which they were capable. They
were paid well. Their food was of the very
best; so were their clothes, their boots and
their quarters. But in return they had to
abandon their individualistic notions. The
loafer was regarded with the same bitter
disfavor at Essen as he is in a sinking boat
when all hands have been called to the
pumps. A drunk was an unthinkable out-
rage. Things may not be so strenuous in
the smaller factories. But wherever German
war materials are made, hard work and
sobriety are insisted on by the State. And
the Teuton soldier, well supplied with muni-
tions, has cause accordingly to raise daily
hosannas.
* * * *
The United Kingdom is an example of a
country which has left things as much as
possible to individual effort. The system
has been a success in some ways; in other
ways it has been a dead failure. It has had
particularly evil consequences so far as the
poorer sort of working man is concerned.
Only recently has the State in Britain begun
to recognise in a grudging manner that it
owes more to its working man than it has
been accustomed to pay; and still, at each
cautious effort on the part of the nation’s
statesmen to express that idea in deeds,
there are scandalised cries of “Socialism!”
and “Revolution!” The front-rank British
working-man is among the world’s best. He
is a willing toiler and a thorough trades-
man. But there are others—the men, for
example, who strike while engaged in the
manufacture of war material; and at a
casual glance there seems nothing for them
but blame. Regarded from their stand-
point, however, there may be a degree of
reason in their seeming infamy. They may
argue, for instance, that they are doing no
more for the enemy now than their financial
betters did in the past and by their own
admissions intend to do in the future. Many
millions of pounds sterling of British capital,
which under a different fiscal system might
have been employed to give jobs to British
workers, are sunk in German factories, and
will stay there after the war is over. Lord
llaldane said during the Agadir crisis:
“An enemy should always be treated with
consideration, as it may be necessary after
the war again to enter into business rela-
tions with him.” The German working-man
has at least two reasons for that content-
ment which prevents strikes: he knows that
after the war his billet will not be
endangered by an influx of cheap British
goods ; and he can rely on the State provid-
ing him with a standard of comfort which
may improve but will not deteriorate. The
poorer British worker has no such con-
siderations to buoy him up. The State
leaves him to himself, for the benefit of his
character and the justification of the indivi-
dualistic principle. If he wants to live in
a hovel he can do it. He may booze so
heavily that he has not sufficient to buy
food, and hence is in no condition to do a
fair day’s work. The State will not inter-
fere. He may be capable of earning enough
in three days to keep him for seven, and
as the State doesn’t believe in compulsory
industrial service he is free to loaf for
half the working week. The cheaper work-
ing-man is striking in the United Kingdom
to-day, to the embarrassment of the War
Lords and the misery of the soldiers, partly
because the State has done so remarkably
little to encourage him to love his country,
and partly because it is against its principles
to handle him with firmness. He is a living
manifestation of the effects of Freetrade and
individualism.
A far-sighted French Minister remarked
the other day: “It is necessary to prepare
for peace as thoroughly as Germany prepared
for war.” What peace preparations is
Britain making V Is it preparing to defend
its industrial citadel with a tariff against
the day when Germany will resume the attack
which was begun in 1879 V Does it mean to
exclude the cheap foreigner? Or to im-
prove the social conditions of the British
toiler, regardless of the views of the Right
Thinking section? If not, J. Bull is in for
a bad time. What sort of existence has a
cheap working-man, in a Freetrade and indi-
vidualistic country like the United Kingdom,
to look forward to at any time, much less at
a time when a great war is thundering to a
conclusion? Under the most favorable con-
ditions he may anticipate that he will earn
his keep and a shilling or two over per week
to buy bad beer. He knows none of the
amenities of life, and has no prospect of
introducing them to his offspring. His career
is bounded by a grimy shop, a grimy pub, and
a grimy home. Ideals do not flourish on
such soil. Patriotism is strangled by squalor,
and it is useless to expect a man to think
imperially when his mind is harassed by want
and sodden with abominable liquor. But if
a man is slack and hopeless when conditions
are normal, he is liable to become absolutely
desperate at the prospect of further poverty.
The finish of the war is going to mean a
worse time for the British worker, if the
status quo is maintained, and many of the
workers know it. Is it any wonder that their
patriotism is at a low ebb? In 1913, one of
the most prosperous years the United King-
dom has known, a fifth of the entire male
population were earning under fl per week.
Another tenth, comprising railway employees,
carters, warehouse and shop employees and
other victims of the cheap import business,
were making 255. per week and under. In
the country, where agriculture has been
killed to a large extent by Freetrade, farm
workers were glad of 10s. per week and a
roof of sorts over their heads. These are the
men who are watching their native land
struggling for its life with lack-lustre eyes.
The State has done so badly by them
in an educational sense that, accord-
ing to a distinguished soldier who re-
cently went on a recruiting tour
through the West of England, and subse-
quently gave his views to the London Daily
Mail, shoals of them don’t know where the
war is raging, or what it means to any of the
parties. Those who do understand the posi-
tion are indifferent in proportion as they are
wretched. They realise that if it has been
purgatory under the old system it must be
hell when the war finishes, and an influx of
sweated German and Austrian goods starts to
close down the factories which at present pro-
vide them with jobs, and when refugees from
the countries which are now being devastated
start to compete for the jobs which remain.
The British worker’s only hope of a decent
existence ‘in the years to come is that his
Government will speedily declare for genuine
Protection, more Socialism, and a firmly-
administered Alien Immigration Act. Fail-
ing the assurance of these reforms he is likely
to continue striking on the general principle
that he may as well play up to-day since to-
morrow he is bound to perish.
WHAT OF RABAUL—AND AUS-
TRALIA’S HONOR?
It is futile for Australia to attempt to bury
its head in the earth and claim that no
scandal of importance has arisen out of the
military occupation of German New Guinea.
The dogs of this vast continent are barking
accusations of theft, arson, burglary, black-
mail, and general disreputableness against
the Rabaul officers and men; anti, as always
occurs in such cases, the characters of the
good and the holy are as liable to assault
as those of the abandoned and the irreligious.
No doubt many of the stories are lies. But
there is grave reason to suspect that some
of them are true. Nowhere do they flourish
more than in Rabaul itself, where the surest
way to ruffle a member of the garrison, and
to elicit from him a torrent of explanations
and protests, is to suggest that he came over
with the force that took the place. It is
said in Rabaul, amongst other things, that
as regards looting the men of that
force were bad and the officers worse.
There is a carved oak sideboard whose
locked doors the robbers did not even
trouble to prize open. They simply
battered them in from the front with an
axe. One storming party was led against a
store. As ingress was barred from the front,
the leader cut a hole in the roof and passed
the goods out that way. Having taken what
they wanted the invaders set fire to the
place. Residents’ furniture and other effects
were sold to visiting ships’ passengers. All
these and hundreds of other statements
like them are circulating at Rabaul. They
may be travellers’ tales —untruths with no
basis in them but malice or jealousy. But
they have been published so widely, and with
such a mass of circumstantial detail, that
the average citizen has come to believe them,
and it is practically impossible to go to
Rabaul and not believe them. The position
is very simple. If these lurid stories are
fabrications they should be laid once and for
all. If they, or any of them, are true, the
guilty parties ought to be exposed and pun-
ished. That much, and no less than that,
Australia’s honor demands.
* * #• *
It will be useless to put military officers
in charge of an inquiry into a case of this
sort. In the first place, they don’t know
how to conduct it in an equitable manner.
The _ proceedings at the recent Courts-
martial at Sydney were calculated to arouse
the derision of the greenest solicitor’s clerk ;
and that despite the fact that Common
Law barristers had been retained by both
sides. In point of fact, the hybrid nature
of these tribunals rendered them weaker
than they otherwise might have been. The
men on the Bench knew that they were
ignorant of the technique of the business
in which they were engaged; and the law-
yers on the floor of the court knew that
they knew it. A commanding-officer may
be an extremely resolute man on parade
where he is sure of his job and his ground.
But he will be quite a different character
when faced with a task of whose finer points
his conscious ignorance is unlimited. In the
recent cases the soldiers were the playthings
of the lawyers, and in similar circumstances
they always must be. The incompetent
judge is a synonym for the weak judge. Nor
is the soldier-judge a satisfactory person, in
any event, to inquire into charges such as
those made in connection with the Rabaul
expedition. Their expansiveness touches
the honor, not merely of individual soldiers,
but of the whole military profession. If it
is considered indecent for a civil judge to
decline to sit in a suit involving a company
in which he is financially interested —as it
is—it is equally inappropriate that an
officer should decide on a matter involving
the good name of the soldiering profession.
And if it is not right that a judge should
adjudicate in the matter of a relative, it is
equally wrong that a soldier should try, on a
criminal charge, a brother-officer.
* * * *
The workmanlike investigation by an
experienced judge which the facts called for
in the first place they now, in the light of
later information, call for with greater
vehemence. If N. S. Wales, when its Lands
scandals came to a head eight years ago,
had appointed a Bench of land agents to
investigate the rumors, Justice would have
been mocked at. What it did was to appoint
a Royal Commission consisting of a Supreme
Court Judge skilled in the difficult business
of taking evidence. The Commonwealth will
only get to the bottom of the Rabaul
scandals on similar lines. The longer the
Government delays in taking action the
more mud will be slung, the more innocent
men will suffer in their reputations, and the
more unmerited discredit will descend upon
the Australian army.
WHY PRESIDENT WILSON WILL
NEVER DECLARE WAR.
A constitutional lawyer considers Wood-
row Wilson’s troubles:—
It is not conceivable that President Wilson will
ever declare war. If he does, there is no respect,
large or small, in which he will not be stultified.
Take a small one. The question will at once arise of
giving the German Ambassador a safe-conduct back
to Berlin. If the Ambassador were placed on a
passenger ship he would be simply removed by
Britain; so that idea has to be discarded. It is the
ordinary rule in the case of belligerents who are
separated by sea that the ship of the one meets the
ship of the other at a point agreed, and hands .over
the outgoing diplomat. In this'case Britain would
certainly not permit a German war-vessel to put to
sea. The President would then have to say that the
Republic was an ally, and ask that the Ambassador
might be escorted through the British cordon. Now,
nobody knows for certain what an ally is. The
“better opinion,” as the lawyers say, is that the
term exclusively connotes those belligerents who are
acting in pursuance of the terms of a mutual agree-
ment, whether written or oral, against an enemy;
and the fact that an incomer favorably but indirectly
affects the operations of a belligerent does not make
that incomer an ally. If that be correct, the United
States would not be Britain’s ally, but merely Ger-
many’s enemy, just as Japan is Britain's ally, but
not the ally of France or Russia. The Republic
might, no doubt, acquire the quality of an ally by
other methods. Italy was not an ally when it de-
clared war, but since that date it has become a
party to the post-bellum, agreement of September 5
in virtue of which the four Powers now stand bound
that none will conclude peace without the consent
of the others. Within the past few days, also, it has
become a party to the agreement for a pooling of
resources. But it is unlikely that the United States
would be willing to be a party to anything so deci-
sive. It will, therefore, come in, if at all, merely as
an enemy of Germany. And in that case it will have
no means of getting rid of its enemy’s ambassador.
* * * *
Again, on 3 dGcl3.ru.tion of wur, 311 Powers pl3ce
themselves on the Continent in what is called an
etat de siege, and in Britain and Australia under
what is called a Defence of the Realm Act or a War
Precautions Act. The United States would presum-
ably choose one or other of the latter. An essen-
tial of all these formulae, which only differ in name,
is the strictest supervision of enemy subjects and the
internment of those who exhibit any signs of malign
activity. Obviously, no country could carry on war under
any other conditions. Least of all the United States,
which has a population of more than three and a half
millions of enemy-born inhabitants, and a population
of more than twenty millions of their locally-born
compatriots. Law is administered through the ordi-
nary channels until the Courts are unable to sit, or
Parliament otherwise decrees. If so few as a million
of the enemy-born were ordered to be interned—one
must assume that it would be possible to find prison
accommodation, although the normal prison popula-
tion of the States is approximately 79,000 —the re-
maining nineteen millions or so would menace the
Judicature. Uuder such circumstances the Law
recognises what it calls force majeure or proceedings
vi et armis. The military resources of the nation
would then be tapped. Many of the troops would
have friends and relatives amongst the Germans, and
so would be unreliable and might spread disaffection
amongst the rest. In that event both settled law and
force majeure would have collapsed, the United States
would be so internally torn that it would no longer
be able to supply the Allies with munitions, and
Germany without lifting a finger would have gravely
injured its enemies’ cause, and wrecked the Republic.
Assume that these difficulties are by some miracle
surmounted and that the President prepares to strike.
The army is a voluntary one and is prohibited by
law from exceeding 100,000 at any one time. Its
actual strength is 91,461. Many of the men are
colored. The field artillery and the engineers—two
arms which cannot be improvised—are negligible. Of
the coast artillery a Commission was recently told
that it was only dangerous to its owners. On the only
recent big occasion on which it has been sought to use
the Army—the war with Spain—everything broke down.
At first the troops couldn’t be embarked. When this
was achieved the transports were crowded, heavy uni-
forms were provided for tropical use, and the
arrangements for tentage, transportation, ambulances,
medicines and surgeons went to pieces. The Com-
missariat-General supplied beef treated with chemi-
cals and known as “embalmed beef,” and canned roast
beef unfit for use. More than-half the army fell ill.
Then a “Round Robin” was sent by many officers of
high rank to General Shafter, declaring that “this
army must at once be sent to some point on the
northern sea-coast of the United States, or it will
perish.” The Spaniards, who only numbered 17,000,
had already succumbed, so the army was removed as
desired. It totalled less than the army which Aus-
tralia sent to South Africa. It stands for the only
considerable military effort of the United States in
modern times. The annual cost of the army is about
£20,000,000. In addition, but having no connection
with it, there are the State Militias, which are
owned and paid by the various States. These Militias
show a strength on paper which is nearly equivalent
to the aggregated forces of all the Powers engaged in
Armageddon. They number 16 millions of men, and
they were created by the Law of May 27, 1908, which
provides for the inclusion in .them of “every able-
bodied male of foreign-birth who has declared his
intention to become a citizen” and who is between
18 years old and 45. In view of the two millions of
militiamen of German birth and descent who are
thus created, the fact that in most cases every man
has his rifle and equipment in his own possession is
a sinister one, and it carries the implication that the
mixture of races which has already plunged the
States into the greatest Civil War in history may yet
involve it in something still more terrible.
* * * *
One effect of the enormous outlay by the States on
this Militia is that the Navy is starved. There is
no General Navy Staff, and consequently no plan for
using the Navy exists. There is no money for the
manoeuvres necessary to train the Fleet. The 3000-
odd men annually discharged are lost because no
record can be kept of them. There are seven battle-
ships in reserve but no men to man them. Even in
the 21 battleships of the first line there is a shortage
of 339 officers and 5219 men. There is the gravest
deficiency in cruisers, destroyers and submarines,
whilst auxiliary vessels are almost non-existent.
There is not one battle-cruiser of the Australia class,
and there is not a single vessel that could have over-
taken the Emden. Even if the men who are annually
lost on discharge were to return to the colors there
would be no fleet at all in the modern sense of the
term to put them into. If Britain would only allow
the German fleet to come out there can be no doubt
at all of what Germany’s answer would be to Presi-
dent Wilson.
* * * *
The position of the President appears, therefore,
to be that in respect of minor matters he will be
met by technical conundrums so insoluble that the
science of law has never even contemplated their
existence, and in respect of larger matters that he
will find the very body of the law itself crumbling
to pieces in his hands. He governs a nation which is
not a nation because it is not racially integral, and
which is furthermore inadequately armed. His sole
protection is the British fleet. His hesitation is not
his fault. It is not optional, but imperative. He is
the victim of circumstances over which he has no
control, and with the genesis of which he had nothing
to do. Abuse of him is beside the point. It is
like abusing a man for failing to fight well with a
wooden sword. As an ally the United States would
be useless to the Empire, but as an example of all
that this country must avoid it is of inestimable
value to Australia.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Damnable Theory that War Is a
Blessing.
At any time a year or more ago parsons’
voices could be heard all up and down Aus-
tralia raving against something they called
“militarism,” droning against the unright-
eousness of preparing to resist attack. To-
day from nearly all the pulpits of the Com-
monwealth come exhortations to enlist,
coupled with reflections, both pious and
warlike, on the struggle in Europe. The
sermon is invariably the same (it can be
found in any paper, any day), and in form
is something like this: That the Australian
who now marches off to the war does so
with the encouragement of Heaven; that the
world will be a better place later on
because of the war; that the British Empire
is returning to its old ideals. These things
merely show once more that the parson has
an incurable habit of swinging from one
extreme to the other. His advice to enlist
is a welcome recantation of previous error;
but it does nothing to remove the gloomy
knowledge that his pacifist heresies of recent
years have yielded the crop of bitterness


now being reaped by the British people
Had they been as ready for war in defence
of themselves and of those to whom they
owed the most solemn obligations, there can
be little doubt that either this war would
not have burst upon the world, or, it it haa,
that its course would have been wholly dif-
ferent from the sanguinary campaign now
on hand. Britain would not have been wak-
ing up after tremendous losses to learn how
to run a war, nor be putting into operation
hastily-formed devices for training men,
equipping forces and manufacturing muni-
tions. Instead of being unready she wonld
have been as ready as the enemy. Ihe
result would have been a saving of time, or
money and life, the prodigal expenditure ot
which will be the legacy of “peace theories
that in essence amounted to cowardice, bor
curates to now lift up their voices and say
in excuse of themselves that the world will
be a better place on account of the war is
just a frantic exhibition of imbecility. *' / ar
is the most damnable of all scourges. It
means the piling up of woe and suffering
beyond human computation. It turns the
earth into plain Hell —robs it of all those
things it can least afford to yield, and leaves
it a vast heritage of wretchedness. _ Any
laborer in the vineyard who tried Ins yarn
on a Belgian, for instance, would be a quaint
sort of ass. When the war is over the
world is going to be very cold and wretched
—a place of mourning. It is because war
is an evil thing which produces such results
that the highest patriotism rests in protect-
ing women and children from its merciless
tragedy. That is the lesson taught by every
battle that has been waged since the world
began—the lesson that Nature teaches, in all
her aspects. It is the irrefutable principle
on which rests the Commonwealth’s system
of military training. The neople of this
country do not seek war. They would do
much to avert it. But they see—though
they saw but dimly until the shocking rape
of Belgium sharpened their vision—that
preparedness for resistance is the only pro-
tection they can have against conquest and
worse. To tell them that war looks good to
the Almighty, and that through war the
world shall be made more jovful, sounds
suspiciously like the kind of stuff turned out
from the headquarters of kultur.
Enemy Trade Marks.
Commonwealth legislation in respect to
enemy trade marks provides, among other
things, that a mark may be voided at the
discretion of the Attorney-General, or sus-
pended. A few have been so dealt with;
applications to treat others in the same way
have been made without success. Mean-
time a flourishing business in goods bearing
enemy trade marks is being done all over
the Commonwealth. The explanation
seems to be that instead of coming from
Bingen-on-the-Rhine, as before, the goods
now come from America when they don’t
arrive from London, and are sold across the
counter under the old name. There seems
a large hole in this arrangement some-
where ; for even if direct trade with Hans
Bludt’htjrst, of Hamburg, has stopped, it
seems highly probable that Hans is keenly
interested in the trade now opened up in
the same proprietary article with Jacob
Spraus, of New York. Attorney-General
Hughes might at any rate have another
look at the amending legislation of a few
months ago, because the continued fre-
quency of goods branded with a German
trade mark makes a jest of the claim that
trading with the enemy is non-existent.
Voiding trade marks is open to some very
definite objections, certainly. But what is
the matter with a regulation providing
that all goods bearing a mark registered in
the name of an enemy shall be conspicu-
ously branded with the legend that “the
registered holder of this mark is Hans
Bludtiiurst, of Hamburg,” this to operate
whether the goods are produced at Can-
berra, Timbuctoo or Chicago? The main
result of the laws lately passed has been to
create a legal fiction.
♦ ■
Getting the Enemy Ready for His Next
War.
Spelter touched £llO per ton last week;
and every shilling of it is a gibe at Britain
and every penny of it is a jeer at Australia.
Broken Hill is at the present moment the
greatest zinc or spelter field in the world;
but instead of handling the stuff itself it
made contracts with Germans, and built up
in that country and in German-controlled
works in Belgium a spelter industry whose
only rival was in the United States. Not
the smallest public action was taken here to
stop this feeding of the foreigner; and the
Broken Hill cos. didn’t worry, because they
were getting from the German as much, pos-
sibly, as they could net if they took a risk
and put up works in Australia for them-
selves. Then the bottom fell out of the pot,
the shipment of Australian material to feed
the German and Belgium smelters had to
cease, Britain (which had done nothing,
either, to collar the trade) found itself so
much in need of the metal that it has had to
commandeer all supplies in the country, and
Uncle Sham, who has the market to himself,
has gradually pushed up the price from £2l
to £llO. And at Broken Hill men are on
half-time because there is no market for the
heaps of raw material that have accumu-
lated, and will, it seems, go on accumulating
until the war is over. Then Germany can
start buying again, and build up its strength
to menace the world and murder our sons.
At any rate, not the least thing is being done
to transfer the trade from the European Con-
tinent to Australia; so the only presump-
tion possible is that the patriots are merely
waiting to resume the old business of supply-
ing the enemy with metal to kill us with.
Tory Strike Agitators.
To the Conservative intellect the war
appeals chiefly as a Heaven-sent excuse for a
policy of stagnation. In the eyes of Toryism
he is a true patriot who howls for
the discontinuance of sport, amusement,
legislation, drinking and pretty well
every other blessed thing in a country
separated by half the world from the centre
of hostilities. The suggestion that the
Federal Parliament, deliberately formed by
the people after the war began and instructed
to go ahead with certain work, should “down
tools” is sufficiently foolish; but the dizzy
limit in the way of imbecility is a resolution
adopted by the Victorian House of Fat urg-
ing that the State Parliament “should not be
asked to deal with contentious legislation,”
and requesting the Leg. Ass. to endorse this
futility. The State Parliament has no more
to do with the conduct of the war than the
Footscray Dorcas Society has; it is not even
remotely concerned with the supply of muni-
tions or the despatch of troops. The reso-
lution is merely a dodge on the part of Fat
to postpone consideration of the Greater Mel-
bourne Bill and other more or less demo-
cratic measures which the electors expect
the gradual Peacock to put through. The
Argus naturally bestows its blessing on the
shameful business, claiming that the resolu-
tion “reflects public opinion.’’ The claim is
utterly ridiculous. Public opinion, so far as
it has had an opportunity to express itself
since the war began, has declared emphati-
cally in favor of more strenuous toil. Three
general elections have been held since the
start of Armageddon, and in every case a
stagnant party has been thrown out and a
party that has promised to get busy with
new and necessary legislation has been put
in.
+ ■
A Proposal to Create Two Australias.
The proposal to settle British soldiers in
the Northern Territory is a good one.
Nothing could be more desirable than that
the settlers in the top part of Australia
should be trained men who know the fight-
ing game and who, in time of need, may form
a garrison at our front gate. But to dump
them into the Territory without first estab-
lishing railway connection with the South
would have its drawbacks. The soldier
settlement would be as isolated and self
centred as if established in Nova Zembla.
It might be an excellent settlement and
thoroughly successful from a commercial
point of view, and yet so entirely distinct
from Australia and so separated from us in
thought and temper that it would be rather
a danger to us than a defence. The average
Briton becomes a good Australian citizen in
a very short time when rubbing shoulders
with Australians; but it would be rather too
much to expect that the man from Lanca-
shire or Kent, left to his own devices in a
remote corner of this continent, should
develop all at once the national Australian
sentiment, and see eye to eye with the people
who have grown up in Queensland or Vic-
toria. The White Australia policy, the
desire to preserve the unity and integrity of
the continent and a lot of other things that
mean so much to Australians, could mean
nothing to the newcomers in a land as com-
pletely cut off from the rest of the Common-
wealth as the Territory must be until our
politicians remember their pledges and con-
struct the line that is of first economic and
strategic importance to the whole people.
As a plain fact, with a new soldier popula-
tion in the North, and no transcontinental
railway- to keep it in touch with the South,
there must soon be two distinct Australias
with wholly different views and aspirations.
We want all the soldiers we can get to settle
in the Territory, but we want also an open
road by which Australians of every kind
can get to their own front door. The pre-
sence of the soldiers there would be a spur
to ordinary settlement, if once the highway
were made; but all schemes, devices and
expedients for developing the North must
begin with the railway from Oodnadatta to
Pine Creek. Alternative proposals are
merely evasions of the real issue.
♦
Woman and the War.
The views of “Anti-Snuffle”: —
Australian papers are quoting “Miss Jane Addams,
the famous American writer and speaker” ; and the
burden of her remarks is the injury done by the
war to Woman. Her prime complaint is that it
is “destroying the home unit to an extent which is
not less than appalling,” by bringing about the con-
donation of illegitimacy; and, in general, woman
is a wronged and suffering character. Woman
always is a wronged character in the eyes of certain
strident members of the sex. But to say that she is
bearing anything like her share of the burden of the
war in most civilised countries, much less that she
is prejudiced by it, is absurd. As regards illegiti-
macy, the welcome which Britain is preparing for its
“war babies,” and the tolerance which even the most
virtuous seem prepared to extend to the mothers,
cannot harm the status of the sex, as a whole.
Women do r.ot “fall” in anticipation of the State
looking after the infant if it arrives; and the sort
of man who is worth having as a husband does not
desert the mother of his child on the ground that
the Government will take over his responsibilities if
he disappears.
Financially, Woman is doing well out of the war,
and looks like doing better. It has given her an in-
dustrial start. If she is any sort of an efficient at
all, Armageddon is her time to prove it. Within
two weeks of its commencement 22,000 women in
England alone had volunteered for jobs left vacant
by men. Exchanges and labor bureaus are now at
work adding to the number. Where the work is tech-
nical, facilities for becoming acquainted with it are
offered; and where the woman shows capacity she
is paid on the same scale as the man whom she has
supplanted. Women clerks have been engaged in
thousands in London, and in the big industrial
centres. They are being employed in increasing num-
bers in the railway offices, and as ’bus- and tram-
conductors. The woman policeman has arrived, and
the woman taxi-driver and railway-guard are com-
ing. Regiments of women who never had a pro-
fession before are doing well and spending happy
and interesting lives as nurses. Up to the beginning
of last month over 1700 women had got well-paid
jobs in ammunition factories. The shopwalker is
being ousted in large quantities ; likewise the waiter,
the hall porter, the butler, the footman, the boots
and other anomalies and excrescences. Very few of
these jobs are going to revert to Man when the
war ends, if Woman shows that she is capable of
holding them.
These are some of the advantages which she holds.
What is required from her in return? Very little —
at any rate, in Britain and the Dominions. If she is
married she can force her husband to support her ;
yet under our Married Woman’s Property Act, though
she may own property and do what she likes with
it, regardless of the wishes of her husband, there is
no obligation on her to do anything for him. If her
husband deserts her he may be made to pay for her
keep ; if she deserts him he has no financial redress.
If she divorces her husband he has to pay her ali-
mony ; if he divorces her he can claim nothing, even
though she is a millionairess. She is rot liable for
anything that he does. If she slanders or libels an
enemy ; runs over someone with a motor-car ; poisons
a valuable dog or cat; sets fire to a house, or is
guilty of any tort whatever, he is liable. Women,
at any rate in Australia and in France, may be soli-
citors, barristers, Judge's associates, and so on; but
they are not asked to do the spade-work, such as
serving on juries. They are not even liable to be
required “in the King’s name” to assist in the arrest
of a malefactor. They may help to make the coun-
try’s laws, in Australia, as members of Parliament;
and in the United Kingdom they may be municipal
councillors (there are five of them on the London
County Council alone) ; yet they are exempt from
taking risks on the field of battle.
Taking her by and large, Woman stands on a
softer wicket than ever since the war. If she is
married and her husband goes to the fight and lives,
he must support her and her children. If he falls,
the State will assume his obligation. If she has an
illegitimate child, and cannot keep it, the State will
help her, and the community is preparing to make a
resolute effort to regard her, not as a pariah, but as
a patriot. If the war ends soon, and without
slaughter which is tremendous on a national scale,
her position will be much as before. If the tragedy
drags on for years, and the men are decimated, she
will be given the chance to step into their shoes in
a thousand hitherto undreamt of directions. The
more one considers Woman in reference to Armaged-
don the harder it is to comprehend what ladies like
Miss Addams are moaning about.
The Clouds of Dust in the Sugar Market.
Why all this uproar about a “sugar famine”
—this chasing of the C. S. R. Co. with
bladders of wind ; this howling as if some
unprecedented thing had happened; this
wild talk about importing thousands of tons
of refined sugar from foreign countries and
thereby throwing Australian workmen out
of a job? The position is no different from
what it has been dozens of times before.
Every year in her history except one, Aus-
tralia has had to import raw sugar, not in
small quantities either, but by the shipload.
The politicians profess, for some inscrutable
reason, to be aghast at the fact that this
year Australian-grown sugar falls short
100,000 tons or so of requirements. What
they are saying on the subject is merely hot
air expended apparently to protect them-
selves from the reproach such a circum-
stance is upon the people who are most to
blame. In 1912 there was a shortage of
96,224 tons, of a value of £1,150,149; in pre-
vious years of quantities varying from less
to more. No Australian will be able to recol-
lect that on these occasions the C. S. R. Co.
was upbraided at great length for not having
informed the Governments of the hiatus in
the market. The politicians and everyone
else concerned knew of the shortages then,
and they knew of them on this occasion, too.
Had it not been for the futile tinkering of
Prices Boards no more would have been
heard of the matter now than has been
heard in past years. This paper is (thank
God !) not an apologist for the C.S.R.,
but it recognises that if the co. imports raw
sugar and sells the refined product to Aus-
tralian consumers, it has quite as good a
claim to reasonable profit on the transaction
as the members of a Prices Board have to
their fees. Commercial enterprises are not
in business for the good of anybody’s health;
even the management of a State brickyard
struggles to make a profit, and if it is unable
to show one the responsible Minister finds
himself obliged to excuse the failure. What
the Sugar Co. said was this: “Here are
Prices Boards fixing prices for sugar. If you
are looking to us to do the importing, then
we want an assurance that the price we are
allowed to sell at will give us a reasonable,
profit. We are not going to import at a
loss.” That was a reasonable enough pro-
position, and it is not met by long, irrelevant
rigmaroles about aspects of the sugar busi-
ness which don’t even touch the points
raised for immediate attention. . If there is
any sugar famine in Australia the poli-
ticians and Prices Boards will be to blame
for it; and the idea of the Commonwealth
getting out of the trouble by bursting into
the arena as an importer of stuff grown and
milled and refined by coolies is wholly repug-
nant and an outrage on national policy.
George Reid leaves the High_ Commissioner-
ship at the end of 1915. His “success” in
England has been mostly because he be-
longed to the Freetrade drifters who have
brought Britain to its very cheerless posi-
tion. And even when the sleepy English
were about waking up, the old manufacturer
of the Dry Dog turned up at a Protectionist
meeting in Dondon and clowned the question.
Protection was “a young lady always deck-
ing herself out in different costumes,” and
he “almost shed tears over those German
aniline dyes.” There should be no tax c:i
German goods after the war, “but every con-
sumer should voluntarily pay over the coun-
ter a little more for British goods.” There
is a sugar famine in Britain because 80 per
cent, of the beet-sugar imports came from
Germany and Austria, which found that beet
cultivation increases the fertility of the land
and the succeeding corn crops, and that the
dried pulp is a better animal fodder than
mangels. Yet even that was not enough for
the misfit of West Sydney. “Beetroot,’
said he—“there’s another spectre. In Aus-
tralia we established a beetroot industry, and
it cost us thousands of pounds. ...So when
you do begin to grow these babies, for God’s
sake, let them be healthy.” There were
1,300,000 tons of beet sugar which Germany
and Austria had ready for export to England
before the war, and if those people have kept
beet cultivation going at normal, it is wait-
ing to be dumped after the war. And all the
futile old clown could do with the sound of
the big German guns coming across the
Channel was to ridicule any attempt to break
away after the war from the conditions which
helped to make the war.
♦
The Germans boast that . they “only use a
man once,” meaning that in most cases they
are able to regard a wounded soldier as one
who has done his duty, and who is due,
accordingly, to complete his. term of com-
pulsory service out of the firing line. Brit-
ain’s voluntary soldiers are, on the other
hand, sent into action again and again, until
nature gives out and they emerge broken.
And the tragedy is that even representative
public men fail to see the unfairness of it.
Assistant-Defence Minister Jensen said
blandly in Parliament last week, in answer
to a demand for reinforcements in Gallipoli:
“It must be remembered that many of those
in the casualty lists are only wounded.
They can be patched up and sent to the
Front ac/ain” On the same day the papers
published a letter from a Private Plunkett
telling how he had been wounded and sent
to Malta. By the time his letter had
reached Fremantle he had been patched up,
returned to Gallipoli, and killed. It is an
epitome of the voluntary system in opera-
tion. It means always that the burden is
laid on the best, leaving those whose
courage and patriotism and sense of duty
are faint to survive. No wonder the
nations which are to compete with Britain in
enterprise and resource and intelligence
after the war hope that it will stick to its
mad old arrangement.
♦
The Bulletin is afraid it has been misjudg-
ing these Peace Society people all the time.
At the demonstration in Melbourne “to mark
the anniversary of the first Hague Peace Con-
ference,” Justice Higgins, the chief demon-
strator, chased the clouds away. It was
necessary, he said, to offer “physical resist-
ance” to a Power that wantonly massacred
women and children; and since there plainly
are such Powers —at any rate, there is one
such Power —“the time is ripe for the Peace
Society to use its influence to secure a
United States of Europe, so that whenever
a single nation broke the peace all the other
nations would rise up and punish it.” The
Peace Society, then, favors all-round arma-
ments in order that all the nations which
don’t want war may be in a position to deal
it out to any nation which runs amok. In
other words, the society would keep the
peace by making every nation prepare for
war; and that is precisely what the Defence
Party has been urging all along. This being
so, there is really no reason why the Peace
Society should maintain a separate exist-
ence. But if it feels that it ought to. do
something active, it can buy a gun and join
a rifle club.
+
“The first shipment of lucerne hay imported
from California will arrive in Victoria this
month.” And Australia ought to be ashamed
of it. After all these years of peaceful pos-
session of a rich continent —richer in many
ways than Canada and the U.S.A., because
the climatic conditions necessitate so much
less hand feeding of stock —we are obliged,
because of one bad season, to import fodder!
When an Australian was apologetically ex-
plaining to an American visitor to Victoria
the chance of a drought every four or five
years, the Yankee exclaimed: “Oh, shucks!
We have a drought every winter!” Five
million people in a continent with unusual
lucerne land in many parts, and one season
irons our supply out. The Yank can grow
lucerne, disintegrate it into lucerne meal
(which product we haven’t yet reached), bag
it, and sell if at a profit at £3 15s. a ton.
because he has a country full of people, who
have been got into the habit of doing things
for themselves; while with our mangy tariff
and the habit of depending on someone else,
one bad season sends fodder to famine prices,
and we have to import!
The Woman Speaks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Here, in a Kentish town by the sea,
Seven and twenty springs ago,
Sturdy and shell-pink came to me
The son of my labor-throe.
Somewhere, ensanguined, caked with clay,
On the front that the belching gun-mouths
guard,
He fights through the terror of poisoned day
And black nights shrapnel-starred:
Yet the God of Battles has drawn His blade,
So do we trust to Him unafraid.
I am a woman of old Bordeaux.
Out from the quayside causeway’s din,
Laughing, he went; he would have it so:
The silences swept him in—
And if he shall meet, in the battle-wrack,
Scathe of the sabre, or shell, or lance,
Nor the distance open to cast him back —
What would you? I gave for France!
And God, Who is Mercy, has drawn His
blade,
And we are His lieges, unafraid.
I am a Swabian mother, born
Under the vines where my boy was bred;
Here, at this dull heart sorrow-torn,
He nurtured once. He is dead.
These withered breasts where his warm lips
drew,
And his sweet, small seeking fingers thrust —
I had liefer the steel had pierced them
through
Than his brave life run to dust.
Yet God, Who is ours, has drawn His blade,
And Right may be stricken, but not afraid.
T am a Cossack spearman’s wife,
Bred where the wide, wild grass-steppes are.
Over the world’s edge, out of my life,
Three, for the Great White Tsar,
Rode but a month hence, fiercely-glad—
Brother and husband and stripling son—
Yet out of the West, for the three I had,
Will ride to me only one.
But God, Who is for us, has drawn His
blade.
And the Virgin has bid me be unafraid.
The low sun crowned the poplars, ere
My man (and Belgium’s) strode from home,
Above his heart (1 hung it there)
The little charm from Rome.
He fell at Lidge, men said, but lied,
For he will surely come one day;
About his neck the True Cross tied
That turned the steel away.
For God, Who is Justice, has drawn His
blade,
And His chosen look to Him unafraid.
Women are we, who give to die
Our men on war’s Golgotha-mount;
Ours are the love we crucify,
The tears that do not count,
Hope or despair that gleams or glooms
About us as we dumbly tend
The little things of little rooms —
Life’s losers to the end!
How shall a woman be unafraid
In the peril of sons that her travail made?
N.S.W.
J. ALEC. ALLAN.


Hotel Steyne,
Manly, N.S.W.
(SYDNEY).
Victorians,
South and West Australians,
Tasmanians,
Queenslanders,
And people of our own State
Should Winter in Manly,
the moist fascinating and delightful of
all Seaside Resorts.
The Brighton and Folkestone of
■ Australia.
Hot Salt-water Baths and Golf
Links (18 holes) in close proximity.
Surf-bathing all the year round.
WINTER TARIFF, from May to
September, from £3/3/- per week
gs
gs
COLUMBIA GRAPHOPHONES
Famous all the World Over as “the Instruments that NEVER Break Down !”
gs
POPULAR SERIES.
10-inch, 3/- (N-z., 3/6>
12-inch, 5/- <n.x, s/e)
DOUBLE-SIDED.
r-s
&
COLUMBIA CRAPHOPHONKS
HORN MODELS
Prices
from
75/- to £1515/-
HORNLESS
80/- to £45
NEW ZEALAND, £5 to £5O
gs
gs
CELEBRITY SERIES
from
10-inch, 5/- (n.z., 5/6)
12-inch, 7/6 <n.z., s/-)
DOUBLE-SIDED.
gs
COLUMBIA RECORDS They Wear TWICE as Long as Any Others!
gs
Faint Echoes of Far Strife.
Though the news comes to them in a fur-
tive, disjointed fashion, the Australian people
are learning for the first time what war
really is; and, bitter as the lesson may be,
they are realising how needful it is to make
that preparation for defence which is the
best guarantee against attack. The letters
now coming from Gallipoli afford dramatic
illustration of war’s monstrous horrors and
the supreme test of endurance the enemy
imposed. Our men have fought bravely.
Lhey have also suffered cruelly. And their
deaths and wounds emphasise with tragic
force how fundamental is the duty of Aus-
tralians to so order their national life as to
keep the grim monster of battle away. It
is, of course, irritating that, under influences
which seem irreconcilable with common-
sense, the news service of the Commonwealth
Government should, have broken down so
utterly. In view of what has happened and
of the inevitable things yet to be recorded,
this defect should be remedied without fur-
ther delay. Its continuance is an injustice
to the men at the Front and to those at
home. Meanwhile the fight along the far-
flung trenches proceeds with desperate fury.
Ihe Russians appear to be again hitting
back, the Italians are able to chronicle a
series, of successful movements against the
Austrians, the French have given the Huns
a severe handling on the Northern front,
aac * British troops continue to resist fierce
efforts to penetrate to Calais. But the
intormation is from all points scrappy,
y indubitable conclusion being
that the end is a long way off. There
aie. reports of German intention to
retire to a new line of defence. All that is
certain is that, with characteristic thorough-
ness, the Hun is preparing another line. It
will have been observed, though, that the
Teutonic mandarins are not addressing the
universe in quite such truculent tones as
they adopted when the world was a little
younger. Apparently they are consuming
their hate on the premises, or saving it up
for, Uncle Sam, who has felt his back getting
a little stiffer since the Lusitania murder
took place. The demand for more shells is
still insistent in Britain; but as some
approach to. order takes the place of indus-
trial chaos it is being found that difficulties
vanish and explosives materialise in propor-
tion to the increased efficiency of orpanisa-
tmn. Here in Australia, too, constituted
authority has been grappling with the ques-
tion of making shells; but every step has
been taken with the furious impetuosity of
the garden snail.
The railway from Swan Hill across the
Victorian border into N. S. Wales was
opened the other day, and the gas that
flowed upon the occasion served to illumi-
nate a tangle. It is only within the last two or
three years that Ma State politicians, pushed
by Arthur Griffith, have been prepared to
consider border railways at all; and
although the Labor platform, which is Fed-
eral in tone, favors them, Holman, as usual
acting upon his State Spites principles,
has shown no enthusiasm. As a consequence
N.S.W. lines usually finish up in dead ends,
and a barrier of untapped country lies be-
tween them and the railway systems of
neighboring States. Now, though the gen-
eral principle that the border lines should be
constructed is recognised, the States can’t
agree on the terms. New South Wales wants
\ ictoria to build them and hand them over
a term of years. Victoria wants
N. S. Wales to do the construction and
offers to lease and run them. The lines are
required to open up large tracts of N. S.
Wales territory which are hungry for means
of reaching the nearest market —which, of
course, so far as Riverina is concerned, is
Melbourne. But their wants are held up
while the matter is debated by State poli-
ticians whose souls are too small to go past
the outer suburbs. If the Commonwealth
controlled the railways, the fact that a
public need was waiting to be served and
that there was . revenue sticking out would
in all probability be considered, while
imaginary boundary-lines would be utterly
disregarded.
There was an echo of an old commotion in
the Bankruptcy Court, Sydney, last week.
W. B. Wilkinson applied to have a bank-
ruptcy notice served on him at the instance
of J. P. Osborne and G. A. Jones set aside.
Osborne and Jones were the two M’s.L.A.
who acted as agents for Wilkinson, himself
an agent, in the sale to the Government of a
big estate ; and, on their suing for commis-
sion, Wilkinson raised the defence that as
M’s.P. it was against public policy that they
should have the cash. They got a verdict,
but don’t appear to have got the money.
The bankruptcy notice was in respect to
£311; and Wilkinson claimed that it should
lie set aside because he had issued a writ
against each of the M’s.L.A., inviting them
to pay a penalty of £5OO under section 14
of the Constitution Act. The application
did not succeed, but it hints at further bar-
neying and more Costs.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Pinafore”
Royal “On Our Selection”
Criteiuon “Under Cover”
Palace “A Scrape o’ the Pen”
Lyceum “With the Fighting Forces of Europe”
Tivoli Mclntosh j Vaudeville Co.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Marriage Market”
Royal “The Man Who Stayed at Home”
Princess’s “The King’s Romance”
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Bijou Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s Own & Olympia Hoyt’s Pictures
Glaciarium Real Ice Skating
“Ma Mie Rosette,” lately frivolling at
Her Majesty’s, Sydney, was packed away in
her dusty box during the week, and the Gil-
bert and Sullivan specialists resumed the old
operatic round on Wednesday night with
“The Pirates of Penzance.” “Pinafore” is
time tabled for Saturday.
At Sydney Palace, “A Scrape o’ the Pen”
is still making light of those other Scraps of
Paper known as marriage certificates. Cer-
tainly, the matrimonial treaty in Graham
Moffat’s Scotch play isn’t the same blue-
paper sort that every married lady in the
audience has locked away at home, other-
wise the fine little show would be Belgiumed
every night.
sj: :J: *
The present season of “On Our Selection”
at Sydney Royal gives the Bert Bailey com-
bination the chance to announce the 100th
Sydney performance of the Australian
comedy. So popular is the piece in the
city that no change of bill is anticipated dur-
ing the four weeks of the co.’s lease of the
theatre.
»! ; $
Sydney Criterion is still the home of U.S.
melodrama.
$ $
There is little news from Sydney Tivoli,
back or front. For their sector the Follies have
called up tuneful Frank Greene as a rein-
forcement, but the first division of the show
under Robert Parker and the Randal Jack-
son Concert Co. needs no assistance.
* * * *
The latest communique from Sydney Pic-
ture shows: —
Crystal Palace : “Tillie’s Punctures Romance,”
being the last mighty burst-up in the lengthy picture
of Chaplin’s domestic worries.
Lyric : “The Cipher Key,” which specialises in
aeroplane v. motor-car duels, aeroplane smashes and
such mild occurrences.
Colonial : An overflow meeting from the Crystal
Palace of Parts 3 and 4 of Chaplin’s previously-
mentioned sermon on married bliss.
Empress: Detachments 19 and 20 of the “Million
Dollar Mystery.”
❖ * * *
The shutters will remain up at Sydney
Adelphi until the end of next week, when
George Marlowe will commence. a season of
blood and tears with “Mary Latimer, Nun.”
The first casualty is expected at about 8.30
p.m. on Saturday, June 26.
“ON OUR SELECTION” AT SYDNEY
ROYAL.
SANDY (Guy Hastings): “My God! He is
dead!”
THE CORPSE (Dick Bellairs), in a whisper:
“Thunk Heaven! Now I’m off for the
rest of the evening.”
“The Man Who Stayed at Home” con-
tinues to frustrate the politics and confound
the knavish tricks of an incredible quartette
of German spies at Melbourne Royal. More-
over, he still does it by playing the egregious
ass and dropping into the parlor promiscu-
ously to find his pipe. Seriously considered,
Christopher Brent is a poor sort of seciet-
service agent for the British Empire to be
keeping in tobacco and things. Even when
he has found out everything there is to dis-
cover re the artless Teutons who have
arranged to set fire to the premises and
burn their own Marconi plant—even then
Christopher persists in being a bigger ass
than he pretends to be. A loud, ridiculous
Jins'o J.P. is likely to have him arrested as
a German spy, in which case the enemy
would get things all their own way; but
instead of quietly putting his prospective
father-in-law wise to the real position of
affairs, Christopher goes on dissembling for
the mere purpose of making the drama last
30 minutes or so longer than the term of its
natural life. Also, he discusses his bogus
predicament with his lady accomplice (Miss
Paget), and she is supposed to aid him in
his alleged difficulty by delivering a long-
speech, in a most perfunctory manner, to
Miss Parkes, the woolly-headed object of his
misguided affections. At this point the
drama becomes much too silly to be viewed
with boundless admiration. Christopher tells
his lady accomplice that she was “splendid”
in talking so offensively to the poor little
simpleton whom he loves to distraction; but
nobody knows where the splendor of her
effort comes in. All she had really needed
to do was to take the verdant damosel on her
knee and say: “My dear, your best boy and
I are a pair of patent spy-catchers, and we
are just about to save the Empire. Run
away and tell your poppa it is quite all
right.” One note of common-sense, however,
would put the drama out of tune. “The Man
Who Stayed at Home” is at least a har-
monious composition.
“The Marriage Market” is under orders to
quit Her Majesty’s (Melb.). For only one
more week will Derek Hudson, disguised in
sheep’s clothing as regards his legs, crack a
stockwhip at the heiress, who loves him
because she fears him. Sexual yearnings run
all ways in musical frivols. This girl dotes
on a stranger, known as Slippery Jack, be-
cause she fears him, whereas a previous girl
“ON OUR SELECTION,” AT SYDNEY
ROYAL.
Uncle (W. Driscoll) and Dave (Fred Mac-
donald) on a deputation to Dad.
used to love the Chocolate Soldier because
she hated him, and hate him because she
loved him, and when she asked her
father to understand her feelings the
old man said he’d be d—d if he
could. The next girl will probably get
dead-struck on a chap because she despises
him. But to resume. For only another
week will the chorus ladies of Mendocino
Bluff come to market clad in gaudy oddments
from a bargain sale, or Philip Smith tear an
inoffensive banana from its next of kin. After
Friday next week the impossible legs of
Leslie Holland will straddle no more, neither
will Maggie Dickenson’s midshipmite be an
oasis of charming naturalness in a desert of
obvious mummery. “The Marriage Market”
will make way for a brief revival of “The
Arcadians.”
“The Soldier’s Wedding,” revived
at Melbourne Princess’s on Saturday,
is another tribute to the Army. Pri-
vate George Cross is the Noble
Example who in the first act saves
poor old grandpa Lee’s ’umble ’ome
from foreclosure. Grandpa’s treasures,
from his faithful dorg to his elderly wheel-
barrer, are all passing out under the
auctioneer’s hammer, when the old boy is
reinforced with Cross’s sovereigns and re-
pulses the mortgagee with terrible slaughter.
After that the soldier needs oilskins and
sea boots to protect himself from the
ancient’s watery gratitude, while gren-dorter
Nancy further embarrasses the hero by mak-
ing him the object of her sticky affection.
Subsequently, of course, Private George
“hitches on,” thereby embittering the leading
villain, who has furiously pursued the girl
through several scenes. There are other
sensations in the show. This family journal
would blush to go into details of one wherein
the warrior is found in the hot embrace of
another Mrs. Potiphar and escapes with a
guilty look on his ruffled uniform and pearls
of perspiration on his brow. Miss' Oriel
Hotson plays the illicit canoodler, but .she
is too throaty and harsh for the r6le of
seductress, and her frocking isn’t quite the
thing. Miss Remee, Miss Robertson, Miss
Hellmrich, Ronald Riley, Kirby, Ward
Lyons and Frank Neil sketch the other parts
in lurid colors. Neil vastly pleases the six-
penny rush with his jests of uncertain mean-
ing and his spasms of misbehavior. Next
Saturday “The King’s Romance” will be put
up and kept on for six nights.
“BOUGHT, BUT HOT PAID FOR.” AT
THE TIVOLI FOLLIES, SYDNEY.
Mrs. Stafford (Jack Cannot), Robert Staf-
ford (Isabelle D’Armond), and Maid
(Eileen Watson).
At the Melb. Tivoli the figure of Nella
Webb still looms plump in the centre of
affairs; but Nella has passed the heyday of-
her popularity, and lacks new ideas. She
chants to the same old supposititious Honey
as of old, and helps herself freely to encores
without distracting public attention from the
fact that Ada Reeve has left her a hard road
to travel. The magnetic turn of the moment
is Ida Barr —contralto Ida of the many
inches^—whose new songs, though not as
catchy' as the lot she sang last week, are
sufficiently gingerous, and whose height goes
a long way. ' The strange thing about Ida is
that she mars her effectiveness by wearing
long white, instead of black, gloves and stock-
ings to match. Pisano is the same wonder-
fully accurate rifle-shot as usual, and several
other people are repeating themselves, Smith
and Nielsen being the most familiar repeat-
ers on the bill.
* * ❖
At the King’s in Melbourne a revival of
“The Face at the Window” is threatened
for Saturday. Of late “The Fatal Wed-
ding” has been providing a picnic for the
Tin-can Band kiddies, and that astounding
drama of dyspeptic life will hold the floor
until Friday. Then the Face gets its awful
look in, and the galvanised corpse will sit
up in bed and write.
* * * *
The kinemacolored Forces of Europe are
back at the Auditorium, and a highly respect-
able orchestra is helning to make business
hum. Two or three of the pictures are
new to the screen since it opened in Mel-
bourne, but the fighters from Australia are
not there yet.
Another party of sharpshooters called Rosie
Rifle and Co. are giving the audience some
lessons in gun practice at Melbourne Bijou.
Westony, recalled for a further season, is
urging a grand piano to sound its sweetest;
the Quealys are hurrying through another
sketch entitled “The Dummy”; and the
Bletsoes, Ted Stanley, Williams and War-
ner, and Bollinger and Reynolds are appear-
ing in the same old stunts that this paper
approved of (or otherwise) some days ago.
ifc
When The Bulletin looked in at Hoyt’s
Theatre de Luxe (Melb.) the thirteenth
chapter of “The Trey o’ Hearts” was en-
deavoring to finish off the lovely hero by
means of sandstorms, thirst, and a posse of
bandits. However, the young man easily
escaped, largely with the assistance of the
twin damsels whose affection for the lad is
threatening to awake the thermometer from
its winter calm. At Hoyt’s Olympia the
most noticeable film screened was “The
Primitive Way.” Herein is disclosed how a
female hankering for a hefty lover gets all
she wants in a city swell who, despite his
nice clothes, has the hug of a bear and the
kiss of a furnace door.
* * * *
Adelaide Royal is seeing Nellie Stewart in
a series of effective American perversions of
European history. Incredibly youthful, she
dominates the stage. Her comedy is a mar-
vel of calculated art; every coo, every gasp,
has its effective mission. Occasionally she
gets a moment of tragedy, of dramatic fire,
and then she shows that she is master of that
branch too. Nancye Stewart, showing
great promise, “doubled”* three small parts
in “Du Barry,” and is a pathetic Queen of
Scots in the Elizabethan drama. Beatrice
Esmond is a sound Elizabeth, too. Athol-
wood is his own effective self, and best when
playing up to Nellie Stewart. The Tivoli
has made a dash into drama, for which it
was being built when Mclntosh diverted it


Jokes,Tricks, Puzzles, Novelties
m
qn'J
n*
ri
<CM
oo
Write for
our New
Catalog,
a Novelty
in itself.
WE SEND
IT FREE.
<26
DEVIL’S PUZZLE MATCH BOX.
The Devil’s Puzzle Match Box.
Absolutely the champion of puzzle match
boxes. Richly nickel-plated, and guaranteed
to defy the most expert puzzle enthusiast.
Inscription as shown engraved on each box.
Illustration actual size. Price, post
free, with full instructions, 2/-
THE JUMPING CIGARETTE CASE.
Jumps right out of the hand when opened. Very
funny. Post free, 9d.
The above two articles sent post free
for 2/6.
SPECIAL.—A box of 7 assorted iron
puzzles, with printed instructions for
each, post free, 1/9.
H. L. HUTCHINSON LTD.—New York Novelty Co.,
708-710 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Just Two Tiny Drops
From the little bottle on to your handkerchief, then snuff it up the
nose, and you will find it remarkably efficacious the way it
CURES THAT COLD.
It is a preparation just on the market, and is
rapidly finding its way into popular favor. It
is known as
it
NAZETHA
THE BIG COLD CURE IN THE LITTLE BOTTLE.
It is a great improvement on the old method
of taking drugs into the system.
L-fJr
: : ::
&
MM
FOR THE
CHILDREN
It’s a splendid
remedy. A _ few
drops on the pillow
at night, and in
the morning there’s
certain relief.
give it a trial.
YOU’LL NEVER BE WITHOUT IT.
"I /6 Worth Its Weight In Gold. Ij 6
Ask Your Chemist, or write to A. P.
MILLER & SON, Hobart, sent post free.
Sydney (Wholesale): Australian Drug Co.,
Elliott Bros., and Brausch & Delaney.
SUFFERERS FROM
CATARRH
will derive much
benefit from the
use of Nazetha, by
snuffing the sooth-
ing ethers through
the nose.
to variety. Brandon Cremer has his own
co.—Roland Conway, Darcy Kelway, Fitz-
herbert, Counter, Olive Wilton—and the new
venture goes well. At the King s there are
Grace Graham, the Gaffs (musical but
funny), Eleanor and Bertie (athletic but
funny), Hennessy and Martell (juggling
but funny), and Brown and Sorlie (merely
funny). Wondergraph still specialises m
war films, but American “drama’ is the
main feature at West’s.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“THE MAN WHO STATED AT HOME."
AT MELBOURNE ROYAL.
How the gads welcome
the tous t-“Der Yag.”
Fraulcin
Schrocher. th e
Lady Spy.
“Q.” : There’s a tip for stage managers in
the story written for Australian newspapers
by H. S. Gullett, "official Australian corre-
spondent with the British Army in France
(Copyright reserved by the Crown).” Says
he : “You find generals in bare rooms with
new, sweet-smelling pine tables.” See the
point? Scene in next military drama:
Room full of generals and tables. Enter
spy. Surreptitiously smells first table. “Ach,
dese are Jon Bools.” Smells another table
and assumes a jaunty, confident air. “Ze
lofely schmells de dables haf. I zit me here
to wride.” Looks for chair. No chairs;
only generals. Opens correspc adence box
containing copies of letters addressed to
Kaiser, and leaning on a table writes a tele-
gram to Crown Prince, care Fraulein
Deshabille. British general looks over
shoulder of visitor (who had been mistaken
for Winston Churchill) and notices the mes-
sage. Seizes spy by legs and lifts him on top
of table. Other generals turn another sweet-
smelling table on top of him and then all
hands stand on top of that, with spy
squeezed between the furniture like a sand-
wich. Incriminating document seized,
handed to Australian flying-man Lebbeus
I-lordern, who dashes off, grabs C. Prince
and tart and drags them howling into the
room to see a squashed spy being wiped off
the tables. C.P. identifies remains, sees the
game is up and surrenders with his whole
army. Then, there being tables, supper is
served, the Prince takes the Fraulein on his
knee, cinematograph operators are sum-
moned, the comic man comes on with a bull-
dog and a sausage, and bagpipes are heard
in the distance struggling with Tipperary.
Might, in order to show originality, be called
“Turning the Tables on the Enemy.” By
the way, why are British generals kept in
bare rooms with tables?
Harrington Reynolds (“Father Kelly,”
of “The Rosary,” recently played through
Australasia) has leased the Palace Gardens
Theatre, Brisbane. Maurice Ralph, for long
with Beaumont Smith, will help at the
business end. Thev will start a season of
comedy about the end of July.
,T. A. Miller, who died last week, must
have taken a heavy discount off his years
by a too-constant attention to business in
pioneering West’s “movies” in Melbourne.
Nature had intended him to outlive his wiry
little dad, J. J. Miller, the old sport and
printer,'; with whom he was long associated.
But when he got fairly going as a showman
the indefatigable son grafted so hard under
chilly conditions that he damaged his con-
stitution, and a long holiday trip through
Europe, after he had retired from the Mel-
bourne management of West’s, failed to
make him as strong as he looked. He was
one of the bright, shrewd, unassuming fel-
lows who make friends, and everybody
thought of him as “.Timmy” and nobody
grumbled when he made a fortune.
“Steele Rudd” (A. 11. Davis), author of
“On Our Selection,” now playing at Sydney
Royal, has written a comedy entitled
“Duncan McClure.” It will first be played
at Toowoomba by local amateurs in aid of
the wounded soldiers’ fund.
“Pawky”: Discovery that “A Scrape o’
the Pen” is the usual deeficult Scotch humor
based on underclothing or newspapers in the
bustle or the scenery beneath a crinoline,
makes one respect the Scotch people; for
Scotland won’t stand for Moffat much more
than it stands for Harry Lauder, and that’s
little. It takes fool places like Horsham
(Vic.) to give Lauder a £350 house, while
a one-night stand like Narracoorte (S.A.)
handed the collective ugliness of “Bunty”
£52. An excellent Australian show went
through the same parts recently. But it
didn’t specialise on crinolines, bustles or col-
lective ugliness, and at a good town in the
extreme west of Victoria an enthusiast
advised it to come again and it would be
sure of a £5 house.
Tilda Brune, playing lead in the patriotic
film drama, “Iron Justice,” is boomed as
the “well-known Australian actress.” She
was introduced to these parts as the “famous
American actress” ; but —hooray ! —it is bet-
ter these times to be an Australian than a
Yankee.
Died, in N’York, John Bunny, the 19
stone of silent fun well known to Austra-
lians in cinema productions. He started
to play to the camera five years ago at a
salary of £S a week, but the popularity of
his hugeness and his mirth soon advanced
the figure to over £2OO a week. He had
acted in 150 photo-plays in the five gears,
which is express travelling even for a
cinemactor.
Courtneidge intends putting on two short
operas at London Shaftesbury—one by Clut-
snm, ‘ the other by Bath, who was among
Quinlan’s conductors during the Australian
tour of 1912. Rosina Buckman, E. Clegg,
W. J. Samuell and John Harrison, all well
known on this side of the world, will tackle
the score.
“Royal” : In the stock company of a past
day in Australia we had a chap who,
though often loaded to the nines, reached
the limit one Saturday. The stage door-
keeper told me that on the following Mon-
day, when his nibs strolled along, he _ (the
door-hand) was paralysed to be questioned
thus: “Er—how did the show go on Satur-
night?” “Oh. all right.” “Was the boss
here?” “Yes.” “Er—er —was I here?”
“Jean S.”: Pshaw’s much-abused pamph-
let hasn’t shoved up his stocks in Hogmany,
anyhow. If Barney could have visited a
picture-show in Antwerp a few weeks back,
he would have seen himself grossly carica-
tured in a coarse cinema production of Ber-
lin origin. Accompanying was a set of
verses w T hich added innuendo to the insult
of the picture.
A building in Bourke-street,
Melbourne, originally erected and run
by Dr. L. L. Smith as the Poly-
technic, in after years bore _ many
names. Every new lessee rechristened
it according to his fancy. For a time it
was known as Hudson’s Theatre. That
was when Tommy Hudson, organiser of the
“Surprise Party,” was in possession. In
London, where this sort of thing is common,
it results in all sorts of mistakes and incon-
gruities, and seems to be an unlucky pro-
ceeding, too. Quite recently we had the
Hicks, the Sliubert and the Whitney. All
three failed under the people who bore those
monikers, and are not doing well under other
titles. J. L. Toole ran a little bandbox for
some time labelled with his own name. Its
site is now occupied by an extension of
Charing Cross Hospital. London has a
Wyndham’s Theatre, built and .owned by Sir
Charles Wyndham, the natriarch of actor-
managers, but he has not been seen there for
a long time. Terry’s Theatre is now a pic-
ture palace.
“THE MAN WHO STAYED AT HOME”
AT MELBOCRNE ROYAL.
Cy ell Mucka y
becomes uneasy.
An Englishman J.P.
“Private Boxer”: I am pleased that “Har-
rison O.” has given up the attempt to main-
tain that when a play is printed to be read
it ceases to be a play. “Harrison” now
artlessly suggests (B. 30/6/’l5) that if the
“incidental remarks” take one’s mind oil the
“dialogue” they can easily be skipped. But
can they? Tliat to me is the irritating part
of the matter. No one would deny that cer-
tain short stage directions are vital for the
reader’s, as much as the mummer’s, guidance.
When new characters are introduced, for in-
stance, it is perhaps as well to know who
they are if one can be told in a few words.
Thus one is lured, as it were, into reading
Shaw’s “brilliant” italicised discourses, and
the plot, story and action remain perforce
in a state of suspended animation meanwhile.
Take an instance which I have no doubt will
meet with “Harrison O.’s” approval—“ Major
Barbara,” Act I. In the middle of the act,
where surely the story should be getting a
move on, there is a scene with Lady Brito-
mart and her son Stephen, which Lady B.
concludes with a very long-winded speech.
After that one ivould naturally think that
the time was about ripe for something to
happen. This is what happens with drama-
tist Shaw: Enter Sarah, Barbara, Charles
Lomax and Adolphus Cusins, and we say
au re,voir to the play while the author tells
us all about the new arrivals. This he can t
do in less than 28 lines of italics! I may.
or may not, have “a penchant for talented
mediocrity,” but I certainly must confess to
a hankering for something a little more
swift in movement if my interest is to be
maintained in a play. If “Harrison” means
that one should rather read G.B.S. than see
him acted, that is a different matter.
Allen Doone’s tour of Maoriland is to last
12 months. After that Australia will have
another helping.
(Continued on page 28.)
Two pounds-one-and-sixpence-ha’penny a
week is what the N.S.W. Government is
offering for temporary teachers who will take
charge of small schools in the country. It
wants the temporary article because of an
appalling shortage of the people who take to
public-school teaching as an occupation. Ihe
wage, which would be rejected with contempt
by any self-respecting bottle-on, explains the
situation.
Corporal W. Brass —formerly Guide
Brass, of Mount Cook (M.L.) has been
killed by the Turk. Probably Brass’s great-
est feat on the mountain was the recovery
of the body of a brother guide who was
swept away by an avalanche not long ago.
He and another took turns carrying the dead
man down a mountain-side in the dark—-a
descent terrible to look at even in daylight.
Before going to Maoriland he was in the
Scottish Garrison Artillery.
By getting their man in for the vacant
Bay of Islands seat —he had a 900 majority
—Maoriland Government saved its bacon,
provided the brown majority named Henare
keeps on the right side of the fence. lhe
poll for Taumaranui this week will decide
whether Massey shall be doomed to a miser-
able dependence on the brunette Independent,
or have a pledged follower with white face
ready to tip the beam when Henare starts
putting on airs. In the interests of humor
the Ministry should be compelled to exist by
grace of the Maori alone. Such a circum-
stance would make the party fetich look
more beautiful than ever.
Died at Melbourne, mining man Trivess
Moore, once of the S. Aus. mounted police,
and close friend of Adam Lindsay Gordon.
Trivess Moore, Parkyn and Charles Brown,
of Ballarat, and Major Collard Smith, ot
the portmanteau boots, took hold of various
shows during the Zeehan boom, and in those
days Trivess was a big man. A kindly soul
witli the figure of a youth, he died full ol
optimism at 74.
Minister Hugh Mahon told the Reps, a
few days ago that the total white male popu-
lation of the Northern Territory was 3252 at
the end of last December. Of these 90<
were in Government employment. That
is the dismal result of 40 years of colonisa-
tion with colored labor and without a rail-
way. It seems almost a fair thing to
upend the whole business and try it now
without the discoloration and with the
railway.
The bullet that met young Oscar Frey-
burg on the way to Constantinople saved
more than one Turk from trouble, for he
was a hardy, fearless customer. With
brother Bernard (they were sons of that
.Tames Freyburg who for years pleaded with
Maoriland Governments to realise the com-
mercial value of the country’s forests) he
went away from Wellington as soon as the
big trouble started. Both were fine swimmers
and boatmen —Oscar once sailed a small,
open boat single-handed across Cook Strait
—and found useful employment in mine
sweeping in the North Sea. Quick promo-
tion followed. Each was given command of
a trawler and had won a commission when
they secured transfer to fight with other
Ma'orilandcrs around the Dardanelles. There
the younger fell. He was a law clerk by-
occupation —a sailor by instinct. The elder
brother, now Lieutenant-Commander I rey-
burg, last week received the Distinguished
Conduct medal. That one ivas for some
years champion swimmer of Maoriland.
The news of fresh trouble in Mexico looks
like another indication of German thorough-
ness. At any' rate, though there is no hint
of German activity in that land of venomous
things, it is remarkable that at the moment
when Wilson is pointing a sheet of paper at
the Kaiser’s heart the news should come
through that his latest note to the rival Mexi-
can leaders has been ignored. The whole
land is said to be in a state of anarchy ; and
if Wilson really takes off his delicate gloves
to help in the smiting of the Hogman, it will
probably 7 have to hack itself out of that state
as best it can. _ •
Two more demands for large helpings of
Socialism have been made to the British Gov-
ernment. The first is by coal consumers.
For no other apparent reason than that it is
a soulless combine, the London C oal Ex-
change has increased the price by anything
from ss. to Ss. 6d. a ton. The miners de-
mands for a “war bonus” would only allect.
the hewing cost by Is. 6d. a ton, which repre-
sents a mere 20 per cent, of the “war bonus
extracted from the public by the patriot-coal-
owners. The loudest shriek for Government
intervention comes from South Wales, where
the price of bread has advanced from o 3 d.
to 81d. A notification of a further increase
was published recently, and it might have
been accepted without a murmur had not the
same papers contained the balance-sheet ot
Spillers and Bakers, millers, of Cardiff, which
disclosed that in 12 months the firm had
made £367,805 net on a capital of
£l.OOO 000 —four times more than they made
the previous year. At latest an indigna-
tion meeting had hit on an effective remedy
—it proposed that the Government should
confiscate for national use all profits made
by such companies in excess of the average
for the previous couple of years.
Veteran Hall, which has been offered as
a home for convalescent soldiers, was so
called by Lieut. Lawson after the Veteran
Corps—a body formed of men of the old
“Rum” Corps who had served 20 years or
more at the time of the latter’s return from
Sydney to England in 1810. They were
enrolled on March 25, ISIO, and were the
second enlistment of Australian soldiers.
The first, formed by Captain George John-
ston in 1792, consisted of officers and men
of the Marines who came out with Phillip
and wished to remain in the colony. Law-
son grabbed the usual grants—one of 500
acres and another adjoining of 1020 acres
on the top of Prospect Hill where the large
reservoir now is. On the 500-acre block he
built Veteran Hall in honor of the corps he
belonged to, and of ivhich he remained a
member till it was disbanded in 1823.
THE RESIGNATION.
(RECORDED AFTER A LONG COURSE OF AMURIKAN
COMEDIES.)
[FOR THE BUĹETIN.]
The President’s Room at the White IJonse. The
President is at his desk dictating his 16'ith protest to
Berlin in connection with the sinking of ships con-
taining U.S. passengers. Enter Secretary Bryan in the
clerico-rural costume of the travelling Yankee poli-
tician. In his right hand he carries a carpet-bag.
Secretary Bryan ( sternly ) : Wood, I have stood fer it
a durn long time.
I’ve seen yew pass the blue-grass stare to lirp.
When all he did wuz sink a ship or two
With certain U.S. citizens aboard.
But now the great ice jambs. The end has come;
And I must hike alone along the track
That leads to Honor-burg and Hully Peace.
President Wilson: Do tell! You would not hand the
icy mit
To one who has upheld Old Glory’s fame
From Little Old New York to Arkansaw,
By taking full upon the solar plex.
The whole of Lord Von Bernstorff’s rough-house stuff.
80, I have swallered, crouching on the mat,
Such call-downs from that square-head bierhaus crowd
As even you could not absorb and perk.
And now yew turn and swat me in the nock,
As if I wuz a guy of no account.
Secretary Bryan: Fer all the glory of your peaceful
past
I give you credit, Woodrow ; give it free.
But when I find yew dashing protests down,
And chucking round the language of the Rude;
The sort of talk them flivvers at the Hague
Put long ago on the Verboten list —
Why, then, I turn from yew in loathing, Bud,
And lope for where the tall, green timber grows.
President Wilson {brokenly): Bill, this is vurry,
vurry hard to bear.
I know I bin a warlike sort of mutt.
That 32nd protest that I sent —
The one in which I wailed to Tirp. to stop—
I Icnoo the blamed old thing was framed too strong
Before I’d almost ’phoned for the express.
But there!..'. .A shipload from the U.S.A.
Lay stilf among the deepsea denizens,
And I —well, Bill, it somehow made me peeved.
And all the Peace orations of the past
Seemed con-stuff, only fit for pinhead jinks.
Secretary Bryan (annoyed ) : This sob-talk stunt is no
blame use to me.
You, who were once the Screaming Eagle’s pride;
You whom the World believed that it could belt
From Twenty-fifth to Bronx, and back again,
Without the slightest danger of a kick ;
You, I repeat, have fallen.right down low,
And got to wher.e effete old Yurrup stands.
Farewell, I mizzle. Here our paths divide.
Me for the Peace which knows not Beastly Pride.
Wraps frock coat around him like a toga, places
black electioneering slouch hat upon his head, and
Kxtt.
n.s.w.
J. B. D.


Orient Sports Suit
The Secret of the comfort of the “Orient” Sports Suit lies in the
well-cut, loose-fitting jacket.
An ideal suit for Golfing, Motoring, Walking or other Outdoor Wear,
where freedom of movement is appreciated.
For “Off-duty” Wear no more comfortable clothes could be found.
Jacket and Trousers only, in a splendid variety of English, Scotch
and Irish Tweeds, in Brown and Fawn mixtures.
Price 40/-
Better Qualities 45/-, 50/-
Tweed and Herringbone patterns in Brown, Grey and Fawn mixtures.
Price 55/-
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
DAVID JONES Ltd
Opp. G.P.0.,
SYDNEY*
m
mm
m
i
Keep up
Your Strength
by taking
v
emulsion
gs
Of all Chemists,
1/3. 2/9. 4/6.
Angier’s Emulsion promotes appetite,
soothes and strengthens the organs of
digestion, overcomes nervous depression
and builds up strength. Its tonic, invigor-
ating influence makes it of special value
for nervous debility and all '‘run-down”
conditions. It is a very real help in
preventing and correcting digestive tronbles
and restoring proper tone to a'l the
digestive functions Angier’s Emulsion is
pleasant to take and is absolutely harrrtless.
ft is endorsed by the medical profession.
FREE TRIAL
BOTTLE.
Send name and address, 4d. postage, and mention this paper.
Angier Chemical _Co., Ltd., 7, Barrack StVeet, Sydney.
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
Bar accident, in the form of a public out-
cry which N. S. Wales is too tired to make,
Sir Gerald Strickland will get the Mac-
quarie-street Government ’ House. He has
the support of all the Ministers except Hol-
man. Their enthusiasm in the matter of
the “eviction” was largely due to the State
Rights feeling, their talk about wanting the
place for a hospital or a museum being pure
bluff. To their ingrained desire to see a
State Governor in the place is now added
a personal sentiment which has been care-
fully fostered at Cranbrook through the
medium of unlimited civility and free food.
Sir Gerald can afford to keep the big build-
ing up, not that he is a rich man himself,
but by reason of the fact that his wife is
well off. So far as he is concerned, there-
fore, there will be no occasion to raise the
State Governor’s screw. But if another
Rawson or Chelmsford is sent here (and
State Governorships no longer attract the
wealthy) then the salary will have to be
larger. It will be an interesting moment
for the traveller when he leans presently on
the railing of the N. S. Wales Assembly and
hears Viscount David Hall, as head of the
Labor Government of the day, clamor for
an increase of £5OOO per annum in the State
Governor’s salary, Sir George Black follow-
ing with a proposal that M’s.L.C. shall be
Paid at the same rate as Supreme Court
Judges.
* * -X- *
On May 26 a body found in the Bluff
(M.L.) harbor was identified as that of
William Keenan, and interred accordingly.
Two days later William called in to inquire
why he was not invited to the affair. The
responsible parties could only say they were
sorry they had overlooked him.
A Victorian constable at Kilmore, of no
higher rank than a curate, so to speak, has
.preached a sermon that many Governments
and temperance reformers might listen to
with profit. Perceiving that the repeated
THE IMPORTANCE OF BEING
HORNETS.
“I shouldn’t have thought you were big
enough for the Light Horse.”
“Oh, they prefer us in the lively pony class
we’re harder to hit.”
SINCERE ADMIRATION.
BILLY (who has been pressed into service as caddie) to Hon. Archibald (who has made
six attempts to dislodge the ball): “By cripe , Boss, you'd make plurry good burr-
cutter.”
arresting and fining of drunks was a vain
proceeding, he left off running them in; but
whenever he saw any of his regular cus-
tomers over the boundary line he got a pro-
hibition order and notified the town’s publi-
cans thereof. Kilmorals gaol was turned
into a butter factory long ago, and now it
looks as if the town lock-up may have to
hire itself out in flats.
“H.S.” : Thomas Flenley, M.L.A. of N. S.
Wales, has written yearningly to the Sydney
press of the day when “the
only real baronial hall in all
Australia will once again be
the vice-regal home.” What
is a baronial hall? Is it the
soft of place liable to be
inhabited by barons? If so,
the choice is wide indeed.
Of Britain’s 370 barons,
many are insolvent, scores
are hard up, a few are among
the wealthiest men in the
kingdom, if not in the world
—the latter phenomenon
being due to the fact that a
barony, the first step in the
peerage, is purchasable by the
newly-rich. Barons, then,
reside in all sort of dwell-
ings, from bailiff-infested
lodgings to palaces fitted
with every modern conveni-
ence. But if Henley meant
that the Macquarie-street
mansion is like an old-time
baronial hall he is wrong
again. No sane mediaeval
baron would have looked at
it. Standing as it does on a
flat peninsula, without so
much as a moat to shield it
from attack from the south,
and with a shark-infested
harbor cutting off retreat to
the north, it is as defence-
less a place as could be
imagined. When an old-
time baron was considering
the suitableness of a baronial
hall, the first thing to which
he addressed himself was its
potentialities for defence.
I know only one genuine baronial hall in
Australia. That is Pinchgut.
The police court which fined sundry South
Coast (N.S.W.) miners for refusing duty
has given the defendants the opportunity
of vindicating the glorious liberty to flout
the law. The fined miners have enthusi-
astically refused to pay the fines, and are
going to a martyr’s cell as a consequence.
They seem to imagine that they would be
regarded as mere jelly-fish if they did other-
wise than show that the right to lose a day’s
pay, or several days’ pay, is one of Labor’s
cherished privileges. These particular
miners lost pay when they left work, and
more when they had to attend the police
court. Payment of their fines would, cer-
tainly, have allowed them to lose a few more
days’ wages ; but by not paying it a still
larger amount is sacrificed. And, of course,
it is a noble thing to make sacrifices for “the
cause.” The mere observance of a law which
is designed to give fairplay without the
necessity for sacrifices —which usually are
sacrifices of women and children and of other
employees not directly concerned in the
quarrel—seems quite a tame thing by com-
parison.
* * * *
A big man in meat has been telling them
in Melbourne : “Veal may easily rise to three
shillings a pound. In fact, I think the
Government should go to the extent of pro-
hibiting the slaughter of calves.” Seems as
if there’s a bad time coming for prodigals.
* * * *
“Bloggs” : The Law is quite mad. Years
ago I saw a man go into the box and tell a
lie to Save a friend —a stupid and relatively
harmless untruth in support of an alibi —
and within an hour that misguided citizen
had been put in the ( dock, tried and sen-
tenced to five years. Fie came 1 , into court a
reputable, well-td-do, farmer; he left it ruined
and a convict. On Thursday a woman
stepped into the witness-box. She was not
there to. save a guilty man, but to ruin an
innocent* one. To accomplish this she
thought it was necessary for her to estab-
lish that she whs virtuous. The following
ensued between her and the attorney for the
defence :
How many children have you had? One.
Haven’t you had four? No. -
How many have you had ? Only one.
Haven’t they all died ? I only had one;
Do you know a Mrs. Ward? Yes. (Tears.)
Do you now swear that you had only one? No.
Wifi you deny that you had four? Yes, only three.
Mrs. Ward’s evidence showed that the wit-
ness had had three children while with her,
and was expecting a fourth when she left.
Except that she failed to “shop” the man
whom she was proceeding against, this
highly-dangerous specimen of humanity made
a satisfactory get-away. She wasn’t put on
her trial for perjury. Justice simply said
encouragingly: “Go away and do it some
more.” The Law is quite mad —at any rate
as regards its habit of not dealing with
female perjurers.
THE NEW ILIAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sound the advance, Australia!
Onward, with England! Onward, with France!
Who would ask better comrades, or more princely
companions?
W ith the suns of their glories full risen, 3'our star
shall ascend, O young Nation !
W ith the great champions of Christendom you go up
to battle against the heathen!
With the Light-Bringers and the Upholders of Right,
With the Builders of the New World,
With the Wardens of Liberty,
With regal England and with chivalrous France,
you go forth, Australia !
Sound the advance!
Oh, fortunate young nation !
Not alone, not unheralded, not unseen do you enter
the perilous paths ;
?sot unknown do you press forward to achievement,
to honor, to glory !
Look round you, Australia, and say where else in
the world rather than here you would have
sprung into the vision of men?
Behold, O youngest of the nations, the ancient, blue
.Egean, the sacred sea !
In front the Dardan heights, and, here, the rolling
Scamander in high flood.
\ onder the shores that rang to the brazen chariots
of the Atrides; the sunlit islands of the Pelo-
ponnesus, many-fountained Ida and divine, cloud-
topped Olympus ;
I ine-crowned Thessaly, with lolcus and Colchis, and
all the purple seas the Argo sailed to find the
Golden Fleece!
You, O happy nation, come from seas, blue as the
that wrap the shores of the Land of the
Golden Fleece!
Sound the advance!
In burnished arms, driving their shield-fenced ships,
they came, Australia !
Revenge, and injured pride, and the indomitable
hates of the high gods urged them on!
Agamemnon and his chieftains, Sarpedon and his
chieftains, disputing the cause <?f Troy.
Here were the deeds done that shook the ancient
world ;
Here, where the immortal gods foregathered at feast,
or in council;
Here, where the King of Men led the embattled
princes against the god-built walls of Troy;
Here, where Helen, fairest of women, drew half the
kings of old to their destruction, and the heroes
to embittered war ;
Here, where the wrath of Achilles and the craft of
Ulysses prevailed against mighty Hector and the
hapless Priam—
Here, O Australia, a lofty destiny permits you to
appear!
Sound the advance, Australia !
Fame awaits you, history attends you ;
Never had young knight grander end to his vigil!
Never had youthful hero nobler sponsors !
England and France —O Powers of surpassing glory !
They have put upon your swift, strong feet the
Golden Spurs, and given you the well-won
accolade!
Thrice-fortunate Australia! In what company do
you scale the heights of Success !
In what an arena do you shine in arms, before the
astonished shades of the great dead !
Gods and mortals, once contending here, are witness
of your prowess ;
Poseidon, parting his blinding waves, gazes upon you ;
Zeus, veiled by yonder cloud, frowns perplexed upon
you;
The men and warriors who sailed the ships, the men
who burned the ships, the men who defended the
ships of the Greeks, look upon you and point to
you!
From the invisible walls of Troy invisible hands
wave to you !
Sound the advance, Australia !
If Glory anywhere abides it is here in the gleaming
isles of the Middle Sea.
It is at Troy, Greece, Athens, Sparta;
It is in the Imperishable Places!
Proudly shall you advance, Australia !
From immemorial Egypt you are come hither—from
Egypt) the land where Time himself grew old !
From Egypt you came, where great England re-
builded anew the kingdom of the departed
Pharaohs ;
There, under the shadow of the Pyramids, perfected
in strength and skill you stayed ;
There, at the appointed hour, was sounded the
advance against the Hun and the Paynim horde.
With England, with France, you went forward, Aus-
tralia !
Gloriously you bore yourself, nobly do you still go
forward.
A strife that immeasurably outruns the tale of Troy
finds you eager, valiant, irresistible!
Worth}’ of the Great Companionship is the young
nation ;
Your praise is on the lips of men ;
Against the skilled and cunning foe; against the
colossal dragon of war; against the poisonous
fires and the unrelenting rage of Death, the
young nation stood and blenched not!
With burning and desperate valor, Australia excels
in arms !
The brave, the devoted, the able leaders fall ; the
host presses on.
The living go forward, over the dead they go, un-
dismayed, triumphant!
England goes onward, France goes onward, Australia
goes onward —•
On to the thousand-pinnacled City of Constantine,
On to the Dominion of the World,
On to the New Age!
N.S.W.
EDWARD NEWTON MAcCULLOCH.


99
Choose a “ Swan.
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fonntpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer—those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic . recommendation.
Every hand suited exactlv.
n ' “SWAN SAFETY
Can’t L^ak,
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch!
SI
Catalogue free on request.
MArilE, TODD & CO., London ani
Branches.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J. A. Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney.
, \
STRONG RIDING TROUSERS.
Men who do hard riding, and plenty of it, soon realise the need for
well-cut Riding Trousers. Our Riding Trousers are cut for comfolT,
from materials specially woven for hard wear.
They will withstand the strain of the saddle.
We quote three popular ready-to-wear styles—the former being our owl
make, and the latter two made for us in India.
CANTON MOLE, White or Fawn 11/*
INDIAN TWEED TWIST, Grey, Brown or Fawns,
19/6, 27/6
KHAKI DRILL 13/6
Please state waist and inside leg measurements.
Patterns and Catalogue on request.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309 & 311 George Street—SYDNEY.
“Callan Park” makes millions: —
A cable mentions that “the Austrians are using
str<#jous efforts to recruit men in Albania. They
are offering' would-be soldiers 40 francs a month.
Here is an opportunity to combine business with
patriotism. The Albanians are a warlike race. They
have no love for Austria, but they will fight for
anyone for the love of fighting and for adequate pay-
ment. Such is their passion for fighting that, on the
rare occasions when their nation is at war with no
one, the tribes fight amongst themselves.
Austria’s “strenuous effort” represents a paltry
335. 4d. per month, or Bs. 4d. a week —a fraction
over a shilling a day. My idea is to form a limited
liability company to import Albanians to Australia
at 2s. a day (which is almost 100 per cent, more
than Austria is offering), ship them back as rein-
forcements, and accept as reimbursement for the
company’s outla3 r the difference of 3s. between that
and the Australian rate of pay.
The national benefits to be derived from my
scheme are obvious. Austria will be embarrassed,
our own men will be saved, and the Turks will be
confronted with a particularly dangerous foeman.
The expense of transporting them will be small.
They are not used to luxury, and modern sanitary
devices are foreign to them. An old saw says, An
Albanian is washed once —when he dies,” and even
that modest claim is not entirely true, since many
fall in battle and are interred without ceremony.
Anyone who has seen a pilgrim-ship ploughing
through the Red Sea in the direction of Mecca can get
an idea of what could be done with the cheapest and
oldest variety of tramp in the way of transporting
Albanians. A vessel which would accommodate 100
British troops could easily be made to carry 5000
picked Albanians. Allow that 2 per cent, died en
route. The co. could rely on landing and enlisting
4900. The difference between their official and
actual pay (which is to say, the co.’s profit) would
be £735 per day. Allow for three months’ —90 days’
—training and we get the handsome return of
£66,150 before a shot is fired.
It would be a question whether the co. should
insure its men or accept the war risks personally.
In view of their reckless habits I should counsel the
former step, but that would be a matter for later
settlement. Meanwhile another batch would be coming
to hand, and another, and another, till the whole
fighting strength of the nation was absorbed.
, At a low estimate, assuming the war lasts another
two years, the co., after paying chartering and tran-
sport expenses (one way only), and allowing for
wastage from death, in and out of action, would
make a clear profit of not less than £2,700,000' —a
tidy sum these hard times.
In addition to many other advantages, Albania,
which has always been the most turbulent part of the
Balkan Peninsula, would be automatically rendered
helpless, and so would become the prey of our
gallant little ally, Servia, without a struggle.
Australia first took a hand at raising war-
relief funds during the Crimea trouble. In
February, 1855, a meeting was held in Syd-
ney “for co-operating with Britain in pro-
viding for the relief of the widows , and
orphans of those w T ho fell in the war.” A
“Patriotic Fund” was established, and a few
days later £BOOO had rolled in. A thousand
of this came from Daniel Cooper, accom-
panied by a promise of £5OO a year while
the war lasted. That early fund serves to
point a moral now. Some of the money then
raised was lying unused in England a few
years ago, when ructions were raised about
it. As far as the object of the Fund was
concerned, it had been utterly wasted. The
other day the hon. treasurers of the Sydney
Patriotic Fund issued a balance-sheet.
Receipts had been £189,866. and payments
on relief account a paltry £2652. In other
words, while the public was pouring in
money for current relief, and was ready to
pour in more as soon as the managers
crooked a finger, there were lying at various
city banks sums like £43,441, £43.061. and
so on. That is not what the public expects.
It doesn’t want its generosity hoarded; it
w r ants it distributed.
* * * *
The recent thrilling clash in the war zone,
when a monoplane wrecked a Zeppelin, and
Lieutenant Warneford earned his V.C., gave
another proof that the Zep. has not the
business capacity of the smaller and handier
aircraft. The Zeppelin flew upwards, trust-
ing to altitude to beat off the adversary;
but the monoplane outmanoeuvred the
bulkier machine, and a few bombs completed
the job. The faith of the German in the
Zeppelin is responsible for the Faderland
being little skilled in the more useful air-
craft. Just before the war cloud burst Pots-
dam seems to have awakened to the fact
that a mistake had been made, and hurriedly
pushed on the mono- and aeroplane trade.
But it didn’t push soon enough.
* * * *
The next absurdity to be administered to
the Northern Territory that can’t get a rail-
way is an official with the splendid title of
“Government Inspector of Hotels.” There
are about six pubs altogether, and the inspec-
tor will have to squander his hours as best
he can looking down quart pots while wait-
ing for salary day to come round. The rest
of the time he will spend listening to the
yarns of his fellow-exiles and the howling of
the Federal wilderness for better means of
communication with the populated edge of
the continent. It is not stated in the official
advt. what the inspector’s title will be. It
can’t be “Your Excellency.” because that is
the exclusive .property of Gilruth. Perhaps
he will be “Your Eminence.”
PREPARED FOR THE BEST.
“I would never marry a man for his money.”
“Nor I. That is why I fall in love with all the rich fellows I know.”
TO BE EXACT.
“You must speak more distinctly. I can’t hear what you say. Now, what was your last
sentence?”
“Well, if you bloomin’ well must know, it was six months.”
Randolph Bedford at church: —
Archbishop Clune, in announcing the Mass for the
Australians fallen at the Dardanelles, had uttered a
fine appreciation of Captain Lalor —grandson of
Peter of Eureka; and old one-armed Peter had been
a proud man to hear that talk about the young
Australian, his grandson. Always adventurous,
young Peter was a boy before the mast, a laborer
in the London docks, a private with the French
Foreign Legion,- a responsible actor in a revolution
in South America, .and shack home to join the first
contingent of Australia now fighting the Turk.
Here the quiet day of May, which is Indian
summer of Westralia, a cloudless firmament with the
sage-green swards of the cypress seeming to pillar
up the sky, and the old Cathedral of the Immaculate
Conception filled with people very quiet for the
first list of our boys mangled in the Dardanelles had
come out that day. The wrinkled old women moving
from the statuary group of the Deposition to kiss the
pierced feet went noiselessly. And on the other side
of the world a steep and rugged shore rising to a
plateau with less cover than that provided by a
crop of cabbages, and death spitting at the men of
the newest nation, every rock or thicket sheltering
a sniper of the most degenerate people of Europe—
soon, we hope, to be kicked into the East by white
men.
The fine organ uttered the March Tenebre as I
left the Cathedral to return to-morrow for the Sol-
diers’ Mass.
The Spanish civilisation of Australia is all on the
Indian Ocean front —at New Noreia and Perth. The
Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception at Perth,
that might have been lifted direct from Northern
Spain, stands upon its hill in a ring of cypress such
as only the Spaniard or the Italian would think of
planting. They built a monastery, too —now the
palace of Archbishop Clune —and the beauty of its
lines and its brown and yellow pillars has been
overcoated with painfully new cement. An Adel-
aide man built for them an organ of as sweet a
tone as that in the Cathedral of the Holy Cross at
Manila, its pipes made of bamboo somewhere about
two centuries ago.
The Catholic missions in the West are the story
of the Spanish Benedictines, Salvado and Serra. In
1841 they walked from Perth to beyond the limit of
settlement. Away in a practically waterless country,
surrounded by hostile blacks —whom they gradually
won through the children —these noble madmen built
their church alone. They won the children with
sugar and the grown-ups with damper. Later, Sal-
vado wrote of coming down to bush food ; he enjoyed
roast lizard, but the fat, yellow grub of the gum-
trees “made his stomach writhe.” The flocks and
the herds grew. To-day large buildings, a church,
farms and orchards are where Salvado and Serra
almost died of thirst in 1841.
The other monument of these early men is the
Cathedral of Perth; and in that fine example of
Gothic Spain I heard the drone of the Mass for the
fallen. While death and resignation seemed all
there is in life, a girl to thank God for —gracious
as the Madonna bending over the pallid Christ before
me —entered from the choir and knelt in prayer. It
was a face less beautiful than comely ; but goodness
seemed to flow in every fold of her dress, and the
shape of her was divine. Dark brown glossy hair,
big brown eyes, skin of honey and cream, air of
gentleness and pity. One of the oldest and most
wrinkled' of the old women looked at her, and then
at Mary bending over Christ; and there seemed no
change in the meaning of the glance. And when
the girl went away much of the spirit of the
Cathedral went with her in an atmosphere of gentle-
ness and pity. It will all be wanted ; Australia will
have many mourning Rachels and Masses for the
fallen before the war is past.
The Spaniards have left their courtliness to the
Cathedral. It is the most gentlemanly church I
ever met. On Sunday night it left the offertory in
an open, box at my hand in a darkened place and
never distrusted us —though my companion was a
lawyer. The Catholic Church is that of true cour-
tesy. Never did a Protestant Church trust me near
money.
* * * *
The German casualty lists are now saitl
to make a close-printed volume of 7000
pages—William’s own little Scraps of Paper.
HIDE AND SEEK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was a nightmare. —German naval officer’s descrip-
tion of the Scharnhorst-Gneisenau sea-hunt.
Now the chase is ended, now the wolves are dead,
Vision their wild terror as they turned and fled.
While with wheeling searchlights we kept watch and
ward,
They were flying blindfold from our fire and sword.
Slinking past the islands, rushing from their fear,
Guess and Rumor, helmsmen, told them where to
steer.
Smoke-clouds called the hunters, and the sun dyed
red
That same haunted ocean where they’d left our dead.
Ghosts of steel gigantic, somewhere out of sight,
Full of fiery vengeance sought their line of flight.
Past their tow’ring mastheads cryptic greetings flew
As the unseen hunters towards their quarry drew.
There were ports for others, kindly shores of ease ;
But the racing outlaws had to keep the seas.
Snug inside their harbors in the war-bound North
Others squadrons rusted, far from seaward wrath.
But the trembling raiders, blinded, foul and stale,
Flew, alone and hopeless, from the iron hail.
Were their dreams as bitter as our hot desires
On their wind-whipped bridges, by their humming
fires ?
Hope for them had vanished, glory was a stain ;
Far storms loomed like cruisers ; Death marched with
the rain.
Night came down to narrow Day’s horizon-ring ;
Through the night they wondered what the dawn
would bring.
Fast as steam could drive them, straight across the
world,
So they fled, unguessing, with their standards furled.
So the cruisers caught them and, ere set of sun,
Sank the wolves fear-hounded, and the chase was
done.
N.s.w.
E. O’F.


PEACE WITHOUT HONOR.
Mr. William J. Bryan has explained why he resigned from the United States Cabinet. “The question,” the ex-Secretary of State says, “is not one of right under interna-
tional law, but whether Americans ought not, out of consideration for their country, to avoid danger when avoidance is possible.” —Cable.
WILLIAM J.: “No, no, Mr. President. Put on your coat and haul down the Flag. Then he CAN’T barm it.”


We hear a good deal from time to
time,Of how the burden of the war is
turning its leaders white. —' Age.
gs
The war correspondent of the "Novoe
Yremya” states that on May 24 the Ger-
mans fired 700,000 shells at the Russian
position at Itadymno alone.
6 ,U. :
°
blac-k----
G<£<
m
£> bor-fcr foeckpz sbe\l-Ure) ;
jQr tinges
") ,qqq<fc '1° 000 ° ' 1
- ,
*oo* \or <o *Y ‘
Ur. Cbwtoo atm**..**
at “UattJ Sf«w*r ami ***#*?“
! uublirist of tnterwrt*o«*> *»»*> **»* '*”*
S thf tHo of «orw»«J ««.
Wm- » v«.tl«Mtt ™"‘
...» mriantor MK„ ,,,,, -
I moitteat far*-.
The hotelkeepers would, however, he
willing' we believe, to meet tne
formers half way. , r »"o
make the hour of closing half-past 10
instead of half-past 9.
A er ' s ?< * (Cr '
9^
/• V" '
#*3
Ho** r r /
proj^ri^
dlrurvk
i
btokc - s -fil( he .
wont*
K's
WATERS
\JOICE,
* A gramophone factory in Middlesex,
which previously employed 60 hands, is
now employing 4000 men, women, boys
and girls in producing cartridge cases, |
charges of lead, cases for gun cotton
and cordite, reels and fuse igniters.
FROM HERE TO CONSTANTINOPLE.


TO DEVELOP THE BUST.
A simple, safe and harmless way in which
any lady, no matter how thin or old, can
increase her bust development from two to
live inches in a few weeks is to take 20
Strains of phormoid, a standard concentrated
food product, just before each meal. For
convenience, it is best to ask your chemist
to supply you with the standard phormoid
tablets, which contain 20 grains each. For
a few shillings you can get enough to last
you two weeks, during which time your
bust should develop from one to two inches.
Many ladies report five inches’ development
in four weeks, and at the same time marked
improvement in the general health. Phor-
moid is pleasant to the taste.*
Letters Copied While Writing
(in ink) by using your own Lstter-paps-
With this Book, you slip your
paper into the holder and write,
and by the act of writing you
secure a perfect letter and a •
perfect copy. There is no
sign of copying. 400 octavo Sin. x sin., or 200 quarto
letters, can be copied in NSC/200 Book, size lot x
Bf, post free 4 6; or NSC/400 DOUBLE Capacity
for 6/-. Special Small Octavo Book, making 200
copies, Bin. x 6in., post free 3/6 ; double capacity, 4/6.
Sample of the celebrated Zanetic Ink Paper, which
produces this result, free, if stamped-addressed
envelope sent to S. B. Zanetic, Leicester, England.
ggss
gs
gs
gs
gs
K\^°
M. the
rm
fTAT« Vhe ThI ei *° U KO ' the world over, leading men wear W uuowOW
"mfmt. SIoS. a " e<l ” qKaU "’ sWe ’ a,KI
gs
LEWIS&WMITTY
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
HYGEIA
Shaving;
Stick.
gs
Face and
razor
agree
with
Hygeia
oil-foam.
Mother’s
Friend—
PEDIC POMADE for THE HEAD
Strikes infesting vermin dead. One applica-
tion destroys vermin, kills nits, heals sores, cures
ringworm, and makes the hair grow thick and
curly. Kills lice on live stock.
Sydney Agents: Talbots, 206 George Street;
and Washington Soul. Sold by all Chemists
and Stores, or posted from J. Brin, Chemist,
East Malvern, Vic.—l/2, 2/3, 3/9, and with Nit
Comb. 6d. extra.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
British Ministers have agreed to pool their
salaries, and the news has infuriated Mark-
ham, M.P., the wealthy Shorncliffe baronet,
who in the House of Commons is very much
what Colonel Onslow is in the N. S. M ales
Assembly. Though posturing as a Liberal,
he is in reality a violent reactionary, with a
tremendous contempt for people who happen
to be hard up. His outburst was occa-
sioned no doubt by the fact that the new
arrangement will benefit Winston Churchill,
whom lie dislikes. As First Lord Churchill
drew one of the biggest salaries in the Min-
istry ; as Chancellor of the Duchy of Lan-
caster lie gets about the lowest. Like all his
breed, Churchill is improvident. Ilis father
never had enough, nor has he. To him, and
such as him, the pooling scheme must be a
godsend.
THU BUTTER LIFE.
The EVENING NEWS says that neutral travellers
from Berlin state that the Crown Prince’s behavior is
causing general indignation. He is flaunting his
profligacy before the public.
WOWSER (Gerhog species) : “Ah, my hoy,
why don't you, give up this sinful life
and join your father in the noble work
of slaughtering women and children?”
The bullet that the half-witted youngster
Prineeps tired into the. Austrian Archduke
at Sarajevo carried as far as the lonely
Cook Islands. From Aitutaki one Tuaine
went forth to tight, and a recent casualty
list includes him amongst the wounded in
the Dardanelles. Tuaine enlisted with the
Auckland Infantry, and was one of the few
dark-skins to get in with the pakelias.
Audley Coote, who at 7S dropped
out the other day at Rylstone (N.S.W.),
was a man of many activities in his time.
In the ’6o's lie was master of the Tele-
graph. one of the first steamers to go up the
Brisbane River. In ’67 lie dropped in on
Tasmania, where he became mixed up with
the building of the Main Line. Then he
went into politics, and sat from ’79 to 'B9
in the Assembly, and for 10 years in the
House of Dodery. Between times he laid
the first section of the Pacific Cable and the
cable from New Caledonia to Queensland.
For the latter job the French Government
twice offered him the Legion of Honor, but
ha evaded the ribbon both times. Till Uncle
Sam reached out for Honolulu Coote was
Consul for Hawaii, and the dusky potentate
lie represented made him a local knight.
After Hawaii had been snuffed out the
strenuous old man got the office of Consul
for Uncle Sam’s other little pet, Panama.
MODERATOR COOPER, of the Vic.
Presbyterian Assembly.
Ilis Ex. Galway, of South Aus., hates
slobber. _ At the starting of the infant
scheme, for locking the Murray, one Federal
politician after another tried to couple him
—because he had taoped the foundation-
stone into place—with Sturt, who had first
rowed down the river, and with Randell
and Cadell, who had opened it to navigation.
When the old soldier had his turn he cheer-
fully pointed out the cold truth that he had
finked into the position he occupied with
regard to the Murray scheme, and that, so
tar as any Governor at all deserved any
honor or credit, it was his predecessor,
Admiral Bosanquet, who at any rate had
watched over the preliminary negotiations
between the States. *
News comes from England of the death
of Dr. Grattan Guinness; his father, with
the same name, died a few years ago. Both
visited Australia on missionary enterprises.
The junior came twice. Wlien
he was first in Melbourne a
newspaper . drew a comparison
between him and Joe Symes.
"Look at the happy counten-
ance of Dr. Guinness, and con-
trast -'it with the melancholy
visage of Symes.” Symes re-
torted in his Liberator: “I
understand that Guinness is
about to marry a young lady
with £20,000. If that was my
case, my countenance would be
as happy as his. But I have
the melancholy visage of Jesus,
being, like him, a man of sor-
rows and acquainted with
grief.” Guinness married
wealthy Miss Baker, of Tas-
mania, and they had nine chil-
dren. lie was related to the
brewer of stout. When Pre-
mier Patterson, of Victoria, was
in Dublin, they showed him
the Cathedral, as restored by that Guinness.
Says lie: “That is great—salvation in one
hand and damnation in the other.”
J. X. Williams, one of the best-known of
Maoriland’s North Island squattocracy, and
the patriarch of a family which counts its
acres by the hundred thousand, surrendered
his 75 years’ lease of life last week. The
AY illiams clan has its roots right down in
the beginning of things in the draughty
Dominion. The first of them was a col-
league of Marsden, and expounded the Word
to Ilenare for many a day. Expounding
has been a hobby with the old missionary’s
offspring ever since. One of his sons, the
father of Williams just dead, was first
Bishop of AY aiapu. and when a successor
had to be chosen in place of Stuart, who
went to teach the Gospel in Persia, the son
of the first Gaiters was selected. So J. X.
was son and brother of a bishop. He was
also nephew of the onceffamous Archdeacon
“Sam,” founder of Te Ante College; and of
T. C. Williams, the big man with a white
hat who possessed many stations ; and brother
of that other Williams who owns Brance-
peth, in the Wairarapa. Between running
the Church and breeding sheep the Wil-
liamses have done remarkably well for them-
selves. J. A T ., who among many other things
was the pioneer of the fruit industry in
Hawkes Bay, was a fine old man whom gold
had failed to spoil.
Major “Jack” Mills, who went with Wes-
tralia’s lot to the Dardanelles and has died
of wounds, was another lawyer turned sol-
dier. lie was a journalist to begin with —
was a junior on the Barrier Miner at
Broken Ilill when Randolph Bedford was a
junior on one venomous contemporary, and
Colebateli, now leader of the Fat party in
Westralia’s Leg. Council, was a young wood-
and-water joey on the other. Going West
Mills read law and was admitted to the
Bar, and industriously accumulated a vast
store of out-of-the-way legal learning. But
he liked a uniform better than a gown, and
found a good many opportunities of wearing
one—including some years of service in the
Boer trouble as a non-com. and a spell in
England. He belonged to an ancient Parra-
matta family—the one to which Queensland
owes Mrs. Forrest, Brisbane’s most prolific
versifier.
Robert Copland Lethbridge, who succeeds
A. J. Mackenzie as manager of the Perpetual,
the oldest trustee co. in N. S. Wales, is
another of the innumerable descendants of
Governor King. The first Mrs. Robert Cop-
land Lethbridge in these parts was the
youngest daughter of his Ex., born in the old
Government House at the top of Bridge-
street on February 1, 1805. Before she was
two years old she had a grant of TOO acres
of land, known as Werrington Estate, near
Penrith, from Governor Bligh. Governor
King had previously granted Mary Rutland,
the daughter of Governor Bligh. a small
slice of 600 acres adjoining. These little
transactions were afterwards excused as a
mere interchange of courtesies between the
two Governors. The pioneer Lethbridge built
on the block a fine stone house, which stands
to-day and still shelters one of the name.
The new manager of the Perpetual Trustee
Co., who was born in 1870, is the second
son of the late John King Lethbridge, of
St. Mary’s, the second son of the original
Lethbridge.
“Bo’sun”: Re W. J. Ellis, master mari-
ner, reported dead (B. M/G/T5). This is
the second time he lias been counted out.
Some years ago a message was received in
Sydney from an Adelaide Co.’s steamer
coining up the coast that the master, Cap-
tain Ellis, had died on board. On arrival
at Port Jackson the ship was met by a tug
with a coffin. The tug was hailed'by the
skipper, from the bridge and was asked who
the box was for. When he was told that
it was for him he reckoned it was a poor
joke. lie had signalled the shore station
for bunker coal to be ready for him, not a
coffin. Lately Ellis had a shore job in Syd-
ney, but to meet a sudden emergency agreed
to take the steamer Ecliunga to London.
He didn’t reach Albany.
THE TURKISH BATH.
SULTAN MAHMUD V.: “Ugh! It’s getting
uncomfortably hot."
When State Premiers and Federal legis-
lators lined up for their morning wash on
the little Murray steamer that took them
to Blanchetown (S.A.) for the ceremony in
connection with the first lock. Crawford
Vaughan, of South Aus.., was the only
one plucky—or foolhardy—enough to go
the whole thing, and dive over into the
shivery June water.
The “lifers” in Maoriland's Leg. Council
can now be counted on the fingers of one
hand —Ormond, Baillie. Bowen, McLean
and Johnston. E. C. J.
Stevens, of Christ-
church. who had been
keeping them company
for 24 years, died a
week ago. The old
man loved cricket
gieat deal more than
politics. He was 78.
Baillie, the oldest of
the bunch, is 88, a fine
veteran who fought
with Gough and Camp-
bell in the Punjaub'.
Ormond, who played a
big part in the days of
colonisation and owns
many racehorses, is 83.
Bowen, the man who
gave Maoriland her
secular education sys-
tem, has passed the
Ssth post; and old
“Geordie” McLean is
81. Johnston is a
mere youth of 70.
GALWAY,
SOUTH
ACSTRALIA'S
GOV ERNOR.
Australia’s weightiest daughter died
recently at Narnargoon (Vic.) in her 39th
year. Clara Snell was the largest of a
trio who showed first in Australia and sub-!
sequeutly in Europe. Clara, as a 10-year-
old, weighed 40 stone: sister Anna was a
comparatively slim girleen of 28st.; brother
Tom brought up the rear with 2ost. Tom
Snell nowadays is a prosperous storekeeper
who has reduced himself by hard physical
exercises to 16 stone, which, all the same,
is six stone more than either of his parents
ever weighed. Why these particular three
members of the numerous Snell family
should have been so strangely obese was
never answered by medical science. Fat is
about the most interesting subject for
human cogitation. Ilow to make it and
how to unmake it! It is the unrealisable
ambition of millions of people, and the mere
burden of millions of others. But medical
science on the matter remains still in the
rudimentary stage, and both the flesh and
the lean continue to waddle or trip to the
Turkish bath to take it off or put it on.
Under Lloyd George, three men are to
organise the production of armaments. They
a. l- e Percy Girouard. Fletcher Moulton and
George Booth. All are specialists. Booth
is one of the great business organisers of
Britain, mostly in connection with shipping,
lie will mould the organisation which is to
supply the munitions, Girouard will see to
the running of the organisation that Booth
will build. A French Canadian, he lias the
spare, efficient, peering-through-a-pince-nez
look of the French military officer. He is
“a Kitchener man” and created the fine
Soudan railway system. Years later, when
Kitchener wanted “the best obtainable” for
the railways in the Transvaal, he wired for
Girouard. Fletcher Moulton is a hungry,
untidy-looking dyspeptic who has one of the
most adroit and supple brains in England.
His brilliant Qualities as an advocate were
wasted at the Bar because of the rush upon
him as a patents barrister. Ilis job now
will relate to the actual mechanical side of
the munitions question. It will be Moulton,
for instance, who will pronounce upon the
Caldwell gun. and if. as is said, this gun
requires a new machinery installation to
produce it. Moulton will decide whether the
installation is worth while. The appoint-
ment of three such men is a solid guarantee
that Britain is leaving nothing undone.
NOT THAT SORT OP Jr AN.
[For Tiie Bulletin.]
“Now, you listen to me!" roared the furious sheep,
And his wife cowered down in a terrified heap.
She had fretted his nerve till he bubbled with fight,
And a worm, when it turns, is a terrible sight.
“You just listen to me!" howled the life-slave slic'd
won
When, in front of an altar, a mean job was done.
“I have stood all I can, but I’ll now let you see
I am finished with nagging! You listen to me!"
‘•l'm no William J. Bryan!” he bellowed with pride;
Then he showed her his fist, and his tyrant she shied’
“Now you mind what I tell you!”—he reached for
his hat—
“l’m no William J. Bryan! Don’t you forget that!"
y -s-w. YELLS, LTD.
WHAT ABOUT IT?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tlie German Hog is a ruthless brute ;
And what are you going to do, John,
W hen bombs rain down
On London town
Like bolts from out the blue, John?
When streets, alas!
By deadly gas;
Are poisoned through and through;
When broad highways
Are all ablaze,
And Berlin sings its hymns of praise—
Well, what are you going- to do?
The Germans’ game is Frightfulness,
Whilst you are a sportsman true, John;
They kick like curs
Poor prisoners,
They’ve done to death a few, John;
A fishing boat
They sink, and gloat
LTpon the drowning crew ;
Your dull blockade
May check their trade,
But bombs are by the million made,
And what are you going to do?
I lie Germans boast of their tricks in store
And what are you going to do, John?
Staunch self-conceit
Fears no defeat;
But nations yet may rue, John,
The confidence—
Sublime, immense—-
That’s born and bred in you.
When Hunhogs swear
That foul is fair,
Sad, ghastly voices in the air
Cry what are you going to do, to do—
John, what are you going to do?
VICTORIA.
O. K.


{
A
m.
%
m
fi
%
s
cl
■ar
i-roi
1
SI
fl
1
r
*
TO SEAT -EAVE
“THE CENTRE OF ATTRACTION]’
TOBACCO
AND
CIGARETTES
W D.& H O WILLS.
THE
PIPE 0F QUALITY ~
400
LMN
gs
im
mm
LMN
EV ery P'P e Guar^te e(1


IRRIGATION.
We carry Large Stocks of Steam- and
Power-driven Reciprocating Pumps.
Also Large Stocks of Centrifugal Pumps suitable for Irrigation Work.
Cash or Terms.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Lawson House,
49 Clarence St„ Sydney
BUCYRUS CO • Milwaukee
Steam Shovels, Drag Line Excavators.
Sole Agent*—WILLIAM ADAMS GO. COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Maoriland Government Life In-
is ura nce 1)e dartment :
Added
Claims Provided to In-
andSur- Ex- against De-surance
Dec , Revenue, renders, (tenses, predation. Fund.
1901.. £460,753 £256,100 £59,194 - £145,459
1902.. 451,348 271,268 59,895 £22,783 97,402
1903.. 463,380 269,413 64,723 129,241
1904.. 480,716 266,704 60,490 153,522
1905.. 490,924 263,148 63,829 6,953 156,994
1906.. 507,070 270,220 67,828 169,022
1907.. 526,712 304,230 66,670 155,812
1908.. 534,440 328,763 68,403 20.000 417,2/4
1909.. 546,566 333,990 72,120 - 140,456
1910.. 561,151 340.028 71,534 -- 149,589
1911.. 594,410 344,957 74,213 30,000 115,240
1912.. 590,314 378,653 82,489 129,172
1913.. 600,068 367.673 81,405 150,990
1914.. 625,764 414,903 84,650 75,458 53,753
The writer of the present sermon never
could quite make out why the .State founded
this office. Life insurance is, as a matter, of
fact, one of the very few lines in which
Private Enterprise isn't a conspicuous cor-
morant. Three-fourths of all life-insurance
business is done by mutual offices, which
are socialistic. There is in them no capital
and therefore really no such thing as pro-
fits. If the policy-holders hand over too
much to do a certain job, it is simply handed
back to them. The State concern had only
two small points on which it might build
hopes that it would do better than the best.
One was that the people of Maoriland might
rush it from patriotic motives; the other
that it might possibly do the work cheaper
than other offices. Apparently the first point
hasn’t counted much in its favor. Aus-
tralia is just as proud of two or three of its
offices as Maoriland is of its State institu-
tion. And costs have certainly not been in
favor of the M.L. office. Nor is it possible
to see how they can be. Its big competitors
cover Australia as well as Maoriland ; and
their overhead charges are consequently less
per cent, of income. Besides, Maoriland, to
which the Dominion’s office confines itself,
is an expensive country to work so far as
almost any sort of business is concerned.
It is a fine thing for the insurance can-
vasser, however bad a thing it may be for
others, to strike half the population, as in
N. S. Wales and Victoria, crowded into the
capitals. In Maoriland, fortunately, there is
none of this congestion. That means higher
exes, in rounding up and supervising busi-
ness.
Naturally, therefore, this office doesn’t
show up very well as to working costs:
Expenses ix Proportion to Total Income.
1903 .. £l3 19 4 p.c. 1909 .. £l3 310 p.c.
1904 .. 12 11 8 „ 1910 .. 12 14 11 „
1905 .. 13 0 0 „ 1911 .. 12 9 8 „
1906 .. 13 7 6 „ 1912 .. 13 19 6 „
1907 .. 12 13 2 „ 1913 .. 13 11 3 „
1908 .. 12 16 0 „ 1914 .. 13 10 6 „
And the figures would be worse than that if
new business were forced. Even as it is,
applying the arbitrary rules adopted by The
Bulletin for measuring the cost of new life
business, the latter last year ran away with
209 p.c. of the first-year premiums, which is
more than twice the cost of the new business
got by the Australian offices in the Ist class.
To some extent the M.L. office is not
responsible for this not very satisfactory
record. Maoriland’s land and income taxes
are exceptionally heavy. Last year they
cost this office £16,523. That was equal to
6.8 p.c. of the interest earnings, or about
6s. 4d. p.c. of the average assets. Now the
A.M.F.. which has the advantage of doing
business in Australia as well as Maoriland,
last year paid away only 3.2 p.c. of its
interest earnings in land and income taxes,
and that was equal to only about 2s. Sd.
p.c. of its average assets. The heavy out-
goings in taxes are beyond the control of
the M.L. Life Department. But that makes
things none the better for the policy-holder.
The only satisfaction he can get out of the
figures is that, if he were not paying taxes
through his life policy, he would have to do
in through something else.
Nothing can fully compensate for the
higher costs; but there are two things in
this office’s favor compared with first-class
offices elsewhere. One is the fine interest
it earns. In ordinary times it can look for
about £4 12s. fid. p.c. on mean funds. Just
now it commands more. But here again it
is not in favor of a low expense rate that
the bulk of the money—6l p.c.—is in mort-
gages, which are not cheap things to handle,
and are not gilt-edged securities either.
Government securities —the solidest assets
of all. and the least costly to handle —srand
for only 121 p.c. No other first-class office
in Australasia has so little. To protect the
securities there is an investment fluctuation
fund of £189.121. built up of the amounts
shown in the first table as laid by against
possible depreciation. In addition to the
high interest earnings—though there is a set-
off against them, as just shown —the Maori-
land office has the advantage of an extra-
ordinarily favorable mortality experience.
In other words, in Maoriland people don't
die who ought to die according to all the
rules of the arithmetician. They perversely
live and go on paying premiums for years
after they should have ceased to do anything
of the kind, and that of course adds to the
size of everybody’s bonus.
The Maoriland Government Accident
Insurance Department ;
Carried to To
Reserve General Total
Gross Gross for Unex- Re- Ife-
lncoiue. Profit, pirecl Risks, serves, serves.
1902 .. £14,171 £931 £240 £691 £5,027
1903 .. 24,449 475 S 4510 24S 9.785
1904 .. 24.188 5418 978 44 40 15,203
1905 .. 24.570 6572 SO 6492 21,775
1906 .. 21.929 1604 1604 23.379
1907 .. 22.835 4901 4901 28,280
1908 .. 22,688 4094 1091 32.374
1909 .. 28,515 8528 2264 6264 40.902
1010 .. 23.907 4764 4764 45,666
1911 .. 23,612 6222 6222 51.888
1912 .. 26,733 744 S —711 S
Written Off.
1913 .. 26.565 7874 377 7497 66,833
1914 .. 25,443 9239 534 5705 75,538
When the M.L. Government passed a
Workmen’s Compensation Act it put upon
employers a liability up to £5OO in the
event of an employee being killed, and up
to £5OO for sick pay, etc., in the event of a
non-fatal accident. -Vs a very proper corol-
lary it established this Socialistic office with
the object of spreading the risks among as
many employers as possible, and doing the
whole business at cost price. It is a rather
complicated business, different callings
carrying different liabilities so far as
accident is concerned, wherefore the pre-
mium rates range from 4s. p.c. of the wages
paid to over £5 p.c. It was impossible to
fix the entire scale with mathematical
accuracy at the start, on account of the
lack of data; but it is satisfactory to know
that, on the whole, the rates hitherto in
force have given a substantial profit, and
that they could be reduced here and there
without danger.
East year’s experience was particularly
favorable, as the next table indicates. It
shows what became of each £lOO of
income:—
Claims. Expenses. Reserves.
1902 ..£5l 19 3 p.e. £ 41 9 4 p.c. £6 11 5 p.e.
1903 .. 54 2 3 .. 26 8 6 „ 19 9 3 ~
1904 .. 50 1 3 .. 27 II 3 „ 22 7 6 „
1905 .. 45 3 10 „ 28 7 9 „ 26 8 5 ~
1906 .. 62 11 4 ~ 30 2 3., 7 6 5 ~
1907 .. 49 8 8 „ 29 2 1 „ 21 9 3
1908 .. 52 11 4 „ 29 7 10 „ 18 0 ]0 „
1909 .. 44 18 0 „ 25 3 7 ~ 29 18 5
1910 .. 52 7 7,. 27 14 0 „ 19 18 5 „
1911 .. 44 9 1 ~ 29 3 11 „ 26 7 0
1912 .. 44 19 2 „ 27 3 10 „ 27 17 0 ~
1913 .. 42 15 7 ~ 27 18 3 „ 29 6 2 „
1914 .. 37 17 3 „ 27 18 5 ~ 34 4 4 „
The growth of the reserves is of course
partly due to the increased interest earn-
ings. Last year, even after striking off land
and income taxes, these earnings amounted
to £5352. which was enough to pay pretty
well a third of the claims. The question
again arises whether, in view of the fact
that risks are not increasing—anyway,
premiums are not —it is necessary to pile
up reserves at the current rate. The present
total—invested almost entirely in mortgages,
by the way—-is 31 times the annual premium
income, and is more than adequate to pay
average claims for the next six years.
Ordinary prudence requires no more. The
rates wherever they are found to give more
than average profit ought to be reduced;
and that might perhaps liven up business.
It may be that the office collects all the
premiums that there are to collect; but it
is much more likely that Private Enterprise
offices are successfully cutting in. The idea
was that insurers should have cost-price
insurance: that is, they shouldn’t have to
provide fat dividends. Yet. supposing the
accumulated funds of this office were half
capital and half reserves, then last year’s
excess premiums were equal to a profit of
20} p.c. on the capital. To talk about cost-
price insurance in such circumstances is
wildly absurd.
# * -X- *
The London Bank of Australia: —
Dividends.
Pref. Ord. Added to Re-
Dec., Profits. 54 p.c. 24 p c. Reserves, serves.
1904 ..£15,893 £9,456 £9,192 £11,562
1905 .. 23,194 9,456 9,193 £4,545 16,107
1906 . . 30,454 9,450 9,197 17,801 33,908
34 p.c.
1907 .. 34,951 9,456 12,876 12,019 40,527
4 p.c.
1908 .. 34,212 9,450 14,710 10,040 50,507
5 p.c.
1909 .. 42,971 9,456 18,402 15,113 71,680
7 p.c.
1910 .. 63,708 12,035 18,402 33,271 104,951
1911 .. 70,532 12,035 18,405 40,092 145,043
1912 .. 50,498 12.035 18,414 50,049 195,092
Internal resei-ves disclosed, £135,000 ;
and £85,000 written off .. 50,000 245,092
6 p.c.
1913 .. 84,111 12,035 22.090 49.950 295,072
7 p.c.
1914 . . 70,394 12,035 31,114 33,245 328,317
After the borrowing boom had blown out in
1803 this bank’s London directors, who
were much more ashamed of themselves
than most Australian directors were, offered
depositors to repay them in 10 annual
instalments from 1898 onwards, or in the
alternative to issue to them 51 p.c. pref.
shares. All hut a very few of the depositors
took the new 41 p.c. receipts. The terms
presently looked too onerous, and the direc-
tors got a rearrangement in 1897 extending
the period for repayment and doing other
things. The 41 p.c. money was. neverthe-
less. pretty dear; and towards the end of
1913, as other deposits were coming in
freely, the directors decided to got rid of the
last of it. The old liability “Transferable
deposits receipts” has therefore disappeared.
Last year this item was £546,408. That
amount has been paid off out of cash in
hand, the liquid assets being partly reim-
bursed by calling up £2 10s. on the 49.103
ordinary shares. This year 7 p.c. is paid
on the pref. shares (£171,930) for the fifth
time : and that destroys their preference as
to dividend. For the future the only pre-
ference the pref. shares will have is on a
division of assets. For all practical pur-
poses the past has thus been buried. Maybe
if the directors had known what was coming
they wouldn’t have got rid of the old de-
posits; but though 4| p.c. doesn’t look such
an excessive rate as it did two years ago.
the old trouble is still better right out of
the way. It can't be an advantage to a lady
to for ever wear the brand of her Past on
her forehead.
Not that it served as a stand-off signal
even while the scar of the old sin was in
the balance-sheet. In the past 10 years the
new money deposited with the London has
just doubled, which was unmistakable evi-
dence of confidence: —
1904. 1914.
New deposits .. .. £2,592,203 £5,151,572
Old deposits . . . . 1,586,366 Nil
Bills, notes, etc. .. .. 683,06{> 690,513
Liquid assets . . . . 1,681,692 2,209,663
Advances . . . . . . 3,376,675 4.378,277
Premises .. .. .. 381,295 274,465
So. in round figures, the London has held
on to the old deposits and got a million be-
sides ; and that million has been put into
new advances. The accumulated profits and
extra capital have all gone into the till or
are hold liquid. A very creditable 10 years'
record indeed. And the present profits are
so much in excess of the present dividend
that, even allowing for poorer times ahead,
the 7 p.c. all round should not be reduced
unless by some catastrophe.
These movements have occurred in the
past 3 2 months :
1913. 1914.
Notes in circulation £8,343 £7,155 Dec. £l,lBB
Bills, etc. .. 971,898 683,358 Dec. 288,540
Deposits .. .. 4,943,870 5,151,572 Inc. 207,702
Liquid assets .. 2,691,243 2,209,663 Dec. 481,580
Advances . . 4,358,778 4,378,277 fne. 19,499
Premises . . 282,870 274,465 Dec. 8,405
But, as before remarked, during the year
£540,408 of old transferable deposits were
paid off; and that is responsible for the cut
into liquid assets. It was a good tiling the
directors didn’t carry through the final re-
payment without getting in some more share
capital, or the holding of liquid assets might
have been reduced uncomfortably low. .Vs
it is, nearly .’IS p.c. of all liabilities are re-
presented by cash or convertible securities:
and that is a very satisfactory figure con-
sidering what we have been passing through.
For the next seven or eight months there
will be a legitimate demand for accommoda-
tion from the country. After that, if the
season goes on anything like it has begun,
the position will he easier—provided other
things proceed all right. The London is
able to very comfortably carry on its cus-
tomers till then.
* * -X- *
The Perpetual Trustees. Estate and
Agency Co. of Maoriland (Dunedin) :
• To lie- Re-
April, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1904.. £2057 12J p.c. = £lOl6 £lO4l £4,809
Premiums on new share issue 1832 6,141
1905.. 2302 124 p.c. = 1093 1209 7,350
1906.. 2094 124 „ „ 1172 922 8,272
1907.. 1817 124 „„ 1172 645 8,917
1908.. 2205 124 „„ 1172 1033 9,950
1909.. 2516 124 „„ 1172 1344 11,294
1910.. 2413 124 „„ 1172 1241 12,535
Iqll / 2188 15 „„ 1406 782 ) 10 „ 17
1 Written off, £ 1000 f -,ol(
1912.. 2343 15 p.c. = 1406 937 18,254
1913.. 2032 15 „ „ 1406 626 13,880
1914.. 2331 15 „ 1406 925 14,805
1915. . 2259 15 „,, 1406 '853 15,658
It isn’t a talkative co., and the value of the
estates in hand it doesn’t mention, so one
can’t say what progress it is making in that
respect, or what the charges amount to p.c.
of the capital value. The schedule rates are,
however, quite as liberal as those current in
Australia. In fact, they are more liberal
in spots. The usual Sydney charge on the
capital value is 24 p.c. on the first £50,000,
14- p.c. on the second £50,000, 1 p.c. on any-
thing over £lOO,OOO. The Dunedin co.’s
charge is 24 p.c. for the first £5000; 14 p.c.
the next £5OOO, and 1 p.c. on anything
over £10,000; and the charges on income
rather favor the Maorilander, too. Especi-
ally in view of the low charges the profit is
excellent. It must be a tribute to office
economy. The co. owes £30,664, “Balances
due by Co.” All or practically all of this
consists of trust balances awaiting invest-
ment ; apparently the co. accepts this money
at a low rate of interest and employs it in
financing estates which need assistance pend-
ing realisation- —to pay probate, for instance.
The paid capital is £9375; and if that and
the reserves and the respectability of the
office don’t satisfy clients and prospective
clients, they can reflect that there is also
£96,875 of callable capital.
* * * *
The Westralian Trustee, Executor
and Agency Co. (Perth! :
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves
£ £ £ £ £
Oct., 1906.. 714 10 p.e. = 525 189 10,059
Apl., 1907.. 1197 15 „ „ 787 410 10,469
Oct., 1907.. 1589 20 ~ ~ 1050 389 150 10.619
Apl., 1908.. 1275 10 „ „ 525 1000 10,369
Oct., 1908.. 1107 10 ~ „ 525 582 10.951
Apl., 1909.. 1075 20 ~ „ 1050 25 10,976
Oct., 1909.. 1557 10 „ ~ 525 1032 12.008
Apl., 1910.. 1831 20 .. ~ 1050 268 513 12,521
Oct.. 1910.. 1616 20 .. .. 1050 66 500 13,021
Apl., 1911.. 1892 30 „ .. 1575 317 13,338
Oct., 1911.. 1898 20 .. 1155 743 14,081
Apl., 1912.. 1691 28 .. ~ 1628 - 63 14,144
Oct., 1912.. 1161 ISA .. .. 1155 306 14.450
Apl., 1913.. 1888 26g- ~ .. 1680 219 14,439
Oct., 1913.. 1757 17J .. .. 1150 607 15,046
Apl., 1914.. 1587 254 .. .. 1050 14,983
Oct., 1914.. 881 10 ~ .. 700 - • 1.81 15,104
Apl., 1915.. 1267 10 ~ „ 700 -- 567 15,731
Drought and war come in for the Usual
blame, and as neither are permanent insti-
tutions (the drought has already broken)
the slackness should he only temporary.
The half-year’s expenses are £358 mon-
th an those for the corresponding six months
of 1012-13. while revenue is £2OB less, so
the co. has gone £566 to the bad. The value
of the trust estates in hand has, however,
increased from £1.662,137 to £1,713,224 ; and
though drought has cut into commissions
(practically half of the value is in landed
property, stations and stock), shareholders
can reasonably look forward to the time
when things will be righted. Meantime,
since they have banmietted pretty regularly
on anything up to 30 p.c.. they can’t com-
plain much when reduced to a 10 p.c. diet
for a while. They owe nothing and their
own money is in no great danger of dis-
appearing suddenly. Premises account for
£12.823 (held by the State Treasurer as
surety for good behavior) and investments,
mostly public securities, are valued at
£13,723. The paid capital is £14,000; the
uncalled, £3(i,('(i<>.
National Building and Investment
Society (Adelaide) :
To
Profit on Xi t Profit deduce
April. Business. on Sales. Deficit. Deficit.
100(i .. £lOO £9!) £199 £lO2l
1907 .. 341 20 364 3660
Forfeited capital .. 1770 1884
190 S .. 565 315 880 1004
Reserves.
3909 .. 505 672 1177 173
To Reserves.
1910 .. 417 1137 1554 1727
1911 .. 280 771 1051 2778
1912 .. 120 59 179 2957
1913 .. 14 270 284 3241
1914 .. 3 128 131 3372
1915 .. 75 583 65S 4030
This is a little concern which is carting itself
to the cemetery by degrees. .V few years
ago it was a very lame duck ; even as late as
1007 the directors offered shareholders 10s.
in the £ cash payment. So far INs. per
20s. of capital has been hepaid, including Is.
last year, and if properties are worth only
book value, there is ss. 4d. more in hand ;
and as steady profits are made on realisation,
tin' assets look worth more than book value.
Will someone please make the co. a sporting
offer of ss. 491. in the £ and get the thing
out of the way?
The Castle Salt Co-opkjsative Co.
(Adelaide) :
Nominal
Written To Re- de-
May, Profits. Dividend. Off. serves, serves.
1903 ..£6,665 8i p.c. = £5762 £1134 £4463
1904 .. 6,041 7t „ „ 4939 750 £352 4815
1905 .. 5,609 71 ~ „ 4939 750 4735
1906 .. 5,890 71 .. ~ 4939 750 201 1936
1907 .. 4,883 6.| „ „ 4110 750 17 4953
Loss.
1908 .. 632 Nil 4 321
Profit.
1009 .. 0,420 71 p.C. = 4939 2000 - ■ 3808
1010 .. 10.863 10 ~ .. 6585 3000 1278 5086
1011 .. 10,909 111 ~ ~ 6585 3000 1324 6410
1912 .. 11,960 10 „ „ 6.585 3000 2375 8785
1913 .. 10,202 10 ~ „ 6585 3000 677 9462
1914 .. 7,677 71 „ „ 4939 3000 9200
1915 .. 2,956 3| ~ 2469 1500 8187
If tilings run on like this shareholders will
get a dividend out of the salt of their tears.
Everything has been going wrong. First,
the weather. Winter rains flood the swamps
near Yorktywn and when the water goes
down the salt remains behind to be ploughed
and scooped up and refined. For the last
two years there has been insufficient flooding
and consequently less salt; and that and the
high price of fodder have put up costs.
Meantime competition has been keener. In
the past five years the imports of foreign salt
have increased nearly three-fold. In 1!)0!)
our friend Germany sent only 9081 cwt. Four
years later it sent no less than 80,503ewt.
Obviously there is something very wrong;
yet the tariff does not appear to be now any
better than it was —15 p.c. on some lines ;
£1 per ton on most. Admittedly there were
some adverse circumstances last year. But
a tariff is not good enough if capital can’t
make more than about H p.c. net when-
ever the conditions are a bit unfavorable. We
will have to scrap the idea that it is a crime
for a manufacturer working inside the tariff
to make 30 p.c., and we will have to root,
up the notion that a j tariff is high enough if
it lets a manufacturer make 0 or 7 p.c. in
favorable years. If the Inter-State Commis-
sion did the work if was expected to do it
would watch out and see that the foreigner
didn’t beat the local man. If the latter’s
profits were toppling it would jump in and
steady them. Instead, it looks as though
we shall not have a tariff based on what is
happening to-day. but will have to put up
with one based on what happened three or
four years ago, which may be quite different.
For instance, the fact that this co.’s dividend
has toppled from a more-than-earned 30 p.c.
to a less-than-earned 3i- p.c. in three years is
much more important than that during the
past 10 years an average of a shade over 7
p.c. has been paid. Even that 7 p.e., if it
could he maintained, would be rather under
than over a fair thing, in view of the uncer-
tainty of the supply of salt and the fact that
the co. is in hardly a better financial position
than it was 3 0 years ago:-
1905. 1915.
Assets other than fixed property
and plant .. .. ..£24,760 £35,150
Liabilities 10,391 19,002
£14,369 £15,548
The surplus profits, which appear to have
been large now and again, have thus all gone
into plant, etc.; but what’s the good of that
if it can’t bring in more than 2 p.c.?
“T. 0.1.” on the birth of a hank :
Apropos “Monev” Miller and tlie Bank ot Victoria
(B. 3/6/’l5). The story of the start is interesting.
Dr. Thomas Black, who in the ’3o's was practising
physic in Penrith (N.S.W.), and who afterwards
made a lucky purchase of town lets in Melbourne,
was in 1852 entertaining at his house, Pine Grove,
Richmond (afterwards the home of George Coppin),
Willi lm Highett, Hugh John Chambers (an old
Sydney man) and one R. McArthur, of Gippsland.
Under the influence of generous wine Black was
seized with the idea of starting a bank. He thought
in a grand manner that it was not to the credit of
wealthy colonists that they should be depending
mainly on English institutions, meaning the Union
and the Australasia. The idea took, and William
Highett, who had banking experience, promised co-
operation. The doctor decided to start as a hank-
maker next morning. He and Chambers met early.
The first man they met was George Ward Cole, who
would have nothing to do with it. They next
looked up Henry Miller. Tie would have nothing to
do with it either. Then they saw Germain Nichol-
son, and he was the first to come in. Hugh Glass
was afterwards netted ; he not only promised to
become a shareholder, but offered to take up any
shares left unallotted. William Westgarth, always
dabbling in finance, agreed to help. A meeting was
held at the Royal Hotel —now the site of the Union


gs
The British
1
Electric & Manufacturing C? L 1?,
Westinghouse Tramcar Equipment
EMBODY TIIE LATEST IMPROVEMENTS IN MOTORS, CONTROLLERS,
BRAKES, RESISTANCES & ALL ACCESSORIES.
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALIA:
QUEENSLAND BUILDING, 84 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
New Zealand Agents: TURNBULL & JONES, WeUington, Auckland, Christchurch,
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
WORKS, MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
Lyell's prospects are excellent; neverthe-
less the enlargement of the North's ore body
above the deepest point, while it proves a
larger stoping area above the level, also sug-
gests that the lens is tapering off at depth.
* * * *
In (lie wonderful story of the Peau de Chagrin the
hero becomes possessed of a magical wild ass's skin,
which yields him the gratification of all his wishes.
How like this is to “Pioneer” leather belting, which
fulfils all the desires of the plant-owner and gratifies
his desire for profit. “Pioneer” transmits the maxi-
mum of power at the minimum of expense. It is
made of flawless Australian ox hide, and has proven
its reliability and durability under all conditions.
Let’s send you a trial length to-day. Sold only by
.T. C. Ludowiei & Son, Ltd., “Pioneer Leather
Works,” 117 York Street, Sydney (opp. Q. Y.
Markets). Inter-State offices: —Victoria: Geo. Russell
P’t’y Ltd., Flinders Street, Melbourne; South Aus-
tralia: J. McKell, Timpson Street, Port Adelaide;
Queensland: Queensland Machinery Co., Ltd., Bris-
bane; West Australia: Horace Summers, Howard
Street, Perth; Broken Hill: Geo. Dempster, Argent
Street.*
* * * #
ALUMINOFERRIC is used by the Sydney Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards and graziers
for precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is simply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours’
time the most discolored water will be as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless.
Sole agents: William Adams & Company Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.*
For rapid and accurate sizing of samples, the
Hoover Rapid Laboratory Sizer is unsurpassed. An
ordinary hand test over 12 different mesh screens
takes about 10 hours to complete, the Hoover Sizer
will make the same test in about half an hour. By
the use of one of these Sizers the saving in time
would, in a very short while, cover the small initial
cost of the machine. The machine can be dressed
with any series of screens. The Austral Otis Eng
Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, will be pleased to furnish
particulars.* [3
Extract from The Review, London, December 5,
1913, re The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
Ltd.:—“Life policies alone do not appeal to some in-
dividuals. Therefore, the Society’s combined accident
and sickness policy, if fully advertised, should meet
with the acceptance deserved. This is a branch offer
ing much scope for energetic development. This
office, we are sure, will press forward and transact a
much larger business of this kind in coming years.
It is an interesting office in every wav, being
thoroughly equipped to carry on its work with the
maximum amount of good for its policyholders.”* [3
PIONEER WOOD PIPE should be specified where
strong, lio-ht piping is reouired. It is quick and easy
to lay by unskilled labor, above or below ground.
Catalogue from The Australian Wood Pipe Co., con-
tractors to all State Governments, 57 York Street,
Sydney (head office).*
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
The Port Kembla works of the Electrolytic
Refining Company are freely buying ores containing
copper, silver, gold from all parts of the Common-
wealth. The Ore Purchase Department is at
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
“Robey-Leplastrier” Road-Building Machinery
means big saving. One shire in N.S.YY. saved last:
year £4OOO. Sixty shires equipped already. Apply
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., head office, Sydney.*
* * * ' *
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam-
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent-
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.*
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi.usoN St Co., 483 Collins Street. Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B.
Silberberg & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Svdnev ;
•md 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.*
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £545,660 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,451 0 0
Reserve Fund (invested in Govt. Stock) 80,500 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. ——— 0 0
Cen. Man.: F.dwd. I). Day. Asst. Man.: E. IT. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannrn Street. London'
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C. ’
A"tnrs and Correspondents throughout the World.
ARE BORNTO
Insure in
Th ‘ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Fire Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Capital ..£250,000
Subscribed... 165,000
Paid-up ... 82,500
AGENTS WANTED.
i*TM[i< hee in everv Suu<-
U riff, for particulars
W K CAVK General Manager.
263 Georere Street. Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Challis House,Sydney
Bank—in Coll ins-street. Westgarth was in the chair.
The amount of capital and number qf shares was
determined upon—2o,ooo shares of £5O each. When
the meeting closed only 500 shares were unallotted.
Black, seeing the result, hurried off to hunt up Hugh
Glass.' Westgarth overtook him with the news that
Henry Miller had taken up the whole 500. The next
proceeding was to get bank premises. Dr. Black
had a row of two-storeyed houses on the east side of
Swanston-street, near St. Paul's. He agreed to knock
two into one, and drew £1520 a year as rent f oi
1 L years. The first directors were “Money” Miller
(chairman), Westgarth (vice-chairman), Wm.
llighett, Splatt, M.L.C., William Nicholson (“father
of the ballot”), and George Annand. The first
manager was John Mathison, the first; solicitor H. J.
Chambers. Black secured a good tenant, and Hugh
John Chambers a good billet. “Money” Miller’s was,
however, the hand that guided the bank in its infancy
and youth.
Broken Hill Junction North Silver
Mining Co., now the Junction North Broken
Hill Mines:—
Written
Profit. Dividend. Off. Deficit.
Mar., 1908.. £7,376 Nil £7,629 £5,791
Sept., 1908.. 12,418 Nil 7,263 636
Reserves.
Mar., 1909.. 11,024 Nil 3,018 6,770
Scpf., 1909.. 16,821 Nil 7,589 16,002
Mar., 1910.. 20,357 Nil 7,840 28,519
Sept., 1910.. 7,620 £9,000 8,098 19,041
Mar., 19X1.. 34,094 18,000 7,987 27,148
Sept., 1911.. 37,174 18,000 12,308 34,014
Mar., 1912.. 16,391 9,000 5,281 36,124
Reserves wiped out; new co. formed.
Sept., 1912.. 36,828 Nil 22,254 14,574
Loss.
Mar., 1913.. 5,744 Nil 2,928 5,902
Profit.
Sept., 1913.. 22,114 Nil 6,338 21,678
Mar., 1914.. 6,121 Nil 3,578 24,221
Sept., 1914.. 7,633 Nil 3,839 28,015
Loss.
Mar., 1915.. 18,120 Nil 9,895
This has been one of the easiest terms on
record for the management of the Junction
North. There have been times when it
was plainly distressed by the job of finding
a new excuse for not paying a dividend.
True, there are hundreds of mines that
don’t pay dividends; but very few of them
have been boomed by their managements as
this one has been. A few years ago it
became clear even to the management that
there was very little ore in the mine—three
or four years’ supply, perhaps, with a
doubtful profit in it. It then became neces-
sary to harp on some other string. The one
chosen was the retreatment of by-products,
especially slimes. There might have been
a few dividends in the ore which was
extracted while prices were high, but every
penny the co. could lay its hands on went
into slimes or new plant. To carry out its
contracts it had, moreover, to borrow money
on almost usurious terms, and to-day it
owes on one account and another about
£56,000. Against that certainly it has on
hand slimes for which it lias paid £87,060,
German and other firms owe £13,180. and
concentrates on the floors are valued at
£20,574. At present no method is known
by which slimes may be treated to produce
concentrates that are rushed by smelters;
and these are times when smelters can pick
and choose. Further, it was practically out
of the question for this eo. to come into the
Port Pirie smelter scheme. Hence the co.
has no market; and mine and mill are shut
down except for a little bit of development
and experimental work. This accounts for
the bulk of the loss during the half. Noth-
ing. it will be noted, is written off
against depreciation, although the manager
refers to “the deterioration that is insepar-
able from a long cessation of operations.”
The mine has no future worth considering.
As for the works, they may or they may not.
Their value depends not so much on an
arrangement of steel and iron and wood as
on the brains that the co. can command.
Amalgamated Zinc reports the sale of a
sample lot (7500 tons) of its zinc concen-
trates to a U.S.A. firm. The Amalgamated
has paid £475,000 in dividends by selling its
“zincs” to German buyers; but of course
that market is closed. In view of the pre-
sent terrific cost of carrying the stuff to an
American smeltery, the Yankee when he
becomes aware of the large available supply
of ore in Australia may think it worth
while to build retorts on this side. The
only question that is likely to worry him
is as to labor efficiency. It doesn’t matter
what you pay for a given quantity of labor
so long as the product is for sale inside the
tariff walls; but when you’ve got to send
the product into the outer market, it makes
all the difference in the world.
One of the guests at the official opening
of the Broken Hill Prop.’s steel works at
Newcastle was R. D. Hale, who must now
he the oldest officer on the co.’s pay sheet.
Hale, who was the first man to nail up bis
sign as an assayer in Broken Hill, joined
the service under the first general manager,
S. R. Wilson —who is still active, by the
way, probably because he long ago dropped
out of mining and took to farming. As a
youngster “Bob” Hale was a jackeroo out
from Port Augusta when he made the
acquaintance of the Iron Knob —from which
the eo. gets its supplies of ore for the New-
castle works —and it was he who a ears latei
pegged it out for the eo. #
Last year the mostly English-owned Mount
Boppy (N.S.W.), with a remodelled plant
in commission, was able to recover 84. < i
p.c. of the gold contained in its crudes. Ore
treated was 70,039 tons, averaging 365. in
value, and the profit amounted to a shade
over 10s. per ton (£35,416). Higher re-
coveries, lower costs, and the treatment of
sulphides account for this revival. Costs
at £1 3s. Bd. per ton indicate careful man-
agement, but they don’t guarantee a profit
of lOs. from Sclwt. ore in the deepest level.
Reserves are estimated at 199,509 tons, but
prospecting is reasonably expected to open
up new makes.
The wash in the Main Ridge lead, near
Rockley (N.S.W.), has a layer of ferru-
ginous cement, a common enough matter in
connection with alluvial leads. At many
places quartz boulders are embedded in this
layer of cement, and it is here that some-
thing occurs that calls for a lot of explain-
ing. ' Take a boulder bedded half-way in
the cement and break it in halves, and it is
found that the iron-stained dark line cuts
right through it. Those boulders must
have been made ages before the cement layer,
and what sort of solution was it that per-
meated the hard silica? Also, why does it
lie as a narrow band on top of all sorts of
small quartz pebbles when it apparently
soaked right through large boulders hori-
zontally ?
Westralia’s gold output for May was
103.6700 z.; total for the five months,
503,0680 z.; total to date, 28,751,2130 z.
* * * *
Application for forfeiture of Bayley’s
Reward lease, Coolgardie, has just been re-
fused, mainly on account of the protection
given such claims by an old Act.
•2f * * -X
South Kalgurli (W.A.) estimates that it
had on March 31 165,146 tons of 6dwt. ore
in sight and 85,310 tons of “probable,” worth
about s|dwt. Occasional patches of good
value are still met with both in old and new
ground above 1000 ft., but below that point
Iho mine is sickly, and at 1800 ft. practically
lifeless.
“Oof Bird” (W.A.) : Mclntyre’s prospect-
ing scheme hasn’t been rushed in the way
that par. in B. 27/5/Y5 would seem to indi-
cate. The Chamber of Mines declined to
come in; Mac wrote and called it names,
whereupon diplomatic relations were broken
off. The Minors’ Union sniffed at the
scheme also, and again Mac’s ire was
roused. The Government’s offer of camels,
assay plant and geologist is still open, but
the State has refused to put up any money.
Judging by the support the proposal is re-
ceiving. it looks as if 19s. llfd. of the £1
Westralia has hitherto put into Tatt.’s
sweeps will still go that way and the re-
maining jd. will be available for the support
of Mao’s “privately backed prospectors.”
The accounts of Sons of Gwalia (W.A.)
show a net profit of £43,000 for 1914. as
compared with £66.000 for the previous year.
The ore opened up is stated to have kept
pace with the tonnage extracted, and re-
serves at end of 1914 were reckoned to be
equal to 3f years’ supply. Costs, including
development, were 21s. 9d., against 225. Bd.
for 1913. The year’s divs. absorbed £48.750.
At the meeting chairman Wanklyn claimed
that the mine was far from losing its vita-
lity. In the last 12 years 715.0000 z. gold
had, he said, been dug out. and the outlook
was still good. He admitted, however, that
last year and the year before the dividends
then paid had not been earned, and the
bullion reserve had been drawn on to make
up the deficiency. The Board’s intention was
to rely for divs. on the profits actually
earned, and to keep the quarterly distribu-
tion at 6d. for the present. A bonus would,
however, be added at the end of the year if
the co.’s position justified it.
Golden Ridge (W.A.) obtained £479.932
from its Boorara and Waterfall mines be-
tween March. 1907. and March this year,
and paid 295. 3d. per share in dividends.
Its best half-year was that ended March.
1911, when it extracted about £40.000. and
showed a profit of roughly £15,500. Since
then returns have dwindled, and shareholders
have not received anything for two years.
* * * *
F. A. Govett on Ivanhoe’s position:—
Fifty shillings, I should say, is about fair value
for the shares at present. In the mine there is four
years’ supply of ore, which is good for net profit
at present costs of (say) £2 per share. The bullion
reserve may be extinguished in the maintenance of
monthly yields, and consequently can be kept as a
sort of margin of safety for this estimate. But we
have £120.000 in invested reserves, equal, unless
things depreciate still further, to some 12s. per share,
and we have our carry forward.
A refund of ss. per share, 3s. of which
is to be paid as soon as the necessary legal
authority is obtained, has been decided on
by the Golden Ridge (W.A.). Some
Adelaide opposition was shown, but . the
great majority of shareholders preferred it
to complete and immediate liquidation,
which the Board declared was undesirable
while the mine continued to yield a small
profit. Cash assets now amount to £23,451,
and if this sum is found insufficient to
equip and develop any new show that may
be acquired, the directors have tin* right to
recall all or portion of the cash it now
returns.
lvanhoe (W.A.) includes an interesting
return in its report for 1914. For the 141
months ended December 31, 1898, £208,292
was obtained, and for the following 12
months the production was £400,544. The
best output was in 1903, when £555.035
was dug up. Last year’s yield was £361,804.
As regards the financial position, the co.
had, apart from lease, plant, buildings and
(say) £OOO.OOO profit in sight, the follow-
ing assets on December 31 last: Cash,
£46.582; loans, £25,125; sundry debtors,
£2103; and investments, £147.740. These
last include shares in British and American
mining, railway, metal, smelting, oil and
other industrial concerns. The co.’s only
Australian investments were £10,600 in
Great Fitzroy 6 p.c. debentures and 1500
Zinc shares. Liabilities on the same date
were: Sundry creditors, £8237; unclaimed
dividends, £6917.
* * * #
Queensland’s gold yield for the five months
to the end of May was 107,3040 z., as com-
pared with 96,7670 z. for .Tanuary-May,
1914, an increase worth £44,758. Dividends
paid for the same period: 1914, £55,992;
1915, £69,718. Mount Morgan’s yield for
May was 18,9890 z., as against 15,717 for
the same month in 1914. and Charters
Towers has improved from 43830 z. to 5088 oz.
Corella (Q.) since smelting was started
has treated 5094 tons ore for 347 tons copper
and 2130 z. gold. On the average 6.8 p.c. copper
has been recovered, which is satisfactory,
considering that low-grade calcitic ore is
being mixed with the higher-grade stuff to
simplify smelting. Anyhow, 6.8 p.c. at £75
per ton has a money value of £5 25.; so, irre-
spective of small gold and silver values, the
proposition looks payable. Before smelting
commenced reserves totalled 33,800 tons,
containing 2280 tons copper, and the Corella
has recently shown considerable activity in
prospecting for more.
That squibby show, North Johnson’s, Ben-
digo. was once a good dividend payer, for its
record stands at £148,000. In late years it
has only been a market counter and a sink
for calls. Now, tired of cutting into the
anticlines, the co. is shooting into the trough
country at 1125 ft. There it should strike
Cameron’s reef, which years since gave some
good dirt and a lot of poor stuff. A few
colors in the stone would revive a lot of
hopes, besides bringing in grist to the share-
dealers. Much more to be watched is the
east crosscut at 2040 ft., which is after the
downward extension of the Dagmar reef.
This was tapped in Johnson’s No. 2 shaft
workings, and the North man has his eye
glued to the shaft to get the first signal of
any strike. In Johnson’s the Dagmar run
of stone was patchily profitable, and if such
conditions recur in North Johnson’s the
crowd that is waiting is the kind to make the
most of them.
Central Red. White and Blue, Bendigo,
isn’t having luck at depth, the quantity of
stone in the reef at 750 ft. being negligible.
Yet as gold shows underfoot the co. will try
the formation at 800 ft. At 4Soft. they have
got “colors,” which so often in Bendigo
means poor stuff. It is left to the tributors
at 218 ft. to show what’s what. Their block
is on the profit-earning side, and the co. in-
tends to test the ground north and south of
them. With it all there won’t be much
sparkle in Central Blues until a new saddle
is cut at depth.
Hills, of the Geological Survey staff in
Tasmania, measuring up the reserves of the
Rosebery field, furnishes figures that ought
to help the Mount Lyell Board to make up
its mind about soaking up the mines of the
district. Hills puts his totals thus :• —•
Proved ore. Probable ore. Total,
tons. tons. tons.
Hercules . . . . 273,000 413,000 686,000
Tasmanian Copper. . 305,000 300,000 605,000
Mount Read.. .. 124,000 124,000
Primrose . . . . 32,000 49,000 SI,OOO
North Tasmania . . 10,000 —• 10,000
Totals . . 620,000 586,000 1,506,000
But even these unimpressive figures have to
be shaved down to get them on to a scienti-
fic basis. In the Hercules, Hills gives only
140.000 tons as ready for mining, and some
of that is in ground affected by falls. Still
more doubtful is the inclusion of 123,000
tons “proved” by drilling, though this is
only about half the quantity claimed when
the bores were first put in. Tasmanian Cop-
per is credited with 185,000 tons ready for
mining. To this Hills adds 120.000
tons as opened up on two sides. The
further 300,000 tons of “probable” ore
must be a very rough guess if ore
opened up on two sides is regarded as
too certain to be included in it. Mount
Read is credited with 124.000 tons. If
there is that ore in the mine, why has not
George Doolette put the Great Boulder on
to the prospect? Anyway. Hills will soon
have a chance of comparing his estimates
with Lyell figures, for that co.’s staff is
home again checking up samples and pre-
paring its report on the Rosebery mines
under offer.
* * *
In Tasmania there are buyers of Mount
Bisc-hoff shares at £l7, so this remarkable
tin mine, which has distributed £2 436 000
is now valued at £204,000. Alluvial deposits
recently discovered should make a revival
certain, but work in this direction will pro-
gress better in the spring and when the
haulage system has been put in order. La_st
half-year there was a loss, for with 48,354
tons milled for 194 tons of concentrates
Bisc-hoff got down to 1 p.c. of pure tin oer
ton of dirt. That with the metal at £l5O is
equal to only 7s. 6d. Recently 3943 .tons of
crushing stuff were hauled in a fortnight,
and this lot came from no less than eight
different quarries. The smelter continues to
do good work, and increased quantities of
customs ore are available from Tasmania
and the mainland.


Heelings
Cst. 1818.
Co
op
e/?
en
a it. «
HEERING
WERRYBRAIIW
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
WENTWORTH
HOTEL,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
The elegantly appointed “verandah cafe” is now
closed in and heated for the winter months, and
diners are assured of every comfort as well as
perfect service and delightful cuisine.
Having engaged the services of a chef who was 17
years at the Vienna Cafe, Melbourne—we are
supplying special luncheons, dinners and after-
noon teas superior to any Hotel in the Common-
wealth.
The Wentworth Orchestra is in attendance every even-
ing, and on all special occasions.
Reservations for supper should be received not later
than 8 p.m.
Telephone: City 1203, 1583.
BRANDY
COGNAC
OTARD
15 YEARS OLD jfc
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, June 14, 101.4.
Mv Peak Arini, —
Two months or more ago I told you that
the health conditions at Liverpool camp
were unsatisfactory; and from its situation
it wasn’t easy to see how they could be
otherwise. The one point in favor of the
damp and mouldy site appeared to be that
undesirable people could easily be kept away,
the only convenient approach to it from
the city side being by way of a bridge. But
even that point in its favor appears to have
been badly blunted. One naturally speaks
of such matters with reluctance, because the
last thing one would willingly do would be
to embarrass people who have plenty of
troubles already; but you'can’t make these
tilings better b.v pretending they don’t exist
any more than the heartless Afghan can get
rid of the sore on his camel’s back by sewing
a patch of goatskin over the festering
wottnd.
G.-G. Ferguson, by the way, made a refer-
ence to the “satisfactory” conditions at the
camp when he opened the Soldiers’ Club
in Sydney. This was so long after his Ex’s
inspection that it might have been a post-
mortem criticism. Besides, how much of the
real inwards of a camp does any Personage
ever see at one of these fly-round official
visits? Only by emulating the famous High
and Mighty old Unwashed of Bagdad, and
tumbling into rags, can any bigwig see the
things that count. Women are now getting
their muscle ready to deal with Liverpool’s
“satisfactory” health conditions, and. though
nurses are still shut out. an organised “Com-
forts’ Brigade” is materialising.
Colonel James Burns’s big chalet near
Parramatta is now offered on loan lo the
G.-G. Fergusons during the owner’s absence
on the viher side —he left with two daugh-
lers for Europe, rin America, last week.
The name, Cowan Brae, is only one of its
attractions to our Scotchbyterian laird. For a
Governor-General the Fairguson is a poor
man. or lie soon would be if he recklessly used
up his year’s official screw in six months.
As it is, his Ex. is satisfied with the present
arrangement. Instead of having the upkeep
of a State residence here while the
war swamps glittering social parties, the
G.-G. can flit backwards and forwards to a
britlier Scot’s hearth at a minimum expendi-
ture of bawbees. llow Australia should
feel about it is another question altogether.
Tasmania’s Governor Macartney and’ his
wife went on to the Osbornes’ station,
Coolac, after saying good-bye to the Macar-
thur Onslow homestead at Camden. llis
Ex. was formerly Master of the London
Mint, so his recent visit to the Sydney bul-
lion factory was by way of leaving his card
on an Australian branch of his old workshop.
Sir Ilenry Galway, the S. Australian
Governor, lost his heart to this State during
his recent visit. So he comes back again,
without much pressing, on June 2d. He
brings his wife and step-daughter, Miss
d’Erlanger. and the trio will put their feet
under the Stricklands’ table. Lady Galway,
whose first husband was Baron Raphael
d’Erlanger, belonged to the roving Blenner-
hassett family. A feminine Blennerhassett,
who trained as a nurse, went off, years ago,
to Maslionaland. Her amusing book of
“Adventures” stirred a hornets’ nest of
criticism in Anglican circles owing to its
strictures on a bishop who led nurses into
an unprepared wilderness.
Captain Wallis, the dashing Irish Help
who left the Strickland ihcihii/c to go to
the war, has been wounded at the Darda-
nelles. The news at date of writing points
to a good recovery. Wallis’s own regiment
left Gibraltar for Belgium soon after the
row began. The sub-regal kindergarten,
including the perambulator, had gathered
on the wharf to wave adieu, when a damaged
steamer’s rudder sent the traveller back to
town. Chafing at the delay, he bustled
overland to offer bis services at Melbourne
with our first khaki expedition. When the
Turks hit him, Wallis was staff-officer to
Colonel McCay. who has himself been
wounded since then.
A meeting to consider the needs of the
Hospice for the Dying was held at Govern-
ment House the other afternoon. There was
a mild sensation when a large, affable lady
in a bearskin coat declared that the Hos-
pice’s wants are so pressing that it must
have immediate help to pay for its daily
bread. We are accustomed to the howl of
the wolf in the backyards of most charitable
institutions. But when it gets into the
larder its hungry yelp is a more blood-curd-
ling sound. Tbe loss of £5OOO by peculation
is at the root of this sore trouble with the
bakers' bills. Seven thousand out of the
£12,000 which the unsuspecting sisters be-
lieved they had paid off their debts has been
made good. The loss of the other £5OOO
means a burden of interest that has upset
all the sisters' calculations.
Lady Edeline took the chair in the ball-
room alcove at this meetin . with Mrs. llol-
man, under a red geranium toque, on one side,
and Mrs. Trefle at the other elbow. Various
suggestions, wise and otherwise, flooded the
gathering, and were then carefully sifted.
The motion that Australia Day—whose
whereabouts are unknown to its best friends
—would be too big a fence in the way of
tremendous effort for the llospice, was car-
ried. Later on the struggle for the lost
£5OOO will be carefully engineered. Mean-
time, the breakfast crust has to be provided.
A euchre party in the Town Ilall on or
about July 19 is to be the first effort in this
direction.
The Tom Hughes lady, in black and
ermine, was commanded to a seat of honor
at the Hosniee rally. Mrs. Leahy—the busi-
ness-like Mosman dame who can collect even
from the Scrooges of this earth —and Mrs.
Toohey and Mrs. O'Gonnan Hughes are in
the forefront of the rally. Mrs. Mayoress
Ilichards will give her official smile to com-
mittee meetings to come. Governor Strick-
land came in when the daughters of the
house were stoking the always-hungry with
the fatted cream-puff.
Papua’s Lieutenant-Governor Murray,
with Mrs. Murray and the only daughter,
has been poised here on the wing. He goes
north at once, or thereabouts.
Australian nurses and doctors are finding
their feet in Servia. where the clarion cry
for help rang out some months ago. Dr.
Elsie Dalzell, formerly of Sydney ’Varsity,
is wrestling with the little kingdom’s obso-
lete hospital conditions; and Sister Allender,
who used to take temperatures in Melbourne
Hospital, recently returned to London, after
amazing experiences amongst Peter’s typhus-
stricken soldiers. At Niscli Miss Allender
was the only Nightingale in a makeshift
shelter where 990 wounded were housed.
Most of the surgeons and dressers were
Austrian prisoners. One other woman, un-
trained, and enemy orderlies completed the
mediawnl staff.
Dr. I’enbow Palmer, a Victorian who has
been fighting typhus in a Servian hospital,
is now making a very slow recovery from the
same affliction himself. He left Australia
for TJ.S.A. to study in the big Philadelphia
medical school, where he took honors. He
went to England to offer his services soon
after the enemy stamped on Belgium. Hear-
ing a bitter cry from Servia, he set off
thither with a British Tied Cross unit, and
has been working for our least-known little
ally ever since.
Professor Andy Stuart is going to talk to
Us about the beauty of a glittering glass of
cold water—when the teapot runs dry. This
total-abstinence lecture will be given to the
National Council of Women this week. The
Council includes several ladies who have
been on the trail of Beer for many years.
Miss Ilose Scott and little Mrs. Nolan, for
instance, would knock the brewer’s profits
into au early-Victorian cocked hat if they
could. And then what would become of that
stately beast, the brewery horse?
Melba discovered a' local voice of special
promise during her recent trip this way.
She carried it off (I believe it’s a girl) to
lie trained in Melbourne Conservatorium —
for a start, anyhow.
Amongst the minor horrors of war is the
morning theatrical performance. Lady-
helps who worked for the Tivoli show in
aid of our wounded must have dashed forth
as soon as they had wiped away the break-
fast crumbs. The Mclntosh lent the Tiv.,
and the audience was in the throes of knit-
ting therein at 10.30 a.m. Sara Collins may
be accorded a hearty vote of thanks just
here. Not only was the average turn done
by her lilliputian pupils brisk and clever, but
the stage management was an object-lesson
to most amateur entertainments. The
kiddies were right on the spot. There were
no waits, and the infant prodigies knew
their words. One would rather that some
of these youngsters had not attempted quite
so much vocalism. But even a shrill treble
squeak for the cause may be forgiven.
Muriel Starr, in a waggling, fur-edged coat
of the fashionable crinoline circumference,
helped or hindered (I forget which) .Tack
Cannot to auction the usual line of goods.
Colonel “Billy” Holmes is a busy man
these times. Having completed the military
occupation of German New Guinea and half
a hundred neighboring islets, he put in a few
hurried days in his old chair in the Water
and Sewerage Department, then stood by
while a court-martial inquired into the goings-
on of some of his officers, and next flew off _
to Turkey a week or so after his new regi-
ment had sailed. Maybe the delaying court-
martial was providential. At any rate, after
Be had gone it was announced that while in
Sydney he had had time to get engaged to
Mrs. inglis— the widow of a former tiger-
hunting politician whom everybody knew as
“Jimmy.”
•Tames Edmond sends this from the
shadow of an elephant's trunk :
1 have been to see the Zimbabwe ruins that Rider
Haggard built a novel upon, lie described Zimbabwe
as a wonderful Phoenician trading city, like Tyre or
Sidon or Carthage at their best —a place of palaces
and gigantic fortifications and lavish wealth. It fell,
according to his theory, about flic time of Solomon,
and the fall was like a herd of camels dropping from
Heaven. There are two little remains. A roofless
temple—at least, it is said to be a temple, and from
the appearance of things it never had a roof —stands
on one hill, and the debris of a fort on another.
They are built of loose stones piled up—stones about
the size of bricks, such as can be picked up by
millions on the surrounding country. No inscrip-
tions, no carvings, no mortar, no signs of interior
decoration. If I were a dead Phmnician 1 would rise
up in protest, with my tombstone under my arm and
my coffin tied in a neat bow round m.\ neck, at
hearing such trifles ascribed to me.
Rider Haggard came to Zimbabwe last year or
the year before to have his first look at the place he
had glorified. After one day he dispersed and fled.
I fancy Hall, the local arehaologist, must have said
unpleasant things to him about his theories.
I left a memo, in the visitors’ book at the Zim-
babwe hotel (lunch 45.). It ran something like this:
“I have solved (lie mystery oi the origin of Zim-
babwe. On brick No. 1,447,253 b at the north-east
corner of the temple I discovered an inscription in
the old Aramaic language. It read: ‘This place was
erected in the year I. b.c. by Judas Iscariot and Rider
Haggard, by way of playing a joke on foolish travel-
lers from Australia.' ”
The Winthrop Ilackett dame drops in
from Westralia. She is preparing an “Aus-
tralian Household Guide” —profits to go to
the Children’s Hospital, Perth. Every pos-
sible dodge to raise money for the cure of
our own sick youngsters has to lie tried by
ingenious woman, while war funds that are
no more patriotic run like a torrent. The
“Guide’s” honorary editor asks housewives
to help by sending to her at Perth those of
their pet recipes for which they can give
personal references. Contributors* names
will he acknowledged.
A .Tap. training ship steams into this port
on June 2<S. On June 80 the admiral and
officers will he fed at a lunch by Governor
Strickland, and on July 2 the Government
gives a. party in Parliament House. The
sailors are to be the guests of the State at
various country and harbor-side excursions.
On a desperate afternoon, with the rain
and wind tearing along together at 100 miles
an hour or less, the French Cafe Chantant
Wiis opened by Consul Chayet. The Oxford
Hall, a cosy burrow under the Unitarian
chapel, was hung with the Allies’ hunting,
which flaunted like very new washing out
to dry. Consul Chayet, who has to sort his
English with care, contrived to make himself
fairly well heard above the frequent winter
sneeze. He was understood to say that the
hour had struck when French residents in
Sydney should rally to the help of the desti-
tute in the North of France—to-day as
ruined by the invader as Belgium, its neigh-
bor. An orchestra and some persevering
singers, including Annie Perry in dove grey
with salmon relief, contrived presently to
down the hum of conversation in the back-
ground. Mrs. Arthur Jewett, a slim lady
bristling with energy, was in charge of the
usual fancy stall, where everything you don't
want is a special form of temptation. A
small pug, to be auctioned later, tried to
join the orchestra, but was successfully
yoked to the floor. The Playousts and other
French helpers tripped round the tea tables
—most of them behind exquisitely goffered
little muslin aprons such as we are accus-
tomed to see only in stage restaurants. The
weather hit the attendance pretty badly. But
the French-Australian League can take any
contributions from those not present.
Mrs. Bernard Newmareli, wife of the
North Sydney doctor who is now looking-
after the wounds of our Dardanelles war-
riors, is a highly-qualified nurse. The news
that she has recently put on her cap and bib
to tend some of our boys in Alexandria will
be received with loud applause.
The Girls’ Realm advances to the Front.
On July 1 it makes its initial public effort
to scrape together the cost of a motor-ambu-
lance. Organising-secretary Grace Burrows
looks over the top of her spectacles to say
that the Young Person will on that date
pursue this object at a cafe chantant in the
Salon de Luxe. Nearly £lOO is already in
the locker towards the sum required.
Even the faithful crowd which as a rule
adjusts its spectacles, puts on its goloshes,
and seizes its neighbor's biggest umbrella,
baulked at the weather that laid in wait for
the Philharmonic concert. The approach
to the Town Hall, where the Darling Harbor
traffic wallows in tlie sinking wood-blocks,
was a shallow lake of liquid mud. Through
this plunked the hardy and faithful remnant
of the usually large audiences that drink in
orchestral noises on winter nights. Con-
ductor Joe Bradley extended his arms to
bless (or otherwise) the fiddlers under his
palms.
Judge Backhouse now reigns over the Phil,
in place of the late William Pat Manning;
so his Honor’s pink countenance beamed
over the presidential eyrie in the eastern
gallery, and his Honor’s hair, which is less
numerous than it was, stood stiffly at atten-
tion when the huge Russian Symphony was
pitched out and ran up Park-street, some-
times screaming, sometimes sighing. The
tuneful fiddles had a great night, notably in
the softer movements of this intricate com-
position. After this big helping of Slavonic
music, some of the audience crept warily
out of their seats for home and hob. Ella
Caspers was the Voice of this first big Phil-
harmonic effort of the season.
Our champion girl swimmer. Fanny
Durack. is tired <>f waiting to pack her
bathing togs for U.S.A. After the arrange-
ment that she would go as an amateur
seemed to be fixed, nothing has happened
with tremendous velocity. Possibly the
’Frisco Exhibition sideshows have hung fire,
and the promoters are too disappointed to
bother about the mermaid.
The most successful raid the North Syd-
ney highlanders have made for heroic Albert's
bruised subjects was the Warrawee affair.
Something like £lOOO is a record for a subur-
ban Saturday afternoon. G.-G. Fairguson’s
recent comment that a thousand pounds was
an awfu’ lot in a Scotch village, but only
a bit to go on with in Australia, applies aptly
to leafy Warrawee —a mere village itself.
The Theatre League is getting into its
greasepaint on June to produce “The
Benefit of a Doubt” at the Repertory
Theatre. Proceeds go to the Crown-street
Women's Hospital.
Nelson Illingworth, junior, gathered in
£l4O for the Belgian and Polish funds, with
a bit for the Free Kindergarten. Students’
recitals brought in these glad offerings.
Mrs. Maclntyre is to mother a bazaar at
Fernhurst, Mosman, on Saturday. The
preliminary toil has been mostly done by
enthusiastic work-girls in their spare time.
Percy Colqulioun, who represents the Red
Roofs in the State Parliament, will declare
the show open. Results go towards extra
comforts for our wounded. Twenty pounds
is in hand before the real raid begins. Mr.
Pitt', whose bulbs are the envy oi the
nobility around Wentworth Falls, is giving
a cartload of blooms.
Dr. Draco Boelke presided over a meeting
of town-planning women in the recesses of
the Town Hall cloak-room one afternoon last
Week. A call to exterminate the house fly
was read by a lady in a pale mustard-colored
gown, topped by a precipitous velvet toque
surmounted by two tall, lean feathers.
One of the clerical Pain family, which
mostly gives itself to medical-missionary
work, is with tin l Royal Field Artillery—pre-
sumably in France. Father, who is Bishop
of Gippsland, used to point the way to a
Better World in St. John's. Darlinghurst.
Kenneth is about the first breakaway into
khaki the Pains have had in recent memory.
Wentworth Bucknell, of Quainbone station,
is a lieutenant in the same arm of the
battering service.
Dr. Isabel Onniston. a Sydney Uni. grad-
uate, is adding to the experiences she gained
in Flanders by tucking up her sleeves for
Red Cross work in Montenegro.
A small sketch by George Coates recently
brought over £5O to the Red Cross funds.
It was sold at Christie’s, London.
Pianist F. S. Kelly, of the wealthy “Tin”
Kelly band in this State, has been wounded.
He was at the Front with that lot which
had the giant Quilter—Denman’s former mili-
ary secretary—as its conspicuous mark. Par-
ticulars have not been received ; but admirers
of the athletic Kelly’s way • with cadenzas
fervently hope his invaluable hands have
escaped damage.
The versatile Dr. Charles MacCartliy sent
to the Panama Exhibition not only the half-
life size statue of Napoleon, but a fine bronze
bust of Misclia Elman.
The scarlet geranium, most gorgeous of
winter blooms, is the millinery craze of the
month. It sits up firmly on every species
of black hat, and is a kind of mental tonic
in these days of black-edged casualty lists.
Until two or three years ago the geranium
was unfashionable, even in the eyes of sub-
urban home-gardeners. It was too cheap
and plentiful in the Indian summer we call
winter to appeal to the owners of brand-new
palaces in our best suburbs. Now it has
rushed into favor as a table decoration of
vivid beauty. Its wild orgy on the feminine
head is like an outbreak of scarlet fever.
On Saturday take the Long Bay and La
Perouse trams and go to the Coast Hos-
pital. There you will find lady highwaymen
who will take everything else except
your fare home. There will be a sale
of goods, and the proceeds will go to the
Red Cross.
The school kiddie, having got his blood up.
has raised, with the help of his pedagogues,
about £20,000 for the Belgian youngsters.
In addition, those of him who happen to live
handy bellowed his loudest at a concert for
the same battered infants. When 1000 of
his kind send their voices across the Town
Hall, the din is like the bursting of an enemy’s
shell. But even that uproar was as nothing
compared with the noise the healthy little
animals made at their final rehearsal for the
concert. This took place on the previous
afternoon. While scrubbers washed the
floor and soaped the municipal boards, the
school kiddie yelped “Rule Britannia” at the
top of 1000 lungs.
“French conversation” is progressing as
well as can be expected. One evening a
week is set apart for it at the Girls’ High
School. Consul-General Chayet often
addresses the company in his native tongue,
and the HairbowS present show their ap-
preciation by intelligent waggles—notably
when he has disposed of a some well-known
nuisance like .La Fontaine.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


HARDY BROTHERS LTD
VICE.REGAL
gs
JEWELLERS
BY APPOINTMENT.
Dainty Gem Ornaments.
\
6
Q
cj u
a y 6
DEMI SAUTOER NECKLET AND DROP,
IN CASE, PEARL AND DIAMONDS,
SET ENTIRELY IN PLATINUM.
£4O.
The Company’s Large of
Beautiful Jewellery comprises
Diamond and Gem Ornaments of
Every Description in the Newest
Designs.
A Visit of Inspection is cordially
invited.
The Company solicits inquiries
regarding the Remounting of Old-
fashioned Jewellery. Designs and
Estimates prepared Free of Cost.
13 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
116-118 Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
LONDON AGENCY: 32 OLD BURLINGTON STREET W.
gs
CROWLEY DRESS
MODELS
are the best aids to successful dressmaking. With this model
before you you can see how to cut your Material, and thus save
many a yard of stuff.
It is a well-made stand, and will be as useful 10 years
hence as it is to-day.
Come in and inspect, or ring City 7918 for particulars.
Illustrated Booklet sent Post Free.
C. CROWLEY & SONS,
5 Q. V. Markets, George Street, SYDNEY.
gs
All Through the World
You will find REMINGTON-UMC .22 calibre Cartridges growing in popular favour.'
—the unfailing choice of expert shooters and all discriminating users of .22 calibre rifles.
J^entin&oq,
UMC
22 Calibre Cartridges
IMullMMJ
V0j|
are sold by leading dealers everywhere at reasonable prices. Ask your
dealer for them and request him to show you a REMINGTON-UMC .22
calibre Repeating Rifle.
We shall be pleased to send, postpaid to any address, interesting infor-
mation for shooters. When writing, send us the name of your dealer.
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
Woolworth Building, New York City
Australian Representative: H. W. WARDE, 321 Pitt Street, Sydney
r
Slim and
Supple!
V}
->0
%
A KRY woman’s figure—perfect or lacking
lines of beauty— requires good corseting.
Giving support without undue pressure,
a pliable garment moulding the lines to graceful
proportion, a Warner Corset is the best founda-
tion for healthful, comfortable and smart
dressing.
o>
• EVERY PAIR GUARANTEED •
Obtainable Everywhere.
Qnsets
Your Home Can Become
A Wonderland of Musical Enjoyment
a?f\
The “Apollo” Player=Piano
through the remarkably easy terms the British
Pianoforte Depot Ltd. offer you. Compare our
terms, ponder over our vast resources, con-
sider our superior musical knowledge, remem-
ber at the back of all this stands honorable
reputation—then come to us. We are the firm
who can do most for you and your home.
Allison and Broadwood Pianos
are British Instruments whose construction
meets all Australian climatic conditions.
Their tonal quality is superb—their prices
moderate. Place EITHER in your home and
you have done much towards your household's
Musical career.
Our Player Library
String and Brass Instruments
is the only instrument of its kind possessing the human
touch. It plays with a firm downward touch on the
keys. Why not replace your silent Piano with an
“Apollo” Player?
places all the greatest musical works in every home
possessing a Player Piano. Subscription rates the
lowest in the State. 58-, 65- and 88-note music stocked
for all cabinet or combination Players.
Violins, Zithers, Harps, Accordeons, Gramophones, etc.,
by all the best makers.
The British Pianoforte Depot Ltd.,
45 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite Wynyard Street).


FARMER’S FOOTWEAR
for Boys and Youths shows the same
expert attention to important details
as the Men’s Footwear. In style, fit,
comfort and durability a standard of
the highest excellence is attained,
whilst values always challenge the
strictest comparison.
Featured is a line of Youths’ Fine-
grain Box Calf Lace Boots, with
drill linings and genuine welted soles.
Sizes 10 to 1, 12/6; sizes 2 to 5,
14/6; with Leather linings, sizes 2
to 5, 16/6. Also obtainable in
Best Quality, natural shape. Sizes
10-13, 16/6; 1-2, 18/6; 3-6,
21/-
1
gs
No. UR32.
PRICES
FROM
12/6
Carriage Paid to
any part oj
A ustralia.
FARMER’S,
PITT, MARKET &
GEORGE STREETS,
SYDNEY.
PAULINE et CIE
SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.
All Millinery Models reduced to
2 Guineas*
Missing: Friends.
Griffiths, george hugh.— win
George Hugh Griffiths, sometime known
as Geoi’ge Hughes, last heard of near Perth,
West Australia, where he was carrying on a
Poultry Farm, but formerly of Melbourne,
Chemist, or any person knowing his where-
abouts or able to give any information con-
cerning him, please communicate immediately
with The Trustees Executors and Agency
Company Limited, 412 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne.
DUFIIELL. —Wire your address immedi-
ately. Milton Terrace. Yery, very ill.
Urgent. Love.
DEAR HEART.
ARNOTTS
New Delicacies
FOR
Afternoon Tea
“CRISS-CROSS” “KIDDIES”
“ORANGE SLICE”
& “ROYAL CROWN” BISCUITS
Baked by Amott!
Sure to be good!
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, June 14. 1915.
My Dear Yarrie, —
In the O’Hara-Wood boys the greedy war
is getting two of Melbourne’s very best
and least assuming. Pat, who was studying
law before he rushed into an officers’ train-
ing school and graduated into a 2nd lieuten-
ant, scored the foundation scholarship in his
of E. Grammar days, and then won the
entrance scholarship to Trinity. At the
University the versatile lad got his “double
blue” for cricket and tennis.. His prowess
with the racquet is told in sporting records
where brother Arthur has kept him company.
Arthur, who was with him at school and col-
lege, won a “triple blue” at the Uni. before
going to the Alfred Hospital as a junior
resident. For four months recently the
young doc. was superintendent at the Alfred,
so when his thoughts turned to war he had
Ihe offer of a good medical appointment with
a captain’s rank. But Dr. Arthur is going
for the highest game an all-round athlete can
fly at. lie is off to England to learn aviation
and fight the Zeppelins. It will be an odd
thing if he isn’t conspicuous in that line. He
was never as brilliantly belligerent as brother
Pat with the boxing gloves, but he shot him-
self into the front rank of the King’s Hun-
dred at V.R.A. matches when he was a boy
of 20. He has the nerve for a boss aviator,
with Ihe eye for potting a human bird or
dropping a bomb on the right spot. Good
luck to them both! They are the glory of
their barrister dad and his comely wife, and
the pride of old Justice Holroyd, their
mother’s pr< >geni t< >r.
The glad news came from Cairo last week
that Sheila Chisholm, one of the prettiest
girls known to either Melbourne or Sydney,
had become engaged to the heir to a peer-
age. Ilis name is Viscount Loughborough, he is
now fighting at Gallipoli, and he will be Earl
of Rosslyn if lie’s alive when his father dies.
Sheila made a tremendous hit with (lie young
blades at Government House when she was
over here from Sydney before the war. Since
then she has mostly been travelling, with
her devoted mamma, in the wake of a brother
who 4s in one of the Light Horse regiments.
Their father is Harry Chisholm, a well-
known A.J.C. committeeman, and he owns a
big station near Goulburn. The Rosslyns
are a merry lot. The Earl is known in Lon-
don society as Henry VIII., by reason of
his habit of getting divorced and re-marry-
ing. lie is tall and curly-haired, the
possessor of enormous feet, and looks about
25, though he must be more, seeing that his
son is 23. lie once invented a system to
break the bank at Monte Carlo, and he was
doing it amid the applause of everybody,
when the wretched thing turned round and
kicked him. The Rosslyn family, by the
way, makes rather a hobby of marrying Aus-
tralians. The Duchess of Sutherland, who
married the Victorian Major Fitzgerald the
other day, is the Earl’s sister.
A yarn conies from Honolulu. A Miss
Connie Waugh—ever heard the name before?
—has been living at the chief hotel in II OllO-
lulu, cavaliered now and then by a wealthy
I Inn who is a planter on the island. One
night at dinner the tables were decorated
with the flags of the Allies, and Connie
and the Hun were dining tete-a-tete. The
German knocked a small British flag off the
electric light standard and it fell on the
floor. C’onnie -arose in her majesty, and,
dramatically pointing to the fallen banner,
commanded the Hun to replace it. He did
so, grudgingly, and about 300 people cheered
the lady to the echo. Connie evidently
has a new motto: “Ant pace out helium.”
Major Gwynne Griffith, an Indian cav-
alry officer who has just been killed in
action in Flanders, was on our Headquar-
ters Staff for a time. His turban created
quite a sensation when it appeared in
public. Tall and dark, with a hawk-like
eye, a monocle, and a devoted wife, he was
made much of in social circles.
From a friend in London: —
Your ex-Judge Gaunt’s daughter Mary, who started
at the age of 18 as author of “Dave’s Sweetheart,”
and lias since written about West Africa and China,
is collaborating with a clergyman on a religious
volume. The title, “And Beyond,” suggests specula-
tions of the after-life when printers cease from
troubling and libraries ban no more. The banning-
of Mary's own book, “The Uncounted Cost,” gave
her a big start. After she had written her letter of
protest to the Observer, 1768 volumes —the balance
of the first edition —were sold out in two days.
As they tell the tale in Cairo, Kitchener
had been spending sleepless nights, and the
War Office was getting anxious about the
Chief. After a long consultation it was
decided to give him a sleeping draught. The
potion was so efficacious that he slept till
1920. On awakening he sent for French
and asked anxiously how the war was going
on. “Oh, it’s all right.” replied French
cheerily. “We’ve belted the Germans out
of Belgium and France; Constantinople has
fallen; Ihe Russians are marching on Bor-
lin.” “My God,” said Kitchener, “and the
Australian Light Horse are still in Egypt!”
We learn here, with a certain smug satis-
faction, that a Melbourne girl, Mrs. Tony
Hordern, gave last week the smartest and
cutest and altogether most satisfactory pri-
vate war party that Sydney has known. She
asked all her friends to bring an assorted
collection of their friends to her Darling
Point mansion, the lure being free refresh-
ments and bridge-tables at half a sovereign
a time. The half-sovereigns—a couple of
hundred of them—went to the good cause,
and so did the winnings of all but a few
desperate economists. Mr. Harry Levy—a
relation of Mrs. Isaacs, the Judge’s wife —
gave an extra 50 or so at the end of the
proceedings, and Tony Hordern immediately
covered his donation, so all round the Cause
did well. The entire nobility of Sydney was
there, and the Rajah of Pudukota.
I often wonder if the warm-hearted
sailor-lads who open their souls in ink to
the, girls they have left behind them here
realise that every word they write is per-
used by a bored sub-censor with nothing
much else to do. The further away the
writer is, as a rule, the more heated his com-
munications become. When his ship gets
up in the neighborhood of Cape Melville or
Princess Charlotte Bay the envelope can be
distinctly seen smouldering as the under-
censor puts on his fire-proof gloves and ex-
tracts the contents.
The death in action of Prince Ernst von
Saxe-Meiningen, which was cabled on Mon-
day, throws the British royal family into
mourning—that is. if they are in the habit
of mourning for their Teuton relatives. The
20-year-old soldier was a sort of 25th cousin,
seven times removed, of King George.
That typhus is not quite the serious
problem it was in Servia may be laid to the
credit of such men as Dr. Palmer Benbow,
born in Ararat, who. until he contracted the
disease himself, did heroic work at Uskub in
refitting the stricken Serbs for the fighting
line. Benbow, who is now coming up to
scratch after diphtheria followed by typhus,
was a Melbourne University boy, and one of
the frisky set. Suddenly realising that
brains were meant for serious use. he cut
his old associations, went to the land
of Withdraw Wilson, and took his M.D.
with the highest honors of the year at Jef-
ferson Medical College, Philadelphia, in 1914.
After a spell as assistant to Dr. Ilarvey
Cushing, the Yank brain specialist, Benbow
took the chance given him by the war to
join the British Red Cross unit for Servia.
A coincidence was that the nurse who
attended his mother in Australia also volun-
teered for Red Cross service, and the first
patient she had on reaching the scene of
action was her former employer’s son, the
same Palmer Benbow.
The closing of the German Clubs has
merely shifted the location of the Deutscher
gatherings. Next time a big helpless pas-
senger steamer is sunk by a valiant torpedo-
rirer the scenes of rejoicings will be changed
—that’s all. There’s a Brunswick meeting-
place where a little fraternity of aliens are
joyfully anticipating the amputation of tier
British pull-dog’s tail, a moving spirit in the
arrangement of this new rendezvous being a
musical Herr who ought to have been packed
into a piano and sent back to Germany 10
months ago.
The failure of the dog habit in Eng-
land has not led to a similar renun-
ciation here. In my street there is a
lady who spends an hour every day
nursing a fat poodle decked in an extra
set of furs, which the little beast sports
with an air of arrogance that throws my
scoundrelly wire-haired terrier into fits of
fury. This, however, is not the absolute
ultimate. That I saw in Collins-street the
other morning—dear doggie sitting up beside
his large, peroxided mistress in a great green
car, wearing a tan coat with gilt buttons,
and motor goggles!
Mr. Cayley has been gazetted a commander
in our naval force. lie is a somewhat beauti-
ful grass-widqwer whose tall and interesting
wife has been away from Australia for years
learning singing or something. His latest
service to the Empire has consisted in navi-
gating transports to Egypt.
“Bob” Baker, of S. Australia this brother
is the champion tennis player), ..'•as given
a send-off at Scott’s Hotel by a number of
goffers. He has for long been a masterly
performer with niblicks and mashies and
things. He is now off to play the other
game.
Sandringham Golf Links have dropped all
tournaments, competitions, and other frivols
for the duration of the war. Members pool
not less than a shilling a round, and the
proceeds go to the War Funds. This enables
the patriotic goffer to play for the Empire,
and the more he plays the more the Empire
benefits. It is a grand scheme.
One of the red-caped sisters who left
lately was Miss Begg. She it was who
helped Geoff. Syme to wrestle with the bur-
glar two or three years ago. You will re-
member, dear, that the beauteous Geoff, got
half-killed in the defence of his home while
the invader (who is now doing a well-earned
"stretch”) got three-quarters killed.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
The Sawlfords —Colonel, Mrs. an<l Miss —arrived on
Wednesday. Writing of commandants reminds me
that Mrs. Le Mesurier, widow of the late Colonel,
died at North Adelaide on Saturday, leaving a son
and a daughter. The son is at the Front.
The Attorney-General Vaughans departed by Mon-
day’s express on a brief visit to Melbourne, and with
them went most of the inter-State delegates io the
Commonwealth Labor Conference.
Edward Stokes and his household arrived from
India by the Medina on Saturday, and will make The
Grange their headquarters during the three or four
months of his leave. lie is an old Saint Peter’s boy,
who went from here to Oxford and thence to India,
where he got a good billet in the Education service.
The second son of A. W. Piper, K.C., is in camp.
On Tuesday, in the Full Court, Mr. E. B. Grundy
moved for special leave to apply for his admission
to the Bar, as the chances are he will not be here
at the end of the next term, when, in the ordinary
course, he would be given his wig.
The features of Monday’s holiday were rain, foot-
ball, a £l7 dividend at the races, and a concert in
aid of the Wattle Day League’s motor-ambulance
fund.
Clara Serena has been at Broken Hill, where her
concerts were wedged into a programme of gaiety.
Dr. It. D. Kleeman, an Adelaide graduate, has
been appointed Professor of Physics at the Union
College, Schenectady, U.S.A. He did research work
with Professor Bragg here, and then captured a
science research bursary, as well as h travelling
scholarship that took him to Cambridge. He was for
some time demonstrator in physics at the English
University.
The Society of Arts is disappointed over its sale of
pictures for the Belgian Fund. It got together 37.
Governor Galway bought a dozen of them, at modest
prices, and the rest of the public only took another
dozen altogether. The total proceeds were under
£5O. As for the annual exhibition of the Society,
just closed, the public neither bought nor even
attended to any extent worth mentioning.
Dorothy Bridges, a daughter of the late
General, is joining the Trained Nursing
Sisterhood.
Ilitghie Forster, of Dalgety’s, has gone to
London. After a hurried word with his
mother and sisters, who are there, he will
enlist. That is, if they will have him. His
brother, llupert, is with the Light Horse.
Another brother, a parson, is doing his bit
from a strongly entrenched position behind a
pulpit.
Mrs. Willie Pearson and Mrs. Scot Sharp
are organising a Red Cross golfing tourney
at Berwick on the 26th (weather V.).
The Marquis de Buoy, who left Sydney
with the first contingent, is now said to be
in France. Ills Marquise, who is an Eng-
lish girl, has gone somewhere within tele-
phone call of him. He fought for Britain
in the Boer war, and an ancestor was killed
by Britain at Waterloo. The family is
almost painfully ancient. It takes its name
from Buciaeum, which was christened by
the very early Romans.
The Mayoral Ilennessys have asked Mel-
bourne “to meet his Excellency Rear-admiral
C. Chisaka and the officers of the Asa and
Soya” on the 16th.
Lawyer Waxman’s twenty-one-year-old
daughter Meryl is engaged to Dr. C. R.
Lister. He is a rising young surgeon who
has had Melbourne Hospital practice, and
though now in the hands of the Defence
Department, is likely to be here for a time
before being despatched abroad. The young
woman is a topnotch tennis player.
Mrs. £ £ Smith handed back the silver
tea-set which she won at Trentham, to be
re-raffled. One can do these things with her
affluence.
The Fred Fairbairns’ son (he is in a
British cavalry regiment) is one of the first
Australian victims of the Germans’ gas
campaign. He only got a diluted whiff for-
tunately, and so expects to be up and at ’em
again soon.
The Lebby Horderns passed through this
city on their way to the Great Disturbance
last week. She looked pale, languid and
graceful, and was exquisitely dressed: he
appeared young, slim and short-sighted—due
possibly to the fact that he was wearing
glasses. From all of which you’ll see that
they were both much as usual.
Don Bennett, a .Victorian doctor who has
been doing locum tenens work in Java, has
just arrived in Melbourne en route to the
Front. He tried to get off from leisurely old
Sydney, but became sick of waiting. Mel-
bourne fakes the palm for briskness in the
way of accepting Empire-savers.
The Nicholas Joys are rehearsing another
patriotic play. Lesly Madden is in it up to
her beautiful ears, and a part that poor
Tommy Curwen meant to have played,
had he been spared, is being studied by
Chant.
Solicitor Bennett, of Horsham, and his
wife, who is an amateur singer of merit, have
been making patriotic raids on the country
districts with a concert co. It consists of
10 Horsham girls and the Bennetts’ son
Donald, who does vaudeville stuff. Marvel-
lous what man will endure for a great ideal.
The girls merely sing and play. They have
only done “Warrack” (as the natives call
Warracknabeal) and Ararat so far. and arc
already £5OO ahead of it.
The Frances Frazer Jumble Shop has
been averaging £lO a week for about a month
now. Fresh Sassiety blood has been
brought into the sales department, so the
enterprise will last out this month, or
longer.
Napoleon Bollard says that he will do
anything for France —except sing again at
a patriotic tea-party. "I sing the most
exquisite words of French songs,” sobs the
well-nourished tenor, "and the women shriek
their gossip ovaire a deafening tea-cup
clatter.”
Mrs. Chari es Manby. who leads Mel-
bourne’s best-known orchestra of girl-
players, has invented an appliance to
intensify the richness of it violin’s tone, and
something else in the way of a resonant
hollow-stop fingerboard. She thinks that
the two notions will revolutionise violin-
teaching methods. A special demonstration
is to be given soon to musical critics and
others. When you come to think of it. the
violin is a conservative old instrument.
The Mclnnes show finished up in a tri-
umphant blaze of red spots. Lady Stanley
bought a Corot-esque blurred tree and wind-
mill. She was keen for a brilliant bit of blue
sky iual a Holywell (English) landscape,
but Mclnnes is reserving that for the
Bananaland Artists’ Exhibition this year.
He found, by the way. that in addition to
being pretty, Lady Stanley has a connois-
seur’s knowledge of painting values. Melba
came along and took an assorted half-dozen.
One of them is a fine picture of moving
waggons (not suburban furniture), and
another shows sunlight through very straight
tree-stems. Her brother. Ernie Mitchell,
bought a Moorish market-place.
What a ladies’ man Tribicli, this week's
German spy, must be, if. as is so often con-
tended, the girls like them wicked! A
forger, a bankrupt, a misappropriator <>f
charitable funds, a burglar from an East.
End Jewish mission home, a ’vert from
Judaism to Anglicanism and from that to
Presbyterianism, a militant Freetrader while
a British M.P. (his traitorous aim being,
evidently, to compass the commercial over-
throw of the F.K.). and a spy! Could the
romantic heart of Woman ask more of any
man?
Yours sincerely,
JOIIANNA.
A N.S.W. Minister, worried over the ques-
tions of day baking and stale bread o’ Mon-
days. has remarked that the week-end
difficulty could be got over if bakers were all
Jews. But if Cohen sold only bread, how
would Ministers get; on with their eternal
p.n. ?
Lieut. .Tames McKinley, who dropped
recently in France, was an exhibitioner of
Melbourne University and a graduate of the
School of Mines, London. lie was manager
of a mine on the African Gold Coast when
the eagles screamed; but being in England
on holiday reached for a gun. received a
commission in the Flying Corps, and did
good work for six months as an observer
and artillery director. Then the fatal bullet
intervened.' Two brothers —one wounded —
have been arguing the matter with the Turk.
They are sons of the late James McKinley,
of Brighton (Vie.).
“McNortli" : “Pallanza’s” story of an
anchor-heaving tragedy wherein a man was
killed by being buried beneath the incoming
chain (B. S/4/T5) stirs in my mind the
memory of a catastrophe of years ago,. We
were heaving the port hook of a big wind-
jammer in the open roadstead of Port
Elizabeth (S. Africa). The chain —a big
one, 121 b. to the link —was coming in
steadily. One man, a big Australian from
Newcastle, was in the locker stowing it
away as it came in- through the hawse-pipe.
To do this he had to stand on the slack
already stowed. The men straining at the
capstan were keeping step to the chanty
“Sally Brown.” and no one dreamt of danger.
Suddenly, without a moment’s warning, a
pawl carried away; and as the capstan
reversed at terrific speed every man on the
fo’c’s’le-head was knocked down by the flying
handle-bars. Somebody jammed an iron
wedge into the madly-revolving contrivance
and stopped it, but not before 30 fathoms of
the heavy chain had roared hack into the
ocean. That afternoon, when repairs had
been effected, we buried what we scraped off
the chain. It was all that remained of the
man who had been stowing in the locker,
lie had been dragged through the hawse-
pipe—and the hawse-pipe wasn’t much
larger than the chain.


7.
\\\"’
55
\
\
X
m
s:
'i
%
G
V
*
%
/ ✓
N
gs
MW'.W '
\
•6
99
\
■ i
t •
n \ \ r" \« \
u
■\
\ . \
TO "\ «\ ■
i w


FOR ACID STOMACHS USE
MAGNESIA.
The almost universal use of magnesia by
physicians and specialists in the treatment
of stomach troubles is due to the fact that
it stops food fermentation and neutralises
the acid —the direct cause of nearly all
stomach troubles. Of the many forms of
magnesia such as oxides, carbonates, sul-
phates, etc., the most suitable and efficient,
and the one prescribed by leading special-
ists, is biswrated magnesia, half a teaspoon-
ful of which in a little warm water imme-
diately after eating will instantly neutralise
the acid, stop the fermentation, and thus
ensure painless, normal digestion. Care
should be taken to get Usurated magnesia,
as its action is infinitely more effective. It
is also, by the way, usually stocked by
chemists in convenient compressed tablets
as well as in the ordinary powder form.
Stomach sufferers and. dyspeptics who fol-
low this plan and avoid the use of pepsin,
charcoal, drugs and medicines are invariably
astonished to find that the stomach, re-
lieved of the irritating acid and gas, soon
regains its normal tone, and can do its work
alone without the doubtful aid of artificial
digestants.*
gs
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
gs
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/- PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc*
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA,
m
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
QUICKLY REMOVES.
SKIN ERUPTIONS
ENSURING
A CLEAR COMPLEXION
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable
Pimples, disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema
disappear bv applying
sulp'holine
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
Bottles 1/- and 2/9.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
Scurf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin
Specialists, J. Pepper & Co., Ltd., Bedford
Laboratories, London, S.E., and can be obtained
direct from them bv post or from
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.
Sulpholine quickly removesthe effects of Sunscorch
The Diagnosis.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DR. G. HOGSTALKER looked at the
telegram until Lis naturally bulging
eyes threatened to leave his head; and
the why of it was this way.
Two thousand four hundred years ago
Hippocrates, the Father of Medicine, formu-
lated the oaths taken by physicians on grad-
uating: “To be loyal to the profession of
medicine, just and generous to the memoers,
to lead my life and practice my art in up-
rightness and honor, to enter a house but
for the good of the sick, holding myself far
aloof from wrong, from corruption, from
the tempting of others to vice." That
“I will exercise my art solely for the
cure of my patients, and will give no
drug, perform no operation for a criminal
purpose even if solicited, far less suggest it.”
And “that whatsoever I shall see or hear of
the lives of men which is not fitting to be
spoken I will keep inviolably secret.”
There spoke the pioneer, the honest
scientist and the gentleman.
Dr. Hogstalker hadn’t sufficient ability or
attainment to be a practitioner in competi-
tion with men who really knew their job.
But lie had a voice which in its softness and
insinuating tone had been made to wheedle.
All the wheedling quality of the bogtrotter
who must flatter and starve was his, and he
flattered until a Government, which knew
little and cared less, gave him the post of
medical officer at a slit in a mudbank in
North Australia, with a rise and fall of tide
nigh to 30ft., and many pearling luggers, and
oysters climbing the mangroves that sat
sweating up to their leaves in the warm
water, like Marat in his hip bath.
A year or two there found him more
stupid than ever, his oakum whiskers
trimmed, more perfunctorily than before,
his eyes staring like a crab’s. The life was
getting in its work on him. His manner
dared sometimes to be almost petulant with
the niggers, though he was as polite as ever
to the white men of the settlement, men who
all disliked him.
This day saw the monsoonal change—
mad winds, sudden and short-lived gales
contradicting a high glass, puffs of sickening
odors from the land as if all the vegetable
kingdom were in the horrors of corruption,
and currents amongst the mudbanks crink-
ling to the wind puffs and seeming to
change their direction every hour, as if be-
wildered and knowing not which way to go.
Dr. Hogstalker had had a bad yesterday.
A ship from Flores Sea had to be boarded.
He had changed to a spotless white suit,
brushed his oakum whiskers, pushed his eyes
back half an inch, and rowed out to the ship
ready to give her a clean bill of health on
general principles as soon as he had had
his fill of the glory of authority and had
spread his tail enough before the passengers,
and sufficiently caressed with his voice of
glucose the strange ladies aboard.
His boat’s crew wished to hook their boat
on her lee, but Hogstalker’s authority re-
belled, and he ordered them to pull to her
starboard side. As they rounded her stern
the accommodation ladder was lowered on
the port side, but he ordered his men to
“give way” and arrived amidships on the
starboard side just at the moment selected
by the cook for the jettison of the galley-
truck and butcher’s refuse. There fell
potato peelings, this morning’s porridge, last
night’s custard, the interiors of chickens,
and other humorous rejects, and the doctor
■got the lot. His beautiful white suit was
ruined. His gold-braided cap was an abomi-
nation. There were chicken > livers in his
whiskers and obsolete custard in his pockets.
The ship and the mudbank and all that
were therein laughed themselves into
apoplexy and hysteria, and the doctor’s
vanity accepted the accident as an insult.
He held the ship for 12 hours before he
cleared her. Whereat the master, with that
half-day’s delay waiting to be explained at
the home port, made a complaint to his
agents and to the Government (by tele-
graph! at the first station where he made a
land-fall.
That steamer had cleared again and Hog-
stalker had a quite new white suit, but his
pride could not forget that he had been
laughed at when the chicken’s liver nestled
in his whiskers. He had been reading a
monograph on “Tropical Diseases” all morn-
ing, and though he knew not even the rudi-
ments of bacteriology, the mere self-deception
of reading the partly unintelligible soothed
him.
While filled with this new occupation and
conceit the cries of his boat’s crew caused
him to look without. There he saw a top-
sail schooner of 100 tons or more standing
up the bay in the variable winds. _ An hour
later she was near enough to signal her
name and port of clearance, and the medico,
in his new white suit, ordered his boat and
rowed out to meet her.
The schooner was the Charity, well known
on the coast as being untrue to name. Her
captain, a tall, strong, grev-bearded old
man, thin to gauntness, leaned over the rail
and directed a Binghi to throw a rope to
the medical-officer’s boat. A fiercely-bearded
little ginger man with a twisted nose —the
mate and the only other white man aboard
—directed operations at the capstan, and to
the accompaniment of much profanity two
Rotuma natives let the anchor go, and the
Charity swung in 15 fathoms of water.
Over the rail a girl of Fapua showed for
a moment her glistering coppery body, and
a face whose usual intelligence was for that
moment made wild by fear. Hogstalker had
opened his mouth to speak to the thin old
white man as he would have spoken to an
alien, because he saw the white man was in
trouble and ready to be apologetic as if lie
desired a favor, but at sight of the girl his
voice assumed its best bedside tone, and his
words were soft as an emulsion of soap.
“Ye-a-a-es,” he cooed to the brown girl.
“And lio-ow are we-ee?”
The brown girl dropped behind the rail,
answering with concealment, and Captain
Shaw, master of the Charity, schooner,
Autolycus of the Arafura Sea, stripper of
copper sheathing from piled-up ships, col-
lector of marine stores, from Ximor to
Bougainville—answered for her.
“This girl that’s ducked under the rail,”
said he, “is a Daru girl. Me and the missus
CARRYING IT TOO FAR.
THE BOY: “ ’Ere y’are, full account o’ the German air raid .”
THE COHEN : “Well, by chimminy, Ikey, dose Shermans go too far. Dere vos der gas
rade and der vater rade, but ven it comes to cin air rade, it cos goin’ too far, Ikey-
too far!”
picked her up ready for the cookin’ pots
when she was a piccanniny, and the missus
bro’t her up, worse luck! The missus had
to go South, an’ now the girl’s sick, an’ I
read the British Cornucopia from soup to
nuts and can’t see what’s wrong, so in we
put here. An’ she having a bit of a rash
that looked as if it ought to be put under
surveillance, up goes the bilious flag, and
here we are.”
“Ye-ea-es —I see ! I’ll—ah —come aboard.”
He climbed the rail and his eyes jutted out
even beyond their normal protuberance, so
that lie looked like a very angry and
frightened crayfish. His eyes stared still
more as he saw the girl again, and she
shrank from him in fear—bent almost to the
deck that swung steeply to the long and
greasy swell, while the puffs of decaying
vegetation from the shore and the stench of
the mudbank smote the seasoned men and
the sick girl, so that she seemed to be dying
as they looked at her.
“Come along, Gladys,” said Captain Shaw.
“Come below, and the kind doctor will tell
you what’s up.”
Gladys looked at the kind doctor with
great distrust, all her fears returning as he
objected to the cabin, saying, “The —ah —
tropical—dis-ea-ases are ve-r-ey of-ten highly
contage-ous. He-ah by the —ah—deck-house
will do.”
He led Gladys behind the deck-house, and
the fear brought the sweat anew to her glis-
tering skin. She stood there, her breasts
heaving with the terror of it all, while Hog-
stalker listened to her heart beats and calcu-
lated her pulses to the accompaniment of
his own marvellous soft-soaped English, and
the momentary adjuration of Captain Shaw
that she should say “Ninety-nine,” and the
noise made by the little ginger mate breath-
ing heavily through his twisted nose.
“App-are-ently,” said the doctor, “a slight
—ah —dippnoe—ah—from the in-a-creased
action of. the heart. Hydatids! No —
though possibly existent as critoza —ah of a
sep-ali-rate and distinct vitality or as un-
attached cysts or vesicular bodies. Might—
ah—be the cysticercus or the —or the
Echinococcus or other —ah —cystic entozo —
ah —Hernia? No—certainly not strangu-
lated —because the circulation is in no way
inerted. Hypertrophy —may be of excess of
fat in the blood. Is there any diabetic his-
tory?”
“She ain’t got no history,” said Captain
Shaw. “No history at all. Me an’ the
missus found Gladys tied up for the cookin’
pots. That’s all the history she’s got.”
“Ah ! Indeed ! Lipoma?”
“What’s that, mate?”
“An indolent tumor arising from a luxu-
riancy of fat in the cellular membrane. Yet!
No ! A tropical disease, certainly. Not beri-
beri ! Not elephantiasis! though diapho-
retics, iodine ointment and firm bandaging
might not be —ah —ill advised. There is a
profuse perspiration and heat of skin. The
temperature is a hundred and —ah—two.”
“Mine is two ’undred an’ ninety-seven,”
said the mate. “It’s the change o’ the mon-
soon. Why! the coker nuts are sweatin’ in
the ’old.”
Hogstalker’s bulging eyes bulged the more
as he tried to think. The rolls of fat upon
his forehead quivered with a suggestion of
swollenness, as butchers puff veal with air
for window dressing.
“There is—ah —apparently enlargement
and —ah —softening of the lymphatic glands
accompanied by high fever —yet I do not
believe I could get a —ah —reaction for the
bacillus pestus.”
The girl had passed through fear into
semi-exhaustion, and he seized on this as a
new symptom.
“The respiration is now —ah—languid and
the pulse rate high. The patient is drowsy.
Can it be trypanosomiasis V”
“What’s that, for the love of George'?”
asked the Captain.
“Sleeping sickness. The tongue is hard —
as in actinomycosis.... It is a parasitic dis-
ease, if one may judge of the skin condition
Parasites may be —ah—present in the cyto-
plasm of the stratified epithelium of the
skin. Not verrugas, nor frambcesia, but the
result of some action of specific micro-
organisms.”
“I can’t get soundings,” said the mate.
“You’ve got me.” The bulbous-eyed fraud
droned on.
“It is not —ah—possible to demonstrate
any—ah—setiological relationship between
any micro-organisms found and the special
disease.”
“What’s the good of it all, then?” said
Captain Shaw impatiently.
“Hmmogloburic fever is presumably a para-
sitic disease, but this may be due to schizo-
mycetes, bacteria or fission-fungi. Dear!
dear! dear !. ... Actinomycosis? No ! As-
pergillosis? No! May be filariasis—'tem-
perature swellings ? Yes! Though I once
tried in a similar—ah—case for a 12 hours'
agar culture of staphylococcus pyogenes
audem.... Not —ah—present! No !.... and
wheth-ah—ah —bacillus —or ah—trypano-
some who can say?”
“Say something, anyway,” said Captain
Shaw. “It isn’t ophthalmia, is it?”
“Certainly not.”
“And it ain’t ossification or paralysis?”
“Re-ah-ly! I nev-ah heard of such a
thing.”
“What’s the others ? Bill?” asked the Cap-
tain of the mate, and the twisted-nosed man
replied:
“Is it parricide?”
“Nonsense !”
“Or pelargonium or phrenology?”
“Deah, deah ! What are you saying?”
“That’s all I know,” said the mate. “Me
an’ the old man read that dash dictionary
up to double you. I says at the time we’d
beat it, or it’d beat us, an’ it beat us. I
can’t remember another word. Hold on,
though! Sarcophagus?”
“Certainly not, indeed.”
“Well, it’s got me beat. That’s me last
word.”
“Give us a verdict,” said Captain Shaw.
“Is it catching?”
“I should—ah —say that it is highly con-
tagious—in a very extreme and accentuated
mannah. Where is your next port?”
“Thursday. Then to Cooktown.”
“I should strongly advise you to proceed
there with all despatch and promptitude.
There is a hospital there and the latest —ah
—knowledge of tropical diseah-ses. And —
ah —isolate the patient—keep everybody
away from the risk of infection, and ask the
—ah —medical superintendent at the hospital
to telegraph me his diasrnosis : —what the
disease is—you know. The wiah will be
brought here by the Government boat.”
lie looked around the deck and saw a large
crockery crate now empty—and admitting the
beginning of the nor’-west monsoon through
its bars.
“That crate will do. Iflace it well —ah —
astern.”
“He means aft,” said the mate in trans-
lation, and the captain stopped him with a
frown.
“Place it well astern, I said,” insisted the
bulbous-eyed one. “And place the —ah —
patient in it. and keep her the’yah till you
reach the—ah —hospital.”
“I’ll get it lashed and put some canvas
round it and the po"or girl’s beddin’ inside,”
said the mate, and went aft to do it, lifting,
from mere habit, his twisted nose to look at
the sky.
Hogstalker’s bulbous eyes retreated to their
abnormal normality of protrusion as he de-
scended to his boat again and his crew rowed
him back to his kingdom.
The worried skipper turned the Charity
to sea again, while Gladys, in the upended
crate, felt all the ostracism that is the leper’s,
and shrank back into a corner of the cage.
The kindness of the mate had given all the
comfort possible.
For the week of the voyage the two white
men looked scared whenever they had to
stand by the wheel or look at the binnacle:
dreading the nearness of the unspecified and
highl.v-contagious disease in the crate.
“I hope I don’t catch it,” said the captain.
“I’m a married man with a family.”
“So’m I.” said the mate with the twisted
nose. “Just payin’ up me house, too.”
They were glad men when tbev delivered the
ailinsr girl to the nurses at Thursday Island.
Gladder men when two of the Rotumah bovs
pushed overboard the crate with boat-hooks
and saw it and the camvas and the bedding
float astern.
The telegram to Dr. Hogstalker was signed
by the relieving superintendent of the hospi-
tal and ran thus: —
Re patient Gladys, native of Daru. Can you tell
me if women of Papua participate in Commonwealth
Maternity Bonus?
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


A
/3 3 3
a
I \
IW
I
mi
rlv®
/
i
//*
■i
mm i
fifi
up-Hm
iWff :## f. #
mm
tmm
’3
i 1
§f
110/
I
##
J
/
/
///
ri,
VyMlton D.LIOYP GEORGE HP
MAKERS OF HISTORY.
THE above reproduced portrait drawing of The Right Hon. D. Lloyd George, M.P.,
is the fourth of a series of Twelve Present Day Men who are Makers of History.
The series, specially drawn for us by W. Jardine, have been reproduced on the finest
irt paper, and retain the freshness and technique of the original drawings, and, being
Entirely free from advertising, are suitable for framing. We will be pleased to forward the
-omplete set to any address within Australia on receipt of a 6d. postage stamp to cover cost
'f mailing, etc. Owing to a limited number of these sets, we advise you to write early to
JAMES WATSON & CO. LTD., Bromley House, Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
B
Tf
s
I
WH


IF CONSTIPATED TAKE
"CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Delicious “regulator” for stomach,
liver and bowels, for mamma,
daddy and children.
If you ;ire headachy, constipated, bilious,
or if the stomach is’disordered and you want
to enjoy the nicest liver, and bowel cleansing
you ever experienced, take a tablespocvnfiul
of “California Syrup i6f ‘ Figs” toj-jpghtiaffft
in the morning all the. constipation 'poison,
bile and clogged-i.pi wa#fe. will gently move
out of the system-without griping, and you
will feel splendid. - . ~/■ ■ : '
Every member of ( lie family should use this
fruit laxative as occasion demands. It is
just as effective for grandpa as it is for baby,
ft simply cannot injure. Even cross, sick,
feverish children just love its pleasant taste
and mothers can rest easy after giving it,
because it never fails to effect a good “inside
cleansing.”
For thirty years “California Syrup of
Figs” has been recommended by physicians’
as the ideal stomach, liver and boivel '
cleanser. Millions of families who are well
informed use nothing else.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of “Califor-
nia Syrup of Figs,” which has full directions
for babies, children of all ages and for grown-
ups plainly printed on the bottle. Beware
of counterfeits sold here. Cot the genuine
made by “California Fig Syrup Company.”
Kefuse any other kind with contempt. “Cali-
fornia Syrup of Figs” is sold by all leading
chemists, 1/1$ and i/9.
mil
-TOP NOTCH
- tsCOPC/6 IV
<sCotch~W/iiss
G*6n/l
y*
THE "TOP NOTCH” SCOTCH.
“KING GEORGE IV.”
WHISKY.
A UNIFORM STANDARD of QUALITY.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“Outcast”: The storekeepers back on the
Papuan goldfields used to suffer pretty severely at
times from diggers passing out inconveniently and
leaving a handful of bad debts. We used to calcu-
late sadly, when the shanty-keeper stuck another
2s. 6d. a mat on our rice, that we were all helping
to pay off poor old Jack’s “book.” It wasn't irrever-
ence which made old Alick 'mutter, while reading
what he remembered of the burial service over a
diggei who owed him considerable: "Ashes to ashes
and dust to dust—and three hundred lovely golden
quidlets gone to Hell.”
K * *
‘Tick”: Those Abo.-writers who have
admitted their disbelief in a wallaby’s ability to
swim are shy of a lot of necessary experience. All
bushnien know that, when chased by dogs, wallabies,
Hke their uncle the kangaroo and all the tribe, trust
to speed first, and, when that fails, to water. They
go headlong for the nearest pool, and where the
water is of considerable expanse will, in swimming
over, outdo any dog. Moreover, although when cross-
ing a river or lake to better country, or for love
matters, and so forth, they swim with shoulder high
out of the water, when pursued they swim low with
only the nose protruding, so that a dog easily loses
them. When only a small waterhole is handy the
hunted marsupial resorts to in-fighting, at which he
is no slouch. Swimming in circles, he' ducks the
dogs, or sinks to avoid them, and unless over-
powered by numbers will eventually drown those
game enough to fight to a finish.
“Te Panel" : In a recent Bulletin “Taiki’’
refers me to Raratonga if 1 would witness the best
native aquatics in the pursuit of fish. But he is
wrong. The juiciest oyster belongs to the chap that
grows copra at Niuafoou, a cinder heap midway be-
tween Samoa and Fiji. This lump of scoria has no
beaches, no inlets, no sheltered harbors. A rugged,
iron-bound coast, with the lava flow of a volcano
garnished over it, faces the lumps of the Pacific that
heave themselves out of nowhere, and make periodic
attempts to take the island in their stride. There is
no protecting reef; nothing but blue, bulging sea
and white smother of foam. Except in the very
calmest of weather, which is about never, it is im-
possible to launch a boat. Nevertheless, the native
goes a-fishing. lie dumps a log of wood into the
sea, coils a line round his neck, and jumps after the
timber. L sing it as a rest for his body, he may
fish for an hour or two with no oilier visible means
of support than this wood and the water. The catch
is strung and allowed to trail out behind the floating
timber. Sharks are sometimes attracted to the spot
where the dinner is being caught, yet they never
attack the fisher, being quite content with relieving
him of some of the tucker that is more to their
taste. Niuafoou is the island where, a few years ago,
the mailbag was regularly shot ashore per rocket from
the passing island steamer. Nowadays the monthly
bills nre sealed in a kerosene tin and dumped over
(he side. A native swims put and brings ashore the
Christian sentiment that “a settlement will oblige,"
and with it a bundle of letters from the ship’s pas-
sengers tucked inside a note requesting that stamps
be licked and attached, and the correspondence in-
serted in the submarine post office.
“E.'S.S.": Two conspicuous birds on the
marshy plains are'the jabiru and. the brolga. The first-
named, which has, glossy blackish-green and white
plumage and a huge, black bill, is classed with the
heron by game hunters, its pinky flesh having a
strong fishy flavor. A\ itli its long red leg's it strides
quickly over the ground at a seemingly easy pace,
keeping always at a safe distance from the stalking
gunner, and making for the centre of a plain rather
Hum for cover. One that was shot by an alleged
sportsman on Tomki run (N.S.W.) had a wing-
spread of 7ft. 3in., and weighed 151 b. The bird
flies slowly, with legs and neck held straight out
from the body, making a target as easy to hit as
Ibe end of. a barn, it lays usually two eggs, and
builds the bulkiest nest among Australian birds.
The brolga takes more wing exercise than the jabiru,
at times soaring away up above the clouds, and its
trumpet call comes vibrating down out of space
though the operator is invisible. It is a favorite
pet, though not a safe one where there are young
children, being vicious. When young the flesh is
fair eating, but should be hung up for a few days
before being cooked. The brolga is rarely killed
for food by tlie blacks, who have a legend to the
effect that it learned to dance by watching the
aboriginal corroborees. Emu is eaten by Binghi
with avidity, but is seldom touched by whites, prin-
cipally on account of its strong aroma. Young
blacks are not allowed to eat it until they have been
initiated, a process that includes rubbing over with
emu fat. The eggs find ready acceptance in most
bush camps. Some cooks fry them in..a camp-oven, '
mixed together like a great pancake, which; is then
cut into squares. The blackfellow likes thbjn best
when the chicken is formed.
HIS SIN SAVED. HIM .
BILL (as a bullet perforates his hat):
“Blime. what if I'd ha ’ chucked cigar-
ettes like they ultras wanted me to!”
•Tekeltv’: Recently I met one of the few
pieces of sentiment chargeable against (he Malaita
native. Our vessel was conveying a crowd of time-
expired boys to their island homes. Kn route we
passed a schooner belonging to a neighboring plan-
tation. The natives aboard both crafts clothed the
rails and riggings, waving farewell lavalavas, sing-
lets, pants and other finery. As the vessels drew
apart the calicoes fluttered down into the water,
leaving a rainbow wake as a valedictory token’
Asked to explain their extravagance, the boys said it
was to ensure that the banners which had waved
farewell to their friends should never be used for
baser purposes.
UNREMEMBEREED PLEASURES.
IST HA RDENED SOAK: “The papers shay. you an’ me drank eight bob's worth more beer
fins year than we did th’ year before."
2ND Do.: “I don' REMEMBER it, d'you?"
Lagani-Naino” : One evening, many years
ago, as the sun, like a ball of molten metal, sank
into the ocean behind Tatana, two natives with a
white man supported between them, came walking
into Port Moresby. In those days, the one hotel
was the rendezvous, and to it the white man
and liis boys staggered. When we had put him to
bed this is the story the head boy told us: “Tau-
bada, Georgi n we four-feller boy belong him, we
go look moni” (gold is always “moni”) “nuther
side one big river. By-’n’-bye Georgi he findim
Settle bit gola, plenty feller ’nother kind. By-'n’-
by- plenty rain. He no stop at all, we no work ;
we bin stop close up along camp allatinie. Behind”
(afterwards) “big sick” (illness) “he come. Alto-
gether boy lie very sick. Georgi he give ’em viura-
mura” (medicine) “ ’n’ boy lie' stop inside along
blankets. By-’n’-bye two fella boy be die finish.
Georgi V me feller puttim inside along- ground.
Close up I die, too. S’pose Georgi lie no look out
good, we altogether finish. By-’n’-bye Georgi he
gettim this bad feller sick” (dysentery) “too, ’n’
I bin say, ‘My word, lanhada. s'pose you-ine stow
along here, you-ine maxi’ (dead) ‘finish quick.’ Then
taubada” (master) “he talk. ‘No, no! behind I
plenty better, n’ jou-nie findim plenty moni along
nere. But all-a-time he too much sick, ’n' behind
he talk, ‘Bogi, you savvy, now I gottem bad sick,
'u no more murdmura; he stop. 1 think more
better you go along doekitor, ’n’ bringum mura-mura.’
But I talk, ‘No, taubada! S'pose Igo along Port
Moresby, who look out you?’ Georgi he say, ‘I
look out myself—yqu g 0 quick.’ But I savvy
fashion belong this feller sick; by -’n’-bye man lie
no strong, he no can do nothing, V I speak along
Georgi, ‘Taubada, I fright. No good I go. More
better we three feller altogether go. S’pose you
better quick-quickly we gettim plenty boy, V "we
come back ’n’ findim moni?’ Then Georgi he say.
‘Orright,’ V we bin come. My word, that feller
bush he no good; all-a-time he rain, V tree he thick
all-a-same wall. S’pose man lie no got plenty axe
he no can go; lie too much gi-gi” (snakes), “ V
roro” (prickly cane) “ V leech, ’n’ plenty feller
no good thing altogether. Night time plenty feller
Wff’ (ghosts). “By Gris’, I too much fright along
that place.” “That place” was over George’s limit
too. He died four days later.
Borouia”: Bill and Sarah wore moving
home in an old spring-cart after having undergone
the marriage process. Suddenly Bill became very
quiet, and gazing at his bovin—l mean divinity—
vuh ecstatic admiration he burst out: “Gripes, Sarah
I do love yeh. I wouldn’t give yeh for twenty
cows!
Zamm : 1 hey say (they say quite a lot
of tilings, but they have said this so often that I’m
inclined to believe it) that a horse handled bv a
black man cannot for some time ho worked satis-
factorily by a white man. The alleged reason is
that the nag becomes familiar with the nigger’s tint,
and the white, man's unfamiliar skin causes the
beast to work in a nervous fashion. If that isn't
the reason will somebody forward it?
“Kuranui”: Some weeks back a party of
Sydney motorists were doing a neatly time-tabled
business tour through the N.S.W. Backblocks. One
sultry morning the party arrived at an inviting
creek and decided to freshen themselves up with a
swim. They spent a splendid half-hour splashing
and diving, and then resumed their trek. All went
well till late in the afternoon, when, being 40
bumpy miles from the river, a deep groan of anguish
burst from one of the party. “Left my vest behind!”
he explained drearily. “Nine beautiful quid, all my
cigarettes, a gold cardcase, and a few extras! 0
Lord!” The car was stopped and the wayfarers
scared back hopelessly at the muddy road—or as
THE WAR AT BILLY GOAT FLAT.
THE U NDERTAKER: "If I had my way, Bill,
I'd inter all the Germans, whether they
was neutralised or whether they
wasn’t.”
of it as they could see in the fading light.
Cant be helped!' 1 sighed the vest-loser after a
thoughtful pause. “We can’t do this 40 miles three
times over. It’s not worth it, and the chances are
the vest would be gone. Drive on, boys!” The car
whined forward and the other occupants did their
best to console the sufferer. A few days later, when
the party got back to Sydney, the forgetful traveller
found a parcel and letter awaiting him. The parcel
contained all the money and lost property/ The
letter conveyed the following remarks in White
Australian:—
money 1 nrf'rhAu ? la * e . ant * 1 found this vest and
we h i ° ba l lks .. ot , C ~ Cr eek last Wednesday.
I,,’lnlnJ ") QUt , ot tobacco, we took the liberty of
! t0 { tIC eigarettes. . Trusting * the
*' at jou safely.—l am, Jack Wikekence.
(Continued on page 26.)
THE STAR OF ROBINSON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(Tones said I lie star was Jupiter;
T*nt Smith was full of scorn ;
He said he knew astronomy
Kie ever Jones was born.
He said that Venus it must be
t rom what he knew of stars ;
'Tut. Brown turned round to call lor drinks
V' Idle briefly snorting “Mars!'’
I hardly knew the rights of it,
Or how the thing began,
Or why discussions on the stars
To such excitement ran ;
But Robinson at last '-'exclaimed;
“As you chaps can't agree,
The view is splendid from my place—
Toll’d best come home and see!
“Each night, whenever i reach home,
I notice its bright glare;
And this is strange—-1 never seem
To vision it elsewhere.’’
So forth we went with Robinson
And sundry bottled stuff;
And, lingering at Henry’s gate,
Jhe star saw, right enough.
It showed its brilliance o'er a hill—
The brig best of all stars;
And Jones exclaimed “It's Jupiter!”
And Brown repeated: “Mars!”
Then whispered Smith: “Oh, nonsense! That
Is Venus ! But don't shout.”
At which spoke Henry ; “ That’s all right—
To-night the wife is out!”
So, then, the astronomic three
Debated loud and long
Without a finish, though, no doubt,
Their arguments were strong.
But deftly Robinson and I
Plied corkscrews here and there;
And as the others seemed engrossed,
IV e drank the largest share.
The argument reached such a pitch
That Jones got poor Smith down ;
And then we had to separate
Both Smith and Jones from Brown.
We poured some beer upon the storm ;
And, when they’d ceased to shout,
We looked upon the heavens again—■
The blessed star was out !
The tiling was awesome! Henry said
It presaged Doom to Come.
We spoke of it in whispered tones
Till Henry’s wife came home.
So very full of news was she,
She did not seem to note
The bottles lying round about,
And Henry’s husky throat.
“They've caught a German spy to-night,”
She squealed with girlish glee ;
“They've grabbed a lantern that he used
For signalling to sea!”
V\ e left before the bottles caught
Her eye, and fled to town.
And now you dare not speak of stars
To Jones, or Smith, or Brown.
X.S.AV.
HAMER.


We Planned to Build the
Best Machine, and We Did It
4
9
£lO/10/
Per Stand,
Ready for
Work.
COOPER
MACHINES
Are designed to yield maximum effici-
ency and satisfaction at lowest cost of
n [»keep.
This Cooper Improved Belt-Driven
Clear and Cooper Handpiece are backed
by our 30 years’ experience and constant
work among shearing sheds throughout
the world.
Its ease of operation, long years of
service, and very low cost of mainten-
ance are recognised in every country
where wool is grown.
Cooper Machines now shear more
than 200 million sheep annually. Their
superiority has given us the output.
'The output has lowered the cost.
Tf you need a Shearing Plant
or a Crutching Outfit write us tor
full particulars. It will cost you
less in the first place, and save you
money ever afterwards.
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LTD.,
129 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
T. BARTRAM & SON PTY., LTD., Melbourne.
CLARK & FAUSET. Brisbane.
The Easy Method for Making
Dams, Drains,
Channels, etc.
L
Just a horse hitched to the runners and
someone to guide the handles, that is
all the aid necessary for working an
Earth Scoop.
These Scoops enter earth quite easily,
mouth being specially sharpened.
T?ody of Scoop is pressed cold from a
solid sheet of steel.
Earth Scoops are being widely used for
1 lam and Irrigation Channel making
at the 1 present, time, as they represent
a great saving in labor and money, and
can be relied on for satisfactory work-
Each Scoop is fitted with Steel
Runners and Detachable Handles.
Size.
Capacity.
Price.
3—3 Cubic feet
of Earth ...
32/6
5—5 Cubic feet
of Earth ...
35/-
If you have not received a copy of our latest Tool Catalogue, fill in and post
form below.
Please send we your 300-page Catalogue of Farm,
Flome, and Workshop Tools.
Name
Address
B.
£JSP lie rs oiVs)
Proprietary Limited,
554=66 & 582=88 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
ESTABLISHED 1860.
® ' ■ - • • -•
THE NEW WAY.
NELSON “VICTORY”
DISPENSER’S BAR ARM
Marks the Greatest Advance in Bar
Economy and Utility of recent years.
The problem of eliminating: waste Labor and Time-—of the reduction of present costs -these are
all solved by the introduction of the
BAR. ARM.
It is an elaborate Silver-plated Counter Fitting- ingeniously constructed —connected with jars
containing Lemonade and dinger-ale Syrup, enabling; the attendant to serve draught Aerated
Waters direct into Customer's glass or individual bottle.
“THE NEW WAV” —does away with Cases and bottles -always a trouble and in the way, and
gets right to business in a business-like manner.
It enables a more rapid service, Hygienic and Simple, and saves its cost in three months.
Your plant is incomplete—your money-saving, profit-making force clogged—without the aid of
the “Victory" Dispenser's Bar Arm.
FREE TRIAL.
To demonstrate whether it will save you money and place you on a more progressive footing
we will send one on trial, upon request, and demonstrate on your premises under actual
working conditions. The result will more than please yon.
As many of these are now in use all over the country, won't it pay you to at. least investigate?
Write, at once and let us get to business.
NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. LTD.,
219 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at TURBOT BUILDINGS, TURBOT STREET, BRISBANE.
SUTHERLAND & CO., 632=4 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
New Blue Amberol
Records for June
I MSS I
There is, as usual, a really good variety of entertaining
selections, all musical tastes being catered for.
You will note that the two charming concert, pieces are by
artists of the first rank, and the twenty-two regular records are
all good.
The Van Kps Trio offers a fine novelty in “Down Home Hag
One-Step.” It is the first time the banjo, piano and drum have
been successfully recorded as a combination.
Special attention is drawn to “Stick to Your Mother, Tom"
(Will Oakland and Chorus') ; “All on Account of You” (Irving
Oillette), Favorite Airs from Olivette (Edison Light Opera
Co.), “I Come Frae Scotland” (Billy Williams).
Have your Edison dealer play over any you fancy.
Blue Amberol Concert Records
‘2SI97 —Trovatore —Miserere ( Verdi) —Soprano
and Ten or, orcli. acc.
Anna'Case, Paul Allhouse & Male Chorus.
2SIO9 —Pescatori di Perle—Mi par d’udir
aneora (Bizet) —Tenor, in Italian.
Aristodemo Giorgini.
Blue Amberol Regular Records
2325 Fourth of July Patrol with Chorus—
New York Military Baud.
2326 — Fourth of July at Pumkin Center-
Talking. Cal. Stewart.
2348 —l’eppor Pot One-Step—For Dancing.
National Promenade Band.
2355 —Olivette, Favorite Airs from —Orch.
acc. Edison Light Opera Co.
2377 — Down Home llag One-Step—Banjo,
Piano and Drum —- Van Kps Irio.
2378 Me and Mandy Lee —-Orch. aee.
Arthur Collins and Byron G. ITarlan.
2380—Stick to Your Mother, Tom —Counter-
tenor, orch. acc. Will Oakland & Chorus.
2383 —Baby Mine —Soprano, orch. acc.
Elizabeth Spencer.
2380 —Mary, You’re a Little Bit Old Fash-
ioned—Tenor, orch. ace.
Walter Van Brunt.
23S7—Recessional—Sacred, orch. acc.
Edison Mixed Quartet.
2388 —Rose of the Mountain Trail —Vocal
obligato by Clementine de Vcre.—Orch.
acc. Vernon Archibald.
238!) —Grand Valse do Concert —Reed only.
Edison Concert Band.
2390 Everybody Loves My Girl—Tenor, oreh.
ace. Irving Kaufman.
2391 If They’d Only Move Old Ireland Over
Here —j-Tenor and Chorus —r
Ed. M. Favor and Chorus.
2392 -All on Account of You —Tenor, oreh.
acc. Irving Gillette.
2393 Hearts and Flowers —Violin, ’Cello,
Flute and Harp.
Venetian Instrumental Quartet.
2394 ’Twas in September—The Beauty Shop.
Conversational duet, oreh. acc.
Ada Jones and Billy Murray.
239a—When You Play in the Game of Love.
Tenor, oreh. acc. Manuel Romain.
23260 —Youth and Vigor March —
National Military Band.
23261 —When Shadows Gather —Tenor, oreh.
acc. Hughes Macklin.
23264—G ipsy A i rs —Zi geunerweisen—
Moss-Squire Celeste Orchestra.
23266 —I Come Frae Scotland—Comic Song,
oreh. acc. Billy Williams.
THOMAS A. EDISON, Ltd. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney,


SHE DARKENED HER
GREY HAIR.
A Well-known Lady Darkened Her Grey
Hair and Stimulated Its Growth by a
Simple Home Process.
She Tells How She Hid It.
A well-known society lady, who darkened
her grey hair by a simple home process, made
the following statement: “Any lady or gentle-
man can darken their grey or faded hair,
stimulate its growth, and make it soft and
glossy with this simple recipe, which they
can mix at home : To half a pint of water
add loz. of bay rum, 1 small box of Orlex
Compound and joz. of glycerine. These in-
gredients can be purchased at any chemist at
eery little cost. Apply to the hair every
other day until the grey hair is' darkened
sufficiently, then every two weeks. This
mixture relieves scalp troubles and is excel-
lent for dandruff and falling hair. It does
not stain the scalp, is not sticky or greasy
and does not rub off. It will make a grey-
haired person look 10 to 20 years younger.* [4
Marlin's Pills are sold by W. IT. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them!
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
WHEN in
BRISBANE
STAY AT
''CREStUN
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
head office-
-14 MARTIN PLACE, SVDNEY.
Victorian branch-
-36C = 6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QJEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
Uetamf *nt SntlUnq ouif r tmpoasjUt
45'
ljr tMt
Tn!Pi_tv-
enasculator*
mSAFETY"
Emulator
does away with all
risk of bleeding;.
Postage Free 45/-
My "Hints on Castrating”
enable any man used to Stock
to cut with the “Safety”
either Colts, Bulls, Rams, or
Hoars.
Other patterns of fA(! »
Bmaseulators from ’ lO 50
Zoeller’s “Handy”
Castrating Knife, 3/6
is a lovely bit of Steel.
Carl Zoeller,
246 Queen St.,
BRISBANE, Q.
Se rl for complete
Veterinary Catalog.
It's FREE i
“Rury”: Every now and again some
American paper, and occasionally an Australian one,
bursts out with a query as to whether animals have
souls. The discussion seems needless, but there can
be no doubt that our unsoaped ancestors treated
beasts as responsible persons. In 1457 a sow was
executed after due trial for eating- a baby. In 1314
a bull died, after trial, for the murder of a man.
In I3OS a sow was branded by order of the courts
for injury done to a child. At Basle, in 1:174, a
domestic rooster was solemnly indicted for the witch-
ery of having laid an egg-, and after an exhaustive
trial was condemned to be burned at the stake.
There are many such instances of death and torture
ot live stock after judicial procedure; but no treat-
ment meted out seems to have been quite as bad as
that which Australian railways inflict upon meat
coming to market. What crimes have our beef and
mutton committed that they should be treated worse
than four-footed felons? Vegetarians say that our
meat supply is mad, and therefore more or less
1' isonous before its death. Some of it has good
reason to be mad.
* * * #
“He!hip” : The par. by “Devilfish” (15.
29/4/’l5), re the octopus attacking a diver on the
big breakwater job at Burnie (Tas.), mentions one
diver only, whereas there were two in the mix-up—
fortunately for the one he mentions. They were
below forming a foundation for blocks. No. 1 was
using the sand-pump, and his mate was placing
bags of sand into position. The water being
milky at the time, they could not see each other
at work. Diver the first, requiring some assistance,
went over to where the other should have been, but
was surprised to find him in the loving embrace of
the octopus. Ihe creature had tried to link arms with
No. 2, with a certain amount of success, although the
man had fought his opponent with his free hand
and knife until it was seized. Diver No. 1 directed
the nozzle of the pump on to the ugly mass, got him
amidships, and counted him out. The 7 ft. Oin. of
beastliness was then sent ashore and threw in the
sponge four hours later.
CROWDED OUT.
DARLING : “No, I don’t want to sit on
Uncle’s knee.”
UNCLE: ?
DARLING: “’Cos when ’e brcarcs out ’e
pushes me off.”
‘‘Boronia” : I know a jarrali tree that has
keen struck by lightning' twice. If anybody lias a
tree about him that has been punched thuswise three
times, let him arise and perjure himself. Mean-
while. will somebody explain why a tree smitten by
lightning is so infernally difficult to burn?
AT DINNY REGAN’S WANE.
MAGUIRE . (reconu ting the virtues of the deceased): “Ah. twas a handy feller he was
wid his pen, so he was, teas poor Dinny.”
QUILTY (tearfully): “True for yez, indade, for there’s many a man of us has poor Dinny’s
“0-.C3.Y.”: For downright, don’t-care-a-
damn-ness commend me to the Australian Light
Hoiseman. While assisting in the driving of a mob
of horses to the N.S.W. camp at Liverpool a few
mornings ago, one Billjim had the bad luck to be
spi ead-eagled on the unfriendly roadway, owing to
his mount slipping in rounding-up a stray. Brought
to his senses 10 minutes later, gore from head to
leggings and a large hole punched in his head, his
first inquiry was: “W’ere’s me blanky ’orse?”
* * * *
“Pick’: The yarn of a recent Abo.-writer
regarding the experience of a submarine toiler when
in the grip of a devil-fish reminds me. We were
repairing' the Bellambi (N.S.W.)
•jetty, which had been partly demol-
ished by the Pacific in a rage. Our
first diver was incapacitated early in
the job. Our foreman didn’t fancy the
demeanor of the stranger who applied
for the place, but decided, after a
few questions, that the applicant had
a knowledge of diving, and sent
him down to work a trial shift. The
stream of bubbles constantly arising
in the same place soon convinced the
air-pipe tender that the new man was
not grafting, so a slate was lowered
to inquire what in Hades he was loaf-
ing for at £1 per hour. The slate
line was promptly dragged from the
tender’s hand, and time went on with
no communication from below. Event-
ually the second diver was ordered
down to investigate. ITe had hardly
disappeared off the ladder when his
haul-up signal was frenziedly applied,
and he came back the most thoroughly
disconcerted diver in Australia. 'The
moment he had set foot on the floor
of (lie pond he had been attacked
with a diver's knife by the unplea-
sant party be had dropped in to see.
", e blew up the enemy by pumping his dress full of
air, and, because raving- lunatics were not required
on that job, we parted on the shore.
* * -X-
-AJcXorth”: Amongst the many anomalies
Of Australia, which range from birds without wings
to a palaeolithic race rubbing shoulders with civilisa-
tion, there is a cuckoo which practises incubation, viz.,
(ho swamp pheasant (Centropus phasianus). When
an ordinary cuckoo reckons the time about ripe to
produce an eg'g or two it commandeers a vacant
domicile and leaves a few trade-marks for the
absent bird to hatch on its return. Mot so C. phasi-
anus - Although a true cuckoo this peculiar fowl
defies precedent and casts tradition to the dogs by
building its own nest and hatching its personal eggs.
1 p in far-north Australia the swamp pheasant is
very numerous, and its habitat extends a long
way south. The genus Centropus is found in Africa
also, but the species Phasianus is confined to this
continent.
“Ibis’ : If when “Yancy” asked how to
pasture cows on lucerne lie meant how to run them
in lucerne paddocks, the answer is easy—don’t. The
vegetation should be cut and fed to stock in a
separate paddock. In sunny weather let an hour
elapse between the cutting and feeding - , so that the
leaves just begin to wilt; in cloudy weather, two
hours. Never feed green lucerne with moisture on
it. In rainy weather give the cows dry hay or
ensilage. “Yancy” also asks if it is any use “put-
ting a bit in the beast’s mouth to act as a brake on
her chewing capacity.” When a cow is swollen up
with wind from eating wet green-feed a “bit” is
useful in the curing process. Get a piece of broom-
handle with rope attached in the manner of a
halter. Force the timber between the cow’s teeth
just as if you were putting on a bridle. This keeps
the beast’s mouth open, and ensures that any gas
rising from the interior will escape. A Maequarie-
street specialist advises a similar treatment for
flatulent humans, namely, to hold a pencil between
the teeth when belching wind. If the lips are kept
closed the rising wind is forced back into the stomach.
To induce the cow to blow off steam dip a piece of
rag in tar, tie it to a whip-handle and thrust it down
Blossom’s neck 18in. deep. In addition, take a
handful of bicarbonate of soda, mix with a pint of
water and pour down the throat. The puncture
method should be a last resource, though it is wonder-
ful how soon the wound heals up.
* * *
“Paddy M.”: The other day at Bolkulla
station (Q.) I saw a couple of stockmen, each
mounted on a bicycle, rounding up a mob of cattle.
I put the curiosity down as a sign of the drought
times, a bike being cheaper to feed than a horse, but
I wouldn’t care to try to cut out an old piker on the
wheeled mount. They’ll be mustering fats in an
aeroplane next.
* * * *
“Te Babarantiko”: Referring to cobbler,
bull rout; and fortescuc, described as “stinging”
fishes, it may be said that a sting from the barb of
every fish,, be the barb a continuation of the fins
oi otherwise arranged for protective purposes, is
veiy painful. Some, of course, more so than
others. In the tepid seas the stingers are le°'ion
Nor are they confined to the fish families. For
.nstance, there is the largest of the sea urchins.
, .* the red-bluish-brown porcupine spines erected
lie is often bulkier than a football. It is not neces-
sary to wake him up to get stung. I discovered that
once while trying how near I could bring my hand
to a, large specimen without disturbing him. While
yel; |i couple of inches off there was an exceeding!v
sw. t upward motion of the spines, and I retired
with; fingers plentifully punctured, each deep punc-
ture full to overflowing with a kind of sepia very
much like that of the octopus, but a little bluer in
color The punctures were extremely painful, and
the discoloration continued long after the pain had
gone and the wounds had healed.
“Ecldyson”: “ ’X' Pathrick bogat Patsy,
‘n’ Patsy begat Paddy, bedad,” said Flynn. “ 'Tis
Paddy Mann whose faithful chronicles is such would
fill a groat book wid diversion, ’n’ him no older than
the height iv yor log, a small bit iv a b'v wid tlx-
clear brain ’n’ a power iv mischief ve'd not find in
twinty Africky apes, nor cz manny goals neither.
He’s eight, maybe, wid the liair iv his own mother.
Marv, arid the eyes too. black ez the soot in the flues
iv Hell, though nothin’ would I say will discredit
Mary Mann at all, a thriflin’ kind woman wid a
pretty song to her lip ’rr’ the dancin’ ’n’ thrieks iv a
stage lady, ’n’ she Bungaree bred, wid no ixperience
iv such devilment. There’s a b’y wid Paddy Mann.
’Tis Willie Doyle’s own son, Phinny, red ez the
pokers iv Judy Isearriot, head stoker iv the Pit
widout end, ahmen. Irish ez the pigs iv ould Sligo,
’n* wid the burrnin’ hair curled to the head iv him
like springs iv hot copper. Behint me barrn they
are, the two iv them, condolin’, ’n’ cryin’ most
pityis, for they’ve both bin’ licked onmerciful bo
their respectif fathers fer bein’ cot wid the shpoil
iv Cameron’s orchard in their shirts, ’n’ Cameron
takin’ action troo the law agin their lagil guar-r-
-dians. The b’.vs are colloguin’, drainin’ iv the in-
justice iv a harrd world towarrds tliim can't hit
back, ’n’ sez Paddy Mann: ‘Would ut throuble ye
at all, Phinny, did yor father come by a tirribul
batin’, the like ho give you this day?’ * ’Twould
not,' sez Phinny Doyle. ‘l’d have him sittin’ on the
siuitty forge this minute, ’n’ me pullin’ the bellows ;
him in his thin throusers, too, would I that.’ ‘Well,
then,’ sez Paddy Mann, lavin’ off cryin’, ‘nothin’ is
here t’ stop veil frim runnin’ to your da wid the talc
iv my papa roarin’ in the yar-rd iv Corbets. wid a
desprit call t’ fight him. ’N’ while yer doin’ ut,’
sez he, ‘l’ll be gone t’ me father wid the world iv
yer pa callin’ on Patsy Mann t’ come if he dar, V
be bate agin the finec till he haven’t an eye t’ go
home wid.’ There’s no more said, but Phinny’s off
aist wid his end iv the avil plot, V Paddy’s off wist
t’ shtir his father wid false repor-rts iv Doyle’s wild
doin’s ’n’ great desire t’ disthrov one iv the Manns
before supper. Ye’ll mind the pair is rare ’n’ affec-
tionit enemies, ’n’ Doyle is never the better iv
whisky but he’s got a mastherful cravin’ t’ be pre-
sent et the death iv Patsy Mann; V vicy versa,
Mann in dthrink, ’r sober ez a sick sheep, will alwuz
he pulled wid a thread iv cobweb t’ the joyous in-
dulgence iv slautliering Doyle. Thrue enough, the
devilment iv Paddy Mann is spun out, ’n’ widin’ the
quarther iv an hour here is Doyle roarin’ in the
yar-rd iv Torn Corbet, licensed t’ sell fermented ’n’
spiritchus liquors, heapin’ disparagements on the
men iv Galway, ’n’ talkin’ Mann-slauther et the top
iv !| is pitch. Patsy Mann is coinin’ runnin’, but-
tonin’ his braces, him fresh frim his bed, bein’ he’s
night shift et the Mornin Starr. There’s no ar-rgu-
minfs ’r prearrangin’ iv the campaign. Doyle jumps
et Mann, ’n’ Mann receives him wid open arums, ’n’
bites his ear troo. ’Tis a grand fight, man, ’n’ glad
I am t in joy a. good scat on the fince bo ray sou iv
what I’ve liearrd, listenin’ in the barrn. Corbet jines
me later, ’n’ the roar iv battle soon brings the full
iv the fences, ’n’ a score more must contint thim-
selves wid a ground view. There’s no rules at all,
V nothin’s barred short iv the use of an axe, wid
the result both men is carried home widin the hour,
sorely done by. While the fight is ragin’ Paddy
Mann is dancin’ round, ineouragin’ his poor father
wid yells, ’n’ Phinny Doyle, redder than the Devil’s
self, is doin’ the same be his ould man. ‘Go in.
daddy!’ howls Paddy. ‘Hit him agin! Hit him",
will yeh?’ ’N’ ‘Good on yell, papa!’ sez Phinny,
screamin’. ‘Kick him in the pit, papa.’ ‘Ye have
him licked, daddy!’ squeals Paddy. ‘’Tis a lie, it
is,’ pipes Phinny; ‘me papa will ate him!’ ’Tis too
much fer the ould Irish in Paddy. He fastens to
his fellow conshpiratcr, ’n’ bumps his pimple iv a
nose wid a head harrd ez macadam, ’n’ when the
respectif fathers is done in V all out, the bould
ii ys, Paddy n Phinny, is upholdin’ the honor iv
the name ’n’ the glory iv their houses, tumblin’ in
too dirt, doin’ each other all the harrm maybe in
the three quarthers iv an hour. The b’ys is harrd
frinds agin be avenin’, ’n’ colloguin’ behint me
harm, fiiscoed wid their honorable scars; ’n’ ‘Hello,
Phinny Doyle!’ sez Paddy. ‘How’s yer ould man?’
‘He’s hurted,’ sez Phinny, ‘wid his ear loose on him,
and his eye shut fer a week ’r more, ’n’ him walkin’
be. a stick. . ’N’ what’s ailin’ your da, Paddy Mann?’
‘His nose is all over him, 3'e’d think,’ sez Paddy
Mann, ‘he have one ear blown up, ’n’ wid bruises
there’s no comfort to him lyin’ or sittin’. ‘Then we’re
even?’ sez Phinny. ‘Even we are,’ siz Paddy Mann
wid a great sigh. ‘But sorry am Ime poor father
will never know what sin Twas the Lord punished
him for.’ ”
•* ... *
“Ikikki ’; This is a solemn fact. At the
aboriginal camp, Taree, Manning ltiver (N.S.W.),
Ihere is a full-blood abo. who is a great fisherman,
his specialty being the capturing of lobsters which
live down in the rocks and along the foundations of
the breakwater at the river’s mouth. Tom just dives
into the splather of foam from the in-tumbling
breakers—r-he says it’s quite calm six feel down
swims about till he finds a lobster at home in a
oe\ ice, apd lobs it ashore. The best place to find
lobsters, according to Tom, is on the backs of ivol.be-
gong sharks, which also love to sleep among the
rocks. Tom doesn’t know why the lobsters sit on
the wobbegongs’ backs—whether it is because they
like the company, or because it’s a warm position, or
because the wobbegongs may put the lobsters in the
way of a feed, or because there are sea-lice which
worry wobbegong and the lobsters serve instead of dis.
infecting powder. Anyhow, when Tom knows there’s
a wobbegong about he dives on top of it, collects a
lobster and copies back to the breakwater in a hurry.
Taking candy off a kid is supposed to be simple, but
Tom says it’s nothing to pinching a lobster off a
shark.
THE COUNTRY VOLUNTEER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ob, I’m goin’ to the war,
An' I fhinno wot it’s for;
Out the Hogans an' the Sweenies,
An' the bloke from Tambourini’s,
They hev swore, they hev swore,
To hill the Kaiser on the jor !
So jest sling' yer errin', mother,
Why, Gordanunit, l would ruther
Be a-sluggin’ flamin' Germans,
lon llindenbergs an' Hermans,
Than be milkin’, milkin’, .milkin',
Oil me life for evermore.
’X' the lirrel girl at Burntown,
She has given me the turn-down,
’N’ the cows is ter’hle pore;
So I'm goin’ to the war,
The beastly, blanky war,
I loch dev Kaiser! S’elp me Gor!
Stop yer cryin’, won’t yer, mother?
Dry yer eyes, for I would ruther
Be a-sluggiri’ flamin’ Germans,
Aon Hindenbergs and Hermans,
Than be milkin’, milldn’, milkin',
Oil me life for evermore.
N..S.W.
KANGAROOKABI KHA.


gs
/
:■
...
■■
;tW ■ _ ,ri<. v ■&» • 'L
’ * n«i
’«# 3u‘ ~ 3 -
*fl
% •Ifr 1 ;-**''-;i
' - .
:4r- :
ii|
i
$
ps
K 9
gfjgf
%
ipi
. ...
SH;
■•::■-
<* ?' *
'ii—v'-.'- jis . - :rs a . . ,
;.■ - *
£®>£fei
«*v-
.; , :-r.
■■ •' J'.\ ’ :'■ .. .-•• -S
sw*Bl
11
.
..-v..
mmm .
A A.
'•«, >• I?:
m
m
m.


gs
AEGER OVERCOATS
The best that money can buy. Guar-
anteed pure wool, light but shower-
proof. In a good assortment of
smart shades, from £4/17/ (5, at your
Outfitter’s.
gs
AEGER SWEATERS
are pure wool. Like all “JAEGER”
garments, they are the best < f
their kind. Obtainable in numbers
A. 8.5., 581 S, XS, 148, 28, RIOS, with
roll collars, from 10/0. Also a variety
with turned-down collar and Coat
Sweaters. Style X'o. RIOS, as illus-
trated, 13/3.
AEGER
r
V
ii)
SOCKS and
STOCKINGS
“JAEGER” Hosiery is comfortable,
durable, and of exceptional value these
times, when wool yarns are getting
scarcer every day. Ladies’ Stockings,
from 2/6. Men’s Socks, Plain Pdack,
from 1/9 and 2/- Black, with clocks,
from 2/6. Children’s Sox, in Navy
and Tan, from 1/3. £ Socks, from
1 / 6.
AECER DRESSING GOWNS
A nice assortment of these always
obtainable, in good colors and de-
signs, They are the acme of Comfort,
and are wonderful value.
Prices range from £3/10/- up for
Ladies’, and from 45/- for Gentle-
men’s Dressing Gowns.
THE J4ECER C 9 IS BRITISH
JAEGER SPECIALTIES ARE OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
gs
Hats capS
AND
HELMETS
of all First-class Hatters
throughout the Commonwealth.
The name TRESS stands for the height
-9
of English fashion and quality.
Makers —Tress & Co., Ltd., London, Eng.
Wholesale Agents —Cox & Mailer,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane
and Christchurch,
gs
3m
mm
/
lip
ims&i
wimSm
vfsSS
Mm
BW@I-.
mmmrn
wsftSlSß&tL-m
'
m<'
AiT’Xt-i
?m
;kvT
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
KYNOCH “P.G.” (perfectly gas-
tight) CARTRIDGE —the highest
class imported into Australasia. It is a
superb cartridge for match shooting, being
used by the best shots. The specially-deep
brass head ensures perfect ejection. 2f
inches long.
Always specify KYNOCH "P.G.”
when you want the very best.
All British
Manufacture.
2]
C*
The “movie” men at Hobart seem to have
side-stepped the edict against Sunday night
shows. Legislation confers, power on the
Mayor to hand out permission for these
shows ; also to censor the films. The present
Mayor refused permits and, as the shows car-
ried on as usual, a prosecution followed.
The defence set up that the Attorney-General,
not being a solicitor, but an ex-bookseller
and stationer, had no right to interfere'. The
P.M. was worried over the plea, but finally
said "guilty—fined 30 bob.” Then the film
people started an appeal, which will go on to
the High Court; but the High Court won’t
reach Hobart for about another year, and
the Mayor holds his job for only twelve
months, the managers reckon that a. new
man may happen before the case is due for
trial, and that if they have luck it won’t be
tried at all.
A Melbourne weekly dwells at length on
the fact that “Fred Niblo, the actor, has a
sweet tooth.” Apparently this is printed to
explain how it is that Mr. Niblo has been
able to put up with the measureless helpings
of Australian “jam” that have been heaped
on his plate.
Workmen pulling down an old house in
Richmond, once the property of George Cop-
pin, found a buried newspaper. A theatrical
item was marked with blue pencil, and oppo-
site the words, “Mr. Coppin would appear
to be losing his persuasive power as a
comedian,” was written the terse note, “This
man is a liar!”
At a Melbourne war-fund matinee, when
various gifts were to be disposed of by an
eminent actor, a woman turned up at the
stalls entrance with a wickerwork cradle. She
explained that she was giving the cradle for
the Belgians, and was turned away sans cere-
mony. She was not to be so easily
thwarted, however, and five minutes later
appeared at the stage door. This time she
got on behind. “I want the actor-gentleman to
sell it for the Belgians,” she said, rocking
the cradle. “You see, the paper invited us
to give whatever we equlclspare, and as my
husband’s gone to it was
a pity to waste it.” rpoiitely dis-
missed, and the performaneffir was going
smoothly when a diversion was created at the
circle entrance. It was the indomitable
female with the baby’s bed explaining to
an usher that, as her husband had gone to
the war, she would be delighted to contribute
a second-hand cradle in excellent condition
for the benefit of the poor Belgians.
“Kaniva”: “Melb” (B. 20/5/T5) is in
error in stating that Coppin’s Olympic, the
Iron Pot, opened in 1855 with Brooke’s
performances. As a matter of fact.
Wizard Jacobs opened the theatre on June
11, and ran for six weeks. It was on July
30 that Brooke came along with “The Lady
of Lyons,” with Fanny Cathcart, Mrs.
Brougham, and Heir, Coppin and Younge
in the cast. On the opening night “To
Oblige Benson” was played for the first
time in Melbourne.
“Peri Winkle” : The latest recruits to the
army of irrigationists in Northern Victoria
are J. and N. Tait, the entrepreneurs. They
are reported to have purchased the “wet”
farm that Elwoocl Mead bought for his son
before he had a thought of skipping back
to the land of Uncle Sham. The Taits’
manager will be George Jones, a Cali-
fornian who has done some good irrigation
work in the Shepparton and Rochester
areas.
“Norbell”: Years ago I was touring with
Alfred Dampier’s Dramatic Co., “Robbery
Under Arms” being our hope and pride. ’We
struck one hamlet which had been notorious
when bushranging was a popular industry.
Everyone in the decayed place was related
to some lamented outlaw or was a “sympa-
thiser.” In such an atmosphere we thought
to knock the place silly with “Robbery,”
and after the show strolled into the bar
with a modest air of conscious merit. “How
did you like the play?” one of our gang
asked. “Not worth a damn!” said the boss,
as he bailed us up for a shilling a time.
“That gold-escort wasn’t stuck up on an ’ill
at all—it wos in an ’oiler!” Another
bushranger, with birds’-nests in his vermi-
celli whiskers, remarked: “The cove that
played Jim Marston don’t know ’ow to ’old
a flamin’ stockwhip!’’ A third desperado
observed critically that “Damper” didn’t
know the first principles of humpin’ a bluey.
Nothing had pleased them. The next
night we perpetrated the old horror, “East
Lynne.” Dampier, our strong draw, was
not even in the bill—he loathed the piece.
After the dismal nightmare we hardly
dared to face our critical pub. In the back
parlor , our landlord claimed us with tears
ia his voice. “Boys, ’ave one along o’ me,”
he almost sobbed. “W’y didn’t yous play
that iarst night, instid of such damn non-
sense as ‘Robbery Under Arms’?” And a
chorus of tearful bushrangers concurred
that “East Lynne” was “just real life.”
“.Stargazer”: We were discussing the
merits, and demerits of vaudeville artists in
the course of a cocktail in a city bar, and
Buskin had hinted at a book of his which
was to deal mainly with the bad effects the
music-hall profession has upon human
morals. “They’re a curiously graceless and
ungrateful lot,” said Buskin. Then the
variety manager chipped in, looking sadly at
his glass. "You're right,” he said, “they’ve
done me many a bad turn.”
Madge Titheradge and Nina Boucicault,
both beloved of Australian playgoers, are
appearing with George Alexander at the .St.
James’s, London, in "The Panorama of
Youth”—a Yankee version of the theme that
Pinero exploited in “The Second Mrs. Tan-
queray.” Of the two Madge scores the big-
ger success; but the thing is not likely to be
a stayer.
“The Camel”: There are a lot of things
“M.P.Av” (B. 20/5/T5) doesn’t know
about elephants. During 30 years’ experi-
ence among those large cattle I never heard
of a "dope” elephant that he talks so much
about. With regard to Empress, I doubt if
that lady even knew what a dope was.
Empress was connected with more shows in
the U.S.A. than any other elephant, but
never with Sells Bros.’ circus'. True, she
did have a record of many deaths. I was
first introduced to her about IS,No at the
Obrion show, and I was with the Davis show
when she tried to push her keeper through
the paving on the streets of New Orleans.
Also, I was with the Pop Corn George
show when she tried to kill Colonel Geo.
Hall and only managed to cripple him for
life; with the Nickel Plate show when she
killed her keeper. Blacky Scott, in Chicago :
and with the Hall show when she threw her
keeper, Shay (15 stone), out of a moving
railway truck near Cineinnatti. But she
was always friendly towards women and
children. The only dope Empress ever got
was whisky, and that was merely to keep her
warm on cold nights. I ought to know, be-
cause when she and I were with shows we
used to pray for cold weather. .V nightcap
for Empress meant at least a gallon of
whisky, of which she got half, and we drank
her health with the remainder. Neither
"M.P.A.” nor any other person ever knew
a circus elephant frightened of a dog. On
the contrary, they look upon dogs as their
best friends, for the reason that they keep
rats and mice away. Rats and mice am
the things elephants are most afraid of.
I know many elephants that would tear
their boarding-house down if left at night
without a dog.
“J.F.H.” : B. Macdonald Hastings, who
scored a big London success with “The New
Sin,” is a pressman who served an appren-
ticeship as reporter. Consequently his new
Play? “Advertisement,” produced at the
Kingsway, was expected to exhibit the inside
knowledge of the man who knows the ropes.
But it doesn’t. It deals with the domestic
affairs of a Jew who has concocted a bogus
"Stamina! Syrup,” which lit l booms with
great success. He and his Christian wife
have a bogus son who is killed at the war.
and he. contrives to work into the obituary
notice a puff of a new hair-restorer. This
scene has given great offence to London
Jewry, and another in which a reporter
accepts a furtive fiver from the pushful
Israelite is equally resented in Fleet-street.
"Jwosp”: Hostilities have commenced in
New York. Managers and the critics are
fighting vigorously, and the Supreme Court
has been called in as referee. After Alan
Dale, the man whose criticisms were as
gentle as a steam-hammer, had been defeated
and heaved from his job, the managers looked
round for more heads. The Shuberts put on
“Taking Chances,” and the critics roasted
the play. A few weeks later Alexander
Woolcott, the New York Times critic, was
refused admission, despite his having paid
in good dahlars. He went to the courts
and got a temporary injunction forcing the
Shuberts to let him in. The action then
went on, and when the mails left had not
been decided, though both sides had consoli-
dated their positions. In the meantime the
Shuberts have drawn another combatant into
the fray, by excluding William Eaton, critic
of the Sun. who had carved up “Taking
Chances.” The managers who loathe criti-
cism are really out to stifle the critic and
replace him by the obliging writer of advts.
“Mujik”: What place has the German
hitherto played in the drama and bellow of
modern times? So far as a careless memory
will serve to guide me, he has been almost
invariably presented as a jovial, rotund per-
son, smoking a large pipe, with a great love
for the kiddies, and passionately attached to
peace and righteousness. There was the old
Hun in “Struck Oil,” Hans who toiled as a
boatman, a captain named Fritz, old Rip Van
Winkle, and scores of others, all lovable,
patient and simple. I can’t for the life of
me remember a German being the nigger in
the domestic woodheap. Hardtfelt in “Jim
the Penman” was an Austrian, wasn’t he?
Why is all this so? John Bull’s Examiner
of Plays may be to blame, for it can easily
be guessed that dramas with a German as
the persecutor of Virtue would have been
viewed with a sour eye by exalted circles in
England up till not very long ago. Are Aus-
tralian bellerbuilders taking the tip? A play
with a Hun revealed in the act of burying
the infant heir to Jackeroo Hills station, and
foiled by the timely arrival of a barrel-organ
attached to a Roman who turned out to .be
Grand Duke Nicholas in disguise, would “go
big.” especially if the last act showed the
youngster, grown to manhood, going down in
a submarine to find the missing will.
THE SPECIAL CASE OF HAFIZ.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hafiz, the Persian poet, fasted 40 days and
nights in order to gain true inspiration. On the
fortieth night Abraham appeared to him and dowered
him with the gift of song.
Hafiz dreaming on his hill,
Hunger-wild through days of fast,
Counted half the stars, and still
Wondered if his dream would last.
Forty days and forty nights
Was the vigil he must keep,
Breadless, scorning all delights,
Till he slept the wonder sleep.
Forty days! The last was come.
Drowsy evening fell and past;
Black bat’s wing and beetle's hum;
.Stars were o’er his head at last.
Midnight made its chill salaam,
Slumber held him in its deep ;
Lightly Father Abraham
Slept full-bearded through his sleep.
Strange words came upon his ear,
Stranger music swept his soul;
Morning on her sandals clear
From the Indian mountains stole.
Up he sprang refreshed and strong,
Felt the wind-sweet in his hair;
His the gift of living song,
His the singer's looe to wear.
Persia heard his magic voice,
lvieh as roses bathed in wine,
Made him laureate of her choice,
Hailed Hie thing he wrought divine.
Forty days of hunger bought
For that-bard of ancient days
Ail he all he sought—
Comfort, casliU'aiid friends and praise.
Simple now his task appears.
In these days of prose and sham
Bards may fast for forty years
Without help from Abraham.
N.S.W.
PAT O'MAORT.


vh
M
Cranny '
(Copvfi’icnTCD)
Hacking Coughs.
For Hacking Coughs that rob you of your sleep till your system becomes so run down that you
are in grave danger of Pneumonia or Consumption, the kind that almost tear you to pieces, that make your
head ache, your throat sore and inflamed take Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. It soothes and heals the
inflamed air passages, stops the tickling in the throat, and by its tonic effect enables you to throw off the disease.
© IS B Mt?
% COUGH REMEDY i
(MADE IN AUSTRALIA)
is different from ordinary cough medicines—it both soothes and heals, so that the affected parts are restored
to a healthy condition and the danger of a future attack is removed. I firmly believe that it is the best
and most reliable preparation ever produced for coughs and colds.’
tyjouKiJln JfeaJcX
•«» oy »“ •
Dr. Falliere’s Flesh-F ood
to all Thin or Undeveloped Women.
ANY WOMAN without full bust development lacks the one essential that creates a perfect
appearance. Lack of proper bust development, hollow cheeks and “salt-cellars” quickly take
from a woman the bloom and freshness of healthy womanhood. Misfortune may have been
your lot in so far as natural development is concerned, but science lias found a way to correct
your deficiency. Even though you have never been full-bosomed, and have been attenuated ail
your life, if you suffer from no wasting disease your bosom can be fully developed and your
weight increased to normal There are, to-day, hundreds of women who. were once thin.
flat-bosomed, hollow-cheeked and generally scraggy in appearance, and suffering the effects of
ansemia and defective digestion, who are now, for the first time in their lives, healthy, full-
bosomed and pink-cheeked and enjoying the full vigor of robust womanhood, as the result of a
few weeks under our wonderful treatment.
Let us Send You Scores of Letters like this one!
.Manager, — Gympie, Queensland.
Dear Sir, —As a nurse I was very interested in your Flesli-Food treatment, and was greatly sur-
prised at the wonderful results in my case. When I first wrote you I was only skin and bone, and
I have good cause to he thankful that 1 wrote you for a free sample, for I feel certain now that
I am one of the very best advertisements you could possibly have, as I am developed in every
way satisfactory to myself, and I have waited a good while to prove if it was lasting in its effect,
and I am now glad to say that your splendid treatment has done absolutely all you claimed it
would, my weight and measurements being ample. — I am, yours gratefully,
MRS. E. WING ROVE.
In many cases bust measurements have been increased by over 10in., and the gain in actual
weight —equally distributed over the body in generally deficient cases —has been over five
pounds weekly. Some other cases have shown an increase in weight of even a pound a day.
The average bust increase desired is about Gin., and is readily accomplished. Guarantee given
in every case accepted.
SAMPLE FREE !
TREATMENT
communications
M e publish an interesting book on the subject of attenuation
FREE Off nTiATM^ eVelopment ’- o Y ill i send same and a SAMPLE
I'LLL Ob CHARGE upon receipt of 2d. stamp to pay part postage. All
are treated as strictly confidential. Use the following Coupon.
(5802.)
£
4*
m
wmm
gigsgpW:
xxx
m
mam
sKfasa ivmmfi.
mm
m
I
CUT OUT THIS COUPON •
Fallicrc Co., 1103 Ash Street, Sydney.
Stamps herewith. Please send Free
Trial Sample of Flesh-Food and Free Book
to
A ame
Ail dress ....'»
Burx., 17/6/'l5.


8-1 )ay Cabinet Clock, inlaid Mahoi
and half-hours on Cathedral-tone Gong.
£2.
ganv, strikes hours
Height, ID inches.
Presentation 8-Day Marble Clock, Enamel Dial, visible
escapement, strikes hours and half-hours on Cathedral Tone Gong.
Height, 12f inches. £6/10/-
Clocks
Thousands
to choose
from
at
A. SAUNDERS
Marble Bedroom Clock, 30-hour Lever
movement. Fancy Dial. Height, 6 inches.
15/6.
Clocks
in every
Style and
Design
at
A. SAUNDERS
SEND
FOR
OUR
FREE
CATALOG.
400-Day Clock, polished Mahogany Case, Gold Lacquered
Fittings, reveling Pendulum, Glass Shade to protect move-
ment—dust-proof. Requires winding only once in the year.
Height, 15| inches. £4/10/-
KINDLY
ADD
FREIGHT
WHEN
ORDERING.
A. SAUNDERS,
Polished Oak-cased Cabinet Clock, s-day move-
ment, strikes hours on Cathedral Gong, half-hours on Bell.
Height, 11 1 inches. 21/-
8-Day Enamelled Iron Clock, Antique Bronze Finish, richly
decorated, chimes hours and halt-hours oh Cathedral-tone Gong,
Porcelain Dial, visible escapement. Height, 12] inches; width,
15J inches. £3/10/-
807-617 GEORGE STREET (Opp. RAILWAY STATION), SYDNEY.
THE: LONDON BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAU
SUBSCRIBED CAPITAU
PAID-UP CAPITAU
RESERVE FUND AND UNDIVIDED PROFITS
RESERVE UIARIDITY OF PROPRIETORS
..£2,886,067 10 0
.. 1,276,747 10 0
.. 660,785 0 0
.. 351,487 18 3
.. 606,962 10 0
ROBERT JAMES BRACK. Esq.
GORDON HOTLY CAMPBELL, Esq.
ANDREW CUNNINGHAM, Esq.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
DAVID FINLAISON, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. Sir ARTHUR lAWLEV, G.C.S.I.
EDWARD VINCENT REID, Esq.
GEORGE SLADE, Esq.
DIRECTORS* REPORT
Presented at the Ordinary General Meeting of Proprietors, held at Winchester House, Old Broad Street, E.C. (Hall Wo. 174), at 12 o’clock noon, on Wednesday, May 5, 1015.
The Directors present their Report accompanied as usual by Audited Accounts for the year ended December ol last.
The Profit as shown by the Annual Statement, after deducting management charges, all
taxes, including the Federal Land Tax and State Government Land Taxes, providing
for all bad and doubtful debts (no provision being necessary for investments at
After payment of the above Dividend the Preference Shares will have received a
full dividend at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum for live years, and henceforth, in terms
of the Bank’s Articles of Association, cease to be entitled to any preference or priority in
respect of dividend.
During the year branches have been opened at Ultima in Victoria, and at Roma
Street r Brisbane, in Queensland.
The Directors retiring under the provisions of the Bank’s Articles of Association,
are Mr. Robert James Black and Mr. David Finlayson, who, being eligible, offer them-
selves for re-election.
The Bank’s Auditors, Messrs. Price, Waterhouse & Co., retire, and again offer them-
selves for re-election.
The transfer books are closed from April 21 to May 5, botli days inclusive.
Warrants for Dividends, less Income Tax, will be issued, payable on and after the
7th May next, to those Shareholders whose names appear on the Register on the 21st
instant.
By Order of the Board, W. H. BARBER.
Loudon Manager and Secretary.
71 Old Broad Street, London, E.C., April 22, 1015.
BALANCE SHEET, 31st DECEMBER., 1914.
Authorised Capital:— LIABILITIES.
01,603 Ordinary Shares of £22 10s.
150,000 Preference Shares of £lO..
Subscribed Capital:—-
49,103 Ordinary Shares of £22 10s. . . . . £1,104,817 10 0
Less Calls in Arrear. . . . . . £952 10 0
Reserve Liability. . . . . . 613,757 10 0
. . £1,386.067 10
. . 1,500,000 0
being £lO per share paid
Amount prepaid by Trustees in respect of Reserve
Liability
17,193 Preference Shares of £lO, fully paid
£2,886,007 10 0
Capital Paid-up T-. .. • • ■ ■ • • • • • • • • 668,832 10
Reserve Furitl . . . . . . • • • • .. • • • • 300,000 0
Balance of undivided Profit . . . . . . . . • • • • 51,487 18
Deposit and Current Accounts .. . . .. ..
Bills payable and other liabilities (including reserves for doubtful debts)
Notes in circulation (secured as pci’ contra)
£1,020,320 8
5,151,571 13
683,357 16
7,155 10
£6,862.405 7 8
ASSE rs.
Coin, Bullion, Cash Balances, Government Notes and Notes of other
Banks
Money at Call and Short Notice in London
Investments and Bills Receivable on hand and in transit ..
Investments held by Trustees against Notes in Circulation
£1,257,087
35,000
905,075
12,500
Bills discounted, advances and other assets
Bank premises..
19 10
0 0
2 8
0 0
£2,209,663
. . 4,378,277
.. 274,165
2 6
5 2
0 0
£6,862,405 7 8
STATEMENT OF PROFITS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31st DECEMBER, 1914.
liitlai ice of undivided Profit, ns per last Report ...
Less: Dividends for the six months ended December 31, 1013..
Profit in London and,in Australia after providing for interest due and accrued on current dcpoists, deduct-
ing rebate on bills, and making provision for bad and doubtful debts
Less: Salaries and general expenses in Australia —including remuneration to local directors, rent,
rates, repairs, stationery, travelling, etc . . • ■ • • • •
Salaries and general expenses in London—including directors' and auditors' fees, rent, repairs,
stationery, telegrams, etc.. . . .
Land Tax, Income Tax and Tax on Note Issue . . . .
Deduct: Interest at 41 per cent, on Transferable, Deposit Receipts . .
Transfer to Reserve Fund . . . . • .
Grant to Officers’ Provident Fund .. .. . , .. ... ... .
Less: Interim Dividend paid November 3,
1914.. ... ' -V <•: ' •.'
Balance of undivided Profit, as above
13.011
1.1.988
£201,002 11 9
£43.978 12 11
18.907 1 9
£25,071 11 2
£89,184 15 6
0
117,484 2 8 83,578 9 I
5,184
30.000
'2-000
108,650 0 3
37,154. 6 1
£71.465 14 9
19.977 15 11
£51.4 87 18 3
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
Mo certify that we have obtained all the informa-
tion and explanations we have required. We have to
report that we have examined the above Balance-Sheet
with the books at the head office and the returns
from the branches, and in our opinion it is properly
drawn lip so as to exhibit a true and correct view of
the state of the Bank’s affairs, according to the best
of our information and the explanations given to
us, and as shown by such books and returns.
PRICE, AVATERHOUSE & CO., Auditors.
London, April 10, 1915.
n. FINLAY SON
GORDON 11. CAMFBELL -
GEORGE SLADE J
Directors.
H. BARBER, London Manager and Secretary.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
ri&ziZW
A. i/hJiii!/ 1 ] ih ,
wit
i i ill I i
i l /I/ f
/
/Sat-
gd
i'
n
Vi
o
KV
w
&s
<i
LX
Cv
PZ
&
SUs
3
-
’SfeSsSS
///
«st^
&e
S&E
; -5^
3^
x;
Pf<
A
fc'-'W
r
&
y
of
*gn
:w
sfe
j^-V
&
>
V
2?Sk
22?
rs^
OZ
■££
sars*
f N
x>
((
Cobra,” Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Does some
Chaperoning too.
If the “COBRA
Bear should stray
From his martial
Job away,
Chunder soon
Gets on his track
And with promptness
Hauls him back.
Bears and boots
Both lose their shine
If they stay out
After nine.


Model 80
_
5-Passenger Touring Car,
£395
gs
Model 81
5-Passenger Touring Car,
£.345
| 'HE Overland is a car of remarkable
j safeness and endurance because it has
extraordinary strength in every part.
We supply forgings in the Overland at
many points where castings are used in
other cars. Forgings are stronger and
lighter. They cost the average smaller
manufacturer so much more that he cannot
afford to use them. They cost us no more
because we make so many Overland cars
that we can afford to own and operate our
own drop forging plant.
In many cars the front axle is made of
two pieces, welded together. The front
<r
CSlTr>
axle of the Overland is drop forged from
a single piece. This greatly increases
strength.
In like manner, the Overland is
designed and built throughout to withstand
greater strains than it will ever receive. It
is not an “assembled ” car, made of parts
built by various other manufacturers.
Almost every part of the Overland is built
by rhe Willys Overland Company. Its
strength and unusual endurance have been
amply proved by years of use on the worst
of roads.
The Overland is on display at the local
show rooms.
Silent, powerful motor
Instrument board on cow' dash
Individual front seats, high backs
Tonneau, long and wide
Genuine leather upholstery, deep & soft
Windshield, rain-vision, ventilating type,
built in
Crowned fenders
Electric starter—Electric lights
High-tension magneto
SPECIFICATIONS—MODEL 80.
Thermo-syphon cooling
Five-bearing crankshaft
Rear axle, floating type
Springs, rear, 94 elliptic, extra long,
underslung
Wheelbase 114 inches (289.56 c.m.)
Large tyres, 35 x 4% inches
Beautiful dark-green body finish, with
ivory striping; nickel and aluminium
trimmings
Demountable, detachable rims—one
extra
Right-hand drive
Electric engine starter and generator;
electric head, side, dash and tail
lamps; storage battery; mohair top
and top boot; top curtain box; wind-
shield; speedometer; electric horn;
robe rail; foot rest; tyre-carrier in
rear; full set of tools; tyre-repair kit,
jack and pump.
AUSTRALIA :
E. G. EAGER d SON LTD., 299 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
THE CO-OPERATIVE MOTOR SOCIETY LTD., 45 Hunter Street, Sydney.
THE KELLOW-FALKINER MOTOR CO., 206 Russell Street, Melbourne.
MURRAY AUNGER LTD., 60 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
WITTMAN MOTOR SUPPLY CO., 1056 Hay Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN d CO., Hobart, Tasmania.
NEW ZEALAND:
HATR/CK <& CO., Wellington and Wanganui.
NEW ZEALAND FARMERS’ CO-OP. ASSOCIATION, Christchurch.
f" ' ■■ -v-
-y|ni|y
MODEL 80
The Willy Company, Toledo, Ohio, U„
Manufacturers of the famous Overland Delivery Cars. Full information on request.


HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
THE BEST REMEDY IN THE WORLD FOR
COUGHS, COLDS & CROUP
ONE DOSE of this Wonderful Remedy will very often prove
sufficient if taken at the commencement ot a Cold; but the class
of case that HEARNE’S Bronchitis Cure fairly Revels in is one
that the Ordinary Remedies have Failed to make any impression
upon. Herein lies the Real Value of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure—a
Medicine that can be given with Perfect Safety and Complete
Confidence to the Youngest Children and very Aged sufferers as it
does Not and has Never contained any Poison or Harmful Drugs.
We, the Manufacturers, absolutely Guarantee this.
Price 2/6 and 4/6
If you cannot obtain
HEARNE’S from your
local Chemist or Store,
send direct to—
VT^
15
■Y.Y
/ \
?“
%
i
$
(tty
mi
mi
3S
Va
jm
\
7///
m
\
\
v \\
aJp
hum
‘lV\
’zi mm
£%r
%
sw>
■
?'/A
m
m
(
irfj ii
«n
k W. G. Hearne
& Co. Ltd.,
GEELONG,
Victoria.
"Dustv”: "Joy riding” in the boss’s car
or a car surreptitiously "borrowed wi
Imp a good .leal m -N S Wate» when tte
Motor Traffic Amendment .Act, DU become,
better known. Section \I lays down that
••any person who drives or uses any motoi
vehicle without first obtaining the . consei t
of the owner thereof shall be guilty of an
offence under this Act.” The maximum fine
is £20 —quite enough to make the amusement
unpopular. Half the money goes to the in-
former, who, in nine cases out of 10, will a
the owner of the car. True, the damage done
may be far in excess of half the fine; but it
the joy-rider is worth powder and shot, the
damage may be sued for in the civil courts,
and, if lie is not, then the half fine is so
much to the good.
“Kuaka” : The difference between British
methods and those of the gentle German was
agreeably impressed on the Samoans as soon
as the new administration down here got
into working order. The Germans had waged
war on the rhinoceros beetle, which riddles
and ruins the cocoanut plantations, and
under pain of awful penalties each native
village had to deliver a stipulated quantity
of dead beetles per week. The British when
they came into occupation saw the obvious
unfairness of expecting anyone to do a tiling
like that just for the good of bis country
and, maybe, liis own crop, so a great weekly
beetle competition was instituted, prize os.
—enough to keep a native village in festivity
for days. Beetle-hunting at once leapt into
favor as the national sport. Millions of dead
insects were presented at headquarters, and
Monday, “Beetle-day,” began to have the
same thrill about it as Cup Day in Mel-
bourne. The winning village is bathed for a
week in glory, and the horny pest is the only
one concerned that wishes the Germans in
power again.
“Flinderino”: The first electric tramway
in Victoria was a line from Box Hill to
Doncaster. It started running in 1889. The
equipment was imported by the Groat
Southern Electric Co.; it was on show at
the Centennial Exhibition in Melbourne,
and then passed into the hands of the syndi-
cate which laid down the line. At that time
Doncaster was a favorite resort for after-
noon trippers from Melbourne, one of the
attractions being the view of Hobson s Bay
and the metropolis from a wooden tower on
the heights. The trams kept going while
the novelty lasted, but gradually the traffic
dwindled until the fares hardly paid grease
jiiid For ci tirno tliG concern wns
leased to the manager for the, sum of out
shilling a week, but even then he could not
keep the wheels running for long. In 189(1.
after seven years’ trial, the show gave up
the ghost: but the tower remained a land-
mark until last, year, when it was pulled
down.
From “The Oldest Inhabitant” :
This takes you back a few steps. Mrs. E. J. 11.
Knapp, still living in North Sydney, is the widow of
one of the first surveyors in Australia. In the very
early ’3o's Mr. Knapp had an office in King-street
and a home on Darlinghurst Heights. He married
Miss Aarons, the North Sydney lady who is now
approaching her century. In 1841 Chief Justice
Dowling appointed a Board to survey and value the
Woolloomooloo and Surry Hills estates, and this
Knapp was already so well advanced in official esti-
mation that he was appointed chairman. Incident-
ally, the values were fixed at from £8 to £3 per
foot. Also by the way, the second-oldest house in
Woolloomooloo still stands, in William-street. It
was built in 1842 by John Thompson, Deputy Sur-
veyor-General. The first house was John Palmer’s,
John being the original owner of the estate. It
stood within 100 yards of William-street, in what is
now Palmer-street, hut has long since disappeared.
“D.” : llow nonsensical is Germany’s talk
of a trade blockade against Britain! In
1807 Napoleon, with Russia, Austria, what
is now the German Empire, Italy and the
Netherlands behind him, issued the Milan
edict, which laid down that all commerce
and correspondence with Britain was illegal,
and all merchandise or property belonging to
English subjects, or of English manufacture,
or which iiad been produced in English
colonies was lawful prize and contraband of
war. It was a humorous commentary on
Napoleon’s effort that Britain exported more
(namely, £39,700,000 worth of goods) in. 18l)<
than it had ever done in its commercial his,
tory. But if it is idiotic of Germany to .laTk
of blockading Britain, it may also be futile
to talk of keeping the necessaries of life out
of Germany. Such a thing has never been
done. It is doubtful if it ever will be done
so long a's there are folks willing to make a
bit out of the needs of their neighbors.
“Hock K." : So Asquith is dead. Says a
sub-leader in the Age (5/G/’l5) :
Mr. Asquith has stood for seven years at the helm
of state, while the skies have presaged every kind
of tempest.... For 30 years' or more, he was always
talking about retirement, hut as each new call came
upon his exhaustless energies he sprang to the post
of command. Neither work nor worry appeared to
find anv vulnerable spot in his defences, lie died
at 89, having been full of work for seventy or more
active years.
Of course it was the lino fiend, assisted by
his friend the ‘'bulk" hand, aided and
abetted bv that scoundrel the "reader."
Anyhow, that’s what my friend the leader-
writer was trying to say without adjectives
when I left him : but the words were stick-
ing in his gullet.
There’s money in telling the public when
the next train starts for Sloshington-on-
Slosh. The principal proprietor of the Eng-
lish Bbadshaw’s Guide. Charles Black-
lock, recently took train for eternity without
consulting any timetable' at all. and his will
lias been proved at £189.094.


FOR
TOURISTS.
HOTEL DANIELL,
BRISBANE*
Tariff from
\l2/6 v
Overall, McCray, Ltd.
44 Campball Street
SYDNEY.
SPECIALTY
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS-Deep and Shallow-
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES.
Large Stocks also on hand—Samson Windmills, Galvanised Water Pipe and Fittings
Sheep and Cattle Troughing, Pumps, &c. Send for Catalogue.’
gs
EVAN Si
ANTISEPTIC
THROAT
Past/ffes
gs
THESE wonderfully efficacious Throat Pastilles are made to a
formula of the Liverpool Throat Hospital, and act like a
charm in keeping the voice and throat in perfect condition
for Droionged vocal exercise.
Used by the leading singers throughout the world.
The celebrated Madame Tetrazzini writes : “ 1 thank you for
the boxes of Evans Pastilles sent me, which I find excellent and
efficacious.
Sole Manufacturers
EVANS SONS LESCHER, & WEBB, Lfd., LONDON.
As!: for “EVANS ” Pastilles and see you get them.
GREAT RELIEF.
FROM CONSTIPATION, AFTER SHORT
COURSE OF DR. MORSE’S INDIAN
ROOT PILLS.
“I was recommended by a relative to try
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for Constipa-
tion, with which I was a terrible sufferer in
the past,” writes Mrs. Ellen E. Kahler,
Byrnes Street, Rozelle. “I am glad to state
that I found much relief after undergoing a
short course of your remedy, and now usually
keep them in my home for use when neces-
sary. You have my permission to use this
testimony for publication.”
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are purelv
vegetable, and their action is not accom-
panied by any nauseous or griping sensation,
but is mild and gentle.*
SOAPKO
It Surpasses
Soap.
TOILET AND MOTOR IN TABLETS;
HOUSEHOLD IN BARS.
Send Six Penny Stamps for Box containing Sample
Manager, of each kind.
SOAPKO PROPY., Box 685 G.P.0., ADELAIDE.
POLITICAL
POINTS
At the outbreak of war there happened to
be one carbon works in Britain; otherwise
the searchlights of the fleet would have had
to depend for radiance on foreign supplies.
And the existence of the one factory was
only an accident, because the national policy
had pressed heavilv upon it, for years the
Admiralty had passed the owners by, public
bodies had persistently given their orders to
the Plan, and the English railway cos. had
actually carried German carbon at'a cheaper
THE CROSS ROADS.
GEO. REID: “Well, they both' look dreary."
rate than was levied on consignments by the
Home manufacturers. The English co. lost
heavily ior years through the active and
passive opposition of people who appeared
to imagine that some sort of crime was being
perpetrated by Englishmen who made a com-
modity which the Germans were able to sup-
ply without any bother at short notice. Is
it any wonder that Britain, having thus fed
the enemy and bled itself, now finds the
enemy a tough proposition.
A cheering word from a S’African about
one of the industries of a country that isn’t
given a tariff because some foreigner can
always “do it better’’:—
The Australian-made bcot worn by Tommy Kanga-
roo here in Turkey is the envy of his English and
Maoriland brothers, whose corn-crushers are not in
the same class. The Australian article stands out
alone. The general opinion is that the Australian
army is as well equipped as any in the field. The
only things it’s short of are Germans, and it won’t
be happy till it gets them.
Did the yellow pup actually bark at Pots-
dam ? It seems fairly certain that the
Kaiser counted on trouble in Ireland; but
probably half a century will have to pass
before the world knows the inner history of
the incidents which crystallised that idea.
Anyhow, the Irish Churchman a couple
of years ago seemed to know something, for
if published a statement (reproduced in
Sydney D.T.. November, 1913), of which
the following is the pith:—
It may not be known to the rank and file of
Unionists that we have the offer of aid from a
powerful Continental monarch, who, if Home Rule is
forced on the Protestants of Ireland, is prepared to
send an army sufficient to relieve England of any
further trouble in Ireland.... Protestants will wel-
come this Continental deliverer as their forefathers
under similar circumstances did once before.
Now who was this deliverer the pup had been
monkeying with? Or was it all just bluff?
A TESTIMONIAL.
ANCIENT BEER EATER: “ Speakin ’ as an old
hemigrant to our friend the noo hemi-
grant, I sag, Miss, he can't help being
successful in this fair land. Why,
blime, ain’t it the best beer-drinking
climate in the world!"
The plight of the Balmain Hospital
(N.S.W.) points a moral which has been
pointed many times before. The institution
went £lOOO to the bad last year, and, as
things are becoming worse instead of better,
“unless the Government comes to its assist-
ance the committee fears it will be com-
pelled to curtail the services.” The Balmain
Hospital is only one of a score clamoring
for increased aid; and seeing that the State
already finds directly about 70 per cent, of
the revenue, there seems no reason why it
should not find the other 30 per cent, and
take over the management. No reason, that
is, except that the nationalisation of hospi-
tals is a plank of the Labor platform which
the Labor Government avoids as much as
possible.
N. S. Wales worked off a five-million loan
conversion scheme the other day in London,
whereby a batch of Treasury bills was cast
out for the burning and a p.n. was filed away
in Cohen’s desk, to ripen 12 years hence.
Result: Continuation of blister in the same
old spot, temporary relief for the prodigal
until the next bill falls due, and a snort of
contempt from British papers. The Times
in particular knocked off stirring up the Wax-
Office in order to ask whether it is not about
time Australia began to consider these
borrowings more seriously, and to think about
saving something. Apart from the deplorable
spectacle of a State having no war on hand
cadging round for cash from a nation up to
its neck in a struggle for existence, this
mild inquiry is a hint that something more
pointed will be said a little later on.
On June 19 H. A. Monks, Labor nominee,
and ex-Premier Peake, the rejected of Vic-
toria district at the recent general election
in South Aus., are to fight the final round.
When McDonald resigned in favor of Peake
a month ago it was thought the Laborites
would give the latter a walk-over, but tliev
put up a strong local man in Monks, who,
by the way, was once Peake’s partner in
business. The Tory majority in the district
was 1700 at the March election, but Labor
is counting on the dissatisfaction expressed
by McDonald’s friends at his being jetti-
soned for Peake. The chief fighter has been
Peter Reidy, the ex-policeman who beat
Peake for Victoria in March. Odds are in
favor of the Ex-Premier, but the anti-Labor
majority may be considerably reduced.
-
For the by-eleetion this week at Taumar-
anui (M.L.), where the fate of parties hangs
by one hair, "Bill” Jennings is again a
candidate, the judgment of the Court which
declared the last poll void being, so far as
William was concerned, based on the tech-
nicality that he was not in law, at the
moment of original nomination, “duly quali-
fied” to be a candidate. The other allega-
tions were thrown out.
“Croson”: I wish some better-informed
Fa bo rite would tell me exactly what the
party’s fighting platform is meant for.
Andrew Fisher stated in Melbourne Town
Hall, last August, that if his party was
put in office two of the chief planks in its
platform—Protection and the Initiative
Referendum —would be immediately carried
out: yet I see the fighting platform adopted
at the Adelaide conference contains these
two items. Why does the party want to
fight for a thing when, with a solid majority
in both Houses, it can have it for the mere
taking V
Joseph Cook, being told in the House of
Reps, a few days ago that he wanted to hang
out the sign: “No business, as usual!”
shouted: —
Does the hon. member believe that the country
should be shocked from end to end by party strife
and warfare?
Then, having indignantly glowered the inter-
jector down, he proceeded to show that party
strife and warfare were dead so far as he
was concerned by saying that the Labor
party was the enemy of the people, that it
was the cause of more exploitation than was
ever known in the history of the country,
and that if his party’s proposals were car-
ried out things would be very much better.
There was a fine dust-up in the Reps,
last week. Foster, of Wakefield (S.A.),
repeated that Australia had not enough muni-
tions, whereon Page, of Maranoa, enraged
at the dilatoriness of the Cook Government
in this respect, shouted at the Opposition,
“Half of you want shooting!” He refused
to withdraw the statement, although the
Chairman and leader (Tudor) made varied
appeals to him. lie went even further, and
opined that the whole boiling of the Opposi-
tion should be shot! lie was “named,” and
just when it appeared that he would have to
be passed out he relented. Having cooled
off, he presently handed .Jokook and
co. a free pardon. He explained that he
didn’t mean what he said, and Jokook ex-
plained that everybody knew that; so what
all the fuss was about is still obscure.
Some time this year Australia will score
its five millionth inhabitant; but the war.
which interferes with so many things, makes
the date uncertain. At the beginning of the
year the estimated population was 4,940,952,
or, roughly. 50,000 short of the fifth million ;
and the increase last year was 68,898. No
less than 53.992 of that lot were females,
the natural increase of males being almost
counterbalanced by the export of warriors.
PIGASUS.
The Duke of Devonshire, the new Civil
Lord of the Admiralty in Britain, supplies
an example of the futility of the Party
arrangement. A large, slow, dreary man.
with the heavy jowl and thick lips of the
Cavendish family, and no achievement of
any sort, his hope of being elected to any
post of importance would be frail. But he
is a millionaire duke, and a son-in-law of
Lord Lansdowne, so the nation has got to
let him try to save it whether it likes the
chances or not.
During the first black weeks of the war.
when every European arms factory was full
of frenzy, one of Australia’s many public-
holidays happened along, and the Eithgow
establishment, in common with grocers and
land agents, shut its doors. Since that day
many men have died in vain—not because
they didn’t fight well enough, but because
their side hadn’t sufficient equipment to let
them finish the job. For nine months of
bloody agony our own little place at Eith-
gow has been calmly and decorously work-
ing one shift every 24 hours, and doing no
violence to the hallowed eight hours prin-
ciple. It is a notable achievement in self-
control—or murder.
SENTRY-GO.
“Gettin' blanky cold, Bill!"
“Cold! My oath! Last night I shivered
myself into a sweat!"
After all, the United States being as im-
potent as they are, it is probably best for
Britain and the Allies that one such as
W oodrow Wilson should be at the White
House. The moral effect of the breaking-
off of diplomatic relations between the
U.S.A. and Germany might be good enough:
but it is hard to say what practical advan-
tage the Allies would gain by the retirement
of two ambassadors from their respective
spheres of hypocrisy. Anyhow, a lot of hun-
gry Belgians, who are fed and clothed by
American agencies, and a lot of British
prisoners in Germany who look to a U.S.
commissioner for a certain amount of pro-
tection, would probably be a lot worse off
if there was a swashbuckler President. Wil-
son. seems just about the right size for the
national power he represents.
The great, national bloat!
How population presses into
Sydney is reflected in the school-
attendance figures, which show
that 52.8 per cent, of the in-
creased enrolment for last year
was added at the metropolitan
schools. Also, while the total
increase in the large schools
(.50 pupils and over) was
12.725,. there was a decrease of
1780 in the small country
schools. “If any argument
were needed to justify the Gov-
ernment pushing on with the
decentralisation scheme these
figures would supply it,” said
Minister for Education Griffith.
They certainly would; but
where is the Government’s de-
centralisation scheme? Does the
Government think it will en-
courage people to go to the
country by robbing them when
they get there for the benefit of
those who hang round the city?
The Australian reinforce-
ments required on the present
basis of calculation are 5300
men a month, or 63,000 a year
—a big drain for a young coun-
try which, during the long years
of peace, kept too many of its
wide pastures for sheep and the
“married couple without en-
cumbrance.” Just now the one
thing the statesmen and generals
want is the armed and matured
“encumbrance” that never had
a chance to grow because he
wasn’t allowed to be born. Time is a
revengeful old brute with a horrible sense
of humor.
Melbourne Argus, weeping bitter tears
into its little drop o’ gin :
Tlie leadership of the National Government and the
guidance of Parliament are left in the hands of Com-
rade Fisher and Trolleyman Hughes.
ILes, the guidance of Parliament is in the
hands of Comrade Fisher and Trolleyman
Hughes because Australia said that, in spite
of what they were or might have been, it
would rather trust them than renegade
\V eigher Cook and “Dr.” Cunningham.
THE NEUTRAL STATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Leading men are advocating the adoption of uni-
versal service in Holland, and the opinion is held
that an army of 000,000 would be necessary to pre-
serve neutrality. —-London Times.
Italy’s declaration of war places a new strain upon
the resources of Switzerland, which has already found
it necessary to maintain a large proportion of her
able-bodied men under arms to prevent the violation
of her neutrality.— Cabin.
The cranks have urged a world disarmed,
A place of gentle Peace,
Where Hun and hunted shall engage
To aid the world’s increase
In peaceful arts ; but those who live
Beside a Hunnish gate
Know well it takes a gun or so
To make a peaceful State.
The Hollander, a peaceful man,
Who has no wish for war,
Harks to the crash of falling towns,
The bedlam sounds of war,
And hastens on to arm his men
Before it is too late;
He knows it takes a gun or so
To make a neutral State.
Go tell the Swiss to trust to Peace,
And bid him drop his gun;
He feels ’tis not by gentle speech
Immunity is won ;
He sits with rifle in his hand
Behind each frontier gate,
lie wants not war; he arms himself
To hold his neutral State!
The cranks have urged a world disarmed;
But in war’s hellish breath
Their word-dreams meet a mocking laugh,
Their theories find death;
1' or men have sought for Peace with Peace,
But Peace was not their fate:
It takes a mighty lot of force
To keep a neutral State 1
N.S.W.
HAMER.


SAMES, VICTOR PIANOS and
ESTEY ORGANS.
VICTOR
PIANO
Academy Model
Upright Grand.
This is ;i Piano we
have no hesitation in
recommending for use
in any climate. ‘"lt
seems to revel in hard
wo r k.” The tone is
full, sweet and clear,
and the touch easy
and responsive. Write
for Tree Catalogue and
prices.
gs
'
ES TE Y
ORGANS
have no equal.
Model 53 2 is of the
best quality right
through, and has .11
stops, - full -I octave
sets of reeds, with
Divided Couplers.
Price £32. Easy
terms.
There’s no reason why
you should be without
a new Piano or Organ
if you take advantage
of our system of Easy
Time Payments. Every
instrument we sell is
fully guaranteed for
Tone, Touch, Finish
and DURABILITY.
“The Estey Booklet” is post free to
any address on request; also catalogues
of Pianos, Player Pianos, Violins,
Banjos, Accordeons and all other
known musical instruments. When
writing, please mention which parti-
cular instrument you are interested in.
We are Sole Agents for Sanies. Vidor
Pianos, and Player Pianos, also Estey
Pianos, I'layers and Organs.
sanie 3
E ST E Y
ORGANS
have no equal.
Model 144 H is a most
suitable Organ for
home, church or school
use. It has (» stops,
5 octaves, and is fully
guaranteed.
Price £lB. Ea s y
terms.
PALINGS
338 George Street, Sydney.
And at Brisbane, Newcastle, Lismore, and Toowoomba.
SAMES
PIANO
Model 105 All
British-Built.
Made of the finest pos-
sible quality through-
out, it is remarkable
for its beautiful and
mellow “singing'’ tone.
It is a Piano that will
give you, with reason-
able care, a lifetime's
use. Catalogues are
free.
Easy terms arranged.
rs
.1
A Money-producing Camera.
The
“FAVORITE VICTO” I-Plate
<£ s/7/6
For PORTRAITS, GROUPS, ANIMALS, LANDSCAPES,
etc., THIS CAMERA IS EMINENTLY SUITABLE.
It is easy to set up, as the back framework automatically locks
itself at right angles to the baseboard, while the Lens front
locks in a similar way.
The Favorite Victo is substantially made and beautifully
finished.
SPECIAL FEATURES.
Triple Extension, Automatic Self-Erecting, Swing Front, Rising,
Falling and Cross Front Movements, Leather Bellows, Roller
Blind, Shutter, Three-fold Ash Tripod.
The Outfit includes Ensign Lens, Roller Blind, Shutter, One
Double Dark Slide and Three-fold Ash Tripod.
Price Complete, £-5/7/6.
Suitable for Professional or Amateur Work.
WE GIVE FREE INSTRUCTION.
lIP
386 George Street, Sydney.
Also at
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Auckland, N.Z.; Wellington, N.Z.
The TRUTH AT LAST!
The Great Russian Hair Scientist,
Dr. Nicholas Wetzlaw’s Text=Book.
entitled . . .
THE PATHOLOGY OF
HE HUMAN HAIR
Posted Free to any Sufferer from
Falling Hair, Approaching [Baldness,
Thin Locks, Dandruff or Itchy Scalp.
The truth is that ONLY professional knowledge should he
used in treating the hair. It is of NO uses—often it is
POSITIVELY WRONG AND HARMFUL—to allow a quack
to meddle with your hair. Certainly it is futile to expect
a mere “hair tonic” to do the WONDERS so often claimed
for it.
Just as there may l»e a DOZEN degrees of severity
in such eases as influenza, fever, eczema, and so on, and
a DOZEN DIFFERENT CAUSES—so the hair is affected
by MANY causes and degrees of ill-health. Only a profes-
sional man can correctly diagnose and prescribe for the
hair.
Do YOU not realise that this is so? Has it not been
YOUR experience that "hair tonics” arc very much alike —
well advertised hut of poor effect?
Now. Ibis is where the knowledge of YOUR hair,
gained by reading Nicholas Wetzlaw’s book, will be of
IMMEDIATE ASSISTANCE to you. You will KNOW and
UNDERSTAND what is the matter with your hair.
This book relates true but little-known facts about the
MtrN
hair. It, for instance, shows clearly and interestingly that IXIIIGESTIOX
IS A SURE DESTROYER OF THE HAIR. It tells why THE HAIR IS
DEPENDENT ON GOOD HEARTH.
In fact, this 80-page book is a common-sense talk on the ba'tr. written
in the simplest language, fully illustrated by portraits and diagvMms, and
scientifically correct in every sentence.
We DO NOT CHARGE for this hook. The publishers are anxious
that it should have the widest possible circulation, and are, therefore, offer-
ing it FREE TO THE PUBLIC on receipt of 3d. in stamps to eo ver post-
age, etc.
If you are concerned about your hair WRITE NO W FOR YOUR COPY.
Address your letter to “The Publishers, Volna Institute, 15 Temple Court,
Sydney,” at the same time telling us the condition of your hair as it is to-
day.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, UNITED, Redfern, Sydney.
The invincible optimism of the Kangaroo
is materialising magnificently at the Darda-
nelles—and rapidly dematerialising the Un-
speakable in its jubilant progress. A royal
supporter of wise optimism is King George
IV. topnotch Scotch*.
Public Notice.
'THE Patentees of Australian Patent No. 728 of
1 March 24, 1911 (Ivunigoro Namekawa, .Tishichiro
Miyazawa, Kuinazo Miyabara and Shotaro Emura),
for “Process of Electrolytic Refining of Zinc,” is pre-
pared to enter into negotiation for, and to com-
plete arrangements by way of license or otherwise
on reasonable terms, with any persons desiring to
exploit or to adopt and carry on such invention in
Australia.
Inquiries to be addressed to W. J. SPRUSON,
Patent Attorney, 91 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New
South Wales.
gs
Immediately you enter “Scott's" you
are impressed with the comfort, sump-
tuousness, convenience of its accommo-
dation —for everything in modern
“hotel service" is at YOUII service.
“Stay at Scott’s” is the recommenda-
tion of those who have experienced
its comforts and advantages.
Single Room; or Private Suites,
including Bedrooms, Sitting-room,
Bathroom, etc.
Private-attendance ’phones in all rooms.
Par excellence Cuisine. Hotel orchestra.
SCOTT'S HOTEL,
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Telegrams—“ Scott’s,” Melbourne.
Ask for
at the
Use Horlick’s Malted Milk —
the invigorating Food-Drink
in cases of Mental Exhaus-
tion, impaired digestion, in
fact all nerve troubles.
*
©
•3.1
Horlick’s
Soda Fountain.
Sample will be sent on
receipt of 2d. in stamps,
Write Hutchinson & Co., 26,
Jamieson Street, Sydney,
N.S.W.
HORLICO
MALTED
MILK
SPORTING
NOTIONS
A soldier s letter from Turkey states that
Stanley Carpenter, of Newcastle (N.S.W.), has been
recommended for the V.C. for bravery in rescuing
wounded soldiers under fire. He was a star League
player and a fine athlete before setting out to deal
with that eminent teetotaller, Abdul.
Both of the O’Hara Wood hoys, Arthur
and Pat, have abandoned tennis in Melbourne to play
the war game in Europe. Pat went as a soldier, and
Dr. Arthur hopes to become a duly-qualified aviator
and bomb-practitioner. He ought to prove a brilliant
success in an aeroplane. Of the two brothers, either
of whom would have been backed against Norman
Brookes at a shade of odds, Arthur had the cooler
nerve on the tennis court, and is bound to be a man
of prompt decision when his own life hangs in the
balance.
Brisbane lost a fine sport and popular
identity when “Billy” Mooney passed out in his 64iii
year. Born in the Ould Dart, Mooney came to
Bananaland as a mere kid. (iympie and Croydon
knew him well in their early days before he drifted
oti to the turf and won a place in sporting circles.
Nearly every sporting club in Australia welcomed
him, and many a charitable body knew the way to
his ever-accessible pocket.
* * * *
The Turks added two more splendid Aus-
tralians to their bag- when S. E. Townsend and V. V.
Brown fell. Townsend (killed), who was an ardent
oarsmen and rifleman, graduated in arts in 1905 and
law in 1909 at Sydney University. He enlisted from
Perth. V. V. Brown (wounded) was a hefty member
of Leichhardt Rowing Club, and in the 1913-14
season stroked five winning junior eights and fours.
He was thpj most promising junior oarsman in N. S.
Wales when he decided that war was more interest-
ing than sport.
“Goal”: At the big League football match
in Sydney on Saturday between Clebe and Newtown,
on the Agricultural ((round,- the comfort of patrons
was disturbed by the entrance of railway and tram-
way employees (who were running an extensive
patriotic display) with the idea of collecting- stray
coin from the engrossed barraekers, in aid of wounded
Australian soldiers. Indignant officials prompt Iv
blocked these interlopers, but riot before they had
collected the interlopers’ money for admission.
'Unit was great, I thought. Wouldn’t ex-secretary
Sergeant Larkin be pleased!
" “I thought I had trained properly to
defend my title, but now believe that no man’ of 38
is .a fit opponent of a giant of 28. My hat is off to,
Willard.”— Jack Johnson's latest communique.
* * * *
The Bishop of Bathurst gave an address
on “Shirkers ’ last week, in the course of which he
said: “They had in England bills .displayed inviting-
all and sundry to come and see Bombardier Wells
punch .Corporal Pat O’Keefe. This, too, when their
own comrades were falling-.” If Pat is a corporal
it is as a volunteer in the new army ; when he was
in Australia the other day he knew no more of
soldiering than of archbislioping.. As regards the
Bombardier (who is now reported to have rejoined bis
regiment, by the way), he put forward a plausible
enough excuse, last mouth, for having held back a
while. All his brothers are in the fighting- line, and
be has an old mother to provide for. Apart from
all of which, the Bishop would seem to have got on
to a mare’s-nest. O’Keefe and Wells might have
sparred for charity, or for one of the Patriotic funds ;
they could hardly have punched each other for a
stake. O’Keefe, who must be very nearly as old as
the Bishop, is a middleweight, and a light one at
that. Wells is Britain’s champion “heavy.” It
reminds one of that other N.S.W. cleric who held
forth disgustedly last year on “the Wells-Owen Moran
fight”—Owen being a feather of about sft. 2in. in
height.
* * * * -
Les Darcy, the 19-year-old wonder from
Maitland (N.S.W. 1, engaged Mick. King, middle-
weight chamoion of Australia, on Saturday night—
Sydney Stadium being the venue —and Darcy was
the only one in it from the start. He crowded on
top of King with a full spread of canvas the moment
the order to “box on” was given; be slammed bis
adversary about the ribs; he upper-cut him; and he
crossed him with both hands; he smote him upon
the nose and chin with a straight left, and in the
stomach with a short and deadlv right. And then
he proceeded to do it all over again. For ail the
hope King had of winning he might as well have left
in the third round—or the first. He was outclassed
b.v one who is as strong as a bull, very fast ami
furiously aggressive, and. in addition, lias amassed
much of the skill of Dave Smith. King looked in a bad
way when the massacre was stopped by the police
in the tenth. Pulling himself together, he shook
bands with himself, and left after the fashion of a
retiring beauty-actor. McGoorty will presumably be
Darcy’s next opponent. There doesn't seem to be
anybody else in sight who is capable of making him
so much as canter.
“n.” : As Hugh Ward entered the Stadium
on Saturday night by one door, Les Darcy, tile fight-
patrons’ idol, appeared at another. . Thunderous
cheering, in the midst of which Ward’s hand went
instinctively to liis hat. Not, mark you, that Hugh
is vain; but he has a common-sense appreciation of
liis own worth.
Two championship fights—a feather-
weight and a bantam-weight—were brought off at
Melbourne and Brisbane Stadiums -respectively on
Saturday night. Charlie Simpson, of Victoria, boat
Wave Geikie in Melbourne; and .Tack Jannesso also
held his title, defeating Billy Wolgast, on points,
after a strenuous gQ.
Bombardier Wells lias h been letting off
some steam concerning his . defeat by Carpentier. On
the first occasion they met, lie explains, he had a
cold, and knowing that he couldn’t last any distance,
rushed in to hit the Frenchman ‘into oblivion bright
and early. Unfortunately, the Frenchman was doing-
business in the oblivion; line himself, and insisted on
Wells taking a .consignment. At the second meeting
in London Wells was, he says, given the office that
Carpentier was going to do the rushing, so he waited
in the trenches, as it were. r Again he was the
victim of a delusion, and when he awoke the custodian
of the building was waiting to turn out the lights.
However, the Bombardier brightens things up by
asserting that he'll do the trick next time. Perhaps.
The lately-deceased Lord Jersey was^the
most popular Governor, so far as the bowling Tra-
ternity is concerned, ever billeted on the Ma State.
Unlike any other vice-regal player he mixed infor-
mally with the clubs and played with members —
badly, as a rule. His fondness for the green often
led to sarcastic comments from his advisers; but,
like Francis Drake when the Armada was signalled,
he reckoned there was time enough to attend to
business when the game was over. A sort of a joke
played on him on occasions when lie visited a ground
without bowls was the loan of two obsolete lumps
of wood to play with. He was no bounder: you can
toll that from the fact that lie once called his coach-
man off the box to make up a rink. Whether he
taught the coachman the game or the coachman
taught him has never been cleared up.
It was Michael Conlon, the “potter” cham-
pion of N.S.W., who, elated on one occasion by a
victory in which he and the late Earl shared, pro-
posed in the City Bowling Club’s room that Jersey
and himself, with two other red-headed bowlers,
should tour the world as “The Ginger Rink.” This
might have outraged the dignity of some peers of
tiie realm, but not Jersey. The other members of the
proposed ruddy combination were J. Dickenson and
T. Forsyth, the last-named the sole survivor.
* • * * *
Stanley Wootton, Australia’s great jockey,
is now a lieutenant in an English regiment of expe-
ditionaries.
A few hints concerning the V.R.C.
Nationals were published at Williamstown last Satur-
day. Icon, a fine son of Grafton, won the Steeple
almost from the start, and is seemingly a much
bettor animal than he was this time last year when
ho first came to light over the timber. Admiral Grand
beat Lord Grey and Dyor for one of the Hurdle
events, and a maiden race over the little sticks went
to Golden Point, a highly-connected identity that
was always going to win a big. handicap on the flat,
and never did it. The form in these jumping races
looked good enough to make a note of, though not
convincing enough to swear by in every case.
* * * *
Maoriland Government has been making
TRAINER
McGRATH,
OF
RANDWICK.
up the tote books
for the year ended
March 31, and
finds that its share
of the money that
clinked through the
machine (24 per
cent, of the gross)
was £110,733. Tha t
was the best busi-
ness to date. Last
year the amount, a
record then, was
£92,260. It’s a
shame to take even
that much from the
gaunt and hungry
bookmakers (one of
them casually left
a £5OO diamond
ring in a Sydney
pub the other day
as the result of a
wager in the bar
that £3OO couldn’t
he raised on it in
a pawnshop) and
waste it on mere
hospitals. Anyhow,
that’s what the
Holy Joes reckon.
So, apparently, does
Premier Holman,
N. S. Wales’s Old
Man of the Sea..
Adelaide Racing Club’s week was like that
of the S.A. Jockey Club. Even the weather
matched —two fine days and a wet third. Totalisator
money fell from £64,000 last year to under £47,000
—much as at Morphettville. Victorian owners had
not so big a haul from the A.R.C., City Handicap
and Birthday Cup staying in the State. Tom Keily
took the Cup with Juan Fernandez, backed down to
sto 2. Orvieto, a shade more fancied, was nowhere ;
and Juan only got home by a head from Sylvan-
more, who was giving 2st. Greek Fire was half a
head away, and three more were on top of these.
It was a great finish. Orvieto won the Alderman
Cup on the last day. The disappointing One con-
tinued to be merely thereabouts. The excellent
steeplechaser El Progress .carried 13st. over three
miles of fences successfully, and got great applause.
Dividends all round, were comfortable—£3 to £2O
—but not startling.
* « - 1 * *
A teacup-storm is raging between the
Onkaparinga (S.A.) Racing Club and the local Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. The
Society has a horse-ambulance which goes to tiie
various race-meetings. Last year it went to Onka-
pjtringa by arrangement, and the Club paid the cost.
This year it went without arrangement, and the
Club has declined to pay—chiefly on the ground that
the Society’s advertised warning to horse-driving
visitors to be prepared against, a scarcity of water
“made a great difference to the attendance, financially
hurt the Club, and, as a matter of course, helped to
affect in a detrimental way the Club’s efforts to
.raise a ..handsome sum for the Belgians.” Plenty
of water everywhere about the course, says the Club ;
very little at the roadside hotels between city and
course, says the Society.. So, just through somebody’s
neglecting to talk things over beforehand, two sets
of good fellows are each accusing the other of
shabby conduct.
■X- * -X- *
New Tipperary (Positano-Frisco Queen)
is the champion racer in Westralia. at present. At
the recent W.A.T.C. meeting the speedy beast won the
big event on both days—Dudley Handicap, with 9st.
131 b., and Foundation Handicap, with lOst 61b.—
both stylish efforts under the mountain of weight
Quite possibly the Westralian will be forwarded
east for the spring gatherings.
Racing law compels every suburban club
to confine its programme, on its allotted days to six
events, one of which" must be a hurdle race.' This is
in the alleged interests of horse-breeding; but the
law, while it may bring a horse to the hurdles, can’t
make him jump. At Moorefield, Sydney, on June 12,
only three brumbies turned up to jump' for the £lOO
stake provided, and of these one couldn’t surmount
the obstacles, while another, too languid to hurry, left
the winner to walk in. This sort of thing means
that punters have only five opportunities instead of
six of fleecing the books, as Ikey Shortodds won’t
enthuse over a race with only three starters and
barely one finisher.
* * * *
El Gallo made a striking note in Maoriland
turf history recently by winning both the Great North-
ern Hurdle and the Steeplechase at Auckland. Liber-
ator did tiie'same thing 20 years ago, and until now
the performance hasn’t been repeated. El Gallo
(Spalpeen—Lobelia) is a rare jumper over all
obstacles.
N.S.W. Trotting Club had a busy time
recently dealing with “ringing-in” troubles. Within
a few days three gee-gees and their hangers-on were
disqualified for life, while a fourth was dealt with
for supplying wrong information as to perform-
ances. Three appeals against disqualification were
also dismissed. The club reckons to cut the ex-
crescences out of the sport if it drowns itself in
perspiration.
A sportsman of long standing in N. S.
Males, Edward Henry Belisario, “went M'est” last
week. In racing and boxing circles lie was particu-
larly popular, and the most disappointed backer of
any of the Belisario horses never doubted that he had
got all the run for his money that was possible. His
father, Dr. Belisario, was an old-time dentist.
* * * *
A Sydney betting case involving a book-
maker, a £550 diamond ring, the landlady of a hotel,
and sundries gave the “profession” a bad advt. last
week. The bookie bet a friend £7O that one of his
(the bookie’s) diamond rings could be pawned for
£3OO. The dreadful ornament was handed to the
landlady—she says with instructions to try to pawn
it; the plaintiff says “to prevent any duplication
of rings.” She tried to pawn it for £3OO, and
failed, the best offer being made by a firm which
said: “Knowing you, we’ll give £225.” The weight
otLthe evidence indicated that, as business goes in the
gsßt.’s ring line, the decoration was not to be pawned
for £3OO. Believing this settled the matter tiie
landlady handed over the £7O to the man who had
taken the odds. She was too previous. The bookie
said that what he had claimed was that the ring could
be pawned by him, declined to part up the £7O,
and sued for the return of the jewellery. Of course,
no one doubted that an affluent bookmaker could get
£3OO on such an article. As one witness said, and
as the pawnshop official inferred, “he could raise
£3OO on liis old hat, if he liked.” However, in the
eye of the Law, the landlady was in the wrong,, and
the Bench presented the sportsman with his ring, a
solatium for its detention, and Costs. To that ex-
tent he was to the good. But the ethics of the
betting business are a different matter. In . cross-
examination various startling things were admitted
concerning the methods of professional wagerers,
“But,” one witness proceeded blandly, “things like
that happen every day.” It is a useful lesson in the
imbecility of wavering with those who live on the
game to learn, from one of them, on oath, that
“tilings like that” happen “every day.”
The principal attraction in League Rugby
on Saturday at Sydney was the shindy between
Glebe and Newtown at the Agricultural Ground. It
was a hard and stirring go, lost to Newtown by one
point (12 to 11) owing to lack of art instant’s cool-
ness on the part of one of their three-quarter backs
right on the tick of time. From the ruck, in the
glooming light, the ball was suddenly flashed along
the Newtown speed-men, eventually reaching the
arms of Brown, a tough proposition when he iias
a chance of scoring. He flew along the touchline
until the game seemed ail over bar the yells of joy
from his team’s supporters ; but just there his light
went suddenly out. A figure hurled itself at his
feet, and, as he crashed to earth, a shriek of dis-
appointment split the air as on another classical
occasion when Freedom perceived the lay-out of one
Kosciusko. It was then that Bmsvn “did in's block.”
All he had to do to win the match was to arise,
touch the ball with his Cinderella-like foot and
flop over the line for a try. But, no doubt owing to
excitement and rattle from the fall, he “rabbited”
the ball across the line, and that was the end of the
section. Free kick to Glebe —and knock-off whistle.
-X" w -X- *
State of Sydney Rugby League poll:
Balmain 9 points, South Sydney and Glebe 8, East l
era Suburbs 6, Newtown 5, Annandale, North Sydney
and Western Suburbs 2 each.
* * * ■»
The competition for the premiership under
the Australian code of rules in Sydney has developed
into a run-away by Paddington, Sydney and Central
Western (16 points each) from Newtown (8), East
Sydney (4), and South Sydney (0). Paddington,
which, up till Saturday, had not met its equal this
season, was on that day laid in the dust by Sydney
—47 points to 48.
* * * *
In the Soccer (N.S.W. Association) com-
petition Pvrmont and Granville are on top with 12
points each. Annandale is 9; Balmain, 8; Glebe, 6:
N. Suburbs and Drummoyne, 4 ; and Sydney—what
the Germans will get before the Allies are done with
them.
The N. S. Wales Rugby Union laid aside
its defence-training programme on Saturday and
played a round of games amongst the remains of the
old clubs. University took on a combined 15 from
Raudwick and South Sydney on the Sports Ground,
and, although the scholars brought home the bulkiest
score (16 to 6), they were given some strenuous ex-
ercise. Eastern Suburbs buried Manly with 22
points above and -3 points below, and St. George did
something similar to Balmain—lo above 0. A
close fight was . that between Newtown and North
Sydney. At half-time the scores were three all,
and thence to the finish the struggle produced only
three more points—a try to Newtown. At Raudwick,
Glebe _ routed Five Dock by 36 to 9. Five Dock
was, in brief, Gallipolied. Owing to war wastage
the. proceedings were conducted with only 10 men
a-side. A visit was paid to the Liverpool camp dj a
combination from Mosman, and a soldiers’ team was
defeated by 8 points to nil. It was a ragtime game.
Sodden ground and lowering sky didn t
prevent some 25,000 spectators turning up to view
the concussion of Fitzroy and Collingwood. The
{game was fast and strenuous, and the Magpies, being
quicker and surer than the Maroons, loreed a lead
early, and were never afterwards effectively threat-
ened. Tims ’Wood won by 71 points- to 50. The
reinforced Melbourne team, having been tinkered into
shape, crowned its last week’s feat of beating Soulhs
by trouncing Essendon solidly. I n to lemon-time
the play was even, but after that the better training
of the Fuchsias stood to them, and they piled on 28
points, while the ’Dons added but 2, making 72 to
the “Same Old’s” 53. If the ’Dons don't shift they
will occupy the “same old” position on the lower
part of the ladder. Carlton downed Richmond with
ease—lo 7 points to 53—and Souths scored 101 points
to Geelong's 83. Latter achievement paralysed the
Ilollowites, inasmuch as they were leading by 29
points at the final change, and seemed to have the
game safe.
* * * *
Though it will count for little in the end
the chiefest Ass. event on Saturday was (he defeat
of Essendon by the baby club, Hawthorn. It was the
familiar last-quarter business again, the youngsters
turning a 24-point deficit into an 11*point advantage,
and winning home by 90 to 79. It was Hawthorn's
first victory this season. Prahran walked over Wil-
liamstown, mainly owing to more accurate kicking ;
Brunswick overwhelmed Footscray; North Melt),
turned down Brighton; and Port Melt), outed North-
cote.
Following the lead of the Association,
which is devoting the whole of the proceeds of one
Saturday’s football matches to a fund for the rela-
tives of players killed or injured at the Front, the.
Victorian League has recommended to its clubs that
10 per cent, of the gross gate-takings from June 2<i
to August 21 be allocated to war relief. The manage-
ments upon whose grounds League matches are played
are invited to join the procession and take a share
in directing the funds. Which practically means
that the League clubs can please themselves whether
they shell out the suggested one-tenth or not. It
will be interesting to see whether they will unani-
mously fall in with the proposal or haphazardly fall
out over it. Clearly the League is not possessed of
the same sort of backbone as the Association, which
made it mandatory on its chilis to contribute the
whole of one Saturday’s receipts.
*• * -X- *
Melbourne's speed merchants Nunan and
Booth have considerably damaged the Australian half-
mile motor-cycle record. Nunan, on a Yankee Excel-
sior with Dunlops underneath, did the trip in 24
3-6 sec., which is equal to 78 m.p.h., and chipped
1 2-ssec. off the old figures. A few days later Booth,
aimed with an Indian, carved 1 4-ssec. off Nunan’s
figures; wherefore the record now stands opposite
Booth’s name at 22 4-ssec., equal to 78.9 m.p.h.
* * * *
Last week’s 100-mile motor-cycle spin in
Victoria was the occasion of a great performance by
It. Finlay, who, from the 9min. mark, whirled over
the long stretch in lhr. 52rriin. —an average of
54 miles an hour. Finlay’s hurriedness was also
responsible for the fastest time —2min. 59sec. ahead
of the next best, by J. Gunn (3min.). Finlay holds
the one-mile Australian paced amateur cycling record
of lmin. 21 l-ssec.
“The Eighteenth”,; In one company at
least at Liverpool (N.S.W.) Camp, a really good
system exists for dealing with small offences. At
inspection (morning) parade every man is required
to fall in properly dressed and shaved. His boots
must be polished and his rifle thoroughly clean, and
breaches of these regain tiWisv instead of being dealt
with by tlie “Court,” are rewarded on the spot by
the company commander, who merely asks the
offender to contribute a shilling, or perhaps two,
towards a sports fund inaugurated for providing
playing material, etc., for the voyage to—wherever
we go. This saves the time of all concerned. It
has the same effect ns a fine without costing any-
thing to collect, and the men got the benefit. But
it’s a good job our sporting inclinations don’t run to
buying a racehorsC- or two, or the company would
have to turn out daily for inspection with whiskers
like a Monafo wild-man and protruding some of its
shirt in the morning breeze.
Another of Maoriiand’s fine young ath-
letes had his light extinguished at the Dardanelles.
That was J. H. Aitken, of Christchurch. Business
demands took him from the fields when lie was a
member pit the local University 15, and one of the
best mile dud half-mile runners in Canterbury. When
he gave up an active part in athletes he managed to
find time to take over the secretaryship of MX.
Amateur Athletic Association.
.** * . *
Last year in the metropolitan area of
Sydney there were pony races on 71 days and horse-
races on (52 days. There were 682 pony events and
372 horse events. And Chief Secretary George Black
expects to be tapped for additional licenses. Vet they
say the bookmakers belong to the idling class!
(Continued on page 40.)


You Can’t Expect to Win Unless You Learn to Box!
*
You may have all the qualifications, but strength, determination
and pluck, WITHOUT SKILL, will not avail you against a Scientific
Boxer.
The Scientific Boxer is cool, calm and collected. He is constantly
drawing his opponent into position, puts the weight of his body behind
his blows, plants his punches where they are most felt. He confuses and
bewilders his opponent by evading’ and countering his attempts to
“land.”
The Scientific Boxer is master of his movements. His muscles are
liihe and elastic. He can hit from any position, without “telegraph-
ing” (he blows.
You would surely like to be a Scientific Boxer. And now is your
opportunity to be so”
Full particulars are yours for the asking. Kindly send 3d. to cover postage.
I Teach Boxing by Post!
The instruction is practical, simple and easily
understood. It thoroughly explains and illustrates
every serviceable move in Scientific Boxing.
You reap the benefit of my many years’ experience
and keen observation of the best moves of ihe
World’s Best Boxers.
You now have the opportunity of cultivating your
natural ability, of making good use of the means
which Nature gave you for protecting yourself.
You' will surely be fair to yourself and learn
Scientific Boxing.
You ought to write for my illustrated booklet,
“Scientific Boxing in Your Home,” which gives
fuller particulars, cost of tuition. Just write your
name and address on this advertisement, and post to
me. I’ll know what you mean. Send three penny
stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy’) BAKER,
410 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
THE
i
£
s*»
Mix
Ride it to work-
Ride it for fun
Write for
Catalogue “ D.”
HENDEE MANUFACTURING CO., 109-111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Ozetti Cigarettes
(EGYPTIAN).
These are high-grade Egyptian Cigar-
ettes, fairly large (see illustration),
and mild in flavor. They are manu-
factured by the Ardath Tobacco Co. of
1
oztr*?
KY**144 WU
Ji
L
London. Owing to the large
demand for these cigarettes.
I indent them in very large
quantities, hence I am able
to soil them at a price con-
siderably below what they
are usually sold for.
Reduced
Usual Price. Price.
Per 100. 9/6 Per 100, 6/-
~ 50, o/ - ~ 00, 3/-
„ 25, 2/6 „ 25, 1/6
Postage on 100:
N.S.W., 6d.
Other States, Sd.
Write for a copy of my Illustrated
Catalog. It mill interest all smokers.
A. M. SOLOMON,
“CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
V^-
"Keep Smiling.
In other words t
“^SyHELL
cßenzine
gs
NOT MADE
BY A TRUST
OR COMBINE
« For Your Health »
PERFECTION
TOBACCO
A Splendid Smoke. 2 02. Tine
AT EVERY
TOBACCONIST.
ask to-day.
HOTELKEEPERS ! HOTELKEEPERS !
ECKERSLEYS DISPENSER
For the Rapid Production of Pure,
Crystal, Effervescent, Draught Lemon-
ade, Sodawater and every variety of
Aerated Drink.
NO LABOR! NO BOTTLE-WASHING!
NO BOTTLE FILLING. NO LABELLING OF
BOTTLES! NO BROKEN BOTTLES!
WORKS AUTOMATICALLY.
By Electric or Water I’ower.
Bar attendant simply pulls a lever and mechanical
power instantly supplies the required drink.
Write for descriptive Catalog’to
EC KERS LEY’S,
25a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
or S. MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: Messrs. ELLIOTT DONALDSON &
DOUGLAS, 529-33 Queen Street, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
-a
Regular Auction Sales of
WOOL, SKINS, HIDES,
TALLOW and
Sundries
held by
ms
Offices:
4 BUGH ST., SYDNEY.
Stores: PYRMONT.
LIBERAL ADVANCES if required.
Correspondence Invited.
Rigney Shoes Occupy a High Place
in tlie estimation of the man who desires
Shoe excellence —they combine style, fit,
comfort and long service.
The illustration shows a Choice Willow Calf
Derby Shoe. Fine-stitched Welts, Perfor-
ated Vamp, Dace Face, and Cap.
Price 22/6 and 25/-
In Black or Tan.
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR A COPY OF OUR
CATALOG.
gs
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Building's, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
On the day Lloyd George made his appeal
to the steelmen of Lancashire for quick mun-
itions, J. Cook and "VY . 11. Irvine went into
hysterics. Lloyd George had said : ‘lt would
he a great mistake to resort to compulsory
service until it was absolutely necessary.”
And that was enough for .T. Cook and W. 11.
Irvine. Such poor Australians_ could not see
anything wroiw enough for criticism in the
ghastly foolishness that trusts to voluntary
defenders when an enemy airship makes raid
after raid and goes away laughing.
More about Digges la Touche, from ‘Tint
Pot” :
Disregarding episcopal admonitions that clerics
must not become combatants, though they might serve
in the Army Medical Corps, Digges (who is a parson
of the most militant Irish “Low Church” brand)
enlisted as a private in the first infantry regiment
raised in X. S. Wales. He has had a lot of trouble
in getting to the Front, even after successfully
braving Archgaiters Wright’s disapproval. First,
instead of being sent to Egypt with his. battalion, lie
was transferred as a sergeant to help to lick rein-
forcements into shape. Then, when the reinforce-
ments in their turn were shipped to Cairo, Digges
was held up on the ground of alleged physical defect
(he originally came to Australia on medical advice to
repair damage caused by phthisis), and was advised
to go back to the pulpit. At this, six-foot-three of angry
Irishman rampaged till he was readmitted to Liver-
pool camp. There he again worked his way up from
the ranks, first to “stripes” and then to a provisional
second lieutenancy; and a recent Commonwealth
Gazette confirms his. commission in the latest batch
of Australian soldiers for the Front.
m
A DECISIVE.
TYRE. TE.ST.
The Victorian Motor Cycle
Club’s 100 Miles Road Race
afforded a strenuous test for
tyres. It was a case of the
“survival of the fittest,” and
the fittest again proved to
be the dependable
DUNLOP
TYRES
In a severe race of this de-
scription, everything
depends on the tyres
Strength and Reliability
being absolutely essential
to success. As usual, the
quality of “Dunlops” stood
the test.
LOOK AT THE CONVINCING RESULT!
1. R. FINLAY on “ DUNLOPS.”
2. E. MAYMAN on “ DUNLOPS.”
3. E. TYLER on “DUNLOPS.”
Also 4th, sth, 6th and Fastest Time
on “DUNLOPS.”
Again demonstrating that
IT PAYS TO USE THE BEST.
The *yres used were stock tyres.
the same as every motor cyclist
can ob ain through his kgeht.
Stocked in STUDDED, GROOVED
and RIBBED PATTERNS.
* M M
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., All States and N.Z.


IMPORTANT
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort, and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE ia scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted.
POCKE. TOM PS ITT & CO., Melbourne.
HOW TO GET RID OF YOUR
GREY HAIR
A Simple, Sure, Harmless Treatment
which cap be used at home with
complete success. Age no obstacle.
COMPLETE INSTRUCTIONS
FREE
I AM A WOMAN who belongs to a prematurely
grey haired family. My father was grey before he
was 30, and two of my brothers as well as my sister
became grey early in life. Before the age of 25 I
developed grey hairs, which became quite embar-
rassing to me-socially, and also in, business. 1
LOST THREE GOOD POSITIONS for no other reason
than my fading hair. The greyness increased with
alarming rapidity, and at 28 I LOOKED LIKE A
WOMAN OF 45. One day I was seriously thinking
of buying one of the many Grey Hair Restorers
that are extensively advertised, when I casually
mentioned the subject to an acquaintance - a scien-
si-
tine man, and, as I after-
wards learn!, a great
student of the Che-
mistry of the Hair.
He strongly ad-
vised me to have
nothing what-
ever to do with
these concoc-
tions. He poin-
ted out that
SUCH PRHPAR-
! ATIONS EVENT-
UALLY RUINED
THE HAIR, and
in the meantime
rarely deceived
even the casual
observer. He sug-
gested that I try a
formu'a that he had
perfect) d after a con-
siderable time, which,
by a certain chemical
action on the pigmentary colouring cells restored
the hair to its normal colour. In replv to my en-
quiries. he assured me that the formula was not
only absolutely harmless, but would develon A
BTRONC AND BEAUTIFUL GROWTH OF HAIR. My
mend wrote out his prescription, which I had made
up, and after carefully following the instructions for
a few days, I was surprised and delighted to find my
hair becoming richer and darker in tone. The re-
colouring process continued until after some few
weeks my hair actually once again possessed the
natural shade of my girlish days. Since then I HAVE
SEEN INUNDATED WITH ENQUIRIES from friends
and also persons unknown to me, who came to hear
of this wonderful preparation. Having become con-
vinced that I have found A REMEDY OF EXTRA.
ORDINARY MERIT, and which is quite harmless I
have resolved to offer it for sale, as I am certain
from my own experience that it will prove an ines-
timable boon to any man or woman who finds grey
hair to be the same serious handicap it was to me.
It is a Guaranteed Genuine Preparation and I
OFFER A REWARD OF £lOO if it will not re-cJlour
Grey Hair to Original, Natural Shade.
If you are interested in this wonderful prepa-
ration I am walling to send you COMPLETE IN-
STRUCTIONS FREE
under plain sealed
cover. Simply write
your name and full ad-
FREE
dress plainly and enclose 2-stamps for postage and I
will write you by return post, or if convenient call.
Mrs. MARY K. CHAPMAM
Suite 88 Linden Court. SIDNEY
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wk Suppi.v—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard =
wood Riles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HAM,. LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, VV.A.
QUEEN'S 15RIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all pans of the world.
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE. Established 1891.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
Non aperient. A sure and Speedy cure for all
cases of Internal and External Piles. ~
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after
suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold bv ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
Price, 3/- per box, or a course of S
Boxes for £l. Post free under
plain cover.
On Sale at all Druggists, Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout the States.
‘ON THE HOP.” —A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold City
or Suburban Properties, or on Freehold
and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on tl>e Security of Government
Debentures! Inscribed Stock or Treasury Gills of any of the Australian States or New
Zealand. 3PF~AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any J’ear, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. YV. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; The lion. .(. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; The
lion. James Burns, M.L.C.; The lion. 11. J. Black, M.L.C. : The lion. F. E Winclicombe, M.L.C. , Adrian
Knox, Esq, Iv.C. ; Sir Alex. MacCormick, M.D. General Manager and Actuary: Richard Teece, P.1.A.,
F.F.A., F.S.S. HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. IV. APPEIiLY, Secretary.
London’s Beauty Writerc.
Weekly Selections from Noted Beauty Experts Writing for
the English Press. Simple and Effective Methods.
l!y OLGA AMSDELL, Special Correspondent. London, Eng.
Grey Hair —Home Remedy.
There are plenty of reasons why grey hair
is not desirable, and plenty of reasons why
hair dyes should not be used. But, on the
other hand, there is no reason why you
should have grey hair if you do not want it.
To turn the hair back to a natural color is
really a very simple matter. One has only to
get from the chemist an ounce of concen-
trate of tammalite and mix it with four
ounces of bay rum. Apply to the hair with a
small sponge for a few nights and the grey-
ness will gradually disappear. This liquid
is not sticky or greasy, and does not injure
the hair in any way. It has been used for
generations with most satisfactory results by
I hose who have known the formula.
Blackheads Fly Away.
A practically instantaneous remedy for
blackheads, greasy skins and enlarged pores,
recently discovered, is now coming into gen-
eral use in the boudoir. It is very simple,
harmless and pleasant. Drop a stymol tablet,
obtained at the chemist’s, in a tumbler full of
hot water. After the effervescence has sub-
sided bathe the face in the liquid, using a
small sponge or soft cloth. In a few minutes
dry the face and the offensive blackheads will
come right off on the towel. Also the large,
oily pores immediately close up and efface
themselves naturally. The greasiness dis-
appears. and the skin is left smooth, soft and
cool. This simple treatment is then repeated
a few times at intervals of four or five days
to ensure the permanence of the result.
Emergency Complexions.
Even a complexion which is hopelessly dull
or greasy can be made beautiful in a moment
by a perfectly harmless home recipe. If you
have no cleminite in the house, get about an
ounce from your chemist, and add only
enough water to dissolve it. The process
defies detection, and the result is an immedi-
ate appearance of velvety, youthful “bloom”
which every woman desires. The effect will
.last all day under the most trying conditions,
indoors or out. and renders powdering quite
unnecessary. This simple substance is also
very good for the skin, and no possible harm
can come from its regular use.
Effectually Killing Superfluous Hair.
Many women know how to remove ugly
growths of superfluous hair temporarily, but
few know how to remove it permanently. For
this purpose pure powdered pheminol may be
used. Get about an ounce from your chemist
and apply a little directly to the objection-
able liair. The purpose of the recommended
treatment is not merely to remove the super-
fluous hair instantly, but also to kill the hair
roots completely in a comparatively short
time.
How Nature .Makes New Complexions.
It is well known that the human skin is
constantly, undergoing a tearing down and
building up process. With advancing years
or waning vitality this tissue-change lags:
the lifeless, soiled surface skin stays on so
long that its owner gets a “poor complexion."
Coin in on-sense tells us this dead skin cannot
be enlivened or beautified by any cosmetic,
lotion or powder. The natural thing to do is
to actually remove the offensive skin —remove
the bad complexion. It has been found that
ordinary jnercolised wax completely absorbs
the devitalised skin, in minute particles, so
gently, gradually, as to cause no inconveni-
ence. Mercolised wax, which any chemist can
supply, is put on at night like cold cream,
and washed off in the morning. If you would
have a brilliantly beautiful and routliful com-
plexion just use this simple treatment.
Falling Hair.
How often, one hears the lament: “I have
tried everything on the market, and my hair
comes out in handfuls.” Not so surprising
either when you come to think it over. Hair
tonics to be effective must be fresh, and there
is no earthly reason why every woman should
not make her own lotion at home. The finest
vegetable tonic obtainable is made by mixing
a packet of boranium with |-pint of bay rum
and adding sufficient water to fill a half-pint
bottle. This lotion rubbed briskly into the
scalp sets the hair roots tingling with new
life, and will, if persevered with, give you
back your “crowning glory.”
How to Have Thick anti Pretty Hair.
Soaps and artificial shampoos ruin many
beautiful heads of hair. Few people knpw
that a teasnoonful of good stallax dissolved
in a cup of hot water has a natural affinity
for the hair and makes the most, delightful
shampoo imaginable. It leaves the hair bril-
liant. soft and wavy, cleanses the scalp com-
pletely. and greatly stimulates the hair-
growth. The only drawback is that stallax
seems rather expensive. It comes to the
chemist only in sealed jib. packages, which
retail at about four shillings. However, as
this is sufficent for 25 or 30 shampoos, it
really works out very cheaply in the end. [8
We Searched England
for a leading line of Solid Silver Butter Dish and Knife
at a reasonable price.
Eventually our managing-director saw the right Dish,
and asked for quotations per ounce for making hundreds
at a time, to be paid for spot cash London against deliv-
ery, the makers to be allowed to make them in slack times.
Nothing came of it. War broke out. Silver factories
were idle. Our offer was renewed, and rather than allow
the machinery to rust was accepted, and the Butter Dishes
and Knives have arrived. They are heavy solid silver, that
will wear for a century. They are sin. across. The
glass is plain, with a cut star beneath.
They are unparalleled value.
Very heavy Solid Silver Butter Dish
and Knife, with Glass Lining 25/-
Less 20 per cent, discount . . 5/_-
20/.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney.
PLAIN FIGURES—CASH ONLY.
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
A
A
a
DETROIT
MARINE MOTORS
Built for service.
Low fuel consumption and cost.
Will run on Kerosene or other
light oils.
All sizes from 2 to 30 h.p.
SEND FOR OUR LARGE CATALOGUE.
American Engine Company,
504 Boston Street, DETROIT, MICH., U.S.A.
SPECIAL AGENTS.
GUITERMAN, KOSENFIELD, Adelaide, S.A.
PAGE CYCLE COMPANY, Townsville, Q.
K. R, HUNT & COMPANY, Auckland, N.Z.
Cable
AMECO.
gs
The “PLUM” Shaves Easy.
gs
CRAIG & AITKEN,
And the merit of the “Plum” is that it shaves easy every time.
That’s why the “l’lnm'’ is such a favorite. The silver steel blade of
a “Plum” is tempered to perfection, so that it holds a keen edge in-
definitely. You'll enjoy the smooth, clean shave which a “Plum” gives..
Try one and prove it.
PRICE 10/6 —Post Free.
We are practical tradesmen, and guarantee to keep the “Plum” in
good order for two years free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- This line makes a handsome present.
All the Above Post Free. . Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
The Inky Way.
Gilbert Parker, just made a baronet, was
formerly a press hack in Sydney. .V
Canadian by birth, he started as a teacher
ih the Deaf and Dumb Institution at Bell-
ville, in his own country. After a course of
theology he was ordained a deacon, and
became theological lecturer in Trinity Col-
lege, Toronto. It was in ISSG that he came
to Sydney and got a job on the S. M.
Herald under William Curnow. But he
was a roamer in those days, and didn't stay
long—though long enough to do a fair
amount of descriptive work for the old
paper. His wife was a N’York girl.
Maoriland’s Premier Massey handles deli-
cate things on a clumsy pitchfork. The
other day the Government issued a more-
men appeal, and in its stupid way sent the
thing only to obedient editors of the right
color. This was slap into the hands of the
other side, of course; and amidst the bellow-
ing of disapproval raised by the righteous,
the Lyttelton Times could be heard re-
marking that “it looked as if Ministers, by
restricting their appeals to readers of the
Conservative press, thought they could more
immediately reach the laggards.” After that
all was chaos.
*■ * * * *
“Hugo Knapp”: Arthur Brewer, wounded
in Turkey, is an interesting lad of 23.
When the war arrived he was employed by
the since-deceased Daily News, at Lismore
(N.S.W.). It has already been remarked
in The Bulletin how, with the assistance
of the proof-reader, a physical-culture fad-
dist. lie determinedly added two inches to an
insufficient chest. Before he went to Lis-
more Brewer was associated with Tiie
Bulletin’s Brisbane agency. Before that
again he was a junior reporter with'the
Brisbane Standard. Ever since lie can
remember he has had to scratch for him-
self. He has sold papers in Sydney, delved
in Hunter River vineyards, and overlanded
cattle in North Queensland. When lie gets
well again he’ll be back mustering Turks.
“R.” : “What’s the use of “W.A.R.” apolo-
gising for Bean’s very dull work as war
correspondent? Bean is but a good reporter
and can’t help showing it at every touch of
the pen. This idea of taking “as a matter
of course” the Australians’ “bravery, daring,
recklessness and endurance” may lie a tribute
to Mr. Bean’s knowledge of the wars he never
saw before, but they don’t serve the Aus-
tralian who wanted the story of Australian
arms to be written so that he could visualise
it. The fact is lie’s too small for the job.
It demanded a man able to make images with
the vocabulary of a literary man and the eye
of a photographic lens, and it got—a re-
porter.
* * * *
“.T.F.IL”: There has been a Journalistic
orgy in London over the thousands of “war
babies” that are expected to ensue. It
was the fashionable Morning Post that first
discovered the attractive possibilities of the
theme, but the other papers, especially the
evening ones, were quick to scent good and
spicy copy, and now they are all discussing
the “urgent social problem.” There are
sceptics who doubt whether the unmarried
mother will be very much more numerous
than usual this year, but the special corres-
pondents sent to the various military centres
to investigate have no doubt that the ille-
gitimacy figures for 1.913 will be consider-
ably above the average. The compulsory
billeting of soldiers and recruits in private
houses is alleged to be largely responsible;
but crowds of feather-headed girls have
been attracted to the military camps, like
moths to the candle, and the usual old thing
has happened. The correspondence has been
served up by all soj±s of cooks —from the
“scientific” chaps whrPhold that the unmar-
ried war-mother is “Nature’s reply to the
slaughter of war men,” to Lady Gwendolen
Cecil, the elderly unmarried daughter of
the late Marquis of Salisbury, Prime Minis-
ter. She, of course, deplores the “lament-
able hysteria” prevalent on the subject, and
from the top of her own iceberg remarks that
there can be “no sentimental condonation of
a girl’s loss of purity.”
SHAMS!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve flve-and-thirty hearty damns for ev'ry spieler
who
Gets up and drivels in thin verse of island seas so
blue,
And long-lost girls and strings of pearls and lotus
buds and stars —■
That sort of artificial tripe my inmost innards jars.
1 hurry at top-speed to drink, and envy “subs”
long dead
AN ho cannot read the sentiments these vain iinpos-.
tors shed.
How they do pump their shallow souls and dredge
their book-drugged brains
For sad, mad muck wherewith to choke the journal-
istic drains!
I would arrest the thieving ass who brings old
maids to heel
With something raw about his loves. I'd still his
inky squeal
With junks of brick and metal blue and fruit too
.soft and ripe !
I swear he would not dare again his inmost thoughts
to pipe!
I loathe dull lies of kisses sweet arid girls beyond
compare
Who hung about his knobby knees and stroked his
loathly hair.
I’d kick the flap-eared, posing brute right to tire
Golden Shore —
I’d ram his MS. down his throat, and then kick
him some more.
How terrible it is to see a young fool puffed with
pride!
Some verses that I have to read tear me to bits
inside.
These tender yelps of love unloved that drip hot,
foolish tears
Are all the work of fiddling fools with long and
wagging ears.
They read like tourists’ guide-books and they smell
of midnight gas,
And any man they could deceive would be a hope-
less ass !
But old maids of both sexes must have mawkish
muck to read,
So he must write for their delight while 1 endure
and bleed.
Is'.S.W.
BASKETEER.


The Modern
Physician.
By Dr. Andrew Wilson.
That “Health is the best Wealth'' is one
of the truisms that busy people ale apt to
forget.
A work that justifies its claim to be a
complete guide to the attainment and pre-
servation of health —as well as a practical
teacher, not only of the nature of disease,
but also of the symptoms of all diseases, and
of the means to be adopted for their preven-
tion and treatment —is, therefore, a work to
be hailed in these days of high pressure and
physical strain as a household friend. Such
a book is “The Modern Physician.”
“The Modern Physician,” Iv Dr. Andrew j
Wilson, who has been assisted by a staff j
of able men and women physicians, supplies
that surgical, medical and hygienic informa- ,
tion for which there is an undoubted de-
mand. It is scientifically accurate, abso-
lutely up to date, and is written in the
clearest language.
Since a knowledge of the various and mar-
vellous functions of the body in health is
necessary to a due understanding of the
body when the various organs become de-
ranged by disease, descriptions of every
part of the frame will be found in “The
Modern Physician,” the skeleton, muscles,
digestive system, heart and lungs, brain and
nervous system, organs of sense, skin, kid-
neys, etc., etc., being fully explained and
illustrated.
The section devoted to Hygiene, otherwise
known as preventive medicine, includes the
full exposition of the laws of health, and
special attention is devoted to physical cul-
ture.
FIRST AID AND AMBULANCE WORK. |
A considerable amount of space is devoted :
to the teaching of “First Aid” or Ambulance j
Work, one of the most important movements !
of modern times, whereby the trained public
are made capable of rendering efficient assist-
ance to persons who have suffered from acci-
dents of various kinds. The sections of “The
Modern Physician” devoted to the exposition
of “first aid” principles are of the most
complete character; in respect of such com- '
pleteness, accuracy of detail, and also of
wealth of illustration. “The Modern Phy-
sician” stands without a rival amongst simi-
lar works published in any country.
THE HEALTH OF WOMEN.
Another section of this work very fully
treated by competent medical men, and
women physicians as well, is that devoted to
(he special consideration of the Health of
Women. This portion of the work will prove
of extreme value to mothers in guiding them
to a knowledge of the principles which tend i
to regulate the health of their daughters, so !
as to fit them for growing up into healthy
women.
Home Nursing will be found fully treated
by an expert. An extremely useful feature
will be found in the information which is
given regarding Sick Room Cookery and the
preparation of foods for invalids. A com-
plete collection of valuable recipes is given,
and also a most valuable assortment of the
original prescriptions of many famous phy-
sicians.
The section devoted to “The Family Medi-
cine Chest” gives the description, uses and
doses of drugs, as drops, lotions, ointments
and gargles. j
Every-day accidents are dealt with —what
to do for burns, scalds, contusions, stings, j
cuts, and so on ; how to bandage, to poultice, j
to administer medicine—the thousand and
one details that are useful knowledge when r
an emergency arises. This work will prove
in the hands of an intelligent father or ;
mother, or to those having care of others,
the aged as well as the young, a Guide to ;
Health as well as a Preventive of Disease. j
A FREE OFFER.
To the Standard Publishing Company P’t’y Ltd.,
100 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
19 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Please send me, free of charge, and without any
obligation on my part, illustrated booklet on “The
Modern Physician,” and particulars of your plan
whereby the five volumes are delivered for a first
payment of 3s. 6d., the balance being paid by small
monthly payments.
NAME !
fSend this form or a postcard mentioning
The Bulletin, 1765.)
ADDBESS
The Best History
of the War.
A Permanent Record of Undying Interest.
STARTLING DIPLOMATIC
DISCLOSURES.
Amid the flood of announcements of “His-
tories of the War,” it is good news to hear
that such a widely renowned firm as the
Standard Publishing Company Pty., Ltd., of
Melbourne, Sydney and Adelaide, has now
published the first volume of “The History
of the Great European War,” by W. Stanley
Macbean Knight, not issued in paper-covered
weekly or fortnightly parts, but in hand-
somely bound volumes. Even a casual glance
at the first volume makes it obvious that this
is the only work yet announced to show any
true appreciation of the needs of a real
history pf the present War.
For one thing, this history of the War is
unique in that it sets out in clear and
masterly fashion the moves and counter-
moves of the great diplomatic War, the
failure of which led inevitably to the appeal
to the sword. To appreciate this, and to
understand fully the cause of the War, it is
essential to trace the growth and develop-
ments of German policy for 50 years or
more, and to study its hidden workings all
the world over.
STARTLING DIPLOMATIC SECRETS.
In the first: volume of tiie “History of the
Great European War,” this is done in a
story of the most intense interest, and this
volume will undoubtedly create a profound
sensation. These revelations shatter many
preconceived ideas about our European
neighbors, disclosing as they do many
hitherto unpublished facts that throw a
startling light on the swollen ambitions and
treacherous deeds of the Prussian military
caste. The pages, indeed, afford a most
extraordinary revelation of the diplomatic
underworld.
The name of the author is su(Tie : ent guar-
antee of the authoritative nature of the work,
but it is interesting to know that the
peculiar resources of the publishers have
enabled exceptional arrangements to be made
for the producing of an absolutely authentic
account of (lie actual progress of the War.
For the author lias the assistance of many
high naval and military authorities.
THE STORY OP THE FIGHTING.
For this reason “The History of the Great I
European War” will he unique in providing
a full, true and connected story of the whole
field of operations. This part of the work
will be written in its true perspective, as the
actual facts and details of the operations
are only now beinv disclosed, and the
strategy of the Allies from the beginning of
the War is now being Understood. Natur-
ally, special attention is being paid to the
actions of our own men. In these pages
we will learn at last the details of that mid-
night mobilisation, when our troops sailed for
their secret destination with no cheering
crowd to see them off, but with a smile on
their lips, and courage ill their hearts. With
them we shall land on foreign soil, With them
we shall march to their places in the firing
line, and step by step We shall follow them
from their baptism of fire on that Sunday j
in August, wheil they repulsed six desperate ;
charges iil succession, to the day when they
return home after the final restoration of
Peace. Pages such as these are full of
stories of heroism, of.deeds unequalled in the
literature of the world, moving tales that will
thrill the reader when the War is over, and i
stir his children and his children’s children
to a realisation of all that the word of Briton
and British courage mean.
A PERMANENT RECORD.
In “The History of the Great European
War” the reader ik able to mala sure of get-
ting for the first time a permanent and
authentic record of this great Armageddon.
In this first volume, in its handsome binding,
worthy of a place in any library, he has a
work containing a vast amount of material
to which he must refer if he wishes fully to
appreciate the course of events. The work
is illustrated with a vast profusion of exclu-
sive photographs taken in the sphere of
operations, with many colored plates and
with a unique series of maps in color, also a
special series of mans showing the progress
and develonments of the great battles, forts,
lines of fighting, disposition of forces, etc.
IMMEDIATE APPLICATION NECES-
SARY.
It is obvious that this work will be imme-
diately recognised as the standard history of
the War. and as such there is bound to be a
great and immediate demand. We there-
fore strongly urge all readers to lose no time
in sending this form for an interesting illus-
trated booklet giving full particulars of the
work, and of the low terms upon which it
may be obtained.
AN APPRECIATION.
Robert A. C. THIRIvELL, F.R.G.C., New'
Town, Tasmania, writes -
“Volume 2 of ‘The History of the War’
to hand. It ought to be in every home in
Australia. A Work we are all very proud
of.”
A FREE BOOK.
The publishers have prepared an interesting illus-
trated booklet, describing the work in full, which
they will send post free upon receipt of this form.
To the Standard Publishing Company P't’y, Ltd.,
TOO Flinders Street, Melbourne.
19 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Please send me free of charge and without any
obligation on my part, your illustrated booklet on
“The History of the Great European War,” and of
your offer to deliver it for a small first, payment.
NAME
("Send this form or a postcard mentioning
The Bulletix, 1765.)
ADDRESS
Important to Music
Lovers.
“The Musical
Educator.”
A COMPLETE LIBRARY OF INSTRUC-
TION IN MUSIC.
The Musical Educator lias been pub-
lished to supply in compact form a complete
Musical Education by some of the greatest
Musical Authorities of the present day.
The Musical Educator contains hun-
dreds of lessons in Music and Singing by
leading Professors of Music. Every depart-
ment is dealt with.
The Musical Educator contains special
articles by leading Musicians: —
MARK lIAMBOURG writes “The |
Piano, and llow to Play It.”
Madame MARCH ESI writes "The
Teaching of Singing.”
Dr. F. 11. CO WEN writes “The Art of j
Conducting.” j
EDWIN 11. LEMARE writes “The Art j
of Organ Playing.”
JOHN DUNN on “Playing the Violin.” j
The Musical Educator contains Articles j
on Voice Training. Singing, Pianoforte Play- |
inf. the Violin, the Harmonium and Ameri- j
can Oigau, Harmony and Counterpoint,
Musical Forms, Musical Analysis, Lessons
in Canon and Fugue. Choir Training and
Conducting, Congregational Music, Nation-
ality in Music, Children's Music and Musi-
cal Drill, Scientific Basis of Music, etc.
The Musical Educator is profusely
illustrated with blocks and portraits, as well
as with exquisitely beautiful photogravures
in color.
The Musical Educator is recommended |
by Professor Marshall-Hall, Mr. W. F. ;
Steele, Professor R. F. Schafer, M.S.V., as j
well as by leading musicians in the old
world. Sir J. Frederick Bridge says: “The
Musical Educator is full oi useful infor-
mation, plainly set forth. The msuical illus-
trations are excellent.”
LEARNING MUSIC WITHOUT A
TEACHER.
“Dear Sir.—l must write and tell you
what a tremendous help I am finding The
Musical Educator. Being unable to have
lessons for five months I stopped all other
work and diligently studied your exercises,
with the result that my master cannot think i
what I have been doing to advance So much
without him.” j
This remarkable letter from Mrs. E. Birch, !
of Lygon Place, will be of considerable in-
terest to the many readers of this paper who
have wished they could play the piano or
some other musical instrument, but have not
been able to take lessons. It shows them
that at last a book has been published which
really does enable one to learn to sing or to
play in one’s own home without the expense
and trouble of taking lessons. This book is
The Musical Educator, which provides a
complete musical education, written by many
of the greatest of modern authorities, includ-
ing Paderewski, Mark Ilambourg, Caruso,
Clara Butt, Madame Marcliesi, Sir F. 11.
Cowen and many others.
“THE
MUSICAL EDUCATOR”
IS WITHIN
YOUR REACH.
To enable every Lover of Music to get this
up-to-date work wo have arranged a Special
Plan for your benefit.
We have prepared an Illustrated Booklet,
which sets forth our plan in detail, and tells
how you can get the whole five volumes post
free for a first payment of four shillings and
sixpence, provided you promise to pay the
balance by easy monthly payments. This
booklet will be gladly sent if you will fill
i up the form below and send if to us.
A FREE OFFER.
To the Standard Publishing Company P’t’y Ltd.,
100 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
19 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Please send me, tree of charge, and without any
obligation on mv part, your Illustrated Prospectus
of “The Musical Educator,” and particulars of your
plan by which the four volumes are delivered, post
free, for a first payment of four shillings and six-
pence.
NAME
(Send this form or a postcard mentioning
The Bulletin, 17G5.)
ADDRESS
Sonje
StaQdard
Books
for
Cash or
Otherwise
The Federal Edition of
the Complete Works
of Charles Dickens.
If there is one author whose great, repu-
tation entitles him to a place in your library
shelves that author is Charles Dickens.
His works are more read and better under-
stood to-day than they were 50 years ago,
when they were first appearing. It is? a
remarkable fact that the two finest editions
of his works have only recently been pub-
lished, and are now obtainable by subscrib-
ers on our well-known Standard Terms.
Certainly the most popular edition of the
day, and one which, judging by his own
letters, would have greatly satisfied Dickens
himself, is our Federal Edition.
This Edition contains all the Novels, as
well as Edwin Drood, and is delightfully
illustrated by modern artists, in color and
black and white.
It is, of course, no secret that Dickens
was often disappointed with the illustrations
which are now associated in our memories
with his novels. The pictures which are
now included in The Federal Dickens are
executed in great spirit, with sincerity, and
in sympathy with the characters and great-
est incidents of the book.
These modern illustrations are one of the
many features which will make modern read-
ers unsatisfied with any other edition than
The Federal Dickens.
Another of the most interesting character-
istics of The Federal Dickens is the success-
ful and attractive introductions which the
publishers have secured from all the best
writers and novelists of the day.
David Copperfield, introduction by Hall
Caine.
Bleak House, introduction by John Gals-
worthy.
Martin Chuzzlewit, introduction by Max
Pemberton.
Pickwick Papers, introduction by Andrew
Lang.
Our Mutual Friend, introduction by William
de Morgan.
A Christmas Carol, introduction by G. K.
Chesterton.
Dombey and Son, introduction by Lucas
Malet.
Little Dorrit, introduction by Baroness
Orczy.
Nicholas Nickleby, introduction by E. F.
Benson.
Edwin Drood, introduction by 11. A.
Vachell.
Oliver Twist, introduction by A. C. Benson.
Great Expectations, introduction by John
Oxenham.
Hard Times and No Thoroughfare, introduc-
tion by G. Bernard Shaw.
American Notes, and Pictures from Italy,
introduction by W. B. Maxwell.
The Uncommercial Traveller, introduction
by W. Pett Kidge.
The illustrations are one of the special
features in The Federal Dickens.
Each one of the great novels is prefaced by
a charming and illuminative essay upon the
book. These reveal to the ordinary reader
those charms and delights which the greatest
literary men of the day have found in their
acknowledged Master, Charles Dickens. These
fascinating papers are only secured by
readers of The Federal Dickens.
There is no Edition to compare with The
Federal Dickens (except the Godshill Edi-
tion, particulars of which we will send you
if you wish). There is no other edition into
which so many attractive features are gath-
ered.
An illustrated booklet, describing ALL tin*
main- and various attractions and merits of
The Federal Dickens, has been prepared,
and on receipt of the attached coupon we
will send, post Free, a copy to those inter-
ested. Of course, absolutely no obligation to
buy is incurred.
The Standard Publishing Co. P’t’y, Ltd.,
100 Flinders Street. Melbourne.
19 Hunter Street, Sydney,
please send me. post free and with absolutely no
obligation to buy, your large, illustrated booklet of
“The Federal Dickens.'’ Also, please give cash price
and particulars of your Standard Way of delivering
i it free for a first payment, of 6/6, the balance being
i paid by a few monthly subscriptions.
NAME
fPleate mention Tup. Bulletin 1765.)
ADDRESS


SCOT
EMULSI
cod uvr
COUGHS
and colds
weaken the system and lead
the way to pneumonia,
chronic catarrh, bronchitis
and even consumption.
The wor|t cold or most stubborn
cough cannot persist if you take
SCOTT’S Emulsion.
The first dose loosens the grip it has
upon you. Then the inflamed tissues
commence to heal, the lungs become
less choked, appetite returns and you
soon feel strong and well again.
More than this, SCOTT’S Emulsion
builds up whilst it cures—removing
dangerous weakness and the possi-
bility of after effects.
But only genuine SCOTT’S—no other
emulsion has received the approval
of the world’s best doctors.
SCOTT’S
Emulsion
IMITATED BECAUSE SO GOOD.
Have You a BAD LEG
perhnps surrounded with inflammation and
swollen, that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Per-
haps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated, the same with the ankles, round
which tire skin may be. discolored, the disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the )iower to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been (old your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Trv. the great British Remedy:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which you will find a certain restorer.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store.
Also a certain remedy for
Poisoned Hands, Housemaid
Knees, Carbuncles. Abscesses,
Snake and Insect Bites.
British Prices, i/1 and 2/9.
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farringdon St.,
Agents — LONDON, Eng.
ELLIOTT BROS.
AV. IT. SOUL PATTTNKON & CO.
AUSTRALIANS,DRUG CO.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS. etc.
HP
-
#
mm
Dr B. Allen's lU-SA)
WALNUT
FOR
GREY
SIEMENS
Cable & Telegraph WorKs: Woolwich, England.
Incandescent Camp WorKs: Dalston, London.
Machine & Switchgear WorKs : Stafford, England.
STANNOS
WIRES.
“STAN NOS” Wire consists of tinned copper conductors,
insulated with three layers of indiarubber, and then surrounded
by a closely-compressed sheet of tinned copper, the whole being
rendered homogeneous by a special process, and tested at a
pressure of 1000 volts.
Its chief advantag'es may be summarised as follows:
Reliability
Mechanical Strength
Durability.
Can be used with standard Ceiling Roses, Switches, etc.
Almost invisible if wired on the surface.
Condensation impossible.
Neat in appearance.
Write for Sample and Price.
Siemens Bros. Dynamo
WorKs Limited
Head Office—London,
59-01 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
42 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIA'S GREATNESS depends upon the
MANUFACTURE, within her shores, of all her
needs. Buy only AUSTRALIAN GOODS,
“SILVER STAR” STARCH
“THE BEST IN THE WORLD.”
Will give a lovely finish to all white-work, and will
never stick to the iron. You can get it in Jib.
and lib. packets. Also, in 41b. to 51b. parcels; be
sure to look for the “Silver Star” label when you
buy.
“EMPIRE”
ESSENCE
COCOA
EMPIRE
“THE NATION’S STRENGTH.”
Pure, strong, and nourishing, “Empire” Cocoa forms
the 1 ideal health beverage. It will build up the
nerves and strengthen the whole system. Your grocer
sells it in jib. and Jib. tins.
SELF
RAISING
FLOUR
“EMPIRE”
“LIGHTENS ALL THINGS.”
You cannot find a better flour for making' light
scones and cakes than “Empire".' Self-Raising - . Only
the best and purest ingredients, thoroughly mixed,
are used in its manufacture. 21b. packets and
calico bags.
Golden Orange Tips
TEA
“A TONIC FOR THE TIRED.”
The delightful fragrance and delicate flavor of
“Umpire” tea pleases the best tea connoisseurs. As
a refresher and invigorant it has no equal. Try a
packet or tin —you will like it.
Harper’s “Star”
Oatmeal
ORDINARY AND FLAKED.
Porridge is never so enjoyable as when Harper's
“Star” Oatmeals are used. Whether you prefer
“flaked” or “ordinary” is a matter of taste. Both
kinds are sold in calico bags—the “flaked” in 21b.
packets also.
Express” Custard Powder
“DELICIOUSLY TEMPTING.”
Makes a smooth, delicious custard with a flavor you
will appreciate. You should always keep a supply
in the house for emergencies. Delicious custard can
be prepared in a moment. Sold in Penny Packets.
Sold by Storekeepers throughout the Commonwealth.
For further particulars write to the Manufacturers—
Robert Harper 8 Co. Ltd.
:JDO Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Empire Chambers, York St., Sydney. .
Albert and Mary Streets, Brisbane.
.‘lO Currie Street, Adelaide.
And Philliniore Street, Fremantle.
The echo of the hallelujah which accom-
panied Duke Kahanamoku ou his recent tour through
Australia has stirred in his brother swimmers in
Hawaii a desire to follow his gay. and festive tracks.
If conditions offer the opportunity, a strong- team
from the island will be found disporting in Aus-
tralian and Maoriland waters next year. Itelay races
will probably be the star attraction.
* ,* * * .'
“Ohinky” : Are Bendigonhm sports deteri-
orating? Is their fibre becoming flabby? The ques-
tions, might well be put seeing the eternal.:grizzling
that the “heads” of the- Goldfields’ football teams are
fostering. First, there was sour talk because alleged
goals kicked by home teams were recorded only as
behinds. The umpire’s . opinion, of course, didn’t
matter. Then, when the Bendigonians were licked
hollow by the country lads from the Irrigation
centre, a squeak went up that the Rochester ground
was too small, although the League officials had
passed it as just IT. Further, because there wasn’t
a feather-bed under the Bendigo player who hap-
pened to fall, the ground was too hard —that the
Rochestrians hadn’t irrigated it to a desirable soft-
ness, so to speak. Then there was a squabble because
(on an unmarked boundary) the man responsible for
doing his part at a particular spot was alleged to
have said the ball was over the boundary when (so
a “head” alleged) it was not so —not by half an
inch or so, bo would swear. When a boundary
umpire wrote to the squabble committee to the effect
that he could see better out of liis two eyes than
the “head” questioning- his fairness could out of liis
one eye, the “head” aforesaid got in some squeal
which induced the committee to call upon the
official to withdraw his unpoliteness, probably to save
their colleague from an attack of apoplexy. So the
agony goes on, and patrons are getting fed-up.
* * * *
“Scallywag”: In all humility, and in a
spirit of research, may I ask what are the “rules of
boxing”? 1 have attended every important biffing
contest at Sydney Stadium for the last two years,
and'iff all that time I have failed to discover: (1)
Any part of the M. of Q. rules worth mentioning
that have not been more or less flagrantly in-
fringed : (2) any referee game to insist on an abso-
lute adherence to a clean break; (3) any police
officer who knew the letter and spirit of the legal
enactments in regard to -an evenly-matched contest.
Fred Kay and Matt Wells win .matches by sprinting,
and Pat Bradley g-ets the applause and the gilt on
account of the undamag'eable nature of his features;
hut I have no evidence to show that skill and dex-
terity in the manipulation of one’s hands are of
importance. The Stadium congregation is notori-
ously ignorant of the finer points, and generally
yells for the pug. on whom the fate of 'its surrep-
titiously-invested few bob depends. Then, too, no
referee makes a practice of stating how. he awards
points. Does a punch count the same as a tap?
Are boxers penalised for want of alacrity in obeying-
the referee? If the contest is decided by rounds,
why not announce by megaphone or 12-inch gun
the winner of each round? If bv points, why .not
declare the points during the progress of the con-
test? Finally, why not have a jury instead of a
judge ?
* * * *
The big Canterbury (M.L.) Jockey
Club’s .balance-sheet for 1911-15 shows a decrease
in revenue of £2OOO, practically all "due'to a fall-
away at the National meeting, which took place
just after the declaration of William that he and his
corporal, the Almighty, would flood the world with
blood.
* * * •
“B.B.”: Are there any Binghis playing
cricket worth mentioning nowadays? It seemed at
one time as if Black Brother was going to take to
the game and do fairly well at it. The first abo.
team was raised in Victoria, and visited Sydney in
February, 1807 ; but it made a poor showing against
an XI of tlie old Albert-Club. The records give
tlie names of the blacks -as Rose, Bullocky, Cuzens,
Mullagh, Jellico, Peter, Tarpot, Paddy, Dick-a-Dick,
Watty and Twopenny.- The following year one Law-
rence took a team of natives to England. Tlie com-
ponent parts of the show were Jim Crow, Bullocky.
Cuzens, Dick-a-Diek, King Cole, Mullagh, Peter,
Shepherd, Mosquito, Charley, Tiger, Twopenny and
Red Cap (skipper). Their first match was against
11 amateurs of the Surrey Chib at Kennington, and
7000-odd people rolled up to witness the black man’s
burden. It amounted to a defeat by an innings and
seven runs. The principal match of the tour was
against Marylebone, at Lords. The pioneers of Aus-
tralia knocked up 185 and 45 ; M.C.C., 164 and 121.
Mullagh shone the following year (1879) in Mel-
bourne, where, as a member of Victoria’s XI, he
made the top score (36) in the second innings
against Lord Harris’s English outfit.
* * * *
Too much prosperity lias been bringing
Uncle Sam’s national pastime, baseball, io a state
which has been exercising the minds of sound
critics. Mostly these critics have been content to
shake their heads dubiously or spin an optimistic
argument that all will yet be well, according as the
symptoms appealed to them. But Irving E. Sanborn
belongs to neither of those schools of ’ball phy-
sicians. He wades into his subject with a stick,
and in. Evkrybody’s Magazine for May clouts all
concerned: “Selfishness and greed permeating the
whole structure, wrangling and strife among the pro-
moters, soon will transform the grand old game com-
pletely. I nstend of the gripping obsession of a nation,
easily within reach of the masses six months of every
.vear, there will lie evolved a sort of grand opera, ex-
ploiting gifted athletes as full of temperament as a
Hock of prima donne, and receiving so many thou-
sands for each performance that only limited seasons
iii tlie wealthier cities will be profitable.” Sanborn
reckons that in 24 years lie never saw so much
“rotten” baseball played in one season as last year
in the three major leagues. Two-thirds of the play-
ers were bound to iron contracts, their princely
salaries were safe, and they were languid. Finally,
be gives birth to a phrase that some athletic pro-
moters in Australia would do no harm to adopt:
"When commerce stalks in tlie front door, sport flies
out the back window.”
“Wliiit!” (from ’Frisco): Sot with
thorns and trimmed with trouble is the way of tlie
fight-promoter, if the word of Jack Curie'', who
engineered the Johnson-Willard skirmish, is to be
believed. According to him, he was the most hounded
and persecuted man north of the Line. Enemies,
who sought by fair and foul means to block the
fight were as thick as fleas on the Lord Mayor’s dog.
Public men, rival fight-promoters, the Church, politi-
cal jobbers, etc., all tried to turn public opinion
against him. His chief harassev was the editor and
owner of a Havana rag, who not only refused bis
advts., but in a series of articles tore bis character
to shreds. This yarn was all right until Battling
Nelson dropped a bomb on to the roof of the situa-
tion, and the smell thereof is pungent in the land.
Nelson avers that Curley, by his conduct both before
and after tlie Johnson-Willard match, killed the
future of boxing in Cuba, lie says the promoter left
many unpaid bills behind him, amongst them a claim
for 800 dollars due to pressmen for special write-
ups. His worst offence was his treatment of Martini,
the photographer. When Martini, a little man of
frail physique, presented liis bill for 85 dollars,
( nvlcy shouted: “Who are you? I don’t know you.”
and felled him with a terrific punch on the jaw.
Nelson’s straightforward story has a genuine ring to
it. and if it. be the truth, then the name of figlit-
pioinoter Curley becomes Mud.


1
«i&b.
am
Si
□
6 >
gs
SUB
■
Edisdo
Mazda Lamp
Insist on MAZDA
lt Will Pay You.
This is a photograph of a MAZDA
LAMP that was in service from
30th Sept., 1909, until 7th May, 1915.
LIFE ... 22,700 Hours.
A number of other lamps installed
at the same time are still burning.
ftj
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
BRISBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
—Agents —
‘Mazda House/’ Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock and Co., Ltd., Launceston; Oliver & Oliver, MacQuarie Street. Hobart.
ENTYRELY BRITISH
fig
h/t:
D
AVON
L
ft
If. TRADE mark
BRITISH directors, British shareholders and
British workmen benefit by the purchase
of Avon Tyres—in the first place.
11 Secondly, there is substantial benefit for motorists —in
increased comfort, greater security, longer service. Not
problematic, but proven. In two private and independent
tests Avon Tyres showed a cost per mile less than half
that of their nearest competitor.
STOCKISTS and AGENTS:
N. J. HOWES & CO., 212 Clarence Street, Sydney.
H. C. PANNIFEX, 26 Market Street, Melbourne.
AVON GOLF BALLS:
NORMAN ALL WOOD, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Manufactured by the Avon India Rubber Co. Ltd.,
19 Newman Street, Oxford Street, London. W.
4
TYRES
-MAKE MOTORING CHEAPER
-SAFER-MORE COMFORTABLE
HIS MASTER’S VOICE
McCormack
Records.
John McCormack is more to Austra-
lian song-lovers than all the celebrities
abroad, because he has been here
amongst us —we have heard his won-
derful voice.
This week we quote a few from many
notable McCormack , records that
reproduce his singing exactly as' We
heard it during his triumphal season
in Australia.
l- ;
. n
4-2513
4-2370 I Hear a Thi-ush at Eve.
4-2142 Mother, Macliree.
4-2073 My Lagan Love.
4-2221 The Rosary.
02306 Has Sorrow Thy Young Days Shaded.
02327 “In a Persian Garden.”
02324 She Is Far from the Land.
“TIPPERARY,” in classic form, by John McCormack,
with male chorus and orchestra. A notable record, to
to be on sale about 25th inst. “Tipperary” as you never
heard it before—a magnificent record, introducing
McCormack’s true Athlone brogue. Be sure to get it.
New, complete Record Catalogue, Instru-
ment' Catalogue and name of nearest
accredited dealer on request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. Ltd.
163 PITT STREET— -SYDNEY.
[Hi* Masters Voice, |


banking-. Public Companies, Ac.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office r 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners—
R. A. WARDEN (President), W. H. O’M. WOOD,
H. D. HALL.
AIVD SATISFACTORY
INTEREST FOR YOUR SAVINGS.
ORPOSTTS received from 1/- upwards.
INTEREST paid at 8* per cent, on first
u and 3 Per cent, on excess to £5OO.
ERNMENT TS GUARANTEED BY the gov-
MONEY TO LEND TO FARMERS
AND SETTLERS
inputs' t evJ tS r P t 0 £5O0 ’ re P a yable by instal-
ments extending over 31 years. Interest, 5 per
M Agencies throughout the
this Bank * 316 " 0< now A^encies f °r
By Order of the Commissioners,
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary
THE r _
Bank of North Queensland
limited.
AUTHORISED
Subscribed Capita]
Directors: Hon.
Hon.
lion.
GE\ t ER AT, M A KAO ED
CAPITAL, £700,000.
and .Reserves, £385,000.
Sir ALFRED COWLEY •
Sir ROBERT PHILP, M.L A
A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 Oeorge Street
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street!
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEAY
SOUTH AVALES.
nrr.. AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE AA T ORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
, LIMITED.
* 7™ e ” ,stered 1909 under the Companies Act')
AUTHORISED capital .. , P i 2,000 600
subscribed
PATD-ITP (31st December, 1914)
RESERVE FUND
£1,198,679
£3,195,59-1
£55,000
n OEEICE: Georgre & King- Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37 Threadneedle Street E C
m i™ CTOI Ii~ GEORr o • T vP ly > 11 - d - : Mark Sheldon
Esq. , Arthur S. Barton, Esq. ; Frank N
Yarwood, Esq.; Herbert R. I ysaght' Fso
George F. Todman, Esq. ’ Jisq - ’
Branches throughout New South Wales A- Queensland
Aprencms throna-hont the Australian Commonwealth
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON. Generallfanajer
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
T?2«rv P 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. . 178 000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091.669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
r>I T^ TO r r s ~ Geo - Edw d. Running, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Jas. Munro, Esq.; Hon. G. W. Grav, MLC •
James Love, Esq. ; Jas. Milne, Esq. '
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON ' •
HEAD OFEICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia. Scotland, Ireland
America. Canada, South Africa. China, the East
The Commercial ganking (Jo.
of Sydney, [imiied.
Capital Paid-up ..
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital . .
. • £2,000,000 0 0
1,755,000 0 0 f
. . 2,000,000 0 0
£5,755,000 0 0
„ , DIRECTORS:
Gropoe J Cohen, Esq Chairman.
n ATE ?fr M^ LC tT •• Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. IT. Moses, M.L.C, Hon. James Borns, ML C
T. F. Knox. Esq.
Auditors: F. W. Hixson, Esq., and W. L. Docker. Esq
a • * General Manager: T. A. Dinns. '
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector-
11. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane!
Directors: F. IT. Dangar, Esq. - Hon IT <3
Littleton: N. D. Cohen, Esq
, Manager: F. L. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the World
Bank of fleui Us land.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock
Preference Shares .. .. ’ ’
Ordinary Shares (£1,000.000) Paid-
.up
Uncalled Capital
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
£1,000.000
500,000
500.000
500.000
1,601,608
GRANTS DRAFTS
tain and Ireland, and
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Br-
other. places..
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
business.
The Colonial Mutual rife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments a'u
Annuities without Mutual Liability; ,
Accident, Sickness and Industrial
i Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitable distributed
Chief Office for New South IVai.es:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts. C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGL AN D.
• -GearedTurbine 15,000 Regd. Tons.
..Triple-Screw.. 13,000
OR\ lETO ..Twin-Screw
OSTERLEY . .
OTRANTO . . ,
OTWAY
ORSOVA .. ”
ORONTES .
OMRAH .. "
12,130
12,129
12,124 ;
12,077 ,
12,036 ,
9,023 ,
. 8,282 ,
ous FM s e tlmp, h Wi ; e, , efS Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
bedstelds 4f; , C i blr Lf -de-h.xe; Staterooms, with
■SSfitaSSS Prt ” ,e •«*««!-•
ORIRNT S.N. CO.,
. 12 Martin Pi,ace, Sydney.
tolmlrancisco
(UNDER THE BRITISH FLAG)
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA,
and PAPEETE (TAHITI).
TI *JJ, BOOKINGS to any part of
witl/ nil "V jEUROPE, in connection
Kailwais. States and Canadi ®«
»
“MARAMA,
6500 tom register, 10,800 tons displacement
botwi„Sfe4i!?S"r,SS. s ‘”™ r
Sails 12 o'clock (noon), SATURDAY, JUNE 19
Following Sailings: JULY 17, AUG. 14, SEPT. 11.
Fra P n“ open at San
Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy
311 arS " P am Pblets obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD
209 George Street, Svdnev
Shipping. &c.
Australian Steamships Line
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting):—
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
*CAIRNS
for
this and other
Queensland ports).
NORTH.
CANBERRA '(8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney June 19.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leases Melbourne June 23.
Leaves Sydney June 26.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne June 30.
Leaves Sydney July 3.
MELBOURNE )
(Transhipping for f
S.A. anr] W.A. ports) J
SOUTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney June 26.
QUEENSLAND MAIL SERVICE.
S.S. Peregrine (3500 tons) ’leaves Brisbane every
Friday at 8 a.m. for TOWNSVILLE, calling at
GLADSTONE, FLAT TOP and BOWEN, connecting
at TOWNSVILLE with t.s.s. MOURILYAN for ports
as far as COOKTOWN.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
The Great 1915 Trip;
7 WEEKS ONLY.
Visit the
Panama-Pacific Exposition
AT SAN FRANCISCO.
Now Open. Closes Dec. 4.
Sydney to San Francisco in 18 days
via Honolulu Beautiful Hawaii'
giving
12 days to see the Exposition
and be delighted with
World-famed Californian Sights.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
July 3; July 31; August 28; Sept. 25.
Apply:— OCE A NIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
v '<
' I %
/ -©
" NORFOID I?
*7
'fIOIiIDAY-'
’■Cruises
lsles.
BurnsPh/lp& cpiji*
Send for Pamphlet.
TO PAPUA St RABAUL
TO SOLOMON IS
TO NEW HEBRIDES
TO MARSHALL&
to Gilbert i?
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
W ALE S.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund *
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS:
£3,500,000
£2,550.000
£3,500,000
£9,550.000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., MLC
President.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Robert Lionel Faithful!, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosberv, C.M.G., MLC
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Head a Sfflc°e n -Cor« m 6t I "Si r S : n^« P,1 '" er ' , F '“l „ Edreolffl L.idlej, E.q.
ss^ T fcrsr,a , &K-
-~ *- 3. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
- sv-h'?' a " d «>!"■«•■ Enetantlnrr Scenery, liberal land law.
, <>r initial development Queens-
prospective settler and to thehonest worker 6 Scientist the tourist, the
For Descriptive Pamphlets and- fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU. Brisbane.
Branch Office: 1,6 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Commonwealth
gs
Bank*2uotralta
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY
Open
for a. 11
General Banking 1 Business
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
in the
principal
vp'^'i^
Advances made against approved securities. interest paid,on hxed deposits
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at over
1/.
Minimum
Deposit
2550
Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua
Interest at
per annum '
up to £300
3%
INTERSTATE
JAMES KEL’i, Deputy Governor.
and INTERNATIONAL Saving's Bank Facilities
■: 19V> DBMS >N MILLER, Govern
1
/•
Spl?Qdid Winter
TO THE
ToOrs
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
FIJI
Quaint Customs,
Rugrg-ed Scenery.
TONGA
Palm-fringed
Coral Islands.
SAMOA
The Cem of the Pacific.
PAMPHLETS AND ALL INFORMATION FROM
UNION STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND, LTD.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
for MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF FORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
T.S.S. WARILDA (8000
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
July 3 and July 3i.
(Carrying First and
Second Saloon and
Steerage Passengers.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
MORIALTA, June 19.
INNAMINCKA, June 26.
GRANTALA, July 3.
®& n D P sssage Tickets are interchangeable after
„ n e Pol ;t of cal l with other Inter-State Companies
all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. XUILI, & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
VIA NEW ZEALAND, FIJI AND
HONOLULU.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE.
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Pailway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST AND
TP n. »m LS TRADING BETWEEN AtJS-
-IRALIA AND IHE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
SAILINGS:
' t> i i r,V ' Baums ae luxe en
™ ds t eaci lvooms > Nursery, Laundry, Electric
Lift. Wireless, t Twin-Screw Steamer. Wireless.
PANAMA PACIFIC EXHIBITION AT SAN
FRANCISCO NOW OPEN.
Passengers stopping off at Suva can obtain every
comtort and convenience at the new and palatial
Brand Pacific Hotel.
For full particulars and pamphlets apply
UNION STPA/M SHIP COMPANY OP N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“ Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria/'
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH k ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
T HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers tl'ade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS ; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination 'tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. Cd. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars applv:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE" ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd,
Capital Subscribed . . . . . . . . £250,000
Capital Paid up , . £10o!ooO
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits .. £15,365
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
The Company acts as Executor, Joint Executor, Trustee
Administrater or Attorney under Power for absentees’
and is the only Trustee Company empowered by Act
of Parliament to operate in more than one State
SYDNEY OFFICE: 48 Young Street.
The_ Hon. Sir CHARLES K. MACKELLAR, M.L.C.
H. Y. BHADDON, Eso.
H. AY. BELL. Esq. *
•TAMES KIDD, Esq
R. M. PITT, Esq.
Pull information as to terms, etc., obtainable
application to JOHN MAIR, Manager.
TELESCOPES
A good Telescope affords a view of delight-
ful experiences, and makes each outing highly
instructive, as well as intensely interesting.
The “RANGER” is made of solid brass,
three draw tubes, cap for object glass, and
revolving disc for eye-piece, to keep out dust.
Good definition, and magnifies over eight
diameters, with splendid range.
The “Ranger” Telescope
Post Free, 12/0.
.Only obtainable from
A. P. Greenfield 8 Co. Ltd.,
189-191 George Street, BRISBANE.


(3
m
n
i
This £l4 Machine
With 5 Drawers
Automatic Lift
£6 IQs. cash
IO YEARS’WRITTEN
GUARANTEE
Packed & Delivered Free
A.N.A. Sewing
Machine Co.
25 Queen Victoria Markets (near Town Hall), Sydney.
Government Notices.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, May 27, 191 u.
Entry of Apprentices at H.M.A. Naval
Dockyards and Establishments,
Sydney, N.S.W.
A COMPETITIVE Examination for ad-
mission as Apprentices to the follow-
ing trades at His Majesty’s Australian Naval
Dockyards and Establishments, Sydney,
N.S.W., wiU shortly be held in the capital
cities 'bi the - vSrioTis States .
Blacksmith, Boilermaker (Engineer, Steel-
shipbuilder). Coppersmith, Electrical litter.
Engine Fitter and Turner, Moulder and
Founder (Brass, Iron), Painter, Pattern-
maker, Plumber, Sheet Ironworker and lin-
smith, Shipwright, Ship’s Carpenter and
Joiner, Shipyard Fitter.
Candidates must not be less than 14 nor
more than 17 years of age on October 1,
1915 and must be of pure European descent,
and sons of natural-born or naturalised
British subjects.
Applications must be’ forwarded to the
Naval Secretary. Navy Office, Melbourne,
not later than JMy 1, 1915.
Full particulars are published m the
Commonwealth Gazette of May 22, IJIS.
Printed forms of application, general con-
ditions governing terms of apprenticeship
and particulars relative to syllabus of exam-
ination, etc., may be obtained from:
Naval Secretary, Navy Office, Melbourne;
Captain in Charge, H.M.A. Naval Estab-
lishments, Garden Island;
General Manager, Commonwealth Naval
Dockyard, Cockatoo Island ;
District Naval Officer, Sydney, Port Mel-
bourne, -Brisbane, Largs Bay (S.A.). Fre-
mantle and Hobart.
G. F. PEARCE,
Minister of State for Defence.
Accounts Due by the Government of the
Commonwealth.
ALL persons who have claims against the
Government of the Commonwealth are
requested to apply to the Department which
incurred the liability on or before Tuesday,
29th June, so as to avoid inconvenience to
themselves and the Department.
No accounts will be paid on Wednesday,
the 30th ;of June, after One p.m.
ANDREW FISHER,
Treasurer of the Commonwealth.
Legal Notice'
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND Townsville.
No. 43 of 1915.
Mr. Justice Sliand.
Between MARTIN FLYNN Plaintiff and
ANNIE LEE, ELIZABETH KATE
CHRISTENSEN, THOMAS JOHN
ROBERT HAWKINS, D. L. WIL-
LIAMS, HOLMES WILLIAMS, and
M. WILLIAMS, Defendants.
PURSUANT to a judgment of the Supreme
Court of Queensland at Townsville in an
action by Martin Flynn as Administrator of
the real and personal estate of Frances
Flynn against Annie Lee, Elizabeth Kate
Christensen. Thomas John Robert Hawkins,
D. L. Williams, Holmes Williams and M.
Williams the persons claiming to be the
next of kin of the said Frances Flynn late of
Ingham in the State of Queensland Married
Woman who died on or about the Eleventh
day of June 1914 are to come in on or before
the First day of September 1915 and prove
their Claims at the Registry of the said
Court at Townsville or in default thereof
they will be peremptorily'excluded from the
benefit of the said judgment. The Seventh
day of September 1915 at 2.30 o’clock in the
afternoon at the said Registry is appointed
for hearing and adjudicating upon the
claims.
DATED-at Townsville the Fourth day of
Juno 1915.
CHAS. S. NORRIS,
(L.s.) # Registrar.
Connolly & Slithers, Solicitors,
Denham Street, Townsville,
Town Agents for L. E. Challands, Solicitor
for Plaintiff Ingham.
m
' rasa
EORGE li OTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
/
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘A-RAlilS’
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian 11-erma has the. largest sale of
ajnr Hair Stain orf the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior,. imftationss.to deceive,ymt. .Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine." Price t/- and 2/6.
©htWJftblei from all: Chemists and Stores in Australia.
G»-VI
mm
The 12/6 Treasure
is worth a Guinea.
Judged'upon its merits —by the excellence
of its shaving qualities and its long ser-
vice—the “TREASURE” SAFETI
RAZOR is honestly worth every penny
of ONE GUINEA. There are 24 blades
—highly-tempered. Wafer-steel blades —
with two cutting 'edges each —practically 48 new
razors at the price of ONE.
Easily cleaned, and made to automatically adjust the
blade to the right shaving pitch.
Packed in a fine leather case •• • • 12/6
The same Razor, packed in a handsome Nickel Silver
Presentation Case 14/6
Write for our big new list of Sensible Gifts for
Men. Posted Free.
STEWART DAWSON’S,
STRAND CORNER.
412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
gs
DINNEFORD'S
DINNEFORD’S
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
ahd label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
EVER'rTilinG IN
RINGS
«€>»CR •DIAMOHBS
sehd for our special ring catalogue
HOUNTfD IN SOUO !8" BOLD
a
-J '♦* ■ ■
Bf-1
Mill
90 KING ST
SYDNEY
7/.5/*
B<VDO
»7S
MAKERS
mmtot noeo
OF RINGS m WHICH THE STONES
DO STAY.
There is never any question about a dress made of
LOUIS VELVETEEN. Fresh charm, dainty
grace, style and dignity characterise every length of
this beautiful material. For your protection see that
every yard is marked with the letters L-O-U-I-S.
m
m
mm
r
m
Velveteen
>C.yV
m-
‘nun
LAND
MOTT"
Swedish
CRUDE-OIL ENGINES
for all purposes on
L
*
MARINE.
FARM, STATION, COUNTRY HOUSE OR MWTOR - BOAT
WOOD AND CHAFF CUTTING, PUMPING, ELECTRIC LIGHTING.
Crude oil is cheaper than kerosene and safer. Power costs only
one-third that of a petrol engine with our system of water injection.
Our Marine type, for Fishing Boats and small Tugs, a Speciality,
particulars to
Swedish Drott Motors,
C. HILDEBRAND, /Went,
306 Kent Street, Sycney.
P.O. Box 2097.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 16 - per day
and upwards.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It
is the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL AND SUPPER
ROOM.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
EXCELLENT CUISINE EVERY AFTER-
NOON AND EVENING.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
arid riig'bt.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY" ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlerengh Street, Sydney.
[ftlailfSiNM
CROWS MOUSTACHES
QUICKLY !
r
Dispel that boyish
100k —grow a mous-
tache and develop a
manly appearance.
Capillarine will help
you as it has helped
hundreds. Safe—sure
—Satisfactory. Send
for a Jar to-day.
PRICE 10/6 JAR—Post Free.
Craig: & Aitken,
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established Over SO Years.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices in this list are thorp, at which the
various books are published in London. 'lhe
prices in parentheses are those at which the
books are supplied by retail booksellers in Vic-
toria, New South Wales and South Australia.
Postage is extra, at the rate of 2d. per pound
within, the Australian Commonwealth.
A HISTORY OF PERSIA. By Lieut.-
Col. P. M. SYKES. C.M.G., C.1.E..
Author of “The Glory of the Shia
World.” etc. With 7 Maps. 4 -Plates
in Color and 170 in Black and White,
and numerous Head-pieces. In 2
vols. Svo. £2 10s. net. (00s.)
Tiie Athen/EIJm: “The sumptuous and ex-
traordinarily complete volumes. .-. .Col. Svkrs
may be congratulated on having produced, a ,
great work, which is at once invaluable for
reference and enjoyable to read. tor. actin
alitv’ the account of British establishments on
the' Persian Gulf, at Bandar Abbas, Bushire
and Basra has a special interest now The ;
book is splendidly illustrated, and the maps
are the best we have seen.”
NOW COMPEETE IN 0 VOLS.
MACAULAY’S HISTORY OF ENG-
LAND. ILLUSTRATED EDI-
TION. Edited by C. 11. FIRTH,
M.A. With 900 Illustrations, includ-
ing 44 in Color and Photogravure:
Portrait. In 6 vols. Super royal
Svo. 10s. 6d. net each. (12s. 6d.)
Illustrated Prospectus post free on
application.
Daily News: “This is a great edition of a
great book. We do not know of any more.,
nobly illustrated history in the English lan-
guage.”
THE BRITISH EMPIRE. By Sir
CHARLES P. LUCAS, 1v.C.8.,
K.C.M.G. With Maps. Crown Svo.
2s. net. (2s. 6d.)
The British Empire Review : “In any-
thing that Sir Charles writes we look for ripe
scholarship and the fruits -of long and honor-
able official experience in dealing with Colonial
and Imperial problems, and we are not dis-
appointed. The volume will, no doubt, as -it
deserves, have many readers.”
THE WAR AND DEMOCRACY.
By R. IV. SETON-WATSON, D.Litt.,
J. DOVER WILSON, ALFRED E.
ZIMMEIIN, and ARTHUR GREEN-
WOOD. With 8 Maps. Crown Bvo.
2s. net. (2s. 6d.)
The Outlook: “No more suggestive or
thoughtful book dealing with the war, its
immediate and ultimate causes, its present
effects, and its probable results has, we believe,
yet been issued to the public.” - '
W. & A. Iv. JOHNSTON’S
WAR MAP OF THE DARDA-
NELLES & BOSPHORUS, show-
ing Forts, Main Roads and Railways.
Size, 25 x2O inches. Printed in
Colors. Unmounted Sheet, 6d. net.
(9d.). On Cloth, folded, Is. 3d. net.
(Is. 6d.)
W. & A. K. JOHNSTON’S
EUROPEAN WAR MAP, 1914.
Colored. 11th Edition revised, show--
ing Fortified Towns and Aeroplane
Stations. Size, 30 x 40 inches. Is.
net. (Is. 3d.)
IV. & A. Iv. JOHNSTON’S
CONTOURED MAPS OF THE WAR
AREAS. Shaded Coloring. Size,
30 x4O inches, ls.6d.net. (Is. 9d.)
each.
No. 1. —Between Paris and Berlin.
No. 2.—Between Petrograd and Ber-
lin, including the whole of Austria.
STORIES FROM NATURE. By J.
A. FLETCHER. With Illustrations.
Is. 6d. Contents include: Tommy
Oystercatcher —How Robbie Watched
the Corroboree —Bennie’s Wabbalee,
etc., etc.
MACMILLAN'S EMPIRE LIBRARY.
Paper Covers, 2/6; Cloth. 3/6 per
Volume.
WINSTON CHURCHILL’S NEW
NOVEL.
646 A FAR COUNTRY. By WIN-
STON CHURCHILL. Author of
“The Inside of the Cup,” etc.
The title of this novel is taken from that -
passage of the Parable of the Prodigal Son,
whore we are told that he “took his journey
into a far country, and there wasted his sub-
stance vyith riotous living.” This fact suffici-
ently indicates- the theme of the work, and it
is only .necessary to say that the treatment
is marked by the author’s customary boldaffist
and power of holding the reader’s attention's?-;^
JAMES LANE ALLEN’S NEW
STORY. 4
647 THE SWORD OF YOUTH. By
JAMES LANE ALLEN. Author of
“The Choir Invisible,” etc.
The' AtiiicNjEUM : “This finely told tale.
....Some of the scenes have a real touch of
beauty. Mr. Allen possesses the power, in
which Mr. Hardy excels, of making the land
and the sky an integral part of the narrative,
and giving his characters a larger significance
than that belonging to the individual life.”
A Complete Catalogue of Macmillan’s Empire
Library will be sent on application.
MACMILLANS CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE and LONDON.


.* ■■>
“THERE’S AN EXACT SIZE FOR YOU” in
“THETA” UNDERWEAR
gSKT MS
tw fiJ „ Wo 7 e “ £ om I l llre Merino, practically unshrinkable,
annrnSn f°“ foi : tabI y. a « d wear durably. Send for a Suit on
approval, you incur no obligation.
“THETA” UNDERWEAR, MEDIUM WEIGHT
Undershirts —Half-sleeves.
Chest Measure 32in. , 34in. 36in. 38in. 40in 44i n
U n aeShirii-Lon 6 /sU ra e/6 01, J /6 ... */- 36l „ 8/6
Underpants — Full-length legs. 7/1 8 /« each
Sf c 2/- £ 4 / in ' i 6 i n - 38in - 40in - 44in.
Underpants— Shortdcngith i e 8 /" 8/_ 8/6 9/6 10/ ~
Torino ’ ” / 36in. 40in. 44in.
Knicker Drawers—' ' Wairt ‘‘. 8 /° Jein 6 pair
* Priec 7/6 8/6 Pair
PIKE BROTHERS, LIMITED,
Toowoomba. BRISBANE. Townsville
" - ~ WEPAYPOSTAGE =====
A Hot Weather Trouble Avoided
TRUMILK (SKIM)
POWDER.
Place Powder on top cold water and beat with Egg Whisk for a minute. Result-
beautiful milk free from germs, suitable for all purposes.
NO MILK GOING SOUR. NO ICE NFFFiED.
Ask your grocer for a small tin.
Queensland Agents: WEBSTER & CO. LTD., Mary Street, Brisbane.
New South Wales Agents: FOGGITT JONES & CO. LTD., Sussex Street, Sydney.
IN BANANA LAND
As a counterblast to Yankee O. C.
Roberts, who is experimenting to annihilate
prickly pear, the Agricultural Department
lias just despatched an expert to the Mara-
noa to investigate the best methods of utilis-
ing the curse as a fodder.
The present Queensland Parliament
boasts no such makers of “bulls” as
did some previous Assemblies. Years
ago little Isidor Lissner delighted the
House by exclaiming, apropos of the
Hopeful outrages, “Such tales vould
make your hair boil and your blood stand
on end.” And John Annear created a ripple
of hilarious joy by boasting that he “had
never brought the blush of shame to his
father’s bones.” But as a maker of “bulls”
the only-just-defeated Donald Mackintosh
had no equal. Parliamentarians recall with
smiles one solemn occasion whereupon he
warned a Minister that the creation
of a certain office was simply “introducing
the thin edge of a white elephant.” (N.B. —
Not one of the above illustrious trio was an
Irishman.)
_ A new Queensland railway regulation pro-
hibits the entrance into a railway carriage
of any person whose dress is liable to injure
or soil the dress of any other person or tne
fittings £>f a carriage. Now what about a
regulation to prevent the Department from
supplying carriages so dirty that people are
compelled to carry newspapers to spread on
the cushions before sitting on them?
Just now, when as a result of the war
women are pushing into jobs of which men
have hitherto nad the monopoly, it is inter-
esting to recall that this month 50 years ago
the Gold Commissioner at Clermont issued
miners’ rights to Maria Lawes and Sarah
Hislop, who claimed to be bona fide working
claims with their husbands on Sandy Creek.
They were the first female miners on Peak
Downs. The tribe did not persist. There
is not one on the Queensland Mines Depart-
ment’s books to-day.
“Politicus”: To those who think that all
is plain sailing now for Labor, it is as well
to recall that this is by no means the first
or worst smash that Queensland Conserva-
tism has had. In 1904 the Philp crowd
forced the Morgan-Labor combination to the
country, and came back 18 strong in a house
of 72 members. It was only the unwisdom
of the Trades Hall that drove out half the
Labor men and gave “Liberalism” another
long lease of the Treasury benches.
A SHORT WAY TO GO.
IST CITIZEN: “ Dear me, Shiftem. I thought you were following the King!”
2ND DITTO: “Sho I am, ole chap. I'll catch up t’ him by Saturdee.”
Canon Garland, who organised the Bible-
in-State-Scliools campaign in Queensland,
and- attempted, but -unsuccessfully, to run
the. same business into the educational curri-
culum in Maoriland, is now chaplain to the
forces training at Enoggera. Garland is an
impressive speaker, with curiously mixed
views. . Only lately, for instance, he stag-
gered his bishop by advocating a “wet” can-
teen for the camps.
Excellency Goold-Adams at the Brisbane
Club: “He had heard that a number of
people reared for any of our soldiers who
might be taken prisoners by the Turks,
iheir fears were groundless. There would
be no inhuman treatment —no torturing. The
Turk was a gentleman.” Said “Pardon me,”
no doubt, as he gouged out the right eye of
that wounded Australian soldier who had
been left by a bearer in the cover of a bush,
and “By your leave” as he dug his thumb-
nail into the quivering flesh and flung the
left eye into the face of the Christian dog!
The Song of the Hog.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is the grunt of the Porker, this is the
( squeal ot the Swine:
\ot is dis nonsense you yabber? Dere is no
Justice divine!
How can you blither so foolish? Haf ve not
made it so clear
Aichts m der Vorld can get ofer him who
has Macht in his spear?
t-Tott? Don’t He lofe der battalions loom-
ing kolossal undt big?
Macht ist das Ding dot must conquer—
Macht, if it lurk in a pig.
Dey who are veak must go uliter—die like a
calf m a bog.
Das ist das Died I vould sing you—dot is
der Song of der Ilog.
Did you not see up in Flanders how ve
rode ofer deni dere—
Kerls who vould hinder our Vorwiirts
schargmg on Paris der Fair?
11 a f you nod seen dose howitzers, t’rowing a
ton in a shell—
How did dey batter old Antwerp, turning dot
town to a hell?
Vot do you dink of dose Gases, gifing der
enemy fits,
Till he lie down by his trenches, coughing
his lungs into bits?
\ ot of our submarine fighters, keeping der
British agog?
Himmel undt Donner undt Blitzen! Out of
der way of der Hog !
“Vliy do you shiver undt shudder ofer a city
on fire?
Vhy make a fuss of dose orphans, tramping
along in der mire?
Noding but lies dey are telling—refugee,
vidow undt nun!
Most of dose outrage is fancy—deeds dot ve
nefer haf done!
Undt if ve had? Do you dink now ve should
be troubled mit Shame?
Isn’t it alvays der custom? Isn't it all in
der Game?
Don’t you know battle excitement goes to our
brain like der Grog,
Makes you be double a devil —dreimal your-
self undt a Hog?
“Ivirehen undt lolly old Chapels, see liow ve
batter dem down !
Carvings mit wundersclibn Pictures. (Go
to der deuce mit your frown !)
Palaces builded for ages burnt to der ground
in a day,
Vomen undt Kinder gone crazy, soon as dey
see our array;
Hark to der svell.of our Trumpet ! Hark
to our Regiments’ tread,
Do you not dink as you tremble, dey must
be rousing der dead?
Look not so black at dose Ilelden, or you
are shot like a dog,
Shot to point beople a Moral: Do not look
cross at der Hog.
“Then we haf finished mit Flanders, vlien
ve.haf settled mit France,
How vill ve smile undt be happy, teaching
dose beople to dance?
Dey vill drink deep of our Kultur, Deutsch
dey vill prattle mit glee,
Lager shall be der von tipple, right from der
Seine to der Spree;
Yilhelm as Kaiser so machtig sits mit Mous-
taches upcurled,
Bosses der Frank undt der Briton, lays down
der Law to der Vorld ;
Undt till he vins to dot Glory, on ve must
slaughter undt slog, ' -
Filling der landt mit our fury—dot is der
Vay of der Ilog!
QUEENSLAND.
F. RORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, .Tune 12. 1915.
My Dear Thargomindaii,—
Our Excellencies are swagging northwards,
and will do tlieir sundowning around the
beautiful Atherton tableland and in the vicin-
ity of the Barron Falls, returning to their
main camp some time in the first week in
July. Till then promoters of patriotic enter-
tainments will have to employ mere mayors
and such tinsel to glitter in the front row of
the stalls.
X arious fashionable dames, being distressed
lest the wives and soldiers -at the Front
should find time hanging heavy on their
hands, have decided to copy an English ex-
ample, and start a club for Mrs. Tommy.
The idea has its points, and some of them
are sharper than others. There are hun-
dreds of women, new arrivals in this coun-
try, whose men folk have gone, to the war,
and who have few or no friends. Also, there
are women whose husband's brought them
into the town and established them in more
or less strange surroundings before girding
on a bayonet and departing. Such women
hunger for someone to talk to—especially
someone who can swap bits of information
gleaned from their own soldier relatives. At
tlie same time it is fatal snobbishness for
“patronesses” to talk of starting a club to
keep soldiers’ wives “out of mischief.” Pro-
bably the women for whom the club is in-
tended have far less time on their hands
than most of those who are trying to start
it. Fortunately, Mrs. "Kingsbury and Mrs.
Martin, who are interested in the
movement, are women of tact and under-
standing, and capable of shooing stray cats
off the fence.
Dr. Graham Butler, who recently acquired
the D. 5.0., is a Brisbane man, who went as
second in command of the Army Medical
Corps of the 9th Battalion. Various yarns
concerning him are beginning to come in, not
the least startling being one which credited
the doctor with having torn up all his cloth-
ing for bandages, and then led a charge
in his shower-bath uniform. Tt doesn’t
matter; the party he led sent along to the
“Dreadful Place,” as the Koran has it, the
Unspeakables who Vould insist on firing on
the wounded. Another non-combatant, who
led a charge, and who is generally beloved
among Australians in Egypt and Turkey, is
Green, an Anglican Bush Brother, who is on
the roll as chaplain. He had been stationed
in Emerald, and was, therefore, known as
Emerald Green among the troops. But that
had nothing to do with their high opinion of
him. Dr. Butler has a sister at Heliopolis,
a nurse in the military hospital there. His
brother, Sergeant Dave Butler, is also in the
vicinity—wounded, unfortunately.
The Arts and Crafts Society, having
caught the prevailing fever, has decided to
indefinitely postpone its annual exhibition,
and, instead, each member r has solemnly
vowed to make various artistic and crafty
articles to sell in aid of the Red Cross.
Anyone who yearns to donate a piece of old
china or a scrap of brass work, to be sold for
the same good cause, is exhorted to mention
the matter to Mrs. Frank Pearson, the pre-
sident, or Mrs. Scott Fletcher, the secre-
tary.
Mrs. Badger's fete for the same soldiers’
fund was successfully accomplished. The
grounds bulged with people, and all goods
were sold out/ At least £lOO should result.
The Doll F§te, organised by Mesdames
Frank Wilson, Percy Rylance and A. E.
Richards, also took place on Saturday after-
noon, and of the 500 dolls there at the begin-
ning there were less than five at the finish.
The motor-ambulance for Australians, which
this orgy was to pay for, may be taken as
read.
A concert, arranged by Lena Hammond
and Gladys Frost, in aid of the Imperial
Service Club, happened in the Centennial
Hall on Thursday night. Governor Goold-
Adams was there with his lady, and in the
interval he arose and made a practical sug-
gestion. This was that a sort of employment
bureau be run in conjunction with the Club,
to keep men in touch with their employers,
so that after the war they may either re-
turn to their old billets or more easily find
new ones. Later in the evening, by one
device and another, the cash came rolling in
as usual on its way to the old address.
Victor Hicks, only son of Mr. and Mrs.
John Hicks, of Coreel-ba, Milton, was
married on Wednesday to Hilda Reid, of
Kelvin Grove. The bride sings beautifully,
and is very popular—especially with her hus-
band.
Another knot-tying joined George Kibble
and Ethel Horton, both members of families
who possess hosts of friends. The wedding
■was quiet, but none the less determined. Only
relatives were invited to witness the deed,
the parson and the cabman being hired.
Ex-Attorney “Jimmy” Blair is an inmate
of St. Helen’s Hospital. Blair’s friends,
who are many, are much concerned about
him, as he has suffered much in the last six
months.
Reg Lord, killed at the Dardanelles, was
born at liis father’s Eurombali station, on
the Dawson, and was soaked in Western
bush lore and handicraft. Father died some
time ago, but mother is living in Brisbane.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
McCormack, the new Government’s
nominee for the Chair, is one of the party’s
most promising men. A shrewd debater,
business-like and prompt, he should with a
little experience do Mr. Speaker much
credit.
. The Private Clement Wragge who ha's
died, at the Dardanelles was the son of Aus-
tralia’s well-known weather prophet.
An old Brisbane Grammar School boy. -he
was employed for some time at the Kos-
ciusko Observatory. He was of an adven-
turous turn and got into many tight places
—was shipwrecked off the coast of Maori-
land besides experiencing a hair-breadth
escape on Kosciusko. A plucky lad and a
capable one, in the. estimation of those who
knew him.
Under the Denham regime over 30 lines
were allowed. to shirk their guaranteed inter-
est and ‘‘capitalise” it for the jov of future
generations. The new Minister‘for Lands
now declares that “railways ought to pre-
cede and not follow settlement.” If the
Denham lines that “followed settlement”
couldn’t pay their interest bill, what will
happen to the interest bill on the new lines
that are to precede settlement?
From a London inkpot:—
Rowland Wheelwright is one of the very few Aus-
tralian artists who are better known on this side
than in their own country. Born at Ipswich (Q.),
ho got his art-training at St. John’s Wood Art
School, and under Herkomer at Bushey. He is about
the only Australian that goes in for romantic pic-
tures-—-such as his “Joan of Arc,” which has been
engraved—and he is the only Australian who is
represented- in three English galleries (Oldham,
Preston and Cheltenham). Wheelwright has painted
such well-known racehorses as Maidstone and Whiteboy
the Second, and a number of hunting pictures.
This year two of his works are at the Academy,
where he is a frequent exhibitor.


r»i!
ft]
=^<«iT?i
I
11
ilk
*>
o>
**
*
«
£
%
6'U' l
<v£
\*
xY
&
%
/
:.-W
*&«?••* . *
ALADDIN’S
WONDERFUL LAMP
could not produce better value
than the new State Express
RED PACKING No. 333.
0P Introduced in response to
***** numerous enquiries from
the smoking public ol the
Commonwealth, these cigar-
ettes, which are sold at the
popular price of 10 lor 6d., are
a blend of the purest natural
Virginia Tobacco, manuiac-
tured in the world’s most up-
to-date and hygienic factory.
CIGARETTES
N ? 333 10 for 6°
THE RED PACKING
OTHER STATE EXPRESS PRODUCTIONS
STATE EXPRESS Virginia No. 555 10 for -/9
„ ~ ~ De Luxe 25 for 2/3
„ „ „ His Majesty 2 5 for 2/9
„ ~ „ Astorias 10 for 1/-
STATE EXPRESS Virginia My Darling
„ No. 999
~ Turkish H.R.H.
99
99
No. 1
10 for -/O
10 for 1/-
20 for 2/9
10 for 1/-
State Express Cigarettes are obtainable of all High-Class Tobacconists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
Sole Manufacturers:
ARDATH TOBACCO CO.,
L TD - LONDON


NOTEWORTHY TESTIMONY AS TO THE MERITS OF
HEAN\S ESSENCE
THE GREAT MONEY-SAVING REMEDY FOR
m
mm
MISS MURIEL STARR, who is now
appearing as Ethel Cartwright in
“Under Cover,'” at the Criterion
Theatre, Sydney.
-
ii
WM
MISS ISABELL D’ARMOND.
gs
MISS NELLIE BEAM LEY.
COUGHS, COLDS and
THROAT TROUBLES.
Costs 2/- Hakes 1 Fiat. Gives Quick Relief.
Ilopetoun House,
313 George Street, Sydney,
June 1, 1915.
The Manager,
Hean’s Essence Proprietary.
Dear Sir, —
1 or over JO years I have been troubled with chronic nasal and bronchial catarrh,
and a tendency to easily catch cold, due to a hypersensitive mucous membrane. During
that time, besides treatment by leading specialists in London and elsewhere, I have tried
innumerable remedies of every conceivable description—throat mixtures, emulsions,
gaigles, lozenges, inhalations and sprays; but from none of these have I ever derived
so much relief and actual benefit as from Hean’s Essence.
Not only has it proved effective in warding off several incipient colds, but I find it
most useful in soothing the irritation of the throat, to which all voice users are liable
in cold or damp weather; in freeing the bronchial passages from phlegm and mucous, and
keeping the voice clear pmd resonant.
I am recommending- it to my pupils and professional friends, and am sure that as it
becomes more widely known it will supersede many of the more expensive remedies now
on the market.
Yours faithfully,
ROLAND FOSTER.
Criterion Theatre,
Hean’s Essence Proprietary. S,due:r ’ June 4 ' 1815 ’
' Sil --’7,. l 1 w ~ s su ff er ing with a bad cold, and someone suggested that I should try
your Essence. The effect was wonderful, and I think no public speaker or singer should be
without it. —lours truly,
MURIEL STARR.
D’ARMOND the delightfu 1 Queen of Comedy, now appearing at
the Tivoli Theatre, and famous as “The Million Dollar Girl,” adds her appreciation
mu at Tivoli Theatre, Sydney,
The Manager, pi T ’ |f)1 -
Hean’s Essence, Sydney. ' June ’ 1J15>
Dear Sir, —
Permit me to express my appreciation of Hean’s Essence. I was recommended this
by a member of the theatrical profession, and must say I am heartily glad that I
purchased your preparation. On my return from a strenuous season in Brisbane, I was
*?i a u SS 1 '- UOllsly i eh ® a . rse many new numbers for the Tivoli Follies’ season
num T d an ?’ b ® heve bad not been for Hean’s Essence I would not have been
hand t< always Wlth W01 ’ k ' U proved most beneficial, and I will certainly keep it on
It is all you claim it. Yours faithfully,
ISABELL D’ARMOND.
MR. ALLEN DOONE, the famous Irish Character Actor, Comedian and Singer, who
is now touring New Zealand, carries a supply of Hean’s Essence with him for the use of
himself and company.
r n . rT , „ t. . The Palace Theatre, Sydney,
I he Manager, Hean’s Essence Proprietary. May 15 1915.
. Deal Sir, I had heard much about Hean’s Essence as a corrective of throat and
E 0U mipf; Colluding that where there is so much public recommendation there
must be rneiit, I decided to put your preparation to the test. In my case it has cer-
tainly done all, and even more, than was claimed for it.
. 1 understand Hean’s Essence was placed on the market to enable thrifty house-
wives to make up cheap cough mixture for family use. Permit me to say much more
has been accomplished, for a real boon has been conferred on singers, actors, teachers
pieachers, public speakers and others, who may suffer from relaxed vocal chords or
from colds, causing congestion of the throat.
Wishing you every success, yours faithfully,
ALLEN DOONE.
MR. CHARLES WHITE, the popular Author of early Australian historical narra-
tives, and now of the Editorial Staff of the N.S.W. Farmer and Settler, writes:—
Mr. G. W. HEAN,
April 20, 19X5.
Dear Sir,—I have much pleasure in testifying to the effectiveness of “Hean’«
Essence ’ as a speedy corrective of throat trouble. For a considerable time I suffered
from constant irritation in the throat and weakness of the vocal chords, seriously affect-
ing my voice. I tried various palliatives, but until I heard of and tried your specific I
did not find a real relief. A friend recommended me to try “Hean’s Essence ” stating
that he had derived great benefit from its use, and following his advice I can now
endorse everything he said in praise of it. To sufferers from throat trouble, similar to
that which caused me annoyance and distress, I have no hesitation in recommending a
trial of this simple and efficacious remedy. Briefly, it is, in my opinion, one of the
cheapest and finest remedies for use in the household.
CHAS. WHITE.
_MISS NELLIE BRAMLEY, the gifted young actress, now touring Australasia as
leading lady with Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT, playing Josephine in “A Royal Divorce”
Pauline in “The Lady of Lyons,” and Ada in “David Garrick,” joins in the chorus
of grateful users of Hean’s Essence: —
Sydney, May 22, 1915
ruanager, J ’
Hean’s Essence Proprietary, Ltd., ,
Sydney.
Dear Sir, —
Prior to starting on my extended Australasian tour, let me express my high appre
ciation of the efficacy of your renowned essence. My work naturally entails a severe
strain on the throat, which is instantly allayed by a couple of doses of your restorative.
Through my tour it will be ever present, and to any who may have throat trouble my
strongest recommendation is given. Yours faithfully,
NELLIE BRAMLEY.
s@ss
m m
MR. ROLAND FOSTER.
When it is remembered that Mr. Roland
Foster, who was associated with and adviser
to MADAME CLARA BUTT and Mr.
KENNERLEY RUMFORD in 1913-14, on
their European, American and Australian
tours, was obliged to leave London (where
he was vocal teacher at the Hyde Park School
of Music)' because of a throat trouble neces-
sitating a change of climate, it will be real-
ised how genuinely sincere is the feeling of
gratitude which prompts him to so strongly
recommend Hean’s Essence to his pupils and
friends.
,
MR. ALLEN DOONE.
.
5 : v
ffl
MR. VII AX. \/llTl
HKAN’S ESSENCE is recommended by tbonwnd a of people all over Aust^ralia as being the best remedy they ever used for COUGHS, COLDS, CROUP,
BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, INFLUENZA, SORE AND RELAXED THROATS, CATARRH, &c.
HEAN’S ESSENCE added to water and sweetening, as directed on each bottle, enables anyone in a few moments to make up a pint of the mixture which
everyone so highly eulogises. This is the equal in volume to eight eighteen-penny bottles of ordinary cough mixtures—that is, 12/- worth.
MEAN’S ESSENCE costs only 2/ a clear money saving of 10/-, to say nothing about its wonderfully quick action in relieving distressing coughs and
throat troubles. -
THE ATTENTION OF PARENTS IS PARTICULARLY CALLED TO THE FACT THAT HEAN’S ESSENCE DOES NOT CONTAIN ANY IT Alf Mirn r
HABIT-FORMING DRUGS, SUCH AS OPIUM, PAREGORIC, LAUDANUM, MORPHIA, &c., SO COMMONLY USED IN THE PREPARATION OF HOMF*
MADE COUGH MIXTURES.- TO BE ON THE SAFE SIDE, ASK FOR AND INSIST ON GETTINg! HEAN’S
never so good as the original and genuine article.


r
ft.
DO YOU-
■ LIKi: TO
If yoii are anxious to develop your talent
for Drawing so that you can make money,
c °Py .this Sketch and send it to us for
criticism. Black and White Artists make
big incomes. Let us see what you can
2Y xt h this Sketch. The Australian School
of Sketching-, Bond Street, Sydney.
gs
BARNET (HASS
WATERPROOF O'COATS
Made in
Australia
for
Australians.
Barnet Glass
Motor=cycle Suits
Waterproof Raincoats
for Gentlemen
Waterproof Raincoats
for Ladies
are unsurpassed for Style, Quality and
Durability.
BARNET GLASS RUBBER CO. LTD.
All States and iS.Z.
5 aimed shots in
2! seconds
The choice of your rifle and am-
munition help to decide the success
of the hunting trip you have planned
for months.
To see game, after you
have hunted it for days
and anticipated it for
months,and have your shot
drop short, or your bullet
whizz over it, or pass
through without bringing
it down — these are keen
disappointments. — With
the Ross .2S0 and the Ross
Sporting ammunition with
copper tube expanding
bullet (patented) you have
the best combination! to
ensure the success of your
hunting trip.
Ross Rifles
Ross Sporting Rifles are
used by the most exper-
ienced of big game hunters
all over the world.
JET
• 280 Calibre
High Velocity • •
Full illustrated Catalogue on request.
Ross Rifle Co.,Quebec, Canada.
WHEN YOUR INVITATION TO A
FANCY-DRESS BALL
comes along, don’t puzzle over what you will
go as, but call on
THE BUTTONHOLE FANCY COSTUME CO.,
and they will suggest for you from a wonder-
land., of fancy dresses and costumes. ' For
years The Buttonhole Co., 1.0.0. F. Temple,
Elizabeth Street (opp. Mark Foy’s), Sidney,
has won all the first prizes at carnivals and
displays. Wigs made and sold.
Special attention given to the dressing
of operas, children’s plays & fancy sets.
gs
Interstate Agents.—SYDNEY : Tucker & Co. ;
BRISBANE: Burns, Philp & Co. ; ADELAIDE:
W. P. Auld & Co. ; PERTH: Philip Coyle;
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS: Burns, Philp &
Co. ; GERALDTON: A. H. Mountain & Co. ;
HOBART: J. Ferguson & Co. ; LAUNCESTON :
J. McKenzie & Co.; ROCKHAMPTON: J. M.
Heddrick & Co. 'i.
JASON
Unshrinkable
HOSIERY.
1
I
31
m\
2
10
9
8
BIG
BEN
a
7
5
e
A f
Big Ben is an alarm clock
that's on the job every minute of
the day. He rings on time, he
runs on time, he stays on time.
He weighs three times as
much as the average alarm
clock —he rings three times
as loud —he lasts three times
as long.
He has a great big dial you
can easily read in the dim morn-
ing light a cheerful, deep-
toned voice that will wake you
on your sleepiest mornings —
large, strong winding keys that
Big Ben keeps regular hours
are a pleasure to wind —selec-
tive alarm calls that ring just
when you want and either way
you want, steadily for five. min-,
utes or intermittently for ten.
He’s punctual, lasting, handsome,
and the best insurance against over-
sleep that’s ever been heard of. His
work doesn’t end with the morning
call, he’s a good reliable time keeper
for all day use, and he’s good look-
ing enough for any surroundings.
Big Ben is made in La Salle, Illinois,
U.S.A., by Westclox. His price is 12/6,
postage 1 1- extra. If you cannot find him in
vour town, send a money order to the makers’
Australian.office. Westclox, cr. King and
Kent Streets, Sydney. They will have one
mailed to you by the nearest jeweller.
STOUTNESS VANISHES
QUICKLY.
Lady Reduces Her Weight Thirty-Six Pounds
in Five Weeks without the Aid of Drugs.
All Readers-will be Furnished Absolutely Free with Copy of Interesting Book, which Tells
How Anyone Can Easily Reduce Themselves by Her Method in Their
Own Home, Without -the Knowledge of Closest Friends.
Double Chin and Fat Hips Go Quickly.
Over 25,000 Men and Women Have Reduced Their Weight by Her Method.
p
'W
This illustrates the result of Miss Hartland’s method.
v
WINIFRED GRACE HARTLAND is |
making one of the most remarkable offers
that any one woman ever made'to her fellow
beings. This charming creature is doing her
utmost to benefit men and women who, had
thought themselves doomed by being obliged
to carry around a horrible burden of super-
fluous fat. Experience has taught her that
her method will make their life sweeter and
lovelier in every way. She personally re-
duced herself 361 b. in five weeks, and made
herself a well, strong woman after she had
tried everything she heard of. No poisonous
drugs, no harmful exercises, no starvation
diet, but the simplest of home methods is to-
day responsible for her beautiful, willowy
figure. Miss Hartland explains in her book
how any over-stout woman may do the same
thing that she herself did by Nature’s own
method, and have the beautiful lines of
figure so much admired. Many women look
10 or 15 years younger since using Miss
Hartland’s system of Fat Reduction, and
are much improved, not only in appearance,
but in general health. Her method reduces
burdensome fat from any part of the body —
a reduction that lasts. Large numbers of
grateful letters are pouring into Miss Hart-
land daily, and it will not be long before the
present edition of her book will be exhausted.
The book is just off the press, and it is cer-
tainly a work of art. Beautiful photographs
lend an artistic touch to the fascinating
style in which the book is written. It is
wonderfully instructive, and it is proving a
great benefit to the over-stout.
Miss Hartland, who has considerable
means, has kindly consented to send a copy
of her book free to anyone interested in her
discovery. All she asks is that a penny
stamp be enclosed for postage. Simply state
that you would like a copy of her book,
“Weight Reduction Without Drugs,” and
address your letter to Miss Winifred Grace
Hartland (Dept. 869), Diamond House,
Hatton Garden, London, E.C., England.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
W.B.G.: How can you expect anything
else than torrents of piffle when men trained to see
and write are hunted off the scene? The trash in
English papers has its parallel in the trash in Aus-
trian and German prints. Neither represents the
opinions of the educated soldiery... .Ras: You feel
you must say something. Have you tried chewing
gum as a means of getting relief ?... .S.E.: All the
armies have been decimated 15 times. These are new
armies. The decimated lot fight only twice a week.
.... Sam: To sit down and solemnly reproach the
Almighty in green ink represents futility carried to
the nth degree... .M.I.N.: Your thunderbolts seem
to have fallen out. That’s the worst of these flimsy
envelopes. .. .Nav: Design for patent dug-out is being
used as an ash-tray.... Red Cross: Be careful. It
burns like blazes.... Fred S.: We have met brighter
cadgers.... Hock K.: Private S. hasn’t enough flesh
on his bones... .J.E.C.: You advance at the hobble.
. .. .Thomas T. (Q.) : “The Setting Sun” is in the
basket.. . .Daisy Y.: No proud father ever reads
illuminated addresses to his infant son. .. .John T.
or S. (M.L.) : The anti-import poem falls flat....
J.J.P,: Too strained... .Russell K.: Your poem en-
titled “Fallen, Fallen, Fallen, Fallen, Fallen from
Thy High Estate” was found to be dead on arrival
at this office. Its title had suffocated it. .. . W.H.S.:
Late, and doesn’t make a decent bid for print....
Homo: “Mud” is just a speck on the weekly wheel.
. ...Bildee: Now don’t you aim any reckless bricks
at other versifiers. Zeppelins that live in glass
hangars shouldn’t drop bombs. .. .Mallee H.: Sketch
just waves cheerily and recedes. But we like your
cheery optimism. Keep on... . Coburg: The last
verse is the only one that matters, and a good raisin
doesn’t make a dinner. .. .Teresa M. W.: A sort of
moan without any explanation. Many thousands of
poetesses moan unheard every year. • You are one of
them....G.R. (Eng.): “The Sorrows of the Kaiser”
is as feeble a thing as we’ve read this year. Do
you feed your muse on skimmed milk ?... . Mother
of Thirteen: Thirteen what f ... .W.R.McA.: It may
be your own composition. We refuse to make it
ours by purchase.... H.J.W.: Cheerful rhymes, all
well below publication level.... Cam: If you want a
full explanation of that poem, write the author c/o
this office. .. .J.J.B.: Yes, you sized it up correctly.
Not strong enough to stand print. ... Raymond T.:
We have listened to the pleasant, prattling sermon,
but it’s no use sending round the collection-plate.
. .. .Bills: Too long for the interest, and you haven’t
quite enough Skill.... Karalee: Verses much too ten-
der for publication. Read them by moonlight
beneath the peerless girl’s window and burst into
tears after every,stanza. .. .Stanley C.: Very touched
by your generous enthusiasm. Hooray! Here’s to
everybody !.... Grizzler: Pleasant, easy rhymes; but
we want more than that.... Margery R.: You are
young and probably beautiful as well, but we can’t
just because of that print your patriotic poem. We
afe married.... Harold F. T.: Why are you so dull?
Are you a churchwarden ?. .. . Regiment: But they
may have their reasons for not doing as you wish.
In any case, it is no use nagging at them in bad
verse.... Martha G.: You deserve a little print,
anyhow:—•
Nobly they suffered, and whereunto such
Have given of their life-blood. Howsoe’er
We wish to go, may we not, too, do much
And tell posterity “We did our share”?
The phraseology gives it a fine, legal flavor, and we
like the music of “may we not, too, do much.”....
W.M.S.: Thanks; will try to get those figures
officially.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Bert R.: Crude and unpleasant.... C.E.B.: It is
an old joke, and did you ever see a small boy like
the one you have drawn?. .. .S.T.: Very little demand
for people of that shape Bert G.: Kindly supply
signed explanation of the joke.... Alec: You are
plodding along r ’es behind the band. Why is the
sitting drunk w. ing a Chinaman’s conical hat?
Germany appears to have been watching
events in Australia with keen interest; and
on more than one occasion glad rags have
been hung out in Berlin over reported hap-
penings in this continent. In an article upon
the effects of the war the Blutwursten-
burg Sauerkraut remarks :—
The results of the effectiveness of our submarine
campaign are nowhere more noticeable than in Aus-
tralia, where the conditions are deplorable, half the
population being on the verge of starvation. Re-
cently the Government of Sydney, one of the largest
of the States, seized all the wheat available to
provide for the needs of the people ; and, as a result,
the farmers of Sussex-street, one of the most pros-
perous districts, are in a state bordering on revolt.
Butter is unobtainable. In one of the shops in the
city of Victoria a notice was displayed, “Butter
Obtainable Here,” and the rush upon the establish-
ment led to serious riots. A Labor Conference was
hastily summoned to Adelaide to consider the posi-
tion, and the proceedings were held in camera. This
is taken to indicate that the question of withdraw-
ing from the war and forming a Republic was con-
sidered. At the back of the public mind is an idea
that food supplies are being withheld, and this idea
js fostering a growing discontent; and the I.W.W.,
one of the most influential financial associations in
Australia, recently carried resolutions in favor of
peace. An attempt to promulgate the idea led to
the arrest of Kink Omalley on a charge of obstruct-
ing the traffic—a ridiculous charge, surely, in a
place where almost all the horses have been destroyed
for food. The gloomy feelings of the people have
been intensified by the admission of Herr Holman, the
Minister for Finance, that he has grave misgivings
about being able to float'a loan for £40,000,000.
“T.F.M.”: I visited Constantinople just
after Abdul had been massacring a few
thousand Armenians. In the local papers
not a line appeared that had escaped the
paws of a dozen censors. The use even of
the words Armenia and Macedonia was pro-
hibited on pain of sudden death in a bag.
My mission had to do with those regions, so
I went to see Mahmud Effendi on the sub-
ject. “There are no such places,” he mur-
mured. If the exacting persons who com-
plain about the two-and-seventy well-defined
stinks of Footscray were sent for a month
to the home of the metropolitan Turk, they
would have better reason for complaining.
My first view taken from a tug at Seraglio
Point made me think I had been landed at
the pearly gates. But if Billjim ever gets
inside he will at last put the only Aus-
tralian adjective by as utterly unworthy of
the occasion.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE. CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
A mu s.ein eju Is.
TIVOLI THEATRE.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSiI.
“I" I V OIL I T HEAT II E, SYDNEY.
THE FAMOUS
TIVOLI TOLLIES.
AUSTRALIA’S BIGGEST FUN SHOW.
T IVOLI; THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NELLA WEBB.
| The Incomparable Diseuse.
! GENERAL PISANO,
the World’ll Foremost Sensational Sharpshooter, pre-
senting Bombarding Tripoli by the Italian Fleet.
THi TYRELLS. IDA BARR.
JIVOLI THEATRE, BRISBANE,
I EVERY EVENING.
GFORGE MOZART,
the Master Mimic, in a series of Thumbnail Sketches.
JACK STERZELLY and his very human Dog LUCKY.
WILF CONNOLLY. ROSA HAMEL.
Etc., etc.
Tit MAJESTY’ S, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
H
THE GLORIES OF COMIC OPERA AT ITS
RICHEST AND BEST REVIVED.
SATURDAY, JUNE 19.
PINAFORE.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee FRANK MUSGROVE.
EVERY EVENING. MATINEE WEDNESDAY.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present Roi Cooper
Megrue’s Drama of Love, Thrills and Mystery,
UNI E K COVE R.
Brilliant Cast, headed by MURIEL STARR.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
X IIIS A T R E It OYA L. SYDN E Y.
■ Lessees: Messrs. J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
Sub-Lessees: Directors of the BERT BAILEY CO.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE BERT BAILEY COMBINATION
in STEELE RUDD’S
ON OUR SELECTION.
Plans at Paling’s.
lALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction E. J. CARROLL.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES: WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY, at 2.30.
MR, and MRS. GRAHAM MOFFAT
[ in
A SC LAP E O’ THE PEN.
i A Scottish Comedy in three acts.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
XHE PICTURE BLOCK THEATRES.
1 In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
.• * PRICES:" 3d. to 1/- ' '
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Bakrinoton Miller, General Manager.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney,
TWICE DAILY—2.3O k 8.
SPENCER’S PICTURES LTD.
(by arrangement with Mr. W. J. SHEPHARD)
present,
DIRECT FROM SCALA THEATRE, LONDON,
WITH THE FIGHTING FORCES OF
EUROPE,
IN IvINEMACOLOR,
Vividly portraying the armies and navies of the
warring nations in beautiful natural colors.
X ll KAT R E KOY A L, MELBOURNE.
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
/ EVERY EVENING AT 8.
r J. C. Williamson Ltd. present
the Great Spy Play,
thL man who stayed at
HOME.
Prices:, Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls. 4/- ; Gallery. 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRIC. MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present the Trans-Atlantic
Musical Comedy Success,
THE MARRIAGE MARKET.
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and 1/-.
E) RIN'CISSS’S Til HAT UK, JIKUHintMi.
* Sole Proprietors: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JUNE 19.
George Willoughby Ltd. present the Romantic
Military Drama,
THE KING'S ROMANCE.
Prices: 2/-, 1/- and fid. Plan at Pianola.
UOli T H IS A T U E. MEL li O L H N E
FULLER BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE.
Governing Director REN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
AFTERNOON. 2.30. EVENING AT 8.
BOLLINGER & REYNOLDS, THE QUEALYS,
ROSIE RIFLE & CO., THE BLETSOES CO.,
WILLIAMS & WARNER, TED STANLEY & WESTONY.
Prices: 2/6. 2/-, & 6d. MatinSees: 1/6, 1/- & 6d.
|-| OYT ’ S PICT UItE S, MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.
TWO 810 SHOWS.
HOYT’S OWN: Bourke Street, next Theatre Royal.
OLYMPIA: Prince’s Bridge.
Direction ARTHUR F. RUSSELL.
M ELBOURNE GLACIARIUM.
REAL ICE SKATING.
AFTERNOONS, 3 to 5.
EVENINGS, 7.45 to 10.
RICCO’S ORCHESTRA.
D I li C II & CARROLL
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Heat. Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE
Wanted.
WANTED thoroughly qualified MANA-
GER for recently established CHEM-
ICAL WORKS possessing large resources of
capital, plant and raw materials. Thorough
knowledge and practical experience in the
manufacture of bulk chemicals and chemical
specialties is essential. Must have capacity
for handling men. To a suitable man liberal
terms as regards salary and share of profits
will be given. Applications will be treated
strictly confidentially. Apply, stating age,
qualifications, experience and salary ex-
pected to CHEMICALS,
C/o P. B. Waters, Esq., Solicitor,
Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
HEAN’S ESSENCE COUGH
MIXTURE.
Simple to Make—
Pleasant to Take.
“ I have used your Hean’s Essence
and find the mixture easy to make and
pleasant to take. It has proven fully
reliable for coughs, colds, and sore
throats.”—Mrs. J. L. Cook, East
Moree, N.S.W.
For tickling coughs, night or day
coughs, sore, inflamed and swollen
throats, croup, bronchitis, whooping
cough or asthma Hean’s Essence is
immediately comforting. Try it and
see how quickly it soothes the throat,
removes phlegm, and heals sore lungs.
One bottle of Hean’s Essence makes
a very big bottle of splendid cough
mixture. Just follow the easy direc-
tions on each bottle. It is as simple
as preparing a cup of tea, while the
saving for your pocket is loj- for each
pint used.
Hean’s Essence is genuine, Sold by
chemists ana stores, or post free on receipt of
price, 2/-, from G. W. Hean, Chemist, 178
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Be sure you get
H-E-A-N-’S. 14-IS
Lejral Notices.
TO WILLIAM WARD, formerly of Red-
fern, Sydney, engineer, husband of
Mary Ann Ward (nee Herin) ; WILLIAM
WARD and ANNIE WARD, their . chil-
dren, and any other persons claiming to be
theL* children; and to all persons claiming
by, through or under the foregoing persons
or any of them.
PURSUANT to the directions of the
Honorable Mr. Justice Chapman, a Judge
of the Supreme Court of New Zealand,
under Section 25 of The Public Trust Office
Amendment Act 1913, you are hereby called
upon to send in to the undersigned on or
before the Ist day of October, 1915, your
claim to the estate of MARY ANN WARD,
late of NEWINGTON, in the State of
NEW SOUTH WALES, domestic, de-
ceased, who died on the 29th July, 1914,
intestate, failing which such estate will be
distributed among the persons entitled
thereto disregarding your claim.
Dated this 27th day of April, 1915.
J. W. MACDONALD,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Business Announcements.
British “PRINCESS”
CREAM SEPARATORS,
gs
The Cream
Separator that
has stood the
test of time.
The best is the
cheapest in the
long run.
Spare parts
stocked.
AGENTS —
JOHm uhNKS & SON PTY., Ltd., Melbourne.
W. HART & SONS, Launceston.
W. BUCKLEY, Barlow Street, Haymarket, Sydney.
W. A. PRESTON & CO., Brisbane.
Made
by
Watson, Laidlaw 8 Co.,
Engineers,
Glasgow.
ESTABLISHED 1874.
FOR
COUGHS .
fifrbridgeV
FOR
COLDS.
Public Speakers Singers, and all who
suffer from Throat Weakness find
it safe and effective.
SOLD BY RETAIL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
STOCKED BY ALL WHOLESALE
DRUG HOUSES in AUSIRALIA.
Prepared by W. T. OWBRIDGE, LTD.
HULL. ENGLAND.
N
la|
si-g
Sis
|n!
Ib|
lu
xRS
:§■ 3
5)Ss
I
|F|
So?
&Ds
|s|
The Royal Commission
in their final report on Tuberculosis,
recently issued, clearly showed that
the chief danger to child life resulted
from the use of infected cow’s milk.
To quote one extract : “The Evi-
dence we have accumulated goes to
demonstrate that a considerable
amount of the tuberculosis of child-
hood is to be ascribed to infection
transmitted to children in meals
consisting largely of the milk of
. the cow.”'
When the mother’s milk is not
available, the “Allenburys” Foods
form the best substitute, as they are
practically identical with healthy human milk
in composition, nutritive value and digestibility,
and are absolutely free from all harmful germs.
Milk Food No. I. From birth to 3 months
Milk Food No. 2. From 3to 6 months
Malted Food No. 3. From 6 months upwards
The Allenburys' Rusks. A
valuable aduition to baby’s dietary
when ten months old and after These
Kusks are specially useful during the
troublesome time of teething. When
eaten raw they mechanically aid the
cutting of teeth.
‘Sllenburys
Foods
promote sound sleep, ensure
vigorous health and develop-
ment, and represent the most
successful method of Infant
Feeding ever devised.
IMF Pamphlet on “Infant Feeding and Management” sent free.
Allen 8 Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng., and Market St., Sydney
b.
A 0
WE WANT YOU
to have a copy of our new Catalog,
which illustrates all the very latest
and most exclusive models in
Abbey Shoes.
It will be of great assistance to you
in the selection of your footwear.
Write for a copy.
The illustrjation shows a Patent
Golosh Bal., with Dull Calf Legs
and perforated Golosh.
Price, 27/6 and 32/6.
Also in Tan Willow Calf, 257-
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
ab¥ey,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
K/33Q-XST,E RED
% Notl M
This is. fhe famous Liniment that has
been .used at the well-knoiyA Willows
Hospital, yyith unfailing .success for nearly
sixty, years ia all cases of Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Lumbago, Stiff Joints, fluid on
the. Knee, etc.
Athletes and Sportsmen will find it
an. ideal Embrocation tor training purposes,
it being very soothing, invigorating, and
penetrating.
§Ol.O EVERYWHERE HT
Price Per 8011/e.
PREPARED OMzY by
W. H. SCHOL2 g SON,
WILLOWS HOSPITAL,
NURIOOTPA. S.A,
Wholesale at all Warehouses.


YouCanßave
Mliteinds
ittaira
SoanEilusively
And Cuticura Ointment occasionally.
They succeed when others fail.
Samples Free by Mail
Cuticura Soap and Ointment sold everywher
liberal sample of each, with 32-page hook, sent pos
free. Address R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
An Ideal Polish
For the Piano !
11 3-in-One” Oil will restore
tne original lustre to your piano.
Apply a few drops to a soft
woollen cloth, rub woodwork
briskly—then the key-board and
there will be a transformation !
Finger-marks and stains vanish
under the magic touch of
“3-in-one” Oil
and the instrument looks as good
as new, with a bright, lasting-
finish.
“3- in - One ”. is a perfectly
clean, highly refined article, ft
won’t rub off on the clothes.
On sale everywhere in Bottles
and Handy Can.
Send Post-card for Free Sample Bottle of
“Three-in-One” Oil.
REID & REID,
Australasian
Agents,
8? 0, HARRIS ST.,
Wellington, N.Z,
it-
I<HHA*NEB ADV.
13
&//.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF ?
"\/0U begin to
A look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
Lockyer’s
gs
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOOK OLD.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Hava you grown tired of wearing useleas
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUBHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more ?
PERFECT EASE. COMFORT, and SECURITY.
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women & children#
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO., «
349 Collins-et., Melbourne, Vic.
firestone
Non-SRid Tyres.
For the hard road-for the hot pace—for the long
grind—for true economy and service.
The success of Firestone Tyres has proved that the motorist
can have comfort, safety and the “ most miles per shilling.”
Firestone Tyres are preferred because of highest quality at the least
cost —as the greatest value, even though there are "cheaper'’ tyres.
The rubber in them is supremely good. It has the quality of greatest heat-
resistance, of greatest wear endurance. Every Firestone Tyre contains an extra quantity
of this extremely good rubber.
The Non-skid lettering is an imprint of safety. On every highway of the world it
challenges the need of other anti-skid safeguards. It holds the standard for endurance
and economy. The letters prevent spin or skid in any direction, they radiate the heat
of road friction, insure perfect traction with gasoline economy, car-protection and
comfort beyond contradiction.
-I
JZ-
Firestone Tyres are made by specialists in the largest
exclusive tyre factory in the world. This year’s Firestone
output has increased 7S per cent. Firestone are tyres of
greatest strength, sturdiness and safety—•
for the Price of Only Ordinary Tyres.
Leading dealers everywhere endorse Firestone quality, and
motorists praise Firestone service.
'T’O nFAT * Firestone Representative—from
x w the factory at Akron> Ohjo 0 s A _
will shortly make calls on dealers and garages In person. Inter-
ested people may make appointments by writing to Firestone
Tyre & Rubber Co., G.P.O. Box 2521, Sydney.
Firestone Tyre & Rubber Co.,
Factory : Akron, Ohio, U.S.A.
Manufacturers of Pneumatic and Solid
Tyres ; Motor Lorry Tyres ; Fire Engine
Tyres ; Rims, Tyre Accessories, etc.
We are
prepared
to supply
all sizes of
pneumatic
tyres.
ill
©
M
B
:-V3 *
Q
,o
fig
——
SmoKers and
Non-SmoKers
find I'EBECO TOOTH PASTE the best remedy for any
disagreeable taste. It makes your breath sweet and
fragrant, and restores tinted teeth, without injury, to
their natural color. Febeeo is a complete and ideal
health course for the mouth and teeth.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube, with useful Book and interesting test, Free
for three penny stamps, on application to the
Manufacturer.
G. ARNOLD
(Dept. A), G O’Connell St.,
(WHOLESALE ONLY.)
Sydney
[5
V
O sizes in one tool —
® the best ail-round
die-stock you can own.
OSTER
BULL-
DOG
Die-Stocks
gs
OSTER
BULLDOG
No. 1044
The Oster Mfg. Co.,
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
FOR SALE BY LEADING
DEALERS IN ALL CITIES.
00 t^|M
to 2"
Sizes.
WAVERLEY FOUNTAIN PENS
Jim
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
:: FREE :•
DIFFER FROM ALL OTHERS BY REASON OF
THE ELASTICITY AND PERFECTION OF THE
GOLD WAVERLEY NIB. IT DOES NOT TIRE THE
HAND AS DO THE STUBBORN LIFELESS NIBS
IN ORDINARY FOUNTAIN PENS. THE FLOW OF
INK IS FAULTLESS. :•
; SOLD BY ;
STATIONERS
AND
5 DEALERS :
Wholesale Agent: ROBERT HUTTON, 321 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
Business, Robbery, etc.
A. and G. Price, of the Thames (M.L.),
who run a big engineering shop that makes
locomotives for the M.L. railways when
Massey doesn’t rush the order off to Uncle
Sam, have five workers on their pay-sheet
with a total service of IS9 years to tlieir
credit: Lowson, 40 years; Itrowillow and
Leslie, 40 years ; Coutts, 00 ; and Bucan 00.
The Prices think a lot of the record, and
the other day sent the live stickers off on
a motor tour. Which was all very well in
its way; but the appreciation that is most
wanted is for the State to knock off giving
orders for railway engines to a drummer
who talks through his nose.
As unusual a fee as was ever offered to
counsel in Australia was given by Governor
Bligh to George Crossley, an attorney who had
left England for England’s good, and whom
his Ex. appointed to defend Provost-Marshal
Gore on some criminal charge before a Mili-
tary Court of the period. The fee paid and
accepted was two bullocks and a cow from
the Government herd. There was no tax-
ing officer in those days.
-X- * -X- *
As to the verdict of murder returned
against the Kaiser by a Coroner’s jury in
England, his Majesty, of course, knows that
St. Helena is vacant, but has anyone men-
tioned in his hearing that the staple product
is liemp?
Burney, of the big Burgoyne wine firm,
says pleasant things about the future of the
Australian industry : —-
After a period of acute depression during the first
few months of the war the sale of Australian wines
in London has steadily improved. Recent advices
point to the trade having nearly returned to normal.
....The magnificent account which the Australians
gave of themselves in the Dardanelles most strongly
influenced public opinion in Kngland against the quad-
rupled duties upon Australian wines proposed by Lloyd
Gfeorge.. . .The climatic conditions over an immense
area in Australia are probably uniquely favorable to
the production of wine. ... South Aus. is extremely
fortunate in having a powerfully organised viticul-
. tural society. In' the other States there does not
appear to be the same power for cohesion and con-
certed effort. The S.A. organisation would do well
to obtain the active as well as the moral support of
kindred societies in the other States, so as to
organise the whole of those interested.
Rhine wines are down and out in the Eng-
lish market. Burgoyne naturally reckons.
And even if France captures all the Rhine,
France and Russia can together absorb the -
produce, and little of it is likely to reach
the London market. “Here,” he says, “will
be Australia’s opportunity.”
4 -x- -x- *
“Axehandle”: Those Riverina squatters
who secured grass in the snow country early
in the summer considered themselves lucky ;
hut as the drought extended into the late
autumn and theie was no grass at home to
shift the stock back to, things began to
look gloomier. There are still tens of thou-
sands of these slump in the h'ghlands, and
in consequence of recent falls of snow
desperate efforts are being made to get them
out. One mob of over 6000 are interned
about 20 miles from Adaminaby, with a 4ft.
wall of snow around them. All sorts of
devices are being tried to rescue such stock.
The favorite method is to drag felled timber
with bullocks, thus forming a lane through
which the half-frozen jumbucks are coaxed
or driven to clear country. It is a very
slow process. Meanwhile, the sheep are
starving, as it is impossible to get feed to
where they are. Wild offers have been made
by frantic owners to induce local stockmen
to help them out of their difficulties. The
owner of the 6000 afore-mentioned offered
half the mob to anyone who could save
them, but at time of writing they are still
at the old address—and the thermometer has
never been above 35deg. since the snow fell.
The hard part for the owners is that if the
sheep could only be got home there is already
a spring of grass waiting for them.
* * * *
The trouble that has hit wheat and wool
has also affected honey; and some N. S.
Wales beekeepers have the further complaint
that Hawkesbury College—a State institu-
tion—is selling queens at 4s. a-piece.
Apiarists who make the breeding of the egg-
layers a business reckon that this is a gross
interference with that Private Enterprise
which wants to peddle royal ladies at from
ss. to half a sovereign. One of them has
pointed out plaintively that a thousand of
the expensive insects have to be reared to
sell five hundred, and the people who do
the selling have to frequently import fresh
blood from the. place where the macaroni
grows. The voice of the man whose stock
has perished, and who wants to replenish
his queens, has not yet been heard ; he pro-
bably is too busy sending an order to the
Hawkesbury. There seem to be a lot of
complications in beesniss.
* * * ♦
, “Ike Maelsaac”: The most brazen-faced
liars and brigands in the world are the
Arabs and mixed-breed natives of Cairo
who batten upon the sightseer “doing” the
Pyramids, etc. To induce one to enter a
temple or a tomb, one’s self-appointed guide
will easily make Ananias look cheap. But
I reckon I heard the limit the other day
when trying to get rid of a persistent don-
key boy. “He very good donkev this,
mister ”he said to me. “Very old. very
nice! Moses he ride on this donkey!”
PALE AUSTRALIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Australia is feufferi-rg from a famine in colorings.
We derived our supplies of pigments almost entirely
from Germany.
—Melbourne chemist to Melbourne reporter.
If you should And Australia takes
A sort of sickly pallor on,
And if, perchance, Euphemia makes
A poor show with her roses gone,
llemember that all things are wan
Because our boasted ruddy glow
Was manufactured by the foe.
It’s up to us to blush for shame
If British blood is crimson still,
Because we have not played the game,
And with a right good working will
Equipped ourselves our needs to fill,
But trusted to our German-buying
That we might keep our colors flying.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


SPORTING RIFLES
of Reliability and Accuracy.
gs
“ WINCHESTER,” Single Shot, 1902 Model,
-- Oal. Jlitn Fire, peep or V sights, scroll
trigger guard, rubber heel plate,
weight 2§lb.
19 6
above ltifle, fitted. with .sporting ladder rear sio-|it,
Postage—l/6 N.S.W., 2/8 Inter-State.
22 6
THE MAINE
<She using Pi fie A pari.
“ THE MAINE ” S.S. Rifle
designed for 22 short, long, or extra long cartridges, Rim Fire. It
is a take-down, and can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore arm. The action
used on this rifle is of the safety bolt type, and is exceedingly simple, con-
sisting of very few parts. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored and rifled
with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed ac-
eurate ; about 81b., fitted with sporting rear sight to 300yds.
Postage on one Rifle—l/3 JJ.S.W. ; 2/2 Inter-,Stare.
16/6
GUN and
RIFLE
REPAIRS
a Speciality.
Send for our Price
List of Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition and
all Sporting Goods.
Post Free, Anywhere.
MM
Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906 Model,
16 shot, 20in. round barrel, plain trigger, straight grip, slide action,
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges.
Postage—2/- N.S.W., 3/S Inter-State.
47 6
gs
BAYARD SEMI-AUTOMATIC RIFLE,
oot Round Steel Barrel, length ovi
weight 3flh., handles short or
Jong cartridges,
r all
24i-
Postage—l/6 N.S.W., 2/8 Inter-State.
gs
Stevens' “FAVORITE,”
f ■ > or 22 Calibre Rim Fire, half-octagon 22in. barrel,
case-hardened frame, solid breech block, take down action, open front and rear
s,ghts, weight 4*lb. Postage-1/9 N.S.W., 3/2 Inter State?
\\p nan siinnlr tha r> u .. .
24 -
" e tan supply Che above Rifles fitted with Beach Combination Front Sight and Vernier Rear 40
3 ° or 32 Rim Fire Calibres, same description as above. 2/6 each extra. ‘ ’
gs
“ Winchester ” Single Shot
Rifle, 1904 Model,
for 22 short or long rim fire cartridges, 2l in. h'eav
round steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight, length of rifle over-
all, 374-in., bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not 'tarnish ; weight, about 41b.
Postage—l/9N.S.W. ; 3/2 Inter-State.
261-
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W.
City Sports Depot: 119 King Street, Sydney;
and at Newcastle and Brisbane.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
hot lie in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
-
- ' . > _
Wm
IV3OI
$
PATRIOTISM
-Your '
Aim? e
Then have a JHOT
K at smoking
Referee
The Australian Tobacco
K\
l (
1
T
X
Reduce the Cost of Trustee Administration by appointing . . .
THE PERMANENT
TRUSTEE COMPANY 25 ““ s *"
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors, Attorneys, Agents, Etc.
ESTATES, PROPERTIES, FUNDS, Etc., MANAGED EFFICIENTLY AND ECONOMICALLY
Full Particulars on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. |
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OK NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
{•ravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrir
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. llow to Wrestlb, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s Gd posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all tiie Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller's Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. Howto
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life.
Ios6d. Aust. Miners’Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, os. Nor Guilty (Blatcn-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain fop. the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
lbs 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d
&
02
r
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By I)R. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very-
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
I«“BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
gipsy fortune telling cards- love,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easj-, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations'and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. 'Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook. Is Sd.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How Mcliougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan's Engine Driver's Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptamkron, and many
oth'-rs, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve grot it.
Don’t be tooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. SWEstablished 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my,... _
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Mark Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, la
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam 1,. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, la. Champions of the
King, la 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, Sd posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
INGKRSOLL’S WORKS, Sd, 28. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappho, is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing", Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. Tub Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs i words and music com!
plete), Is 6d posted. Thb Age of Reason, by Paine
posted, Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOG UK TO-DA v’.


THINK YOUR REMEDY A FINE ONE,
Writes MISS MURIEL STARR.
This Brilliant Actress says she will never again travel
without a bottle of Dr. Sheldon s New Discovery.
Miss Muriel Starr has had a wonder-
ful career of star roles in America. Her
appearance in “Within the l.a\y.
“Bought and Paid For” and ‘l mice
Cover” has afforded Australians merely
an idea of tin 1 work she is capable of:
doing, and lias been a revelation to her
many admirers. This remarkable
actress writes to the Sheldon Drug Co.,
Ltd., as follows :
SHELDON DRUG CO., LTD., Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —
I have been using, your Dr. Shel-
don’s New Discovery for the past,
week, and, although I have never
given a testimonial for anything before
in all my life, 1 feel that it is my duty
now to write and tell you what a splendid
Remedy I think Dr. Sheldon’s New Dis-
covery is.
1 had such a nasty little cold, and it
bothered me so much and affected my voice
when speaking. I never was so annoyed before,
and I could not seem to get rid of it —some-
times it was a little better and then much
worse. At last I was told to try l>r. Sheldon’s
New Discovery, and I did, and I think it fine.
The very first dose eased my throat and helped
my voice, and now every trace of the cold is
gone. There was no getting better and
then worse again with that cold after start
ing with New Discovery—l simply improved
right along, and I want to tell you that 1
think your Remedy a fine one, and t
intend never to travel again without
a bottle in my grip.
Wishing New Discovery every suc-
cess,
I am, sincerely yours,
(Sgd.) MURIEL STARR.
WJ
MISS MURIEL STARR.
(May and M. Moore photo.)
DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY is the quickest , safest and
best known remedy for Coughs, Colds, Pleurisy, Bronchitis
and all Throat and Chest Troubles. It is the remedy that can
always be relied upon. It is obtainable everywhere at 1/6, and
/f) larger bottles, holding two and a half times as much, at 3[ m
D? SHELDON’S _^>ughs
NewDiscovery\St lds
“The Reward of a thing
well done—is—
to have done it.”
So Emerson said. It looks as though the reward for having made
HIM II
ED
}\r-
am
&
3
on OOUcL
OOOJ 3£
rr*\
&
C 3
“REX”
LUNCHEON
CHEESE
so well is to have to make
more of it up to the same
sample.
Orders by post and by wire
are streaming in from all
over the country. Keep on
buying “Rex” Cheese.
Its flavor will not vary. Its quality will remain the same. The same
little helping after each meal will still continue to assist the digestion.
“Rex” Cheese is in the boom, because it contains all the good points of
perfectly-ripened, full-cream Cheese, and is economical to use. You
spread it without butter—it is complete when it comes to you.
All Grocers Sell it ill Tins.
OtHer “REX** Canned Delicacies are —
Ham Pate.
Veal and Tongue Pate.
Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
Pork and Beans, 111 b. tins.
Pigs’ Beet in Jelly, lib. tins.
Punch Tongues in Jelly, 11b. tins.
Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins;
anil
“Rex” Brand Bard, for cooking purposes,
in lib. prints.
Gi
E
R
X
SftMII
FOGGITT, JONES
8 CO., LTD.,
Carers of "Rex” Hams and Bacon.
Packers of "Rex” Pure Food Products.
»>»
E
The Siren.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
r|IIIE dainty morning, peeping through
I My otiiee window, smiles at me,
-*-■ And tempts me with her eyes of blue
To steal from my captivity.
While duty chains me to a chair,
My window’s full of pale blue sky ;
A holiday is in the air,
Hut months of work confront my eye.
I know a sunny, sheltered bay
Which one must slither down to reach ;
There would I gaily waste the day—-
One shadow on a golden beach.
(I also know plain 1 lenry Stodge,
The senior partner of this co.,
And if I tried my work to dodge.
Plain Stodge would tell me I could go.)
I know some pleasant paths that wind
Through woods where pink boronia
grows—
The picture’s colored in my mind ;
I know a narrow creek that Hows
Through hardy fern and maiden-hair,
Where dashing swallows wheel and race
Toward a cruel cliff-face, where
It leaps triumphant into space.
I know where fairy flowerets grow
Deep in a valley greenly cool;
A hidden waterfall 1 know
That flows from out a A itch s Pool.
There is a spot where shelt’ring trees
T)roop towards the water tenderly.
Where, wafted by the languid breeze,
A boat might dabble dreamily.
And. oh! the morning calls to me:
“Come out, for life is sweet to-day.
Come out!” she cries incessantly,
“Come out ere youth has slipped away !”
The siren’s song calls me away.
I clench my teeth and mutter “Xo!
Call inc at twelve on Saturday.
When I have done with Stodge and Co.”
N.S.W.
FREDA OLDMAN.
The Double-bed Dialogues.
THE MOODS OF BABETTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
charm of Babette is her various-
I ness. She is 16 girls in one —and you
‘ * never really know which.
Every woman is many women. Babette is
a complete liarenr. That is why 1 mariied
her —to run that harem. Uut it took me 1-
months of marriage with Babette though
it doesn’t seem 12 months —-to sort out from
the motley collection of girls that have
gained admittance to my harem the essential
Babette beneath them all. And even now
there are times when I’m not sure whether
I've got her safe in my harem at all
whether she hasn’t been outside on the roof
till the time, mockingly peering down through
the skylight at the man who thought he had
caught her. .
For Babette is my wife and a saint, She
is an innocent spinster and a widow with
seven children and two buried husbands.
She is a woman of the world and an escaped
lunatic. She is a grandmother and an igno-
rant child. She is the servant who makes
the double-bed and the mistress who rumples
it. She is a business partner and a sleep-
ing one. She is a prude and a twin-daughter
of joy. I’ve married a menagerie; and often
I don’t quite know whether I’m its owner
or inside the cage.
Woman is still in the fluid state. the
molten globe took many millions of years to
solidify into rocks. The male animal fol-
lowed slowly after, rising from the jellyfish
to the dignity of a backbone after millions
of centuries of struggle. He clothed liis shiv-
ering protoplasm with skin and hide, stiff-
oned it with cartilage and bone, and grew
on it fins and tails and scales and teeth and
toe-nails. The female admiringly watched
him do it, and then pretended to clo likewise.
But instinctively she preferred the flabby
comfort of the limp, ancestral jellyfish. She
put out a few tender tentacles, which she
flourished and wagged as if they were really
arms and legs, and in time—some millions
of centuries of time—she moulded them so
that they really looked like arms and legs.
But it was all pretence. Underneath that
tender skin there were no vertebra}, no mus-
cles —only protoplasm.
Gradually, however, the female found it
desirable to imitate the rigidity of the male
further, so she supplied her flabby skin with
a false epidermis composed of whalebone and
steel. This gave a deceptive hardness to her
figure; and the male, who sees nothing that
the female does not desire him to see —
Babette told me of a woman-friend of hers
who regularly used her husband’s razor to
shave her legs, and he never connected the
fortnightly bluntness of his safety-razor with
the fortnightly smoothness of her legs—
well, to get back from the legs of Babette’s
friend to history, the male never discovered
that beneath the corset of the female there
isn’t anything but a fluid and shapeless mass
of protoplasm that, like putty, can be made
to take any shape that the female desires.
The ease with which this primitive organ-
ism known as woman can melt and remould
her form is’ observable in what is called
fashion. Regularly every three months cer-
tain manufacturers of dress materials in
Paris —who have to live, like other employers
of labor —decide to pour the female into a
new mould. And without any fuss all the
females in the civilised world flow into their
new moulds and emerge a new and surpris-
ing shape. Sometimes woman has to bulge
where you would have thought no human
being could have bulged. Sometimes she has
to be straight where Nature refuses to make
even babies straight. Sometimes she is
almost bisected horizontally. Sometimes
she is almost bisected perpendicularly. It
matters not to woman, the eternal jellyfish,
the everlasting plasticene. She bulges where
she is bidden to bulge: she reduces where
she is told to reduce : she becomes concave
where once she was pleasingly convex, and
gibbous where she was dented.
The mere mass or contour, however, is
the least of her variability. Her appurten-
auces, being as plasticenic as her tissue,
suffer the same seasonable changes. j | 01 ‘
liair turns henna in a single night. Her
complexion she changes three times a day.
She wears one colored face for breakfast,
another for afternoon-sunlight, and a third
for electric light. Her lips she wears an
exotic scarlet, though to-morrow with equal
appropriateness she would as easily wear
them purple, or orange, or grey and green
in stripes. Sometimes she dispenses with
her ears, sometimes, though not recently, she
has no legs.
But with all these transmogrifications the
female has one static quality. Like all
primitive organisms, she never grows old.
Instead, she grows fat.
But the fluctuations of her body are
merely minor permutations compared with
the fluctuations of her mind. Her personality
is more fluid than her figure. She is Berg-
son’s flux. Chameleon-like, her soul takes
its color from her dress. What a difference
of mood there is in a married woman in
brown and the same woman a widow in
black! Woman is never woman. She is
merely temporarily one of her 10 moods.
Babette was a normal woman. She kept
her 10 moods well oiled. When I first met
her I didn’t meet her. I met her
new-acquaintance mood. She put it on
the moment she saw me in the distance.
She put it on for everybody she saw in the
distance. It was a charming, but reserved,
mood: a mood that plainly said: “I’m a
really nice girl, without an idea of my own,
ready to be just the sort of girl that you
would like a nice girl to be.”
And instantly she set to work to find out
the shape of the mould in which uncon-
sciously I cast all nice girls. This took one-
tenth of a second, and in another tenth of
a second she had decided that she rather
liked the shape. Thereupon she shifted to
mood number 2. It said: “We’re going to
be good friends.” We were. The. next
mood was more thoughtful. It said: “I
suppose you’re single, and I wonder what
your income is. and whether those nice, front
teeth were paid for?” I told her —without
knowing that I had told her. Then came
mood number 4. It shyly remarked: “No.
you mustn’t flirt with me—just yet.” I
didn’t —just then.
But there is no need to go on to the 16th
mood. Any married man will recall the
whole series, and any single man can tick
them off with the next nice girl he meets.
Babette’s moods, however, did not go in
regular order. Some days during our
engagement she was alluringly provocative
(No. 6). some days petulant (No. 9), some
days sulky (No. 12), some days catty (No.
r»>. some days placid (No. 7). The only
( tire for all these moods, except No. 7, for
which there is no cure, was a course of
kisses. And some days she was all these
moods together. The consequence was that
I met one Babette. kissed another (rather
like her), quarrelled with another (that had
a horrible family likeness to her), made it
up with another (quite the nicest girl in the
family), became good friends with another
(rather dull), worshipped another (still more
dull), was made frantically jealous by
another (a naughty child, too big to slap),
was proposed to by another (an adorable
being, strangely accessible), married another
(an iceberg in a snowstorm) and found my-
self the husbaiid of 16.
The most important business of a newly-
married man is to study and classify his
wife’s moods. Until he gets them card-
indexed he doesn’t know where he is. With
Babette, so inexplicably and so swiftly did
her moods change, I found this job full of
delightful excitement. And one day I made
a valuable discovery. There was one im-
portant series, of Babette’s moods that in-
variably arranged themselves in a certain
order. This was the series. Nos. 9-16. It
ran thus: Petulance-Accusations (a woman
must always have somebody to blame when
she is at fault—that is why she likes to
keep a husband handy)—Anger—Sulks—•
Ice—Explanations (proving that all along
she was right)—Penitence—Kisses (good
and hard).
Married life can he made quite cosy
and comfortable as long as your wife does
not possess a sense of humor at the wrong
moments. It is impossible to preserve the
sanctity of marriage if your wife looks on it
as a joke. Many a marriage has been
wrecked because an • otherwise satisfactory
wife discovers that a kiss is humorous. Of
course it is; but there are certain conven-
tions that are implicit in (lie promise to love,
honor and obey, and the most important is
not to laugh in the middle of a married kiss.
I’n fortunately Babette possessed. or
developed, that inconvenient and mis-
timed sense of humor. What was the
satisfaction in kissing her shoulder before
I went to sleep if she laughed? The
romance evaporated in that laugh. Babette
admitted this penitently, but said that some
nights she couldn’t help it. She said that
she missed my front teeth, and that a kiss
without front teeth was like an egg without
salt. As it was obviously inconvenient for
me in the middle of the night to get out of
the double-bed and fish up my front teeth
from the glass of water on the dressing-table
I did not see the humor of her remark. But.
thanks to my card-index system of Babette’s
moods, I discovered that the only occasion
when she did not miss the lack of savor, in
my shoulder-kiss was when we were making
up a quarrel (mood number 16). The
consequence was that when life threatened
to be dull, in order to squash her sense of
humor, I deliberately provoked a quarrel.
For her making-up kiss was an altogether
delectable and lingering kiss, not in. the
least like the common, or breakfast, kiss of
married life.
One night, however. I worked the sequence
of Babette’s moods out, not only to its
brilliant conclusion, but. unfortunately,
beyond it. I had come home rather late, but
ready to be extremely husband-like in com-
pensation for a delayed dinner. But T found
Babette in mood 9 (petulance). Luckily I
recognised the mood as she opened the door,
and I decided to work the series. I casually
forgot to bestow the hat-rack kiss—the one
that you slip in as you hang up your hat.
She waited a moment, and I saw the
delicate mechanism of her moods being set
in working order.
“I know,” she said, “why you didn’t kiss
me. You’ve got that typewriter's lip-salve
on your mouth.”
(Continued on next page.)


WON THE VICTORIA CROSS
KEPT FIT BY ZAM-BUK IN A TRYING
CAMPAIGN.
“A GRAND THING FOR SOLDIERS ON ACTIVE
SERVICE,” SAYS THIS V.C. HERO.
, m
.
--V
r -
i-VV,
1
<£
V=a
®
K*
w
Private
A. Acton,
of the
Border
Regt., and
Facsimile
of his
gallantly
won V-C.
Having just won the .V.C. for -
conspicuous bravery at Rouges
Bancs, France, Pte. 10684
Abraham Acton, of “B” Company, 2nd
Border Regiment, tells to-day of the share
the well-known Zam-Buk had in his proud honor.
This brave soldier, like thousands of others
in I ranee, always had a pot of Zam-Buk in his
haversack. It occupied next to no space, yet
with its frequent application Pte. Acton kept "his
feet and limbs so supple and lit that months of
iuird campaigning still left him with the endur-
ance necessary to win the most coveted “V.C.”
Acton knew that there is no useful bravery
without physical fitness, and it is because Zam-
Buk has_ so often contributed to the physical
fitness of himself and his comrades that he has
written a letter of gratitude to the proprietors of
the celebrated "first aid.”
lou can’t place too much faith in Zam-Buk,” says Pte. Acton. “It
nas been very useful to me on many occasions. I have used Zam-Buk for
mj feet, especially to keep frost-bite out and to cure sprains; also for
cleanly and quickly healing cuts from barbed-wire and other things; Zam-
Buk is indeed a grand thing for every soldier on active service to carry in
lus haversack.”
i, Zam-Buk is unsurpassed for cuts, bruises, scalds, burns, abrasions, eczema, sore faces, stiffness,
stilt neck, ringworm, running sores, chaps, chilblains, cold sores, raw hands, and similar winter
skm troubles. Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores at 1/6 and 3/6, or direct from C. E.
Fulford (Australasia), Ltd., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
'am Buk
SOOTHES (Si HEALS.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Anaemia
Frequently Unrecognised
The Importance of its Detection
The Symptoms of Anaemia (Poorness
of Blood) are Difficulty of Breathing, Lack of
Energy, Depression, Pallor, and Exhaustion after
Slight Exertion. Many people fail to recognise
these symptoms of Anaemia— the disease creeps
on, obtains a firm grip of the system and eventually
becomes chronic. If the symptoms are recognised
at the beginning it is a very simple matter to enrich
the blood and so effectually check the disease.
Iron Je Uoi ds
enrich the blood—renew vitality
After taking Iron ‘Jelloids,’ the blood becomes
enriched and strengthened, the distressing symptoms of
Anaemia quickly disappear, giving place to a state of
vigorous health and buoyant spirits.
DR. ANDREW WILSON wrote : —“ It can be definitely stated
“ that Iron ‘ Jelloids ’ constitute the most effective and desirable
“ treatment for Anmmia or Poorness of Blood.”
A fortnight’s trial ( Price 1/6 ) will convince you.
For Women, No- 2. Special Tonic for Men, No. 2A. (containing Quinine).
For Children, No. 1. So'd in England at l/ll and 2/9. per box.
Obtainable at all Chemists throughout Australia.
Wholesale: Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., 82, Pitt St.,Sydney,N.S.W.
Manufactured only by THE'JELLOID' Co., 205, City Road, London, England.
Seven
Prize Medals.
gs
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Works: Birmingham, England
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Babette was wrong. The typewriter-girl
(lul not use lip-salve—at least, not the sort
that comes off. But that made no difference.
In mood 10 she had instinctively to blame
somebody.
I smiled a tired smile. Mood 11 came to
surface. “Ooh!” she said, “sometimes
1 d like to spank you !”
“lou dear old dear,” I said. “I clean
foigot to kiss you ; but you look so splendid
m your anger that I simply must kiss you
now.
you. won't.” She sulked (mood
Dinner's stone cold and all spoiled.”
A kiss might give you an anpetite,” I
pleasantly suggested. But mood 12 persisted
all through that dinner. In vain I sought
to cheer her up by telling her of my day’s
work at the office, omitting, of course,l any-
thing that had happened after office hours.
Ihe evemng was also sulky; but when I
undid her dress at the back—one of the
ironies of married life is that no matter liow
much you want to slap your husband, you
must ask him to unhook you—she changed
to mood 13 (ice). I had my front teeth in.
too.
When I crawled into bed, with my front
teeth in. ready for any emergencies, she was
still arctic. Very warm ice to have in the
same double-bed with you, but warm ice is
the worst sort when the iceberg is your Wife
and as adorably lovable as Babette.
I had to apologise three times before a
thaw was faintly perceptible. Babette
explained how commendable and long-
suffering her conduct had been all through
(mood 14). I eagerly accepted her expla-
nation: and mood 15 (penitence) quickly
followed. She had been irritable when I
came home, and she hadn’t cared whether I
kissed her or not. ' But that was all over,
thank goodness, and now. ... (mood 1(>).
Kisses, good and hard.
I had worked the series out once again
(o its triumphant culmination.
“You know. _ darling.” Babette shyly
murmured, “you're ‘so much nicer when you
kiss me after a quarrel. Your ordinary
married peck is ionite uninteresting A-not at
all like this, is it?”
“I was just thinking that it was the same
with you—-after a. quarrel.” I meanly said.
I m so glad, ’ Babette crowed. “Because
I must confess something. I deliberately
made you quarrel with me to-night. I was
feeling frightfully bored —and it’s so long
since you really kissed me. isn’t it? So I
made you quarrel—l could see vou didn’t
want to—and I wouldn’t make it up till we
got to bed. But it was worth while pretend-
ing to quarrel, wasn’t it?”
It was. But my classification of (he
moods of Babette is hopelessly muddled. All
the while Babette had concealed another
mood —number 17 —as yet unclassified.
HENRY JAMES TAMES.
“How Many Pigs Has Your
Father Got?”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
II was a hot, still night in Buna, and
Ernie Oates and I were as usual swap-
ping lies on his verandah to pass the
time away, when the question of interpreters
came up.
Now, in Papua, unless a magistrate knows
the dialect, lie has to depend entirely on his
interpreter—usually a native policeman.
This policeman can, of course, tell the
magistrate just as much as he pleases; and,
should the prisoner be a friend, it is odds-on
lie will find the evidence all in his favor.
“Don’t you think,” I asked, "a white man
who knew the language would improve mat-
ters ?”
"Well,” replied Ernie, “that's the very
question I was asked by the Commission
when it was up here some years ago. I told
them then that it would depend on the
salary.”
I suggested that things mightn’t be as bad
as that.
"Well, I'll give you a case in point. Six-
teen years or so back, when Fordyce was
Besident Magistrate at Samarai, a case
arose down the coast here, in which a. chap
named Cudd accused a native of stealing a
number of pigs of his. Ile’d engaged the
nigger to look after the pork for him. and
found after a time that they were gradually
disappearing. Eventually he discovered that
the boy was sending them to his relatives in
different villages, and so he laid a complaint.
“In due time Fordyce came along in the
Government boat to try the case, and, hear-
ing that I knew the language of that part
well, asked me if I would interpret for him.
Of course I said I would be only too pleased.
“Well, they brought up the boy. and a cun-
ning-looking nigger he was too. The old chap
questioned and cross-questioned him. but hi 1
denied all knowledge of the disappearance of
the pigs. We were all dead-sure of his
guilt, but nothing could make him admit it.
“This went on until mid-day. so the Resi-
dent Magistrate suggested lunch.
"During lunch an idea struck me. I made
up my mind to ask the boy ‘How many pigs
has your father got?’ and get him to name
and tick them off on his fingers. Then I said
to the Magistrate: ‘l'll have another go at
that boy after lunch, sir, and tell him he
has one more chance of spitting out the
truth. If he decides to give us the truth I
will get him to tick off the number of pigs
stolen on his fingers.’
“‘Very well, Oates: very well, and I trust
you will he successful.’ said the old chap.
“We finished lunch, and the boy was again
brought forward, and when all was ready I
asked him in his own language. ‘llow many
pigs has your father got. Miau ? Tell the
Magistrate by counting on your fingers.'
“At once he began, giving each pig a
name: ‘There is Hangiri'—and lie ticked off
one finger. ‘There is Raura’ —and another
finger was ticked off. and so on until he had
marked off five.
“He didn't get any farther.
“‘Damn you. you scoundrel!’ yelled the
old man. ‘Why didn’t you say that two hours
ago! Six months’ hard labor.’
“There was a look of wonder on the boy’s
face as they took him away.
“Later in the day. Billy Cudd. the com-
plainant. asked me, ‘llow the devil did you
manage it?'
“For some time he kept quiet about it, as
he promised he would ; but one day he was
ia Samarai and let the whole joke out. Of
course, I didn’t know that, and when I hap-
pened to go .'down to the island one of the
irst, men I ran across was old Fordyce, the
magistrate.
Oood day, sir, I said ; and was walking
on. °
"But the old chap stopped, and looking
oyer the tops of his glasses in a most judi-
cial manner, said, ‘Young man. how many
P'S'y has your father got?’
“‘Five, sir,’ I replied at once.
"Then he pronounced sentence: ‘Two
drinks, he said.
"I paid.”
MEERY.
Nights in the Open.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SILKS and satins and gossamer-wear,
r I’earls and rubies on breast and hand,
Throat and shoulders and white arms
bare.
Fanning themselves the sirens stand.
Somebody sits at the ivory keys
Singing the latest thing in triils ;
Lord ! for an hour in a place of trees,
Night on the Plains or night in the Hills.
Lips salve-softened and luring eyes,
Scented tresses and pearl-white teeth ;
Lord ! I have seen the star-sown skies
Mirrored and calm in the tide beneath.
Breasts as white as the whitest mow,
Hiding passion and red desire ;
Lord ! 1 have seen the great seas grow,
Fall, and flash in a spread of fire.
Making the lips of the songstress dumb,
Paling the hues of the rose-red lights,
One by one from the Past ye come,
Nights in the Open, O wondrous nights!
Nights on the Harbor! I recall
Breams that came to me, man and boy,
Stars that fell as our high hopes fall,
Brimming tides of exultant joy.
liock and headland and reef and reach,
All asleep in the hush o’ night;
Waters creeping on bank and beach,
Trees that watched from the brooding
height.
"Night!” “Good night!” from a passing
boat,
Flakes of lire on the feathered oars;
Far, far distant a night-owl’s note.
No sound else on the sleeping shores.
Then, perchance, at the turn of the tide,
Something white in the under-deep,
Nebulous, palpitant, dim-descried.
Marring the perfect round of sleep.
Back again to the stifling room—
Murmur and music and rose-red lights!
Gone the splendor, the glow, the gloom ;
Spent the spell of the Harbor nights.
Somebody sits at the ivory keys
Singing an old-time ballad now.
Lord ! how I ache for a mountain breeze,
Cooling the fever of eyes and brow.
Thus I shatter my prison bars
(Wonder waiting at yonder door),
Free of the open, free of the stars.
Forth I stride through the night once more.
Nights on the Mountains! I recall
Dreams I dreamt when my blood was
y< >ung —
Fame and fortune. And over them all
Dust and ashes are blown and flung.
Breasting the slope of the climbing road,
Breathing, gulping the wine-sweet air.
Little I troubled where Trouble abode,
Little I cared for the shadow of Care.
Bulking large through the shroudin" mist,
Surely my soul and the soul of the scene,
Muted, meeting in midnight tryst,
Mingled as one in a place serene.
Free of the heights, ’twas mine to tread !
Free of the roads, no foot but mine !
Green ferns under and overhead.
Ash and wattle and beech and pine.
Ever and ever a sound arose.
Harp of the wind and lute of the stream,
Swelled and sank to a mystic close.
Vague, all through, as a song in a dream.
Back once more to the garish room—
Murmur and music and rose-red lights]
Gone the splendor, the glow, the gloom,
Spent the spell of the Mountain nights.
Somebody sits at the ivory keys
Singing of love and its passionate pains.
Lord ! for the lands that are lone as the seas,
Breadth and beauty and night on the Plains.
Nights of the Inlands ! I recall
Hours well spent in a musing mood ;
What though the dust be over all.
Thus to have dreamt at least was good.
Watching the east, I saw stars rise.
West and westward I watched them fare,
Pulsing fierce in the low-hung skies,
Near and large in the stirless air.
Free of mighty or mean desire,
Lulled to rest by the dew-wet wind.
Stretched full length by a red camn-fire,
Surely, I thought, the gods were kind.
Trailing splendor, perchance a star.
Lit the plains with its crimson light:
Times there were when I heard afar
Cattle calling across the night.
Sometimes whimpered a waterfowl.
Bustling the reeds in a reedy place;
Now and anon, a far-off howl
Told the tale of a midnight chase.
All pores drinking the good night air,
Life in the marrow and youth in the veins.
Dew on the forehead and dew on the hair —
Oh, they were splendid, those nights on the
Plains!
Back once more to the crowded room,
Murmur and music and rose-red lights.
Gone the splendor, the glow, tlie gloom;
Spent the spell of the Inland nights !
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Be Independent and Generate Your Own Current.
A Westinghouse Cross
:Pf
81 ws
r fufy
m
I
m
Vertical Enclosed
Semi = Diesel Oil Engine,
owing; to its speed, may
be direct coupled to a
GENERATOR, thus
saving: floor space and belt
transmission losses.
Its Distinguishing: Features
are described in Booklet
8.-0-5. Write to-day for
a copy to —
tinghouse Brake
Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents-Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents-Philips & Pike, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Britain’s Best.
DEWRANOE
VALVES
With Renewable Seats of
Bronze or Nickel Alloy.
Stocks Carried by the Agents—
-•
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney. [2
fills
Cannot
Leak
gs
From 12/- each
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
Over 30 years ago the late Lord
Leaconsfield testified to the benefits
he received rom Himrod’s
Asthma Powder and every
post brings stmdar letters
' to-day.
gs
gs
Famed for 40 Years.
Best remedy lor Asthma.
Hay b ever, Hose Cold, or
ord nary Cough.
Soid in Tim by au Chemists end Stores
throughout Australasia,
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia. and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
tplersPpne. an( j obtain information without
charge.
SMITHS
PERFECT SPEEDOMETERS
ONV AS3dV3HD
FOR
MOTOR CYCLES
MOTOR CARS
MOTOR LORRIES
te* \\
© © ©
40“
®@/©©©
Prices
from
£3/1 0/-
REPAIRS PROMPTLY EXECUTED.
“ BRITISH ” TYRES. MASCOTS. PUMPS.
Managing; Agents:
ERIC BOULT LTD., 79-81 Pitt Street’Sydney,
Telephone—city 2401. And Elizabeth House, Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
YOU
V
ST
%
cs
o
<5
M.
s'
'V
i
#
EECHAMS PILLS
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original anti Only Genuine
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
gs
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectuall y
cuts short all
attacks el
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
‘he oougrh of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
1/H. 2/9 & 4/b. Made in England.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHCEA and simple DYSENTERY.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dogs Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Petrol Unions
from 7d. each.
We Cater to Supply the Wants of
THE PETROL COMMUNITY.
Grease Cups
from
each.
No matter
Fitment you require lor
THE EXPLOSIVE ENGINE we can fix you up.
'UR. STOCKS COMPRISES-
Petrol, Oil and Air Cocks,
Valves, Lubricators,
Grease Cups, Strainers,
etc,, etc,, etc.
□
o
□
AH kinds of Copper, Brass,
Iron, Tin, Aluminium and
other Metallic Sheets,
Tubes and Fittings.
Send for Illustrated Catalogues—
Free.
Petrol Strainers
from M- each.
Priming Cocks from 1/3 each.
Sole Agents for the SCHEBLER CARBURETTER
Robert C. Swan 8 Co. Ltd.
304 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
• •
■i-- '
Extra Air Cocks
from 1/9 each.


MANCROVITEi?
LEATHER
LTI
has been awarded the Gov-
ernment Contracts for 1915-
1916.
It is All-Australian—from
Australian Hides, tanned
and manufactured by Aus-
tralian Workmen.
Sole Manufacturer and Proprietor:
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 WYNYARD SQUARE. SYDNEY.
Something New
PIPE THREADING.
RELEASING LEVER
TO THE LEFT r
OPE NS THE DIES!
"V
“ The Bulldog Grip never slips.
A High-grade Die Stock, with SELF-
LOCKING DIES, SKWT-XiOCKING
GUIDES. A Stock that can be instantly
released and lifted off the work without
turning hack over the finished threads.
Oster Bulldog Die Stocks
possess all these features, beside other
advantages which must appeal to, all
users of pipe-threading tools.
Write for our descriptive booklet on Pipe
Threading, or call and see a demonstration of
the Bulldog.
AGENTS:
LACY CO. LTD
'■>
Engineers & Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, SYDNEY-
ft®
S 5
as
Your Belt
Transmits
that
Counts.
Be
Sure
and
Specify
JMCK’S
belting
Sole Agents-
Jas. HardieflCo.
Circular Quav
SYDNEY
And MELBOURKE.
Is “Economy”
Your
Watchword ?
If so you will be deeply
interested in the increased
steaming power of your boiler,
the more satisfactory working
of your engine, the greater
efficiency of your whole plant,
and, further, the big reduction
in your fuel bill, all of which
can be accomplished by the
adoption of
Newall’s Magnesia
Sectional Steam
Pipe Coverings and
Plastic Boiler
Covering
the EXCEPTIONAL EFFICIENCY of which has placed it
FAR ABOVE ALL OTHER MATERIALS.
The above claims are not merely “idle words,” but are all
clinched by FACTS —in evidence of which we might mention
that Newall’s Coverings have been adopted exclusively by the
N.S.W. and Victorian Governments, and have been used throughout
Ultimo and White Bay Power Houses, in addition to which we have
orders on hand for the insulating throughout of Perth, Melbourne
and Canberra Power Stations.
Should further argument be necessary, we append the comparative
covering capacities of Newall’s Plastic Boiler Covering and ordinary
asbestos.
lcwt. ordinary asbestos will cover 40 sq. ft. x lin. thick.
Icwt. Newall’s Plastic Magnesia will cover 100 sq. ft. x lin.
thick.
J. WILDRIDGE 8 SINCLAIR LTD., 82 Pitt Street, Sydney; Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Wellington, N.Z.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRON FOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Values, Pumps, Pluming,
Patent “ Nelyambo” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Pluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work.
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
J. A. Fay 8 Egan Co.’s Woodworking Machinery.
FURNITURE, PIANO AND WOODWORKING SHOPS WILL BE
INTERESTED
to know that we have opened up, in our Showroom, a
No. 225 TRIPLE DRUM SAND-PAPERING MACHINE,
and, if perfect surfaces are wanted, either for varnishing or painting, this is the
machine for AOU.
Also in Stock—Arm, Column, Sash and'Door Sanders.
No. 50 Special Patent Band Saw, for all kinds of plain or intricate scroll
sawing. This machine represents the “Acme” of perfection in Band Saws.
PLANERS, MATCHERS, MOLDERS, JOINTERS,
DOOR CLAMPS, SURFACERS, TENONERS.
Carried in stock by Sole Agents:—
H. P. GREGORY CO.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
74 CLARENCE. STREET, SYDNEY.
NAT SEMI-DIESEL
j-
OIL ENGINES
MARINE or STATIONARY.
Sole Australian A
WARBURTON, FRANKI, Ltd.
307-311 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
isteii
SHEEP
SHEARING
MACHINE
y
DANGAR,GEDYE 6 C9 Sydney
- SOLE AGENTS FOB AUSTRA LI A
SUB-AGENTS :
MITCfsEIL & CO. PROPY. LTD.,
W. footscray, Melbourne,
Vic.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Townsville.
MALLOCH BROS.,
Perth, W.A.
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS, LTD.,
Hobart, Tas.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD.
Brisbane, Queensland
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN FARMERS’
CO-OP. UNION, LTD.,
Adelaide. S.A.
BRITISH MANUFACTURE.
ROCK. DRILL
UNSURPASSED FOR
WORK in ALL CLASSES
OF ROCK.
APPLY NOW.
-
Will Cut Faster and
with less consumption of
Air than any other Drill.
All Particulars from
•f
-
Equitable Building, Sydney
Church Lane, Melbourne
