

1
The Whisky of Exquisite Taste
Mining
Machinery Merchants,
and Contractors’ Plant,
107
—FOR—
and
IKeiaX Street,
Specialty: AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc.
Engineers’
Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales
Sawmill Machinery,
New and Second-hand Plants always available.
Sydney,
Mining Requisites.
sfsf
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
M-5 W- MONT DE PItTE D S>l C? \J£
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAQH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. And at Telephone: City 93-5.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
ƒ
sd
>"Used in plenty
Makes forty look
like twenty”
fs
f Made in Australia ly i
fBEDMICKSTMHSiC"
SYDNEY.
df
s
it
I must have
-
S
finc-Applcfirand
fdsd
CHUBB'S
ANTI BLOWPIPE
DOORS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSEN'S
fsdf
sdf
For INDIGESTION
anti DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
OBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
C.M.A.
For Electric Wires and Cables
Made in accordance with the Standards of the Cable Makers’ Association.
Buy from
THE S/LVERTO WN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street , Sydney.
ds
śd
f
AMIWUD
Wallboard
makes a good job and a lasting one.
It is the ideal interior finish. Let’s
send Samples and Booklets.
MALTHOID
Roof i ng
dsf
The Paraffine Paint Company, Challfs House, Syaney (D. S. Evans, Aust. Rep.). Agents in all States.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY
locomotive, general & agricultural: engineers.
ROLLING STOCK OF ALL. DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL & FARM WAGGONS. IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
SHREDDER DISCS.
GRANVILLE.
N.S.W.
MINING
MACHINERY
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. „
Roll Shells, Shoes
and Dies, and ail
STEEL CASTINGS.
OPALOSD
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
df
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Yo]. 37.—N0. 1912.]
[Thursday, October 5, 1916.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W-, Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Munition Making'
(Postages shown
in parentheses.')
Books that every Machinist should have.
Hiffh Explosive Shell Manufacture, by D. T. Hamil-
ton, illus. 12/- (4d.).
Cartridge Manufacture, by D. T. Hamilton, illus.
9/- ;
Shrapnel Shell Manufacture, by D. T. Hamilton,
Specifications for High Explosive Shells
and Fuses. 3/- (Id.).
At GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP'T'Y LTD.. 23* PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
RESULT
LITERARY COMPETITION
Held in connection with
“JUST DAVID,”
By Eleanor H. Porter, author of “Pollyanna,” etc.
THE first quarter’s prizes in this competition go
respectively to:— '
1. Miss MTNNIE L. DEAN, Hazel Terrace, Henley
Beach, S.A.
(Copy of “Just David,” purchased from Rigby
and Co., Ltd., Adelaide.)
2. E. HOUSE, Taunton Ville, Dodgin Streeet, Wyn-
\ aid, Tasmania.
(Copy of “Just David,” purchased from Melville
and Mullen Pty. Ltd., Melbourne.)
The prizes have been sent to Messrs. Rigby and
Co. and Messrs. Melville and Mullen for forwarding
to the right quarter.
The SECOND SECTION of this COMPETITION
starts from September 1, and results must be in
before November SO. All readers are eligible.
“Just David,’* is onp of the few books that will
take one’s mind away from the war and the cloud of
anxiety we are all at present under. London Punch
says; “As an antidote to war fiction I can recom-
mend ‘Just David,’ ’’
The terms of the competition arc to be found in
every copy of “Just David,” which is obtainable at
all booksellers for four shillings (post free, 4/4).
From them you can also obtain a copy of the success-
ful prize letters.
NOT A GERMAN
mustdie:
NON POBONOU3 POWDER.
THE6RMT INSECT DESTROYER.
1
r 5
( Flics.
) Fleas,
j Bugs.
( ftawitiiloes
sd
“MUvSTDIE”
POWDER. IS
DEATH TO FLIES AND ALL
INSECTS, COCKROACHES, ETC.
FREE SAMPLE.
Write to “Mustdie,” Dept. H., Box 1520
G.P.0., Sydney, for a trial tin ; forwarded post free.
“MUSTDIE” is sold in tins, 9d. each, at
Chemists’ and Stores. Sent post free on receipt of
stamps by the Sole Australian Agents.
HUDSON’S
iUMENTH
CHEMICAL CO
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY,
LTD., 19 York Street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents. $
T he Red Page
Verses by Will H. Ogilvie
THE BUSHMEN.
God, the day He fashioned them,
Toiled to make them true,
Hand and head and heart of them,
Blood and bone and them;
Set them in the foremost rank
Giants’ wgrk to do.
God, the day He fashioned them.
Bred them to their sires,
Supple as their bullock-whips,
Tough as tivisted wires,
Filled the sturdy'brains of them
With His battle-fires.
Then when He had fashioned them,
Tried them for His pride,
Sent His droughts and chastened them,
Send - His flames to chide,
Sent His floods to harry them
Wasting far and wide v
But the strength lie set in them
Braced His fighting brood,
Bravely, face to face with Him,
Shoulder-firm they stood—
Then the God who fashioned them
Knew His work was good!
So, when He has gathered them,
God will not forget;
High at the right hand of Him
He shall have them set;
Paying thus for pride of them
Seven-fold His debt!
COMRADES.
Do the l shearers still go riding up. the
Warrego to work,
Where the Thurulgoona ivoolslied flushes
silver in the sun?
Are the bullock-teams still bending through
the coolibahs to Bourke?
Is there racing at Enngonia? Is Belalie
still a run?
Do the Diamantina cattle still come down by
Barringun?
Is the black soil just as sticky? Is the mulga
just as dense?
Are the boys still rounding cattle on the red
Mulkitty plains?
Are there still some brumbies running on the
Maranoa fence?
Still some horsemen always ready icith more
gallantry than brains
To race them through the thickest scrub with
. loose and flapping reins?
Does the flood-rack still go rocking round the
barren box-tree bends?
Do scorching winds still steal the grass that
means dear life to you?
Do you still receive the message that a
ravished Border sends
Of “Water done all down the road, and
starved stock coming through" ? .
Does Drought still ride by Hungerford and
Death by the Paroo?
Heigh-ho! But those were battle days, and
hungry days, and hard;
With carcases and bones picked bare at every
turning met,
Lean steers upon the cattle-camps, lean
horses in the yard,
And weariness and bitterness, and toil and
dust and sweat!
Good luck to you, brave comrades, who are
battling with them yet!
AGAIN.
Ain't it good to see again
Leaf an * bud an' bee again —■
Friends a fellow knows!
Ain't it good to feel again
Hook an’ rod an’ reel again
Where the ripple floivs!
Ain’t it grand to hear again
Larks a-singin' clear again,
To knotc that Summer's near again
And pinnin ’ on her rose!
Ain’t it good to find again
Winter’s left behind again,
Summer’s rid in’ in!
Ain’t it good to pass again
Blue things in the grass again,
Gold things on the ivhin!
Ain’t it siveet to smell again
South winds off the fell again,
Sailin’ in to tell again
Tales of where they’ve bin!
Ain’t it rare to rove again
Through the light an’ love again,
The color an’ the call!
Ain’t it good to take again
Life for life’s own sake agaiiij
Lettin’ trouble fall!
Ain’t it grand to know again
Seasons come an’ go again,
Springtides ebb an’ flow again,
An’ God is over all!
SYDNEY.
The green Bush mantles your shoulder.
The blue wave washes your feet;
There be greater cities and, older,
But never a city so sweet.
By gardens sloped to the water,
By clean towers built for pride,
You were born for an Empire’s daughter,
And bred for an ocean’s bride!
By every sun-browned maiden
That laughs on your low searbeach,
By your tanned Apollos laden
With all that your long waves teach,
By each clasp in your diamond splendor,
By each kiss in your leafy cove,
You were made for the passionate tender
Embrace and avowal of love!
By the banks of your rippling river,
And the camping-grounds in the trees,
You were made for ever and ever
For love and laughter and ease.
For sunlit oars on the water,
For soft hands trailed in the foam,
For a, moon oh the heeling quarter,
When the white sea-wings come home!
Not a ship that rocks in your fairway,
Not a liner lashed to your quays,
Not a war-gig chained to your stairway
But has brought from the outmost seas
Some heart that will soon grow tender
To your charms of beach and grove,
And go sadly forth from your splendor
As a lover would Nave Ins love!
■ —From “The Australian and Other Verses”
(Angus and Robertson, Sydney; 45.).
Will H. Ogilvie’s new book of verse, The
Australian (which Angus and Robertson are
also simultaneously bringing out in a pocket
edition for the trenches, at the same price,
45.), just about keeps up to the well-known
Ogilvie level of facile achievement. Ogilvie
is a charming maker of phrases which have
in them little more than their lilting music;
his rimes hurry him easily along—their only
essential is speed ; and in this book he merely
varies sentiments that he has already just as
nicely expressed. There is evident no poetical
or emotional development in the poet since
his first appearance. With a careless ease he
can still paint the Real Australia like this:
I loved the wide gold glitter of the plains
Spread put before us like a silent sea,
The lazy tapping of the loose-held reins,
The sense of motion and of mystery
As the great beasts slid slotvly through the
grass,
One passing one, then letting it re-pass.
That picture remains in his memory, and
how clearly he recalls it! But Ogilvie is not
content to revive old memories; he needs
must introduce melodrama. Hence the story
of the moral camel, told us by the beast him-
self, who, in an access of moral indignation,
slew his brown master because he had mur-
dered a white man; the story of the re-
morse of the equine outlaw, haunted by the
ghost of the man he had killed; and the tale
of the packhorse that shared a guilty secret
with his master. These long narrative verses
are neither necessary nor convincing. And
though he can write pleasant little fancies
like “The Mushrooom Gatherers” he can
also write elaborately-strained fancies like
“The Garden of Night,” and foolish fancies
like this seedsman’s catalogue -
Marigolds, marred in blooming;
Lupins that languid lie;
Dahlias drooping beneath the frost;
Good-bye, good-bye, and good-bye!
This volume is divided into four parts.
“Sunny Country,” in which are to be found
three of the verses quoted above and other
pleasant things; “Steeds of the Mist,” in
which, not so whole-heartedly, Ogilvie pic-
tures his Scotland; “The Happy People,”
verses of childhood, in which the writer is
more paternal than poetic; and “War,”
verses in which the subject is rather neatly
reflected than felt, but which contains a
delightful fantasy of “Sails of Victory,” and
a fine, ringing “Song of the Flag,” too long
for quotation, that, despite some annoy-
ing false rimes, conveys a splendid patriot-
ism with a bold and stirring rhythm.
By the English blood that bought it! ’tis a
kingdom worth the keeping!
’Tis a royal priceless 'ward!
Though our halls have vacant places, though
our mothers' hearts go loeeping,
When we hear the bugles calling, when the
naked blades are leaping,
All the world shall know that England, if
she slept loas only sleeping
With a hand upon her sword!
Both editions of this book, which should
have a popular success, are artistically
printed and produced, with intriguing designs
and illustrations by Ilal Gye.
• ——- —-«
A manual interesting both to the average
man and the beginner in aeronautics is Learn-
ing to Fly (Laurie, 2s. 6d.), by Claude
Grahame-White and Harry Hawker. In addi-
tion to giving practical hints for the student
in an aviation school, the authors deal with
the whole subject, practice and theory, in
an illuminating, non-technieal way.
In France the debacle of 1870 did not affect
Flaubert, who ignored it, and went on polishing his
sentences. Remy de Gourmont, Anatole France and
Loti, who came afterwards, hardly seem to have
heard of the affair. Maupassant and Daudet (who
didn’t fight) found material in it for a few short
stories, but it afforded no 'inspiration to Richepin
and CoppCe (who did fight). And Verlaine, who took
an active part in the rising of the Commune, forgot
about the barricades when it came to writing. One
of the few geniuses who described war with a fight-
ing-man’s knowledge was Tolstoi, but the Crimean
War, in which he fought, seems to have affected him
less than the Napoleonic affair that he heard about
from his grandfather.
Either an active participation in war dispels all
romantic illusions and paralyses the imagination, or
else the curiosity of writing men leads them to put
their heads too far above the parapets. France just
now is making the same fuss over the latest literary
victim, Charles Pfiguy, that England did over Rupert
Rrooke. And both were pretty much neglected while
they were alive. One of the new neo-Catholic school,
Peguy could never find a publisher for his long-
winded poems; so he founded a bizarre review of his
own Lks Cahieks de la Quinzaine. The most re-
markable thing about it is that it has published
nearly everything Romain Rolland ever wrote!
Vance Palmer: Curious what a sterile ififluence
wars seem to have on literature, even wars that come
near home! And how little they appeal to the
creative imaginations of men who have fought! The
American Civil War and the Franco-Prussian one are
about the only previous instances of wars that have
affected whole nations, and they are a standard test.
Literature was at its high watermark in the U.S.A.
just before the Civil War, but immediately after-
wards it ebbed out, leaving Whitman and Henry
James as the only remarkable objects on the beach.
Excepting a few of Bierce’s short stories, the only
man who wrote brilliantly about the affair was
Stephen Crane (a generation afterwards), and when
he saw the real thing in Cuba the fountains of his
inspiration seemed to dry up. Wounds in the Rain
and The Open Boat are trivial journalism beside The
Red Badge of Courage.
Biography
Hugh Walpole has something to say to
Conrad-lovers in his shilling biography of
Joseph Conrad (Nisbet, “Writers of the
Day” series). He divides Conrad’s output
into three periods: (1) That ending with
Lord Jim, a period of struggle with a foreign
language, rhetorical and overcharged with
atmosphere, a stage in which Conrad was
overwhelmed by his vivid reminiscences.
(2) The period of Youth and Nostromo —
“He was never, after these tales, to write
again of the sea, as though he were still
sailing on it,” and Nostromo was delibe-
rately created rather than reminiscent. (3)
The period beginning with The Secret'Agent
and, happily, still unfinished: “He was sud-
denly detached, writing of ‘cases’ that inter-
ested him, but called from his heart no
burning participation of experience.” Wal-
pole recommends as the best possible intro-
duction to Conrad Some Reminiscences and
The Mirror of the Sea, since here the author
reveals his individuality personally, and
not, as in his other works, objectively. And
“whatever Conrad’s books are or are not,
it may safely be said that they are never
jolly.” He chooses heroes that are bound
to get counted out in the last round. Fate
has always a horseshoe in his glove.
Walpole’s analysis of the Conrad style is
acute and illuminating; and he justly claims
that Conrad’s use of realism to enforce his
romanticism is already influencing and will
continue to influence the English novel. “It
i 3 certain that neither the old romance ncr
the old realism can return. We have been
shown in Nostromo something that has the
color of Treasure Island and the reality of
New Gruh Street." But Walpole, possibly
vaguely disturbed by the popularity of
Victory, wonders: “Will he allow his imagi-
nation to carry him wildly into fantasy and
incredibility? He has not, during these last
years, exerted the discipline and restraint
that were once his. law.” And incidentally
Walpole suggests that Conrad originally
meant to blow up the island in Chance by a
natural volcanic eruption. The critic finds
in that novel evidence of Conrad’s prepara-
tion for that elemental catastrophe—-though
Conrad, changing his mind, rather wantonly,
“strews the beach of his island with the
battered corpses of his characters.”
J*
Rebecca West attempts a critical appre-
ciation of Henry James in another of,
Nisbet’s shilling “Writers of the Day”
series. But Rebecca West is no Walpole:
she does not criticise, she chatters. And
she writes in Henryjamesese, unconsciously
parodying that great writer as, unfortu-
nately, in his later days, Henry James did
himself. Still, anybody who deliberately set
herself to read consecutively the complete
edition of Henry James could hardly do
otherwise. It is as difficult for a modern
novelist to escape from the influence of
Henry James as it is for this office to dodge
influenza. Beneath the surface of the Eng-
lish language Henry James has unearthed
another language, a novelist’s language,
capable of expressing shadows of meaning
and nuances of feeling with the cold exacti-
tude of scientific description, but without,
alack, a scientific curtness. He clutters his
page-long sentences with words, qualifies
phrase with phrase, utilises every possible
resource of punctuation, italicisation and
modern slang; and out of the welter he does
suggest, with an infinite and sometimes per-
nicketty pertinacity, the exact tinge of the
exact shade of the exact impression he
desires to distil. And that loving care of
words is his inheritance to the modern
novelist.
True, as his biographer says of the later
works of Henry James, “with sentences vast
as the granite blocks of the Pyramids and
a scene that would have made a site for a
capital he set about constructing a story
the size of a hen-house.” And about the
only interesting thing Rebecca West tells us
is how James, in his later days, used to com-
pose his novels. He began by dictating a
short draft of, say, The Golden Bowl.
approximating 30,000 words. 'Then from
this draft he would dictate it all over again
with what he honestly meant to be enlighten-
ing additions. This page would rather lik°
to re-read The Golden Bowl as it appealed
in that priceless 30,000-word draft.
: *
A Book of Australian Verse for Boys and
Girls, edited by Bertram Stevens (Angus
and Robertson, London ; 3s. 6d.), surprises
this page by the long list of its contents.
One would not have thought that our poets
had written so much verse that was suitable
for the reading of our youth. The range is
much wider than that of the average reading
of the boy or girl; but apparently the editor
has included everything that might be
acceptable to this section of readers, leaving
their instructors with a wide margin of
choice in their selection. Obviously the book
is meant for auxiliary reading in our schools;
but it is also put on the market for general
sale. A number of portraits of our poets
are included.
The Memoirs of a Ship's Fireman, by W.
C. Watson (Frazer and Jenkinson, Melb.),
are the memoirs of a ship’s fireman.
Strindberg
The fourth series of Plays by August
Strindberg (Duckworth, per Dymock’s
Library) comprises The Bridal Crown, a
folk play founded on a legend of the Swedish
province of Dalecarlia, where the customs
of the race are preserved to this day; the
celebrated Spook Sonata, the maddest play
this strange genius ever wrote; a one-act
comedy, The First Warning ; and Strind-
berg’s greatest historical drama, Gustavus
Vasa. The Bridal Crown is packed with
folk themes and full of folk color and legend-
ary lore. The plot is but a modern render-
ing of a well-known legend. Strange, super-
natural, or more or less extranatural, figures
appear in the play, such as the Neck, the
Midwife, whose back looks like a fox and
ends in a sweeping, bushy tail, and the
ghost which is either an apparition, called
The Mewler, or a mere bodiless voice called
The Mocker. The bridal crown of the
Swedish bride used to be of metal, and it
could be worn only by a bride who was a
virgin. Kersti allows the midwife to destroy
her illegitimate child in order to make good
her claim for the crown at her marriage
with its father; but the murder is discov-
ered and Kersti is condemned to death. How-
ever, she is reprieved and imprisoned for life.
Her death as a willing sacrifice frees her
soul from its fears, and heals the breach
between her and her lover’s family. The
play is full of supernatural effects, many of
them of a remarkable dramatic quality.
The final scene is set on the frozen surface
of a lake, and during it, the ice opens, only
to close again, while a long-buried church
arises from the open water of the lake
behind. Considered merely as a play, The
Bridal Crown is remarkably effective. It
has‘been extremely popular in Sweden, hav-
ing had more than 100 performances in
Stockholm —“a great deal in Sweden.”
The Spook Sonata is a mad play written
by a dramatic genius. On the stage its
effect must be tremendous; but apparently it
has been played only in the Intimate Theatre
at Stockholm, reaching 12 performances. It
is rather hard to discover which of the char-
acters in _ this extraordinary production are
human and which are spooks. As one
character remarks, “Queer sort of people,
km?” In the second scene the spook supper
takes place. “They drink tea and don’t say
a word, or else the Colonel does all the
talking,” says one servant. '“Why do you
call it a spook supper?” another servant
asks. “Because they look like spooks. And
they have kept this up for 20 years—-always
the same people, saying the same things or
keeping silent entirely.” He remarks of one
character, an old lady that is termed the
Mummy: “She thinks herself a parrot, and
maybe she’s right.” Certainly she talks
like one, only to relapse suddenly into very
human common-sense. There is also an
invisible milkmaid and a comic old cook,
■who can also be a very tragic old cook.
Perhaps here Strindberg is placing his finger
upon A Great Truth. The plot is of amaz-
ing complexity and yet of absorbing interest.
And after two scenes of weird happenings
and remarkable glimpses into human psy-
chology, the play ends with an extremely
dull and inconclusive act. Probably Strind-
berg got tired —or sape. Some idea of the
peculiar plot may be gathered from one
speech:
“And the Janitress —hm ! That Dark
Lady is her daughter and the dead man’s,
and that’s why her husband was made jani-
tor. But the Dark Lady has a lover, who is
a dandy with great expectations. He is now
getting a divorce from his present wife, who
is giving him an apartment-house to get rid
of him. This elegant lover is the son-in-law
of the dead man. That’s a bit complicated,
I should say!”
The First Warning is a pretty little
Strindberg comedy of jealousy—practically
thfc only short play in a light vein that he
has written. And the big historical play
upon Gustavus 1., the “father” of his coun-
try, is less interesting to us because it is
built upon Swedish history, which, however,
Strindberg manipulates for his own dramatic
purposes. It, too, has been extremely popu-
lar in Sweden.


fds
SUGGESTION FOR BOOK LOVERS
THE GREAT WAR has been responsible for the APPEARANCE of a MULTITUDE of BOOKS. The
FOREMOST LIVING WRITERS have endeavored to interpret for the READING PUBLIC its
MANIFOLD ASPECTS, and it can safely be said that NO OTHER EVENT in HISTORY has
been as adequately treated by so manv COMPETENT AUTHORS. Not least among their LITERARY
PRODUCTIONS are those which aim at DOING JUSTICE to AUSTRALIA’S SHARE in the TITANIC
CONFLICT, many of which will constitute PERMANENT RECORDS for the GIBBON of the FUTURE
when he comes to analyse this EPOCHAL CHANGE in the AFFAIRS of MEN.
The following LISTS enumerate a large number of such Books, which will doubtless appeal strongly to
ALL PATRIOTIC AUSTRALIAN READERS, especially when it is borne in mind that they are obtainable at
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
BooKs on the War.
Patriotic Books.
Written by popular Authors and illustrated by
FAMOUS ARTISTS, in aid’of the
RED CROSS AND ALLIES’ RELIEF FUNDS.
EDMUND DULAC’S PICTURE BOOK (for French
Red Cross). The most wonderful Color Book of the
Year; contains 19 Plates in Color, by Edmund
Dulac, superbly illustrating Famous Fairy Stories
and Poems, bound in Cloth. Price 3/-, by post
3/6.
SCOTLAND FOR EVER (for Scottish Red Cross). A
gift book of the prowess, gallantry and glory of
the Scottish Regiments, with 15 Plates in color of
Famous Scottish Battle Paintings; bound in cloth.
Price 8/-, by post 3/6.
THE LAND OF MY FATHERS (in aid of Fund for
Welsh Troops). A WELSH GIFT BOOK. Illus-
trated in Color and Black and White, by Famous
Living Welsh Artists. It is Welsh throughout—in
History, in Poetry, in Legend and Story; it tells
of the beauty and glory of Wales. Cloth-bound.
Price 2/9, by post 3/2.
KING ALBERT’S BOOK. A tribute to the Belgian
King and People, from Representative Men through-
out the World. Illustrated with 16 Colored Plates.
Cloth-bound: Price 3/-, by post 3/6.
PRINCESS MARY’S GIFT BOOK (for Belgian Relief
Funds) ; 140 pages, with 14 Colored Plates and
numerous other illustrations. Cloth-bound, 2/6, by
post 2/10.
THE QUEEN’S GIFT BOOK (published in aid of Queen
Mary’s Auxiliary Convalescent Hospitals for Sol-
diers and Sailors who have lost their limbs in the
War). Stories and Poems by Leading Authors; 12
Plates in Color, including 8 Royal Portraits, repro-
duced in Color from Paintings in Buckingham
Palace. Cloth-bound 2/6; by post 2/10.
TERRIER, Y.C. A Black and Tan Hero who won the
Victoria Cross, by J. Lowndes Tracy (in aid of
Blue Cross). Board covers. Price 1/2, by post 1/4.
AUSTRALASIA TRIUMPHANT. With the Austra-
lians and New Zealanders in the Great War on Land
and Sea, illustrated with 36 photographic illustra-
tions. Price 3/-, by post 3/4.
TRENCH WARFARE, by Edmund Dane, illustrated
with photographs and diagrams. Paper cover, 6d.;
Cloth. 1/2; postage 2d.
SOLDIER SONGS FROM ANZAC, written in the
firing line by Tom Skeyhill. Price 1/-, by post 1/1.
TRAGIC STORY OF THE DARDANELLES, lan
Hamilton’s Final Despatch, with Five Maps. 1/2,
by post 1/3.
lAN HAMILTON’S DESPATCHES FROM THE
DARDANELLES, a thrilling and graphic story.
1/2, by post 1/3.
ASIIMEAD BARTLETT’S DESPATCHES FROM
THE DARDANELLES. 1/2, by post 1/3.
TOWARDS A LASTING SETTLEMENT, edited by C.
N. BUNTON. contributions by G. Lowes Dickinson.
J. A. Hobson, 11. N. Brailsford, Philip Snowden
Vernon Lee. “The writers of this book are united
in one predominant aim; that of securing that a
world-catastrophe such as the present shall never
recur.” 2/9, by post 3/-
ORDEAL BY BATTLE, by F. S. Oliver. 1/6, by post
1/9.
THROUGH TERROR TO TRIUMPH. Speeches and
Pronouncements of the Rt. Hon. Lloyd George since
the beginning of the war. Price 1/2, by post, 1/4.
THE WAR BUDGET, Vol, 4 (May-August, 1915) ; a
Photographic Record of the War; containing 420
pages of illustrations with photogravure frontis-
piece of Sir 11. Smith-Dorrien, cloth bound. Price
5/6, by post 6/3.
THE WAR BUDGET. Vol. 5 (August-Noveinber. 1915).
with Photogravure frontispiece of King Albert of
Belgium, cloth bound. Price 5/6, by post 6/3.
THE WAR BUDGET. Vol. 6 (November, 1915, to
February, 1916). cloth bound. 5/6, by post 6/3.
AUSTRALIA v. GERMANY, the Story of the taking of
German New Guinea, by F. S. Burnell. Price 2/6,
by post 2/9.
RUSSIA OF TO-DAY, by ,T. Foster Fraser, illustrated
with 42 Plates from photographs. Price 3/3, by
post 3/6.
J’ACCUSE, by a German, translated by Alex. Gray.
Price 2/3, by post 2/6.
THE GERMAN DOCTRINE OF CONQUEST, a Frene'
View, by E. Seillure. Price 1/2, bv post 1/3.
DEGENERATE GERMANY, by H. de Halsalle. “In
these pages the evil and immoral nature of the
Hohenzollerns and the German nation is set forth
graphically and mercilessly.” 2/6, by post 2/9.
GERMAN ATROCITIES, an official investigation by
J. H. Morgan, M.A., including 80 new and unpub-
lished documents. 1/2, by post 1/4.
THE STRAITS IMPREGNABLE, by Sydney de Loghe.
3/6, by post 3/8.
WITH BOTHA’S ARMY, by J. P. Kay Robinson. 3/6,
by post 3/9.
GERMAN WAR POLICY BEFORE THE WAR, by
G. W. Protheroe. 3/-, by post 3/3.
BETWEEN THE LINES, by Boyd Cable. 4/6, by
post, 4/10.
POTSDAM PRINCES, by Ethel Howard. 6/-, bv post
6/4.
SOUL OF THE WAR, by Philip Gibbs. 4/6, by post
4/10.
WITH THE ALLIES, by Richard Harding Davis. 3/3,
by post 3/6.
THE DEEPER CAUSES OF THE WAR, by E. Hove-
laque. 2/9, by post 3/-
EUROPEAN ANARCHY, by G. Lowes Dickinson, 2/9,
by post 3/-
OUR ULTIMATE AIM IN THE WAR, by G. G. Arm-
strong. 2/9, by post 3/-
LORI 3 KITCHENER, by E. Protheroe. 2/6, by post
2/10.
ALL ABOUT THE GERMAN NAVY, by Fred T. Jane.
1/2, by post 1/3.
OVER THERE—War Scenes on the Western Front, by
Arnold Bennett. 1/2, by post 1/3.
SECRET MEMOIRS OF BERTHA KRUPP, by 11. W.
Fischer. 2/3, by- post 2/6.
lIINDENBURG’S MARCH INTO LONDON, translated
from the German. 1/3, bv post 1/5.
FIRST YEAR OF THE GREAT WAR, the Story of
the First Phase, told for boys and girls, by Richard
Wilson. 1/9, by post 2/-
OUR NAVY AT WAR, an account of the influence of
Sea Power in the Great War, by G. Fiennes. 1/2,
by post 1/4.
War Cartoons.
ALL’S WELL WITH THE FLEET. A series of 12
colored humorous sketches, drawn by Harry J.
Weston. Price 1/-, by post 1/2.
WAR CARTOONS (from the Evening News) ; 54
Black and White Drawings by “Poy,” with introdue :
tion by W. M’Cartney. Price 6d., by post Bd.
RAEMAEKER’S CARTOONS- —40 Striking Black and
White Drawings by Louis Raemaeker. Price 3d.,
by post 4d.
MORE FRAGMENTS from France —40 humorous
sketches bv Bruce Bairnsfather. Price 1/-, by post
1/2.
FRAGMENTS FROM FRANCE, Edition de luxe, con-
taining drawings (size by Bruce Bairns-
father. Price 6/6, by post 6/10.
Australian Cookery Books.
PRINCIPLES OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For
School Pupils. By H. Rankin. 3d., by post 4d.
PRACTICAL AUSTRALIAN COOKERY. By Miss
Amie Munro. lid., by post 1/-.
EVERYTHING A LADY SHOULD KNOW. 1100
Useful Recipes, lid., by post 1/-.
THEjGOULBURN COOKERY BOOK, lid., by post
MRS. MACLURCAN'S COOKERY BOOK. Specially
suitable for Australia. A Collection of Practical
Recipes. New Edition, lid., bv post 1/-.
THE PRESBYTERIAN COOKERY BOOK of Good
and Tried Recipes. Latest Edition with Supplement,
lid., by post 1/-.
THE KINGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK. By H. F.
Wicken, M.C.A. Sixth Edition. Revised and
Enlarged. Cloth bound, 1/6, bv post 1/9.
THE COMMON-SENSE COOKERY BOOK. Compiled
by the Public School Cookery Teachers’ Association
of N.S.W., 9d., by post lOd.
Stiff Cover lid., bv post 1/-
SPECIAL OFFER.
SOYER STANDARD COOKERY—A Complete Guide
to the Art of Cooking Dainty, Varied and Economi-
cal Dishes for the Household.
SOYER’S PAPER-BAG COOKERY.
The two books, cloth-bound, published price, 7/3.
Offered at 2/- for the two, by post 2/6.
CooKery Boo Ks.
MRS. BRETON’S FAMOUS WORKS OFFERED AT
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
BOOK OF HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT—
Strongly bound in Half-roan; net 8/6, by post 10/3.
Half-Morocco, net 14/-, by post 15/9.
Full Tree Calf, net 19/-, by post 20/9.
Inter-State postage 1/5 extra.
New Edition, well printed, strongly and artistically
bound in Half-Leather, containing over 2000 pages of
Letterpress, besides hundreds of Illustrations and
Many Colored Plates. It forms a Complete Guide
to Cookery in all its branches.
FAMILY COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING BOOK—
Large Crown Svo, strongly bound, Half Roan, net
5/6, bv post 6/-.
EVERYDAY COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING
BOOK—
Large crown Svo. Cloth gilt, net 4/i, by post 4/5.
Greatly Enlarged ; containing 570 pages, 1800
Recipes, Colored Plates and 600 Engravings.
ALL ABOUT COOKERY—
Crown Svo, Cloth gilt, net 2/9, by post 3/1.
Enlarged and Revised, containing 2000 Recipes for
every branch of Cookery, New Menus for all Meals
for all Months, 450 pages, Colored Plates and 500
Illustrations.
COOKERY ROOK AND HOUSEHOLD GUIDE—
Crown Svo. Cloth, net 1/2, by post 1/4.
New and Enlarged Edition, containing upwards of
1000 Recipes, 350 Engravings, and Four Colored
Plates, Marketing, Vegetarian Cookery, Menus, Table
Arrangements, Trussing, Carving, etc., etc., with
Quantities, Time, Cost and Seasons.
Books on Cookery, Household
Management, Domestic Economy,
etc.
GOLDEN RECIPE BOOK, or Information for All. By
A. W. Chase, M.D., 1/-, by post 1/2.
INVALID AND CONVALESCENT COOKERY. A
Collection of Tried Recipes for the use of Australian
Nurses. By Kate Harriott, lid., by post 1/-.
CASSELL’S NEW DICTIONARY OF COOKERY, con-
taining 10,000 Up-to-date Recipes. Illustrated, 7/6,
bv post 9/3.
HOME CANDY MAKING. By Mrs. S. T. Roper, 1/-,
by post 1/1.
EVERY WOMAN’S DOMESTIC COMPANION. A
Book of Household Requirements. Over 700 Useful
Recipes, including Taper-Bag Cookery; lid., by post
1/-.
INQUIRE WITHIN UPON EVERYTHING. En-
larged and Revised Edition, 2/9, by post 3/-
Presentation Edition, 4/-, by post 4/3.
FRUIT CANNING, PRESERVES, JAMS AND RE-
FRESHING DRINKS. By Mrs. S. T. Roper, 1/-,
by post 1/1.
HOT WEATHER DISHES. By Mrs. S. T. Roper,
author of canning and preserving, 1/-, by post 1/1.
THE ART OF CANNING, BOTTLING AND PRE-
SERVING OF FRUITS. By Mrs. Sophie Corrie.
New Edition, 1/5, by post 1/6.
THE BREAD AND BISCUIT BAKER AND SUGAR-
BOILEII’S ASSISTANT, including a large variety
of Modern Recipes. By Robert Wells, 1/-. by post 1/1.
THE PASTRYCOOK ' AND CONFECTIONER’S
GUIDE, for Hotels, Restaurants and the Trade in
general, adapted also for family use. By Robert
Wells, 1/-, by post 1/1.
THE MODERN FLOUR CONFECTIONER, for the
Wholesale and Retail Trade, containing a large collec-
tion of Recipes for Cheap Cakes, Biscuits, etc. By
Robert Wells, 1/-, by post 1/1.
LEES’ PRICELESS RECIPES. A Valuable Collection
of Tried Formulas and Simple Methods for Farmers,
Housekeepers, Mechanics. Manufacturers, Druggists,
Chemists, Perfumers, Barbers, Chiropodists, Renova-
tors, Dyers, Bakers, Confectioners, Woodworkers,
Decorators, Painters, Paperhangers, Metal Workers,
Hunters, Trappers, Tanners, Taxidermists, Stockmen,
etc. Alphabetically Indexed. Compiled by Dr. N. T.
Oliver, 1/-, by post 1/1.
For the Convenience of Country Customers
the cost of postage is indicated in every case.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


f
n
V i
K 8
.it
e a »
'mA 1
PIS
agy Ji ®JV\ Uj
11
««
»B
(•Its
I
a
(Cv
&H)
r
§sr
.22 Caliber
Rifles and Cartridges
The pleasure of shooting a
.22 caliber rifle indoors or
outdoors depends not only
on the skill of the shooter,
but upon the accuracy of
the equipment used. The
utmost care is taken in the
manufacture of Winchester
.22 caliber rifles and cart-
ridges, and for that reason
they shoot with invariable
accuracy. Winchester .22
caliber rifles are made in
various models and styles,
and Winchester .22 caliber
cartridges are loaded with
Smokeless, “Lesmok,” and
Black powder. It is there-
fore easy to suit your taste
and get the best possible
if you will select
the reliable w brand.
ALL DEALERS SELL THEM
IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort and good
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free, 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
are: you n
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEAV; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared „ for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
sdf
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Ams No. 98AT.
Double Seamer.
df
Make Your
Own Cans.
If you buy Tin Cans of any
description you are paying for
these machines.
WHY NOT OWN THEM?
Make your own cans and the
machines will pay for themselves.
Even the small Can Maker or
Packer, whose output is only 5000
to 10,000 Cans per day, will save
money by using the
“AMS SYSTEM”
for making or closing Sanitary
Cans.
kfltt 1
oCaerCi
eale
i
We have machines exactly suited to your needs, whether
your output is 5000 or 100,000 Cans per day.
We will gladly send, without obligation, prices and
pictures of machines adapted to your needs. Send us
samples of your cans or drawings with complete dimen-
sions, and state the quantity you make.
CORRESPONDENCE IN ALL LANGUAGES.
Address Dept. C-14
The MAX AMS
Machine Company,
Bridgeport, Conn.
Agents :
W. E. HUGHES <£L Co., London, E.C., England
H. W. PEABODY (& CO., Sydney, N.S.W., Australia
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
sd
Works: Birmingham, England,
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
TRADE MARK
fsd
f
GREAT FIRE SALE.
£lO,OOO worth of Guns and Rifles,
slightly damaged by water, to be offered
to the public at greatly reduced prices.
10 ONLY D.8.8.L. Guns, top lever, choke bore. Usual Price, £5/17/6. SALE
PRICE, £2/12/6. * ONLY D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUNS, choke bore.
Usual Price, £lO/10/-. SALE PRICE, £5/10/-. 6 ONLY D.8.8.L.
GUNS, fitted with W. W. Greener patent Wedgefast crossbolt, choke bore, top
lever, rebounding locks. Usual Price, £6/10/-. SALE PRICE, £3/12/6.
SPECIAL MARLIN REPEATERS to hold 16 cartridges. Cartridges, 1/9 100.
Usual Price, £3/15/-. SALE PRICE, £2/15/-. RABBIT RTELES, to kill
at 100 yards. Usually 17/6. SALE PRICE, 12 /6. 303 MATCH RIFLES.
Usual Price, £3/10/-. SALE PRICE, 37/6. CHAMPION RIFLES, 22 cal.,
to take 22 short and 22 long cartridges. Usual Price, 25/-. SALE PRICE, 15/-. D.B.M.L. GUNS,
Usual Price, £3. SALE PRICE, 25/-. S.B.M.L. GUNS. Usual Price, 30/-. SALE PRICE, 15/-.
ORDER EARLY TO AVOID DISAPPOINTMENT.
Repairs done on the premises by first=class workmen.
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue—Post Free on Application to —
SMALL ARMS CO , Importers, 229 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE-
T[ The medicine that goes hand in hand
with o-ood health —a kind of twin brother
o
—that brings physical confidence,
strength, mental energy and clearness, is
Clements Tonic, because it
possesses those specific properties that re-
build the human constitution, strengthen
its working parts, cleanse the stomach
and purify the blood, thus creating new
conditions with health results to the user.
If any greater proof is required of the
powers of this splendid medicine, the
testimonies given ' afford it, written by
those who can well afford by experience
to judge of its merits. For the general
o-ood of the public they are published,
and are well worth reading by everyone.
Over 100 voluntary letters in praise of this nerve remedy have been
received during the months of March, April and May, which may be
seen and verified at the offices of the Company, Clements Tonic Ltd.,
Rozelle. Get it from your chemist or store to-day, and get well.


Australia Riddled with
Deadly Kidney Disease
ALMOST EVERYBODY COMPLAINING.
Kidney disease is most certainly on the in-
crease. Thousands and thousands of people
in the towns and villages of this country are
in terrible danger of deadly kidney disease.
This insidious disease creeps on, gradu-
ally getting a firmer and firmer grip, until
when it is too late the poor sufferer discovers
he has Bright’s Disease. Have you kidney
trouble? Do you know how to recognise
whether you are suffering from this or not?
Here are some of the symptoms of kidney
disease : Aches and pains in various parts of
the body, nasty taste in the mouth first thing
m the morning, constipation, cloudy and bad-
colored urine, general feeling of weakness
and irritability, puffiness under the eyes—
these are all symptoms of kidney trouble.
And then people who suffer from backache,
rheumatism, gout, sciatica, gravel, stone or
pains in the bladder, muscles and joints are
all suffering these pains through weak or
diseased kidneys, for these are the sure and
certain symptoms of kidney trouble.
All these things mean that the kidneys are
weak and diseased. They need strengthening
and making healthy.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
IBlilippli^ BB
Kidney&BladderPills
| These Pills also act on
Is 0 hot GENUINE WITHOUTTHIS !
&e-. • '
SIGNATURE!
chemist at once and ask him for a 2s. 9d.
box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
which are made expressly for kidney and
bladder troubles.
. To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid of
the cause—the poisonous uric acid. Remem-
ber to do this a real remedy must pass
through the kidneys and the bladder and not
through the bowels, as most kidney pills do.
When you see the urine change to a muddy
bluish color—a feature which distinguishes
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills from all
others—you know beyond all doubt that they
have put their healing touch on the right
spot—the kidneys and the bladder. A won-
derful pill—-straight to the kidneys—that is
why De Witt’s Pills give such amazingly
quick relief—every time. A permanent cure
follows in almost every case. Look for that
blue-colored urine.
They will cure every one of the above
symptoms no matter how long or bow badly
you have suffered.
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS
sdf
i Packed Free. Carriage Paid direct from
our factory to your Port. Ten Days' Free
Trial. Best British-made MEAD
Coventry Flyers
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears
l B.S.A, Free Wheels, Flyer or Brook’s
l Saddles, etc.
latest
I MODEL'S
£3.10 to £9
Tyres and accessories at half usual pricec.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, fo»
Free Art Catalogue and Special
Offer on sample machine.
Agents wanted.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dept. A 282 LIVERPOOL.
For.Oold
Weather
Ture Wool Hood ... 3/6
For CAMP or on SERVICE
Heavy Balaclava Cap 4/6
Waterpr’fCap for same 3/6
Post One to Your Soldier
sd
fsd
f
dsf
ROTHWELL’S LTD.,
EDWARD ST.,
BRISBANE
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post you a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
—“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
Mr. Frank Ford (Blackall P. 0., Q’land)
writes: “I i vas a heavy smoker for 60 years,
but after taking your treatment for V, days /
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G, 29 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
_ [2.
BO
m
qouCHS.
OaoNCHiTis.iNWS
op the ThOofi
9 \Jnsrtjrsjm
GEORGE
Sh
'ton’s
MOSS
For Mother
Mothers also are liable to COUGHS
COLDS, INFLUENZA and BRON-
CHITIS. The best family remedy is one
that ALL may take,whether young or old.
For instant relief take “ Bonnington’s
Irish Moss,” only a few doses are re-
quired. Take none but—
Avoid all
Imitations
BONNINGTON’S
EIGHT- HOUR ART UNION AND SPORTS
(Under sanction ol tbe Attorney-General),
ou
MIGHT WIN THIS
£.650
FIRST PRIZE DIAMOND TiARA
2nd prize value £3OO, 3rd prize value £2OO,
and 307 other valuable prizes
Prizes Value £3,50 0
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. Barnett, Sydney,
N.S.W., for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1916.
Results of Drawing’ will be advertised in this paper on November 9.
To any person forwarding stamped, addressed envelope, a list of the
results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all towns, or
direct from JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Trades Hall, Sydney.
sdf
sd
fsd
How to Treat Your Hair and Complexion.
A Few Simple Beauty Hints.
By Mdlle. GABY DESLYS, the welFknown Parisian Actress.
YOU ask me for a few hints on the
treatment of the hair and complexion.
Well, the less “treatment” you give
the. skin the better. I do not
believe much in massage, but a
little cream to the face is neces-
sary to counteract the effects of
wind or sun. What cream
would I recommend? Well, I
advise you to use a little mer-
colised. wax every night and
again in the morning, after
washing the face. Rub it
gently into the skin, then wipe
off any superfluous wax and
dust a little barri-agar over
the face. You will find that
this will be the only “treat-
ment” necessary and will keep
your face fresh and youthful-
looking for all your life. The mercolised
wax removes all the dead outer skin, so
that. you. have always a fair, fresh com-
plexion like a girl’s.
For the hair, the first and most important
fsd
Photo: Wrather X- Buys.
thing is a good shampoo. Never use any-
thing inferior to wash the hair with. Get
some good stallax from your chemist and use
a teaspoonful in a cup of hot
water. Then rinse the hair
well and it will look bright and
glossy.
A tonic is necessary when the
hair is inclined to fall out more
than it should, and is always
good to use during the spring
and autumn. Then the hair
needs a little —what do you call
it?—stimulant, and for this I
would advise you to get a packet
of boranium and mix it with
‘ some bay rum ; dab this into the
roots and it will not only stop
the fall, but make your hair
grow long and thick. Give your
hair a good brushing every night, and that
will be all that you need do.
WA
Blackheads Fly Away.
Instantaneous Remedy for Blackheads, Greasy skin and Enlarged Pores.
A practically instantaneous remedv for
blackheads, greasy skins and enlarged pores,
recently discovered, is now coming into
general use in the boudoir. It is very
simple, harmless and pleasant. Drop a
stymol tablet, obtained at the chemist’s, in
a tumblerful of hot water. After the effer-
vescence has subsided bathe the face in the
liquid, using a small sponge or soft cloth.
In a few minutes dry the face and the offen-
sive blackheads will come right off on the
towel. Also the large oily pores immedi-
ately close up and efface themselves natu-
rally. The greasiness disappears and the
skin is left smooth, soft and cool. This
simple treatment is then repeated a few
times at intervals of four or five days, to
ensure the permanence of the result.
Grey Hair—Home Remedy.
An old-fashioned Recipe restores Youthful Appearance.
There are plenty of reasons why grey
hair is not desirable, and plenty of reasons
why hair dyes should not be used. But, on
the other hand, there is no reason why you
should have grey hair if you do not want
it. To turn the hair back to a natural color
is really a very simple matter. One has
only to get from the chemist two ounces of
concentrate of tammalite and mix it with
three ounces of bay rum. Apply to the
hair with a small sponge for a few nights
and the greyness will gradually disappear.
This liquid is not sticky or greasy and does
not injure the hair in any way. It has been
used for generations with most satisfactory
results by those who have known the
formula.
To Kill Roots of Superfluous Hair.
The most Effective Formula ever Discovered.
Women annoyed with disfiguring growths
of superfluous hair wish to know not merely
how to temporarily remove the hair, but how
to kill the hair roots permanently. For
this purpose pure powdered pheminol may be
applied directly to the objectionable hair
growth. The recommended treatment is
designed not only to instantly remove the
hair but also to actually kill the roots so that
the growth will not return. About an ounce
of pheminol, obtainable from the chemist,
should be sufficient.
Good News for Fat People.
Something New in Obesity Cures.
A London chemist says: “The latest
method of reducing obesity certainly is far
more pleasant and convenient than all pre-
vious methods. It consists merely in eating
clynol berries. The fat person who wants
to reduce without the usual rigid diet, exer-
cise, sweating baths, etc., now puts a few
of these little brown berries in his or her
pocket and eats three or four each day.”
Clynol berries not only eliminate fat from
the body, but also correct the tendency,
which is usually constitutional, to create
fatty matter. No discomfort whatever is
caused by their action; in fact, except for
the loss of superfluous fat and the feeling
of “fitness” so created, you would not be
aware that these little berries were doing
their work.
Local inquiry shows that clynol berries are
not very well known in this country, but
the demand is increasing daily, and any
chemist can quickly procure them if specially
requested to do so.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Spring.
Strange thoughts are leaping in my head;
My heart is bounding like a buoy ;
I feel as light as new-made bread
Blown up with bubbles full of joy.
Oh, marvel not at anything
That I should do, or think, or say:
’Tis not my fault, it is the Spring,
If I should loosely go astray.
Each plant has now its shooting bud ;
The world is green and gold and red;
Ripe happiness blooms in my blood
And puts a garland on my head.
Wherever on my way I wend
Gay songsters’ happy notes are heard,
And I have, also, notes to spend
As freely as a careless bird.
Oh, when I wake at dawn, I sing
Whatever sleepy folk may say
About my voice, for vei’dant Spring
With heady wine has made me gay ;
Life’s but a giddy carnival
Through morn and afternoon and night,
And at its festive bars I call
And barmaids kiss in pure delight!
A lyre have I within my hand,
I sing a song of joy and life;
I wander with a giddy band
Whose ways would scandalise my wife,.
If but she knew the half I see—
How all dull things to glox’y change;
For bounding Spring is strong in me
And works on earth with magic strange.
While I may walk through scented airs,
That sweetness from the flowers steal,
To Germany with earking cai'es!
I’ll be as happy as I feel!
Work may I do, but ’tis no task.
For bursting Life’s in evei’ything;
All nature’s but a joyous masque;
The world itself seems on a spi'ing.
N.S.W.
HAMER.
September.
O cheerful month ! O happy Spring !
I feel that life’s at tidal-flood.
A glow illumines everything,
The backyard quinces are in bud.
The garden path is free from mud.
And yet....and yet.. ..what can I say
To show how Spring is in my blood!
I shed my underpants to-day.
The woman in the neighboring yard
Sings as she hangs the washing out.
The errand-boys all whistle hard,
Even the wood-blocks learn to sprout.
Old Burke who suffered from the gout
Goes hobbling cheerily on his way,
And all creation seems to shout:
“I shed my underpants to-day.”
The bilious lodger mows the grass
In spotless shirtsleeves after tea,
And dim, canoodling lovers pass
(The man’s arm where it ought to be).
The moon hangs in the cypress-tree.
A warm wind wanders from the bay,
My heart (and legs) feel strangely free.
I shed my underpants to-day.
Victoria.
RANN DALY.
The Wind and the Trees.
I feel pretty sure that in keen, brisk weather
The wind and the trees have a yarn together;
And if a brave wind keeps blowing all day
The trees nod their branches and gossip
away.
When indolent Summer comes stealing
through
The resinous bush in her gown of blue,
The winds murmur peace and the tall trees
sigh
As though she had bade them a long good-
bye.
Who swings a keen axe at a living tree
Can never again be a friend to me,
For a voice is stilled when the proud trunk
cracks
And a wood-harp falls to the thudding axe.
When I’m sick of the monkey sounds we
make,
And tired of the chattering press, I take
MySelf to a hillside above the sea,
And listen with joy to some whisp’ring tree.
The wind is a gossip whose only tale
Is as old as the world and very stale;
But the trees are young, and I’m younger
still,
So we listen entranced as children will,
High up—high up on the top of the hill.
N.S.W.
M. K.
To-night.
Did she know that I’d meet her to-night?
And was that the reason,
Sweet roses in season,
She wore a red rose and a white?
Twin roses new gathered, and yet
How faded and scentless,
With petals that meant less
Of passion than pain and regret!
Rich odors stole over the sea—
Sweet x’oses in season.
Rove lovetli not treason
Though the traitress be lovely as she.
If she wanted to meet me, ’tis clear
That she meant to recapture
The love and the rapture
That thrilled at her presence last year.
We met....and we parted to-night;
Good-byes coldly spoken,
A golden spell broken—
Gone gleams, and a star lost to sight!
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


PERDRIAU GARDEN
HOSE
A well-kept kitchen garden will keep your house-
hold supplied with vegetables, and a well-cared-
for home garden will be envied by all who see it.
Owing to most of our large country towns wisely
providing an abundant water supply, it is now
possible to cultivate both the home and the
kitchen garden to their fullest capacity.
PERDRIAU HOSE will keep the gardens right
and, because of its high quality and satisfactory
service, is now being used most extensively
throughout Australia.
MADE
f
For
COUNTRY <
HOMES.
Obtainable at all Stores
in the following brands:
“WATERSHED”
( Reg d.
Brand).
A Special Red Rubber
construction. Light
enough to stand the
Guaranteed free from
that would cause it to
Hose, both in quality and
and flexible, but strong-
highest water pressure,
any fault in manufacture
burst, split, peel or kink.
“PROSPECT”
( Reg d.
Brand)
Black Rubber Hose.
The best low-priced Hose on the market.
Look for the registered brand moulded on every
coil.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD. All States.
IN AUSTRALIA
RELIEF for RUPTURE
Our SPECIAL
ELASTIC TRUSS.
OENYER
PRICES
Single, 17/6.
Double, 22/6.
Why suffer discomfort? You can
secure relief by wearing our ELASTIC
TRUSS,which is COOL,SAFE, STRONG
and DURABLE. It- has no steel spring
to chafe the body. The merits of this
truss are attested by all who use it.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
Denyer Brothers,
281 George St., SYDNEY.
(Opposite Hunter Street)
N)^
-VO 5
Kill'd
[Jlilil
The Story of the Lamp
sdf
sdf
English Bull’s Eye Lamp of 1750
Attempts were made in the mid-seven-
teenth century to better the lighting
qualities of lamps, but the improvements
were entirely superficial. Bull’s eye glasses
on either side of the wick were introduced
about 1750. They brightened the light to
a certain extent but the flickering, smoking
wick was still in evidence.
A clear, steady light is best obtained with
Laurel Kerosene
The soft while light
It neither smokes nor smells and is free
from sediment. Laurel Kerosene burns
evenly to the last thimbleful and is the most
economical kerosene in actual use.
Laurel is our new trade mark name for
the highest quality American Kerosene
ever sold in Australasia and replaces our
old brand, White Rose.
Insist on Laurel
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand
*1
BUS
a
BEST
in the
LONG
RUN.
DUVAL & CO.,
13 Castlereagh Street, SIDNEY; 145 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE; 300 Adelaide Street, BRISBAWHt.
CORNELL LTD.,
ADELAIDE.
A. C. McCALLUM , PERTH.
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD, hobakt.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office* Sydney, IST.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Neirspaper.
Vol. 37.—N0. 1912.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1916.
Price 6d.
[Norman Lindsay, Springwood, N.S.W.]
THE PASSENGER.
THE MAN AT THE WHEEL: “Come down and lend a hand.”
THE MAN ON THE SEAT: "Not me. I’m a passenger!”
THE MAN AT THE WHEEL: "Stay there and get drowned, then, when the flood comes down!”


Special Notice to Agents
In consequence of the scarcity of paper, we
regret that we are compelled to discontinue
allowing- for unsold copies of “THE
BULLETIN.”
You will therefore be good enough to favor
us with an order for the minimum number
required.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. Cd. per annum you can have Toe
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
■address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £ 1 10s. per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
■all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.-,
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further,- those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada.- — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1/1/1 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.— N. Wheatley, News Dealer, San Francisco ;
Childs News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San
Diego, Cal.; Queen City News Co., Randolph and
Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Honolulu.- —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon. — lE. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Bates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth. Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bloz. to 10oz., 2id.;
lOoz. to 120 z., Sd.; elsewhere, l/oz., Id., and Id. each
additional 2oz.
ffiie'&xxlZeZztfi,
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1916.
THE PRACTICAL SIDE.
Dear Bulletin, —It would help many a good Aus-
tralian if the practical side of this conscription
business was handled. The Federal Government is
asking that it shall be given the same authority to
enforce service abroad as it has for home defence.
This means that the authority would extend to all
men of from 18 to 60. Hughes in his explanatory
remarks says (1) that only single men would be
drafted from the mob for service; (2) that there
would be various exemptions for single men;
(3) that 16,000 men per month would be called
up “on the present rate of wastage,” this obvi-
ously implying that if the wastage was re-
duced fewer would be required and, the
reverse, that if it increased the levy would be
greater because the hole to fill would be bigger. Now
will you reconcile (1) the request for authority
over all men with the statement that it is only
intended to apply it to some men; and (2) the
shipping away of 4000 men per week from Australia
with the declaration by Lloyd George that the best
service Australia could give the Empire would be
to increase her production?
Further, will someone tell Australia why, after it
has listened to advocacy of a conscription based on
a certain conception of citizenship which makes the
bearing of arms a civic duty common to every
physically-fit citizen, it should be asked to modify
this duty and say that the conception of citizenship
shall apply to Jones but not to Smith? In what
language apart from that of the dollar and the vote
shall any exemption from a civic duty be defended?
It is important to have the point cleared up because
Brother Holman, who is a vehement advocate of con-
scription, takes quite another view (vide his famous
pronouncement that “the brains of the community”
should not be sent to the trenches).
Then there is. "this grave emergency." What is it?
Wide general statements cut no ice. Is it seriously
contended that the emergency is of such a character
that the Allies require 4000 men weekly from Aus-
tralia in order to win the war? If it is, on whose
authority is this statement made? It implies calcu-
lations the counting up of forces in the field and
in reserve, the consideration of losses suffered and
to be endured. Where is all this arithmetic? Until
we see it, are we bound to agree that 4000 a week
must get a. move on ? Hughes has told us that “Aus-
tralia’s part in the war is to do as we are told.”
Iu June when Pearce was frantically juggling with
the .“new army” enlistment figures, he said that the
War Office had never asked for additional troops from
Australia, lias it since asked? Is it what Hughes
and Pearce tell Australia to do that has to be done
without question ? Or is it what somebody else tells
Hughes that Australia must do —and must that per-
son be anonymous? In any case it all looks like
democracy being lead by a spook.
It is argued that it would be a betrayal of our
lads at the front if the Federal Government were not,
for the purpose of conscripting some single men,
given authority over the whole manhood of Australia.
Will someone show me that 200,000 Australians had
not a clear understanding when they enlisted that
conscription was no part of the national policy ?
Fisher time, after time declared that the Labor party
would “have nothing to do with conscription in any
shape or form.” Hughes scoffed at the suggestion of
a conscript soldiery and specifically declared that he
would never be a party to compulsory service abroad.
Practically every public man spoke in the same
strain. These men went away with condemnation of
conscription by the party in power ringing ih theii'
ears. Reconcile that with the statement that unless
we raise a conscript army we betray them!
To take 16,000 a month out of Australia may be
possible. Hughes with his “rude javelins of fact”
has destroyed our illusions about an early victory.
The Bulletin reckons the end is far away. I want
to know how we are to go on doing it and not go
industrially and financially bung.—-Yours, Tracker.
And that puts into concrete shape all the
whirl of the anti-conscriptionist that is any-
thing more than a whirl.
* * * *
The first point raised by “Tracker,” that
we are asking authority over all men, yet
propose to select only a few for active ser-
vice, is surely no argument against con-
scription, any more than an Income Tax
Bill is vicious because it provides exemp-
tions. It is the method adopted by practi-
cally all countries where compulsory service
is in force ; and it is adopted for the good
reason that, while it asserts a national right
over every citizen, it recognises that other
things besides fighting must be done. Only
by a fair consideration of the case of every
individual citizen is it possible to discover;
those who can best serve their country
abroad with least loss to their country at
home.
And this hinges directly upon the second
question raised as to the service which Aus-
tralia can render by increasing production.
In no sane and wise system of compulsion
can the home needs be left out of sight; and
the fact that all men are brought directly
under the view of those in authority pre-
supposes something thorough in the way of
national organisation. Our strength lies in
the shearing-shed and wheatfield as really
as it does in the ordered line of bayonets or
the push of the men behind them; and it
is the recognition of this that requires
authority over all men, so that there may
be the wisest possible selection.
As for any loss of production likely to
be caused by the withdrawal of men for
foreign service, that applies certainly to
men secured under the voluntary system.
That that system, with the choice of foreign
service left haphazard to the individual, is
capable of reducing the effectiveness of our
industrial army, needs no argument. That
compulsory service, with careful selection as
its guiding principle, should do so is far
more unlikely. In a few words, then, the
answer on this point is that, under the un-
scientific, haphazard voluntary system, which
is really no system at all. the industrial
affairs of the country are far more likely to
suffer than under an ordered system of uni-
versal service.
* * * *
Regarding the question of exemptions and
the cases of Smith who stays in Australia
and' Jones who crosses the Rhine, let us
avoid confusion of ideas arising out of a
misused word. There are ho exemptions,
properly so called; and none are contem-
plated. The very fact that all men are to
be brought under authority shows that what
is meant by exemption is no more than the
putting of the citizen where he can serve his
country best. Thus, at the present juncture,
the married man with a family is, generally
speaking, hitting the Kaiser hardest by earn-
ing bread-and-butter for his wife and chil-
dren along the ordinary track of citizen effort.
Ilis “exemption” means nothing more than
keeping him where his blow is most effective.
Under the voluntary system he frequently
does not exempt himself; and the wife is
left at home to struggle along with half a
dozen children. The State may support
them. But that is not everything. Even
the State cannot do for a family of young
children what a father can do. From this
point of view, then, the compulsory system
also scores over the voluntary.
This paper is less concerned with Hol-
man’s idea of saving intellect from shell-
fire. The point is that the man with special
brains under his hat will be in no true sense
exempted. He will simply be used to the
best advantage, which is clearly not in a
bayonet charge. Why waste MacCormick.
the" great surgeon, in battle when he could
do so much more to win the fight by ser-
vice at the operating-table? Nobody in
his senses ever supposed that under our
defence system the whole citizen army—every
man capable of dealing a blow —would be on
active service at the same moment. The so-
called exemption does not in any way exclude
the idea of general citizen service, and it
provides no shred of an argument for the
anti-conscriptionist.
* * * *
With regard to the declaration that this
is a grave emergency and “Tracker’s”
comment that “wide general statements cut
no ice,” what else but a general statement
is possible? And what does it matter
whether Australia is asked or is not asked
to do this by Pearce or Hughes or Lloyd
George or King George or the President of
France? The real call comes to us from the
martyred dead of France and Belgium, and
from the suffering living who bleed along
the shot-torn Front from which they are
slowly driving a stubborn foe. All this may
“cut no ice” ; but it is identically the same
sort of demand that took the Athenians to
Marathon, the farmers of England to join
the armies of Cromwell and ■ the men •of
Devon to resist the Armada. The clashing
of the bells of London when the fleet of
Philip threatened English liberty, or the
rush to defend Eureka stockade, or any
other brave human response to some “wide
general statement” “cut no ice” with some
people. The call of freedom battling in its
agony is nothing to certain minds unless
backed by statistical tables and sealed with
the Great Seal of the top official.
* * * *
The betrayal of our own men in the
trenches may be a small matter compared
with the betrayal of the cause in which they
fight. But, in any case, suppose they did
go away believing that conscription was not
the national policy, what has that got to do
with their need for further assistance now?
We made no bargain with our soldiers;
we are asked to make none now. Our
betrayal of them would not lie in the break-
ing of any contract, but in the fact that
by saving ourselves .from trouble and incon-
venience and simply side-stepping responsi-
bility we would cause mote Australian
blood to be Shed, mote pain, more. wifidws,
more of the general curse of war. The war
may last a long or a short time. It will
certainly be over the sooner if we throw
our whole weight into it. The 16,000 men
per. month may or may not prove a bigger
drain on the country than we can well
stand; but it is obviously better to send
16,000 a month and win right out in half
a year than send 2000 a month and continue
to send them until in five or six years’ time
an unsatisfactory peace is declared —a peace
which would only be the precursor of more
costly war-preparation if not of more war.
In all this nothing has been said about
“Tracker’s’.’ demand to have questions
answered with regard to alleged inconsist-
encies in the statements of members of the
Federal Ministry. It is no part of this
paper’s business to defend Hughes or his
colleagues or his party. The whole military
situation is less satisfactory than it should
have been. The politicians responsible for
the voluntary system have managed it
badly; those responsible for the conduct of
the campaign for compulsory service intro-
duced it badly and blundered into creating
prejudice against it and hostility to the
movement. But what has all this to do
with the thing itself—what has it all to do
with the momentous choice between going
on and creeping back? Only one answer is
possible. We have too big a blood invest-
ment in the bitter struggle to retire without
shame.
[Written to express the views of The Bulletin,
within the limitations prescribed under the War
Precautions Act, by S. H. Prior. D. M. Wright and
P. J. Kirby, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
THE HERD OF WHITE ELEPHANTS
ON THE PREMISES.
Five minutes after Federal Treasurer lliggs
had produced his figures last week a furious
argument broke out as to whether the pro-
posed new taxes were good or bad, and multi-
tudinous citizens started examining them-
selves to see where they were going to be hit.
The argument is still raging, and everybody
is so busy with one or the other proposal that
the general position of Australia in this
matter of cash gets no notice. But it is the
most important subject arising out of the
story that was told by lliggs, for the Com-
monwealth Parliament is only one of
seven Legislatures operating on the tax-
payers’ pocket and the national credit.
It would be as ludicrous to form
judgment on the finances of Australia
upon the figures produced by Higgs as for
an elector on weekly wages to regulate each
day’s expenditure on the assumption that he
got a week’s pay every evening. So far as
the Commonwealth is concerned the features
sticking out of the Budget are that for the
12 months to the end of June the Treasurer
lifted £30,627,943 by way of ordinary revenue
from the public pocket; that by the end of
next June he hopes to have extracted
£42,362,290; that loans amounting to
£60,424,689 were raised during last year;
and that on June 30 the public debt of the
Commonwealth was £101,252,949 and will
by next June have leaped to £175,597,000.
Another feature is that the expenditure of
the Commonwealth has frisked along at this
rate:—
1913- .. £25,412,231
1914- .. 40,269,702
1915- . . 91,052,632
1916- .. 127,836,291
In the four years the ordinary expenditure
will have increased by £9,000,000; the war
expenditure out of revenue will be £10,446,792.
There is an interlacing of State and Com-
monwealth debt through a mongrel item
labelled “Advances to States” totalling
£7,500,000, and the annual charge for inter-
est and sinking fund, which last year was
£2,363,074, is this year £8,162,000. All this
or most of it is explained by the war; but
that makes the figures look neither better
nor worse. They represent cash in any case,
and the public has to provide it.
But this increased revenue and interest bill
and debt that the Commonwealth is acquir-
ing and building up is only part of what the
Australian people have to carry. While the
Commonwealth is raising over £42,000,000 in
taxation, the States will be helping them-
selves to over £9,000,000. In addition to
£8.000,000 required for interest by the Com-
monwealth, about £13,000,000 will be
wanted by the States. The income tax pay-
ments to the Federal Treasurer will be over
£3,000,000; to the States about the same.
The total public debt of Australia when
June next comes round will be something like
this : —■ _
Commonwealth . . £175,597,000
States .. ■ • 360,000,000
Total. . . . £535,597,000
Even if it stopped there the position would
l)c th's- that Australia would be paying over
£2O 000.000 each year to Cohen and provid-
ing an additional £30,000,000 for State and
Commonwealth purposes, apart from rail-
ways, but including the funds necessary to
make good the losses on railways, ihat is a
lot of money to be found by Australia. On
the basis of an aggregate income swollen by
public borrowings it represents about a lourth
of the people’s earnings. # #
These figures yell a warning to Australia
that this multiplication of revenue-raising,
debt-contracting and spending authorities is
an atrocity. Viewed broadly or in detail it
looks the same thing—a device for strain-
ing the national credit to bursting point,
for destroying the sense of responsibility in
Parliaments, and for obscuring from the
people the conditions that are being created
for them and the Australian kid. At one
time it appeared as if the kid might be
handed the whole mess; but the war has
changed the outlook and brought Australia
up with a jerk to a dim realisation that
this thing has to be dealt with by the
people who perpetrated it. Born of the
ease with which loans have, been raised and
the levity with which political parties have
juggled with the cashbox, there is a com-
mon delusion that extravagant expenditure
by Governments represents great benefi-
cence. Nothing could be further frbm the
truth., Thfe purposes _fbr which revefihe ate
intended, the inethbds of securing it and
bf spending it, are the tests of wisdom and
always must be. The war expenditure of
Australia has been inevitable; but. it is
outrageous that, coincident with this tre-
mendous burden on the people, there should
be increased spending by the Commonwealth
on other things, and that the States should
also be going ahead accumulating millions
of debt and increasing taxation to maintain
six Civil Services and six superfluous Par-
liaments and to make good the losses on State
enterprises and all the rest of it. A con-
tinuation of such demented trifling with
the nation’s future can end only in im-
poverishment and disaster. With a debt- of
over five hundred millions looming on the
horizon and taxation reaching a point where
it is beginning to hurt, what excuse will the
Parliaments of Australia have to offer for
their record when the strain on the country
reaches breaking point, as it quickly will
unless a halt is ordered? Talk about “Aus-
tralia being able to recover quickly” and
“it is a wonderful country” and “the people
are well off” is easy—and foolish. If Aus-
tralia was as rich as the lands of fable she
could not stand the strain imposed by a
Parliament carrying on war with no regard
for business principles and six other Parlia-
ments conducting a spendthrift peace.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Higgs’s Hunt.
Tite Bulletin is quite satisfied that in the
main the new taxes proposed by the Federal
Government would not be necessary but for
grossly extravagant administration of the
affairs of Australia and increases of depart-
mental expenditure for which no excuse
can, in the circumstances, be offered. And
it is satisfied that if the money from the
taxes was devoted to paying for the war in-
stead of for the support of muddle, Aus-
tralia would be the richer. As it is, Aus-
tralia is going to be poorer—except in ex-
perience. Viewing the taxes as taxes they
suggest that they were decided on by a
show of hands at a public meeting after
the audience had jumped on the chairman
and had 27 fights. Either that or they
represent the suggestions of casual strangers
who met Higgs going home on the tram.
The rise in the income tax is a fair thing.
The levy of 1J per cent, isn’t, because it
operates unscientifically and allows some
of the worst plunderers of Australia to
escape. The war profits tax is right in
theory—provided it is war profit that is
taken and that the machinery does not
allow war profit to escape. In practice
Treasurer Higgs is going to find it the
most difficult thing to deal with he ever
tackled. This paper knows something about
company balance-sheets, and is prepared to
say that if Higgs proceeds on the lines he
originally threatened to follow he is going
to show quite a lot of people who did not
know it before that talk about war profits
is one thing and annexation of them
another. The item “Entertainment tax (say,
half-year) £1,000,000” represents something
brand-new from the idea factory. Heaven
only knows on what principle lliggs has
gone in this matter, and the decoration of
“say, half-year” looks as if he failed to
feel much enthusiasm about it. The pro-
bability is that he said to himself, “Well, I
want cash and there it is.” The idea behind
the tax is that entertained by the wowsers
and Chadbands of the community who look
with horror on men and women going to
the theatre and who snuffle about “excessive
amusements” whenever they hear of a con-
cert. People engaged in the production of
plays, supplying music, exhibiting pictures,
lambs with seven tails and educated ele-
phants are engaged in a business just as
legitimate as the persons who sell jewellery
or pianos or gramophones or legal advice
or sealskin coats. Why depart from the
well-tried income tax in the case of one set
of individuals and retain it for application
to the others? Where is the justification
for taxing trade takings in one case and
not in others? The Bulletin would not
care to find answers to these questions; but
as The Argus reports that mention of the
tax was received with “Liberal cheers.’ 1 ’
perhaps the lugubrious Cook will explain
the principles.
*
The Drag-net over the Commonwealth.
One of Commonwealth Treasurer Higgs’s
proposals for raising war-money is to rake
per cent, from all estates in the Com-
monwealth. Certainly money must be got;
but this plan is a revival of utterly dis-
credited systems of taxation. It differs in
no degree from the old-time window-tax in
England, and the tax on chimneys which
decorated the finance of one of Maoriland’s
provinces in the Dark Ages. It is a tax
that will fall heavily in places where tax-
ation should fall but lightly, and lightly
where taxation ought to descend with a thud.
There are many struggling people in Aus-


tralia who, after years of toil and economy,
have scraped together six or seven hundred
pounds, or have acquired a house or estab-
lished an equity in one. There are families
by the hundred living on two or three
pounds a week derived.from the investment of
the life insurance funds left them by hus-
band or father. To hit these people up for
£8 or £lO or £l2 is to administer a blow
that will be felt in the kitchen with empha-
sis. Again, the farmer who cultivates his land
and keeps it fully stocked will pay taxation
on his plough and his teams and the breech-
ing straps and every hoof on the place. The
individual next door, who employs no one
and has no plough and is satisfied to run
half the number of jumbucks on twice as
much land, will pay less than half as much
as the other fellow has to hand over. The
man who has erected a factory and machi-
nery and done something for Australian
industry will be taxed on the value of every
brick and wheel on the premises. The
foreign firm which has bled and still bleeds
Australia and has sent and still sends the
profits away for investment elsewhere will
escape. The citizen with an income of
£4OO a year and a house, furniture, books,
pictures and personal belongings worth
£ISOO will pay in income tax £lO 18s. 9d.
and in property tax £22 10s. —total £33
Bs. 9d. The other citizen with a house, etc.,
worth £2OOO and an income of £I2OO a year
from State loans will pay in income tax Od.
and in property tax £3O. Which seems an
annropriate point to adjourn the inquiry
sine die.
Australian Soldiers in Egypt.
Nearly six months ago The Bulletin drew
attention to the order which had been issued
in Egypt requiring Private Billjim and his
mates to ride third-class with the insanitary
Arab. The order was an insult to Australia
and was violently prejudicial to recruiting,
wherefore the Minister was urged to imme-
diately put himself in communication with
the authorities and require its withdrawal.
Nothing further was heard of the matter
until a week or so back, when this para-
graph was given out to the Australian
papers:— r
Referring to a statement recently published in the
press that privates in the Australian Imperial Force
were compelled to travel third-class on the railways
in Egypt with coolies, Arabs and other colored
people, the Minister for Defence (Senator Pearce)
stated yesterday that in reply to inquiries he had in-
stituted in the matter he had received the following
cablegram from the Commandant, Australian Im-
perial Forces, Section Base, Cairo. “A third-class
coach to carry 78 is entirely reserved for convey-
ance of military passengers on all the principal
trains. On other lines individual soldiers or parties
of less than seven may travel second-class. Invalids,
on the certificate of the medical officer, travel second-
class.”
This is the usual departmental shuffle, either
this end or the other. Why not at once
have published the order which had been
issued? It should not have been necessary
to send to Egypt or anywhere else to get it.
A Defence Department alive to its respon-
sibilities would surely require to be fur-
nished with the orders under which its
troops operate. However, here is the in-
struction, whether the Defence Department
has it or not: —
General Routine Order No. 64— Travelling on
Egyptian State Railways.
. N.C.O’s and men travelling on a warrant must
invariably travel in a class of carriage to which their
tickets issued on the warrant entitles them. They
are not allowed to pay the difference to enable them
to travel in a superior class.
When proceeding on leave W.O’s and sergeants
may travel second-class if they purchase second-class
tickets. Corporals and privates must travel third-
class in the carriages reserved for them.
There is not the shadow of a doubt that
Australian soldiers have been and still are
required to ride in third-class carriages with
insanitary natives—notwithstanding warn-
ings issued on the subject of coming into
close contact with them on account of
their diseases —and that our men have been
turned out of second- and first-class
carriages. _ They are not permitted to travel
first-class in any case, whether they are on
leave or not. Confirmation of this comes
from “Light Horseman” —a sergeant—by
the last mail:—■
Last Saturday (July 29) I was on my way to
Suez, and, having to change from the train at
Ismalia, was strolling about the platform, when I
had the great pleasure of seeing many Turkish
prisoners whom our lads had captured a few hours
previously. Just prior to the Suez train moving out
I saw the military police clear a second-class car
that a few of our boys had ventured in. There was
not a third-class military car on the train, so the
only alternative the boys had was to travel with the
Arabs.
Directly the second-class car was cleared the Turk-
ish prisoners were ushered into the carriage which
our lads had been ordered to vacate!
This statement is the truth, and nothing but the
truth, and can be verified if necessary by one of
Sydney’s leading Y.M.C.A. men now serving with
the A.I.P. An English gentleman was also a witness
of the insult, and of course could do nothing but
exclaim that it was a scandalous shame.
Every soldier is aware of the diseases which are
carried about by the natives in these carriages ; but
how can he protect himself when he is compelled to
travel with them?
Only the day before yesterday I had to parade
before Headquarters (the first time during 18 months’
service), and was severely reprimanded for travelling
second-class when on duty. All non-coms, and men
are issued with a third-class warrant when on duty.
Warrant-officers and sergeants are entitled to travel
second-class if they make up the difference in fares.
Avery generous offer, considering we are on duty
and doing service for our country.
There is not one Englishman in Egypt who would
lower himself in the eyes of the Arabs by travelling
in a carriage with them; so why should we be
forced to do so?
It is true that there is a great deal of sickness
here; and a great deal of it could be avoided if our
company was not forced upon the native fraternity
so much.
It is to be hoped that all mothers will take this
matter up, for the welfare of their sons. Then I am
sure the authorities in Australia will inquire into
the state of things prevailing here at the present
time, and so bring about much better conditions for
the troops than at present exist in Egypt.
Now what is the Department going to do?
This isn’t a time for side-stepping. There
has been too much of that, too little of facing
difficulties—and we are in a nice mess in
consequence one way and another.
Improving the Child’s Chance.
The discovery by the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment that the child and its mother are of
some value to the State merits a shout of
approbation. There are few things concern-
ing which the average mother knows so little
or as to which the average father is quite
so indifferent as those relating to child-bear-
ing and baby-rearing. Nature, a nurse, a
doctor and luck are supposed to attend to
the business in a general way. The mother’s
job begins and ends in her sacrifice; the
father’s is simply to foot the bills and keep
out of the road. Now, with its Baby Clinics,
under the direction of the Minister of Pub-
lic Health, the State in N. S. Wales is
taking upon itself the job of spreading in-
formation and trying to educate the public
up to the point of doing the best possible
thing for both the youngest citizen and his
mother. Avery useful pamphlet has been
issued dealing in short form with the whole
question ; and its 31 pages are as valuable
as many a ten-times larger work. Practi-
cally everything that should be known is
there, from the sensible foreword by the
Minister to the addresses of the Baby Clinics
at the finish ; and through it all there is a vein
of kindly sympathy which strikes anew note
in departmentalism and suggests that some-
body has mislaid the crimson tape in at
least one Government office. More than
this, there are indications that the State is
willing to give practical help as well as
advice, and that it is feeling its way in the
direction of a larger and more generous atti-
tude towards the things which are of such
importance to the individual and so vital
to the State. The health of its citizens
is the first asset of the community, and
that children should be born well is one of
the early steps towards the elimination of
disease and the production of a race physi-
cally perfect. If the Health Department
can see to it that the child gets a proper
start, and the Education Department fol-
lows this up with medical- attention in the
schools, there should be little wrong with
the men and women of the future. Aus-
tralia will need a robust constitution to
battle through the strenuous years to come;
and it is at least fitting that the same
Ministry which heaps the burden of debt on
the baby should do its best to make the
baby’s shoulders broad to carry the load.
The High Building Curse.
Anybody who watches the fire brigades at
work on the job of taking down tottering
walls a hundred-odd feet high, as they had
to in Sydney lately, ought to become an im-
mediate convert to the idea of the broad city
as opposed to the high. And if he has a
little imagination and can get a glimpse of
himself in the topmost storey of a crackling
building, he will regard as an enemy of
the public good any person like the Kink
O’Malley who wants fsky-scrapers f or no
better reason than that they are insane
enough to have them in one part of America.
The only possible excuse for erecting a
building whose top end is beyond hope and
the fire brigade is that there is not enough
ground available to spread out. No such
excuse can be found in Australia. The
broad, comparatively low building suited to
the climate should be the natural home of
Australian city work; and there is
no reason why, keeping such an object
in view, our architects should not be
able to evolve places of grace and
beauty without copying Yankee mistakes
or following the conventions of older lands.
The fact that Sydney is congested and that
Melbourne land is priced far above its use-
value has nothing to do with the case. They
are congested simply because we have got
into the vicious habit of doing things in a
crowded city which we could far better do
in an outer spburb. With decent transport
arrangements, Sydney might easily spread
itself from the Hawkesbury to George’s River
and back as far as the Nepean; and such a
widening-out would be every way to the
advantage of the people’s health and the
traders’ comfort. So extended, the place
might come to contain a couple or three mil-
lion people and never require a building more
than two or three storeys high. Tall build-
ing means danger as well as congestion; but
the people who have not imagination to fore-
see that danger can hardly be expected to
understand the grotesque ugliness of the bor-
rowed Yankee idea of sky-scrapers.
The Uttermost North.
John McLaren looks out of his front door:
It is 9 o’clock, and the moon—full yesterday—is
busy casting beams of silver on to the calm
surface of the sea. From the south-east comes a
gentle sea-borne breeze, and before it tiny wavelets
frolic in the joy of their new-found existence. A
bcche-de-mer cutter lies at anchor near the shore,
and a little further out a couple of pearling luggers
are lowering their sails. A quarter of a mile along
the beach the numerous little fires of a blacks’ camp
are twinkling. A tom-tom is softly beating a weird
but rhythmical accompaniment to a low, crooning
chant, so faint at this distance that the ear strains
to catch it. The blacks are happy, free from respon-
sibility and care as we know them. Savagery has its
compensations. Numerous islands, some of fantastic
shape in the moonlight, are dotted about the polished
sea. Possession, the island on which Captain Cook
proclaimed Australia part of the British Empire, lies
a couple of miles to the south-west. The mournful
wail of a curlew sounds along the beach, and certain
splashings tell those wise in the ways of fishes of a
school of sea-mullet. Near by, on a sandy
ridge, is a bungalow built on high piles, with loop-
holed shooting-boxes at the corners of the verandahs
iu case Binghi should start an offensive. It is the
most northern telegraph-station in Australia.
For this is Cape York, the uttermost peak of our
continent, where the waters of Torres Strait caress
the long, grey, curving beach, and the Equator lies
in the middle distance. To the Australian it is the
North Pole. Australia’s North Pole. Far away,
somewhere along the long, slender telegraph wire,
lies civilisation. That never-ending succession of
poles leads to the conglomeration of cities, town-
ships, churches, pubs, riches, poverty, mud, drought,
fcotball matches, politicians, Y.M.C.A.’s and other
things that go to make up “progress.”
And here? At this end of the wire there is the
same primitive state that existed unnumbered years
before Torres sailed through the strait that bears his
name. And the wire goes through a lot of empty
country before it reaches the haunts of men. The
Peninsula has only a few telegraph-repairing stations,
70 miles apart, a few cattle-runs and a decadent
mining-field or two. On the coast things are worse.
In the 400 miles that lie between Cape York and
Cooktown there is no settlement whatever. Avery
similar condition exists on the western side of the
Peninsula.
It is not because Australia’s Farthest North is
unfertile or that the rainfall is insufficient. Most
of the country will grow any tropical product it is
asked to; and, besides abundant rainfall, it has the
advantages of seasonal regularity and freedom from
drought. Yet to-night, in this year 1916, when
the country has been in our possession for 146 years,
the only evidences of mankind that the big, round,
far-northern moon sailing majestically in the clear
sky can see are the lonely telegraph station, the little
flies of the blacks’ camp and the luggers and the
cutter lying in the anchorage. One can stand on
Possession Island and gaze on the same uninhabited
land that Cook did in 1770.
Will it always be so ? No! Any fool can be a
prophet if he sticks to the obvious, and it is mani-
fest that our Far North will some day be peopled
and throb with industry. Whether we shall populate
it lies with ourselves.
In the meantime, Cape York glistens in the
moonlight, symbolic of the emptiness of our tropic
lands, the blacks’ fires flicker, the silvery sea laps
the curving beach, the islands stand like sentinels of
the depths, and all is peace.
+
Melbourne City Council Issues a
Circular.
The Melbourne City Council is disturbed
even to its sluggish vitals. The Peacock
Government, in devising its new Tramways
Bill, has the idea of transferring the Coun-
cil’s Electric Supply business to the control
of the Tramways management, without
compensation. Because it already yields
£40.000 a year to the city funds in relief
of rates, the City Council is naturally issu-
ing a circular protest against this “proposed
confiscation.” The circular is shockingly
disingenuous, however, in its allusions to
the Melbourne Electric Supply Cos., which
is confused as far as possible with the
“City of Melbourne Electric Supply Under-
taking,as though they were kindred
socialistic spirits. The circular says:—
It would, therefore, be a much more natural pro-
cedure and much more satisfactory to add the power
load for tramways on to the business of the City
Council and the Melbourne Electric Supply Com-
pany, rather than attempt to take over the City
Council’s undertaking with all the attendant dis-
locations of staff, organisation and business gener-
ally, as well as loss of the experience gained by the
Electric Supply Committee of the City Council.
And again:—
The Tramway Authority can either have its own
power-house, or it can contract with the Melbourne
Electric Supply Company and the Melbourne City
Council to supply it with current at a reasonable
and equitable price.
Thus the. specious document invites suspi-
cion of its bona fides as a barracker for
municipal rights and a pleader for public
sympathy. Though the Council have a fair
claim to retain possession of its own 22-year-
old business, especially as its charges are,
taken all round, the lowest in Australia, it can
have no honest municipal reason for argu-
ing that it should continue to work side by
side with the Melbourne Electric Supply Cos.,
which earns fat dividends for private share-
holders. Nothing is more certain ■ than the
public need for some new authority to take
the business of electric supply out of pri-
vate hands, yet it looks pretty much as
though the private hand of the M.E.S. Cos.
was in the Melbourne City Council’s glove
when this protesting circular was composed.
♦
The motley gathering of anti-conscrip-
tionists should be compelled to memorise
William Archer’s scathing letter to Dr.
George Brandes, of Denmark. Early in
this year the erudite Dane published an
appeal to the belligerents:—
Since none of the Powers, by their own showing,
wanted war, in Heaven’s name let them make peace!
The one-sided Brandes assumed, of course,
that Germany’s “own showing” was as good
as the other side’s “own showing.” Then,
with stodgy Scandiknavean irony, he spoke
of
this war against militarism which has extended
military compulsion to the one nation which had
hitherto remained free from it.
William Archer took up his “master’s”
hollow sophistry and pulverised it. To the
sneer at Britain’s emergency conscription
he said :—•
How is militarism to be met but by militarism?
Heaven knows we have tried to reason with it, but
it will hear no reason. The worst evil of militarism
is that it puts its pistol to the head of civilisation
and says, “Be militarist or die!” We know the
method which Germany forces upon us to be evil,
while she exults in it and worships it. We are
forced to do things which we intensely dislike,
because, if we omit them, victory may remain with
the Power which does not dislike them at all, but
revels in them, and would perpetuate the conditions
that render them necessary.
The case for conscription is in this reply of
the critic who curses the cause of the war to
the critic who ignores the cause and notices
only the effect. The hard logic of facts has
converted Archer to the belief that con-
scription is a necessity for the time being.
Brandes evades the hard logic of facts. He
falsifies the position as the antis falsify it.
He denies the need to crush militarism in
Germany. The antis also deny it. They
must deny it. They have no other logical
excuse for arguing that Australia is not
bound to do everything her manhood can to
ensure Germany’s defeat.
[Edmund Fisher, Bulletin Office, Melbourne.]
Acres have been written about the destruc-
tion of Australian timber which would be
of very great value if it were close to a
market, and the main cause of the trouble
is that it isn’t. Also, in most cases, it
isn’t likely to be, if present conditions con-
tinue. Were the only land held in this
continent that which is really required for
use, so that population would expand
naturally from the land already used on to
the next lot available, the timber country
would be near enough to population to be
of value; but when the would-be users of
land are compelled to flee past miles of
country held for a ransom, and travel afar
by railways that project like fishing-rods
into the interior, the little matter of carriage
causes them to view what should be a very
valuable national asset as an encumbrance.
Consequently vast piles of timber that even
as firewood would be worth 16s. or so a ton
in Melbourne or Sydney are annually sent
up in smoke by hard-working cockies, in
order that they may plant in its stead some-
thing that will stand carriage to the nearest
market and allow a bit over to pay the
local storekeeper. When the Argus and the
S. M. Herald write leading articles express-
ing the hope that Hughes will rise to the
occasion and do something worthy of a
statesman, they probably mean that they
hope he will do something towards
breaking down the practice of hold-
ing land for profit and not for use. But
being refined and nice-spoken old ladies they
don’t like to say so. If this practice of
amassing wealth from the pockets of the
man who wants to use land isn’t stopped, it
is safe to say that practical deforestation
will outweigh the effect of all the little
afforestation we are likely to do.
“Bad Australian,” writing from the
Argentine, draws a picture of the end of a
borrowing jag:—
When John Foster Fraser spent a week or two
in this country about three years ago collecting the
travellers’ tales, picture postcards and statistics
which made his “Amazing Argentine” the repre-
sentatives of British capital “played wise.” They
got out their motor-cars and special trains and
rushed that inaccurate scribe around with such
velocity that he hadn’t time to observe anything
but the unbounded hospitality and gentlemanly
manners of the boss and the servility of the waiter.
'According to John’s subsequent dream the truly
astonishing strides made in railroad construction
during the last 12 or 15 years and the consequent
rapid development of practically the whole produc-
tive area of the temperate section of the Republic
were a sure guarantee that railway construction and
agricultural development would continue in the
same way for years. And that was where John
ran wide. If he hadn’t devoted so much time to
sitting in clubs and motors and palatial special
cars he would probably have found that the zones
he was shown comprised almost everything in the
way of this Republic's possibilities. Outside what
he saw between drinks and through the haze of his
Havana smoke there is little else to be found in
Argentina but desert, utter and irredeemable. Half
the Great Southern pampa is worthless, windswept
wilderness, and the other half is worth anything
from eight or 10 sheep to the acre to about eight
or 10 acres for a healthy bandicoot. Naturally,
then, Fraser’s predictions were in error. Actually,
this Republic is in a bad way. The bottom has
fallen out of the wild financial jag which raged for
several years, the borrowed millions are all spent,
and Argentina sits amidst the ashes of the imported
cigar and the lees of faked champagne, contemplat-
ing a mountain of lOU’s. Land is practically
unsaleable, coal is as dear as potatoes, and the
various foreign concerns which run the country have
closed down hard on capital expenditure; conse-
quently there is little work except for the agri-
cultural laborer. Even he gets little more than
his food. There are thousands of unemployed even
in Buenos Aires, and I feel that I am not over-
stating the case when I say that probably no other
“white” city in the world contains as many and
as persistent street beggars as the capital. In
several provinces the police, school teachers and
other public servants have not been paid for many
months; and there is no money in circulation except
the frowsy, insanitary paper “peso,” which is liable
to be repudiated at any moment.
+
“Extra Master” : The Board of Trade,
always as slow as the mills of God, has
allowed two years of war to pass before tack-
ling the alien shipmaster, though weird tales
have been told of masters of British ships,
aliens by birth or descent, divulging precious
Admiralty secrets about minefields, buoyed
channels, etc. The slow old Board has now
made an order that all candidates for a
master’s ticket must produce their birth cer-
tificates and the birth certificates of their
parents and, if the offspring of aliens, the
naturalisation papers of pa and ma. But this,
while good in its way, doesn’t touch the real
trouble. The number of men of foreign
parentage qualifying with malice prepense
for British certificates cannot be large, while
the number of those already holding them is
huge. These are the men to be guarded
against—these who got their tickets before
the war without any proof of bona fides. Per-
haps in England no alien shipmaster can
sign on a British ship without showing good
faith before a competent authority, but noth-
ing of the kind is required in Australia. Not
so long ago a German-Australian piled up
a steamer under the nose of the naval people.
No doubt they knew that he was a German,
but they didn’t seem to worry about it.
The Sons that Should Have Been.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Where on the battered fields of Prance
Australia’s stalwarts fall,
As shattered columns still advance
For aid they raise their call;
And mothers give their other sons
To fill the gaps between ;
But there are gaps not made by guns
And missing are full many sons—•
The Sons that Should Have Been.
Oh, it had been a full brigade
That, eager, sought the fray,
And, rushing to their brothers’ aid,
Triumphant helped the day,
If matrons, who now fuss and fret
O’er many things, had seen
A patriot duty truly set,
And left no reason to regret
The Sons that Should Have Been!
Ye gentle dames, who, with high zeal,
As “helpers” love to live,
No doubt some patriot fire you feel—
But had you sons to give?
Upon the graves of many dead
The grass will soon be green
Who had not in their valor bled
Had their outnumbered ranks been fed
By Sons that Should Have Been !
Not man has life to give alone,
His country’s cause to aid ;
’Tis motherhood gives thew and bone
Where mighty wars are made.
And tears of yours, O mothers grey,
Are falling now, I ween,
For loss you might not feel to-day
Had there been set, in strong array,
The Sons that Should Have Been!
n - s av.
HAMER.


The Demons of Destruction on Every Road
are Powerless Against GOODYEAR TYRES.
ask the users.
The quality of the materials of which Goodyear
Tyres are made, the expert hands which fashion
them, the continual testing: throughout every opera-
tion, and, above all, the maintenance of their high
and fairly-acquired reputation, constitute an insur-
ance for all users.
Under normal conditions of correct load and proper
inflation the Goodyear All-Weather Tread will
average fiOOO miles—many have done over 10,000
miles in Australia during the past two years.
THE GOODYEAR TYRE AND RUBBER CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
231 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
122 Flinders Street, Melbourne. Macquarie Street, Hobart.
103 St. George’s Terrace, Perth. 6 Chesser Street, Adelaide.
92 Creek Street, Brisbane. 6 Mercer Street, Wellington.
Goodyear Tyres and Tubes are notv obtainable throughout
Australia and New Zealand.
k
Sss
yx
%
THEY KNOW BEST.
Missing: Friends.
TO POLLY KERRISON and ANNIE
KERRISON (or Annie Newton), who
left Christchurch, New Zealand, upwards of
26 years ago, both children of the late Wil-
liam Kerrison and Anna Maria Kerrison,
and to all persons claiming by, through or
under them or either of them, including their
children.
PURSUANT to the directions of the Hon-
orable Sir Robert Stout, K.C.M.G., Chief
Justice of New Zealand, under section 25 of
The Public Trust Office Amendment Act
1913, you are hereby called upon to send in
to the undersigned, on or before the first day
of February, 1917, your claim to part of the
estates of ARTHUR GEORCxE KERRI-
SON, late of Christchurch, laborer, who died
on the 20th .Tune. 1914, intestate, and
ALBERT KERRISON, late of Islington,
Christchurch, laborer, who died on the 30th
October. 1914, intestate, failing which such
estates will be distributed among the per-
sons entitled thereto, disregarding your
claims.
Dated at Wellington, this 13th day of
July, 1916.
J. W. MACDONALD, Solicitor to the
Public Trust Office, Wellington, New Zealand.
rilOM JONES, formerly groom to T. C.
| O’Brien, will hear something to his
advantage by communicating with THE
equity trustees, executors &
AGENCY CO., 85 Queen Street, Melbourne.
The Long Road to Victory.
If the reports telegraphed to Australia faith-
fully reflect the tone and substance of the
speech made by the Imperial Chancellor in
the Reichstag last week, the Hun has had to
take up another hole in his belt. It was the
speech of a weary man, and was not without
its note of despair. That the strain of war
is being felt heavily by the German neither
Hollweg nor the newspapers of his country
attempt to deny. But though this be so, it
would be the wildest folly to assume
that the German has lost his punch
or that the Allies will have an easier
job next week than they had yester-
day. Altogether exaggerated importance
is attributed to the current happenings
on the Somme. They may be the pre-
ludes to greater events. But let us take
note that, while he has been putting up such
a fight there, the German has still been able
to make a very respectable showing on the
eastern Front and to organise the delivery
of a wallop in the direction of Roumania.
There is no escape from this—that a war
of attrition is in progress, and the Allies
have to steel themselves to endure everything
meant by such a war. The German is facing
it with all that he can summon to his arms.
The Allies cannot conquer with less. Weak-
ness at any point on their side means
strength somewhere else to the enemy. Ger-
many wants peace. The Allies want it,
too, but they want the peace of their own
making. And surely if there was ever any-
thing worth winning in this world it is free-
dom from the menace of an armed and blas-
phemous autocracy made drunk by dreams
of an imperial dominion on land and sea. If
Australians want to see the job they started
on finished and the world purged of a mon-
strous tyranny, how do they expect to realise
it if they turn up the contract at this stage
of the proceedings? Even the German is
standing up to his job like a man. Are we
less?
Professor Ronald G. Macintyre is the first
native-born to be Moderator of the Presby-
terian Church in Australia. He arrived in
Melbourne in 1863. His father was the late
Angus Macintyre, and an uncle, William
Campbell, was the first discoverer of pay-
able gold in Victoria—at Clunes in 1850 on
the property of another uncle, a brother of
Professor Macintyre’s mother. Campbell
got the Government reward of £IOOO and
passed the cash along to the hospitals.
N. 8. Wales Public Service has been tilt-
ing a glass in honor of Major Robert
Beardsmore, who has won the D.S.O. He
was accountant in the Chief Secretary’s
Department and for many years secretary to
the Aborigines’ Protection Board. Since
1895 he had been playing at soldiering, and
when the real thing took shape he was one
of the first to ask for its address.
They are so sure war profits are immoral
that one after another Governments are
passing bills to collar them. Yet, while it
too is declaring that no man should make
money out of the great national disaster,
Ma&riland Government has greased its fat-
test servants with rich war bonuses. Triggs,
of the Public Service Commission, who gets
£IOOO a year, has grabbed £2OO extra;
Salmond, Solicitor-General, £1250 p.a., is
to have £125 more; Valentine, Inspector-
General of Hospitals, who draws £BSO, gets
away with £125; Collins, Auditor-General,
and Campbell. Secretary of the Treasury,
with £IOOO a year apiece, receive £IOO.
These are only a few of the many who have
been given war profits by a Government
which says there shouldn’t be any.
A note from the Gallery :
David Low’s cartoon, “A Labor Conference” (B.
28/9,/’l6), literally broke up the House of Reps, last
week. Dr. Maloney, who with the fiery Ferricks is
the real leader of the Parliamentary anti-conscrip-
tion party, of which Mr. Tudor is the nominal chief,
had a full head of steam going in a stonewalling
speech on Thursday evening. He was holding forth
on all kinds of subjects, but especially the iniquity
of treating tenderly the notorious Captain “Edwards,”
of the Continental Tyre Cos. The member for Mel-
bourne was denouncing in his most theatrical manner
this “Edwards”—whom he accused of acts of
espionage after he had sworn “fee-al-ity” to the
British monarch —when Mr. Watt, who had been
laughing with others over The Bulletin, slipped
round the Speaker’s chair and pushed the page under
Dr. Maloney’s eye. The impassioned speech faltered
and then stopped while the doctor laughed. The
Chairman of Committees, seizing his opportunity,
tried to rush the item of supply under consideration
through. The stonewallers were not, however, to be
blocked, and th,e little doctor bogged in again at
something else quite as irrelevant to “new works and
buildings” as the Edwards matter. Meanwhile, that
Bulletin passed round the Chamber, and, aided by
the efforts of Mr. Charlton, led the House to take a
more human view of things and induced the antis to
let up on the debate and allow members to go home
at 11.30 p.m. instead of sitting up all night as had
seemed a certainty. The Gallery men, who thus
escaped a dreary, useless all-nighter, gave Low three
cheers.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “To-night’s the Night”
Royal “While the Billy Boils”
Criterion ;•>> “Romance”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle Elays
Hoyt’s Theatre Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Garden The Red Dandies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Cinema Star”
Royal “A Full House”
King’s “Qn Our Selection”
Princess’s “Fun with the Coachman,” & “In Mexico”
Tivoli Tivoli Follies
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Olympia ........ Moving Pictures
“While the Billy Boils” got a hearty wel-
come on Saturday at Sydney Royal. Henry
Lawson, encumbered with a travelliug Lag,
called in at Tiie Bulletin office a day or
so before the first production, wrung every-
body’s hand and confided joyfully but cryp-
tically, “I’m going West again! It’s all
right. But the billy should be on the ashes.”
That turned out to be the only complaint the
creator of Redclay, Joe Wilson and the rest
of them had to make about the play which
Beaumont Smith had assembled out of five
books of short stories. It is fragmentary,
of course, and a few melodramatic situa-
tions pushed in for artistic relief make the
onlooker impatient. They are not well con-
trived ; and one has the feeling that the set-
ting is too sunny and the worth of the
accused hero too obvious for him to stand
long in danger. Quite naturally, then,
after being formally committed for
trial, he is honorably discharged in
the main street. In the same way
Steelman, the bush spieler, is reduced to a
cheery township loafer who plays practical
jokes in the intervals of dunning the younger
son of the squatter for a gambling debt. And
then for plot purposes the squatter is com-
polled to employ his own _ wandering eldei 4
son without ever suspecting his identity;
That is when the patient theatregoer’s billy
really boils over.
* * * *
If we are to have Lawson’s bril-
liant fragments and vignettes staged
adequately, Australia will have to push
some old stage conventions into the wings
and invent a new dramatic form. There is
enough shadow and tragedy of the right sort
in Lawson ; but the present method doesn’t
get it out. The adapter, no doubt, has done
his best within the conventional form chosen
—mixed comedy and melodrama. It has
been tried commercially and found success-
ful in the Steele Rudd plays; but it is a
hybrid form at best, and, though it
may catch the public, it isn’t success-
ful artistically. Still, we must not
expect too much of the commercial
manager who is willing to tackle the
Australian play. He has got to make his
profit the best way he can, and we should be
thankful that he is now ready to do his
patriotic best within old, conventional
bounds. The non-commercial Repertory
“WHILE THE BILLY BOILS,” at
SYDNEY ROYAL.
The Bush Spielers—Steelman (Arthur
Styan) and Smith (H.H. Wallace).
“tanks” must barge ahead* first and roll
down the barbed-wire entanglements of pre-
judice and habit, and make the road
before the commercial theatre can afford to
charge. Meantime, let us pass a vote of
thanks to E. J. Carroll and Beaumont Smith
for having lit the fire and put the billy on.
* * * *
The players do their best with the col-
lected shreds and patches, some of which are
pure gold. lan Maclaren (the first grey-
flannel shirt hero) is likeable and not as
sugary as he might be. Craftsman Lawson
loaded Bob Brothers (“The Giraffe’ ) with
sentiment, and a bit of over-acting would
make him as cloying as a C-S.R. balance-
sheet. Gerald Kay Souper gets through as
the Hard Squatter who doesn’t know his
own son when he sees him. Walter Cornoclt
drawls sadly and naturally as Joe Wilson;
Ward Lyons “mashes” the hotel widow like
a prancing busliman ; and Arthur Styan, as
Steelman, might have been given more to do.
LI. LI. Wallace, as his pupil Smith, gives a
good imitation of a simple, Weary-eyed bush
type. Tom Cannam (“The Man Who For-
got”) is an amusing sun-crazed clown.
Esther Mitchell acts with charm and sin-
cerity as Ruth McLaughlin, the squatter’s
“TO-NIGHT'S THE NIGHT,” at
SYDNEY HER MAJESTY'S.
C. H. Workman in a gay mood.
niece; Pearl Hellmrich is a cheery bush-girl
who pursues and captures Joe Wilson with
cups of tea ; and Nan Taylor is incisive and
makes-up forbiddingly as Stiffner’s widow.
Two Lawson songs, composed by George
Hyarn, are well sung by Dick Ryan, and J.
F. Mann’s scenery fairly represents this sun-
lit country of ours. Producer, George Wil-
loughby. No Australian theatregoer should
miss the billy. Despite its crudities it is full
of sunshine and laughter, and it is our own
drama growing up.
The Gonsalez people produced “Mignon”
in the Sydney Opera House for. the first
time on Friday evening. It is a melodious
trifle by Ambroise Thomas. The music is
often heard here at students’ concerts; but
the opera is, like Halley’s comet, a rare
visitor. Mignon, the daughter of a nfibie
house Ilia! ha!), is stolen in her defenceless
childhood by a gang of gypsies. The first
scene discovers the girl (Miss Visoni) in
the act of mutiny against a dark-browed
brigand wdth ear-rings like Nellie Stewart
bangles. She is suitably dressed in well-
patched rags and appears to be the only
member of the gang addicted to clean linen.
Enter the dashing tenor, Balboni, as the
heroic Bill. He rescues the gy-u-rrl in dul-
cet notes. The audience clamors for encores.
But Balboni has the dignity of an archbishop
after he has said “finally, my brethren.” He
sings like a master craftsman straight
through his part till the fall of the last cur-
tain. The charming Filina is Miss Gonsalez,
who coos like a dove against Bill’s elbown
In the end all is well. Mignon is discovered
by her dad, Cacialli Lotario, not by a wart
on her pearly ear but by a casket in an
Italian villa. Her improved position as an
heiress brings the hero back to his Mignon.
Cacialli, heavily disguised early in the even-
ing as a wandering harpist, is the sono-
rous basso profundo of the opera. The rest
of the cast is unimportant. Taken alto-
gether, “Mignon” was an excellent per-
formance—right down (or up) to the
orchestra, which kept in tune and played
with greater delicacy than usual.
“Happy-go-Lucky O’Shea” is the most
entertaining of the Allen Doone plays yet
produced at the Palace (Sydney). Prac-
tically all its forerunners have depended
largely upon audiences of the faithful
who worshipped at the shrine of the
Irish-American’s personality. But the piece
that was presented on Saturday is
in a better class and, like the clever
showman he is, Doone makes the most
of its opportunities. The parts have
been allotted suitably, and the drama
mounted and dressed in a manner that
brightens up for the moment the taxation
outlook. Though there is not much strength
in the story it has its ingenuities—as in the
scene where Doone escapes arrest for debt
at the Assembly ball by disguising himself
as a bailiff. It was a joyous piece ot side
As the light-hearted and resourceful Irish-
man, .changing h.s lieutenant’s uniform in
Napoleon’s army for the mummer’s grease
in Ireland so that he might be within wooing
distance of Rose McMichael (Edna Keely),
the actor-manager has a part that appears
to have been constructed to his exact meas-
ure. If he only had a new singing
voice he would make a hit even at a Battle
of the Boyne celebration. Edna Iveely goes
up one in The Bulletin’s admiration for
her share in the production, and old friends
Tom Buckley and Frank Cullenane lose
nothing of its estimation for their studies.
Onslow Edgeworth robs the villain, Captain
Aubert, of the old-established tricks of the
business, and the result is much to his credit.
Ethel Bashford, representing Nancy O’Dowd,
an actress, can have a line to herself, and
the rest of the cast needn’t be downhearted.
When Doone was in U.S.A. some months
ago he was dubious about returning to Aus-
tralia, but when he has counted all the
profits that “Happy-go-Lucky O’Shea” will
bring him he’ll wonder what ailed him.
“Romance” plus Madge Fabian seems to
have solved the box-office problem at Sydney
Criterion.
!’: t'; »|i t',:
Despite rain and goloshes and taxes and
a smell of stale beer after the holiday on
Monday, “To-night’s the Night” is going
along gaily at Her Majesty’s, Sydney.
tl: t;: #
Degnon and Clifton, two hand-balancers
with some new ideas, have a quiet and well-
masked turn at Sydney Tivoli. The light
partner has a familiar way with a. grand
piano and plays, so well that tfid Tivdleafi
thihkk music and not acrobatics is the_,bhsi-
fiess, of the stage-bachelors’ flat. Bertje
Ford, a girl tango wirewalker, seems to tld
as she likes in mid-air, and Billie de Rex
and Gertrude Toft practise the art of song-
andance with new variations. Then there
are singer Louis London and all the people
who have been mentioned before. The Follies
are due back on Monday.
** * ❖
The only visible proof in Sydney that
summer isn’t going to miss the ’bus is that
Bianscombe’s Dandies are in town prepar-
ing for a season in the open-air Garden
Theatre at the top of William-street. First
night, Saturday (W. and W.P.).
* * * *
“East Lynne,” with Theda Bara in the
leading rdle, is the principal attraction on
Hoyt’s Sydney programme this week. Other
items are “The Masked Rider,” a Metro
moonshining melodrama ; a Kineto war map ;
war cartoons; and a fiery comedy, “False
Friends and Fire Alarms.”
AT THE OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY.
Count Filippint,
as Valentine
in "Faust."
Cacialli as Lotario in “ Mignon .”
In its most important aspects the latest
’Murkan farcical comedy at Melbourne
Royal is distinctly better than the worst.
“A Full House,” produced last Saturday,
fails to wrest the booby prize from “Too
Many Cooks,” which dragged its dreary fool-
ishness across the sands of time a little
while ago. “A Full House,” like its pre-
decessor, ought to have been a brief hurri-
cane of nonsense, but having been over-
crowded with superfluous complications it
is with the management’s assistance made
to last all the evening. The curtain rises


sd
H E N K E S’
SCHNAPPS
Holland's best production—an absolutely ideal tonio.
Awarded many gold medals for purity.
Ist*
K
HAUNTING MUSIC !
TO-NIGHT S THE NIGHT”
PAUL A. RUBENS,
Vocal Score, Selection, Fox-trot, One-step and Separate Songs.
To-night’s the Night” Waltz
Rival to the Famous “THE PINK LADY” Waltz!*’*""™"
HIT tHe piece—««XHE ONLY WAY.”
Sung by ALFRED FRITH.
CHAPPELL. OF ALL MUSIC-SELLERS.
THe Cool Wear-resisting*
CREPE SHIRTS
Cr6pe gives remarkable service—particularly our British
Crepe, which we bought during 1915 and reserved for
this season’s shirts. Consequent upon this fortunate
buying we can now quote these fine CrSpes at an unin-
creased price. The shirts have all-soft bodies, white
linen neckbands, soft double or short stiff cuffs. The
colorings are self tones of Blue or Buff, Black or Blue
stripes and neat, fine-line checks. Patterns sent on
request. Crepe shirts are ideal for hot days.
5/9 each.
Please state linen collar size.
Peapes & Co., Ltd.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 CEL 311 George Street, Sydney.
m
7 M/fii
mn\
at 8.15 and falls at 10.30, and there are two
long intervals en route, although the scene
of wild endeavor is unchanged throughout,
A brand new bridegroom has rushed away
from home on the job of recovering some
love letters from an actress on behalf of a
young man who has transferred his affec-
tions to the bride’s sister. The bridegroom,
it seems, is a lawyer disguised as Hale
Hamilton. On his return journey he takes
the wrong bag from the train—a bag belong-
mg to a “crook” who has stolen a set of
rubies. The crook, being left with the law-
yer s bag containing the love letters, comes
to the lawyer s house to exchange the letters
ror the jewels; also the chuckle-headed
police arrive, and other people drop in one
at a time, and a fresh green crop of mis-
understandings springs up. The soil is fer-
tilised by the cunning imbecility of a ser-
vant gal from a remote country town, who
sneaks the rubies from- their case and slips
thfrn into her stocking. Some of the mis-
understandings are cleared up Nevertheless
the crook gets away with the full reward
oilered for the stolen property and the
blackmailing actress bears him joyful com-
pany, which is quite in accordance with
’Murkan notions of poetic justice. The
“A FULL HOUSE,” AT MELBOURNE
ROYAL.
Leslie Victor as
Parkes, the Eng-
lish servant.
Susie from Sioux
City.
giddy minx, by the way, utters at least one
humorous plea for sympathy. She com-
plains that her juggins-admirer had mono-
polised her attentions for the best three
months of her life. It must be admitted
that “A Full House” is amusing in several
places, and laughable now and then. But
there is no glint of real humor in its situa-
tions, for they are consistently unreason-
able.. They never rise above the level of
roaring farce, with blank spaces between the
roars.
* * * *
Florence Gleeson, as the uncouth pro-
vincial servant, is burdened with the task
of being grotesquely funny in an American
manner. But she has no Yankee manner,
and her grotesqueness is very dull until she
empties a spirit flask into her face and
assumes insobriety. Leslie Victor plays a
feeble sort of English butler ; Bowles is the
droll young man who escapes from naughty
Nancye. Stewart to fall into the arms of
Eileen Robinson; Myrtle Tannehill is the
hysterical bride of Hale Hamilton, and there
are others —De Lacey, Olive Wilton, Lester,
Cambourne and Marian Clarke.
“On Our Selection” looks good for a third
week at Melbourne King’s. The perform-
ance has the ease and confidence of long
experience, and the domestic disturbances of
the Rudd family seem to go better than ever
with the gadding crowd.
* :!= *
At Melbourne Majesty’s the nights of
‘‘The Geisha” are numbered up to Friday.
On Saturday comes a striking event, as
times go. “The Cinema Star” will be intro-
duced to Australia, three or four principals
being added to the strength of the co. for
this new production.
* * * *
“In Mexico” and “The New Coachman,”
the two fresh burlesques at Melbourne
Princess’s, are the usual mixtures of songs,
dances and hugger-mugger made noisy by
the banter of Murray J. Simons and Lew
Dunbar. No one is of any consequence in
the programme except those two industrious
exponents of Yankee vaudeville culture.
They hold the stage for long periods and
hurl wearisome cross-talk at the audience,
until even the most forbearing person feels
a strong temptation to return the insult.
The show, however, has been somewhat bene-
fited by the addition of Queenie Paul’s legs,
whilst Queenie’s soprano has a compara-
tively pleasing timbre to an ear afflicted by
numerous inferior sounds. Among the
last may be mentioned with emotion the
accent and intonation of Mabel Baker, a
prima donna who is neither prima nor
much of a donna. Violet Trevenyon, a hard
and colorless warbler of chorus songs, is not
much better, though she has the saving-
graces of physical daintiness and a refined
taste in clothes. The most melodious voice
in the performance still belongs to a tall
and unnamed blonde buried away in the
chorus; in fact, some of the best things
continue to be given by modest individual
members of that hardworking body. The
chorus as a whole is still commendable for
its intervention when the mutual hostilities
of the comedians are producing general
ennui: and new raiment with special lime-
light effects helps the girls to achieve a
picturesque success.
'!* '!» Jfc *l'
A sweeping change of programme is due
at Melbourne Tivoli next Saturday matinee,
but the advt. throws no light on the subject
at time of writing. The Follies came along
for three weeks only, which period will end
to-morrow.
Hs ❖ sfc ❖
At the Princess’s (Melb.) the other
Follies, who make a speciality of Pleasure,
are still busy with the same burlesques as
before. Three new feminine faces and double
that number of arms and legs have been
added to the Fuller forces, and are said to
help “make life worth living,” in a man-
agerial way of speaking. Every managerial
way of speaking is paved with bold asser-
tions, especially where Follies are concerned.
$
The features of Hoyt’s menu in Melbourne
last Saturday were some snapshots of the
Somme front and two long-distance
tragedies, “The Snow Bird” and “A Fool’s
Bevenge.” “The Snow Bird” pictures a
damsel’s efforts to restore her papa’s busted
fortune by some surprising researches in
wild and wonderful Canadian scenery; and
“A Fool’s Revenge” is an extraordinary
orgy of crime, cruelty, drink and dementia,
wherein the Seventh Commandment is
trodden flat by the expensive boots of
moneyed satyrs.
* * * *
At a Melbourne art show :—-
Hans Heysen is the most arresting performer in
the Vic. Artists’ black-and-white and water-colSr
display at the East Melbourne galleries. His brilliant
gum-tree impressions have all the spontaneity of
impromptus, with the certainty of things done after
reflection. The feature of the group is an exquisite
atmospheric glow of which Nature should be glad to
have the recipe. Mrs. Gwen Barringer’s contribu-
tions amount to daintily-colored gossip about trees
and flowers and similar subjects. Harold Herbert’s
versatility is somewhat strained by the attempt to
render snowscapes, moonrises, breakers and other
natural phenomena impressively. Still his color has
a future, and there is no denying his decorative
talent. Miss Dora Wilson seems to belong to the
depressing school of weather-reporters, “Winter and
Rough Weather,” “Spring Showers” and “The Pass-
ing Storm” being her most striking meteorological
notes. In “Greyfriars” and “Stirling Brig,” Edward
Fraser expresses his morbid worship of old monu-
ments with curious, oleographic effects. Miss Cumbrae
Stewart has a clever “Grey Day, Sandringham,”
beside which the original would look like an un-
worthy imitation. Miss A. M. Sowden is also happy
in a study of the Hanover mine, while C. Douglas
Richardson again shows off in numerous landscapes
of his own invention. W. Nicholls Anderson is good
in everything but his “Evening, Chartersville,” which
is a sort of eerie treescape flooded with Maeter-
linekian moonshine. A pictorial pessimist who looks
at life through grey-green spectacles is the prolific
artist, F. G. Reynolds. He stabs Nature in the
back, as it were, in “Early Morning Bathers,” and
demonstrates the courage of his cowardice in several
other large conceptions. Miss Bernice Edwell is
quite garrulous about the beauties of Mentone; Miss
Roxburgh’s ability is noticed with applause in “The
Ploughman,” and Miss Hurry obliges with her view's
anent the charms of Sydney Harbor and the Bris-
bane River. Among the black-and-whiters, etchers,
etc., Miss Cumbrae Stew'art, Harry B. Harrison, F. A.
Campbell and Miss Ethel Jackson Morris are guilty
of some attractive and original achievements.
* sk * *
There is one specially brisk moment in the
extravaganza of the week at Adelaide
Majestic. A faithful servant promises the
suspicious boss to hang from a window the
national flag of anybody who may kiss the
lady of the house. The banners of various
Allies appear in startling succession. There
is a pause; and then slowly floats on the
breeze the dragon-flag of China. Gus Franks
and Jack Kearns give the foolish but funny
business all the chances it deserves. Amy
Murphy and Nellie Black are a really artis-
tic duet in the other half of the Majestic pro-
gramme. The Anderson Co. at the Tivoli
brisks up the low-life humors of “Saturday
Night in London” with a willing boxing
match in the third act; Ivan off’s fine music
is the most striking feature of the Strollers
at the Queen’s ; and the Pav. gives a glimpse
of the submarine Deutschland in port in the
U.S.A.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“L.H.P.” : After all, Sydney has not done
badly for grand opera since the century
started. Musgrove’s English co. in 1900-01
gave 62 performances, brought back to our
stage “Lohengrin” and “Mignon” after a
long absence, and gave us “The Flying
Dutchman” and “Tannhauser” as novelties.
Later, in 1901, he gave us, with Ella Rus-
sell as star, 24 more performances. Wil-
liamson’s Italian Opera troupe followed in
1901, and gave 83. So within 10 months
Sydney, a city then of only half a million
people, had no fewer than 169 performances.
“Otello,” “La Boh&me” and “La Gioconda”
were novelties. The Williamson second
season 1901-2 lasted 31 performances and
was notable for Giordano’s “Fedora” as a
novelty. Then came a lull till 1907, when
Musgrove’s German Opera Co. played an
eight-weeks’ season and introduced “The
Valkyrie,” “Romeo and Juliet” and “Hansel
and Gretel” as novelties. Musgrove, in con-
junction with John Wren, also gave a short
season at the end of 1908, when comic opera
varied the entertainment. “Madame Butter-
fly,” then new to Sydney, was the feature
of Williamson’s season in English in 1910,
and next year (1911) saw the famous
Melba seasons, when “La Tosca” and “Sam-
son and Delilah” were the novelties. Quin-
lan followed in 1912 with “The Girl of
the Golden West,” “Tristan and Isolde,”
“Prodigal Son,” and “Tales of Hoffmann”
as novelties. The year following (xol3) he
gave us “Louise.” “Manon” and “The
Meistersingers ” “Rhinegold,” “Siegfried,”
and “The Dusk of the Gods” as novelties.
Had the great upheaval not happened in
1914 the Williamson folk might have
brought the Boston Grand Opera Co., but
as things turned out we had to wait till
1916 for the Gonsalez people.
FREDDIE SHIPMAN, Concert Manager.
“Hamer” : The show of which Bunkerville
was manager was having such poor houses
that he sent urgent messages to his advance
agent to shake things up. The “advance” duly
shook. For a start he advertised far and
wide that Broadcliest, the co.’s star young
man, was enlisting at the earliest oppor-
tunity ; also he sent notices about it to the
metropolitan papers, which quite raised the
importance of the co. and enabled him to
get in a free ad. of the show’s whereabouts.
The result pleased everybody except Broad-
chest. After considerable persuasion, he at
length consented to live the part and sacri-
fice himself on the altar of advertisement.
Spurred by the approval of the management
the “advance” shortly added to his achieve-
ments by announcing that Tintack, the
comedian, had also elected to enlist. The
enraged Tintack was told that it was he who
had urged the claims of King and Country
upon Broadchest. After the pair had gone
into camp, Bunkerville continued his tour,
and scored heavily on the advertisements
about the patriotism of his company. He was
vaguely disturbed on his way back to the
metropolis, however, by the congratulations
of friends who showed him paragraphs in
the city papers which stated that “Gus. P.
Bunkerville, the well-known actor-manager,
who is returning from a highly successful
tour, has decided to offer his services to the
Empire.” When he reached the station it
seemed to him that all the soldiers in Aus-
tralia rushed to meet him. Most of them
were recruiters; and amongst the mass of
khaki Bunkerville observed the grinning
faces of Broadchest and Tintack.
“Longford, Producer”: “Legirons” (B.
14/9/T6) fails in the eyesight test. The
“cat” used in the “Mutiny of the Bounty”
film is composed of 18 strips of leather, 28
inches long, each strip l-inch wide. I know
something about “cats.” I lived in Darling-
hurst in the early ’9o’s and the “cat” that
was used by the gaol flogger in those days
was made of greased knotted twine. My
father successfully chased me with it once,
for smuggling flat tobacco into the inmates.
I remember very distinctly that he caught
me.
From the Office Curate
Concerning the gaiterless bishop in “Romance”
at Sydney Criterion (B. 28/9/T6). As the bishop
is an American, the absence of gaiters is all
right; for bishops in Uncle Sham’s country—even
of the Anglican, or “Protestant Episcopal,” brand
—wear neither apron nor gaiters, but simply the
togs of the ordinary parson. A few years ago an
English bishop visiting the U.S.A. wore his cus-
tomary comic-opera costume while giving a lecture.
The garb puzzled the local reporter, who announced
next morning, “The Bishop appeared in Highland
dress.”
Passed off the stage at ’Frisco recently
George Gedge, professionally known as
Osbourne, an Australian-born actor who had
been prominent in California for something
under half a century. Son of a sea-captain
and grandson of an admiral, he was born in
Tasmania in 1848, but was taken to the
U.S.A. when he was too young to know that
Australia was a better country.
“Tasman” : Apparently the baggy trousers,
prolonged coats and Yankee twang- that are
so essential to success behind the Australian
footlights are not indispensable in modern
filmodrama. Arthur Shirley, the nice looking
Hobart young man who played in “The Shep
herd of the Southern Cross,” has just
dropped in for the job of leading man with
the Triangle people, and will be playing
opposite the dainty Bessie Barriscale.
The Musicians’ Union has served notice on
Sydney theatrical managements that from
October 1 members will not play under non-
union conductors. By way of reply the man-
agers have obtained an injunction against
the union officials restraining them from in-
stigating or taking part in a strike. If in
spite of this the unionists will not tune up
with non-unionists, their officials will be
guilty of contempt of court. Maybe that
will settle the matter. If it does an opti-
mistic Government is expected to apply the
principle to the Crimes Act. Then the
burglar and the sand bagger and the meat-
ring and other evildoers will be moved out
of action by injunction, and peace and quiet
will settle down upon a long-suffering com-
munity.
“B.”: That good and versatile actor H. R.
Roberts has been lately the admiration of
Brisbane critics for his Horace Parker in “A
Message from Mars.” “One of the best of
the actors who have visited Brisbane in
many years,” said one paper, and the praise
was general. Yet Roberts is rarely seen at
work. Somebody asked me the other night
the reason. The answer was easy. Roberts
should have stayed with Belasco in America.
Only an Australian would be patriot enough
to throw away success abroad to return
home in search of it.
(Continued on page 26.)
There is no occasion for the Huns to be
made drunk before they meet the English
these times. They can get “tanked” during
the battle.
Neil E. Lewis, Treasurer of Tasmania, is
a cheerful Micawber. There was a deficit
last year, and there would be a bigger deficit
this year if he didn’t do something. So he
reckoned he’d better perhaps do something.
Some people might have thought that the
only decent thing to do would be to try to
pay their way. But that would be too
strenuous. The Speck’s Treasurer is cynic-
ally candid about it: —
I do not think that what I propose will balance
the ledger; but it is as much as the Ministry thinks
the people ought to be asked for at the present time.
Neil Desperandum Lewis. Never despair
while there’s a kid to pass the bill on to.
ITALIAN GRAND OPERA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The signors are singing as hard as they can,
The basso is braying,
The tenor is neighing,
The drummer is rolling his drum— rat-a-plan !
Soprano, contralto,
Shrill treble to alto,
All shrieking and moaning,
With mad baritoning,
Like elephants ’phoning,
To far Ispahan!
Their frenzied instructor,
The gallant conductor,
With light baton flashing,
The sound-storm is lashing!
A little more noise and they’ll wake up Queen
Anne l
It couldn’t be done in a bootshop!
It's the maddest thing under the moon.
It sounds like a row in a fruit shop—
A terrible row in a fruit shop—
Or a feud in an oyster s saloon!
N.S.W.
KODAK.


DAVID JONES’
Genuine Panamas
12/6
The acme of summer headwear comfort
—cool, light, durable and distinctive.
New shape in strong, medium plait of
good bleach.
Brim 2% inches and 3 inches. All
sizes 12/C
Better qualities, 2y 2 inches to 3 inches
brim, all sizes—
-17/C, 21/-, 30/-, 35/-, and 50/-
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
Opp. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
fd
Keep Copies of Your Correspondence by using
Zanetic Paper. You write your letter with pen and
ink in your usual manner, and with no more trouble,
and as you write a clear, permanent copy is pro-
duced, and the original shows no sign of having
been duplicated. All Stationers, Stores, etc., sell
Zanetic Ink Paper, or from S. B. Zanetic, Leicester,
England. Zanetic is ALL BRITISH.— Advt. [4
Actress Tells Secret
A Well-known Actress Tells How She
Darkened Her Grey Hair with a
Simple Home-made Mixture.
Miss Blanche Rose, a well-known actress,
who darkened her grey hair with a simple
preparation which she mixed at home, in a
recent interview made the following state-
ment : “Any lady or gentleman can darken
their grey hair and make it soft and glossy
with this simple recipe, which they can mix
at home. To a half-pint of water add loz.
of bay ruin and a small box of Orlex (
pound. These ingredients can be bought at
any chemist’s at very little cost. Apply to
the hair twice a week until it becomes the
required shade. This will make a grey-
haired person look 20 years younger. It is
also fine to promote the growth of hair, ana
relieves itching and dandruff. — Advt. U
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Hath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
“M.J.D.” takes a look backward: —
This is not the first time Verdun has figured in
history. Because its distance from the sea rendered
escape difficult, Napoleon in 1802 made it an intern-
ment camp for English officers and others. About
1000 British subjects—mostly well to do —thus had
the run of the place on parole for 12 years. Finan-
cially they were a windfall to the 10,000 inhabitants
of the town, and a French newspaper of the time
compared the interned to sheep enclosed in a fold to
manure the soil. In 1804, Napoleon warned the
municipality to keep down the price of lodgings,
which had risen from 36 to 300 francs a month.
HEAVEN UP-TO-DATE—NO. 4
In the same year Lady Cadogan issued 120 invita-
tions to her fellow-captives to a ball and supper,
at which the prisoners enjoyed themselves “playing,
singing, dancing and drinking all day long.” Police
reports of 1804-1805 mention one Wilson as behav-
ing indecently with his French mistress at the
theatre and striking the officer who reprimanded him.
Wilson was punished by transfer to a much less
jolly camp. Lord Blayney says the gaming-tables
cost the prisoners £50,000 a year. Their friends
in England kept them supplied with cash. General
AVirion, the son of a pork butcher, was the military
commandant, and is credited with having made
hay while the sun shone. He winked at illicit amours
for a consideration, and played cards with the
wealthier captives, who allowed him to win in order
to obtain small favors. In 1810 he was recalled for
the purpose of answering a few questions, and, as
the hackney coach neared the Bois de Boulogne, he
blew out his brains. It was a poor trick to play
on a cabman.
* * * *
“M.M.”: The Bulletin is quite right
about the Australian rank-and-file being
forced to travel third-class on the railways
here in Egypt. We’re still doing it, and
enjoying the variegated stinks of the niggers
who pour in upon us in spite of the “Re-
served for Soldiers” placard. I guess that is
one of the blessings of having a horde of
illiterate customers —you salve your con-
science by sticking up a placard and then
they pour in because they can’t read it. It
doesn’t seem to be anybody’s job to teach
them to respect the notice. If there are no
soldiers travelling by a train, the useless
placard is not hung, and Egypt, with its
stinks and diseases, pours in without hin-
drance of any kind. The murky customers
depart at the end of the journey, but their
stinks and diseases remain. If the Kaiser is
caught alive I suggest that he be given a
third-class yearly and forced to travel day
and night in the trains of Pharaohland.
“Corio”: Re the employment of girls in
banks. A vacancy in Sydney was applied
for by a member of the R.S.A. His accoun-
tancy degree qualified him for the post, but
the bank turned him down because his left
leg had been temporarily disabled at Gal-
lipoli. They push pens with their feet in
that office, evidently. The case gives point
to The Bulletin’s suggestion that there
should in each State be a judicial committee
—judicial to ensure that it be independent
—whose job it should be to inquire into and
report on all such cases. Then a bank might
think twice before hanging itself on such a
flimsy pretext.
“Harrow”: The other day a couple of Vic-
torian detectives boarded a boat that had
arrived from U.S.A. and arrested a man
whom they suspected was concerned in the
daylight robbery at Drummond’s, the Collins-
street jeweller, 18 months ago. The suspect
was brought before the City Court, remanded
for a week, and then discharged—and that
probably is the last that will be heard of
the affair. A couple of months back the same
force arrested two men and got them a year
each on the old “vag.” charge. At the time
of the arrests the two were suspected of hav-
ing had a hand in the murder of Haines, the
chauffeur, at Heidelberg,
and by getting them
gaoled the Sherlock
Holmeses were free to
follow clues and collect
evidence. The men were
duly brought out of gaol
and charged with the
murder, and were
promptly acquitted. The
force was very angry
and a charge of perjury
was brought against the
two, but the City Court
would not even commit
them for trial. So the
Haines murder takes
its place—along with
the murder of Bauer,
the city diamond mer-
chant, and Trotter, the
Fitzroy commercial tra-
veller; and the recent
bold attempt to rob
some post-office officials
in Spencer-street—in
the crowded pigeon-hole
marked “Undetected
Crimes.” Recent statis-
tics show that on an
average 2S crimes are
reported in Victoria
every day and only five
offenders are caught.
Burglary has been par-
ticularly prevalent in
Melbourne of late —
about 26 cases of bur-
glary, housebreaking
and theft are reported
daily—-but there seems
about as much chance
of a Victorian police-
man catching a burglar
as there is of a fireman
catching heat-rash at
the South Pole. Perhaps now that Chief
Secretary McLeod has appointed two police-
women things will change. They, anyhow,
may possibly be chosen because of their in-
telligence. Policemen never are. Rather a
fool of 6ft. than a genius of five feet one.
Not all the treasures of the “Bobby” Lowe
family were in the possession of the widow,
Viscountess Sherbrooke, whose will was
proved the other day. One interesting relic
is in the Mitchell (Sydney) Library—a
brotherly epistle sent to Bobby in 1849 by
Dr. William Bland. Lowe opposed the Syd-
ney University Bill in the Legislative Coun-
cil because he was “against the principle
which was sought to be introduced of admit-
SHOW WEEK IN MELBOURNE.
Scene: Railway Station; busiest time of day.
FOND MOTHER (punting baby through the gate): “Give the pretty man your ticket,
deary!”
ting members into the Senate who had been
transported.” Bland, who had been “sent
out” for fighting a duel, reckoned Lowe was
“fitting a cap” on him, and said so with all
the nice punctilio of the period :
October 11, 1849. Sir, —I have this moment read
the report of your speech of yesterday evening in the
Sydney Morning Herald of to-day, and I feel no
doubt that you have used your position in the Coun-
cil to vent your private malignity against me. I
am, however, recommended not to call upon you for
the satisfaction of a gentleman, because you have
on more occasions than one (where the claim for
reparation from the nature of the insult was even
stronger than in this case) in a manner the most
cowardly evaded it. I shall, therefore, content
myself on this occasion with merely expressing my
opinion that you are a coward and a scoundrel;
but which opinion I shall be happy to retract if it
is in your nature to give me an opportunity. I
am your most obedient servant, W. Bland.
Alas, how the art of polite letter-writing has
deteriorated! But Bland, who had been
transported from India for killing his
antagonist in a duel, must have known that
he had nothing to fear from Lowe —poor
“Pink-eyed Bob,” who was so nearly blind
that he couldn’t have hit a haystack except
by accident.
* * * *
“Signaller” writes when the guns are at
peace:—
The peace of Heaven is come after 24 hours of
the riot and flames of Hell. Seated against a hay-
stack, watching the setting sun, I hear in the shell-
battered farm the men recounting their escapes and
telling of or inquiring about lost chums. We under-
stand it was a great success; so we assume a grati-
fied air that doesn’t square with tour conscience.
Two things are to be remarked —the vital import-
ance of bomb- and grenade-throwers and the rapidly-
diminishing value of the bayonet. Every infantry-
man —private, n.c.o. or officer —should be thoroughly
acquainted with the theory and practice (especially
the practice) of bomb-throwing. For not only are
attacks culminated with these hand-grenades or
bombs, but counter-attacks have to be repulsed by
them. The German is a well-informed, resourceful
fighter, and quite ruthless. He is neither hero,
martyr nor fool, but is collectively and individually
in deadly earnest. Being the initiator of this appal-
ling struggle, his policy is positive, aggressive.
He’ll bully us out of his road if he can, because he
is saturated with the spirit of world conquest.
According to him it is his turn by right of merit to
dominate the world. That is what makes him intel-
ligently surrender when he is “up against it,’’ in-
stead of stupidly fighting to the death. He is
obsessed by logic. Much has been written of the
German headquarters’ indifference to the sufferings
of their troops. Quite absurd. Except when he. is
attacking, or counter-attacking, the German sokliei
is most carefully preserved from harm.
Fritz is quite docile if left alone. Happily we
.don’t leave him alone, and so he retaliates, and we
get some destroying fireworks. And that is a pity,
because the farm lands are charming, everywhere a
luxuriant wilderness of wild flowers and self-sown
crops which almost dwarf the fruit trees in the
orchards and the willows gracing the roads. Except
across No-Man’s Land one would never dream a state
of war existed. It is the unkempt towm, choked
with troops, and the silent, battered villages that
breathe rage and sadness. Even up to the firing-
line one gazes in wonder at the farmer gathering in
his crops and hoeing his patch of earth, while chil-
dren wander about quite unmindful of the din of
batteries around them.
This is going to a long business ; and I pray you
to preach everywhere the gospel of thoroughness and
sincerity. I see around me too many spiritless, self-
centred agnostics. I w'ant them replaced by ruthless,
patriotic bigots.
llullo, I must hurry; something is going to
happen.
*.#*.*
W. D. Barnett, secretary of the big
miners’ union at Broken Hill, was hit by
what he thought was a bombshell last week;
he was arrested and charged with inciting to
murder various mine managers. When Bar-
nett had asked what it was all about he
found he was enjoying one of the privileges
of running a newspaper. Fifteen years or
more ago N. J. Buzacott, now M.L.C., and
others established a little weekly paper as
the “official organ” of the Broken Hill
unions. , Later on it blossomed into a daily;
and finally so much of'the A.M.A.’s widows
and orphans’ fund was sunk in it that the
union had to take it over. And that is how
W. D. Barnett, as secretary of the A.M.A.,
came to be nominally a newspaper proprie-
tor. In its time the little sheet has had
many editors and more troubles. The most
notable of the editors was George Black,
now N.S.W. Chief Secretary; but he was at
loggerheads with some of his five thousand
bosses within a fortnight, and escaped inside
six months.
The*little devil that won’t let things rest
got busy on the Araluen-Redbank (N.S.W.)
dredge lately and swept up the remains of
a fleet of ancient tip-drays, two Californian
pumps, divers sawn red-gum slabs (as good
as new), the framework of several bygone
horses, and multitudinous sundries. The
oldest inhabitant vaguely remembers that the
spot where the relics were located was the
site of a rich claim that was “snowed under”
by a big flood of 1860.
MOTHERS OF MEN!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Filled is my heart with gratitude too deep
For full expression by my halting pen;
But I would strive, and shall not fail, to keep
The memory of your nobleness —and then
Dear God ! your patience, Mothers of Our Men!
Patience, endurance —these your gifts are laid
Humbly by you at our dear Nation’s feet,
And drop by drop your very blood has paid
The price ; your heart with every throb and beat
Pays back that debt of honor we must meet.
The pain you hide away with calm, sweet smile,
Cheering us weaker women, not as you,
Helping us through the darkness mile by mile —
Creator make my very soul anew!
Make me a Mother of Men—they are too few!
So may Thy steps guide me along that way
Where sacred feet have trod! And later when
I am a Mother of some future day,
Let it be written by a willing pen
“He made of her the Mother of such Men.”
VICTORIA.
MARJORIE G. M. EADIE.


• I*
1111
leu
Hot breezes of summer —driving rains of the oif-season
won’t penetrate
Certain-teed
ROOFING
This product represents the culminating effort of the largest
manufacturers of their kind in the world —it will give splendid
service and the cost is moderate.
Leading architects the world overspecify Certain-teed. Prominent
buildings, large and small —residences, stands, hotels, booths and
bungalows—are roofed with Certain-teed.
Obtain samples from your local distributor. He car-
ries a full stock. Orders will be filled promptly.
GENERAL ROOFING MFG. CO.
Manufacturers of world-known Certain-teed products.
Reinforced Flat Roofing Roll Roofing Damp Course Building Paper
Insulating Paper Paints Wall Board
EXPORT OFFICES: New York and San Francisco, U. S. A. Cable Address: 'Genromco’.
FACTORIES: York, Pennsylvania; Marseilles and E. St. Louis, Illinois, U. S. A.
Australian Office: Perpetual Trustee Building, Hunter Street, Sydney.
Full local stocks carried by John Danks & Sons Pty. Ltd.,
Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. ; Bourke Street, Melbourne, Vic.
HOTEL SYDNEY,
Opposite Railway Station,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE MODERN HOTEL AT A MODERATE TARIFF.
240 BEDROOMS—HOT AND COLD WATER IN EACH.
EXCELLENT CUISINE.
Table d’hote luncheon 2 /6
£ la carte luncheon, from 1/6
Table d’hote dinner 3/6
Dining-room Open to Non-residents.
THEATRE DINNER, 6 to 7.30 p.m., 3/6. Orchestral Items During Dinner.
CYRIL EDWARDS, Manager.
COPPER-TOP.
[For The Bulletin.]
The skipper’s ’neath the awning aft, a-chattin’ to
his dear—
A whimsey wife all lank of flank and trim of
tongue, and thin !
But give to me my Copper-top, a-pullin’ of the beer
For the big, bully sailors at the Blue Ship Inn !
Luggin’ at the beer-arm, and a-givin’ of ’em lip,
Clatterin’ the glasses and a-fillin’ up the mug;
Gettin’ up a muscle ’gin the time I slip the ship ;
The arm that pulls the beer up is the arm to
give the hug!
Skipper’s wife’s a whining wench with timid eyes
of blue—-
Oh, every ship’s a sloppy ship that’s narrow in
the beam !
So give to me my Copper-top, a thickset lass and
true,
With all her buttons bursting off her bodice at the
seam!
Oh, Mrs. Skipper’s hair is like a little twirl of
smoke
Loafin’ from the funnel-rim, and trailin’ on the
sea!
But give to me my Copper-top, who’ll crack a sailor
joke!
Red’s the only color for a cold A.B.
And I’d be with the bullies at the Blue Ship Inn,
Where I can call her Copper-top, while they must
call her Miss !
And I can dig her flfth-rib, and chuck the chubby
chin
Of my Copper-top who’s waitin’ for a deep-sea
kiss!
maoriland. BOYCE BOWDEN.
* * * *
The news has reached Germany, and the
full history has been recorded in the
Blutwurstenburg Sausagevkapt :—-
Riots in Australia, Victoria and others parts of
Sydney followed an attempt to enforce service with
the Allied forces. While the Prime Minister, Herr
Hughes, was addressing a large meeting at the
Town Hall, an incensed mob attacked the building.
Herr Hughes and his supporters took refuge in the
organ loft. The police were powerless to make
arrests although, later on, Ilerr Chidley, a well-
known reformer, was arrested. Riots continue, and
the towns are practically in the hands of the insur-
gents, who have raided the headquarters of the
1.W.W., a powerful financial organisation. Four of
the leaders of the organisation were captured and
are being held to ransom. Herr Hughes has been
forced by the popular clamor to promise a referen-
dum on the question of continuing the war, and a
majority in favor of giving in to Germany is prob-
able. _ The general feeling in that direction has been
intensified by the action of the Necessary Commodi-
ties Commission, which long ago declared that soap
was not a necessary commodity and prohibited its
use, owing to the scarcity existing since trade with
Germany ceased. The unhappy country is not able
to make its own soap, and but for the United States
would be unable to wash the sick. All Australian
bathrooms have been sealed.
* * * *
“Mujik”: I merely want to remark that
Bags is not as smart as he thought he was.
Recently he told me he had £5Ol 13s. 4d. in
the bank and reckoned that within 12
months, by not giving his kids any pennies,
he would have £502 6s. Bd. My total was
£505, but a flutter_at Randwick reduced it to
£499. Now Bags has got to part with
ENTER—THE PANTALETTE.
AUNTIE : “Oh, my dear, how you remind me
— in—in parts of my own simple child-
hood!”
£7. 10s. 2d. to William Higgs on the all-
round levy, while I hang on to my little lot
and beat Bags by £4 16s. lOd. Economy
brought its own reward to Bags, while the
loss of £6 on the Epsom put me £1 10s. 6d.
to the good. I’ve always told Bags that he
was a fool not to have a flutter now and
then.
ON THE SAFE SIDE.
HE: “Told Major Farr and the Captain that you wouldn’t choose between ’em until
after the war, didn’t you — eh?”
SHE: “Yes, I did—you see one of ’em might get killed.”
The Adelaide club which called itself
“Sud Australischer Allgemeiner Deutscher
Verein” has had the sense to pass out. S.
Aus. may owe a good deal to the men who
got away from Prussian tyranny 70 years
back; but that doesn’t justify the existence
of a club whose rules require that meetings
shall do their business in the German lan-
guage. Since the military authorities closed
the doors, only a license has remained, and
now, on a few pointed remarks from the
Licensing Bench, application for renewal
has been withdrawn.
* * * *
A few months ago, in a spasm of virtue,
Melbourne made a series of effective raids on
the parlors of its fortune-
telling spiders. The raid
part of the campaign was
effective, but the police
courts generally took an
easy-oozy view of the
offence, and as a rule were
satisfied with fining the
delinquents as much as
half a week’s takings.
However, though cast
down, the police didn’t
entirely give up the pur-
suit, and were greatly
cheered the other day by
getting a fine of £l5 re-
corded against a Mrs.
Jarvis, of South Mel-
bourne. Fortune-telling
wasn’t mentioned on the
charge-sheet—merely the
“unlawful use of subtle
craft.” But as the Jarvis
person had accepted 2s. 6d.
from a caller for admission
into the “Spiritualistic
Sociological Church,” with
a “free” mind-reading
thrown in, the Bench
seems to have done a fair
thing for once by the Criminal Investigation
Branch.
■* * * *
“Zackite”: We were lined up just after
marching into camp, and the O.C. had
finished reading out the rules and regula-
tions. “Now,” he said, looking along the
line, “I want a good, smart bugler.” Out
stepped an old, dilapidated bloke. “What!”
said the colonel, eyeing him up and down, “are
you a bugler?” “Oh, bugler,” said the
hard-faced bloke. “Gorblime, I thought you
said burglar!”
“D.F.”: There is, or lately was, a grim
piece of bric-a-brac in Hobart —an old-
fashioned eight-day clock, the case carved by
a man who fought on the rebel side at Sedge-
moor. The story was that he had lost one
hand in the fight and had carved the case
with the other; and inside there was the
skeleton of a fist as evidence.
Maoriland is beginning to discover that
behind its showy youth there is a disquieting
growth of weeds. In
Canterbury the num-
ber of men rejected
at the . recruiting
depots has flabber-
gasted the examiners.
Lieut.-Col. Anderson,
Assistant-Director of
Medical Services, has
officially reported his
amazement that hun-
dreds of youths have
stripped a chest in-
capable of expanding
beyond 33|in. and
have shown a muscu-
lar development that
would be disquieting 1
if found in a school-
girl of 12 or 14. And ,
it is not only chest/
and muscle that’s /
wrong. Large num-
bers of Algy, fit for
service in other re-
spects, have had to be
turned down for de-
formities of the feet
caused by wearing
very pointed boots.
So marked his this
fashion-note been that
it is suggested that
legislation should be
introduced to pro-
hibit the sale of shoes
likely to cause defor-
mities rendering men
unfit for national de-
fence. What a dashed bore war is!
An episode that was comic to all but
those directly interested lightened the
gloomy tale of Victoria’s flood disasters. In
the Melbourne suburb of Brunswick the
Council allows Private Enterprise to dig out
the soil and bake it and sell it as bricks;
and one co. has delved so close to certain pre-
mises that when the rain soaked into the
greasy ground the backyards and outbuild-
ings of four houses slid gracefully into the
clayhole, 200 feet nearer the bottomless
pit. Since then one house has followed
them and the others threaten to go, too, if
anybody leans against them. Meantime the
proprietors are in a state of suspended
ownership, as it were. They still possess
their frontages to the street, including the
privilege of paying rates thereon, but the
rest of their “desirable building allotments”
are mere orifices or vacuums; and people are
looking up the doctrine of “lateral support”
which was discussed at tremendous length in
the Victorian courts when some of the
present judges drew counsels’ fees.
“J.J.H.”: What a funny little sideshow
that is outside Sydney G.P.O. —I mean the
box of meteorological devices, with the
weather-vane and a bucket arrangement to
measure the rate at which the wind is blow-
ing ! When I looked last the wind was
blowing a gale from the north-west and the
arrow was pointing without shame to the
north-east. On another occasion, during a
southerly storm, the arrow pointed along
Martin-place to the west. Unless tied in
position, I don’t believe that arrow could be
made to point, by wind pressure, to north or
south, owing to the height of the buildings
on either side of the street. Nor are the
little buckets of much use for discovering
the rate of the wind, for the gusts which
reach the instrument are mere eddies off the
main stream. If the public needs instruc-
tion, why not give it in the Botanical Gar-
dens, Hyde Park or other place where an
essential unaffected current of air can be
obtained?
“Coot”: The telephone number of the
Beast of Revelation is 666, isn't it? Well,
here’s something for him to swallow. The
North Sea battle took place on the 666th
day of the war; the news of Kitchener’s
death reached England on 6/6/TG; Kitch-
ener was 66 in 1916; and the crew of the
Hampshire numbered 666. Let the astrol-
ogers, witch-doctors, medicine-men and turf
tipsters do their worst with it.
* * * *
“D.T.0.”: The late Bishop Reville, of
Bendigo, once refused £lOOO. In the late
’9o’s some tickets in an art union to swell
St. Pat’s building fund were sent to him
ANOTHER ANTI
“I’d have gone to the bally war long ago
only I know they’d want to cut my
hair.”
and laid aside. One of them won the big
prize, but the resolution of the prelate
against schemes of this kind for raising
money refused to bend, and the swag re-
mained unclaimed. Archbishop Carr was
thus able to buy a few more barrowloads of
bluestone for his gospel-foundry.
NOCTURNE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The noiseless night her starry sandals ties
And moves, expectant, o’er the storied skies.
There, in the garden, rose with rose is wed;
The married airs swing, breathless, overhead.
0 night of ecstasy! With passion deep
The river turns and murmurs in her sleep ;
So turns my wife, as Earth her Sea betroths,
Murmuring, “Dear, do you want oil the clothes?”
QUEENSLAND.
ZORA CROSS.


[David Low, Bulletin Office, Collins-street, Melbourne.]
RUNNING ’EM IN.


Were wHats
he allowed to block !+>«-tva ffic
4or * Why donl" uoq
V»im
SURCE-lRy
.if Hughes \
dares fbrnake
the Sov e re io'n
Wil\ of an <
bufeserv»enV' to th/volej
ofa Jinob Majority evt'ryf
mocr/r curse 1
nt n> for a traitor h> (he \
people
►NUV-Nov
l'ninof
afraid of small-bo* _ No com-
vaccination for mei V >c//
fjnh-Cpnsc ripiio n isfDoc fo r-Thank
WNOur wav . f Xfs/oudidt4'
fe Country soon ,/be '
x 7 «•
y /sof».C«nipuUion(sl'- Mere,/
f put tViafpipe out !
T*K<l Citizen Its me
own p»pe , i&nhf*? Ye ain't" 'lg
gom to tel! a man what lodo}
witt\ hivown face *re youV/t
:V\»nV 1 , when me *
life's ?
rCfltiT/oAiN
J‘ M, ‘
»o n * <» f"
t°h En g u *Vt*'T>eh
a fe ConipuKion /
W Because
! vg’norAhf"! "TCe
blcof fret and c.om-
educahon has been
• ofentca ffie-in.“
Y C. Union isV >. WbrktrJ wh<y>
J' on blrike ,\jou bl&ckle^l^^
/) '^,te M h^ rod^t^
f
OMf or* job for A
force "ftOlMfcs yM
* ur >ls I've qoXMn
like, *fym A
wit'Kmesclf Lz
¥t»r>-C /T m
« unionist? \V pr
No you cunT-nof/V/
it 1 1" h*rrv>s. jp'
*« iio w -
B»\Nt No Cons c»ri *
Ben ‘‘Vus, markethtt Anfe-vip <vn <*i m th«
blooonirC W&r - IKev/asy • n
[B. E. Minns, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
THE INCONSISTENCIES OF ANTI-CONSCRIPTION.


Chaving
C>)tick
XI£V£RX
For an
Ideal Shave
/< ■ v 4
£\>X
a
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
sf
sdf
sd
f
sdf
sd
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, yet
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
at . x
MELBOURNE & SYbNEY
DOCTORS
RECOMMEND
(SILBEY’S
pry an
For Kidney Complaints
and Rheumatism.
Obtainable Everywhere in Quarts 8 Pints.
TUCKER & CO., SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
MY SON.
[For The Bulletin.]
I bought you a little toy gun,
Little lead soldiers all in a row—
Pop went the cork —and over they’d go!
P’raps two. . . .p’raps one.
And didn’t you laugh at the fun !
Laugh with glee—as you and me
Popped them over —one, two, three!
Little lead soldiers all in a r0w....
But that was twenty years ago.
Little toy gun to my little boy’s shoulder.
Now my son is twenty years older —
Twenty years older and war has begun....
And they’re calling for men —my son, my son!
My son ! My son !
Now you’re a man with a gun,
I can see the soldiers all in a row;
The troopships are ready, and off they go.
P’raps two. . . .p’raps one—
Nigh every mother is sending a son.
Down the years laughter and tears,
Jest to earnest —so it appears.
Little lead soldiers, little toy gun....
Twenty years afterwards fighting the Hun.
A rifle is flung to my big boy’s shoulder,
Now my son is twenty years older.
I wish to God that the War was done,
For my heart calls out—my son, my son !
MAORILAND. J. P. DELAHUNTY.
W. M. Hughes was 53 last week.
Ted Russell, the 4-Minister who has been
attending to the wheat business on behalf
of the Commonwealth Government, will get
into khaki at the end of the month.
Died a few days ago, Brother Stanislaus,
principal of St. Ildephonsus College (W.A.),
the last of three brainy brothers. One,
I* J. Healey, barrister, was a leader at the
N.S.W. Criminal Bar ; the second, Nicholas,
was a solicitor who practised and died at
Cootamundra.
HOW ITS DONE.
SHE: “Oh, how clever! It is just wonderful
to think that you could paint a big pic-
ture like that from this little print in
the catalogue.”
October birthdays: Miss Rose Scott,
something or other on Bth; Jim Gannon,
K.C., 55 on 11th; Hartley Williams, ex-
Vic. Judge, 73; John Gavan Duffy, for-
merly Victorian P.M., 72, and Langdon
Bonytlion (Adelaide Advertiser) 68, on
15tli; James Fairfax (S. M. Herald), 82
on 17th; W. IL Withers (Melb. artist, 59
oil 22nd, and Treasurer Elliott Dewis
(Tas.) 58, on 27th: J. B. O’Hara (Vic.
poet), 52 on 29th, and A. J. Thynne,
M.L.C. (Q.), 69, on 30th.
W- • Rymer is the first returned Billjim
to become a full-fledged parson. He takes
over the Yarram Yarram (Vic.) parish,
whose old pilot, by the way, George Cox, got
into khaki 12 months ago.
r lhe 9th Baron Clifford of Chudleigh was
cleaning out a drain at Moonah (Tas.) when
he got the news that he had succeeded to
the title and the estates. He finished the
job, too.
t Australia’s Railway Commissioner
James McGuire lias lost another son, the
third—Sergeant Stanislaus Geoffrey, killed
In i •oo llce ® ome time between August 19
?oiio —7 one wa s born at Wallaroo in
ISJ.I, left for the Front early in 1915, and
went through the Gallipoli campaign. One
McGuire boy was killed in the Banding and
another in France early this year—fine Aus-
tralian boys, all of them.
Jimmy” Mirams, who was killed in
1 ranee during the mid-August push, was
a grandson of \ ictona’s old politician and
™ e . °i i )r - Crowther’s boys at Brighton
(Vic.) Grammar. He was at Melbourne
university studying civil engineering when
the war broke out. A soldier and a fine athlete
lor many years, “Jimmy” went off with the
nrst lot of Australians as a second ’tenant
and quickly got promotion. At the evacua-
tion of Gallipoli he was a captain with the
Military Cross. The news came from France
•ot Ins majority about a week in advance of
a black-edged letter containing the regrets
of the King and Queen.
Josiah Symon, Adelaide’s leading K.C.,
was 70 last week ; and he said in Court that
lie works harder now than ever. “That must
mean about 24 hours a day,” chipped in
Sinclair, S.M., “for when I was profession-
ally associated with you long ago you began
at daylight and worked till midnight.” Symon
was offered a judgeship before he was 40, but
had political ambitions and declined it. If
he had followed his partner, Samuel Way,
on to the S.A. Bench, the whole recent his-
tory of that body would have been different.
Yet as a politician he was not much of a
success. Of State politics he tired after
one experience as Attorney-General in a
short-lived Morgan Government; and in Fed-
eral politics he was only once a Minister —
Attorney-General in a brief Reid Cabinet.
Major John Malbon Maughan, who can
now write D.S.O. after his name, was born
M. Penrith (N.S.W.) 39 years ago. The
King’s School, Parramatta, sent him on a
scholarship to Oxford, but he came back
unspoiled, and after a short spell of teach-
ing at Sydney Grammar was articled to the
big Sydney law firm of Norton, Smith and
Co., for whom he was pursuing costs as
managing Equity clerk when Bill broke into
Belgium. Maughan, who held a lieutenant’s
commission in the militia, went in Aus-
tralia’s first expeditionary force to New
Guinea as provisional lieutenant with his
old school and Oxford chum Major (then
Captain) C. E. Manning, a Sydney barris-
ter. After the Huns had been turned out
of New Guinea, the pair went on to
Gallipoli, and afterwards to France, where
Manning was killed a few weeks ago.
Maughan’s father was for many years man-
ager of the head office of the Bank of N. S’.
Wales. An elder brother is one of the front-
rank men at the Equity Bar in the Ma
State, and is married to a daughter of
Justice Barton, of the High Court.
For once a “queen” competition has com-
bined its cash-raising with the giving of
honor where honor was due. The winning
“queen” in a Red Cross competition at
Kerang (Yic.) was Mrs. Mary Beggs, who
has six sons at the Front.
When Captain Alan Macdougall fell in
B’rance a few weeks ago a brilliant mind
was blacked out. Born in the Highlands, he
was taken to Maoriland at nine years of age
by an uncle and commenced his schooling
practically unacquainted with any language
but Gaelic. During the ensuing years,
although he had to work part of the time
for a living, he showed phenomenal ability,
and in 1908 won the Rhodes Scholarship.
Professor Mackenzie, then on the Scholar
Selection Committee, declared him to be the
ablest all-round man in languages and litera-
ture that Victoria College, Wellington, had
produced. When hostilities commenced
Macdougall swapped an assistant professor-
ship of English at Queen’s University, Bel-
fast, for a commission in the Royal Fusi-
liers. He was about 30 when it all ended.
Advantage was taken of a recent visit of
Prime Minister Hughes to Adelaide to have
a plain monument in the West Terrace
cemetery unveiled by him. It marks the grave
of Gregor McGregor, the rugged Laborite
who fought his way straight from pick-and-
shovel work into the South Aus. Leg. Coun-
cil in 1893, and afterwards became a Federal
Senator, holding his end up, though he was
almost blind, until he died in harness two
years ago. All his fellow members in the
Senate joined in erecting this memorial.
A good Australian knocked off when
Thomas Murray died at Coogee (Sydney)
lately, aged 57. He was the pioneer of the
stocking industry in Australia, making the
first pair'at Geelong 29 years ago. In 1894
he started on his own account to build the
envelopes in which we post our lower ends
first at Richmond (Vic.) and afterwards
at Alexandria (Sydney).
THE TORTOISE STARTS.
“The race is not always to the swift ."— Esop.
THE CREW OF THE TANK: “Well, so long,
Frenchie Betcher we’re walkin’ under
der Linden afore a Zep. lands in Picca-
dilly.”
The Prime Minister got back to his love of
a good horse on his last short stay in
Adelaide. The military mounted him and
gave him an escort (of one), and each morn-
ing Hughes had a gallop on the avenues
which spacious Adelaide provides all round
the city, within half a mile or so of the
G.P.O.
Lieutenant. John Burnell, one of 49 young
Australians lately awarded the Military Cross
in France, is an old King’s School boy,
and took his degree in engineering, with
honors, a couple of years before the war.
He left a billet under the Vic. Irrigation
Trust to take a hand in the big scrap. His
father was a bank manager at Granville
(N.S.W.).
Sydney’s airy apostle, Ohidley, has again
been deprived of liberty, after a few brief
weeks. He had been released on bonds
which required him to refrain from address-
ing meetings without notifying the police,
or gatherings which included young people;
and when the bondsmen hurriedly announced
that they were disinclined to continue their
responsibility, brother Chid was gathered
in. The prophet was almost the only person
in Sydney who refused to get excited about
the conscription issue, and the fact that
people thronged to vast meetings over that
matter while his nature studies were ignored
satisfied him that the world is quite mad.
Herbert Woodhouse, whose show of horses
was concluded the other day in Melbourne,
is the one man of his generation who has
moved the Victorian racing person to take
notice of Art with a cheque-book, and he
has been doing it for a quarter-century or
more. He may not be in the same class as
Frank Mahony or Douglas Fry, but his
connection with the sporting fraternity has
enabled him to snare many a commission
which greater artists might have missed.
It is curious, by the way, how the Wood-
house horse has altered. The racer of 20
years ago wore very long and slender legs,
with neck to match, all invariably extended
to their limits. Nowadays, since the camera
can’t lie, the animal has shortened his legs
and neck, and sometimes his hoof actually
touches the ground.
Headmaster “Dicky” Adamson, of Wesley
College, was featured the other day by Mel-
bourne Herald as a composer and writer of
school songs. Adamson has been at it for a
quarter-century or so, and is still at it. A
taste of his work may be had from this
“rousing chorus” to the Preparatory School
Song, the “joint production of Mr. Adamson
and Mr. Upton Brown,” printed in the
Wesley Song Book :
Play up, Prep. Never mind how big the foe.
Bright smart, Prep. You can play the game, we
know.
Play up, Prep. What a record we shall show
When all of you to Big School go !
The poet Adamson began his literary career
when second-in-command at Wesley, in the
days when that institution was Amry small
potatoes, and his efforts have littered the
years ever since. He has scored as a school-
maker, hoAvever, Wesley’s record for the 15
years of his reign being regarded by all
pedagoguery with admiration and by some
of it with awe.
Went out singing, after 87 years of life,
Lieut. John Henry Baldwin, who was trans-
port officer carrying wounded from Bala-
clava to Florence Nightingale. He finished
his long voyage with a middy’s song, singing
if so lustily that no one suspected the end
was near.
The' Australian girl who became the wife
of young Lord Loughborough at Cairo 10
months ago is finding out what a ricketty
concern the British Peerage is nowadays.
The lordling’s dad —the much-married Karl
of Rosslyn—has just issued, a solemn warn-
ing that he will not be responsible for any-
body else’s debts. To be responsible for his
own must be quite enough. Rosslyn was
commonly supposed to be stone broke when
he went on the stage as “James Erskine’’
years ago, and he didn’t acquire more than
a million as an actor. It really looks as
though Loughborough and his lady may soon
have to get work.
Edwin J. Welch, “midshipman, explorer
and journalist,” has passed on at the age of
78. Of a naval family, he went to sea as a
cadet in 1853, and saw’ service under Sir
Charles Napier during -the Crimean war.
After peace was made lie came to Australia,
seeking gold. Finding none he engaged in
Government service and exploration w’ork in
Queensland and other States, and was sec-
ond in command of the Burke and Wills
relief expedition under Alfred Howitt. It
was he who found the sole s.urvivor of the
ill-assorted crowd, John King. Later he
took to journalism and, a wanderer always,
was in and out of most of the newspaper
dens of Sydney.
“The Gink”: Do you remember plucky
Macartney, of Melbourne Postal Depart-
ment, who got a bang on the head from a
motor bandit in defending the Department's
money? Well, the doctor supplied by the
Department advised a trip to the country.
Dear old Red Tape magnanimously paid the
doctor’s fee, but scorned the idea of paying
the expenses of its battered servant.
Macartney’s mate, whose presence of mind
saved something like £2OOO, was rewarded
with a smile. I don’t know if Tape docked
Mac. for the 10 seconds he took on the
pavement.
The funeral of Mick Coghlap, of Calder-
meade, Gippsland, wakes memories of
Johnny Fawkner. Coglilan arrived in Sydney
with his parents 78 years ago, when he wrns
only two. In 1838 the old man started with
mother and young Mick for Melbourne,
whither J. P. Fawkner had gone only a few
months before. A little later he bought feom
the Government (Sydney was then the boss)
a farm on the Merri River, Warrnambool.
and there the old couple died. Son Michael
lived mostly at Koroit and Caldermeade.
where nine young Coghlans grew up around
him.
FRANK BOND, Tasmanian M.L.C.
Bond, M.L.C., one of the Speck’s wealthi-
est citizens, made his start out of wattle
bark. In addition to owning bark mills in
Tasmania and mining interests everywhere,
he dabbles in Queensland squattages and
generally comes out right. He has a son,
a captain, at the Front, and a grocer brother
who has been recently very much in the
limelight as one of the owners of the newly-
discovered gold show at Long Plains.


:■
*^<C
><*
iK?
&*&" tfi&i .„ -iafe—
rfW*
iSS^
>v ;:
M
s. •
rWr
X
1
1
1
II
~.: '::.u.:-i-T;;-.
WO.4H O Wills .
-;;.. .’ r A\ .
*
cw>t>rm(ww'’t ctst)
w SS. .
capstanCkavy cut)
M t *
W.D,A U XKWIuU*,
I
0
WO.*B.o,WlLk|.
I
W
CA « COT)
W b< «f; H O.Wt LL.%
r
CAPSTANf NAVY CUT)
MEDIUM
WftSHC.WIUS.
a
■
TOOiuri
w.m* Ko.witi*,
i§n
■
K&SS
*
I
Packed
specially
for our
®Jg
&
on
service
■
Send
your friend
one for
Christmas
'> ■ s'-*-*
2. OZ. TOBACCO & 50
OF THE WORLD RENOWNED BRAND
IN THE ONE HERMETICALLY SEALED TIN
W'jo
tA&a/wvetin,
cut in,
ij •
M "
%
VWO
mimmM
<&
Gmt^nMeSo
f;
m
©
• ■
THE LAST WORD IN
ClmjD
PIPES
pipe Quaran^


Overall, McCray, Ltd.
Bald Rock,
BALMAIN.
SPECIALTY
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS Deep and Shallow—
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES.
Send for Booklet on our AIR LIFT for non-flowing bores and where the water has receded.
for increasing s'npplyat y ' Adopted by the Government
[2
BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE, ANTIMOXIA L LEAD,
LINO METAL, SPELTER, ZINC
DUST, REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of:
SILICIOUS ORES, containing
Lead, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buyers of:
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
All enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
Use BARVOID for WATERPROOFING CEMENT, MORTAR and CONCRETE
It is an Asphaltic Paste which is stirred into the gauging water used in mixing cement,
mortar or concrete.
BARVOID WATERPROOFING COMPOUND strengthens the CONCRETE but does
not delay the set. It makes the Mortar adhere, strongly to any surface on old or new work.
Barvoid Waterproofing Compound is an absolute protection against Electrolysis, Brine
and Alkalis. SOLD IN 5-GALLON TINS, CONTAINING 451 b.
Send for fuller
particulars to —•
WILLIAM ADAMS 8 CO. LTD., 175 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON 3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Union Bank of Australia:—
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
Auer., 08..136,386 14 p.c.= 105,000 10,000 1,287,444
Feb.,’o9. .135,562 14 „ ~105,000 10,000 1,308,006
Aug.,’o9. .135,873 14 „ ~105,000 10,000 1,328,879
Feb.,’lo. .136,049 14 ~ ~105,000 10,000 1,349,928
Aug.,’lo. .141,454 14 „ ~ 105,000 15,000 1,371,382
Feb., ’ll. .135,807 14 „ ~ 105,000 10,000 1,392,189
Aug.,’ll. .135,321 14 ~ ~105,000 10,000 1,412,510
Feb.,’l2. .145,257 14 „ ~105,000 10,000 1,442,767
Aug.,’l2. .155,582 14 „ ~105,000 1,493,349
Feb.,’l3. .155,654 14 ~ ~105,000 1,544,003
Aug.,’l3. .135,424 14 „ ~105,000 1,574,427
Premiums on new shares, £400,000 1,974,427
Feb.,’l4. .171,083 14 p.c.= 140,000 2,005,510
Aug.,’l4.. 165,950 14 ~ ~140,000 2,031,460
Feb.,’ls. .139,050 14 „ ~140,000 2,030,510
Aug.,’ls. . 140,018 14 ~ ~140,000 2,030,528
Feb.,'l6. .140,846 14 ~ ~140,000 2,031,374
The directors declare that they can show
this profit and this position notwithstand-
ing that they have made full provision for
the depreciation of securities. The chair-
man said on July 31: —
The most serious provision the directors have had
to make in recent years has been in connection with
the depreciation of our investments. On February
29 last, the end of the half-year, there was some
further depreciation to be provided for. This, of
course, was done; but since then there has been a
further considerable fall in values, owing to the
removal of official minimum prices; and this down-
ward tendency was accentuated by the recent rise in
the Bank rate to 6 p.c. I am glad to be able to
state, however, that provision exists which, on a valu-
ation taken last week, is sufficient to cover this
further depreciation; so that I am in a position to
say that our investments, including War Loan, stand
in our books practically at present cost prices.
That gives a hint of the size to which the
internal reserves of the bank had grown.
But, after all, what does the depreciation
and writing down of the investments of a
bank such as this mean? Not, really, that
it is anything worse off so far as earnings
are concerned ; for securities written down to
£1,000,000 earn just as much as they did
when they formerly stood at almost
£1.200,000. And while a bank doesn’t lose any-
thing if it doesn’t have to sell at a lower
price than it gave, it is better off inasmuch as
its funds otherwise used are bringing in more
money. Put it this way. A bank has a
million pounds of its own, quarter of it in
public securities and three-quarters lent
out on overdraft, etc. The public securities,
purchased in the past, won’t bring in a
penny less interest no matter how much
their market value varies; but owing to the
rise in the value of money the bank will be
gradually able to put up the charges for the
loan of the other three-quarters of a million.
And the chances are that it will also be
able to make a shade more through raising-
overdraft rates a point more than the rise
in deposit rates. If things stopped at that
the banks would be the better off for the
war. But they don’t. First, there is
provision to be made for losses through
shrinkage of securities pledged with the
banks. So far this shrinkage has been very
gradual. But we have only saved a collapse
by heavily discounting the future. There
is going to be trouble presently—a hard
grind, of which we have just got a taste in
the spoonful administered by the Common-
wealth Treasurer. And the banks have to
take that spoonful, too. They are thus
going to be hit both directly and indirectly.
How badly hit nobody can yet say, because
nobody knows how far we may have to be
taxed. Apart from their own direct taxa-
tion, banks are, however, more likely to be
hit through shrinkage in the value of securi-
ties than through shrinkage of business.
Take the case of a farm : a purchaser who
knows that one-fifth of his income must go
to the State will not pay as much for it as
he would if he knew lifis income was all his
own. A farm that will earn for him £4OO
a year isn’t worth what a farm would be
that would put £5OO into his pockets. So
far as actual turnover is concerned, they
probably won’t suffer very much if reason-
able prices for Australian staples are main-
tained.
As usual the Union’s position is fine and
strong. It owes less than £26.513.15!) (that
total includes the bank’s own contingency
funds, or some of them). In cash, public
securities and. liquid and semi-liquid assets
it has £11,103.735 —more than enough to
meet any sudden demand that can be
conceived. Against the £15,409.424 of debt
not represented by liquid and semi-liquid
assets there are £19,085.372 of loans and
other assets plus the bank premises
throughout Australia and Maoriland and in
London. In the books the Australian and
M.L. premises have been written down to
£380,600. Though times are bad The
Bulletin will be glad of an option to buy
them for £381,000. If the directors approve
it reckons to make half a million on the
deal. And if the thing comes off it will
shout the new general manager, A. H. Cham-
bers, formerly inspector in N. S. Wales and
lately chief inspector, a fresh set of golf
tools.
* * « •
The* Chamber of Manufactures Insur-
ance, Ltd. (Melbourne) :
Bonus to
Policy Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. holders, serves.
1915 .. £9699 10 p.c. = £2372 £4311 £3016
June,
1916 .. 6727 10 „ „ 2625 2438 4680
The figures could easily be made to look
larger. For instance, the reserves mentioned
in that table don’t include the provision made
to cover unexpired risks. This now amounts
to £17,751, which is equal to nearly 50 p.c.
of the premiums; and 40 p.c. is generally
reckoned a fair thing even in an old-estab-
lished concern. The profits shown above
therefore seem to be rather under than over
the mark. Further, out of the profits in the
first year £1097 and out of the profits in the
second period £llO9 has been paid to the
Chamber of Manufactures, under an agree-
•ment by which the 270 employers in that
chamber undertake to send along their busi-
ness without canvass.
The office was formed primarily to take
workmen’s compensation risks off the manu-
facturer’s hands; but it quotes also for
public risk, personal accident and sickness,
fidelity guarantee and other business. In
the workmen’s compensation line it has a
strong competitor in the Victorian State
Accident Insurance Office, and it alleges
that some of the competition is unfair.
It complains in particular of “differ-
ential discounts” and “the unconstitu-
tional action of the Commonwealth authori-
ties making it compulsory to insure those
employed in Victoria on contracts for the
Defence Department with the Victorian State
Accident Insurance Office.” Really those two
offices should be able to think of one another
as missionaries in the same cause. They
have a common object—insurance at cost
price. The available profit after providing
for the 10 p.c. dividend and for contingencies
is returned to the policy-holders. Thus in the
Workmen’s Compensation branch this year
bonuses equal to 35 p.c. of the premiums are
paid, and a bonus of 20 p.c. is allowed in
various other departments. These bulky con-
cessions are mainly the result of a remark-
ably low expense rate; and that, of course, is
due to the fact that members of the Chamber
send in their' business without canvass. “Man-
agement expenses, salaries, auditors’ fees,
rent and other exes.” (exclusive of taxes and
provision for depreciation of furniture) were
only £4 2s. 6d. p.c. of the premiums—a very
striking performance. When somebody wants
to offer a new brand of life insurance to Aus-
tralia the claims of the sort that doesn’t chase
around for business ought to be considered ;
and the Maoriland State office might do worse
than consider the wisdom of changing-over.
• •••••
The co. has a capital of £30,000 ; and the
whole of it, as well as sufficient to meet lia-
bilities and provide for unexpired risks, is
liquid. In fact, the only assets that can’t
be regarded as very liquid are the few sticks
of furniture, and they have been written
down to £2OO. As an object lesson in co-
operation it is a whooping success.
* * * *
The Civil Service Co-operative So-
ciety of N.S.W., Ltd. (Sydney) :
Dividend (10 p.c.)
arid Bonus on
Net Purchases To Re- Re-
Profits. (11l p.c.). serves. serves.
Jan., 1910.. £11,864 £10,401 £1463 £31,246
July, 1910.. 10,272 9,763 509 31,755
Jan., 1911 . . 12,082 10,477 1605 33,360
July, 1911.. 10,911 10,108 803 34,163
Jan., 1912.. 12,824 11,383 1441 35,604
July, 1912.. 10,470 11,138 34,936
(10 p.c. Bonus.)
Jan., 1913.. 11,170 11,222 34,884
Premiums on new shares, £13,899 48,783
July, 1913.. 10,973 10,745 228 49,011
Jan., 1914 .. 12,777 12,336 441 49,452
July, 1914 . . 11,945 11,844 101 49,553
Jan., 1915.. 11,701 12,034 49,220
July, 1915 . . 11,476 11,350 126 49,346
Jan., 1916 . . 10,817 10,971 49,192
Unclaimed divs. transferred to
Reserve Fund, £2OOO . . 51 192
July, 1916 . . 9,900 10,185 50.907
Business is very well maintained; but the
increase of working exes, has cut into the
profits, and made it more doubtful than
ever whether the co. can continue the 10 p.c.
bonus on purchases. Things might have been
made to look a bit better had it not been
decided that co-operative cos. are bound the
same as others by the Price Fixing
Commissions—a point on which there was
at least room for a sharp difference of
opinion. It is possible therefore that,
though the net profits are shrunk, share-
holder-purchasers are getting their goods a
shade cheaper; and possibly also if they
now got a 9 p.c. bonus they would be getting
as much benefit from the stores as they
formerly did when they got 10 p.c. How-
ever, the immediate and visible cause of
the shrinkage in profits is the increase in
exes.:—•
Gross
Cash Profit Work- Proportion
Re- on Sales, ing Ex- Expenses to
ceipts. etc. penses. Receipts.
Jan., 1900.. £67,522 £15,997 £10,158 15.0 p,C.
Jan., 1905.. 98,408 24,165 14,974 15.2 „
Jan., 1910.. 133,247 34,643 21,181 15.9 ~
July, 1910.. 126,780 32,600 20,272 15.9 „
Jan., 1914.. 184,101 49,658 34,568 18.7 „
July, 1914.. 177,285 47,681 33,359 18.8 „
Jan., 1915 . . 178,027 48,077 34,024 19.1 j,
July, 1915.. 176,818 47,925 34,190 19.3 „
Jan., 1916.. 185,171 47,817 34,814 18.8 ~
July, 1916.. 182,070 48,773 36,318 19.9 ~
Six years ago the eXeS. oh the preseiit
turnover would have been £7200 less than
they are to-day. Plainly that is the feature
to which the management ought to give the
keenest attention!
The shareholders are going to have a
referendum, too. The co. doesn’t own the
very expensive Pitt-street premises which
it occupies. Part of these premises (152-4
Pitt-street) is to be auctioned presently.
The co. has an 11-year lease of this portion
and Of the premises south —the latter not
for sale. For 152-4 and the property north,
with other necessary ground, it is thought
that the co. would have to pay £100,000;
and there is a section of shareholders who
want a deal completed on this basis. Their
idea is that the co. should go into debt for
£75,000 to some financial concern and raise*
the other £25,000 from shareholders on
debentures. The directors have taken
advice, and “having given full consideration
to the reports of the manager and the com-
ments of the public accountant thereon, con-
sider that, in view of the war and its effects,
together with the uncertain conditions of
the money market thereafter, it would be
unwise to incur any additional financial re-
sponsibility.” The question is, however, to
be referred to a vote of the shareholders,
who will have to remember that it is one
thing to run a store and another to own big
city freeholds. The latter can be rented on
a 5 or 6 p.c. basis; and many a co.—-Metters,
Ltd., is a case in point—-has found it neces-
sary, after going in for large city premises,
to cut down their former dividends by one-half.
And that is apart altogether from the ex-
treme probability of a serious shrinkage in
the value of property during the next few
years. The Mutual Store, in Melbourne,
had that experience in 1893-4, when divi-
dends had to be entirely suspended, because
it took all the profit to pay the interest and
provide for the depreciation. Melbourne
once had Civil Service Stores, too ; but they
entirely disappeared, crushed under a dead-
weight of bricks and mortar.
* * * *
The Farmers and Settlers’ Co-op.
Insurance Co. of Australia, Ltd., was
formed something over a year ago with the
object of getting the farmers to be their
own underwriters. There is a difficulty
about making it thoroughly co-operative—
at present, anyhow. That is to say, it is
practically impossible to return the profits
to the policy-holders_ in actual proportion
to the amount of their premiums. But the
promoters are apparently getting as near
to it as they can. They have over 1000
policy-holders on the register, and so far
as possible the number of shares allotted to
them is based on the amount of premium
they can command. The business ought to
have been taken up by the Farmers and
Settlers’ Associations, or even promoted by
the Agricultural Departments. But any
reputable concern which goes out, as this
co. is doing, and attempts to make the
farmer a co-operator, deserves well of the
country. Not until we free the man on the
land of the parasites that are fattening on
him will his life be really worth living. The
insurance cos. are not the worst parasites by
a long way. But if a few thousand of farmers
would become interested in a fire office, and
send it their insurances without canvass,
on condition that they got a refund of the
profit, they would save themselves in the
aggregate one-fifth at least of what they
now pay in premiums. What they have to
assure themselves of is (1) that' they are
going to get a refund or bonus of the profit;
(2) that the men running the concern are
competent; (3) that if these men are not
competent they, the farmers, have power to
supersede them.
As at July 31 the co. had a capital of
£16,337; and there was £14,836 of this
intact. Considering that the co. has had
to introduce itself and has been trying to
sell shares as well as insurance, this is very
satisfactory. Nominally the co. shows a
profit of £3075. That, however, is not true
profit, because, while full credit has been
taken for the premiums, the risks have not
yet been exhausted ; nevertheless the results
of the first year’s trading are gratifying.
A dividend of 6 p.c. is to be paid = £9BO.
In theory, at any rate, it shouldn't be paid.
But this paper, knowing what small sacri-
fices most farmers are prepared to make
for co-operation until they find out its
value, is not inclined to throw a heavy brick
at the directors. The payment is really
birdlime. But there will be no trouble
about it so long as the shareholding policy-
holders do their duty. They can make the
expense rate (anu therefore the profits)
great or small as they please. If it costs
as much in trouble and money to get their
business and collect their premiums as if
they had no interest in the co., then they
tnight just as well not pretend to co-Operfite;
* * * *
James Martin and Co., Ltd., formed to
take over an old-established Sydney machi-
nery business as from June, 1911 ( the deficit
with which the co. started was represented
by goodwill and flotation expenses, £10,236,
less £1978 of reserves)
Writ-
ten Towards De-
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves, ficit.
1911.. £8,258
1912.. £8,063 8 p.c. =£2052 £4OO £5611 2,647
Reserves.
1913.. 11,209 8 „ „ 5062 400 5777 3,130
1914.. 6,175 7 „ „ 4504 400 1271 4,401
1915.. 7,215 5 „ „ 4517 605 2093 6,494
Net
Profit.
1916.. 13,385 8 „ „ 7227 6158 12,662
Cocky is a very different cocky - from what
he was 15 months ago. He had then passed
through a gruesome season, and the
machinery man had to wait like the rest of
them: also there was little ot no call fdr
“parts”—those trifles out Of which the
machinery man buys butter for his
bread and pickles for his cold meat.
Following the gruesome season came
a thumping harvest. And something more
even than that —a widespread belief that
there was a cycle of good seasons to follow
the dry ones. True, the price the farmer
got for his wheat was pretty wretched; but
that hardly affected the call for machinery
to take the crop off or for more machinery
to get another crop in. So Martin’s show a
net profit in excess of any the co. has had
since it took over the old-established busi-
ness from the trustees of the late founder’s
estate.
It takes a lot of money to run a time-
payment ( business, and; though there has
been a slight reduction during the year, there
is Still £92,261 owing on hire-purchase
agreements, and ahother £15,432 on ordinary
accounts. Add to that the £67,606 of stock,
including material, and it will be seen that
the co. has to do some financing, its share
Capital being only £90,336. The bulk of the
requirements has been raised by mortgage
debentures (£66,000). and another £38,414
is owing on miscellaneous accounts. The fine
rains of the past week have now practically
assured a good harvest almost everywhere in
N. S. Wales —with fair conditions onward it
will be mostly a bumper harvest. In addi-
tion there promises to be a considerable
number of new farmers tickling the soil
shortly; so that one way and another the
implement maker, and especially the Aus-
tralian implement maker, is probably in for
as good a time as most manufacturers.
*•* * *
The A.M.C., Ltd., formerly the Austral-
asian Motor Cab Co. (Sydney)
Loss. Dividends. Written Off. Deficit.
Feb., 1910.. - £14,193
Jane, 1911.. £0457 Nil £2767 23,417
Jane, 1912.. 1585 Nil 3883 28,885
May, 1913.. 1191 Nil 30,076
Capital written Off, £27,173 .. 2,903
Profit.
May, 1914.. 918 Nil 1476 3,46 l
NoV., 1914.. 313 . Nil 671 3,819
May, 1915.. 1491 Nil 758 3,086
NoV., 1915.. 399 Nil 759 3,446
May, 1916.. 746 Nil 674 3,374
This was originally a London flotation, and
the law that permitted it wants disinfecting.
Later on the management was dragged to
Australia and an attempt made to straighten
things out; but not much success has been
achieved. Apparently the taxi and motor-
hiring business doesn’t lend itself to company
purposes; it is impossible, it seems, to exer-
cise enough supervision. Anyway, this
co. thinks so, and it looks as though it would
be glad to be rid of its troubles. Early in
the year the directors proposed to return 2s.
in the £ of the capital, “but the demand for
second-hand cars at anything like reasonable
Prices has been very limited and realisation
difficult.” So the 2s. wasn’t paid ; but it is
proposed now to return Is. “on the footing
that the amount returned or any part thereof
may be called up again.” The capital has
been reduced to £27,130, and the co. owes
£1202. Its assets include motor-cabs and
stocks, £19,621; leasehold and plant, £2028;
and cash and sundry debtors, £4019. The
amount shown in the table as written off is
allowance for depreciation of cabs, plant and
leasehold. Repairs and maintenance are of
course charged to working exes.


Illllll The British. Westjnghouse Electric and Mfg. Co., Ltd. Mil
T ram way Motors
A tramway motor must be of strong electrical and mechanical
construction to stand the shocks and strains of constant service.
Westinghouse Tramway Motors possess these qualifications
and represent the best motor practice—the result of long and
wide experience.
There are types to suit varying conditions of service, track,
guage, size of car, etc., and their use will ensure the highest
efficiency, longest life and a reliable service in all kinds of
weather.
Manchester
Head Office for Australia :
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Works; Traitord Park, Manchester, England.
Just as there are mines that are mines and mines
that are “duffers” so does one of the principal of
mine equipments, i.e., belting 1 , vary greatly accord-
ing to the maker. As the Goodyear Tyre and Rubber
Co. make, among many other things, belting that
satisfies the most exacting requirements of mining
operations from Alaska to the Panama Canal, and
even further south, they claim that all Australian
requirements are provided for in their extensive
range of Conveyor, Driving and Elevator belting.
Mine managers are invited to apply to the various
State depots, or direct to 231 Clarence Street, Sydney,
for information, samples and quotations.— Advt.
* * * *
Tlie General Electric Co. manufacture mine elec-
tric locomotives of both storage battery and trolley
types, which will withstand the most severe operating
conditions of mine service. Careful study of loco-
motives in actual service, and a thorough investigation
of the varied problems of mine haulage has resulted
in the introduction of new improvements and refine-
ments of designs. These locomotives cover a range
of sizes and forms wide enough to include any
haulage requirements within the demands of electric
locomotive work, and incorporate all those features
which have been most desirable by practical mine
operators. Anyone requiring either ii formation or
quotations in this connection may obtain same by
communicating with the Australian General Electric
Co., Wentworth Avenue, Sydney; or corner of Queen
and Little Collins Street, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * * *
Follow the lead of experienced men. Alumino-
ferric is used by the N.S.W. Public Works Department,
Sydney Metropolitan, Newcastle and Hunter River
Water Boards, Ardlethan Mines, graziers, etc., for
precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, dams, etc. One pound clarifies 2000/3000
gallons of the most turbid water within three hours.
It is exceedingly cheap, and harmless for either
drinking or boiler water, and is used throughout
Australia. Water is a valuable asset in summer
weather for drinking, concentrating or boiler pur-
poses. Why not use Aluminoferrie and have it
clear and crystalline ? Sole Agents: Win. Adams & Co.,
Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth. — Advt.
* » * *
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4ch, making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. 3d. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is. ;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. — a saving of 2s. sd.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow i6in. x 9in. Patent Stoneerusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.— Advt. [2
There is no Pressure Pipe so efficient and economical
as Pioneer Wood Pipe. It saves money, in first cost, in
freight and in labor for laying, as no caulking of the
joints is required. Its durability is assured. It is free
from corrosion and incrustation. Its discharging
capacity remains the same, after years of service, as
when first installed. Send for illustrated catalogue.
The Australian Wood Pipe Company Limited (head
office), 57 York Street, Sydney. Contractors to all
State Governments. Factories: Lane Cove, N.S.W.:
Footscray, Vic. ; Port Adelaide, S.A. — Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
Earth-handling and Road-building Machinery,
Concrete Mixers, Robey Traction Engines, National
Suction Gas Engines, modern conveying outfits, pump-
ing installations, stonecrushing plants specialised in
by Australian Machinery Co. Ltd., Charlotte Street,
Brisbane; and Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.—Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirfy yearn’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Silberberg & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney;
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
The 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital ..£250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital . 95,767
Income (Cross) 1915 .. 146,027
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED,
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £545,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 155,351 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 82,500 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. ~~ ’
Gen. Man.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Bagot, Shakes and Lewis, Ltd., stock
and station agents, etc. (Adelaide) :
To. Nominal
Mar., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1907.. _ £18,540
1908. . £10,629 7 pc.=£5,250 £5,379 23,919
Premium on new shares. . 6,250 30,169
1909.. 6,473 7 p.c. = 6,392 81 30,250
1910.. 10,792 7 „ „ 6,562 4,230 34,480
1911.. 15,177 7 „ „ 6,562 8,615 43,095
1912.. 11,693 7 „ „ 6,562 5,131 48,226
1913.. 10,894 7 „ „ 7,910 2,984 51,210
1914.. 17,321 7 „ „ 8,746 8,575 59,785
1915.. 7,548 6 „ „ 8,562 58,771
1916.. 22,890 7 „ „ 10,938 11,952 70,723
This belated table is dropped in here chiefly
for purposes of record. Just after the war
started the management rather lost its head
and did two or three hasty things. Events
have, however, been so unlike what the co.
expected that it has in part gone back on its
tracks —out of this year’s income it has
made good the cuts effected in salaries
during the previous year. Largely owing
to an increase in the wool business
and more recently perhaps through the short-
age of cargo-carriers, the co.’s figures show
large changes :—•
1908. 1915. 1916.
Capital £75,000 £156,250 £156,250
Reserves .. .. 26,545 67,333 76,192
Liabilities . . . . 141,380 167,884 279,667
Sundry debtors and cash 328,259 287,027 411,624
Premised, plant and stock 1 .. - R „ „ ( 90,090 86,136
Goodwill .. 1 00 - s *-* | ]4,350 14,350
It is only lately that the size of the goodwill
loading has been disclosed : and the reserves
are nominal to that extent. Land and
income taxes, £2907, have been charged for
the past year; but there is grave doubt
whether that will cover the demands of the
Commonwealth Treasurer, for in a case of
this sort it is fairly obvious that a consider-
able amount of the profit is war profit. On
adjustment, therefore, the figures may be less
rosy than they look now.
* * * *
“Professional Boodler”: John Bull and
Jean Crapeau aren’t dealing with their folk
as Higgs is. They are giving rats to the
war-profit grabber, and are taxing incomes
and luxuries up to the hilt, besides letting
it be known that war loans must be sub-
scribed. But they are too canny to com-
mandeer the principal. Whenever there is
the least suspicion of confiscation enterprise
shuts up. Australia with forty and one post-
war problems doesn’t want that sort of
thing to happen. No politician has shown
that it is public policy to stop wheat, wool
or butter from going abroad, nor have they
shown that the owner can be prevented
from leaving the proceeds to await his in-
structions at the port of arrival. It is such
problems that the Caucus and Treasurer
Higgs raise when they start to levy on
capital instead of belting the fatman with
the old-fashioned income and land-tax
b’udgeons.
* * * *
The inevitable smash has occurred in
B. 11. Junction North affairs. On Sept. 12
a circular was issued on behalf of a “Re-
form Movement” in which various charges
were made against “a majority of the direc-
tors”—the majority not within the Palmer
influence: one Palmer is general manager,
another a director, and the Joseph Palmer
broking firm has been for years the prin-
cipal trumpeter of the shares. Really the
only allegation with which shareholders need
concern themselves is this :—-
It is understood that a majority of the Board
contemplated appointing officers of Bewick, Moreing
and Co. to report on the mine, plant and process
employed at Broken Hill, which it is considered is
detrimental to the best interests of shareholders.
Junction North has spent a vast amount of money
in initiating and developing flotation and aeration
processes for the recovery of metals from dump
slimes, and is now working at a very considerable
profit. On this class of material the company should
have a great future, but if all the information is to
be made available to a firm such as Bewick, Moreing
and Co., managers of the Zinc Corporation, having
similar products to those we purchase, there is
grave danger of enabling that firm to obtain inform-
ation of the greatest value to them, leaving it pos-
sible to build up a formidable competitor to our-
selves. Furthermore, such a report as is contem-
plated will it is considered entirely disorganise
present operations, and considerably interfere with
current profitable working.
The reply of the non-Palmer directors is
that, “the general manager having failed to
live up to his promises and his figures as to
quantity and quality of concentrates pro-
duced, the directors decided that it was only
fair to shareholders, before making further
calls upon them, that an independent report
upon the undertaking should be made by the
most competent person obtainable.” Whether
it should be 8., M. & Co., or somebody else
had not, they add, been decided; but “the
fact that the two principal metallurgical
officers, who have worked our process from
the experimental stage to within the last
few weeks, are not now in the employ of our
co., and their knowledge is available to any
other co. that may employ them, is evidence
that there is nothing secret about the pro-
cess.”
Junction North shareholders should long
ago have demanded an independent technical
investigation and report. The history of the
co. has been one of the few humorous things
that this column has to deal with. Some-
thing was always going to happen, and
something else always has happened. Of
course, there is nothing about the Junction
North’s “process” that Broken Hill doesn’t
know very well. But there is something that
shareholders ought to want to know, and
that is how it is that other cos. can pay divi-
dends and the Junction North can’t. On the
face of it all the Junction North can teach
B-, M. & Co. or anybody else is how to make
calls. The shareholders can very well afford
to let somebody else have that information-
in return for some which may show them
how to make dividends.
Vegetable Creek (N.S.W.) has struck the
gutter in the crosscut from Gordon’s shaft
and 18in. of wash prospects 1101 b. oxide
per cubic yard. This is the best news for
a long time past.
* . * * .*
Carpathia (N.S.W.) closed its half-year
on July 31 with a net profit of £1791. See-
ing that 1010 tons of brown ore assaying
6.7 p.c. tin were milled, this is inadequate.
The brown ore alone contained fully £lO,OOO
worth of tin, and in. addition the mill
treated 434 tons of kaolin and 2760 tons of
sands and tailings. The battery ran 3029
hours and produced 76.9 tons of 63 p.c. con-
centrates from brown ore, 36 tons from
kaolin, and 23.6 tons from tailings. The
latter assayed 2.2 p.c., but re-treatment
doesn’t seem much of a success, for 117
tons of tailings were required to produce a
ton of 63 p.c. concentrates. The half-year’s
profit added to the amount brought forward
made a total of £3396, which is placed to a
dividend equalisation fund.
The obvious has happened at Edna Deeps :
yields not forthcoming, the debt to Tom
Duff has expanded from £2OOO to £4OOO. As
a result, it has been decided to place 10,150
reserve shares among holders at 255. each —
10s, on application and balance in three
monthly calls of ss. each. This explains why
scrip drifted from 38s. to 31s. and later on
from 355. to present values. But it doesn’t ex-
plain why the directors decided to rely on
one man to finance the show instead of re-
leasing the reserve shares when the market
was on the bite. They could have got 30s.
easily with the issue underwritten. Manager
Stuckey’s latest is that the lode is curling-
north, with the walls diverging, which is a
good indication for Deeps. Will Stuckey
next advise if more than one bore has gone
down from 480 ft. to test the reef underfoot?
If not, why not?
Yuanmi (W.A.) has just been removed
from 8., M. and Co.’s stable and given into
the care of Leslie Williams, formerly super-
intendent at the Queen of the Hills, Meeka-
tharra. No reason if* given for the change ;
but the firm is slowly losing the manage-
ment of all the cos. in which Hoover, Govett
and Co. have a say. First of all, the control
of the Oroya Links was taken from them;
then their grip on Lake View and Star,
Burma Corporation and Great Fingall was
considerably loosened. They still act as
“general managers” of these four cos., but
in three of them they have practically no
control.
* * * *
Comet Vale (W.A.), out of which the
Sand Queen co. has extracted nearly
£400,000 worth of gold and a few other syn-
dicates and claimholders have also done
well, is inviting the attention of Eastern
capital. There has been little inducement
to look for mines there in the past, owing
to the overburden of sand and the entire
absence of anything on the surface to guide
prospectors. Apart from those who un-
earthed the Sand Queen and Gladstone, few
were successful. The Golden Point has an
option on one show adjoining ’ the Sand
Queen, but it has little chance of proving a
success.
* * * *
Bardoc (W.A.) is looking up. Rich
patches of ore have lately been struck on
various parts of the field, and a 3cwt. parcel
found in the old Zoroastrian yielded over
lOOoz. Years ago Bardoc was tried by sev-
eral London cos., but all were early interred.
Westralia has had a new gold discovery
every week of late, but very few seeni to
be worth much attention. The latest is in
a dry, liungry-looking locality 40-odd miles
east "of Southern Cross, and not far from
the head of the Kurrawang woodline. Gold
was specked along the shore of a dry lake,
and though “Bullant” Mclntyre and a few
other optimists who have been there think
well of the find, it has, according to the
inspector of mines, very little to blow about.
* * * *
Coolgardie celebrated its birthday on Sep-
tember 17. It was then 24.
* * * *
Leonora (W.A.) is depending a good deal
on the future of the local Gold Blocks, which
a Melbourne co. has just acquired. Over
32,000 tons of ore have so far been taken
out for an average yield of 70s. per ton, and
but for the want of capital for development
it would probably have done better. Most
ot the gold has come from above 150 ft., but
latterly work has been in progress at 400 ft.,
where the last 100 ft. or so of driving ex-
posed 4ft. of 80s. ore.
* * * *
New Boddington (W.A.) is getting its
mill in position and hopes to start crushing
before Christmas. Some thousands of tons
of payable stuff are alleged to be in sight,
and the outlook at depth is stated to be
good. A few shares are held in Adelaide
•and Melbourne, but most are in the hands
of Kalgoorlie speculators, who are boosting
the show all they know.
* * * *
Flotation of Allen’s Find at Marda
(W.A.) is attempted. Promoters claim
to be admitting the public on reason-
able terms, “free from middlemen who
always grab the cream,” etc. Still they
propose to retain a big wad of paid shares
for the mortgagees, unpaid wages men, ven-
dor and themselves, while allowing the other
fellows to find the working capital in dribs
and drabs. Several interested reports
accompany the prospectus, which gives no
reliable information as to how intending
shareholders can ever hope to get any of
their money back.
* * * *
Edna May Junction (W.A.) is having a
little joke. Unable to get anything out of
its Westonia delusion, it is negotiating for
an option on the Great Unknown at Marda.
There is still a little gold left in this show,
and the Junction evidently hopes to take
out an attractive crushing and thus boost the
market. Already shares are being talked
up to 10s.
* * * *
Out of 20,000 forfeited shares on a regis-
ter of 40,000, Specimen Hill, Bendigo, has
re-allotted 10,000 to shareholders at 3d. and
sold the remainder at 9d. This deal sniffs
very much of the fusion, especially in view
of the talk on the Mall to the effect that
Virginia may be a pivotal claim in the amal-
gamation scheme. Teddy Dyason’s recent
election to the Board means that things are
moving. Specimen Hill recently shoved out
a crosscut at 1330 ft. and got Oft. of forma-
tion, but that isn’t anything to recall the
times when the mine was a good div. payer.
Another consideration is whether the deep
ground is worth having a shot at. Hence
the need to watch how Virginia opens up at
2300 ft.
* * * *
The Sheepshead is another hard-up Ben-
digo mine in which someone has had suffi-
cient belief to pick up 15,000 out of 40,000
shares at a shilling. The übiquitous Teddy
Dyason is in it, together with men of the
Mueller-Lansell combination. What makes
Sheepshead attractive is its position next to
the Central Blue. A hunt after that co.’s
shoot in the shallow ground hasn’t so far
produced more than a color or two, so that if
Sheepshead is to show up in the near future
it will be due to developments in the spurs
west of the shaft at 660 ft.
* * * *
Vulcan (Q.) has tailed off again.
Twelve months ago it looked as though there
might be three years’ crushing ahead; but
the mine plans are not reliable, and most
places it was found that the good stone had
been attacked and usually beaten out from
other workings. So a lot of development
has been done for very little, and £36,000
worth of tin taken out in 18 months has
given the shareholders only £3300 ( 3d. a
share). At the end of August the co. had
about £l5OO in hand apart from stores, but
very little ore showing.
* * * *
The once-glittering Gilmore (N.Q.) is a
drab proposition these times. The old rich
lenses have all gone and the co. is scratching
for new makes, coming upon rich specimens
now and then, but depending mostly upon
odds and ends left by tributors. Last half-
year’s sales brought in only £441, and that
was about £3OO short of exes. In 10 years
the little co. has got £67,657 for its tin. and
has paid £20,850 in divs. But it is living
from hand to mouth now.
* * * *
The Hydro-electric Co., formerly Gillies’s
Complex Ores concern, is building carbide
works at North-West Bay, about 16 miles
from Hobart. The initial plant will pro-
duce 5000 tons per annum, which will be
increased to the full requirements of the
Commonwealth (15,000 tons) within a
short time if the Federal Government will
protect the co. with an adequate tariff.
* * * *
The Ilydro-Electric Co. reckons that the
10,C00 h.p. which the Tasmanian Govern-
ment is bound to supply to it won’t be
enough, and it went to Premier Lee
the other day and asked him to
double the quantity. It says it expects to
use 9500 h.p. in making calcium carbide,
and that would leave practically nothing
for producing zinc by the Gillies process.
Lee observed that it was hard to get the co.
down to details, and practically told the
Hydro-Electric people to run away and
make good use of their 10,000 h.p. and then
In; would see what could be done for them.
Though Mt. Jasper (Tas.) sheds its man-
ager about once every year, P. J. O’Connor
and John A. Mills still run the Melbourne
office. The latest mine combination is W. J.
O’Bryan and Edward Seitz; and it doesn’t
seem to differ much from its predecessors.
But it has been left to the new-chums to
discover that water and not wood should
make profits. O’Bryan has decided that,
with 8000 points of rain annually soaking
into Mt. Jasper, they ought to harness the
creeks. Over this inspiration John A. Mills
chortles: “And when we are able to keep
the mill working under the new conditions,
then will begin the era of prosperity for
which we have been waiting.” Well, The
Bulletin will swear to the waiting. But
it will not swear to any “era of prosperity.”
* * * *
In the U.S.A. Anaconda electric spelter
is becoming a favorite brand because of its
purity. The first unit of the electrolytic
plant started in August, and the other units
are expected to be in operation in October.
These and other U.S.A. works —almost
sufficient to supply the whole world’s normal
requirements—are going to give Australian
producers a hard run for it after the war.
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 35.)


Heeiinqfs
Est. 1818.
Co
ert
(7?
a & «
HEERIM'
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
Ladies! Don’t Look Old.
There is no need for it.
JonHSIWHCtWNTO&
LAKSHMi
jlPenFCcr
k SKIN LOTION /
JSSB&
John
Strange
W i nter’s
A refreshing Skin Tonic
Price 3/6.
Toilet
Preparations
will preserve you.
Obtainable from all
Drapers, Civil Stores,
W. H. Soul, etc. etc.
See Demonstration now
at W. T. WATERS,
George & King Streets.
Send 2d. stamp for
sample of Soap or
Powder to Dept. 32.
JOHN STRANGE WINTER, 26 Jamieson St., Sydney
PAULINE et CIE
announce
that they are showing a Special Shipment of
MODEL HATS for the JRace Season.
Denison House Chambers, 3rd Floor,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HOW TO DESTROY THE DANDRUFF
GERM.
By A SPECIALIST.
That the dandruff germ is responsible for
nearly all the disease to which the scalp is
heir, as well as for baldness and premature
grey hair, is a well-known fact, but when
we realise that it is also indirectly respon-
sible for many of the worst cases of catarrh
and consumption we appreciate the import-
ance of any agent that will destroy its
power. We are, therefore, particularly
pleased to give herewith the prescription
which an eminent scientist and specialist
states he has found, after repeated tests, to
completely destroy the dandruff germ in
from one to three applications. This pre-
scription can be made up at home, or any
chemist will put it up for you: 3 ounces
Bay Rum, 1 ounce Lavona de Composee,
|-dram Menthol Crystals. Mix thoroughly,
and after standing half an hour it is ready
for use. Apply night and morning, rubbing
into the scalp with finger-tips. So wonder-
fully effective has the above prescription
proved that chemists now supply it pre-
pared ready for use under the name of
Lavona Hair Tonic. It is usually put up
in bottles, which prevent
wastage, and is so good that every chemist
who sells it gives the purchaser a signed
guarantee of satisfaction or money back.
CAUTION. —Do not allow this hair-
grower to remain long upon parts where
hair is not desired. — Advt.
SINCE 1679.
SINCE 1679.
HAIG * HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, October 2, 1916.
My Dear Arini, —
Maoriland’s ex-Governor Islington is chair-
man of Queen Alexandra’s Field Force
Fund, London. In that capacity he for-
wards an autograph letter —in the old
Italian hand which young ladies of most
nationalities learnt 50 years or so ago —from
the gentle Alexandra. The fund ought to
appeal, say, to Australians who have an
interest in our sth Division. A leaflet ex-
plains that the Alexandra Committee, “after
careful inquiry, sends comforts to units
which are not assisted by any other organ-
isation.” Our gallant sth, owing to the
changes and chances of the World’s Stadium,
have no comforts funds. Lord Islington,
24a Hill-street, Knightsbridge, will spend
your money-order to the best advantage.
, It’s a musical Ministry we’ve got; per-
haps that’s why its finance is full .of
crochets. Campbell Carmichael used to be
a steady concert-goer. • George Black has a
box at the opera on first nights. A fiddle-
scrape draws W. A. Holman to every sym-
phony concert. J. D. Fitzgerald is an opera-
goer ; his one little girl, by the way, is in
training in Italy. Attorney-General Hall’s
leanings are towards State bakeries, and
Cann is not concerned about sonatas; but
the fringe of the Cabinet is distinctly given
to rhythm.
Amongst the Australian youngsters in
France is Lieut, (late Private) Percy
Scrivener, only son of the Commercial Bank
manager at Gunnedah. This soldier of 22
is a nephew of Scrivener, the surveyor with
the long beard who theodolit the Federal
capital, and has all his uncle’s gift for
handling mechanical appliances. On enlist-
ment he went into the signalling branch of
the artillery, in which after five months’
service in France he has just earned a
D.C.M. and his commission.
After spending something over 12 months
in artillery camps on home service The
Bulletin’s business manager got out of khaki
just in time to tell the stork that he had
brought exactly what was wanted. Previous
visits to the Norman Macleod household at
Mosman had given grand-daughters to the
managing director ; this time there is a boy
to put out the office cat and take a hand on
the ancestral bowling green.
He has to be noticed! Reams of foolscap
(and paper a luxury!) come quite once a
week from the lion, treasurer of the Aus-
tralian Air Squadron fund. The most per-
sistent man in Sydney at the present moment
is manager Bryant, of the Union Bank.
Even silence cannot stop the torrent of
his thanks for favors to come. For good-
ness sake, send him something, if it’s only
a shilling for the “bob” fund of the N. S.
Wales Women’s Battleplane.
Thelma Maddrell, the baby of the Bob
Maddrell family, of Braidwood, met Yenour
Nathan at the local church a week or so
back; and father gave his girl away under
a wedding bell of white blooms. Her silk
gown, draped in gossamer, was garlanded
with white velvet roses —a soft digression
from the usual orange bud. Fashions are
swinging back. The stiff little bunch of
white roses covered with white tulle,- pearl-
trimmed, dates back to the mid-Victorian
crinoline era. Bridesmaid Connie Johnson
was frocked in sky-blue silk. Of course
there was a great gathering of the
Maddrells to see the cake cut at Bedervale.
Honeymoon at Bodalla —where the cheeses
come from.
The Soldiers’ Wives Centre and Small
Loans Fund Committee, foregathered at Gov-
ernment House the other afternoon. Lady
Edeline took the best chair, and Eldest
Daughter picked up a sock and knitted vig-
orously through the speeches. Dr. Mary
Booth, who mothers the Centre, gave a brief
chat on the financial tangles and other little
things the Absent-minded Beggar sometimes
leaves behind. Soldier AYallack, of the
R.A.A., backed up these statements. And
then the company fortified itself against its
own troubles with vice-regal viands.
The Actors’ Association had a pleasant
party one day last week —tea and ices in a
flower-trimmed snuggery. Walter Bentley
announced the visitors in tones of thunder,
whereat the shy birds tried to fold their
wings behind a rose vase. Maggie Knight,
vivacious as ever, though her son is busy
in France, sank into the cushions near hand-
some Frances Ross. Italian visitors —Sca-
muzzi, Cacialli, and Miss Russ, in a.
draughtboard black and white frock—flashed
eyes dark as midnight. Scamuzzi sang, and
the rafters shook and the ginger-ale shiv-
ered in the glass. No ordinary room can
house a 40-lungpower baritone. Dorothy
Brunton brought her pretty little mother.
When the Italian dukes were feeling lonely
they made a short cut for Dot’s golden curls
and looked unutterable compliments in their
own language. The Holmans and J. D.
Fizgerald looked in for a while.
Dr. Poate, who married awhile ago in
Egypt a foreign flower of uncommon beauty,
very nearly lost her a few months since
from appendicitis. Cairo fairly buzzed over
the unusual procedure of the doctor-husband
himself operating. Three medical majors
made the operation one of great importance
—Majors Poate, Mackenzie and Kay. But
the matter was serious and haste necessary,
and as the bride is making a triumphant
recovery the buzzing has probably ceased.
She had her twenty-first birthday in the
hospital.
There’s a shy
bird - of - passage
resting in Sydney
till the war-clouds
blow over. She
needs some dig-
ging - out, though
her miniatures and
other work have
been admired for
weeks in the Art
Society’s Slio w.
Here is the travel-
ler’s delicate, sen-
sitive face. Flo-
rence Fuller, Arini.
She came to Victoria in her swaddling
clothes from S’Africa, where her father, the
late John Fuller, an Englishman, had been
resident. A brother and sisters, who followed
Florence, are established Australian citizens.
But the artist got the wander thirst in her
teens.
Miss Fuller began her studies at the
Melbourne gallery. Then she went to Paris
for nearly three years, and with intervals
of enforced rest, when her delicate body
cries “Halt!” the world has been her easel.
Under Raphael Collin she learnt the art of
the outdoor figure in “plain air.” She has
been an exhibitor for years at the Paris
Salon and Royal Academy; and though
three Australian National galleries —Syd-
ney, Adelaide and Perth —house samples of
her work, her name is better known in
S’Africa than in Australia.
“On one of my trips this way from Eng-
land,” Miss Fuller fold me, “I intended to
have no more than a hasty day’s scamper
around Capetown. My uncle, Sir Thomas
Fuller, who was then senior member for
the Cape (he was afterwards Agent-
General in London), was a friend of Cecil
Rhodes. So it happened that the big man
had often seen my work in my uncle’s
home. He was the despair of local artists,
and persistently refused to sit for them.
Some freak took him, and he told my rela-
tive that he would sit for me if I would
do the job then and there. So I broke my
journey at the Cape. I made frequent visits
to Rhodes’s beautiful home at Groot
Schuur and I didn’t find him exactly an ideal
sitter. Still, he was very good-humored.
One felt that he was quizzing every slap of
the brush. He liked the results, though it
was nervous work to get a characteristic
portrait. Two were ordered for Kimberley
—one for its Town Hall, the other for the
De Beers Co. Capetown bought another,
and a small one afterwards went to the
Perth gallery.
It has been a bad time for house-moving,
and it is hardly safe to speak to director Le
Soeuf, of the Zoo, about it. The elephant
had packed her trunk, so she simply had
to go; and that was a nice Sunday-morning
job. Only once since 1883 had Jessie been
out for a walk, and she was that flustered,
poor soul, when she had got down to the
waiting punt at Fort Macquarie that she
was all a-tremble, and four attendants of
whose sobriety and good intentions Jessie
had learned to have a high opinion were
kept busy all the way across assuring her
that it was all right. The poor old smil
simply clung to them. And when she
got to the other side it was nearly
as bad. What manner of gin was this pon-
toon, this jetty, these stairs? For five-and-
twenty solid minutes they had to argue with
Jessie about taking a step. At her time
of life she wasn’t going to be the Girl who
took the Wrong Turning if reflection would
save her. An hour later she was saying to
her new husband that man, though nothing
to look at, is a wonderful beast. How he
could tell that across vast waters there was
a Moorish temple with a courtyard and a
bath in it and a gentleman elephant waiting
for a lady to share it she couldn’t tell.
The camels came that way, too. “It is
Kismet,” they said, and went whither they
were told. What others of the family were
moved went by road. Outside a quiet hotel
at Mosman a strange big box stood on a
waggon. A lounger lifted a tarpaulin to see
what manner of merchandise this was. That
happened to be when the lions were having
their ride. It cost him sixpence to get his
nerves composed again.
The rain which the thirsty land had been
drinking up for a week'blotted out the open-
ing day of the races; and finery that left
home when the elusive sun was shining had
to be dried before the kitchen fire. Greatly
daring, lovely Woman had set out without
ei en a fancy parasol. I saw a race-gown
of pink ninon being helped into a taxi by
sympathising friends. You know what very
wet blotting-paper looks like'.
The usual race crowd is herded together-
feeling very sorry for itself —in our best
hotels. “So disgusting of the weather—
what?” McMasters, an Osborne or two, the
Hays from the South Coast, Bowmans, and
stacks of racing men are waiting for the
storm to move on.
Mrs. W. F. Buchanan, of Killarney sta-
tion, is still on the other side. Writing
from Bournemouth she mentions the attrac-
tive Avon and Stour rivers, where punting
has been the craze for the amusement of
soldiers, wounded or on a few days’ leave.
Daughter Noelie, who drives her own car,
gives up most of her time to taking wounded
Tommies for an airing. When she tucks
the car away for an hour or two she punts
the family up the Avon.
At Lavender Bay the other evening, Marie
Victoria Mclntyre said she would to W. A.
Broun, (mind the u), second son of the
Willie Brouns, of Coonamble. The bride is
the only daughter of the Mclntyres of Fern-
brook, North Sydney. Ethel Underwood
was bridesmaiden. A motor trip to the
Mountains followed the cake cutting. The
Leslie Sprague pair (she used to be a Miss
Broun) came from Dungowan station for
the event.
Trof. Andy Stuart had a heart-to-heart
talk to Red Cross enthusiasts in the Medical
School the other afternoon. Standing room
only at the back of the hall. The mechan-
ism of the modern artificial leg—it’s a league
ahead of the old wooden limb —is almost per-
fect. But the foot wears out something like
a sock a day, so there’s still room for im-
provement. Cap. Cuttle’s hook is also a
century behind the modern “hand” we
shake when the hero is fixed up after his
damages.
Here’s a photo
with a few words
from Gladys Mon-
crieff, the Queens-
land girl who came
south a couple of
years ago and
brought her good
looks and fresh
young voice with
her. She made a
start with J.C.W.;
then, finding things
a bit crowded, and
remembering some-
thing she had read
in the Scriptures,
she moved over to
S’Africa, and at
latest was at
Jo’burg with the
Royal Comics, playing leading lady in
“Betty,” “Quaker Girl,” “Merry Widow,”
“The Arcadians,” and a few other things—-
“and looking for The Bulletin every
mail.”
The concert to help the Italian Red Cross
is fixed for Oct. 11, when the Gonsalez aviary
will sing its sweetest for its native land.
Willard Turton, of Bronte, lately put a
plain gold ring on the finger of Olga Hutchin
at St. Matthias’s Church. White lilies
decked the church, and tenor Sid Macdonald
sang “Because” while the choir took one bar
rest. White shimmer draped in Limerick
lace saw the leading lady through the cere-
mony. Wedding party at the Carlton. Wil-
lard Turton eventually takes his wife home
to Gunnedah.
To help the Golden Fleece Free Kinder-
garten, manager Cordia, of the Dutch Packet
Co., lantern-lectured about his wet little
country. The local atmosphere was in the
same condition (three cheers for Sydney’s
droughty water-mains!), so the attendance
was thin. Seats had been sold, however, and
general-secretary Ellen Desailly didn’t look
worried about the empty chairs. Mr.
Cordia gave a preliminary explanation of
the reason why a Dutchman doesn’t like to
be called a Dutchman, and prefers to be a
Netherlander. Then a long array of first-
rate pictures showed Holland’s ant-like in-
dustry in fighting the hungry North Sea.
A Holland dame (old style) doesn’t worry
about spring or summer fashions, says the
man from Amsterdam. She wears seven
pettis all the year round and looks like a
windmill.
Young Geoff. Elkington, the M.L., sheep-
owner who married Bunty of the String-
pulling, is working with the French Red
Cross. Bunty is nursing baby, baby Bunt-
ing.
The quarantining of Graythwaite caused
a flutter in the North Sydney \ .A.I). dove-
cot. Five girls who were on duty when the
edict came have done their job so well that
they’re due for a Grafters’ D.C.M. One
of the voluntary bulwarks of the conva-
lescent Billjims’ home, Mrs. J. A. Kethel,
happened to be outside when the doors were
closed. But she’s still giving 14 hours or
so a day, only a packing depot gets them
now.
The Voluntary Workers’ Cafe in Moore-
street is already putting good money into
the Association’s till. But the general pub-
lic doesn’t quite understand the vague calico
sign that flutters outside. Upstairs there’s
no mistake about anything. Buxom lady
voluntaries rush the visitors for orders, and
the tea is the best brew. Sometimes a ’pren-
tice tosses too much baking powder into the
scones. But the smile of the good-looking
girl who hands you the butter takes the
grit out of your teeth.
Going to change her name to Mrs. Nor-
man Page, Ivy Watkins, of Chatswood, sec-
ond daughter of R. G. Watkins, who mayored
in Waverley several times. As a pre-wed-
ding celebration sister Mrs. Harry Vale teaed
a crowd at her Stratlifield home, with her
husband and the groom-elect the only male
beings admitted.
All the frock-builders’ efforts to bring in
panniers have had negative results. They
exist hardly anywhere but on models with
wire stands inside them. Sometimes a
Smart-Set dame tries them on the dog or
social writers at a race meeting. On the
whole, they look nicer on Miss Gonsalez,
in “Mignon.” Sky blue, over a white lacy
skirt, they were there a fascinating side-
line. Little Visoni, the Mignon of Friday
night, tumbles her hair into a fuzzy mop and
puts on 3s. Hid. worth of blue cotton dress-
ing-gown to express her despair at one crisis
in this opera. The co. takes a ’busman’s
holiday on first nights. Lois and Scamuzzi
and another dark-eyed hero were in a box
to hear Balboni sing.
Fashions are steadily working back to the
sixteenth century. For instance, Gilda, in
“liigoletto,” wears a little pink frock with
a skirt of the average Potts Point cut for
morning. Even the velvet lattice that trims
the gown will be seen —with reservations —
in race week. Not that the Gonsalez
people get grey hairs worrying over cos-
tumes. Still, they rarely miss by more than
50 years.
At the opening of the Commonwealth
Bank a plain citizen who lives to tell the
tale of the awful crush inside was carried
by the swirl of our Most Expensive People’s
drapery into one of the lifts. No speeches
had been made, and officially the bank was
still unopened. Yet when Brown-Jones
pulled himself together he was shooting up
to Heaven amidst a chorus of “Take us
straight to the refreshment room.”
Our Tom’s at it again! Souter has
sketched his pet for a war-fund calen-
dar cover. Tom’s whiskers are in the
old place, and his tail still curls like crochet
knitting. Beside the almanacs, the artist
supplies an inch or so of patriotic verse on
each page. Get it at the Red Cross Book
Depot, 100 Pitt-street.
“Comforts” parties have a strong family
likeness. Hence the little show in the li. A.
Society’s rooms, opened by the Cullen lady,
was so much like its innumerable prede-
cessors that you could hardly stick a pin’s
point in the difference. Basso Charlie
Smythe trolled a roundelay; War Chest
Walker gave the visitors some figures to go
on with (they ran to tons of puddings) ; the
Tivoli lent an attractive pair of songbirds:
and ladies of the 13th (or some of them)
and barrackers for the 45th handed round the
tea.
Yours affectionatelv-
VANDORIAN.


HARDY BROTHERS LZ!L
JEWELLERS, SILVERSMITHS, GEM MERCHANTS.
0
0
O
NEW DESIGNS
in
DIAMOND
BROOCHES.
A Choice Selection of Diamond
and Pearl Set Platinum Brooches
are included in a display which
affords an excellent opiiortunity
for choosing: a Dainty Gift.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY are
cordially invited to inspect the
Company’s display of Hig:h-class
Jewellery and Silverware.
13 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
116-118 Queen Street
BRISBANE.
HARDY BROS. (SYDNEY and BRISBANE) LTD.,
32 Old Burlington Street, London W.
IT IS HERE IN THE MECHANISM
that the Powers GB is unrivalled. There are many
Power Features, but two stand out.
THE AUTOMATIC LOOP SETTER
Prevents stoppage of machine through losing bottom loop,
and the
SPECIAL CINE MOTOR WITH MECHANICAL
CONTROL.
Ask the really experienced operator what this means.
See tKe
POWERS 6B
BIOSCOPE
Demonstrated.
Considering the fact that the Powers Company has been
in the front rank of' the projection business since it first
started, it is not surprising that the Powers 68, their
latest production, is favored by 65 to 70 per cent, of the
best shows.
lIP
Photographic anti Cinematographic Merchants,
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CARBONS, ROLL TICKETS, SLIDES, etc.
JUST ARRIVED!
New Models
OF THE
Aeolian - Vocation
Just twelve months ago this wonderful new musical instrument
was launched on the Australian market at prices from £25 to
£75, over the full range of handsome models. The sales of the
Vocalion in all our branches has been a revelation, and is un-
doubtedly due to the wonderful tone quality of this great
REPRODUCER OF DISC RECORDS.
Following up this great initial success, we now have pleasure in
announcing to the musical public two new models at prices which
simply compel attention.
f
Aeolian
Vocation
MODEL E.
£l7 10s.
Beautifully finished
in Oak or
Mahogany, and
containing the
tonal features that
have so pleased all
buyers of the more
expensive models
Aeolian
Vocation
MODEL D.
£l2 10s.
Excellent finish in
Oak or Mahogany.
Wonderful value.
df
d
fsd
THE VOCALION PLAYS ALL DISC
RECORDS PERFECTLY.
WRITE FOR DESCRIPTIVE BOOKLET & PRICES.
YOUR PRESENT GRAMOPHONE TAKEN IN
PART PAYMENT.
eiFiano
laCkipam^
PTY. LTD.
384 George Street, Sydney.
Post us this To-day
THE PIANOLA COMPANY,
384 George Street , Sydney.
Please send me Catalogs and Price List of the
Vocation as advertised in “ The Bulletin
Name
A ddress


The Most Dressy Hat
of the Year for Men
is the Stetson. It is just the Hat for Spring Race
Carnival Days. A natural color (fawn) Velour Hat —
the very top of Fashion, finished with black band and
head leather. The most serviceable style Hat to date.
At Farmer's
Prices, 35/- to 50/-
Other Stetson Felts at Farmer’s gentlemanly shapes
in Slate Grey, Grey Mixture, Fawns and Browns,
Priced at 39/6.
Carriage paid by Farmer’s.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY
PITT, MARKET AND GEORGE STREETS.
J
,
r.
TRY MAGNESIA FOR YOUR
STOMACH TROUBLE.
IT NEUTRALISES ACIDITY AND PRE-
VENTS FERMENTATION.
Doubtless you have already tried pepsin*
bismuth, soda, charcoal, drugs, etc., and so
you know that these things will not cure
your trouble —in some cases they do not even
give relief—but before giving up hope and
deciding that you are a chronic dyspeptic
just try the effect of a little magnesia—not
the ordinary carbonates, oxides or citrates,
but bisurated magnesia, which you can
obtain from practically any chemist in either
powder or tablet form. Take half a teaspoon-
ful of the powder or two compressed tablets
with a little water after your next meal, and
see what a difference this makes. It will
instantly neutralise the harmful acid which
now causes your food to ferment, giving rise
to wind, heartburn, flatulence and many
other unpleasant symptoms, and you will
find that, provided you take a little bisurated
magnesia immediately afterwards, you can
eat almost anything and enjoy it without
any danger of pain and discomfort to follow.
—Advt.
A wise inspiration the Tank: a dragon of
righteousness to overcome the pestilent
monster of Hun Frightfulness. A most wise
inspiration, acclaims that wisdom-inspiring
spirit, King George IV. topnotch Scotch.—
Advt.
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
m
m
m
m
m
'ELEY Smokeless’
A Cerise Cartridge
loaded with Eley
42-grain Smoke-
less Powder and
1£ oz shot.
Millions sold
annually.
ELEY
E.B. ‘Nitro*
Cartridge Case
loaded with
Schultze or any
other Standard
Smokeless Powder.
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELEYBROS.L" LONDON
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, October 2, 1916.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The G.-G. and Lady Helen gave a general
Show party on Wednesday night. The ball-
room was hung with wistaria and purple
iris, and the hostess wore a frock of ivory
satin and some dainty Brussels lace, illu-
minated with diamonds and pearls. Little
Lady Stanley made her first appearance
after her recent illness, and looked frail and
sweet in a gown of tulle flounces with a
gold and ivory brocade top. Melba was
there in black that showed deep purple
underneath. A truckload of Governors with
their coats brightly decorated wandered
about full of State secrets. A flock of gent-
lielps followed them and kept irreverent
flies off. There was an extra special pro-
gramme of music. One of Melba’s pupils
used a magnificent voice in a dirge-like song
that did not cheer anybody in such wet
weather. The rain has been so depressing
that we are all miserable enough without
musical groans. Walter Kirby sang some
Puccini and Gertie Summerhayes played her
violin.
The Galway lady from South Aus. is one
of the Ferguson house-party. On Friday
evening she gave a lecture in the Town-
Hall. She called it “A plea for the teach-
ing of foreign languages,” and the Alliance
Franga'ise women rolled up in great num-
bers. The Alliance runs French teaching
classes, which have grown so that they have
had to spread to rooms in the Oriental
Hotel. The Hennessy dame presided. She
is an ardent French scholar who always
asks for her sugar in French.
Sam Hordern, president of the N. S.
Wales Fatted Ox Society, over for our
Show, has been brushing his hair and
changing his collars at Federal Government
House as the guest of the Fergusons. Sam
Hordern’s own special interest is horse-
breeding, and he has been padding round
the grounds industriously with or without
his vice-regal host.
As the John Madden dame was only just
convalescent, daughter Lesley took her place
as hostess-in-chief at the big Savoy dinner
on Thursday night—tickets 10s. 6d. each,
the proceeds to help the Melbourne Hospital
get rid of its £26,000 overdraft. Melbourne
was drinking rain with every breath and the
streets were flooded as usual; but the brave
eaters splashed up in their second-best
motors and filled the uttermost corners of the
cafe with jolly chatter. The acting-hostess
wore pink cut low with some black-bead
storks embroidered on the flesh-tinted net of
her elbow sleeves and gold ivy leaves in her
hair. Mrs. George Fairbairn had a huge
party in the centre of the room at an oval
table. She wore fine purple and black ninon,
and her hair and hands were weighed down
with jewels—pints of them. Lieut. Lochart
(a young man with a marvellous com-
plexion) was told to amuse a lovely girl in
bright pink chiffon. He is one of the pets
of the Flying Corps and wears the loveliest
little black eyebrow as a moustache. Lieut.
“Pinkie” Ryan was another soldier-guest.
General Williams sat at Miss Madden’s table.
Scotch Andy Leishman wore his rejection
medal as a monocle and talked about his
coming dash to London and France and
Red Cross work. George L. Copeland bid
loudly at the inevitable auction and kept
his temper when the turtle soup was acci-
dentally spilt over his dinner clothes.
Mrs. Thompson helped with the hostess-
fussing and floated about in lilac tulle and
a diamond forehead band. Beryl Spier
came with her father and found a becoming
French cap in her bon-bon. Young Wal-
lace Mitchell, from the Riverina, wore a
diamond i*ose as a shirt-stud. It mesmer-
ised me like a motor searchlight. Ralph
Falkiner came in late with Tim Clapp.
There was a jolly consular table; United
States Magelssen and Italian Eles were
two of the circle. Baracchi enjoyed his
dinner and disclaimed all responsibility for
the flood-weather. Mrs. Ledingham came
hurriedly at a telephone call, deserting a
dinner party of her own, to make number
fourteen at a threatened thirteen tablw
The Bowes Kelly girls were sighted in glad
rags. Gabrielle Allen wore a paper sun-
bonnet nearly all the evening. She found it
in a bon-bon and saw in a neighboring glass
that it made her look a seaside beauty. All
sorts of things were auctioned. Young
Haughton boomed as auctioneer, and some
lovely flappers acted as his clerks. Clifford
Boanas composed a song, Walter Kirby
tenored it, and it was then auctioned and
knocked down to Copeland for some guineas.
Garvie, a handsome youth with a young
tenor voice, was booked to sing, but did not.
So Walter, the old campaigner, perched in
a bower of roses and carolled for an hour
or so.
Dinner and auction over, the company
began to dance. Few of the bachelors got
home till dawn. They found strange auc-
tion-spoil in their pockets. One reveller dis-
gustedly found that he had carefully carried
three tins of preserved beans all the way to
Toorak. (All high-toned paragraphs should
end at Toorak.)
The last stages of the big charity dinner
were lively. One august old dame of
Toorak burst a colored balloon over a neigh-
boring grey head, and a clubman who is
usually sedate had a balloon tethered by
ribbons to each ear. Nobody minded that;
but one and all condemned the bachelor who
called at friends’ houses at three in the
morning to distribute the liquors he had
bought at auction. Charity can be made
quite amusing if you use enough wine.
Everybody is wanting to know, you know.
Why was the big patriotic dinner changed
about so furiously? Billed first as in aid
of the Russian Red Cross, it was placarded
next as a Repatriation Fund gorge. But
when it actually happened the Melbourne
Hospital was its excuse. And why were
the tables booked for Menzies’ Hotel and
suddenly changed, by telephoning and special
messengers, to the Savoy? Why did a large
party of dames suddenly cancel their table
arrangements and put off their guests for
that night? Didn’t they want to help the
Melbourne Hospital? And that runs me
out of interrogation marks.
PAUL DUFAULT going to his bath.
Paul Dufault causes quite a sensation in
his corridor of the Oriental. The Beauty
man wears a blue ninon dressing-gown. The
transparency discloses pale blue silk ’jamas,
cut in a V at the neck and with elbow
sleeves. The blue is sometimes varied by a
tender rose-pink. Thus embellished Paul
strides through the corridor like a short-
limbed god crowned with a silver halo.
Adelaide’s prattle :■ —
The Governor ran into his fifty-seventh birthday
last week, and took a few days off to celebrate it in
Melbourne. Lady Galway stayed, to meet her invalided
son, Lieut. d’Erlanger, who has seen a year’s service
with the British in Flanders. He is to act as extra
A.D.C. to step-pa during his stay here. On Thurs-
day her Ex. and the soldier lad went on to join the
dad. Talking of A.D.C.’s reminds me that “Dicky”
Nevill does not depart from Canada with the Con-
naughts, but will stay to help the Devonshires.
J. Hayter Reed is to have Howard Davenport’s
place as hon. treasurer to the S.A. Division of the
Red Cross. Another good toiler being lost is Miss
Hiles, who goes to England with Ethel Hall and Rose
Bennett to work for the V.A.D.
Died on Tuesday, at North Adelaide, Mrs. Boas,
wife of the Rabbi and one of the leaders of Jewish
philanthropic work. Her father, Isaac Solomon, was
a partner of the late Maurice Salom.
The Morea brought back Dr. H. 11. C. Rennie,
invalided after working with the R.A.M.O. in Flan-
ders. He is a son of Professor Rennie, of the Uni.
Senator Shannon’s son, a bombardier, has got a
military medal for “conspicuous bravery in France.”
The same distinction has been won by Corporal J. L.
Felstead, a brother of Hilda, one of our best-known
singers.
G. E. Yates, who succeeded the late E. A. Roberts
to the Federal Reps and now leaves his seat to join
the ranks, emigrated from England in ’7B. He was
for 17 years with A. M. Simpson and Son before
being" made secretary of the Agricultural Implement
Workers’ Association.
Josiah Symon, K.C., who was 70 last week, has
four sons at the Front.
E. P. Lawrie, who retired from the Survey Depart-
ment about a year ago, and who was responsible
for the original plans of the Botanic Garden and
Park, died during the week. He was a Londoner
who arrived in S.A. in ’54, when he was nine years
old. He served 50 years in the Survey Department.
The intrigue for the job of mayoring Mel-
bourne, a matter which should be settled
next Monday, continues. Of the two candi-
dates—William Cabena and David Hennessy
—William alleges that he has been promised
support by a majority of members and
“looks with confidence to the result,” while
it has been stated of David that “a majority
of members favor his re-election for the fifth
year.” The old Yarra will flow on just the
same whatever happens.
Doris Marshall, one of the Victorian girls
who departed for England with the Volun-
tary Aids, has an M.C. brother —Lieut.
Norman Marshall, who won his decoration
at Gallipoli. Papa is Dr. Marshall, of
Scots’ Church. A couple of days before sail-
ing, by the way, the whole outfit of 30 V.A.
trippers went to G.-G. House and got the
vice-regal muffin and blessing, both well but-
tered.
The widow Butler’s elder lad Lieut. Jack,
who went off in December, has died of
wounds in France. Jack was a tall, narrow
youth with a ready grin ; he was one of the
Grammar School crew in the 1915 liead-of-
the-river race. His late father, Henry But-
ler, was a partner of the late Frederick
Softgoods of the Lane.
Mrs. Garran, the wife of the new Solicitor-
General, is treasurer of the Patriotic Sewing
Circle of the Repertory Club, which should
get a few bushels of needles and thread out
of “Hop o’ my Thumb,” to be done by the
Rep. players on October 7. Mrs. J. E.
Mackey, Ivy Wenzel and Mary Curtain are
in the cast; and Mrs. Broinowski (once
Daisy Evans, of Sydney) will play her violin
that night with Miss Deschamps at the
piano.
Bachelor Tim Clapp is off to America,
and his pals fed him for the long voyage at
Scott’s on Saturday.
After having made one false start and
returned to Melbourne, Alfred Deakin and
his wife last week left by the Osterley for
England. The chief object of the trip
is to see daughter Vera, who is in charge of
the London office of the Inquiry Bureau for
Missing Soldiers.
Three sons of the late Bill Knox, mining
man and M.H.R., have gone to the Front.
Lieut. Macgregor Knox, of the R.F.A., has
just cabled to his mother, without details,
that he has won the Military Cross. Young
Knox went with the A.I.F. to Egypt and
Gallipoli, and was afterwards invalided to
England, where he recovered and joined the
Artillery. Of Lieut.-Colonel George Knox,
of the A.1.F., the latest bulletin mentions
that he is convalescent from shell-shock and
sitting up and taking a little nourishment in
British hospital. And Captain William
Knox, also of the A.1.F., is an artillery-
man, nowadays in the thick of it in France.
“Rosna’s” usual matrimonial note from
London: —
The clergy continue to do a roaring trade among
’Roolanders in this village. Latest marrvings include
those of Bruce Burnside, son of Justice Burn-
side, of Westralia, who married Grace Gould, a
maiden from Bath ; Roderick Walker, son of Sydney’s
old friend Tommy, now Westralia’s Attorney-General,
who found time to come over and marry Christina
Robert Son, of Invergarry; and Emily Revnell, one of
the handsome daughters of vigneron Walter Reynell,
of Reynella (S.A.), who has married Lieut. John
Ward Walters. He is Hun-chasing with the King’s
Own Shropshire Light Infantry, but before the scrap
was growing rubber somewhere.
City Councillor Charlie Atkins writes
from London that, after a deal of wire-pull-
ing, he has at last succeeded in obtaining a
commission in the Defence Corps. The not-
so ancient mariner has for long been anxious
to do his bit, but was told here that he was
too old to serve his country.
The University students —or, rather, their
representative councillors —are going to
“theatre-night” at Her Majesty’s on Friday.
In some mysterious way the gathering is to
benefit University Red Cross funds, so a
number of pretty nurses may be confidently
looked for among the audience. Talking of
war-fund happenings, it seems that the
demand for Jo Smith’s performance of
“Before the Dawn” will not be restricted
to Wednesday night at The Playhouse. Jo
and co. are going to do it again on Thurs-
day, all the Wednesday tickets having been
rushed.
The recent - death of the wife of
lately-knighted G. P. Doolette left the
old man alone in London at 76, and
to make things more cheerful son Dorrie
and the latter’s attractive young wife
and small family leave Westralia shortly
to go and live with him. Papa Doolette’s
income from directors’ fees has for years
run into thousands, and Dorrie is to be on
hand to take his place on some if not most
of the boards.
Annie Kenny, suffragist, having paid her
Australian call, went back to England in
the mailboat that brought her here. Mel-
bourne, which expected sensations, is now
wondering whether the dainty caller could
really have been the same lady who helped
to shake up drowsy England before the war.
Perhaps she just did it to wear out her old
clothes. _ But she says she is coming this
way again. She knows she didn’t see the
real Australia when she saw Collins-street
and the Harbor, but she is “fascinated” by
what she heard of the real thing. She is as
certain as ever that Hughes ought to go to
England and give the diplomatists there the
“new light” that he could bring to bear on
Imperial problems. “You see,” says the
frail little woman, with an abundance of
corkscrewy gesture, “Mr. Hughes could
afford to do the right-thing. So many of our
statesmen can’t do the right tiling because
it isn’t the proper thing.”
Mrs. Widdis, of Gippsland, owner of Pat-
robas, who ran away with Guineas, Derby
and Melbourne Cup last year, says the
champion will not run for another year at
least. The gee is to have a complete rest
with his hoofs up and a manger full of Nat
Gould’s novels.
The whole vast population on the Jimmie
Officers’ Riverina wool patch got together
and cheered when a cable announced that
only son Philip was a Military Cross winner.
Another M.C. winner is the Flinders
Cooke family’s elder boy, who has been
through the whole circus from the Landing.
His mother was one of the Greenmeadows
Lemprieres.
Toorak pastoralist John Campbell and
family are mourning the loss of second son
Donald, who set out with our first West-
ralian Expeditionary Force. He won his
commission in the trenches. Younger brother
Walter, who holds a British commission,
lately won a Military Cross.
Melbourne Shakspeare Society, which
misses only three or four monthly meetings
in a year, will have its 7th pow-wow at the
Salon on Friday this week. The society has a
very keen edge on its patriotism these times,
and the business for Friday is a discussion
of Elizabethan Voyages and Travels, relieved
by recitations of “The Hour” and “The
Revenge.”
Novelist Kathie Prichard’s brother Alan,
for some years mining editor of the Argus,
has decided to give up stalking the wild cat
for a time to devote his energies to the Wild
Dog of Europe, and goes into camp at once.
Brother Nigel has been doing good work as
a doctor in Servia and Egypt.
The presence in Melbourne of editor
Bertram Stevens, of the Lone Hand, and
artist Syd Smith was considered a reasonable
excuse for holding a convivial gathering
of inky-wasters, artists and some quite
respectable citizens at Fasoli’s the other
evening. Bob Croll, of the Education De-
partment, organised the affair, and for the
time being Bohemia revived to the limited
extent permitted by anti-alcohol legislation.
When this reaches you the young Aus-
tralian Art Association will be holding its
Fourth Annual Exhibition in the Athenseum.
Governor Stanley is booked to provide the
eloquence at the opening on Tuesday.
The Overseas Club gave a farewell party
to Mrs. James before she left for England
by the Osterley. Her eldest son is attend-
ing lectures at Oxford on astronomy, so that
he may know some of the stars he will meet
when flying. This war-time student is just
convalescent from Lone Pine wounds.
Another James son, now with the Artillery,
was overseer of Westlands station, near
Longreach (Q.). before he enlisted.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


K
■ ■
a
Mi#
■
i
1
■ K
Sfl
a ■
■ ■
■ g|H
■|
IS
IMPERIAL
i
WHISKY


Build up
after Illness
by taking
Of all Chemists,
1/3. 2/9, 4/6.
Angier’s Emulsion is both healing and
strengthening. Soothing to the entire mucous
tract—throat, lungs, stomach and intestines
—an aid to appetite and digestion and a most
nvigorating tonic and restorative, it is
invaluable for restoring proper tone to the
digestive functions and for building up health
and strength after illness or when run down
from any cause. Pleasant to the taste and
absolutely harmless, it may be taken with
certainty of benefit. It is endorsed by the
medical profession.
FREE TRIAL.
BOTTLE.
” an l? and address, 46. postage, and mention this paper.
Angier Chemical Co.. Ltd., 7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
f
sf
TfteTOP'NOTCHScotch
V
V"V. SayWllEN Manirwi j/
VJ
r. ' ii|
9
h 1,
ZL
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Reol”: There is no fixed cure for a
jibbing horse because what will sometimes tune up
one animal will have no effect on another. But it would
do no harm next time the jibber plays up to take
him out of the team and hook him to another horse,
the pair facing opposite directions. Pull the jibber
backward for about 50 yards, stop, and see if he will
attempt to pull. If he refuses, try hauling him
through shallow water. AVhen he shows signs of re-
pentance attach something that he can shift easily.
Probably he will walk away with it. After that,
gradually work the prad up to heavy drawing.
THE LAST LINE.
FRITZ: “Yes, sir, I know the chicken is tough, but even in our business we have
called up the Landsturm.”
“Murphy”: Why do potatoes grown on
sandy, granitic soil, or places where logs and stumps
have been burnt, develop scab, especially in a dry
season? In the N. S. AVales Blue Mountain country
the fact is very noticeable. Whenever one sees char-
coal lying about it is safe betting that the potatoes
grown there will be scabby. Maybe the fire has
destroyed the hiimus supplied by rotting bracken,
leaves, etc., or perhaps an excess of potash does the
damage; at any rate, observation goes to show that
burning-off tends to increase the disease, so much so
that many farmers hold tliat’if bullocks were not as
costly as elephants it would pay better to haul all
bushes off the land than to burn them. At the
present price of beef, however, country roads are not
crowded with bullock-teams. The advent of some
nice cheap animal like an enlarged wombat, of
great traction power and little meat value, is greatly
to be desired.
“Snell” : They were holding an inquest in
Pell’s Hotel at The Oaves. James John Kellar, a
digger working at Three Creeks, had hung himself
to a gum with his waist-belt, and the coroner was
desirous of arriving at some idea of the man’s
habitual state of mind. Butters was under examina-
tion. He had been Ivellar’s hut-mate for a year or
so, and it was reasonably assumed that Butters
would know if Kellar had shown symptoms of mental
aberration. “No,” said Butters, “Jim Jack was just
ordin’ry. We called him Jim Jack, but there wasn’t
nothingk the matter with him what you’d notice.”
“He was not peculiar in any way?” “No more nor
you and me. We all has our little ways.” “He gave
no indication whatever of being mentally affected?”
“Dippy you mean? No, acourse not.” “And you
lived with him for 11 months?” “Yes.” “And
you noticed nothin’ strange?” “Nothin’.” “You
can step down.” Butters stepped down, bethought
him of something, and stepped back again. “Gome
to remember it, Mister,” he said, “Jim Jack did
have a narsty habit of eatin’ his boots.”
* * * *
“Daybreak”: The abo. mentioned by
“D.F.” (B. 17/8/’l6) is not the only black brother
who has unconsciously put up a record long-distance
bound. In the days when Binghi was fairly numer-
ous on the Nor’-AVest Coast (Tas.), in the Circular
Head district, there used to abide an ancient splitter
named Thrasher, a finicky old cuss who was noted
for the way in which he kept his humpy. One of
his most highly-prized treasures was a feather bed.
Once while he was away hunting about a score of
blacks raided his camp, struck his priceless feather-
stuffed mattress, dragged it outside, ripped it open
and started hurling the poultry-fur to Heaven and
dancing a sort of corroboree underneath. It was
thus that old Thrasher came on them. AVithout dis-
closing himself he got his old blunderbuss. Both
barrels were loaded with parrot shot, and from a
distance of about 60 yards he emptied them into
the capering Binghis. Like a cloud of inky pro-
jectiles erupted from a howitzer they whizzed into
the scrub, several of them bounding clean over the
top of the humpy in their eagerness to get away.
They never troubled him again.
HIS GREAT LOSS.
BENEVOLENATOLENT OLD PARTY : “You appear to be in grief, my little friend. May I ask why?”
HIS LITTLE FRIEND (in anguish): “I lorst a purse.”
B.O.P.: “Dear me! How much was there in it?”
H.L.F.: “I d’know. That bloke there ripped it outer yer pocket just as I was a-goin’ to
get it for oneself.”
“McNorth”: Undoubtedly the stone fisli
(Synacela horrida ), mentioned in a recent Bulletin,
is the most devilish denizen of the beach. It is also
the ugliest, and as it has a habit of lying in places
that harmonise with its own appearance it is the
most treacherous. It has a loose, baggy appearance
and a dozen or so sharp, envenomed dorsal spines,
which, when danger threatens, become rigidly up-
right. Each of these spines contains a midship sac,
from which a virulent poison is forced to the point
by pressure. The unfortunate who puts his bare
foot on the beast will never forget it. I have seen
three cases. One was of a fisherman near Cairns
(N.Q.), who hasn’t been seen in the water since
without his boots on. He reckons the suffering he
endured aged him three years. The second was of
a chubby little blackboy. Everything possible was
done, but he died in fearful agony half an hour
after being stung. His frantic screams still ring in
my ears. The third was here in Torres Strait
recently. Luckily a doctor was handy, and the vic-
tim was in medical hands within a few minutes of
being stung. During the weeks that followed, a
complete record of the case was made. The out-
standing features were agonising pain, high tempera-
tures and swellings. Apparently the nature of the
poison is unknown, the pus from the wounds con-
taining only the ordinary cocci of suppuration.
“Nick' Bottom”: What’s all the excite-
ment about, anyhow? In my par. I referred only to
the unholy practice of stuffing tubes into a vow’s
teats in order to drain the juice. Only an idiot
would condemn the scientific appliances which ex-
tract the milk in much the same manner as a calf
does—when it gets the chance. It’s not pumps but
artesian bores to wjfieh I object.
“Corundum”: “U.S.A.’s” method of pro-
curing charcoal (B. 17/8/’l6) is out of date. If
he wants good, clean charcoal the best way to
produce it is in a cylindrical retort about Bft. in
diameter and 10ft. high. On top of the retort have
six or seven circular holes, lOin. in diameter, with
caps to fit. On the ground level it will be neces-
sary to have two doors 3ft. x 2ft., opposite each
other. Put the wood in through the holes on the
top; put the caps on all but three of the holes.
Then light the wood through each of the doors, close
and make airtight so as to allow no draught. The
burner can take the rest of the day off. Next
morning, when the doors of the retort are opened,
he will find tip-top charcoal, not dirt, ashes and
charcoal, as he would if he did it as “R.S.A.”
suggests.
“Inver G.” : The sunburning of Papuan
albinos mentioned by “Tropicus” 'is interesting, but
natural enough. What struck me as amazing was a
freckled Maori who was attached to the retinue of
Mahuta when that monarch came to Wellington
(M.L.) once on a ceremonial visit before they put
him in the M.L. Leg. Council. The chap was none
of your Wanganui River mixture; he was the
dinkum King Country article, pure-merino Maori in
INCREDIBLE.
THE RETURNED WARRIOR: “Over in France
a man can get a beer for about a penny.”
THE BATTLER : “ Well, well, and to think that
there's still able-bodied fellers holding
back!”
everything but” the color of his hair and his skin.
Instead of the black, straight thatch of the ordi-
nary native he had a roofing that, though dark
enough in the shadows, showed a sort of auburn
tinge where the light struck it. And his face, while
typical of the breed in everything else, differed in
that it sported a decided “complexion.” About the
cheekbones there was a definite ruddiness, and there
and on the nose was a crop of unmistakable freckles.
(Continued on page 24J
BOTTLE-O!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Bottles, bottles, rags and bones!’’
Hear me yap me little lay.
Licensed gatherer Sparrow Jones,
Trucking empties all the day.
Sloshin’ in the winter’s slops,
Kep’ a moochin’ by the cops.
“Arr there, Sparrer,
Push yer barrel'! ”
Swats me one across the chops.
“Push yer barrel !” What price me,
Swelterin’ in the summer heat
For me daily bread and tea
On a ’ard, ungordly beat ?
“Bottles, bottles.” “Get to heel
’Fore I split yer blarsted wheel.”....
“Push yer barrel’!”....
“ ’Ark the Sparrer,
Don’t he twitter like a seal?”
All the backdoor dames in town
Snoutin’ me a bally treat,
Bargin’ for an extra brown,
Raggin’ after in the street:
“Spadger, Spadger, pinched a tick,
Go ’n’ fetch a copper, quick.”....
“Stole me tanner
Gran’ planner—-
Dint his dipper with a brick!”
“Bottles, bottles, rags and bones!”
With each lousy little crime
That no other blighter owns
I am fitted every time.
“Loafin’ sot!” their Worships say;
“Swipes a barrel every day,”
Kiddies’ twitter.
Ain’t it bitter—
Only empties come my way!
“Bottles, bottles, rags and bones!”
Two lame kidneys burnin’ bright.
Square V all, a gath’rer owns
Life’s a uphill game, all right.
Then dead finish. Hear ’em blurt:
“Jonese.v’s snuffed it. Little ’urt!”....
“Pore ole Sparrer,
Pushed his barrer!’’
On the slab above me dirt.
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.


An Economy
Proposition
should not lack interest in these
days.
Here’s an
economy-
proposition of
the first water
•—a chance to
save money 7 on
your Summer
Suit.
55
Is the Price
of a Murdoch
Suit-to-Measure
It s not too good to be true—but it’s
true enough to be good.
ou risk nothing by proving it.
LEAVE YOUB ORDER TO-DAY
See our smart selection of Summer
Suitings—Tweeds and Worsteds in
nobby designs—cloths that will
appeal to you. Write for patterns if
you can’t call.
sd
fsd
Satisfaction
guaranteed
or your money
refunded.
Desk R.
Messrs. Murdoch's in Park Street Ltd..
SYDNEY.
Please forward patterns of Summer Suit-
ings at the Suit-to-measure, with
tape and self measurement form.
Name
Address
VVe are tailoring some smart fabrics
in Black and Blue Pencil Stripes—
also plain Dark Grey Vicunas,
at 63/-
the Suit-to-Measure.
Shall we post you patterns?
MURDOCH’S
in Park Street Ltd.,
- SYDNEY
tt
Where the Good Hats are.”
NOTHING SUCCEEDS LIKE SUCCESS.
We trace our Success as SODA FOUNTAIN
SPECIALISTS simply to this principle—
“ Honest Value for Money Spent.”
ft
R i
WM
<i»4»
Remember, we Absolutely Specialise
in Soda Fountains. We have made
a life study of this particular business.
So when contemplating purchasing a
Soda Fountain, come to
The Firm that Knows.
We have just landed a beautiful
assortment of Onyx Draught Stand-
ards, fitted with our famous non-drip,
double-stream Soda Arms. Also to
hand a wonderful assortment of
quaint, attractive, distinctive Art
Glass Shades. Something special.
These goods are high class —the
best the most skilful mechanics can
produce. Something to be proud of.
An article of life-long durability. Call
at our Showroom, 219 George Street,
Sydney, and inspect these goods.
Quality for Quality, Price for Price,
WE LEAD.
The passport to assured success of the
Soda Fountain,
“Nelson's True
Fruit Syrups”
“Made from the juice of the fruit,
The most critical critic ’twill suit.”
NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. LTD.
(The House of Quality), 219 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE: Flemming H. MOGG, Basement Preston House, Queen Street.
ADELAIDE : SILAS H. MARTIN, “ Ritz ” Soda Fount, King William Street.
PERTH: HADDON, Hay Street.
mm
»
§i
■
*r
— &
:
H
The Utmost Delights in Motoring
Are Given by the Mitchell Six, the Master Car
YOU can lean back comfortably in the deep npliolstery of the Mitchell
with full confidence in the entire reliability of its six-cylinder
engine, and give yourself up completely to the enjoyment of the
landscape gliding past. In the Mitchell you experience the exhilaration
and pleasure of motoring in fullest measure. The hills seem to
melt away before you Never is your delight marred by any deficiency
m the engine or the car. Its magneto ignition is unfailing; its whole
mechanism is efficient.
You pass over rough roads without in the least feeling the rough-
ness, for the Bate .cantilever springs make the car ride easily and
smoothly. The engine is responsive, flexible, obedient to your slightest
.wish. Every joy that motoring can give is brought you by the Mitchell.
The sheer beauty of its lines charms you. You appreciate the conveni-
ences it possesses—engine-driven tyre pump, electric lighting, self-starter,
ample roominess, due to its long, 125-inch wheelbase.
The cost of upkeep is low; the car has run 26f miles to the gallon
of benzine under official observation. Yet the price is moderate. The
Mitchell costs considerably more in America than any car selling here at
the same price.
Call for a demonstration of this master car, and in the meantime
write for full specifications.
F. H. GORDON & CO., 140 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Agents for New South Wales and Queensland
Agents for Victoria and Tasmania: JAS. A. MUNRO & CO., 493-503 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Agents for South Australia: ORCHARD RALPH & CO., Victoria Street, Adelaide.
Agents for West Australia: BRADLEY & WILLIAMS, 853-857 Hay Street, Perth.
Agents for New Zealand: North Island—lNGLlS BROS.. Wellington. South IsIand—HAMLET & TENCH, 166 Tuam Street, Christchurch.


Martin's Pills are sold by W. H. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
The Easy Way
to Polish
Furniture-
sprinkle some
drops of . . .
! UKICIIII
3-sn-One
Oil on a wet cloth. Wipe away
grime and soil from table,
chairs, sideboard or piano.
Then polish with soft, dry
cloth. Back will come the
original lustre. Everything
will look like new!
"THREE-IN-ONE” is water-
white and fragrant. Won’t rub
HAINEB-5
off on clothes.
Obtainable
Everywhere.
For Free Sample
write to
REID & REID,
Australasian Agents,
Harris Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Choose a "Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer —those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
“SWAN SAFETY
f
Can’t Leak,
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch !
Catalogue free on request.
MAtilE, TODD & CO., London and
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J BURKe7
Sold by all Stationers
Branches. and Jewellers.
r 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney.
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marins, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD Oi l ICE-
-14 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
“Wada” : It lias been the custom for years
past to issue a blanket each year to Black Brother
when he cares to apply for one. This year, owing
to the sick appearance of the Treasury, only those
really in need are given the “nap.” A few days
ago a strong, able-bodied abo. demanded his dole.
On being refused he exploded: “No damn good
being a blackfeller these times; might just as well
be plurry white man!”
“Ilaka” : How’s this for variety _ of occu-
pations? To the usual query Henare explained to a
Maoriland beak the other day: “I te milkman, te
tinsmit, te putcher, an’ 1 te tog trainer. T’ree year
ago I ring te Moutere shed ; when I te real good nick
I te prizefighter.”
* * * *
. “H.M.W.” : Anent horses eating the bark
off trees. When there is an abundance of green feed
horses and cattle will devour almost any dry stuff
seemingly with the greatest relish —dry grass, chaff,
straw, bark of trees, etc. This is probably
accounted for by the fact that a certain amount of
innutritious food is necessary to man and beast, to
stimulate the fibres of the intestines. Concentrated
food is unnatural, as natural food has a proper
balance of nutritious and innutritious matter. There
is an old recorded case very much to the point. A
captain of a ship taking horses and cattle from
England to Bermuda lost all his fodder .in a gale
and was forced to feed his cargo with corn and
potatoes, of which he had plenty. The stock, how-
ever, did no good until the captain had some old
spars shaved up and put on the menu. This was
suggested to him by one of the mules gnawing a
spruce bar. All the young cattle and horses ate the
shavings and did well the rest of the voyage. Some
of the older ones, however, would not touch the shav-
ings, and they all died.
“Corundum” : What is the largest number
of horses any Abo.-liar has seen towing a waggon?
About two months ago a waggon loaded with wool,
drawn by 39 horses, arrived at the Longreaeh Wool
Scour, Longreach (Q.). I’m entering this as the
record.
* * * *
“Yarrum” : Is this a singular accident, or
would it happen every time? Once, with a borrowed
gun. I was shooting on the Tom Thumb Lagoon,
South Coast (N.S.W.). Carrying the weapon care-
lessly, the barrel stuck in the mud, and there must
have been six inches of Illawarra in the thing. I
was just starting to dislodge it when two black
ducks flew over. I blazed at the game, and about a
foot of the barrel blew to pieces. Don’t know what
became of the ducks; but, when I regained my
senses, I discovered the dog was a casualty to
shrapnel.
BOOSTING OUR GREAT NATURAL
RESOURCES.
“Look at oar dog's paps! Your old dog
never has any pups!"
“Oh, don't 'e? Well, 'e could if 'e wanted
to!"
THE HUSH AUTOCRAT.
THE BLOKE ON FOOT: “ G’day, Bill; I ’ear
yer a J.P. now.”
MR. W. O’BROGON: “Oi am; an’ if yes don’t spake more rispictful Oi’ll hand yiz six
months.”
“Yarrum” : Now that meat is money and
rabbits are on the rise, what is the matter with
bandicoot ? I used frequently to dine with an old
South Coast (N.S.W.) lawyer, and wondered often
where all the sucking-pigs came from. My • ancient
friend used to pay a shilling a time for the bandies,
and all the boys in the district found a ready market
with him. If well cooked I don’t know anything
more palatable.
* * * *
“Quidam”: Can any Abo.-scientist put a
name to the toxic principle in the Darling pea, and
state whether the vegetable contains any drug of
commercial value ? Whatever
it is, it is strong enough to
wipe out cattle that get into
the habit of eating it, and
they don’t - require much per-
suasion to acquire the habit.
W’hen a cow develops a wild
glare in her eye and walks
as no respectable animal
should since pubs have gone
in for six o’clock closing, and
doesn’t appear to have any
real desire for tucker of an
ordinary and non-intoxicating
nature, it is safe to assume
in pea country that she has
become a “pea-eater.” If
promptly shipped from the
habitat of the vegetable she
may recover; if she stays, the
national cattle-muster speedily
drops a figure. A drug strong
enough to intoxicate such a
placid beast as the cow
should possess valuable pro-
perties if put to a better use. The supply is rapidly
spreading in the Blue Mountains (N.S.W.j country,
and its advent is not occasioning joy among cockies
who own cows.
* * * *
Handed in at a country police-station in
Victoria recently:—■
£1 Reward for information leading to arrest of
my white missus and two young girls and one young
boy (all half-castes). My missus has fine set of
white teeth, being nice looking except face, which
is out of order a little, and khaki hair.
Anybody seen the lady?
“Hambidge”: Enter this for the cross-
country, long-distance crawl. A farming family up
North in S. Aus. visited relatives 13 or 14 miles
away, and took the family mouse-trap with
them. A fortnight later, when the time for kissing
good-bye came, it was discovered that the cat had
triplets stowed away in the hayloft. After due
deliberation, it was decided to leave puss behind
with the little balls of fluff. But she didn’t think
the milk at that farm was nourishing enough for the
infants. So, a week after the home-coming, a kitten
was found in the woodshed ; the same thing happened
on each of the next two days. Then puss settled her-
self, purring casually. The distance itself was an
accomplishment, but what beats me is how she crossed
two creeks with a kitten in her teeth.
“J.R.”: “Pick’s” (B. 31/8/T6) cure for
mange is all right, but you’ll save time, trouble and
expense by using eucalyptus. Boil the leaves in water,
wash the sufferer in the decoction and pass the recipe
on by mulga wire.
* * * *
“W.A.C.”: “Barcoo” (7/9/TG) wants
a prescription for jibbers. Well, open the mouth
and throw in a handful of dirt. If the slacker still
refuses to bolt, try the Zoo. Hammering the hoof
with a stone, pouring water in the ear, towing along
by the underlip or telling funny stories about the
Kaiser are all useless to break up a gee-gees’ stop-
work meeting.
* * * *
“Sarto” : Dinkum this. A few miles from a
certain southern N. S. Wales town a man recently
had a brick house built at a cost of £ 400-odd.
When all wias ready he drove in to the contractor
to square up. On being offered the pen and ink he
said: “No! I want you to come and give me a lift
in with it. ’ Puzzled, the builder went out to the
cart and was introduced to a sugarbag full of silver
—the whole £4OO-odd! All over the back country
there are men who prefer to keep their little lot in
a tin buried somewhere. When a Land Board is
trying to assure itself that a land-applicant isn’t a
dummy it generally asks where the applicant got the
money from to make the application, and half the
times he replies, “I had it planted,” or words to that
effect.
* * * *
“Jack in the Box”: Opening a can of
cream at a Queensland factory recently I found a
cwo-foot black snake bathing therein. I knew snakes
were partial to milk, but this is the first I’ve heard
of the reptile’s liking for the richer article.
“Cfaainman”: To cure a jibbing liorse I
will guarantee this. Harness him up, blindfold him,
let him stand a few minutes and then put the
question to him. Two or three doses of this and you
only need hang a bit of rag on the bridle when he
gets the won’t-work feeling.
* * * *
“The Reefer”: An advertisement photo-
graph showing a two-horse lorry laden with 16
monstrous cabbages gives me courage to mention
a pineapple that I found in the custody of two
natives at Asseri village, along Ilombrom Bluff,
Papua. It was 27 inches tall and 43 around the
corporation. I bought it for six sticks of trade
tobacco, intending to send it to Port Moresby for
exhibition; but on considering the people likely to
see the wonder en route I decided to eat it to save
them the trouble. The job occupied three natives
'and myself two days, and there was nothing else on
the menu.
“Bad Australian” : Frenchy had the best
claim on Sandstone in its palmy days. It was right
at the head of the gully ; and Frenchy had first right
of water, and a little two-roomed paling shack sur-
rounded by a fence of the same materials, and Gloire
de Dijon roses, and pickling cabbage infested with
snails and other things dear to the heart of the
Gallic exile. He had bottomed on coarse gold in
his first shaft and had stripped a good big “pad-
dock” . down to the wash, and was ready to. start
cleaning up. Late one night he was roused by a
suspicious noise on the claim, and crawling into
his gum boots and oiler, as the weather was drizzly
and cold, he made for the treasury. He saw in the
hole a frantic Chow, and in one corner of the claim
an old iron bucket about half-full of wash, with
about 20ft. of rope attached to the handle. Pick
and shovel lay alongside. Frenchy tumbled at once.
He just bowed politely to the Chow, remarking:
“Aha—my good frien’ —eet ees von —ha, ha ! —zat
ees well—zat ees good. Now eet ees zat we shall
arrange zis mattaire.” Then he made a break for
the water-race which was located about 20ft. above
the claim, and, having blocked it, it immediately
flowed over, and the water began to run into the
paddock where the Chow was tearing around scream-
ing for mercy. As the water rose Frenchy went
home to bed; but when he got up in the morning
to gratify himself with the sight of the thief’s
cadaver floating around the claim, all he found was
a paddock two-thirds full of water and the race
flowing in its accustomed channel. Then Frenchy
“went up the pole” for 24 solid hours, after which
he set to work and rigged a California pump and
started on a five-days’ job to lift the moisture off his
jeweller's shop. As he worked, the Chows from
down the creek, wandering by to the fan-tan joint
and cook-shop which Wun-Li ran on the top of the
ironstone ridge, would suddenly stop and take notice
of Frenchy, and sidling up to him say: “Hullo,
Flenchy ! Wash-a-mattah ? Stlikum wattah —eh —
plenty wattah —allogedder too muchee wattah?”
Frenchy stood this for two days and a half with
sweat pouring from his brow and profanity from his
lips. Then his inflammable Latin temperament took
over control and he kicked the California pump into
the paddock, cursed the whole universe and the
day of his nativity and went out and hanged himself
on the old blackwood at the back of Cranky Harris’s
humpy. Then E. B. Rogers, who was married to one
of Jimmy Quong- Sing’s seven daughters and was a
J.P., held an inquiry at his father-in-law’s shanty
on what remained of poor old Frenchy, and decided
EARLY CLOSING FOR THE RECHA-
BITES.
RYAN: “And what’re ye doin' there, me
man?"
TURNCOCK: “ Shutting off the water, to he
sure.”
RYAN: “ Beg or, I’ll lend ye a hand. Anny-
thing to he aven wid them taytotalers."
that it “served the frawg-eatin’ blanker glad.” And
that was how poor old Frenchy went over the range,
and Fat Mooney got his little shack and the Gloire
de Dijon, and how Red Jerry Soolivan from the
Stringvbark won the right to peg Frenchy’s claim
when it was gambled for at Woolf’s two-up school,
and how Jerry died in the jims on a French boat
on his way home to Tipperary—resht the sowl av
him!
“GOTTA MATCH?”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Gotta match?” It’s all he’ll say.
Not another thought he’ll hatch
If you spend with him a day—
“ Len’s a match!”
Pipe in hand he, lurches round,
Sits or sprawls upon the ground,
Straws and hoppers in his thatch—
“ Gotta match?”
Crisp with baking in the sun,
Not above five feet in height,
So the variations run—
“ Len’s a light.”
At his heels a sorry tyke,
Trousers hitched upon a spike,
Fore and aft a flapping patch—
“ Gotta match?”
Thirty years he’s hung about
Bingadoora, day and night,
Scraping his old briar out —
“Give’s a light!”
When to flaming depths I go
I shall meet him there, I know.
Two words in the Pit I’ll catch-
“ Gotta match?”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


If 111
r
Motorists! A re you for or against
your Country's Goods ?
Service, Cost, and Loyalty to Australian Manufactures should decide this matter. In the
New White Tread “Dunlops” you have the finest and highest quality tyre that money
and science can make, and its made by Australian workmen and Australian capital
When you buy one of .these covers you get in return the Highest-grade Rubber, the
Finest and Strongest Fabric, and FULL VALUE for every shilling paid. Imported
covers have to pay as much as 40 per cent. duty. Can you, therefore, expect the
same quality and the same service at the price of “Dunlops.” If you buy a <£lo
foreign-made cover, about £2 goes for duty and freight, AND THE MANUFACTURER
AND THE IMPORTER have to make a profit on the other £B. Is it reasonable
that you can expect the same quality that we give in the “Dunlop,” which is exempt
from such stiff charges—that are passed on to the buyer. In the New White Tread
DUNLOP TYRES
you get full value in materials, and full value in miles—hence the cost per mile
on these Australian Tyres is less than when imported covers are used.
You are sure of Untaxed Satisfaction if you specify “Dunlops.”
THREE TYPES :
GROOVED, THREE RIBBED AND RUBBER NON-SKID,
OBTAINABLE ALL GARAGES.
DUNLOP RUBBER COMPANY
ALL STATES AND N.Z


1
1
I
1
1
i
1
I
There is Nothing Better than
HEARNES
Bronchitis Cure
For COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
CROUP and WEAK LUNGS
This Medicine can be given with PERFECT
SAFETY and the UTMOST CONFIDENCE
to the YOUNGEST CHILD, as it does NOT
contain, and has NEVER contained any poison
or harmful drugs. It is very pleasant to take,
and children take it readily—even CLAMOR
for it. HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE
is prepared by our MR. W. G. HEARNE
who is a REGISTERED CHEMIST
with nearly forty years’ experience.
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION
* If not obtainable locally
send direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Wellington. N.Z.
Always ask for
“HEARNE’S”
Another “juvenile lead” well known in
Australia is after a part in the bigger
drama. Erie Maxon when last heard from
was in hospital in New York undergoing a
slight operation which was necessary. to
enable him to pass the Canadian medical
authorities before joining the boys in the
war theatre.
They take a cheerful view of things to
come at Geelong. The other Sunday night
a Methodist parson preached on “Hell, What
It Is” ; and to keep him company the choir
sang “Oh, How Amiable,” and the organist
played “The Festive March.”
“Fax” : Mention of Frank Craven as the
author-actor who perpetrated “Too Many
Cooks,” reminds me that his family name is
associated with second-rate farcical comedy
in England, Australia and America. First
there was Tom Craven, the actor who wrote
“Milky White,” in which hundreds of thou-
sands of amateurs have done their dash upon
the stage. Then came Walter Craven, who
wrote “The Three Ilats” for a _ London
theatre, and produced it in Australia under
the title of “Mixed,” with Phil Day as
Bosco Blithers. His next effort was “Bad
Lads,” the puerile farce which served to
open Melbourne Alexandra (the mother of
Her Majesty’s) and bring its first manage-
ment to grief. Frank Craven is a purely
American dramatist, judging from the par-
ticular brand of piffle in “Too Many Cooks.”
The most distinguished member of the tribe
was Hawes Craven, the scenic artist. He
made his mark as a stage landscape painter
when he was quite a youngster, and he lived
to profit by 50 years’ experience of the im-
provements in stage lighting. His best
backcloths were masterpieces of coloring,
design and atmospherical effect. Does any-
one remember the last scene in George Mus-
grove’s production of “As You Like It” ?
There were miles of open country in it.
“R.D.”: If Kendall has any surviving
relatives they must be tempted to take out a
summons against the producers of the new
Adam Lindsay Gordon film. In one of. the
last scenes Kendall is shown having a drink
with Gordon, and the introduction of the
mournful poet certainly provides a motive
for Gordon’s suicide. Kendall is dressed
like an undertaker’s mute in a, pot-liat and
buttoned-up frock-coat, and his manner is
that of a fussy and rather aged assistant in
the lingerie department. As Kendall was
only 21) when Gordon died there seems no
reason for tricking him out in whiskers and
gloom, and making him an accessory before
the act,
“Harrison 0.”: Isn’t this revival busi-
ness being overdone? Excluding Marlow’s
seasons of Shakspeare and grand opera, both
of which were welcome, we have this year
in Melbourne had 22 revivals; and except
in one or two instances the casts were in-
ferior to the originals and often atrocious,
while about half of the pieces offered no
decent excuse for resuscitation, anyhow.
Now the Firm is about to inflict further sea-
sons of musical comedy and Julius Knight
revivals, while the Bailey-Grant manage-
ment is combing out Dad’s whiskers for
another season of “On Our Selection.”
“Bob D.”: Interesting to note the drift
of the picture crowds in Melbourne. Four
years ago the local “fans” trooped in thou-
sands “over the bridge” to Spencer’,s and
West’s shows, while the Bourke-street
theatres didn’t have a look in. you
couldn’t drive the crowds across the Yarra
with a' machine-gun, except on a Saturday
night. The closing of West’s has had the
effect of further stagnating the spot, though
Iloyt’s, in the old Spencer building, are
making a valiant effort to keep up the old
traditions. In 150 yards of Bourke-street
there are now eight continuous picture
houses, while rumors of other sites being
taken are floating round town.
“Philm” : Trade was booming at the con-
tinuous shows when Hogan dragged his
battered and dusty port, up the narrow
streets of Perth. The hour was noon. A
small cardboard token tied to the way-out's
vest told that he was the accredited repre-
sentative of the Gobblegutton farmers at
the producers’ parliament. The flowery flow
of the spruiker at a picture palace enticed
Hogan in. His spirits rose when a party of
shapely females flashed on to the screen and
began to unhitch their garments on the
edge of a shaded pool. .Tust as the view
was becoming really interesting a train
dashed by, obscuring the ladies, who were
next seen in bathing costumes. “Damn yer,”
muttered Hogan fervently shaking his fist
at the train as it disappeared. Hogan was
missing when the name of the Gobble-
gutton representative was called at the con-
ference that night. He was still engrossed
in the picture at 9 p.m. At that hour the
manager demanded his seat. “Haven’t you
seen enough?” he asked. “Well,” growled
the disappointed Hogan, “Oi was thinkin’
that train might be late some trip.”
THE UNKNOWN HAMLET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was an old, old actor man.
I found him on a seat
At some quaint hostel in Prahran,
An ancient pros.’ retreat.
His back was bended like a bow,
His hair was as the driven snow ;
He creaked when he arose to go.
I bade him have a taste with me,
And he agreed to gin ;
’Twixt sips I knew that presently
His story he’d begin—
How in the years forever gone
With dazzling brilliancy he shone
Contemporary stages on.
“And yet the wretches kept me back—
The ‘stars’! Ye gods, the scum!
But I will make each one a hack;
My day, sir, yet will come.
I tell you, man, us two between,
The finest Hamlet I have been—
The best this world has never seen” !
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“J.T.D.”: We boarded a suburban-bound
car in Melbourne the other day, and whilst
discussing conscription of wealth my gaze
fell with a crash on a pound note lying
under the seat. I promptly grabbed it, but
not before the conductor had noticed me.
The note was demanded, “on behalf of the
company, sir,” and after argument was
handed over. At our pub my mate and I
related our experience to Hebe, who re-
marked, “You are a pair of mugs! Why,
l\e won’t pay it in!” Smarting under the
gibe we rushed to the pay-office at the ter-
minus, inquiring of the receiving clerk if
the conductor on the last tram had paid in
a pound note. “Yes,” he replied handing
over the note. “You are extremely lucky!
Sign please.” We’re using some of it to
buy a ticket in Tatt.’s.
* * *. *
The Speck’s State Farm is run with the
idea of teaching the young to farm at a
profit by showing them how not to do it, and
it is getting more and more successful. Last
year it lost £3523, not to speak of an odd
Is lid., or more than double the £1668 it
dropped the year before that. Its crops
cost £321 more to put in and take off than
they were worth, and the loss on the live
stock was a trifle of £5BO, one lot of cattle
being sold for £209 less than was paid for
them.
“F.N.T.”: A point about eucalyptus ex-
tract, nowadays more largely used than
ever for a variety of purposes—for the pre-
vention and cure of colds, and as an embro-
cation, disinfectant, moth-killer and remover
of stains from linen. There is now a legion
of eucalyptus-distillers, including some
Chinamen. As the plain extract has no
remarkable “bite,” some of these people add
alcohol to their product; and what the
public needs to know is that when thus
treated there is more “bite” but less medi-
cinal virtue in a dose. The law compels a
statement of the alcohol contents; and
buyers should look on the bottle and see
that the stuff isn’t medicated —unless they
want it medicated.
* * * *
“Y.Z.”: The picture-shows have been a
godsend to the burgling profession. In my
vicinity during the. last three months there
have been 30 burglaries; in fact, it looked
at one time as if the gang was making a
house-to-house visit without fear or favor,
and in every case the house-breaking
occurred while the family was abroad at
the pictures. No other form of popular
entertainment empties the house as the pic-
tures do. The theatres being handy, papa
takes mumma and the whole dashed family,
and the crib-cracker, having seen them safely
bestowed, kno\ts he has their little home to
himself for two or three hours. So
much do we expect this sort of thing
that I heard Mann excuse himself for sitting-
out a long, dull picture with the plea: “I’d
hate to get home before the burglar was
through.”
# *■ * *
“Rag”: Myrticolorin, inquired about by
“Analyst” (B. 7/9/Y6), offers but another
instance of the way we don’t seize economic
opportunities. Back in ’97, H. G. Smith,
F. 0.5., of Sydney Technological Museum,
announced that he had discovered a true
dye stuff in the leaves of red stringy bark,
and that it could be got by simply powder-
ing the dried leaves, boiling in water and
filtering the solution. The resultant pro-
duct, myrticolorin, equalled 10 per cent, of
the weight of the leaves treated. _ Samples
were sent to British dye specialists, who
pronounced them excellent: cottons, wools
and other textiles mordanted with alumi-
nium, tin, bichromate, etc., and dyed with
myrticolorin retained the colors under most
severe scouring tests. But, so far, for all
the advantage taken of this discovery, it
might just as well never have been made.
However, it won’t be wasted for ever. An
alert dyer will happen across it some day
and off will go another plum to Japan or
Germany.
* * * *
“Pick” : When the recently-suggested com-
mission to hunt up unused marketable Aus-
tralian timbers gets its boots on, I want to
lead it to the water gum. It is a vegetable
that grows healthily alJhg the swamps and
salt-watercourses of the N. S. Wales South
Coast, and, bar politicians’ cheek, is the
toughest thing that grows. For handles and
vehicle shafts it would equal if not better
American hickory, and its ability to bend
and retain shape should make it an ideal
wood for light chairs. At present it is used
only as everlasting handles for splitters’
mauls and bullockies’ whips. That is as
far as we’ve got with a beautifully tough and
supple timber.
» # * *
“Bad Australian” from Buenos Aires
Brazil sees that there is money to be made
out of other things than coffee, sugar and tobacco,
and the discolored South American with the hoe is
now inclined to swap it for a lasso or a stockwhip.
Several consignments of Brazilian beef have been
sold in Europe recently at first-class prices,
despite the fact that Brazilian cattle are, as a rule,
“scrubbers” of the hazel-splitter variety; but even a
hazel-splitter, if properly fattened, makes very fair
beef. As the demand is good and likely to continue,
the export of Brazilian beef may now be regarded as
an established industry, and a number of cattle-
breeders are already introducing pure-bred bulls with
the object of improving their herds, Herefords get-
ting the nomination on account of their suitability to
the climate and being easily procurable from Uruguay,
where there are some of the finest herds of that breed
in the world. There are vast stretches of good cattle
country in Southern Brazil, but a good deal of clean-
ing-up must be done before it will carry the stock it
should. Until tuberculosis, “foot and mouth” and
“garrapata” (tick) are stamped out much of it will
be of little value for producing the finer cattle, which
appear to be more liable to these troubles than the
native scrubbers. But, apart from this, there is
enough fairly clean country to make Brazil a very
considerable factor in the world’s meat supply.
* * » *
“Haka”: The rawest newchum in Maori-
land rolled up the other day to the ballot
for the Benmore Runs. In reply to the
examining Board he said he intended to
stock up with wethers. Pressed for further
particulars, lie hastily informed the Board
of his decision to “cater for the fat lamb
market, and ship the fur.”
* * * -X-
-“Exile”: A railway manager named
Calkins, from Seattle (U.S.A.), has been
browsing round Australia looking for traffic.
Well, 1 only ask for one guess, and with
that I’ll say what comrade Calkins really
wants. It's coal. Washington, Oregon,
California, Nevada and Arizona are void of
coal, and have to use crude oil, of which at
present they have abundance. Advisedly one
says “at present.” In Los Angeles they
showed me the statistics of an inquiry into
the lives and positions of all the oil wells in
California. Tome after tome crammed with
figures which took IS months to collect. The
oil in every well had been carefully estimated
and the life of the well gauged to the last
gallon. The oilfields of California have
reached zenith, and have begun to decline.
During the last three months they have been
drawing heavily on reserved stocks of crude
oil and gasoline, the stuff we call petrol.
Demand has overtaken supply, and very soon
it will not pay the Southern Pacific and the
Santa Fe railway cos. to burn crude oil.
They must go back to coal. And that’s where
Australia comes in. Professor David’s mono-
graph on N. S. Wales coal ought to be
printed and sent out with the referendum
papers. Having the coal. Australia holds the
key to the trade of the Pacific. Do you wish
to kill German trade after the war? Then
enact a prohibitive tariff and refuse to sell
coal to a German. How can the Germans
re-create their overseas trade without coaling
stations and vast supplies of fuel?
* * * *
“TJckle” : When “six o’clock” fell amongst
“The Doctor” and his pals that genius
marched his gang to the railway station. At
the bar the doctor was asked to show his
ticket. “Only travellers served,” said the
barman. The doctor calmly produced a ticket
to Gum Greek. He lubricated his neck and
walked out. Tom Ryan casually strolled
in, showed a ticket to Gum Creek,
and drowned his sorrow. Thirteen more
thirsty travellers to Gum Creek breasted the
bar one after the other that night. “What’s
on at Gum Creek, Doc.?” asked the barman.
“Surprise party,” was the reply. The man
who was issuing the invitations had paid six-
pence for his ticket and was lending it out
at a tray a time.
* * * *
If the Speck can produce more water-
power than it wants it may send it across
to Melbourne and sell it there. Submarine
transmission is already an accomplished fact,
power generated in Sweden being sent across
to Denmark.
AN IDYLL OF MORNING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Stalwart he strode the living world
What time the morn was young;
The mists of dawn were lightly curled,
Dew-beaded roses swung
On slender stalks in gardens fair,
Where joy was on the scented air.
The girl was wrapped in pleasant dreams
And sheets of snowy sheen ;
Her rippling hair in yellow streams
Against that snow was seen ;
One rounded arm and shoulder white
Peeped forth to greet the early light.
And o’er the happy grass he came;
His boots were in the dew ;
The flirting birds would never blame
The joyous haste he knew,
No opening blossoms ever tell
The secret morning knew so well.
And still she slept, although her heart
In dreams might beat so fast.
Along the road a rattling cart
Went bumping loudly past.
Ah, will she wake, and can she hear
His footsteps drawing still more near?
Others when darkness held the land
By hill and stream and sea,
With pressure of soft lips and hand
Made love touch ecstasy ;
Softly they sang their ladies’ praise,
Gripping them hard around the stays.
But he, in scorn of dusk and moon,
•Came with the early light
When all the earth a sweeter tune
Had won from conquered night.
Erect in morning, unafraid,
He came to sing his serenade.
The lashes on the maiden’s cheek
Were curled and very long ;
Her dimples played at hide-and-seek,
She dreamt no hint of wrong—
So innocently sound she slept,
No hint of shame about her crept.
And then he came. His eyes were blue,
His lips a Cupid’s bow.
Beside her casement roses grew
In an uneven row.
He stood six paces from her bed,
The wall between —“Milk-ho!” he said.
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.
SKY SIGNS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O Sydney town! Dear Sydney town! as I was pass-
ing by ~
The name of someone’s whisky was emblazoned on
the sky;
The deep, blue night was gemmed with stars, the air
was soft as silk;
But shaming the eternal stars was someone’s blazing
milk.
A bottle poured electric wine that only fiends could
drink,
And some hot tailor’s blazing pants compelled my
eyes to blink....
Some night I will go overboard if I should see on
high
McTombstone's Bargain Coffins done in gold upon the
sky.
N.B.W.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.


Read the Score of Advantages obtained by
GENERAL ELECTRIC MOTORS
Extreme Simplicity
Internal Ventilation.
All Parts Interchangeable.
Special Insulating Features.
Great Overload Capacity.
High Commercial Efficiency.
Efficent Oiling System.
Sparkless Operation.
sdf
sd
f
The Splendid Operating' Records of G.E. Motors are used
as a basis for repeat orders where extensions are
planned which require Economical and Dependable
Heavy Duty Motors.
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE-CITY 3510 (5 lines).
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
—Agents-
‘Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
TELEPHONE-CENTRAL 2646, 2647; CITY 9579.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone, 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND; The National Electrical Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock &• Co., Ltd., Launceston; Messrs. Oliver & Oliver, MacQuarie Street, Hobart.


A. Saunders’ Gent’s Solid Silver
Hunting Keyless Lever Watch, full
jewelled movement, compensation balance,
adjusted time spring-, £2, £2/10/-, £3,
£3/10/-, £4, £5, £6/10/-, £7/10/-,
£B, £lO. All guaranteed:
A. Saunders’
9ct. Gold
.'no to Ring,
showing cover
open, 25/-
Initials can he
engraved on cover
when closed.
A. Saunders’
9ct. Solid
Gold Battalion
Color Ring,
any Battalion
color can be sup-
plied. Lady’s
size, 217-
Gent's size,
25/-
'•ii/ %
5i3
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Ciold and Plat-
inoid Bl'OOCll, set Diamonds and Olivine,
£4/10/-
A. Saunders’" Solid 9ct. Gold Expanding Wrist-
let Watch, full jewelled, Lever movement, £7/10/-,
15ct. Gold, £l2/10/-. Similar styles, £3/10/-, £4,
£4/10/-, £5, £6.
Sydney’s Leading Jeweller.
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Oval Cluster
Ring, set Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£l2/10/-
Set all Diamonds,
£25.
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Ring, set five
pure Diamonds,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders*
9ct. Gold
Necklace, set
Diamonds and
Pearls, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Oct. Gold Bracelet, set Pearls
and Amethyst, or red stones, 00/-
Send for Complete Illustrated Price List.
A. Saunders’ loct. Gold Brooch, set P ure
double-cut Diamond, £5. Larger Diamond, £7/10/",
£lO, £l5, £2O.
SYDNEY
ii
=4l ?
i
A. Saunders’ Wristlet Watch, with Military Regu-
lation Strap, Nickel or Gun-metal Case, full jewelled, Lever
movement, reliable timekeeper, 25/-. Superior grades,
30/-, 35/-. Silver, £2, £2/10/-, £3. Gold filled,
£3/10/-, £4, £4/10/-. Solid Gold, £5, £5/10/-,
£6, £6/10/-, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’
Solid Gold
Wedding Ring,
Oct,, 10/-
15ct., 15/-
18ct. 20/-,
25/-, 30/-,
A. Saunders’ Gold
Anzac Brooch, set Pearls,
20/-
A. Saunders’
Solid Gold
Wedding Ring,
9ct., 15/-
15ct., 25/-
18ct. £2,
. £2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS,
807-17 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Ring, set three
Double-cut Dia-
monds, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Rinff, set five
Pure Double-cut
Diamonds, £l5.
Smaller Diamonds,
£lO.
A. Saunders’
9ct. Gold
Necklace, set
Aquamarines or
Tourmalines, £2
A. Saunders’ Gent’s Solid
Nickel Keyless Lever Watch,
full jewelled, with patent adjusted bal-
ance, non-magnetic time spring, dust- and
water-proof cases, 20/-. Higher grades,
25/-, 30/-. All guaranteed.
A. Saunders’
Solid Gold
Hand Clasp
Ring, 20/-,
•25/-, 30/-
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Ring, set three
pure Diamonds,
£lO.
Larger Diamonds,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
9ct. Gold
Lady’s Signet
Ring, 15/-
15ct., 30/-
18ct. 35/-
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Ring, set three
Pure Double-cut
Diamonds, £lO.
A. Saunders’ Wristlet Watch, jewelled lever
movement, reliable timekeeper, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-,
Silver, £2, £2/10/-, £3. AH guaranteed.
(Opp. Railway Station.)
sdf
sdfsd
fsd
MILITARY
COMPASS
Especially adapted for
general all-round military
requirements.
THE RIGHT COMPASS
FOR THE SOLDIER.
For ascertaining any angle
of direction at night-time
and as a Sight Compass
for finding horizontal bear-
ings and angles during the
day.
2in. Diameter, Brass
Case, strongly constructed
with Leather Case.
45/-, Post Free.
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.
189-191 George Street, BRISBANE.
THE PERMANENT
TRUSTEE COMPANY
of New
South Wales
Limited
Funds under Administration, Upwards of £4,200,000.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Executors, Trustees, Attorneys, Agents, etc
Cost of Estate Administration Largely Curtailed under this Company's Method.
AMPLE SECURITY AND EFFICIENT MANAGEMENT ASSURED.
Write for Full Particulars, sent Post Free.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
f
If any illustration appeari. g in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
$
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from-whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough— you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Merrie
England, Bd. How to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dr.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art op Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston’s Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-To-Date Comic
Reciter, 1/- posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle op the Uni-
verse, Bd., AND ALL THE RATIONAL PRESS RE-
PRINTS (send for list). Joys op Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Cali, Book, 2/-.
Adventures op a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler's Science
op Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book op Fate (Dreamer’s Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. Sandow’s Book of
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History
op the Bon (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd.
Tiie Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British,
Bd. How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3.’ How to Make Sweets,
.Tams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins,
T posted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.
■
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
* By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
o'uan’e, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived. _
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted
to ANY address for EIGHT SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
Prop. Fowler's Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks' Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, ll-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter. 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public Speak-
ing Made Easy, 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang or
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/- ;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man llis Own School-
master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers’ Handy-
booic, 1/0. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life;
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score-, & Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannan’s Engine
Driver’s Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 6/- Decameron of Boccaccio,
lleptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes 1/6 posted.
Women’s Secrets, 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The Waybacks, 1/-.
All these prices Tost Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Comnare my prices with others and save
your cash 25 Years.
ONEY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
HE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking •
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS' SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up,, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
II- posted. New Tricks with Cards, 1/- Sappho,
genuine, 1/3. Old Kush Songs, 1/3 post. Hr.
Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical illus-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Gor-
don’s Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry,
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret His-
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers’ Letter
Writer 1/"* All About Incubators, 1/0. Mor-
gan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees,
New Edition, 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
Bd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoll s Works,
8(i 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), l/o
posted. ’ Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted.
Brfvd and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers
Assistant, 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Bennarr Macfadden’s AVorks, all at 5/6 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New Reciia-
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and Its
Cure 1/2 posted. Webster s Large Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather bound,
my price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas?).
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, 1/2. Moore’s Universal Assist-
ant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound 10/6 posted. Tiie Secrets of Clairvoyance,
1 dusL 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music
complete a 1/6 posted. Tiie Age of Reason, by
PaTne, posted Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, cheap Book Depot, 67 869 Market Streei, Sydney


Government Notices.
AH ft
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
WAR SERVICE.
Under the Defence Act, Part IV, all male inhabi-
tants of Australia (excepting- those who are exempt
fi om service in the Defence Force) who have resided
therein for six months and are British subjects and
are between the ag-es of eighteen and sixty years,
shall, in time of war, be liable to enlist and serve
in the Citizen Forces.
In time of war it shall be lawful for the Governor-
General, by proclamation, to call upon all persons
liable to enlist and serve as prescribed.
A Proclamation having- been duly issued under the
Act, dated September 29, 1916, calling- upon—
All men who on the second day of October, 1916,
are of the age of twenty-one years and up-
wards and under thirty-five years, who are
unmarried or widowers without children, to
enlist and serve as required. PERSONS
LIABLE ARE hereby required to report
as directed, vide AVar Service Forms 3 and
3A, which are exhibited at Post Offices,
Police Stations, Drill Halls, Town and Shire
Halls, etc.
Re-
sist-
ing
Draft, etc
D.A.
Sec. 75.
Any person who—
(1) Fails to enlist when required by this
Act so to do; or
•» (2) counsels or aids any person called
upon by proclamation to enlist in the
Citizen Forces, to fail to enlist or to
evade enlistment; or
(3) counsels or aids any person who
has enlisted or who is liable to enlist
in any part of the Defence Force not
to perform any duty he is required
by this Act to perform,
shall be liable to imprisonment, with or without
hard labor, for any period not exceeding six months.
A. P. LUSCOMBE, Lieut.-Colonel,
For Military Registrar.
Victoria Barracks, Sydney,
September 29, 1916.
Legal Notices.
IN tup: supreme court of
QUEENSLAND—TOWNSVILLE.
IN the WILL of PETER ARCHIBALD
MARGACH, late of Innisfail, in the
State of Queensland, Sugar-cane Farmer,
deceased.
NOTICE is hereby given that the account
of DAVID HUNTER and MARY KATE
MARGACH, the Executor and Executrix
respectively in the above-named Estate,
from the Tenth day of February, One
thousand nine hundred and sixteen,' to the
Seventh day of August, One thousand nine
hundred and sixteen, has this day been
filed in my office, duly verified by the said
DAVID HUNTER and the said MARY
KATE MARGACH.
All parties claiming to be interested in
the said estate are at liberty to inspect the
said accounts at my office in the Supreme
Court House, Townsville, on or before the
Seventh day of November next, and, if they
think fit, to object thereto.
NOTICE is also given that whether any
objection is taken to the said account or
not, I shall after the aforesaid day proceed
to examine and inquire into the said
account.
Notice is further given that any person
who may desire to object to the said account
or any item or items therein, or to the allow-
ance of a commission to the Executor and
Executrix, must before that day file in my
office a memorandum stating that he claim's
to be heard on the passing of the account.
Dated this Twenty-third day of Septem-
ber, 1916.
(L.s.) JNO. P. QUINN,
„ Registrar.
E. IVOR lIAVARD,
Solicitor for Executor and Executrix,
Innisfail.
Town Agents: MacDONNELL, lIANNAM
and HAMLYN HARRIS,
Solicitors,
Flinders Street.
Townsville.
Business Notices.
sdf
—Rifle Sights
are more essential to a
sure shot than the gun it-
self. MARBLE’S Sights
will greatly increase your
accuracy.
MARBLE’S Flexible Rear Sight
Folds down when not in use
but springs instantly into pos-
lAl>°n 1 A 1 >° n slightest touch.
Alignment rigid. Elevation
Quickly adjusted.
sd
f
sdf
Vickers - Maxim Front Sight—
“ si £ ht - the, aperture being lined with
■ ous P°Pes Island Gold so that the target
7 j kly an< i ? teadl 'y seen. Write for illustrat-
ed. folder on Rifle Sights, sent prepaid.
MARBLE ARMS & MFG. CO.
Ave., Gladstone, Michigan, U. S. A.
CobUAddrett " Marble ” Gladstone
e " a ' nnd (I3S)
WAHRYJWQLQEMp Box 1349 - SYDNEY
Business Notices.
Cx^c/una
Cures Eczema.
Frederick Street, Camperdown. Mr. S. Fielder,
Kandwick. Dear Sir, —I have received great benefit
from .your Skin Cure “Exzerma,” for Prickly Heat
and Chafe, and I will be pleased to recommend it to
anybody I see suffering from the same distressing
trouble.— Ernest Bird.
ALL CHEMISTS AND DRUGGISTS,
or S. FIELDER, Randwick. 2j()
Gifts for Our 1
Soldier Friends.
We have made a special feature of gifts for
our soldier boys, and at present hold an
unrivalled stock from which to select some
practical but pleasant memento for your
soldier friend before he goes off to the Front.
Note these values:—
Soldiers’ Money Belts, with
pockets, from 3/6
Soldiers’ Wristlet Watches from
12/6
Wristlet Watches, with luminous
dials, special value .... 22/6
Knife, Fork and Spoon, in leather
case 4/.
Soldier’s Metal Shaving Mirror, in
leather case, pocket size 2/6
Tobacco Pouches from ... 1/6
CRAIG & AITKEN,
>654 QEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.-
Established over 30 Years.
Business Notices.
Used the
World Over
ƒd
sf
MOTOR
... CARS
sdf
THE FAMOUS
AMERICAS SttMDARD FOUR-CYCU DIGIHE
Marine Engine.
4 cylinders—4 cycle—medium speed.
Made by Kermath Mfgr. Co., Detroit, Mich., U.S.A.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
Simplest, Strongest,
Most Durable, Most Economical.
See one of these engines working.
It will convince you; it is the simplest in
design, the easiest to operate, the sweetest-
running, and, because of these qualities, it
costs you the least to keep up.
It is built with absolute precision, so that
repair parts (of which large supplies are kept
constantly in stock) fit with the utmost
accuracy.
Write for Catalogue No. 184.
Invincible Motor Construction Co. Ltd.
35 Pitt Street, Sydney.
GAILLE 1916 MODEL 5-SPEED
OUTBOARD MOTOR—
With Bosch High-tension Magneto.
The motor that you do not have to stop and
start the reverse way to go astern —you just
Press, the button to go astern, ahead, or
remain stationary without stopping engine.
Improved Silencer, etc., etc.
Caille Yankee Outboard Motors with
Battery and H.T. Magneto Ignition.
Caille Marine Engines, 2 to 8 h.p. in stock.
SCRIPPS 4=CYCLE ENGINES.
LATEST MODELS JUST LANDED.
All Spare Parts anti Complete Boat Equipments Supplied
sd
•Sole Australasian Agents:
Benson Brothers Limited,
51-53 Pruitt Street, SYDNEY; 60 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
1111
KISS
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s.
6d. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Par-
ticulars posted on application to
Tiie Manages.
701-
Post
Free.
12
10
UMif
Our Latest Illustrated
Folder of Military Gifts
and Souvenirs Post Free
to any address.
Appropriate Selections
in Military Gifts
At Stewart Dawson’s.
The “Elgin” Military Watch.
This Watch has no superior for dependability in campaign
use. Its reputation is world-wide. Excellent, fully-jewelled
Lever Movement. Strong Silver Case. Luminous Dial. A
perfect example of Watch manufacture.
Price, Post Free, 70/-
f
sdf
BATTALION COLORS RINGS,
showing the colors of your Soldier Friend’s Battalion. AU
Battalion Colors kept in stock. These charming Memento
Rings are m great favor.
Ladies’ sizes, in 9ct. Gold 217-
Gent’s sizes, in 9ct. Gold ..... 25/-
Stewart Dawson’s
THE TREASURE HOUSE,
Strand Corner, 412 George Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
Harry
Governing
Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd,
Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
TIV O L I THEATRE, SYDNEY
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Plans at Nicholson’s and Tivoli.
“piVOUI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LAST NIGHTS OF
THE TIVOLI FOLLIES.
VERA PEARCE, JACK CANNOT, THELMA RAYE.
Also Walter Weems, George Welch, Zona Trador,
onoit and Little, Prince and Deery, The Parshleys,
and others.
Plan at Glen’s.
L-l E R MAJESTY’ SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
„ . EVERY EVENING,
r irst Production in Sydney of the London Gaiety
Hit,
TO-NIGHT’S THE NIGHT.
A Musical Delight, Bringing Back Here
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
(“Sydney’s Own.”)
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales Cailose’s.
*T* HEAT It E ROY AL, SYDNEY.
Lessee: J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
E. J. Carroll and Beaumont Smith present Henry
Lawson’s Real Australian Play,
WHILE THE BILLY BOILS.
Being an adaptation by Beaumont Smith of some
of Henry Lawson’s Works.
NEW AUSTRALIAN SONGS.
Prices: 4/-> 3/-» 2/- and 1/-. No Extra Booking
Fee. Plan at Paling’s.
Q R ITERION THEA T R E, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Reigning
Success of London since Oct. 10, 1915, when it was
produced at the Duke of York’s Theatre,
ROMANCE,
By Edward Sheldon, with MADGE FABIAN and
FRANK HARVEY and a Brilliant Supporting Co.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
Direction E. BRANSCOMBE PTY. LTD.
Q A R D E N THEATRE,
Bayswater Road, Darlinghurst, Sydney.
OPENING SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 7.
AN ENTIRELY NE YV DANDIES CO.
THE HED DANDIES.
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN SYDNEY.
Plans at Carnegie’s, 334 George Street, City; and
Sinclair’s Stationery Store, top of William Street.
ds
X KIANGEE PE AYS AT
1 THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session :
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Prices: 6d. to 2s. 6d.
Union Theatres Ltd. (incorporating West’s Ltd.,
Spencer’s Pictures Ltd., The Greater J. D. Williams
Amusement Co. Ltd).
W. Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION picture theatres
w In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
'J’lie Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
;HEATER .1. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
|_|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
*■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, OCTOBER 7.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Scintillating
Musical Success,
THU CINEMA STAR.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices; 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and 1/-
THEATRE ROIAL, MELBOURNE.
1 Directidn J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present HALE
HAMILTON and MYRTLE TANNEHILL in
A FULL HOUSE.
Prices: 6/-, 4/- and 2/-.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
■ Gov. Director: BEN J. FULLER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BEN J. FULLER presents his newly-imported
Musical Burlesque Co.
in
FUN WITH THE COACHMAN,
and
IN MEXICO.
Popular Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
ICING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Lessees... .Bert Bailey & Julius Grant.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Reappearance of the BERT BAILEY CO. in
STEELE RUDD’S Famous Comedy Drama,
ON OUR SELECTION.
Popular Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-
DIKCH & CARROLL
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
tCHEB’S HOTEL, MELBOURNE
1 (adjoining Bijou Theatre).
Proprietor: BEN J. FULLER.
One of the Largest and Most Comfortable Hotels in
Melbourne. 200 Rooms and Suites. Hot. and Cold
Water in every Bedroom. Drawing, Music and
Smoking Rooms. Two Elevators. Night Porter.
First-class Table. Moderate Charges. Board
Optional.
Under the management of CHARLIE TAYLOR and
ELLA CARRINGTON.


Ifmtwoit/i 'ddotel
S YDM ELY. N.SW.
The Wentworth Garden, with its beautiful surroundings, is ideal for
Luncheons, Dinners, Afternoon Teas, Supper and Wedding -Parties
and all semi-outdoor functions.
Visitors to Sydney will find the Wentworth Hotel replete with every
comfort and modern convenience, including telephones in bedrooms con-
necting with the Exchange. .
The cuisine is under the supervision of a very eminent trench chef,
who has his own skilled staff of assistants—thus placing the Went-
worth Hotel with its perfect service and other advantages in the front
rank of the finest hotels in the Commonwealth.
Terms on application.
MRS. MACLURCAN, Manageress.
HOTTS PICTURES
GeorcEvS-
VIRGINIA PEARSON, the beautiful, in “HYPOCRISY.”
William Fox Photo-play.
Queen of the Screen, OLGA PETROVA, in Her Greatest
Triumph, “THE SCARLET WOMAN.”
TWO BIG FEATURES EVERY WEEK.
Three Hours’ Evening Programme, Bto 11. Reserve Seats by ’Phone
City 6218.
CONTINUOUS DAILY 11 to 6.
Theatre ventilated and cleaned between day and night performances.
Bourke
The ?tctvrcßtocK
Sydney «>
Melbourne
POLITICAL
POINTS
[Adams’s address is Cremorne, Sydney—the white
house with the big gable.]
The women of Australia are more deeply
interested in the Conscription Referendum
than the men. Under the present law, which
has been in force for seven years, every
male adult has been liable for service. The
referendum will not alter that law. Every
man will still be liable for service. But
the so-called anti-conseriptionists say that
they ought to be liable only in their own
country. That is to say, the enemy ought to
be permitted to land in Australia before we
raise a hand against him. The mothers of
Australia ought to know what that means.
If they do not want their daughters
to know what the unhappy daughters of .Bel-
gium know, they will vote "Yes” —vote for
authority to order men off to fight the
enemy on some other field.
[S. H. Prior, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
A COWARD DIES MANY DEATHS.
PEACE AT ANY PRICE (looking for a plaus-
ible disqualification) : “Why, I've got
every blessed disease in the book, and a
lot of them are incurable!”
Poor old Hun! In February he tried for
peace through Spain when he had broken
his best set of teeth on Verdun. Now. in
September he sends a kite up at Washing-
ton with the idea of getting ready at once
for the next war if he has any luck. He
can’t understand the world’s refusal to listen
to the captured burglar’s honorable proposal
from under the policeman that all un-
pleasantness should now cease and lie should
be allowed to depart with his kit of tools.
Speech made by Andrew Fisher, leader of
the Labor party, in the House of Ileps.,
Oct. 13, 1909, declaring compulsory military
service to be the policy of the Labor party:
Nothing would delight me more than to know
that we could defend Australia effectively bv the
adoption of a volunteer system. That has always
been mv hope and. desire ; but the military experts
have told one Federal Government after another that
the volunteer system has absolutely failed. It is
now a question whether every citizen of the Common-
wealth should not undertake the first duty of a citi-
zen of any country and be prepared to protect its
honor and its interests. Speaking for the party I
have the honor to lead in this House, I should like
to say that in supporting a measure of this kind we
have' no desire whatever to assail the interests of
the people of other countries. Undoubtedly the fate
of the British Empire must be of interest to us in
Australia.
• Mr. Deakin: It includes us.
Mr. Fisher: Of course it does.
So compulsory service was good Labor policy
iu 1909. Why is it Labor heresy in l9lo—-
except to oblige Germany?
[S. H. Prior, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
N. S. Wales P.L.L. Executive can claim
to be thorough, at any rate. The other day
it decided that all persons nominated for
selection as municipal candidates should be
written to regarding their feeling upon the
conscription issue. Heaven itself, probably,
does not know what relation there is be-
tween the local drain and conscription ; but
the P.L.L. Executive may be better in-
formed than Heaven, Anyway, when the
shire and municipal elections come off early
next year the ratepayers with Labor sym-
pathies will have the P.L.L. guarantee that
Alderman Smithjoneson is in favor of com-
pulsion in the matter of sewage but of go-
as-you-please in regard to the defence of
the continent. Thank God. if the Germans
do win they’ll find the place tidy.
In his former financial statement Treasurer
Higgs apologetically, remarked : —-
I am authorised to state that the Government has
no wish to continue to receive so large a sum as
£13,000,000 by way of Customs revenue.
In the statement of last week he didn’t
apologise for the remark that he expected to
get £13,500,000 from the Customs. Appar-
ently now it’s money, money, money—and
hang Australian industry ! Also in the pre-
vious rigmarole Higgs explained that in some
cases transfers of land were “being deliber-
ately made to avoid taxation” and said fin
black type) tliat the law should be amended
to stop this. Well, the law hasn’t been
amended; but it was mentioned in last
week’s statement fin small figures) that
the revenue from land tax will go down
from £2,040,170 to £1,900.000.
It would save a lot of talk if these anti-
conseriptionist Laborites explained exactly
what they are objecting to. Apparently it
is not to the principle of conscription. If
it is, and if it is an essential thing in Labor
politics to oppose universal service, why did
the Labor party help to pass Australia’s
universal service law? The Labor party
actually imposed conscription upon Aus-
tralia. The only difference between
what the party actually passed and what is
now sought is that under the old conscrip-
tion, for which the Labor party took credit,
the conscript was required to fight at home,
but not outside his own country. Either,
then, the Labor party formerly passed and
took credit for something which it knew was
vicious, or it isn’t opposed to the principle,
but only to the employment of men to defend
Australia by fighting outside Australia.
These anti-conscriptionist Laborites who
helped to pass the Home Service Bill are
therefore either hypocrites or they are mis-
guided people who say that the right thing
to do is to allow the enemy to over-run your
country before you fight him. In the latter
case they had better take the opinion of the
Belgians, who have had experience, and
know. [S. H. Prior, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
Lennon, of the Queensland Ministry, furi-
ously protests that Ireland should not be
the doormat of England for ever. For all
that the anti-conscriptionists are doing to
prevent it, Ireland might become the door-
scraper of Prussia. Sinn Feinism is the
blind madness of the Home Rule movement.
\ Edmund Fisher, Bulletin Office, Melbourne.]
The new Vic. Farmers’ Union is following-
in the track of the Labor and Liberal
machines. In the Labor party every selec-
tion ballot nomination must be signed by
three members of the I’.L.C. The People’s
Liberal League party permits the nomina-
tion of a member who can raise the signa-
tures of 20 of the brethren. The People’s
party candidate requires 40. The V.F.U.
has just decided to make it 50 —which
merely narrows the V.F.U.’s field of selec-
tion to candidates who can get 50 people to
certify that in their opinion the candidate
will be a nice, obedient cog in the. machine.
There is something pretty mean about
these anti-conseriptionists. The law of the
land has prescribed universal service for
the kid for the past seven years. And there
wasn’t a howl. The howl only started when
it was proposed to apply to the man the
same sauce that for seven years he had been
applying to the kid. So long as only the
youngster had to be trained to fight, the
glorious principles of human liberty and
all the rest of it didn’t count. This is a
pretty fair test of what these glorious prin-
ciples are worth.
[S. H. Prior, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
The per cent, to be collected by the
Commonwealth on all property, real and pei-
sonal. will at once become one of the charges
which the N. S. Wales Fair Rent Court has
to tack on when fixing the hire of the Sydney
shanty. So the earnest democrat who
thenceforward pays 10s. 4d. a week instead of
10s. will he able to call the family together
on the balcony and give three cheers for
the conscription of wealth that he has been
so strenuously demanding.
THE ANZACS AND THE HANG BACKS.
THE WOMAN : “Are you going to vote ‘Yes,’ Mr. Smith?”
THE MAN: “No, I’ll sign no man’s death warrant.”
THE WOMAN : “Oh, yes, that’s just what you will do if you don’t send the necessary rein-
forcements! You’ll see the brave fellows die, and, what’s more, die ashamed, Cod
help them!”
At an anti-conscription meeting three
cheers were given in Sydney the other day
for Frank Tudor because he had left the
Ministry rather than support the proposals
for compulsory service. Instead of giving
him three cheers, the meeting might much
more reasonably have asked him three ques-
tions :—-
(1) Why didn’t he vote against the Bill which
imposed compulsory service on Australians in 1909?
(2) Why did he continue to be a member of the
party whose policy was declared by its leader to be
compulsory service?
(3) Why did he take no steps during the past
seven years to remove compulsory service from the
Statute Book ?
[S. FI. Prior, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
Burgess, M.L.A., has got on to the Aus-
tralian (Sydney) Gaslight Co.’s habit of
demanding a £1 deposit before it turns the
tan at the meter, and he wants to know
if the Premier will take steps to have
moneys lying with the co. and unclaimed
paid into the Treasury. How he can do it
without also relieving the banks of their un-
claimed deposits it is hard to see ; and thus
far, for some mysterious reason, the N. S.
Wales Government shows a strange indis-
position to touch these funds. It is hardly
believable that the banks themselves stand
in the way. They know quite well that they
have no legal or moral right to the money ;
and in one State at least they have been
relieved of it. The Commonwealth ought
to require this money to be paid over—any
account that hasn’t been operated upon for
five years—undertaking to pay the principal
with 4-1 per cent, interest if it is
rightly claimed later. The N. S. Wales Gov-
ernment, at any rate, plainly indicates that
it doesn't want this money ; and that clears
the way for the Commonwealth to take it
for Repatriation purposes.
As a matter of cold, historical fact not
one member of the Labor party in the Com-
monwealth Parliament even called for a
division on the second reading of the Defence
Bill which seven years ago established the
principle of compulsory military service in
Australia. And not one member of the
Labor party afterwards proposed to abandon
the principle —until the Germans wanted it
abandoned.
[S. 11. Prior, 214 George-street, Sydney.)
A SEPARATE PEACE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Shall we who have been privileged to stand
Amid the Captains who are leagued to fight
For Liberty against the hosts of Might,
Placing upon our brows the traitor’s brand,
Desert that deathless, sorely-stricken band ?
While gallant France, our soul-mate, bleeding white,
Craves men, more men, shall we in fear take flight,
Our famous sword flung- from our recreant hand?
Shall we from that proud Army claim release
Because we shrink the finish of our task?
While Belgium dauntless lifts her bloodied head,
And Servia storms back to find her dead,
Alone among the Allies shall we ask
Unbeaten Prussia for a separate peace?
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
A FEW REMARKS CONCERNING A BEAR
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Russia was pent and hopeless,
And barred by every State,
And the Russian a beast of the forest,
In the days of Peter the Great ;
When the Turk was mighty, and Sweden
Held the way to the sea,
The Bear came out of the marshes,
And an angry Bear was he.
He was lean and shaggy and starving,
And his eyes were reddened and dim ;
But Sweden found, with a shattered fleet,
That the Bear had learned to swim.
The church bells rang on the Neva,
The peasants conquered the fen;
And Peter went to his hard-earned rest,
And the Bear went to his den.
In the days when the Great Napoleon,
His strength and his army whole,
Set out for the heart of Russia,
The den of the Bear the goal,
The cubs were moved to the forest,
To hunger the winter through—
And the wolves on the roads from Moscow
Could tell what a Bear will do.
In the days when the Turk, decaying,
Was backed by the nations all,
To promise and laugh at the big Slav,
And ravish and rob the small,
The Bear came down through the passes
From as far as Helsingfors,
And the Bear swam out on the Danube,
And he sank our monitors.
The Bear is a clumsy playmate,
The Bear is gentle and mild;
With a ring through his snuffling nose, the Bear
Can be led by a little child.
The Bear is honest and faithful
As ever a dog could be;
But the Bear is a dangerous Bear to meet
When an angry Bear is he.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


!
m i
:I
3a
A
4
y
i
■
The ESTEY Piano
Special Model we illustrate above is of
the latest design, and contains many
new features in construction; notably,
the unsplittable Five-Ply Wrest Planks
and Laminated Rims which are used
as a Soundboard Foundation.
PALING’S PIANOS
and PLAYER PIANOS
MERIT YOUR CONFIDENCE.
USTOMERS who an instrument from
Paling's installed in their Homes, such a.s a
Piano or Player Piano, considered Quality and
value above all else. As a result they are in posses-
sion of an instrument that can truthfully be said to
represent a sound investment—one that can be
realised upon should the occasion arise. Durability
and quality fully guaranteed.
that Paling’s have been in the piano
business for the past 03 years should be sufficient
proof that they can serve YOU best. As a further
proof of your getting' positive satisfaction we need
only mention that every Piano and Player Piano we
sell is covered by our well-Known guarantee.
If you cannot call at our showrooms, write to-night for Illus-
trated Catalogue and Price List they are free for the asking.
W. H. PALING & CO. LTD.,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. Est «-
Sole Agents for Chappell, Sames, Estey and Victor Pianos.
Edison’s re-creation means the world’s finest music can he brought into every home.
Only with
The NEW EDISON
is re-creation possible
When buying a sound-reproducing instrument, remember there is
Oi\E vital question. All others are trifling in comparison.
Demand an answer to this question:
Does anyone except Edison dare to compare by actual test, the
artists voice with the record of that artist’s voice?
Ko; others do not. It would be too humorous; too great a
burlesque.
They dare not even attempt to do what Edison does daily. Edison
alone has solved the secret of how to RE-CREATE an artist’s voice
with such absolute perfection that his (Edison’s) RE-CREATION
cannot be distinguished from the original.
It is a wonderful thing to realise—and you do realise it—that you
are listening to the actual re-creation of a voice instead of only an
approximate reproduction as given by ordinary talking machines.
You must hear The NEW EDISON to appreciate what it means.
If unable to call, write at once for fully-descriptive printed matter,
mailed anywhere, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
A Year’s Growth in Good Will
A little over a year and a half
ago Dodge Brothers enjoyed an
enviable reputation as manufac-
turers of a very large volume of
motor-car parts.
This reputation aroused extraor-
dinary expectations on the part of
the public, when it was announced
that they would build a motor-car.
Thousands of dealers were eager
to represent them. Thousands of
orders were placed by individual
buyers.
But as manufacturers of motor-
cars Dodge Brothers were still on
trial at the bar of public opinion.
The car as a car was an un-
known quantity.
In January, 1915, a few of the
cars began to be shipped from the
factory; and a few individual good
opinions began to be formed.
The growth of this volume of
good opinion was in the exact ratio,
at first, to the growth of the
volume of production.
But not many weeks had passed
before the reputation of the car
outstripped the capacity to produce.
The good news of its perform-
ance travelled faster than the
supply—in sixty days’ time there
was a waiting list everywhere.
Substantially the same state of
affairs has existed ever since, and
exists to-day, in spite of largely-
increased production.
There is a very pronounced and
definite public opinion now in this
country concerning Dodge Brothers’
car.
Nearly every man or woman you
meet has a clear-cut idea of the
kind of a car it is.
How friendly and how favorable
that idea is you probably know so
well that it is not necessary to go
into details.
In a little over eighteen months’
time the public has bought more
than thirteen million pounds’ worth
of Dodge Brothers’ cars.
This is a notable record for a
year and a half even in an industry
which has been marked by many
amazing achievements. For a first
year and a half it stands abso-
lutely unique and.alone.
But the sales’ growth, to our way
of thinking, is as nothing in im-
portance, compared to the growth
of a very favorable public opinion
concerning the merits of the car.'
This phase of the eighteen
months’ work is very gratifying to
Dodge Brothers and to their repre-
sentatives everywhere.
It goes without saying that Dodge
Brothers will never do anything, or
permit anything to he done, which
might jeopardise the standing oj
the car with the public.
The petrol consumption is unusually low.
The tyre mileage is unusually high.
Dodge Brothers, Detroit
Messrs. Dalgety & Company, Ltd.. Sydney; Messrs. Canada Cycle
and Motor Co., Ltd.. Melbourne; Messrs. Cheney Motor Company,
Ltd., Adelaide; Messrs. Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth;
Messrs Dalgety & Company. Ltd.. Brisbane; Messrs. Co-opera-
tive Motors. Ltd., Hobart; Messrs. Magnus, Sanderson & Co.,
Ltd., Wellington; Mr. George Henning, Auckland; Mr. Newton
King, New Plymouth; Messrs. Hawkes, Ltd., Christchurch;
Messrs. Cossens & Black, Ltd., Dunedin; Mr. P. H. Vickery,
Invercargill.


“The connoisseur is one who knows. The dilet-
tante is one who thinks he knows.” Try Martell’s
and you’ll become a connoisseur; you will know then
what the best is; and will know you know. When
it comes to ordering brandy again, you will specify
MARTELL’S BRANDY,
and thus enjoy the luxury of flavor, the mental and
physical tonic, that Martell’s ensures. Never travel
without some Martell’s. It is
THE BRANDY OF UNBEATEN QUALITY. [2
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LIHITED, Redfern, Sydney.
ißß\U.\M*TSsttttg
0m *
mETAL polish*^
I Makes old metals new. Keeps all pol-
ished metal bright. The only safe polish
to use on aluminum as it contains
I neither acid nor ammonia. Puts on a
quick, lasting luster. Sold in tsro size
cans by all Grooery, Hardware and Drug
Stores. Loot for the Photo on Can. _ _
Are You Deaf?
If so, you can be
relieved by using
WILSON S COMMON-SENSE EAR-DRUMS
A new scientific invention, entirely different in
construction from all other devices. Assist
the deaf when all other devices fail, and where
medical skill has given no relief. They are
soft, comfortable and invisible; have no wire
or string attachment.
White for Booklet. Mention this Paper.
STAR NOVELTY CO., 498 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
This is war-time ! Minutes are
precious. Be up and doing.
Waste no time. Shave your-
self. Do it quickest and
safest with the
sdf
sd
NO STROPPING NO HONIN«
BRITISH MADE.
Sold everywhere. Write for free booklet.
Agents: S. Hoffnung & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street,
Sydney. Gillette Safety Razor, Ltd., London, Eng.
rnAoe
INOVVN THf
f
DAIMLER
sotor Carriages ~*
Commercial Vehicles ~
Agricdltdral Tractors
the DAIMLER COMPANY^
COVENTRY, ENGLAND,
sdf
sd
fsd
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
f
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing: as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Refresh.ng g* ld Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites. .
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the f? a pe S
lnV,g ° cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens HardWaten
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrub
sd
SPORTING
NOTIONS
This year’s Epsom and Metropolitan had
lor several months been among the most speculative
events known in Sydney. Horses started to go wrong
and show changed form, and misleading yarns were
frequent and definite. And then, after a prolonged
dryness, the sky became as overcast as Israel when
275 favorites win in succession, and when the Epsom
and Derby were to be run rain was falling as if it
never intended to knock off, the A.J.O. was putting
the race days forward, and Punter and Co. were kick-
ing themselves in fierce rage for not hanging on
to their good coin. And as the wet fell some
trainers and owners shook impotent fists at the sky,
while others with a mudlark in the stable were
tickled to death when they thought of how their
nag, instead of being among the also starteds, was
going to vanish from the others in a cloud of slop.
* * * *
The ease with which the public can do its
bit on the Metropolitan Handicap is not a particu-
larly sore point with MacShortodds. In fifty years
the favorite has won only eight times. On the ninth
occasion Mac. will moan at great length that his
generosity is leading him to ruin.
N.S.W. two-year-olds were due to start
sorting themselves out this week, and having been
in training since babyhood some of them can be
counted on to prove that if tljey had been left alone
they certainly couldn’t have done any worse. The
Bulletin supposes that this foolishness will go on—-
this foolishness of giving hatsful of cash on the
chance of getting a good horse and then handing
the immature animal over to take more risks than
a gun-team takes in Flanders. As hatsful of cash
are not going to be so plentiful directly, the Aus-
tralian horse may get a fair deal a little sooner than
some of him suspects. This business of putting up
prizes of thousands to be won by precocious young-
sters is a direct incentive to ruin them. And the
way they succeed ought to make the A.J.C. and the
V.R.C. intensely proud.
Next Saturday (7tli) the V.R.C. will start
the Melbourne racing carnival with its mild October
meeting, at Caulfield this time. Flemington course
was lately under water and is being nursed back to-
normal in readiness for Derby Day. Some of the
dark imported gees are expected to reveal their
Spring prospects, and optimists who go to pick
winners can be almost guaranteed a bad day. Still,
they had a good enough time at Moonee Valley last
Saturday, when the first favorites couldn’t go wrong.
After being its president for 33 years,
Geordie McLean, M.L.C., has definitely withdrawn
from the Dunedin (M.L.) Jockey Club.” When the
present Maoriland Gaming Act was merely a Bill it
restricted the number of races at all meetings to
seven per day, but on George McLean’s plea, the
Leg. Council substituted “eight” for “seven,” he
giving an assurance that this would be applied by
racing Clubs to the summer and autumn meetings
only. There are 14 clubs holding winter meetings
in M.L. with seven races a day, but the Dunedin
McSnavels were not satisfied with this limitation
and decided to increase the number of scrambles
on their winter programme to eight: When the
result of the ballot was known George immediately
reached for his hat and made a few pointed remarks
in Gaelic.
* * n * *
Anyone going to a Maoriland race-meeting
and noticing a quiet little man, very thin, decorated
with white foliage round the chin, square-rigged
pants and a shabby hat, invariably by himself and
watching events with frisfid, impassive eyes, can bet
a pound to a shilling that he’s the owner of the
biggest racing string in the chilly isles—J. D. Ormond.
The cerise jacket has been aboard many winners and
many losers, and the best of them all were North
Atlantic, Renown, Sir Lancelot, Daunt and Tartan,
though the writer of this paragraph has a suspicion
that Daredevil was good enough to win an Epsom
or Doncaster by a furlong in any ordinary year.
“J.D.” is a very rich and lonely man. There is a
legend that he puts a fiver and no more on his nag
in every race, though this has never been proved.
But Henare follows the cerise with trustful per-
sistence, and when it doesn’t win he groans like a
wounded bull. But when the conspicuous millinery
of the inconspicuous owner is at the right place, then
does brown brother and his multitudinous wahine
chant the song of victory and frantically clamor at
the pay-out window for production of te tivvy.
On these occasions Ormond is so overcome by emotion
that he quietly whistles the “Blue Bells of Scotland.”
There have been times when he has kept on whist-
ling all the afternoon. But he always restrains him-
self from buying a new hat.
“Spreader”: When the merits of big-gun
brood mares are in dispute, the claims of Madder
(M.L.) deserve a hearing. Her first eleven foals,
in as many years, were by Stepniak and there wasn’t
a waster among the mob. Her daughter, Ukraine,
though a disappointing animal on the track, is the
dam of Sasanof. All Red, twice winner of the Auck-
land Cup, was another of the family. The rank and
file included Munjeet, Mungista, Madrigal and Rose
Madder (dam of Sea Pink). So much for the “satu-
ration of the dam” theory. From 1899 to 1912
Madder went without a miss, the last three to Charle-
magne and Yasco (2). A mare of lesser light is
Heavenly Twin, owned by Paddy Neagle, of Tara-
dale (M.L.) —he is at present running a nag at
the Spring meetings round Sydney. Neagle was one
of the best amateurs in M.L. in. his day and ranked
among the topnoteh pros, over the timber. When
he took the game on “all in,” Theodore, by Merriwee-
Heavenly Twin, helped to gather in a few sticks.
He afterwards sold this nag to E. J. Watt for £BOO,
■which is not a bad price for a gelding. Diavolo, by
Wehikore, a money-getter on the flat, was the 1908
foal. Then came Evadne. Neagle has so often
raided North Island races with one or other of
Heavenly Twin’s progeny that the crowd has got
quite used to it.
* * * *
“S.S.” : In a recent Bulletin a school-
master’s item re the extraordinary luck of a boy-
punter in his class reminds me of Alf Vincent’s sur-
prising success. When Vincent took over the Mel-
bourne page for The Bulletin he became an avid
frequenter of racecourses, and he bet freely, and
won with a damnable iteration that simply dis-
gusted his unfortunate friends. Vincent’s method was
simple. He went into the birdcage, looked the
horses over, picked one he liked, not as an expert
in horseflesh, but from a purely spectacular point
of view, and backed it, and the chosen neddy
invariably won. If the horse could win in no other
way his superiors fell and broke themselves. This
went on till Vincent saw himself in danger of
becoming a detestable millionaire, and was accept-
ing bouquets as being the sole possessor of a peculiar
horse-sense, when suddenly his method went sour
on him. By no means on earth could a horse
he had backed win anything. “I abdicated,” he
said, “when, after three months without a win, a
pony I had backed, which was leading by a street,
turned and deliberately dashed into the reserve fence,
injuring a man. I was the man.”
CHARLIE
SIMPSON,
Victorian feather-
weight pug, now
on the way to
Yankecland.
Old-timer jockey W. Hart, who had a
long innings on Southern N.S.W., courses, weighed
out in the Final recently. Hart left one record
which isn’t going, to be equalled very frequently. He
arrived first in one whole programme (five flat
events and one over hurdles).
“Wocher”: One of the earliest steeple-
chases -in Australia took place at Adelaide on Sep-
tember 7, ’47. This event, for a sweepstake of £5
with £lOO tacked on, was over three miles of fair
hunting country. The winner was Shayle’s mare
Lucy Ling, ridden bV T. F. Bailey. Chas. Fisher,
brother of John Hurtle Fisher, rode the favorite,
Highflier, which started at 5 to 4, and finished fifth
in a field of seven. George Coppin’s Mary Blanc
was leading to the fifth jump, but there slipped
and fell upon her pilot. Lucy won by a quarter. An
animal named Teddy Slowboy upheld his name by
running last. The journey occupied a trifle less than
10 minutes.
* * * *
France, which makes the encouragement
of horsebreeding, by racing, a Government matter,
is just taking it up again after an entire cessation
during the two years of war. The occasional meetings
are to be as unlike the old thing as possible: no
Sunday fixtures, no betting, and no spectators except
stud-experts, stewards and officials, and the sporting
press.
* * * *
About 12,000 people went to the Sydney
Stadium on Saturday to see George Chip, of Scran-
ton, Pa. (LT.S.A.), argue the point with Les Darcy.
What they actually saw was Darcy handing out con-
vincing reasons why George should feel sorry for him-
self. And he did feel sorry, too, for it was a disillusioned
and weary Chip that stepped slowly to his corner at
the end of the second round. At no time from the
first punch to the last did he look like a winner.
He fought bravely and took what was coming to him
without flinching, but was hopelessly outclassed and
knew it. Darcy seldom fought better. Time after
time he jambed a hard-driven left into Chip s face ;
then, when the stricken Yank grabbed the hostile
glove, he brought the right swinging over to. the
neck and jaw. In the clinches Chip’s head was gen-
erally nodding backwards. In the fifth collision
the Maitlander shook Chip to the heels. The quick
sagging of the knees and upturned eyes showed how
close tie was to slumber; but he had enough wit
left to fall into a hug, and weathered the storm.
It was then merely a question of how long Darcy,
who was boxing well within himself, would let him
go. The ninth round had scarcely started when
the youngster straightened him witti a heavy left.
Chip backed away, came again and led —and Darcy,
stepping sideways and slightly forward, swept his
right across to the chin. It was a short, swift
hit, but had the full weight of the shoulder behind
it —and Chip went down with outspread arms as
if struck by a rifle bullet. It was ttie cleanest k.o.
seen at the Stadium. It took a long time to get
Chip round. Darcy hadn’t a mark on him.
On his record Chip is one of the foremost middle-
weights in America. He has a long schedule of
battles with front-rank boxers, and tiad only been
outed once before —by Al. McCoy, who with a fluke
hit in the first round of a scrap at Brooklyn in
’l4 put Chip to sleep and won the middleweight
championship. Yet Darcy made him look as cheap
as a beginner. His reputation was that of a man
with a devastating punch, but in opposition to a
fast hitter he seemed as slow as an ancient elephant.
Chip was confident before the fight that he. could
hold his own and even had a good chance of winning,
though this belief was not shared by any of the
Americans who had themselves been in action with
the champion. Against Dave Smith or McGill the
stranger would probably make a good showing. In
the encounter with Darcy he went like a lamb to the
slaughter.
Young Sid Godfrey made an exhibition of
George Taylor at Brisbane Stadium last week. Tay-
lor did well enough until the other chap started to
do better, and then it was mostly Taylor’s business
to rise off the floor and get some additional induce-
ment to go down again. In the eleventh round he
spent 36secs. in six reposes. He stood the battery
until half-way through the 16th period of agony
and then turned it up.
* * * *
At last Les Darcy does something for the
cause. The gloves which he and Chip used on Satur-
day are being shipped to the Land of the AVooden
Ham to be sold at an Allies Bazaar at ’Frisco.
“Stoush one another” was the text at the
fellowship meeting conducted by Llew Edwards and
Arlos Fanning- at Melbourne on Saturday night.
Fanning threatened to present specious arguments to
swing the verdict his way, but the Note miscarried.
All tlie same, he made Edwards bullock the whole
time, entrenching on the other side of a smother, while
Llewellyn endeavored to bash him to eternity. His
casual acceptance of wallop proved unhealthy, for
Edwards patiently pounded his way to the referee s
benediction. A few hungry ones among the chosen
took four to one on.
* * * *•
Maoriland lost two promising young-
athletes early in the push to the Rhine. Rupeit
Hickmott, Canterbury’s brilliant batsman and useful
“bosie” bowler, after recovery from a wound got back
to his unit only two days before the umpire said
“Out.” Hickmott was about the most popular of the
vounger players, and deserved to be. AVhile a school-
boy he made 235 not out for the Colts against the
provincial eleven, and when he represented Canter-
bury against Harrv Trott’s team he hit 46 n.o. with
his side in a terrible rot on a crumbling wicket.
Trott described it as one of the best knocks he had
seen under such circs. Hickmott was with the
Maoriland teani which toured Australia m 1912-13.
The other to go was Lance Jennings, one of the
Dominions’s rising tennis players. For five years
he held the University championship, and just before
the war he ran second in the M.L. Championship.
He was a brilliant student and was teaching at the
AVaitaki High School before he went to Gallipoli.
International cricketer Frank Laver was
a heavy loser through the Victorian floods of last
week. He has sunk a pocketful of his cricketing
and other divvies in an irrigation system on a block
of river flat just across the Yarra from Collingwood.
It was formerly the garden of Ah Cat, and Laver
had spent three years getting it ready to grow
asparagus. He was just anticipating the pleasant
toil of raking in the profits when the Yarra swept
over it 20 feet deep and the rest is just mush and
an occasional dead dog or two.
“Tasman”: T-0.1.’5” trio of old boys
who did battle against the English Eleven of 1862
(B. 14/9/’l6) ought by rights to be a quartette,
for he omitted T. A. Tabart, of Hobart. Tabart,
who until a year ago was the Speck’s Chief Inspector
of Stock, played for Tasmania against the English-
men, but didn’t do much good, the score-book
showing 10 opposite his name. Cricket runs in the
family, for his son, likewise T.A.T., used to captain
the Speck in rep. contests. Thos. Whitesides, the
other native of the Speck mentioned by 1
topscored in the match against Stephenson and Go.
with an even 50. I don’t think any of the Eng-
lishmen are still on deck, but am not sure about
AVm. Caffyn and Chas. Lawrence.
One of Australia’s old-time cricketers
went into the long field last week—George Moore,
of West Maitland. He was just in sight of a cen-
tury, too, having been born in 1819. George played
as a youngster in England and on coming to Aus-
tralia kept the habit. He was one of the N.S.W.
team which outed Stephenson’s Englishmen in 62
and plaved against the later teams skippered by
Parr and Grace. He kept on playing until induced
to knock off at 75. Cricket seems to run in the
Moore blood. AVhen George Moore, kid, was play-
ing for Bedfordshire (England) in the long ago both
his father and grandfather were in the team. And
George Moore, patriarch, was the father of William
and Leon Moore and the gran’dad of C. G. Macait-
,leL *
After all, Svdney premiership cricket may
have a mild buzz in it. Umpires are going to
watch 11 first-grade teams, 18 second-graders and
14 third-graders. Redfern is the only XI to honor-
ably forfeit first-grade status. Chiefly the season will
provide exercise for youths under military age and
numerous old ’tins who feel young when somebody
mentions cricket. #
South Aus. Cricket Association puts out
a negative sort of annual report: no football or
lacrosse on the Oval this winter, a little scratch
club cricket and tennis last summer, but none in the
season coming. The chief signs of life have been
the seniors at bowls, the “colleges” occasionally in
various athletics, ladies at tennis, and sundry big
patriotic affairs. The wages bill has been kept
up, and the S.A.C.A. thinks it has done well to lose
only £345 on the year. It still has £4OOO m hand,
put by in good times, and asks its members to keep
things going by paying the two-guineas sub. of an
ordinary year, to frank them for these two lean
years. 'The annual meeting was presided over by
Edwin Smith, 86 not out, and still going stiong.
* * * *
The Yic. Hoofball League still has a
hungry maw. This season’s matches were understood
to be played wholly for War Funds, and, though
the four competing clubs haven’t made up their
gate returns yet, the League’s balance-sheet for
the semi-finals and finals makes you think. Net
receipts were £1072 2s. 7d. The M.C.O. foregoing
its fee of £124 ss. 3d., there was los. 3d.
to go to war funds (£l5O to the R. A. Navy and
£165 10s. 3d. to the Returned Soldiers). The rest
went thus: League, £94 15s. lOd. ; chib expenses,
£ J/J/0: Melbourne Hospital, £5O; the Harry Todd
Fund, £lB 16s. 6d., and divvies to the four play-
ing 1 clubs, £153. # #
“Dad” Wheatley, ex-Australian middle-
distance A.A. champion, describes the drapery at a
gathering in Egypt. “Some had underpants only,
no singlets, and even the pants cut short. Otheis
were satisfied with an arrangement of handkerchiefs.
Still, the meeting was well carried out. trank
Torbltt, who won the big event —he was a _ most pro-
mising Victorian junior runner —has since been
killed. * *
Rain and flooded highways added spice to
the adventures of the 25 individuals who contested the
Victorian 122-mile reliability trial Melbourne to
Marysvale and back. Of the four who completed the
trip', T. H. and Mrs. Rhodes (7-h.p. Indian and side-
car) finished well ahead in shr. 46min. The only
“solo” machine to weather the conditions was JN.
Galworthy (7-h.p. Indian), in 6hr. 59min.
G. K. Gates, killed in France, was probably
the most persistent battler for a khaki suit among
Australians. Rejection wasn’t the tip for him to
stand aside; and after nine shots he was passed in.
Gates was a great gatherer of athletic baubles, he
represented Olympia A.A. Club in its success m the
Dunn Challenge Shield at Sydney.
Frank de Beaurepaire, the Yic. swimmer
who went through a variety of experiences after the
war started—including acceptance for the A.Lb.,
marriage, appendicitis, discharge as medically unfit
and finally appointment as one of the Y.M.C.A. s
young men —is hard at work in France. One day
he was so heavily asleep, after a lot of lost bunk,
that he didn’t notice it when a shell struck the
caboose. At any rate, he just went on making up
arrears. Evidently his medical unfitness hasn’t
affected his nerves.
* * * *
Dick Devine, dead iu Adelaide, was one
of the best known men in S. Aus. sporting circles.
The best billard player in Adelaide 20 years ago
he once beat John Roberts, level, in a game, of
pyramids—he had charge of the tables at Tattersall’s
from its onening, and presently became the club’s
manager. But his lungs were always weak. When
the doctors ordered him into the country, Gawler
and the Northern clubs made him handicapper, and
his fair head was familiar on many courses. The
end came at 48. *
Hard squalls kept Sydney yachtsmen busy
on Saturday and the crews taking part in the gen-
eral handicap of 18-footers had wet shirts and a
lively time. In the first heat Rosetta, which won in
the previous week, did what was wanted; but she
didn't in the final. Quibree, sailed by the veteran
Taylor, whose crew consisted mostly of novices,
arrived first at the place where £lO was waiting.
INSULT TO INJURY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He had a little motor-ear,
It was the Piecrust make—
A kind that never goes too far
And isn’t hard to break.
He went to see a friend of late,
And left his motor at the gate,
Convinced ’twould be content to wait.
When forth the owner came again
The Piecrust car was gone ;
Its winding tracks were very plain
The wet roadside upon.
In anger then poor Mr. Brown
Went chasing through the sleeping town
To run his stolen motor down.
He had not very far to go,
For there the Piecrust stood,
Well in a street-lamp’s tender glow,
And pinned upon its hood
This note: “Keep it, whoe’er you are!
I’ve pushed the bally tiling this far.
I thought it was a motor-car!”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


L
*.
■
■■
■
WHY NOT BE HEALTHY?
Nature intended you to be strong, vigorous and healthy.
The various organs of your body have certain functions to
perform. It is your duty to see that these organs are not
overtaxed or run down, which will prevent them from
properly fulfilling their respective functions. For instance,
constipation, indigestion and other disorders of the system
are the direct result of your internal muscles being much
below normal —failing in their duty.
In order to regain perfect health, it is necessary for you
to build up your internal muscles, strengthen your lungs,
digestive organs, etc.
fly Postal Course of Health
and Strength Exercises
will make you fit, and keep you strong and healthy.
The surest and safest way to improve the seen, and unseen,
muscles is by means of health exercises—exercises that
drive a copious supply of rich, virile blood throughout the
system—nourishing the whole system with oxygen, expelling
waste tissue, building up new tissue, benefiting every part
of your body.
The Baker Exercises consist entirely of good exercises based
on these lines, and have been tested and proved by experience.
Let me send you a copy of my Booklet, “HEALTH AND
STRENGTH FROM SELF-CULTURE.” It tells all about my
health-giving exercises and methods, terms, etc. Send three
penny stamps for postage. Just write your' name and
address across this advertisement. I’ll know what you
mean.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKE
541 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
Try My “Cigarillos
—the small, good cigars.
No smoker who has tried
my “CIGARILLOS” would
ever willingly be without
them. They are ideal for
a short smoke, something
between a cigarette and a
cigar.
They have the same
delightful flavor and
aroma as a shilling
Havana cigar.
Made in three sizes,
but all ONE
QUALITY,
|| Actual Si£e of Cigarillos.
In Tins of
20:
No. No. No.
2/6 2/3 I/.
In Cedar
Boxes of 50:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
5/6 5/- 4/6
In Cedar
Boxes of
100:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
11/- 10/- 9/-
Postage Extra.
On 100—
N.S.W . 6d.
Other States Bd.
Write for a
Copy of My
illustrated
Catalog Of
Cigars, Cigar-
ettes, Tobacco,
Pipes, and aft
Smokers’
Requisites .
A. M. SOLOMON,
CIGAR EXPERT,
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
f
SHELL
BENZ NE
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
j ARRAU and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68i PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
iNfIJBATtj
BROODY HENS for 12/6.
The “HATCHO” 15-egg Incubator
is a perfect substitute for a Broody
Hen, will hatch every fertile egg,
simple to use, cannot get out of order.
Over 4000 sold last season.
Price 12/6 complete, carriage paid.
Egg Testers 1/2 each. Agents wanted.
n. CASTON & GO., Dept. H.,
40 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Wins the“ Winner” Cup
on Saturday, September 23, from
Melbourne to Marysville and back,
CONQUERING FLOODS, AN INCESSANT DELUGE
OF RAIN AND STORM-SWEPT ROADS,
maintaining the Schedule Speed of 22 miles per
hour with Sidecar and Passenger throughout.
Only one Machine Completed the Course under its Own Power and
on Due Time—an “Indian” ridden by J. H. Rhodes, winner of the Cup.
Only One Solo Rider Finished at all - Mr. N. Gal worthy, on his “Indian.”
Catalogue “D” with pleasure.
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. Pty. Ltd.,
109-113 Russell Street Melbourne.
£. Aasa
mubmuim—
British-Made
Crushing,
Grinding,
Mining and
Cement
Machinery,
Ball Mills,
Tube Mills,
etc.
Write for Particulars and Quotations.
NOYES BROS.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., 499 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
EVERY STEP A PLEASURE!
Every step you take in RIGNEY SHOES is
a pleasure, "because they are so comfortable
and perfect fitting, and in addition to this
you are conscious that they are distinctive
in style and faultless in finish.
We illustrate a Choice Willow Calf Lace
Boot, Linen Lined, Close and Medium Welts,
Perforated Golosh and Lace Face.
IN BLACK OR TAN. BOOTS OR
SHOES.
Price 21/- & 27/6
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR
CATALOG.
&
/
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men's Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE
SCHUTE, BELL, &. Co,, Ltd.,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Charm of Grand Opera
True it is that many are still unfamiliar with the beautiful
and splendid music of the famous operas. To them “Lucia,”
“Pagliacci,” “Rigoletto,” “II Trovatore” and others, are but
names. However, by the purchase of a
Registered Trade Mark.
cc
GRAMOPHONE
Mahogany “Tasman” Model
and a selection of “Gramophone” Grand Opera Records anyone can
enjoy and become thoroughly familiar with the greatest triumphs ever
recorded.
The “Tasman” model (illustrated)
is a hornless, portable Table-
grand, richly finished in Satin-
finished Mahogany, with Nickel-
plated Fittings.
Price £l7 17s.
You get the world’s best (and
a BRITISH production) when
you buy the “Gramophone.”
sdf
Instrument catalogue, record lists and name of nearest
accredited dealer on request.
“GRAMOPHONE”
Registered Trade Mark.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 PITT STREET- SYDNEY.


‘CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the W at%
c
! e ■■
1
m
Wm
i§|C*!U
(SKl**
£Bl
is
%i\ A I
sssa
=#
./ V
.
fesSsS'
*l*s^
*:4
A'...
VV3r <y.: i <9"
OV /•;
: yws X : ■ -r
m
*&mz
x
m&mmxzß
5 :'•'•■
viS
lip
SE
• : ,>■
F\
elo
IS@
&%£§&£
■rw^mmz
m*L .- ':■
1 n
5 .>-s-y:-£ 'JiSr~(*&\!l &
W&
m t
mi
|sggi|g{i
,
8
•St* ■*
.«
fTpfw
'4mm
777
mm
.>;Vt3
; Mm%m
F:/
m
', .1 * *J\
YC : .3t
r>
•r S-
IRISI
Hiilgfes
B££f£§^»3£
H
* f • *
~ViS
Bsassaa^
Cjp^
- <7
r 4 t: L_
t CP
Cobra,” 15he. Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Gets inoc-
U lated too!
Here we see
Yourm Dr. Bear
o
Fixing him with
Loving care.
—
Everything that s
Neat and clean
And assists the
War machine,
Chunder takes it
With a smile.
That’s the cleanly
“COBRA” style.


27/6
The “Wentworth”
a Popular Style.
This boot is leather-lined right to toe.
It has no searns to hurt tender feet.
Stylish medium toe with easy fitting
across joints. A comfortable, good-
looking boot in serviceable High-grade
Tan Calf.
27/6.
We pay postage.
M
h
For Distinctive Footivear,
135 King Street, SYDNEY,
GREAT DANGER OF INSECT BITES.
Protect Yourself Against Ordinary
Dangers by Using NEV-A-BITE*
A Preparation of Proved Effectiveness.
“There is no question,” says a leading specialist,
“that insect bites may lead to great danger to
health* and have been known to end fatally.”
The dread Mosquito,
whose bite is perhaps
the most dangerous of
all insects,
This alarming
statement, which
has appeared in
the influential
newspapers of this
country, should
arouse the public
to the fact that
bites frorn mos-
quitoes and other
insects are things
tb worry about.
It is quite pos-
sible that if one’s
blood is in a poor
state an insect bite
might set up such
serious inflamma-
tioii as to cause blood-poisoning; and—as every-
one well knows—-blood-poisoning may lead to
even the amputation of a limb.
The best form of treatment of mosquito
bites is prophylactic or preventive. The appli-
cation of a little of the NEV-A-BITE
lotion reduces the probability of mosquito bites
to a minimum.
NEV-A-BITE is a perfectly harmless
preparation, and Serves to whiten, soften and
beautify the skin.
If NEV-A-BITE is unobtainable from
your local supplier, send 1/- in stamps to one
of the following, viz :—•
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Building's, Adelaide.
T. L. Seef, Parbury Buildings, Brisbane. [2
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Sydney,
Riding Emperors,
-m.
AJ/Soefen
Our Celebrated “IRONBARK
Brand,” with standard screwed single
soles and uppers of selected Calf
Leather, fitted with the “A & S” special
ankle protectors. None genuine with-
out “Ironbark Brand” on loops.
Price - - 14/9
Also in Wallaby Skin, at 18/6 per pair.
Allan#Stark Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tne
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
There is No Argument
1
&
F.I.A.T.S Are Superior
SEND FOR CATALOGUES. I^ strated : £TSQ
GARRATTS, LTD.,
ALICK McNEIL, General Manager.
173-175 ELIZABETH STREET,
148-150 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
IN DAYS WHEN TEE WORLD WAS YOUNG. A Dip into Ancient History.
A.M.P. Society and the
City Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited
IN his famous “Tale of Two Cities,” Charles Dickens makes one of his characters,
Jeremy Cruncher, say of a lady in whom he is interested, when she repeats a
procedure which to him has grown somewffiat boresome, “Bust me if she ain’t at it
agin.”
And so the City Mutual’s old friend, Mr. Richard Teece, the mildest-mannered
man that ever scuttled ship or cut a throat” —according to his own recent definition of
himself, is “at it agin.”
Mr. Teece reminds us of the dear old Irish schoolmaster immortalised by Oliver
Goldsmith —“For e’en though vanquished he could argue still.”
Mr. Teece asked us over four years ago to compare our bonuses with the bonuses paid
by the A.M.P. for a period of five years on a Whole Life Policy.
Two policies, one issued by the Australian Mutual Provident Society, the other
by the City Mutual, each for £2OOO, under the Whole Life Table, with the same
premium exactly, were issued within a week of each other, and on these the test was
to be made.
He said he would like to get the bonus return each year. He got it.
An irreverent A.M.P. policy-holder was overheard to say a few months ago that he
got it —where the chicken got the axe. But we shan’t dwell on that. The incident
is closed.
It closed with an expression of our respectful admiration for the great work the
A.M.P. has done during the past 67 years, and we are not- inclined to reopen it.
But now the gallant old Corsair who was singing his Swan Song only a month or
so ago has once more hoisted the jolly roger.
Under date 23/8/’l6 he has issued a booklet in which he asks us to compare the
bonuses of the two offices on a policy issued as far back as 1897.
Odds bodkins! and Gadzooks! Will he want us to go back next to the time of
the Spanish Armada?
The City Mutual strikes its colors at the very first splash of the grape-shot without
waiting for the full broadside, and willingly walks the plank. In 1897, the period to
which Admiral Teece refers, the City Mutual was a stripling of 18. Its total funds
and resources then were under £150,000. They now exceed a million. The City
Mutual is 37.
In those far-off days the City Mutual looked upon the great A.M.P. as its model
and exemplar. Naturally it had aspirations of some day achieving a measure of success
in some degree comparable with that of its model; and, after all, it is not the first
time in history, and it won’t be the last, that the ambitious, earnest, stripling student
of 18 has developed into the resourceful and successful man of 37.
The City Mutual, instead of being jealous, is proud of the success of its old model,
and were it not that it knows Mr. Teece so well, we should almost begin to suspect that
the splenetic, green-eyed monster had dethroned old Neptune and embarked on Mr.
Teece’s craft.
We cannot conclude better than to quote the last words of our recent booklet, “The
Last Lap, or the Finish of the Argument” :
“The City Mutual takes its hat off all the time in admiration for the great and endur-
ing work which the pioneer office of Australia has done during the past 67 years. It
trusts that a friendly spirit will always prevail between the two offices.
“There is plenty of room for both in the Commonwealth. They are both purely
Mutual Institutions’' the policy-holders—and the policy-holders alone —manage each;
the whole of the profits of each office go to the policy-holders—and the policy-holders
on ly— an ci they are both, each in its own way, capable of doing abiding service to
many millions of Australians.” GEO. CROWLEY, General Manager.
City Mutual Life Assurance Society Ltd. Head Office: Hunter & Bligh Streets, Sydney.
4tU September, 1916.
Nothing contributes more
to secure happy temper in
a child than correct feeding.
Get the diet right, and baby is as happy as
the day is long.
Mellin’s Food is adapted for use with the
youngest b ibe, is light, easily digested, safe.
Besides, “Mellin’s” is a no-worry food hot
water and fresh cow’s milk, and it’s ready.
As important as
baby's Food is
baby’s Feeder.
Mellin’s Feeding
Bottle stands
unique; hygienic,
efficient, easily
cleaned.
Mellins
Food
A Sample of Mellin's Food, with Handbook for Mothers,
“The Care of Infants in Australia,” sent Free. Write to-day:
MESSRS. GOLLIN & CO. PROPRIETARY, LD., SYDNEY.
Icuma,
Cream
The only toilet cream containing Icilma
Natural Water. Fragrant, non-greasy,
guaranteed not to grow hair.
British mode.
1/6 per pot everywhere.
Icilma is pronounded Eye-Silma.
J. C. GAMBLES & CO., Agents, 11 Commerce House, Melbourne.
a.c.7.
Beard, Watson, Ltd. (Sydney), house
furnishers, etc.: —
r Dividends. N To Re- Re-
Julv, Profits. Pref. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
1909.. -t— £5,341
Premiums on new shares, £46. . . . 5,387
1910. . £12,232 £768 10 p.c. = £4374 £7090 12,477
1911.. 11,943 900 10 „ „ 5000 6043 18,520
1912.. 14,737 956 10 „ „ 5152 8629 27,149
1913.. 11,314 1697 10 „ „ 7214 2403 29,552
1914.. 146 1800 Nil 27,898
1915.. 1,939 1800 Nil 139 28,037
Ist 2nd
Prefs. Prefs.
6 p.c. 7 p.c. Ord.
19!6.. 14,778 1800. 3676 Nil; j 6329 34>366
Arrearsot divs.on 2nd Preis.paid, j
This co. has had an eventful three years.
It was in September, 1013, that the upper
floors of the George-street warehouse col-
lapsed while the premises were being-
remodelled ; and the next two years were
filled with dust, disorder, broken crockery
and litigation. In the early part of 1914
the co. combed its hair and proceeded to tidy
up ; and to that end it issued £52,500 of 2nd
pref. 7 p.c. capital. That business hadn’t
been completed (though the issue had been
guaranteed) when war broke out. For a
while nobody knew what was going to
happen. Some people actually thought
things would be so bad presently in Aus-
tralia that they rushed enough into safe
deposit to see them landed in America. They
know better now. The world has developed
its system of credit since the last great
war; and we are having a razzling time on
the proceeds of our own lOU. That’s all
the present brisk trading means. Naturally
Beard Watson’s are benefiting like the rest.
But “in view of the present financial situa-
tion and outlook, and of the fact that the
action against the Dixson Trust, Ltd.,
is still a contingency, the directors, after
Very careful consideration,” decided to cut
out the ordinary dividend. They are quite
right. The co. owes too much. Though
the last of the debentures have been got rid
of, the liabilities on July 31 still totalled
£75,076. The capital is £30.000 in 6 p.c.
Ist prefs., £52,500 in 7 p.c. 2nd prefs. and
£75,000 in ordinaries—-total £157,500, On
the other side no less than £65,472 is on the
books. This total grows larger and larger
every year. The growth may be all right:
it may be due to a steadily expanding trade.
But it would be far better, in view of “the
financial situation and outlook,” if the co.
could have the expanding trade without the
expanding book debts. The other principal
asset is stock, £155,321, as against £120,325
as at July, 1913 —the last balance and stock-
taking before the smash. It is a very heavy
stock to carry, and probably, doesn’t consist
very largely of those bread-and-butter lines
which have some sort of a market even
during a period of financial and industrial
gloom.
* * * *
Goulbukn Gas Co. (Goulburn, N.S.W.) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves..
June, 1909.. £lll7 1 5 p.c, = £750 ' £367 £10,731
Dec,, 1909.. 872 15 „„ 750 122 10,853
June, 1910.. 1090 15 „ „ 750 340 11,193
Dec., 1910.. 412 15 ~ ~ 750 10,855
June, 1911.. 10S1 15 ~ ~ 750 331 11,186
Dec., 1911.. SSL 15 „ „ 750 101 11,287
June, 1912.. 1174 15 „ „ 750 424 11,711
Reserves disappeared (apparently
distributed), £7982. . .. 3,729
Dec., 1912.. 509 8 p.c. = 400 109 3,838
June, 1913.. 734 8 „ „ 400 334 4,172
Dec., 1913.. 754 8 „ ~ 400 354 4,526
June, 1914.. 1139 8 „ „ 400 739 6,265
Dec., 1914.. 611 8 „ „ 400 211 6,476
June, 1915'.. 627 8 „ „ 400 227 6,703
Dec., 1915.. 763 8 ~ ~ 400 363 6,066
June, 1916.. 551, 8 „ „ 400 151 6,217
More taxation, higher costs, and keener com-
petition have made this co.’s little world a
duller place; and it may be duller yet,
because electric light seems to have tho-
roughly caught on in the town. Fortunately
the co., in spite of the cash it distributed a
while ago, still has three or four thousand
liquid ; so the dividend won’t have to be cut
down directly the co. has to spend a few
pounds on mains, etc.
*'* * *
“Coot”: The utmost capacity of Tas-
mania’s Great Lake is now estimated to be
about 70,000 li.p. when the waters of the
Ouse are diverted into the catchment. With-
out the water .from this river probably the
effective limit delivered at Hobart will not
exceed 40,000 h.p. As the Ouse diversion
is a big question it will probably be some
years - before the maximum power is avail-
able. In the meantime De Bavay’s can
be firmly established, and any enterprising
inventor will need to come cap in hand to
the co. for power. These metal people, led
by the Baillieus, have been having a great
time. First they got Hughes by the wool;
now they have the Tasmanian Government
by the same handle.
With Wm. Orr as a guide, a Melbourne
syndicate seems to have struck a lucky
option in the Lady Margaret, five miles
north of Cloncurry. A short crosscut at
the 90ft. level has disclosed a make of ore
14ft. wide and worth, it is said. 18 p.c.
copper. Remembering w r hat a wonderful
bonanza the Gt. Australia was, it isn’t
altogether surprising that rich discoveries
of black oxide should be made in this loca-
lity. Godkin’s show, the Native Com-
panion, is also turning out rich ore. Some
years since Godkin found an enormous lump
of nearly pure copper, which was purchased
by the State Government for exhibition
purposes.
* * * *
Gt. Fingall (W.A.) seems to be nearing
the end. With Government assistance a
good deal of exploratory work has been done
in the lower levels during the past year, but
at the recent London meeting chairman C.
A. Moreing had to confess that results were
disappointing. All development has been
stopped, and the co. is now merely treating
ore in reserve. This is estimated at 36,000
tons assaying 355., but an additional 20,000
tons of average grade stuff may possibly be
got from the workings between the 18th and
19tli levels. The co.’s holding of 6400 paid
shares in the Cornish East Pool and Agar
tin show is described as good, while its
West African Tarquah Central spec is said
to have a chance if further capital can be
secured.


BEAUTY
ADMIRATION
A clear, spotless skin, bright eyes, and rosy
cheeks are the main points of an attractive
face. If your liver is out of order you
will not have these good points in your
complexion.
FISHERS
BEAUTY PILLS
FOR THE LIVER
Make new blood and clear the complexion
of spots and blotches. One pill occasionally
means a healthy liver, a healthy liver
means a big asset to both men and women.
Always ask for Fisher's Liver Pills.
ALL CHEMISTS and STORES
V- per bottle
337' GEORGE STREET, - SYDNEY, N.B.W.
itag-gH-* J
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing- Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
sd
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
ancl for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 391G City. SYDNEY.
MearsEar Phone Co. Inc.,45 West 34th St. NewYork
WESTERN MACHINERY
WHEELED SCOOPS and DRAG SCRAPERS,
PLOUGHS FOR CONTRACTORS,
WESTERN ROAD GRADERS,
ELEVATING GRADERS, RQCK CRUSHERS,
ROAD PLANER and FINISHER,
DUMP CARS, SCARIFIERS.
(Large Stocks Carried).
Catalogs and Full Information from
the Sole Agents.
E. D. MORRISON 8 CO. LTD.,
257 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TkCHIASTOLITE
or Luck
Stone
The Wonderful Old-World War Charm.
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM.
Found in Australia.
Mounted as Pendants in 9ct. Gold, from 10/6 each.
Mounted as Rings in 9et. Gold, from 20/- each.
The Black Opal Store, 89 Market St., Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, Gem Merchant, Proprietor.
HAVE YOU A
BAD LEG
perhaps so surrounded with inflammation and
swollen that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leavos the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Perhaps
your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored. The disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Try the great British Remedy:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which will give certain relief.
And for Poisoned Hands, House-
maid’s Knee, Carbuncles, Absces-
ses, Snake and Insect Bites, &c.
Sold in England at 1/3 & 3/- per box.
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farringrdon St.,
LONDON, Eng
Can be obtained at any Drug Store, and
stocked by all the Wholesale Houses in the
Commonwealth.
If any illustration appearing in Tins
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it,
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. * t,
p, ri s h »a«Tn',h* n wo™ rt “ttEAD tU (>FFICB“. ,n 87 PITT StSIeT, SYDNEy?"”"
D -“W.a S:cf;
Elo H “racrVs., P.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Aetna,-,. H. W. APPEIU-Y Secret.,,.
Accumulated Funds, £35,000,000. Annual Income, £4,770,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1915 .. £848,528. Total Bonuses distributedl . £20,670,000.
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. Write for prospectus
and full information without delay. . ■
M
Miles
Cheaper
and
Auslralian
Quality starts in the
Raw Materials.
Realising that to finish right you must
start right, the manufacturers of Barnet
Glass Tyres insist that the raw materials
employed shall be the best the world
produces, From cotton fields and rubber
plantations to the tyre complete, quality is the prime
essential—irl materials, in workmanship, in finish.
Thus no imported tyre, no matter how high-priced;
Contains better materials than the superfine cottoh
and the hard, live Para Rubber used in .
In the build of Barnet Glass Tyres more rubber
is used than in imported tyres, there being upwards
of a dozen layers to each ply of canvas instead of
two or three. You have to insist on Australian-
made Barnet Glass Tyres or expensive imported
makes, giving less service will, in most cases, be
supplied to you.
Barnet Glass Rubber Co. Ltd.
Founders of the Rubber Industry in Australasia .
Branches in all Australasian Centres.
YOU
can mafte
money by
selling' or even g'iving
away your Benzine
Engine and replacing
it with a new I H C
Gaso-Kero Engine-A4 CT
AsR our nearest brandh
for particulars.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER CO OF AUS Ply. Ltd.
Brisbane Sydney Melbourne
(67) Adelaide Perth Launceston
'Theftimns'
Hit Cujnnttt
of H>»
k Qualityu
0
«<io
colo, 0 :"
...
k
m
li
f The discomforts of 1
' travel, dust, noise and '
hurry, lose their terrors,
if you carry a bottle of
Yardley’s Eau-de-Cologne.
A few drops gently fanned
on the temples
and behind the
ears produce a
delicious sense
of comfort and
refreshment.
Done in
i London
| since
H 1770.
E New Bono ST,
London. .
TO RETURNED SOLDIERS.
Returned disabled soldiers.
Single Men with Thorough Farm
Training who are disabled in upper body
but sound in legs and eyesight might obtain
suitable Permanent Employment as Planta-
tion Overseers in Solomon Islands bv writ-
ing to ISLAND INSPECTOR,
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydnev -
HORLICKS
MALTED
MILK
Ik
trim.
""ms
INVN-
S±n
tiff** 1
WBe
>Jt±K •J>S"
M#*
«»/*%. ktfJT
E
The Wise >
Housewife
has her shelves
wisely stocked,
just as the
wise shopkeeper
keeps his store supplied with
the right articles. Horlick’s
Malted Milk (Milk, Wheat
and Malt) should be an
essential article in the store
cupboard in every properly
equipped home. It is so
nutritious, palatable, and
easily made. No cooking.
It has been rightly named by
Sohl' “The Ideal Food-
Drink’ by others “The
Powdered Energiser.”
Ask Fop. Horlick's Malted
Milk at the Soda Fountain .
Write for sample, sending:
2d. in stamps, to Hutchin-
son & Co. Ltd., 26 Jamieson
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.; or
Sharland & Co. Ltd., Lome
Street, Auckland, & Dixon
Street, Wellington, N.Z.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding’ Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woj
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Beading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
W. J.F.: The trouble is that so many of
this country’s military officers haven’t yet realised the
difference between a citizen soldier and the old sort;
and the Minister long ago got into the habit of
letting them do what they like with him....
Bob D.: Is it absolutely necessary that you should
crowd your lines together so that even a mapping
pen couldn’t get between them?....Ex-Beer: Maybe;
but you don’t suppose the Censor would let it loose,
do you?. . . .M.O’D.: One very old; doubts about
the others. .. .R.S.: Goodness! Has it got a special
moon, too, like Auckland ?... .F.L.N.: Don’t you
worry about The Bulletin. We’ll do all the
worrying that is necessary... .H. A. N.: You’ll have
to think that out yourself.... Lestor: Well done,
but not enough in it....K,A.: “Bacon and Eggs”
cooked too much.. .. Seldomfedd: “Hungry Soul”
lifts a vain yowl. Other held for inquest....
Brough: No use. ...Satan the Second: There’s a
cow-like candor about your love-making. .. .N,W.:
“Fighting Generation” good in its way, but not our
way....Tibs: Our admiration of the French doesn’t
compel us to mix their language with our 0wn....
Billjim’s Sister: Letter seemed promising, but yarn
has nothing in it. . . .A.T.D. : Doesn’t go. . . .Lara-
con : Heavy thing waddling slowly to a dull finish.
.. . .M.C.: No trace of music. . . .L.E.8.: You should
be able to sell it somewhere else... .M.8.P.: Better,
but not up. .. .Artevelde: Birdie’s singing is an
antique theme.... Myponga: They don’t grip....
Kemo: Well-intentioned yell, but nothing new....
Stephen Loveday: Step in and give your thrilling
account of the Zeppelin raid :
.. . .D.C.McM. : Correct, well-built verse; it lacks
only originality and punch E.G.C.: “Case of
Leblanc” well written but rather pointless. Have
you no ink on the Richmond River ?.... Beeritus:
Couldn’t say it unless somebody chloroformed some-
body who can’t be mentioned in the connection....
A. 8.5.; It isn’t as easy as all that. .. .G. 8.: Nice
descriptive verse without appeal.... Sentimental
Fencer; If you insist on writing with a long-handled
spider dipped in mud, your chances are like your
ink. .. .G.R.11.: “Pharisees” misses... .E.A.V.:
Nothing is easier than to imitate Whitman. Cut up
unsatisfactory prose into uneven lengths and stick
in “Camerados” here and there. You forgot the
“Camerados,” and it looks unfriendly....-Cooran-
bong: Heavyweight pun recorded against your soul.
D. 8.: Old story badly hashed E.S.McG.: There’s
a fine mystic confusion about it:—•
For our fallen manhood we mutely sigh,
Those heroes’ eyes now closed in sleep,
Giving their lives, so you and I,
That our freedom we still shall keep.
.. . .F.A.0.: How many R’s in Australia?
J.A.W.: Outski. .. .11.R.8.: Already dealt with....
H.P.: “Soldier’s Song” bombed. .. .L.G.S.: Cheerful
enough—too cheerful for one at the rear. .. . J.D.:
Not up V.F.K.: Your love-sick gymnastics at
sunset are not interesting. ... Wyenro: Nothing in
it... .Hope: Shows some promise Will C. K.:
Poor stuff.... E.P. : Ideas in it; but verse very
faulty. .. .E.C.: Whatever it may be, it isn’t a
poem.... Stone E. Broke: Can’t you jubilate better
than that ?.... Spartan: “The Call” seems more
like a sewing-machine trying to eat potatoes than
anything a trumpet does. . . .G.R.H.: Remember
you’ve got to face the “great white throne” with
that verse on your conscience C.M.L.: You said
we’d find three poems and we found only five pages
of loose words roaming about looking for an idea.
S.O’D.: No good D.D.: Can’t work it off
again. . . .Ruddy: Tame little animal suitable as a
bedroom pet.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
K.W.C.: Nervous scratchings.... Kid: You set
yourself a difficult job. Can’t use it H.M.8.5.:
It isn’t fit...,P.G.: Needn’t trouble about the draw-
ing. It’s the idea we want... .F.J.C.: Sorry no use.
Suggestions will be just as saleable without the
sketches as with them A.E.C.: There are more
humorous drawings on the Pyramids Y.A.P.:
Sketch very wooden and gag doesn’t get a laugh....
Navalie: Encouraging L.R.T.: It misses Raff:
Dismal sort of production.... Lowana: It’s a poor
drawing and badly planned. Don't scatter all the
interest around the outskirts.
“Snell”: Years ago I gave The Bulletin
a little character sketch of a Goulburn Val-
ley man with a mania for collecting old iron.
He had been doing it ever since he was 30,
and he was 60 at the time I wrote. He had
no use for the scrap metal, he could give
no excuse for collecting it beyond admitting
that he had to, and he wasted a fair amount
of highly productive soil on which he stored
his hoard. The vastness of the collection
was a monument of human zeal and an
amazing nroof of what one earnest man’s
effort may amount to in 30 years. A few
months ago the old horseshoe archaeologist
of my story passed out, and the other day
his collection of iron was knocked down
under the hammer for something like £5OO.
The war and a minor iron famine had con-
verted what the heirs regarded as a great
nuisance into a nice asset. Not that they
needed it badly, for the old man left them
much valuable property besides.
Fifty years ago a shop in Castlereagh-
street, which is now being demolished, was
the resort of Sydney bibliophiles and curio
hunters. It was kept by Richard Martin
Lindsay, a very old colonist and dealer. He
had been in business in the first ’4o’s in
Kent-street; then in Elizabeth-street;
finally in Castlereagh-street, where Angus
and Robertson’s is to-day. The old stand
has thus been in the book business for over
half a century. In Lindsay’s time there
was but one other second-hand bookseller
in Sydney, R. W. Skinner, who had his shop
in Pitt-street, where the Queen’s Hall is
now. A lamp over the door showed the sign
“Food for Worms.”
Pat found his resting place in a flower bed ;
He was quite good except for his head,
And that was missing,
It went hissing
Quickly through space
Into some other person’s place.
The end of the raid was two killed dead,
Thirteen knocked out, and the loss of Pat’s head f
(P.S. —One of their Zeps went to blazes,
The rest returned to similar places.)


Is Your
Baby
Delicate?
Fed from birth on the ‘ Allenburys’ Foods .
Mother and Child.
Baby 6 y 2 months.
WHAT a marked difference there is
between the fretful, puny, ailing infant,
and the child whose face always bears
the smile and look of perfect health and con-
tentment. Mothers should early realize that much
depends on How Baby is Fed. The right food
given at the proper age means rest and comfort
for the mother and a sound healthy constitution
for her little one in after years. If, for any
reason, Baby cannot be given the natural food,
do not select a substitute merely because it is
cheap in price. Adopt what experience has
proved to be the Simplest and Most Successful
Method of Infant Feeding, i.e., The ‘Allenburys’
Foods. These Foods provide a Pure, Complete and
Progressive Dietary specially adapted to each
stage of a child’s development. They are not
expensive to buy when judged by the uniform good
results which follow their use; this is the true
standard of comparison. The‘Allenburys’Foods are
used and recommended by members of the Medical
and Nursing Professions throughout the world.
The Foods that contain all the essential elements
to promote brain and body development.
i&llenburys’ Foods
Write for free book “Infant Feeding and Management
64 pages of valuable information for every mother .
MILK FOOD No. 1. From Birth to
3 months.
MILK FOOD No. 2. From 3 to
7 months.
MALTED FOOD No. 3. From
7 months upwards.
RUSKS (Malted). From 10 months.
THE ‘ALLENBURYS’ FEEDER
Simplest, Safest, and Best.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd.
13, Market Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 1715.
cL*-'
V
■
M
Tht
bury s
c Hjnb
&
#
aji gWIMANCTI^
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
*
The
“SKANDIA”in THE HEBRIDES
“ MALEKOLA” and “AHAMB.”
25 Tons. 17 Tons.
20 h.p. 13 h.p.
NELSON i ROBERTSON,
Loftus Street,
SYDNEY.
WRIGLEYS,
VvThe
sfd
SPEARMINT
PERFECT GUM
[£STS
V
7777777777777777777W777W777777W7777^777777777W77777777777^77W^777
r w#
4 Remember! i
When you’re hot and tired,
head awhirl, appetite gone,
digestion poor, throat
parched
Remember then
WRIGLEYSI
SPEARMINT
“ Chew it after every meal ”
v
This famous Chewing Sweet
quenches thirst, soothes the
throat, steadies stomach
and nerves.
Its delightful mint flavor
refreshes and benefits wonderfully.
3d. per packet of five big bars, at
Chemists, Confectioners and Stores.
Sample packet by post for three penny stamps from
J. C. GAMBLES & CO., Commerce House, Melbourne.
Ask for “ WRIGLEY’S MOTHER GOOSE” Book, free.
Be Sure it's Wrigley’s.
Made in Australia
fl FOR AUSTRALIANS
1 „ BY AUSTRALIANS 1
Zbt Onoto needs no filler!
U,
&
r,
n
a
\
Why didn’t you ask her
to send you an Onoto ?
Onoto
™I Pen
from 14/6 each
A filler is bound to get broken
at the Front. The Onoto needs
no filler; its fills itself from any
supply, and cleans the nib while
filling.
The Onoto never leaks in any position.
You send it out to your friend at the
Front full of ink ready for immediate use.
Manufacturers— Thomas de la Rue & Co., Ltd.,
Bunhill Row, London, E.C. Australasian Managing
Agents—Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Street,
Sydney.
z.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA E. N GLAN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabin«s-de-luxe ;
Staterooms, with bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms,
Private Bathrooms, Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Regular sailings from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Eta.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
*CAIRNS
(*Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports).
NORTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Oct. 7.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Oet. 11.
Leaves Sydney Oct. 14.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Oct. 18.
Leaves Sydney Oct. 21.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports)
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, Oct. 14.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Dunking, Public Companies. &c.
THE.
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387.500
Directors : Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY.
lion. Sir ROP.ER'i’ PIIILP, K.C.M.G.
Hon. A. J. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
O ion Kit ai, Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 2.18 Oeorj>e Street.
.Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: *4 Queen Victoria St., EX'.
branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian jjank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ..
SUBSCRIBED
PAID-UP (30th June, 1910)
RESERVE FUND ..
.. £2,000,000
.. £1,198,679
.. £1,197,393
£85,000
HEAD OFFICE: George & King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37TlireadneedleStreet, E.C.
DIRECTORS— Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Frank N. Yarwood,
Esq.; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq. ; George F.
Todman, Esq. ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
World. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.'
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1,921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 212,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 6
All new business since 1893 specially protected
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. TV. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq.;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— -W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Brandies—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking |}o.
of Sydney, limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. £2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1.875,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,875,000 0 0
Directors :
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. ..•» Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: J. J. Brenan, Esq. ; and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birch in Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S. Littleton;
N. D. Cohen, Esq. Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the World.
Bank of |) en| Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. ... £529,988
Preference Shares.. •• •• 750,000
Ordinarv Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up .. • • • • 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. • • 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,118,605
GRANTS DRAFTS
'bouibs ‘iftj ‘pu B l
-892 M3M ‘BIIB.IJSIIV < lO
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest lor
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line to Vancouver
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE, CALLING AT
AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (Fiji) and HONOLULU (Hawaii).
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIHS, GREAT LAKE.
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
sfd
t Twin Screw. * Triple Screw. Fitted with Cabins De Luxe, Suites, Bedstead Rooms, Lifts.
Nursery, Wireless, etc.
AROUND THE WO RED BOOKINGS, RETURNING VIA CHINA AND JAPAN,
SUEZ CANAL OR SOUTH AFRICA.
Laundry.
OR VIA
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco.
VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Hookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe. _
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
STEAMERS SATE FROM WELLINGTON (N.Z.).
*MAITAI, 9th November. *MOAN A, 7th December.
Steamers leave Sydney—2nd November, 30th November.
Passengers Transfer at Wellington to the Mail Steamer immediately on arrival.
Vessels stay 24 hours at Papeete, “The Pearl of the Pacific.”
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
The Paradise
of the Pacific.’
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers Trading to America —
It.M.S. Niagara and R. 31.5. Makura.
A Tour of Seven "Weeks, allowing Nineteen Days’ Stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENEIIY — PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
Winter T
Fiji
Levuka,
Suva.,
Lautoka,
Samoa Apia, Friendly Islands
Tonga
Monthly Sailings from Sydney and Auckland.
T.S.S. ATUA (3444 tons). S.S. TALUNE (2087 tons).
GRAND PACIFIC HOTEL at Suva now open.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding- above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
Something' Unique in
sfdsfd
Island Tours
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817-
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£3,500,000
£2,675.000
£3,500,000
£9.675.000
The lion. Sir Charles li. Macliellar, K.C.M.O
M.L.C., President.
Robert Lionel Paithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.aL.B..
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: Shepheard Edgeeliff Laidlev, Esq.; Alfred Georye Mil soil, Esq.
Head Office—Georgre St., Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedio St, E.C.
341 Blanches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances mad# to, and drafts drawn on, foreign places DIRECI. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
n rTfinCT T T7* T» TT' XT nIJ rinnor-ol TVf o v
Commonwealth
| HEAD OFFICE
fdfd
Jank“3«»tralia
SYDNEY. I
f 2r e au General Banking* Business principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
1/-
Minimum
Deposit
2600
At all Branches, and over
Agencies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest at Q O /
per annum /o
up- to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
ES KELI-. Deputy Gorernor. Juxe. 1916 DENISOV MILLER, Governor
14,375 NEW DEPOSITORS IN ONE MONTH,
That is the number of accounts opened during August in the
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales
-The STATE Savings Institution.
All these depositors have taken the FIRST STEP towards building up a SAVINGS
BANK BALANCE.
REGULAR DEPOSITS, accumulating with INTEREST BEI AGAINST
on every complete f up to £5OO, will proiide then RLSER\ E AGAIN SI
EMERGENCIES.
This Bank has 132 Branches in the City of Sydney, the principal Suburbs and
Country Towns, as well as 500 Agencies.
Government Guarantee for Security of all Deposits.
Head Office, a B y order of the Commissioner^
11 Moore Street, Sydney, *L H. DAVIES,
19th September, 1916. Secretary.
Shipping.
THEADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS }
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DIMBOOLA, Friday,
Oct. 20 and Nov. 1
BRISBANE
MACIvAY
i'OWNSVITjLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
PARINGA, Oct. 7.
RUPARA, Oct. 14.
MORIALTA, Oct. 21.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable at'te.
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can he
ascertained on application at the Company's Oliice.
G. S. YUILIj & CO.. LTD.,
Agents. G BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY*.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent East Passenger Steamships
" Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Llimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Moduli Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. -
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND POUTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITER),
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
via
SAMOA-HONOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
Sailing's from Sydney:—
OCT. 25, NOV. 15, DEC. 6, DEC. 27.
Apply:— OCE A NIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom, via Suez Canal, Cape of Good Hope,
Torres Straits.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500. tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine. Surgeon and
Stewardess. Electric Fans.
FARE TO LONDON OR LIVERPOOL, £4B.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane ; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD., Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer. £6 Bs. 6d. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
Quickly removes SKIN ERUPTIONS,
ensuring A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable Pimpies,
disfiguringißlotches, obstinate Eczema disappear
% by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Sadness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Bashes
Eczema
Scurf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rogea
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin Specialists,
I.Pepper &Co.,Ltd., Bedford Laboratories, London,
SE England, and can be obtained from any
chemists and stores throughout the world.
Quickly remove* the effects ot Bunecorch.


K-.'.
/
Supreme in Quality
And Therefore in Economy
MICHELIN TYRES
Stand Supreme.
MICHELIN has made great efforts to keep up
supplies since the outbreak of War.
Supplies are regular.
MICHELIN TYRES
(The famous tyres manufactured by the famous
French firm).
Quality means Mileage.
Mileage means Economy.
MICHELIN—THE BEST,
Therefore the most Economical.
MICHELIN TYRES
Can be obtained
at all the leading garages.
16. A. 1617
HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne*
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
The Australia Hotel
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone 7260,
4 lines.
P.O. Box 1610.
Telegrams—-
Australia,
Sydney.
The Premier Hotel of Australasia.
Has accommodation for 300 Guests. Single
and double Bedrooms and Suites, with Bath-
room attached. Hot and Cold Water, Auto-
matic Telephones and Electric Heaters
throughout. Visitors have the preference of
the American or European Plan of rating.
Two _ special Grill-rooms are attached, in
addition to Main Dining-room, seating 500
Guests. The Winter Garden is the largest
in Australasia, and is the meeting-place of
the Elite of Sydney, who foregather for
Afternoon Teas and Supper after the Theatre.
A High-class Orchestra furnishes Music twice
a day.
Single Rooms from 16/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Double Rooms from 32/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Room and Breakfast from 11/-
per day.
Suites of Apartments as per arrangement.
J. URE SMITH, Manager.
f
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
Arabia Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair. Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
p
r\
LOCAL
NDOW
PATRIOTISM
I a Your
Aim? e
Then have a'sIHOT
Pfe at smoking
Referee
The Australian Tobacco
1
T
1
X
A
%
K
IN A “JIFFY -
Yes! It shaves in a “jiffy”—in a quarter
the usual time. So keen is the blade and so
finely tempered is
The “PLUM” RAZOR
that its edge remains keen for an indefinite
period.
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE.
"We keep it. in perfect order for two years,
free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
,Single Razor, Ivory Handle,
15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
,'This line makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free.
\ Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
A case for
Wiricnrnis*
,
v,
%
WO
Weakness
Every movement of the body
uses up a definite amount of
vitality That is why you
feel tired at the end of the
day. When you overtax
yourself, or when your
vitality is undermined by
illness, your whole system
becomes too exhausted to
recover its lost vitality with
out assistance. Your system
is like a plant that is
drooping for want of water
And just as water revives
a drooping plant —so
Wincarnis' give 6 new life
and new vitality to a weak
ened constitution. Because
‘ Wincarnis possesses a
four-fold p6wer It is a
Tonic, a Restorative, a
Blood-maker, and a Nerve
Food —all in one. Therefore
1
creates new strength, new
blood, new nerve force, and
new vitality. The benefit
begins from the first wine-
glassful. You can feel it
doing you good You can
feel every wineglassful
giving you more strength
than you had before, and
surcharging your whole sys
tern with new vitality That
is why over io.ooo Doctors
recommend ‘ Wincarpis-
Begin to get
well TO-DAY.
‘ Wincarnis ’ is made in Eng-
land by COLEMAN & CO.,
Ltd., Wine rnis Works, Nor-
wich. Yo i can buy ‘ Wincar-
nis ’ from all Chemists and
Stores selling wines, prices 4/-
and 6/6, but if you experience
any difficulty in obtaining it,
write direct to Foie Distribut-
ing Agents, Fa-sett & Jot nson,
5/7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
f POlil
EXPLOSIVES
ARE THE PRODUCTS OF
OVER A CENTURY’S EXPERIENCE
Explosives packed especially to com-
ply with requirements of Australia
and othe. foreign countries.
Our SAFET'/. Explosives for use in
dusty and gaseous coal mines have
passed the rigid tests of the United
States Government’s Bureau of Mines.
Thirty factories in the United States.
Plants on both the Atlantic and Pacific
Coasts assure prompt shipments.
OBTAIN MAXIMUM RESULTS
BY SPECIFYING
DUPONT EXPLOSIVES
E.l.du Pont de Nemours & Co.
WORLD’S LARGEST MAKERS
OF EXPLOSIVES
Wilmington, Delaware, U. S. A.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
Henry W. Peabody & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT*
In use since 1596.
Write for Book! CURES Write for Boot
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road. London, Enfe
Insist on “ Singleton's' —refuse all substitutes.-
sd
A£l4 Machine
With 5 Drawers,
£8 10s.
15 YEARS’ WRITTEN
GUARANTEE.
Packed and Delivered Free.
A.N.A.SewinS Machine Co.
25 QUE&N VICTORIA MARKETS
(near Town Hall) f SYDNEY.
Also at Errol Street, North Melbourne; 7 Arcade,
Adelaide; Baird’s Arcade, Perth; 39 Ceorgre Street,
Launoeston; and 123 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.


The drink for men. Men who drink whisky wonder
why there are others who don't. Men who drink
Thorne’s Whisky wonder why there are some who
don’t. If you’re a whisky-drinker and want real
quality-production—the choicest that is distilled in
the famous district of Glenlivet—you should call for
Thorne’s. The carefully-selected high-grade malts from
which Thorne’s is distilled give it a distinctive flavor
and delightful bouquet.
THORNE'S WHISKY.
O.H.M. “Incomparable.”
[2
Motorists’Supplies
Your troubles will be lighter if you refer the
little arguments you have with your car to
us. We have every up-to-date accessory and
fitment, and are able to give you prompt and
efficient service in everything you need; from
the Petrol Tank to the Exhaust; from the
Hood Top to the Tyre. When in any diffi-
culty with your ear, or needing accessories
of any kind, write to us—you’ll be delighted
at the promptitude of our reply and the
efficient service we will render. Rely upon
us giving you a square deal at all times.
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty. Ltd.
334-336 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Finney’s Xmas Hampers
for our Soldier Boys!
us thalia
IT’S OUR FLAG!
Let's Work for it!
Let’s Fight for it!
Let’s Die for it!
Please Note Any Other items of equal value can be
included in place of any article in any parcel if preferred.
These prices include Tin Boxes, sealed and soldered,
sewn in strong, unbleached calico, postage and all expenses.
All you have to do is to send us full address, not forgetting
the Soldier’s Number, Number of Parcel you want, and we
will attend tp the proper addressing and posting.
Packed in sealed tins and selling at Patriotic Prices!
Ready, waiting to be addressed to that Soldier Boy of yours, fighting for Australia,
“Somewhere in Prance.”
A “Finney” Xmas Hamper will make him feel the Xmas Spirit—give him
pleasant memories of home—and encourage him to fight with all his might the fight
of right—-by the very fact that you have at Xmas not forgotten him.
The contents of these Hampers we carefully pack in tins, securely sealed and soldered
so as to ensure their arriving in a wholesome condition.
And w r e have priced them on Patriotic lines —you can judge the good value by the
fact that—after paying for the tins and postage—we give you all the items listed,
besides guaranteeing their goodness!
Send your Soldier Boy a “Finney” Hamper for Xmas, and he won’t be ashamed to
tell his pals where it came from.
YOU CAN’T BEAT FINNEY’S.
Finney’s Pay the Carriage.
Xmas Hamper No. 1,
10/6.
1 Cake.
1 Pudding.
1 Tin Cigarettes.
1 Packet Raisins.
I Packet Almonds.
1 Tin Sweets.
This parcel we pack in
sealed, soldered tins, and
post for 10/6.
Xmas Hamper No. 2,
10/6.
1 Cake.
1 Pudding.
1 Tin Cigarettes.
1 Tin Tobacco.
1 Tii \sparagus or
Fruit.
1 Pipe or 1 Tin Sweets.
This parcel we pack in
sealed, soldered tins, and
post for 10/6.
Xmas Hamper No. 3,
15/6.
1 Cake.
1 Pudding.
1 Tin Cigarettes.
1 Tin Tobacco.
1 Packet Almonds.
1 Packet Raisins.
Chewing Gum'.
1 Tin Fruit or 1 Tin
Asparagus.
1 Tin Sweets.
This parcel we pack in
sealed, soldered tins, and
post for 16/6.
Xmas Hamper No. 4,
21/-
Shortbreads.
1 Cake.
1 Pudding.
1 Tin Cigarettes.
1 Tin Tobacco.
1 Tin Asparagus.
1 Packet Almonds.
1 Packet Raisins.
1 Tin Sweets.
1 Tin Fruit.
Pipe.
Chewing Gum.
Writing Pad and En-
velopes.
This parcel we pack in
sealed, soldered tins, and
post for 21/-
FINNEY, ISLES ®. CO. LTD
The Drapers of Queensland,
The Big BlocK, BRISBANE.
IN BANANA LAND
“Condamine” declares war :
Potash is practically unprocurable, and though i 1
is generally known that prickly-pear ash contains If
per cent, potash, nobody seems to worry to tell the
small farmer how easily the curse can be converted
into ash. The Cactus Estates are producing potash
as a business, and are selling a preparation
which, applied with a special spray-pump,
destroys pear. But the Government is doing
absolutely nothing to make selectors acquainted
with the possibilities and methods of pro-
ducing potash. A pamphlet setting forth particulars
would immediately result in numbers of small plants
being erected. To the handy-man selector the cost
of a potash plant is so small that anybody with a
good waterhole handy could run one. The require-
ments are about half a dozen vats (carbide drums are
suitable), a few oildrums for evaporation, and a small
pump if possible. The object is to run the water
through the ash until a saturated solution is
obtained, and then evaporate the water. The result
is crude potash, which is readily saleable. The
method is to put a false bottom (not water-proof)
in the vats, a few inches up, to allow a clear space
for the water to leak into. It takes three passages
of water through the ash to make a saturated solu-
tion, and the same number to clean the ash of
potash. Pear needs to be dead before burning so
that the final product may be fairly free from wood-
ash.
Bundaberg, the old prize Kanaka town,
has fallen upon evil days. The recent award
in the sugar industry that raised wages at
one lift hy nearly 44 per cent, has resulted
in the closing of every mill in the district.
The streets are filled with “Dickson’s unem-
ployed,” who begin to have doubts as to
whether it is an advantage to be awarded
44 per cent, more wages if you thereupon
don’t get any wages at all, and the town,
which is solely dependent on this one indus-
try, is sitting in sackcloth and ashes.
This is how they gurgle compliments in
the Queensland Assembly :
Lennon: “You are a cadi”
Acting-Premier Theodore: “I will pull your nose!”
Morgan (to Theodore): “Why don’t you go back
to Bulgaria?”
Then a hapless politician called Booker,
who called nobody names, but only said his
party was helping to get recruits while the
other party wasn’t, was suspended for a
week and went into the wilderness as a
scapegoat with his brethren’s trespasses on
his shoulders.
The Abandon-your-mates party, finding
that it hasn’t a leg to stand on when it
comes to argument, has fallen back on wild
stories that the Fatmen of Australia—Fat-
men like W. G. Spence, Hector Lamond and
Senator Givens—are introducing conscrip-
tion as an excuse for flooding this country
with colored labor. Brisbane Worker, in
particular, is screeching at the top of its
voice about the arrival of a handful of
Maltese. “Why are Maltese being per-
mitted to wander round the earth in search
of decent men’s billets at this period of the
Empire’s history?” it asks. Well, it is
almost certain they came here, like a good
many 0 t the poorest type of Englishmen
have done, to escape conscription. England
has adopted conscription ; so has Maonland;
others threaten to do the same thing. If
the antis nave their way Australia won’t
welcome merely one load of Maltese. It
will be the refuge of thousands who will
pour in from many parts in order to evade
service.
Ryan hasn’t had Holman’s luck. Not
quite all the N.S.W. Ministers are con-
scriptionists; but Cann and the one or two
others who are not prepared to go on the
platform are not prepared either to kick
up a row with those who do want to go. But
in Ryan’s little lot it is different. Adamson
and Fihelly never did think much of one
another. The two are as unlike as men
can be. Adamson has had a parson’s train-
ing; Fihelly was one of the boys who used
to hit things up after the football match,
Then Adamson accepted the vice-presidency
BIBLICAL.
SQUATTER: “I’m hanged if I'll come to this infernal pub again. The meat’s so high
that you can’t eat it, and the whisky’s been watered.”
THE PARSON: “Ahem! Truly the flesh is strong but the spirit is weak.”
of the Conscription League; and Fihelly was
agin him, of course. After that they both
got talking, and now there’s no Cabinet in
the -I big enough to hold «* two of
them.
Stephen Hart, of Mount Morgan, has been
calling public attention to the fact that this
country can never adequately defend itself
until it grows its own cotton. Here are a
fpw fact » alleged by Hart:—
(l) High explosives need gun-cotton [cotton treated
with, nitric and sulphuric acids].
(2) Australia has four times as much country
suitable for cotton-growing as the U.S.A.
(3) Last year the U.S.A. sold England 10 million
lb. more cotton than in 1914, the money for which
should have come to Australia. . t c
(4) The cotton plant needs an inch of rain at
seed time to establish it; but, once the plant gets
bs roo t s down, drought doesn’t affect it.
~ , , . , j that nnttnn
Since it has been am pi j proved that co
can be grown m Australia, and ot a quality
equal to the world’s best while the wage-
records of the U.S. show that even the loaf-
ing nigger makes 7s. to Bs. a day at cotton-
picking—well, won’t somebody do some-
thing?
Berlin Beflagged Again.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
. “What joy will fill every genuine democratic
heart when we find that on October 28 Australia has
voted No.” —Brisbane daily.
And how they’d feast in high Berlin
And drink the lager bier
To find that “sturdy democrats”
Supported Deutschland here!
The noblest halls in that gay town
Would smile with wine aflow
If on that fateful twenty-eighth
Australia voted No.
The Kaiser’s self would rise and toast
The fools who played his game
And clean forgot their battling mates
Who fought for Honor’s name;
Of Iron Crosses many a ton
He’d send at once, I trow,
To decorate the doting crew
Who madly voted No.
But how within the Anzac trench?
No sound of joy would rise,
But unbelief and sorrow wild
Would fill our brethren’s eyes.
No word could tell how keen a pang
Would rend their hearts with woe
If o’er the sea the tidings flashed:
“Australia’s voted No.”
But Mackensen and Butcher Bill
And Bethman-Hollweg, too,
Would see at once behind the clouds
A cheery patch of blue;
Now “Gott sei Dank,” the gang would cry,
“Our sands were running low —
But, see, dere’s hope in yonder sky,
One cub has voted No.”
If flags are flown in high Berlin
And bier the gutter drenches;
If Turks and Teutons wink and grin
And gibe at Anzac trenches;
If here the Iron Cross Brigade
(We’ve got them, well we know)
Is jubilant, you’ll guess at once —-
Australia’s voted No.
BRISBANE.
P. AIREY.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, September 30, 1916.
r „
My Dear Ihargomindaii,
To-day a big Red Cross carnival was held
at the Exhibition. Lady Goold-Adams un-
bolted the doors to a crowd in the after-
noon, and his Ex. did his little bit by
announcing the winner of the art union at
night. Stalls and sideshows and an ul fresco
entertainment conscripted all the wealtn
available.
The squa tting Notts, of Greycliffe, have
done their bit also . Two boys are in khaki>
and a sister has been nursing wounded
Anzacs since the early days of the war. She
travelled as far as Melbourne in a hospital
ship r e C ently, but couldn’t find time to look
nii N n ,.rhnvn friends
T ,
Killed m France, Lieut. Neville Little,
only son of the Frank Littles of Albion.
Mis Father has been hon. sec. of the Im-
penal Service Club ever since it began and
inaugurated the sth Light Hoise Comfoits
unc *‘
On Tuesday and Thursday night next
week. “The Image Breaker,” a play by
editor Buchanan, of the Daily Mail, is to
be staged in aid of the funds of the Resi-
dential Club. The Melbourne Repertory
Theatre produced it about two years ago,
but since then the third act has been re-
written. A number of Brisbane journalists
are in the cast.
The Queen Carnival for the Residential
Club is still the only thing, providing social
shivoos. The Allies Queen (Mrs. Liraud)
held e Qu eel i " a °(Mrß ’’’"BlumeVp
mnZf HnV™ Kridav nud an onen-Sr con
ce rt on Sandgate Pier on Thursday night.
The “Charity Queen” (Mrs. Morgan) scored
a hit with a picture benefit on Thursday
night, and the “Queen of Trade and Com-
merce” (Mrs. J. D. Bell, was a hawker for
the good cause in Queen-street on Saturday
morning.
* „„i„ TmHon rUnrmod in
A n interesting Anglo-Indian dropped m
the other day to see biothei Tipping, of the
COURIER. His job is to run a school for
young Afghans near Peshawur. He com-
plain| t 'Wt often a promising scholar has to
> r . T „, „„ ..
drop sc h°°l f QI a . / ew . days hi llB ' l U P a
family feud. Life is real and earnest
there. Tipping relates with pride that the
g y q won by the Indian army in this
war came to an old pupil of bis.
.
The Connda Infants Home is one of the
most worthy institutions that Brisbane
women have ever started. Mrs. Duncan, of
Moorarabie, lent her big airy home and a
number of other well-known women are on
the committee. The Home is now m its
second year, and so far not one little lite
has been lost. It costs £32 10s. to keep a
baby for a year, and with reasonable sup-
port the home would be able to take in babies
whether their mothers could pay for them or
not. Mrs. Huxham is a warm champion ot
the institution.
Austin Lennon, son of Minister for Agri-
culture Lennon, has just won a Military
Cross in France. The youngest son, aged
19. volunteered for the third time last week,
and, to his great joy, was accepted.
There is considerable disgust with the
tactics which made it possible for a private
letter, dealing with the. enlistment of Pre-
mier Ryan, to be read in the Assembly.
When the Recruiting Committee sent out
cards the public was assured that the
information it gave would be regarded
as confidential. If matters concerning
one man can be shouted from the
housetops, why should it not be pos-
sible for plain Bill Smith’s reasons for
not getting into khaki also to be made pub-
lic? Men who answered questions on the
card truthfully, relying on the secrecy pledge,
have a nasty taste in their mouths just at
present.
Of course, we understand all about politics
and conscription, but the new taxation pro-
posals have driven most of us to the verge
of lunacy. However, one young matron with
a couple of kiddies was quite unperturbed.
“Isn’t it just lovely of Mr. Higgs,” she
burbled. “He says he’s going to give us
£26 for each child !”
Squatter Jowett has received particulars
concerning the death of son Eric, a spirited
young member of the Flying Corps. He
was up on a photographing mission in cloud-
land when his machine was suddenly at-
tacked by a Fokker. He was struck by &
bullet, but managed to land and thus save his
observer, who sent on these particulars to
the father. Eric Jowett was educated in
Trinity College, Melbourne, and Trinity
College, Cambridge, and was a youth of
uncommon parts.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“Rag’s” tale of the woolly days:—
’Twas scorching mid-summer in the early 90’s
and Croydon hadn’t had a drink for a month. One
day a string of jinker teams drifted in out of the
wilderness, and a voice breathed o’er an arid Eden
that this was the foretaste of a 200 i 0-case consign-
ment of miscellaneous grog. As the mulga wire
disseminated news of the breaking of the drought
the prospectors, Chows and abos. at the top of this
continent hove into CrOydon from all directions,
and as fast as the cargo could be torn from the
waggons it was bought up. When the whites
had as much as they could lie down with the
Chink and the abo. slid into the performance, and
wherever one looked whites and blacks and yellows
angrily argued in pidgin English or with bottles,
nulla-nullas and guns. Several funerals had already
resulted when a party of sober troopers suddenly
arrived and confiscated the liquor. A thousand cases
were stacked and set alight while the sobering Euro-
peans clustered about the disaster with mixed feel-
ings, and black brudder and sister leapt around the
blaze mad at the destruction. Now and again some
of them would dash in, pull whisky from the stack
and bolt, with an angry trooper galloping in pursuit.
But long after Croydon had recovered Binghi con-
tinued that jamboree, and for many months both
Europeans and Chows used to spend their week-ends
out at the mia-mias, drinking the liquor that the
artful blacks had hidden in the lagoons.


1852
1016
'X
m
L
r l/V|
r **A
/ W>
82»l
For 64 years this name of Studebaker has stood for Quality, Depend-
ability and Satisfaction. For 64 years Studebaker has been recog-
nized as one of the world’s GREAT manufacturers, and for 64
years, Studebaker, one of the oldest American Industrial Institutions,
has stood as the leader solving all the endless problems of moving
the world’s people and goods in comfort and security.
There are few manufacturers in any line of business wno nave en-
joyed as long a period of uninterrupted experience and prosperity
as Studebaker. This has been due
1st —to the manufacturing ot a superior quality product.
2nd —to the exercising of business methods on the high-
est ethical basis.
3rd —to a conservative and sound financial policy.
This condition is the best possible guarantee, both to the purchaser
of a Studebaker car and to the dealer in Studebaker cars. No mat-
ter in what capacity a reader of this advertisement may want to be
associated with Studebaker, whether as owner, dealer, service sta-
tion man, chauffeur or whatnot, he is more sure of his ground because
of Studebaker’s long and successful manufacturing career, than he
possibly could be with any other motor car firm which has been
in the business only a comparatively short time.
GENERAL DISTRIBUTORS FOR AUSTRALASIA
Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Limited,
177 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
STATE IMPORTERS FOR AUSTRALASIA—
VICTORIA—TURNER BROS., Swanston Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND-CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—ARMSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Perth.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Messrs. T. J. RICHARDS & SONS LIMITED, Adelaide.
TASMANIA-W. H. GAHAGAN, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND -ADAMS LIMITED, Christchurch


Little Friends
of the Liver
They’re little hut they’re good: they’re gentle
and they’re kind: they’re full of health that
leads to health and please be sure they’re
signed: —
Carter’s Little Liver Pills bear the
above signature.
sdƒ
Carters
■ITTLE
IVER
PILLS?
Purely
Vegetable :
famous for
two genera-
tions.
Small Pill,
Small Dose,
Small Price.
IHC
GASO-KERO
4 to 20 B.H.P.
ENGINES
Produce exceptionally cheap power
Start Immediately—no vaporizer to
heat. Avoid danger—no external
flame. Give the least trouble. Are
exceptionally long lived Are sold
at reasonable prices and on easy
terms. Get prompt and satisfac-
tory service as to experts and
spare parts. Are the best for YOU.
Let us know what size and kind
you are interested in.
International Harvester Co. of Ans. Pty Ltd.
Brisbane Sydney Melbourne
Adelaide Perth Launceston
<7O;
CDBP
a it ■■■■ E
TRIAL
BOTTLE
RHEUMATISM
Are your hands and fingers cramped and
distorted ?
Are your arms, wrists' and knees stiff?
Are your nerves run down, and is your
appetite poor ?
If so you are suffering from Rheumatism, which
if not quickly and correctly treated will soon ren-
der you unfit for your daily work.
m
■m
Surgeon Chas. F. Parker, I. M. S.
Late Bengal, India.
DR. PARKER’S Great Indian
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
is a genuine remedy which rarely fails in cases of
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbavo, Gout, Uri-
nary troubles, or any Excess Uric Acid ailments
such as Headaches, Mental Depression, Uric
Acid Ulcers, Dyspepsia, Liver Disorders,
Skin Affections, Kidney Disorders, and
Numbness and Cold. It has cured others and
will quickly benefit you.
A lady writes—“ Dear Sir,—l had suffered from
Rheumatism for over nine years, and for the
past five years have been unable to do any kind
of work. My arms, wrists and knees were stiff,
my hands and fingers cramped and distorted,
ray appetite poor, and I was never free from
pain. I had tried all kinds of remedies without
result. However, after taking Dr. Parker’s
Rheumatic Remedy I got immediate relief. I
am freed from pain and my joints are
supple again.” (Original letter on file).
10,000 SAMPLES
GIVEN AWAY THIS SEASON
Write TODAY for FREE SAMPLE, testi-
monials and valuable book on the treat-
ment of Rheumatism, with 3d. in stamps
for bare cost of postage.
F. PARKER, Specialist for Rheumatism,
111 Daking House, Rawson Place, Sydney
The Lake Breeze Motor
dśfd
Cooling Fan
Runs on Methy-
lated Spirits.
A remarkable inven-
tion. Fuel costs less
than one halfpenny
per hour. Practical,
proved, simple, sub-
stantial, handsome,
quiet. Superb mechan-
ical construction. Runs
anywhere without elec-
tricity and is portable.
Send for circular. Order
early.
ADDISON PARKER,
34" Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
'
■ H i
US
sfd
HIGH day and holiday shoes, for wear on
extra-special occasions with the extra-
special-gown, ought, one feels, to have
something distinctive about them, some-
thing that lifts them above the shoes for every-
day wear and tear. It is this distinctive, this
different look, that makes the charm of the most
elegant shoes in the Bostock range, the delightful
little black satin shoe here illustrated, for ex-
ample. One has only to g-lance at the picture to see
that here is something very smart and desirable.
Then think of it on, showing daintily, captivat-
ing, beneath the flounced or scalloped hem of
the summer gown. Nothing could be more appro-
priate or more charming. And with all its
daintiness and piquancy, it is the most comfortable
and well-fitting of shoes, as indeed are all those
short-fronted styles, and will suit most women,
giving that ease, lightness and coolness which the
Australian climate requires.
Bostock No.
P 6414
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
827
Bostock shoes are unmistakable. The name is on
every pair, and they are sold at all leadin'* stores.
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
Soldiers, ILyes Right
on this advertisement. It tells about a dressing that will give your boots and
leggings, and all leatherware, a bright and lasting shine
BOSTOCK’S viola paste.
Get a tin to-day—it is the energy of dirty boots, and unnecessary “elbow grease.
6d. PER TIN. Sold Everywhere.
BOSTOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES LTD., Sydney
f
ƒsdsfd
fsd
Very “ faddy ” with his food
Was Mr. well, let’s call him ‘A’
He shrank from eating, and his meals
They simply bored him in a way.
The Chef’s most wonderful creation,
Merely made him take to flight;
But ‘Jellolds, ’ happy inspirationl
Soon found for him his appetite.
After taking Iron ‘Jelloids’ the blood becomes enriched and
strengthened, the appetite is restored, vitality is renewed. Ansemia
quickly disappears, giving place to vigorous and buoyant spirits.
sfd
Mr. M. M. Hvatt, Isleworth, writes : —“ I have derived considerable
“ benefit from Iron ‘J ell oids ’ — m y appetite has returned, and I am feeling
“quite well again. They are the best and most convenient tonic to take.”
A fortnight’s trial (Price 1/6) will convince yon.
For Women, No. 2. Special Tonic for Men, No. 2A. (containing Quinine).
For Children, No. 1. Sold in England at 1/1 2 an,d 2/9. per box.
Obtainable at all Chemists throughout Australia.
Wholesale: Druggists' Sundries Ltd, cr. Clarence & Market Sts., Sydney.
This is the Sign
The whole story of Strength,
Appearance and Comfort in
Collars is written in the one
word —
Sold by all Mercers in 3 qualities —
Four-fold, 6d. Linen-faced, 9d.
Superfine Linen-faced, 1/-
Every
Collar is Australian Made and
Guaranteed.
“Askari”: The famous “Beachy Bill” of
Anzac did lots of damage, but in one way
he was a good friend to many a hungry
soldier on account of his habit of dropping
an occasional shell on piles of stores and
distributing them round the beach. Many a
mess had a luxurious day or two on Bill’s
presents, for any scattered stores were
looked on as fair game even by the most
honest of us. But I guess Bill was a true
follower of the Prophet. Never by any
chance did a shell of his broach a rum'cask.
“Kangaroo Feather” from Egypt: —•
In The Bulletin of June 8 there is an article on
the subject of Billjim and the British Army Act.
Very few volunteers ever hear of the B.A.A. until
up against a court-martial, although under the Act
itself the penal clauses should be read to soldiers
once every three months. Disobedience of an order
lays us open to anything from penal servitude to
C.B. Here is a case that happened at Tcl-el-Ivebiv
within the last few months. It came out in orders
that all men must appear in “shorts” when on
parade. No one had “shorts,” so all hands rushed
to the Q.M. and asked for them. The Q.M. had
not enough to go around, and a few men could not
get them. Next morning the orderly corporal • went
round from tent to tent telling all hands to appear
on parade in “shorts.” Those who could not get
them wore others. They were put under arrest and
duly appeared before the C.O. charged with disobey-
ing an order of a superior officer. They tried to
explain the case, but were stopped and told that
the order had been given and had not been obeyed.
Sentence 14 days, “second” punishment, which means
all fatigues and loss of pay; also a crime recorded
on their papers, which stands against promotions.
As for the general tenor of the Act, when Billjim
has finished his present job of putting the Kaiser in
his place and returns to Australia, the Defence
authorities are going to have a busy time.
“C.F.”: A legitimate grievance here in
Egypt with non-coms, is the difficulty of
promotion to commissioned rank. Under
existing arrangements reinforcements leav-
ing Australia are sent away in charge of an
officer (attached), and the regularity of
their arrival has built up a reserve of junior
subalterns so big that the various units,
out of the fighting-line since the evacuation
of the Peninsula until quite recently, have
been quite unable to absorb them. This
plethora of officers is a bar to the advance-
ment of men of non-commissioned rank who
fought through the Gallipoli campaign and
on the Western frontier with the Senussi,
and have generally borne the heat and bur-
den of the day since coming on active ser-
vice. The reinforcement officers naturally
claim the vacancies as they occur in the
units, and generally get them. In some
cases, however, cojmmanding officers cast a
cold eye on these new men, while some few
refuse to take them on the strength, and
fight for a recognition of the claims of their
tried and proved n.c.o.’s. This is not
pleasant for either crowd. A probable way
out of the difficulty would be the alloca-
tion of a number of wounded officers, or
officers adjudged unfit for active service, for
duty on transports. This would at least
prevent the present difficulty assuming any
more serious dimensions, and, incidentally,
would save the Commonwealth a consider-
able sum.
National efficiency means spending our
money to the best advantage and making full
use of our labor; and this is how Victoria
is achieving it. She has been improving her
outports in an effort to save the cost of
dragging goods to and from Melboom, and
has succeeded in this remarkable way :
Cost. Management. Revenue.
Warrnambool ..£303,693 £24,813 £1750
Portland . . . . 136,885 25,781 450
Gippsland Lakes . . 139,310 96,954 1125
Total .. £727',436 £147,548 £3325
What is the use of sending- a delegation to
Wilson’s country? Woodrow himself couldn’t
do anything ,so brilliant.
Westralians are beginning to wonder what
is wrong with the “great agricultural re-
sources” of their State. Recently Minister
for Lands Mitchell informed a Commission
inquiring into the matter that (1) the Agri-
cultural Bank had 600 abandoned farms on
its hands; (2) 2000 families are being
induced to stay on the land by the Govern-
ment supplying them with food and cloth-
ing; (3) the State imports weekly large
supplies of butter, milk, bacon, pork, jam,
preserves, fruit and meat. This Commission
may soon begin to suspect (1) that if a few
chemists had a look at the soil they might
devise a cheaper means of making it pro-
ductive than flinging loan money about, and
(2) that the Perth boomsters who inflate the
property market for their own enrichment
deserve hard labor.
When Father Connolly, Tasmania’s first
R.C. priest, died in 1839, he was buried in
West Hobart. The little old graveyard is
now closed and neglected ; and lest he should
think himself neglected too, what was left
of him was taken up the other day and
put in St. Mary’s Cathedral. . Connolly
was chaplain in the times when there
was a hanging every other day in Hobart,
and he listened to the dying confessions
of scores who passed on to the gal-
lows. To him Alexander Pearce, the can-
nibal, told his story, the grimmest and most
horrible tale of the bad old days; and he
heard the dying confessions of Brady, the
most noted of Tasmanian bushrangers.
POLITE RELIGION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She was religious in the most
Attractive way. Dim tapers, blooms,
And incense wreathing like a ghost
Made shrines of all her dainty rooms.
The curate, he
Came oft to tea
And saw what Paradise might be.
She let him kiss her once or twice,
And once he held her hand and groaned ;
The lady thought it very nice ;
To hopes of Heaven then she owned.
The curate blushed,
And good words gushed
In voices most refined and hushed.
The curate was a fluffy sair.t,
The lady was a mass of style ;
As talk of llcll might make her faint,
He did not think it worth his while
To mention Hell ;
No gent would dwell
On such a dreadful theme as Hell.
N.S.W.
KODAK.


“I condemn no honest medicine-
but when your life, or that of your child is at stake do not experiment
with new preparations or waste your time trying to mix home decoctions.
Get a medicine of known reliability and established reputation, one that is
sure to give quick relief, such as
ED S B
% COUCH REMEDY #
Anyone will Realise the seriousness of
neglecting a cold if lie observes the results of
such neglect among his acquaintances. How
often have you heard : ‘He caught a cold,
did not do anything for it and it turned into
’ then some dreaded disease is named.
Ordinary coughs yield to prompt treat-
ment at the beginning. That is why every
family should be supplied with a reliable
cough medicine —one that will heal raw and
inflamed surfaces, loosen the phlegm, allay
irritation, ease the hoarseness and stop the
tickling sensation in the throat that does not
permit one to sleep. Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy is just such a medicine.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is invalu-
able for the relief of coughs, colds, croup,
whooping cough, tickling in the throat,
tightness or soreness, influenza and bronchial
coughs. It contains no harmful ingredient,
it is healing, soothing, efficient and pleasing.
“ YOUR MONEY BACK ”
This is what Chamberlain’s say to all
who may use Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
and are not satisfied after using two-thirds
of a bottle. ‘ Your money back if not
satisfied ’ is an argument, that cannot be set
aside. It shows at once their sincerity and
convinces you that there is no risk in trying
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.
Is there another concern in the world
that says : ‘ Use our medicines according to
directions and if you are not satisfied return
what is left and get your money back ? ’
No, not one.
Remember, when you buy Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy you are buying the
best, safest and most successful medicine
known for coughs, colds, croup, whooping
cough, influenza and bronchitis.”
Jvx
OFFICIAL ENDORSEMENT.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is the only
cough remedy sold in Australasia that has
been officially declared free from all narcotics.
This is a guarantee of safety to mothers of
small children. So be sure and see that you
get the genuine Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.
wl bn<93Q UJt/J-IJ ANNMIIJ
>;.\c
V\6
KcO'
At?
4 ,0
■W 0
w:
b.'+
C %. >
'y Vl f
S', >A\
r
r- 0 0
i'cO
iW
<3
'/// :
Hi r>
IVV V
777
<,
?
p
CONSTIPATION
CAN ONLY BE CURED
WITHOUT DRUGS.
This is the only way constipation can be cured. Kestore to full vigor the
flaccid muscles that cause constipation, and you are cured. Let us send
you our free book, which tells you HOW. That we know is best proved by
the few following letters taken from amongst hundreds of a similar nature,
which we have received from time to time from grateful men and women
who had adopted our treatment.
COMPLETELY CURED.
Trimffley Road,
Teinora.
The Manager,—
Dear Sir, —Yours ,to hand, and I beg to
advise you that no further treatment is
necessary. I am now, as a result of your
treatment, completely cured, and am in
no way bothered by my former long-stand-
ing complaint.
Yours faithfully, W. E. ANTILX.
CURED IN TWO MONTHS.
Texas, QTd.
Manager,—
Dear Sir. —Just a line to let you know
1 shall not require any more treatment, as
I am thankful to say I am completely
cured. The two months’ course did won-
ders for me, and I am in better health
in every way.—l am,
Yours gratefully,
L,. AH QUE.
Manager,— Newtown, Maryborough, Q’l’d.
Dear Sir, —Your wonderful though simple treatment has entirely cured me of
constipation. From the very first I greatly improved, and was surprised and delighted
with the results. My bowel action is now regular daily.
R, A. HD WORTHY.
WILL ALWAYS RECOMMEND IT.
Merrender,
The Manager,— ’ a Mudgee.
Dear Sir, —I am sending for the last course of treatment, hut really do not think I
need it. as m.v bowel action is now all that could be desired.
I greatly appreciate your kindness, and will do all possible to induce other sufferers,
to adopt your splendid treatment. Yours resiiectfully, R. N. CRICHTON.
Manager Bundarra, 3J.S.W.
Bear Sir, —I feel much better since your treatment. Also the numbness in my
hands has gone, also the dizziness I used to suffer from.
Before using your treatment I used to lie a burden to myself after meals.
Yours truly, S. K. CHAPMAN.
Manager,— Merab North.
Dear Sir, —I am very grateful to you for your wonderful treatment, and 1 will always
recommend it.
The one course cured me of constipation, and I am now all right.
Yours gratefully, Mrs. \V. J. MITCHELL.
PDC Ef
r Kbit.
Our drugless method has cured hundreds
after all remedies had failed. It will cure
you. Send 2d. stamp for free booklet and
full particulars. Write to-day.
PRUNOLA CO., 903 Ash Street, Sydney.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
sfd
Abbey Shoes
are made in correct models for all
occasions. They are the very
highest grade in quality, design
and finish.
We illustrate - a Special Golf Shoe,
in Choice Tan Willow Calf—
Heavy Soles
Light Soles
30 1-
27/6
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
When you buy tyres
buy MILES
I
I
ss
i
S
m
T
8
i
I
SOME tyres achieve “freaK'* mileages,
of course, just as some men live to be a
hundred. The average motorist is natur-
ally more interested in average mileage, and
these disinterested records of service by British
Avons are presented with full confidence that
they will command thoughtful attention:—
Average mileage of 20 Avon Tyres
run on London Taxicabs by Jacobs and
Malpass, 462, Fulham Road, S.W. ...
7,801
miles per tyre.
Average mileage of 20 Avon Tyres
in everyday service (town and country)
reported by private motorists (names
all published on page 17 of the Avon
Catalogue)
10,037
miles per tyre.
Get the MILES built into Avons—tyre beauty of a typically
British sort that is more than “ tread-deep.”
Agents :
N.J. HOWES & CO.,
212 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
H. C. PANNIFEX,
26 Market Street,
Melbourne.
3
r
""i
ES
mmmJL jdA
Made by The Avon India Rubber Company, Ltd., at Melksham and Bradford-on-Avon, Wilts, England. London: 19, Newman St., W.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
Branch Office:
279 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
I
m
m:
ess
m
m.
TLJIGH flying, fast-
* * going game ne-
cessitates a powerful
Loaded in London
’with the popular
English powders
and ac-
curate
cartridge.
Try the m ufs tor *’
r “ARROW” Brand
Obtainable from leading dealers every -
where catalogue post-free on request.
Remington Arms-Union
Metallic Cartridge Co.
Woolworth Bldg.. New York City
St. Stephens House
Westminster, S.W.
London
sfd
sfd
Made
in 8, 10,
12,16,20,
24 and 28 gauge
Australian Manager, D. D. BRYANT, *Box 680, Melbourne.
.0^
tfr'
00 NO'J
DEVIL’S PUZZLE MATCHBOX.
The Matchbox, which is different from ail
other puzzle-boxes. You’ll never open it until
you read the directions. Made of Nickel-plate,
beautifully finished. Without doubt the most
ingenious Puzzle Matchbox that has ever been
made. Price, Post Free, with Instruc-
tions, 2/-
Jokes, Puzzles, Tricks,
Novelties.
Write tor our New Novelty
Catalog—IT’S FREE.
66
1
SHOCKING
CIGARETTE
CASE.
A splendid have.
No sooner do you
open the case than
you drop it as
quickly.
Post Free, 9d.
H
. L. HtitcKioson Ltd.
708-710 George Street, Haymarket, Sydney.
Three Sizes
Qsafiiii]
TheEVINRUDE
:: DETACHABLE::
ROWBOAT MOTOR
is the most successful and perfect motor of
this kind on the market. Over 40.000 now
in use. Very simple and easy to operate-
Can be attached to any boat in a few
minutes —adjustable to depth and angle of
stern. Speed up to eight miles an hour.
Equipped with high-tension, built-in-the-fly-
wheel Magneto. Fitted with Automatic
Reverse and Maxim Silencer. Operated by
Petrol, and lubrication is automatic.
Ot invaluable assistance on the farm for pumping water, driving separator, etc.
lo transform motor into a power machine is the work of a few minutes.
I ropeller is removed and a belt pulley substituted.
Descriptive Booklet sent post free on application to
H. A. GODDARD, 376 Collins Street, Melbourne; 82 Pitt Street, Sydney;
404 Queen Street, Brisbane; Cliff Street, Fremantle; Remington
Chambers (opp. G.P.0.), Auckland, N.Z.
LOCAL AGENTS REQUIRED IN ALL TOWNS WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.


NewLifeFor
Your
Hair
\x
/ i
In Cuticura
The Soap to cleanse the scalp of dandruff,
crusts and scales, the Ointment to soothe
and heal itching and irritation. Nothing
just like these fragrant, super-creamy
emollients for the skin and scalp.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: “R. Towns & Co., Sydney,
N. S. W.” Sold throughout the world.
6 lt is my opinion that
for Big Game the
Ross .280 Rifle is the
best in the world. 5
Mr. Miller adds
B. K. MILLER.
Wild Rose,
Wis.,
U.S.A.
" I have hunt-
ed and fished in
various parts of
the world, in-
cluding British
East Africa, but
-I- have never
seen a gun the
equal of the
Ross .280 for
big game.”
Experts all
over the world
concur in this
opinion.
You in-
crease the
chances of
a success-
ful hunt
by carry-
ing a Ross
.280, and
using the
rm
■7 "/■'/%
i U
Illustrated
Catalogue
on request.
1315
Ross Sporting Ammunition with copper
tube expanding bullet (pat'd).
ROSS RIFLE CO., Quebec. Canada
Information and Prices can be obtained from —
Mr. HUGH SCOTT-YOUNG,
P.O. Box 1031, Melbourne, Australia.
ADD TO STEWS
a little Bisto which
thickens, colours and
salts them saves
bothering with flour,
and gives a fine rich
colour. Bisto makes
splendid gravy.
fiisro
M
" Everything
but the meat."
All Grocers. In Tins. Made by CEREBOS, LTD.
CHRISTIE 3
SP£CIAUS£
TWO
Z/A/ZS
si# 5
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE
/W>»9
PATTERNS
TO
CHRISTIES
TKe STRAND
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
1C /IONTER ST NEWCASTLE
mm
IKw#
ft
HI
0
2
9
V
8
BIG BEN
lei
22
. <£> fl
#■ %v>"' JL /
A Punctual Alarm'
A trim, clean-cut
alarm that’s full of
vim, that’s just as
business-like as he
looks.
Ticks off each min-
ute right to the dot
day and night.
His cheerful - toned
alarm will ring you up
promptly at whatever
hour you wish. His live-
ly note will reach your
ear no matter how sound-
ly you sleep.
Get a Big Ben in your
room tonight, and get up
right in the morning.
Big Ben is seven inches tall,
well built, handsome, punctual.
He has a big, easily read dial —
a cheerful, deep toned voice—
large, comfortable winding keys
a light running movement
with watcli-like escapement—an
alarm that calls steadily for five
minutes or intermittently for
ten.
Big Ben undergoes a hundred
inspections in the making and
six rigid timing tests before
leaving the factory of the Wes tern
Clock Co., LaSalle, 111., U.S.A.,
Makers of Westclox. At all
clock dealers, price 12/6; post-
age 1/- extra.
Courage
What we call courage is \ >^/
What we call courage
nearly always primarily a
display of unusual nerve,
energy and enterprise. The
man who shows the great-
est courage in an emer-
gency is he who has kept
fit for any emergency.
I
\
7
"“THE man who takes half a teaspoonful of Kruschen Salts
* in a tumbler of hot water every day feels fit every
day. His body is cleansed of impurities, his blood courses
freely in his veins; he goes to his work refreshed, alert,
keen and vigorous : he feels ready for action always. He
gets the best out of himself and out of life—and keeps at
arm's length lassitude, headaches, an inactive liver and con-
stipation —the evils of a sedentary life.
Get the Kruschen habit and keep fit.
sdf
per bottle.
2/-
per bottle.
ALU BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS.
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents.
IVlessra. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen), Ltd., 68 Deansgate Arcade, Manchester, England.
The Inky Way.
Just-dead Alex. T. Young, part proprietor
of the Launceston (Tas.) Examiner and
Courier, packed a lot into his 70 years.
As a youth he worked in the London office
of a Greek merchant and then put in several
years at Bucharest. After another spell in
London he went to Petrograd for an Eng-
lish firm, and then lived in turn in Moscow',
Vienna and Buda-Pest. lie knew little or
nothing about journalism; he was just a
business man who in his spare time made
fiddles.
* * * *
“Rato”: Journalists will not throw up
their hats over the change of ownership of
Perth Daily News. The proprietors had
been squabbling for about a year, and the
assistance of the Chief Justice was called in
to settle the argument. Hitherto the paper
was run by A. Lovekin, P. W. H. Thiel and
A. E. Morgans, the last being a “sleeper”
who w r as rarely seen in the shop. Now Thiel
has pushed out of the business, which has
been taken over by a co. Morgans has been
registered as one of the proprietors, but it is
rumored that his inclusion is merely nominal.
Otherwise the co. is Lovekin and family.
Thiel was a white man who struggled to
soften the antagonism of the proprietary to
its employees, and particularly to the A.J.A.
He started at the lower end of the ladder,
climbing up from the post of canvasser until
he reached the rung for proprietors 14 years
ago. Before he went out he invited the em-
ployees to a farewell drink, and W. E. G.
Salter, a former roundsman of the Argus,
handed him a keepsake from the staff.
Young Ross Law, of the Adelaide Herald,
whose death in France was reported lately,
was a son of the late 0.P., first editor of
Hobart Daily Post.
Sergeant F. R. B. Myers, who lately
sniped the elusive D.C.M. and a Commis-
sion, is the eldest son of Frank, the brilliant
descriptive penman of 10 and 20 years ago.
The youngster went to Egypt from Sydney
as a private and got his stripes during the
argument with Abdul.
“Guidon”: A second soldier-member of
the Argus reporting staff has handed in his
last turn —Lieut. J. A. Raws, who joined
the Expeditionaries with two comrades from
the same office, Lieuts. E. N. Robinson and
L. G. Short. He was killed in France on
August 23; and that was the end of a fine
cricketer, an inter-State tennis player, a
good pressman, and a staunch friend. He
was a brother of Lieut.-Col. W. L. Raws and
a son of the Rev. J. G. Raws, a Baptist
parson in Adelaide. For the last few years
lie had been the Argus’s State political and
departmental reporter.
L. A. Jessop, South Australia’s nearest
approach to a Bryce, wrote to the Adelaide
Mail, insisting that the Huns must be
made to sweat money as well as blood. And
to pay our indemnity they must “work in
such conditions as to make life tolerable,
for we cannot imagine in these days a nation
of 70 million slaves.” At least, that is what
Jessop meant; having an academic mind,
however, he write “70 million helots.” But
the Mail, not having that kind of mind,
made it “70 million hotels,” and achieved the
best misprint of the season.
Latest list of literary pensions in England
is headed by J. Comyns Carr, who will draw
£2OO per annum for the rest of his life, “in
consideration of his services to Art, Litera-
ture and the Drama.” Carr, a well-known
author and playwright, was associated with
the Lyceum when Irving was running that
theatre. He was supposed to have made
money out of his plays, but if he did he
was not able to stick to it. Mallock, author
of "The New Republic” and many other
books, was also erroneously supposed to have
done fairly well with his pen. He gets £l5O
per annum. There is, by the way, a striking
contrast in the pensions awarded to a pair of
widows. Lady Murray, whose husband edited
the “New English Dictionary,” is given £170;
Mrs. Bullen, widow of Frank T., the sea
story-teller, gets £5O. Better, it seems, mug
up words for dictionaries than cudgel your
brains for story-plots.
CONTEMPORARY PORTRAITS: HENRY LAWSON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was a child once, and his eyes
Still keep his candid child’s surprise
At this quaint world of grown-up boys
Who have forgotten all their toys.
But Life, with all its pain and dirt,
Has but his grown-up body hurt:
His soul is sad but undefiled;
His heart is still a little child.
So with his long and mournful gaze
He watches wistfully the ways
Of strong men striding to their goal;
Yet here and there he finds a soul —■
Some waster, drunkard, nobly weak,
Whose language he can also speak ;
And with a grim compassion writes
The Epic of the Outcast Knights.
Though failure and despair he knows,
Pure and unsmirched his spirit goes,
Finding a refuge in his art.
What if he drugs his broken heart ?
And while the billy boils , he sings
Of simple, dear, heart-breaking things,
And in his camp-fire’s curling smoke
He sees the Real Australian Bloke.
Instead of pruning him to fit
A world he does not suit a bit,
And forcing him, a child, to dwell
Bewildered in this grown-up hell,
’Twere wiser if we took this earth
And tried to make it somehow worth
The soul of Lawson; let us leaven
This earth with just a bit of Heaven!
And when he takes the wallaby
To Paradise he’ll welcome be.
The Cherubim, with rapt delight,
Will listen to his yarns all night;
He’ll grip the hands of Seraphim—
They’ll be to him just “Bill” or “Jim” ;
He’ll raise a “tray” to have a drink—
God will not mind at all, I think !
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


Australia's Greatest Sports Requisites Suppliers
We Stock Everything for all Indoor and Outdoor Sports.
“Goods Right—Prices Right.”
Trade Mark : Can’t B Beat.
■
TENNIS
We carry a Fine Range of Materials
from Leading Makers.
RACKETS.
M.S. Handicap, full size (}/.
C. 8.8. Special 9/6
M.S. Champion 11/6
C. 8.8., cork handle 13/6
C. 8.8., Quadruple .... 15/(|
M.S. Hay market 22/6
Haymarket, Special ... 27/6
Haymarket, Selected .. 35/-
Haymarket, Ex. Special 37/6
Ay re’s Handicap 15/6
Ayre’s A 1
Ayre’s Double Central..
Ayre’s Champion
Ayre’s S.N.D
Slazenger’s Renshaw ...
Slazenger’s Demon ....
Slazenger’s Whitehouse
Slazenger’s E.G.M
Slazenger’s Doherty ...
Slazenger’s Stadium ...
16/6
18/9
25/-
47/6
16/-
23/6
29/-
38/6
42/6
47/6
(Postage on Racket: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
BALLS.
Each. Doz.
Grey Regulation ./6 5/9
Grey Reg., sup’r -/10 9/_
Challenge, covered, l/_ H/-
Ayre’s Court, cov’d 1/- ]] /Q
Each. Doz.
Dunlop Champion 1/6 16/6
Haymarket Special 1/8 18/6
Ayre’s Champion 1/8 19/-
Slazeng-er’s Champ. 1/8 19/-
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
STEAM-TARRED NETS.
Waterproof, full size, 5/6, 8/6, 11/6, 13/6.
Waterproof, wire head line, 13/6, 16/6, 22/6, 27/6, 33/-
Nets, Presses, Markers, Tapes and all Sundries
Stocked. Tennis Rackets Repaired and Re-strung.
GOLF
Our Stock of Requisites is unequalled
CLUBS.
M.S. Drivers and Irons.. 5/6, 7/6
Auchterlonie Drivers and Irons, 8/-
Simpson’s Drivers and Irons.. 7/6
J. Braid’s Drivers and Irons.. 8/-
Cann and Taylor’s Irons. 7/-, 8/-
Spalding’s Irons & Drivers 5/6, 7/9
dsf
Braid Mills’ Aluminium Putters 10/6
Patrick Bulldog Spoons, Ladies’ favorite 10/6
(Postage on one club: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
BALLS.
Each. Doz.
Dunlop Standard 1/3 127-
Bobs Bramble .. 1/8 18/6
Zodiac .. .. 2/9 307-
Zodiac, Small S.S. 2/9 307-
Zodiac, Zome .. 2/9 30 / -
Bl’k&W’te Bramble 2/9 307-
Challenger Bramble 2/9 32/6
Challenger, Star 3/- 33/-
Patent Colonel .. 3/- 33/-
Henley’s Why Not
Watson’s No. 10
White Dimple ..
Midget Dimple . .
Domino Dimple
B’k & W’e Dimple
Challenger King.
Arch Colonel ...
Glory Dimple . .
Each. Doz.
3/ - 34/-
3/- 34/-
3/3 38/-
3/3 88/-
3/3 38/-
3/3 88/-
3/3 39/-
3/6 89/-
4/3 48/-
(Postage on one -doz.: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
CADDY BAGS.
W’proof Canvas, leather bottom & sling, 7/6, 9/-, 12/6, 14/6
Solid Hide, best quality 17/6, 21/-, 25/-
Golf Clubs Repaired.. Golf Balls Re-made and
Re-covered.
V
M
Military training quarters, and
camps supplied with all kinds
of Sporting and Gymnastic
Requisites.
cK Simmons L?
HAYMARKET
SYDNEY
City Sports Depot: 119 KING STREET.
Also at NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE.
For full Particulars of all
Indoor and Outdoor Sporting
Goods get a copy of our new
edition illustrated Sports Cata-
logue. Free on request.
A TRUE HAIR GROWER
WITH A REPUTATION SECOND TO NONE.
Iff* /0,000 More Samples Given Away FREE. -3fcj» 1
MRS. NELSONj from a photo.
Birches Creek, Clunes, Victoria.
To John Craven-Burleigh.
Dear Sir, —I received your last packet of True Hair
Grower, and am writing to let you know that I am indeed
very pleased with it, and can thoroughly recommend it to
my friends. I am seventy-eight years of age, and I think
it is really good when it would make my hair grow. I
would like you to send me some of your testimonials and
other papers about your True Hair Grower, as I want to
send them to my grand-daughter in Western Australia. —I
am, yours truly,
Mrs. J. NELSON.
OLD AND YOUNG IN ALL PARTS OF AUSTRALIA USE
AND RECOMMEND THIS REMARKABLE PREPARATION.
HAIR troubles, like many other diseases, have been wrongly
diagnosed and altogether misunderstood. The hair itself
is not the thing to be treated, for the reason that it is
simply a product of the scalp and wholly dependent upon its
action. The scalp is the very soil in which the hair is pro-
duced, nurtured and grown, and it alone should receive the
attention if results are to be expected. It would do no earthly
good to treat the stem of a plant with a view of making it
grow and become more beautiful —the soil in which the plant
grows must be attended to. Therefore the scalp, in which the
hair grows, must receive the attention if you are to expect it to
grow and become more beautiful.
Loss of hair is caused by the scalp drying up, or losing its
supply of moisture or nutriment. When baldness occurs, the
scalp has simply lost all its nourishment, leaving nothing
for the hair to feed upon (a plant, or even a tree, would die
under similar conditions).
The natural thing to do in either case is to feed and
replenish the soil or scalp, as the case may be, and your crop
will grow and multiply as nature intended it should.
My True Hair Grower has a most wonderful effect upon
the hair glands and tissues of the scalp. It is the only remedy
for the hair ever discovered that is similar to the natural foods
or liquids of the scalp.
It penetrates the pores quickly, and the hair soon shows
the effects of its wonderful exhilarating and life-producing
qualities.
Besides being a True Hair Grower, my preparation quickly
removes DANDRUFF and stops FALLING HAIR and itching.
It is known the world over, and I have in my consulting rooms
upwards of 3000 letters from grateful men and women who
have derived so much benefit from the use of my True Hair
Grower as to compel them to write and thank me. Now, I do
not wish you to accept my word for any statement I make, 'but
want you to prove the matter for yourself in your own home.
. My offer is a straightforward, honest proposition, from a
business man to sensible men and women. The merit of my
TRUE HAIR GROWER is in the preparation itself, not in
the advertising. If you will write to me I will send you a
TRIAL BOX of the JOHN CRAVEN-BURLEIGH TRUE
HAIR GROWER. I make this offer because I want YOU to
know just what my True Hair Grower will do. Write now
and enclose 3d. for postage.
MR. CARLSON, from a photo.
c/o Mrs. M. Tobin, Boarding' House,
~ T „ Florence Street, Port Pirie, S'. A.
Mr. J. Craven-Burleigh.
My Dear Sir, —I thank you for your letter and offer. I
.w r .y pleased to state that my hair has improved won-
derfully since I got the last supply of your remedy. I am
quite satisfied it is a True Hair Grower. My scalp is now
full, of fine, silky hair, and I still have 2J boxes left; so I
won t need any more. I am recommending your True
llair Grower to all my friends. I am sending you the
Jast photo. I have, as I sent all the others to my friends and
people, to let them see how my hair has grown. You can
publish this if you please.—Yours truly, A. CARLSON.
COMPLETE PRICE LIST of John Craven-BurSeigh’s World-renowned Hair and Toilet Preparations.
(All Preparations are Guaranteed tinder the Pure Food Act, N.S.W., 1908. Serial No. 1550.)
True Hair Grower, prepared from my original formula —single bottle or box 5/.
» »> » „ „ „ „ „ —triple quantity ’ 10/-
» » ~ ~ „ ~ ~ „ —septuple quantity 21/-
Natural Restorer, for Grey, Faded, or Bleached Hair —single bottle 5/_
» ~ „ „ „ ~ „ „ —triple quantity 10/-
» „ ~ „ ~ ~ „ —septuple quantity ’ 21/-
Moustaclie Grower (specially prepared for moustache and beard) —single tube 2/6
Special Scalp and Skin Soap (positively one of the finest soaps obtainable) —single cake ............ 1/-
Ditto—three cakes ’' ’ ’ 2/9
Shampoo Powder, a thorough cleanser for the hair and scalp, and delightfully refreshing—single packet -/3
Ditto—one dozen box 2/6
Tooth Paste. Once tried, always used —single tube ’ j/.
Shaving Soap, does not smart, creates an excellent lather —single stick i/_
Hair Curling Powders, keep the hair wavy and curly—l dozen in box 2/6
Brilliantine (Violet), a splendid hair dressing—single bottle
Perfect Cold Cream, will not turn rancid or grow hair —single jar 3/6
„ „ ~ —triple quantity 10/-
Face Powder, delicately perfumed, in exquisite boxes. Four colors—Flesh, Pink, Cream and White—
Single box 3/6
Ditto—triple quantity 10/-
Perfume, in fancy bottles, delightfully refreshing—single bottle 3/6
Talcum Powder, in tins with sifter lids—single tins 1/-
Hair Remover, removes superfluous hair from face, neck and arms—single jar 5/.
Corn Plasters, very clean, will positively remove any corn in five days—single packet 1/-
Any Chemist, Store or Hairdresser will procure the above for you, or they will be sent post free to any address.
Address: John Craven-Burleigh (Dept. 7), 321 Pitt Street, Sydney.
CUT OUT TH/S COUPON
AND POST IT NOW.
John Craven-Burleigh {Dept. 7),
321 Pitt Street, Sydney.
I enclose three stamps to cover the cost
of postage, etc., on a Free Trial of TRUE
HAIR, GROWER, which please send by
return post.
Name
Address (in full)
State


Wins a Scholarship
and Praises
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
Miss VERA CREE (from a photo by Sid Walton').
Miss Vera Cree, the young
Sydney Contralto, who has
recently gained prominence by
winning the much-coveted Asso-
ciated Board Royal Academy
Scholarship, London, is well known
to Sydney audiences, having sung
at many of our local concerts.
With her wonderful voice she bids
fair to add to the fame that
Australia has already gained as
the “Home of Song.” Miss Cree
is having a concert at the Town
Hall, Sydney, on 12th October
next. She is a true “New Dis-
covery girl,” and writes to us as
follows.—•'
“Thanks for your many kind
wishes. All my friends have
congratulated me so heartily
on my success, which I assure
you I so much appreciate, and
there is another friend, too, to
whom I am most thankful,
and that is DR. SHELDON’S
NEW DISCOVERY for
Coughs and Colds.
“NEW DISCOVERY is an
old friend of mine, and before
singing I always prepare
myself by taking a dose of
this famous Remedy, for if
I have any trace of hoarse-
ness or a cold, one dose of
DR. SHEEDO N’S NEW
DISCOVERY always puts it
right.
“When I go away I shall
certainly make sure of hav-
ing a bottle in my luggage,
for I rely on NEW DIS-
COVERY, and am sure I
wish it every success.
“Yours faithfully,
“(Signed) VERA CREE.”
Men, Women and Children all over the country use and know the worth of
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery. Are you one of them? If not, don’t delay, but
buy a bottle at once, and be ready to pounce on to the first cold that makes
its appearance. Don’t forget, Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is the ever-ready
friend that should be in every household to protect you from all coughs and
colds. Price 1/6 and 3/-
d» Sheldon’s
New Discovery
sfd
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
“Rex” Goods Have
Reached the Front!
3S'P-S
LUSC OA-7#£*
G/=!
3R/GAOF*
7 /// a
Xr»&*.
lOitf
r
*a
<@s
H
s«
1
One of the “Boys some-
where on the other
side” writes a friend
and says
oC
R
E
BRlkttf
“Our first meal at (ask the Censor) con-
sisted of “Rex” Camp Pie, served a la
straight from the tin. We weren’t greedy—■
we didn’t ask for Salad or Ice —but, gee! it
was fine —one of the most enjoyable meals
I’ve had since I left sunny Australia.” Take
a tip. Include in your Xmas Boxes a tin
or two of
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese,
“Rex” Ham Pate.
Or you might send a tin of “Rex” Pork
Sausages. We have yet to meet the man
(or woman either) who can resist these
appetite-provoking edibles. They are most
suitable for sending to Soldiers. All are
made in the Hygienic “Rex” Factory, and
all are sure to reach the other side in good
condition.
Make up the parcel now —the last mail to
reach England or France in time for Xmas
closes on October 12. Not long now ! And
there’s sure to be a rush at the last minute.
Make sure of your parcel getting to its
destination in time.
ORDER YOUR “ REX”
GOODS TO-DAY.
Sold by Grocers everywhere.
Foggitt, Jones & Go. Ltd
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon;
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products.
&
E
R
JLj
X
Au Revoir.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AS reeling ships bent forward to the
gale
Spin o’er the roaring deep, until the
sight
Holds but two phantom shapes upon the
white;
As barques which flee upon the outer trail,
Flush deck, and shouting prow, and driving
rail;
So have we marked each other’s spray-
dimmed light—
Two ships w'hich hurrying onward through
the night
Luffed the swift helm, and answered hail
for hail!
Perchance some god may hear my prayer
that we
Shall hold our course from year to chang-
ing year,
Flash light for light, ring bell for echoing
bell;
And sometimes on the vast and dreary sea
I’ll twirl the spokes and closer to you steer
To hear again your brave “Eight bells!
All’s well!”
MAORILAND.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
The Poets.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
EAIN had driven in every night from
Bass Straits, and every morning
came a strong sun making the hurry-
ing flowers to grow in steam ; light and heat
pulling them through the rain-soaked loam,
so that their roots ached. Lush grass,
green clover, marigolds pretending to be
little suns, sunflowers thickening their stalks
as almost to be seen in the act, roses throw-
ing scent abroad, the cup of every lily hold-
ing two raindrops, ixias blooming in bulbous
flame, every agapantlius swelling his boll,
and the big stonepines washed clean!
There was a racketty, tumbling cottage,
every board of it thirsting for paint; the
wood so dry and shrunken that every nail-
hole had lost its putty, and many a rusty
nail moved inward and outward with the
wind. The bone-dry house was mercifully
hidden in places by rank growths of banksia,
which did more than hide —in places
they supported. There was, further, a
dense thicket of baby-fuchsia which had
burst two flooring-boards from the verandah
by insinuating branches at the joints; and a
pear-tree looking south and trimmed flat to
look like a wall-fruit in England, but so
neglected that it bore fruit no more and ran
to sappy wood.
In the high branch of a pine, opposite the
wasted pear-tree, was the nest of a black-
bird. His weary wife flew back and forth
to the nest —hoping when worm-laden that
surely this last worm would satisfy the three
ever-open beaks of her young, and finding
always that the nestlings were not birds, but
daughters of the horseleech, and insatiable
as the insatiate grave. The father black-
bird sat on a branch half a dozen feet below
the nest, and was conscious of his raucous
progeny only when their shrieks for susten-
ance prevented his appreciation of his own
voice. But the theme made him forget these
vulgar noises of necessity, which should
never be heeded by the artist. He lifted his
head to the green bough above him and to
the blue above the bough, and sang as if he
would never sing again—of grass, and nest-
ing, and the love chase, and the song of court-
ship ; of the victory of summer and the
promise of spring; of seed-time and harvest,
and the fall of the leaf, and the coyness of
the hen. Occasionally he saw the hen
aforesaid flying back to the shrieking nest,
her weariness and rage fighting a hard
battle with her duty, and being always
defeated.
The blackbird’s song and the sun stirred
from his laziness a brother artist —a poet,
still in pyjamas, though the morning was 10
o’clock old. He had a rough-cut, red-
bearded face, but his eyes were jewels —see-
ing at a glance all those inestimably value-
less things which are to most people invisible.
His red beard was ragged and uncontrollable,
but his fastidiousness would not let it grow
long—his fastidiousness that hated long
beards as insanitary receptacles for soup
and egg-yolk, as much as his honesty that
hated your extensive patriarchal beards
almost always to be found on the faces of
such furtive scoundrels as use hair for
concealment.
The poet’s short beard did not hide his
face, but illustrated it.
His pyjamas were a chaste design of red
and green in squares; for his wife had pur-
chased them. Whenever the poet looked at
that shocking color-scheme of cross hatching
he winced. Then he heard the blackbird’s
song, swelling forte, and smiled again. A
coarse paper-bag, still with a crystal of sugar
in its folds to prove that it came from the
grocer, was on his knees. He chew T ed upon
a ragged stub of pencil, and wrote his trans-
lation of the blackbird.
All tremulant the earth’s green breast
Swells——
A _ large, bright-eyed, dirty-faced baby,
wearing his one garment as an exposure—
for it was kilted high behind him —crawled
around the angle of the crazy verandah,
overbalanced, fell on his forehead and recov-
ered himself; and in the act found the poet’s
left foot. The poet looked down, and his
eyes saw nothing that they saw physically.
His mind was on the blackbird’s song, and
the next line to follow “the earth’s green
breast” ; and he regarded the baby with less
interest than he gave to the least of all the
little blades of grass.
All tremulant the earth’s green breast
Swells to the clamant touch of spring.
The baby caught the poet’s leg and raised
himself, swaying precariously until his
hands found safer anchorage at his father’s
left knee. Full of the pride of achievement
the baby’s dirty face expanded to a grin; he
grabbed the sugar-bag on the poet’s knee and
held desperately to it by a corner.
All tremulant the earth’s green breast
“Dada da da da da dad,” said the smaller
poet of the dirty face.
“O Falera Melato! Camiella Mandorla!
Felice in alt” sang the blackbird in his own
language, which is the pui’est Tuscan.
. the earth’s green breast
Swells
“Don’t like that —‘grows’ is better. I’ll
try that.”
“Oh! Pastura, Arbor e! Aria dell’ oro ’
Felice.”
“Dad dad dad dad dad dad dad,” said the
dirty-faced baby, and secured the other end
of the sugar-bag with his right hand —
daubed impartially with mud and jam.
the earth’s green breast
Grows with the clamant touch of spring.
“O Hole splendida! Odore di gigli,
fiorita susina, Felice giorno.”
When tremulous the earth’s green breast
Grows with the clamant touch
“That’s bad —I’ll try it another way.”
“Dad dad dad dad,” said dirty-face; and
taking the sugai’-bag in both hands, rent in
twain the groundwork of the poem.
“Dash the child,” said the poet impatiently.
“Never mind, old chap—was the dad cross to
it? Never mind! We’ll take baby round to
the wash-house, and he can look at mumma
washing.”
He arose, and pocketing the halves of the
poem, he led the protesting infant to the
corner of the verandah. At the house door
the child roared his displeasure; whereat the
poet, eager to return to the delicious agonies
of labor, placed the baby on the inner side
of the door; which he then closed on the dis-
turber of composition. A roar of rage and
pain followed him as he returned to his
chair; but he heard it only subconsciously, as
did the blackbird, who was irritated for a
moment by the sound, but speedily returned
to new verses of his song.
“Yes!” said the poet, “ ‘Voice’ is better
than ‘touch’ —we’ll make it: —
All tremulant the earth’s green breast
Grows to the clamant voice of spring.
The roar from the closed door: “Arrrrrh!”
“Barth’s green breast!.... drest, crest,
prest, lest, ‘earth’s green breast grows
to the clamant voice of spring’... .yes,
that’s it: —
The where the cockscomb flames his crest
And all the garden-scent’s a-wing.
“That’s about right—now for the next.”
The blackbird was so much in love with
his own voice that his eyes filled with tears
as he sang. He looked pure, too good for
mortal life; high above all the petty pangs
and maculate sorrows of the world. His
hen, flying to her clamorous nest with the
seven-hundred-and-fifty-sixth worm, was so
filled with rage of this artistic pose which
left the larder empty that she opened her
beak to scold, lost the worm, and wheeled
earthward again.
Also, the woman from the wash-tub, called
by the enraged cries of the dirty-faced baby,
had retrieved it from loneliness; and now
heard from it the tale of the cruel villainy
of “Dad dad dad dad.” She was a little
round woman with the rearward suggestion
of those bluff, apple-shaped old colliers which
trade between Cardiff and the North Sea;
but her eyes were sharp as gimlets, and her
mouth closed in a straight line as she made
for the verandah, where were the two poets
in the pains of labor.
The blackbird prepared for his recapitula-
tion—which is a matter of higher contrasts
than the presentation-in-chief. He recom-
menced in a full, round, yet beautifully-
serene and low voice; working up the theme
until, as he sang of love living long, he
brought all the pipes in—full organ, swell
and fortissimo.
He stopped, trembling with the beauty of
which he had been the instrument; and then
came the greatest surprise of his life. His
mate, always patient and dutiful, flew at him
with open beak and eyes that darted rage,
crying at him : “Sluggard ! Brute ! Do-
nothing ! I feed the children! I do every-
thing, and you sit on that branch and sing—
you great hulking vagrant—yon child de-
serter !”
“I praise God!”
“You praise God ! Go and get worms for
the children —-you brutal loafer —beast”
“God forgive you, woman,” said the black-
bird sadly, and with dignity. “I was in
paradise and you turn me out —you have
destroyed a soul.”
“Soul!” screeched the ruffled hen with
ignorant scorn. “Soul! Go and get the
worms.”
“Peace,” said the blackbird, seeing that all
the beauty had vanished from the garden.
“I’ll get the worms. That is all you have
left the world fit for —worms!” And he
went to seek a digging gardener.
* * * *
“ ‘And all the garden scent’s a-wing’!
That’s all right; ought to be better —but it
can stand till the last revise. Now the next.
It will be something about the blackbird pip-
ing the summer in. Alter the metre a bit.
I’ll make a sort of song-cycle of it. ‘Piping
majestic summer in’ is better. And a sort
of a catch line or refrain like—like—l’ve got
it —-‘Lilt, lilt! Laughter must come after—-
after all the gloomy day.’ ‘Lilt, lilt! laugh-
ter !’ I like that”
Crash! The verandah door had opened,
thrown back violently against the wall. The
little apple-round woman, her pin-point eyes
blazing, her mouth closed in what Mr. Euclid
describes as “a given finite straight line,”
charged down upon the poet.
“Whatchermean puttin’ Ferdy in the
house? Leavin’ him there roarin’! What-
chermean ?”
“I was busy on a poem.”
“Fo-im ! Po-im ! All y’ got for the last
one was three an’ ninepence—an’ it’s Cris-
mus in a month —an’ I want a pianola—an’
you put Ferdy inside the house cryin’ his eyes
out, fory’r old po-im! Get out on y’r rounds
an’ earn somethin’; y’r great big silly”
“There now—you’ve made me forget it
all.”
“All the better. Get out on y’ canvassin’.
Something sensible that pays, y’ great big
fool of a man.”
(Continued on next page.)


s*3*
w
c
e
fii it
\
apt I
Ilium
I Mill
mu""
i.w.i
for the Skin.
Jl MONG all the new methods of
” treating skin disease and injuries,
Zam-Buk stands out as universally
successful.
Zam-Buk is quite different from
ordinary ointments, and results
show that its healing virtues are
superlative.
Zam-Buk is not only a wound
cleanser and disease-destroyer, but
it isolates the inner tissues from
infection and quickens the healing
of the damaged flesh.
These unique qualities, coupled with
its handy, convenient and ever-ready
character, stamp Zam-Buk as the
indispensable “ambulance” to be
kept handy in every home.
Zam-Buk is invaluable for Cuts, Bruises, Burns,
Scalds, Abrasions, Boils, Eczema, Pimples, Running
Sores, Scalp Diseases, Poisoned Wounds, Bad
Legs, Ulcers, Ringworm, Barber’s Rash, Stiff-
ness, Itch, Sore Lips and injured and dis-
eased conditions of the skin. Zam-Buk
is obtainable from all Chemists and
Stores at 1/6 per pot, and 3/6 family
I, size (containing nearly four times
Mill,. the 1/6 pot). .ill
□
D
liiiiiiiiiiiiii
“ Nl 0/)u
mrnmr-- vnU”
EVERY HOME NEEDS A POT.
*
%
Slip Ihe
Sirop through
the Razor
Move the
Razor to
and fro
A DIFFERENCE.
The Auto Strop is different from every other kind
of safety razor. Only those who have tried it
can appreciate its vast superiority. You can
put up a new keen edge on the blade daily—
by simply slipping the strop through the razor
and passing it to and fro.
AxxJbcrSfatop
Safet^Razor
As a safety razor it eliminates risk; and. its special
construction eliminates the necessity of constant
blade renewals, and the time and trouble in
cleaning which every other safety razor involves.
Obtainable Everywhere throughout Australasia.
Managing Agent for Australasia:
RALPH ABERCROMBY, Denison House,
380-2 George Street, Sydney.
IMPORTANT.—The word “VALET” on RAZORS,
STROPS and BLADES indicates.the genuine product of the
Auto Strop Safety Razor Co.. T.td., 61 New Oxford Street,
London.
STANDARD SET,
as illustrated, compris-
ing heavily silver-
plated self-stropping
safetyrazor, firstquality
'■ Valet ” horsehide
strop and 12 finest
lancet steel tested
“ Valet ” blades, the
whole n handsome
leather- covered or
nickel case, lined 99 /fi
velvet and satin v
“Woman,” said the poet, unconsciously
stealing the blackbird’s lines, “you have de-
stroyed a soul.”
“Soul!” shrieked the apple-rounded woman
of the gimlet eyes—“ Soul! I want a
pianola.”
* * * *
At the first house he visited that morning
there was no demand for tea, pianos, sewing
machines or any other of the poet’s side-
lines ; but the lady of the house —a ferocious
politician whose husband ate at a restaurant
—presented him with half a pound of litera-
ture on the Rights of Women. The which
the poet threw to the gutter, cursing. He
tried the next house for sales of “Our Cele-
brated Black Brother Tea,” for “Sharp and
Flatty’s Cottage Semi-toned Grand” ; for
“The Nock-stitch sewing machine”; and
other such contrivances for the Effectual
Removal of Suburban Individualism, and
the Encouragement of the Making of
all Respectable People Like Unto One-
Another.
* * * *
** At a road excavation he saw the blackbird
prospecting the newly-opened earth for
provender.
And it was all for nothing! The tyrants
of the blackbird turned out to be cuckoos —-
discoverable only after all the labor was
done; and by the new year the apple-round
woman had taken the dirty-faced baby
“home to mother.”
But by that time summer and the song-
season were both departed.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Bill.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WE called him “The Rabbit” because,
like all “head cases,” he was a
bit dopey. He had been hit on
the day of The Landing, put in a couple of
months or so at Alexandria, and had now
been back in the trenches for a while.
The Evacuation had begun, though we
didn’t know "it. Men had been moved for
several days, and always at night—a sure
sign that there was something doing. Of
■course we all had our theories, and of
course they were all wrong. Half of our
platoon had been warned for the beach that
very night. The Rabbit was quite excited
.over it. We were in an old machine-gun
emplacement about fifty yards behind our
front-line trench, with instructions to keep
our eye on a nick in the ridge about six
hundred yards away where the Turk was
supposed to have a gun or an observation
post or something.
“Drop them a couple every now and
then,” said the S.M., “just to tell them ‘no
lookee.’ ”
Our luck was out. A thin mist came
down with a drift of rain that shut out
everything beyond a hundred yards. Other-
wise we were comfortable. We had built a
little breastwork of sandbags, The Rabbit
had a periscope which he was never tired
of squinting through, and I had plenty of
tobacco. Only now and then a bullet
zinged overhead; our evening strafe was
not due for a couple of hours; the nearest
Turk, not counting a couple of dead ones at
short-stop, was seventy-five yards off and
keeping his head well down, so we were as
safe as if we had been in church.
“It’s my opinion,” babbled The Rabbit,
“we’re going to have another slap at
Johnny Turk this side o’ We’n’sday. ...
What are they shiftin’ us for if it ain’t—
unless it’s to reinforce some bit of the line
that’s got thinned down?....My word, the
chaps we’ve lost! Thousands and thou-
sands. Though until you see ’em dead and
buried you can’t be sure....l know what
I’m talkin’ about —there’s my brother Bill.
....Reported missin’, believed to be killed
in action, May 15. But you can’t kid me.”
Thus far his talk had been punctuated
by long squints through his periscope, but
now the mist had thicjkened and further
observation was suspended. So he got on
with his yarn.
“You never met my brother Bill? You
wouldn’t be likely to —you being a ‘Fair-
dinkum’ and Bill one of the first mob, same
as I am. Bill’s younger ’n me. Fifteen
years. Since the old man pegged we’d been
runnin’ the place. Yes, barrin’ a couple of
seasons I shore Nanima, and once Bill took
a mob of fats dow T n to Sydney, we’d always
been together. More like mates we were
than brothers, and when I enlisted blowed if
Bill didn’t enlist too. Only 19, and swore he
was 21. Could you beat that?
“Of course the old mother played up and
wanted to block him, but Bill put it to her
that they’d go crook at him for swearing a
wrong age, and she didn’t know what to do.
Forgery, Bill said it would come out at.
Connin’ kid, Bill. So I told her, ‘Don’t
you worry. I’ll see that we b<Ah get in the
same mob, and I’ll keep my ,*e on him,’
and that cheered her up. Bi’il’s a smart
youngster. Edjucated moren toe, and the
old mother thinks no end of him. So do I.
“We both got in the first lot of the Third
right enough—mighty few of us left now.
In the same section, too, we were, and both
got our lance-jacks on the same day. I
wanted to chuck mine in when they made
him a sergeant, but ‘No,’ says he, ‘we’re
both non-coms.—let’s stick together.’ So
we did. Went ashore in the same punt,
slung our packs under the same bush, and
pelted up the hill together that Sunday
moruin’ in the half-dark, and the next thing
I know I’m bumpin’ down a flight of marble
steps in the sunlight.
“ ‘Hell!’ I thinks, ‘have I been tappin’ at
the Pearly Gates and been turned down?’
“When I reaches the bottom I halts and
a Sister with fair ’air and a face like a
pommy flutters down beside me and asks me
if I’m hurt.
“How was I to tell what I was or where
.1 was, so I shuts me eyes, shams m’feesh,
and the nex’ minute she’s shovin’ me nap-
per down between me knees. As I folds up
I spots that I’m wearin’ blue pants turned
up at the bottom like an English toff. On
me front and on both flanks is a Botanical
Garden, with blokes dressed as I am, sittin’
under palm-trees or hoppin’ around on
crutches. When I’ve seen all that there is
to see. I sits up and has a look at the
pommy Sister.
“She’s all right.
“ ‘You wicked soljah,’ she bleats, ‘you
might hev killed yourself.’
_ "Not knowin’ whether I’d fallen out of an
airyplane or just slipoed on the stairs, I
couldn’t contradict her.”
Here the mist thinned, and for ten
seconds the nick in the ridge was a grey
silhouette on the horizon. Three figures
stood out just over the nose of our rifles.
“The cove on the left is mine,” said Tne
Rabbit, as he covered his man. We fired
almost simultaneously, and the group scat-
tered as the mist shut down again with a
turn of the wind.
“I think you winged your bloke,” said
The Rabbit. “I seen him wobble.”
It was pure politeness on his part, for I
felt I had made a clean miss, whereas the
man on the left had fallen in a crumpled
heap. In half an hour the mist was as thick
as ever, and The Rabbit went on with his
yarn.
“Yes. As I was sayin’, it was enough to
knock any man off his perch. She starts
fannin’ me with a newspaper, and by that
I know I’m still on the right side of
Jordan. It’s an Alexandria paper. I has
a squint at the date. July 15—and the last
I remember is April 25 !
“That would set any bloke thinkin’. Close
upon three months! There was no use put-
tin’ the acid on the Sister, she was too
annoyed about the way I come down them
steps. When she sees I’m going on the
blink again she leads me to a deck chair,
passes me the paper and tells me the tea-
gong will go in ‘hef an ouah.’
“I’m trying to get the strong of things
when an English Tommy loafs over and
chaffs me about failin’ downstairs. Seems
it’s a failin’ of mine, failin’ down places.
I’d fallen down the hill at Gallipoli that
Sunday with a scalp wound and a thick
ear, and been in No. 1 G.II. ever since. Am
now practically 0.K., it seems, and expectin’
to rejoin me unit at the end of the week.
This bloke bunks next to me, and what he
don’t know about the war would be news to
lan Hamilton. When I asks him about me
brother Bill he yaps, ‘Nah, nah, come orf
it!’ And just then a gong whangs and we
drifts over to the grubbery.
“He don’t seem to notice that I know
nothin’ of what’s what since April 25. Very
likely I did know, because if the wallop on
the nut had knocked me dilly they wouldn’t
be sendin’ me back, and if the bump on the
steps wiped three months off me slate, I’m
not going to let on about it. I sticks to me
new cobber, and at sundown he hooks me
up to where we camp. It’s a swagger room.
Bigger than the picter show at Canowindra,
with beds along each side and up and down
the middle. Mine’s the second from the
door in the corner and the Tommy’s is next
the door. We’re bedded down, and the
lights turned low, but hang me if I can
sleep. I keep tliinkin’ about Bill. Wonder-
in’ where he is, what he’s doin’, and how
he’s gettin’ along without me. I watches
the night-sister driftin’ round, and sees her
settle down for a snooze. I hears the chaps
tossin’ and gruntin’ in their sleep and a
Third Brigade man with a smashed jaw
from Marble Bar snorin’ to beat the band,
and yet I’m as wide awake as I am this
minute. There’s a curtain hung over the
doorway and swingin’ in the draught. It
swings back and fore, back and fore, as
reg’lar ’s a clock. I bets myself two drinks
that before it has swung three-hundred I’ll
be fast asleep. It has only swung about a
hundred and fifty when it whangs right back
and there’s me brother Bill stannin’ right
behind it. By cripes! you should have heard
me sing out. I woke the ward ; but Bill he
puts his finger on his lip. ‘See you on the
other side,’ he says, and ducks off.
“The Sisters mob me and bustle me back
into bed again. ‘That’s what you get for
failin’ down steps,’ says one. ‘Fine chance
you have of gettin’ back if you let your
mind wander like that.’
“ ‘Can’t you make up your mind that
your brother’s gone?’ yawps another.
“Gone? Of course he’s gone. I seen
him go. But you can’t argue with a lot of
women in hospital pie-jimmies at one o’clock
in the mornin’, so I jist says ‘Sorry!’ and
nips into bed and does a think. ‘Tommy,’
I words me mate, ‘what’s this wireless
about me brother Bill?’
“ ‘Missin’, ’ says he, ‘with many another
good man. Make your mind easy on that
and go to sleep.’
“ ‘Missin’ be damned, and me talkin’ to
him not ten ticks ago!’
“But I shuts up. Bill knows his game.
Besides, missin’ or not missin’, he’s made
a date with me over here, and I’m goin’ to
keep it. I’ve got to. I could never go back
to the old mother and tell her I’d mislaid
Bill.”
A bullet snipped a twig off the scrub that
masked our shelter.
“They’re looking for us,” said The
Rabbit, hoisting his periscope again. The
mist was moving in slow drifting masses.
In an hour, most likely, it would be gone.
Our rifles lay in the loopholes ready for
action. A couple of bullets zipped into the
bank behind us.
“They’ll keep droppin’ one in on the off-
chance,” said The Rabbit; “keep your head
well down.”
“And,” I asked, “did you ever hear any-
thing more of your brother?”
“About Bill? Oh, he’d been reported
missin’ all fight, end o’ May; but after l
seen him, the first chance I got I cabled the
old mother: ‘Don’t worry about Bill nor
me. I’m after him.’ But I said nothin’ to
nobody about havin’ seen him. Not after
the tip he gave me. He’s up to some game.
He’s workin’ his nut all right. What was
he keepin’ dark in Alexandria for that
night? He won’t slip me up. You can bet
on that till the cows come home.”
The mist was thicker than ever. A Staff
party came up and walked along the depres-
sion between us and our trench. The Rabbit
grabbed my arm'. “Look, look!” he cried.
“There’s Bill,” and sprang over the parapet
and ran down the slope. Before he had gone
half a dozen paces a bullet got him.
Through the heart.
By the smile on his face I felt sure that
he was with Bill. _
D. H. SOUTTER.


(Cross)
1
u_
>'/?//?} .577TJV7777777T77777? ■>///J77*
10-h.p. Oil Engine driving Air Compressor at 650 r.p.m.
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Brisbane.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Are Simple in Construction,
Safe and Easy to Manipulate,
Rugged in Design.
NO MAGNETO, VAPORISER OR
CARBURETTER to Give Trouble.
Lubrication is AUTOMATIC, with
Sight-feed Glass.
FUEL CONSUMPTION is Low and
is Automatically Regulated to suit
Power being used.
Our Engines Develop their Full
Rated Power.
We can Quote for Marine and Port-
able Types also. Enquiries will have
the Best Attention of our Expert
Staff.
Tk Westinghouse Brake
Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Concord West, N.S.W,
[2
&
DON’T LOOK OLD!
Cut restore your grey and faded hairs to their natural color with
LOCKYER’S SULPHUR
HAIR RESTORER
1/6 SOLD EVERYWHERE. 1/6
Lockyer’s gives health to the hair and restores the
natural color. It cleanses the scalp, and makes
the most pet feet Ilair Dressing.
This world-famed Hair Restorer is prepared by the great
Hair Specialists, J. Pepper & Co. Ltd., Bedford Laboratories,
London, Eng., and can be obtained direct from them by-
post, or from any Chemists and Stores throughout the World.
SAFECUAROVoo* HEALT||
QtJ.Collis Brmtyes
CWorodyae
The Original and Qn'y Genuine.
ghs,
Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
NSCMPTI
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
0/ all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3, S/-, BJ-.
Made in England.
i
DINNEFORD'S
Magnesia
sfd
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi.
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
sfd
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
PROFITS IN SOFT PRINKS.
Vendor Should Get All the Profits.
sfd
Eckersley’s No. 68 Combined Carbonator and
Filter, with Filling: Rack (1916 Model).
NOTE: We manufacture Glass Washers,
Filters, Beer-raising Machines
and all Accessories for the Trade.
Quadruple Your
Profits
by making your own
Aerated Water Supplies
with
Eckersley’s
Machines
or
Soda
Fountains.
Manufactured Solely in Australia by
ECKERSLEY U SONS, 25a George Street, Sydney,
And Corner HAIG 8 CLARENDON STREETS, S. MELBOURNE.
Agents:
'A. M. BICKFOKD & SONS, Currie Street, Adelaide, S. Australia.
ELLIOTT, DONALDSON & DOUGLAS, Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
JOHN BIGG & SON, Dixon Street, Wellington, N.Z.
LIONEL SAMSON & SONS, Cliff Street, Fremantle, W,A.
In these days of trial
Two good things there be-
vVvr-
•V?
SA?
uu t
«
js^Wi
**
Vv
'/✓-
Juliets fortbeJSocbes,
BEECH AMS PILLS for MB
The tool with 5 b
is the Oster Bulldog: Die-Stock. The
features are:—
1. Seif-locking: dies.
2. Self-locking: guides.
3. No resetting dies after each cut.
4. No loose bushings to lose or mislay.
5. No small parts to break.
Moving the releasing lever to the left
expands the dies—then the stock lifts
off the threads. Greater speed, less
labor, cleaner-cut pipe-threading are
produced by
Made in
11 Useful
Sizes
iSSI
OSTER
TOOLS
47 distinct varieties
of die-stocks and
screwing- machines.
Australian Representative:
CHARLES WRIGHT,
Box 251 G.P.0., Melbourne, Vic.
The Os ter gVSfg. Co.
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
sfdsfd
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
WE CATER FOR THE WANTS OF
THE PETROL COMMUNITY.
fsd
No matter what your requirements
are for anything appertaining to the
machinery portion of
MOTOR-CARS,
MOTOR-BOATS,
MOTOR-BICYCLES,
or
STATIONARY MOTORS,
we can supply you.
Our Stocks comprise: GREASE
CUPS, RUBRICATORS, METAL-
LIC TUBES & SHEETS of ALL
descriptions, PETROL COCKS and
UNIONS, PRIMING CUPS, TOOLS
for the Bench, or Kit, etc., etc.
Illustrated Catalogues post free.
Robert C. Swan &. Co. Ltd.,
304 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents for the FAMOUS
SCHEBLER CARBURETTER.


, 1
The All-Australian
Power Transmitter.
ItaiJAOttDMVmj
LEATHER
3SD
which is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
OV ■£!£!*''
<<s
o fi
&
igrmM
The Wheels that Solve
Your Grinding Problems —
Norton Alundum Wheels
Tor GRINDING
HIGH-SPEED SXEEES
HIGH CARBON SXEEES
SPECIAE AEEOY SXEEES.
Or
Norton Crystolon Wheels
If your grinding: proposition is
CASX IRON
CHIEEED IRON
BRASS or BRONZE
A large Selection of all Grades and Grains
carried in stock by Agents—
PARKE 8 LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
DICK’S BALATA BELTING.
The DICKBELT
has again proved its superiority and economy
by its acceptance in the following important
tenders for 1916-17 :
N.S.W. Railways.
jV.S.W. Tender Board fqr Dock-
yard.
Victorian Railways.
Victorian State Coal Mine.
Broken Hill Proprietary Mine.
Has maximum strength, life, evenness.
Has minimum stretch and slip.
Therefore ensures economy in cost, power and
machinists’ time. -
Sole Agents:—
JAMES HARDSE & CO.,
Sydney, Melbourne & Adelaide.
PAUL & GRAY LTD., Newcastle.
THE
LAGGING
YOU WANT.
sfd
MOULDED MACNESIA BEND,
OPEN & CLOSED ON PIPE.
NEWALL’S
MAGNESIA
COVERINGS.
WRITE FOR SAMPLES.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD.,
82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth; Wellington, N.Z.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Pluming,
Patent “ Neiyambo” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Pluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work.
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
.
m mm
mm
m
Nichols Boiler Feed Pumps
For Economy in Steam Consumption
and Freedom from repairs, these
Pumps are unequalled.
References can be given to hundreds of
• satisfied users in the Commonwealth.
Delivery of many sizes from Sydney Stock.
Sole Agents—
The Austral Engineering Supply
Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
ELECTRIC LIGHT
COUNTRY HOUSES and HOMES.
We are Specialists in this work and carry
Large Stocks of Plants and Batteries.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, Ltd..
309 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
isTen
THE LATEST
HANDPIECE
Fitted with one long Bush for main spindle, also adjustable Lid Bush.
sfdsfd
tie, and the
most up«to=date
machine.
yHthju
In
Improvements
the
Lister Leads.
Sole Agent;
for Australia—
&
• 9
9-13 YOUNG STREET*
SYDNEY.
Agents In all
the States.
LITTLE GIANT.
ALL BRITISH. LARGE STOCKS. IMMEDIATE DELIVERY.
Sole
Agents:
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Equitable Building, Sydney.
