

The Genial Spirit
3
—
Machinery Merchants
107
Mining* and Contractors’ Plants Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR M ACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
Or* all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
N-5-W-
74 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Opposite National Amphitheatre.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney,
And at
29 King Street; Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: City 9325.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, Ceneral Manager.
Hmhffti ■«»? IS
HOBART,
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
Keep Your Home Clean and Healthy
And Free from all Insect Pests by using
Radium Spray
Sold at all department stores. Radium Spray is
made in Australia by an Australian firm.
RADIUM CHEMICAL CO. LTD.
210 Clarence Street, Sydney.
MMS&BACQH
s.rb
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive
J
unket
HAN SEN’S
The Bulletin
For INDIGESTION
and dyspepsia
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
PALMER CORD
MOTOR TYRES.
BUY BRITISH GOODS!
Practical Patriotism does not countenance support of Foreign Industries.
CATALOGUES ON REQUEST.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 Cieorge Street, Sydney.
And at MELBOURNE.
“SILVER KING
99
■
- n
i
Royal
Dutch
COCOA
SUPERIOR
IN
MALTHOID
Roofing.
Jt is very many years since Maltlioid Roofing first won
tlie leading place amongst ready roofings. It lias never
lost that place. We’d like to send samples and booklets.
l '
Chains House, Sydney.
The Bulletin
AM IWU D
Wallboard
is being used more and more every day for finishing the
interiors of good buildings. If you do not know it we’d
like to send samples and illustrated matter.
D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager. Agents everywhere.
BULLOCH LABES
WHISKIES
BL
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
Moulds for Making
Concrete Pipes.
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. „
STEEL TRUCK
OPALOSD
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth*
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
NE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
To! 37—No. 1905. J
[Thursday, August 17, 19 L 6.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S-.'W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW WAR BOOKS
(Postages
in parentheses.)
Effort,” by Mrs. Humphry Ward, 3/6
“A Year Ako,” by Lt.-Col. E. D. Swinton, 2/9 (2d.).
Oh £ Anlac &, by “A-ae.*’ 4/6 (2d.)
Naval Occasions, by “Bartxmus. 1,6 (2d.).
Degenerate German}', by Henry de Ilalsalle. 2/9 (2d.)-
German Atrocities, by J. H. Morgan. 1/6 (2d.).
Crusading at Anzac, a.d. 1915, by Signaller Ellis
Silas, fflus. 3/6 (2d.).
Odd Shots, bv “One of the Jocks.’’ 1/6 (2d.).
At GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROPTY LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ROUND TABLE— jine, ww.
SPECIAL ARTICLES:—“The Principle of Peace” ;
“The Labor Movement and the Future of British
Jndilgtry” ; “Some Considerations Affecting Economic
Reconstruction” ; “The German-American Submarine
Controversy” ; and the usual articles from the
Dominions. Price 2/6 per copy. 10/- per annum.
McMillan & CO., 109 Russell Street,
Melbourne, and all Booksellers.
“THE STRAITS IMPREGNABLE,” by
SYDNEY DE LOGIIE. Price S/6.
Postage’-2d. “The epic of Gallipoli... •
should be kept as a memento by every
Australian.” “The plain story of the
war, told by a master of English. lhe
finest piece of writing since the war
began.”
“SAEABANDE,” by GERTRUDE A.
BELL. Price 3/6. Postage 2d.
“THE FIRES OF SPRING,” by EDITH
BOILEAU. Price 3/6. Postage 2d.
“OVER THE EDGE,” by Mrs. CLEMENT
PARSONS. Price 3/6. Postage 2d.
AUSTRALASIAN AUTHORS’ AGENCY.
285 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
The Great Antiseptic and Prophyla<slic.
A. —The Larynx, or
Organ of Voice.
B. —The Trachea,
or Windpipe.
0
e
. of
Dissected Lung.
D. —A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Contains no Cocaine, or other poison-
ous drug. Suited for Old and Young.
For Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and the Prevention of
Consumption.
The Lancet states: “Proved to be as effectual
bacterieidally as is Creosote.” This report from
The Lancet Laboratory is undoubted proof of
the value of Eumenthiol Jujubes as an Antiseptic.
Practitioner (London) states: “Useful in Ton-
silitis, Pharyngitis and similar ailments.”
Sold by Chemists in tins, price 1/6.
The Red Pape
PAGAN ODE.
Jn the dim catacombs of long ago
The dead gods lie, who lived and ruled an
age,
And who, lihe puppets in a shadow-show.
Loitered fantastically across the stage
Into the wings of death, and so were gone.
And death is equally the heritage
Of all the deities who rule to-day
Save one, save only one:
.4 goddess whose unsacram,ended sway
Gives all the centuries her benison.
Her name is Beauty: Sole authentic queen
Of all the universe! The one bright star
Of constancy that shines remote, serene,
Above the plains of peace and peaks of war!
A wonder-light to lead the wildered soul
Through mazy life to what great goal afar!
A. deity to whom no temples rise,
No dolorous musics roll,
Nor any sacrificial sorrow cries,
And whom no cloistered servitors cajole.
'To whom no temples rise: and yet her shrine
Is everywhere. The rainbow-raftered sky
Is her wide dome; and all the stars combine
To jewel it with changing tracery.
And she has many an altar: morning-light;
' The faery plaidies of a butterfly ;
Rubies and roses; icebergs in the sun;
And lightnings in the night;
Laughter; and laughing clean cascades that
run
From granite mountains; and a clean-
fought fight.
A gaudy sunset on g level sea;
Lagoons among the hills; and silver sand;
Gold of the wattle; and the greenery
Of gum-trees after rain; green palm-trees
fanned
By lazy trades; ivhite schooners; and the
slow
And stately dancers of a saraband;
A’ pampered racehorse; aeroplanes that rise
Like rocs of long ago;
A schoolboy, trotting homeward with a prize;
And sun-brown surfers on a beach of snow.
And many another: tyrian-tinted fans;
Old moonlit mountains; sulphur caves and
caves
Beamy with glow-worms; hurrying caravans
Of ants; a royal wine; mosaic paves;
The culm contentment in the doting eyes
Of new young mothers: galloping hordes
of waves;
Comets, that run in starry steeplechase
Across the rolling skies; —-
These are her sanctuaries, most common-
place
And yet more wonderful than all surmise.
And Earth is her bright censer, slowly swung
In splendor-teeming halls of night and day.
And deities and angels move among
The worshippers who walk her flowery
way.
And all the street and mighty musics are
An antheming of her benignant sway.
The planets bow to her —an all-supreme,
A sun-eclipsing star!
A wonder-light beyond the seas of dream
Shining on what mysterious land afar.
M.L.
BARTLETT ADAMSON.
Australian
This, also, is the real oil — Crusading at
Ansae, a.d. 1915, a 'series of pen-and-ink
sketches by Signaller Ellis Silas, A.LI.
(The British-Australasian, London;
2s. 6d.) What the pictures lack in accurate
drawipg, and that is very little, they make
up in graphic realism. Considering the cir-
cumstances in which they were probably
made, it is scarcely fair to criticise the art
at all. The author’s brief comments are as
interesting as his drawings. He was in the
first landing, and notes that soon he was
the only signaller left out of A and B Com-
panies of the 16th Battalion. Anyhow, sig-
nallers were expected only to last three
days.” He remarks that it is not with the
desire for morbid sensationalism that he in-
troduces the dead in every drawing. They
were part of our daily life; they were part of
the character of the Peninsula —at least ot
Anzac.” “One of the most trying experi-
ences was when our ships mistook the range,
and began to plump shells into us; when the
Navy gets its mark it’s a hit every time.
They put 11 shells into us before we could
signal to them to alter range.” In a gully
where “it rained lead” and all round could
be seen the sparks where the bullets were
striking, General Godley calmly did up the
signaller’s puttee for him. Silas implored
him to take cover, but he wouldn t hear of
it. “Then, with an amused chuckle, he
passed his hand across the top of his cap,
remarking: ‘That was a pretty near
A bullet has singed the top of his cap.
Once, in a gully choked with dead, he saw a
Maorilander come tearing down, smothered
with blood, and quite delirious, kissing every
man he passed, upon whom he left a splash
of blood! Refering to another of Ins draw-
ings he remarks that the man on Ins right
“caught it” badly, but whether he died Silas
does not know. “There was little time to
think of these matters. He was out or
action; another man must take his place.
When the 16tli Battalion was ordered, by
mistake, into the firing-line, instead of
merely acting as reinforcements to the Light
Horse in their charge at Quinn s Post, bilas
had to go six times across a lead-swept
plateau in order to find the battalion and
deliver the order to retire. When he found
Lieut. Harwood and gave his message, Har-
wood yelled above the din: Silas, this is
fine. I wouldn’t be elsewhere for a thou-
sand pounds!” His drawing of the Rc.
Call at Quinn’s Post after this error is
heart-rending. The artist says: Name after
name would be called; the reply—-a deep
silence, which could be felt, despite the noise
of the incessant crackling of rifles and
screaming of shrapnel.” It was just a
ilino of weary, ashen-faced men.” with
es lying about which they were unable to
f for some days. One of the last pie-
's of this wonderful record shows the
st at the Palace Hospital, Heliopolis,
i a nurse bending over him. It Ims just
title, “Heaven !” The book will bring
.mint memories to many an Anzac.
.ccording to J. 11. Maiden, whose Forest
ra of 2f.5.W., has now reached part !1 of
. VI., the most beautiful of our wattles
;lie western Silver Wattle; but “if one
ires to see wattle in all its glory, in all
prodigal profusion—an emblem of purity,
ical of the potential wealth of this won-
ful country—then we must journey to the
stern plains of N.S.W.” Maiden remarks
t as in W.A. special trains are run to
oect the native flora (by which locally is
nit the “everlastings”), “it will happen a
y few generations hence that special
ins will be run to see the. wattle .... I
e travelled in many countries, but I do
call to mind any plant which impressed
more than the wattle-blaze of pure gold
irdly a leaf to be seen), and miles of it.”
t is a strange thing that, according to
authors of Botany for Australian
idents, Agnes A. Brewster and Constance
Le Plastrier (Dymock, Sydney), theirs
the first comprehensive text-book on this
iject that uses as examples Australian
nts. Hitherto, it is said, the many excel-
t books dealing with botany have used
y European or American plants, merely
erring incidentally to the Australian flora,
rtainlv this volume, intended for inter-
diate students in secondary schools and
■ teachers in the primary schools, and
itaining the Australian orders required for
ermediate and leaving certificate examina-
ns. amply supplies Australian needs. The
)k is a comprehensive manual, fully lllus-
ited, and brightly and lucidly written.
The editor of the Brisbane Daily Mail
to be congratulated for his strenuous belief
Australian poetry, and the efforts he
ikes to popularise it. He has now pup-
hed in pamphlet form, price 2d., certain
terary Exchanges that originally appeared
his journal. These were contributed by
, Forrest and “Excelsior,” an Anzac of the
bi. M. Forrest’s verses are, as usual,
arming, but the replies of “Excelsior”
rdly reach her high level. The proceeds
to the Red Cross.
jt
Let us meditate upon the etiquette of
meteries. Here is an indispensable hand-
ok of the convenances of tombstone society,
yd’s Acre: notes on the care and manage-
ent of churchyards, cemeteries and burial
ounds in the Diocese of Goulburn (The
iocesan Registry, Goulburn, 7d.). Lewis
oulburn lays down the rules of cemetery
shavior in an admirable foreword. “ ‘God s
ere’ should he the best-kept plot of ground
the whole neighborhood. Here is work for
illing hearts and hands, work for free after-
>6ns and summer evenings. Especially
ould I plead for the bare graves of. the
iknown or friendless dead.” But the pious
spiration of Lewis Goulburn evidently
les not work out in practice. “It frequently
ippens that one section of a cemetery is re-
irded with greater favor than another, on
mount of its position or of special associa-
ons or of the kind of monument erected
lerein.” Evidently cemeteries have the
ime characteristics as the desirable allot-
lents of the estate agents. “It is of course
ndesirable that any idea of social distine-
ions should be observed or encouraged m
tie allotting of graves; but it is quite open
o local managers to charge more for exclu-
ive rights in one section than in another.
Mr example, where it is known that the
elatives or friends of the deceased will
ventually kerb, in the grave and erect a
lonument, they may be allotted a. grave in
he section where a higher rate is charged.
)n the other hand, the grave of an inmate
f a gaol or asylum or hospital, with regard
o whom nothing is known locally, or no wish
las been expressed by friends at a distance,
ieed not be placed in a prominent position on
;he main drive, as it is unlikely that such a
jrave would be kept in decent order in future
mars. In other words, in laying out a
:emetery it is advisable to open at least
;wo sections” —one for the sheep and another
:or the goats, one for the society push and
mother for the paupers. So the inhabitants
>f the Goulburn Diocese know what to
ixpect. If they can’t afford a monument
they will be buried in the slums; but the
susceptibilities of the society corpses will
be jealously protected, and these will have
the satisfaction of knowing that their coffins
are not contaminated by contact with the
corpses that in life did not get their names
in the society columns of the press. In the
Goulburn Diocese, and apparently in other
dioceses, the snobbery of life is perpetuated
in death.
J*
Once again this page offers a warm wel-
come to that most Australian of magazines,
The Inlander, published by the Home
Mission Board of the Presbyterian Church
of Australia, and edited by Rev. John
Flynn, a quarterly that gives amazing value
for Is. (Gordon and Gotch). The July
issue of the third volume contains a splendid
illustrated article on “The Land where the
Cattle Camps Are,” full of strange infor-
mation about that inner continent of Aus-
tralia of which the dwellers on the rim
know so little. The writer says that he
douhts if safety from, draughts can be
guaranteed, but “interior railways giving
direc-t communication between south and
north would save millions of cattle and
sheep in ordinary drought times. Roughly
speaking, rainfall south of a line from
Jervis Bay to Onslow has its climax in
Jme, but north of the line the climax is
in January. Thus it can easily be under-
stood that droughts are mostly local,_ t.e.,
it is uncommon to have disastrous visita-
tions in north and south simultaneously.
At present, however, the only _ means or
transit where railways do exist is east to
the State Capital City, then north or south
to the next Capital City, then west to the
good pastures. Which roundabout way is
I rifely out of the question. ‘ But we have
nost ceased to have any faith in the pro-
sed north-south railway.” In another
ride a woman makes the apposite sugges-
n that the first step in the settlement of
? Northern Territory is to name the
ice. Of the two words of the present
,el, she rightly says, “never were two
irds joined together to form a name more
11 more uninteresting and uninspired,
e adds tliat it ought to be a criminal
ence to call a land by that name, and,
ticipating the inevitable, suggests that
3 naming be not made an opportunity ot
mortalising any battlefield in Europe or
y General operating thereon, but the
.ruble and peculiar people who were its
iginal inhabitants.” Such a live maga-
le deserves a large sale, as it aftoids so
cellent an advertisement of the splendid
id difficult work that The Australian
iland Mission is doing, as without any
spicion of wowserism, they express it,
f o r Christ and the Continent.”
Lieut. David Doull, whom we are in-
rmed on the title page of Mhtli the Aiizacs
Eg apt, was “one of the Gallipoli heroes
ho was with the 17th Battalion, writes
lidebookily, but interestingly, of the super-
nal aspects of Egypt as they struck the
ustralian soldier. His description ot
gyptian life and history tells us nothing
SW ; but liis aim is modest, merely to till
it, as it were, the brief references in Bili-
m’s letters from Egypt with corroborative
jtail. (Packer, Sydney.)
The latest military manuals published by
ngus and Robertson, Sydney, are: Orgam-
ition for Range Practices, by H. Ordish, ot
re School of Musketry staff (Is.) ; and
'isual Training and Judging Distance, as
rught in the Randwick School of Musketry,
y Staff Sergeant-Major F. E. Hart (Is. fid.).
Violet B. Cramer proffers her Memories
f the Great War (Melville and Mullen: Is.
or patriotic funds). Very ordinary and
bvious memories, beginning with a polite
eauest to the elements to bestir themselves
iecause of “The Death of Juord Kitchener :
Howl, ye winds upon the hilltops;
Bow, proud wave, your crested head;
Wail aloud, dark pines, in anguish.
For the great war-lord is dead!
)ne wonders if they did, and what good it
voiild have done if they had. There is, of
;ourse, a memory of “The Lusitania, from
vhich we glean that: —•
All the. ocean will not suffice
To wash from your hands their crimson stain.
ind another memory of “The Death of Miss
Javell.” But surely these events did not
lappen merely to give Violet B. Cramer an
excuse for the production of banal and in-
conspicuous verse?
Money in Bees in Australia, a practical
treatise on the profitable management of
the , honey-bee, by Tarlton-Rayment
(Whitcombe and Tombs, Melb. and M.L.),
is a comprehensive and valuable text-book.
Written by a successful apiarist, this well-
illustrated volume should find lodgment in
the library of all Australasian bee-lierdsmen.
A unique feature is the section devoted to
the indigenous flora that is honey and pollen
producing. Most of our honey is produced
from the eucalypts; and full information is
supplied—information that has hitherto been
impossible to procure—as to the quality and
amount of honey that an intelligent and
energetic bee may gather from each variety.
J*
The valuable services of the Y.M.C.A. on
every British Front during the present war
is indicated by the Y.M.C.A. publication,
At Home and at the Front, issued by that
organisation in Melbourne.
J*
Jack Beresford Fowler asks one shilling
for A Heroine of Russia (Specialty Press,
Melb.). The title piece is a one-act play
for two characters, the scene being set near
Lodz during the war, and the characters
being a Russian girl and a German spy.
The play is quite ineffective. A short story,
“Prematurely a Genius,” is extremely youth-
fill work, the story of a child who writes a
masterpiece and conveniently dies, witli
the inevitable result that “Thousands flocked
to visit the author’s grave, and every year
at the anniversary flowers are placed upon
it.” They do these things in Australia,
apparently. The third story is as futile.
Jack Beresford Fowler is advised to culti-
vate a sense of humor: it is the deplorable
lack of that quality of self-criticism that is
responsible for the publication of this book.
*}* /
The latest “Bookstall” shillingsworth,
The Belle of the Bush, by George Darrell,
is a mining yarn, quite up to the level of
interest and execution of the preceding-
issues of this series, but done without any
passionate yearning for literary distinction.
An Australian Decalogue
11. I am thy ’Native Land; thou shalt have
none other gods before me.
2. Thou shalt not take unto thyself any
imported thing; 'whether it come from
the" Empire unthin or the foreigner
without. For I, thy land, am a goodly
land, bearing in plenty all thy needs,
and jealously abhorring the super-
fluity from oversea, and visiting the
fiscal sins of the fathers upon the
children even unto the third and
fourth generation of them that belittle
me, and doing good unto millions of
them that love me and keep up my
own end.
3. Thou shalt change the form of the talcing
of the name of the Lord in vain; for
——- is a played-out and humorless
expletive, and —r— is plain dirt.
Jj. Remember that thou keep holy the will
to ivorkj for by it was thy nation
made, thy liberty and all that it doth
mean; thou shalt turn thine ear
therefore from him that saith: Go
slow, and listen not to the other that
saith: It’s good enough.
5. Honor the memory of the pioneers thy
forefathers and thy foremothers j for
by the sweat of their brows gave they
thee the post upon which thou noiv
n mayest lean.
6. Thou shalt not kill the goose that lays
the golden eggs nor thine enemy with
thy mouth; but rather shalt thou
train thyself from thy youth up to
pay thy way and shoot straight to
defend thy home.
7. Thou shalt hot adulterate; neither thy
food nor thy speech, thy ideals nor
thy breed.
8. Thou shalt not he puffed up with too
inordinate a self-conceit, there are
other peoples besides thee; and thou
shalt learn that there are still two or
three things of which thou wottest
not, unlikely though it seem.
9. Thou slialt not consider it weakness to
mind thy manners, nor to revere that
which thou dost not understand; yea,
even to fear God, and to upe a napkin
at thy meals. . ‘
10. Thou shall not covet thy neighbor's job,
nor his success in life, nor his tailored
suit, nor anything that he hath won;
but rather shall thou butt in and try
to gain as good as he.
YXCTOIiI A.
“COPABELL A.”
Who did invent the word “Anzac”? First
of all the credit was claimed by a signallers
corps at Gallipoli. Then, in The Anzac
Book, General Birdwood definitely stated
that when he took over the command of the
Australian and New Zealand Army Corps
in Egypt, he was asked to select a tele-
graphic code address for his Army Coips
and adopted the word “Anzac.” Later on,
after the landing, he was asked by General
Headquarters to suggest a name for the
beach, and in reply he christened it Anzac
Cove.” Now comes as definite a counter-
claim. General lan Hamilton states, in bis
preface to Crusading at Anzac, A.D. ' •ilo,
by Signaller Ellis Silas: “As the man who
first, seeking to save himself trouble,
omitted the five full stops and brazenly
I coined the word ‘Anzac,’ I am glad to write
a line or two in preface to sketches which
may help to give currency to that token
throughout the realms of glory. ’ Well,
which are we to believe? The matter is,
after all, of considerable historical interest,
and this direct conflict of evidence will
worry the makers of dictionaries. Why
not cable Fisher and get him to bring the
question before the Dardanelles Commis-
sion? The settlement of this historical
question would possibly be of more value
than any other decision the Commission
seems likely to arrive at. ____________


A>
vae
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FOR EVERYTHING
WE can supply everything wanted to carry on the business of life, whether that business is run in single or double
harness. To Family People the New Palace Emporium and the vast stock it contains are blessings of the
most practical kind, while to all other folk, both rich and poor, our system of trade presents attractions not to
be found elsewhere. We invite comparison. Send for illustrated Price Lists of anything you want, posted free on
request. They place the World’s Choicest Commodities at the command of Everyone in Australia.
Be Wise! Follow a Good Lead and Buy Everything' at
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
m Wfflm
i<m- ■■
k- k. ■' • .#
m
*>«*?
■
m
m
m
II
it
»W
!
B
$
ie
■i
&&•
ii
FAMILY DRAPERY, FASHIONS UP-TO-DATE.
RIBBONS, LACE AND EMBROIDERY.
TRIMMINGS AND FANCY WORK.
MEN’S READY-TO-WEAR CLOTHES.
JUVENILE CLOTHING.
LADIES’ KID AND FABRIC GLOVES.
HABERDASHERY AND SEWING MACHINES.
MEN’S MERCERY AND OUTFITTING.
MEN’S HATS AND CAPS.
MEN’S BOOTS AND SHOES.
TRAVELLERS’ REQUISITES AND FITTED BAGS.
PERAMBULATORS AND GO-CARTS.
FURNITURE, PIANOS AND ORGANS.
THE FINE ARTS.
CARPETS AND FLOOR COVERINGS.
BEDSTEADS AND BEDDING.
BLINDS AND CORNICES.
BEDROOM APPOINTMENTS.
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY & CLOCKS
TOYS AND DOLLS.
PICTURES AND PICTURE FRAMES.
PURSES, BAGS AND BASKET WARE.
SHOPPING AT ANTHONY HORDERNS’ NEW PALACE EMPORIUM.
We are Family Drapers, Complete House Furnishers, Manufacturing Jewellers and Universal Providers, and our Departments include
REFRESHMENT ROOMS.
GROCERY AND PROVISIONS.
TOBACCO, CIGARS, PIPES, &c.
DRUGS AND PATENT MEDICINES.
PERFUMERY AND TOILET REQUISITES.
ARTISTS’ MATERIALS.
STATIONERY AND BOOKS.
CONFECTIONERY AND WEDDING CAKES
WATCHES. JEWELLERY AND OPTICAL GOODS
FANCY GOODS AND MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS ’
SCHOOL REQUISITES.
TYPEWRITERS AND TYPEWRITER REQUISITES.
ELECTRICAL GOODS AND TELEPHONES.
MOTOR ACCESSORIES.
SPORTS MATERIAL OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
FISHING TACKLE, BICYCLES.
ATHLETIC AND INDOOR GAMES.
CROCKERY AND GLASSWARE.
CHINA WARE AND LAMPS.
GUNS AND AMMUNITION.
BILLIARD TABLES AND REQUISITES
HOBBIES OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
HOUSEHOLD AND GENERAL IRONMONGERY
REFRIGER ATORS.
STOVES AND MANGLES.
SANITARY WARE. GAS FITTINGS.
INCANDESCENT GAS-LIGHT APPLIANCES.
STEEL CEILINGS.
BUILDERS’ MATERIALS.
RESISTOID ROOFING.
BEE GOODS AND INCUBATORS.
CREAM SEPARATORS AND DAIRY SUPPLIES.
STATION SUPPLIES.
PAINTS AND PAFERHANGINGS.
OILS, COLORS AND LUBRICATING OILS.
TOOLS OF ALL TRADES.
WOOD- AND IRON-WORKING MACHINERY.
BUSII HOUSES AND TRELLIS
SHIP CHANDLERY.
STEAM FITTINGS.
PETROL ENGINES.
SADDLERY AND HARNESS
COACH BUILDERS’ REQUISITES
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS
HORTICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


"Winchester
Factory Loaded
Shotgun Cartridges
If you want to fill
your game bag,
first fill your pock-
ets with 'Winches-
ter “New Rival”
factory loaded shot-
gun cartridges.
They have the speed,
pattern and penetration
essential for good shooting.
All dealers keep them in
the most popular loads.
Be sure to see that every
box you buy bears the big
TIT 1C GRAND PR IN, the highest honor,
was awarded Winchester Guns and
Ammunition at the Panama Exposition.
Trade Mark
the Onoto needs no filler!
k
*5?
3S
S-5=
V*\
(d>
ss
r*s*
sr
Why didn’t you ask her
to send you an Onoto ?
A filler is bound to get broken
at the Front. The Onoto needs
no filler; its fills itself from any
supply, and cleans the nib while
filling.
The Onoto never leaks in any position.
You send it out to your friend at the
Front full of ink ready for immediate use.
Manufacturers— Thomas de la Rue & Co., Ltd.,
Bunhill Row, London, E.C. Australasian Managing
Agents—Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Street,
Sydney.
Onoto
IHI Pen
from 12/- each
IMPORTANT.-LOOK TO YOUR TEETH.
There are no teeth like those furnished by Nature. For service, comfort and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be compared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to preserve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap and water are useful, but somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttlefish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifically prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EIJDENTA is therefore regarded as “the perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted. ROCIvE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
FEDERAL. LORRIES
The Choice of Experts
Federal Lorries have been selected by the leading pleasure car
manufacturers as the best commercial motor vehicle manufactured.
Practically every large autorno bile company operates a Federal.
Behind the Federal is an organisation with a successful record of
many years’ standing. This excellent reputation was taken into con-
sideration by these men when they bought Federals. This is a point
that everyone should consider when buying motor vehicles.
Federal Lorries are easy and economical to operate. They are
all equipped with the efficient Worm Drive and are made in three sizes
ton, 2 ton, and ton.
FEDERAL MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY
A Company of great financial strength and stability.
DETROIT, MICHIGAN
U.S.A.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT
18 Broadway, New York City, U.S.A.
Cable Address: Lockwood, New York.
Awarded the Only Gold Medal at the Panama-Pacific Exposition.
WAVERLEY
THE “BOON AND BLESSING” NIB
You can depend on a Waverley.
Its quality and durability make
it a world-wide favourite. It
writes so smoothly and lasts so
well that one Waverley outlasts
two or three nibs of an inferior
kind. The Reservoir Waverley
does 200 words with one dip.
6d. & 1/- PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS
AND DEALERS
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
Stem., gold a Fountain Pen Makers
Edinburgh, Glasgow a London
IE any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
The Bulletin
MODERN TOOLS
FOR THE
GARDEN and
FLOWERS.
NORCR 0 S S” Cultivator-hoes
have revolutionised Hand
Cultivating. The sharp,
tapering Shovels literally
tear up the earth from
lin. to 6in. deep, leav-
ing ground level, loose
and untrampled. And it
is done with such ease
and speed as to make
gardening an extreme
pleasure.
They work closer _to
plants without injuring
them than any other
tool.
Ask your Ironmonger
or write our Agents—
S. SCOTT-YOUNG LTD.,
1 Bond Street, Sydney
a
is
C. S. NORCROSS & SONS, Manufacturers,
Bushnell, Illinois, U.S. A.
“I Felt Extremely Weak
and Could Scarcely Walk.”
“I Was Laid Up in a Hospital.”
“But am now Completely Restored, and my Sleep is
Rendered Most Refreshing” The Wonders of Clements Tonic!
5 '
THERE are many Business Men in Sydney to-day who feel the effect, of the
great heat, the strenuous times caused by the War, and the worry of business
to such a degree that they are more dead than alive when the day closes—
almost too fatigued to reach home. To those men the letter published below by
a prominent city accountant appeals, for it tells in a few words how jaded nei\e
strength can be restored, insomnia banished, and health regained bv the use ot
this well-recognised remedy, Clements Tonic. It is the medicine that decreases
weakness and increases strength. It should be in all houses in these oppressive
days. No house is medically equipped without it. Read this letter:—
200 Victoria Street, Darlinghurst, Sydney, 11/12/’l5.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“After suffering and being ill in hospital for about 12
months, I met a friend of mine (a chemist), and, feeling
extremely weak and scarcely able to walk properly, I asked
him what I should take to bring some vigor into my system.
“He strongly advised Clements Tonic, and, not to he
sceptical about it, I took his advice and have since thanked
him most heartily. That was about six weeks ago, and I can
most truthfully say that the Tonic HAS CREATED WONDERS.
“My constitution is almost completely restored. From
restless nights I can now sleep soundly, awakening in the
morning thoroughly refreshed. My appetite, which was very
jaded, has returned, and I thoroughly enjoy every meal I take.
“You can make use of what I have written, as it is a
man’s duty to advise his fellow beings what benefit he derives
from a medicine that will do universal good. I really feel
TWENTY YEARS YOUNGER SINCE TAKING THE TONIC.”
“(Signed) J. N. S. CLARKE.”
f vnu have Insomnia you should take Clements Tonic, and Sleep LIKE A CHILD.
}1 W the ereat WEAK-NERVE Remedy in Peace or War. Its effect on the jaded
■(institution is magical. It does good because it is good. All Chemists and Stores
coll


Kidney Trouble
A Scientific Ctire.
There is only one real scientific method of
curing kidney disease, and that is to wash
away the uric acid (the poison) right out of
the system.
The proper way for this to be done is to
drink from three to four pints of pure water
per day, and with each glass of water should
be taken some mild yet penetrating antisep-
tic. The proper one to take is contained
in De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
It has the wonderful property of penetra-
ting every crevice of the kidneys and blad-
der, and wherever it touches it washes away
all sediment and bad secretions, and makes
the kidneys and bladder perfectly healthy.
Any sufferer can try this experiment for him-
self by getting a box of De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills at his chemist’s—all chem-
ists sell them —and you will, within a very
EH
Poisonous pain-causing Uric Acid in the
Blood—like little bits of broken glass.
few hours, know positively that the seat of
the trouble has been touched. When you see
the muddy, blue-colored urine you know this
is true. The effect of this experiment is most
remarkable.
The quick relief which these wonderful
little pills bring is, so our readers say, noth-
ing short of marvellous. This applies equally
to rheumatism, gout, gravel, backache, tired
feeling, dropsy, Bright’s disease, constipa-
tion, cloudy urine, inflammation of the blad-
der, or other symptoms of urinary trouble.
To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid of
the cause—the poisonous uric acid. Re-
member to do this a real remedy must pass
through the kidneys and the bladder, and not
through the bowels, as most kidney pills do.
U hen you see the urine change to a muddy*
c ? lo T r - a future which distinguishes
l)e Witts Kidney and Bladder Pills from all
others—you know beyond all doubt that
they have put their healing touch on the
right spot the kidnevs and the bladder. A
wonderful pill—straight to the kidneys—
that is why De Witt's Pills give such amaz-
ingly quick relief—every time. A perma-
nent cure follows in almost every case. Look
tor that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2/9 box of
De Witt s Kidney c.nd Bladder Pills, which
are made expressly for kidney and bladder
trouble.
-5
THE GREAT COLD
PREVENTIVE.
Wilson’s
Pino-Mentho
Pastilles.
The moment you feel you have a cold
coming that same moment —act. Don’t
hesitate, or the cold may beat you.
Wilson’s Pino-Mentho Pastilles are wonder-
fully effective in checking cold. The
moment a pastille is dissolved in the mouth
the rich pine vapors are released and thor-
oughly search out the cold. Their soothing,
healing properties are immediately felt.
Always keep a tin handy—they'll save you
a lot of trouble. Obtainable from all reliable
Chemists and Stores, 1/3 per tin. But
make sure it’s Wilson’s Pino-Mentho.
Alex. Wilson &, Co.
17a Pitt Street, Sydney.
n ARE YOU
RuptureD
Have j'ou grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
m fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE vet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT ’ SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can vou ask for more ?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
Letters Copied While
Writing
(in ink) by using your own Letter-paper
with this Book, you slip youi
paper into the holder and write,
and by the act of writing: yo>'
secure a perfect letter and a
perfect copy. There is no
The Bulletin
of copying. 400 octavo Bin. x sin., or 200 quarto
letters, can be copied in NSC/2CO Book, size 10& x
B*. post free 4/6; or NSC/400 DOUBLE Capacity
for 6/-. Special Small Octavo Book, making 200
copies, Bin. x sin., post free 3/6 ; double capacity, 4/6.
Sample of the celebrated Zanetic Ink- Paper, which
produces this result, free, if stamped-addressed
envelope sent to S. B. Zanetic, Leicester, England.
CiEORGE B(
i!
; i
ton’s
moss
For Mother
Mothers also are liable to COUGHS
COLDS, INFLUENZA and BRON-
CHITIS. Ihe best family remedy is one
that ALL may take,whether young or old.
For instant relief take “ Bonnington’s
liish Moss, only a few doses are re-
quired. Take none but—
Avoid all
Imitations
BONNINGTON’S
TOBACCO KILLS!
Face to Face with Death t
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a positive cure for
the Tobacco and Cigarette Habits. It is abso-
lutely harmless, leaves no reaction or bad after-
effects, and cures permanently.
Free Package Offer.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a trial
package of this wonderful remedy, together
with our Free Booklet, Testimonials, etc.
TRIAL PACKAGE often effects a CURE.
Mr. 11. Smith, of Park Farm, Jericho, Tas-
mania, says: “I was a hard smoker for SO
years, hut since talcin' / your sample of Tobacco
Specific 1 have never had a smoke.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G,
29 O’Connell Street, Sydney. 13.
SAUCE
mm
y,/ ntAM 5 JlfflJrMimvjL
m
MA
MADE FROM THE
CELEBRATED
MONTSERRAT
LIME JUICE.
ITS PURITY
and great
DIGESTIVE
VALUE
make it the finest
Sauce procurable.
Of All Storekeepers.
*3?
l/fUlUumi/UlWliMtllltW"'
7 '
\>
r
, '
Energy
The development of energy
depends on continued good
health; health depends on
the will-to-be-healthy.
Resolutely determine that
you will be healthy; the
empire needs healthy men,
men who radiate energy, as
never before in its history.
pHE daily habit of taking a half teaspoonful of Kruschen
Salts in a tumbler of hot water when rising is
a healthful and invigorating practice. Not only are the
salts remedial, cleansing the system of excess of uric
acid, but they contain certain valuable tonic properties
that no other salts possess. The daily use of Kruschen
braces, invigorates and energises while keeping at bay
Rheumatism, Gout Lumbago, Sciatica and Constipation.
The Bulletin
per bottle.
2/-
per bottle.
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS.
a good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents:—
Messrs. H. & w. GREAR, 287-289, Clarence Street, Sydney.
o e roprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen), Ltd., 68 Deansgate Arcade, Manchester, England.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At Noon: Sourabaya.
Outside the darkened house the white street
runs,
Dazzling as though a myriad shattered suns
Lay strewn in cosmic atoms in its dust.
Heat shakes the intolerable atmosphere, as
lust
Runs in long tremors through the aching,
bare,
Bright limbs of one who hears upon the stair
His lover’s footstep. Nothing stirs at all
Under the dusty trees by the canal,
With pools of purple shadow motionless ;
Where coolies sleep after their midday mess
Of rice and fish and chillies. In the East,
Like the last lamp left burning from some
feast,
When through the curtains pours the garish
dawn,
One sees the moon —how frail and thin and
wan !
N.S.W.
FRITZ S. BURNELL.
Glory.
The beat of drums was in his heart.
He heard the trumpet’s martial note
Tear silences of peace apart,
While pouring from its brazen throat
To marching hosts and cheering throngs
The splendor of adventure’s songs.
The passing clouds took shape to him
As armies marching proudly by.
The whole world breathed applause. War’s
grim,
Red fields of pain where thousands die
Faded before the marching tread
Of glory with a bandaged head.
His comrade praised him to his face,
High citizens their tribute gave;
Fair women, eager 1 , rushed to grace
With sweet applause the honored brave.
But this hope most his fancy moved :
To share his glory with his loved.
But these were dreams! He woke to find
A grey, cold world, with grieving wet,
'While o’er him blew a bitter wind.
Afar, the battle thundered yet;
And he was but a thing of pain
Still living on the cumbered plain.
Then all his dreams of glory fell
Before the pain of wounds of steel;
He saw a vast forsaken hell,
Where lie, alone, survived to feel
The anguish of his wounds, and, worst
Of all, the bitterness of thirst.
“Unknown, untended, I will die.
A wasted clod, without a name!”
He muttered, with a bitter sigh :
“I, who have sought the crown of fame,
Like some poor mangled rabbit fall;
And what is glory, after all?”
But, strange ! While swooning with his woe,
Flis aching wounds, and failing blood.
A light about him seemed to glow,
A radiance, where a spirit stood
That placed a crown upon his head;
And “Glory is my name!” it said.
“The world may grant its tinselled gauds,
And give to men their passing fame,
But he whose deeds his heart applauds,
Although he lie without a name,
Has still a prize that should suffice,
For glory is in sacrifice!”
They found him staring at the sky
W’here, through the clouds, the sun, half-
sad,
Smiled wanly, with unseeing eye;
But on his frozen lips a glad,
Triumphant smile had kept its place
And glory shone upon his face. ’
N.S.W.
HAMER.
Morning: A Fragment.
There comes a sound of milkcarts through
the gloom,
And the day’s news, arriving with a thud,
Lands on the doormat. Ugh! It’s half-past
six.
Monday, confound it! And my boots are
damp—
And where the Hades has my towel gone!
What, no clean collars! Lord, now look
at that!
Nothing to do, and yet they can’t All
right.
I’ve got it. No mistake, the prospect’s vile ;
Dribbles of grey, uncomfortable light,
Bleaker than darkness, more disconsolate,
Over a dreary, dank, wet-footed world.
For Heaven’s sake, Matilda, shake it
up
N.S.W.
SYD. C.
To the Kangaroo.
Since everything on Earth has had its
sonnet,
Save only you, O gentle Kangaroo—
Some things I know have had quite twentv-
two—-
And there, is nothing else to write upon, it
Must be either you or Hilda’s bonnet-
Not that I ve anything that’s very new
f,° say (which mat ters little) or that’s true
(Which matters less). Eight lines: iust
let me con it.
you c * one that you should suffer
Well, nothing; but the landlord calls to-dav
And, I am sure, my quaint marsupial friend*
loud suffer much to save me from his fuss’
And so behold a sonnet for his pav.
The ‘'The^End I ’’ line ~' we ’ 11 rh yme it with
TASMANIA.
H. W. STEWART.


SEE AUSTRALIA FIRST
onPERDRIAUTY
PERDRIAU
TYRES
AUSTRALIAN MADE
■
The Bulletin
RUBBER C»y LIS
SYDNEY MELBOURNE
BRISBANE ADELAIDE PERTH
The Bulletin
ft
John Lysaght Limited will he pleased, upon
application, to forward a free copy of the
new and enlarged edition of their t£ Referee ”
to Every Property Owner and Galvanized
iron User. This Book contains a quantity
of carefully compiled infor-
mation which will be found
both useful and interesting.
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Supplied to the
Nava.! and Military
Authorities in
Great Britain and
Australia.
The Bulletin
No. 304 A
FOR ALL-ROUND
PIPE-THREADING
OSTER Pipe-Threading Machines excel because of
their wide range of usefulness concentrated in the
smallest floor space of any threading machines.
The machine shown at the left, No.
304 A, threads 8 sizes of pipe
from 1-inch to 4-inch diameter,
and bolts all sizes from |-inch to
lf-inch. Special features of Oster
Machines are: Automatic die re-
lease, quick-opening dies, automatic
oil pump and simple, convenient
die-head. For clean-cut threads
and quick work use Oster Machines.
47 distinct die-
stocks and screw-
ing machines.
One to fit your
pipe-threading
needs.
OSTER
MACHINES
BELT (Si MOTOR
DRIVEN
Australian Representative:
CHARLES WRIGHT,
Box 251, C.P.0., Melbourne, Vic,
The Oster Mfg. Co.
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
[i
if You Think Your
i
Advice Worth Having
“REX”
Camp Pie
Suggests a peace-loving writer —offer some
of it to your neighbor on the subject of how
to make her children behave.
We are taking no risks.
Every woman knows how to run her own home best and every day more
and more women are learning about-
which is a dish that comes ready to he helped right out of the tin and
eaten without any further preparation, excepting perhaps the addition
of a lettuce or beetroot salad.
The meats in “Rex” Camp Pie are carefully selected, compounded
and cooked to a nicety. It is a nourishing food, goes a long way
(there is nothing thrown away), and everybody likes it. Packed in a
firm, tasty jelly.
p
■
All • Grocers sell it. Ask for “HEX”
Camp Pie, and take no proffered substi-
tute. Other equally good “REX”
Products are:—
“Rex” Ham Pate.
“Ilex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Ilex” Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, IJlb. tins.
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese, in Decorated Tins and Opal Porce
lain Jars of British Manufacture.
“Rex” Brand Lard, for cooking purposes, in lib. prints.
&
E
R
X
BRM'J
Temporarily out of Stock.
“Rex” Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pigs’ Feet in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Bunch Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
FOCGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon;
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products.
Dodge Brothers
motor CAR
SURROUNDED BY FRIENDS
RUNNING MORNING TO NIGHT
In an ATMOSPHERE OF GOODWILL
Wherever you find a Dodge Brothers’ Car you will
find it surrounded by friends.
Nothing has ever disturbed the demand for it.
Having only one car to build, Dodge Brothers have
been able to build it better and better.
But in the sense of radical changes it is the same
car to-day as it was when they designed it.
You will find it running from morning to night in
an atmosphere of goodwill.
No illwill anywhere, goodwill everywhere; goodwill
that grows out of its good work.
THE MOTOR IS 24 R.A.C. RATING.
THE WHEEL BASE IS 110 INCHES.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY CAN BE GIVEN.
Dalgety & Company Limited,
Agents, 136=138 Phillip Street, Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 37.-No. 1905.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 17, 1916.
J'kice 6n.
STIGGINS WALLOPS HIS JOSS.
“Hotels and Soft Drink Selling.—Defiance of the People’s Will.—The Alliance View.—Mr. James Marion, general secretary of the N.S.W. Alliance, states
that it is the duty of the Government to immediately pass legislation such as will make it illegal for the publi to obtain soft drinks in hotels after 6 p.m.”


Special Notice to Agents.
In consequence of the scarcity of paper, we
regret that we are compelled to discontinue
allowing for unsold copies of “THE
BUIXETIN.”
You will therefore he good enough to favor
us with an order for the minimum number
required.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“Australia lor the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have Tiie
Bulletin sent regularly to you every iveek for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £ 1 10s. per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper arc copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The liditor ivill carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, ivill be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
ajrplying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Afkica.- — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Porsyth and Co., Mil Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, Neivs Dealer, San Francisco;
Childs News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San
Diego, Cal.; Queen City News Co., Randolph and
Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt.- —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Houng, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. —lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
I’ostage Bates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth. Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Soz., Id.'; Sloz. to 10oz., Sid.;
lOnz. to 120 z., Sd.; elsewhere, \oz., Id., and id. each
additional Soz.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 17, 1916.
AUSTRALIAN INTERESTS AND
LOCAL DOG FIGHTS.
George Beeby, ex-Minister for Lands in
N. S. Wales, who is whipping-up what he
calls the “Progressive” A'ote to help the
Liberals tear Holman out of his seedy job,
shows an inclination to talk about things
that matter. Thus at Wagga the other day:
The scheme of government is wrong. The
national Government does not possess the powers
necessary to enable it to meet a great national crisis.
Jt particularly lacks the power to definitely assist
and encourage the establishment of those industries
which the war has shown are necessary for our
national existence. Are we prepared to face an
honest reconstruction of the whole scheme of govern-
ment ; are the smaller States prepared to abandon
(heir special representation in the Senate in
exchange for the necessary extension of Federal
powers; are we prepared to forget our old concep-
tions of State rights; are we prepared to take our
eves off State boundaries, and seriously consider re-
construction of the whole system of government?
The war has more than ever shown that we have
too inanv Parliaments, too many petty, conflicting
interests'between different sections of the Common-
wealth. Are we .prepared to weld these interests in
a movement towards true nationalism ? The wai has
shown that we import many commodities essential
to national life, and that the first duty of a Govern-
ment is bv all means in its power to build up
tertain fundamental industries that can supply these
real essentials. ... e
These are questions which go to the root ot
Australian politics. They raise issues which
above all others matter, nnd ns I he
Bulietin has for a long time been using
words to the same effect, it hopes to hear ot
Beeby talking in this way as often as possi-
ble before the uproar of the general election
breaks out. When that happens it will be
good-bye to everything but the howl and the
yell and noises as of 756 hyenas struggling
for the last bone in the universe. Tearing
their passion to tatters, infuriated party bar-
rackers will leap around the constituencies
with copious promises, undertakings, per-
juries, abusive epithets, allegations, reminis-
cences and forecasts. And after everyone
has forgotten what it is all about and every
question of any real importance to the citi-
zens has been flung into the ash-barrel, the
indecent orgy will suddenly end by all hands
falling in a heap. Then from the fringe of
general untidiness a crowd of dishevelled
survivors will emerge with what they will
call a “mandate” and proceed to do their
worst. It is a ghastly thing to look forward
to, this unclean demonstration of what Par-
liament derives its authority from. The
only answer Beeby can get to these ques-
tions of his is a loud bellowing roar, of
which the correct interpretation may be
something to do with beer or the tote or the
cost of living or the Norton Griffiths
syndicate.
* * * *
Meanwhile, pending the cloud-burst,
Beeby ought to keep going. The position of
Australia in regard to government is one of
the wonders of the earth. The cost of the
system is appalling. The muddle and ineffici-
ency of it is almost too dreadful to think
about. The idea that Australia has a
national Government expired long ago. In-
stead, the nation has seven Governments,
each of which is struggling for pre-eminence
in squandering the public estate and piffling
with national questions. Seven Governments
are taxing Australians, making laws for
them to obey, and pawning them. When
Ivnibbs last reckoned up the cost of main-
taining these seven Parliaments with all
their attendant officialdom and flunkeydom,
he found the annual bill to be £725,265, and
that there were 622 individuals in the Com-
monwealth described as “members of the
Legislature.” That was two years ago.
Sihce then the cost lias gone up; and if the
cost which is indirect be added, the seven
Parliaments now mean a million a year and
probably much more. All these institutions are
handling millions of revenue, splodging
around in a demented carnival of borrowing,
and delving their hands deeper and deeper
into the public pocket. For what? Among
other things for what would bankrupt the
richest nation ever known. During the 10
years before the war the State debts had
gone up at the rate of £9,650,000 a year.
But that is only half the story. The increase
was relatively small at first; but by 1912
those in charge were putting up the mort-
gage at the rate of £20,000,000 a year. Since
then they have spent every shilling they
could lay hands on, and the Federal Govern-
ment has had to find an additional
£50,000,000 per annum for war. The total
owing was £317,000,000 in 1914. At the end
of this year perhaps only Cohen will know
accurately, but if it is less than £450,000,000
Australia is going to be lucky. That is what
seven Parliaments have managed to do. They
stand as a menace to the Australian people
almost as malignant as the Hun. The coun-
try might have stood it a few years longer
had war not intervened. It cannot expect to
stand such madness when the fray is over.
What it can confidently expect is to find
more use for a million than in subsidising half
a dozen superfluous and incompetent Govern-
ments.
* * *■ *
Beeby is only partly right in saying that
the war has shown Australia to have “too
many Parliaments,” and that “we import
many commodities essential to national life.”
These things were sticking out a mile years
before the war-gong went. All that the war
has done is to accentuate the general fat-
lieadedness of the national arrangements
and prove the littleness and mental bank-
ruptcy of 622 politicians and their hangers-
on. A reconstruction of the conditions which
have left Australia a prey to the depreda-
tions of a horde of political filibusters is
imperative. Equally imperative is it that the
people should get into their hands the
weapon of the referendum for protection
against the tyranny and laziness of their
representatives, whether there be only one
sovereign Parliament or seven. As matters
stand now the people are impotent. What
should be the national Government is suffer-
ing from a form of the same complaint. But
the mere widening of its powers would alone
be of little use. Something more than that is
wanted —the driving force of the popular
will, the spur and goad of a democracy par-
ticipating directly in the work of Paiflia-
meijit. The powers of the Federal Parlia-
ment in some directions have been of the
most ample kind. They have been used, and
are being used now, with maddening futility.
Every five minutes some inspired idiot is
leaping to his feet and blowing off long rig-
maroles about the various things Australia
has “solved,” and undertaking to solve some-
thing else. Australia has solved nothing—
at any rate, nothing more than the problems
of Micawber. Public and private finance,
party policies, legislation, settlement, tran-
sport, industrial undertakings, production of
material and the consumption of foreign-
made goods—all have rested on the insecure
foundation of the collective p.n. Even the
first essential of national life —reliance on
national effort —has been sedulously neg-
lected while years and millions were wasted.
To expect Australia to grapple successfully
with the mighty problems facing the Com-
monwealth, hampered by the calamitous sys-
tem existing to-day, would be as vain as to
expect an infant to thrive on a diet of rabbit
poison. The vital needs of the continent are
population and the establishment of indus-
tries —and the hat is going round to repatri-
ate Australians, and the Australian clothes-
peg cannot be bought! Are our Seven Par-
liaments to be depended on to meet these
needs, or shall they be swept away
and a truly national Legislature vested
with the authority the others have so
grossly abused? The Bulletin has little
doubt that a drastic change must come, and
come soon. It will have to come. The
necessity for reconstruction is desperate, and
though not long ago the case was different
there is perhaps no public man in Australia
now who would refuse to admit this to be so.
But the question is not to be decided by
being tossed into the hurly-burly of a State
election riot about booze and petrol and buy-
ing apples on Sunday and the bridge at
Sink-or-Swim. These vast issues on which
tremble the fate of statesmen who draw ex-
penses for “delivering patriotic speeches” re-
quire an atmosphere of their own, and ought
to get it.
WANTED—A DEFENCE ACT TO
MATCH A CITIZEN ARMY.
The first duty of a citizen is to bear arms
for the defence of his country. The first
thing that happens to a citizen of the Com-
monwealth who enlists in the armies of his
country is that he loses by that process
an important part of his citizen rights. It
is specially, stated in the Defence Act that,
although a soldier, the person in uniform is
a citizen also and subject to civil law; but
in the matter of the political freedom which
is the essence of citizenship, the Act makes it
perfectly clear that he is tied and restricted.
Thus, soldiers and officers in uniform are
forbidden to attend or institute “any meeting,
demonstration, or procession for any religious
or political purpose.” They may not even
go to church or attend a funeral unless
“authority has been duly obtained from Dis-
trict Headquarters.” Further, except on the
recommendation of the Military Board and
with the express permission of the Governor-
General, no soldier of the permanent forces
may engage in trade, business or the practice
of a profession or hold any civil office in or
under the Government of any State. Some-
where at the back of all these things is an
Army Act, framed in the remote past and
shaped to meet the needs of the English sol-
dier in the days of Marlborough or earlier,
and viewing an army from the point of view
held by statesmen before modern democracy
came into existence. Under this Act the
soldier is liable to sudden death or some
other . frightful penalty for all sorts of
offences and misdemeanors which in civil life
would be lightly regarded; yet such liability
does not exempt him from the workings of
the civil code so that, even where the court-
martial would lose its terrors, the plain
everyday beak steps in with power to admin-
ister more punishment. In a word, the sol-
dier comes under a strict discipline which
takes away the advantages of his citizenship,
yet he remains a citizen at all points at
which it is to his disadvantage to be one.
* * * *
The idea of an Australian citizen army is
entirely foreign to the Regulations governing
the present forces. The original authors
of the provisions for maintaining discipline
and control among the hefty seventeenth-
century rascals of the first British standing
armies had no conception at all of a mighty
force of sober and law-abiding men taking
up arms in a regular and systematic fashion
for the defence of their country. What is
wanted to meet the new order of things is a
democratic Defence Act, whole within itself
and dependent upon no Army Act of the
past, in which a fair and workable com-
promise is made between military necessity
and citizen freedom. That discipline is
necessary no sane man would attempt to
deny; but a form of discipline based on the
idea that the soldier is naturally a lawless
and dangerous person defeats its own ends
when applied to a citizen army. It is cer-
tainly true that a good deal which remains
on statute books is at most times allowed
to remain a dead letter; but while it exists
in cold print it is always a threat and a
menace, and is liable to be put to bad uses.
To make the soldier feel his citizenship, with
all its honors and privileges, and to widen
that citizenship rather than restrict it, is
one of the first steps towards the creation
of the ideal army, which not only knows its
job but knows what its job is for. That
the task of framing such an Act might be
a big one and fraught with difficulty is no
sort of reason why it should not be
attempted. The defence of Australia is a
big task, too, and fraught also with difficul-
ties ; and where blood and pain and death
are likely factors in the undertaking from
the point of view of the soldier, it ought not
to be too much to expect the politicians
to do their painless share of the job, and see
to it that words which control the soldier
are so framed that they put him on the best
possible footing for soberly carrying out his
work.
* * * *
Among the forces operating against free
enlistment must be counted this Defence
Act, with the dead hand of the antiquated
Army Act laid upon it. As an objection to
a system of compulsory service the wording
of the thing is far worse in effect than any
anti-conscription meeting that could he
held, or than all the anti-enlistment placards
and manifestoes that the Government could
seize. To make the army system of Aus-
tralia democratic is to draw the teeth of that
fierce opposition which lias arisen in some
quarters. To an alleged citizen army, which
isn’t one but is framed on the model of
the standing professional army of the past,
objections of a tolerably emphatic sort can
be raised by any person whose feet are cold
or who feels a call to make a loud noise;
but objections to a true citizen army of the
right shape and bound by regulations in
accord with democratic thought and feeling
could only be of a nature to raise a laugh of
scorn. In the interests of the war most of
our members of Parliament and politicians
feel called upon to keep quiet and do nothing.
Here is an honest job for them in the period
of enforced calm. Let the Defence Act,
which is as vital as anything can be to
Australia’s successful assistance of the
Allied cause, be re-slmped carefully, line by
line, word by word, with true regard for
the altered conditions and with the make
and temperament of the Australian soldier
always in view. No service rendered to the
Commonwealth could be greater than this;
and the time to attend to the business is
now while other subjects of discussion are
held up and there is nothing to obscure the
view of the essentials of our military
system.
* * * *
Any idea that the Australian army won’t
matter much when the present scrap is over
must he put aside. No man living can tell
where this war may lead us, or what new
combinations of forces and powers may arise.
The tumult which has raged over Europe
was certainly foreseen by some, but the
wildest dreamer would never have ventured
an opinion three years ago that Australia
could have been called upon to put so big a
force into the field or to play so strenuous a
part in the desperate game. The future is
shrouded in haze and uncertainty; and the
one great need is to be ready for anything
that may occur. The Australian notion of
a citizen army in which every man will take
his place as naturally as he breathes air is
the surest safeguard that the child will be
safe in the cot and the roof remain over
the wife’s head. We need our manhood
organised and drilled to efficiency; we need
arms and munition of our own manufacture
and the plant and equipment for making
more; we need our railway system set in
order for the swift transport of troops and
the main north and south line completed;
but as much as these, because without it
these things are deprived of a great deal of
their value, we need a Defence Act to meet
our special circumstances.
BIN ALONG AND BURROW A—Y.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I was glad when they said unto me, “Let
us go into the house of the gum-tree.” It
was good to “go bush,” even a paltry 250
miles from Sydney. A train vomited me
at Binalong at 4 o’clock on a cold and foggy
morning, and all was not well. A man told
me that “over there” in the impenetrable
rain there was a valley, and in the valley
that most welcome thing a pub. For even
the wowser asketli not hymn-tunes nor
desireth he at such a time to till his belly
with the east wind. I climbed a hill of
mud and then felt my way on a descending
grade of slush. All I could see of the
valley was a wet hole filled with wet fog
so thick that the rain seemed unable to
fall into it and had to stay on the hill and
me. I walked further into the slush and
heard a river roaring curses to itself, but
the darkness was thicker and there was
neither light nor noise. As for the pub, I
might as' well have walked into the bush, if
I could have found it, and asked a stringy-
bark for a double bed and a kookaburra to
bring the. shaving water at seven. So I
felt my way back to the hill and down to
the railway, where the signal light merely
blurred the fog. The man in charge gave
me the run of the office fire, and I sat there
till daylight. The Melbourne express gal-
loped past to Sydney, and the Albury mail
tore through to Yass, and I smoked till all
my flues were full.
At daylight there was a saturated hotel
and a damp cook aching from two weeks of
rain. Binalong was an old place in the
early days, but it is being made over. A
ruined church, white on the summit of a
green rise; new brick houses and streets
switchbacking over a baker’s dozen of hills.
The barber is also a bootmaker, and uses
razor and awl according to the sacred prin-
ciples of public demand. Healthy children
with clean eyes and noses not so clean,
happy in the rain and slush when the watery
sun shone for an hour ; the new grass green
with the cold greenness of a cemetery under
rain. A white horse trotted up the street,
drawing a sulky festooned with dead rabbits.
The hotel was sorry that it hadn’t sent
a man to meet the train as usual; but who
could expect a hotel runner for the one
passenger a month whom bad luck or fool-
ishness sends to Binalong? And the six
o’clock lunacy will make matters worse.
What country hotel can afford to cater for
man or beast arriving after midnight when
the main bringer of revenue is turned oil:
at the tap before dusk? While I waited
the return of the kindly crookbacked man
who rode a bareback horse over the hills to
find a vehicle for my explorations, the
equally kindly lady publican directed me
to the lion of the town —which is the grave of
Gilbert, the Bushranger. Gilbert and Dunn
were trapped near Binalong. Local sentiment
hates Dunn’s grandpapa, who gave them
away to the police after pouring water into
their guns so that they could not make a fight
for it. It’s a healthy thing, that hatred of
treachery which removes the sympathy to
the betrayed even if he be a ruffian.
Christ’s tragedy would be not so poignant
but for the treachery of Judas and the
defection of fair-weather friend Peter—
who, unregenerate, was a very friable rock
to build a church on.
The local picture-show was to screen
Ned Kelly that night— Ned who was born
too early; whose resource, rapid action,
courage and Napoleonic ability to move
quickly and strike decisively would have
made him a great soldier in these days. I
declined to make the pilgrimage to the dead
bushranger, and then a big car came up and
took me through the slush for a half-mile
until we struck the road to Burrowa —a
quick road hard on horses. It was a drive
to thank God for when the sun came out —
the blue and purple hills; the copperas
green of new crops; the brown-green of
pasture; the eucalyptus green of trees.
Much of the land is held in share-farms,
the landlord’s share being up to 225. 6d. an
acre, which is a fine yearly rent. It is
figures like these that make the landlord
believe in leasehold of land—by Private
Enterprise. Leaseholds to farmers from the
Government are immoral because the Gov-
ernment lessee doesn’t pay more than 4d.
or 6d. an acre. Down on George’s River
the Sutherland Estate is selling 91) years’
leases of building lots at the price of free-
hold. thus eating its cake and having it too.
Water snaked in jard-wide streams
through the foothills; the car steeplechased
through foot-deep lagoons in the road. And
so we ran into Burrowa, now swankily
called by the Commonwealth “Booroowa,”
hut by the old hands “Burroway.” They
were wild men, those old hands. Their
traditional holiday speech was: “God bless
the good blue rock of Burroway that
wouldn’t break on a man’s skull, and devil
damn him that would cast the first stone
on the sports ground.” But they’re good
people. They made a working bee for the
Belgians, and in a day ploughed and sowed
100 acres of wheat for the people without
a country. It should be good wheat, too,
for it was sown for the poor, on a Sunday.
The windiest mailcart in Australia runs
from Burrowa to Frogmore, Avith a big.
white Italian umbrella over the mailman’s
seat to make the winds feel colder when


they strike the corners. But the mailman,
like most of these tall, thin old men here,
is tough and apparently full of bear’s
warmth. One long old prospector here has
often walked the 21 miles to Yass in 41
hours.
It is a cold day for the prospector from
Binalong to Burrowa. Out at Ivangiara
there are mixed metals that mean penal-
isation over and above the deductions
and returning charges of that public
Bahabbas and pirate, the smelting company.
One very old show, profitable when last
worked, has been closed to prospectors by
a shepherder who bluffed peggers with tales
of an antique land grant. He is an old man
with whiskers that look like clean lace
curtains, and he had a habit of silently
approaching the pegger and shouting loudly
in his ear: “Booh!” Whereat the pegger
mostly dropped the peg and fled.
I went out there to see a copper show ; but
the Burrowa River roared a-fiood, and the
mine from a distance didn’t seem important
enough to warrant me in performing the
Lord Ullin’s Daughter trick. So we stood
on the hither side and looked over the
muddy river at the dump. Like Moses on
Pisgali may have viewed the Compromised
Land.
But if I didn’t find copper there I found
gold—true metal, a woman of nigh 70, who
looked and moved as if she were 40. She
runs a boarding-house for 18 miners; has
been mother and father both to 10 children,
and, having seeii them to maturity, must
needs take over four grandchildren, the
youngest a bottle baby when he came to her.
She was born in the late ’4o's, the daughter
of a shepherd at Rye Park, and is a great-
grandmother.
“I was my father’s boy,” says this great-
grandmother, “and I split rails and fenced
and ploughed and reaped, and now I can’t
get tired. Use —that’s what it is.”
For 17 years she drove the mail from
Burrowa to Rye Park three days a week,
and the three other days she did the laundry
work of 40 Burrowa people. She was at the
washtub from 4 a.m. till 9; then away
with the mail to drive the 30-mile round;
back at dusk to use the flatiron till 11.
Her son wants her to quit work, and she will
not, because she can’t be happy idle. She
has for payment the love of the four grand-
children she mothers; I saw that for myself.
The 60 years of bushwork have not limited
her sympathy. Every traveller with a swag
is invited to a feed —to a camp if it be late,
and a breakfast to give him courage in the
morning.
Here in this old-young woman, with the
unselfish affection of youth in her—this fine
Australian who can’t get tired—is the real
spirit and genius of Australia. You shall
not find it among the flag-flappers and self-
advertisers in the cities, but out among the
gum-trees—the spirit of kindliness which
sends no man hungry on his way because he
has not any money.
“Can’t get tired !” One week of her life
js worth to Australia probably more than all
the years of all the leisured women of Castle-
reagh-street, with the half-mast skirts and
the high boots and the cultivated taste in
cocktails. Two generations more and the
great-great-great-grandchildren of the woman
who can’t get tired may wear the then
equivalent of the fashion that decreases the
skirt to increase its legs; but the fine spirit
of that bushwoman will survive in them.
Born in the cruel days of New South Wales
before the discovery of gold gave all men a
chance, she has fared through her many
maternities while doing the labor of man—
paid at the last by the children who know
only one mother, and that one their mother’s
own. There are many like her in the bush—
the big, sturdy mothers of the world-beaters
who gave decency to the blunder of Gal-
lipoli. They get no spoon-feeding at Govern-
ment hands. In most cases they would resent
it. But that doesn’t make right the spoon-
feeding of misfits. There is a case of assisted
immigration in England—the case of an
Englishman and his wife who paid but £2 a
head of their own money for the trip to Aus-
tralia. Great “settlers” they were, and the
result of their importation is that the man
peddles typewriters. And down at Terang
(Vic.) there_is a family of 10 Australians
who pay £ll7 a year to Private Enterprise
as the rent of 160 acres of dairy pastures!
They make good only because, like the young
great-grandmother by the Burrowa River,
they can’t get tired.
Back in Burrowa that night I ate cold
meat in a gloomy cathedral garnished with
tomato-sauce bottles. There were others
tending for the train journey. But the cold
mutton was also cold shoulder. Eaten in
silence with never a champing of the bit.
It was worth it all—the marooning at
Binalong. the slush, the river spate that
would not let me see the copper show, and
the cold shoulder in the licensed cathedral;
worth it all for the knowledge of the Aus-
tralian great-grandmother who can't get
tired.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Is it a Fair Thing?
Stripped of oratorical decorations the
problem connected with compulsory military
service boils down to this —Is it a fair
thingV If it is not, Australia wants none
of it. If it is, no justification exists for
evading the consequences. In any case the
question has to be answered, not by hot air
and rhetorical bombast, but by plain yes or
no. It is the facts, responsibilities and perils
of the hour that Australia has to consider
and to meet. They cannot be met by throw-
ing words about, or taking as the basis of
action some theoretical scheme of social
perfection. The most gigantic struggle in
the history of mankind is going on. Men
are being killed by the hundred thousand.
To some of the warring nations it is a fight
for life. Already they have all bled severely,
and the brutal truth is that victory cannot
yet be seen. So far as the Allies are con-
cerned the best that can be said is that they
have turned aside defeat and are now able
to hit back. But to imagine that the war will
end in a month or two would be to again
become victims of that demented optimism
which long after the conflict opened para-
lysed the thought of the British people. For
the Allies to now become divided in their
purpose, or for one or more of them to fight
with any less than full strength or ease up
a bit to see how things were going, would
be something the like of which Berlin has
long been anxiously hoping to hear. Every-
thing depends upon the Allies sticking
together and all doing their best. Desperate
attempts to separate them have been made
by Germany. But they still stand pledged
to solidarity. In the common cause, which
Australia shares —for we are in it up to
the neck —the soldiers of France and
Russia and Italy are fighting with unex-
ampled bravery and endurance. They are
fighting for the Commonwealth as definitely
as the Anzacs are. Would it be a fair thing
for Australia to be the first to pull out?
Would* it be a fair thing for the Australian
people to do what they would howl execra-
tion at any other country for doing? If it
would not, is there any fairness in Australia
depending on the Frenchmen and the Rus-
sian to put the whole of their weight into
the scrum while Australians plod on with
something less? In this business they are
our mates. Are we going back on them?
The recruiting figures have long made it
plain, in spite of the juggling of politicians,
that these* cpiestions will have to be
answered, and soon. They are what Aus-
tralia is now waiting for Hughes to handle
in the language of candor.
In the Market for Votes.
Of course it is no use protesting: the
Holman Government has found out that
the easiest way to get political power is to
buy it, and for the present that is the end
of the matter. Hence the Bill authorising
the North Shore Bridge has again been put
through the Assembly, and unless the Coun-
cil throws out the measure the work will
he proceeded with at the most inopportune
time in all our history. That the Govern-
ment should even think of borrowing heavily
for a work of this nature, when every avail-
able pound is wanted for our national preser-
vation, is a scandal; and the two Ministers
principally concerned have no decent right
to ever go upon a platform again and talk
about “patriotism.” In this business, at
any rate, they are the allies of Germany.
But. apart from that consideration, the
work should not be thought of at present
because of the abnormal rate of interest.
The Government has just borrowed a couple
of millions or so in England to keep its
friends or masters, or whatever they are.
the Nokton Griffiths syndicate, supplied
with commissions as agreed; and the rate
of interest is 5i per cent. Add various
charges, and the total cost is not a penny
less than 5i per cent., as against the average
pre-war rate of about 3| per cent. On
present appearances the cost of the bridge
will considerably exceed £3*000.000; and
the extra If per cent, will mean loading the
country with a permanent extra charge of
£52,500 a year. Certainly, as Cann, the .Min-
ister for Works, says, the job will not be all
done at once; but there is going to be dear
money for a long while yet—probably dearer
money before the Avar is over ; and, in view
of this grave uncertainty, the fact that the
money will not be all wanted at once is not
in our favor at all. In any case, every £lOO
spent even now means an entirely unneces-
sary burden of £1 15s. per annum —put
upon the people of this country, let. it be dis-
tinctly understood, for no other purpose than
to_ buy votes. Those Avdiose votes are bought
with a job-will no doubt pay the expected
price at the next general election. It will
remain for decent people, with healthier
ideas about political honesty, to save the
country from the adventurers.
The Wage-earner’s Dole of Suet.
The signal for a weary old controversy was
hoisted at Adelaide the other day when “the
basic Jiving- wage” came into an Industrial
Court argument. The employees were ask-
ing for more cash to keep up with the in-
creased cost of living, and someone produced
a scale of expenditure, prepared by Dr.
Arthur, M.L.A., of Sydney, setting out
“the reasonable minimum diet for a man,
woman and three children.” Arthur
figured it out this way:—
Bread, 201 b £0 2 11
Meat, 161 b 0 10 .8
Blitter, 111 b. .. .. 0 2 2
Oatmeal. . . . .. 0 0 8
Milk, seven quarts . . 0 3 0
Sugar, 41b. . . . . 0 12
Jam, lib. . . .. 0 0 9
Treacle, 21b. .. .. 0 0 7
Rice, 21b. .. .. 0 0 0
Pegs, 21b. . . .. 0 0 0
Potatoes, 141 b. . . .. 0 16
Raisins, lib. . . . . 0 0 8
Tea, lib. -. . .. 0 0 9
Suet, lib. . . . . 0 0 8
Flour, 41b. .. .. 0 0 8
Condiments .. .. 0 0 5
Vegetables .... .. 0 16
Total .. ..£197
As soon as the dismal-looking document
had been read the employers’ representative
threatened to produce in rebuttal medical
evidence to prove that a family could be
kept in good health on a less costly dietary.
Since then the details of Arthur’s list
have been turned inside out all over Aus-
tralia, and the air has been filled with pro-
testation _ that (1) it is about right, and
(2) .it is all wrong. Iteally it conveys
nothing, _ though probably the average
citizen will have a wild yearning to know
why Arthur objects to allow an additional
three ha’pence for condiments. At Bath-
urst gaol last year the daily cost of main-
taining 317 prisoners ran out at fid. per
head, and if five prisoners can be fed for
2s. 6d. per day it is possible that 17s. 6d.
per week would keep a family of five from
perishing. If tb<*y were fed on the same
scale as the British and other deep-sea sea-
men who live on windjammers, the cost
could be reduced even below that figure.
That many workers’ families are kept in
food on an even smaller expenditure than
£1 9s. 7d. per week The Bulletin has no
doubt after consulting Knibbs. The aver-
age weekly wage of 14 classes of workers
examined by the Commonwealth Statis-
tician was £2 15s. A man earning that
sum and julopting the Arthur scale would
have £1 ss. sd. left to provide five people
with clothes, fuel, medical attendance, a
house to live in, lighting, boots, books, hair
cuts, amusements, tramfares, renewals of
furniture and so on. The thing to wonder
at is not that it can be done but that it is
done by so many, and that a few do it on
much less. But what in Heaven’s name is
the use of producing in Industrial Courts
these sorrowful estimates of how much
oatmeal and treacle and suet and sugar are
required by a man, woman and three kids ?
Suppose the old man objects to suet, that
treacle gives the youngsters toothache, and
mother gets bilious if she tackles meat?
There is no conceivable rule by which a
Court can fix wages on the basis of five
persons devouring 141 b. of butter per week
and getting through lib. of raisins. Experi-
ments in that direction would either be
dodges or preliminaries to the preparation of
official lists for various types of wage-
earner, setting forth how much of each
week’s income must be disbursed in rent,
attire, food and sundries, with elaborate
details of the drapery and grocery bills.
Every five minutes afterwards the atmo-
sphere would be shattered by medical men
explaining that Bill Smith, slaughterman,
was consuming too much proteid, and
angry carpenters would demand to have
an allowance for currants. If wages were
paid on the basis of “the maintenance of
health,” according to medical formula, Aus-
tralian labor and industry would be brought
to the level of the coolie. It is all wrong.
But if it is right for the employee it is
right also _for the employer. Why should
he make £5OOO a year if he can buy enough
rice and potatoes to keep him and his family
alive for £6O?
♦
Australia’s War.
“Australia has done well.” In a limited
sense that is true. But “well” is only a
relative term. The circumstances are such
that we don’t do really well if we don’t do
all we can. It is not theories that are at
stake. _ The whole future of the Common-
wealth is involved. Its national existence
is in the scales. Australian soldiers are
not fighting “to show their loyalty to
Britain.” They are fighting and dying to
protect the freedom of their country against
an enemy who aimed at domination of the
world, and had established himself at the
back door of Australia. If the German
were to win this war he would return there,
and with something more formidable than
the two cruisers which dodged the Australia.
He would hold this continent in the hollow
of his hand. The job Australia started on
was to prevent him doing one or the other,
either at once or later on. That job has to
be completed. Australians are as much
called upon to stick to it as any of the
others. And it is a reasonably fair thing
to ask that the Federal Government, even at
the eleventh hour, shall act on the belief
that Australians want to stick and play
the game with their mates. The argument
that this war is not Australia’s war has no
foundation. Even if it had, it would be
an objection to having had anything to do
with the disturbance, not an argument
against compulsory service. But how often,
by the way. was the objection put forward
while the Gniesenau and the Scharnhorst
were sneaking about our waters?
The Australian Wash and Shave.
The Commonwealth Government having
prohibited the importation of soap, the next
thing to expect is an outburst of wrath from
someone because he is compelled to go with
dirty hands or because the health of the
rising generation is imperilled through
having its face washed with the Australian
product. 'We are one of the few peoples
on eai th who are unable to rely on them-
■selves for anything except 'water when
they take a bath. We usually import the
soap and the towel and if we run to a
sponge we import that too. And yet we
are one of the few peoples who grow their
own fat. Last year we imported 1300 tons
soap, of which about half consisted of
little ornamental packages with a nice
smell. The rest was the other sort of soap.
A e paid over £125,000 to the foreigner who
changed the fat and other things into soap
and gave it an aroma and packed it up in
several layers of decorative paper. For
® oa o that was just plain soap we paid
£-0,000. And on top of that there were
heavy charges for freight and insurance and
dragging about and all the rest. Most of
the “toilet, fancy and medicated” soaps
have been coming from Britain and Yankee-
land, with limited consignments also from
France and Germany. Is there any conceiv-
able reason why Australia should not make
its soap on the premises V This paper knows
of none. The fat is here, the smells are
available, there are people looking for jobs
and there are five million people who wash
at Yeast once a day. This is a case in
which the Government has an undoubted
right to insist that the country shall manu-
facture for itself. The present arrange-
ment is in consequence of there being an
immense demand for glycerine, which is a
by-product of the manipulation of tallow in
soap manufacture and is used in the making
of munitions. But this is no reason why
Australia should not after the war go on
making all the soap Australians require and
continue supplying additional quantities of
glycerine to the over-sea buyer of that com-
modity. From the national point of view
the less soap Australia imports and the
more glycerine she exports the greater is
the public saving of cash and the larger the
number of people to draw wages every
week. There are dozens of other commo-
dities to which identical considerations, apply
and should be treated in the same way. They
will have to be, anyhow, before the war is
over. Soap is not the only thing Aus-
tralians will have to make for themselves or
go without.
+
The Commonwealth Government’s
“Economy.”
Ax the very moment when that dull bluffer.
Defence Minister Pearce, was inviting
the public to “point out any instance of
extravagance in Government departments,”
a soulless but notoriously capable account-
ant of Melbourne, W. G. lliscock, was
giving dozens of instances. He was telling
the Canberra Commission about the things
he had seen in that dry place, and about
the things he had tried to see and couldn’t
because they weren’t there. He said the
administrator’s residence cost the depart-
ment £7055; he figured that it should have
cost about £2OOO, and he didn’t see any-
thing that represented the rest of the cash.
The power-house cost the Department
£43,951; Htscock figured thpt it should
have, cost £20,125. These irregularities vexed
his soul, but when he came to the Canberra
Hospital he needed it. That beautiful insti-
tution cost a suffering country £8785, and he
reckoned it was worth £2750. It takes
£2Oll a year to run the establishment —
doctor £s>oo, coal £BO and drugs £94 per
patient! Luckily there aren’t many patients
—one and a quarter per month is the
average—no doubt because the Queanbeyan
hospital is handy and the military hospital
at Duntroon but three miles away. When
the unimaginative investigator revived he
was able to gasp that the Commonwealth
got £454 a year rent for its various pro-
perties, whereas it ought to be getting
£SO3I. It is a lurid narrative and throws
a bright light on the vast gulf that lies
between this Government’s prattle about
economy and its performance.
George Turner came to the end of his
uncommonly useful career at the end of last
week: heart disease, from which he
had suffered for many years, took
him off in Melbourne at the age
of 65. The Bulletin’s “plain, brown
man ’ came first into prominence in
1894. when Victoria was faced with the job
of cleaning away the wreckage of the awful
borrowing boom. For years .Melbourne had
been living in a state of exaltation. George
Turner was the invaluable man who knew
that two and two are four, and had the cour-
age and honesty to face the fact no matter
how much better off he would have been had
it been five—or three. He brought to public
business the same hard commonsense that he
knew would be expected of him by any client
who called in with business to be done at his
little law office; and that was all the magic
there was about him. v How well the quality
served the State in a great crisis may be
judged by the fact that he was kept in office
for five of the most woeful and strenuous
years in the history of Victoria; and when
Edmund Barton was forming his first
Commonwealth Government there seemed no
other possible man for Treasurer but the
plain, methodical, direct, kindly, unassuming
Victorian. Afterwards he was with his
friend Deakin in the latter’s first Ministry ;
but thereafter his health was bad, and for
.10 years past he had lived as quietly as
possible, content to be lost among the crowd
of other unpretentious little men who
carried their brown bags into business every
morning.
♦
The just-issued trade returns for the finan-
cial year 1915-10 are a solemn tale of adrift
to the Devil. Just look at this story of the
movement of merchandise, excluding gold
and specie—
Year to June, Imports. Exports.
1913 .. £75,746,287 £68,512,035
1914 .. 80,87-3,871 81,179,363
1915 . . 63,542,832 57,862,187
1916 . . 76,572,097 64,272,569
Now, in order to keep its accounts square
this country has not only to export enough
to pay for its imports, but it has also to
export enough in addition to pay interest on
its foreign public debt, which runs to about
£300,000,000. But instead of exporting this
£10,000.000 or more a year in excess of
imports, the country has only once in the
past four years exported even as much mer-
chandise as it has imported; and for the
four years the imports have in the aggregate
The Harvester.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A message to the New York Times says that the
German Emperor is spending- a holiday in helping
personally to reap the harvest, and thereby gaining-
physical exercise. He has divested himself of his grey
field uniform, and toils for whole afternoons in the
heat. He soon acquired a healthy tan. — Cable.
A continent is strewed with death and loss;
The gasp of death has stifled childhood’s
mirth;
Humanity is stretched upon a cross
That throws a shadow all about the earth;
And on its brow is set an impious crown
A tanglement of steel, of weapons gross,
From which the drops of agony fall down.
Yet still survives the sunlit, fruitful field,
Smiling and peaceful, specked with peer-
ing flow’rs,
That in the glory of its golden yield
Show gems of color, though that shadow
towers;
Here some may reap, forgetting all the hates
That rage around them, in some happy
hours.
But not for him this peaceful harvest waits!
Where outraged bodies are in masses piled
Amongst the ruins where contentment
reigned—
Babe and its mother, grey-haired sire and
child —-
Where manhood lies all blood and mire
bestained;
Where madness raves within the shattered
mind,
A harvest fair have Lust and Murder
gained.
Yet still another harvest he shall find!
With bloody hand War rakes its harvest in
From rifled life ; on leprous limbs, Disease
Creeps through the land; and Hunger seeks
to win
A triumph over all the miseries
Of violated homes, and hearts that break.
The harvest that they take belong to these,
And he, who loosed them, at their terrors
quake.
O mighty fool! The harvest you shall reap
A thing of agony and sweat shall be!
The haunted mind that never-more will sleep
But fly in terror through infinity
Pursued by shrieks that of base murders tell,
Th - anguished sound of tears that women
weep,
And curses of a million souls in Hell! /
N.S.AV.
HAMER.


GAELIC WHISKY.
We beg to announce that the Proprietors of this old Brand, viz., the
Craigellachie-Glenlivet Distillery Co., Limited, of Scotland, have voluntarily
liquidated their Company. The Assets thereof, including the above-named Distil-
lery, the Stocks of Whisky, Goodwill, Trade Marks, etc., have been acquired by
the Stirling Bonding Co., Limited (the original owners).
We are able to assure the supporters of
GAELIC WHISKY
tint the continuance of the business IS BEING MAINTAINED UNDER
PRECISELY THE SAME DIRECTION AND MANAGEMENT as heretofore,
and that the high standard of quality and the well-known characteristics of the
Brand will be continued without the slightest deviation.
Agents for N.S.W.:
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO. Ltd.
209-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
INSURE WITH
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society Limited.
Head Office: Corner Pitt & King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
Newman’s
The Bulletin
“Better
than Either’’
A Worcester Saupe of Fine Quality, not excelled
by the best Imported lines—costs less.
An Australian Triumph. Get a Bottle from the Grocer.
exceeded the exports by £25,000,000. To
that add the £40,000,000 or thereabouts of
interest on our foreign debt, and it will be
seen that we have gone to the bad to the
extent of £65,000,000 in four years, irre-
spective of the large sum of interest on
the private foreign debt. This national
deficit we have had to square either
by drawing upon our accumulations or by
giving P.N.’s and lOU’s. In the one case
we draw upon our stock of gold; in the
other we mortgage our future production.
What a Little Man Saw when He Peeped
into Hell.
At Melbourne on Monday Hughes unbur-
dened himself about the war ; and, of course,
the purple patches were many and the ora-
torical trimmings plentiful. But the speech
was a notable one, all the same, not so
much for what it contained as for the fact
that its general tone was the first real indi-
cation the Australian people have had of a
determination on the part, of the Government
to take the blinkers off the public and invite
it to look squarely at the truth about the
war and the position of the Commonwealth.
Stripped of decoration, what Hughes has
to say to the Australian citizen is:—
You have had your head in a bucket. Thus blinded,
you have imagined the impossible. You have dreamed
vain dreams. This war is a desperate and bloody
business. It is draining Europe white. Victory will
only be achieved by the Allies after tremendous effort
and at terrible cost. And decisive victory—the only
victory by which the world may be saved from fur-
ther horrors —is a long way off.
There is nothing new in this. It has been
said by other people before. But recogni-
tion of it has not, so far, been the basis of
Australian policy in any single direction.
The official dope, and the unofficial blather-
skite and the political shirker have all con-
spired to prevent the public mind from
grasping the immensity of the struggle in
which the British people are engaged, or
recognising the task before them. Cock-and-
bull yarns about the enemy’s exhaustion and
all the rest of it have taken the place of
truths about his strength. But even the
blind are beginning to see that a war of
exhaustion cuts two ways. Only by a force
greater than her own will Germany be beaten
to her knees; and if she is not beaten, not
only will the arms of Germany have won, but
the spirit of Prussia will gain world-wide
ascendancy. Hot air and resolutions are not
going to win this war; nor is a continua-
tion of the demented wasting of Australia’s
economic .strength going to assist fis to meet
the ugly problems of the days to come..
Meanwhile the war is raging with furious
intensity on battlefields hundreds of miles
apart. The Austrian is getting it in the
neck, the German is fighting desperately to
maintain his grip on Northern France. The
position on the whole is full of encourage-
ment- —not to sit down in the comfortable
belief that the end is within sight, but to
make redoubled efforts to secure relief by
victory. Once more, what is Hughes going
to no about it.?
«,
According to N. S. Wales Works Minister
Cann, the Government’s newest uncle is
not to get the job of building the North
Shore bridge:—
Tenders would have to be called throughout the
world, as there was not a sufficiently large plant
in Australia, and under the circumstances the time
allowed for the completion of the work —seven
years—would probably have to be extended.
One of the alleged reasons why the Norton-
GrifflTHS shindykit was fastened on to
N. S. Wales was the enormous plant it was
supposed to possess, or be able to produce
when required. Now, it appears, the
mighty plant has got frost-bitten, or eaten
by wild aphis, or something. Gann’s addi-
tional remark, “nor will the work be carried
out by day labor,” sounds as if one more
plank of the Labor platform is mighty close
to combustion point, too.
One of these days Victoria will simply have
to do something to put its charitable institu-
tions on a self-respecting basis. Melbourne
Hospital has drifted £26,000 in debt and is
paying interest at the rate of £3O a week.
This deplorable state of affairs is not sur-
prising when it is known that, although in
four years the annual cost of maintaining
the hospital has risen from £28,277 to
£52,066, the Government and municipal
grants have been increased by only £290.
Years ago an inspector of charities reported
that the State was wasting something like
£150,000 per annum in charitable adminis-
tration. yet no remedy has been applied.
The Government lacks the nerve to impose
a charity tax and has conscientious scruples
or something about raising a tax indirectly
by means of the totalisator. So money for
the maintenance of hospitals and other
important public institutions is raised by
the voluntary system, which costs anything
from 25 to 40 per cent, in collecting fees
and is an untidy system, anyhow.
If the newspaper reports are correct Judge
Fitzhardinge has just provided Newcastle
with some queer law. During the six o’clock
pub-closing campaign on the coalfield a Cold
Tea orator, in reply to an interjection,
“Even the police are against you,” said:
“I can quite understand that, seeing the
number of pots they receive on the nod from
the publicans.” The police were about tired
o: charges of this sort, so the orator was
charged with insulting language, and a
plain, sensible S.M. fined him £l.
Against this he appealed to his Honor
Fitzhardinge, who decided that, “had it
not been for the high character of the New-
castle police force the words complained of
might be insulting. For instance, it would
not be insulting to say that the Anzacs are
all cowards, because it would be so utterly
untrue.” The Judge’s definition of an
insult is apparently “an unpleasant truth.”
The greater the truth the worse the insult.
And the less the truth the less the insult,
until finally if there is no truth at all in a
statement there is no insult in it. It is
therefore a mere pleasantry to say that the
Judges of N. S. Wales are in the pay of the
publicans. No Judge could possibly regard
it as an insult. This doctrine taught by
the Bench at Newcastle is too dangerous
to be left untouched, and a higher Court
ought to be given an opportunity to say
that, even if Fitzhardinge was right in
allowing the appeal, in the opinion of
Supreme Court Judges he was utterly wrong
in his remarkable reasons.
Sydney Telegraph made a cynical confes-
sion the other morning. Ten years or so
back the paper was George Beid’s chief
fugleman when that unprincipled old fox,
run out of his other tricks, started his anti-
Sosh campaign and went to the country on
that cry. There are some people who still
talk of the tiger which Reid then chased up
and down the country, and who still fear the
brute. Yet listen now to the paper that was
Reid’s chief mouthpiece:—•
Once again, it is said, George Turner was reluc-
tant to take office in a Federal Ministry [the Reid-
McLean] which did not include Mr. Dear in. Mr.
Turner’s misgivings were justified by the events of
1905, when, owing to the effort of the coalition to
sink the fiscal iss-ue and its raising of a false anti-
Socialist cry, it was dismissed by the House of
Representatives after one of the most painful debates
ever listened to.
George Reid wanted Australia to go on
getting its mouse-traps, etc., from Germany;
and rather than honestly face his opponents
on the question and stand by the conse-
quences, he invented a bogus Sosh tiger. Of
course, The Bulletin proved all this
against the colossal humbug years ago. It
is some satisfaction, though, to get a cynical
confession of it now from the newspaper
that was deepest in the conspiracy.
“Hamer”: The Holman crowd appears to
have fallen into another odorous pit. It
seems that a prospective Labor candidate
for election to the Assembly did not possess
the necessary P.L.L. qualifications, but that
trifling difficulty was got over by his friends
with the aid of a union secretary who was
willing to assist in making things right. So
the candidate was accredited as a three
years’ unionist and his nomination paper
was duly signed and attested by the P.L.L.
as all in order. A Cabinet Minister and a
civil servant are alleged to have been the
instigators of the plot, and the P.L.L.
executive when it got to hear of it promptly
expelled the two minor conspirators from
its books. The Minister meanwhile has
been firmly requested to roll up and explain
his devious tracks.
Two plucky but unlucky Australians were
in the last lot of invalids to reach Sydney.
One was that good recruiter, Corporal Fern,
M.L.A., who fell sick before he reached
Egypt; the other Lieut. Hart, Australia’s
own airman, who, after being lent to the
Royal Flying Corps as instructor, suffered
from the effects of old injuries almost as
soon as he had struck the cold of the North,
and had to be invalided home.
Peacock’s newest idea is to order his
Tramway Control Board to make repara-
tion to the Railways for competition with
suburban traffic —estimated by the Commis-
sioners to cost the Department about
£40,000 a year. But the rule ought to
work both ways. Several outer and newer
tramlines bring traffic to the railways—not
only passenger, but goods, because the people
wouldn’t be where they are but for the
trams. But, anyhow, where’s the sense of
taking money out of one pocket to put it into
another? It only wears out the pocket, and
Peacock can hardly call that economy.
There’s nothing doing in regard to the six
o’clock closing crusade as far as one Scotchby-
terian parson in Vic. is concerned. Rev.
J. G. Davies, of Bendigo, told his congrega-
tion that they could do what they liked about
it, but he didn’t think it was up to him to
meddle in the matter. If the publicans tried
to close the churches at 6 p.m. on Sundays
the churches would tell them to mind their
own business, and his idea was that what
was sauce for the clerical goose was sauce for
the Bung gander.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Arcadians”
Criterion “Too Many Cooks”
Royal “Duncan McClure and the Poor Parson”
Palace Royal Strollers
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMINO WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Gill in the Train”
Royal “The Story of the Rosary”
King’s “Peg o’ My Heart”
Princess's Gonsalez Italian Opera Co.
Bijou Fuller Vaudeville
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s Own & Olympia Hoyt’s Pictures
Glaciaiuum Ice Skating
The eighth week of the Gonsalez @o. at
Melbourne Princess’s brought Puccini’s well-
beloved operas, “Butterfly” and “Boheme,”
into comparative criticism. Both perform-
ances were successful, but “Boheme” was
decidedly the better of the two in nearly
all respects. “Butterfly” is the one Italian
ITALIAN GRAND OPERA AT MEL-
BOURNE PRINCESS’S (“Madame
Butterfly” ).
Petrucci as Goro.
Lois as Pinkerton.
opera in the world which can be more con-
vincingly treated by English or American
artists than by the composer’s compatriots.
The colder people are. more natural mimics
of the Japanese, and three of the characters
are Yankees, anyhow. In this case the
fugitive priest who comes along in a hurry
to curse poor Butterfly for having dropped
her religion was ridiculously presented as a
sort of Pope. On the other hand Petrucci,
the veteran character-actor of the co., made
an effective Gozo, the pimp and matrimonial
agent. Miss Gonsalez, in the name part,
looked fully a dozen years older that, her
real age and much less attractive than a
prima donna ought to look, her wig and
kimono being unbecoming. But she sang
the music prettily and acted pleasingly up
to the point where she grabbed an ensan-
guined piece of muslin to stanch her death
wound. Also the tenor, Lois, was pleasing
enough, although he has only a limited
range of stereotyped gestures and poses,
and he holds his notes back in his throat to
sweeten them. Belloni, the very tall and
dignified baritone, was something like an
American Consul in the first act. but grew
less satisfactory afterwards. The beautiful
“letter” music suffered from his tremolo,
and his dismal black suit suggested that he
foresaw the sad end of Butterfly and was
dressed in readiness for the funeral. Miss
Russ, of the nondescript voice, played the
part of Suzuki charmingly, and Miss Piccolo
was an elderly and colorless Mrs. Pinkerton.
The orchestra did some good work, especially,
in the silent vigil music which ends the
second act. but the fruit of Pinkerton’s
unholy wedlock Avas an infant who behaved
very badly at the first attempt.
* * -* ' *
“Boheme,” with the same three principals
in foremost parts, Avas one of the best
achievements of the season. The four men
—Lois, Belloni, Seamuzzi and Cacialli —
made a capital party of bohemians. Petrucci
Avas just excellent as the old landlord in
the first act and the gay dodderer avlio has
to pay the bills in the second. Miss Yisoni’s
bright young personality and incisive Avarble
gave neAV distinction to Musetta, the giddy
minx. And Miss Gonsalez Avas an interest-
ing Mimi. None of the charm of Puccini’s
music was lost in the singing of the solos,
duets and quartets, although the flow was
sometimes interrupted by demands for an
encore. Italians, seemingly, look for encores
in the modern operas the same as in the old-
fashioned works where the composer sup-
plied pauses for applause. The death scene
Avas played less melodramatically and more
impressively than usual. Blemishes and
shortcomings in the performance seemed due
to Avant of rehearsal. The chorus croAA’d in
the second act was very so-so, and the
orchestra and the principals had not come
to a complete understanding on all points.
But when it gets to Sydney this opera should
go as smoothly as any of them.
The novelty for this week is “Gioconda,”
which comes to hearing on Friday. Next
week will be the last of the opera season
and of Marlow’s management of the Prin-
cess’s. With Marlow it is a case of all’s
well that ends well. The Bulletin said
hard things of him when he was
running bedroom bellodrama, but on step-
ping-stones of his dead managerial self he
has risen to higher things tit popular prices.
Press and public are grateful for his recent
plucky ventures.
For the failure of “Too Many Cooks” at
the Criterion (Sydney) on Saturday night
only two of the fraternity can be blamed —
the cook who chose the play for an Austra-
lian audience and the cook who cast it. The
cook who - composed the comedy, Frank
Craven, dished it up to tickle the palate
of his own American diners ; and the nght
frothy confection doubtless satisfied pe< pie
accustomed to that sort of fare. And
the other cook, the stage carpenter, did
all that could be expected of him.
The comedy has apparently been con-
structed to show how a desirable resi-
dence can be constructed for £5OO in three
acts. There is some slight but genuine
comedy in the conflicting ideals of the young-
couple who are building their cosy home, and
in the plethora of advice that every other
character proffers to the distracted pair; but
the story drags. And the introduction of a
mob of farcical waybacks into the comedy
adds unnecessary noise without contributing
materially to its humor.
* * * *
Edwin Lester, the contractor for the build-
ing, played an important serious character
with a genial conscientiousness: and Tom
MacLarnie, despite an irritating forced laugh
and an unnecessary strut, managed to make
of his old-man part a convincing character.
Hale Hamilton had few opportunities for his
special gifts of comedy ; but all he had to do
was done with delightful naturalness. Ilonald
Bowles was inimitably grotesque; but in his
praiseworthy efforts to force the laughs he
made the character farcical. Beatrice Nichols
was. for some inscrutable reason, cast for the
character of the heroine; Myrtle Tannehill
contented herself with a minor part. Though
the former was always bright, her repartee
was unnecessarily shrewish, and she failed
to suggest the sweetness or the charm that
the part called for. With Myrtle Tannehill
as the heroine, the comedy might have a
better chance of success; for though her
part on Saturday was done in a way that
adds to this paper’s appreciation of her stage
ability, its contribution to the comedy was
“TOO MANY COOKS,” AT SYDNEY
CRITERION .
Frank Andrews (Donald Bowles) and
Simpson ( Edwin Lester).
negligible. The 11 waybaek cooks and the
alleged glow-worms or fireflies or electric
torches may be lumped as collectively f.a.q.
Reg. Roberts has nearly always scored
well when he has been provided with a
dramatic three-course meal. In trifling
parts he is liable to act as though he be-
longed to the I.W.W. As Vincent, the
simple young lover of “Ma Mie Rosette/’
now doing a revival week at Her Majesty’s
(Sydney), he registers one of the best
performances of the season. He looks young
in his picturesque rustic . clothes, there is
any amount of fire in his acting, and his
voice is all right. Derek Hudson is splen-
didly disguised in the whiskers, doublet and
hose of Henry IV. of France; and his char-
acteristic stage swagger is really better
suited to old-costume stuff than to modern
frock-coat parts'. Ethel Cadman makes a


r
8^
L
fit.
DT
OOORD&,SO N
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
.Swift & Company L,td., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., SydneyTli
ONCE
TASTED
The Bulletin
DANI£L
CRAWFORD’S
RED STAR A WHISKY
5/9
each
SB*
PEAPES’ CREPE SHIRTS
advance in price.
Our Crepe Shirts for the coming Summer
have been made up from reserve stocks of
last year’s proven materials. Consequently
we have the same excellent quality and the
same neat designs, and can quote the usual
price of 5/9 each. ■
Peapes’ Crepe Shirts are cool and light, and
give extremely long service. Neat Blue or
Black Checks or Stripes over white grounds,
or self tones in Buff, Blue or Grey. Soft or
stiff cuffs,* as desired.
Please state linen collar size. Patterns on
request.
Peapes & Co. Ltd.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 George Street, Sydney.
dainty Rosette, who looks natural when she
pedals wildly from the pursuing King. Her
act-long dream, by the way, is astonishingly
complete in its details considering it was
dreamed by a young woman in humble cir-
cumstances. But perhaps there was some
ancient substitute for the modern “society”
rag that tells plain people with colored
yearnings what the Best People are doing
and how they are doing it. Bantock in
the antique trappings and bandages of
old Colonel Cognac sticks to the book and
doesn’t lose by it. Phil Smith is a comedian
at sea as Bouillon; but his stage colleague,
Mrs. George Lauri (Martha), keeps on
rescuing him. Florence Young is having a
week-long At Home with the fine costumes
and music of Corisande. The Official
Remembrancer who wants to tell how long
it is since she first sang Corisande’s music
has been stunned. “The Arcadians” on
Saturday.
“Duncan McClure and the Poor Parson”
are still showing a lot of Sydneysiders how
gay the country can be in Steele Rudd’s
books. The demonstrations are held at the
Royal.
There is no room anywhere else for this
advt.:—
PERSONAL AND MISSING FRIENDS.
WILL the Primed Minister of Australia, Empire
saver, metal expert, etc., on his arrival in Sydney
meet an old friend at the Palace Theatre? After a
long course of fpg, dodging submarines, ground and,
lofty feeding, leg-pull, Llewellyn ap Bwlchbyehan,
snobs, Daily Mail, University tags (unearned), free-
dom-of-city japes and sundries, a c-heer-oh is essential.
We’ll get it at the Strollers.
Under the guidance of the Rev. Ben Fuller
at Sydney Adel phi, “The Follies of
Pleasure” continue to fill the plate each
night, and until the end of this week the
heavyweight chorus will practise Christian
Science before losing itself in a harem. On
Saturday Murray Simons will dissolve a
couple more of his tabloid revues.
V
The Goldin Age of illusion is ending at
Sydney . Tivoli. After Friday night the
smart citizen who has solved the high-cost-
of-living problem, explained the Holman
Government and seen right to the back of
Hughes’s mind will have to go elsewhere
for puzzles to blunt his intellectual teeth on.
The Tivoli survivors who will then keep the
orchestra from going home at five minutes
past eight may include Jack and Foris,
Floyd Mack and Mabelle, Baslo and Vivi,
Grace Hanson, Jimmy Fletcher and Os-ko-
mon. A glance at the managerial advt. will
show that these people are the most talented
performers that ever breathed on a press
agent’s ear.
This week at Sydney movie halls :—•
Lyceum: “The Primal Lure,” a story of. Canadian
pioneering days, including a spirited scrap with
the Indians; “The No Good Guy,” a comedy-drama
considerably better than its title; and “The Movie
Star,” a rippling Sennett comedy.
Empress': “Destruction of a Fokker,” an official
film of a thrilling air duel; “The Good Bad
Man,” the story of a modern Robin Hood; and
“Mutt and Jeff in the Foreign Legion.”
Crystal Palace: “Bucking Society,” a wild bur-
lesque on the cowboy films.
Hoyt’s (old Colonial) : Continuous 90-minutes’
show during day; a three-hours’ programme Wil-
liam Fox and Metro, features, beginning at eight
o’clock each evening.
“The Story of the Rosary” at Melbourne
Royal is still giving the hero, Frank
Harvey, a long run for his missus. When
the warrior escapes from custody as a
prisoner of war, he has to face a thousand
miles of hunger and wild animals to reach
Madge Fabian, his beauteous bride. Of
course, the. human phenomenon covers the
distance without trouble or mishap, and
arrives.home just in time to prevent the lady
dedicating her future to the service of the
Church. It is a big, passionate moment for
the dusty soldier when he interposes between
his wife and her final vows; but, on the
whole, his devotion appears to be a bit
overdone, for the object of it almost
seems to wish he hadn’t. However,
Miss Fabian has a painfully color-
less part, and she can therefore be pardoned
when she plays it in a mechanical, faraway
manner, and speaks the drivelsome dialogue
as if it were a dead language.
Peg, at Melbourne King’s, continues to
bring her bi’own unspeakable dawg into the
wrong room of the right house eight times a
week. Also she is making as many allusions
as before to the father who lives in New
York, and whose Heart she is the Peg of.
The best compliment one can pay to Sara
Allgood, in the name-part, is to remark that
her naturalness makes the audience think
quite seriously of the invisible wild Irish-
man she left in America. The actress does
more, than give realism to her own character.
She imparts realism to Peg’s supposititious
parent.
* * *
At Melbourne Majesty’s parting is such
sweet sorrow that J.C.W., Ltd., will say
“To-night’s the Night” until to-morrow. On
Saturday comes a revival of “The Girl In
the Ti-ain,” which the advt. says is not too
saucy but just saucy enough.
On Monday, 28th, Melba will star for a
matinee at Her Majesty’s (Melb.) in aid of
the theatrical charities. She appears in
a scene from grand opera, and all the com-
panies in the city will contribute to the pro-
gramme.
Ross and Wyse and the Rig Surprise is
the programmed description of a couple of
patterers and an acrobatic infant who com-
menced a season at Melbourne Bijou on
Saturday. Ross and Wyse may be dis-
missed as specialists in gags that are no
longer youthful, but the baby Surprise per-
forms balancing feats like a veteran. Estelle
Wordette and Co. are bickering wearily in
another bleak offering, “When a Cat’s
Away” ; and the Farrows are showing off in
a sketch entitled “The Bargain Hunter.”
Other new lights are Alf Holt, a comedian
and mimic, and Fenner and Sully, acrobatic
lunatics who are at their best in their lucid
intervals. The rest of the Bijou squad com-
prise Mendel and Nagel, the Three Saxons,
Ray Monde, Brown and Sorlie, and the
Robert Demont Trio.
The present programme at Melbourne
Tivoli is practically last week’s bill length-
ened by the addition of a frail skit on the
motion-picture industry. The alleged travesty
is entitled “How a Movie is Made,” but its
only noticeable feature is the inability of
three lady Tivolians to look like the film-
stars they are supposed to be. The droll
tongue of Miss Marie King-Scott is still con-
spicuous in the earlier part of the proceed-
ings, and the fiddling of Keith Kennedy con-
tinues to be agreeable to the musically-
inclined.
The chief item of a quiet week in Adelaide
amusements was a “Queen Coronation” even-
ing at the Tivoli —just the place for a spec-
“TOO MANY COOKS.” AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Fred Cambourae, secretary of the Car-
penters’ Union (Hale Hamilton).
tacle of the kind. Only the winning queen,
Mrs. Hawker (representing Sport), went on
the stage, but there were dozens of hand-
some amateurs in the tableaus. The Bran-
don Cremer Co. gave a short play, and the
Majestic and the Dandies threw in popular
turns. At the said Majestic, which is strong-
est on the musical side at present, are the
Credos, Merton and By don, and the La Mert
pair. Among the pictures West’s alone
break new ground by showing views of the
various local waterfalls in flood.
There seems to be no end to our loafing
on the baby. The Melbourne Hospital has
got £26,000 into debt; which means that
the old man isn’t even paying his doctors’
bills, but is passing them on now to the
unfortunate kid, along with most of the cost
of the war and other things.
Died in England, Frank P. Mahony, who
could paint a horse with as much sympathy
as anybody who ever handled a brush in
Australia, and with more power. He put
remarkable feeling into his animal studies:
witness “The Cry of the Mothers,” in the
Sydney Gallery. Mahony, born in Mel-
bourne 54 years ago, contributed very
largely to The Bulletin until he went to
London in the ’9o’s. He should never have
made that move. Neither the climate nor
the people suited his temperament; and his
output has been much less than it should
have been. He had arranged at last to
return; but chronic ill-health had gripped
him, and to the regret of this paper he died
before he could carry out his plan.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Thorold Waters,” from London:—
On the very day I was reading- some pleasantries
by “0.K.” in The Bulletin re the banishment of
“sauerkraut music” from London since the con-
flagration started, Fog critics were spreading- them-
selves with all the old-time gush because Beecham
had revived “Tristan” to a big public response. “It
recalled other and happier days,” quoth the Daily
Teleuhaph, tlie recognised musicians’ medium.
“The name of Wagner has not lost its magic in our
midst. The gratifying point is that even in such
times as the present our music-loving public, given
a good thing, are not disposed to turn their backs
upon it. Congratulations to all concerned”—includ-
ing Wagner and son Siegfried, of course. Also the
Times : “That the London public has gone for two
years without its Wagner is apparently only due to
lack of opportunity, not to any self-denying ordin-
ance or to revulsion from the Wagner fever.” Before
London got its share of the revival, Manchester had
been equally enthusiastic. Personally I would be
rather glad if Germany was wiped out to its last
man; but it is sheer rubbish to talk contemptuously
in these days about Wagner, Beethoven and co.,
simply because their latter-day compatriots have
lapsed into dinning another sort of music in our ears.
If it were not for Wagner, we would have quite a
different kind of Puccini, another Elgar altogether
and no Mascagni or Leoncavallo to speak of. He is
their fundamental, and all the screeching of “0.K.”
or any other person cannot alter that. Nor is it
right to try to make Australian music-lovers think
that England has abolished the German kind of
music. It tried to for a month or two, and now
there isn’t a decent concert in these somewhat desert
days in the Smoke that fails to give us the masters
of music, whatever their nationality.
The Orpheus Society in Adelaide has
found itself unable to decide whether to bar
all German music or not. Some members
are unwilling to sing it; others say that in
part songs for male voices—the special
object of the Orpheus’s existence—there is
very little available that had not a German
origin. The annual meeting decided to leave
the question over for the incoming com-
mittee. In England a compromise is now
being adopted: “Nothing later than
Brahms.”
“0.K.”: Cecil Brooking, of the “Peg o’
My Heart” Go., endorses all that Hugh
Buckler said about German treatment of
English mummers. Both of them were
members of Beerbohm Tree’s co. which went
to Berlin at the Kaiser’s irivitation. Brook-
ing speaks only of the arrogant attitude of
the Berlin press and public towards the
strangers who were presuming to play
Shakspeare before kultured critics. Buckler
spoke rather of the hoggish animosity
displayed by the stage-hands at the
theatre. The signs of animosity ranged
from petty annoyances to dangerous
“accidents.” Buckler himself had a
narrow escape from injury by a ham-
mer which fell from the “flies.” Unac-
countable negligence was shown in dropping
things and leaving things about where they
were likely to be tripped over. This was
when the co. was rehearsing prior to the
first appearance. Afterwards the stage-
hands must have received orders to make
themselves pleasant, or else they were
bumbled bv the splendor and completeness of
Tree’s production.
“C. Ockney”: No wonder rumors get
about that England is not taking the war
seriously! Australia’s old theatrical favor-
ifrpi •k |<^ nun d Gwenn was lately playing in
Ihe Show Shop,” which was being run at
the London Globe by the Vaudeville Syndi-
cate known as Moss’s Empires, Ltd. Gwenn
had received official notification calling him
up in his army group, so he naturally
informed' his management that he’d have to
leave the show. Whereupon the manage-
ment sent him a polite letter reminding him
that his contract was for the run of the
piece. Too much Moss and too little Empire
about that outfit, evidently.
“Harrison O.”: “La Boheine,” by the Gon-
salez lightweights, is, dramatically, the most
convincing performance of the opera I have
seen. None of the principals is built on
Dreadnought lines, and it is quite possible
to believe that the Quartier quartette rarely
devours . anything more nourishing than
spaghetti and absinthe. Tenor Lois, as the
i’oet, is as real as Henry Lawson —a very
different Rudolf to the plump young soft-
goods assistant presented by McCormack, for
example. The other bohemians starve and
frivol more convincingly than usual, and are
able, to push across the footlights a real sug-
gestion of the world, the flesh and the garlic.
Miss Gonsalez is the first Mimi I have seen
who might have died of consumption; most
of the others have given the impression that
their complaint was dropsy.
“Old Charlie” : Someone says (B. 3/8/’IG)
' Ballarat is dying on its feet.” Ben Fuller
isn’t among the mourners, anyway. After
feeling the pulse of the town ‘Fuller found
there was life enough in the place to justify
him in taking over His Majesty’s Theatre on
a long lease, and beginning with “The Worst
Woman in London.” Baronet W. .J. Clarice
lent the cash to build the Worst Woman’s
home, and always proclaimed it the rashest
act of his life.
“He Oriel”: While touring out back
recently our manager wired the next Bung:
“Can you accommodate six theatricals?
Wire your tariff.” The reply came promptly:
“Yes; can put you up. Hope business pay-
able. Tariff —all drinks sixpence; bottle
stuff one shilling.”
(Continued on page 3.j.)
If the war lasts another seven years there
is a reasonable probability that some of the
present ingenious arrangements for wasting
money will be noticed by somebody. Then
an eye may be given to the tremendous ex-
penditure in fitting up troopships. Several
of them are used for carrying Australians
to Europe and also for bringing British
Tommies back to Egypt, India, etc. Under
the British regulations certain things are re-
quired and are provided at great expense in
England. Then the ship arrives in Aus-
tralia, and, the Australian regulations re-
quiring other things, the ship is- pulled to
pieces and the fittings which were put in at
the start of the voyage are pulled out. On
the other side the Australian fittings are
pulled out and the British regulations com-
plied with over again. So the dreadful ex-
penditure goes on. The bill will come in
presently.
“Personnel’s” story of a grievance:—
In “The Man Who Stayed at Home” the hero
coolly lights his pipe with the whits feathers the
girls send him and apparently is not hurt, because
he knows what they don’t, that he is doing his duty
to his country. I don’t know that the citizen soldier
or officer who stays at home can take things as
nonchalantly. He may have good reasons why he
has not gone to the Front, and if he is an officer
he cannot hold his commission unless those reasons
appear to the authorities to be very good. It may
be that he has volunteered and is using all the
influence he can to get to the Front, but is detained
because his services are required to mould the raw
material and impart discipline and drill.
I don’t think many people understand the tribula-
tions of “The Man Who Stayed at Home.” If he be
an officer in the citizen forces he is called up for
seivice; he must leave his business or profession
all . c \ that is less than he received as a
Militia Officer, and less than the pay of the Per-
manent Officer, though he is doing the same work
and very often doing it better. No matter what
his rank may be, no matter what high and onerous
position he may hold, he cannot be paid for his
services at a higher rate than that of a lieut.-colonel.
But worse case of all is that of the man who
has volunteered, is physically fit, and though strain-
ing every nerve to get away, is compelled to remain
to train reinforcements. It hurts him that he is
in command and is training the A.I.F. but is not
of them. His marking is “Home Service.” If he
gets an illness he is not treated in the same way
as the officer lie is training, who receives his pay
just the same. The other may not get pay, and if
lie do not get well he is turned adrift quickly.
liieie aie Militia Officers who have been training
units since the war began. They would have gone
long ago, but their services are too valuable, or
there are no vacancies for them. And they receive
white feathers, smaller pay, “no increments,” and,
what hurts most of all, are classed “Home Service.”
Does the Minister for Defence know these things?
He can very easily and quickly be possessed of the
facts, as given above.
But what can the Minister do to stop the
white feather foolishness—or worse? There
is only one cure for that. Universal service
conscription—call it what you please! ’
NOBLE YOUNG MAN!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I wooed some years ago
Various ladies, Mr. Cupid,
Some were fast and some were slow,
But they all seemed “good,” I know,
To a noble youth and stupid,
Full of knightly rubbish that
Voung knights carry ’neath the hat.
When I think of fun I missed
With these willing maids and merry,
Careless girls I might have kissed
If I’d had no wowser twist,
I feel idiotic—very.
When I longed to be a rake,
Then the wowser would awake.
When I lingered in the dark,
Arms around my latest fancy,
Something grim—the Inward Nark !
Would, much like a house-dog, bark,
Warning me beware of Nancy.
Then flirtation would grow slow
Till she sighed, “It’s time to go!”
Heaven knows how many times
Girls despised me, Mr. Cupid,
For my sentimental crimes—■
Kissing feebly, writing rhymes.
Rhymes! Good lord, but that was stupid!
Those robust Australian misses
Wanted only hugs and kisses.
Fun and frolic! Rhymes are stupid.
M here have all those girls gone, Cupid?
Girls with whom I might have tarried?....
Cupid answers, “Fat and married!”
N.S.W.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.


An “ORIENT”
TWO-PIECE TWEED SUIT
for 50/“
Consisting of coat and trousers only. Coat is cut with
yoke and lialf-belt at back, as shown in illustration: four
roomy patch pockets, with flaps. Trousers are fitted
with' belt, loops and inside brace buttons; two side
pockets and one hip pocket. Equally suitable foi
walking, motoring, holiday or any sports wear, also for
business and city. Made in all’'men s sizes of both
English and Scotch Tweeds, in a laige lanety ot
patterns and colorings, 50/-
Superior Qualities, 55/-, CO/-, 63/-, 65/-
Iye pay carriage.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
Opp. C.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
y
i 1
LL^-J
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
now complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
He Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
The Bulletin
GAME.
HE: “What do you think of the microhes-in-
kisses theory?”
SHE ( cheerfully ): “Oh, I’ve heard that we
couldn’t get along without certain kinds
of microbes.”
“Mac” : The truest bit of real Australian I
struck after I got to Gallipoli was the day
.lira was knocked out. Rill and .Tim had been
mates all through—and then, in a hot, ex-
cited half-hour, Jim delayed a bullet. Bill
sprang to his side, held him in Ins arms, and
then with a “By God!” he was over the
parapet, his hat was flung down, and he was
screaming: “Come on, drop your guns
anv one of you s. Let’s have it out li
men!” And the horror of it was that poor
Bill fell riddled with bullets.
From Billjim, M.D., in 1 ranee . -
And I got the gum-leaves and the wattle-blossoir.
and took them into the wards; and you should have
seen how the tiny scraps were scrambled for! Soon
all the boys had the dried leaves to their noses try-
ing to get a sniff out of them! “That s what
Heaven smells like, sister,” one said. We want a
little of that, and we want it for this coming winter.
Seems a small thing, but it will be a big thing toi
old Billjim Wallaby when he comes out of some
filthy Flanders trench, and it will be a bigger thing
still in the hospitals. I’m not worrying a bit about
how B.W. will stand the Bodies; but I’m worrjing
a lot about the climate, and anything you can do to
help them through is worth while.
“Nick Bottom”: Whose are the bright
brains that compose the text-books for N. S.
Wales schools? One publication avers that
“Ocean steamers lie just inside the heads
| Tweed] while small river craft ply to Mur-
willumbah, a distance of 20 miles up the
river.” As a matter of fact, steamers that
can jump over the Tweed bar can (and the
majority of them do) discharge their cargo
at Murwillumbah. In my establishment for
the manufacture of good Australian citizens
there is a map of N. S. Wales that teems
with errors. Towns that should stand in one
place have lost their way and wandered
to another, and centipedes that are marked
this or that range crawl across a landscape
that is, in reality, as bare of mountains as a
frog is of wool. Several of the atlases sup-
plied by the Department show the Hunter
River prancing into Port Stephens, the New
England range crawling drunkenly into the
bed which had evidently been vacated by its
North Coast neighbor, and Ben Lomond and
jMt. Lindsay visiting each other. But when,
on turning up Sydney in Arthur Mee’s
Children’s Encyclopedia one finds it
standing on Botany Bay, the light of faith in
“text-books” is blown out by a great gust.
“Y.Z.”: In Melbourne the idea of sex
education in State schools, as a means of
preparing youth, and advising it that syphilis
is more to be avoided than the red devil in
any other shape, has been knocked emphati-
cally on the head by those shrinking souls
who argue that any such teaching must serve
to brush the bloom from the cheek of inno-
cence and start youngsters discussing sex
matters in play-hours. But already school-
children do discuss sex matters in the school-
ground and elsewhere. Practically every
teacher meets with constantly-recurring
demonstrations of juvenile precocity in this
direction. As things are, the children’s little
knowledge is the worst knowledge. Igno-
rance and mystery add to its baseness. The
efforts to hide away every vestige of reality
from them gives the thing a fearful
piquancy. Suggestiveness is everywhere,
truth nowhere, and wonderment, one of the
most powerful factors in the mind of a child,
works all for the worst. Teach the children
enough to rob the subject of its appealing
mystery, and children will think cleanly
about it when they think at all. Keep a
dark, locked room in your house, and you
will expect your children to be there con-
tinually, with their noses at the cracks. If
you expect otherwise, you are a fool.
“Myola”; Come to the holy man’s house
—not the one he lives in, but the one he
rents to some hard-pressed worker. The
free kindergarten teacher discovered it only
when she took home one of the poor little
mites who had coughed herself to exhaus-
tion. The child led her down various
depressing streets to a musty, kennel-like
hovel, situated below the level of a blind
alley, which was practically a drain leading
into a lane. The refuge consisted of two
rooms and a household of God knows how
many. Fumbling endeavors had been made
by the tenants to keep out the rain with
tops of kerosene tins. Pluddled in the
miasma inside were two elder children cov-
ered with “damp” sores. One of them was
almost blind. The wretched tenants didn’t
know who their landlord was. “No, we
never see him ; the agent collects the rent
every weelc and won’t do any repairs.”
Later inquiries proved that the rathole was
owned by a parson—the very one who visits
the kindergarten and buzzes to the coughing
youngsters about God!
Though the proposed Victorian legitimi-
sation of the “war baby” will be a beneficent
reform as far as it goes, most of the talk on
the subject is blather and foolishness. There
has long been a big military camp at Gee-
long ; but in the recent report of the presi-
dent of the Female Refuge in the neighbor-
hood it was stated that “for the first time in
its history the home was without inmates
early in the year, and laundry work had to
be discontinued.” So much for the cackle
concerning Billjim’s immorals.
NOT CURED YET.
HE: “I hare been on the stage for seven years."
SHE : “And you still long to be an actor?”
The notion that if both parties to a
marriage desire a divorce good and suffi-
c-icnt reason has been shown for keeping
them chained received a jolt in Victoria the
other afternoon. Franz Otto Schieblich
(three cheers for the red, white and blut-
wurst) applied to be unhitched from his
wife, Irene, on the ground of her giddiness
with the co-re.; while Irene brought a
counter petition alleging undue friendship
on the part of her hubby for a serving-
wench, and constructive desertion. After the
case had provided a couple of days’ diver-
sion from war news, counsel announced that
both sides were willing to withdraw the
aspersions they had cast on one another’s
fidelity if ’s Honor would agree to a
divorce on the constructive desertion side-
issue. The Court put up a pretence of
looking shocked, and then adjusted its horse-
hair and remarked that it seemed a dashed
sensible suggestion.
It isn’t often that the Speck’s Governor,
Ellison Macartney, abandons the unruffled
demeanor that usually goes with a cock-hat;
but the other day he landed on the Red
Cross in Hobart at a startling rate of speed.
The society has collected some £lO,OOO, but
the controllers are apparently keeping it as
a monument to their ineptitude. Anyhow,
nothing has been done, and sick and wounded
men back after doing their bit have to hang
round the town while waiting for their
recovery and discharge, or go into the mili-
tary details camps. In either case they
suffer. His Ex. pointed out that if the
Red Cross dallied much longer it would find
the scrap over and a big lump of somebody
else’s money on its hands. Hustled from
this unexpected quarter the committee pro-
posed to put up a “rest-house” somewhere in
the bee-utiful country, where T. Anzac could
watch the leaves shoot and hear the birds
twitter. But the Gov. headed them off,
declaring that the men would sooner be close
to where they could hear the musical chirp
of their old cobbers. The there-
upon got hold of a building down Wapping
way, where the loafers and prostitutes in
the town gather. A meeting of khaki made
a hearty protest, but the kick came too late.
The everlasting “Snow case” has lifted its
head in the courts and called for assistance
-—-and of course assistance was immediately
offered by wigs and gowns in great strength.
FANNIE WARD, WHO STARRED IN
“THE CHEAT ” AS “ TENNESSEE ,” IN
“TENNESSEE’S PARDEE."
A flicker version by the Lasky Company of
Bret Harte’s book.
The 'Naughty Highwayman tells Fannie
when she tries to shoot him : "That might
have cost you your life."
The Paramount Picture of the Week.
The High Court has given “the Crown'
leave to appeal to that Court against the
decision of the Supreme Court of South
Aus., which quashed the conviction ot
Francis Snow, the metal-buyer, for doing
something which somebody thought was
technically “trading with the enemy” within
the meaning of the Act which nobody quite
understands. So now the whole weary busi-
ness will begin over again on a fresh stage;
and who will be the better for it in _ the
long run Heaven only knows. There might
be some sense in the proceedings if Snow
was still in business and still under sus-
picion. But he isn’t in business, and he
isn’t under suspicion; and the proceedings
are. not much short of a criminal waste of
money.
BOTH DEADLY.
MAUD: “Billy has been wounded.”
MABEL: “German bullet or French girl’s
eyes?”
At Melbourne City Court the other day a
lady was dealt with for accosting one of us
and throwing an apple at him. Eve’s methods
have increased in vigor since she first brought
the forbidden vegetable under the notice of
the male sex.
“UTU!”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the Maoriland House, on the second anniversary
of the war, Dr. Pomare, representing: the native race,
in supporting a motion expressing Parliament’s in-
flexible determination to continue the war to a
successful issue, said: “To-day /Egean breezes stir
the grasses over the graves of mine and yours, and
wherever a Maori hears the moan of the wind,
whenever he hears the boom of the guns, it reminds
him that away beyond the seas Utu (revenge) has
got to be brought about for the dead.... The spirit
of Rewi.... lives in the Maori to-day, and I cry
in the same spirit of defiance, ‘Alee! Ake! Ake!’
(For ever and ever and ever!).”
When across the tussock-grass,
Whispering, the great winds pass,
What the message that they bring,
What the mournful dirge they sing?
To the Maori soul they speak
Of jEgean hillsides bleak.
O’er our warriors lying lone
Faint /Ugean breezes moan;
Bitterly do they upbraid:
“For our chiefs who proudly died,
Of their spirit-home denied,
For their graves unsanctified
Utu, utu is not made!”
When the steady ocean breeze
Stirs the spirits of our trees,
Angrily our gods awake:
“Why do you not vengeance take?
Never shall we know relief
Till that evil, skulking Chief
From Te Reinga’s Rock is hurled
Howling to the Under-world !
Swear that blood-debt shall be paid!
Life for life our chieftains’ code;
So to pay that debt long owed,
Send him on Te Reinga’s Road !
Utu, utu must be made!”
Though beside those alien waves
Tapu. are our warriors’ graves,
Still uneasy lie our dead,
Waiting till that soul is sped.
Still the Maori, chiefs among
Lives old Rewi, he who flung
His immortal battle-cry.
“Ake! Ake!” we reply,
“Vengeance comes, not long delayed.
In one tribe, the brown and white,
We to victory will fight.
Gods and warriors, all is right!
Maori utu shall be made!”
X.SAV.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


“GUINEA”
FOOTWEAR
of Pike Brothers Limited aspires to the
attainment of the three ideals of fine
shoemaking—comfort, style and
longevity...
As soon as you put your feet in
a pair fine appearance and
ease is obvious. The
wear is guaranteed.
SEND FOR A PAIR ON APPROVAL.
211-
Post Free.
P/ease State Size.
3*
PIKE BROTHERS Ltd.,
Toowoomba.
BRISBANE.
Townsville.
HOTEL SYDNEY
Hay Street,
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION.
TARIFF :
Bed and Breakfast . . 6/6 each person
Board and Residence . 11/ per day
Board and Residence *. 70/ per week-
EXCELLENT CUISINE PERFECT SERVICE
EVERY MODERN COMFORT AND CONVENIENCE
Campbell Street
“ril EDwan 0s
Pitt Street,
SYDW EY.
I livate E.”: This early-closing -craze
must be disturbing the lifelong habits of a
lot of Bungs. Years ago I lived in the
■■ame house as an old hand who had sold
ms suburban pub and was temporarily out
muif llSln p eS ?i' The - unaccustomed" peace and
quiet ot the private house fretted his
r-\ and was forever wandering up
the hall and opening the door. Then he
would have a few reposeful minutes on the
hrw!tfW PS bek>re , wandering down to the
I?/ 1 an , d sa ‘ vin 8' reproachfully to
?.T y ,° -. th f household he happened to
>d, I don t hear the pianny goin’—l’m
ONLY HIMSELF TO BLAME.
(TIME: A.D. 1941.)
“There, now—nobody left at the war! What
did I tell you, sir, 25 years ago—your
two eldest girls should have been boys!”
use (l to hearin’ th’ pianny goin’!” How do
these old practitioners in beer use up the
long evenings now?
AT EIGHTEENPENCE A POUND.
SHE (off fora day or [?]): “You needn’t yet up early. When the Ulcer calls tell him
to put the bread through the window."
PA: "Yes, and when the butcher calls I suppose he’ll put the meat through the keyhole."
„ vc! ail ' e •P oma^ne s nervous disinclination to
tuitil an Australian contract through alleged
tear of meeting a German submarine has had
the attention of the Supreme Court of
£,Pl>eal in London. First a London County-
Court Judge decided in the lady’s favor, and
refused to give an
agency the £9O it
claimed as commission
for procuring the en-
gagement. A Divi-
sional Court stood
this decision on its
head and ordered the
payment of £45 to
the agency. Now the
Supreme Court lias
stood the Divisional
Court on its head and
j declared that Claire
! was right from the
start. Possibly finality
has not. yet been
, reached, and the case
may me carried to the
House of Lords, and
there’s no standing
the Lords on their
head. The Times of
June 1 gives a column
to the case and turns
an old departed Cock-
ney . friend into an
Italian. It says the
contract was entered
into with “Harry
11 icka r d o, Tivoli
Theatre, Limited,
Sydney, N.S.AV.” Un-
der this agreement
Claire promised to
come to Australia in
September, 1915, for
12 months at a sal-
ary of £75 per week.
Lord Justice Eady, in'
giving the decision of
the Supi-eme Court,
said that at the time
the agency issued its
writ no salary had
accrued, that the agency was not legally
entitled to its commission until the engage-
ment had been fulfilled, and that the pre-
valence of Hun sharks was a reasonable
ground for postponing its fulfilment.
*
"The Snake”: The S. Australian Indus-
trial Court has been bothered again about the
cost of living; and my friend little Dr.
Arthur, who adorns the N. S. Wales Assem-
bly, has prepared a “statement” for the
Court’s edification. As the newspaper im-
ports explained, it was “what he considered to
be the reasonable minimuni diet for a family
of a man, wife and three children,” and it
runs out at 295. 7d. per week. Mr.
Parsons, for the employers, said that he
would adduce medical evidence to prove that
a family could live and keep in good health
on less. Quite right. But a grand old
rich Tory legislator in Maoriland knew
more about it. He explained some years ago
that when he was a young man bran and
molasses were considered to be good food for
a wor-r-king man. And, of course, there
was the French gentleman who suggested
grass. Unfortunately lie came to an abrupt
end on a Paris lamp-post. But, anyhow, who
are these cattle—male, dam and three calves
-—that £1 9s. 7d. should be wasted weekly on
their fodder?
* * * *
“Myola”: In the Melbourne suburb of
Dustywood there is a free kindergarten
which is occasionally visited by suburban
peeresses whose hobby is charity. Mrs.
Furcoat-Toorak motored down the other
day and bailed up a baby-boy who seemed
young even for a kindergarten. “Good
gracious, child, you must be quite • the
youngest boy here!” she exclaimed. Little
Billjim blinked at her gravely. “No. I
ain’t, mum,” he said. “They bring some of
til blokes in their prams !”
“Billy Blue”: Those eight old church
bells at Bt. Philip’s, Sydney, referred to by
“Alpha” (B. 27/7/TO), were not presented
to the church by George 111. in 1807.
Hunter brought them out with him on the
Reliance, which arrived on September 7,
1795. There is no record to show that they
were presented by anyone. There being no
church in Sydney when they _ arrived, they
were stowed away till one was built. Hunter
got to work on the church, but it was un-
finished when lie loft in 1800, so King took
a hand at the job. It was still only going
up when lie left in 1800. Then Bligh put a
finish to the work. He wrote in a solemn
despatch on October 31, 1807 :
The town of Sydney is much improved, but the
, taking more time to complete than was
expected, will not be ready for Divine Service until
von! ( vr UlS \ ma f' PiSht bells were first rung on the
29th May last, which although too small, give a
cheeifulness to the inhabitants and command attem
tion on the Sabbath Day.
One Wade was the bellringer. I don’t think
his other names were Charles Gregory.
“Binnacle”: Some years ago the British
Board of Trade issued an edict that no vessel
would be allowed to be given a name that
was already on the Register. The number
of Victorias, Australias, Empires, etc., afloat
was the despair of all hands. But appar-
mero T?nT 01 ' dly ite Star line above
,n ,lktlons ’ J:or iX leviathan of
tons, built in 1014, was labelled the
jiitannic, although there were others of
the name °n the Register. So it came about
that on August 4. the war’s anniversary, a
nice birthday present was served up hot in 1
the press that the monster had been sunk.
* s s . le had bOOO souls aboard the news
caused the deepest anxiety, in two liemi-
until it was casually announced that
this Britannic was a mere collier or bob-
tailed tramp. As I had my dearest enemy
on board the liner, I want to know what
recompense the shipping magnates who flout
Board ot Trade regulations should hand me
tor cables despatched and general wear and
tear.
lint Pot”: Bedford twice blundered in
his fine yarn, “Fifty Pongs of Honan” (B_
•VS/T6), with regard to the orders his hero
gives the helmsman. “Guthrie saw the-
whale-backed rock near, and the ship falling
away towards it and to starboard. ‘Port a
little,’ he said.” But as the rock was evi-
dently on the starboard bow, porting the
lie]m would bring the ship towards it, and
at this time he wanted to avoid it. Then
Guthrie changes his mind and decides to
sink the ship. “Starboard your helm,” he
cries. Now, starboarding the helm would
cant the ship’s head to port, and avoid the
rock, but Bedford makes her run full on
the reef as the deliberate result of that
order, lie errs in good company: I have
seen big Admiralty barristers get horribly
tangled over this perverse idiom of English-
speaking seafarers, whereby when you want
a vessel to go to port you order “star-
board, and dee versa. Before steering-
wheels were invented the idiom had some
sense in it, for as tiller and rudder worked
opposite ways, the tiller had to be pulled to
starboard in order to make the rudder
swing to port (or “larboard,” as it used to
be called). Sailormen of all other nations, so
jar as I know, have brought their speech
into line with modern inventions, and order
“starboard” only when they want their
vessel’s head to swing that way ; but British
and Yankee shellbacks cling tenaciously to
the old terms, and with them “starboard
your helm” means “alter course to port.”
A few years ago a British pilot who boarded
a £ ranch ship to bring her into an English
port lost her through the same old confu-
sion. He thought he knew French, and to
show, his knowledge of the lingo, instead of
showing the helmsman by gesture which
way he wanted the wheel turned, he sang
out iribord” (starboard). Of course, he
reckoned the Frenchman at the wheel would
MIT I GATING CIRCUMSTANCES.
ARTIST (rejected for active service): "Well,
it’s a good thing .the editors don’t want
to. know our chest measurement.”
POET (ditto): "Yes, still there’s this in favor
of the military people—they have no
Answers to Correspondents column.”
turn the ship to port, as any English-speak-
ing sailor would on receiving the order
starboard”; but the foreigner, knowing-
nothing of contrary English customs, and
being used to a language which says what
it; means, followed the order literally and
steered the ship to starboard, running her
ou a.reef which ripped the bottom out of her.
SCHEDULED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Russian time-table was observed to the
minute.’’
We moved at three-fifteen a.m.
At four we made our first attack.
At half-past five they tried to stem
Our even march and drive us back.
At six we yielded half a yard,
At twenty past we slew a score,
Then breathed for fourteen seconds hard,
• And bayoneted eighty more.
Tlie town was fixed to fall at eight.
We took it on the earliest stroke;
Then, marking- time, we had to wait
Till at the fords the foe we broke.
A Cossack regiment, halted near,
M as fixed to charge at ten to nine;
At ten-fifteen we had to cheer
And smash the German’s second line.
And so the rigid game goes on,
Clayed to the clock with might and skill.
At twelve their chief redoubt is gone :
At one we take the nineteenth hill.
At three we take three dozen guns,
While eighteen hundred prisoners yield;
At .half-past four ten thousand Huns
Are left for dead upon the field.
On Friday morn at ten-thirteen
We seize Plavitski from the south ;
On Thursday week we shall be seen
Facing their cannon mouth to mouth
One mile and fifty-seven feet
From Skitzki junction on the Skatz,
Where we shall make the foe retreat
At twelve-fifteen across the fiats.
September Ist sees Lemberg’s fall;
October 3rd seals Warsaw’s fate;
And three days later we shall call’
With shrapnel cards at Cracow’s gate.
Steady as death and sure as doom
We move on schedule time to win—
On April Ist our guns shall boom
At B.IC around Berlin!
N.S.W.
PAT O’MARI.


iP@yTOgM,
yiiifef
„ sm©tis
“WHICH, BILLY?”


THE EGOMANIAC CRUSHED.
ATLAS: “There you are, my lad, you WOULD have it!”


Chaving
<2)tick
L6V6RX
'NZ
/ft
J
, s
For an
Ideal Shave
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
The Bulletin
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
V»Caring qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's*
ZP.M. The K'^Prf
/
roes&r
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS GO ROU
LEWIS fewrUTTY MAKERS
DOCTORS
RECOMMEND
(SILBEY’S
PRY (SIN
For Kidney Complaints
and Rheumatism.
Obtainable Everywhere in Quarts 8 Pints.
TUCKER & CO., SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
HILL HAGELTHORN,
of Peacock's Govt.
(Vic.), and his pipe.
For the title of oldest Australian-born
inhabitant the Early Pioneers’ Association
of Melbourne has unearthed three claimants.
William Ross, of Singleton, was born in the
convict ship Red Rover seven miles outside
Sydney Heads in June, ISIU. An old lady
of Dubbo, Mrs. Cross, says she is entitled
to the honor, having been born on land in
1819. The third competitor is George Tuck-
well, of Parramatta, who also come to light
in 1819.
Oldest Supreme Court Judges in Aus-
tralia by length of service: Pope Cooper
(Chief Justice of Queensland), appointed
to the Bench in 1883; Justice a’Beckett
(Vic.), appointed in lSSti (he will be 80
on August 31 next) ; Justice Chubb (Q.)
and justice Hodges (Vic.), appointed in
1889; Justice Hood ( Vic.) and Justice Real
(Q.), appointed in 1890. Chief Justice
Madden and the great Griffith were elevated
to the Bench in 1893.
HEAVEN UP-TO-DATE, —No. 1.
THE RECORDING ANGEL: “I'm at the end of
my feathers. I must buy a fountain
pen.”
Lord Clifford, the Hobart man who
dropped in for the Chudleigh -estates and a
seat in the House of Lords the other day,
lias had plenty of “colonial experience.” He
has been hemp worker (in Maoriland),
farmer, milk-contractor, politician (also
ran), canvasser for photos, insurance agent,
land agent, essayist and carpenter. Lately
he has been hustling houses together and
was engaged bn a job at Moonah when the
news of his windfall came through. He
was once turned down by the electors as
not good enough for the House of Reps.,
but by virtue of Red Tape and Tradition
he has now an unquestioned right to govern
England as a member of the House of
Lords.
H. A. Parsons, the Adelaide lawyer who
was prepared to show that a family of five
people needn’t spend 295. 7d. a week on food,
is the son of an ex-parson who took to
politics and became Government Resident
of the Northern Territory. Dad married
into the very wealthy Angus family, and the
son, who is “Paddy”. Glynn’s brilliant law-
partner, got his purse lined that way. Then
he married a daughter of Langdon Bony-
thon, who regularly makes more than 295.
7d. a week out of the Advertiser. So one
way and another the young man probably
feels that he won’t want in his old age
even if he buys an extra pound of treacle
and thereby carries the housekeeping bills
np to 295. 10 Id. a week.
Dean Talbot of Sydney was either made
or ruined at Gallipoli. Speaking at Parra-
matta the other night, he told some staring
churchgoers how he had been lately seized
by two joyful old Anzac mates, who gripped
him by the arms and, yarning boisterously,
steered him straight and with the best in-
tentions towards the nearest pub. They
stormed the place and one of them was about
to give the girl the order when the Dean
remembered he was the officer, and that the
officer did the shouting.
When war broke out Major John tudli
brand, a native of the Speck, approached
headquarters at Hobart and asked for some
sort of a job. Headquarters re-
plied that it had no job for him.
as Gellibrand was well under the age lira .
had had some 20 years’. training in the
English regulars, went right through the
S’African scramble, and was at one tune in
command at Ceylon, he could afford to gin
xit the village recruiters. Putting himselt in
touch with Victorian headquarters, he was
sent for a few days later, and since then ha
done notable work with the A.l.i. A tew
weeks ago he was hoisted another step *to
brigadier-general.
Somehow the pa l '-.
sou’s son seems to
have a remark ah l ,
aptitude for smiting
the enemy on the
other cheek. Harry
Ronald, eldest son
of Presbyterian par-
son-politician Ron-
ald, went north to
New Guinea ac the
outbreak of the war
as a plain private.
He came back a
non-com. He is now
Captain, with a re-
cord of smart actions
ill France. Just at
present he is having
a spell in England.
“The Gink” : “Try
Fluke’s” par. about
the M.L. too-stout
man who engaged in
a sealing expedition
to reduce his weight
so that he could pass
the military doctor
reminds me of
another good fellow
in the same fix. His
name is Frank
rwomey, formerly of
Kolo r, Penshurst
i vie.). Present ad-
dress. “Somewhere
in France.” With
what he owns and
is heir to he is one
of the Western 1 >is-
trict’s wealthy men.
To reduce his weight
he first walked and
then ran 10 miles
every morning be-
fore breakfast, and
at last succeeded in
getting into khaki.
Some officious friends
wire-milled a lieu-
tenancy for him, blit he said a prayer for
them and went into camp in blueys.
The Cross of the Legion of Honor which
was recently granted to Premier Holman
arrived in Sydney just in time for the
Governor to hand it over to him on his 45th
birthday.
BETTER TIMES AHEAD.
THE REINFORCEMENT (for the 7 3th time):
"'Strewth, I'm-full er this!”
THE VETERAN : “Keep smilin', lad! Th' first-
seven years is always th ’ worst!"
Among the Australians wounded in the
recent argument with Abdul at Ivatia was
Major Windeyer, youngest son of The
Bulletin’s old friend the Judge. He was
a private in the Boer row and is a major
now.
The Scotchest document ever framed in
Maoriland is the list of donations recently
forwarded to the Naval Relief Fund by the
residents of Waipu. Of 101 contributors
78 were Macs. Mac Kay was present 25
times; McLean lined up 14 deep; there
were six MacKenzies. and half a dozen
McLennans; also five of the McLeod. The
cheque which accompanied the list was
signed by Geordie Mac Kay. countersigned
by Jock Mac Kay, and made payable to the
treasurer, whose name was just plain \V. R.
Mac Kay.
Logged by death at Stewart Island (M.L.)
Captain Robert Scollay, a Shetland Islander
who arrived in Melbourne in 185!) as an
officer of an immigrant ship. Two years
later he took the first sawmill plant to
Stewart Island, and started to carve up the
big timber areas of, Rakiura. He was an
expert shipbuilder, and amongst the craft he
slid off his stocks were the schooner Mar-
garet Scollay, the Endeavor (foundered at
South Pegasus), the Eclipse (wrecked at
Stewart Island), the Lerwick, the Jane Scol-
lay. the Dauntless and the Enterprise, with
which Captain Catling twice attempted to
recover the gold from the General Grant at
the Auckland Islands. Scollay was 88 when
he was entered up.
The Atkinson will case, in which the
children of the old Bendigo doctor tried to
show that the very last All's. _ Atkinson Was
too well treated, was the juiciest peach the
Melbourne Bar has sucked since it got its
hand into the Weingarten corset case. The
monotony lasted 38 days and the costs in
sight amount to £14,000. The widow has
to pay her own.
This is the way of it. Sydney Maxted,
member of a family which lias had a lot to
do with the N.S.W. Charities Department,
couldn’t get a commission as chaplain with
the A.1.F., so he enlisted, and as long as he
was out to kill no harm befel him. Then,
at Gallipoli, he was put on to the piloting
(he had been the Anglican “priest” at
Haberfield, near Sydney), and following the
six stars of Australia to France had hardly
got to his work of carrying comfort when
he was reported killed.
Gordon Webber, Labor ALL.A. for Abbots-
ford (Vic.), was a tender blossom when first
he entered the House; but he has hardened
very rapidly. In making a few remarks
recently on the Address-in-Reply, he trickled
on for more than four hours. This sort of
thing may sometimes be done from a sense
of duty, but in the case of Webber, as dry
as dust and with a very limited vocabulary
and no special knowledge, his painful effort
was too obvious a struggle after publicity
at all costs —even though the country should
have to pay every penny of 'em.
When a memorial to Lieutenant
Cradick, of Lonesome Pine, was
being unveiled at St. James's
Church, Morpeth (N.S.W.), the
other day, Archdeacon Regg, who
looks after the local collection
plate, had something to say a*bout
the origin of the Morpeth taber-
nacle. While Wellington was
pushing Bonaparte out of Spain,
the color-sergeant of one of the
British regiments was shot in
action. Four men rushed to save
the colors, but a shell landed
among them. All dropped flat to
avoid the explosion, but three of
the four were killed by it. The
fourth, Lieutenant Close, who was
unhurt, vowed that he would build
a church in memory of his escape.
After the war he came to live in
the Hunter River district, and St.
James’s, Morpeth, is the church
that he built in fulfilment of his
vow.
W. J. Johnston, killed in France,
was many years a battler in Labor
politics before he put on putties,
lie had a seat in the House of
Heps, in the first reign of Fisher;
but at the next elections he was
thrown out by W. M. Fleming.
Then he tilted at Calar<-. and was
beaten again. Next he made a bid
for Castlereagh in the X.S.W. Par-
liament. but Arkins got the call.
A straight-hitting Laborite, he
deserved better luck than he mostly
had.
There’s a schoolmate of Billy
Hughes now toiling in the Speck s
Ilailway Dept., but the only thing he
remembers very clearly about the future
great man is that he was a cantankerous kid
whom he once kicked hard on the shins in
a row over some books.
TO AN ANZAC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tlie Berlin Tageblatt’s war-correspondent says of
the Anzacs: “We don't like their faces and their
eyes. They are not the kind of people that appeal
to us. They are good marksmen, cruel fighters, and
hard as steel.” •
Though you’re a cruel fighter,
Especially attacking,
And quite a willing smit’er,
To me there’s something lacking
In your grim Australian phiz:
I don’t know what it is.
Some blemish in your grace
Analysis defies:
I do not like your face,
1 do not like your eyes.
Your moniker offends me —-
It's shockingly ungerman ;
What into frenzy sends me
I really can’t determine.
When anger fills your soul
Your eyes you do hot roll,
You don’t, like us, grimace,
Your passions you disguise;
I do not like your face,
I do not like your eyes.
You have no use for Ivultur,
Your language is laconic,
No wonder I insult your
Lean visage un-teutonic !
For you I do not {are:
You always fight so fair.
Your look shows pride of race,
Your calmness horrifies:
I do not like your face,
I dp not like your eyes.
Somehow I can't adore you:
Some barrier interposes;
And yet I would implore you
To change your Anzac noses.
When hurling bombs at us
You're quite an ugly cuss;
And when towards us you race
Your features I despise ;
I do not like your face,
I do not like your cues.
And in the charge, and after,
And even when we’re winning,
Your eyes are lit with laughter,
Your lean lips always grinning!
Your eyes are keen, and yet
Behind a bayonet
No beauties can 1 trace
That cultured Germans prize:
I do not like your face,
I do not like those eyes !
N.S.W.
KAMERAD.


%
No. B. 21. Men’s medium-weight striped
Flannelette Pyjamas, well cut and made, good
fitting sizes. Jackets with turned-down collar
and pocket, and fitted with bone buttons.
Colorings are light shades of Blue, Pink, Grey,
and Helio. Price 5/6.
No. B. 57. Men’s Pyjamas of Osman Flan-
nelette, all standard qualities in neat stripe
designs and quiet colorings. All seams are
double stitched and gusseted.
6/6, 7/6 and 8/6 each.
No. B. 63.— Men’s Pyjamas of English Oxford
in varied stripe designs. A good medium
weight and a quality we strongly recommend
for its certainty to give good wear.
9/6 each; 3 for 27/=
No. B. 60. Men’s Pyjamas of Japanese Crepe
in plain Grey, Blue and Pink Colorings, with
contrasting collar and cuffs and fitted with frog
fastenings.
8/6 each; 3 for 24 6
No. B. 67. —Men’s Pyjamas of al'-wool Taffeta
in attractive stripe designs, a beaut hilly finished
lightweight fabric.
20 - eac ; 3 for 58/-
The Bulletin
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods,
484 to 490 George Street,
3 to 17 Royal Arcade,
New Branch Shop at 304 George Street (near
Hunter Street), SYDNEY.
AUSTPAL Pyjamas for Men.
AH siges are properly proportioned
and Have Comfort in their Fittings.
However good the fabrics and workmanship in
their make-up, a Pyjama Suit will fail to satisfy
the average man unless it fits comfortably.
By this is not meant merely that the Pyjamas
need to be large enough to ensure freedom of
movement lor the wearer. On the contrary, it is
quite certain that a good-fitting Pyjama Suit
depends as much on the actual cut which fashions
the garment as on the proportions to which the
many stock sizes are made.
.And this specialised of what men need,
applied in the out-turn of “Austral” Pyjamas,
ensures not only better value at any and every
quoted price, but the certainty of lasting comfort
and longer and better wear.
Customers who order by post will need only to state
Chest and Waist measures and Height to ensure
satisfactory fitting garments being sent to their order.
Our 80-page Art Catalogue, which lists many other
attractive lines in Men’s Pyjamas and Wearing Apparel,
will be sent post free to any address on request.
Carriage is Paid on all Country Orders.


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
cartridges
BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE, ANTIMONIAL LEAD,
LINO METAL, SPELTER, ZINC
DUST, REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of: —
SILICIOUS ORES, containing
Lead, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buyers of:
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
All enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
The Bulletin
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts as Attorney, Agent,
Administrator,
Executor and Trustee.
STATE GUARANTEE
For full particulars apply Culwulla Chambers, 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street-
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Robert Harper and Co., Ltd. (Melb.),
the rice, starch, oatmeal, etc., people ; deficit
to begin with (£80,920) consisted of good-
will and trade marks :
, Dividends.- — N In
“A” “B” Reduc-
Pref. Ord. Ord. tion of
Mar., Profits. 7p.e. 6 p.c. Deficit. Deficit.
1914. . £17,084 £1671 £14,400 £291 £722 £73,282
Unexplained addition to Reserves 5612 67,670
7p.c. sJp.c.
1915.. 29,380 8400 16,800 340 3840 63,830
Written off, £3955 67,785
8 p.c. 6 p.c.
1916.. 42,349 8400 19,200 4961
Voted to Employees’ Profit r 4253 63,532
Sharing Fund, £lO,OOO. J
It is just 50 years since this business was
born; hence tiie gift of £lO,OOO to an em-
ployees’ profit sharing fund. The directors
—who are all Harpers—“are of opinion
that the best way to avoid industrial unrest
and secure contentment and efficiency will
be to adopt, if practicable, a wisely con-
structed and equitable system of commercial
and industrial partnership between the co.
and its employees.” The articles provide
for a profit-sharing scheme, which _ has been
in existence for some years, and it is pro-
posed to extend this. “A plan is now under
consideration. .. .Failing success in this
direction, some other means of securing
benefits for the employees will be devised.”
In ordinary circumstances it might be ques-
tioned whether vendors should not make pro-
vision for old employees. The services
of these people have aided in build-
ing up the goodwill of the business;
and to charge a co. first for good-
will and then to provide for them out of the
new co.’s profits, looks like making share-
holders pay twice over for the same thing.
But in this case it doesn’t matter much,
because the public took the 7 p.c. cumula-
tive pref. shares, while the vendors took the
ordinaries in payment for the undertaking;
so the £lO,OOO is money which the original
proprietors might divide among themselves
—assuming that they still hold the shares.
The average annual profits of the busi-
ness, before providing for interest on bor-
rowed money, were £32,874 for the 9i years
prior to the flotation of the co.; and as
mortgages, deposits and overdrafts totalled
over £130,000 at the end of the first year,
after £120,000 of pref. capital had been sub-
scribed, it looks as though the borrowed
money in the business may have previously
exceeded £200,000. The interest on that
lot would reduce the profits well below the
average shown by the present co.; so the
subscribers for the pref. shares have nothing
to complain about. In any case their divi-
dend calls for only £B4OO a year; and there
is a very big margin between that and the
profits. As for their principal, there come
in ahead of them creditors for about
£192.000; but the assets include freeholds
£116,318, stock £146,902, and book debts
£146,281. in addition to plant, etc. (£92,000)
and sundries. The 7 p.c. prefs. in this co.
are therefore as gilt-edged as an interest in
a trading concern well can be.
The table shows' £3955 lately written off.
The P. and L. balance from 1915, after pro-
viding for dividend appropriations, was
£4563, which was transferred to reserves;
and £3955 of this has disappeared—-probably
written off freeholds, etc. On the other hand
this year’s P. and L. account shows a sur-
plus of £41.429; but as £920 has been
written off goodwill and trade marks, that
amount has been added to arrive at the
profits in the table. . Maybe part of this
£3955 was used to write down the goodwill
item; in which case the profit should be
shown in the table as £41,429 instead of
£42.349. But it isn’t of much consequence,
anyhow.
*'**>'*
J. C. Ludowigi AND Son, Ltd., leather
manufacturers, etc., Sydney :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1912..£3345 10 p.c. = £2832 £513 £7061
.Tune. 1913.. 3565 10 „ „ 2832 733 7794
Dec., 1913.. 2127 8 „ ~ 2266 7655
June, 1914.. 1719 7 „ „ 1982 7392
Dec., 1914.. 1851 7 „ „ 1982 7261
June, 1915.. 2023 7 „ „ 1982 41 7302
Dec., 1915.. 2399 7 „„ 1982 417 7719
June, 1916.. 2243 10 „ „ 2832 7130
This old-established co. didn’t interest the
investor much until two or three years ago;
and then, when there were some dealings in
the shares, those who made inquiries found
that the management wasn’t a happy family.
Changes in the Board occurred every few
months; and evidently there were two tac-
tions. Recently there appears, to have been
a cleaning up ; and the Ludowici interest is
again paramount. A paragraph in the direc-
tors’ last report suggests that the contest
was very willing :—-
It should be gratifying to shareholders to learn that
the disorganising element, which had until February
last exercised such a disturbing influence, and sought
to obtain control, has been entirely eliminated Horn
the directorate and management. The change has
enabled the members of the staff to concentrate
undivided attention on their respective duties, in tne
performance of which they have been greatly ham-
pered. The result has been increased efficiency ancl
more satisfactory returns..
From which it will be gathered that party
government isn’t reckoned a good thing m
the leather trade, even though the country
does cling to it in the conduct of its own
affairs.
The capital is £56.644; and as it isn’t a
business in which extensive plant is re-
quired, this permits the co. to carry a stock
of up to £40,000 without going into debt at
all. At present the stock is shorter than
usual—£33,92o—but the co. has £5070 in
cash. Other assets are freehold and build-
ings, £16.825; book debts, £8033; and plant
and sundries, £3893. The profit and every-
thing else thus depends very largely upon the
stocktaking; and that can’t be checked.
However, the directors say that they have
“taken every reasonable precaution to pro-
vide against contingencies”; indeed., unless
they feel that the history of the year is better
than one would judge from the declared profit,
the increased dividend was not justified. The
co. has been full of complaints for . a good
many years past regarding high prices for
hides and keen competition for leather; and,
though hides are not going to be given away
for a long while to come, it seems likely that
there will be an increase in the Australian
tanning business. It has been a disgrace
to the Commonwealth so far. Go back to
1913, the last year in which imports and
exports were normal. In that year only
2892 people were employed in our tanneries,
as against 3044 five years previously.. Mean-
time the exports of raw hides to Belgium (and
we know what that means) and Germany
had increased from £132,257 to £775,232.
And to add to the shrieking insanity of it
we had in those years exported nearly half
a million pounds’ worth of tanning barks,
half of the total going to the German !
* * * *
The Austral Hat Mills, Ltd. (Mel-
bourne), which began with a deficit of £273,
representing preliminary exes.: —
Dividends.
r -A. —,, Written Re-
June, Profits. Pref. Ord. Off. serves.
1908.. £2282 7 p.c. = £224 10 p.c. = £95 £437 £1251
1909.. 1612 7 „ „ 1190 34 „ „ 175 174 1324
1910.. 2559 7 ~ „ 1190 10 „ „ 500 209 1924
1911.. 2078 74 „ „ 1275 101 „ 525 412 2390
Premiums on new shares, £BOO .. 3190
On all shares.
1912.. 5019 9 p.c. = £2201 999 5009
1913.. 4460 9 ~ „ 2700 1018 5751
1914.. 908 4 „ „ 1200 318 5201
1915.. 1512 Nil 435 6278
1916.. 3629 10 p.c. = 3000 425 6482
That is more like things should be. But it
is no use accepting the present figures of
any of these manufacturing cos. as normal.
War and high freights are giving the indus-
tries a Protection which they have never
had before; and on top of that a good many
of them have Government contracts at non-
competitive prices. Hence this paper
regards the year’s figures as probably having
no significance. What can happen to a co.
like this the 1914-15 experience showed. And
what will happen in the future depends not
only upon - the tariff but upon the spirit of
the operatives. In this particular line the
manufacturer has hitherto done pretty well
from the tariff point of view. Frank Tudor
has been Minister of Customs in four out
of the five Labor Governments; and it has
not been any disadvantage to the trade to
have had at the head of the tariff depart-
ment a man who went from felt-hat making
to politics. Anyhow, generally speaking the
duties have been sufficient to keep a very
large part of the trade; and no doubt a
still larger part could be collared if the
felt hatters allowed more female and
unskilled or partially-skilled male labor in
Australian factories. Some day perhaps
they will recognise that the employment of
this more or less unskilled labor does not
reduce the quantity of skilled labor called
for, but properly regulated is likely to
greatly increase it.
The co.’s capital is £30,000, and none of
this is represented by goodwill or other hypo-
thetical assets. Plant isn’t a very big item
in a hat-manufacturing concern; and that’s
a good thing if only because the
co thereby escapes a heavy annual
charge for wear and tear. Freehold
premises and plant run to only £11,760.
Further, because trade is of
principally with wholesalers, there is very
little money on the books —under £3500. So
it comes about that, on a capital of £30,000.
the co. can carry £20,962 of stock and still
have liabilities of only £630. There are not
many manufacturing industries that are so
well placed.
* * *
The Silverton Tramway Co.: —
Dividends on
Actual Capital Written Real
Dec., Profits. ( £46,800). Off. Reserves
1904. . £61,153 85 p.c. = £39,561 £30,235 £226,607
1905.. 78,523 127 „ „ 59,342 20,000 225,788
1906.. 81,931 127 „ „ 59,342 10,000 238,377
1907.. 108,478 158 „ „ 74,177 10,000 262,678
1908.. 93,518 169 „ „ 79,122 1,031 276,043
1909.. 95,687 169 „ „ 79,122 11,400 281,208
1910.. 116,461 169 „ ~ 79,122 318,547
1911.. 143,216 214 ~ ~ 100,000 14,060 34/,703
1912 144,542 214 ~ „ 100,000 7,106 385,139
1913. . 148,918 2674 „ ~125,000 8,228 400,829
1914.. 112,142 214'.,, „ 100,000 14,343' 398,628
Written off renewals account, £20,000 378,628
1915.. 94,980 187 p.c. - 87,500 3,820 382,288
June, __
1916.. 25,317 214 „ ~ 50-000 357,605
In order, no doubt, that the co.’s year might
synchronise with the income tax people’s
year, it was decided six months ago to shift
the balance along to June; hence the present
accounts are for six months only. Also,
probably with an eye on the taxation people,
the accounts are presented in a different
form. The directors say that revenue was
only £l6Bl less than in the first half of 1915.
But things didn’t liven up at Broken Hill
till well on in 1915; so that the revenue
for the nast year was only £57,219 as against
£132,145 for the previous full year. On
the other hand the half-year’s exes, were
£34,316 as against £63,949 in the preceding
12 months. That is to say, exes, amounted
to 60 p.c. of the earnings in the past half-
year, as against under 49 p.c. in 1915.
Apparently the co. has not been able to
adjust freights to meet various rises which
it has itself had to pay.
Still, sympathy would be wasted on the
Silverton * Tramway Co. No concern in
Australia has had more wonderful luck. It
got its concession 30 years ago to build a
light line carrying the S. Aus. system at
Cockburn on to the new mining rush at
Silverton and incidentally on to Broken
Hill, which then had possibilities and no
more. Silverton long ago was given over to
goats; Broken Hill continues to flourish.
The only capital ever actually put up was
the £46,800 mentioned above; but promoters’
and bonus shares have carried the total
to £250.000, and even on that the dividend
has averaged 40 p.c. for several years past.
And, when the export of zinc concentrates
is resumed, 40 p.c. will probably be earned
again—until the co. is hit by some form of
competition. At present the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment is building a line from Condobolin
to Broken Hill. This will connect the big
mining field with Sydney and the Western
(Dithgow) coalfields; and it is probable that
there will be some ore traffic over that line.
But the more serious competition to be
feared is from a Government line to con-
nect Broken Hill and Cockburn (S.A.). It
has often been talked about; but hitherto
influences have always been strong enough
to choke it off on the ground that, if the
State comes in. it ought to take over the
line on the terms of the concession; and
that would mean paying 21 times the aver-
age profit of the preceding seven years—
which would be absurd. One way and
another the Silverton Tramway Co. has had
a lot more luck than the Broken Hill Water
Supply. But investors would be foolish to
rely upon it lasting for ever.
# * * *
The Australian Drug Co. (Sydney) :
June. Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Reserves.
1911.. £4766 5 p.c. =£3750 £lOl6 £10,252
1912.. 3419 5 „„ 3750 9,921
1913.. 8572 10 „ „ 7500 1072 10,993
1914.. 8875 TO „„ 7500 1375 12,368
1915.. 8921 10 „„ 7500 1421 13,789
1916.. 9885 10 ~,, 7500 2385 16,174
Just before Germany thought the Day had
arrived, this co. had stocks valued at £75,111.
Immediately war began the market for
chemicals was in a state of ferment;
for the painstaking Hun had got hold
of a vast propbrtion of the chemical
trade of the world. The average
increase in prices was therefore greater in
this business than in perhaps any other; and
a co. with £75,000 in stock and some more,
no doubt, on the water and contracted for
from France and England was in a particu-
larly happy position. Naturally larger
profits are shown for the past couple of
years. But “stocks are valued at cost or
under”; and, though that is a stereotyped
phrase, it indicates where the management
may have stuffed away some further profits
that it wasn’t advisable to show. And it is
a very prudent thing to thus provide for
contingencies. The stock now is valued at
£74,580, and a large part of that must have
been bought since the war, and at prevailing
high prices. Whether the co. will be able
to clear it at high prices, too, depends upon
various things, including the length of the
war. But, in any case, and whenever the
big trouble ends, the co. will have a stock
in hand that has been purchased at war
prices; and it is quite possible that many
chemicals will then see a quick fall. The
co is more than justified in providing for
this contingency out of the sweet profits it
must have made since the war started. In
addition, the management seems to have
written down freehold, plant and fixtures
liberally : they stood at £20,061 in 1914 and
are down to £17,920 now.
Share capital is £75,000. Two years ago
the co. owed £49,570; the total is now
£58,855, including £25,000 of debentures.
Capital, liabilities and reserves (before pay-
ing the dividend) amounted to £157,722,
represented by stock £74,580, freehold and
plant £17,920, book debts £56,576, and cash
and sundries £8646. Book debts are
approximately £lO,OOO more than they were
two years ago; and that, in the circum-
stances, seems to suggest an increased busi-
ness. Hitherto the co. has had a very small
Board of three, including managing-director
A. L. Silly, who put the co. on its present
footing. But all the drugs in the warehouse
can’t make the managing director as physi-
cally fit as he is mentally capable, and Albert
A. Kemp, who has been in the business for
many years, has therefore been added to the
Board.
Queensland Trustees, Ltd. (Brisbane) :
Dividends and Added to Re-
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
1904.. £1576 6 p.c. = £1590 £4,782
1905.. 2122 6 ~ „ 1590 £532 5,314
1906.. 2171 6 ~ „ 1590 581 5,895
1907.. 3060 8 ~ „ 2121 939 6,834
1908.. 3631 9 „„ 2386 1245 8,079
1909.. 2712 8 ~ ~ 2121 591 8,670
1910.. 2923 8 ~ „ 2121 802 9,472
1911.. 3743 9 „„ 2386 1357 10,829
1912.. 4193 10 „„ 2651 1542 12,371
1913.. 5496 15 „„ 3977 1519 13,890
1914.. 5131 10 „„ 2651 2480 16,370
Written off, £5OO .. 15,870
1915.. 4746 10 p.c. = 2651 2095 17,965
1916.. 3565 10 „ „ 2525* 1040 19,005
*Exclusive of dividend tax.
Taxes, especially on income, have bitten
deeper into the profits during the past couple
of years. Before making the appropriations
for this purpose the net income lias been:
1914, £5195 ; 1915, £4746; 1916, £4646. Still,
even disregarding the charges for taxation,
the movement hasn’t lately been in the right
direction. Trustee cos. have been liable to
be hit three ways at once: they have had to
pay the increased taxes on their own profits;
the reduced value of their clients’ estates is
likely to bring them in less corpus commis-
sion; and the new taxes give more work in
the management of the trusts. But, after
allowing for all that, this like most trustee
cos. can’t complain : a co. which can. under
adverse conditions, pay a 10 p.c. dividend
and still put by nearly a third of the profit,
while submitting its principal to very little
risk, has obviously struck a financial patch.
And under normal conditions the trend of
profits is upwards, because the advantages
offered by an agency of tms kind are becom-
ing more widely known. In 1906 the trust
estates in hand were valued at only
£1,408,236; to-day they stand at £3,617,393.
In these 10 years the increasing profits have
allowed the dividend to creep up from 8 p.c.
to 10 p.c.; at the same time nearly £15,000
has been put by —an amount almost equal to
three-fifths of the capital. And, as before
remarked, very little risk is taken. The
funds don’t have to be chanced in plant or
stock : £20.550 is in Government securities,
and £22,500 net is in city freehold (office
premises, safe deposit, etc.) and the small
balance is in cash and mortgages. Cer-
tainly the co. may make losses through
negligently misreading a will or doing some-
thing of that sort; but that isn’t a serious
risk. A more real one is that the State may
push into the business as in N. S. Wales,
and cut rates for trustee and agency work.
Aarons’s Exchange* Hotel (Sydney) :
June,’l2. Dec.,’ls. June,’l6.
Assets apart from goodwill,
lease and furniture ..£1416 £3375 £4959
Liabilities.. .. .. 993 1790 2657
Surplus assets .. £423 £1585 £2302
From June, 1912, onwards the profits and
dividends have been as follows: —
June, 1912 .. £1405 12| p.c. = £765
Dec., 1912 . . 1297 121 „ „ 765
June, 1913 .. 1400 121 „ „ 765
Dec., 1913 . . 1375 121 ~ „ 765
June, 1914 . . 1113 _ 121 „ „ 765
Dec., 1914 .. 752 10 „ „ 612
June, 1915 .. 747 10 „ „ 612
Dec., 1915 . . 64 Nil
June, 1916 . . 943 10 p.c. = 612
From that £943 allowances have to be de-
ducted (1) for depreciation of furniture and
(2) for the fact that the co.’s lease is six
months nearer its end : it expires in 14 or
15 years from now. The co. may have to
quit then, and if so it will presumably go
into liquidation ; hence part of its job is to
accumulate enough profit to repay capital,
which now stands at £12,500. In the_ past
four years it has put by less than £5OO a
year in liquid assets; and that isn’t quite
enough. Still every further £5OO put by
adds £2O or so to the revenue; so on the
past few years’ performances the co. looks
as though it might just about recover its
capital while also paying a reasonable divi-
dend. But there are so many uncertainties
about the pub business that it isn’t a stock
to put by for one’s old age.


THE FIRST DUTY a Man owes to
Himself and his Family is to
MAKE HIS WILL.
Second only in importance is the
SELECTION OF AN EXECUTOR.
A Testator can at once relieve him-
self of anxiety concerning such
Selection by appointing the
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited),
The and Strongest Trustee
Company in Australasia, which
has had over twenty-eight years’
experience of the duties of an
EXECUTOR & TRUSTEE.
Write or Call for Booklet.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
*° be Posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain .. 3/-
New Zealand.. 4£d.
1/6
{9d. (minimum
15/-, 20 words)
Canada
2/4
f 7d. (minimum
> 11/8, 20 words)
U.S.A 2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
/ 7d. (minimum
(11/8,20 words)
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. .Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations may be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
Queen s House, Queen St., Melbourne. Tel. 2585.
J. MILWARD, Manager in the Pacific
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
w£-arf-Bqonto
wjstn Bewtfuv
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
Th ‘ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .
Subscribed Capital
Paid-up Capital ..
Income (Cross) 1915
Established 1
AUUjUUU
194,235
95,767
146,027
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The Australian General Electric Company, who
specialise in all classes of electrical mine machinery,
are ready to submit full information or quotations in
connection with engine-driven generators suitable for
latest K 10 "' The ? e generators represent the
latest developments and most advanced designs vet
otfeied m this class of apparatus, and possess the
inherent ability to successfully meet the most exact-
ing service requirements that modern mine applica-
tions demand. Communications with the above com-
pany, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street
Sydney ; corner Queen and Little Collins Street Mel-
bourne, will be promptly dealt with.— Advt.
* * * *
ALUMINOFERRIC is used by the Sydney Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards and graziers
toi precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is simply throw!!
into the reservoir in the form of a solid cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three horn?
time the most discolored water will be as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless
William Adams & Company Limited
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.— Advt. ’
* * *
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
Conic 1 Ar l1 11 M 1 3^CIS luu T t 0 solve - The Hardinge
M°n nt t Pl :°:, ed to . the Calumet and Hecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
eU Tj’n r 67 h /, VU , in ? tall ? d 64 of them, and sav
Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the
Th.i o 'c managei-s here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
sole representatives for them in the Commonwealth,
and will be glad to forward particulars.— Advt. [1
Pioneer Wood Pipe.— Wood, if kept wet, is prae-
‘pl / everlasting, and there is no inner exposed
metal to rust or corrode. It works out much
cheaper, too, than any other class of pipe, so far as
first cost labor for laying and freight charges are
concerned. Send for illustrated catalogue. The Aus-
tralian Mood Pipe Co. Ltd., 57 York Street, Sydney.
Contractors to* all State Governments. Factories*
8. a A.-A°Dw ; Footscray > Vic * : Port Adelaide,
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street
Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lovvest rates from Felton, Grimwade and -Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office r Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt
*.. * * *
rwm ddit n° n to ™ akin g Wrought Iren, Steel and
oast-lion 1 ipes, Messrs, Mephan Ferguson Proprie-
tary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description.— Advt.
* * * *
Eartii-handling and Road-building Machinery,
Concrete Mixers, Robey Traction Engines, National
Suction Gas Engines, modern conveying outfits, pump-
ing installations stonecrushing plants specialised in
by Austrahan Maehmery Co. Ltd., Charlotte Street,
Brisbane; and Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.—Advt.
*
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty yearn’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H B
Silberberg & Co. Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney j
and 44 0 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £545 760
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155’35l
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) si’sOO
0
0
0
0
0
0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. g782 ' 611 ° °
Unrin f n 'ftWi! : . l ; V i r D 2«J'. A «rt. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row. Cannon Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
THE UNION TRUSTEE GO.
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
NEW SOUTH WALES, VICTORIA & QUEENSLAND.
The only Trustee Company in Australia
empowered by Act of Parliament to operate
in more than one State.
BYDNEY OFFICE, 48 YOUNG STREET.
Directors:
The Hon. Sir CHARLES K. MACKELLAR,
w v nnH'®’’ M.L.C. (Chairman).
h' w IStP D ? N ’ Esf| - JAMES KIDD, Esq.
H. W. BELL, Esq. R. M. PITT Esq
F. B. S. FALKINER, Esq. ’
Before making a Will or Settlement of pro-
perty or appointing an Attorney write for book,
let giving- the Company’s charges and setting
forth the advantages of appointing the Com-
pany. to JOHN MAIR, Manager.
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
Theatre Royae Proprietary Co.. (Mel-
bourne) :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., ’08..£1619 21 p.c. = £6OO £lOl9 £7195
June, ’09.. 1494 21 „ „ 600 894 8089
Dec., ’09.. 1444 21 „ „ 600 £5OO 344 8433
June, ’lO.. 1429 2| „ „ 600 9000 262
Dec., ’lO.. 1616 21 „ „ 600 1016 1278
June, ’ll.. 777 21 „ „ 600 177 1455
Dec., ’ll.. 1709 21 „ „ 600 706 403 1858
June, ’12.. 1100 21 „ „ 600 350 150 2008
Deficit.
Dec., ’12.. 1096 21 „ „ 600 2650 146
Reserves.
June, ’13.. 1580 21 „ „ 600 486 494 348
Dec., ’13.. 1775 21 „ „ 600 891 284 632
June, ’14.. 1539 21 „ „ 600 450 489 1121
Dee., ’14.. 1423 21 „ „ 600 450 373 1494
June, ’15.. 1447 21 ~ „ 600 450 397 1891
Dec., ’15.. 1799 3| „ „ 900 450 449 2340
June, ’16.. 1315 3f „ „ 900 300 115 2455
Income tax is the nigger that has broken
into the past half-year’s profit. Apart from
that, things are quite as good as they were
previously. The co. was formed to take over
a lease, which expires about 1950; hence it
has to accumulate profit during the oeriod
in order to replace the capital which is repre-
sented by the wasting security. Five years
ago, outside the fixed property and furni-
ture, the co. had £lOB7 and' owed £212.
To-day it has £6423 and owes £45. It
should, of course, be in a much better posi-
tion ; but the little it saved in its first
20 years it had to spend on structural altera-
tions, etc. Capital is £48,000; but all this
isn’t in the leasehold. Approximately in
freeholds and liquid assets it has ±18,000;
and that isn’t a bad start. As profit is
accumulated the interest earnings will grow ;
and it looks as if there will be something
better by-and-bye than 3| p.c.
Though The Times last to hand declared
that no solution of the base-metal problem
had been arrived at, and though in a recent
letter to Australia J. C. Moulden, the zinc
expert, said that nothing permanent had
been done, Prime Minister Hughes has
announced “big contracts” and “entirely
satisfactory terms.” They boil down to
little, however. First of all, the Brit-
i i i<j Ve ™ment has made a contract to
take during the war a large proportion of
™ zll >c concentrates produced in Australia.”
(.eers.) When are these vague deliveries
going to start? And what is Britain going
to do with the concentrates when she gets
them? We will be told that that’s not our
business But we know this: Hughes had
to buy ships to get our wheat shifted ; and
Britain isn’t at all likely to waste shipping
space on zinc concentrates which at present
she can t turn into metal. Further, Britain
has entered into a definite contract for a
period of 10 years after the war to take a
minimum of 100,000 tons of Australian con-
centrates at a price which was entirely sat-
istactory. ’ This is. what is whooped about
as a big contract.” In his usual large,
unpredse way Hughes doesn’t mention
■whether the 100.000 tons are to be spread
over the 10 years or are per annum. Even
assuming that it is per annum it means
less than 10 weeks’ normal output from
Broken Hill alone.
r Ti <) ' l ie hart of the vague bargain that
ug.ies talks about may, however, be of
considerable value:—
tion Ur wifh a - angemer,ts llad been aiade in connec-
* ° atlv pvt , th r pr ° Ject conceived in Australia of
or eat I \ extending the manufacture of spelter in the
Commonwealth, and in particular of erecting works
Spelt ? r ’ the British Government
terms that " P t° , half a million pounds upon
her L?/ equivalent to those upon which all
m J "’ere rai sed, and, further, to take up
terms’wtn-e£° nS Sp ? lt f Ponced in Australia on
terms which were entire].;' satisfactory.
Everything of course, depends upon the
terms. If it means the current market price
or even a bit better than that, the under-
taking may be absolutely no good to us
because the works in the TJ.S.A. are alone
ln a Position to now almost supply the
world s normal requirements, and there will
be a terrific slump presently. So far as
zinc is concerned,-the position is just this,
i ie Convention”— almost wholly
German, Belgian and French—maintained
the price of spelter prior to the war. Aus-
tralian producers got the benefit of that
convention. It is now destroyed. As we
are barred from selling our product to the
old works, what chance have we of finding
p “!L, ma^ ket • In that connection The
modorm H hadbetter quote the best-known
modern British authority on zinc metal-
lurgy, who wrote in this paper lately
S ,°. f f, r as Detain is concerned nobody need worry
trv unHl eS e iSh r nt of a reall y Permanent indJ-
tr.v until thorough organisation, rectification of
and W sJttled teS f’u °V, ler ,lla Gers have been tackled
?nw An i d all of these don ’t amount to a
adonteH—S UnleS ? a thor °ughly-efficient tariff be
filtered hnt*™ ° ne of name and academic
interest, but one that acts: say, ad valorem, little or
o duty on spelter at £3O or over, increasing l as the
r This do wou,d ntil at r « reaches? £lO a
bonuses and 24 n „ the dum P er - Trifling
question. ' Ut '® S merely P ]a T with the
And apparently the one thing that would
assure us a market is the one thing which
the Asquith Government will not grant.
So the zinc problem hasn’t been. solved.
At the best we have been thrown a small
sop or two. But what has been done very
definitely is to establish in Australia three
powerful rings, which are to a great extent
one ring ; and if they don’t squeeze the small
producer white before they are finished with
him the small producer may think himself
very lucky. Even thus soon one hears him
crying for help from every part of the Com-
monwealth.
“Tributer”: The Bulletin says that the
silver-lead custom works are dealing more
fairly with the producer than the others
are; yet, even as to silver-lead, here are
some results of the monopoly which
Prime Minister Hughes has deliberately
created. We sent 15 tons to be
treated, assaying 52.1 p.c. lead, 18.20 z. of
silver. Metals were paid for at the rate of
£2B 15s. for lead and 2s. 7 7-16 d. per oz.
silver. Metal content# were worth altogether
£209 Os. 2d. Out of this the smelting com-
pany takes £123 55., at the rate of £8 ss. a
ton for treating the ore. This is equal to
2oz. ldwt. of gold. Our other expenses for
wood, explosives, percentage to mine owners
etc., were £5B 10s. This left £76 10s. to be
cut up among 14 men for three weeks’ work,
including three Sundays the engine-drivers
worked bailing water. We didn’t get 6s. a
day. And this was out of ore worth £l7
■ss. 4d. per ton. No wonder the metal agents
and smelters are giving Hughes three cheers.
But by conferring on these people the right
to exploit us he has made mining by the
small man impossible.
* * * *
Water-power is to give the Speck some
very badly-needed help to meet its lOU’s,
according to Premier Lee’s figures. He
says the capital cost of the Great Lake
scheme has been £465,000 to date, and that
some needed alterations and the cost of
developing and delivering the first 4000 h.p.
for Amalgamated Zinc will bring it up to
£550,000. At this stage he reckons on a
revenue of £14,000 per year from the Amal-
gamated and £28,000 from other sources
making £42,000 altogether. Working ex-
penses are put down at £17,000, so the
£25,000 left over will pay 41 per cent, on
the capital, which is a lot better than most
of the Speck’s public undertakings can
do. But it will be still better later
reckons. It will take another
£600,000 to divert the Upper Ouse
and put in everything necessary to
develop 30,000 h.p. for Amalgamated
Zinc. That will make £1,200,000 altogether.
But the revenue from the 30,000 h.p. the
10,000 which the Hydro-Electric Co. has a
contract for and the rest will be £120,000 a
year—-if all goes right. It is estimated that
working expenses will mop up £20,000 of
that; and the £lOO,OOO left will pay 8J per
cent, on the capital. It is reckoned * that
depreciation of plant will amount to 1.6
per cent on capital, and that and interest at
44 per cent, will run to £74,000 per year.
And there will still be £26,000 left as net
profit. It all sounds very cheerful. But
now what about a sinking fund? Doesn’t
.Lasmama want to ever really own the
undertaking?
Wallaroo-Mount Lyell Fertilisers Co.
(S.A.) has sold more superphosphate than
ever, despite the reduced acreage sown last
season for wheat. The gross profit for 12
months was £4674, plus £3OB interest. The
net profit was £27,004, and out of that the
directors pay 8 p.c. per annum, which calls
for £26,9;>2. This is 1 p.c. (£3369) more
than for the previous year. The subscribed
capital is £336.900. of w r hich freehold, build-
ings, plant and goodwill represent £206,484.
* * * *
Grenfell (N.S.W.) is about to celebrate
its jubilee. Fifty years ago gold was dis-
covered there by Cornelius O’Brien; the
place was then known as Emu Creek, but
di fil in , g , s generally went by the name of
ihe Weddin,’ after a short range of hills
close by. The town was named after Land-
commissioner. Grenfell, who was afterwards
shot by a maileoach robber at Narromine.
* *
Melbourne is having another nibble at
(W.A.). This time the bait is the
old Childe Harold. A London co. failed
to make money out of it 14 years ago, and
seveial syndicates have had the same experi-
ence since. Now the leases are called the
. Lol l e r « a nd, and according to a tale spun
in Melbourne would pay if operated on a
laige scale. But the chances are they
won t. J
Towards the 195,500 tons of ore milled by
Creat Boulder last year, development pro-
Vided only 129,500. Thus reserves are
i educed to 494,600 tons, worth approxi-
mately £1,500,000—a drop of £200,000. The
year s costs (265. 6d.) were practically the
same as in the previous term, but ore was
a bit poorer. Nevertheless, by the treatment
of an additional 0400 tons the working profit
(nearly £315,000) showed an increase of
about £14,600.
* * * -X-
Although the Perseverance meeting de-
cided to continue operations, it is doubtful
if the mine can, under present conditions,
be kept going much longer. Costs have gone
up; development work was stopped in
November last; and unless “normal times”
recur there seems nothing to do but to stope
out the best ores and then shut down.
Lake View and Star (W.A.) reports an
unfavorable year and attributes it to the
war and low values in the principal stopes
The profit was only £16,602, and to pay
the three quarterly divs. £lO,OOO had to be
taken from the reserve.
“Oof Bird” (W.A.) : I applaud Higgs’s
rerusal to sanction the flotation of certain
VVestralian mining delusions. Here is one
of them. Promoters formed a co. with a
capital of £32,500 in 65,000 10s. shares.
Vendors, it was stated, were to receive
£4OOO cash, 10,000 fully paids and 6250
shares paid to 55., or a total in cash and
shares of £10,562. Promoters professed
then- willingness to accept £5OO cash and
b. 50 paid shares, equal to £4375. So if
the float came off, £15.437 (practically half
the nominal capital of the co.) would,
according to the prospectus, have been
divided amongst the owners and promoters.
The remaining 40,000 shares were to have
been offered to the public at 2s. (id. on
application and 2s. 6d. on allotment, and
the balance in calls. That would, on the
promoters’ figures* have brought in £lO,OOO,
out of which the owners and promoters
would have got £4500, leaving only £5500 to
equip and work a show in which no payable
ore body has yet been found. The owners
expressed astonishment when they heard
the terms of the prospectus. All the pro-
moters had contracted to give them, they
allege, was £l5OO cash and 9600 paid shares
equal to £6300.
Stuckey has got the Edna May lode in
the Deeps, and without water. For that
performance he deserves both credit and
renown. Of course, the talk of his willing-
ness to buy the first 1000 tons of ore at
£4 a ton was a bit of flam which no doubt
he regrets, his business beinsr to get gold at
the cheapest possible cost for shareholders
and not to traffic in ore. The Edna May
shoot, even in shallow levels, never ran
far oyer loz., and it can hardly be expected
that it will have fattened with depth. In-
deed, Stuckey is strikingly modest about it
now. Further, he resisted the temptation
to turn on the tap directly he started
breaking into the reef. No one knew he
had touched stone until he was 6ft. into
it. His next splash will be when the
shaft runs into the lode 30ft. or 40ft. below
the present crosscut at 480 ft. To May 31
shaft sinking had cost £8073, nearly £l9
every foot sunk. However, with T.
Duff s purse to draw on, the co. has been
to avoid making any issue of the
10,000 shares in reserve, though speculative
brokers have been nibbling after them. As
fetuckey doesn’t work out what tonnage to
look for above 480 ft. a problem can be set.
b } l PPOse he gets 10ft. of stone for a length
of 100 ft Giving him 100 ft. of backs, which
is a decidedly liberal allowance, then he will
have 7000 tons of stone for the batterv.
P 0“ oua ? e estimate this might net him
■ market valuation of the mine
is ill 0,000, so he has to develop a lot of
stone below 480 ft. to make up the present
price of shares.
** . „
* *
The lecently ousted Westralian Labor
Government takes credit for having raised
Fhilhps River copper-gold field from the
dead, bmce the establishment of the State
smelter in 1914 ore to the value of £171.000
has been smelted, £93,000 of which repre-
sents the last 12 months’ product. Unfor-
tunately, the price of supplies and the
scarcity of freight make smelting extremely
dear, and prevent the profitable treatment of
a lot of ore.
w * *
DriMets of news from Mount Cuthbert
(Q.) indicate that Percy Piggott’s financing
has had to take a new direction. Luck looked
like turning after he got Corbould. of Mount
Elliott, to treat Cuthbert ore; but either
because the stuff wasn’t rich enough or the
furnace wasn’t right very little profit came
out of the campaign. The job of getting
cash to pay for the new furnace is thus
x-o°Ann i. a( k ° n to t,le management. About
±ou,UUU has to be put up, so a reconstruction
is in the air. This looks like calls. If so,
those who swapped debentures for scrip will
curse, as they gave up a sure 7 p c.
* * * X *
t T lie TT-A Vaw, tln oxide expected from
Lode Hill (N.Q.) sizzled down to 10 tons.
xT yn i? ns ’ runs the show now that
John Northey has taken to Collins-street,
relates that for the half-year to June 30 364
tons oxide were got from 62,000 cub. yards'.
Nearly all the dirt came from No. 1 face,
which apart from being four chains wide has
most of the tin mixed up with a foot of
stones on the bottom. The co. had cash and
m nil and -rA W l orth f 2604 and no debts to
,T h , e 10 - t( m run ought to build that
total higher; so, after all. there may be a
older 06 a IV ’ * 3e^ore tke year is much
ihe Government of the Speck is still
thinking about buying the Itailton-Latrobe
shale oil property, but the Public Works
Committee thinks the £130,000 asked for it
“JS? }? n B a price. There will be more
negotiation and it’s likely that the co. will
take less if the Government makes a firm
otter. An effort was made to get the Com-
monwealth Government to spring a bit on
the oil contract tor the navy, but there’s
been nothing doing so far.
Four prospectors, one of them a youth of
d- named James Shaw, claim to have made
\ Ut lu ! old ** Lo »g Plain (Tas.), near
where the Speck s first and only diamond was
found years ago. They say they have found
d gold reef showing specimens assaying 6oz
(one account says 600 z.) of gold, besides
silver, and that the reef has been traced for
4b chains, with a width varying from 9ft. to
_ . Sood deal of gold was got in this
legion years ago, but nothing was heard of
ie place lor years until this amazing story
was told. It will be quite time enough to
believe it when, the Government Geologist
confirms it.
(“Wild Cat ” continued on page 26.)


Under
Royal
Warrant
The Bulletin
To H.M.
King
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
mmm
vm
Champagne
CWleslleidsiedc
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED in FRANCE.
TO CURE COUGHS USE PINE TAR
AND SUGAR.
A SPECIALIST’S SUGGESTION.
Obstinate tickling coughs, the kind that
racks you to pieces and keeps you awake at
night, can be quickly relieved by ten or
fifteen drops of bitrate of tar on a lump of
sugar, and letting it slowly dissolve in the
mouth. The specialist who recommends this
plan says it is superior to anything he has
ever tried, and may be used with perfect
safety and success on children. To make
an excellent inexpensive cough syrup which
children like, he says there is nothing better
at any price than half a pound of granu-
lated sugar dissolved in half a pint of hot
water, and then stir in 2oz. of bitrate of tar.
When cool pour into a pint bottle, and it is
ready for use. From half a teaspoonful to
a teaspoonful every hour or two will quickly
relieve coughs and colds, and if regularly
used for a few days will give remarkable
benefit in cases of catarrh, asthma and
bronchial affections. — Advt.
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET (SL CHANDON
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE
1906.
FESQ (Sb CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
SINCE
1679.
SINCE 1679.
HAIG a. HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, August 14, 1916.
My Deak Akini. —
Already from Paris the warning comes not
to get your spring frock too wide, otherwise
you’ll be hacking out some of its drapery
before the end of our long summer. A friend
writes from the other side that the best-
dressed women in Paris are not looking like
balloons. It doesn’t suit them. They merely
hang a moderately-wide skirt over a limp
silk petticoat. N’York, too, cannot face
the crinoline and now maintains an
ominous silence about that seven-yards-
round-the-hem we used to hear about.
Still, there is one minor atrocity to
be faced. The darts in the bodice, that
once gave a prim, pinched-in look to the old-
fashioned photo, are In. So Heaven help
the Juno form !
Strickland, with a couple of
daughters, had-a hearty tossing up on a State'
trawler the other day. Oh, yes, it was out-
side the Heads, and you know what that
feels like before you get used to it. His Ex.
and the girls stood it well. But Dave Hall
began to wish himself on a pavement that
didn’t heave, and a pressman who was with
the party couldn’t look at the titbits. Even
the pilot had to fast in the midst of plenty.
But that was bilious headache.
Our G.-G.’s Sydney crony, shipping-man
Colonel Burns, is in trouble. On his way
back from London a few months ago he had
the joy of a surprise visit from his two
lieutenants who had been out lighting the
Senussi and had got a few days off to run
into Alexandria and see dad. Shortly after
that the two boys were separated. Jack
was invalided home; R.D., the baby, was
sent on to France, where he joined a
machine-gun section. What happened to
him there nobody knows yet. He disap-
peared during an attack —whether killed or
captured even his chum can’t say. Lieuten-
ant Jim, the eldest son, who awaited his
father’s return from Europe to get his khaki
suit, has been wearing' it for two or three
months, and expects to be off almost any
day now.
Have you seen the War Chest button
designed by the Murray Campbells? It is
truly artistic, which is more than can be said
for the one sold on Button Day. My Murray
Campbell button is flat and thin, with an
edge of royal blue on a white ground, a
wreath of dark-green laurel in the centre and
on the blue rim: “In Memory of Gallipoli.”
You may get the button in different colors.
Mrs. J. H. I J . Murray and daughter Mary,
reluctantly accompanied by schoolboy Pat,
who prefers the beetles he finds in the River-
view bush, leave for England in the Mooltan.
The eldest son, Terence, fighting now at
Salonika, gets leave in September. That
settled, he hurries to London, where his
sweetheart, Philippa Kitchener, will be wait-
ing on the shore. She’s a niece of the late
Iv. of Iv., as I told you, and daughter of the
late General Sir Walter Kitchener. The
wedding will be early in October. Mary
Murray is tearing herself away from an Aus-
tralian horse and a French poodle. Pat,
who is the makings of a naturalist, goes
later on to Oxford. Just now he prefers to
catch the wild bush insect in its Lane Cove
lair. So the family climbs the Mooltan gang-
way with mixed feelings, and the French*
poodle weeps for its pal.
Belgian Consul Watteeuw and his wife
have sent out cards, stamped with the
arms of their country, to announce the arri-
val of a small son. It’s Ronald Sydney
Albert Marie, with Maurice (after papa) to
finish the list.
The Journalists’ Institute, which missed
the much-engaged Rider Haggard, has taken
all sorts of care to capture Premier Billy
Hughes. It lunches him on Monday,
August 21. His other meals are also pro-
vided, thank you. The Commonwealth Bank
festoons him with oratory and solids on the
following day. And on the Wednesday the
Metal Exchange pays for the dyspeptic
little man’s midday biscuit. He rarely ven-
tures on much more.
At the Golf Club House, Rose Bay, on
Monday night, a feast of welcome was given
by 20 meds. to Dr. Jamieson, who is back
from the strife. Dr. Sinclair Gillies presided
over the soft drinks and led the few remarks.
One still hears loud murmurs of lament over
the banishment of the whisky devil and the
hock fiend every night at sundown, and a
consequent decrease in dinner parties is
recorded at the Club’s hospice.
Marjorie Street, who travels to London in
a week or two, was to have been under the
wing of Mrs. Arthur Dowling; but the news
of Max Dowling’s death may alter the pro-
spect. Miss Street has made her home at
Broughton Lodge since her mother passed
on; for the future it will he under Lady
Poore’s friendly roof, the Admiral’s cheery
wife having “adopted” the winsome girl.
What is the matter with the peeresses of
the Domain Anzac Buffet Committee? Their
latest “explanation” is in contradiction of a
rumor which said that 4th Battalion returned
soldiers had to pay through the nose for a
party they gave in the austere compound. It
appears the peeresses charged the men only
3s. 3d. per head for afternoon-tea. Heavens!
I had almost forgotten that this included
fruit-salad! The committee records with
pride that on this particular day there were
17 soldiers present —exclusive of the 4th’s
little lot. These crowds make the imagina-
tion reel.
Here is a recent
portrait of Mary
Gilmore, by May
Moore. She writes
about many things
besides domestic
pets, as you’ll
know by her book
—“Marri’d a n d
Other Verse s.”
Since that was
published she has
written many more
versos, besides
compiling a cook-
ery book and edit-
ing a page of The
Worker. Mrs. Gil-
more came fr o m
Goulb ur n way
originally, and as
Miss Cameron was school-teaching in Syd-
ney and the Backblocks before she joined
the New Australians in Paraguay. It was a
strenuous time she had there, with a wed-
ding and a baby thrown in. Afterwards she
went to Patagonia, where she lived amidst
plenty of excitement for over a year; but
the family of three reached old Australia
safely in 1902. Here her good nature has
overflowed in many good works. Helping
young authors is one of her specialities; but
she says she is proudest of having intro-
duced pocket-hankies to the gaols of Vic-
toria. It wouldn't have occurred to anyone
but a woman like Mrs. Gilmore that even a
prisoner may get a cold in his head. Or her
head. As a matter of fact, it was a woman’s
sufferings in this respect that moved the
philanthropist to action. “Whatever did
they do before?” somebody once asked Mrs.
Gilmore. “Oh, they were allowed a petti-
coat, you know,” she answered.
Hasn’t Captain Ossy Watt made a name
for himself? The French authorities record
their regret in writing at the Sydney man’s
transfer to the Australian air squadron.
Yet Oswald looked a slim, indecisive youth,
intent merely on wearing a silk hat at the
right angle, when he took up the running as
lion. Help in Emergencies to Governor
liawson.
Every Manly boy at the Front is to eat a
slice of Australian plum-pudding if the Vil-
lage dames can manage it. They’ve organ-
ised a local Women’s Industrial Exhibition
for August 25 as a help to other fund-
sweeping operations.
Mrs. Lebby Hordern, now in England, is
in mourning for her brother, Bruce Monie.
He fell in France about three weeks ago.
The Royal Art Society’s cards are out for
the 37th annual exhibition. Private view
day is September 2. On that date Art
patrons are expected to back their fancy
with any little thing left over from the War
Loan.
Mumps have got into the best circles.
Friends this week are fussing in futile pro-
test because popular Clare Gilchrist is in
hospital with a bad attack. As it comes
under “infectious deseascs” as well as “un-
dignified .ailments,” the patients have to
suffer in seclusion.
The newest Edgecliff engagement, that of
Edith Iloldship to Lieut. Tony Brown, tea-
planter of Ceylon, is being told about. The
pair became engaged some five years since,
but let it lapse, and it stayed that way
until a cable revived it recently. The
lucks;' man is in khaki, and his fiancee
sets sail for Egypt and marriage in
three short busy weeks. Miss Iloldship, who
returned from a trip to Colombo only a few
weeks ago, has been secretary to the 7th
Light Horse sewing guild at Edgecliff ever
since the war began.
Faulkner Ormiston, who lately married
Valerie, a daughter of Bruce Suttor, of
Chatswood, got a wire of congratulation
from sister Isabel. She is the brilliant grad-
uate who used to look like a delicate piece of
porcelain china. Yet as Dr. Ormiston she
lias been mentioned or decorated for her
heroic services to the wounded on nearly
every Front. And she’s still at it.
Shirlow’s etchings in the Mitchell Library
are poems that cast a glamor over a slum
and turn a church steeple into a classic.
“The Gothic Spire,” Collins-street, is a
monument erected by Shirlow to his own
genius. One iron bridge is first-cousin to
another. But the slender span around the
Upper Yarra’s waist is idyllic since it was
put on paper by John. “The Slum in the
back kerbs of Little Bourke-street ceases to
be sordid when it becomes an etched pre-
sentiment of a picturesque slit in high*
walled bricks and mortar. Besides, you can t
see the smells of the Chinese quarters.
The Helpers’ Club, Kirribilli, has had a
musical party in St. James’s Hall proceeds
to the French-Australian League and Ist
A.D. Hospital. Consul-General Chayet was
there; Mrs. Playoust made a few re-
marks to thank everybody; and Mrs. Little-
john, in the latest Idea in fashionable attire,
kindly lectured us over a bouquet of daffo-
dils on our Duty to our soldiers. There s
quite a lot of Duty in old frocks and aprons
at every battalion depot, by the way Duty
that doesn’t say a word about it. The pro-
gramme began by a thin extract of "Mar-
seillaise” at the piano. The _ music
fell down in the middle of it; but
the French bore up cheerfully. Walter
Bentley, with a Scotch frog in his
throat, the day being damp, obliged with a
recitation or two. Mrs. Linden rounded up
the late arrivals and found them plenty of
room. Sid Macdonald.. Mrs. Bruce Robb,
Vera Cree and Raymond Pechotseh were in
the entertainers’ list. The Cullen lady sat
in the executive half-moon with her feet on
the Axminster.
They’re not forgotten in the tropic swamps
of Mesopotamia! School kiddies are going to
veil for Liberty in the Town Hall on August
2!). If nothing prevents Phil Newbury turn-
ing up he’ll warble of Maud and other ladies
for the fund. It's to help our Field Engi-
neers and wireless heroes grin and bear their
lot away up in the steaming swamps.
In a week that palpitated with Battalion
raids for Christmas cheer (I hope you don’t
find them monotonous) there was a small
diversion at Neutral Bay. Private Hazle-
wood, a young electrical engineer, has re-
turned invalided. lie still looks a sick man,
but he isn’t worrying about that. By way
of investing his savings so as to earn a
living he put them into electric bath-fittings
in his mother’s private hospital. It’s in
Ranger’s-road—the handsome villa sur-
rounded by flower-trimmed lawns that used
to be editor Heney’s home. So you can
guess that it’s name is Vailima, for ILL.S. is
one of Heney’s gods. The Cullen lady opened
the new electric department, while matron
Ilazlewood, proud mother of an only son,
beamed in the background. Dame Hay was
in the crowded audience, with Mrs. Ethel
Turner Curlewis’s blue eyes looking over her
shoulder. Mrs. Caro came with daughter
Hilda, and a strong cohort of local nobility
attended the debut of the bath.
Mrs. H. M. Merewether and Mrs. Tom
Watson are joint hon. secs, of a big com-
mittee which represents our Best Suburbs.
The cause is a suggested battle-plane from
the women of N. S. Wales to the War
Office, and Eadith Walker is one of its
keenest backers. It’s a shilling fund, but
there’s nothing to prevent anyone sending
£lOO.
Staying in Sydney this winter are the
Alma Baker couple. lie is the Malay States
man who spends his days hunting up money
to buy air-planes for presentation to the
British Government. Mrs. Alma is a daugh-
ter of the late Frederick Whittaker, a Maori-
lander who caught a knighthood years ago.
This year (d.v.) Lady Edeline .Strickland
opens the fete for the Waitara Foundling
Home —the place with the lovely gardens
and rosy-cheeked babes in airy dormitories.
The Polish Clothing Relief Committee has
just been born into this world of trouble.
The president is Mrs. Campbell Carmichael
and the hon. sec. Miss MacKee. That fiery
Polish patriot, Miss Gzaykowska, merely sits
on the executive and works in the back-
ground for Baby Kosciusko. She’s had a
letter from Henryk Sienkiewicz, chairman
of the General Polish Committee, from
Vevey, in Switzerland, imploring that big
consignments of clothing for the nearly-
naked women and children be sent before
Poland is buried in its winter snow. Oh. a
fine old German gentleman is Wilhelm ! The
clothing depot hums with sewing machines
at 5 Hamilton-street, City.
Another Australian Red Grosser who has
been working at the other end, pretty
Fairlie Cunningham, the Sydney sculptress,
is returning here, her zeal having over-run
her health.
The 17th Battalion is crying out “Help!
Help !” It wants a thousand scarves for its
men, soon to be bitten shrewdly by the
winter winds of France. It also wants to
send its thousand Christmas comforts. In-
cidentally it also wants workers at its quar-
ters, Terranora Buildings. It wants them
badly.
There is money in flower selling—of course
for some hungry battalion’s Christmas boxes.
Mrs. Alex. Gordon is a persistent bloom-
vendor in the smart striped apron that our
Best Suburbs wear when they dabble in
business. The 19th Battalion will get plum
puddings out of Mrs. Alex.’s last Saturday
morning spent behind buckets of flowers in
Paling’s.
There’s to be a French League concert
towards the end of September, with Paul
Du fault as the sta r—though with his silver
mane he could quite as easily understudy
a comet. Mrs. Harry Austin gave the
preliminary push.
The 2nd D.A.C. and Howitzer Brigades
had a Comforts Fund At Home in Falmouth
Chambers last week. They broke out of
their own den, which is full of sewing-
machines, and had an overflow party across
the passage. Mrs. sec. Ballantine, Miss
treasurer Andrew and the committee ladies
were grateful for some fat contributions to
the Christmas boxes. The Straths (Ivillara)
sent along £2O as the results of a gift after-
noon for the not-over-affluent 2nd D.A.C.
and its mates.
A crash came when Commissioner Bud-
den’s cable scratched Christmas Billy for the
race to Potsdam. The local War Chest flung
itself into the breach, and supplies the alter-
native cardboard receptacles, gratis, to
authorised inquirers.
Madge Hopwood Foldi, a Rose Bay girl,
recently stood under a horseshoe of
white roses to say “I will” to Aubrey
Lance. The knot was tied in the Foldi
home, which was a bower of blooms for the
event. Sister Phyllis and Mabel Lance
stood behind the bridal finery—Brussels
.lace and shimmers.
The sky is lifting in France. A few
artists, amongst them some Australians, are
back in Paris studios. Kathleen O’Connor,
daughter of the late engineer, C. Y.. of
Westralia, is in the batch of first fligliters.
During this week Mrs. Verbrugghen—who
is English, by the way—gives two recitals of
British Folk Songs in the Conserva tori uni.
The Welsh items include gems of inarticu-
late consonants in dizzy convolutions. The
Hebridean group, said to be their first
appearance in Australia—which I doubt —-
are interesting as a reflex of primitive life
in the Chilly Isles. When such ditties as
“The Sealwoman’s Joy” (not salewoman’s)
photographed the feminine horizon, Woman
was as meek as a tame Alderney.
“Dot and the Kangaroo” was written by
the late Ethel Pedley, to the surprise of her
friends, who knew her only as the first con-
ductor of St. Cecilia’s choir: It’s a taking
little Australian story, and Grace Stafford
has dramatised it for her pupils. Both per-
formances of “Dot’s” adventures turned
away an overflow. But don’t grieve—there
will be a repetition. The Soldiers’ Wives
and Mothers Fund, whose object is to grant
small loans for emergencies, will get the
results.
The meeting to
elect a Vera Cree
concert committee
ran on velvet tyres.
She’s a pretty Syd
ney girl here’s
her photo, to prove
it —and the brainy
pupil of Ada Gee.
Vera, as I told
you, won the only
Royal Academy and
College of Music
scholarship awarded
this year in Aus-
tralia. After the
’cello-voiced Hull,
resident secretary
of the London R.A.
and C.M., had
thrown a posy at
the girl, Oswald Anderson, as lion,
concert manager, took charge of the
meeting. Mrs. Kelso King, all smiles under
a white-winged hat. was elected president.
The farewell concert comes off in the Town
Hall on October 12. Towards the expenses,
Mrs. Alf Harris has handed in £50 —a hand-
some beginning. Ada Gee probably chap-
erons her pupil to London. They’ll leave
about February.
Kirsty, a daughter of the Andrew
Fletchers, of Lyndhurst station, up Armi-
dale way, has accepted a ring from Bob
Turnbull, of Buccarumbi. He’s a younger
son of ,T. Turnbull, of Katupua, Guy
Fawkes.
John Miller, the dark, fat, forty and jolly
ex-member for Bathurst, was quietly married
a while ago to Miss Sybil Stephen, of Mel-
bourne. The bride is one of the numerous
Stephen, C.J., clan. She is a sister of Mrs.
Arthur Payne, of Melbourne, who slipped
over to St. James’s (King-street) with the
star performer and witnessed the jettisoning
of the maiden name.
Papa William Holman and Rose Seaton
e-locuted in the Conservatorium on Saturday
afternoon. They were backed up by their
pupils in scenes from Richard lll.—who
wasn’t worth the flowers of speech in which
he has been wreathed by Shakspeare—and
“Coriolanus.”
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


“CHUNDER”
TAKES A TRIP HOME. At the War.
*///?*s'%?»&■■■ •••■."■ '
' /Ax. ;:V»* - ./.• <•*•«£*:*; : *..'• •/•:•'• ..•
r'
? ,•••■'.
: wv,
.'•v*
,M- a .
I
ii
;>S
■ ; o'-
■;:■?■■"
-
3*
m
S
1
1-:
1
i
i
m
,-r-
-.r''C
0
K-i
¥§§&
• f
m
0$
m
?w.
«
ii
M
in
$
pj
n/
i
\
r : >,
•Sv-
»
1
Md
''A\u,
&#s*£
MM
m
m
i
ix£S
£
/
1
m
i
y
m
f
o'-
&
US
vs*
I
m
' ■•■•''. '.z
/
I
Vr=-
S
spr
I
■• : r'
«
?'■'■* f.'}\
■MS
s? : :
y#:
.■•-5
2>.5
#>*
S»£-
P 5
• .‘Vi.jV
~.^r::’
'MS
c...-
Cobra,” Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Poo,
Lias the smartest
Big-gun crew;
Bear and Dog- will
Bring the shell
While old Chunder
“Lays’" it well.
When the mm is
o
Loaded—“Fire!’
Far away a
Cloud of mire
Leaps and falls.
Oh! What a wrench
“COBRA’S" burst
German trench. *


m
v
Special Value “Victor” Suits
IN BLUE CHEVIOT SERGE.
“VICTOR” Ready-to-wear Suits enable any man
to be well dressed at a moderate cost. In style,
in fit, in permanent shape retention, “Victor” Suits
approximate so closely to made-to-measure gar-
ments that only an expert can tell the difference.
Featured is a special-value line in Blue Cheviot
Serge, guaranteed pure dye and all-wool fabric.
Coat is a two-button model, slightly
waisted, and has centre seam, no vent;
vest cut with medium opening and four
pockets; trousers have side and hip
pockets and cuff bottoms.
Other Values, 60/- to 00/-
70/-
FARMER'S,
Pitt, Market
and
George Streets,
SYDNEY
m
■
At Last
A de'ntriflce that
not only cleans but
purifies—goes to
the root of tooth
evils and elimin-
ates them.
Calox
The Oxygen Tooth Powder
The success of Oalox lies in the Oxygen,
which there’s no holding when it is re-
leased by moisture. It penetrates _ every
recess, routing out all germ and decay ,
better and cleaner teeth follow the use of
CALOX, THE OXYGEN TOOTH POWDER.
All Chemists, Drapers, Fancy-
Goods Stores and Tobacconists.
Wholesale Distributors
GEO. WILLS & CO. LTD .
ft? ;
The
Highest
Grade Tyre
is the
DUNLOP
It stands alone for
Quality and Service,
and can be relied
upon for a big
mileage over the
roughest of roads.
It costs no more
to fit
“DUNLOPS”
although they are
the highest grade
made, in fact they
are now obtainable
at a lower figure
than many im-
ported Tyres.
When ordering Tyres
always specify “Dunlops,”
thereby ensuring yourself
thousands of miles ofenjoy-
able motoring
at a minimum
cost for tyre
upkeep.
OBTAINABLE
IN ALL
SIZES AT
LEADING
GARAGES.
Illustrated %k
List on ■ 1
application to
DUNLOP
RUBBER CO.,
108 FUNDERS ST
MELBOURNE
iS SCLARENMST. v
»«?s
67 KING ST., PERTH.
268 . 2 74 ADELAIDE ST.
53 CAMERON ST.,
LAUNCESTON.
95 COURTENAY PL..
WELLINGTON. /
116 WORCESTER
STREET,
CHRIST-
CHURCH.
L
m
/J*
■
-t*
®g
• * r «S©r i
■ ;**4 iVT*i
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, August 14, 1916.
My Dear Yarrie,—
Some of the Hughes enthusiasts are won-
dering how cvev the G.-G. and his wife could
tear themselves away from Victoria by
Saturday evening’s express when William
the Tonqueror was arriving on Tuesday
morning. Private-secretary Victor Hood re-
presented Governor Stanley in the welcom-
ing party at the station, but there was no
lapelled gentlielp present from the Ferguson
household. Social weather-readers trouble
themselves greatly over these small matters
of detail.
Daily papers paragraphed a Hughes re-
ception at Federal Government House on the
night of his arrival, and various dames who
read it over their morning tea flung on dress-
ing-gowns at once and foamed for the tele-
phone. The poor young man on duty at the
House was kept busy all day explaining that
no invitations had been issued because, there
was no function —no, madam, no function at
all! There might be one in three weeks’
time, but he could not be suah.
The Hughes reception at the Town Hall
was a surge of excitement. A battalion of
police drove the curious crowd back from the
Town Bfall portico, so that the Importants
might pass through unhustled; but a Yarra
Ranker managed to trundle his cart past the
steps, right under the Hughes nose, to adver-
tise the rival showmen down the river. Ut
course, there was a rush to turn the weary
horse out of the sacred enclosurebut that
merely blocked the passage of the high-hatted
politicians who followed two-and-two, Aoali s
Ark fashion, after the little man.
Inside the hall the womenfolk were
directed to the balconies. The' body of the
room was filled with men, bottles, trays and
waitresses. When champagne was handed
round for toasting purposes one man out ot
four dozen refused the wine and asked tor
water. After the brown-clad waitress had
recovered she realised that he wasn t order-
ing a bath, but a drink. Returned soldiers
occupied the organ seats and applauded like
a thunderstorm in the right places.
The three lonely women on the platform
Mrs. Hughes, Mrs. Pearce and the Hennessy
dame—showed some brave finery. Mrs.
Hughes, in brown velvet, had large ostrich
feathers in her hat. (“The Cape” always
puts an ostrich plume in the hat of the
woman traveller who passes that way.) Mrs.
Pearce’s black velvet was almost crinolined
with braid. The Hennessy lady wore kliaki-
colored tailorings and hat —a smart turn-out.
I noticed that the excited crowd down at the
foot of the platform called for cheers for
“Lady Hughes.”
When Hughes began to speak, in his
heavy, nasal voice, he was first very sedate
and calm. Then he suddenly fired up and
threw himself into all the oratorical attitudes
which David Low has pictured him in.
The last day of the Australian Steeple-
chase meeting at Caulfield was bright,
breezy and jolly, despite the long-faced
punters who mourned for the favorites and
said hard things about Ungala for winning
at 25 to 1. There were 23 jumps to face,
hut the Robert Powers’ 6 to 1 Rendrock
toppled at the second and waved his hoofs
despairingly at the sky. The Fairbairns
eagerly watched Uncle Charlie’s Booligal
as it sailed along in the lead; but the
deluded animal finished last with a bumped
knee. The Clive Leonards’ Westaway gal-
loped home third and earned a small hatful
of gold.
Mrs. Manifold wore braided velvet and
smiles and petted the winning Becassine in
the birdcage after the first race. Then the
Manifold purple-and-gold scored another
brilliant win with Coradjill’s help. Queen
Mills of Gippsland wept gracefully in navy
blue when Oaracre hobbled in on three legs
after the flat race. Fan Dango Mackay
sat in the grandstand all day wearing a
smart little black turban and a huge
shoulder cape of black fox. Mrs. Leslie
Macdonald was in cream cloth and sup-
ported a white toque with a purple cherry
over one eyebrow and a green cherry over
the other. Mrs. Geoffrey Syme was charm-
ingly dressed in soft brown radium silk and
edgings of amber-colored fur. Her
eldest daughter made a first race-
course appearance in a checked suit and
two big brown pigtails. Mrs. Herbert Syme’s
steel-grey silk skirts flared imposingly and
were circumnavigated by three circular bands
of velvet. Mrs. Tye wore natty blue toggery
and showed slim ankles with fawn boots at
the terminus.
Masked girls in Russian dress took around
collecting boxes for Russian week. One
wore flopping knee-high boots. Another’s
Roman nose wouldn’t allow her mask to sit
on her face, but pushed it out at an acute
angle.
The Italians’ first swoop at “Butterfly”
was spoiled in some degree by the infant they
retained to play Little Trouble, the Butter-
fly-child, whose “sunny golden ringlets” are
referred to in melody as evidence of its U.S.
parentage. The poor kid bawled as soon as
it saw the audience. The orchestra thun-
dered and the principals yelled their best;
but the horrified baby got its high note in
true Italian style. When Russ propelled it
off the stage the high C still shrilled from
the wings. The audience got a lot of
amusement out of this consistent actor, for
he was wide awake at every appearance aiid
bawled like a Caruso. Some further comic
relief was supplied by the servant of the very
lively priest. The servant had to
hold" a Jap brolly over the clerical head,
and he had to work overtime to do it. Once
the brolly knocked a high arch sideways,
and it rocked perilously over the girls who
were cowering in four-and-elevenpenny
cotton kimonos in the background. Miss
Gonsalez-Butterfly, who looks all right in a
golden wig, turned herself into an Israel-
itish damsel with a heavy, black head-dress.
There was a packed house for the first
Butterflying. Amy Castles listened critically
from the circle. Mrs. Fred Eggleston, in an
embroidered bead cloak, hostessed a theatre
clutch. Mrs. Woolcott ruffled in fashionable
black taffetas. A lot of the audience these
times consists of women-parties.
Miss Russ is the most alluring little vixen
of a Carmen that Melbourne has had a
chance of seeing. If she could only sing like
the big fat Carmens who could only be
carried off in vans she would be a tremen-
dous hit. As it is, the audience feels she is
worth the sacrifice when Jose cuts loose
from his job. This barmen’s dancing is
clever and wicked, Sue is wrapped in a
creamy white shawl; her gold skirt is looped
with jewels and filmy black Spanish lace,
and the ankles and feet inside the gold stock-
ings cannot be described in the few words I
have bv me. Yellow roses and nothing else
seemed" to fasten her gown to her fascinating
shoulders. Truly she has "the beautiful
bones” that Du Maurier made his artistic
heroes rave about.
Just after the release from gaol of China-
man Chia I received a letter from a London
chatterer who tells me that Mrs. Unie
Russell Chia is leaving London for a year’s
tour of Canada and the United States with
a comedy co. That done, she will flutter in
this direction.
Tie too-excitable Chia is now waiting for
the next China boat to take him to a Uni-
versity billet in his own country. He looks
„very fit after his three years’ experience of
the simple life. But he was for-
tunate in having a plentiful supply of books.
Chinese and English classics passed away the
time in his non-working hours. He has
made an ethical study of prison life, and
views the penitential period through rose-
colored specs.
The Ben. J. Fink widow —one of the
handsomest matrons of her day—is in
London spending money patriotically. She
has donated £5OOO (4,800,000 finks, no
less!) to the Douglas Shields hospital in
London, and has endowed a Harold Fink bed
for disabled officers in memory of her dead
son.
Russian Day on Friday was mostly
boosted along by the bookies. One of them
sold ties at the top of his enormous voice all
the afternoon from a motor-car in Collins-
street. “With every tie you buy, you get a
portrait of ME!” he shouted. Who could
resist that?
Mrs. Crivelli gave a tea-party at the
Vienna to rally some of her Fren&h-week
helpers for the approaching appeal on behalf
of the orphans of Pierre and Francois. Miss
Guthrie and Mrs. Theo Weigall (she is a
daughter of one-time Governor Hamilton, of
Tasmania) were there as right-hand social
aides. The pretty little Crivelli daughter kept
one eye politely on mamma’s guests while the
other roved longingly to a neighboring party
made up of Italian opera stars. (Try this
exercise during the long winter evenings.)
Mrs. Crivelli had souvenirs tied to the
bouquets for her guests. They were small
lockets with wildflowers gathered at Verdun
by one of her fighting sons.
Gaud Mayor Hennessy and his wife gave a
cosy dinner to all the councillors and their
wives one night last week. The com-
pany fed in state in the old Council
Room under rose-shaded lights and among
pink -carnations, and there was a re-
union and coffee party later in the
Mayoress’s blue-and-gold rooms, with soft
music laid on. The Hennessy dame is most
considerate with the musicians, and always
engages different sets in turn. This gives
many of the hard-pressed entertainers a
chance. x\t this last event one of the singers
was Reba Rangan, a local soprano who is
shrilling her way to fame.
Gaud Mayor Hennessy and his wife left
for Sydney and Brisbane by the Omrah on
Saturday. They have gone in the wake of
the G.-G. couple, and are out for 15 days’
rest from the merry-go-round.
Word has been received of the death of
Mrs. Bisshopp. wife of Captain Cecil
Bisshopp, R.N. The lady was Maud, a
daughter of old-time barrister Butler Cole
Aspinall. Her death occurred under tragic
circumstances at Palmerston Quay, near
Harwich. She hafl journeyed from Scotland,
where her home was, to see her husband,
who had a couple of days’ shore leave.
Apparently in the best of health, she entered
the Great Eastern Hotel; and there on meet-
ing her husband she collapsed, and died in a
couple of hours. The excitement caused a
rush of blood to the head, and a clot ot
blood on the brain killed her.
Mrs. Algy Landale’s only brother, Charlie
Langtree, has been killed in France. He
‘went to England when war first blazed
and got a commission in the Artillery.
Colonel Appleton, home again on furlough,
is about looking like an abridged edition ot
himself. He was very ill in Egypt whilst
the merciless sun climbed up to lLLdeg. in
the shade every day for weeks.
Small war-time economies don’t worry the
Alexandra Club, which is about to shunt
from the Gas Office (appropriate location!)
to the Collins-street house which was built
by the late Dr. Beaney. Alterations are
going to cost £2OOO. The best tabbies will
soon have lovely rooms to purr in.
Claude Grice, who rode his own horse in
the V.It.C. steeplechases before he sported
the khaki of a Light Horseman, has been
missing for some months. He is thought
to be a prisoner in Turkey.
From “Rosna,” in England : —-
The Ellison Macartney lady, from Tasmania, has
arrived in London and is staying with the Justice
Darlings when she isn't delivering personal mes-
sages to Tassy’s Anzacs in hospital.
Adelaide’s load of gossip:—
With nearly 650,000 votes to her credit, Mrs. It. M.
Hawker, “Queen of Sports,” was crowned Queen of
Australia Day at the Tivoli on Tuesday. Miss
d’Erlanger, as Queen of Children, came second on the
list, and the whole competition brought in close on
£13,000 for the fund. Mayor Isaacs performed the
coronation gymnastics. Amongst the audience weie
the Galways, the Crawford Vaughans and Mayoress
Isaacs. The total of the Soldiers’ Fund, by the way,
now stands at well over £300,000.
Mareeba, the Red Cross Hospital at Woodville,
which has been more or less in use for some weeks,
was formally opened by the Governor on Saturday.
It is to be staffed by voluntary aids and financed
by Red Cross funds. The recreation hall at the back
of the building was built with State-school children’s
pennies.
Dr. Lilian V. Cooper, of Brisbane, put in a few
days here as the guest of Dr. Helen Mayo before
departing by the Kaiser-I-Hind to join the Scottish
Women’s Unit at Salonika. Dr. Cooper is to join the
Unit as surgeon, paying her own expenses and taking
her own orderly, Miss Bedford, with her. One of
Professor Stirling’s daughters, who has been working
at the St. Dunstan’s Hospital for Blinded Soldiers,
is also to join.
Dr. Swift has had news that his lieut. son, of the
East Lancashires, has been wounded. Other S. Aus-
tralians reported punctured are Captain Frank Lloyd,
who was first commandant at the Exhibition Camp ;
Lieut. Godfrey Wakelin; the Fowler Stewarts son;
Sydney, son of the Walter Smiths, of Yalumba ; and
Lieut. L. Gordon Sandford, second son of a one-time
M.L.C. for the Southern District.
Engineering seems to run in the Goodman family,
for the son of our tramways man has been awarded
the Angas Engineering Scholarship, which is worth
£2OO a year for two years. He took his B.E.
degree last year, and has enlisted.
Artist Will Ashton and a London committee have
purchased a couple of paintings for the local Gallery.
—one by Arnesby Brown, R.A., the other by Hughes-
Stanton, A.R.A. According to Ashton, “both are
splendid works and represent the artist at his best.’
Lady Victoria Buxton’s death was reported from
London on Thursday. When Sir T. F. was Governor,
from ’95 till ’99, the family was full of good works
and its dignity never wore a frill.
After all, Melbourne is to have its Jane
Hop. Donald McLeod, Chief Secretary, has
at length decided to give the idea a flutter,
in spite of Sainsbury’s objections, and has
called on the National Council of Women
to make recommendation of two suitable
ladies. The duties of the constablesses will
be to keep Little Annie and Willie from
playing in the gutter after nightfall, to dis-
courage truancy, chevy the white-slaver and
the furnished-villain, minimise “mashing,”
permeate the parks and supervise the slums.
It is a large order for a pair, but the pro-
posed extension of the system in Sydney
shows that Jane is able to give good value
for her wages.
Stella Swifte (Mrs. H. C. Piper’s attrac-
tive chick) has left for England, where a
D.S.O. is waiting to make her Mrs. Mar-
tyn. The man is a lieut.-colonel, a West-
ralian, who left with the first contingent.
A Collins-street jeweller is showing a new
trinket called “The Patriotic Puss.” The
ornament is not a miniature of a very Red
Cross commit tee-woman, but _ just _ a black
cat with a tricolor bow under its chin.
The A.S.C. Divisional Train out at Broad-
meadows brewed a great party for Amy
Castles on Wednesday, and Anay went out in
great voice and sang like a bird. Bollard
declaimed the Marseillaise, and flautist
Amadio blew very tenderly. Carmen Delprat
a gorgeous pink outfit, including even
pink slippers, and played her violin. One
of the listeners was sist-er Mawson, ex-
plorer Douglas’s wife. Amy Castles wore
all white, and the boys gave her a bouquet
of scarlet japonica to hold. There were
2000 soldiers to supply the applause, the
gorgeous Headquarters Staff were in the
front row, and nurses and doctors were
plentiful. The boys provided a great supper
for the singers and guests and motored them
home at some cold, silent hour.
Remember Cecil Parkes, the wise-looking
Williamstown youngster who fiddled so bril-
liantly at Melba’s Belgian concert? Well,
a couple of months ago he left with his
father for the republic where the unmusical
notes come from, and now a telegram from
San Francisco announces that the boy has
given a concert and scored an emphatic
success. “He is a great violinist in the
truest sense.. His understanding power is
that of a full musically-grown man,” is what
one critic wrote.
Amy Castles is off in October to fill an
American engagement. She was understood
to have been off to somewhere many months
ago.
Actress Gwen Burroughs, who is the Nun
in “The Story of the Rosary,” lost her father
the other day. Heart trouble was to blame.
He was Thomas Burroughs, landowner, of
Buckley, near Geelong.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


Born 1820
Still going- strong
>5
ro
r
's
'«k
K
s
%
//
f
/«
• .
'fe
)T
5
<4
m
O
A
">
es>
ErC>
mu
■^c
/
/
V*
/
//
✓V"
Host : Johnnie Walker, please, and make sure this time that the non-refillablk fitment is intact.
The last time it was cut off.”
Friend • “You are very particular.”
Host . When you have tried Johnnie Walker from the non-refillarle bottle, you will realise that
. to be particular is worth while.”
It is a satisfaction for you to know positively that "Johnnie Walker" Red Label always
has been and always will be kept fully up to its guaranteed age.
Every drop of Red Label is over io years old before released from bond. The “non-
refillable" does the rest.
guaranteed same quality throughout the world.
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch- Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK,


Build up
after Illness
by taking
OVBJM
Of all Chemists.
1/3. 2 '5, 4/6.
Angler’s Emulsion is both healing and
strengthening. Soothing to the entire mucous
tract —throat, lungs, stomach and intestines
—an aid to appetite and digestion and a most
nvigorating tonic and restorative, it is
invaluable for restoring proper tone to the
digestive functions and for building up health
and strength after illness or when run down
from any cause. Pleasant to the taste and
absolutely harmless, it may be taken with
certainty of benefit. It is endorsed by the
medical profession.
FREE TRIAL
BOTTLE.
Send name and address, 4d. postage, and mention this paper.
Angier Chemical Co.. Ltd., 7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
THE. GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
GOUT
& RHEUMATIC PILLS.
The famous Remedy that actually re-
lieves RHEUMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO,
SCIATICA and MUSCULAR RHEUMA-
TISM.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores, 1/- and 2/6 per box.
Pront & Co.. 22!) Strand. London.
START BUSINESS YOURSELF.
We supply Fancy Goods, Post Cards, Draperv, Tobac-
conists, Stationery, Jewellery, Id., 3d. and 6d. Bazaar
Goods, Toys, Confectionery, Cutlery, etc. Sample
cases £5 upwards sent by return. Guide Catalogue,
“Success in Business,” 3d.
H. Michaels & Son.
11-13 Cromwell House, High Holborn,
London, W. 0., England. t 1
Martin's Pills are sold by W. 11. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
s
&
Name Stamped Free of Charge-
For SOLDIERS
sWaterproof Cloth-
Each Seam Sewn-
All Valves Guaranteed-
Complete with Bag-
-10/6, 12/6 each
ROTHWELL’S LTD.
TheCHIASTOLITE
Edward Street,
BRISBANE |
I
or Luck
Stone
The Wonderful Old-World War Charm.
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM.
Found in Australia.
Mounted as Pendants in 9ct. Gold, from 10/6 each.
Mounted as Rings in 9ct. Gold, from 20 /- each.
The Black Opal Store, 89 Market St., Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, Gem Merchant, Proprietor.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
OLD ASSOCIATIONS.
“You know, boys, toe often associate one
good thing with another. For instance, Health and happiness, Gold arid Sil-
ver. Note can any of you give me another example?”
“Yes, Miss; Tripe and Onions!”
“Deepsea Fisherman” : The Speck’s JTisher-
ies Commissioner Flynn revives an old controversy by
recommending- that the free use of crayfish pots be
allowed. Most of the fishermen down there who cray-
fish for a living are dead against the pots. They say
that the Victorian fishermen have pretty well exter-
minated the crayfish on the Victorian coast with the
pots, and that now they want to do the same on the
Tasmanian coast. Their theory is that the main
damage is done when, as often happens, a pot breaks
loose. The ways get in and can’t get out, and then
they eat each other, and others keep getting in, and
so on ad infinitum.. The Tasmanian fishermen use
the hoop-net, and there’s no great danger of any-
thing of the kind happening with that. Prof. Flynn
reckons the net is too slow and tedious, and that
there isn't the slightest danger of exhausting the
crayfish supply, to which the impolite fishermen reply
“Rats!” Pots are used on the Tasmanian coast, of
course, but only on the strict q.t. and at the risk of
having the boat confiscated. Anyway, the Lee
Ministry doesn’t propose to do anything with Flynn’s
report, which only cost the State £4OO.
“Analyst” : I don’t believe in quacks, but
I must and do believe my eyes. I bought a Newfound-
land pup in Sydney for a pound, and when I got him
home found he was stone blind. It was pathetic to
see him blundering into chair- and table-legs so
I took him to half a dozen vets, who talked
learnedly of congenital blindness, and did nothing.
Shortly * afterwards I took my pup with me to
Bananalar.d, and owned a very blind dog till I met a
Chow banana-grower at Gcraldton. I told the Chow
the pup’s history, and when he said he could cure him
I agreed to let him try provided there was no
cruelty in the treatment. The Chow made a mysteri-
ous preparation of paw-paw, which he blew into the
dog’s eyes, after which he bandaged the eyes with
paw-paw leaves. In a week that dog could catch a
Johnstone River mosquito on the fly. The paw-paW
should be scientifically investigated from roof to
basement.
“Hay” : The mia-mia, the wurley and the
gunyah of the coastal-district Binghi are often men-
tioned by Abo.-writers, but I haven’t seen any
description of the architectural beauties of the yap-
para. Our black bro. of the Far Back never builds a
house except when he expects heavy rain, and
directly the weather clears he moves out and never
enters the place again on any account. Mulga is his
favorite building material because it grows in con-
venient shapes. He begins by choosing a straight
piece about five feet long with a fork at the end.
This he plants upright about Ift. in the ground, and
it is the only part of the structure that is made fast
to the earth. The backbone or ridge-pole is then
laid in the fork with* a bend upwards. Next come
the ribs, bow-shaped pieces which are laid against
the backbone with their ends resting on the ground.
The complete skeleton is dome-shaped, about 4ft.
high and sft. in diameter. A coating of saltbush is
laid on crossways and another lot with the ends
down like thatch to throw the rain off. Lastly, sand
is hurled at the domicile, and the yappara, which
looks like an old-time beehive, is ready for the
housing of Mr. and Mrs. Binghi and family, half a
dozen dogs and all the smoke from the fire in the
entrance. These buildings can be thrown together
with marvellous rapidity, and frail as they seem will
stand for years. I have come across them sometimes
after the sand and brush covering had long dis-
appeared, and still the yappara stood firm and could
only be demolished by being taken to pieces bit by
bit.
NO HELP WANTED FROM JOHN.
MISTRESS : “You can go to your room now. You might change your dress. John will
show you the way.”
NEW MAID (shocked): “Thank you, mum, but—but I know how to do it.”
“Try Fluke”: Four of us, two pakehas
and two Maoris, were working our passag'e up the
higher reaches of the rapid-worried Mekau River, in
the King Country bushj paddling a heavy riniu
Canoe, when we surprised an old bush boar and his
consort Swimming across the deep, swift current just
ahead of hs. The brace of porker's came down-stream
a good deal with the current and the boar landed
first. When he scrambled up the bank he stood wait-
*‘D.F.”: The distribution of the Oyster
Bay pine is a puzzle. It grows on a strip of country
about 100 miles long on the east coast of Tas.,
extending from Bream Creek on the south to about
the Douglas Rivet on the north, and is nowhere
found more than a few miles from the coast; Then
it is found on Maria Island, off this strip of coast,
and on the eastern Straits islands, including the
isolated Kent Group. As far as the mainland is
concerned there doesn’t seem any reason why it
should be confined to this harrow strip of lit-
toral. Within its limits it grows in all sorts of
places. It has a vertical range from the sea-level
to bleak hilltops between 2000 and 3000 feet above
It; it grows on rocky cliffs and on open, deep-soil
flats and is equally accommodating in other respects.
As it seems to be pretty ancient on the earth as a
Variety, it can’t be that it hasn’t yet had time to
Spread further. The very fact that it grows on the
Kent Group seems to show that it dates a long wav-
back. At the southern limit of its range, anyway! it
flourishes vigorously right up to the line at which
it ceases to grow.
“H.V.E.” : For arrant cowardice give me
the gohanna, or monitor lizard. A niuscovy duck
which had escaped from a bush poultry yard laid a
clutch of eggs in the hollow of a fallen tree pro-
jecting out over the salt water of an estuary. Hatch-
ing time was drawing near, but prior to the happy
event a large gohanna discovered the clutch on a day
when Mrs. Muscovy was out for an Airing. The
big go. was comfortably gorging eggs when the
outraged proprietress scuttled up the log and seized
him by the back of the neck with her powerful beak.
Without showing fight the go. plunged into the
water, with Muscovy still hanging on; but in its
natural element the duck could give the lizard a
worst time than ever, and did so. It was
a chastened and wing-beaten go. which crawled
out on the opposite shore, and a puffing but trium-
phant Muscovy which seated herself on the remainder
of the clutch of eggs.
“Te Babarantiko”: Whalemeat is. as
“Murrabit” says, good and wholesome food, but
until accustojped to J;he flavor most people would
have a strong aversion to it. Years ago while at
Trangisvaag, Faroe Islands, near the fringe of the
Arctic Circle, I helped the natives drive a “school”
of whales aground on the beach at Sandevaag Bight.
The carcases were cut up (it was not a very large
kind of whale) and carefully shared among the
inhabitants of the island (Tveraa) in quantities
according to social standing. Like porpoise, the meat
was dark red and was “blanketed” in gritty-looking
white blubber about three inches thick. .The blubber
again was covered with a thick, black hide. I did
not care for the flavor of the meat —it was too fish-
oily—but the natives liked it as much as South
Sea Islanders like braized shark’s liver.
THE SOBERING INFLUENCE.
CURATE: “Well, Mr. Mopitup, you at least
come home sober since six”
MOPITUP: “Gotter. Never get all this beer
home if I didn't."
ing for the lady, champing his tusks at us and gi unt-
ing ripping-up threats until she joined him. Then
the affectionate couple dived together into the
hush gloom. Piko the Maori opined that “te old
poaka te kind fellow for his missus,” and we agreed
with him. (N.B. —The porkers’ throats seemed all
right.)
(Continued on page 24.)
RABBITING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Knights of the rabbit-lioe, wheat-bag, and lantern,
Putting the cunning of Bunny to shame,
City folk think it's a loafing profession,
Wouldn’t you like to have them at the game?
Out in the night when the frosty ground crackles,
Fingers and toes numb and chill with the cold,
Making your rounds with a curse and a shiver,
Wishing that you in your blankets were rolled ;
Out in the night in the scrub and the forest,
Weird in the lamplight and sombre and drear,
Nothing to see but a jumble of gum-trees,
Nought but the plaint of the mopoke to hear;
Down on your knees setting traps in the midnight.
Cursing the cold as it bites to the bone !
Still there are chances and luck for the lucky,
And never a boss when you work on your own.
So it’s mate your rounds again, be it frost or snow
or rain,
They all are bad for trapping, bringing wrath and
pain and grief;
But the city must be fed, it must have its meat and
bread,
And rabbit-meat comes handy at the present price of
beef.
Tramping for miles every day for your living,
Looking for “sets” that are likely to score,
Hoping for ever, with hopes often blighted,
For catches to net you a guinea or more;
Cheered by the wonderful v.jrns in the papers,
Dealing with places some distance away,
Telling of trappers who get for their labors
Tenners a week as their minimum pay ;
True they may be, and good luck to the trapper,
Piling up wealth at so splendid a rate,
Yet somehow or other there seem to be places
Where toil is abundant and catches not great;
Places in plenty where billions of bunnies
Proud local liars say cumber the earth,
Sadly you find when you've gone there exulting
Just what such wonderful stories are worth.
So it’s round the traps again, working hard for what
you gain,
And to-day your heart is joyful, and to-morrow all
is grief;
But the city must be fed, it must have its meat and
bread,
And you sell it country rabbit so that you may live
on beef.
N.s.w.
QUIDAM.


HEAN’S ESSENCE
The Great Money=saving Remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS, CROUP, CATARRH and other
Chest and Throat Troubles, earns
Bland Holt’s Gratitude
1 I
°W- \j&
I
MEANS
ESSENCE
tiiil Holt retired from the stage several years ago his name remains evergreen,
‘ i a PP e = n 'anee of the above message, written in his characteristic caligraphy, will revive
oiil7he e knewho\N rnoneS ° f the fanlous actor 'manager and his numerous melodramas, produced as
;„n. u lke B ! a n‘ I „ thousands of people have contracted churchyard coughs, and felt like pass-
e r C % t ' Essence came to “The Great Rescue” “With Flying Colors,” just when
they considered they were “In Sight of St. Paul’s.” Had they become heirs to “The Great
i 1;' 6 ’ , ?•’ leariicsd that they had drawn “The Derby Winner” in Tatt.’s, they could not have
delj « htc d than they were with the recoveries effected for them by Hean’s Essence,
tiiey now proclaim to “The World” as being “One of the Best” medicines ever compounded.
i!,, bott,e of Hean’s Essence makes a pint of the finest quality mixture, which soothes sore
S ’ Joohe ",. phlegm and relieves bronchial distress'-in the shortest possible time. A pint of
cnstJw?! put up in a lot of little bottles,' would cost at least 12s. Hean’s Essence
costs omv 2s and ig obtainable from all leading chemists and stores, or direct from the discoverer,
" • nIbAN, Manufacturing Chemist, 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Hean’s Cough Diamonds
(Medicated with Hean’s Essence)
are for those who do not
need a large supply of
Cough Mixture. The
price is 9d. per box.
Write Now for The Leviathan
Spring and Summer Suiting
Patterns
The Materials for the Coming Season have Arrived.
We have again been favored with early
shipments. The expression, “Not yet to
hand, Sir,” has lost its “sting.” The
beautiful Suitings—for the coming
Spring and Summer—are in full dis-
play in the Men’s Tailoring Dept, of our
big Establishment. The selection is
indeed fine—in the distinctiveness of
color effects—and in quality of weaves.
Ask now for free patterns of
Sac Suits
to Order at
63/-, 70/-, 84/-
to 126/-
together with Tape and Home-measure-
ment Charts.
Order your New Suit—through our
Mail Order Dept. Remember!
We Guarantee Satisfaction—
or Money Back.
We Pay Carriage.
THE
LEVIATHAN
Corner Swanston & Bourke Streets, Melbourne
f
a
u
cm
1
YOU CAN INSTALL THIS TWO-STAND PLANT
of Cooper New Improved Shearing Machines,
complete with Engine and everything, as shown, for only
£63
THE MACHINES possess improvements
and exclusive features that place them
head and shoulders over any other type
on the market. They are exactly the
same as recently installed by The New
Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency
Co., Ltd., in their sheds at Melbourne;
the same that Messrs. Rooney and Co.
have placed in their big shearing depot
at Stamford, Queensland. They are
silent-running, positive in action, and
very easy to erect and care for.
THE HANDPIECES are unconditionally
warranted to give satisfaction. Cooper
Handpieces shore over 70,000 sheep
last year at Buttabone, after being
installed 10 years, at a cost of less than
5/- each.
THE ENGINE is our well-known Cooper
2-brake horse-power, with High Tension
Magneto and the very best construction
throughout.
GRINDER, Belting, Pulley, Sundries,
Tools, and everything necessary to
shear are included, and the price as
shown
Complete is £63.
LARGER PLANTS AT SAME
FAIR PRICE.
PT'Write us To=day.
Pli
_':'v
1J
mm
a
m
m
SS
•: .
y
,
mi
m
»
m
fi
m
QOOPER ENGINEERING CO. LIMITED,
134 Sussex St., Sydney. 486 Collins St., Melbourne. Hughenden, Queensland.


oKonderft,
FEED
4
I
ii
BUTTER FAT TEST,
Won by a Pen of Meggitt Linseed
Oil 31eal fed calves, which won
everything at Kingaroy Show, 1916.
These calves, owned by Mr. H. McD. Living-
stone, Kingaroy, besides securing Ist, 2nd and
3rd in the Butter Fat Test, also secured seven
other first prizes. The _ skilled judge, Mr.
Holes, said they would win at Sydney.
Full particulars by writing
MEGGITT LTD., Linseed Oil Meal
Manufacturers, PARRAMATTA,
N.S.W.
MAMMA, DADDY AND CHILDREN ALL
LOVE CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Harmless fruit laxative cleanses tl|p
stomach, liver and bowels without
any griping.
A delicious cure for constipation, bilious-
ness, sick headache, disordered stomach, in-
digestion, coated tongue, sallown'ess —take
California Syrup of Figs—“Califig.” For
the cause of all this distress lies in a torpid
liver and sluggish bowels.
A tablespoonful to-night means all con-
stipation poison, waste matter, fermenting
food and bile gently moved out of your sys-
tem by morning without griping. Please
don’t think of California Syrup of Figs—
“Califig”—as a physic. Don’t think you are
drugging yourself or your children. . This
delicious fruit laxative cannot cause injury.
Even a delicate child can take it as safely as
a robust man. It is a most harmless, effec-
tive stomach, liver and bowel regulator and
tonic ever devised.
Ask your chemist for a bottle .of Califig
—California Syrup of Figs —which has full
directions for babies, children of all ages and
for grown-ups plainly printed on the bottle.
Get the genuine, made by California lg
Svrup Company. Refuse any other land
with contempt. “Califig”—California Syrup
of Figs—is sold by all chemists in bottles of
two sizes, Is. 11d. and Is. 9d. I.G
How to Darken Grey Hair
It Can Be Readily Darkened to Its
Youthful Color by a Simple Home
Recipe.
There is no longer any necessity to worry
when age or a diseased scalp streaks the
hair with silver; nor is there need to use
expensive dyes or sticky, smeary prepara-
tions. You can make up an excellent mix-
ture at home, which soon makes grey or
faded hair dark, soft and young-looking if
you will try this simple recipe:—
Bay Rum • } oz -
Oriex Compound 1 small box.
Water • • i'Piut.
Any chemist can supply the ingredients at
a small cost, and you will have a prepara-
tion that will be excellent for scalp dis-
orders, dandruff, falling hair, etc., as well as
a reliable darkener of grey hair. Apply
once a day until the hair is of the required
color, then use once every two weeks. Try
it. —Advt. [7
“Wal”: The, trepang-hunting Malays who
visited Northern Australia in the days when Binghi
was alone in his glory also included the southern
coast of Papua in their itinerary when they went
before the north-west monsoon from Macassar. All
along the seaboard from Hale Sound to Samarai the
population shows undoubted signs of the visitation,
more especially the natives of Hula, on llood Penin-
sula, and Keapara, on the lagoon that also bears •
Hcod’s name. The light brown skin and straight
hair accompanying the almond eye of the typical
Malay is abundant at Hula, while the fishing craft is
to-day the principal means the people have of getting
tucker. For seamanship the Hula man stands in a
class by himself, while his love for bathing and
habits of cleanliness stamp him as far apart from
the pure-blooded Papuan. In intelligence, too, the
gentleman from Hula is a long way in front of his
cousins in the interior, while in trading pursuits he
cah give points to an Armenian Jew when it comes
to watering a bag of copra or artistically sanding a
sack of beche-de-mer. Like most Papuans the Hula
man is not able to give a very reliable story of his
origin, but so far as he knows he is the descendant
of people who came from the West and were great
canoe sailors and fishermen. Both he and the
Keapara people use without any alteration hundreds
of words of pure Malay. Another custom that shows
Malayan ancestry is the building of the villages on
piles in the shallow waters off the beaches. Only the
Papuans dwelling between Galley Reach and Mar-
shall’s Lagoon, about 130 miles in length of coast-
line, adopt this type of architecture. Other tribes
that build marine villages are absolutely unlike the
Hula, their physique being purely Papuan, but they
have possibly imitated the reef dwellings as a means
of protection from the attacks of the warlike moun-
taineers, who, until Law and Order came to Papua,
raised old Henry on their saltwater cousins, killing
and eating them whenever they felt inclined for a
little change in the menu.
* * * *
“The Hum”: The Devil’s puff-box men-
tioned by “E.E.S.” has virtues that belie its name.
The cocky who knows applies it to Dobbin’s sore
shoulder and thereby fits him for the collar again
in quick time. It is the best healer I know for a
wound or sore.
* * * *
“Eddyson”: Old Thornton has been telling
me about his dog Boxer. “He’s a well-bred dorg, a
little bit of everythin’, but what there is is good.
Mostly retriever, I should say he was, ’n’ there ain’t
nothin’ whatever wrong with him ’ceptin’ too much
intelligence. I trained him t’ run messages fer me.
He’d take a basket, ’n’ trot off fer anythin’ I wanted
from the grocer or the butcher. I jest writ out the
order, put the paper in the basket, ’n’ sez I
‘Butcher!’ or ‘Grocer!’ ez the case might be, ,’n’
away he goes ’n’ is back in ten minutes with the
goods. But one month ole Hockin’ the butcher has
at me with a bill what ’u’d roon a bank. S’elp me, I
couldn’t have ate the truck he had up agin me if
I'd bin a horfan asylum. But Hockin’ was dead
square; ’twas me dorg went back on me. What does
he do when the butcher has served him with my
meal but he collars the written order ’n’ drops it in
the basket, too! Some other time when I’m off at
work he hunts up that paper, drops it into the
basket, ’n’ hoofs it off t’ ole Hockin’s, ’n’ gets
another helpin’. I found ten uv me written orders
where he’d hid ’em fer his own use. No, it wasn’t
BILLJIM ANSWERS THE USUAL
QUESTION.
“You were, of course, wounded in action?”
“No, ma’am; I was leaning against Quinn’s
Post and my foot slipped.”
all gluttony. I watched him twice, and he took the
meat over among the quarries. All the dorgs iv the
township was there, ’n’ Boxer fed ’em, and if there
wasn’t enough he went for more. There, that’s what s
Boxer’s ruin.” Thornton, who is a phrenologist,
placed a finger on a spot at the back of the dog’s
head. “Love iv happrobation. I was goin’ to shoot
him; but how could a poor dorg help hisself with a
bump iv love iv happrobation stickin’ out on his head
like a horse wart?”
GOVERNMENT AGAIN!
YOUNG BILL : “Daisy's orf her milk ter-day, Dad.”
OLD BILL : “Wot can ye expect, the way the Government’s fiddlin’ with the price o’
butter?”
“Yarriambiak”: The yarn about the bush
publican who used to rush out and ring a bell to
inform the neighbors that a shearer had wafted in
with a cheque reminds me of a Carlton (Vic.) bung
whose rule it was not to serve more than two drinks
to one person at one sitting. He still sticks to it.
“Now, boys,” he says, after the second round, “it’s
time for you to get home,” and whether they go
home or not they get no more coffin varnish in
pub. Apparently the old chap must make the system
pay, as he has been carrying it out for a good many
years, and seems to be prosperous.
* * * »
“Sarto”: How many uses has a bottle in
the bush? Let’s see now —(1) it is just a bottle
and holds beer; (2) rolling-pin; (3) domestic
weapon; (4) foot-warmer; (5) garden and path
border; (6) glass-house for young plants; (7) lan-
tern; (8) bush-fire starter; (9) gate-hinge; (10)
bird-scarer in fruit-trees. Then it is just a bottle
again and holds more beer. Some other Abo.-liar
carry on.
* * * *
“Split-link”: What's the matter with the
aboriginal method of finding the cardinal points?
Hop off the roost early and turn the face to the
rising sun (east), stretch out the arms semaphore
fashion, and the left points north, and the right,
of course, south. The back of the head is west.
It’s a sure and accurate system unless the sun
makes a mistake.
“Papua” : “Oko” in a recent issue makes
the rash remark that “a great chief has never
existed in Papua.” I will correct this ignorance.
There have been many great chiefs, the most power-
ful being Kauri, of .the Purari River tribes, who once
fought a pitched battle with Dr. Macgregor’s ex-
ploring party and was only defeated after many of
his nobility and commoners had been blown to the
Happy Hunting Grounds. Kauri had great influence
in his day, and kept the respect of his people as
well as 75 wives. When a man angered him the old
chap would order his killing and subsequent disposal
at a banquet. But the effects of unlimited power, or
the results of his strenuous matrimony, undermined
his constitution, and he went west in 1909. Kaipu,
his successor, with only about two dozen wives, is a
wicked old wretch, who wields the lime-spoon with
effect even in these more enlightened days of Law
and Order. Another prince in his own right was the
late lamented Enamakala, who ruled over the
Trobriand Islands. This chieftain had his palace at
Kavataria village, and was noted for the number of
yam-houses, pigs and princesses he held in fee simple.
In the Trobriands there are two classes of natives—
chiefs and common people. Enamakala was the son
of a chief, and before the coming of the white men
exercised enormous influence throughout the Group,
waging war on the other villages until he had them
all under his control. He forced the inhabitants to
render him tribute of pigs, yams and women. While
he lived it was suicide for a commoner to stand
before him. Every ordinary native had to crawl on
his stomach when passing the great man. All pro-
perty was his. The gardens and cocoanuts planted
by the commoners he regarded as his own, and ex-
pected his share of even the petty chief’s industry
when he asked for it. With a backing of several
hundred fighting men, who looked on him as their
god, he always got what lie asked for—generally the
lot, if there was any resistance on the part of the
princelets, who usually died during the excitement.
To name other discolored noblemen, Ivoapena, of
ICeakoro Bay, and Reboka-Namo, of the Gosoro tribe,
on the Kemp Welch River, were both great chiefs
in their day. They led their warriors in many a
sanguinary raid on each other’s women and pigs,
and their combined efforts did more to thin out the
population of the Kemp Welch Valley than clothes
and dysentery have done since. Bushimaiwa was
once an important man who lorded it over the Mam-
bare River villages and used his influence to effect
the murders of Clarke, leader of the first band of
prospectors to go gold seeking around there, and
Magistrate Green and his police. Captured and im-
prisoned at Port Moresby he broke gaol and made
his way, with several other prisoners, across the
ranges to his home, living, so the survivors said, on
the flesh of the weaker members of the party. Want
of evidence against him saved his life, and he now
lives, a person of no importance, upon the memories
of a murderous life.
“Hay” : I have never seen any tanned
skins more pliable and durable than those cmed by
Binghi of the rangy country of Central A us.. I
had a rug, made of rock-wallaby skins, which was
used constantly in the roughest way for over five
years and was still none the worse for wear. The
pelts were treated as follows: Binghi pinned them
out to dry, woolly side down, and spread plenty of
wood ashes over them. When dry they were trimmed
into squares. Then about half an inch of the edge
was folded down, woolly side in, and rubbed with a
piece of flint having a rather sharp edge. This took
off all the waste stuff and raised a kind of rib on
the back of the skin. Another half-inch was then
folded and rubbed, and so on right across the
square. Then crossfolds were rubbed in the same
manner. When finished a nice half-inch checkered
pattern was formed on the reverse of the skin. I
have tried often but could never manage to raise the
soft, velvety rib that black brother produced with
apparent ease. The skins were sewn together with
strong threads, from the sinews of the emu’s leg
for preference, though sometimes kangaroo tail
sinews were used. The sewing implement was a
bone sharpened to a needle point and used in the
manner of a shoemaker’s awl. My rug cost me a
quarter of a pound of black stick tobacco, and
nothing warmer or more comfortable for camping
out was ever fashioned than that old “meetroo
cumbi,” or sleeping skin.
* * * *
“Barcoo”: Re the homing instinct of
animals. A Melbourne man sent a setter to friends
in Sale (Vic.) to be worked. The dog was kept on
the chain for two days to accustom him to his new
quarters, but on the third day he was allowed off for
a run. Shortly afterwards he did the disappearing
act. A search was made, but without result that
day. Next morning a wire was sent to his owner
127 miles away that Bruno had vanished. A reply
was almost immediately received that the truant
had just arrived. He had found his way home
within 24 hours.
* * * *
“E.N.W ” : “Yancy” (B. 18/7/’l6) is right
when he says lucerne pressing is hard yakker; but if
six tons is the best he knows of for a day s work 1
can beat him. At Bacchus Marsh 18 months ago I
was in charge of a Smith press, which was
driven by a Foden engine, and in 16 hours we
put through 45 tons. With the same machine I have
put through on an average 22 tons of straw a day
for a fortnight. We put the press across the end of
the elevators of the thrasher, and thrash and press
in the one operation, thereby saving a lot of labor
in building straw stacks. I would like to know if
anyone who follows chaffcutting has a better tally
than 960 bags in 9* hours, the bags averaging 20 to
the ton.
* * * *
“Wilberru” : A few months ago a couple of
splitters got 250 posts from one red-gum tree on
the Broadlands estate, Bacchus Marsh (Victoria). I
don’t know if this is a record for Australia, but if
anybody wants to say it isn’t, let him mention
something that can be verified. Remarks like, A
few years ago me and my mate dug 27861 posts
from a tree on a hill in Westralia” have no influence
with me.
THE LUCK OF HIS WIFE.
JACKY (to visitor who has been ill-treating
his horse): “By cripes, boss, you
married?”
VISITOR: “No damn fear, Jacky. Why?”
J ACKY: “I been tinkit plurry good thing for
your missus.”
Mclntosh Brown, of Dover (Tas.), used
to try to save souls, but now he’s out to sal\e
bodies with a new blue-gum ointment, said to con-
centrate the virtue of the young blue-gum leaves
and to be a cure for cuts and sores and such odds
and ends. If it came from Greenland it would have
had a better chance two or three years ago; but
perhaps things are different now. Mclntosh also
turns out a blue-gum fluid warranted unbeatable for
bringing the rust off boilers and cleaning locomotives.
LIVING BEYOND HIS MEANS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They brought the bitten man in haste
Along the dusty track,
And up and down the hills they chased
Our most unhappy Mac,
While Grimm, to raise the needed din,
Beat fiercely on a digger’s tin.
Disposed was Mac to sit and sleep.
They would not have it so,
But tirelessly essayed to keep
Their patient on the go,
And when they came to Hegan’s bar
Their clamor woke the hills afar.
It wakened Hegan. Up he got,
And Billy Seaman spake:
“Quick, bring your liquor, all the lot—■
Mac’s bitten by a snake!”
But Hegan softly scraped his phiz.
“You know,” says he, “how whisky’s riz?
“See here,” he says, “ye’d better take
And fill him at the creek.
McGinnis bitten by a snake!
’Tis loike his blashted cheek.
To live at that rate, Oi declare,
He’d nade to be a millionaire!”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


&brd
The Universal Car
15he #/ ■ /
Australia’s
Universal Car
At the back of every claim we make for the
Porcl stands the PROOF. Assertion proves
nothing; the experience of “Ford” owners is what
counts. Our clients are our best advertisements.
A client writes that he has
averaged 38 miles per gallon
Petrol over a distance of 13,000
miles in his ••Ford,” and is still
using' the original re-treaded
tyres.
This is one of many similar proofs we receive
of the Folds unapproached powers of giving
the best service at the lowest cost.
To the Farmer, Agriculturist, and every class
of Country Dweller, the “Ford” is an inestimable
boon. With Lorry Top or Buckboarcl Body it
can be used in a multitude of ways, and is always
a time and money saver. No matter how bad
the countiy road conditions, the “Ford” will make
light of them. It is strong, absolutely reliable,
splendid in sand, and unexcelled on hills. The
“Ford” is used by Farmers the world
over.
caca
mm
eg
&sm
“FORD” 5-PASSENGER TOURING CAR
including 20-h.p. Model T Car, fitted with 30 x 3 Ain.
tyres, Magneto, Ignition, Cape Cart Hood, Glass
screen, Pair Side Lamps, one Tail Lamp for oil, pair
Electric Head Lamps, Louvres in Bonnet, Hood
Envelope Horn Lifting Jack, Tyre Pump, Repair
hit for Tyres, Tools, Tool Roll.
“FORD” 2-PASSENGER RUNABOUT
including 20-h.p. Model T Car, fitted with 30 x 3Ain.
lyres, Magneto Ignition, Cape Cart Hood, Glass
screen, 1 air Side Lamps, one Tail Lamp for oil, pair
Electric Headlights, Louvres in Bonnet, Hood
Horn, Lifting Jack, Tyre Pump, Repair
hit for Tyres, Tools. Tool Roll.
m
(Q
o
v/
“FORD” MOTOR BUCKBOARD
20-h.p. Ford Buekboard, 30 x 3),in. Tyres on all
VV heels, Magneto Ignition, Pair Side Lamps, Tail
Lamp, Pair Headlights, Horn, Lifting ■ Jack, Tyre
lump, Repair .Kit for Tyres, Tools arnd Tool Roll,
Speedometer and Mileage Recorder.
Body specially designed for station use; carrying
capacity 8 cwt. to 10 cwt.
“FORD” MOTOR LORRY
Includes 20-h.p. Ford Lorry with flat Tray, Seat with
Spring Cushion, Tool Box, 30 x 31 in. Tvres, Magneto
Ignition, Pair Side Lamps, Tail Lamp, Pair Electric
Headlights, Louvres in Bonnet, Horn, Lifting Jack
Tyre Pump, Repair Kit for Tyres, Tools and Tool Roll.
The F ord * is a British car manufactured
and built in Canada under the British flag'
by Canadian workmen who are employed
by the “Ford” Motor Co. of Canada Limited.
Australian
South Australia:
DUNCAN & FRASER LTD.
Representatives of The Ford Motor Co. of Canada Limited-
Queensland: Victoria: New South Wales:
Queensland Motor Agency Ltd. TARRANT MOTORS PTY. LTD. DAVIES & FEHON MOTORS LTD.
Franklin Street,
Adelaide.
Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
112 Russell Street,
Melbourne.
112 Hunter Street,
Sydney.


School Children
are very liable to catcb
cold. They have to
go in all weathers
often having to sit in
school with wet feet. Apart from this, they are always face to
face with the risk from infection —especially when epidemics ot
Whooping Cough, Measles, Diphtheria, Influenza, etc., are about.
Mothers of School Boys and Girls however can he alwa3s HI ' Li
of ANXIETY if they have a koltle of
Hearaes
Bronchitis
= Cure =
\ iff.
ia the house, as one dose of this Medicine at the
first indication of a “cold will at once nip in the
hud” what might otherwise prove to he a serious
illness. Corfc the bottle up—the vest will keep.
For Coughs, Croup,
Golds on the Chest
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION.
From all CHEMISTS and STORES.
W. G. HEARNE & CO. Ltd.,
GEELONG, VICTORIA,
Sydney, N.S.W., Wellington, N.Z.
2/6
i. Hi
m
V'
1
L'
&
/s
\s£
s
«1S
\
c*
Vi
-2^
12
■iCUmcjttV-^
4/6
Double
Size
Vale of Clwydd Coal and Brick Co.,
late the Vale of Clwydd Coal Mining Co.
(N.S.W .). To lie- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves
Dee 1909.. £l5ll lOp.c. = £l5OO £U
1910.. 8020 10 „ „ 1500 6520 8,300
DecV 1910.. 3505 10 „ „ 2250 1200 9,610
J n line ’ i9ii 2775 io;; llsS SI iSS
June, 1912.. 2658 10 „ „ 2250 408 10,Sol
K* ml:'. 6364 10 ” 3000 8864 15,476
Assets written up and caprtalised.
Dec., 1913., 6429 10 p.c. = 3000 3429 18,900
June, 1914.. 6316 10 „ „ 3000 3316 2.,221
Cash Bonus from special profits, £ < 500.
Dec 1914.. 4414 10 p.c. = 3000 1414 23,630
June, 1915. . 3396 3000 396 24,031
Bonus, 121 „ ~ ?o°o [ 14,784
Dropped out of Reserves, £174/ )
Dec., 1915.. --o 3000 - 14,642
June, 1916.. 2917 10 „ „ 3000 H. 559
This little co. has had a remarkably success-
ful career since the Lithgow coal interests
were brought into harmony. During the
past three or four years, besides the regular
10 p.c. divs., the shareholders have had one
bonus of 6s. Sd. per share and two others
of half-a-crown each. The whole lot could
have been taken in cash; but the lirst lot
was naturally taken in shares when that
alternative was offered. Still, the past isn t
always a guide to the future. For one thing
the State is opening up a coal-mme at Litn-
gow, and after supplying the railways with
their requirements, the public’s custom is to
be sought. This isn’t going to make things
any better for this and other Lithgow
owners —is likely, indeed, to make them much
worse. Also the co. has put a lot of money
lately into brickworks ; and it is very ques-
tionable whether that branch of the business
is going to flourish until we get over the
effects of the recent construction boom.
Sydney is overstocked with brickworks, any-
way. In the long run, however, any owner
of coal can hardly avoid making a lot ot
money. Money in the “long run” isn t what
most people are after, though. Still, even in
the immediate future some profits should be
made; and the co., besides having tremen-
dous coal reserves, is in a nice, easy financial
position, and well able to pay out most or
what profit it does make. This shows that
and one or two other things: —
June,’ll. June,’ls. Dec.,’ls. June,’l6.
Liquid assets. . £22,108 £34,264 £22,850 £23,132
Liabilities .. 2,192 3,119 1,762 . 1,986
Surplus. . £19,916 £31,145 £21,088 £21,146
So the co. has £1230 more liquid, assets than
it had five years ago, and meantime has put
over £12,000 into the brickworks. It’s a
vigorous concern to knock out.
lleiron and Smith, Ltd. (Sydney),
manufacturers of billiard tables and general
furnishings and dealers in household decora-
tions :- „ „
To Deficit
r Dividends. s Reduce (Good-
Profits. Pref. Ordinary. Deficit, will).
June, £ £ n
1914. . —* 60,000
1915.. 12,289 6 p.c.= 3220 8 p.c.= 4800 4269 55,731
1916.. 8,858 6 „ „ 3220 6 „ „ 3600 2038 53,693
This co. was formed in 1914 to take over
the businesses carried on in N. S. Wales
and Queensland by lleiron and Smith and
Aleock’s, who were manufacturers of billiard
tables and billiard-room appointments.
Shortly afterwards, to spread the standing
charges, it was decided to go into general
furnishings, and the purchase of the business
of Sherwood, Ltd., carried the co. into wall-
papers and house-decoration. Some day an
interesting story will be told of a young
insurance clerk who, losing his job in Adel-
aide through an amalgamation, dropped off
a boat at Flinders-street, Melbourne, turned
into the first decent shop he met and asked
if it wanted an agent in Adelaide. The
shop happened to be Whitelaw’s. The young
man, who had been trained in a literary
society, persuaded Whitelaw’s, and an agency
was opened in Adelaide. Two days or so
after the young man who didn’t know any of
the technicalities of the business had put
up the sign, Hugh It. Denison called and
wanted his big house decorated by the new
firm. The young man who didn’t know how
superintended the decoration of that house,
and when a satisfied client had enthusiasti-
cally got him further orders, he thought it
time to put himself right. Whereupon Deni-
son said, in effect, “Young man, I’m not
.agoing to lose sight of you.” The young man
was A. C. Sherwood ; and presumably because
Sherwood had become Sherwood, Ltd., and
agent for Alcock’s in N. S. Wales, H. It.
Denison is chairman of directors of this co.,
of which A. C. Sherwood is managing direc-
tor ; and a good deal of the £113,664 of
capital in the business is understood to be
Denison and Dixson money.
The co. is pretty heavily loaded with
goodwill, no less than £60,000 in shares hav-
ing been paid to the various firms that were
bought out. This gives only £53,664 of
capital for stock and premises and to
finance the business; and that isn’t enough
for a business which sells a lot of stock on
terms. Hence as at March 31 the co. owed
£22,368; and its assets (apart from good-
will) were stock, £20,882; book debts,
£45,525; premises. £13,996; and plant and
' sundries £5537. The premises include free-
holds at Alexandria (Sydney) and Bris-
bane ; the former a factory, the latter ware-
house and billiard-tournament hall. These
additions have been in progress during the
year, and have represented several thou-
sands of unproductive capital. Further,
when comparing the profits for the two
years, it has to be remembered that, apart
from war and other circumstances of that
kind, the first year did not carry any bur-
den of income tax. As an energetic Aus-
tralian concern, busy in producing high-
grade articles which have been very largely
imported hitherto, and keen on gradually
increasing the range of its manufactures,
Heiron and Smith, Ltd., earns this paper’s
blessing.
* * * *
The asbestos deposits at Macquarie Har-
bor (Tas.) are being worked a little, and
as asbestos is scarce these days there ought
to be a chance of developing them and the
other deposits near Beaconsfield. The fibre
of the Macquarie Harbor asbestos is short,
but otherwise is said to be good.
The Inky Way.
“The Moth” : Members of the Australian
Journalists’ Association have lately been
agitating themselves over the question of
instituting a diploma of journalism. The
publication in the Australian Journalist
of details of a Maoriland University diploma
started a debate which has been ploughing
its way through the Association’s paper.
The authors of the M.L. certificate appar-
ently held the view that a fairly
sound knowledge of history, economics,
sociology, literature, languages, human
nature, psychology, mathematics, the world,
the flesh and the Devil is required
before a man can chronicle the doings of the
Marine Board with that accuracy and ele-
gance for which our moderately great dailies
are famous. But the qualifications men-
tioned would appear to be only a few of those
required in a really good reporter. One
proprietor, writing to the Journalist, men-
tions that “the journalist ought to be a
reader and a lover of good books, familiar
with the panorama of history (even the
history of to-day), thought and politics,” and
another gent, demands “tact and good nature,
push and energy, imagination and quick sym-
pathy, and a strong sense of humor.” Add
to these a knowledge of shorthand, a nose
for news, a digestion that can put up with
irregular hours (or quarter-hours) for meals,
a thirst which the owner is able to regulate
despite continual invitations to comeanave-
one, a genius for remembering the faces and
initials of persons of no importance, and 44
other qualifications, and the possessor would
probably be regarded as a capable senior
reporter—one of the breed that a number
of bosses consider grossly overpaid at £6 10s.
a week.
“Tasman”: The Australasian Journal-
ist has been filled with arguments for the last
three months about the wisdom of establish-
ing an Australian diploma in journalism, as
was recently done in Maoriland. Proprie-
tors, professors, pressmen, a Chief Justice,
educationists and sundry others have been
dragged into the controversy, but not much
light has been shed so far. Opinions differ
widely as to the subjects that ought to be
included in the qualifying exam. The M.L.
paper, set by M. C. Keane, M.A., associate-
editor of the Press, required the candidate
to reach the B.A. standard in Modern His-
tory, Economics, Logic and umpteen other
subjects of the Arts course, and in addition
demanded a knowledge of statistical method,
the working of a newspaper and the prin-
ciples of newsgetting. The opposition says
that “wliat’s good enough for the old man s
good enough for me,” and alleges that jour-
nalism can be learnt only by sleeping on a
paper and drinking printers’ ink. ' This is
partly true, of course; but the contention
misses the point. Press-work can be learnt
only on the press, but the 1 starter who has
had a useful Uni. education is going-to find
the track a whole heap easier than the
other fellow. Other things being equal, he’s
going to turn out far better “specials,” his
promotion will be far more rapid, and he
will collect a bigger salary and raise the
status of the profession;—and not before it’s
needed.
“C. 8.”: I laugh scornfully at the claim
by “D.” (B. 3/8/T6) that a Brisbane press-
man who has been on Government rounds
continuously for 16 years holds an Aus-
tralian record. P. J. Bennett, of Melbourne
Herald, can beat him by nine years.
“Paddy” has looked after the State depart-
ments continuously since 1891, and was
identified closely with them for several years
before that. His reminiscences would fill
seventeen (17) large volumes, including a
couple with asbestos covers. He can supply
inside information of how Tommy Bent
came to — : well, perhaps it would be as well
not to mention that. “Paddy” has been
chairman of the State Parliament gallery
committee for* seven years, and was lately
elected chairman of the Victorian district of
the A..T.A.
Amiable Andrew Gerrand has left the
Argus to sub-edit the Northern Times,
Newcastle’s evening infant. One of the
props of the A.J.A. in Melbourne, Gerrand
was lately chairman of the Press Club house-
committee, and could always be depended on
to give an extra shove in the pressman’s
interest any time it seemed needed.
The first printing machine in M.L. turned
up in Christ’s College, Christchurch, the
other day. It is a small, ricketty hand-
press, and was brought to the Bay of
Islands in 1835 by William Colenso, who
came out as printer to the missionaries and
afterwards set up in the regular Gospel busi-
ness himself. Colenso had a lively time of
it with his first “devils,” wild Maori boys
who used to tattoo each other with ink from
the roller.
* * * *
They could soon settle the war in Broken
Hill. Barrier Truth has a cheap, quick
and, except for the capitalist, easy way of
ending it: —
If there is a 100 per cent, mortality amongst the
capitalists, we shall hear no more of conscription or
of the war.
Certainly it is kind enough to add that this
is not meant as an intimation that the
season for shooting mineowners and land-
lords is now open.
“D.F.” : It isn’t all pie being the official
organ of Labor in the Speck. The Hobart
Daily Post has that honor, and it was
observed at the recent political Labor Con-
ference that, though large amounts had been
written off, the various Labor leagues still
owed about £250 for advts. and seemed
quite likely to go on owing.
Dead at Melbourne, aged 44, Robert
Mc-Coll, at one time proprietor of the
Drouin Express. On leaving Gippsland he
went to the Speck and started the North-
Eastern Advertiser at Scottsdale, a sheet
that was hung out to dry twice weekly. His
health became very bad some five years ago,
so he sold out to A. E. Osborne, the present
proprietor, and took himself back to Vic.
He passed out in hospital after a long-
acquaintance with the Enemy.
* * * *
“Feng-shin”: It is not generally known
—or perhaps it is forgotten—that Louis
Raemaekers, the Dutch cartoonist, was as
fiercely pro-Boer and anti-British during
the Boer war as he is now pro-Ally and
anti-Hun. His earlier cartoons, which for
obvious reasons were not republished across
the Channel, were a terrible indictment of
Britain. His art was less mature then, but
his passion of scorn and sarcasm just as
biting. His attitude during the Boer war
and his attitude to-day are, of course, per-
fectly consistent. Not love of England but
detestation of wrong inspires him.
“Sardonyx”: I worked once with a sub
who, unlike “Full Point’s” man (B.
27/7/’l6), was a ruthless slayer of journal-
ese. With him, “an inebriated individual
pursuing a serpentine course in the direction
of his domicile” became “a drunk staggering
homewards.” From him the half-educated
reporters learnt that people received injuries
—not “sustained” them; that they didn’t
“witness” an accident, they saw it; that,
though you may give a welcome, you cannot
“extend” one ; that, instead of “partaking” of
a dinner, you eat it; that to say a thing is
not necessarily to “state” it; that a written
order is a “verbal order,” though it isn’t an
oral one ; that an effect is owing to a cause,
not “due” to it, and that to expunge is
not, as “F.F.” himself puts it to “expur-
gate”—it’s the remaining stuff that has been
expurgated.
* * * *
“Cuisine”: One of our helpful papers
recently published another of those
“economy” articles which keep the Bank-
ruptcy Court idle. It was headed :
THE POSSIBILITIES OF LEFT-OVER FOOD.
SOME POINTS IN ECONOMY FOR THE COOK.
Here are some of the “possibilities” :—•
Put uncooked meat through the chopper twice-
Add salted peanuts, canned tomatoes, an egg, celery,
onions, horseradish, butter and herbs.
Left-over strawberries, cherries, pineapples, etc.
Serve in marmalade in puff pastry.
Left-over game. Press next day for luncheon.
These others, I understand, are to appear
later:—
Poultry.—Don’t throw away the livers. Take a
dozen, grind them fine, mix with pickled walnuts
and olives ; bake in a brisk oven. Serve with cream
sauce.
Don't throw away champagne. Any good wine
(Sauterne, Chablis, etc.) may be used for tipsy cakes
or trifles. Left-over wedding cake may be used up
this way.
Many people are wasteful with dessert —almonds
and raisins, for instance> Any good chef can find a
way to use up raisins, and almonds may at least be
devilled.
It is these little economies which will bind
our Empire closer and strafe the hated Hun,
who has nothing but mere food to eat.
“Spell-oh”: That deplorable publication,
The Australasian Journalist, which has
just reached members of the A.J.A. on the
Eastern coast, has a note (“A Federal
Appointment”) regarding the holiday trip
to U.S.A. for a journalist with the fake
Industrial Commission. No hint is given
as to who is to have the job, so I suppose
I’ll have to tell you myself—or perhaps
you’d better ask B. S. B. Cook, of Mel-
bourne Herald. He knew weeks ago.
* *• * * *
“Copy Boy”: The Argus dipped its pen in
superior blue-black ink and remarked
severely
The efficiency movement finds little favor with
the Trades Hall. Only by the narrow majority of
seven votes in a meeting of 74 members was it
decided to give approval to the decision of the Federal
Government to send a Commission composed of em-
ployers and employees to America to inquire, as to
the methods of manufacture there, with a view to
ascertaining how Australian production may be in-
creased.
And when the Federal Government asked the
Australian Journalists’ Association to for-
ward the names of three of its members from
whom the Government might select a journal-
ist to accompany the Commission, the Collins-
street daily patriot said, in effect: “On
account of the war we cannot spare any mem-
ber of our staff.” That is how much prac-
tical favor the “efficiency movement” found
with the Argus.
THE IMPRISONED POET.
(AFTER SEIDL.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
And if the tyrant blind mine eye
Can he blot out the glorious sun?
And if in dungeon dark 1 die
Is Freedom’s battle therefore done?
And if in fight I fainting fall
With shattered shield and shivered spear,
Yet at the cry, the clarion call,
New heroes rise, new helms appear.
And though my voice be lost to-day
And fail upon the martyr’s pyre,
Think ye less loud will swell the lay
When Freedom leads her glorious choir?
Say ye, “Right lies for ever crushed” ?
Hope ye no more will souls aspire
Because the soaring song ye’ve hushed
And silver sound of one sweet lyre?
Think not sweet spring with balmy breath
And budding life and love will fail
Because ye raised the hand of death
And slew —one gentle nightingale 1
QUEENSLAND.
F. B.
UNINSPIRED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It has now been decided that alcoholic drinks
hall not be served in the refreshment-rooms of
J.S.W. Parliament House after 6 p.m.
It used to be a pleasant thing
To sit aloft and hear
The epigrams they loved to fling:
“Say that outside 1 You curl You cow!’’
The member for the Dingo Flats
When full of hops would sit and scream,
“Yous blokes have all got blanky rats!”
Such things will be a vanished dream.
To what dull depths our House will sink
When quiet is the atmosphere, _ w
And no one yells, “Gaw-strike-me-pink!
To get thrown out upon his ear.
K.S.W.
GALLERY NIB.


DRIVE OUT THE CHILL
with a
Electric Luminous Radiator
RADIANT WARMTH ON THE COLDEST DAY.
■£ £:
/-
isi
■lli
0
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY,
TELEPHONE-CITY 3510 (5 iines).
BRISBANE (Q): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins <& Co. (W.A.), Ltd.. Hay Street.
—Agents—
Mazda House,’ Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
TELEPHONE—CENTRAL 2646. 2647 : CITY 0576.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone, 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical A Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland. Christchurch. Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tuliook & Co., Ltd., Launceston; Messrs. Oliver & Oliver, MacQuarie Street, Hobart.


A. Saunders’ Morocco Leather
Lady’s Motor Bag, newest style,
with double handle, 10/6.
Other styles, 12/6, 15/6, 20/-,
25/-
A. Saunders’ Solid Sil-
ver-mounted Sewing
Companion, Best-quality
Instruments, in Morocco-leather
Case, 12/6.
A. Saunders’ Compact, Folding
Safety Razor, completes with Shef-
field Steel Blade and Leather; Case, 2/6.
Extra Blades, 4/6 Dozen.
PERSONAL COMFORTS.
A. Saunders’
Shaving Outfit,
complete with Safety
Razor, Brush, Soap
and Mirror, in Solid
Leather Case, 17/6.
A. Saunders’ Shaving Mug,
pure Silver-plated, Hand Engraved
and Burnished, 15/-
A. Saunders’ Solid
Leather Collar Box,
Strap and Buckle Fastener.
6in., 6/6; 7in., 7/6; Sill.,
8/6.
A. Saunders’ Gent’s Dressing Case, com-
plete with Toilet Travelling Requisites, in Morocco
Leather Case, 25/-
A. Saunders’ Special Vacuum
Flask, pint ' size, Leather-covered Case,
keeps liquid hot or cold 24 hours, 2/9.
Higher grades: Pint, 10/6; Quart, 18/6.
A. Saunders’ Stud
Box, A 1 Quality, pure
Silver-plated, 3/9.
A. Saunders’
Collapsible
Safety Razor
and Shaving
Brush, complete,
with three Sheffield
Steel Blades in
Solid Nickel Case,
12/6.
9
A. Saunders’
Real Ebony Mili-
tary Hair Brush,
Best-quality Silver,
drawn Bristles, Solid
Silver Shield, 8/6.
A. Saunders’ Dark Gixeen or Red
Leather Writing Folio, fitted with
large-size Blotter and Stationery Pockets,
20/-
A. Saunders’ Unbreak-
able Spirit Flask, Nickel
Silver or Gunmetal, 20/-
A. Saunders’ Morocco Leather Pocket
Wallet, Solid Silver Mounts, 20/-. Heal Hide,
Steel-lined, Bullet-proof Military Wallet, 12/6.
Sydney’s Leading Jeweller, 805-15 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (Opp. Railway^tation).
The Bulletin
MILITARY
COMPASS
Especially adapted for
general all-round military
requirements.'
THE RIGHT COMPASS
FOR THE SOLDIER,
For ascertaining any angle
of direction at night-time
and as a Sight Compass
for finding horizontal bear-
ings and angles during the
day.
2in. Diameter, Brass
Case, strongly constructed
with Leather Case.
45/-, Y>ost Free.
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.
189-191 George Street, BRISBANE.
The Right Pistol for
the Boys at the Front
Ask any of the returned Anzaes what they think of a good
Automatic Pistol, they will'all say the sanie as they tell us :
“It’s absolutely the best thing to help a man out of a tight
corner.” ..
Full equipment, including Pistol, Holster, Special Lan-
yard and 200 cartridges, £5/16/-. This price is only for
men in uniform.
ALCOCK & PIERCE,
318 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
The Bulletin
jffuTifexxlle&n.
If any illustration appearing in T::e
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
The Bulletin
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord Beaconsfiela
testified to the benefits he received from Him-
rod’s Asthma Powder, and every post brings
similar letters to day.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, posted. Mi-'RRIE
England. Bd. How to Get Rich, T/- posted. Dr.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, ; 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art of Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to tDance, 1/-, post.
How to AVrestle, 1/-. Molli Flanders,, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted, i Thurston s Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to.-Date Comic
Reciter, 1/- posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory. 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, Bd., and all the Rational Press Re-
prints (send for list). Jovs of Life, 1/6.^
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. AYTSTEAv Ticket
AVriting Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ AVorksiiop
Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller's Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert AVales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler's Science
of Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. AVill Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. Sandow’s Book of
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History
of the Bod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu. 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British,
Sd. How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins,
1/- posted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.
■
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
eatbracino
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,’’
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
- future, and wishes to enjoy married life in' its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted
to ANY address for EIGHT SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
S*“BOOKSELLER TO THE. COMMONWEALTH."*!
Prof. Fowler’s Homan Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS— LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; _post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speak-
ing Made Easy, 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang or
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/- ;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Verges, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannan's Engine
Driver’s Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio,
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee's Priceless Recipes. 1/6 posted.
Women's Secrets, 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The Waybacks, 1/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don't be fooled into paying more,
rnmnarp mv prices with others and save
your P cash * 25 Years.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS’ SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
1/- posted. New Tricks with Cards, 1/- Sappho,
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 post. Dk.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical illus-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Gor-
don's Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry,
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret His-
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers' Letter
Writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/8. Mor-
gan's Freemasonry Exposed, K ey to all Degrees,
New Edition, 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
Bd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoll's Works,
Bd., 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
posted. Chevasse's Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers'
Assistant, 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5/6 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New Recita-
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and Its
Cure. 1/2 posted. Webster's Large Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather bound,
my price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas?).
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, 1/2. Moore’s Universal Assist-
ant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
1/- post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music
complete), 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, by
Paine, posted Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap
Book Depot, 67 S 69 Market Street, Sydney (only)


The Bulletin
ABBEY
SHOES
are made in many stylish models
to suit the requirements of every
well-dressed man. You will have
no difficulty in getting footwear
exactly to your taste if you buy
at the Abbey Shoe Stores.
We illustrate one of our latest
models—A GLACE KID BAD..
WITH PATENT LEATHER
TOECAPS.
Price - 26/6
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABISEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
dt
V-Jift
BENGER’S
is the
most easily
digested
Food
obtainable .
It is expressly
devised to be fully
nourishing when
natural digestion
isenfeebled, whether
in child or adult.
It is prepared with fresh
new milk and forms a dainty
and delicious cream, which
fully satisfies “hunger-faint-
ness,” and soothes internal
discomfort. Benger’s is the
safe food in illness, and in
convalescence promotes
rapid recovery.
Delicate children thrive on it.
The Bulletin
Food
For CHILDREN,
INVAUDS and the AGED
is sold by Druggists , etc., everywhere .
Benger’s Booklet—A little work of authority on
the special feeding of Children, Invalids,and the
Aged, will be sent post free on application to:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd.,Manchester, Eng.
Branch Offices —NEW YORK (U.S.A.) 92, William Street
Sydney (N.s.w.) 117, Pitt Street.
Canadian Agents — National Drug Co., Ltd., Montreal.
lBO A
COPPER AND ALUMINUM
Kitchen utensils take on a
cheerful newness when
polished with
yw
mm
’Jpl
8s®
Uj i
lUfr 55
The Bulletin
KING OP
METAL POLISH
The wonder working,
safest, and quickest of all polishes.
Two size cans at all Grocery, Hardware
, an< i Drug Stores, Look for the Photo oo can.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
the
Ha
BROODY HENS for 12/6.
The “HATCHO” 15-egg Incubator
is a perfect substitute for a Broody
Hen, will hatch every fertile egg,
simple to use, cannot get out of order.
Over 4000 sold last season.
Price 12/6 complete, carriage paid.
Egg Testers 1/2 each. Agents wanted.
R. CASTON & CO., Dept, H„
40 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Etd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
1* IVO H I THEATRE, SYDNEY
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE 1)E LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Plans at Nicholson's and Tivoli.
I*IVOEI THEATRE, MEEIiOURNE.
NIGHTLY AT EIGHT.
DICK & DOROTHY TRIO, KEITH KENNEDY,
MARY DORR, LOUIS LONDON. MENNETTI &
SIDELLI, MARIE KING-SCOTT, DAN AIIERN,
CLARENCE WILBUR, LEIGHTON & KENNEDY
and “HOW A MOVIE IS MADE.”
Plan at Glen’s.
Ul E R M A .JEST Y ’ S, SYDNEY.
■ 1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
ROYAL COMIC OPERA SEASON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF MA MIE ROSETTE.
SATURDAY NEXT.
THE ARCADIANS.
Plans at Paling's. Day Sales Callose’s.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY?
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
lIALE HAMILTON, MYRTLE TANNEIIILL and
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S Clever Company of Comedians
in Frank Craven’s Screaming Comedy,
TOO MANY COOKS.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
THEATRE ROY a E, SYDNEY.
* EVERY EVENING AT 8.
The Directors of THE BERT BAILEY CO.
have the pleasure of presenting,
for the first time in Sydney,
DUNCAN McCLURE and THE POOR PARSON.
A Screamingly Funny 4-Aet Australian Comedy-
Drama by STEELE RUDD, author of “On Our
Selection.” Adapted by the author from his books
of the same name.
THIS WILDLY HILARIOUS AUSTRALIAN PLAY
will make you LAUGH UNTIL YOUR SIDES ACHE.
DALACE THEATRE, S Y D N E Y.
■ Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
SYDNEY JAMES
and his
ROYAL STROLLERS.
Plans at Nicholson's.
W. BARRINGTON MILLER, Managing Director
Union Theatres Limited, presents the new
The Bulletin
T RIANGEE PRAYS AT
1 THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MOTION PICTURE ENTER-
TAINMENT as it should be.
SESSIONS: 11.45 a.m., 2 p.m.,
4.15 p.m. EVERY DAY, and
8 p.m.
Prices: 6d. to 2/6. Box Plan at Paling's.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
IJNION PICTURE THEATRES
W In GROUGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER .1. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
Amusements.
UEH MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, AUGUST 19.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. revive the Delightful
Musical Play,
I'llH GIRL IN THE TRAIN.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and 1/-.
THE ATII E EOIAL, MEE BOURNE.
■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Dashing
Military Drama,
THE STORY OF THE ROSARY.
Prices: 6/-, 4/- and 2/-.
DRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Proprietors: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, AUGUST 19.
GEO. MARLOW presents the GONSALEZ ITALIAN
OPERA 00. in
LA GIOCONDA.
BUTTERFLY (Matinee).
Monday (August 21),B0HEME; Tuesday, CAVAL-
LERIA AND PAGLIAOCI; Wednesday, TROVATORE
(BOHEME, Matinee) ; Thursday arid Friday,
UGONOTTI. Popular Price's: 6/-, 4/-, 2/-.
EWING’S THEATRE, MELBO U RN E.
Lessees BERT BAILEY ft JULIUS GRANT
EVERY EVENING.
JftN.TAITS NEWENCLISH C®
PEG,
OM Y
A COMEDY OF YOUTH
by d HARTLEY MANNERS.
THE SUPREME SUCCESS OF SUCCESSES
Box Plans now open at Allan’s.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE,
“ FULLER’S THEATRES & VAUDEVILLE LTD.
Governing Director .... BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
Afternoon 2.30. Evening at 8.
THE FARROWS, ROSS AND WYSE AND BIG
SURPRISE, ALF HOLT, FENNER AND SULLY,
THREE SAXONS, RAY MONDE, MENDEL AND
NAGEL, ESTELLE WORDETTE AND C'O., BROWN
AND SORLIE, ROBERT & DEMONT TRIO.
Prices: 3/-. 2/- and 1/-. Matinees: 1/6, 1/- and 6d.
QIACIA R ID M, MEL Ii ODR N E.
HEAL ICE SKATING.
EVERY AFTERNOON AND
EVENING.
|b| o y t’s pictures, Melbourne".
BEST AND MOST.
TWO BIG SHOWS.
HOYT’S OWN: Bourke Street, next Theatre Royal.
OLYMPIA : Prince’s Bridge.
BIRCH & C A R R O L L
a (Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
m
; ■
Your Picture in
His Watch
should be a smiling picture. It’s your smile
that recalls the charm of your personality.
Your smile cannot be attractive unless your
teeth are sound and white.
Keep your teeth in perfect condition by
visiting your dentist twice a year and by
the regular night and morning use of
Drlyon's
PERFECT
Tooth Powder
OR
Dental Cream
In both the Tooth Powder and Cream you will find in
these two productions of Dr. Lyon’s Laboratory the cleans-
ing and safeguarding qualities that your teeth demand. Both
dissolve quickly in the mouth—leave no sticky masses be-
tween the teeth—prevent formation of tartar—correct ex-
cessive acidity of the mouth—are your best safeguard from
receding gums and loosening teeth.
If a preference exists for the Dental Cream, do not over-
look the value as a cleanser of the Tooth Powder. Best
results accrue from the use of both. The tooth powder is
the super-cleanser. Its frequent use in combination with
the dental cream is recommended.
Obtainable at all leading chemists and stores. Send 3d.
m stamps today for a dainty sample package of either
Ur. Lyons Perfect Tooth Powder or Dental Cream.
I.W. KtYVK
PERrecr
mPO]
SfiL'aw
T^ 1 * *7
I. W. LYON & SONS, Inc.
Lower Cuba St.
Wellington, N. Z.
P&nFECT
THK TERTtt
-!Tand Piwviire.':
A THE BREATH
yim 2.>n,sr^
■ .
109 Pitt Street
Sydney, N. S.W.
A Selection from
MACMILLAN’S
SIXPENNY SERIES
By MRS. ALEXANDER—
THE WOOING O’T.
By RHODA BROUGHTON—
COMETH UP AS A FLOWER.
NANCY.
By ROSA N. CAREY—
NELLIE’S MEMORIES.
By EGERTON CASTLE—
THE PRIDE OF JENNICO.
By MARCUS CLARKE—
FOR THE TERM OF HIS
NATURAL LIFE.
By MRS. W. K. CLIFFORD—
AUNT ANNE.
By MRS. ED WARDES—
OUGHT WE TO VISIT HER?
By JESSIE FOTHERGILL—
KITH AND KIN.
THE FIRST VIOLIN.
By MAURICE HEWLETT—
THE QUEEN’S QUAIR.
RICHARD YEA AND NAY.
THE FOREST LOVERS.
By WASHINGTON IRVING-
OLD CHRISTMAS.
By ANNIE KEARY—
CASTLE DALY.
By CHARLES KINGSLEY-
WESTWARD HO!
HYPATIA.
HEREWARD THE WAKE.
WATER BABIES.
ALTON LOCKE.
TWO YEARS AGO.
YEAST.
By MARY LINSKILL—
IN EXCHANGE FOR A SOUL.
BETWEEN THE HEATHER
AND THE NORTHERN SEA.
By FLORENCE MONTGOMERY-
MISUNDERSTOOD.
By MRS. OLIPIIANT—
NEIGHBORS ON THE GREEN.
By J. 11. SIIORTHOUSE—
JOHN INGLESANT.
By H. G. WELLS-
TWELVE STORIES AND A
DREAM.
By OWEN WISTER—
THE VIRGINIAN.
** * Complete List of Macmillan's
Sixpenny Series Post Free on
application.
A Selection from
Macmillan’s New
Sevenpenny Series.
With Frontispieces. Price Id. net each.
By JAMES LANE ALLEN—
THE CHOIR INVISIBLE.
By ALGERNON BLACKWOOD—
JOHN SILENCE.
JIMBO: A FANTASY.
By RHODA BROUGHTON—
NANCY.
MAMMA.
JOAN.
NOT WISELY BUT TOO
WELL.
By MARY CHOLMONDELEY—
DIANA TEMPEST.
By WINSTON CHURCHILL—
RICHARD CARVEL.
By F. MARION CRAWFORD—
A ROMAN SINGER.
A CIGARETTE-MAKER’S RO-
MANCE.
MR. ISAACS.
A TALE OF A LONELY
PARISH.
CORLEONE.
DON ORSINO.
GREIFENSTEIN.
By THE AUTHOR OF “ELIZABETH
AND HER GERMAN GARDEN.”
ELIZABETH AND HER GER-
MAN GARDEN.
THE SOLITARY SUMMER.
ADAENTURES OF ELIZA-
BETH IN RUGEN.
THE BENEFACTRESS.
By MAURICE HEWLETT—
THE FOREST LOVERS.
THE STOOPING LADY.
RICHARD YEA-AND-NAY.
THE QUEEN’S QUAIR.
LITTLE NOVELS OF ITALY.
HALFWAY HOUSE.
OPEN COUNTRY.
By A. E. W. MASON—
THE COURTSHIP OF MOR-
RICE BUCKLER.
MIRANDA OF THE BAL-
CONY.
THE PHILANDERERS.
By H. G. WELLS—
the stolen bacillus and
OTHER INCIDENTS.
By EDITH AVI lARTON—■
THE HOUSE OF MIRTH.
By MARGARET L. WOODS—
A VILLAGE TRAGEDY.
** * Complete Descriptive List of
Macmillan’s Popular Is. Boohs (over
160 vols.) and Id. Novels Post Free on
application.
MACMILLAN# CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE and LONDON.


ItmUvcdA 'ddotel
Sydn ELY. NSW.
The Wentworth Garden, with its beautiful surroundings, is
ideal for Luncheons, Dinners, Afternoon Teas, Supper and
Wedding Parties, and all semi-outdoor functions.
Visitors to Sydney will find the Wentworth Hotel most popular,
central and up to date in all modern conveniences, including telephones
in bedrooms, communicating with the Exchange.
The Appointments, Linen and Service are superb, and compare more
than favorably with the best Hotels in the Commonwealth.
Terms on application.
Mrs. H. MACLURCAN, Manageress.
SPOONS AND FORKS
are just as much a necessity of
civilised life as are houses. We
could, of course, do without both,
and revert back to the cave
dwellers —but no.
We ' concluded before the war
that our civilisation would still
demand Spoons and Forks, and as
our managing director was in
Sheffield when the new process of
making Spoons was perfected, he
saw the wonderful savings that
were made by it, and the greatly-
increased hardness and symmetry
of the blanks, and at once took
advantage of the lowered prices
to .order tens of thousands of
Spoons, etc.
gm?
Made bj' the New Process.
A 1 QUALITY SPOONS AND FORKS.
Table Spoons, 38/-, less 20 per cent, discount, 30/6 net.
Table Forks, 35/-, less 20 per cent, discount, 28/- net.
Dessert Spoons, 30/-, less 20 per cent, discount, 24/- net.
Dessert Forks, 28/-, less 20 per cent, discount, 22/6 net.
Tea Spoons, 13/6, less 20 per cent, discount, 11/3 net.
The war delayed the execution of the contract order, and only this week some of the Goods
Our 1 forward contract enables us to still sell at our wonderfully low pre-war prices.
Goods, too, that will last for forty years in daily use.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS Ltd.
CASH ONLY PLAIN FIGURES.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
POLITICAL
POINTS
A “national committee” met in Melbourne
recently and drew up an anti-conscription
manifesto; and the worst it could say about
its bogey was that, while in principle con-
scription was an instrument of national
defence, in practice it was an instrument
of working-class subjugation. Whenever the
asses who lead the lions of the Labor party
are short of an argument they use big
words; and “working-class subjugation” is
a sample. If in principle something is good
but in practice it is bad, plainly those who
are responsible for putting it into practice
are to blame. What the “national com-
mittee” says in effect is: “Conscription is
all right. It is an instrument of national
defence. But the Labor party which is in
power is a traitor and a fraud, and it would
use conscription to tie the hands of the
very people it should protect and hand them
over to the enemy.” That is what the
argument of the “national committee”
amounts to!. It isn’t an attack upon con-
scription. It is an attack upon the Labor
Government.
NO COMPULSION.
ANTI-CONSCRIPTION UNION PRESIDENT:
“You can either join the union or
starve. D’you think we're going to
fight for an extra bob a 'week and let
you get the benefit of it, if you don’t
join in and lend a hand?”
In a country where voluntary enlistment
is the law any old thing which is liable to
embarrass a party Government —any adverse
criticism of any act of administration—may
be suppressed on the ground that it is
“prejudicial to recruiting.” With universal
service a Government has no excuse for
applying this handy gag to its critics. Hence
there has been far more liberty of speech m
France than in Australia. The anti-con-
scriptionists profess to be champions of
liberty. Yet their policy produces more
repression and suppression than conscription
docs.
There has been a lot of mystery about
the movements of Hugh Mahon, Minister for
External Affairs. First he was and then
ho wasn’t going to England as Australian
representative to the Irish National Con-
ference. The Bulletin doesn’t know
where Mahon is going, but it knows where
an Irish Nationalist can’t stay and retain
his self-respect, and that is in the Hughes-
Pearce Government.
The anti-eonscriptionist of Australia must
feel pretty cheap and mean when he reflects
that he is loafing on the conscripts of France
and Russia and Britain. There are not
many men with nerve enough to condemn
lifeboats at the very moment when a life-
boat crew is fishing them half-drowned out
of the water. But the anti-eonscriptionist
manages to do it.
DOING IT ON PURPOSE.
BILLJIM : “ 'Elio. male, hare ych lost a leg?”
THE ANZAC: “Now — I'm malingering.”
Thus Vida *Goldstein, president of the
Women’s Political Ass. of Victoria-
Compulsory methods are morally indefensible,
because they legalise vice and encourage immorality
in men by professing to offer them protection against
disease.
Presumably Vida Goldstein, like the wowser,
would encourage morality in men by offering
them no protection against disease- And if
they are, then, not moral —well, damn the
children, that’s all! Pretty, gentle, womanly
gospel, isn’t it?
The S. M. Herald thinks there should be
no need for legislation to prevent the killing
of female cattle, in view of the obvious ad-
vantages of keeping them when the demand
is likely to be so good. But the cautious,
canny, well-to-do cattle-owners who . look
ahead are not the people such legislation is
wanted for. Every day good cows, often in
calf, are being sold to the butcher by
country people who cannot resist the temp-
tation of the prices offered, and half of these
vendors know their action is indefensible.
Practically everyone recognises that it is a
bad thing to drink too much, so no legisla-
tion should be necessary to stop people from
being foolish and incidentally working
national evil by over-drinking. Yet the
Herald supported six o’clock closing, didn’t
it?
In spite of the tremendous increase in
factory machinery and in the price
of raw materials and finished pro-
ducts, actually a less value of the latter is
now turned out for each £lOO of wages paid
than was the case in 1904. In that year in
Victoria it cost £2O 2s. IGkl. to turn out
£lOO worth of finished 'goods; now. though
£lOO. worth of finished goods represent a
much smaller bulk, the labor cost is £2l 4s.
It isn’t that wages are too high. They are
still much under the United Stati-s standard.
But the output is too small, and is evidently
getting smaller.
This is how the N. S. Wales Public Service
Board does its little bit: —
Teachers of Small Country Schools or of Assistants
in Country Schools or of Junior Assistants wanted.
Applicants must be unmarried and between the ages
of 16 and 35 years.
If it is untrained men the Department is
after, surely it might find scores in the
Returned Soldiers’ Assoc. Perhaps they
might not all be as good scholars as some
of the stay-at-homes between 16 and 35; but
geography and grammar are not all 'that are
needed in a teacher.
A Maoriland paper quotes as “an inter-
esting item showing the march of British
progress in Samoa” a paragraph in the
Samoan Times that that journal, which for
the last 16 years had been carried on by
Mr. Emil Tuebke, would “henceforth be run
by Mr. .las. Ah Sue.” British progress is
expected to march to some queer words of
command.
The Victorian Ministry proposes to do
Little Jim a good turn. At present when a
child is born out of wedlock and the
parents afterwards marry, only the father
can make application to have the youngster
proclaimed legitimate. To meet the cases
in which the fathers are soldiers on active
service or have perhaps been killed, the bill
provides that the mothers shall also have
the right to make the application about the
]it tie thing Bill left behind him. This will
have its practical uses as well as its senti-
mental value. For instance, legitimation
will give Little-Jim a chance for a pension.
There is more worry for John 11. Cann,
N.S.W. Works Minister. Under the Act
municipalities may vote “reasonable' ex-
penses” to oue delegate to the Local Govern-
ment Conference. Cast year the Broken
Hill Council sent two, and the ratepayers
got the bill for £9O. Lately the Depart-
mental Examiner declared the expenditure
“unreasonable” and charged it back to. the
aldermen who voted it. Now Cann arrives.
The aldermen have the right of appeal to
the Minister, who happens to represent
Broken Hill in the Assembly. If an appeal
is turned down it’s certain the circumstance
won’t make some of the Labor aldermen
love Cann anv more than they do now ; and
if it is upheld the ratepayers will say louder
than ever that Cann is prepared to crawl
through any mud in order to get back to
Parliament.
Old Bill Lyne, who represented a coun-
try district all his days, once had an idea
of offering a prize for a design for a fran-
chise that would give the hungry empty
spaces of Australia a chance. Bill knew
that where the votes were gathered together
there would the politician’s heart be; and
he reckoned that was no good-to Australia.
The Northern Territory is one striking in-
stance of the neglect of a vastly important
area because it is bare of votes. Now
Adelaide is developing another. A few
years ago S. Aus. built at great expense an
outer harbor; and the harbor, though it
attracts the big shipping, hasn’t attracted
population. But Port Adelaide, which lies
up at the end of a creek and has the inter-
state trade, has the population; so the
vested interests of Port Adelaide reckon
that th(> Outer Harbor is a failure and that
tin' Port Adelaide creek ought to be scooped
out a few feet deeper. Wluit the voter thinks
the politician of course thinks; so it won’t
be long before S. Aus. borrows a bit more
in order to knock the bottom out of a pre-
vious loan work.
Maoriland is tackling venereal disease —-
at last. It ought to make a good job of it.
The country is singularly well situated for
purposes of cleanliness, and prostitution is
comparatively limited. But is is not going
to succeed by loud talk. If Parliament, as
seems likely, baulks at notification and
segregation, then it will be only playing with
the thing. Meanwhile the syphilitic condi-
tions at. the Cook Islands are so gross as to
suggest that Maoriland’s present anxiety
about the front garden could with advantage
be extended to the backyard.
HER GAITERS.
LONDON. — The English Church Union is organising
opposition to women preachers. The Bishop of
Oxford and the Dean of Canterbury also oppose the
idea. The latter states that an innovation of the
kind would raise a most vehement convulsion in the
Church. — Cable.
Well, what's wrong with giving a few lady
bishops a trial —just to see how they
shape?
A lot -of economy is. being practised
somewhere. A number of Commonwealth
public servants have gone to the war, and
their positions are being kept open for them ;
yet there were 567 more permanent Com-
monwealth employees on June 30. 1016,
than on the same date of 1914. Concurrently
the wages bill increased by £234,534. Both
ends of the candle are flaring all right.
CAIRO, KIN AND RAD LUCK.
S TIGGINS: "I am told that Cairo is a most
sinful city."
RETURNED SOLDIER: " My good sir, it is so
awful it made me tarn pale. And, mind
yon . I had had luck—I wasn't there long
enough to see all there was to see.”
An indignant patriot named Koid was
charged in Melbourne the other day with
throwing things at the son of his sister who
had married a German named liolil. The
angry uncle complained that his nephew had
removed his original German moniker from
his shop front in favor of the name of Keid
which his good Scotch-Australian mother was
horn to. Why this furious objectionV Any
man who is as much British as German is
surely entitled to drop the name that asso-
ciated him with enemy nationality in this
country, provided he has no intention of
picking up the abandoned inheritance after
the war. It is more than his right: it is
the Government’s duty to provide him with
facilities for taking this first step towards
a complete severance of the old Ilun connec-
tion.
The lately-formed Farmers’ Union of
Victoria threatens vaguely to do a sensible
thing. It claims that too high a commission
has been allowed to agents by those control-
ling the wheat pool, and hints that its own
numerous branches will next season apply
for agencies, “thus saving thousands of
pounds to the wheat-growers.” But there
isn’t any Government standing in the way
of the farmers co-operatively handling a
dozen other things; and what are they
doing about themf Bags for next season’s
crop, for instance ?
The Commonwealth Government is dis-
covering that its brilliant idea of sending a
Commission to the U.S.A. to find out all
about everything has a back kick in it, after
all. Pearce asked the Launceston Chamber
of Commerce to nominate somebody to
handle the paper-making industry, and now
Hobart yells that of course it should' have
the nomination, because it is older and has
more people who sell three-penn’orth of
stationery. The whole business is a time-
and money-wasting -farce; another good
proof of that is given by the fact that, desir-
ing to get points is the desiccation of vege-
tables, the Iluon apple-driers are sending to
California , a man who knows exactly what
it is that the local people want to know.
More Sosh, and in the very place where
the raging tiger was understood to have
frightened the life out of every citizen. The
State’s “lucerne pool” has been such a suc-
cess —the grass having realised the equiva-
lent of £3 15s. per ton in Melbourne —that
these Rodney farmers lately persuaded
Water Commission Chairman Cattanach up
there to make arrangements for repeating
the dose next season.
Allan Cameron, member for Dalhousie, has
been complaining in the Vic. Assembly that
the State Savings Bank won’t join in boost-
ing up the price of farming land :—-
In Victoria -we have a State Savings Bank which
never lends money to anybody who can't get it
anywhere else. The Credit Foncier branch has experi-
enced valuers who value properties at half their
worth and then lend 50 or GO per cent, of that sum.
In other words agricultural land has been
boomed from SO to 100 per cent, above what
experienced valuers regard as its true value;
and Allan Cameron complains that the
Credit Foncier doesn’t use the people’s
money to help sustain these artificial values,
which are a deadly burden on people who
want to get land to use.
SUMMER DAYS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“it is good lighting weather.” — Cable.
Bright shines the sun and all the skies are gay ;
Behind the lines the fields are harvest white;
Small birds amid the merry branches play ;
The happy streamlet gurgles with delight.
Life is a song. It's burden seems a feather....
Kush for the trenches! It is fighting weather!
A little wind creeps up from the warm south ;
The new-mown hay is sweet in all the field.
Summer, with happy kisses on her mouth,
The laughing garden-squares with bloom has sealed.
Bees drone about their scented honey-making. . . .
Plunge into Hell! These villages want taking!
Boar upon roar- the thunder of the guns !
The stench and fume of battle loads the air.
From hill to hill each rifle-volley runs.
The earth, instead of flowers, has blood to wear.
See! Overhead the planes of death are winging....
Hark! How the speckle-throated thrush is singing!
The laundress spreads her linen on the line.
Sleek cattle drowse beneath the beechen green.
Far off, the quiet convent’s windows shine.
The village roofs through haze of gold are seen. . . .
Ask the grim, crouching, rattled Teuton whether
He thinks these August days fine fighting weather!
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


EVEnKIO
WHY NOT ECONOMISE and
Buy Shilling Novels?
Especially when they are as good
as the more expensive publications.
The “Bookstall” Series of Shilling Novels
includes some of the best Australian fiction ever published. The
authors represented are Australia’s best.
EDWARD DYSON
LOUIS BECKE
AMBROSE PRATT
ARTHUR H. ADAMS
ARTHUR WRIGHT
SUMNER LOCKE
E. J. BRADY
M. FORREST
RANDOLPH BEDFORD
STEELE RUDD
RALPH STOCK
THOS. E. SPENCER
J. H. M. ABBOTT
NORMAN LINDSAY
JOHN SANDES
ROY BRIDGES
Theso popular authors, and a number of others not so widely
known, have contributed over
Ninety Splendid Australian Novels
AH Published at ONE SHILLING
(Post Free Is. Id.).
To publish Australian fiction in shilling volumes was a bold step,
hut it has been justified by the fact that
SALES TO DATE TOTAL 1,500,000 VOLUMES
Easily a publishing record for the Commonwealth.
Two Recent Additions to the Series
STEELE RUDD:
“ Grandpa’s Selection.”
Another great “Selection” story.
GEORGE DARRELL:
‘The Belle of the Bush.”
A rattling Australian Mining story.
Write for a Complete Catalogue.
N.S'W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD,
476 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY .
BRITISH-MADE
10-incH
3/- c&ch
Records
12-inch
from
5-each
COLUMBIA “No. 19” SUPPLEMENT.
"«•»< A™ K . L vl S;? S :- la - 1 "< ;h E1 W~.W/-
„„ ?SE%* “ BEL SERIES._la.inch Single-sided. Price 7%
Hie Keys Heaven .. Duet.- Madame Clara iStt and Ml- Limerlej Rumiord.
ii»iu Reve ratlin? Single-sided. Price 6/.
LIGHT blue LABEL SERIES.— 12-inch Double-sided. Price 6/- each.
1,1027
| ?F Ile Ri 5 1 ® of t,le Valkyries, from the “Valkyries”
| hong of the Rhine Daughters, from “The Twilight of the Gods”
Sir Henry .7. Wood and his Orchestra.
1,1028
j Alsatian Melody (Popper)
( Gavotte. No. 2 (Popper)
’Cello Solo. By W. H. Squir
IjIO?!)
) The Lonely Shepherd ’London St rim* "nnirfot
l Romance from Quartette (tlreig) G M 8 ualtet -
10-inch Double-sided. Price 4/3 each.
1)1336
frAUS T: Duet Trio “O Thou who Rule«t Mirht.” In English.. The English
MARITANA- P ”T V (F^ Blarney Frederick Austin, Frederick liana low).
IARITAAA. Turn On, Old Time” The English Opera Company (Edith
( degg, Maurice D'Oisly, Frederick fcanalovv).
D 1377
j The Blind Boy
l Traunierei
’Cello Solo. By W. IT. Squire.
DARK BLUE LABEL SERIES— 12-inch Double-sided.
Price 5/- each.
586
) Vou Cad
t He Was KigJit
Geo. liobey, Comedian.
591
\ Little (Srey Home in the West. Waltz
( Where My Caravan Has Rested, Waltz
Prince’s Orchestra.
592
London Repertoire Orchestra.
( “Bric-a-Brac”
( “Tina Valse .
Valse
593
f Dinky
] A Telephone Reconciliation
I (Overheard during the Great War).
Humorous Recital. By Cyril Maude.
Dramatic Recital. By Cyril Maude.
594
| The Stage Doorkeeper. Part i... ' Humorous Recital.
( 1 he Stage Doorkeeper. Part 2...
By Bransby Williams.
Special
“FOLLOW THE CROWD” SUPPLEMENT (Now on Sale).
12-inch Double-sided. Price 5/- each.
589
S “FOLLOW THE CROWD”—VocaI
( Gems. In Two Parts.
Columbia Revue Company.
Introducing:—Part 1: I
Girl on the Magazine.
Hula: England Every
Love a Piano; Until I Fell in Love With You; The
Part 2: Sailor Song-; Blow Your Horn; That Hula-
Time for Me.
590
1 tOLLOW THE CROWD”— Selections
( In Two Parts.
London Revue Band.
Introducing Part 1: Blow Your Horn •
Love With You; I Love a Piano. Part’
Song; England Every Time for Me.
10-inch Double-sided. Price 3/
That Hula-Hula; Until I Fell in
: The Girl on the Magazine; Sailor
each.
20 Hi
J That
| Until
Hula-Hula, Elmer Young and Chorus.
I Fell m Love With You Duet: Mabel Lee and Geo. F. Murray.
2647
JI Love a Piano
i The Girl on the Magazine
Elmer Young and Chorus.
Lloyd Johnson, Baritone.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS—
SIDNEY, N.S.W. Grafonola, Ltd,, Daking House, Itawson Place. '
MELBOURNE, VlC.—Hinsdale’s Proprietary, Ltd., 269 Swanston St.
BRISBANE, Q. —King: and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
I ERIH, W.A.—H. R. Pirth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.—Arthur H. Nathan. Ltd., Customs Street
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Webley Sons and Goiton, Ltd., 210 High St.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Hayward and Garratt, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
For comfort, long'-service, smartness and
economy, there is nothing' to equal
“\ /• 11 ”
V lyella
Garments for t Children
There are Viyella frocks, underwear, hosiery, nights, jackets, bonnets, gaiters,
bootees, etc. and they are extremely satisfactory.
Made fi om the same yarn as the world-famous washing material, and therefore
absolutely unshrinkable. If a “Viyella” garment shrinks it will be replaced.
ive
Peifectly fashioned, very healthful, and their remarkable elasticity affords
a degree of freedom and comfort not found in other garments.
Insist on “ Viyella” when ordering, and see the “Viyella” tag on the
article a guarantee of reliability. Stocked by all high-class drapers.
Guaranteed . Unshrinkable
tfpfi


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES &CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney.
BRITISH MADE
from Australasian Wool.
JASON
HOSIERY.
To Returned Soldiers.
RETURNED DISABLED SOLDIERS.—
x Single Men with Thorough Farm Training, who
are disabled in upper body but sound in. legs and
eyesight, might obtain suitable Permanent Employ-
ment as Plantation Overseers in Solomon Islands by
writing to
ISLAND INSPECTOR,
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
SYDNEY.
You’ll be surprised to find how
much easier and safer it is to
shave with a Gillette. The
old-fashioned shave is nothing
but a habit. Drop it and get
Codt^
trnuAihH-u
NO STROP PINO NO HON«N«
Sold everywhere, 23/6. British Made.
Write for free booklet. Agents: o.
Hoffnung & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney;
Gillette Safety Razor, Ltd.. London, Lng.
T "*°*
MARK
The Bulletin
■«»«■> »«*
The Bulletin
Legal Notice.
I THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
1 WALES.
PROBATE JURISDICTION.
In the Estate of THOMAS CONDON late of 264,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney in the State of New
South Wales, Commonwealth of Australia, of
Independent Means, deceased intestate.
PURSUANT to the Wills Probate and Administration
Act 1898 NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all
creditors, next-of-kin, and other persons having any
debt, claim or demand against upon or affecting - the
Estate of the abovenamed deceased (who died at
Gladesville, near Sydney in the State of New South
Wales, Australia, on or about the twenty-first day of
July One thousand nine hundred and thirteen intes-
tate) and Letters of Administration of whose Estate
were granted by the Supreme Court of New South Wales
in its Probate Jurisdiction on the sixteenth day of
October One thousand nine hundred and thirteen to
Mary McQuillen of Narrandera in the said State (a
sister of the said deceased) are hereby required to
send in particulars of their claims to the said Mary
McQuillen in care of the undersigned, Kershaw,
Matthews and Lane, the Proctors for the said
Administratrix, at their address hereunder mentioned,
or to the said Proctors at their said address on or
before the twenty-eighth day of February next, at
the expiration of which time the said Mary
•McQuillen will proceed to distribute the assets of
the said deceased amongst the persons entitled
thereto, having regard to the debts and claims only
of which she shall then have had notice. AND
NOTICE IS HEREBY FURTHER GIVEN that the
said Mary McQuillen will not be liable for the
assets so distributed or any part thereof to any
person of whose debt, claim, or demand she shall
not have had notice at the time of such distribution.
The said Thomas Condon was a son of John Condon,
late of Gurtlimore near Thurles in the County of
Tipperary, Ireland, and of Catherine Condon (for-
merly Catherine McNally) his wife, both of whom
died prior to the year One thousand eight hundred
and seventy, leaving certain children (other than
the said Thomas Condon and Mary McQuillen) then
surviving.
Dated this eighth day of August, 1916.
KERSHAW, MATTHEWS & LANE,
Proctors for the said Administratrix,
Ocean House, Moore Street,
Sydney, New South Wales.
MORPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORM)
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
There was great racing at Caulfield and a
great crowd on Australian Steeplechase day. In the
first event, over the little sticks, the placed horses
were separated by heads only, Becassine’s head being
in front. In the next race a rank outsider, getting
away with the lead, lasted just long enough to beat
John Wren’s good thing by half a head. Later on,
Wedge won the Malakoff Stakes by a head. In this
case, Caracre, the favorite, was expected to justify
the rash punters who had taken a short price about
him for Caulfield Cup. The long-talked-of animal
blighted all hopes by breaking down. The last item
on the bill was a seven-furlong flutter which Sol
Green’s horse Vibratory won easily. The odd thing
was that he started at 10 to 1 with little Dempsey
up. Only a few weeks ago Dempsey had earned a
reputation for getting home in the last race of a
meeting. And now the punters allowed him 'to go
out at 10 to 1 when he was riding for astute Solo-
mon Green !
Once in a way the public and the prophets get a
sharp reminder that no form in steeplechasing is so
trustworthy as the most recent form, and no old
stager can be said to be properly prepared for a
four-mile steeple unless he has lately been put over
numerous fences at racing pace. The spectacular
event was practically a long struggle between Ungala
(9st. 71b.), Bonnie George (9st. 101 b.) and West-
away (10st.). The top-weight, Booligal, headed
Ungala for about 2i miles, but he was clearly a poor
imitation of his old self, and he gradually tired to
nothing. Bonnie George had the most pace of the
three light-weights, but his final dash could not be
sustained. Ungala wore him down and won by a
neck.
The winner’s staying ftowers had been under-rated,
for no sufficient reasons. Thus it came to pass that
he was a 25 to 1 chance, like Bonnie George, whereas
Westaway was backed at 8 to 1. The public gave
no heed to latest form. A week previously Ungala
had beaten Bonnie George in a two-mile steeple at the
same difference in weights. Three weeks previously
Westaway had beaten Busra on the same terms
as now, and Busra finished fourth, behind Westaway.
All four horses had done plentv of jumping within
the past month, and were fully practised for this
journey. On the other hand, Booligal and Highland
Clan had shaped disappointingly, and their backers
should have lost faith. Also Rendrock had come to
grief at an easy jump since running second in the
Grand National,' so it was not surprising that he fell
again. Glenquinn, Battleship and Admiral Grand
were other fancied ones that fell early in the race.
It was Battleship’s third attempt to win this most
trying of steeplechases without having been wisely
prepared for it. Twice he made a fatal blunder. The
other time he won, because the pace was not too
fast and there was no occasion to bustle the little
chap.
# * * *
Melbourne racing clubs are combining not
to grant Ikey a fielder’s license when he is eligible to
enlist. Laudable, perhaps, but of doubtful legality
and questionable equity in a country where volun-
taryism is the basis of public policy. To be con-
sistent the clubs should apply the same kind of rule
to the club, member and the man who pays for
admission at the gate. But not they!
* * * *
,T. H. Davis, appointed handicapper to the
V.A.T.C., was one of the V.R.C. stipes. He loses
£lOO a year, but relishes handicapping more than
stiping. There were 31 applicants for the job.
Davis has been associated with racing from boyhood
and trained and owned several good winners, includ-
ing Fortunatus.
*■ * * *
“Sheila”: Xavier College, Kew (Vic.), got
a worldly testimonial on Saturday when Ungala won
the Australian Steeple. Justin Curr, who prepared
the animal, was a student there before he became a
bank clerk and took to hunting. So, too, was
Charley Leonard, owner of Westawa.v, which ran
third. John O’Keefe, who brought Traquair to Aus-
tralia, and his brothers who composed the trinity of
“J. E. Stanley,” also learned to do sums there.
* * * *
Mentioned at the annual meeting of the
V.R.C. that £72,340 was given in stakes during
the year. The Canterbury (M.L.) Jockey Club gave
£37,840. The V.R.C. knows MacShortodds; the
C.J.C. knows the tote. Population: Melbourne,
600,000 ; Christchurch, 60,000. With the tote it
pays the owner very well even if he runs straight.
Bar Von reduces the prize money and thus encour-
ages the owner to go crooked.
* * * »
Punters were on the winning marble again
at Canterbury Park (Sydney) on Saturdav, but Ikey
had the odds cramped and took little risk. Of the
six winners one paid evens, one 2’s, two If to 1,
one 21 to 1, and the other 4’s. There were 51
starters. This writer does not know what the odds
are against a lunatic picking all the winners at a
meeting, but on Saturday anyone who did it with a
pound would have acquired £lB 10s., which is pro-
bably about a twentieth of the odds against him
doing the same thing next time. Which is just
where MacShortodds finds salvation. When excep-
tional luck comes the way of the punter, what he
wins is not a circumstance alongside what he loses
when the fickle commodity goes in another direction.
*-*■**
Maoriland owner H. O. Taylor brought
three nags across to Sydney some months ago, Zuland,
Bee and Spangle. They have all paid for their oats.
Spangle was the last of the bunch to be let loose,
and on Saturday she won Canterbury Park Flying
Handicap easilv. But she carried only 7st. 31b., and
was running in a very ordinary field even for a
suburban course. Hats have to be raised to the
people behind the gun for the manner in which the
three animals have been placed. Every time money
talked the mokes arrived. Zuland has captured a
brace of events and Bee and Spangle one apiece. But it
is not likelv that Spangle will ever capture anything
big, as she is light and on the small side. ■
* * * *
Something like a record was put up at
the Ascot (Sj«ney) course one day last week, when
in the interests of horse-breeding and national effi-
ciency 17 scrambles occurred. It demanded an
almost continuous all-day procession. Moses com-
menced to bellow at 11.30 and was going strong at
sundown. One punter at least had a thrill. In
the opening event he took a long bet about Miss
Ariki. The lady duly arrived, and the backer had
just decided how to invest the coin when down
came the nag’s number on account of her weight
being wrong. Another lady (Idle Girl) was
declared the winner. But Moses didn’t object. Both
beasts had been quoted at 100 to 3 or thereabouts.
“Wart”: Wliat is the record age for a
horse? The real, certificated age, not the age which
the Oldest Inhabitant thinks a prad he used to own
in his boyhood lived to. Secretary W. T. Doolan, of
the Northern Tasmanian Trotting Club, had -a mare
Lena, which died last week, aged 28 years at least.
Lena, ridden by J. McClutehey, won the first pony
trot at Garrick 25 years ago.
* * * *
“Squib”: When “Sassafras” (B. 29/6/’l6)
says the modern horse is inferior to the horse of
bygone times he ought to have something more than
the performance of two prads in the long- ago to
support his condemnation of the Australian horse of
to-day. Four years last November I rode into
Normanton (Q.), a distance of 180 miles, in
two days, driving a pack-horse in front of me
with a good pack up. One was a saddle
pony, 14 hands, four years old; and my pack-
horse a 7-year-old bug’gy mare, 14.1. Both had been
spelling for four months, and were not shod. Also
the grass was pretty scarce. Although this does not
beat “Sassafras’s” ancient performance it is one as
good. And it was not anything out of the common
among modern performances. There are any number
of Queensland horses that have done better.
* * * *
“Sardonyx” : The death of the famous old
show-performer Desmond suggests a word about
jumping-horses in general. The steeplechase was
originally a cross-country event for bona fide
hunters. It was a better test of horse and rider
than the modern laid-out course, because the man
had to pick his line, and the horse had to jump
whatever turned up. The present-day ’chaser flies
everything with almost no steadying, and is into his
pace again the moment he lands. He is, in fact,
not a jumper that races, but a racer that jumps.
As regards mere jumping, irrespective of pace, some
of the best performers have been quite innocent of
pedigree; yet one of the best cross-country horses I
ever saw was a son of Hermit, out of an equally
blue-blooded mare. I remember his being heavily
backed to gallop 21 miles and jump 21 “fair hunt-
ing-fences” in an hour. He did it in 57J minutes.
E. MOY ( Yank, lightweight) after stopping
a few.
Owing to a dispute about weight, Jack
Cole (lOst. 71b.) was substituted for Llew Edwards
against the ’Murean boxer Moy (lOst.) at Sydney
Stadium on Saturday. As the meeting failed to
arrive at a decision Arthur Scott was called upon
to deliver judgment. He pronounced for Cole. It
looked like a judgment which might be upset on
appeal to the High Court. But Moy didn’t deserve
to win, anyhow, mainly because he boxed without
brains and delivered his hits with the emphasis of a
canary. Cole was not much more intelligent, but
he brought a hefty wallop into the argument and
kept the other fellow respectfully jumping away
from it most of the time. Cole may be heard from
again. But unless he improves he is most likely to
be heard of as a loser. Moy's mouth seemed likely
to be a sore point with him for a day or two.
* * * " *
Much chastened in spirit, Arlos Fanning
was given another chance against Bert Spargo on
Saturday night at Melbourne Stadium. The Yank’s
schedule ran this way: Round I—6, overcome nerves
and warm up ; 7—lo, test Spargo’s wallop on jaw ;
11- —14, distribute bother; 15 —20, produce coma. It
was all carried out bar the coma, which Spargo and
the timekeeper beat in turns. Through the first half
Spargo tore in hurriedly, landing three wallops to
Fanning’s one in the place where it wasn’t expected.
When America’s contributions began to roll in Spargo
quietened down considerably, but was always pre-
pared with unpleasantness and a hop out of danger.
Why the referee anointed Fanning neither Fanning
nor anyone else seemed to know. Even in the 19th
interval the voice of Israel had been heard cry-
ing “Take 10 to von about Fanning.” Fanning and
Edwards will draw well now. #
The first professional pug in Australia
able to make money at the game has enlisted Les
Darcy. This young man has been doing very wel<
since the war burst out and can go to the Front with
the easy consciousness that when the scrap ends uj,
he will not have to look for a job or bother niuct
whether he never gets one. The claim that tht
world’s middleweight championship belongs to Darcj
is of course, untenable, but he most likely is tin
champ., all the same. Before taking ship for k ranee
or somewhere he will probably have time and libeitj
to argue with Mr. George Chip, of the U.S.A., whi
arrived in Sydney yesterday, and with Mr. Jamei
Clabby, who wants another go. #
Georges Charpentier, the French heavy-
weight who is serving with the aero corps at Verdun,
has, so it is said on what looks like reliable evi-
dence, lately declined an offer of £20,000 to box
one 20-round bout and two exhibition contests m
Buenos Aires. To the Argentine “sport” who
attempted to “promote” the matches, Georges re-
marked: “You could not tempt me with a million.
While my friends and countrymen are falling around
me, I would under no consideration ever think of
entering the ring again. I fight for France, not
for money.” It’s probably true. Thank God for
France!
.* * * *
Killed in the Big Fight: C. A. Boone,
captain and coach, Mosman (Sydney) Rowing Club;
Sampson, motor-cyclist and sculler; T. Lyons, a
top-notch cvclist. Dr. C. J. Tozer, who wielded a
scoring bat for Sydney ’Varsity, has been wounded.
When it was reported last year that Tozer had been
killed first-grade clubs sported black.
Billy Read, who died at Sydney last week,
was one of the best-known sailing skippers in Port
Jackson. Back in the ’Bo’s he went before the wind
in pursuit of prize-money, but the victory which
cheered him most was his success with Esmeralda
among the inter-State 22-footers in ’97. In later
years he skipped the 18ft. Arawa, and usually induced
that craft to get the last push a breeze was capable
of giving. *
Death came as. a kind release to Phil
Newland, at 41. He was a son of old Simpson New-
land, and was probably the most brilliant all-round
athlete S. Aus. has produced—a very fast runner,
inter-State footballer, and even more brilliant at
lacrosse,’ a sound bat, and wicketkeeper for S.A. for
years. He went to England with the 1902 XI. It
was a fatal trip. At deck-cricket on the voyage he
received a smashing blow in the face with the ball,
at close quarters. He never was quite the same man
again, and the paralysis which set in gradually, a
few years later, was presumably due to that old
cause. While his health lasted he was law-partner
of Fred Young, lately Attorney-General of S.A., and
now its Agent-General in London.
Passed out while doing his bit in France,
Capt. Ivor Margetts, one of the best-known of Tas-
manian footballers. He was for several years a
leading player for Launceston, and _ afterwards
represented the southern end of the island in rep. com-
bats. Margetts, who had made several ineffectual
attempts to score a seat in the island Assembly, got
into khaki at the start of the scrap and went right
through the campaign at Gallipoli. On one occa-
sion, with uniform nearly blown off, he was the
only officer of his (Company to come out of the pro-
ceedings on his feet. On the field and off he was a
dinkum Australian, and there was 6ft. 3in. of him.
* * * *
Harold Marshall, who, after being inva-
lided from Egypt and England, died at Caulfield
(Vic.) the other day, was an athlete with a three-
star record. In ’lO he dead-heated with S. G. Hollow
for the Vic. mile championship (4min. 38sec.), and
a few months later he went to Tasmania and won the
Speck’s mile flat and 440yds. hurdles. Previous to
that he won the Malvern Harriers’ all-round cham-
pionship by lobbing' home first in the three-mile
walk, 440yds. and 120yds. hurdles, and 440yds flat;
second in the three-mile run and high jump; and
third in the 220yds., weight-put and half-mile. Mar-
shall was other things besides speedy. In ’OB-9 lie
was Vic. Y.M.C.A. champion gymnast. Also, when-
ever he picked up a cue he was a likely winner;
and motor-cycling and motor-boating claimed him
’tween-whiles. Tubercular trouble finished him at 27.
* * * *
Balmain, playing at Sydney on Saturday,
Australian rules, booted up 109 points while South
Sydney painfully amassed seven.
The destination of this year’s Vie. Foot-
bool League pennant was advanced a stage on Satur-
day, when ’Wood met ’Roy in the first semi-final on
the M.C.C. Ground, and passed out by 6 points. The
Maroons had been walloped so often that they wearied
of it and boggpd in so vigorously in the third
quarter that they got a 13-point lead. The Magpies
rose to the occasion and drew level. ’Roy retaliated ;
’Wood came again, and ’Roy did another dash, which
yielded two goals. The Magpies made a last tremen-
dous effort, snapped one goal and were on the road
for another when the bell rang. ’Roy, 63 points;
’Wood, 57. It was a great finish. “Gate” yielded
£lB3, most of which, including the M.C.C.’s Ground
rent, will go to Patriotic funds.
* * * *
Wally Messenger has the family kick. He
piled up 112 points with it in N. S. Wales League
competition for the City Cup.
Brisbane’s defeat of Maryborough by 29
to nine in the inter-city scramble was one of the
worst hidings handed out in the run of these matches.
Annandale Club won 12 out of 13 matches
in N.S.W. Soccer premiership and achieved 57 goals
against eight. Pyrmont, with 9 wins, panted in
second.
* * * *
Those hair-raising spins by Victorian
motor-cyclist Jack Booth didn’t get into the record-
book, after all. As Booth only applied to the
“authorities” to tackle the 10-mile journey, red-tape
ruled out all but the figures for that distance. Booth
was credited with 96 miles an hour in the mile and
88 miles an hour for five miles. These hustles may
take some working up again.
The greatest motor-drive yet accomplished
went on the slate at Noo Yark recently when R.
F. Mulford pulled up after pursuing S. F. Edge’s 24
hours’ track record of 1581 miles made at
Brooklands in 1907. Mulford in a 6-cylindered
Hudson whirled round the line two-mile wooden
track at Sheepshead Bay until at the end of 24
hours he had reeled off 1819 miles. The next thing
to wait for is the maniac who starts out to drive
2400 miles in a day, but swings into a two-miles-a-
minute gait and pulls up for breakfast 440 miles
past where he expected to smell the bacon. Then
he will sprint back for lunch and over-run it by
100 miles —and all the Yankee editors will be
rushing out special editions about the record-break-
ing Jonathan E. Roternote who is frantically strug-
gling to reach a free-lunch counter and can’t do it.
Jack Donaldson can still hurry over the
cinders. It is cabled that at Stamford Bridge (Eng.)
he last week defeated Applegarth over 100yds. and
220vds. in 9 4-ssec. and 21 4-ssec. All the same
The Bulletin wouldn’t mind swearing that John
didn’t let the watch beat him for anything.
A systematic attempt is being made to
stock South Australian waters with good ,fish.
Hitherto this has been left to private ventures by-
sportsmen, such as the Melroses and Stirlings, but
now the State Fisheries Department is taking a
hand. Ballarat is the headquarters of Australian
mainland, fish-hatching, and fry by the thousand
have been bought there and are being released in
the Murray, Hind-marsh, Onkaparinga and other S.A.
rivers, as " well as in some of the big reservoirs.
They are mostly trout, which can stand a taste of
salt water, and" are relied upon not to die when the
Murray gets low and the ocean leaks in through its
mouth.
* * * *
“D.F.” : I don’t know how fur a kangaroo
can jump, but James Kelly swears in the log of
his 1815 boat voyage around Tasmania that he saw
a black fellow cover 11 yards in one hop, which
must be easily the world’s record for a standing
jump. It was" on Hunter’s Island, and someone let
off a pistol and made the black brothers who had
gathered round the camp go for the tall tim-
ber. One big fellow was sitting near the fire and
in three springs he was well away in the scrub.
Kelly says they measured his first jump and found
it 11 yards. In the published version it was re-
duced to 11 feet but the MS. says “yards” plainly
enough.
“Eagle”: “Preparedness” is the newest
U.S. hobby, and the people who are going to get the
most fun out of it are the millionaire owners of
fast little pocket cruisers that do fever so many knots
an hour on petrol. Under modern war conditions
there is a use for nearly every sort of craft that
floats, so it isn’t necessary to own and run a cruiser
in order to be a person of some naval importance.
Provided there isn't a real war, Ulysses V. Shell-
maker and his gum-chewing girls will have a real
fine time this next summer or two cruising off their
summer resort in the family warship.
» * * *
“Daybreak”: Among the many old
pubs handed out by Bulletin contributors lately
are two that I have not seen mentioned, viz., The
Pig and Whistle and The Traveller’s Rest, which
had licenses in the far north-west of Tassy in the
bad old .days. Both were situated practically in
dense bush "and some hell-fire customers used to fore
gather thereat. Hughes, a one-time proprietor of
the P. and W., was a Welshman, a champion
wrestler and pretty swift with his “dukes.” To
him came news that a gentleman by the name of
Logan who was knocking about was alsp simi-
larly gifted. Quickly a match for £2O a-side was
arranged, the contest to be conducted with the raw
’uns ar.d to a finish. The clash took place in a
paddock adjoining the pub, and after an hour s
slogging Logan said he’d had enough. But Hughes
hadn’t. “No,” he said, “you have had a lot to
say, and I will not let you give me best. I have
not half hided you yet.” So Logan was forced to
face the music again, and after another hour s
pounding it was Hughes who began to look sick.
Logan, noticing this, managed to sum up sufficient
energy to send in a final fusillade, and the man
from ' Wales sagged at the knees. Which goes _to
prove that a good thing in the hand is a fleeting
luxury and not to be trifled with by a wise man.


flow’d You Like to Get
a Thrashing- ■
The Bulletin
from a man smaller than yourself? It would be a mighty uncomfortable
experience—an experience that many a man has gone through, much to
his sorrow. Make no mistake about it, size does not protect a man when
he is called upon to defend himself.
The man who KNOWS the art of scientific boxing has it “all over’’ his
opponent.
Don t \Oh run the risk of getting a sound thrashing from a man
smaller than yourself—think of the slurs, the insults, that would be hurled
at you from all and sundry, as the result of such an experience Why
not then learn how to defend yourself—how to fight vour way out of a
tight corner and so prove to your fellow men that you are a man
always to be reckoned with—looked up to —and . respected ?
I Teach Boxing by Post
—teach it in a thorough, scientific and practical manner
Now don t get the idea that I teach you only the
theory, because that’s not so. Under my guidance you
will learn how to make all the “hits,” “stops” and
moves of the world’s most scientific boxers.
You ve no excuse for remaining crude and inexperienced
a good target for the first “bully” who torments you.
Let me niake you a cool, determined, scientific boxer,
with a substantial punch and effective guard—a manly
to look after himself and win the respect
Write your name and address across this advertisement
and post it to me, and I will send you my interesting
bookiet, Scientific Boxing in Your Home,” 7 which tellf
all about my methods, terms, etc. Please send three
penny stamps for postage.
REO. L (“Snowy”) BAKER,
525 Belmont Buildings
SYDNEY.
You’re Sure to Enjoy
MY CIGARILLOS.
I
*
.
They are small cigars of
shilling Havana quality.
You are sure to
appreciate their fine
mild flavor and de-
lightful aroma.
Made in three sizes,
but all ONE
QUALITY.
In Tins of
20:
No. No. No.
2/6 2/3 2/-
In Cedar
Boxes of 50:
No. No. No.
5/6 5/- 4/6
In Cedar
Boxes of
100:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
11- 10/- 9/-
Postage Extra.
On 100—
N.S.W. 6d.
Other States Bd.
I should like
you to write
for a copy of
my illustrated
catalog of
cigars, cigar-
ettes, tobaccos,
pipes and all
smokers’ requis-'
ites. It is sure
to interest you.
A. M. SOLOMON,
CIGAR EXPERT,
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Missing: Friends.
IF the children of COLIN MACDONALD
MACDONALD (brothers
WILLIAM MACDONALD, who died at
Dona, near Inverness, Scotland, in the year
1592) will communicate with the undersigned
they will hear something to their advantage.
Colin Macdonald died in New South Wales
about the year 1896 and James Macdonald
died in Scotland about the year 1899.
NORTON, SMITH A CO., Solicitors, 2
O Connell Street, Sydney.
u
Easy-CHair
Comfort on
theßoad H
STRAIGHT
FROM THE
WELL.
is
NATURE’S
BEST.
WMf/faJl
The Motorcycle with
Cf
!T
Ilf
Catalogue with pleasure
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co.
Russell St., Melbourne
TATON
For Sale.
CT UGAR-LAND, 40 Tons of Sugar per Acre. 950
acres freehold, near the Island Metropolis, for
sale on account of owner’s old age. Has frontage for
shipping-, lOOin. rainfall, is exceptionally fertile,
yielding by estimate of experts 40 tons of Sugar per
acre per annum and 3 crops of Maize. Has water-
power facilities and abundant cheap labor, is free
from any Government dictates, free from import and
export duties, taxes on income, land and water taxes,
etc., etc., and ample recourses for very cheap sup-
plies of stores, and a universal market* for produce.
ADAMS & CO., 121 Pitt Street, Sydney.
■m
RIGNEY SHOES
There’s a very genuine pleasure in being—
and feeling—well-dressed. Begin right—at
your feet. You are sure to have distinctive
'and correctly-fitting footwear if you choose
RIGNEY SHOES.
AVe illustrate a choice Tan Box Calf Bal.,
stout sole, very comfortable and well finished.
Price - 30/-
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR
OUR CATALOG.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Building's, Edward Street, BRISBANE
%
/
i
A
j*
t
L I/
THE BEST FOR ALL
-Athletes
Bosisto’s
Parrot Brand
Eucalyptus Oil
Essential to
Athletic Fitness.
Australian Remedy
for Colds, Bronchitis,
Rheumatism, etc.
CAUTION—AIways ask for
BOSISTO’S
PARROT BRAND
as substitutes may be
offered to you.
SI
m
J
K
The Bulletin
The Bulletin
-
S3Scs^ ? ''V . i
IP 3 ' Is e-mis
■
II Vi
<PW.*i£x ®
.TViiv/v-
Vv-vl
r-iria,
- swag
.O'
Tym****
, Li lffii ,
BPPPKi
-V
-.ffei. M#*”'
u
■w*
K.OUU!
fV -
f ;
I .'<
/'!
W iV
/: i
, < i
u-t
urn
i • !*£'
t- 1$
JT
ji/lflgl
MU
4\i.
•• '***.*•.>
!;4*#
■" '.'■>:
TT Is
mm
m>&
''Bos
m
SOMEWHERE J®£sil&&NBil
Somewhere in France your brothers, sons, relatives,
>ls trends are fighting powerful foes. Not only are
'they opposed by an enemy equipped with every
- death-dealing device to military science; but
they have to contend with another opponent/ whose
attacks are even more insidious and whose, efforts
are unceasing--- “General Winter.” s ' « <-v. X. i/ \.-/'
-Jhe Military Vest has proved ai.jboon and * k/Vital
Necessity to men engaged in Trench fWarfarb during ,
the Winter season, and to send an Australian Soldidr
one of these Garments is to confer a personal Benefit .
dri him and to materially assist the cause of the! Allies i
The garments quoted below have all proved their
worth in actual use on Active Service. i \
Sheepskin Vests - 12/6
Wool Back and Front. If Khaki-
lined, and having sleeves 17/6
Tan Leather Vests, 11/6
Soft Chrome Tanned. If drill*
lined, 16/6; fleece-lined, 23/6 1
Specially treated lr tO ; /
vermin-proof. Khaki-lined: f*
wool or water-propf lilted, <l6/
Tan Leather Ceats v
Wind-guard to sleeve and felj.
lined. /If fleece-lined | |
For an Extra Payment of 1/3, we will sew ves
in Strong White" Calico and f&rwah) 'Po/ J
/ i, : % "mmm
siimsv
K
Flinders
54


rj
FOR GOOD WEAR
and TRUE COMFORT
Liberal room for the toes, neat, even
finish—a truly COMFORTABLE Boot
in the moderate American Derby lace
style.
Fine-grained Tan Willow Calf 27/6
Tan Year Calf 18/6
Black Box Calf 19/6
Post Free.
Write for Catalogue.
ffjht
For Distinctive Fooiioear,
135 King Street, SYDNEY.
ndfo&ncml ‘cfc&ts.
. m av
, S. ■
w
• H
Or B. Allen’s
MEXICAN
WALNUT
!7i
ifr^yTi
HORROCKSES
1,-tm
mg Cloths
Motorists’ Supplies
Your troubles will be lighter if you refer the
little arguments you have with your car to
us. We have every up-to-date accessory and
fitment, and are able to give you prompt and
efficient service in everything you need; from
the Petrol Tank to the Exhaust"; from the
Ilood Top to the Tyre. When in any diffi-
culty with your car, or needing accessories
of any kind, write to us—you’ll be delighted
at the promptitude of our reply and the
efficient service we will render. Rely upon
us giving you a square deal at all times.
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty. Ltd.
334-336 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
For Road and Firebreak Making;
Irrigation & Bore Water Brains, &c.
“Champion” Steel Stone Crushers, A\ heel
anti Drag Scoops, Steel Reversible Road
Rollers, Steel Wiard Road Plows, Con-
crete Mixers, Steel Concrete Carts, Steel
Tubular Barrows, Bump Waggons, &c.
Carotin Machinery Co.,
STANLEY STREET, WEST MELBOURNE,
and
Angel Place, Sydney,
ADELAIDE & BRISBANE.
improved Steel Champion
Machine.
HAS NO EQUAL ON THE MARKET.
AGENTS FOR
AUSTRALASIA
AN D <&
SI? AFRICA M
i? |
■
w
m
■
i.-'-'W.-v''
CARO LI N
| .M&F.C9
MELBOURNE
How to Treat Your Hair and Complexion.
A Few Simple Beauty Hints.
By Mdlle. GABY DESLYS, the wel!=known Parisian Actress.
YOU ask me for a few hints _on the
treatment of the hair and complexion.
Well, the less “treatment” you give
the skin the better. I do not
believe much in massage, but a
little cream to the face.is neces-
sary to counteract the effects of
wind or sun. What cream
would I recommend? Well, I
advise you to use a little mer-
colised wax every night and
again in the morning, after
washing the fade. Rub it
gently into the skin, then wipe
off any superfluous wax and
dust a little barri-agar over
the face. You will find that
this will be the only “treat-
ment” necessary and will keep
your face fresh and youthful-
looking for all your life. The mercolised
wax removes all the dead outer skin, so
that you have always a fair, fresh com-
plexion like a girl’s.
For the hair, the first and most important
Photo: Wrather & Buys.
thing is a good shampoo. Never use any-
thing inferior to wash the hair with. Get
some good stallax from your chemist and use
a teaspoonful in a cup of hot
water. Then rinse the hair
weir and it will look bright and
glossy.
A tonic is necessary when the
hair is inclined to fall out more
than it should, and is always
good to use during the spring
and autumn. Then the hair
needs a little —what; do you call
it? —stimulant, and for this 1
would advise you to "get a packet
of boranium and mix it with
some bay rum ; dab this into the
roots and it will not only stop
the fall, but make your hair
grow long and thick. Give your
hair a good brushing every night, and that
will be all that you need do.
Blackheads Fly Away.
Instantaneous Remedy for Blackheads, Greasy Skin and Enlarged Pores.
A practically instantaneous remedy for
blackheads, greasy skins and. enlarged pores,
recently discovered, is now coming into
general use in the boudoir. It is very
simple, harmless and pleasant. Drop a
stymol tablet, obtained at the chemist’s, in
a tumblerful of hot water. After the effer-
vescence has subsided bathe the face in the
liquid, using a small sponge or soft cloth.
Grey Hair—Home Remedy.
An old-fashioned Recipe restores Youthful Appearance.
In a few minutes dry the face and the offen-
sive blackheads will come right off on the
towel. Also the large oily pores immedi-
ately close up and efface themselves natu-
rally. The greasiness disappears and the
skin is left smooth, soft and cool. This
simple treatment is then repeated a few
times at intervals of four or five days, to
ensure the permanence of the result. ■
There are plenty of reasons why grey
hair is not desirable, and plenty of reasons
why hair dyes should not be used. But, on
the other hand, there is no reason why you
should have grey hair if you do not want
it. To turn the hair back to a natural color
is really a very simple matter. One has
only to. get from the chemist two ounces of
concentrate of tammalite and mix it with
three ounces of bay rum. Apply to the
hair with a small sponge for a few nights
and the greyness will gradually disappear.
This liquid is not sticky or greasy and does
not injure the hair in any way. It has been
used for generations with most satisfactory
results by those who have known the
formula.
Women annoyed with disfiguring growths
of superfluous hair wish to know not merely
how to temporarily remove the hair, but how
to kill the hair roots permanently. For
this purpose pure powdered pheminol may be
applied directly to the objectionable ha if
To Kill Roots of Superfluous Hair.
The most Effective Formula ever Discovered,
Good News for Fat People.
Something New in Obesity Cures.
growth. The recommended treatment is
designed not only to instantly remove the
hair but also to actually kill the roots so that
the growth will not return. About an ounce
of pheminol, obtainable from the chemist,
should be sufficient.
A London chemist says: “The latest
method of reducing obesity certainly is far
more pleasant and convenient than all pre-
vious methods. It consists merely in eating
clynol berries. The fat person who wants
to reduce without the usual rigid diet, exer-
cise, sweating baths, etc., now puts a few
of these little brown berries in his or her
pocket and eats three or four each day.”
Clynol berries not only eliminate fat from
the body, but also correct the tendency,
which is usually .constitutional, to create
fatty matter. X’o discomfort; whatever is
caused by their actions in fact, except for
the loss of superfluous fat —and the feeling
of "fitness” so created, you would not be
aware that these little berries were doing
their work.
Local inquiry shows that clynol berries are
not'very well known in this country, but
the demand is increasing daily, and any
chemist can quickly procure them if specially
requested to do so.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process
land offers a field of unbounded scope to tlie investor,
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
of initial development. Queens-
the scientist, the tourist, the
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
Branch Office:
279 George Street. Sydney, N.S.W.
T. C. TKOEDSON, Director.
The Bulletin
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
“ Jwosp”: The playmaking championship
oil the world is being written for by Vachell
(Britain) and Willard Mack (America).
Vachell opened in 1907 with “Her Son,” and
waited live years before he got into his
stride. Then followed “Jelf’s,” “Sunny
Bushes,’.’ “Searchlights,” “Quinneys,” and
“The Case of Lady Camber” all in three
years. This year he has already “Fen” and
“Fishpingle.” Of these five have pleased
the box oiiii es and the fifth lias to have its
trial. Mack in 1913 was stock-acting in
America. He kicked off in 1914 with “Kick
in,” at first a vaudeville sketch and then
padded out to a full-size melodrama to annoy
“Harrison Owen.” He landed over the bar
and went on within a few months with “So
Much for So Much.” This year the Mack
factor has turned out “Jane O’Day from
Broadway,” “King, Queen, Jack,” “Gentle-
nlen, Think It Over,” “Alias Santa Claus”
and “Common Kittle Things.” Somerset
Maugham put on seven plays between 1907
and 1909, and holds the blue ribbon witli
four plays running profitably in London
simultaneously.
“Melb” : The picture show given here of
Sarah Bernhardt in the drama of “Jeanne
Dore” is very surprising. I went falter-
ingly as one might to a hospital; but won-
derful old Sarah might well be without any
affliction at all. As lead in a long five-
reeler she is before the camera nearly all
the time, yet if you are not an old hand
with a recollection of her natural gait you
would have no suspicion of the artificial
leg. She is cleverly supported, in more
senses than one, by her indispensable com-
panion, little Miss Seylor, who performed
with her in Sydney and Melbourne. Divine
Sarah has put on a lot of weight, but her
face, I declare, is more pleasing than ever.
“Harrison O.”: “You get no Clara Butt
or Cisneros or any sort of true contralto in
Italy,” declares “0.K.” (B. 20/7/TO)_, and
then proceeds to blame the Italian climate.
But Italy can produce and has produced
true contraltos, some of the world’s best
artists, such as Marietta Brambilla, of
whom musical history records that she was
one of the rottenest actresses and finest
singers that grand opera has known; Gras-
sini, whose rich contralto De Quincey found
“delightful beyond all I have heard” ; Alvoni
and others. Also, if the spaghetti climate
is unfavorable to the production of con-
traltos, one would naturally suppose that it
would likewise affect the supply of bari-
tones and bassos, and of course it doesn’t.
May not the absence of decent contraltos
from visiting Italian cos. be accounted for
by the fact that, comparatively speaking,
the contralto cuts little ice in the florid
Italian operas? It was for the tenor and
soprano that Verdi and Donizetti mostly
wrote ; practically all their purple passages
for females are for the soprano. In any
case, it is not only from Italian opera com-
panies that contraltos of the calibre of Butt
and CrosSley have been missing, for we did
not get them in the English Quinlan co.
The. singers named are known to Australia
not as operatic, but as concert, performers.
“First Old Man” : One of the hard-worked
male choristers was petitioning the stage-
director to excuse him from the morrow’s
rehearsal. “Never heard of such a thing!”
said the stag-mag. “Why, in the name of
Heaven, do you want to be let off?” “Well,
to tell you the gospel truth,” returned the
up-stage singer, “I’ve got a particular ap-
pointment. It’s with a man who has owed
me 30s. for two years, and lie’s promised to
pay to-morrow.” “Go at your own risk,”
roared the director. “But I’ll tell you this
—if you absent yourself you’ll be fined.”
“llow much?” queried the chorus man.
“Ten shillings.” rapped out the S.M. “Um —
that settles it,” said the chorus man. “I’ll
be here.”
“Joybelles”: Manly, where the Sydney
summer girl wriggles pink toes in the bottle-
green breakers, is very fine as it is; but it
would be finer still if it had a troupe of the
open-air girl dancers who now wave pink
chiffon-wreathed limbs on the warmer Ameri-
can beaches. Artistic and artful photographs
show groups of these maidens prancing with
linked hands where sand and ocean meet
and the winds give the proper flicks to float-
ing draperies. A beauty sitting in a mer-
maidenly pose on a rock encircled ..by swirl-
ing water, with the ocean wind combing out
her floating hair, has more of the joy of life
in it than anything else I have seen on
calico or canvas.
Percy Grainger has just totted up 18
recalls at a concert in Toronto. The
Canadian papers describe golden-hair as “a
Siegfried of the piano,” though we’re not
playing in the same yard with many Sieg-
frieds just now.
THE COMEDY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The show is tedious, and dull
The actor people needs must he —-
The angel and the usual trull;
The hero, elegant to see;
That scion of iniquity,
The villain, with his raffish air ;
A father, and a comic pair.
I turn me from the stage direct
The circle and the stalls to see,
Where are assembled the elect;
And here the tragic comedy
Betrays a vital piquancy.
Not on the stage one sees, I wis,
Humanity laid bare like this.
Is lolling there a golden dame;
Her smiling husband sits below
With one who’s labelled “Lost to Shame.”
Her husband in the upper row
With youthful ardor seems to glow
For madam of the golden locks.
The world looks on, and grins and mocks.
Which sex will for divorce declare?
This problem plagues us where we sit.
But wife and husband of each pair,
With eoimnonsense and native wit,
At home have gravely tossed for it.
None heeds the actors. Plainly they
Should stop the show and watch the play !
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


MAXWELL
“25”
TOURING CAR
ROADSTER
£,290.
trvi
• /i
.m
_ ■ ■ - ■ -- - -7—~r
; ■ ‘ \
1916 MAXWELL High-priced-Car Features Alt Included for £3OO.
ELECTRIC STARTER AND ELECTRIC LIGHTS.
DEMOUNTABLE RIMS.
HIGH-TENSION MAGNETO.
“ONE-MAN” KHAKI TOP.
NEW STREAM-LINE DESIGN.
DOUBLE VENTILATING WINDSHIELD.
(Clear Vision and Rainproof.) .
Electric Horn.
Wider Front and Rear Seats.
Aluminium Transmission Housing.
Handsome Rounded Radiator and Hood.
Robe Rail, with Back of Front Seat Leather
Covered.
Linoleum-covered Running-boards and
Floor-boards.
Automatic Tell-tale Oil Gauge.
Heat-treated, Tested Steel Throughout.
Easy Riding and Marvellous Flexibility.
Unusual Power on I fills and in Sand.
Ability to Hold tl le Road at High Speed.
Improved Instrument Board, with all Instr
ments set Flush-.
EVERY FEATURE AND EVERY REFINEMENT OF CARS THAT SELL AT TWICE ITS PRICE.
BOWENS LIMITED, 276-8 Street, Sydney.
W&iaieif*
3*
T
-s'
H
y*tci. vwsr-**
iU
agg<-V‘
" !
•* -r.
§®R
-
-~ 4
&*•#?«gJhs
sm.
%£gms*-
*sss*sr
aw
MM**®
■■ ,
-m, -o..■»" I ’. ••«-” -
S3*
SB
c
£«>-%£^S^
‘Sp-jVfi*
**: v.
mmm «
IS
*** -k: _ ,3yaB*/ s »yte
Jeffery Quad pulling tons of pig iron through mud up to the axles.
JEFFERY QUAD
Drives, Breaks 8 Steers
oi\ all Four Wheels
For Sand, Black Soil
or Steep Grades.
During 1915 the French Government
purchased 1500 Jeffery Quads.
The Quad has self-locking differ-
entials, which prevent slippage of
wheels and consequent loss of power.
As supplied to
WM. ARNOTT LTD.,
ROBERT REID & CO. LTD.,
AUSTRALIAN AGRICULTURAL CO.,
and others.
CATALOGUES and FULL
PARTICULARS FROM
Bowens Limited,
276-8 Castlereagh St.,
... SYDNEY.
Also Agents for Jeffrey “4” Pleasure Cars
in 3-, 5- and 7-Passenger Models.
Si
sSJfc
m
Ki
■Jr
•\ :f
leffrry Quad hauling <> tons up a sandhill.


i i'ii!
!:ii liiii!
Sliiii
toiiiiiW.mJ
He cannot bear the sight
of food
Eating produces Nausea, Heartburn, Acid
Risings in the Throat, Flatulence and Vomiting
undigested food. When he reads or applies
himself to business his eyes ache and burn, and
he get pains in the head. His mind is listless
and memory impaired. The vigor of life has
departed—he sees no use in making an effort,
gives way to despair and is tired of life. But
Fishers
Rhospherine
THE GREAT NERVE TONIC
at once attacks all these symptoms. One by one
they disappear and he feels a new man. Fishers
Phospherine energises the whole system and can
be taken with benefit by sufferers from Indigestion,
Acidity, Muscular Rheumatism, Backache, Mal-
aria, Headache, Brain Fag, Nervousness and
Neuralgia.
All Chemists and Stores.
1 - per Bottle. Four times the quantity, 2/6
Homoeopathic and Dispensing Chemists
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W. |S7p
THE DEAF
HEAR! ,
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
The Bulletin
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustir jn-s, instantly changed by a touch of
the fir.ger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stapes of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREEI,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
MearsEar Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
CHRISTIE^
JSPECIAUSE
rh/o
LINES
I#
s
w
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE
/>N°
PATTERNS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
■
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
2r fIONTER ST NEWCASTLE
WESTERN MACHINERY
WHEELED SCOOPS and DRAG SCRAPERS,
PLOUGHS FOR CONTRACTORS,
WESTERN ROAD GRADERS,
ELEVATING GRADERS, RQCK CRUSHERS,
ROAD PLANER and FINISHER,
DUMP CARS, SCARIFIERS.
(Large Stocks Carried).
Catalogs and Full Information from
the Sole Agents.
E. D. MORRISON 8 CO. LTD.,
357 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Belle Vue Hotel
Reconstructed. BRISBANE.
Electric Lift. Perfect Sanitary Arrangements.
Incomparable Position. Easterly Aspect.
Overlooking Botanical Cardens.
MRS.
A. FINNIGAN, Proprietress.
m
rij
The Bulletin
Stock Saddle
This latest saddle of ours combines many of our
COMFORT INNOVATIONS in ■ Saddles—the
dinpv pigskin seat, the rough out-flaps for gup, _ our
OS." panel with the short stuffing and leather points,
tlie long girth straps and long flaps. It is fitted up as
illustrated with folded leather girth,,l eath £u S ’
4-bar nickel-plated stirrups and SURGING l-dii. the
knee-pads are well made and strong and the right shape
for comfort. If vou prefer all smooth leather instead of
rougli-out say so when ordering, and give your height
and weight.
Price £5-18-6
Freight Free
for Cash
10 any
in the
port or railway station in N.S.W. or any direct port
other States, New Zealand- or Fiji.
KING HEAD BRIDLE, with l-ein and billet in one
piece, and one inch cheeks and rein, 11/6, post free, for
cash. If ordered with Saddle, 10/6.
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON LTD.
Saddlers &. Harness Makers,
393 George St. and 32 Hunter St., Sydney
■J
JF C
BOOTS have come back again and no mistake.
But such (beams of hoots, up-to-date,
dainty, delightful, fit accompaniment to the
flounced taffeta frocks of the day, which
combine smart modernity with old-world charm.
Paris and London both are now tripping to work
and plav in short-fronted, high-heeled, suede-
topped boots like the Bostock style here illus-
trated. . . . ,
It is a smart little boot, there is no. doubt
about that, and every bit as comfortable as it is
smart. The beautifully fitting- last on which it is
made sees to that, and lots of women, who have
never imagined they could wear a short-fronted
style, will be amazed to find how comfortable it
is' how jollv it makes their feet look.
Then for those who want something different,
who prefer shoes perhaps, there is a fine range of
styles to select from, all as up-to-date and charm-
ing as this model,, and . all safe to wear well and
feel as peculiarly one’s own as if they had been
made to measure.
Bostock No.
P 6476
"0
None genuine unless
stamped “Bostock.”
See that the name “Bostock”
is stamped on the soles.
S2S
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
GOOD POLISH FOR GOOD BOOTS
-se «« «* ss
these standpoints, there’s no polish to equal BOaXUI/ti
Colors— Block, Brown and Dark Brown.
Paste in Tins, 6d.; Creams in 2oz. Tubes, 6d.; 4oz. Bottles, 1 -
Sold Everywhere. BOSTOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES LTD., SYDNEI.
EIGHT - HOU
R ART UNION AND
- (Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
s PO RTS.
&
MIGHT WIN THIS
3.650
FIRST PRIZE DIAMOND TIARA
2sd prize value £3OO, 3rd prize value £2OO,
and 397 other valuable prizes
Prizes Value £3,500
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. Barnett, Sydney,
N.S.W., for the modest outlay of ONE SHIELINO. mir
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1916.
Results of Drawing will be advertised m this paper on hovembei 9.
To onv nerson forwarding stamped, addressed envelope, a list of the
results will be posted. Tickets 'may be had from Agents in all towns, or
direct from JOHN W, DOYLK, Secretary, Trades Hall, Sydney. __
«r
IT’S EASY VERY EASY
shaving- with a Razor of such finely-tempered steel as
the: “PLUM” RAZOR.
It’s the last word in scientific Razor manufacture. It
retains its edge the longest, shaves in quickest time, and
cuts out all face-hacking annoyance, Get one to-day.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established, Over SO Years.
\-
It’s a Masterpiece—
The “Plum” Razor
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Ho notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamps .
fiame and address must appear on the MSS. l o
liability is undertaken re contributions 10 un
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be retui ne
unless stamps accompany.
11. Campbell: Don’t care whether the
system is English or not, a co. which fixes its capi-
tal in plant, property and stock, and then under-
takes to repay the shareholder his capital almost
on demand, is built on a rotten foundation; and a
respectable law wouldn't allow it. The best English
co-operative cos. know the system is rotten. Hence
they have built large reserves, which are not with-
drawable. But in Australia and Maoriland the fact
that the capital is withdrawable has been almost in-
variably regarded as a reason for paying away all
the profits and building up no ' reserves. ... Bill
Adams: Keep going; the battle of Waterloo was not
so big as it’s been painted... .Überin: No.... The
Squib: Thanks, but we already had it.... W.5.N.:
Much obliged..... Cocky: lie was pulling your leg.
....Nemo: What gardens? Vuna: A curse upon
you for jambing your lines so tight together that
even the thinnest sub. can’t squeeze in... .Haka:
Well, Billjim isn’t slang, and it was an affectionate
moniker bestowed upon the typical Outback Aus-
tralian years before the war was dreamed 0f... .
A.8..J.: After the old land-grant system was abol-
ished in N.S.W., unprincipled persons who wanted
land went out and occupied it. A report dated 1836
says: “The Crown lands are occupied by persons
denominated squatters, mostly convicts holding
tickets of leave or becoming free try servitude. They
are cattle thieves of the worst order.” To suppress
them the Crown Lands Occupation Act was passed
in 1830 appointing commissioners to mark out suit-
able areas, and allowing occupation by proper persons
on payment of £lO license fee. These were called
licensed squatters. Heavy penalties were imposed
on the unlicensed squatters, who 'gradually dis-
appeared ; and the licensed person then became
known as the squatter. The original Act and
Regulations were continually amended as faults
were disclosed. Thus the squatter became entitled
to lease a portion of his holding on which he put
liis permanent improvements with a right of pur-
chase—“pre-emptive right”—at the upset price at
the end of the term. . . .8.M.: “Whilst War is
Waging” is not a poem. It is bad verse. .. .N. 8..
Nearly.. ..D.C.Q. :■ Feeble and sloppy... .Idaloo: No
g00d.... Manana: “For Judgment” does not strike
us... . Gunner Mac: Some quality, but hardly enough.
... .S.C.: You’re a mournful fellow for your age. .. .
T.W.: If it didn’t bump so heavily it would have a
chance... .E.A.C.: Poor stuff in beautiful hand-
writing.;.. .R.G.: A good idea. But why transplant
it to England? .J.K.11.: Nothing in it.... Day-
break: Bright trifle but a bit rugged. .. .AY.8.8.:
Not up.. . .T.W.P.: Not our style... .Marguerite:
Trifles like that must be perfect in form. .. .Incog-
nito: “Proxy” and “Costs” are homing. You use
too many . words. .. .Tara Devi: No. .. .A.P.F.: Not
up....H. Moesbury: An old idea badly dressed....
Spes: As you were ill when you did it you may be
forgiven, but why drag it out again ?.... T.L.: No
good Along the Line: Did you write it with a
pointed stick dipped in tar? Anyhow, why did
you write it?....P.P.: “Nothing to Report” goes
back. Other being considered... .H;G.: Like the
masterly swing of the lines:—
M.N.: “Parted” doesn’t get there. Other
verse noticed at time. .. . J.R.M.: Not up... .8.A.D.:
“Call of Mountain” and “Alone” too rugged....
D.J.W.: No thanks. You have a lot of things to
learn before you can write a story. One is to do
it on only one side of the paper.... 11. P.: You
can’t understand our opinion of your verse. We
can't understand yours. .. .B.B.: Too little in it.
....Uncle Tom: Feeble, with a limp in every line.
Nothing Venture: Pleasing; try again.... Med Stud:
Poor attempt. .. .J.W.K.: May you be forgiven....
M.A.A.: “Southern Isle” is a good brag, but has
no merit as verse. .. .Haka: Point not well enough
made. . . .BiA.: “Casual Cove” is nearly good. Alter
that irritating metre and try us again . . . . P.A.T.:
Larne even for a first attempt 0.K.K.: Moral
sermon by “Ginger Sal” rejected... .Barley-corn:
Clarify your stuff. It would be good if the mean-
ing wasn’t left so obscure. ... St. Jimmy: It has
feeling, but the lines are rather commonplace....
J.W.: Feeble attempt at erotic hysterics in anti-
quated form.... Daisy: Ah, there are better love
yarns than that. .. .C.L.G.: You can’t rhyme in that
wild way and hope to get in. . . .G.H.: “How Can
Man Die Better ” not our style. .. .J. 8.: Made a
yarn if you had taken a little trouble. .. .No Name:
Weak punning about a young man and a motor-car
hurled 0ut....J.C.: “Morning Star” no g00d....
R.L.: “My Hero” not up.... M .11.: “The Trinity”
might be all light if it said anything. .. .E.M.E.:
Not enough in it... .G.8.H.. No. .. .S.A.K.: Too
aged and thin. .. . Belshazar: No, it’s not up. Why
complain of a fourth attempt ? Most well-known
writers first saw print at about the 98th. And after-
wards they were usually sorry they hadn’t been
repressed until the 173rd.
TO AUTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.S.: Buy a book on perspective and study it....
John R.: t)uite right; you cannot draw and the jokes
are no g00d.... Bill It.: It can’t fly here. . . . M.G.:
Homeward bound... .E.R.: Too stiff... .F.C.H.:
Dull production all round.... C.fl.S.: Send your
thousand-and-first. . . .J.W.: Respectable try. .. . Zeb:
As wooden as if it had come from a timber yard.
This is something, like a record in mono-
tony. G. H. Taylor, of Dubbo (N.S.W.),
lias been for 43 years president of the local
hospital and for the same number of years
president of the Mechanics’ Institute. He
is a Sydney native ; his father was an early
teacher of St. Philip’s School.
Some people did not think much of the eclipse at
all,
Said it wasn’t dark enough, owing to the moon being
too small.
Others said they much preferred eclipses in the
summer,
That the moon, as a sunshade, was out of place in
winter.
Others, who took much greater interest in
astronomy,
Said it was a very great success scientifically,
That the weather, for taking observations, was with-
out defect,
When the moon became a bullseye on the sun, it
was perfect.
Wise men, years ago, timed this eclipse to the
minute,
And said, the following Sth Aus towns would be
right in it.
Tarcoola, Iron Knob, P6r£ Broughton, Snowtocvn,
Hoyleton, Riverton s
Kapunda, Angaston, Mannum, Peake, Wolseley, and
Serviceton.


m
r S5>
F
fin
if
wmwflli
I
£26
mam
:
«
*ss
n
5
153
zm.wm
%
tin
mini
lieu
UUi
Sm\\
m'
i
»
1
lliiteritf
i§^
3®
0
:
IhdliMlm
a
rrr^V
lO
£ 3b
9
C7fe BEALE PLWER PIANO
T H , E : ‘Beale” Player-Piano is an instrument of
infinite capacity for intelligent interpretation. It
is in no sense mechanical. At all times the operator
is able to infuse his own personality into the rendition.
As for the tone, we can say no more than that the Piano itself
is just the usual good “Beale” quality—an Australian production,
which, in competition with the world's best makes, gained the
Grand Prize and three gold medals at the Franco-British
Exhibition in London.
Head Office and Factory:
41-47 TRAFALGAR ST., ANNANDALE.
SYDNEY.
Showrooms: 333 GEORGE STREET
(Opp. Equitable Buildings)
232 KING STREET, NEWTOWN.
s, QlO
And at Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle.
Goulburn, Wagga. Victoria: Maples, in all
Melbourne suburbs. Tasmania : Williams Bros.,
Hobart. Maples, Launceston. S.A. : John Evans
Ltd., Adelaide- Queensland: 90-92 Queen St.
Brisbane Kent St, Maryborough. Flinders St.
Townsville. Rockhampton. Sydney St., Mackay.
Cairns.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA CNGLAN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
ORMONDE
ORAMA
ORVIETO
OSTERLKY
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA
ORONTES
OMR AH
. Geared Tui*bine
.Triple-Screw.
..Twin-Screw .
15,000 Regd. Tons.
13,000 „
12.130 „
12,129 „
12,124 „
12,077 „
12.036 „ „
9,023 „
8,282
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabin* s-de-luxe;
Staterooms, with bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms,
Private Bathrooms, Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Regular sailings from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailing’s as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY '
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
‘CAIRNS
(‘Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports).^
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney August 19.
CANBKRRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne August 23
Leaves Sydney August 26.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne August 30.
Leaves Sydney Sept. 2.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. arid W. A. ports)
SOUTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney August 20.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Haitians;. Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Directors: lion. Sir ALFRED COWLEY.
lion. Sir ROBERT PHILP, Iv.C.M.G.
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Heart Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Olliee: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: .41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WOULD.
TRANSACTS - ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian jjanli of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (30th June, 1916) .. £1,197,393
RESERVE FUND £85,000
HEAD OFFICE: George* King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37 Thieadneedle Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS — Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Frank N. Yarwood,
Esq. ; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq. ; George F.
Todman, Esq. ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout 'the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
World. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated tinder the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 200,000 0 0
It.terminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091.009 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
lion. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Brandies —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
fhe Commercial Banking jj®.
of Sydney, [imited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. £2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . .. 1,875,000 0 0
Reserve Capital . . .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,875,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. . . .. Chairman,
lion. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: J. J. Brenan, Esq. ; and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: IT. 11. Massie.
Heart Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane.
Directors: F. IT. Dangar, Esq.; H on. 11. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq. Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the World.
of |)em Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock..
Preference Shares..
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up
Uncalled Capital .. .. • •
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
£529,988
750,000
1,000,000
500,000
2,118,605
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa. Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking business. .
ill Interest ‘for
fixed periods, and
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Lino to Vancouver
™ E “»<"». lEA | G “ E 1"“
ACCELERATED SERVICE, CALLING AT
AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (Fiji) and HONOLULU (Hawaii).
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction vvitli CANADIAN P -*CIIIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES., PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES,
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
t Twin Screw. * Triple Screw. Fitted with Cabins Dr Luxe, Suites, Bedstead Rooms, Lifts. Laundry.
Nursery, Wireless, etc.
AROUND THE AVORLD BOOKINGS. RETURNING VIA CHINA AND JAPAN, OR AIA
SUEZ CANAL OK SOUTH AFRICA.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco.
VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the AVorhl and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
STEAMERS SAIL FROM WELLINGTON (N.Z.).
* MATT AT, 14th September. *MOAN A, 12th October.
•Connecting Steamers leave Sydney—7th September, btli October.
Passengers Transfer at AYellington to the Mail Steamer immediately on arrival.
Vessels stay 24 hours at Papeete, “The Pearl of the Pacific.!’
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
“ The Paradise
of the Pacific.”
A BENEFICIAL, SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in tlie Largest and Finest Steamers Trading to America
R.AI.S. Niagara and It.M.S. Makura.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing Nineteen Days’ Stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach —“The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT AVEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
Winter Fiji
Levuka,
Suva,
Lautoka,
Samoa *p‘“. Friendly Islands
Tonga.
Monthly Sailings from Sydney and Auckland.
T.S.S. ATUA (3444 tons). S.S. TAIAJNE (2087 tons).
GRAND PACIFIC HOTEL at Suva now open.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
Something Unique in
Island Tours
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
.Send for further particulars to
V
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
&T9?'
Directors
£3,500,000
£2,675.000
£3,500,000
£9,675.000
The lion. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
President.
Ilobert, Lionel Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
'I lie lion. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Eosbery, C.-U.B., .U.L.C,
The lion. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Bihnie, Esq.
Auditor*: Shepheard Edgecliff Laidlev, Esq.; Alfred George Milson, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St, E.C.
841 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECI. Foreign Bills nego-
tinted and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
.T. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
JBaitk ot Sustralta
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
f2r a "». General Banking Business principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of tlie world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
Minimum
Deposit
At all Branches, and over
ncAA Agencies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest at gy
per annum /o
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL. Deputy Goreruor. June, 1916 DENISOV MILLER. Governor
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks
■ •
- £500.000.
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool. Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
Used the
World Over
IK.
m
MOTOR
...CARS
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
Quickly removes SKIN ERUPTIONS,
. ensuring A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable Pimples,
disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema disappear
by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
Scurl
Acne
Blotches
Spots _
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin Specialists,
1. Pepper&Co., Ltd., Bedford Laboratories, London,
S.E. England, and can be obtained from any
chemists and stores throughout the world.
Quickly removes the effects ol Sunscorch.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF .PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to ail North-Western Ports.
DIMBOOLA, Friday,
Aug'. 25 and Sept. 22.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
MORIALTA, August 19.
PARINGA, August 20.
RUPARA, Sept. 2.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YCIU & CO., LTI).,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
-Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of v Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND POUTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
via
SAMOA-HONOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
Sailings from Sydney :
AUO. 23, SEPT. 13, OCT. 4, OCT. 25.
A ppIy:— OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom, via Suez Canal, Cape of Good Hope,
Torres Straits.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw- —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine. Surgeon and
Stewardess. Electric Fans.
FARE TO LONDON OR LIVERPOOL, £4B.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAIIH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.,' Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to:—
t WEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COM’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
>tcainer. £6 Bs. Gd. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £ 4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N.Co.iM
Splendid Steamship Services
To and irom Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,000 tons
T.S.S. “ KANOWNA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ KYARRA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjovment of beautiful scenery should travel ov
the A U S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fiji Trade,
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Dailv Papers.
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.


1
/
f
-i
'U.;
v<
o
—freedom
from Dust!
'V'OUR house can never
Abe hygienically clean
until it is free from dust.
But continual dusting and
cleaning and getting down
on your hands and knees,
has been hard, back-break-
ing work.
This labour will continue
until you get an
Catalogues and Dealer Samples
and Prices can be had from
GIBBS, BRIGHT U CO., 37 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
Also at Sole Australian Agents.
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and .Fremantle.
Manufactured by
CHANNELL CHEMICAL CO.
Factory: Chicago, U. S. A.
Offices: London, Toronto, Buenos Aires
Cable Address: 'Ocedar'
CX§ferM°p
[Registered in principal countries]
Then the hard work ceases. But cleaning
and dusting is not all the O-Cedar Polish-
Mop does: it polishes at the same time —puts
a hard, durable, lasting lustre to all varnished
and finished surfaces. Besides, you use the
same mop to dust and clean the tops of doors,
and all high furniture, standing woodwork and
beamed ceilings.
The O-Cedar Polish-Mop is made from
long fibre, soft cotton and treated with
the world-famous O-Cedar Polish. It
is cleaned by washing and then re-
newed with a few drops of O-Cedar
Polish. It is heavily padded to prevent
marring or scratching the furniture.
The handle is 54 inches long, making
it easy to clean those hard-to-get-at
places. There are more than two
million O-Cedar Polish-Mops in every-
day use in all parts of the world.
Obtainable from all
Leading Dealers
The Original—the Standard
O-Cedar Mops were the first and
have remained the standard Mops
despite wide-spread imitation. Be-
ware of substitutes—look for the
yellow package and the trade-
marked name O-Cedar.
BE GOOD
TO YOUR
COMPLEXION
USE
Nyal’s
Face
Cream
1/6 & 2/6 per jar.
FOR SALE BY
CHEMISTS ONLY
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, Od. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
ai.d at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hol-
born. London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tne
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co., Ltd.
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments;
Why not give them a trial?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Three Sizes—
\y 2 h.p.
2 H.p.
H.p.
laii
The EVIWRDDE
:: DETACHABLE::
ROWBOAT MOTOR
is the most successful and perfect motor of
this kind on the market. Over 40,000 now
in use. Very simple and easy to operate.
Can be attached to any boat in a few
minutes—adjustable to depth and angle of
stern. Speed up to eight miles an hour.
Equipped with high-tension, built-in-the-fly-
wheel Magneto. Fitted with Automatic
Reverse and Maxim Silencer. Operated by
Petrol, and lubrication is automatic.
Of invaluable assistance on the farm for pumping water, driving senarafm-
lo transform motor into a power machine is the work of • ' * c '
Propeller is removed and a belt pulley substituted. ‘ nines.
Descriptive Booklet sent post free on application to
H. A. GODDARD, 376 Collins Street, Melbourne; 82 Pitt Street
404 Queen Street, Brisbane; Clift' Street, Freimntl.- i>
Chambers (opp. G.P.0.), Auckland, N.Z 1 Remington
LOCAL agents require D in all towns where not represented
The Bulletin
If any illustration appearing in Ol'iie
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
A case for
Wi'nearnis’/
m.
&
v/,'vr.
Anaemia
Our blood is composed of
red and white corpuscles
—the red to nourish the
body, the white to fight
disease. In Anaemia—or
bloodlessness the red
corpuscles are more or less
deficient. Thus the blood
cannot provide sufficient
nourishment for the body.
Therefore the face be-
comes white and “ pasty ”
—theeyes become dull and
“heavy”—and a feeling
of intense weariness per-
vades the whole system.
To overcome Anaemia,
the blood supply needs re-
charging with red corp-
uscles. And it is here that
The Bulletin
possesses such wonderful
power Because being a
blood-maker, ‘Wincarnis
creates a wealth of new
rich, red blood, which
brings therosesback tothe
cheeks—gives a sparkle to
the eyes—and surcharges
the whole body with new
vitalityand new life. That
is why over 10,000 Doctors
recommend ‘ Wincarnis,
Begn to get
well TO-DAY.
‘ Wincarnis ' is made in England
by COLEMAN & CO., Ltd.,
Wincarn s Works, Norwich. You
can buy ‘ Wincarnis ’ from all
Chemists and Stores selling
wines, prices 4/• and 6/6, but if
you experience any difficulty in
obtaining it, write direct to Sole
Distributing Agents, Fassett &
Johnson, 5/7 Barrack St., Sydney.
AVON
trade mark _j
THe TYRES
which increase comfort
and give longer service
at reduced cost.
BRITISH THROUGHOUT
House
Lighting
and power, with
the Edison
Storage Battery.
No matter where you may be situated
you can enjoy the full luxury, the com-
fort, convenience, cheerfulness and safety
of Electric Light and Power, by means
of the Edison Storage Battery.
The Edison Storage Battery is the only
one that is made light, and it gives a
never-failing supply of steady, reliable
electricity, always available.
Needs absolutely no expert attention;
never g-ives the slightest trouble.
Write at once for full information. It
may mean a great deal to you.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Bulletin
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘AItABLS’
Egyptian Henna before all others ; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.


The fall of Gorizia is a triumph which
must lead to other triumphs. And the heart
or the optimist rejoices as when inspired b.v
that royal spirit King George IY, topnotch
Scotch. —Advt.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ I-lALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
CBJ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
Lxy&vna,
An Australian Remedy for ECZEMA,
PRICKLY HEAT and SKIN DISEASES.
Hundreds testify to its curative powers.
The most obstinate cases of Eczema cured.
ALL CHEMISTS AND DRUGGISTS,
or
J / S. FIELDER, Randwick, Sydney.2j()
Outlet
Deep Well Pumping Engines
Cook’s Deep Well Pumping Engines
for Non-flowing Artesian or Tube Wells
have the following special features
No Dead Centre —will always start when the steam is turned
Perfectly Uniform Motion, due to-separate adjustable valves
for up and down strokes. ,
Plow of Water Steady and Continuous, the pump bucket
discharging on the upper stroke and the top plungei dis
charging on the down stroke. _ _
Engine Revolves entirely to one side, allowing sufhcient room
for withdrawal of rods and pump gear
Stock sizes
6 x 24. 8 x 24 8 x 36.
£55 £BO £95
VERTICAL BOILERS.
Our VERTICAL BOILERS are specially constructed to
our Specification, and are suitable for a Working Pressure ot
1001 b. per square inch.
The Plates used are Siemens-Martin Steel Special Louei
Quality, tested to Lloyds’ requirements. Angles and Hi vets Siemens
Stool
Vertical Seams of Boiler Shell are Double Riveted, Circular Seams
Single Riveted, and in strict accordance with the requirements oi tie
Machinery and Scaffolding Act.
Ample Mu dholes are placed round Boiler Shell and are opposite one
end of each Tube. Mudholes and manholes are fitted with Compensating
Rinos Spring Lock-up Safety Valve is fitted, also two Sets of Water
Gauge Mountings and Inspector’s Test Cock, in addition to all the usua
mountings of the highest grade. _ ...
Every Boiler is tested to 2001 b. uer sq. inch cylinder
pressure. ' Certificate of Test supplied if necessary.
Write for our 364-page Illustrated
Priced Catalogue.
Queensland Machinery Co. Ltd.,
142=156 Albert Street,
BRISBANE.
' 1
IN
BANANA LAND
When Townsville parted with P. F.
Hainan a few days ago the sultry town lost
a bit of as genuine good stuff as ever left
the Ould Sod. “P.F.,” as he was commonly
called in the North, came to Victoria in
the early mining days and in ’66 migrated
to Townsville, where he became known as
a good citizen, a solid Conservative and the
kindliest soul north of Capricorn. Towns-
ville made Hainan Mayor some seven times,
elected him alderman almost unto _7O
times seven, and sent him. moreover, into
Parliament, where the Labor party fought
him and loved him at the same time. Eighty-
five years —and then the cursed climate!
Gone into retirement, J. G. Drake, a
capable man who was for a time a leader
in Queensland politics. Drake budded as a
journalist and afterwards served a term on
Hansard, where he found time to qualify
for the Bar. Originally a Radical, he
entered Parliamentary life and became Post-
master-General and Minister for Public
Instruction in the first Pliilp administration.
Then he went into the first Senate, and was
8.M.G.. Defence Minister and Attorney-
General. Later on Premier Ividston
appointed him Crown Prosecutor, a job for
which, despite his 66 years, he was still well
fitted.
R. de Moleyns, who passed out lately in
the North, came to Australia 20-<;dd years
ago for “colonial experience” at Hambledon,
near Cairns. In partnership with his
brother and a Chinaman named George Ah
Ilee, de Moleyns cleared the Sawmill Pocket
scrub country, in the same district, for sugar
growing; and the brothers also started the
fiist coffee plantation at Babinda. Their
dad (Yentry) was a member of the British
House of Lords; and the wife vf Hopetoun,
first Gov.-General of the Commonwealth,
was their sister.
Passed out lately, .T. Y. Walker, one of
the patriarchs of Bundaberg. For over 50
years he pioneered on the Burnett River,
and in his overtime worked a more or less
facile pen to record the history and possi-
bilities of;the district. •
“E.G.H.” explains the practical way
Bananalaud railwaymen are preparing for
the homeward retreat of damaged Billjim: •
Four months ago the railwaymen started to prepare
farms at Birkdale for their returned wounded com-
rades; 10 acres are now under cultivation and
another 10 acres are being cleared, Birkdale is on
Pie Cleveland line, between Manly, and Wellington
Point, and is ideal for fruit and vegetable growing.
Five acres were a. gift from Railway Commissioner
Evans, who had the area cleared, fenced and
ploughed. Five acres were also purchased from
him by the fund; and another 10 acres are being
cleared by voluntary workers at week-ends. Two
returned men liave been Installed, and they are
working under the direction of a professional man
who looks in twice a week. There are 30,000 pine-
apples already growing, and also beet, beans, peas,
cabbages, tomatoes and other vegetables. In another
part of the farm are 50 citrus fruit trees, including
oranges, lemons and limes. Oats are also growing,
and round the residence are roses and nowering
shrubs. Poultry houses of malthoid have been
erected on the most up-to-date lines, and the farm
is well equipped with everything necessary to its
successful working.
“F.J.McM.” : The people who are plucky
enough to live in the out-of-the-way places
of the North are surely worth some con-
sideration for doing what most of us want
them to do and won’t do ourselves. Yet
one can travel up the Queensland coast and
along the Gulf and see the dry-rot in towns
that were once flourishing. People hang on
and desperately hope for a new prosperity,
knowing the richness and resourcefulness of
the great hinterlands at the back of their
dead towns. Now and then a vote-seeking
politician drops in to remind them of their
vast natural resources and what he intends
to do to develop them, and as suddenly
returns to his old Parliamentary job of
subsidising centralisation. The s.s. Mus-
grave, the ancient tub that makes a tri-
weekly trip to Cooktown, Normanton and
Burketown, is typical of the conditions in
the North. This old punt- carries 36 pas-
sengers when there’s not decent accommoda-
tion for half that number, the steerage pas-
sengers having to find an unpleasant corner
among the cattle, fodder and other inci-
dentals of the trip. There would be a riot
if a city suburb was asked to put up with
such things.
“Curtins,” from Cloricurry :
The letter from Gerard Williams (B. 27/7/'l6)
is a reminder of what the staff of Mt. Oxide has
done to redeem the unsavory name of that mine.
The first manager, Freeman, fell in the opening
stages of the fighting in Gallipoli ; M illiams, the
next, is in khaki ; Jim Henry, who was mine-manager
with William?, is a major in the Miners’ Corps;
Tandy, surveyor and manager after Williams, a
lieutenant; Leech, the accountant during those three
regimes, a quartermaster in the same corps. Since
Tandy went the mine has had no independent man-
agement, being now a short-handled dependency of
the Mt. Elliott Co., which is just as well; for the
atmosphere of the place is such that no manager of
fighting age could breathe it comfortably.
“Dyer”; Black brother knew our natural
dye stuffs long before the first importer
come. When I was a youngster the niggers
around Avliere I lived could paint themselves
blue and red from the juice of the fruit of
tiie prickly pear, and the color didn’t fade
either. They were “done” for white dye,
but they used a kaolin clay with good effect.
I came across an abo. on the Johnstone
River a few years back who had happened
on the vividest scarlet I ever saw. He told
me it came from a tree and he used it for
marking banana cases. The prettiest blue
I ha\ 7 e glimpsed, from pale sky to royal, is
got by the N.Q. abos. from some plant
found "all over the place pp there. It goes
on to wood, nigger skin and cotton rags,
and sticks to all three like scandal to a
politician. Now will someone investigate or
must we confess ourselves less progressive
than the blacks?
COMPLIMENTS.
PESSIMISTIC TRADESMAN: “So you're taken this shop, 'ave yer? Well, it’s an unlucky
shop, an’ I guarantee ye’ll fall inside six months.”
COHEN: “My dear friend —you flatter me.”
Senior-Sergeant Kenny, of Cairns, made
out an admirable case for compulsory ser-
vfice the other day : —•
I counted upwards of 20 lazy louts of the class to
which defendant belongs lounging under hotel veran-
dahs. To see these robust, healthy young- men, all
known to me as spielers, coming- to the races,to seek
what prey they may devour, enjoying freedom while
the pride of our manhood are shedding their blood
for us in France, is one of the most practical demon-
strations we can have of the necessity for conscrip-
tion, which would make these loafers of some use to
the country.
AVe are told, of course, that these fellows
Avould be no good in the trenches. Well,
they could attend to the latrines.
“Bumpkin”: The ratepayers of a dairy-
ing district near Brisbane finally moved
their shire councillors to unanimously
decide on impounding all straying horses
and cows. The pound-keeper was accord-
ing! v instructed, and went straight to tvork.
First day’s bag: Two animals—the shire
clerk’s horse and the chairman’s coav.
N.B. —There Avas no second day.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, August 12, 1916.
My Dear Thakgomindah, —
The G.-G. and his Avit'e are here, and we
are showing them our pet charities anc
patriotic turnouts. On Friday Lady Helen
went through the Red Cross rooms m
Adelaide-street. She Avas particularly inter-
ested in some bandages of which Aye Banana-
landers seem to have the monopoly. A look
in at the Red Cross Kitchen and the
Y.W.G.A. rooms and afternoon tea at
Bishopsbourne filled in the corners of the
day.
Our own Ex. found your climate too
severe and has been so busy sneezing that
he has not found time to come home; but
he mav be back on Monday. He is due to
unveil the Roll of Honor at the Grammar
School in the evening. There are already
591 names on it.
Home Sec. Huxliam, a keen barracker
for Young Australia, opened a fete in aid
of the AA r est End Creche and; Kindergarten
to-day, and to-night is presiding at a con-
cert in aid of the Queen Alexandra Home
for children.
The first day of the August meeting at
Eagle Farm brought an invasion of squatters
with their hands full of money, and squat-
teresses in the newest thing in gowns.
Local aristocracy is too worn out with good
works to do much frivolling these days. Or,
perhaps, it was the influence of the presence
of the G.-G., who has sworn off the gee-gees
until after the war.
Henry Hart, hon. organiser of the enter-
tainment committee of the Red Cross, goes
into camp on Monday. The soldiers in
hospital will miss him badly; so will the
society.
This evening the Commercial Travellers’
Association celebrated Association Day by
a concert in the club rooms. Lena
Hammond, Maggie Lloyd, George Kitson
and Billy Crisp were the singers, and W.
It. Wishart, Gladys Frost and Marjorie
Steward helped piano and ’cello to make
glad noises.
A new singer has arrived, and quite a
local product. She’s Ivy Norman, a con-
tralto with lower notes like the tones of
an organ. She made her appearance at a
recital in Beale’s salon last Wednesday.
Lina Hammond, who has been coaxing tlu
voice into blossom, attended to accompani-
ments.
Alleyne Conran, second daughter ot the
Harry Conrans, of Westgate-on-Sea, and a
granddaughter of Mrs. George Rail, ot this
citv. is engaged to Mountjoy Upton, son ot
tin* Viscount Templetown who wants Billy
Hughes to save England. In pre-war days
the two Conran girls were oil visiting terms
with Willie the Kaiser’s son and lus missus,
and Nancy, the elder, taught b illie. ski-ing.
Pa made money out of Australian mines and
share-dealing.
Mrs. John McCallum spread the alluring
cream cake at New Earni last \A ednesday
in honor of the Orange Dandies, who
opened their season here to-night.
The Exhibition Hall was crowded on
Tuesday for the Musical Union concert.
Andrew Black, Mrs. S. B. Harris, AY. AY.
Crisp and W. Templeton were the soloists,
and “Faust” the music.
Market Square looks like a village of
fantods. Various shapes, some like animals,
others like clumps of bush, have been
hurriedly erected. They are the stalls for
the sale of goods in Do Without Week. You
do without something you want in order to
save money to buy something you don’t
want.
On Friday there was another street raid,
this time in aid of the hospitals. Over
£lOOO was raised. Meantime Brisbane Hos-
pital is so desperately hard up that tin 1
Government is seriously considering the
question of taking over the complete main-
tenance of all the infirmaries.
Brisbane is the only capital city in the
Commonwealth where no effort is made to
regulate pedestrian traffic. At night crowds
wander aimlessly up and down, whichever
side of the footpath they please, mobs loiter
round picture shows and street corners, and
it requires infinite time and patience to
arrive at a given spot anywhere within the
city boundaries. You don’t know how often
we miss our engagements just through this.
And, dear, we can’t afford to take any
chances now.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Says Reynolds’S Newspaper (London):
It is the calm and firm resolve of the -Australian
people to push the war to a successful completion.
The successful prosecution of the war is a subject
of paramount importance to everybody there. To
this everything else is subordinated. There has been
a marked absence of Labor disputes !
This splendid joke was signed by T. J. Ryan.
Premier of Queensland.
“Orpheus”: I had occasion to hire an
'orchestra lately for a public meeting, and the
cost of the thing was £4 10s. I didn’t mind
that —it was the approved union rate —but
along came the State Insurance 'Commis-
sioner' and made me insure the lot for that
one evening at a cost of 10s, The infuriat-
ing effect of Brisbane instrumental music on
the average audience has at last obtained
State recognition.


JlMloOi
5
K
fey
<TTn v a
m
fl
X
. '
a
\V
\\
s
\
«
M
m
wwww
SNto
IS
f
WvWV
m\\\N
I i f I
Q
UHliillUfili M
3
Sc
Liiuv'iiamuiiuuiiiUiiAiiuk
amiimmmDmsa^
kHßmniuuinin(Hii*nmiMiumu
uilluuuxui JLJ nii-U'.ii.iii'JLumm'memumiu• m r mm>+*•—.
iuvuiiuiiui<jaii[uiiuiniiiiiiiiui(inui\uV»miui 1111 ///1 1 nnm i/luonn\m T
MkiU
ffiill
m»»Hii>imi'hKiiiJ
HO
pi
-J.l
LiWilUllliLk
luuuuu
m
is
i
u_
H
mm
HHB
am
%
ffl
77.
m
wm
m
1
X\\
7/
m
£ <M 'U-iZpcfar j^r
HE above drawing shows the great number of
o o
fermenting rounds used in the making of “Eight
Crystal.” Each of these enormous tuns is made
of Kauri, and —like the skimming tanks---is coated with
Shell ac to prevent contamination of the contents. Bv
running cold brine through a series of aluminium pipes
that are arranged in the tuns an absolutely even
temperature is maintained. It is such care as this
which makes Tooth’s products so incomparable.
Take a bottle home.
m


The Medicine your
Grandparents used
Pills come and pills have gone for half a
century, but Carter’s Little Liver Pills
have all the time been giving health, strength
and happiness to millions.
Large pills and harsh pur-
gatives act violently on
liver and bowels ; this a
oi'd, gentle, sure con-
stipation remedy
cures without hurt- 'jL
ing. Good for
old and}' oung.i
Purely
Vegetable.
The Bulletin
Carters
HTTLE
lIVER
PILLS.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Sm ill Price.
GENUINE must hear signature
The Bulletin
2
/,
The Secret
of Her
Beauty
and that of thousands of
the most admired women
all over the world
is that they always use
the famous British-made
Icilma Cream. Just a
little every day rubbed
on face, hands, neck and
arms makes the skin
delightfully soft and
smooth, protects it from
weather effects, and gives
it that natural bloom and
transparency which every
woman longs to possess.
It also gives relief from
insect bites and stings.
Icilma Cream is differ-
ent Rom any other cream,
because it (and it alone)
contains the wonderful
Icilma Natural Water.
This stimulates the skin
to natural beauty, and
makes the little oil cells
supply just the right
amount of natural oil to
keep it smooth and sup-
ple. Fragrant and non-
greasy. Use it daily and
look your best.
Cream
(Guaranteed not to grow hair).
Price 1/6 per pot.
Of Chemists, Druggists, Stores, etc.
Icilma is pronounced E)e-Silma.
J. C. Gambles t Co., Sole Australian
Agents, 11 Commerce House.
Melbourne
A.C.I.
£5O Reward
Volker Mantles are British made by
a British Company. There are no
German Directors, Shareholders,
or German connections whatever.
The Company offer £5O reward for
information enabling them to take
legal proceedings against any
person or persons circulating
statements to the contrary.
VOLKER
GAS
MANTLES
As British as a British Battleship
Voi.ker Lighting Corpora . ion, Ltd.,
Wandsworth, London, England.
A l 'frtsentativeJor Auslralia :
C. Falk, 26-30, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Question
Th
Evermore
Stroppe
r
&e
W
if
m
.
.
II
' 1
This patent Stropper has
solved the question of EASY
SHAVING. The BLADE moves
UP AND DOWN, and the
STROP moves LATERALLY
across the edge, giving the
keenest, smoothest, sharpest
edge possible.
Special adapters provided
with each Stropper for ALL
MAKES of SAFETY RAZOR
BLADES, single or double
edged.
Will last a lifetime, and will
quickly save its cost in Razor
Blade expense.
If unable to procure write:
Box 1003 G.P.O, Sydney; or
Box 14 G.P.0., Auckland, N.Z.
m
The only Stropper in
existence which AUTO-
MATICALLY SHARPENS
a Razor Blade in the
CORRECT “HEEL TO
TOE” MANNER.
ASK TOUR DEALER TO
DEMONSTRATE IT.
Rheumatism
SCIATICA, GOUT, LUMBAGO, etc.
In the majority of cases of Rheumatism,
Gout, Sciatica and similar complaints the
excruciating pain is caused by sharp-pointed
crystals of Uric Acid penetrating the delicate
and . highlv-sensitive nerves of the body, to
effect a cure this excess of Uric Acid must be
removed, and no treatment that does not aim
at this result will effect a cure.
Dr. Parker s Great Indian
Rheumatic Remedy
goes to tlie root of the trouble, and by remov-
ing- the cause quickly affords relief and
eventually effects a permanent cure, head
the following testimonial: —•
SKVERE CASE OP RHEUMATISM CURED.
Merino, Vic. — I suffered terrible pain
across the groin, around the loins and hips,
right down to the ankle. I could not sit up
or lie with any comfort. After taking a few
dosgs of your medicine I could get about. I
am most' thankful to you for the benefit 1
have received from your wonderful medicine.
Hoping that others will sro to you for relief
and kindness. —Your gratefully,
DONALD CAMPBELL.
FREE
Write to-day for FREE
SAMPLE and valuable
Book (postage 3d.) to
F. PARKER,
111 Daking House, Rawson Place, Sydney.
DAIMLER
«r
.At
V.«a*
sotor Carriages •
fEHICLES -
ACRiCDITDRAL TRACTORS
rut DAIML E r"cOMPA N Y w?
COVENTRY, ENGLAND.-
HAVE YOU A
BAD LEG
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Peihaps
vom knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored. Ihe disease
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless
nr advised to submit to amputation, but do
not Try the great British Remedy:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which will give certain relief.
And for Poisoned Hands, House-
maid’ s Knee, Carbuncles, Absces-
ses Snake and Insect Bites, &c.
Sold in England at 1/3 & 3 - per box.
m BERT & CO., Albert House, Farringdon Bt,
ALBERT *uu LOMDONj Eng
A"!
II
Georoe hotel,
St. Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
The Australia Hotel
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone 7260, Telegrams—
-4 lines. Australia,
P.O. Box 1610. Sytlnoj.
The Premier Hotel of Australasia.
Has accommodation for 300 Guests. Single
and double Bedrooms and Suites, with Bath-
room attached. Hot and Cold \\ atei, Aut
matie Telephones and Electric Heaters
throughout. Visitors have the preference of
the American or European 1 lan of iat
Two special Grill-rooms are attached, in
addition to Main Dimng-room,. seating 500
Guests. The Winter Garden is the hugest
in Australasia, and is the meeting-place o
the Elite of Sydney, who foregather foi
Afternoon Teas and Supper after the Iheatie.
A High-class Orchestra furnishes Music twice
a day.
Single Rooms from 16/6 per clay,
including Telephone.
Double Rooms from 32/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Room and Breakfast from 11/-
per day.
Suites of Apartments as per arrangement.
J. URE SMITH, Manager.
The Bulletin
<?
5
Nature intended the
moustache to grow,
and Nature’s way is
always the right
way. The possession
of a good moustache
will make you look
“the man.” CAPIL-
LARINE will assist
you to grow “the
real thing.” It has never failed
anyone. Price 10/6 Jar—Post Free.
Craig 8 Aitken, 6 Sidney®*'’
Established over 30 years.
The Bulletin
A. N. A.
£3 10 - to £lO.
Guaranteed 15 Years.
We do not employ can-
vassers to waste your time.
Come direct to us and save
money by securing a better
machine at a lower price.
A.N.A.Sewing Machine Co.
25 QUEEN VICTORIA MARKETS
(neat' Town Hall), SYDNEY.
Also at Errol Street, North Melbourne ; 7 Arcade,
Adelaide; Baird’s Arcade, Perth; 39 Ceorge Street,
Launceston; and 123 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
From the letter of Billy Khaki at the
Front: —-
We have been giving the Bodies a little of their
own back. They tried to gas us yesterday morning.
This morning we replied with a cloud that laid out
over .50.
This no doubt is what is called a gas retort.
“Bad Australian” : Who’s making all the
noise about cigarette-smoking and its per-
nicious effects? Almost every human being
in South America consumes the comforting
“fag” by the score, and in many years’
wandering over this country I have never
struck anything among white, Indian, Mes-
tizo or Zambo to confirm my juvenile super-
stition that cigarette indulgence was the
surest and quickest way to qualify for the
looney-house. Although almost everybody in
tliis country uses tobacco, yet. in most places,
a pipe is looked on as a curiosity, and pro-
bably S 5 per cent, or DO per cent, of the
leaf is consumed in the form of “cigarillos.”
In no country is the average consumption of
tobacco greater than in S. America, yet the
cigarette “rat” is no more in evidence than
public drunkenness-—a rare thing, though
practically every member of the community
gets away with at least a pint of wine per
day.
“Trooper Blnegum” : Don't believe all the
tales you hear about the heat of the
Egyptian desert. Not once lately has it
been up to 200° in the shade. It is only in
the sun that the thermometers burst. It is
not true either that the Gyppies feed their
fowls on crushed ice to prevent them laying
hard-boiled eggs. But they cook the eggs
by covering them with scorching sand. An
Anzac claimed to be able to light his
cigarette by getting outside his tent at
midday and sucking hard at the fag. That
lad is going for a war-correspondent's job
as soon as the Censor will let the truth have
a chance. And the scorching sand does not
set fire to your socks through the heavy
military boots if you keep moving. All the
same, the Immigration Restriction Act will
have to be amended to meet the case of the
Light Horse when they return.
“Archdeacon Gush” : The recently-pub-
lished biography of the late Robert Benson
gives a clue to the motives of those of my
brethren who believe with me that spiritual
boundary-riding in Australia can best be
done by Englishmen. Benson was the son
of an Archbishop of Canterbury, and his
sympathetic biographer records his “tem-
peramental detachment from the impressive,
courtlike existence of Lambeth, and even
of Addington, where the atmosphere was
heavy with ecclesiastical politics, and indeed
with a certain sense of sovereignty.” Where
is your impressive, courtlike existence in
Australia? Where is your “certain sense
of sovereignty”—except at the Trades Hall?
You’ll never be able, I tell you, to brew this
fruity old atmosphere. [What is the good
of it to the cure of souls at Boggabri?]
Pardon me, I am not here to argue the
matter.
When the Stawell train charged into a
goods train at Trawalla (Vie.) the other
day, the driver of the goods, Charles Davis,
escaped injury, although it was a head-on
collision, and he was in the cab. But when,
an hour later, he was helping to shunt the
disarranged rolling stock, his head was
caught between two buffers and he was
killed. Fate had smiled and fired his second
barrel.
“Nine Feet” : The world’s savage reverence
for tall fighting men will never die out. The
Sydney newspapers have been printing the
photograph of the “Tipperary Giant,” who
has enlisted and will shortly be sent to the
creeping, crawling war to run the risks of
two ordinary men, and the public has been
invited to stand off and admire. Then
Cullen, Lieut.-Gov.. of N. S. Wales, pinned'
the D.C.M. on the chest of a nuggetty little
hero of whom a morning paper remarked,
“he is so small it is a wonder how he ever
came to pass.” Anyone would think the
modern warrior had to leap into the air to
reach the enemy instead of going at him
like a. snake.
Recently the National Council of Women
in Melbourne protested against the State
training of schoolgirls in the domestic arts.
But that the attitude of the Victorian
parent isn’t hostile was plainly indicated
the other day, when the third school of the
kind was opened by the Education Depart-
ment. It is at Bendigo and provides facili-
ties for teaching 108 children how to peel a
rabbit and hash a potato. By 0 a.m. on
the opening day tin; full number of pupils
was enrolled, and throughout the rest of
the morning a horde of disappointed
mammas struggled vainly to get Jane and
Emma on the register. As a reflector of
national feeling the National Council of
Women is no better than 21b. of dough.
“8.D.”: It’s all rot to talk about the
possibility of doing without German goods,
after all'. This week I went into a big
Flinders-street (Melbourne) shop to get a
sixpenny tape-measure. They _ took several
minutes to find one, and then it had “Made
in Germany” stamped on it in large letters.
Of course,' we can’t make tape-measures.
But when our boys come back from the war
we are going to spend millions in “repatri-
ating” them. “Repatriating” is a large word
which means finding new jobs for our own
boys while we keep the old jobs for the
foreigner—the old jobs of making tape-
measures and the like.
So far, technical education in the Speck
has been mostly a rather poor joke. Half a
dozen local committees in different towns have
run a school apiece, but except at Zeehan
and Queenstown they haven’t done much
more than give people a chance to follow
harmless hobbies. But the new Minister for
Education, Lee, who as a waggon-builder is
a bit of a technical expert himself, prepares
to shake things up. The State is going, ll it
can find the cash, to set up a complete sys-
tern of technical and trade schools, catching
the young when they leave the piimaii
schools and teaching the boys to plumb and
carpenter and the girls to cook. As a start.
Lee is trying to get N.S.W. technologist.
Nangle to tell him how to go about all these
things.


Avail yourself of every
with the 3* Folding C
picture-opportunity,
Kodak
Always ready for use;
takes postcard pictures.
You may pass magnificent country, you may have perfect
weather, you may meet charming people, and have everything
that makes for happiness—yet unless you take an Autographic
Kodak your holiday or week-end tour will soon be forgotten and
lost forever.
And when you do take Kodak pictures you can send them to your
soldier friend to help him more lightly to bear the burden of
war service.
There are Autographic Kodaks for everybody, and they cost
from 30/- to £15/2/-. You can take good pictures after half
an hour’s practice, and the whole, simple process is explained to
every purchaser.
The 3A Folding Autographic Kodak is the most popular camera
in the world; simple enough for the beginner, has capabilities
that meet the requirements of the expert. Takes beautiful
pictures, postcard size— x 3^ : inches. Price £5/1*0/-
The No. 1 BROWNIE is splendid for yourgsters. Takes pictures
2] x 21 inches. Price. 5/-. Others up to 50/-
Obtain your copy of the latest Kodak catalogue.
Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
Incorporating BAKER & ROUSE PROP. LTD.
379 George Street, SYDNEY; "The Block,”284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
250-252 Queen Street,* Brisbane. 37 Bundle Street, Adelaide. 45 Eliza-
beth Street, Hobart. Ruthven Street, Toowoomba. Flinders Street, Towns-
ville. Denliam Street, Rockhampton. 346 Argent Street, Broken Hill.
Dixon Street, Wellington, N.Z. 3 Borne Street, Auckland, N.Z.; and 76
Stuart Street, Dunedin, N.Z.
W
.
|Hh|
V
V
■
wm
i 1 .
EV.i
£—:■ J.
fc :
5.
r ;i
HIGH-GRADE STATIONARY
UPRIGHT DRILLING MACHINE
This machine differs from the ordinary type of American Pattern Upright Drilling
Machines, inasmuch as it is extra-heavily constructed throughout, and suitable
for quick, heavy drilling.
STOCK SlZK.—Drill to the centre of a 21Mn. circle. Machine complete with Back
Gear, Power Feed and Automatic Stop; also Wheel and Lever Feed.
GEARING throughout is MACHINE-CUT FROM THE SOLlD.—Complete with fast,
and loose Pulleys, necessary spanners, etc.
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS.
c
Proprietary Limited
Established
1860.
Machinery, Iron and Tool Merchants,
554-66 & 582-88 Collins St., Melbourne, VICTORIA; & at 51-65 Bathurst St., Sydney, N. S. WALES
Ask for
at the
(Jse Horlick’s Malted Milk —•
the invigorating Food-Drink
in cases of Mental Exhaus-
tion, impaired digestion, in
fact all nerve troubles.
The Bulletin
I
* r 4HTS | HVB.'® 5 ;
MALTCP *" .
Horlick’s
Soda Fountain.
Samplo will be sent on
receipt of 2d. in stamps.
Write Hutchinson & Co.,
Ltd., 26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney; N.S.W.
MALTED
MILK
Pay Less but Get More!
There’s a GREAT Demand for
y^sters
GRAMOPHONE
Double-sided Records
The reason is they’re BRITISH —and better! Famous artistes are produc-
ing new triumphs on these records every month. The quality is better
than ever before. Yet with all this the prices are reduced considerably. No
other records on the market give you the
same standard of quality, variety and up-to-
dateness in vocal and instrumental music.
10-inch—were 4 6
NOW 3/6.
Remember to ask your dealer for
“GRAMOPHONE” Double-sided Records.
Get the latest lists from him or from us.
12-inch—were 6/6
NOW 5/6.
“ GRAMOPHONE ’>
Registered Trade Mark.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
163 PITT STREET
SYD lEY


<s•
#
yy a t a
and woßmNSHip^
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
*
mm
lilllil
‘SKANDIA” ENGINES FOR AUSTRALIA.
One 250«h.p. 4*cylinder for N.S.'W. Government.
Three SO-h.p. 2-cylinder for New Zealand.
Two 50-h,p. 2-cylinder for Rabaul-
NELSON S ROBERTSON,
Loftus Street
SYDNEY.
5V*
Made In
8,10,12,
| Loaded in London with the
'popular English poivders
“NEW CLUB”
Shotgun Cartridges
are low in price, high in the results
they give, and in the estimation of
shooters. These cartridges are
j loaded with the popular black pow-
I ders, are thoroughly waterproofed
| and unexcelled for general use.
Obtainable from leading dealers every-
where —catalogue 'post-free on request .
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Company
Woolworth Building, New York City
St. Stephens House, Westminster, S. W-, London
©
DO
Australian Manager, D. D. BRYANT, Box 686, Melbourne.
DEVIL’S PUZZLE MATCHBOX.
The Matchbox, which is different from all
other puzzle-boxes. You’ll never open it until
vou read the directions. Made of Nickel-plate,
beautifully finished. Without doubt the most
ingenious Puzzle Matchbox that has ever been
made. Price, Post Free, with Instruc-
tions, 2/-
Jokes, Puzzles, Tricks,
Novelties.
Write for our New Novelty
Catalog—lT’S FREE.
The Bulletin
SHOCKING
CIGARETTE
CASE.
A splendid have.
No sooner do you
open the case than
you drop it as
quickly.
Fost Free, 9d.
H
. L. Hutchinson Ltd.,
708-710 George Street, Haymarket, Sydney.
Interesting Display of Patriotic Jewellery
at STEWART DAWSON’S
A SERIES OF ATTRACTIVE BROOCH DESIGNS
in STERLING SILVER and RARE ENAMEL.
C 6467. —Sterling Silver
and Enamel Brooch.
British, French Flags
intertwined. Price, 2/-
P 6493. —Sterling Silver
and Enamel Brooch,
Union Jack. Price, 2/6.
WE SPECIALISE IN CAMP AND SERVICE
REQUISITES for Soldiers, and will send Post
Free to any address a Handy Illustrated List of
these Goods. It is a most useful Guide to the
purchase of Soldiers’ Gifts.
C 6470. —-Flags of the
Allies Brooch, in Sterling
Silver and Enamel.
Price, 3/-
4trm,'s
C 6505. —Sterling Silver
and Enamel Brooch,
“Advance Australia” de-
sign. Price, 3/6.
STEWART DAWSON S,
'Uhe
Treasure
House,
Strand Corner, George Street, Sydney
>iT
(i
i
n
.s.w.
Location : Conveniently situated in
Castlereagh Street—a few doors from
King Street—and nearly opposite
Theatre Royal, with separate entrance
in Elizabeth Street J
I !
J
SfEil
m
—rs s
up
"f
w
T-11
7T\
(A
The Most Modern and
Palatial Hotel in Australia!
THE Hotel Carlton, completed at a cost exceeding £lOO,OOO,
and furnished sumptuously throughout by David -Tones, Ltd.,
has, since its opening on March 30, 1916, been thronged
with crowds of delighted visitors • ~ •
While its exquisite appointments—its perfect cuisine and courteous
service more than commend themselves to travellers used *to every
comfort —the Hotel Carlton can hardly be described as being
merely the leading hotel.
It is more than that, •
It is from every point of view the most desirable place in Sydney
to stay.
Every detail in the perfect attention to visitors’ wishes has been
thoroughly studied, and reflects the careful thoughtfulness of the
management, who have had a wide experience in catering for the
best class of patronage
One of the attractive features of the Hotel Carlton is that every
bedroom is naturally ventilated, unusually spacious, has hot and
cold water installed, and is artistically furnished.
It is absolutely fireproof, having marble staircases and concrete
floors throughout.
The general appointments include amongst others: Magnificent
Dining Hall (with separate accommodation for children), elegant
and comfortable lounges, reception, smoking, writing and reading
rooms, also private rooms for weddings, dinner-parties, afternoon-
teas, etc.
ALL LETTERS, WIRES, etc., PROMPTLY ANSWERED.
TERMS—I4/= PER DAY EACH PERSON.
CHAS. W. CUPIT,
Manager .
si-
im
SYDNEY
N.S.W.


Very Much, i Tormenting
Mass. Used Cuticura Soap and
Ointment. Trouble Removed.
Lynch Rd., Fawlrner, Vic.—“l had a
severe boil or gathering on the back of my
neck As it got better the parts itched very
much and I foolishly tore at it with my
nger nails. The result was my neck and
cheek were soon covered with a tormenting
mass of little dry sores. They caused me
much annoyance both by their itching and
by their unsightly appearance. I used Cuti-
cura Ointment and Soap together as di-
rected for about six weeks and am glad to
say they removed the trouble.
“As a youth my husband suffered very
much with a breaking out on his hands
which was also cured by Cuticura. I con-
sider them invaluable for the hair and skin.”
(Signed) Mrs. A. R. Laughlin, Feb. 24, 1914.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card. R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N, g, w.
Sold throughout the world.
Teach Cadets
to shoot
The Ross Cadet ” Rifle is a
.22 calibre rifle, made expressly
for Cadet Organizations to the
The Bulletin
ROSS ‘‘CADET," .22 CALIBRE
specifications of the
Canadian Government.
I t is strong and
serviceable, shoots .22
calibre short, long, or
long rifle cartridges—
(the most inexpensive
made), and has self*
ejecting, straight-pull
action.
It is an excellent and
safe arm to use to drill
youths and teach them
how to shoot, and is
powerful enough to use
for any except larger
game.
The price is £2-10,
in Canada; discounts
are quoted on orders
for quantities.
71S
Full particulars on application.
Ross Rifle Co., Quebec, Canada
Information and Prices can be obtained from—
Mr. HUGH SCOTT-YOUNG,
P.O. Box 1031, Melbourne, Australia.
“Everything
but the meat.'
try the bisto way
of preparing tastier
and more nourishing
dishes. Bisto means
economy at every
meal.
grsTo
The
Gravy
Maker.
All Grocers. In Tins.
Made by Cerf.bos, Ltd.
m
The
Hot
Sun
&
Dust
Will not hurt your skin or complexion
li you use freely several times a day
Rowland’s
Kalydor
rn!! Ch A C p°v? , and r,freshes the FACE, HANDS
FK Ffiu r c S ’ T p . EvE N T S and removes
aifd E ROnr S MJr SUNBURN, REDNESS
ad IrW?^ GH S? SS ’ &c " Soothes and heals
a h/ a , ff n n ’ lngs of Insects ' &c. Produces
and Cle ” and Healthy Complexion,
o/o KIN j ls ol f OFT as VELVET. Bottles
2/3 ’ R £^ nd * /6 ’rT ° f Stores . Chemists, and
.Rowlands, 67, Hatton Garden, London.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
T , , Established 1849. *
paying office^n^heNvorkf 1 success /l in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-
paj r omce in the woiJd. HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Dl rectorsHon. A. W Meeks M.L.C Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman; Hon. 11. J.
siLud Hordern, Esq. rnS ' 1 F ’ E ‘ Winchcombe - M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C.;
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. 11. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Accumulated Funds, £35,000,000. Annual Income, £4,770,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, uns .. £848,528. Total Bonuses distributed ~ £20,670,000.
and fTilf @ °‘ “ “I”** Write „r.,pee.»
P
I
y
La. j
aurpi
r r r "TiTnTT
■fill
V'
The Story of the Lamp
62
-mnh
With Rome in its Glory, 64 A.D.
The luxury which Rome lavished on itself
at the time of Nero was reflected in the
lamps of that period. Magnificent stands
holding six or eight lamps adorned the
homes of the wealthy. Olive Oil was com-
monly used in these lamps. The better
classes, however, generally mixed perfume
with their oil to counteract the strong smell.
Laurel Kerosene
7he soft white light
When Laurel is used there is no smell.
Laurel gives a brilliant, clear, white light,
without flickering. The last thimbleful
burns as well as the first. For lighting,
heating and cooking, Laurel cannot be
excelled. Laurel is our new trade mark
name for the highest quality American
Kerosene ever sold in Australasia and re-
places our old brand, White Rose.
Insist on Laurel
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand
WO HD
3)0
/U.w.ly s
t Hin&§
Ta«
THfe/n
\
mS
Afternoon tea means afternoon chat,
The subjects are varied—they’ll see to
that.
The last new book—the latest plays—
break dances and the ragtime craze.
The subject of'Jellolds % of course, Is
raised,
And though we say it—they’re always
praised.
After taking Iron ‘Jelloids* the blood becomes enriched and
strengthened, the appetite is restored, vitality is renewed, Anaemia
quickly disappears, giving place to vigorous and buoyant spirits.
The Bulletin
Miss H. Foley, Brixton, writes. —“Iron 'Jdloids’ are indeed a splendid
“tonic and very pleasant to take. I shall always recommend them to
“anyone who is run-down.”
A fortnight's trial ( price 1/6 ) will convince you.
For Women, No. 2. Special Tonic for Men, No. 2A. (containing Quinine).
For Children, _ No. 1. Sold in England at 1/1 and 2/9 per box.
Obtainable at all Chemists throughout Australia.
Wholesale: Druggists' Sundries Ltd., cr. Clarence & Market Sts., Sydney.
The Authors’ Alliance
Is prepared to consider and place MSS.
Literary work of all kinds dealt with by
experts who place Authors’ interests first.
Twenty years’ experience. Write for prospectus.
100 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE,
" ! fit London anti New York.
HEALS ANY WOUND OR SORE -
If you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won’t
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind,
no matter of how long standing, you can cure it
quicklv and surelv with
WILKINSONS
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price 1/6, posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist
1] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
Business, Robbery, etc.
The Emden made the Launceston (Tas.)
Marine Board a present of over £30,000
when it sank the dredge Poonrabbel some-
where in the Indian Ocean. The Board put
the insurance money into a new dredge for
which the contract price on the Clyde was
£32,717, equal to £40,907 delivered at
Launceston. Now the Russian Government
has offered £70,000 for the turnout. The
Board has decided to help a gallant Ally by
taking £70,000 net with delivery on the
Clyde. As for itself, it thinks now it can
worry along without a new muck-shifter for
a while.
“R.S.A.”: For those who happen to
possess a horse, a dray, a kelly, a box of
matches and a timber-getter’s license, a
whisper. The job is known in the profes-
sion as “coal-burning,” and those who follow
it with any degree of energy can easily keep
the wolf out of range. A rough knowledge
of different timbers is required. Get into
your nut that the best are bloodwood, white
gum, stringybark, box and turpentine (with
apologies to Mr. Maiden), their burning
propensities being in the order named ; but
avoid, shun and disregard apple and »blue-
gum. A pit is dug in proximity to your
timber, and is generally about 9ft. x 3ft x
The heaviest and greenest logs go
down' first and should project to allow of
being poked in as they burn away. Finally,
the lightest and driest are dumped on, and a
thin layer of earth is heaped over the top.
With occasional rakings the arrangement is
left till next day, when the charcoal will be
found ready for bagging. Ordinarily, one
man can get through 40 to 50 bags a day
and each bag is worth, on an average, Is.
3d.; but of course the cost of transportation
and jute reduces the profit a bit. The
demand is created by the use of charcoal in
cold storage.
* * * *
“Iris”: Now that German coal-tar by-
products have become scarce, Australia is
doing something to make good the deficiency.
In one direction at least German ingenuity
has been bettered. An Australian, having
invented a paint with a coal-tar base, has
put it on the market and persuaded a num-
ber of public bodies to use it. It comes in
all colors, though not in white (cream is
the nearest), and is allegedly the only thing
suitable for painting ships below the water-
line —it is already used for that purpose by
several firms. Also it does away with the
need for white lead, which is a consideration
now that the price of that item has gone up
nearly 100%. The only thing needed to
secure this apparently excellent article for
good is an absolute prohibition against the
importation of paints of a similar nature.
Then, if Germany or the U.S.A. should steal
the secret after the war, there will be no
interference with the sale of the article, in
Australia at least.
Victoria is pursuing with great energy
the conservation and development of the
great natural resources. Down in the
Beech Forest, not 100 miles from Melbourne,
magnificent cabinet-making timber is being
split into fencing-posts, or, in many cases,
burnt. Settlers are breaking their hearts
and their backs trying to get rid of timber
which would, if it could be got to market,
be worth far more than the land will be
when they get it cleared. Meanwhile the
State Ministry is spending money in plant-
ing trees which may in half a century or
so be nearly a quarter as valuable as the
trees now going up in smoke.
Ginseng-growing appears to be a get-rich-
quick industry that Australians might try.
According to a booklet written by H. V.
Edwards (Gordon and Gotch, publishers)
one acre of five-year-old roots of the vege-
table when' dried is worth £5OOO, and he
makes the statement after experience at
Bega (N.S.W.) to support the assurance
of an American grower of 15 years’ stand-
ing. The Australian declares that a gin-
seng garden of one-eighth of an acre may
be started for £25, and should return £BOO
net profit in five years. Little hired labor
is necessary, and two girls in Ohio
(U.S.A.), cultivating less than an acre, are
reported to be making £lOOO to £2OOO a
year. That is the life ! Ginseng, as most
people do not know, is John Chinaman’s
medicinal plant No. 1. He uses it in nearly
all his prescriptions, and as there are
400,000.000 of him ready to pay up to £3
per pound retail, the time seems ripe, or
words to that effect —particularly for sol-
diers whose health has been impaired.
“Scales”: It has been quite interesting to
listen to the jam-trade drummers of Vic-
toria. The Pure Foods regulations have
been roused to say that a lib. tin of
jam shall contain IGoz. of boiled vegetable;
and one after the other the manufacturers
have been raising their voice in a song of
thanksgiving that at last the unfair compe-
tition from which they have so long suffered
has been stopped.
THE TOWN IS FULL OF FOOLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The town is full of solemn fools,
Of sneaking fools and sly,
Who plan and work with various tools
“To put a little by” ;
The dullest fool will sometimes win
When wiser fools fall down,
So, full of hope, each fool goes.in
To fool about in town.
The town is full of various fools
Disguised as honest men;
They mess about with “rings” and “pools”
And toil with wits and pen;
They spread no sail, they guide no plough,
But plot, and dodge and shirk,
And yet the world to these must bow
Who neither fight nor work!
The poorest sailor on the seas,
The meanest harvest-hand,
Is worth a creeping street of these.
And you must understand
That I’m no farmer, brave and stout,
Or sailor ’neath Gocl’s sky;
The sort of fools 1 see about,
That sort of fool am I.
N.S.W.
SEVENTH FLOOR.


SPORTING RIFLES
Irrespective of the price you want to pay, you’ll
find here a greater assortment than elsewhere.
The Bulletin
“A marvel at the price.”
Bl. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre, 18m.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sig
Weight, about 2Jlb.
■hts.
11/6
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3 ; other States, 2/2.)
The Bulletin
“Splendid for all small c/ame. ,>
B31. Marlin Repeating Rifle, 1897 Model,
24in. octagon barrel, 22 calibre rim fire, magazine
takes 25 short, 20 long, or 18 long rifle cartridges, case-hardened
receivers, fitted with sliding rear sights; Aveight, 5Jlb.
take-down. Carriage paid
90/
WE REPAIR ALL KINDS of QUNS and RIFLES
The Bulletin
“Suitable for small game and target shooting.'”
B5. Stevens’ Visible Loading Repeating
Rifle, 22 calibre; magazine holds 15 short, 13
lone- or 11 lonsr rifle cartridges, mixed or separate; 20in. round
barrel; length over all, 35in.; weight, 4Jlb: slide action,
blade front and screw rear sights >>
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
38/6
The Bulletin
35/-
“A good rifle at a moderate price
B23. Savage Single-shot Rifle, 1905 Model,
22 calibre, 22in. barrel; weight, 4flb.
length over all, 39in.; open front and rear sights
30/-
Same Rifle, but with Micrometer rear sight
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
GOLDEN KEY CIGARS DE LUXE,
Box of
5 Cigars,
oia pOST
6/0 FREE
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy:’
813. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model, 16-shot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action bandies 22
short, long, or long rifle cartridges; weight, about ojlb. ..
-
551-
The Bulletin
“Simple and extra strong in construction
810. Winchester Single-shot Rifle, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight,; length of iifle
over all, 37Jin.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b
(Postage—-N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
27/6
‘ Sure Catch” Anglers’ Guide & Price List Post Free.
The Bulletin
“A suitable weapon for the boy.”
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F..
round barrel. 20in., chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight, 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3'2.)
18/6
New Edition Sports and Firearms List —Post Free.
KuHagnmgaw
if»
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KING STREET; also at NEWCASTLE & BRISBANE.
%
'A
m.
m
w% -
%
£%
Ws.
Wm
Wk
m
Raise lever, immerse nib,
lower lever and the
pen is filled. j
>
\\
'"PHIS is the simplest, safest,
quickest and best self-filling A
device in fountain pens. And A
it is to be had only in Water
man’s Ideal, the World’s
Best Fountain Pen.
Get this pen and no
other if you want
a self-filler.
Other types
“ Regular ”
and
“ Safety.”
The Bulletin
The
Xever Pocket
Self-Filling
—the pen you will
eventually buy .
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. Sloan, CbclJen(Tomer,
Australia : Harold I). Dixon, 105, Clarence Street, ayuney.
LONDON.
ENGLAND.
A
vif&fßTElk
0
71514*101619
mm
£,310-
' C
A Special Stewart Speedometer
for Ford and other
Standard Small-type Cars.
A car without a good speedometer is like a business
man without a reliable watch.
Nothing can be kept track of.
Every Ford and other standard small-type car needs
the best speedometer on the market—the Stewart.
With it you can keep track of your tyre mileage ; your
petrol and oil consumption, and keep tab on the
efficiency, economy and performance of the whole
car.
This Stewart Speedometer is specially built for these
cars. It is also specially priced.
It is built on the famous magnetic principle—the same
as the speedometers th.t are used on the highest-
priced motor-cars.
There are nearly 2,000,000 Stewart Speedometers in
use at the present time.
It is the best and the most practical instrument from
any standpoint.
You can get a lot more pleasure out of your car when
it is equipped with a Stewart Speedometer.
Take no other. Insist on a Stewart. Don’t accept a
substitute.
Purchase one without delay.
It is a wise plan in buying your next car to see that it
is equipped with a Stewart Type Pump, Stewart Vacuum
Tank, S ewart Warning Signal and Stewart Speedometer.
For Sale by Leading Accessory Dealers, Motor=car Dealers
and Garages—Everywhere.
Bennett 3D. Wood Ltd.,
Pitt Street Exclusive Distributors Sydney, N.S.Wh
“No car is better than its accessories
t
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


Peg' o* My Heart Praises
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
mm
■
■ mam
MISS SAIiA aLLGOOD (from a photo, by the Swiss Studios').
Miss Sara Allgood, as “Peg
o’ My Heart,” has endeared
herself in a unique way to
play lovers. She is so fresh,
so human, so kind and clever
and alive, that jaded theatre-
goers find it good merely to
enjoy her laugh. Messrs. J.
and X. Tait have brought
many world-famous stars to
Australia, but this witty Irish
girl in Peg o’ My Heart
bids fair to outshine them all
in popularity.
Miss Sara Allgood says a
good word for another public
favorite:—•
Dear Sirs, —
I have never before
hart oeeasion to re-
commend a Pro-
prietary Medicine—
in fact, I always
had an idea that
they were not all
that they should be;
but I suppose there
is an exception to
every rule, and cer-
tainly Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery is an
exception.
I have used it
with excellent re-
sults, and it com-
pletely broke uji my
cold. I have great
faith in it now, and
already recom-
mended it to my
friends. You have a
remedy in a thou-
sand, and I am sure
that everyone who
tries it will think
likewise.
Very truly yours,
(Sgd.)
SARA ALLGOOD.
The Bulletin
Men, Women and Children all over the country use and know the worth of Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery. Are you one of them ? If not, don’t delay, but buy a bottle at once, and be
ready to pounce on to the first cold that makes its appearance. Don’t forget, Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery is the ever-ready friend that should be in every household to protect you from
all winter ilis. Price, 1/6 and 3/-
D»Sheldon's|
New Discovery
' , . ; ,•. : j , , ■ ' ,'yh-. ' ' y.. ;.■* t... .. -L ■ . _. - , -
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
Baby is a Connoisseur
in his own little way
He likes —and must have—the best. You
cannot be too cautious in selecting his
food. Use a proved food —a food which
has been in the front rank for years.
Mellins Food
Mellin’s Food is the proved
most efficacious equivalent to
Mother’s Milk, and satisfac-
torily fulfils all the require-
ments of an artificial food.
Set out to feed
baby right. Next
to breast-feed-
ing, the Mellin’s
Feeding Bottle
has most advan-
tages. A trial
convinces you.
A Sample of Mellin's Food, with useful Handbook for Mothers, “The
Cave of Infants in Australia,” will be sent post Free. Write to-day to
MESSRS. GOLLIN & CO. PROPRIETARY, LTD., SYDNEY.
The Sydney 8 Suburban Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
Mutual Life Building 14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
For all classes of Lift Maintenance, Repairs, Renewals of Fitting: Ropes and other parts
—for Hydraulic Material, Pipes, Valves, Tubing: and Hig:h Pressure Stocks generally.
Best Workmanship and Material. Quotations supplied.
mm
AM
u
TiTirm
6°
B
0
X
E
S
[Ask your Stationer for aSampleof]
01
H3VIVU
William Mitchells!
6 5N
THE
KING
The Bulletin
WILLIAM.
MITCHELL’S
151 CLASS SHOULDER
N?.9. First Class Shoulder Pen
the Original quality By the Original MakerJ
6°
B
0
X
E
S
PENS TO SUIT ALL WRITERS
ASK YOUR STATIONER FOR A SAMPLE BOX OF 24 ASSORTED PATTERNS.
The Sea Witch
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SHE dwells forever in her dim sea-caves,
Her gleaming self half-shadowed in
’ their gloom ;
And, round her strewn, a kingdom’s treasures
glow
Through the green, baleful twilight, and the
low
Croon of the waves comes to her—the long
waves
That hear the gallant ships to her and doom.
Heavy about her falls her loosened hair,
Yellow as is the blood-bought Spanish gold
Cast at her feet. The jewels of a queen
Burn in a-myriad colors through the green -
The wavering, gleaming green that shines
her fair,
Rich beauty; yet her eyes are clear and cold.
Remote she broods above the many dead-
Grotesque lie they, each with 'ins quest
unsought—
Unheeding them; yet if, a moment’s space,
Her glance dwells on them over her calm
face.
There flies a quick, still smile that leaves
her red
Soft lips more cruel for the passing thought.
The first Sea Goers heard her siren call,
And, hearing only, longed to kiss her lips;
Onward and onward still her blue eyes drew
Them till oblivion in her kiss they knew.
Eternally she waits her lovers all
Till the last day of men and seas and ships.
N.s.w.
A. SMITH.
The War That Went On.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
fl HE war went on, and went on going
on. In fact, its confirmed habit of
going on going on was the only sta-
tionary thing about the war. Wars are
easily enough started: the slightest push
will do it. But as the thing gathers speed
its inertia becomes so enormous that a seis-
mic disturbance or three revolutions are
about the only things that will stop it.
But the war didn’t remain the same war.
Comparative strangers and even relations-
in-law that met it in its later stages hardly
recognised it for the same war that they had
known in their young days. It was a nice,
clean little baby of a war at first; but as it
grew up and came into contact with life it
went on becoming more dirty and disrepu-
table and violent and uncontrollable with
each succeeding year. Even its German
father grew rather ashamed of his child,
and went about loudly disowning his off-
spring to anybody who would listen to him.
But everybody was too busy making explo-
sives and explosive noises to hear him.
In the tiny islet of Atlantis, somewhere
in the Pacific, the little community of white
settlers became gradually accustomed to the
permanency of the war. In course of time
they recognised that war was the usual
order of things, and peace a mere discredited
legend. The children that had been born
after the war started grew into manhood
with a contemptuous disdain of the curious
tradition of their elders that there had once
been a thing called peace. But this changed
world hardly affected that lonely islet of
Atlantis, somewhere in the Pacific. At first,
when the war was exciting, ships used to
come and tell the interested inhabitants all
the war-news; then the visits of the ships
grew infrequent, and at last no more ships
came. The reason, as the inhabitants of
Atlantis rightly guessed, was that it was no
longer safe for ships to use the surface of
the ocean. There were too many super-
submarines about. However, being self-
supporting upon their semi-tropical islet, the
Atlantans minded their own business;
though John Psmith (the first),*.one of the
brightest young fellows in those days, often
wondered what exactly was happening
beyond those 1000 leagues of ocean that
separated Atlantis from the world —the
world of war.
John Psmith would have been surprised if
he had known; though if he had merely
argued it out he would have succeeded in
hazarding _ a few logical conclusions. But
John Psmith was not that sort of bloke.
As the war went on, the submarine and
the Zeppelin went on. The submarine’ grew
larger and larger, and the Zeppelin put on
flesh rapidly, and the aeroplane suffered
more and more from embonpoint. And
naturally the submarine went deeper and
deeper, since there were soon so many sub-
marines about that the traffic within 50
fathoms of the surface became too congested
for safety, and joy-riders in that vicinity
were criminally careless, and the submarine
police never could see their numbers. And
the they submerged the better they
liked it. So the Zeppelin and the aeroplane
went higher and higher; the clouds made
them skid.
But it was not their concern for their
own comfort that ultimately drove the sub-
marine into the ocean depths and the air-
machines into strangely rarefied atmospheres,
the compelling reason was that the surface
°L the globe, land or water, wasn’t safe for
either. The submarine became so deadly
.hat it could sink a super-dreadnought with
celerity and ease. And it did —all the super-
ui cad noughts that it could find. Long before
this the hostile submarines had sunk each
other s and all neutrals’ mercantile marine,
borne of the surviving merchant-lines shel-
tered in harbors for a few years; but the
super-sausages found them out and plunked
I??®. I ', ° m bs on to them. Whenever the
nntisli or German battlefieets ventured out
the super-suomarines sank them all. The
submarines didn’t need to come to the sur-
face to settle the battleships; they had no
!^r'Au betra ™ P ei ’ isc °Pe- They speeded
aon fathoms deep, and fired their gigantic
! rom ~t heir gigantic howitzer
rmm t i audltf ! r y range-finders enabled
them t<> locate the battleships by the
sound of their screws. The last Ger-
man super-dreadnought for a long time
cunningly puzzled the lurking British
submarines by stopping her tell-tale screws
and drifting: but incautiously one day the
German mess-room toasted the centenary of
“The Day” with ringing “Hochs” ; and the
British officer in charge of the range-finder
promptly finished that day for them.
Before this the navies of the world had
begun to take to the depths. It was a bril-
liant effort on the part of the British naval
experts when they sank their newest super-
dreadnought under water. The transforma-
tion of the latest naval monster into a sub-
marine was so successful that she
never came up. After that no more surface
battleships were built; and the gigantic sub-
marines that swarmed the under-seas had
nothing to do but to fight each other. They
had effectually swept the waves of every-
thing that tried to ride them. So the oceans
of the globe returned to their prehistoric
state, except that they were undisturbed by
storms. The amount of oil that floated upon
their surface kept them in a permanent
calm. Peace had come to the waters, though
beneath them pulsed the busy traffic of the
submarines.
But the inhabitants of Atlantis could not
see beneath the gentle, oily swell. And
though John Psmith (the second) fitted out
a schooner to explore the outside world he
never came back. Some lurking submarine
got him, from force of habit.
As it wasn’t safe , on the surface of the
sea, so it wasn’t safe on the surface of the
land. The super-Zepps and the super-
planes, looking in the air like cathedrals and
the prize-winning design for the Federal
capital, soon settled that. At the Front the
habit of trench-life proceeded to its logical
conclusion. The further down you dug your
trenches the safer you were. The war had
settled down. For all wars are restless in
their youth, and begin with vague, splendid
ideas of glory, and waste a lot of their
strength charging the foe and making
strategic advances and strategic retreats;
but this irresponsibility of youth changes to
the placidity of okl age. And so the com-
batants found it safer and easier to engage
each other through tunnels, and made their
brilliant charges with navvies’ picks and
mine-boring drills. On top there was nothing
but annihilation, since the development of
guns and shells and aerial torpedoes and
bombs made it unhealthy for anybody who
hadn’t 50 feet of solid earth as an umbrella.
These soldiers excavated enormous cities in
the innards of the earth ; again in the his-
tory of mankind they became troglodytes.
And as generation after generation of
soldiers came to inhabit these underground
metropoles, they took to the underground life
as the natural order of things. Their enor-
mous eyes, so useful in their semi-darkness,
could not contract sufficiently to shut out
the cruel brilliance of the sun. Only on
dark, moonless nights did a few of the more
adventurous spirits creep up to gaze in
vacant wonder at the incomprehensible stars.
But it was cold up on the bare, swept sur-
face of the globe, cold and dreadful and
awe-inspiring; and at the threatening of
moonrise or dawn they gladly scurried back
to the damp warmth and comforting dark-
ness of their native cities in the basement of
the earth.
What went on at the Front went on all
over the earth. The appallingly destructive
power of the super-Zepps and the super-
planes threatened every city. When British
planes obliterated Berlin and German Zepps
utterly destroyed the Albert memorial in
London it was recognised that something
must be done. At first the engineers set to
work to roof the cities over with an in-
destructible dome of ferro-concrete; but this
was soon recognised as merely a makeshift.
The dome was too conspicuous a mark for
the enemy air-machines, and the hollow,
reverberating sound of gigantic bombs thud-
ding on the dome seriously interfered with
the debates in the British House of Com-
mons on the Home Rule Bill. The members
could not hear themselves speak.
The only thing to be done was to put the
whole city underground. So St. Paul’s
Cathedral was carefully lowered into an
immense excavation below the surface, and
roofed over with the excavated spoil, both
bomb- and sound-proof. There were, of
course, some unfortunate accidents. In Syd-
ney the whole of George-street was safely
lowered, but remained at an angle of 49
degrees to the perpendicular, which made
business in the buildings on each side of that
street rather perilous. The poets bringing
their contributions to The Bulletin office
had to haul themselves up from the lower
side of the street by ropes; but when
ejected they slid gracefully into the lopsided
bar of the hotel almost opposite. The staff
had to be roped to their desks, and the edi-
torials became skew-wiff. But, on the whole,
the work of lowering all the cities, towns and
villages a hundred feet into the earth was
safely and creditably performed. These
underground cities were, of course, rather
dark; but 'Pie Londoners felt the depriva-
tion. of light very little. The lowering of
the Thames proved impossible; the only pre-
caution taken was to roof it over and plant
innocuous cabbages on the roof. There was
a tremendous development of tube-railways
all over the earth.
The subsided cities required an under-
ground agriculture. The air-machines, find-
ing no cities to bomb, began, rather meanly,
to destroy the agricultural crops methodi-
cally. Whole asparagus beds disappeared in-
stantly ; and for some time the inhabitants
of the capitals of the world had to subsist
on mushrooms. But the spirit of the race
tackled the new problem with courage. Pad-
dock after paddock was excavated, lowered
underground and roofed; and within a few
years all crops were grown 50 fathoms
deep.
As for the super-Zepps and the super-
planes. they became so efficient that they
could stay in the.air apparently for ever.
And their crews got so accustomed to living
at tremendous heights that they felt no in-
clination to come down. It wasn’t safe to
hover near the earth, for the cities of the
trenches and the seats of government had
anti-aircraft guns of an incredible accuracy
and range.
The cave-dwellers had developed an un-
charitable, almost suburban, attitude toward
the air-dwellers. They thought that the air-
(Continued on next page.)


KIDNEY DISEASE
TAKES
YOU
UNAWARES.
SO QUIET is kidney disease in its approach that it is often mistaken
for some other complaint. The woman who is tired all the day, sleepless
the night through; who is anaemic, irritable, nervous; who suffers from
dizzy spells, rheumatism, headache; whose eyelids are puffy and swollen —she
puts down her trouble to some female complaint instead of to the real cause —
the kidneys. The man whose back is weak, whose limbs drag, who has dis-
tressing urinary troubles, dropsy, gravel —he never suspects his kidneys,
which are the real cause of his illness. This is why kidney disease is so serious
and so generally fatal.
If you don’t feel as well as you ought, do not negledt your kidnej'S
another day, but begin at once with Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, because
they are special kidney help; because the genuine Doan’s Pills are made from
pure vegetable roots and herbs, and are therefore realiable and safe for old
and young; because men and women who have been cured tell so earnestly
and sincerely how Doan’s Pills have cured them.
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
“You don’t know you have it until it has you."
LASTING CURE OF 4 YEARS.
Mr. J. H. Pelgrave, 172 Oxford Street, Padding-
ton, Sydney, writes “I think it is my duty to say,
for the benefit of other sufferers from weak kidneys
and urinary trouble, that I have found nothing so
effectual for these ailments as Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, and I hope the publishing of this testi-
monial will he the means of benefiting many.
Nearly all my life I have taken all sorts of medi-
cines, in the hope of finding a cure, but none of
them did me any good. I have also been under
medical men, but their treatment failed to benefit
me in any way. I was advised to take a course
of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and I am
delighted to tell you these Pills cured me, and I
feel in better health now than I have done for years.
I cannot praise this remedy sufficiently for the
good it has done me.”
Four years later. Mrs. Pelgrave says:—“Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills cured my husband of kidney
trouble over four years ago, and he has still the
same good opinion of this grand remedy.”
LASTING CURE OF 12 YEARS.
Mrs. Emily Osborne, Store, 101 Foster Street,
Leichhardt, Sydney, says:—“Some years ago I had
a very bad attack of disordered kidneys, and, as a
result, suffered agony from backache and rheumatic
pains all over my body. I was often so bad I
could hardly get about the house, every movement
giving me increased pain. My rest at night was
very disturbed, as it was impossible for me to lie
in one position for any length of time, owing to
the nagging pain in my back. My ankles and arms
swelled a good deal, and were very painful if I
touched them. I had no energy for anything, and
was really far from well. Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills were recommended to me, and after taking a
course of these grand pills I Avas completely cured.
It is eight years since I was cured, and I have
had no return of kidney trouble since.”
Four years later Mrs. Osborne says:—“Twelve
years have elapsed since Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills cured me, and I am still well, a fact that
speaks volumes for this splendid remedy.”
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
& 1
'
A
WHI
i
JEv'ery Picture
i Tells A Story M
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
sold at 2/9 per bottle, at all chemists
and stores, or post free from Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DOAN'S, REMEMBER!
people considered themselves a superior race
to the troglodytes; and they shot at the air
caravans at sight. On the other hand, the
air-people loathed the dirty, mud-encrusted
cave-dwellers and the pallid folk of the sub-
merged suburbs. The contrast between these
rapidly diverging sub-species 'was accentu-
ated when, as was occasionally necessary,
one of the air cathedrals descended to earth.
Of course, they could not rest on the ...sui*-
face of the earth; Avhen an airship came
down it had to submerge, too. It used to go
M lS !^ d Ti n int '% a ; subteri ‘anean hangar, with
a movable roof ot armor-plate. There the
air-inhabitants came into contact Avith tbe
troglodytes—a pallid, goggle-eyed people,
somewhat resembling the grotesque fishes of
the ocean depths—a painful contrast to the
vrj&sgr&zs Rr: £
clered at that the bird-men stayed as little
as they could on earth. Their expanded
lungs, which gave them the appearance of
pouter pigeons, could not breath the dense
air of the caves. Occasionally an adventu-
rous young troglodyte would stoAV himself
away on a departing air-machine; but the
upper reaches of the atmosphere, wherein
the bird-men breathed freely, usually so
Spori hIS IUPgS that he bUrSt With a loud
So the world came to a state when there
Avere only three strata of the globe that were
inhabited : the highest altitudes of the air,
the caverns of the earth, and the bottom of
the oceans. The surface of the land and the
sea Avas swept bare of visible life.
It was when these things had been going
ou for a long time that John Psmith (the
third) decided to leave his lonely islet to
investigate the. progress of the war. With
an intrepid crew of Atlantans he set forth
b !?’ O( ; 0; T gOm ?. motor-launch In
Atlantis they had reached the stage of the
invention of the oil-engine again. They
voyaged for weeks over the oily ocean with-
out seeing anything but seagulls and flying-
rr ,h Ei 01 U I* champagne bottles.
IELUTEIi l aa and oi,traVellei 0 i, traVelle i m th m r
A e q ent f d mot o - 1 ca J a , ° Vei tbe W u l d '
" n d there was nothing to be seen anywhere,
lU UT 1 ’ TE 0 ° r
- iT imd< E/ 6 T' th 'm b 1 , e 7 dld oc a
the sea they ‘heard “Th” Hate”
Xfi ’J / “ It
til /l, band - ° f nCe ’ ° n land)
fit rit m ° ng
earth fThev didn’t know tbnt tbn nir-
people kept cows on their larger aeroplanes
» t U h Tas^at\ f o°^riot die o S n
earth.) And once beneath their feet—they
were, all unknowingly, standing right on the
top of London—they heard “The Messiah”
in full blast
tj , ' ’ ~ , -
But beyond these strange _ sounds there
Avas nothing to excite attention. So they
voyaged back to Atlantis, and reported that
with tie exception of a cow that had nearly
burst on them there wiis nothing of value
left on the g obe. Evidently the human race
had succeeded in exterminating itself.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
Getting Rid of Them.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AM an extremely mild man, but the
I mor al side of my nature tottered and
-JL > i„h,mr oftor-
fell 111 11,1118 th< ; ““f \
noon I heard the gate-latch click am v
from my Sunday after-dinner doze to find
Gertrude, in full bombazine calling uniform,
wa]ki up tbe garden path showing all her
„ ®
yellow teeth and pushing hei g 1
tacles along with her face,
Gertrudeone of the best of Avomen. So
o . (Kld j s sb ; e and so regular in her serious
*»* ■?? >* <*-*■*»ry ai rf r Sl, i
does everything as a mattei ot duty, anc
comes out to see us eA r ery third Sunday,
staying until it is time to help collect the
usual f are Avell bouquet and go for the five
, , , , . - . T7 i, or , a
° clock train, Avavmg o go
showing all her teeth and spectacles m a
farewell smile.
j d i d no t realise how weary I Avas of her
and her periodical visits until I woke that
Sunday and found she had arrived to do it
again. Seething with a new-born, murder-
ous hate I rose to receive her. Although it
was as m uch as j could do to keep my itch-
. . , ff h spectacles and the absurd
hands ott ner spectacles ana uie aosuiu
thin S she called a hat ’ slle advanced confi-
dently, making welcoming sounds, and pre-
sently passed on into the house to find the
w ife.
immediately she had disappeared I sank
back into mv chair and started to sort out
my emotions. Shaken as I was, I perceived
j had reac h ed a dead-end of some sort, and
would have to find a way of escape, or per-
igh j - had been troubled with more than
my f. dr share of superfluous relations and
dull, limpet-like friends, for the years had
brought me no change, and the natural con-
sequence of staying for ever in the same
house was a visiting list thick with old-
established bores. As in a dream I pulled
out an old envel °P e an d made two pencilled
lists of all the people who called on us.
One column I labelled “The Quick,” and it
totalled a dozen names—all the really enter-
ened Th e Dead, and it lengthened un-
-1 considered the ’ balance-shett
-lisS
vous energy it showed. Something will
have to be done, I moaned. a d ie monot "
on °- US c ?E P T' of , Gertrude, now busy
boring the wife, flowed out of the dining-
room mingled with the fragile chinking of
afternoon teacups.
As Ave live in a picturesque seaside suburb
am j d pleasant garden surroundings, Ave have
never had a pleasant Sunday to ourselves,
So, while I gloomily admired the garden and
wa ited for the next of the 43, I considered
Gertrude and whether I would really be
doing her an injury by depriving her of life
—as I now fully intended to do as soon as I
could complete satisfactory arrangements. I
decided I wouldn’t be doing her the slightest
injury, and for this reason: it is my theory
that 'life really is not worth living to the
man or woman who gets no real fun out of
it Now, as far as I could make out from
the gossip of the womenfolk, Gertrude got
all her satisfaction out of life by “sacri-
ficing” herself for her pet brother. Her pet
brother was one of life’s obvious failures, and
didn’t care avlio knew it; but Gertrude had
the sacrificial habit so badly that, despite the
protests of all who knew the circumstances,
she continued to send half her small income
to the man who had started to drift lazily
downstream ever so many years before. Per-
haps the sentimental Aveakiiess of a younger
Gertrude had originally encouraged a lazy
man to give up trying. Now in advanced
middle-age she still held out the helping
cheque, and was obviously comforted and
gratified by the indignant remonstrances of
her Avomen friends and relatives. There is a
certain mild vanity even in Samaritanism
carried to excess. ' And doubtless the thing
Avould go on until loyal old Gertrude, Avorn
out by her sacrifices and endless duty visits,
died and left the remnant of her small for-
tune to be boozed away in fly-spotted Cana-
dian puhs. If I had possessed even a rem-
nant of my better self that fine Sunday after-
noon I might have appealed to it and saved
Gertrude; but, as I said before, only the
primitive savage half of me Avas left, and my
mental review of her past record and future
sacrifices made me more determined to finish
her off and have done with it.
That night as the Avife and I sat on the
verandah and asked each other whether the
most lingering of a long day’s visitors would
catch the last train, I asked her cautiously
if she really valued the visits of Gertrude,
To my secret delight she said they left her
quite exhausted and that Gertrude only
seemed to get more stupid and tiresome the
older she grew. I then sounded her on the
subject of Borndrunk. the speechless friend
of Uncle Ted, and she said Borndrunk was
an old fool. I condemned Borndrunk and
made a few inquiries about Mrs. Powsitt,
whose only claim on us is that she once lived
next door. Mrs. PoAvsitt, I found, mattered
less to my Avife than a fresh egg. Before I
could submit the case of Foodie to her, she
fired up properly and illuminated the Avhole
subject of our callers so well that I saw it
would not be necessary to tackle the busi-
nt 'mai n deta | 1 T. , . , . .. , ,
Ihe concluding part of her indictment
Avas really cheering to a man in my inflamed
state of mind. There ace so many dull and
stupid people coming to our house, she
t'd, } sometimes wish we could go right
away to a new country and start all over
again. Now what does that old ass Born-
drunk want to come to us for? If Uncle
Ted ever saw anything m lnm, 7 don t. To
me he seems just a very dull old man who
regularly makes himself duller with too
miinb whiskv As for Mrs PoYA-sitf T «iin-
nose TV?Tot to blame mvself for her tut
saying good-morning and accepting a’ few
flowers over a back fence shouldn’t give a
woman an everlasting claim on you. I’ll be
more careful next time —if there ever is a
next time. But when you're first married
and are poor and feeling horribly lonely in
a new environment, any woman who is
merely neighborly seems almost more to you
than an absent mother. I’m sure I must
have worked off any claim she ever had on
me ! As for Foodie, I can't stand him and
never could —not even when Clara was
engaged to him years ago and we were all
young and foolish. It’s lucky she didn’t
marry him, and for the life of me I can’t
Understand why he didn’t drop us twenty
years ago—as any other man of decent
instincts would have done. But of course
lie is too dense to realise that he doesn’t
belong to this period at all and far too dull
to make 2'ny new friends. His type always
hang on r*
“They all hang on !” I corrected sadly.
“Yes, and I wish to goodness we could
get rid of them and only have the people
who entertain us! I don’t want to spend
my life making tea for bores and listening
to them till I am tired and irritable. It
isn’t a fair thing!”
“Of course it isn’t! Now, while'l think
of it, when are. you going to take that
holiday? How about starting away on
Saturday afternoon?”
As usual she demurred for a little while,
but finally gave in and agreed to go away
to a farm in the hills for a month. On the
day appointed I saw her off and then went
straight home, where an assortment of bright
new gardening implements, fresh from the
ironmonger’s, awaited me.
Curiously enough the garden showed no
sign of the loving toil I performed during
the subsequent fortnight; but the picks and
shovels always had fresh earth on them and
the large basement somehow became full of
fresh-broken clay. At the end of the first
fortnight I was feeling so toned up by my
steady exercise that I decided to hold an
invitation garden f§te in aid of the church
on the front lawn, and sent out 43 gilt-edged
invitations to the 43 bores. They came,
as I knew they would, and when I saw them
all together and safely involved with the
good things provided, I stole out into the
the back garden and pressed with one
trembling finger the button of an electric
battery. Instantly there was a blinding
flash and a shattering roar, and a shower of
dark objects flew skywards, followed by a
great and expanding mushroom of thick
yellow smoke. The fete was over!
The explosives e: rts and the police sub-
sequently agreed that it was caused by an
accumulation of gas from a leak in the main
' —a tribute, I think, to my policy of steal-
ing sparingly from many sewage contrac-
tors’ magazines instead of crudely clearing
out one or two. I saw to it that the soil
put into the mine crater was of good
quality, and the garden is now so beautiful
and luxuriant that we hardly ever remember
it was once the scene of a great tragedy.
In conclusion, I wish to compliment the
authors of several admirably-written text-
books for sappers and miners, without which
I should never have been able to manage.
KODAK.


We are Confident that
3 ' ' .
THE WESTINGHOUSE-MORSE SILENT
>N.
mm
m
■
KS
ROCKER-
JOINT
CHAIN
will appeal to you as
an Important factor
in the problem of
Costs reduction.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET
8M.310 to—
Brake
Co. of Australasia Ltd.
Queensland Agrents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
Ne-v Zealand Office: 03-107jFeatherston St., Wellington.
Concord West, N.S.W.
The Bulletin
DON’T DOOR ODD!
But restore your grey and faded hairs to their natural color with
LOCHYER’S SULPHUR.
HAIR RESTORER
1/6 SOLD EVERYWHERE. 1/6
Lockyer’s gives health to the hair and restores the
natural color. It cleanses the scalp, and makes
the most pel feet Hair Dressing.
This world-famed Hair Restorer is prepared bv the great
Hair Specialists, J. Pepper & Co. Ltd., Bedford Laboratories,
London, Eng., and can be obtained direct from them bv
post, or from any Chemists and Stores throughout the World.
SAFEGUARD your HEALTH
nr J.CoDis Brotiiwj;
Cblorodyj#
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Co/c/s, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Cheeks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3, S/-, of-.
Made in England.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
—• AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Water* and Cordials.
PROFITS IN SOFT DRINKS.
11 ."" ■ * - '
Vendor Should Get All the Profits.
<> n
C Tfii^ ey ' s ■ P ' O- Combined Carbonator ana
I liter, with Filling Back (1916 Model).
NOTE:—We manufacture Glass Washers,
Filters, Bser=raising Machines
and all Accessories for the Trade.
Quadruple Your
Profits
by making your own
Aerated Water Supplies
with
Eckersley’s
Machines
Soda
Fountains.
Manufactured Solely jn Australia by
ECKERSLEY 8 SONS, 25a George Street, Sydney,
And Corner HAIG 8 CLARENDON STREETS, S. MELBOURNE.
Agents
fft iViVT-r' K m?T?ir Street - Adelaide, S. Australia.
1 TOWN* uri & P. oIIGI, AS, Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
KIGG & Dixon Street, Wellington. N.Z.
I.LIONEB SAMSON & SONS, Cliff Street, Fremantle, W.A.
Take Care Of your Digestion
and your digestion will take care of you. At any rate, it is certain that
when you exercise care with regard to this important function you are
safe-guarding your health at its base. This is perfectly easy to under-
stand when it is remembered that unless the work of digestion and
assimilation is efficiently performed the system will not & obtain the
nourishment it requires. It commonly happens when the stomach
becomes upset, that unless speedy attention is given to the matter, other
organs of the body suffer derangement, resulting in general ill-health.
Bp Taking
Beecham’s famous digestive medicine that more than any other
has secured the favour and confidence of the public of the
stomach, bowels, liver and kidneys, are quickly arrested. The appetite
improves, the food is more thoroughly assimilated, andthe blood is purified.
For securing a sound digestion, which is the necessity and foundation of
sound health, take
Beecbams Pills
Sold in boxes, labelled, price 10Ad. (36 pills) 1/1| (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
The Bulletin
Dinneford’s
Magnesia
DINNEFORD’S
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“ DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
6*
As worn by our Brave Soldiers.
Every Patriotic Person should
wear one of these Brooches.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN
BULL DOG BROOCH.
These splendid Brooches made in Australia and finished in
Gold, Silver, orOxodised Metal are sold retail at 2/6 each.
For the purpose of making these Brooches more popular
throughout the Commonwealth, we have decided to give
everyone an opportunity of obtaining Valuable Prizes for
acting as our agents. SEND NO MONEY, your name
and address will do, and by return mail we will send you
6of these Highly finished Brooches. When sold
remit us our money, and we will forward you the prize you
select from our Up-to-date Catalogue of Watches, Chains,
Clothing, Bracelets, Handbags, etc. Write To-day to the
SIMPLEX NOVELTY CO., Pitt-st., Sydney.
art
Then fly to the nearest Chemist and ask for
EVANS’ Pastilles.
Invaluable for throat and voice, affording instant relief. A
never failing remedy. Doctors prescribe them.
Evans Sons Lescher & Webb, Ltd., London.
ESTABLISHED 1874.
f
FOR
COUGHS .
fridge’s
UjungToftic
FOR
COLDS .
Ltlvj
>
Public Speakers Singers, and all who
suffer from Throat Weakness find
it safe and effectiv-.
SOLD BY RETAIL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
STOCKED BY ALL WHOLESALE
DRUG HOUSES in AUSIRALIA.
Prepared by W. T. OWBRIDGE, LTD.
HULL, ENGLAND.
St*u* theJX
Body-building power
proved equal to from
10 to 20 times the
amount of Bovril taken.
The Bulletin
RAMEY’S MEDIC A TOR
For the Treatment of Catarrh, Hay
Fever, Bronchitis, Influenza,
Catarrhal Deafness, etc.
Medicator, with complete treat*
ment, only 10/-, post free. f 9
Write'for Free Pamphlet. 1
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
49b Elizabeth Street. Melbourne.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
[n use since 1596.
CURES ""Write for Boole.
AUSTBfIiWN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road, London, Enfc
.Insist on ‘ Singleton's* —refuse all substitutes-


The All-Australian
iMANGROYrra
The Bulletin
LEATHER
23533!
rr,
which is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
It’s the
Original
LooK for
the Name
Hardie s Genuine
Used in place of Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE, ROT, HEAT, ACID 8 ANT PROOF.
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES NARPIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
“Courier” Buildings, Brisbane; & Melbourne
A
\
&
0
There
is only
ONE
SCHNAPPS
Tangye Portable Oil Engine.
Nicholson & Morrow “Union” Harvester
Tangye Suction das Plant.
Clayton Traction Engine,
:.s*:
DALGETY’S MACHINERY
comprise the following well-known
Clayton Portable Steam
Engine.
TANGYE Sampless Oil Engines, Benzine Engines, Steam Engines, Boilers, Suction Gas Plants, Bumps, Winches, Jacks, Blocks, etc. CIiAYTQN
Portable Steam and Traction Engines. NIOHOESON & MORROW Pa*m Implements. WOISELEY Shearing Machines and Separators^
Above may be inspected at our DEPOT and SHOWROOM—MIDLER’S POINT, SYDNEY. Illustrated Catalogues Posted Free. “je.kjk.” irarmVum^lnsines.
THE
SHEEP SHEARING MACHINES
This year we are specialising in one of the greatest improve-
ments to the Wolseley Handpiece ever introduced- 1 -the Long-
bearing Bush. It is devised to replace the old front and back
bushes of the Handpiece, and ensures perfedt lubrication,
coolness in running, easy adjustment of parts, corredt length
of bush in relation to spindle, and economy in spare parts.
Full details mailed prost free oii request.
Australasian Agents: DALGETY & COMPANY LTD. ALL BRANCHES.
ymimm, iIMMm
mmSSm
FOR THE PROSPECTOR.
HORSE-POWER HOISTING WHII
The simplicity, facility for easy transport, and relative cheapness of these little, Hoists
commend them to* the Miner requiring a small, efficient Winding Plant. Designed principally
for Mining purposes, it will raise a bucket with 500-7001 b. sixty to seventy feet per minute.
The Hoisting Drum is absolutely under the control of the man at the shaft, and can be thrown
in and out of gear, and he can land or lower the bucket on the brake as safely and conveniently
as bv a steam-power hoist. An automatic safety device is attached to the end of the drum to
prevent accident, the dog always being in gear when the bucket is being raised.
Drum carries 500 feet or more of % Steel Wire Rope.
Total Shipping weight is 12001 b., but no one piece w eighs over 2501 b.
If you are interested, allow us to send you full descriptive Circular, with Prices.
MAKERS:
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LIMITED,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants, 60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
ALL BRITISH. LARGE STOCKS. IMMEDIATE DELIVERY.
Sole
Agents:
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Equitable Building, Sydney
