

a#
81%.
R. C3r. WATKme «ss <30.,
Machinery Merchants, \ 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
MONET
WE
Oxx all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
M-5-W- MONT DE PIETE D SI C
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre.
And at
Telephone: City 9825.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Sw&nston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
. .N &
Ot PTCTC OtPOSIT iiNHSTMCMTCL
rsmrs
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
Keep Your Home Clean and Healthy
And Free from all Insect Pests by using
Radium Spray
Sold at all department stores. Radium Spray is
made in Australia by an Australian firm.
RADIUM CHEMICAL CO. LTD.
210 Clarence Street, Sydney.
“PINEAPPLE” HAMS & BACON
U I I Ull
CHUBBS
SPRINGLESS
LOCKS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
J
HANSEN’S
*>, INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
GOLF
BALLS
“THE SILVER
»
THE BEST BALL
OF ALL
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
GOLF
BALLS
t
4
I
Royal
Dutch
COCOA.
SUPERIOR
IN
EVERY WAY.
Amiwud Wall Board is strong' and durable.
It taKes the place of plaster and timber in
walls and ceilings, and maK.es a better job.
Agents everywhere. Write
for Samples and Booklets.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO.
Challis House, Sydney.
D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager.
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
BL
GOLD LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
WHITE LABEL s .v.o
MINING
MACHINERY
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. [3
Roll Shells, Shoes
and Dies, and all
STEEL CASTINGS.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Y01.37.—N0. 1879.]
[Thursday, February 17, 1916.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W,, Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BOOKS OF INTEREST
(Postages shown
in parentheses.')
Modern Essays. Tntro. by J. W. Mackail. 6/6 (3d.).
Gorki’s Mv Childhood. 10/- (4d.).
Crotch’s The Pageant of Dickens. 6/6 (3d.).
Perugini’s The Art of the Ballet, illus. 20/- (4d.).
Rhodes’ Mind Cures. 6/6 (2d.).
A German Prince and His Victim, illus. 16/6 (4d.).
Cook’s Delane of The Times. 6/6. (3d.).
Williams’ Royal Auction Bridge, Illus. 2/9 (Id.).
At GEORGE ROBERTSON S CO. PROPTY LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
NOT
GERM A N PQ WDER.
MUSTDIE'.I
non poisonous powder.
the GRm mn d^koyer.
( Plica.
rlrzia.
Bugs.
a Mc'quiloea.
9:
“MUSTDIE’
POWDER must not be mistaken for insecticide
or common insect powders, some of which are sold
under fancy names, for “MUSTDIE” contains
an ingredient particularly fatal to that common
house pest aptly termed “The Typhoid Fly.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Write to “Mustdie,” Dept. H., Box 1520
G.P.0., Sydney, for a trial tin, forwarded post free;
or send 9d. in stamps for a full-size tin.
“MUSTDIE” is sold everywhere by Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers.
9d. per tin.
The Red Page
The Frailer Fiction
Curious how the war lias altered our judg-
ment of things American ! Even into liter-
ary criticism there comes an Australian dis-
taste of the TT..S. novel. Before the war
this unsophisticated continent was content
to take the word about his ideals:
the frontispiece of the “strong” American
hero and the charming American heroine led
us to credit these noble beings as types of
another civilisation. But these fictions have
been destroyed by the high-explosives of the
war. We see the TJuited States as the
Hyphenated States, with no official outlet
for the decisive voice of its majority of well-
wishers and would-be doers. So it is that
one examines with a closer criticism such a
typical U.S. novel as Making Money, by
Owen Johnson (Stokes, New York, per
Dymook's Library), author of Stover at
Yale and The Salamander.
Take, for instance, the types of physiog-
nomy chosen by this novelist for his heroes.
One had a “powerful and aquiline nose,”
with “eyes domineering.” Another had be-
neath his easy manner “a dangerous obsti-
nacy ready to flare up at an instant’s provo-
cation, which showed in the lower jaw
slightly undershot, which gave the lips a look
of being pugnaciously compressed.” Another
had “the torso of a stevedore, the neck and
hands of the laborer, while the boulder-like
head....had certain immovable qualities of
persistence and determination in the
strongly-hewn jaw and firm, high cheek-
hones.” One wants “to make himself
feared” ; all want to make money. The hero
strikingly resembled his father. “They had
the same squaring of the brows, the same
obstinate rise of the head at the back, and
the prominent undershot jaw.” The father
had, in addition, “concentration on a fixed
idea, indomitable purpose, etc.,” all in “the
strongly-sculptured chin and maxillary
muscles,” and his eyes “had the disconcert-
ing fixity of a mastiff’s.”.
Now this powerful nose, this undershot or
strongly-hewn jaw, this strongly-sculptured
chin, these muscles of the upper jaw, these
pugnaciously compressed lips, these domi-
neering eyes, this mastiff’ gaze, evidently
compose the physiognomy of Owen Johnson’s
ideal American. And a pleasant sort of
person he is ! Note the insistence upon the
merely animal characteristics. The American
hero, in outward appearance and instincts,
closely resembles a tiger. And this is an
acute observer’s picture of the fine flower
of the civilisation of the United States I
Anything more antipathetic to the Austra-
lian ideal would be difficult to find, except in
Germany.
Luckily, as you read this book you find
that these human tigers are merely ordinary,
foolish men, engaged in the mimic warfare
of making money—that is, of gambling in
Wall-street, and, with few exceptions, con-
tributing not one cent of material wealth to
the community. Owen Johnson can picture
his ideal, but he cannot make the caricature live.
The story requires, too, on the part of the
Australian reader, a knowledge of stock-
exchange gambling that, fortunately, is not
taught in our schools. Apart from this, the
theme of the novel, the story is interesting
and, in its moral, highly elevating. But it
is all painfully unreal; and this page, per-
sonally, has never met —and never wants to
meet—-one of those prominent undershot
jaws.
J*
Algernon Blackwood, author of The Cen-
taur, is always stimulating; but in The
Extra l)aij (Macmillan) he works so sedu-
lously at a delightful idea that he wears its
texture thin. There are various calendars in
the world; to-day is one date here and
another in Russia; the Chinese, the Jews
and the Mahommedans have their own sys-
tems of reckoning ; and ail of them cannot
be right. “Some calendars mark off too
many days, others mark off too few.... And
the extraordinary result is simply this: that
a considerable amount of Time has never
been recorded at all by any of them. There
are a lot of extra days, unused, unrecorded
days, still at large—if only we could find
them.” And when Uncle Felix unfolds this
idea to the three delightful children, and
assures them that some day they will dis-
cover that extra day, when they can find all
the Time they want, the kids eagerly believe
him. For they are extraordinarily imag-
inative kids. What they imagined they
saw, and what they believed they knew. And
so firmly did they believe in the coming of
one of these extra days—escaped days that
had never been torn off calendars or ticked
away by clocks —that the extra dav came.
The situation can only be remotely paralleled
by the consternation that would be caused in
the mind of an Australian politician if he
woke up one fine morning and found that
the time was actually ripe. But, before the
coming of that miraculous day, the children
-had had adventures enough. Uncle Felix
and Judy imagined themselves daisies on the
lawn, and there is a whole chapter describ-
ing exactly what it is like to be a daisy.
The readers of this page are cordially ad-
vised to try the experiment. Anyhow, the
sensation of being a daisy was so real to
these humans that it was rather lucky for
them that they heard the lawn-mower coming
in time. Then there was the tramp, who,
unlike the policeman, could be miraculous
without waiting for the extra day.
But by the time we reach the extra day
the reader has begun to tire. _ Blackwood
seeks, too elaborately, to convinoe us; he
is too brilliantly clever ; he doesn’t let us take
the slightest thing for granted; he seems to
forget that even his readers might have a
stock of imagination of their own. In short,
the reader requires an Extra Day to read
the book.
But the children, especially the incompar-
able Maria, are charming, and there is ad-
mirable humor on every third page.
The reputation of Hugh Walpole, author
of, The Prelude to Adventure and Fortitude,
scarcely survives in The Golden Scarecrow
(Cassell, per Dymock’s Library). In this
book about children Walpole, like Black-
wood, wearies the reader with too many
words. His belief that all children feel and
know the presence of a Stranger about them
in the early days of their life, a friend—
always visualised as a big. kindly man with
a black beard —who protects them from their
childish fears', comforts them in their loneli-
ness, and helps them to acclimatise them-
selves to the strange and uncomfortable life
into which they have been so unexpectedly
thrown, but who, as the child gradually
recognises and accepts the new realities of
its earthly existence, quietly withdraws him-
self and is ultimately forgotten—this belief
is interesting, and has some basis in the
childish memories of those of us who can re-
capture, them. But it cannot be said to be
universal, nor does it always take the form
suggested by Hugh Walpole. But the idea
is not big enough to found no less than nine
short stories upon it; and Walpole’s treat-
ment of this influence upon the lives of nine
different children cannot escape the penalty
of the boredom of liis reader.
But the prologue, dealing with the boy-
hood of the narrator, and the epilogue, in
which the narrator revisits the scene of his
childhood, are charming essays in comedy
and pathos, with a little miracle thrown in
that does not unduly strain the credulity of
his sympathetic reader. Hugh Walpole can
write, and he has the gift of a delightful
realism in the drawing of character. All his
children and most of their parents are
acutely alive. With a less monotonous
theme, or without any theme at all. confining
himself solely to a sympathetic- delineation of
character, Hugh Walpole could have pro-
duced a book worthy of his splendid start in
realistic fiction. As it is, The Golden Scare-
crow will sharply appeal to a limited audi-
ence.
Jt
I Pose, by Stella Benson (Macmillan),
is a perfectly insane book. Probably this
impossible story of a theoretical gardener
and a suffragette, with an earthquake and a
priest who says, “Yerce, yerce,” thrown in, is
merely a pose. The author assures us that
she is not being paid by a militant society to
write this novel, and that there isn’t going
to be much about votes for women in the
book; but, that, too, as the reader discovers,
is a pose. Towards the end Stella Benson
becomes quite serious about the underpaid
woman wage-earner, and allows her heroine
to blow up a church. But amid the nonsense
there are some rather smart things. Her
heroine’s eyes “made no attempt to redeem
her plainness, which is the only virtue of
having eyes in fiction.” And she asks us to
notice the truth of Mrs. Wigsky’s remark:
“Men T It’s men wot does all the ’arrfi. An’
yet you earn’ get along wivout ’em alto-
gether. They’re so ’elpless.” “Man,” the
author interposes, “is potentially a son, and
woman is potentially a mother; woman de-
pends on the dependence of man. The^ spin-
ster, if pathetic at all, is pathetic because
she has no one to look after, not because
there is no one to look after her. Bear in
mind that the conventional spinster keeps a
canary as a substitute for a husband.” With
a little more sense in her insanity Stella
Benson ought to write something somehow
sometime.
•
The value of The Germans in England,
1066-1598, by lan D. Colvin (National Re-
view, London), does not lie in the author’s
theory, but in his curious facts. His theory
is that all through our history the Germans
and the English have been bitter opponents,
that, in fact, England’s history must be re-
written on the assumption that it consisted
throughout the Middle Ages of “a long, fierce,
and irregular conflict between Germany and
England for sea-power and commercial
supremacy.” The author accuses the Germans
of interfering in English policy, bribing an
English Chancellor, financing an English in-
vasion, and raising and pulling down English
dynasties. The German Hanseatic League
commanded the supply of silver, the trade
routes, the sea-power of the Mediterranean
and the Baltic, whence came hemp, flax,
pitch and timber —all necessities for sea-
power in Mediaeval Europe. And the Ger-
mans took from England the full toll of their
advantages. “They had their fortified Guild-
hall with its wharves and stoi;e-houses on the
river-side; they were free of most, if not
all, English taxes, and paid less in customs
than native Englishmen ; they had not only
their own court and aldermen for the govern-
ment of their own affairs, but had special
Judges to settle their disputes with natives;
they were above English juries and English
1aw.... they held their houses in London
and other ports in freehold ; they had con-
trol of one of the gates of the City of Lon-
don. and were free to go out and in without
paying municipal duties; they dealt not only
‘in gross’ but in retail, in defiance of Eng-
lish custom.”
Such facts are astounding, but when from
them the author deduces his grandiose theory
he fails to take his reader with him. There
is no doubt that all through the Middle Ages
England was fighting for commercial and
mercantile superiority; but her enemies and
competitors were not confined to German
traders and financiers. lan D. Colvin asks
us, from insecure premises, to re-write Eng-
lish history in terms of anti-Germanism.
We cannot do that, but we are interested in
the discovery of the commercial and finan-
cial methods of the Huns, and their remark-
ably successful application long before Prus-
sianism was hatched.
Settling the Armenian Question
When the Turks wished to -dispose or the
hordes of mangey dogs that formed the
majority of the population of Constantinople
they simply collected the curs and deported
them to a deserted islet in the Sea of Mar->
mcra, where the dogs made a temporary
livelihood by eating each other until the last
one died of thirst. So, when they found
that the war afforded them the opportunity
to dispose of the Armenians in Turkey they
settled the question in a way .just «ns effec-
tive and expeditious. The report of this
operation is comprised in Armenian Atroci-
ties: The Murder of a Nation, by Arnold J.
Toynbee (Ilodder and Stoughton), which
E. W. C. Cole, Sydney, at the request of
IT. M. Government, is supplying for free dis
tribution on receipt of Id. stamp for post-
age.
This is a narrative compiled from authen-
tic sources, independent testimony, fre-
quently corroborated, of the murder ol
800,000 people. The wiping out of these
Armenians was officially ordered by the
Turkish Government. The Armenians are
hated by the Turks, because they are a
clever, commercial race, in possession
of a virtual monopoly of trade and the
owners of much property. In Asia Minor
they represent the only civilised stratum
of the population; apparently they occupy
a position similar to that of the Jews in
Central Europe and Russia. But the
massacres were not the spontaneous work
of the Turkish villagers, nor were they due
to religious fanaticism: they were com-
manded by Constantinople for purely poli-
tical reasons. The scheme was nothing less
than the extermination of the whole
Christian population within the Ottoman
frontiers. “After thig,” said Talaat Bey,
when he gave the final signal, “there will be
no Armenian question for 50 years.”
From over 50 places there is evidence of
identical procedure. The . Armenians in
each town or village were arrested, the
able-bodied men were marched out to the
hills, where released Turkish convicts, bri-
gands and Kurds at large were waiting for
them. The Armenians were massacred. The
women and children and old men were then
deported, without money or food. Remem-
ber that these were sedentary people, doc-
tors and lawyers and teachers, business men
and artisans and shopkeepers, who owned
costly churches and well-appointed schools.
Their women were as delicate, as refined as
Australian women. They were in the clos-
est personal touch with Western civilisa-
tion. for many of the Armenian centres had
been served for generations by American
missions and colleges. All had to go. There
was one chance of escape-—-apostasy, but its
condition was the immediate entrance of
the women and girls into the harem of a
Turk. Most of the women rejected that
chance. But all . were doomed to death. On
the march the girls and women were raped
and murdered, and ultimately the journey
came to an end with the death, from ex-
haustion or murder, of all the exiles. The
female children were taken and openly sold
in the markets, even of Constantinople,
where they fetched a few shillings apiece.
“Women with little children in their arms,
or in the last days of pregnancy, were driven
along under the whip. Three different cases
came under my knowledge where the woman
was delivered on the road, and because her
brutal driver hurried her along she died of
hemorrhage.” Many exhausted mothers left
their children on the road. At one place the
gendarmes threw into the Euphrates all the
remaining children under 15 years old, and
shot them down in the water. And into the
same river many women, with their children
in their arms; threw themselves to save their
honor. Into the Tigris on one occasion the
Turks threw 9000 corpses. A quicker
method was employed on the sea coast.
Caiques were loaded up with the Armenians
and returned a few hours later empty. These
are but a few of the incidents which seem
to have been paralleled everywhere through-
out Turkey in Asia.
The excuse officially offered was that the
Armenians were dangerous enemy subjects;
but even the Armenians in the army were
disarmed and afterwards murdered, and the
others had no arms nor any means of using
force and were settled in districts far from
the war zone.
Here and there, in the hills, the Armeni-
ans put. up a splendid but futile resistance,
though in one case a large number of them
were dramatically rescued by French war-
ships on the coast.
And in every town in which these mas-
sacres were so systematically carried out,
there was a German consul. The evidence
of their active participation in the murders,
the author justly points out, is not suffi-
ciently proven; and he admits that it is, on
the whole, unlikely that the German autho-
rities initiated the crime. “The Turks do
not need tempters.” But it is clear that the
Germans never made a motion to prevent
this colossal crime; and in their position as
dictators .to Turkey they could have stopped
it by a single word. No reply was ever re-
ceived to the U.S. Government’s request to
Verminy to co-operate in order to end the
outrages. The German Ambassador in Con-
stantinople publicly washed his hands; and
though BernstorlFs first inspiration was to
characterise the atrocities as “pure Wet,'
turns,” later he excused the massacres ™
the ground that the Armenians were secret!?
disloyal and aiding Russia.
As the author says: “This is the indict-
ment. Let Germany cease to deserve it”
The World of H. G. Wells
Van Wyck Brooks explores The World ni
11. G. Wells ( Unwin, per Dymock’s Library f
without making any momentous discoveries
He defines the function of Wells as being the
bringing home to the English mind of a
range of ideas not traditional in it. \ D( i
he asserts that Wells is an artist, that
Socialism to him is at bottom an artistic
idea, and that if Socialism had not existed
in the world he would have invented it
Brooks admits that he finds it hard to focus
Wells: his book emphasises that admission
For there is no particular world of 11. q'
Wells: there are'quite a number of Wellsian
worlds, and there will be more. Wells hs
hot a synthetic thinker, but a sceptical artist •
and as Chesterton says, “One can lie awake
at night and hear him grow.” He is not a
sociologist, but an artist of society. And
his hope for the world is the evolution of an
aristocracy that will rule the world, and
whose ideas will gradually filter down
through the lower stuffy levels until the
whole world, suffering a change of heart, is
aristocratic. That idea is still the main sub-
ject of The Research Magnificent, though
Brooks’s study was written before that novel
appeared. Wells is still faithful to his
Samurai class, though by this time his
Samurai is a leisured idler and a bit of a
prig. “One instinctively feels that Wells
likes Japanese human nature.” Hm! To us
he is the incarnate sane Englishman, the
bright boy in John Bull’s phlegmatic family;
but congenitally incapable of escaping from
his sometime annoying Englishness.
“Without doubt Wells has altered the air
we breathe and has made a conscious fact
in many minds the excellence that resides in
certain types of men and modes of living
and the odiousness that resides in others. ...
Two streams of tendency run side by side
throughout the earlier writings of Wells—
streams of tendency which meet fully for
the first time in Tono-Bungay, and have
formed a single main current in the subse-
quent novels. On the one hand was the
stream of constructive theory, not yet
brought into contact with human nature; on
the other, the stream of ‘human interest,’
not yet brought into contact with constructive
theory. .. .And in all the subsequent novels
this fusion continues. The background in
each case is the static world of muddle from
which Wells is always pushing off into the-
open sea of possibilities, the foreground
being occupied by a series of men and women
who represent this dynamic forward move-
ment. And the philosophy of Wells has
finally come to port in human nature.”
Could Wells write a poem? Brooks
acutely asks. This page would dearly like
to see. him try. “Modern poetry,” Wells
has said, “with an exception or so, does not
signify, at all.”
to Brooks’s only criticism, he
accuses Wells of having lived on his capital
since The New MachiavelU, and of having
become “the common professional novelist.”
He understands his Ivippses and Pollys far
better than the lords and ladies of Englahd.
And Wells’s ideas were always greater than
himself.
Obvious, these discoveries. Van Wyck
Brooks, has failed to focus the squirming
insect in his little microscope.
Since Herbert Warren, who professes
poetry at Oxford, is so culpably ignorant of
our poetry as to include Douglas Sladen in
his list of Australian poets, and omit —well,
you and me—a neat punishment for him
would be for every Australasian poet to for-
ward him a copy of his or her little book of
poems. Poets should address their heart-
throbs to Prof. Herbert Warren, Magdalen
College, Oxford, England. When next he
ventures to lecture upon our poetry, at least
he will not be without the necessary pabu-
lum. Anyhow, he deserves it.
The first issue of Australia First, an
illustrated quarterly magazine of “practical
patriotism and guide to goods made in Aus-
tralia ’ (Building, Ltd., 17 Grosvenor-
street, Sydney, fid.), promises to be useful;
but an effective tariff, Australia’s chief
weapon, is not exactly insisted upon. It
j* right that we should be reminded that
“Every foreign article purchased that can
be made in Australia is a trench surren-
dered.” But why not add: “Let us make
that trench impregnable by the barbed wire
entanglements of a real protective tariff”?
The editor, George A. Taylor, however, does
excellent spade-work in his exhortations to
us to ask for “Made in Australia” goods,
and when we shop, to say “Australian-
made” ; but, owing to unchecked floods of in-
credibly cheap importations from other coun-
tries, neutral and allied, it is rather difficult
..or the Australian goods to be discovered
on the counter. “My lady Commonwealth
will not reject the manufacturer for the
importer, if she be wise.” An excellent
reflection; but. why not protect that lady
from her unwisdom? In one article, how r-
®Ver, nec essity for a protective tariff is
definitely enunciated. The list of Austra-
lian-made goods procurable is the most valu-
able portion of the issue. This should be
in the hands of every housewife.


72 im
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FOR EVERYTHING
WE can supply everything wanted to carry on the business of life, whether that business is run in single or double
harness. To Family People the New Palace Emporium and the vast stock it contains are blessings of the
most practical kind, while to all other folk, both rich and poor, our system of trade presents attractions not to
be found elsewhere. We invite comparison. Send for illustrated Price Lists of anything you want, posted free on
request. They place the World’s Choicest Commodities at the command of Everyone in Australia.
Be Wise! Follow a Good Lead and Buy Everything at
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
mm
' 4
mm
.
m
u
#«!»
m
m
m
«s
ft
,s:
s*
m
IS
m
m
m
m
r
K
J
SHOPPING AT ANTHONY HORDERNS’ NEW PALACE EMPORIUM.
We are Family Drapers, Complete House Furnishers, Manufacturing Jewellers and Universal Providers, and our Departments include—
FAMILY DRAPERY, FASHIONS UP-TO-DATE.
RIBBONS, LACE AND EMBROIDERY.
TRIMMINGS AND FANCY WORK.
MEN’S READY-TO-WEAR CLOTHES.
JUVENILE CLOTHING.
LADIES’ KID AND FABRIC GLOVES.
HABERDASHERY AND SEWING MACHINES.
MEN’S MERCERY AND OUTFITTING.
MEN’S HATS AND CAPS.
MEN’S BOOTS AND SHOES.
TRAVELLERS’ REQUISITES AND FITTED BAGS.
PERAMBULATORS AND GO-CARTS.
FURNITURE, PIANOS AND ORGANS.
THE FINE ARTS.
CARPETS AND FLOOR COVERINGS.
BEDSTEADS AND BEDDING.
blinds and cornices,
bedroom appointments.
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY & CLOCKS.
TOYS AND DOLLS.
PICTURES AND PICTURE FRAMES.
PURSES, BAGS AND BASKETWARE.
REFRESHMENT ROOMS.
GROCERY AND PROVISIONS.
TOBACCO. CIGARS, PIPES, &c.
DRUGS AND PATENT MEDICINES.
PERFUMERY AND TOILET REQUISITES.
ARTISTS’ MATERIALS.
STATIONERY AND BOOKS.
CONFECTIONERY AND WEDDING CAKES.
WATCHES, JEWELLERY AND OPTICAL GOODS.
FANCY GOODS AND MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
SCHOOL REQUISITES.
TYPEWRITERS AND TYPEWRITER REQUISITES.
ELECTRICAL GOODS AND TELEPHONES.
MOTOR ACCESSORIES. T^XTCi
SPORTS MATERIAL OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
FISHING TACKLE, BICYCLES.
ATHLETIC AND INDOOR GAMES.
CROCKERY AND GLASSWARE.
CHINA WARE AND LAMPS.
GUNS AND AMMUNITION.
BILLIARD TABLES AND REQUISITES.
HOBBIES OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
HOUSEHOLD AND GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
REFRIGERATORS.
STOVES AND MANGLES.
SANITARY WARE, GAS FITTINGS.
INCANDESCENT GAS-LIGHT APPLIANCES.
STEEL CEILINGS.
BUILDERS’ MATERIALS.
RESISTOID ROOFING.
BEE GOODS AND INCUBATORS.
CREAM SEPARATORS AND DAIRY SUPPLIES.
STATION SUPPLIES.
PAINTS AND PAPERHANGINGS.
OILS, COLORS AND LUBRICATING OILS.
TOOLS OF ALL TRADES.
WOOD- AND IRON-WORKING MACHINERY.
BUSH HOUSES AND TRELLIS.
SHIP CHANDLERY.
STEAM FITTINGS.
PETROL ENGINES.
SADDLERY AND HARNESS.
COACH BUILDERS’ REQUISITES.
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS,
HORTICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd.
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


#
#
/
I
FOR
Rifles, Revolvers and Pistols
No matter how accurate a rifle or pistol may be, if
the cartridges used in it are variable, the results ob-
tained will be disappointing. Winchester cart-
ridges in all calibers are sure fire, accurate and
uniform. They are made by experts in a plant
having every facility for turning out perfect
work. A trial will prove their high quality.
ASK FOR THF W BRAND.
7/W
1
m
■r
n\\
TRADE
MARK
a
Bovril develops big
reserves of strength
IT MUST BE BOVRIL
BRITISH TO THE BACKBONE
/S^
/&
Diogenes
believed
the worst
Cynical, sceptical, selfish, dis-
courteous ; even at this distance
it is no job to diagnose Diogenes.
He said he was looking for an
honest man, but he was not even
honest with his own liver. It
wanted to do its work. It wanted
so much to clear the poisons of
gloom and bitterness out of
his blood and his thoughts. It
yearned to make him see the
good side of the world and of
humanity. But did Diogenes
help it ?
No. He was one of those
people who treat their liver
as an enemy, and refuse to
believe its intentions are good.
Probably he punished and in-
jured it with violent pills or
morning draughts. Anyone can
be a Diogenes by doing that, and
accumulating a stock-in-trade of
gloomy, bitter little toxins in his
blood. But who wants to be a
Diogenes? Far wiser to live in
friendly partnership with one’s
liver and give it, now and then, the
gentle, natural, welcome help of
Cockle’s
Sold by all Chemists, in boxes, price 1/- and 2/6.
JAMES COCKLE & CO., 4 Great Ormond St,, London, Eng.
Information for the Housewife.
CLARK’S
BOILERS,
CAST-IRON
SAUCEPANS,
KETTLES, Etc.,
will boil QUICKER or as QUICK as the lightest Enamelled Ware, and will last
a lifetime instead of months.
They have lids that will not rust. Handles that will not slip in the hand.
Please note the
Hygienic Shape
and the Fatent,
Rivetless Handle
of the Cover, also
the Fluted Handle.
SECTION
iff
CLARK’S
are the Original
Patentees of Porce-
lain Enamel.
CLARK’S HOLLOW-WARE IS THE BEST
Australasian Agent: A. J. CHAMBERLIN, Melbourne.
BRo
>6^
■:><
■
BROOKS B 170, probably
the most popular Motor
Cycle Saddle in the world.
It is scientifically moulded, skilfully
padded, and carried on the famous
patent compound springs.
B 150 is somewhat similar but suitable for light-
weight machines.
OF ALL DEALERS
THE J PEN
/v&V
*
C//
* ‘X>
S9o
3
<*
aM
0,9
DUPLICATING.
Ask Your Stationer or Storekeeper for an Assorted Sample Box—BRITISH Made.
When you get CLEMENTS TONIC
you get Good Health too.
THE SOLDIERS’ TONIC.
A TESTIMONY TO A GREAT REMEDY.
A representative member of the cream of Australia’s manhood, Sergeant C-
Smith, 20th Battalion. A.1.F., New South Wales, who in his professional
capacity was associated editorially with one of the leading weekly Sydney
journals, and who has for years been considered one of the most able °*
Machine Gun Experts. lie has an intimate knowledge of the famous Victorian-
invented “Caldwell” Gun, being its Australian Press Agent and also the
inventor’s friend. He writes of Clements Tonic, the Great Remedy for shat-
tered nerves, as follows :
Liverpool Camp, N.S.W., 20/10/’l5.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“When I say that Clements Tonic has helped swell recruiting
figures, I am only giving credit where credit is due.
“Among the ‘cream of the nation's manhood’ which is answering
the Empire’s call to-day is the usual percentage of nerve-strained men
from the city offices, who would certainly have failed to pass the
medical test had it not been for the w r onderful restorative qualities of
your medicine.
“From my own personal experience, and from the experience of mj
comrades in arms, I can sincerely testify to the fact that Clements Tonic
has often helped to make good soldiers of apparently bad material and
better soldiers of good material.
“Its world-wide repute as a blood medicine, as a nerve-restorer
and as an appetite producer is founded on the solid foundation of
results.
“(Signed) SERGEANT C. SMITH,
“20th Battalion, A.1.F.”
THE “NERVES AS STRONG AS STEEL”'MEDICINE.
IT IS AS VALUABLE FOR THE RETURNED SOLDIER AS FOR
THE RECRUIT GOING TO THE FRONT.
IT MAKES ONE HEALTHY.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL IT.
CLEMENTS TONIC does Good because it is Good#


Kidney Trouble
A Scientific Cure.
rri, P re is only one real scientific method of
Hnf kidney disease, and that is to wash
£way g the uric acid (the poison) right out of
the system. , . ,
The proper way for this to be done is to
drink from three to four pints of pure water
Jp • dav and with each glass of water should
hP taken some mild yet penetrating antisep-
' The proper one to take is contained
in De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
It has the wonderful property of penetra-
ting every crevice of the kidneys and blad-
der and wherever it touches it washes away
nil ’sediment and bad secretions, and makes
the kidneys and bladder perfectly healthy.
Anv sufferer can try this experiment for him-
self bv getting a box of De Witt’s Kidney
end Bladder Pills at his chemist’s—all chem-
ists sell them—and you will, within a very
Poisonous pain-causing Uric Acid in the
Blood—like little bits of broken glass.
few hours, know positively that the seat of
the trouble has been touched. When you see
the muddy, blue-colored urine you know this
is true. The effect of this experiment is most
remarkable.
The quick relief which these wonderful
little pills bring is, so our readers say, noth-
ing short of marvellous. This applies equally
to rheumatism, gout, gravel, backache, tired
feeling, dropsy, Bright’s disease, constipa-
tion, cloudy urine, inflammation of the blad-
der,’or other symptoms of urinary trouble.
To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid of
the cause —the poisonous uric acid. Re-
member to do this a real remedy must pass
through the kidneys and the bladder, and not
through the bowels, as most kidney pills do.
When you see the urine change to a muddy,
bluish color —a feature which distinguishes
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills from all
others —you know beyond all doubt that
they have put their healing touch on the
right spot—the kidnevs and the bladder. A
wonderful pill—straight to the kidneys
that is why De Witt’s Pills give such amaz-
ingly quick relief —every time. A perma-
nent cure follows in almost every case. Look
for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2/9 box of
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, which
are made expressly for kidney and bladder
trouble.
ARE. YOU
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? _ Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIK CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can vou ■ ask for more ?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
FREE TO
SMOKERS!
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W.,
writes
“It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 12 months since I last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, I do not have the least desire to
smoke; therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all mv former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizziness,
Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which I have every
reason to believe were caused through the use of
tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are only re-
membered as a hideous nightmare. I eat and sleep
well, and feel fit to face the world again. It will give
me great pleasure to recommend your remedy to
others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a TREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet,
Testimonials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
[i
ißisn
For Elderly People
Elderly people so often suffer from BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, and other complaints of the throat and
chest. A neglected COLD leads to more serious
troubles. Instant relief is given by “ Bonnington’s
Irish Moss,” and young and old benefit alike. Take
none but—
Beware of
Imitations
BONNINGTON’S
Baby is a Connoisseur
in his own little way
He likes —and must have —the best. You
cannot be too cautious in selecting his
food. Use a proved food a food which
has been in the front rank for years.
*
Mellin’s Food is the proved
most efficacious equivalent to
Mother’s Milk, and satisfac-
torily fulfils all the require-
ments of an artificial food.
Set out to feed
baby right. Next
to breast-feed-
ing, the Mellin’s
Feeding Bottle
has most advan-
tages. A trial
convinces you.
A Sample of Mellin’s Food, with useful Handbook for Mothers, “The
Care of Infants in Australia,” will be sent post Free. Write to-day to
MESSRS. GOLLIN & CO. PROPRIETARY, LTD., SYDNEY.
\
Lumbago
The case of Rheumatism or Gout
which Kruschen Salts cannot benefit
has yet to be discovered. This
famous British remedy is also
recommended by Medical Men in
cases of Lumbago, Sciatica, Eczema,
Constipation, and Liver and Kidney
Disorders.
KRUSCHEN AT THE FRONT
Since the outbreak of the War, enormous
quantities of Kruschen Salts have been ordered
by, and delivered to the British Authorities, for
the use of the British Forces overseas and in
the Base Hospitals at Home, kruschen Salts
are prescribed by Medical Men the world over.
THE WORD KRUSCHEN
The trade mark “ Kruschen ” is a legacy-
handed down from generation to generation of
the family of Evan Griffiths Hughes, the sole
Manufacturers of Kruschen Salts, and one of
the oldest firms of Manufacturing Chemists in
the County of Lancashire. Established 1754 —
160 years ago.
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754.
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/“
Per Bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers,
and stores throughout Australia,
Wholesale Distributing Agents :
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
68, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester,
England.
ONE SIZE,
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle,
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
How the Lads of the Battery Died.
(A true story of the Australian Field Artillery,
Eighth Battery, told by Corporal McClarty.)
When the blinding smoke of the Turkish
shell
Had cleared from the shattered gun,
To my comrade’s help I leapt and ran.
Three men who had served their gun right
well,
Three grim Australians dealing Hell —
Mick Taylor, Doug., and a chap named
Stan—
And stricken every one!
Mick Taylor was crawling on the ground,
Blood-blinded, dazed, but a man!
“Are you badly hurt?” I asked. “Not me!”
He tried to bluff. “I’m safe and sound !”
(And fourteen wounds in him we found !)
“It’s only a scratch, as you can see!
Look after Doug, and Stan!”
Thank God such men Australia bred!
I prayed death might be quick.
I picked up Doug. He had lost one arm;
His leg was shattered ; but all he said
Was, “Don’t mind me!” and he raised his
head.
“I’m done. I’m safe from further harm;
Look after Stan and Mick!”
Poor Stan! His life was ebbing low,
I saw that he was done.
“I’m sorry,” he moaned, “to make this row ;
I simply can’t help groaning, though
It will upset my mates, I know.”
And his last brave words —they are famous
now—•
Were: “Did they get the gun?”
And Doug.’s was a hero’s soul, I claim.
He taught us how to die.
Though writhing in his agony,
These proud words from his smashed lips
came:
“I’m dying, but, God ! I’ll die game!”
And the pride of the boy was fine to see:
“I died at the gun, didn’t I?”
At midnight, to the roar of the guns,
We buried those heroes three.
“Dear lads,” the General called us men—•
“Dear lads !” like a father to his sons!
Dor we were mates of those dauntless ones.
“Dear lads !” the General called us then,
“I’m proud of your battery!”
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
The Thought.
I have hidden a thought in the topmost pine
That shadows the glimmering jessamine—
Hidden a thought in the resined trees
You cannot find it, you teasing breeze!
For not till my trembling love shall pass
Velvet-footed across the grass,
When the moon in a net of cloud is caught,
Shall the topmost bough yield my hidden
thought!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The Piper of Peace.
Peace sat upon his grassy mound,
And piped the hours away,
A jocund fellow, round of cheek,
A merry knave and gay.
Through all the world his piping ran,
So water-clear, so sweet;
It lent a lyric to man’s heart,
A rhythm to his feet.
The piping ceased ; a shadow fell,
As when the noon departs ;
The rhythm in our feet died out,
The lyric in our hearts.
There came a speckled monster-shape,
And broke his pipes in twain ;
And peace must sit awhile in tears
Ere he shall pipe again.
But pipe he shall, and pipe more sweet
Than e’er before, I vow ;
So get you ready, man and maid,
Gay garlands for his brow.
Get laurel leaves, and victor bays,
And rob your garden plots
Of roses in triumphant bloom,
And, ah ! forget-me-nots.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Paddy Doyle.
I’m sick of the whole damn, weary show,
I’m tired of the camp routine ;
I’m off to the town for a jolly good blow,
And a kiss from a tan colleen.
Start where you like, but the end is the
same.
Orders at ten is the prize of the game—
Fall in defaulters and get to yer toil!
( Trumpet) Answer yer name, yer name,
Faddy Doyle!
I’ve climbed on the good old water-cart,
I’ve given the grog a rest,
But one drink with a cobber is always the
start
Of fifty over yer chest.
Good resolutions. The end is the same —
Drunk and resisting—black mark to yer
name.
Fall in, defaulters, and get to yer toil!
( Trumpet) Answer yer name, yer name,
Paddy Doyle!
I’m sick of the cases the wowser knew,
I’m full of the tea-room slops ;
Here goes for a swig of the good old brew
And a scrap with the raging cops.
Outin’ the red caps and fillin’ the clink —-
Escort at morning—tongue scorched for a
drink —•
Fall in, defaulters, and get to your toil!
( Trumpet ) Answer yer name, yer name,
Paddy Doyle!
SOMEWHERE.
JACK SOMMERS.


A WET WINTER DEMANDS A RELIABLE RAIN RESISTER.
The “WATERSHED”
OILSKIN
Is guaranteed to keep you dry in
the heaviest downpour, no matter
how long you are in it.
Our new process of oiling the
materials also enables us to guaran=
tee these oilskins NOT TO STICK.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL STORES
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers —
PERDRIAU
RUBBER CO. LTD.
Australian Manufacturers of all Rubber Goods.
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth.
■aWrshmi
OILA K
-i
. &L •• .*
FA
i m- %
m w.
r^
,kj ■ &&
5 -v'vjf • ->••*
4, LiJi '■ v
s |fr#:- .1
The “WATERSHED” is made
• in two weights—
“ Dugong=Watershed ”
Made of finest Egyptian Cambric,
double throughout and proofed
with Watershed Oil. Specially
recommended for general use.
Average weight, 41b.
Price, Black only ... ... 32/6
“ Rai nbow=W atershed ”
Made of stout calico, double
throughout and proofed with
Watershed Oil. Average weight,
61b. Intended for rough wear.
Price, Black or Yellow ... 25/=
John Lysaght Limited will be pleased, upon
application, to forward a free copy of the
new and enlarged edition of their “ Referee ”
to Every Property Owner and Galvanized
iron User. This Book contains a quantity
of carefully compiled infor-
mation which will be found
both useful and in teresting.
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Supplied to the
Naval and Military
Authorities in
Great Britain and
Australia.
Cable Address:
“ADORWHOOP.”
Telephone:
CITY 7633.
G.P.O. Box 2562.
Australasian Repre-
sentatives for
WM. E. PECK 8 CO.,
NEW YORK.
AMERICAN MERCHANDISE
IN WAR TIME.
Established 1886.
Ayers 8 James Pty. Ltd.,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne:
122-128 Flinders St.
Adelaide:
97 Grenfell Street.
Brisbane:
Adelaide Street.
Perth: Queen Street.
Auckland:
Fort Street.
Sole Agents for over 200 of America’s leading Manufacturers.
We solicit correspondence and Indent orders from strictly WHOLE-
SALE Firms of standing throughout Australasia respecting all classes
of AMERICAN Goods.
Our well-known 30 years’ experience and general facilities in hand-
ling and shipping American goods enable us to offer our patrons excep-
tional service and minimum of trouble during these troublous War
times, and all enquiries will have our immediate attention.
The JoJlyweUs
(K
©
They oft invite
To dine at night
Congenial friends
With humor bright.
Of wit and jest
Each gives his best.
How Jolly wells laugh
You’ve surely guessed.
Guests never fear
To find good cheer,
Where “Rex” Goods are served
That fact is clear.
"Rex Luncheon Cheese
Tells No After-dinner
Stories
Unless it be a story of “Good
Digestion waiting on Appetite,” as
William the Immortal once remarked.
5
3
418
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese
is finding its way on to some of the best tables in Australasia.
A friend writes to say:—
“Whilst staying with a legal friend in Invercargill the übiquitous
tin of ‘Hex’ Cheese made its appearance on the table and came in
for a great deal of attention. My host had no need to tell me ‘Rex !
Cheese was much appreciated.”
For all kinds of Sandwiches there is no better filling. It may be eaten
without butter —a little after each meal is an aid to digestion, because
“Rex” Cheese possesses all the valuable properties of perfectly-matured
Full Cream Cheese.
Sold everywhere. Take no substitute.
A
E
?LJ-
X
BRxrt*
Other “REX” CAXXED DELICACIES are:
“Rex” Ham Pate.
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, 111 b. tins.
“Rex” Pigs’ Feet in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Bunch Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Brand Bard, for cooking purposes, in lib. prints.
FOGGITT, JONES 8 CO. LTD.,
Curers of “REX” HAMS and BACON;
Packers of “ REX ” PURE FOOD PRODUCTS.
Irvcompeu"eJ3le’’


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
You s7.—bo. 1870.
I’ll U ESI) AY. FEBRUARY 17, 1916.
Price 6d.
BLIND SAMPSON.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6<l. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, ivhere prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
I’olitical, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding tivo columns in length, or, say,
6000 uords, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it rvill be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Tiie Bulletin desires, further, ,hose
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Cordon and Gofch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dauson and Son,
Capetoivn and Johannesburg : and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., f} l Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C. ; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.SLA.— Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San n-ancisco: C. IP. Jewett, Utah. U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
Neics Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 58J
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets. Chicago. U.S.A.
Egypt. —lguace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonivealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Force Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Soz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., 2id, ;
lOoz. to 120 z., Sd.; elsewhere, joz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1910.
THE JOSS WTTH A LARGE-SIZED
FAMILY.
If Andrew Fisiier is anything at all he is
a party man. To him party was the first and
last word in politics. It was not unnatural.
Party r made him. Because he was a good,
reliable partisan he went right through
from Charters Towers to London, and, hav-
ing arrived there and consulted the menu, he
seems to have contracted a suspicion that
the lift he travelled by might as well get a
fresh coat of paint. Therefore Andrew
assured the usual luncheon the other day
that “in Australia there are no political
parties during the war.” Taking all things
into consideration, including the fact that
he and his party were returned to power
from an election riot during the war, and
that prior to slinging his job to relieve Reid,
practically the last thing he had to say
was that the party programme had to go on,
war or no war, this was not altogether
decent of Andrew. It is not true, even in
the narrowest sense. Moreover, it couldn’t
be true, for Australia knows no other
machinery of Government than bat-eyed,
disastrous party 7 methods. It may be
true enough that participation in the war is
not a party issue, but until the Common-
wealth Parliament buried the tariff and
dropped the Referenda in the rubbish tin,
the air was full of wild recrimination over
matters arising directly out of the war, and
debates and divisions were continued on
party lines right up till the door was closed
with a bang after a violent party rumpus
concerning an amendment of the Arbitration
Act asked for by the A.W.U. Banging a
door does not rid of the party curse. As
soon as it is opened again there will be the
same old uproar if any attempt is made to
do anything useful, and even if nothing is
done the curse will be roosting there just the
same, because doing nothing will be a dodge
acceptable to both parties.
* * * *
If it be fiction to speak of party having
been throttled in the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment, what about the position in the States?
In every one of them the party fight is in full
blast. N. S. Wales is rent asunder by a
truce which is broken with great violence
every day. Bananaland is struggling with
issues whollv partisan. Westralia is girding
up its loins to jerk Scaddan away from the
cashbox. Tassy is in the throes of an elec-
tion. The bray of the partisan in S.A. and
Vic. is loud in the land. These State Par-
liaments are parts of the Australian machin-
ery of law-making, and if Fisiier has not
detected the noise his hearing must be
getting terribly defective since he heard
the news about his appointment to the
distant billet. Of course, if he stood up at
a London banquet and informed John Bull
that Australia, with a population less than
the Smoke, had 14 separate Houses of Par-
liament inhabited by 700 members, with
numerous attendants, Ushers of the Black
Rod, Speakers and Sergeants-at-Arms to
carry multitudinous Maces, that 12 of these
Houses were, or were on the point of, or
had just recovered from, desperate struggles
with the party Joss, and that the other two
Houses were unable to grapple with the vital
national problems because the Government
and Opposition would at once commence to
wrestle all over the floor—if Fisher was to
relate such a plain, unvarnished tale and
adorn it with the relevant figures relating to
cost he would be suspected of having had a
night out. His yarn would be unbelievable to
the English. John Bull with one party insti-
tution found it when put to the test almost
as dangerous as the Hun, and promptly up-
ended it. That Australia should have seven
such calamities to endure would seem an
incredible illustration of a democracy’s fool-
ishness. And so it is.
Party has Australia firmly by the throat.
Not a single question within the whole
range of political affairs is discussed by
any of the seven Parliaments except from
the party point of view, which means the
jobbing politician’s point of view. The pub-
lic control of these institutions is still only
a mockery, confined to such as may be exer-
cised by participation in a wild disturbance
called the general election, when the popular
choice is between one push and the other
and of a job lot collection of more or less
dubious individuals who are warranted up
to sample by the party managers. And when
the affray is over and the survivors retire
for several years to prepare for the next
election the public has the privilege of find-
ing the money and sitting down to watch
the performance. How poor it generally
happens to be is fairly well proved by the
regularity with which the electors fling the
rival parties in and out. What hope has
Australia to-day of seeing the Parliament
it imagined was to be a national one meet-
ing the old and new problems of govern-
ment and administration except in the spirit
of embittered partisanship—of even such
fundamental questions as are presented by
the condition of the Northern Territory, by
railway construction, industrial develop-
ment, the public indebtedness and the chaotic
system of taxation being dealt with except
on lines dictated by the meanest considera-
tions? None at all. And what chance have
Australians of securing through the initia-
tive referendum that position of authority
over Parliament and policies which a demo-
cracy must have to become even articulate?
Mighty little, for glib and copious though
his promises may be the party man, once
elevated to a place of power, profoundly
mistrusts the public and everything that
seems like minimising his importance as the
spring from which all blessings flow —in
return for votes. If Fisher, in addressing
his London audience, had been able to say
that after many years of disastrous experi-
ence Australia had come to the conclusion
that party government was a snare and a
fraud and had long ago robbed it of its
grosser evils by 7 instituting elective Minis-
tries and direct appeals to the people on
matters of public policy, he would have been
saying something that was worth listening
to. But he was not. The best he was able
to offer was a gag which every Australian
knows to be miserably thin. Still there is
a ray of comfort in the news that he didn’t
feel equal to the task of presenting the
achievements of party in Australia as part
of an argument to show how inseparable
from progress the maintenance of the animal
must be.
THE INEXPEDIENCY OF LETTING
THINGS SLIDE.
An Australian need not be one of the oldest
inhabitants to remember how often he was
told that on this continent national liberties
would flourish in freedom from the racial
enmities, traditional spites, territorial greed
and lust of conquest, which since time got on
its rocking horse had kept nations from
realising .the ideals of democracy. This
dream of a nation born to emancipation from
the shackles inherited by the more or less
civilisation of Europe—of a country working
out the problems of government in a calm-
atmosphere—was the source from which the
national sentiment in Australia drew its
first and abiding inspiration. It was a dream
that will come true and must not be sur-
rendered for the visions of something mighty
different. The test has been made many
times; occasionally with comparative suc-
cess by the sword, often without and always
with disastrous consequences which arrived
early and stayed late. And this is what
Australia is fighting about to-day, to deter-
mine whether the curse of Prussian military
governorship shall rule Australia’s destiny
or whether Australians shall be their own
men, free in their own land with their liber-
ties, their calamities, their dreams, hopes
and expectations.
*■ * * *
Fifty years and less ago “the colonies”
were spoken of in England as places of no
importance, and viewed with contemptuous
indifference by British statesmanship. To-
day those “colonies” are looked at by Ger-
many, bulging with population and con-
sumed with ambition for expansion, as prizes
of stupendous value, the nurseries of nations
yet to be. potential fields of industrial devel-
opment far greater than Europe offers by
reason of physical and climatic advantages.
Let any Australian take a map of the world,
mark off the boundaries of Armageddon, and.
remembering German activities of recent
years towards the Persian Gulf, contem-
plate where Australia would be in the
event of Germany winning to victory.
Australia would still be in the same
place, but the Ilun would sit right
astride of Europe, cheek-by-jowl with John
Bull on the English Channel, and he would
be firmly established in South-Western Asia,
which is over against Egypt and India.
Darwin and Broome and Perth are very
close. And Rabaul is within talking dis-
tance of Bananaland, and various other
places on the continent’s coast are quite
handy. Tahiti and Samoa and New Cale-
donia are handy in the Pacific too, and the
Ilun could take the lot. All this is in the
balance —and more besides. Germany is
playing for keeps, and so must Australia.
The Imperial aspect of the fray is
not up for special consideration, but
the seven Cocked Hats that are. the out-
ward and visible signs of Imperialism before
Australians are at the lowest. estimate a
thousand times more cheerful circumstances
than would be the spectacle of seven Satraps
from Berlin.
* * * *
Australia can do without any satraps on
the premises and be much more comfortable
if the Pacific is not turned into a Germanic
lake with the Hun sitting with his feet in
the Suez Canal. In the absence of these
troubles she can endorse her hopes and ambi-
tions and work for realisation of her dreams
of nationhood. Any Australian who says
“No” to that is a poor and down-and-out
patriot. It is as certain as the next drink
that if the other people who are fighting and
dying for their own liberties, and incidentally
for the liberties of Australia, do not succeed
this country will have to fight it out on her
own soil. Our fight is for liberty and
preservation of our country from the horrors
of conquest.
* * * *
At a distance war is a hellful thing to
think about. At close quarters it is un-
speakable. Murder, starvation, arson, rape
-—crime and iniquity of every inconceivable
kind have trampled over Belgium, part of
France, Servia and Poland. There are no
dreams left in those territories. The pangs
and sufferings of the poor wretches who have
been torn under the harrow, the trials of
the French and Russian and British sol-
diery, the agonies of 18 months’ desperate
fighting have been endured, in part, for Aus-
tralia —have been incidents in the struggle
through which war has been kept from our
doorstep. It would be a cowardly lie to say
that the blood of these peoples struggling
for freedom against an armed aggressor is
upon their own heads ; that it is their fight
and not ours. They are fighting as man-
fully for Australian liberty and independence
as if they were doing it on Australian
ground. The Australian who hangs back
because of his “business” or his gift of the
gab in Parliament or his best girl should
face a mirror. It was announced the other
day that the German was buying up> the
children of Polish mothers by German sol-
diers—keeping up the national birthrate, so
to speak, with a depreciated currency. That
is one of the things war means. It would
mean something of the sort in Australia.
Which is a hard bullet to chew.
THE LUMBER BEHIND THE
TRENCHES.
When Xerxes invaded Europe with his
enormous Asiatic army and his generals
suffered their final defeat at Plateea the utter
collapse of the whole Persian war machine
was mainly due to the weight of lumber with
which the soldiers were encumbered. This
lumber consisted of masses of material of no
military significance and of which the out-
standing features were gold plate, concu-
bines and camels. When the Spartans,
Athenians and Tegeans forced the Persian
troops to run there were still enough fresh
Asiatics in the neighborhood-of the strife to'
have turned and walked down the compara-
tively small Greek army. A lot of the
Greeks in the background of the scrap did
not want to fight, and would have run away
most cheerfully if the Persians, whose
courage was never in doubt, had rallied and
made a second attack. But the Persians
couldn’t rally. After the breaking of their
first onset they were thrown back upon the
camp lumber and became hopelessly
entangled among the camels and sundries,
so that Pausanias, pushing briskly on, had
them utterly at his mercy. Yet the Persian
himself was the most mobile of soldiers. His
arms were light; and even if his discipline
didn’t run to modern shapes, he could move
himself with astonishing speed and vigor.
What he couldn’t do was to carry his ridi-
culous load of baggage and win big battles.
The blunder of the Persians has its
counterpart in Australia. In Xerxes’ time
an army sent to war fought in practical
independence of the country that despatched
it. It was enlisted, equipped, organised,
given the national blessing and told to go on
and shift for itself. Living by plunder, it
did shift for itself; and no war loans were
floated to keep it on the job. To-day the
whole method is changed. It is nations, not
armies, that fight, and the forces at the
front combine with those at the utmost limit
of the rear to see the undertaking through.
Australia, in the present struggle, is fighting
at Darling Downs and Cape Otway and
Coogee beach just as her mighty sons fought
at the landing at Gaba Tepe. and the encum-
brances that weigh upon her as a fighting
nation are greater than she can reasonably
be expected to carry.
* * * *
For instance, there’s the machinery of
government. In addition to the Federal
Parliament, with its two Chambers and
parties, and genius for dog-fights, the Com-
monwealth Government, the Governor-Gen-
eral, all _ the offices of administration
with their heads of departments and
bales of tape and mobs of clerks, there
are. six independent State Parliaments with
their Governments and Governors, each with
a similar mixed array of dependents, bosses,
•workers, loafers, pen-wipers and ushers of
the rod. Behind this seven-ring circus
are the political organisations which
profess to control the performers—leagues,
unions, associations, executive committees,
councils and all the rest. Beyond the Par-
liaments are the municipal and shire coun-
cils—each a Parliament in miniature—with
their mayors or chairmen, officers, offices
tape, clerks, tumblers and incapacitv.’
Beyond these again are the organisations of
a semi-official character which control li
pitals, libraries and other trusts • and Ini'
the list is not complete, for there are the r
corporations of Private Enterprise hn«f
with undertakings which so intimately ZJ
cern ordinary citizen life that they m jATi
well come within the scope of the State’
own energies. Superimposed np 0n ‘ the
whole is the mass of prejudice, custom eon
vention. cant, intrigue “graft,” patronage
and confusion of thought inseparable from
such a complication of political and civic
effort; and thrown as extra baggage on the
summit of all are the screechings of ardent
reformers eager to abolish beer, or gainbliny
or surf-bathing, or clothes, or meat, or work
or picture-postcards, and indifferent to all
things else so long as their special fad gets
the spotlight. And this entire load, \us
tralia as a nation at war is attempting to
drag after her at the moment when she
requires the greatest freedom of action to
hand the maximum of wallop to the foe.
Statesmen of more or less vision and
insight have been warning the nations' of
the need of economy, and there is a general
idea abroad that if you take a little less
sugar in your tea and rub the bathroom soap
on a little more lightly in the morning you
are practising a self-denial which must smite
the Kaiser where he lives. As a plain fact
private economy can count for very little in
the great struggle, while national economy
of effort may count for everything. Aus-
tralia has enormous work to do at home-
work that is really as vital to the success
with which she plays her part in the war
as the courage and resource of her troops at
the Front —and that work cannot be done
until the lumber is got rid of. The utter
uselessness of the State Governments and
Parliaments has been proved—if any proof
were necessary—by the fact that since the
war started they have been little more than
local agencies for the pawnshop; but
it is precisely in their relation to
the pawnbroking industry that these super-
fluous institutions are most dangerous to
Australia. Not all the camels and concu-
bines which followed the armies of Xerxes
were a greater menace to the rallying power
of the Persian fighters than the signed slips
of pa’per by which the State Governments
are bartering, away the future freedom of
action of the people of the Commonwealth.
* * * *
With the departure of each batch of Aus-
tralian soldiers to the Front the promise
rises above the cheers and the beers that the
stay-at-homes, who from age or disability or
disinclination do not join the fighting ranks,
will keep the flag flying at the national base.
We owe it to the soldier to do something
better. If he attempts to hurl obstacles
aside with a baybriet at the risk of his life
it is up to us to femove other and nearer
obstacles by a little wholesome political
work in the safety of our place behind
the trenches. To do nothing because the
men at the Front are doing so much is about
the rottenest way of showing our apprecia-
tion of their heroism. To clear the lumber
out of the camp in order that the nation
may be able to rally and keep on rallying
to the last limit of its fighting strength is
not only a legitimate war-time job. but a
task that it. is dishonest to those in the
fighting ranks to neglect or delay.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Conscription.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It has to be, in storm, or calm, or breezes
That fan a land in indolence to sleep;
It has to be, where poverty or ease is,
And vice in hilltop homes or alleys deep.
Ir has to be, in real or fancied danger,
In fixed and sure, or false security—
Where Sport is God! ’tis patent to the
stranger
Who’s roamed the world and knows —It hat
to be!
It has to be while city weeds in dozens —
All thoughts of home and manliness forgot
Stare at the painted star that tempts and
cozens,
And spit between the race-board and the pot;
lii city bars, where fat-fed, narrow workers,
And well-paid billet loafers, and the like,
Can talk —the moral cowards and the
shirkers!—•
Of nothing but the races or the strike!
It has to be, though lying politicians —
While jobs are engineered and billets made
Drag statecraft down, to save their snug
positions.
Much lower than the meanest lawyer's trade :
And honest institutions —while their
founders
Turn in their honored graves amongst the
great—•
Are used to advertise the blatant bounders
And criminals and fools who run the State.
It has to be ! —while honest eyes grow dim m
The wasted West, where strive Australia s
friends;
And politicians fool our cackling women
And lead them on —to serve their wretched
ends.
While Gent. One plots or in the Chamber
drowses.
Whence come the laws that prey on misery.
O land of mine, accursed by fourteen Houses
Of Parliament, Conscription has to be.
While each good cause —our own brave sick
and wounded —
The widows and the orphans —Cubist Him-
self—•
Is pounced upon, and its first soldiers
hounded.
For paltry self-advertisement or pelf;
While every scheme conceived to serve Aus-
tralia
Is stolen from the hands that seem to win*
And “fathered,” spieled, and tinselled with
regalia.
And staffed by cliques official and their kin.
It’s got to be! While Greed drags to the
city ,
A nation’s health and strength and wean t
and life f
To grease the hogs who have uo thought o
Pity


A Plot that Miscarried,
This is one of the most elaborate schemes
to prejudice recruiting that The Bulletin
lias met so far. By last mail it received
from the U.S.A. this document: —
APPLICATION FOR EMPLOYMENT with
Wallaroo, Moonta and Northern Railway Company of
Australia. Construction Organisation Office.
Room 1509, Great Northern Building.
To the General Manager,—
j make application for employ-
ment as a to serve for a term of two
vears on the work in Australia. *
' Salarv expected with board, lodging, medical
attendance, etc., $ per month. (U.S. Cur-
rency.)
\ge Married or Single Where
born” Height Weight
Color of Eyes Color of Hair
Present State of Health
Give full information as to former construction
work positions held, salaries received and companies
worked for References
Note. —Give full account of former railway, river
or harbor work. If married, write personal letter
to General Manager, applying for transportation at
companies’ rates, and terms upon which families will
be taken. Give full description of family. The
country is as healthy as the one you now live in,
but new and very lightly settled. Good small com-
pany houses will be provided for families. Use the
other side of this sheet for any further information.
Along with this application form came a
letter alleged to be from “Disgusted Brit-
isher,” written by a person who gave a
Chicago address, deploring that Australian
employers should be importing “blacklegs”
from the U.S.A. to jump into the positions
of those who are enlisting. A sample sen-
tence from the letter of this “Disgusted
Britisher”: —•
The contracts entered into at the agents’ office in
Chicago are for a period of two years certain, with
an extension to five years. So when the heroes
return from the trenches at the end of the war they
will have the doubtful pleasure of walking the
streets looking for work, their families starving,
during which time the American blackleg will have
a good position and have been able to ship home a
goodly portion of the wages he has received during
the time the Australian workman has been giving
his time and risking his life for the defence of the
Empire.
It is of course suggested by the “Disgusted
Britisher” of Chicago that The Bulletin
and through it the labor unions should give
this attack upon the jobs of Australian re-
cruits wide publicity. But unfortunately
for this elaborate scheme to scare Australian
workmen from enlisting, the German plotters
didn’t know quite enough. For instance: —
(1) There is no such co. in Australia as the Wal-
laroo, Moonta and Northern Railway Co. There is
a Wallaroo and Moonta Mining and Smelting Co.
But this co. is not building any railway, and is not
importing any men.
(2) The co. is alleged to be building “a new rail-
way line in S. Australia from a pointy near Point
Peary to the copper-mining country.” No such rail-
way has been authorised in S. Australia; no co.
whatever, of that or any other name, has been
authorised to construct a railway; and there is no
Point Peary. It is no doubt the nearest some badly-
informed German could get to Port Pirie.
(3) Our “Disgusted Britisher” says the co. is
shipping on January 19, from Vancouver, “a large
corps of mechanics, artificers, engineers, train crews,
superintendents of construction and others.” Only
one steamer left Vancouver on January 19 or any-
where near that date. That was the Niagara. She
arrived at Sydney on Friday last, and the “large
corps of mechanics,” etc., wasn’t aboard her. In
fact, she brought no such corps, large or little, to
work for a co. that doesn’t exist, on a railway > that
hasn’t been authorised, from a place which isn’t on
the map.
(4) Finally, our “Disgusted Britisher” remarks
that this infamy of importing blacklegs to jump
into the jobs of recruits wouldn’t be possible in the
U.S.A., for “it is a penal offence to contract with
foreign tradesmen whilst thev are residing out of
the U.S. What a pity,” he adds, “Australia has not
a similar law!” What is a pity is that the German
secret-service in the U.S.A. hasn’t been better in-
formed about Australian law. Australia has such
a law; and had the Germans known of that they
wouldn’t have wasted their valuable time on a
scheme which therefore bursts itself.
Now, what is the serious lesson for Aus-
tralia from all this? Or the lessons? For
there appears to be more than one. The
first is that Australia counts. Germany is
so much interested in putting . a stop to
recruiting in Australia that it is prepared
to go to a whole lot of trouble and expense
to hold the recruit back —if not altogether,
then for a few months. In order to do this
the enemy is prepared to lie brazenly, and
use any instrument, no matter how dis-
honest. If it is worth so much to Germany
to hold Australians back, it must be of
great importance to our own nation that
we should come forward promptly. The
more the enemy wants to keep us aw T ay
obviously the more anxious we should be to
go. That is the first lessson. And the
second is that the German method is not
so perfect, after all. In the face of the
awful blunders of our own leaders, we are
apt to think that the Germans commit none;
and we feel gloomy in consequence. But
here is proof that there is a good deal, of
the painted putty about German organisa-
tion. The central idea of this plot, for
instance, is fine: the German couldn’t more
effectively stop the recruit than by showing
him that his job is to be collared by foreign
blacklegs imported for the purpose. But
ia working out the plot a blunder tvas made
at every step, which makes its complete
exposure a matter of comparative ease. And
from that we can draw consolation when we
remember the blunders of our own side.
♦
Britain’s Trouble in the East.
One of the most deplorable errors of the
British Ministry was in hesitating to treat
lurkey, dominated by the Young Turk
party, as the admitted ally of Germany
from the first day of the war. Turkey was
bound to stand or fall with Germany. Whilst
Sir Edward Grey was corresponding with
Constantinople and uttering empty “warn-
ings ' of what would befall Turkey if it
turned against its old party-governed Allies
Britain and France—the policy of the
loung Turks admitted of no question. Their
interests, as they see them, were bound up
with Germany’s. Turkey’s entry into the
war as the Kaiser’s ally was inevitable, yet
Bull’s Government pretended to have hopes
of averting this danger to Britain’s Empire
in the East. While it was trying to con-
ceal the truth the befooled public was con-
tent to babble of business and beer
as usual when the country should
have been resounding with a cry for
conscription.. A year or more of
national enlightenment was lost to Britain
by the Asquith-Grey policy of representing
Turkey in the first place as a probable neu-
tral, and in the second place as an almost
negligible quantity. Indeed, the war was
more than a year old when Kitchener,
voicing a Government-framed speech, said,
“There is . abundant evidence of growing
demoralisation among the German-led, or
rather German-driven, Turks.” But the
Turks were not and are not German-driven.
The glaring truth of the matter is that the
Turkish Government has been Germany’s
subservient but enthusiastic ally for a dozen
years, its friend for nearly 20 years, its
business sympathiser for nearly 30 years.
In 1888 a German co. obtained the conces-
sion of a 99 years’ lease of a railway which
it was to construct on Turkish territory, and
thereupon the Deutsche Bank first became
the country’s benefactor. In 1893 the same co.
got a further concession for more railway
making, and in 1898 the Kaiser went to
Constantinople and “squared” the Sultan’s
advisers once and for all. In 1903 the
Baghdad raijway exploiters, who are prac-
tically the Kaiser, his Government, and the
national bank of Germany (especially the
bank) got their charter, and the alliance
between the two countries was completed.
Gladstone seems to have been primarily
responsible for Britain’s loss of influence
in Turkish affairs. One Colonel Chesney
projected a British-owned railway from the
Mediterranean to the Persian Gulf almost
as soon as railways were invented. He was
much too previous. But in 1872 the father
of Australia’s late G.-G. Northcote urged
the Chesney scheme upon his colleagues in
the Gladstone Government, and it might
have been adopted by a subsequent Beacons-
field or Salisbury Government had not
Gladstone railed at Abdul and all his
works. Turkey looked for a new pal, and
the Kaiser came along. The mutual admira-
tion society led William to dream that his
Eastern Empire in embryo was secure, and
the Sick Man to reckon that his health and
strength would be restored, and that he would
be a future partner in Eastern splendor.
Some dreams come true, but Billiam’s and
brother Abdul’s is a bad debt.
The Parsimonious Habit of Saving.
.Judging by the rigmaroles already issued
by the Government’s Publicity and Dupli-
city Departments, Andrew Fisher will be
heard saying something like this at the next
Big Meal:—•
The enthusiasm with which you have honored the
toast, proposed by the Agent-General for N. S. Wales,
wishing success to the latest loan issued by that
State amounting to £1 3s. 4d., encourages me to
believe that the financial institutions of Great
Britain will gladly seize this opportunity of making
sound investments and assisting one of the great
over-sea dependencies to carry on the splendid work
of development embarked upon a hundred years
ago. The money is most urgently required to put
new spikes in 17 railway-sleepers over which, after
being seized, the harvest is railed to the seaboard
for shipment to our kinsmen in the Old Land.
(Applause.) When completed this work will lead
to material savings, the great need for economy being
fully recognised by our seven Australian Parlia-
ments. (Cheers.)
Gentlemen, have you ever considered the enormous
savings made by Australian politicians in the man-
agement of public affairs? (Voices: We have not.)
Very well. Then I will tell you something about
them, though I am afraid it will not be possible to
do more than touch the fringe of the subject.
You will be glad to know that in the ample free-
dom of Australia efficiency is not made a fetich.
If a thousand inefficient officials cannot do their
work a thousand assistants can be secured to give
them a hand. If in our great postal service a letter
is lost someone can always go and look for it. Nor
is making ends meet considered to be the primary
object in our Administration. It is infinitely easier
not to make ends meet—(applause)—and thus re-
lieve the staff from too close an application to mere
routine, which the Postmaster-General recently re-
marked has a deleterious effect on men and women
who eat pastry for lunch. (Sensation.) During the
last two years the savings to the people through the
Australian Post Office being conducted on the en-
lightened principles of modern thought amount to
£1,267,194 13s. 2d. It is a remarkable record of
what may be done by people who have emancipated
themselves from the shackles of precedent. This
sum has apparently been lost; but that is merely a
book-keeping illusion. It remains in the pockets of
the people, and instead of being taken from them has
been made good by the transfer of a similar amount
from the Treasurer’s eashbox, where the loan and
the proceeds of taxation lie in beauty side by side.
Had this £1,267,194 13s. 2d. been taken over the
counter, the public would not have had it to pay in
over another counter.
Then there are the other savings which result from
not spending money. If instead of borrowing
£27,000,000 we borrow only £20,000,000, there
is a direct saving of the interest on £7,000,000.
Then, instead of asking a citizen to pay £l5 income-
tax, we need touch him for only £l4 ; so the citizen
has 20s. of saving to invest in real estate on easy
terms. And when a deputation demands the erec-
tion of a new police station at Hangman’s Hill, to
cost £2652 plus the price of removing the old hut,
a saving to the community is immediately secured by
putting up the edifice at a cost of £4637 2s. 4d.,
because it will last longer than the other one. These
savings amount to a sum stupendous in the aggre-
gate—(cheers) —and when added to those achieved
in other ways are a striking testimony to the dis-
interested labors of Australian statesmanship.
Profits have at times been made out of railways, it
is true; but these have been achieved by Commis-
sioners who tha&tened to slay politicians on the
doorstep. TMfjfprofits have their compensations,
moreover; because if they had not been made the
citizens would have expended the savings on im-
ported lager beer and asparagus, and thus impover-
ished themselves. (Hear, hear.) Thus through having
saved nothing by not losing on the railways, the
virtues of thrift have been inculcated, and money
which might have been diverted to the enemy has
been utilised in maintaining the machinery of gov-
ernment in a comprehensive form at seven places.
The cost of running 14 Houses of Parliament in
Australia was last year £725,265; two years before
it was £684,391 ; two years later it will be
£1,000,000. Had it not been for the economy
effected in not sanctioning larger expenditure it
would last year have been £942,637, so it is easily
seen that the saving on that one year alone has been
£217,372, which the people have been able to
employ in reproductive industry until such time as
it is required for the maintenance of our great
Parliamentary institutions.
If the world only knew what Australia is saving
by borrowing, importing, going on strike, losing, not
making, failing to acquire and declining to spend, we
should find it much easier work to persuade Cohen
to swallow this p.n. for £1 3s. 4d., which our great
and enlightened State of N. S. Wales has now the
honor to offer him. (Hooray.)
+ ——_
The Deceitful Lawyer-Politician.
Thebe is at least one bond of sympathy
between W. M. Hughes and most of
the politicians he will confer with in
England. The Prime Minister, the Home
Secretary, the Minister of Muntions, the
Chancellor of the Exchequer, the Sec. for
Ireland, the Financial Secretary to the War
Office, and the Under-secretaries for the
Home Office, Treasury and Foreign Affairs
are all lawyers. And, of course, the
Attorney- and Solicitors-General are in the
same professional boat. The worst of it is
that all of them, except Lloyd Geokge,
have the cramped legal mind which, happily,
is not the special characteristic of Hughes.
What’s the matter with them was candidly
stated by veteran G. R. Sims lately:—
The reason why plain men distrust lawyer-politi-
cians is because their code of honor differs from that
of plain average men; because lawyer-politicians
deceived the country about the implacable hatred of
Germany for England ; because lawyer-politicians in
time of peace refused to prepare for the war they
knew was coming; and because in time of war they
revealed ineradicable incapacity for the task of lead-
ing the nation.
The first point in Sims’s indictment is the
one to be particularly noted by voters before
they go to the poll. The average lawyer’s
code of honor differs from that of plain
average men, which difference has got
Britain into an unlovely mess. Lawyer
Haldane, now that he has been pushed out
of politics by public indignation, condemns
himself and his learned brethren by saying
that after his last visit to Germany he did
at least warn the Cabinet of Germany’s in-
tentions. It’s an awful accusation for Hal-
dane to lay against the lawyer gang of
which he was then a leading light, and from
which Lloyd Geokge, seemingly, was boy-
cotted. He didn’t feel in honor bound to
sound the alarm as Lord Roberts had
vainly sounded it. He just revealed his
knowledge to lawyer Asquith and Co., and
they all agreed to keep it dark for party
government’s sake. In other words, they
were afraid to tell their peace-at-any-price
supporters that vast military preparations
were needed ; afraid to tell their Irish party
supporters that something of more- urgent
importance than Home Rule was in the air;
afraid to tell their Labor party supporters
that the masses and the classes were sharing
a common peril. Afraid to tell the unpalat-
able truth lest the Opposition party should
throw them out of office. They were lawyers,
and they suppressed the truth.
■ ♦
“Hamer” : Barring his bad old habit of
breaking agreements by going on strike, the
coalminer was always considered to carry a
sound consignment of bluff honesty, but
lately he seems to have been mixing it with
more subtlety than usual. The new agree-
ment between the proprietors and the miners,
wffiich came into force directly it was drawn
up in December, says rather rashly that
there are to be no more strikes; and there
have been strikes ever since. When the
secretary of the Newcastle Miners Delegates’
Board wrote to the Proprietors’ Association
the other day to inquire about a conference
it had been arranged to hold to settle the
interpretation of some clauses, the Proprie-
tors wrote back politely mentioning the no-
strike clause, and inquired if the district
officers had sanctioned the latest disturbances.
The secretary of the Delegate Board replied
that, after all, the agreement had not yet
been signed on behalf of the miners —which
was a pretty fine point to take. The coal
barons, who in the old days were usually
in the wrong, choked hard at this calm
assurance that an “agreement” that has been
in force for a couple of months as far as they
were concerned, did not yet bind the other
side. When they quite recovered their
breath they intimated that until the scrap of
paper was signed and made binding, it was
little use holding a conference to decide what
parts of it meant.
*
That was a good old gag that Minister for
Customs Tudor worked off the other day on
a Victorian deputation which asked him
what he thought about Australia doing with-
out the multitudinous import a little more
frequently. The point of his reply was that
unless ships could be induced to come along
full they wouldn’t be available to send away
again in the same condition. This is a
mighty queer sort of argument, and means,
among other things, that the more Australia
has to sell the more she must buy from
someone else —that it is good business for
Australia to pay freight on a motor-car made
abroad, because by doing so the freight on
a hindquarter of beef will be less than other-
wise, since the carrier will be laden both
ways and everyone get an advantage there-
from. If, holding this view, Tudor can be
expected to father a tariff that will really
do the sort of thing the Australian tariff
should do, it looks as if he will first have to
come into serious collision with his senti-
ments. Australia is exporting what the
people who buy cannot do without or are
not providing for themselves —wheat, meat,
butter, wool, metals and so on. Australia
is mostly buying either what she ought to be
doing without, because the cash to pay for it
is a p.n., or what she ought to be making on
the spot. She is paying through the nose
for it. If Australia is ever going to even
up the ledger a start will have to he made
sometime or other to save paying foreign
ships freight on the goods the foreigner
makes, because allowing him to pay the
freight on his chops and his wheat is an
infinitely more paying proposition to the
people at the producing end than getting rid
of the cash therefrom on acquiring cargoes
of boots and umbrellas. And in any case
the great mass of Australian exports is
mostly in an excessively bulky form —raw
wool, unrefined metal, cereals instead of
flour. It could all be packed into half the
space with great profit to everyone except
the foreign buyer and shipowner.
While many Australians are pottering about
on the surface Maoriland Federation gets
right down to bedrock with the missing
definition of conscription of wealth, thus: —
It means that the land, mines, mills, factories, ships,
banks and all the collectively-used means of wealth-
production shall be seized and operated for the collec-
tive benefit of the people during the war, and shall
remain the property of the people after the war.
And this is what is recommended as a pre-
liminary to national military service for the
purpose of defending life and liberty from
immediate destruction. It may be an honest
proposition, but it looks something mighty
different. Anyhow The Bulletin finds it
desperately hard work to believe that _ any
apnreciable number of reasonably sane indi-
viduals can be found in Maoriland or any-
where else who would argue that such a
scheme is other than chimerical to the last
degree. . How could it be started V Where
is the machinery for carrying it on? Where
the Socialised brains to run so gigantic a
Socialised trust? The meaning of it all is
to nlunge right into Socialism in its most
advanced form, without a scheme of opera-
tions —which is just about as sensible as
the performance of the misguided individual
who first conceived the idea of aerial flight
and, fitting himself with a distended bladder
and two large fans affixed to his elbows,
leaped off a high place. The remains were re-
moved by the local dustman. The Labor
party of M.L. might profitably cut out
the high flights and get to more tangible
business. Urging the State to pay its way,
for instance, is an item whispering for con-
sideration.
——
The latest thing to strike trouble in Maori-
land owing to the war is the Wanganui
River. Years back it was a fine stream —
one of the islands’ scenic wonders. But the
various Illiberal Governments were so busy
scrambling for loans and feeding land sharks
that they had no time to think about preser-
vation of such a splendid asset. The
result was that speculators and cockies ran
up and down the banks in droves with axes
and firesticks, destroying millions of pounds’
worth of scenery and feeding cows on the
ruins. So most of the catchment area
ceased to do its job and the river decided to
become a creek. The scenery on the lower
reaches had of course vanished for ever, but
as some special stuff had escaped annihila-
tion on the upper reaches of the stream a
loan was frantically seized from Cohen to
restore the Wanganui into a permanent and
reproductive work. And while this wad of
cash was being blewed on one side of the
asset, cockies were allowed to cut the bush
to the skyline on the onnosite side, and to
light fires that ran amok and licked up the
loan scenery. Therefore the upper part of the
Wanganui has become a mere trickle and the
tourist steamers haul themselves over the
dampness with ropes. So at present P.
Enterprise, who runs the steamers, is howl-
ing for someone to capture the vanishing
wetness before it entirely evaporates, the
River Trust is howling to someone else for
help, and the cow proprietors are wailing
that, unless their animals get more scenery
to eat they will perish. All of which is
according to the law and the prophets and
the maniacal policy of preserving the great
natural resources with an axe and a box of
matches and a p.n.
For Britain the war has killed and buried
with derision the tattered remnants of her
belief in Freetrade. Even George Reid sits
on the side of the House of Commons which
professes its faith in tariff reform and repre-
sents a constituency that never did give a
tuppenny damn for the glorious gospel of
Cobden. On top of rumors of 60 per cent,
duties comes one that the Government pro-
poses to prohibit the importation of moving-
picture films altogether. If it becomes law
this will give a big lift to some people in the
Cold Country who are feeling the pinch
pretty badly. There are an enormous num-
ber of returned soldiers and soldiers yet in
the making who need the cheap entertain-
ment the picture show offers ; and most of
these have hitherto been fed on the same
American spectacular fodder which reels it-
self off nightly in Australia. So the British
trade in film-making may revive, and a few
actors out of a job may earn a crust, as well
as a few other people who can think out
picture plots. It might even happen that
the Commonwealth Government will take
a page out of the English Book of National
Salvation and go in for the same reform.
There is always hope when a country can
seriously face the tremendous task of doing
something for itself.
According to Minister Tudor the time has
not yet arrived to follow the lead of the
British Government in limiting the impor-
tation of non-essentials and luxuries. He
says the effect of the slight increases in
the Customs duties, of December, ’l4, are
beginning to have their effect, the importa-
tions of beer having decreased by about 3
per cent, and whisky by about 14 per cent..
while apparel and furniture also showed
large decreases. Likely enough, but the
population has also temporarily decreased
considerably, a good lot of it having gone
to certain dug-outs where longsleevers are a
sweet, by-gone dream, and furniture is an
obstruction. Also, in spite of these de-
creased importations Australia last year
had to send away several millions of pounds
sterling to pay for the excess of imports
over exports. When that promised tariff
finally arrives it will have to be built on
lines that will not only absolutely shut out
all enemy products but also non-essentials
and luxuries. Australia is going to find out
Something about the simple life for the next
decade, if not longer.
For nation, shop-slaves, husband, child or
While 'plate-glass rag-shop windows spread-
jng faster
The great importing craze that has no name,
murder, rape and misery and disaster
rjy, advertise their “business” —and our
shame.
Make men of weeds! Give muscle thought
and feeling ! ■ .
Reduce the Fat that goes in making men.
Give brains to brawn! The pregnant time
is stealing - .
Close to our shores—Ah ! you shall know it
then! ' ,
Fear not the plunge!—lf we can only strike
it
The track is clear to perfect nationhood.
Vn d you’ll get used to discipline and like it,
For I "was disciplined and found it good.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


GAELIC WHISKY
the old smuggler
Recallable
bottle.
GAELIC
The Perfect Whisky
.. . in ...
The Perfect Bottle.
DISTILLED IN THE
HIGHLANDS of SCOTLAND.
THE GItEEN ROOM PICTORIAL STAGE ANNUAL,
No. 1, to be published early in March, will be the
biggest and brightest thing of its kind ever pro-
duced in Australasia. Literary and artistic contents
unexceptionable. Among the illustrations, Mr. Harry
Julius at his best and gayest. Some very interesting
and curious autographs. Queer and ticklesome facts
and fancies about a host of old and young stagers.
Merry reading for joyous souls of all ages. Pictures
that will make old men young again. No other
Annual so frolicsome, so pungent, so sprightly, so
glad, so stimulating. The best of all savories for
breakfast in bed. Post free to any address in Aus-
tralasia. 1/- (Edition De Luxe, 1/6), Green Room
Co., Box 160, G.P.0., Sydney.*
The Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
TVsrwAvJi^ C r? ldeSt Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
INSURANCES EFFECTED FOR
WnrklTr 1 ' Accident ’ Hailstone, Live Stock,
Head Offiee m- J * S Compensation, Plate Glass, etc., at Lowest Rates.
iner Pitt and King streets, Sydney. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
“Nemo” : For a couple or three generations
everybody in Melbourne heard of and knew
the Quirks, of Carlton Gardens. “The old
man,” the progenitor of the family, was well
known in Melbourne in the 50’s of last cen-
tury. lie was a sort of private banker.
(Anybody who is a sort of private banker is
always reasonably well known.) Mrs.
Quirk survived her husband a generation.
Billy, her son, was years ago a well-known
sprightly character in Melbourne society.
Fanny, who was educated in the convent on
the east side of the Carlton Gardens, and
who did a bit of acting on occasion, is now
in Berne, Switzerland. News comes from
her that she has been under treatment for
heart weakness, and is practically always in
bed. She is in a hospital conducted by
Swiss nuns, and at one end of the garden
the Papal Delegate has quarters. “He is a
fast friend of Australia’s Papal Delegate
Ceretti, and tells me ‘you could not have an
abler man for the post.’ ”
If the Australian soldier is a devil to fight,
lie's a very polite devil. When Abdul, finally
deciding that it wasn't a trap, walked into
the deserted trenches he found this com-
munique at headquarters of one of the Light
Horse brigades:—
To Commander,
Turkish Forces,
Gallipoli, Turkey.
The Brigadier presents his compliments to our
worthy Turkish opponents, and offers those who first
honor his quarters with their presence such hospi-
tality as is in his power to give, regretting that he
is unable personally to welcome.
After a pleasant sojourn of seven months in Gal-
lipoli we propose to take some little relaxation at
that period in which we are instructed by a Higher
Rower to observe “Goodwill towards all men,” and
in bidding au revoir to our honorable foes we Aus-
tralians desire to express appreciation of the fine
soldierly qualities of our Turkish opponents, and of
the sportsmanlike manner in which they have partici-
pated in a very interesting contest, honorable, we
trust, to both sides.
For a little we have been with you, yet a little
while and you shall see us not. For us it is a
matter of deep regret that the ancient friendship
so long existing between the British and Turkish
Empires should have been thus disturbed and broken
by the insidious machinations of the arch-enemy of
humanity.
We have left this area and trenches in which we
have taken considerable trouble and pride, clean and
in good order, and we would be grateful if they may
be so maintained until our return, particular care
being asked in regard to matters of sanitation so
vital to the health and well-being of an army.
We hope that you will find the wine, coffee,
tobacco, cigarettes and food to your taste, and a
supply of fuel has been left in the cupboard to
ameliorate in some measure your discomfort during
the cold watches of the winter.
Our only request is that no member of the nation
who was guilty of the inhuman murder of that noble
woman Miss Edith Cavell, to whose portrait this
message is attached, will be permitted to pollute
with his presence the quarters of soldiers who have
never yet descended to such barbarous and ruthless
methods.
On the mess-room table was spread a ban-
quet of available foods, wines and tobacco.
Said Abdul in astonishment: “Allah is great,
but these Australians are wonderful!”
“F.N.T.” The Red Cross Society, Vic., is
a reserved and exclusive body all right.
During the first monthly meeting of the
new council, held the other day at Govern-
ment House, the mat outside was reserved
for the press. Afterwards a polite, lady-
like, and everybod.v-satisfied “report” of the
meeting was handed to the newspapers. It
isn’t good enough. Australia has handed
over vast sums for Red Cross purposes and
should know every detail of what is being
done, but not a solitary mention of finance
was made in the story given to the public.
Of course, if the object is to make the pub-
lic weary in well-doing with its spare cash
then I’ve no complaint to make. I'm quite
satisfied.
News of the loss of three lives by the cap-
size of a motor-launch on the bar at Camden
Haven (N.S.W.) again brings up the ques-
tion of whether the Government should not
try to prevent these sacrifices. Last year
seme half dozen lives were thrown away in
a similar accident at the Tweed, and there
had been numerous fatalities before that.
The list of capsizes at the bar entrances is
a long one, but mostly the occupants are
washed ashore alive. Public attention isn’t
then attracted to the circumstance. The
average motor-launch is not built for sea
work. Usually the helmsman of some fish-
ing party when taking the bar thinks of
something else than his job for half a sec-
ond. The launch, built for inside work,
sags in the seaway—perhaps the engine
fails at the critical moment —and one of
the rollers arrives on board. That is the
end of the section. The law, which fines a
citizen £2 for risking his life on a moving
train or eating typhoid oysters, looks calmly
on this practice of suicide indulged in by
owners of motor-boats on bar harbors. That’s
the sort of foolery the law is famous for.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “So Long, Letty”
Criterion “Under Fire”
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Garden The Dandies
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
The White City Various Shows
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Mother Goose”
Royal “It. Pays to Advertise”
Kino’s “The Waybacks”
Princess’s “Hamlet”
Bijou Fuller Vaudeville
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt's Own & Olympia Hoyt’s Pictures
A voiceless “Carmen” will apnear at Syd-
ney Royal next Saturday. J. C. William-
son, Ltd., having gone in for pictures, the
old Royal has finished for the time being
with players in the flesh ; nowadays it wants
only their canned ghosts that walk cheaply
by lantern-light.
The man who makes the thunder should
never go on the stage. Ashmead Bartlett
reverberated through Australia without being
seen. Then he came in front of a big map
at Sydney Town Hall on Saturday night, and
in half an hour there .were hundreds who
wished he hadn’t. His printed message, the
first we had from Gallipoli, thrilled a con-
tinent. Ilis spoken word probably thrilled
nobody at all. It would seem difficult to
talk to Australians for a couple of hours
about Anzac and Lonesome Pine (or Lone
Tine, as Mr. Bartlett calls it) and Gabe
“MAVOURNEEN," AT SYDNEY
ADELPHI.
Kathleen (Ethel Buckley) dreams that her
Terence (Gerald E. Griffin) is about to be
shot by comic supers.
Tope and Shrapnel Valley without catching
the throat of the listener at some time or
other. But Mr. Bartlett accomplished it.
The lecture had other qualities, certainly. It
was a clear, passionless account of a Great
Conception, of the original naval failure and
of all the subsequent land attempts to get
to Constantinople by another road. That
sort of thing, though the audience might feel
all the better for it the next day, was not
calculated to sweep anybody oft his feet.
For even the few personal touches in his
first general survey of the campaign the lec-
turer depended mostly upon a lame “General
Walker told me’’ —and what General Walker
told him was merely that So-and-so had “be-
haved most gallantly.” As Mr. Bartlett gets
farther into his lectures he may perhaps
rouse his audience with more dramatic
stories of heroic attack and defence. On his
first appearance he was anoarently ■well con-
tent to make his matter simply lucid and
informative, his manner merely pleasant.
* si; * *
The first of Gerald E. Griffin’s series of
Irish plays was produced at Sydney Adelphi
on Saturday. “Mavourneen” is a pleasing
trifle which chiefly serves to give the
vocalist-actor (Griffin is placed in that
order) many opportunities to burst into
delightful Irish melody. His “Kathleen
Mavourneen,” “Griffin’s Love Song” and
“The Valley of the Shannon” in particular
stirred the mostly-Celtic audience to clamor
for more. The satisfying of the demands
for his songs will probably be Griffin’s only
worry at the Adelphi for the next few weeks.
* $ $ $
“Under Fire,” at the Oiterion, is recom-
mended to the following: All music-lovers
who want to hear (1) “The Watch of the
Swine,” played by a military band; (2) all
returned soldiers who have lost their voices—
miracles performed every night; (3) recruit-
ing sergeants. There is apparently a platoon
of young men on the stage in Hun uniform,
admirably drilled.
“UNDER FIRE," AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
The German villain (Ian Maclaren) orders
the execution of Innkeeper Jimmy
Athohwood.
Any playgoer wandering into Her
Majesty's (Sydney) will find “So Long,
Letty” still flourishing its numerous and
well-appointed legs and singing at the top of
its voice.
Pearl Ladd and Villiers Arnold, late of
the J.C.W. Gilbert and Sullivan Opera Co.,
are now singing at Sydney Tivoli, where
Barton and Ashley are providing some
cheerful madness labelled “Money Talks.”
On the same bill and on the same side of it
stands Miguel Sclierbelis. wrestler and
strong man, who solemnly breaks iron and
tears armorplate to pieces. The young
American couple who harmonise soulfully
in Yankee would do well to try some other
language, and the well-nourished comedian
who imitates the loose-limbed singing coon
sets one guessing what modern U.S. music
would have been like if the old-timers hadn’t
imported cheap black labor for the planta-
tions. On Friday afternoon the Tivoli will
house the complimentary matinee tendered
by the profession to Mrs. Edward Ranier.
** * *
The Australian drama is to break out in a
new form at the Palace on Feb. 26. when the
characters in Edward Dyson’s famous book,
Fact ry Ands. will make their first appear-
ance on any stage.
* * * *
Branscombe’s Green Dandies (Sydney)
are at the old address in William-street. The
only thing new about the pleasant open-air
show is the change each Thursday. That’s
new weekly. If there were two'Thursdavs
in a week there would be two changes of pro-
gramme weekly.
** * *
The White City (Sydney) has succumbed
\°* he "' ar s economy spirit, and for to-night
Thursday) it offers the whole outfit, from
turnstile to mountain-top. for three shillings,
10-morrow it will resume its bad old habit
of providing a whole night’s riot of fun in
almost a score of shows at the usual modest
figure.
** * *
.At the Princess’s (Melb.) the inkv cloak
or Ilamlet casts its shadow before.' mean-
while the besotted complexion of Othello
glooms in the limelight. Allan Wilkie and
co. are giving followers of the Shakspeare
stable a good run for their money with the
Moor. \ lewing this matter of' “Othello”
from the grandstand one sees all the pas-
sions of the human race running strong Ol 1
Brabantio goes for futile parental indigna-
tion. Logo expresses envy, hatred, malice
and all uncharitableness. Roderigo has the
inane Johnnie s passion for being a devil of a
fellow. Lassio falls a victim to drink De«
demona carries hero-worship to an unnatural
«trem P , and Othjllo-wcll. P ev er yb od °“now
that he goes mad with jealousv. He’s the
most unreasonable slave of the green-eved
monster that ever breathed suspicion. He
diags the orthodox insanity of Love into
utter disrepute. That’s where Allan Wilkie’s
conception of the character proves thn
roughly effective. He seems most loving
when he s maddest. The strange thing L
that he doesn’t commit suicide the m™»nt
he has killed his wife in order that htaown
fatal wound might be inoculated with her
ASHMEAD BARTLETT.
blood, so to speak. But be mustn’t run
counter to the author apparently. ll e is
bound to follow stage instructions. Shaks-
peare required that the most jealous hubby
in literature should become a mere inconsis-
tent murderer after he had done for Desde-
mona, and stand around her bedside until an
audience had gathered to hear his
last immortal speech. Friday will see the
last of the loving couple who married in
haste and were buried together. On Satur-
day they will figure as Ilamlet and his
young lady.
* * * *
Some alterations are said to have been
made in the panto, at Her Majesty’s (Melb.)
of late, though whatever the alterations
were they didn’t extend to the comedians’
personalities, nor disturb the deadly dulness
of their dualogue. The two acrobats who
shake things up at the finish have added a
clever trick to their repertoire, otherwise the
second part of the panto’s fitful fever com-
pared just as unfavorably with the first part
as it did two months ago. The singing of
Maud Fane, Gladys Moncrieff and Lilian De
Venny are still the most gratifying part of
the entertainment as far as the public ear
is concerned. The ballets continue to be
moderately bewitching. Also, “Mother
Goose” retains its popularity at the pay
boxes, where money talks. It talks a lot of
nonsense at times. The matinee and the
evening are in the ninth week.
sfc # #
“Charley’s Aunt.” at the King's, will close
the Melbourne chapter of the Glad Eye
comedians on Friday this week. Business
became inspiring at the Bert Bailey theatre
as soon as the bogus lady from Brazil started
to draw her black satin skirt up to her trou-
sered knees and flee the glowing Pettigrew
with flying feet. She has the bubble reputa-
tion which time cannot steal nor custom stale.
Besides, Melbourne has not met “Charley’s
Aunt” for many years, so the chances of
being re-introduced to the droll farce put
• through by Ford, Shelford. Bradley and cO.
is not to be missed. On Saturday the adven-
tures of the “Waybaeks At Home and In
Town” will be staged by Philip Lytton. who
has formed himself into a limited co. since
the last time Melbourne saw 7 him.
“It Pays to Advertise” will be the motto
at the Royal until further notice. There’s
an unwonted American cleanness about the
Soap comedy. The eternal talk of dollars
has no offence in it, and although one of
the ladies is a “crook” none of the men are
members of the New Yark police.
*
Chas. Edenbury, a Yankee balancer, is the
most satisfying newcomer at Melbourne
Bijou. Frank Herbert, another fresh arrival,
is a robust patriotic warbler, mainly notable
for the moderation of his sentiments towards
the Kaiser. Of the others present, Yal and
Lottie Newman are repeating their curious
turn, wherein Lottie is an unpleasantly stri-
dent gamin, while Yal is a rear-admiral or
commissionaire unloading deep baritone
chuckles of glee. In a musical way the
turn of Alsace and Lorraine continues to
be overweighted with the gentleman’s affec-
tations. Alsace’s posturing is especially
humorous in his opening violin solo, which
he delivers in a grand and lofty manner
that a mere fiddler like Kubelik would find
an embarrassment.
* * & *
The Follies, who resumed business at Mel-
bourne Tivoli last Saturday, feel the need
of an Isabelle d’Armonde to infuse a little
ginger into the feminine part of the pro-
ceedings. Neither of the principal ladies,
' era Pearce or Thelma Raye, has the
THE WRECK OF THE OLD “T.R.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
So Sydney Royal goes over to the Movies! Any-
how, let’s take pride in this: the last man to leave
the sinking ship was a well-known Australian, Bert
Bailey’s “Dad.” —‘‘Sundry Shows'’ ( B . 10/2/’l6).
’Twas in the year Nineteen-Sixteen
That the old T.R. was wrecked:
When they shifted out each painted scene
And the mummers watched with angry mien
The movies move in with their screen,
And the wordy drama trekked !
The good old craft had braved for long
Stern competition's breeze;
Had sailed with crowds of pieces “strong,”
Plays of “Romance” and dance and song-
imported mostly, with a throng
Of pros, from overseas.
But the ancient trader met at last
The fate of every ship :
By speedier vessels it was passed,
So with “pictures” now its lot is cast;
Haul down the old flag from the mast,
And let the drama rip !
But while we grieve for the wrecked T.R.
There’s a thought that makes us glad :
Though it oft sailed under a foreign “star,”
Not one of the crew a home-grown tar! —
The last on the bridge—and not least by
far—
Was Australia’s only Dad !
N.S.W.
BILL BILE.


a o QSRh&J& on
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
&
DT
L Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney^
A DELIGHTFUL stimulant.
J)aniel (rawfords
RED STAR WHISKY
A Boot for the Horseman
—entirely free from seams.
The uppers of this boot are in ONE PIECE and the tags are of
leather, stronglv sewn. The boot is light in weight and has
light leather lining, so that it is quite comfortable, and being
of good leather is easy on the feet even on the hottest days.
The elastic sides are of proven durable quality and the welts
ire close up to boot to suit stirrups.
In tan or black calf 22/6
Please state size and fitting. Catalog on request.
PEAPES & Co. Ltd.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 and 311 George Street, SYDNEY.
22/6
requisite dash for a Follies show.
Vera dances engagingly as before, and
Thelma warbles sweetly in the species
of song that needs the support of a
breathless dress appeal. On the male side
Cannot, Weems, Rego and Welch avoid any
temptation to be clever, excepting in the
business of falling down readily, or in the
walloping of one another on sundry portions
of their anatomies. Little Jean Keith’s
pretty toe-dancing, however, remains a bright
feature, and reminds The Bulletin of simi-
lar taking work by a mite named Ula in the
first part of the bill. In this section of the
programme the Belgian Concert Party has
Othello in all his
glory (Allan Wilkie).
"OTHELLO” AT MELBOURNE
PRINCESS'S.
Walter Hunt as the
low-down lago.
another innings, while an iron-jawed pair
called Wolgast and Girlie show the strength
of their teeth in an engaging way.
* $ * *
Ashmead Bartlett, late of the Dardanelles,
will give the first of his lectures at the
Auditorium (Melb.) next Tuesday (22nd).
This week the Submarine Movies have the
screen at the Audo., and the man who goes
down into the bowels of the sea in a diver’s
dress can be seen roaming around after he
gets there. Also sharks and salmon trout
and salt herrings are to be witnessed in
their native element. The photographs are
interesting, but not hair-raising.
Judge Docker, at 74, hangs on to the
N. S. Wales Bench. At 60 the ordinary
civil servant is shifted, though occasionally
in special circumstances a O.S. is allowed
to take the count at 65. But a Judge
appears to be exempt from any age limit.
Docker is the son of an olden time squatter-
medico-politician, Joseph Docker, who had
some pastoral property at Scone (N.S.W.),
and once failed to gain a seat in the
Assembly. He was an M.L.C. in the first
or quinquennial crowd, and was one of those
who retired with ex-Judge Burton, the pre-
sident, in order to prevent the passage of
John Robertson’s free selection land Bill.
He was re-appointed to the Fossils in Decem-
ber, ’63, and sat until his devtli in December,
1884.. In 1863 he was one of three
appointed to fix the site of the capital of
Maoriland.
’Midst the bustle of ihe war no corres-
pondent has had time to notice the passing
of old Marshal J. Plamenatz, of Montenegro.
He was a record-breaker, in so far that he
was the only military marshal, so called, in
the world who had caimht sieht of 100: and
he was apparently still going strong when
t'etinje surrendered to the Austrians. Per-
haps the poor old chap had been exhorting
the garrison, in piping tones, to die game.
Anyhow, the indignity of having to clear out
of the poor little capital of Montenegro was
more than Plamenatz could survive, so he
just fell to the ground and closed his long
innings.
Decided by a referendum of thousands of
readers of London Truth that Britain’s best
in various departments of art are as follows:
Dramatist, Shakspeare ; poet, Milton ; philo-
sopher, Bacon ; historian, Gibbon ; novelist,
Dickens; essayist, Macaulay; composer, Sul-
livan ; painter, Turner; sculptor, Flaxman.
In the last two departments there was
vigorous opposition from Reynolds and
( hantrey. Herbert Spencer and Addison
also had admirers in their respective lines,
and Thackeray and Scott gave Dickens a
run. Two winners had the distinction of
being named in a second capacity, Bacon as
essayist and Macaulay as historian ; also one
solitary voter named Scott as Britain’s great-
est poet. This was outdone by another who
thought the greatest native painter was —
Landseer.
AT POVERTY POINT.
The people who have been doing grand
opera in English at Courtneidge’s theatre,
London, are mostly known to Australia.
They appeared with the Quinlan Opera Co.
or in the Williamson’s “Madame Butterfly”
co. The Shaftesbury cast on a “Cavalleria”
and “Pagliacci” night included Rosina Buck-
man, Edith Clegg, Frederick Blarney, Arthur
Wynn, Samuell, and Maurice d’Oisly. And
Jeanne Brola was the Mimi for “La
Bohfeme.”
“Stargazer”: Saw “Charley’s Aunt” at
Melb. King’s the other night, after the pro-
longed absence of that old jest, and —I did
nor laugh. Yet time was when Thornton as
the mock aunt and Harwood as Spetigew
could racket my rivets loose. The comedy
now seems woefully thin; the one fat part
floats like a star of dripping in a waste of
water, and it is far, far from being as fat
as it was. The fact appears to be that suc-
cesses like “Charley’s Aunt” and “The Pri-
vate Secretary” are basbd on the peculiar
abilities of one comedian, and the farther
we drift from that personality the thinner
and weaker the joke becomes.
“Ami”: Australia’s daughter Rose Edouin
is reckoned the best “old woman” on the
English stage. She has been playing in
Benson’s Shakspearian Co. in all the aged
parts from the Nurse and Mrs. Quickly
downwards. About 60 years have passed
since the first appearance in Australia of
the young Edouin family, and Rose is the
only surviving member.
“IT PAYS TO ADVERTISE.” AT
MELBOURNE ROYAL.
Bronson , the soap
man (Maurice
Dudley).
Rodney Martin . the
son (Donald
Bowles).
London Stage, reviewing the dramatic
year in England, mentions the success of
Arthur H. Adams’s “Mrs Pretty and the
Premier” in the provinces, and suggests that
“the oversea dominions should be a fruitful
source of supply of plays under proper con-
ditions.” This must be news to J.C.W.
Ltd.
A revival of “Charley’s Aunt” has set Mel-
ourne people talking of the time of its first
success. As is usual in such cases the time
is ante-dated by the reminiscencers. They
talk of “Charley’s Aunt” as a 30-year-old
pioduction, whereas its first night in Aus-
tralia was November 25, 1893. Frank
Thornton couldn’t get the Australian rights
of the piece from W. S. Penley, who had
made a fortune with it in England. Penley
bore a grudge against the comedian for
having made a hit in Australia by mimick-
ing his Private Secretary, so he refused to
do business with the plagiarist. But he was
lm.uced to sell the “colonial rights” to
Gharles Arnold, the original “Hans the
Boatman.” Arnold then formed a mana-
genal partnership with Penley’s mimic, and
the I rank Thornton and Charles Arnold
English Comedy Co.” opened at Melbourne
.F ,u November, ’93. The season started
With Captain Fritz,” the hero being a
teeble reminder of “Hans the Boatman.”
11ns was not much of a success. “Charley’s
Aunt was staged a fortnight later, and for
the rest of the tour Arnold and his romantic
comedy remained mostly in the background
whilst Thornton earned the profits. But he
chdntjthen make as much money out of the
Aunt as he made three years later when
he came along with his own co. and “The
otrange Adventures of Miss Brown,” which
was another story of a man in woman’s
clothes. He failed in that almost as badly
.Yrnold of yore had failed with “Captain
When he revived his old successes,
Charley s Aunt” and “The Private Secre-
tary, the money came rolling in. Thorn-
ton s subsequent returns to Australia were
not so profitable. He was growing old and
plump, and his red-faced impersonation of
tlu j Aunt was too much of a caricature.
. Harrison O.”: Among the many features
ot American plays that bore me to beers is
the super-bishnesswoman. We have had her
in “Get-Rich-Quick Wallingford,” “Potash
and Perlmutter,” “Broadway Jones” and
other offerings, and she bobs up again in “It
lays to Advertise.” She is mostly a steno-
grapher, and although learned in the crooked
ways of business, robbery, etc., retains the
sweet simplicity that is supposed to be asso-
ciated with daughters of the vicarage, but
frequently isn't. The delectable little flap-
pei who bossed the chewing-gum foundry in
“Broadway Junes” is “beaten to a frazzle”
• „ ie stenographer in “It Pays to Adver-
Hse She is a director in a bogus soap co.,
and when she meets the millionaire king of
the soap combine in a duel for dollars “puts
i- over him” so that he looks like a boob
who is just learning the business game
through a correspondence class. Really
these Yankee stage heroines are more diffi-
cult _to believe in than a censored com-
munique.
“Ilaka” : The abnormal savee of the ele-
phant was demonstrated at Blenheim (M.L.)
lately, when W irth Bros, tried to drive one
across the Alfred-street bridge, harnessed to
a heavy load. This bridge is decorated with
a notice setting forth that it is unsafe for
loads over U ton. The animal pulled up
on the threshold and slapped as much of the
flooring as he could reach with his trunk.
Turning to the keeper he flapped his lugs
and explained in elephantese that he wasn’t
naving any. The ensuing argument re-
sulted in the load being taken over the
High-street bridge, which is quite safe; but
after the cargo was across safely, Jumbo
was still roaring about some people’s care-
lessness.
._ Reviewing the drama for 1915 London
Daily Telegraph says the year offers but a
“scanty and disappointing harvest in the
matter of original plays,” and proves that
war-time is not congenial for this sort of
literary work. “To the imaginative writer
surroundings of a bright and cheerful charac-
ter are as necessary as the stimulating
warmth of the sun to plants.” Pinero’s only
play of the year, “The Big Drum,” is
summed-up as “unfortunately lacking the
qualities of proportion, directness of purpose,
and precision of thought to be expected from
so experienced a dramatic craftsman.”
Horace Annesley Vachell is hailed as the
dramatist of the year with three pronounced
successes to his credit—“Quinney’s,” “Search-
lights” and “The Case of Lady Camber.”
They have gone far to consolidate his posi-
tion as a writer of plays. Knoblauch has
not kept up his “Kismet” reputation. Ilis
“Marie Odile” was a failure and aroused
acrimonious controversy. Of all the plays
inspired by the war “The Man Who Stayed
at Home” was the only one that proved a
permanent hit. _ George Pleydell’s “Ware
Case,” which is in for a long run, “has been
the most cleverly-constructed detective drama
of the year.” Australia’s Marie Lohr is
the heroine.
“0.K.” moralises at Marlow’s theatre: —
When did the dignity of labor, physical or mental,
begin to be asserted in English literature? You
don’t find it in the 18th century polite-costume
comedies of Sheridan and others, or up to the time
of Dion Boucicault’s “London Assurance”—which, by
the way, was suspected of being somebody else’s
work. The stag - e lovers of old were invariably wast-
ers. Charles Surface was as worthless as Dazzle. The
novelists hadn’t a word to say in favor of industry.
Fielding's heroic Tom Jones never thought of earning
his own living in a manly way. And what price
Shakspeare as an advocate of the self-supporting
young man? Every revival of a Divine William
comedy is another reminder of his immortal snob-
bery. The juvenile lead is usually an heiress-hunting
Johnnie who lives on his father, or his paternal
estate, or his debts, and who would feel horribly
degraded if he had to work. Take Bassanio in “The
Merchant of Venice.” He lives on money borrowed
from his friend Antonio, and is getting to be “stony’’
again when the play begins. So he goes to ’Tonio
and asks him for another loan for the purpose of
buying new clothes and a false appearance of pros-
perity before he goes to try his luck with a dollar-
princess named Portia. If Portia will marry him he
will get her to pay all his debts to Antonio (with
interest), and be a happy loafer for evermore. That’s
how Tony comes to borrow 3000 ducats from the
Jew on Bassanio’s account. Bassanio hasn't any
credit of his own. He couldn’t book a 10-bob bet
with Shylock’s cousin, Ikey Mo, at a pony meeting - .
He’s an out-and-out rotter in financial matters, a
waster to the fingertips. And Shakspeare created
beautiful, rich heroines in order to provide wives for
the likes of him! Sheridan did likewise. Heaven
knows what happened to the heroines in after years.
There was no Married Woman’s Property Act, so the
Bassanios and Charles Surfaces doubtless got the
last penny out of their wives, and left ’em in the
lurch. Speaking of “The Merchant” I forgot to
mention young Lorenzo, who eloped with Shylock’s
daughter on the understanding that she would rob
the old man of all the jewels and ducats she could
put her hands on. What sort of poetic justice did
the rotter Lorenzo get after marrying Miss Shyloek ?
His plundered father-in-law was ordered to bequeath
all his remaining property to this gem of a son-in-
law !
“Yana Ben”: Agree with “0.K.” (B.
10/2/T6) that fools at the play are very
numerous. One was very much in evi-
dence the other night at the pantomime at
Her Majesty’s, Melbourne. lie returned
a ball thrown from the stage during one
of the songs so smartly that both the lady
singer and the song were in danger of be-
ing knocked on the head, so to speak. But
why give' the fool the chance to disport
himself thus? Why balloon-songs and ball-
songs and swing-songs with their absurd
invitations to the audience to assist in the
accompanying “business”? The proper
place for a fool at a pantomime is on the
stage, the next time a stallite starts fooling
he should be invited up on the boards. “The
Firm” might capture a comedian in that
way.
The perspiring cry of the imported “ani-
mal impersonator” calls for sympathy. He
comes from a comparatively cold country
where the panto, is a midwinter job, and a
cat, dog or donkey overcoat is a warm and
comforting article to get inside of. When
the performer gets to Australia he has to
bear the heat and burden of the summer
months. In adopting the ancient British
winter panto, as a summer Christmas sport
this country showed no consideration for
Whittington’s cat or the bear that toys
with Red Riding Hood.
“E.T.”: While on the subject of the
Nellie Denvers, who played to Titheradge’s
Wilfrid (Silver King), of whom “0.K.” (B.
10/2/Y6) mentions the earliest, it is of
interest to recall the two latest. They were
Ola Jane Humphrey (during the N.Q. tour
of the Margaret Anglin plays in 1909, after
w'hich Ola played the part in Australia
“opposite,” as she would say, Henry Ivol-
ker) and Ethel Warwick, in Melbourne and
Sydney in the same year. The last time,
I believe, that Tith. appeared as the “King”
was at Adelaide in February, 1910 (Ethel
Warwick still the Nellie). The old piece
has been revived several times since, with
William Desmond and Dorothy Dix in the
leading parts; also by Julius Knight with
Irene Browne as the heroine.
Florence Smithson is principal girl in
the panto, at Drury Lane. Also, she
is “proud of the gold-miner’s license which
she brought back from Australia, having
secured it in the most orthodox professional
style, prospecting for three months, pegging
out a claim, getting a Government grant,
washing out the gold, and going through the
whole business most thoroughly.” Publicity
agents apparently go seven for sixpence in
London.
_ “Fax”: Isn’t it time Government inter-
dicted “My Little Grey Home in the West”?
I’m sick of hearing stodgy tenors state in
saccharine tones that “There are two eyes
that shine just because they are mine,” etc.
The silly little ballad was made in America,
whence all the mushiest mush comes. It is
a degenerate descendant of “Home, Sweet
Home,” a piece of insincere balderdash which
should have been suppressed by Act of Par-
liament long ago. America is accountable
for hundreds of bejewelled prima donnas in
low-necked gowns sailing forth from expen-
sive hotels to sing “Be it ever so humble
there’s no-o place like Home.” President
Wilson’s country is the factory of soulless
sentimentality concerning Home and Mother.
Haverley’s Minstrels of old touched the sum-
mit of bathos when they softly murmured
the refrain to “A Flower from My Angel
Mother’s Grave,” or “Empty is the Cradle—•
Baby’s Gone.” The Yanks have infected
honest sentimentality with their fermented
pulp until one cannot hear Home or Mother'
alluded to in music-hall song without a feel-
ing of nausea. It was a relief to have a bar-
baric cynic bawl “What’s the Matter with
Father?” or “What About Poor Old Fa-
ther,” with which a cockney lady shook the
Tivoli roof a few years ago. Now we want
some sort of relief from the Little Grey Home
humbug.
(Continued on page 26.)
THE TENOR AT HOME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Ilis voice is beautiful indeed!”
Three rows of raptured women sighed.
The audience dealt out its meed
Of loud applause, a critic cried.
Then once again the tenor sang',
And wilder still the plaudits rang.
They say he’s beautiful. His soul
Is freely talked about just now.
They seem to think that, on the whole,
The angel choir is but a row
Compared with Busty’s dulcet tones.
The town is on its marrow bones.
We don’t tlpnk much of Busty. Here
, The subject of his soul is dropped.
As for his voice, if not too dear
We’ll gladly pay to have it stopped.
We’re curt with him and scandalous.
You see, the fellow boards with us!
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


“D.J.” RIDING BREECHES—I6/6.
Smart
Durable
Easy
These breeches are cut to ensure perfect ease in the saddle,
they are strengthened where necessary, and the materials
have been specially selected to withstand hard wear.
In odorless Canton Moleskin, white or drab, full cut, strapped
knees laced or buttoned. All sizes. Ready to wear 16/0
Same style in Khaki Drill 16/6
Or in superior quality, soft cord Khaki 22/6
State waist measurement when ordering.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
David Jones Ltd.,
Opp G.P.0., SYDNEY.
/f°/79
ONE-SEVEN-NIN
LUXURIA
Cologne.
British made and
o / /iixiii ia n ce .
The Refresh in
Toilet Dainty
Sample Bottle id post free.
Parviola Perfumery Co.
Normanby Road, South Melbourne.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantlj-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hote > s
now complete in every detail, an<,
under the management of R° s
Usher, the Comforts of a Poi ec
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare faYOi
ably with any Hotel in Englan<*
America or the Continent. ' a
He Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
THAT GENIUS FOR ORGANISATION.
In Germany all except pedigree dogs have been
ordered to be' killed for butcher’s meat. —News item.
MICHAEL: “Ach, Gretchen! It vos great
sagacities that we grow him long like
der sausage. He haf more meat on him
so than der Englisher dorg.”
The N.S.W. Courts will probably have an
opportunity of again wrestling with a point
that tied them in knots at the last encountei.
A passenger sued to recover for injury to his
arm from an open swinging door of a pass-
ing train. He was in another train; and
the Kailway Commissioners, while ad-
mitting the injury, pleaded that tiie
arm overlapped the window-guard, an
therefore was not on the premises re-
served for passengers —that it was to all
intents and purposes a trespasser. Alter a
first verdict for the owner of the arm, tne
Law decided that it (the arm) did trespass
and its owner was not entitled to recover.
The other night a Sydney suburban train
had to pull up to send four passengers, who
had been injured in a similar fashion, to tne
hospital. The last decision of the Courts
isn’t likely to make them attempt to
discourage the dangerous nuisance, but Costs
is a hard animal to head off, and this looks
a likely opportunity for him to perform at
the old address. # .
Adelaide G.P.O. has been buying land
with a view to enlarging on a. generous
scale. It now announces that it means to
expand along King William-street as far as
the Criterion Hotel, and along Franklin-
street to absorb the booking-office where Hill
and Co.’s coaches still start. Also the whole
main structure will probably have another
storey put on top of the present two.
- “Engaged” after a fall from the clouds
On fine Sunday mornings I like to row the girl
out on the harbor and look at the mosaic that is
Sydney sleeping warm and smokeless in the sun, with
white towers of cloud draped over it. When we feel
like moving on, a dip of the sculls in the jade-
green water, a long pull and the hills go slipping
past. This morning being of the mother-of-pearl
variety, we went softly past Mosman to wheie a
rusted tramp from the Seven Seas lay at anchor.
All about us was very calm and very beautiful. The
visible world looked as fresh as if it had only been
made 10 minutes before. And then we (or I) rowed
on in reverent silence and came suddenly on a flat
punt anchored near a rocky point of land where a
wharf was being built. A world-conqueror might
have stood there to proudly survey a captured sea ;
but on the extreme end of the floating dais, con-
fronting the whole wide world, the watchman of the
plant sat negligently paring his corns l I fed a shark
with his body—a bit at a time.
* * * *
The man in the story, who, being told
that, his wife was running away with another
chop, said merely, “Why run?” has found
his match in Westralia. According to the
evidence of the more-or-less happy pair in
an Adelaide court, hubby saw them off and
kissed wifey at parting. True, he suggested
that she might stay and make a fresh start;
but as she wasn’t hav-
ing any fresh starts he
said good-bye in a
friendly way to his
successor, and sug-
gested that he (No.
2) should try to get
their joint property to
write occasionally to
him (No. 1). Un-
fortunately the lady
was arrested on reach-
ing Adelaide on a
charge of stealing.
That, said her lawyer
bitterly, is just the
way with the Westra-
lian police “Directly
any woman runs away
from her husband,
they say, ‘Has she any
money in her posses-
sion? If so, there’s a
way to stop her.’ The
case was most unjust
and oppressive.” The
lady declared that the
money she was travel-
ling on was her own,
that her husband had
given her half of £250
that he had in the
bank, and she was
using her share as she
thought fit and proper.
The magistrate re-
marked thoughtfully
that it seemed a steep
story, but as there was
nobody to contradict
it the charge was dis-
missed, “with very
great reluctance.”
Thereafter the inter-
rupted honeymoon re-
sumed its peregrination
in the direction of
Maoriland.
This sign has gone up in Suez: —
English Spoken.
French Spoken.
Australian Understood.
There never was perhaps a higher compli-
ment paid to the difficulties of our native
tongue.
ALL’S FARE IN LOVE.
MCTAVISII : “That’s a fine lassie opposite.”
DUN BROWN : “Would yon like an introduction?”
MCTAVISH : “Weel, yes; but wait, mon, till the conductor’s bcen round.”
A contributor to a Melbourne daily growls
quite indignant with Australians for their
liking for German sausage. He points out
that, as we are a great meat-producing
country, we have no need to pack beef in
this questionable way. We are called upon
to free ourselves from pernicious “enemy
institutions.” By all means let us cast oft
the chains —especially the finks of sausage.
* * * *
Three minutes in Egypt:—
Egypt is getting its yearly sprinkle of rain, and
so is stickier and stinkier than ever. Apart from
that, it is full of disappointments. The Nile, instead
of being a decent river, with camels and pyramids
and “spinkers” (that’s what the Pyramid guide calls
the Sphinx) and palms all along its banks, and
desert for miles behind, spotted with oases for luck —
instead of all this the Nile is a shiny mudheap, full
of nigger dhows, with a Chow’s garden here and
there, and starved donkeys and crawling nigger kids
everywhere. As for Cairo, the poorer half, you can’t
believe what it’s like till you’ve seen it. Sydney
Rocks at its worst is a Hotel Australia to the best
of this. The streets are narrow, and the
houses nearly touch at the top. The people
sit on the doorsteps all day, except when
the family donkey wants to go back under
the piano, and then they move to make way
for it. The family fowls and goats walk over them,
so they don’t have to move, for which they give
praise to Allah. No one is ever in a hurry; no one
cares who hits him in the small of the back with a
motor-car. Yesterday we caught a nigger a beauty,
but he just picked up his cap, put it on, and didn’t
even look to see if it was a motor-car or a house
falling down. There’s only one traffic-constable.
He’s in front of Shepheard’s, and his job is mainly
to limit the time which cab-drivers are permitted to
obstruct the traffic by arguing to 20 minutes. For-
tunately everyone is an adept at stopping-short—no
one here minds stopping—or Cairo would need a
traffic-constable to control the funerals. The funerals
are the biggest comedy of all. One coffin evidently
does the whole family. When they bury little Abdul
they bring the coffin home, and wait for father
Mahomet to turn his feet up. The mourners stroll
behind the coffin, which is carried along the streets
on the men’s shoulders, and if the ladies are not too
tired they wave their handkerchiefs to the corpse
evidently as a sort of farewell. If he isn’t tired,
too, he waves back. Everyone lives by taking every-
one else down, and the only flourishing trade is
burglary. No one ever mends anything. If a man’s
coat wears out he hits someone on the head and
takes his, and puts it on over his own. I’ve seen
them with four coats and several fragments of shirts
on at once. This gives the flea every chance, and
they don’t trouble to catch him. They just scratch,
and only leave off to beg or burgle or swindle, which
three things are one and the same thing when you
come to analyse them.
One recent hot day a quiet, unobtrusive
citizen climbed to the editorial floor of The
Bulletin office. He had a brown kit-bag
with him, and out of the depths of it he took
something which looked like an iron teapot.
He described it as a patent fuseless bomb
which was absolutely fool-proof. _ The secret
explosive compound with which it could be
charged was very little dearer than blue
metal and was his own discovery, made
whilst conducting experiments along quite
another line. He would be obliged if some
member of the staff who was on speaking
terms with bombs would attend a demon-
stration. The explosions were brilliant suc-
cesses. The Wild Cat was blown to Tas-
mania and the address of the bomb con-
ductor is unknown.
* * * *
A hairy individual from the bush delivered
himself of these scattered remarks to The
Bulletin a day or two ago. (He saw he
had a wife and four young children and had
answered on his war-card: “Yes ; when all
the shirkers have been roped in.”) :
It’s all damnrot this jaw of leaving farmers’ sons
on the land. I’ve just taken off my 150 acres of
crop meself! Only had to have a man four dais.
Eight bob a <js»y. But it took Bill Menniboys and
his four sons to take their crop off 300 acres. 11l
bet Bill wouldn'ta wanted five hands if he had been
paj'in’ eight bob a day. Ask ’im how much a day be
paid his boys. Five men for 300 acres! Musta been
one shift sleepin’, waitin’ for the harvester to come
round. Time the recruitin’ people looked up some
of these farms with half a dozen sons on 'em. Wha
about next year’s crop ? It’ll be put in all right. I
can put mine in. Bill an’ a coupl’ ov men 11 pn
his in, too, specially if Bill’s payin’ ’em eight bob a
day and tucker. So long as wheat’s likely to fetch
what it is the crops’ll be put in—even by paid labor
at log rates!
Then he got out before anybody could set
fire to his foliage.
* * * *
The steamer Kurow slipped an anchor
weighing tons and 15 fathoms of chain m
Fiji waters recently in Hi fathoms (b*
feet). A Fijian native dived and made a
search for the pendant and found it with
about six inches of mud smothering it. m
the next half-hour brown brother dived three
times and passed a wire rope through the
anchor shackle, which enabled the iron-
mongery to be recovered. Two other natives
also went down and reached the bottom, but
the first man did practically all the work.
Beyond a slight bleeding at the nose ana
mouth, which lasted a few minutes only,
this native seemed to suffer no inconvenience
from the great pressure. Incidentally he is
a deaf mute.
APOLLO. BILLNEDERE’S LOVELY EYELASHES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
People constantly remark how extraordinarily hand-
some the Australians are. Their eyelashes come in
for special admiration. I have even heard a theory
evolved that the glare of our sunlight accounts for
their especial length and thickness.- -Purple splosh
from Sydney D.T.’s lady London correspondent.
Dear Bill, whose phiz I still adore,
Though doubtless owing to the war
It’s had some nasty bashes,
Although as I remember you
You weren’t unpleasant to the view,
Now you're a hero is it true
That you have grown eyelashes?
All. Cockneys are your worshippers.
At sight of you a great pride stirs .
The maiden whom your mash is.
You are an Anzac —so she's read;
So you must have a handsome head.
I think so, too, but never said
That you had long eyelashes.
Those strange new whiskers to your eyes,
Grew not, I venture to surmise,
In warfare’s bitter clashes.
No foliage sprouted at the brink.
From what I know of you I think
What took the lady was the wink
Beneath your old eyelashes!
Because you are a hero now
You’ve got a really noble brow;
Your eye with splendor flashes.
But you’ll come back, I know you will.
Don’t kid yourself you’re lovely, Bill.
You’re just my bloke. I love you still,
But not for your eyelashes.
They’ll try to spoil a simple bloke;
But you will take it as a joke,
No swank, or cutting dashes!
For when you come back oversea
I want the Bill you used to be.
And, Kid, they’re good enough for me—
Your ugly old eyelashes !
N.S.W.
A. H. A.


—do you know the
comfort of a
VACUUM FLASK?
HARDLY a day passes when the Vacuum
Flask cannot be pressed into useful
service.
In the Home, the Library, the Sick-room or
Nursery it is ever ready to instantly serve
you. It keeps cold liquids ICY COLD even
for days; hot liquids piping hot for 24 hours.
It should have a place in the picnic basket;
in your bag on the train or steamer. Inex-
pensively priced at Pike Brothers Limited.
Pint Size, 5/6.
Quart Size, 10/6.
bJ
VO
Ld
O
cc:
ca
LJ
BRISBANE Townsville
Australians!
BE PATRIOTIC. DRINK—.
The World can offer no better Natural
Mineral Water than Koomah—wh ch
comes direct from the famous Rock Flat
Springs, Cooma, N.S.W. A Natural
Mineral Water from your own country.
Agents: E. ROWLANDS PTY. LTD.,
Purveyors to Vice-Royalty,
Ballarat, Melbourne, Sydney, Katoomba
Australia’s Very
Own in Natural
Mineral Waters.
“Briner”: The Moewe may recall to some
that, during the last time of tension between
England and Russia, the Czar sent three
sharkish cruisers, the Afrika, Plastoun and
Vestrick, to show their paces to Australia.
Admiral Aslanbegoff, in charge, went by rail
from Sydney to Melbourne as advance agent,
and the Worshipful Rabbitskin of the day
received him officially at the Town Hall,
where he replied to the usual kotow in
French, interpreted by Lieutenant Abaza, a
relative of the present Russian Consul in
Melbourne. His audience purred loudly
when the sea-diplomat intoned: “I am not
only surprised by your magnificent resources,
but also convinced that they could only have
been developed as I see them by the un-
rivalled energy of the free British people.”
The Afrika took some selected Melbourne
citizens for a cruise round Hobson’s Bay.
One visitor noticed a well-thumbed book on
the cuddy table. “Adventures Afloat”; the
voyages of the Alabama, recorded by its cap-
tain. Raphael Sem'mes. • “Ah,” said one of
the Russian officers, “all our ships are fur-
nished with that book.”
ANOTHER OBSTACLE OVERCOME.
FIRST GIRL: “I notice that Sarah Bern-
hardt has retired from the stage.”
SECOND GIRL: “Well, it's time she did and
gave some of us a chance.”
Hamer” : “lie was honest because he was
insane. Vivid portion of the medical testi-
mony against a person arrested in Sydney
on suspicion of not being all there. Whether
tns means that insanity drives a man to
Honesty, or that honesty is a source of in-
sanity isn’t clear.
PROMISING.
“Hold my jacket, George, please. The fewer things I have on the better I play.”
“Is that so? By George, if you're playing on the top of your form at the last green
you'll draw a crowd.”
The most kaleidoscopic liar of the season
was discovered at great expense of time and
trouble last week by a court-martial at
Sydney. He was an elaborate sort of Mun-
chausen who was found by a London con-
stable at two years of age, having been
deserted by his anonymous but deserving
parents. Later he came to Australia, and
when the War Gong banged
he enlisted. But he proved to
be a troublesome patriot.
When hi
■ wasn’t shirking or
absent without leave he was
getting entertainment and ap-
plause by retailing to confid-
ing citizens the terrible ex-
periences he had gained in
newspapers, inis led to his
collection by the military..
Taken to Liverpool camp, he
scaped and journeyed into
the country, where he pro-
moted himself a lieutenant.
The police promptly conducted
him back to Liverpool, though
Liverpool was by this time
sick of the sight of him. There
he broke the news that he was
a German; so he was sent
off to the concentration camp,
where he wrote himself mys-
terious letters of warning,
which he thoughtfully left
about in easily-assembled
fragments. Healso threw out
hints that he could give some
valuable information about the
German secret service. He
varied his performance by an
unsuccessful attempt to sui-
cide. At last a heavy court-
martial sat upon his case and
patiently held its aching head
while Munchausen made a
statement which cancelled all
previous fabrications and in-
ventions. The finding of the
court-martial is obscure, but
it is believed to recommend
the abolition of all London
doorsteps, from whence this
energetic immigrant started
out on his travels in 1914.
* * * •
“A.G.8.”: May I call attention to another
importation? I was brought up to regard
post leaning as a typically Australian habit.
But Dickens, writing about Seven Dials in
“Sketches by Boz” says, among other allu-
sions to the recreation :
Every post in the open space has its occupant who
leans against it for hours with listless perseverance.
So another of our great natural resources
goes by the board.
A will with a watery history was recently
proved in England. It was made by one
Lang Macfarlane, a director and part owner
of a big biscuit-making firm in England, who
was drowned with the document when the
P. and O. liner Oceana went down off Beachy
Head. His solicitors knew it was amongst
his luggage, and, as a lot of property had to
be divided up, a diver was sent in pursuit.
They got it at last, after three dripping
months, and found it was still readable.
Then over £300.000 was distributed without
troubling the sharks ashore.
* * * *
“481”: Tw,o stretcher-bearers in our lot,
both of them at present in Sydney, had bitter
experiences. One
day, while our
quartermaster was
away, his assistant
broached the rum
issue until he went
to sleep in the dug-
out ; whereupon a
shell turned the
cave upside down,
and the stretcher-
bearers, spotting a
man unconscious
in the wreckage,
laboriously carried
him down to the
doctor. Sawbones
treated him with a
bucket of water.
Not long after-
wards the two bearers were carrying
a genuinely wounded man away for
repairs when the whistle of an ap-
proaching shell was heard. With a
shriek of “Look out!” the wounded
chap rolled off the stretcher and
flopped into a hole. When he looked out
after the burst both bearers were down
wounded and the stretcher was riddled with
shrapnel. The luck of the game!
* * * *
Knibbs has again been counting up the
cost of living in Australian cities and inci-
dentally making out a strong case for decen-
tralisation in N.S.W. Every year since 1911
the Sydney bread and beef bill has been
above the average, and in 1915 it topped the
list for expensiveness. In 1911 the cost of
existence to the community in the vicinity
of Port Jackson was Is. 7d. steeper than
Melbourne and Is. lid. less steep than Perth.
Last year the bill finished Is. more elevated
than Melbourne and 2s. Id. higher than
Perth. Melbourne’s rise in prices is propor-
tionally greater than Sydney’s, but it still
costs less to rear a family by the Yarra.
Brisbane, the city of the State whose rail-
way system makes least for centralisation,
was every year the cheapest to live in. In
1915 235. 3d. went as far in the northern
town as 265. 6d. in Sydney.
* * * *
“Tom D.”: While advocating the extinc-
tion of the German language (B. 23/12/T5)
“Veldt” says: “The descendants of English
settlers in Ireland became perfervid nation-
alists by mere adoption of an Irish accent.”
Perhaps. But England failed to make Irish-
men into Englishmen by trying to stamp out
the Irish language, which was more refined
and less guttural than the German that
Frederick the Great once said was “only fit
for horses.” My father, who was born in
1819, often told me that when he was a
schoolboy in the south of Ireland every
scholar had to carry a wooden tag (called
locally a “score”) suspended from his neck
by a _ string. Anyone hearing a schoolboy
speaking the forbidden Irish cut a notch on
his wooden tag, and for every notch the boy
later got a dozen strokes of the cane from
the local Squeers.
Will Lawson’s yarn :
When the 2000-ton collier Komata tried to get up
on Pencarrow Head at Wellington (M.L.) recently
and shake hands with the ruins of the Devon, she
was under the influence of psychic misfortune, aided
by a sea-fog. Bad luck was adrift in Cook Strait
that night. At nine o’clock the 300-ton Kaitoa,
with a load of soldiers, stuck near Terawhiti, but
floated off again a few hours later. Up and down
the Strait big and little boats were moaning and
bellowing. The 10,000-tonner Indrabarah, which once
lay for weeks on Marton Beach (M.L.) ere she was
refloated, was one of them; another was the Pateena,
with a circus on board. Both got to safety before the
thickest part of the soup came down. But ships that
have been ashore and circuses at sea are reckoned
to be unlucky, and at 6 a.m. on Monday the
hoodoo got to work and the Komata, filled with
coal, surged right into her troubles. Luckily the
sea was flat calm. Nevertheless, tugs pulled with no
result beyond bad language and broken ropes. A
mushroom anchor, weighing many tons, was carried
out to sea and wedged somewhere under the South
Island. Other salvage gear arrived, capable of lifting
the North Island off its rocks. But through all the
drag and pull the Komata lay like the National Debt.
About midnight, as the tide was falling, the reporters
and the tugs went back to port, leaving the Komata
with the Devon’s ghost. On the stranded ship while
the officer of the watch and a lookout were alone
on- deck, the others being below sleeping,
an ocean swell began to roll in, and the ship
responded with uncouth heavings and quiverings.
Steam was hurriedly turned on to the winch again.
They got half a turn! Unless the South Island was
moving that meant that the Komata had shifted six
inches seaward. Then as the engineers were tearing
the vitals out of the ironmongery, the propellers
revolving like mad and the ship groaning like a
menagerie in pain, she suddenly slid back into deep
water. Under her own steam she crept into port.
Later on the Court said there had been a lot of bad
luck, and gave Carey, the master, back bis ticket
with a word or two of praise for the seamanship
which followed the grounding.
THE SPORT OF RINGS.
“There he is: ask him if the horse has a
chance.”
“What will he know about it? He’s only
the owner.”
Ilamer ’: Debrett for 191 G announces
that one prince, six peers, 16 baronets, six
knights, 164 companions, 95 sons of peers,
82 sons of baronets, and 84 sons of knights
of Britain have been wiped out in the
trouble that Mad Bill started. The Earl-
dom of Loudoun struck, probably, the big-
gest loss, two successive heirs being killed ;
but several titles, the probable heirs to which
were not numerous, will probably be extinct.
The titles won’t be missed, but it’s sorrow-
ful to lose the youngsters who might have
been saddled with them.
THE RUIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Since I was young, long years ago,
I’ve read in books and daily news
The oft-recurring tale of woe,
The heroine who sadly rues
Her dealings with the sons of men.
Her ruin stirs the tearful pen.
All this is strange if true. ’Twas she
Who generally ruined me.
Mv self-esteim it sorely grieves
To hear I was the one unwise,
The victim lone of saucy Eves,
That I alone can sympathise
With Adam, first of all our clan,
Who by a lass was ruined, too.
Eve tripped him up, and laid him 'flat.
I’ve fallen many times like that.
The broken lives whose grim despair
The sighs of millions still provoke
Bewilder me. I face the fair —-
’Tis not the lady who is broke !
The truth comes home to me. Oh. hush!
My brothers fall, but of the crush
I only have the grit to own
How often I’ve been overthrown.
Kate ruined me, and tow-haired Sue,
And May, and Martha pink and stout ;
And Annie left me ruined too,
And Sarah put me down and out.
So when I read of evil churls
And black-cloaked, weeping, ruined girls,
I'm naturally rather bored —
A ruin thirty times restored !
VICTORIA.
THE VERY DEUCE.


MORE FRIGHTFULNESS.
The Kaiser has written the words of a new German national anthem, and has commanded Richard Strauss, conductor of the Royal Opera House at Berlin, to compose the music. Cable.
COMPOSER' S ASSISTANT (to A.D.C. at first rehearsal): “Himmel! If he can only get it on der London barrel-organs der war vill be von!”


AMERICA’S WAX.


Chaving
A CyTICK
LEVER;
For an
Ideal Shave
w y *
A
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
boaters
Lightness with
Durability
distinguish these world-
renowned hats, which should
be worn by every man in
Australia, because they are
specially made to suit our
severe climatic conditions.
n
*
&UTI4
Martin’s Pills are sold by W. H. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin. Chemist. Southampton.
/
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS
Egyptian Henna before all others : it is the best ana
cheapest I have ever used.” .
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2 «•
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Father Hegarty, the cultured R.C. shep-
herd who for years shared the imposing
presbytery of St. Joseph’s, at Malvern
(Vic.) with half a dozen reverend brethren,
has been heard from as an inmate of a
British hospital. Some time ago Father
Ilegarty returned to Britain on what was
believed to be a temporary visit in connec-
tion with church matters; but the church
decided to keep him there, lie went to the
Front as a chaplain with the Dublin Fusi-
liers and was wounded. He was an agile,
earnest, lean, dapper, polished man, well
known to all classes of Malvern society.
With a pack on his back Staniforth
Smith. Administrator of Papua, went into
Blaclcboy Hill camp (W.A.) a week or two
ago. The big man voluntarily started sol-
diering in Groperland on the ground floor,
but with experience gained in Papua and
brains to back it up it will probably not be
long before he is shunted into the training-
school at Claremont and shunted out again
with a star on his shoulders. lie is anxious
to be one of the Westralians at the Front
because in that State he got his first lift.
Twenty years ago or thereabouts he seized
a clerical job with Reuter’s at Coolgardie.
Later he became the firm’s goldfields man-
ager at Kalgoorlie. Later still he won a
seat in the municipal council, and a year
or two after he was elected mayor—no oppo-
sition. Soon a member of Parliament Avas
wanted for Kalgoorlie, and Smith would
have got in easily, but the holding of a coni-
rnittee meeting in a pub, which at that time
was against the law, prevented him going
to the poll. He made no error at
the first Federal elections.
QUITE SAFE.
NERVOUS LADY: “Oh, I'm sure
that man will be killed!”
TOMAY : “Not him, lady; a fortune-teller
told him yesterday that he'd die by
drowning in ten years' time, so we give
him all the outlaws to break in.”
George Wootten, the Duntroon Military
College ex-cadet who has been gazetted
major while on active service, is credited
with being the youngest officer of that rank
in the Empire’s forces. He is 22; belongs
to Mosman, Sydney; left Fort-street school
to go into Australia’s soldier-making fac-
tory at Canberra; and set out for the Real
Mackay in 1914.
Paul Joseph, formerly of Hobart, but
now of Adelaide, is that unusual thing, a
parson with private means. He has just
had a “call” to the old-established central
Ilindmarsh Square Congregational Church
in Adelaide, and has accepted it. condition-
ally on the congregation selling the old place
and going with him elsewhere. His idea
is to put up a “City Temple” near by on
North Terrace (opposite the Hospital and
the School of Mines). “Brightness,”
apparently on U.S.A. lines,. is to be a
feature. Botanic Park orators are to be
invited in on Sunday afternoons, and “the
scheme must be bold, something to catch the
imagination of the people. Billiard and
smoke rooms and a soda-fountain will be
additional attractions,” says the prospectus.
Soda ! Now, whose imagination will that
catch?
BIRDS OF A FEATHER.
The Queensland troops can be distinguished by the
emu feathers in their hats. -Daily paper.
THE WHITE HWN : “What is this blessed
war, anyhow? If they do go they take
your feathers, and if they won't go they
take mine. Hanged if I can understand
it.”
Parker Moloney, M.H.R. for Indi, came
before the military chest-examiners the other
day, and although he was given a good bill
of health it wasn’t quite good enough to
get him into an A.I.F. uniform. As peda-
gogue and politician Moloney has always
worked up to the collar, and during the
past year or two the strain has told con-
siderably.
Christie Wright, the young ex-Scotchman
firm Sydney, dropped in to Adelaide last
week to inspect bis new
job as bead of S.A.
School of Arts in suc-
cession to 11. P. Gill,
whose health has com-
pletely broken down.
Wright has something
more important than art
in hand, and leaves
shortly for .the officers’
training-school at Dun-
troon. So his new job
that he went along to
shake hands with was
his old job, and as he
never had a chance to
make it an old job, and
as his latest job is his
new job—but hereabouts
things begin to get somewhat tangled.
Probably the most underworked honorary
secretary in Victoria just now is Senator
Albert Blakey, who looks after the fund
designed to put Adam Lindsay Gordon into
imperishable marble. People are not giving
away money for statues nowadays, and
therefore all that Blakey has to do is to
sit back and watch the interest accumulat-
ing on the £3OO already collected. No doubt
if Gordon could be consulted he would make
a sharp remark to the effect that £3OO is
nearly enough money for a Gordon Memo-
rial Motor-ambulance.
“Glen II.”: James Callender Campbell,
head of Kirk’s Horse Bazaar, who passed
out at Melbourne the other day, represented
the South-Eastern Province in the Vic. Leg-
islative Assembly for some years. He emi-
grated from Ireland in 1858, being 20 years
old at the time, and after putting in "three
years in Melbourne went to Maoriland and
blossomed as an importer. Later he re-
turned to Melbourne, and with William
McCulloch bought the Royal Horse Bazaar.
Campbell was the last but one surviving
member of the old Yeomanry Corps which
flourished at the time of the Maori war.
“Hamer”: Five more Norfolk Islanders
wearing historic names have gone into camp
at Svdnev. Soldiers Quintal, Buffet, Evans,
Sueli and Christian are descendants of the
original Bounty mutineers who set Bligh
adrift. The spirit of their fathers should
help to make them earnest fighters. The
lit tie island with its population of less than
1000 has sent forth nearly 50 recruits.
David Barclay, managing director of the
Commercial Bank of Tasmania, who has his
fingers in many of the Speck's financial
deals, completed 50 years of service with the
bank the other day. In spite of his 70 years
or thereabouts he could still give points to
many younger bankers and does not talk
about retiring yet.
“Bill O’Costs” reverently removes his
horsehair: —•
Forty-five years ago James Penn Boucaut was
easily the biggest man in S. Aus., a sort of Kingston
of his day, with all Kingston's sledge-hammer force-
fulness ; less astuteness, perhaps, but with a greater
store of picturesque, fiery eloquence. Eleven years
ago, when he retired from the Bench, he still loomed
large; now he seems only a memory. As a Judge,
which is the only capacity in which anyone (except
his old political colleague Ebenezer Ward) can re-
member him, he was the queerest mixture of impetu-
osity, scrupulous fairness, perversity, bluff censure,
kindliness, dignity and don't-care-a-damness that
ever endeared itself to fellow lawyers and provided
them with never-falling diversion.
His conduct of criminal trials was typical. He
fought like two Trojans for the accused, even when
that individual was already well defended. But if
the jury convicted ! It used to be a sort of litany
among the old hands: “Lord, send that we be tried
by Boucaut, and sentenced by Bundev, but God save
us from Way!” I remember seeing him presiding at
the trial of a reputed thief of poultry. As usual he
watched the Crown evidence like a detective. A wit-
ness was called to prove that the accused was seen
in the yard where the fowls were kept. He appar-
ently disappointed his side by saying that he saw
the birds but not the accused. The prosecutor left
it at that. Up rose the prisoner's counsel, a very
junior performer, to cross-examine. “You say you
didn't see the accused. Did you look in the yard?”
“Yes.” “Did you look in the stable?” “Yes.”
“Did you look in the fowlhouse?” The old Judge,
who had been on tenterhooks during the progress of
this perilous “defence,” stopped it with a thunderous
question: “Don’t you know when to leave well
alone?” Lawyers used to say with some truth that
he awarded his verdict to the advocate who handled
his case best.
Once, when Ramsay Smith, Adelaide's City
Coroner, was giving evidence on a murder trial, he
was asked to describe the victim of the affray when
he "Saw him. The doctor began according to tradi-
tional usage: “He was cold and rigid, the action of
the heart had stopped, respiration had ceased, the
eyes were lustreless.” Snapped Boucaut, “Couldn't
you have said that the man was dead?” As that
was, apparently, all the witness had come to say, his
SERVED HIM RIGHT.
“Why did she leave her husband ?”
“He lost his money.”
“How?”
“Gave it to her.”
Honor continued: “1 11 put it in three words, ‘He was
dead. Next, witness.” His brief, model summing-
up to a jury deserves to be preserved as a classic:
“Gentlemen, the question is: Did he steal the
watch? Consider your verdict.”
Boucaut’s farewell address to the Bar is likely to
be long remembered as a masterpiece of its kind.
Its concluding sentences ought to be pasted on the
doors of the Broken Hill Trades Hall and a few
other places: “Uphold the law! I pray you, stand
fast by the law; for, as Burke said, when a nation
abandons law it proclaims anarchy.”
“N’importe”: Re the prayer of “Harrison
O.” for a beer mug as a tomb decoration
3/2/’l6). In Tahiti the tomb of Kine
Pomare, of blessed memory, is surmounted
by a replica of an old-fashioned gin bottle
Pomare died many years ago, after having
imbibed more Christian spirit than was »ood
for a smudgy child of nature brought up on
orange beer. The appropriateness of the
ornament struck his subjects when they came
to furnish his long home. Rarotonga" (Cook
Islands) also de-
serves a cheer for
an original effort.
There the natives
like to bury their
dead as close to
their cottages as
possible, sometimes
planting them in
the shade of the
verandah. On one
of these verandah
graves a sewing
machine, the prop-
erty of the de-
ceased, has been
cemented on the
tombstone. I don’t
know if any con-
stant borroM-er has
been found by night
whirring clothes
together over the
silent owner's
head.
DAVID
HENNESSY.
Melbourne's Gaud
Mayor.
One of the Argus’s characteristic corre-
spondents—he signed himself “Loyalist”—
wrote to that high-minded journal the other
day asking how Dr. “Billy” Maloney stood
as regards the war, pointing out that
Maloney has not been conspicuous among
the orators who are urging young men to
enlist. The “little doctor” is one of many
who has no time to waste on “revival” meet-
ing methods of obtaining recruits, but,
although he did not take the trouble of
writing to tell the Argus so, he was amongst
the first to offer his services at the Front in
any capacity in which they might be re-
quired.
Septimus Hungerford, now in his 92nd
year, is the last of the parsons of any
denomination now receiving State aid under
Governor Bourke’s Church Act of 1836.
The stipend was abolished in 1863 as far as
future priests and parsons were concerned.
The Tasmanian Legislature first took action
in this matter of abolishing State stipends.
The Bill was reserved for the Royal assent
a.... was disallowed on the ground that a
State couldn’t sack a parson, even if it
wanted to. Thereupon N. S. Wales took
the hint, and, when passing the Abolition
Act, secured the stipends for life to all then
in receipt of them. One of the first to
surrender his rights while living was Wm.
Curnow, the Methodist parson who threw
off his black coat to edit the S. M. Herald.
Mr. Hungerford’s pension dates from April
1, 1554. No All Fools’ Day that!
Langdon Bonython, who has lately been
strikingly generous in giving to Adelaide
Mail interviewers interesting reminiscences
which might have gone into his own Adver-
tiser, tells the story (5/2/’l6) of a scoop
which failed, in connection with the late
Judge Boucaut, at that time, somewhere in
the eighteen-seventies. Premier of South Aus-
tralia. England was alleged to be on the
verge of war with Russia. Jervois, Gover-
nor of S.A., uas a major-general in the
Royal Engineers, and an expert on Black
Sea fortifications. Bonython, then a re-
porter, called on the Premier, a fellow Corn-
ishman, and was told that the Governor
Mas returning to England forthwith. “The
Premier wanted to talk. I didn’t. I Mas
anxious to get away. I Mas afraid that lie
might say, ‘Of course you understand this
is confidential.’ At the first opportunity
I was out of the r00m.... I went upstairs to
the Chief Secretary’s office, and said, ‘So
our Governor has been recalled to take up
his military duties.’ .... On reaching the
quadrangle I discovered that I M-as an ob-
ject of great interest. The Chief Secretary
(William Morgan) and the Under-Secretary
(Josiah Boothby) M-ere in hot pursuit. The
C.S. Mas in a state of tremendous excite-
ment. ‘I demand to know, 1 he said, ‘how
you obtained that information. It is a
State secret; more than that, it is a matter
of great Imperial concern.’ I thought
there would be no harm done in giving him
a shock, so I said, ‘From the head of the
Government.’ Then said he- —it must have
been in his haste —‘The head of the Gov-
ernment is a damned fool.’ Later on I M-as
sworn to secrecy, and next day the Adver-
tiser published an article (I didn’t M’rite
it) M'hich M T oukl have delighted the hearts
of the censors to-day. The public M-ere told
that urgent private affairs —family matters
—M-ere taking Sir William Jervois to Eng-
land.”
A COLD-FOOTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He’s long and brown, with keen, blue eyes.
He goes about the town on wheels,
And hikes himself for exercise
The while his “operation” heals.
He’s khaki-clad and seared, and still
The fellows call him Coldfoot Bill.
Coldfoot was at the landing. He
Has had adventures by the score.
He went up dripping from the sea,
And scaled the devastated shore.
Yet when they call him Coldfoot, Bill
Still takes his beer in all goodwill.
There glints a medal on his breast.
His mates will tell how that was earned.
But he’s not going with the rest
When finally they are returned.
For both his feet are cold. You see,
They’re buried in Gallipoli!
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


\ v
NT\
&\\
\
\ t 'I
H
:
/
V \
k / 1
IILYm \
mt i 'kf\V
s
✓
Actual Experience in
Outfitting Military Men
has given us this advantage, that we know
thoroughly their every requirement. Officers
in turn have the advantage of being able
to come to us with their outfitting needs,
confident of a correct and satisfactory
execution of their orders.
But, further than this, the prices charged for
“Austral” Uniforms and equipment in every
case are in keeping with the present=day
spirit of economy, and represent the
standard of value that has made our trade
mark “Austral ” synonomous with quality.
m
&
1 \
■
4*
1
m
%
sti-
ll m
l
m
“ Austral ” Military
Uniforms ®.
Equipment.
Tailoring Order Department
(Prices quoted are for Garments Made to Measure.
TUNICS (as illustrated), FIELD SERVICE
PATTERNS.
All-Wool Kliaki Tweed or Garbardine, 2 quali 55/-
and 65/-. A lso in an extra heavy 2ooz. All-Wool
Tweed, for winter wear, Oil/-. Best English Khaki
Tweed, 65/-. Khaki Drill, 30/-. Undress Blue
Twill or Naval Serge, all-wood, Indigo dyed, 53/-
TROUSERS (Exact Military Cut).
All-Wool Khaki Tweed, 21 /-. Best English Khaki
Tweed, 25/-. Khaki Drill, 12/6. Undress Blue
Twill or Naval Serge, all-wool. Indigo dyed, 21/-
BREECHES (Exact Military Cut).
Finest Bedford Cord or Clarbavdine, 25/-; with strap-
pings, 30/-. Best English Bedford Cord, 32/6;
with strappings, 37/6. Khaki Drill, 17/6; with
strappings, 21/-. Heal Buckskin strappings, 10/6
extra.
MILITARY GREAT COAT.
Correct Military Patterns for Infantry or Mounted
Pattern—Heavy Khaki Tweed, 84/-; with Tweed
Lining, 21/- extra.
Departments for Ready=to=Wear Clothing.
TUNICS (as illustrated), FIELD SERVICE
PATTERNS.
All-Wool Khaki Tweed, 47/6. Khaki Drill, 20 7-
TROUSERS (Exact Military Cut).
Khaki Drill, 7/6.
SHORTS.
Khaki Drill Knickers, with belt loops and side pockets,
3/6.
BREECHES (Exact Military Cut).
All-Wool Bedford Cord, with strappings, 25/-.
English Bedford ( ord, 27/ 6, or with strappings,
30/-. Khaki Drill, 17/6, with strappings. Cotton
Cord, with strappings, 18/6.
MILITARY CAPES.
Waterproof Capes, 35/-, 45/-
SHIRTS (Field Service Patterns).
Khaki Twill, with pockets and attached collar and
shoulder straps, 6/6; or without pockets and shoulder
straps, G/-
Khaki Oxford, without pockets or shoulder straps, but
having loose Peter Pan collars, 2 qualities, 8/6 and
0/6; or to special measure, 1/- extra.
Khaki Oxford, with pockets and detachable collar, or
with collar attached (both have shoulder straps), two
qualities, 9/6 and 10/6; or made to special measure,
1 /. extra.
Khaki Mercerised Poplin, with pockets and detachable
collar, or with collar attached (both have shoulder-
straps), 11/6; or without pockets, 10/6.
Khaki Mercerised Poplin, with pockets and detachable
collar, or with collar attached (both have shoulder
straps), 11/6; or without pockets, 10/6.
Khaki Flannel, with pockets and detachable collar, or
with collar attached (both have shoulder straps),
16/6; or made to special measure, 17/6.
Khaki Flannel, without pockets or shoulder straps, but
having loose Peter Pan collar, 13/6; or made to
special measure, 14/6.
COLLARS.
Loose Collars, in Khaki Flannel or
1/6 each.
GLOVES.
Tan Cape, Military regulation
Real Gazelle, 1 Dome ..
Beaver Buck, Heavy Weight ..
Tan Cape, Wool Lined
Tan Cape, Wool Lined
Tan Cape, Wool Lined, Double Strapped
Palms, a special Riding Glove
Cotton fabrics,
5/6 per pair
7/6 „ „
7/6 „ „
4/6 „ „
5/11 „ o
6/6
SPURS. , , , .
Straight and Swan neck, Nickel-plated, 4/0 pan.
Solid Nickel, 5/6, 6/ 6, 7/6, 8/6 per pair.
Solid Nickel Spur Chains, 3/- per pair.
BELTS.
Tan Leather, 11 and lj inches, at 1/3, 1/6 and
1/11.
Tan Suede, H inch, at 2/6.
Tan, Grey or Fawn Buckskin, llineli and 12 inch, 4/6.
MONEY belts. , . _
Tube Pattern, 2/6 and 3/6; with five pockets, o/b
and 6/-J with five pockets, double straps and buckles,
strong and secure, 6/6.
Tan Suede Money Belts, five pockets, special quality.
9/6.
Arm or Leg Money Belts, 2/6 and 3/6.
in ices
All Leather, extra strong, 3/6, 3/9, 4/6.
HANDKERCHIEFS.
Khaki Irish Lawn, 6/- and 7/6 Per dozen.
Khaki Mercerised Handkerchiefs, 8/- anc * 10/
dozen. .
Khaki Pyramid Handkerchiefs, a quality we stronglv
recommend, 10/- P er dozen. ,
Khaki Silk Handkerchiefs, 2/6, 3/6 and 4/6 each.
per
SCARVES.
Khaki Knitted Woollen Scarves, Brown or Grev, 4/6
each.
RAZORS.
Gillette Safety Razor, 21/-
Auto-Strop Safety Razor, complete 22/6.
“Seven O'clock - ’ Safety Razor and Strop, 12/6.
“Bengal - ’ Full Hollow Ground Razors, from 3/6 to
8/6.
A splendid assortment of Strops and all Shaving or
Toilet Necessaries at moderate prices.
MIRRORS.
For Camp or Active Service, Bevelled Glass in Olive
Wood case, unbreakable, 4.j x Oj inches, 3/6.
SHAVING BRUSHES.
Shaving Brushes, imitation badger, 1/6, 2/6.
Real Badger Hair, 3/11, 4/6, 5/6.
NAIL BRUSHES.
Nail Brushes, 6d., 9(1., 1/-, 1/3, 1/6.
MILITARY HAIR BRUSHES.
Military Hair Brushes, single, 2/6, 3/6, 5/6,
7/{) each, in Black Ebonized Backs, in Leather Cases,
7/6, 10/6, 13/6 pair.
HAIR COMBS.
White or Black Xylonite, 9(1., 1/”
HOUSEWIVES.
Contain Thread, Needles, Buttons, Thimble, etc., 2/6.
SOLDIER’S KIT.
Hide case to hang on belt, contains Knife, Fork and
Spoon, best quality cutlery, (>/6.
SOAP.
Sea Water Soap, lathers freely in salt or hard water,
5(1. and 6(1.
LANYARDS.
Whistle Lanyards, 1/6.
WHISTLES.
Oxydised Whistles, 2/-.
BUTTON STICKS.
Button Sticks, 6(1. each.
WATCH COVERS.
Wristlet Watch Covers, Tan Leather, 2/6.
OFFICERS’ MILITARY CANES, 2/6, 3/6.
OFFICERS’ SWAGGER CANES, 1/6.
OFFICERS’ STEEL UNIFORM CASES.
Heavily Japanned in Black, size 36 x *2O x I*2, fitted
with 1 Heavy Brass Lock in centre, name and numeral
included, 52/6.
Airtight Steel Uniform Case, heavily Japanned Black
outside, enamelled in light colors inside, size 45 x la x
11, with Sword Carrier and Helmet Compartment,
fitted with two strong steel spring staple fastenings at
each end of trunk, and strong brass Tubular Lock m
centre, name and numeral included, 70/*
Airtight Steel Uniform Case, heavily Japanned in
Black, size 45 x 15 x 11, with Sword Carrier and
Helmet Compartment, fitted with 1 brass Tubular
Lock at each end of trunk, name and numeral included,
75/-
KHAIvI CANVAS MILITARY KIT BAGS.
With Brass Lock and Handle, guaranteed water-proof,
JO/- Also in White Canvas, with similar fittings,
5/6.’
SLEEPING VALISE.
Strong Waterproof Sheeting can be used as ordinary
valise, 37/6. , , ,
Extra Strong Khaki Canvas, with hood and kapok
mattress, absolutely waterproof, 65/-
Waterproof Canvas, with warm rug lining. 7ft. x 3ft.,
large pocket at top. Can be used as valise, 50/-
CAMP BEDSTEADS.
Telescopic Camp Stretcher, weight 151 b., support
10001 b. Size, folded, 37in. x Tin. x sin. ; size open,
height 20in., width 30in, length 76m. Price, 18/6.
Light, tucked mattress for same, backed with American
cloth, 7/6.
Carriage is Paid on all Country Orders.
lie
484 to 490 GEORGE STREET; 3 to 17 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobe!
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelig-nite
Blasting- Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The New Zealand Insurance Co.
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Nov., £ £ £ £ £
1904.. 71,829 15p.c.= 30,000 41,829 401,611
1905.. 69,375 15 „ ~30,000 39,375 440,986
Profit on purchase of N.Z. Accident 17,696 458,682
Loss.
7167,435 10 p.c. = 25,000 266,247
1906 J Premiums on new share issue.. 25,485 291,732
| Unearned premiums reserve .. 30,000 321,732
V Profit on sale of securities .. 15,054 336,786
Profit.
1907.. 91,711 10p.c.= 30,000 61,711 398,497
1908.. 78,619 10 „ ~30,000 3,231 45,388 443,885
1909.. 41,134 10 „ ~30,000 11,134 455,019
1910.. 66,745 124 „,, 37,500 -157 29,088 484,107
1911.. 107,417 12|„ ~37,500 12,654 57,263 541,370
1912.. 109,986 15 „ ~45,000 8,932 56,054 597,424
Transferred to capital, £150,000 .. 447,424
1913. . 117,870 10p.c.= 45,000 2,773 70,097 517,521
1914. . 109,538 10 ~ ~45,000 64,538 582,059
1915.. 150,683 10 „ ~45,000 34,573 71,110 653,169
Twelve months ago the directors put a note
to their balance-sheet: “The Board has
decided to retain the values of the co.’s
investments as they stood prior to the out-
break of the war. The directors, however,
have made provision for war contingencies
by transferring £22,500 to the Investment
Fluctuation and Contingency Account.” But
the past year has yielded such fat profits that
the £22.500 is left undisturbed and £34,573
is charged direct to Profit and Loss —
“amounts written off sundry investments.”
Nor is that all. It looks as though a further
large provision is made for contingencies
somewhere else. Though there is the usual
Re-insurance Fund (now for the first time
called by the much better name of Reserve
for Unexpired Risks), and though that fund
amounts to £300,000, or over 40 p.c. of the
year’s premiums, there is another line—
“ Sundry creditors and unearned premiums.”
This has sprung during the year from
£100,848 to £162.142 ; and how much of the
increase is sundry creditors and how much
is profit in suspense we don’t know. But
there is no movement on the other side to
explain any large increase in sundry credi-
tors. Anyway, the co. has done exceedingly
well, though just how well we don’t quite
know. This is mostly explained by the won-
derful performance of the British navy.
Marine insurance rates have been excep-
tionally high on account of the war risks;
and the war risks haven’t amounted to any-
thing very serious, after all. The navy has
thus earned the extra profits, but others are
collecting them. There is bound to be
trouble about that as soon as the shoe
pinches.
Not only was the loss rate smaller last
year than usual, but the actual losses were
less than they had been in either of the
previous two years :
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
£ £ £
1895. . 267,917 172,137 79,203 64.2 p.c. 29.6 u.c.
1900. . 342,036 195,804 95,651 57.2 „ 27.9 „
1905. . 425,991 273,698 111,677 64.2 „ 26.2 „
1906. . 565,149 | ffgg’eg? } 129,361 111.9 „ 22.9 „
1910. . 605,509 391,321 172,593 64.5 „ 28.5 „
1912. . 676,097 408,521 190,314 60.4 ~ 28.1 „
1913. . 702.96 S 431,709 197,252 61.4 „ 25.0 ..
1914. . 699,310 435.397 202,125 62.3 „ 28.9 „
1915. . 740,646 423,844 208,879 57.2 ~ 28.2 ~
*General. tSan Francisco disaster.
And the expense rate was very modest, as
expense rates usually are where much marine
underwriting is done. Thus nearly 15 p.c.
of the net premiums was profit. But (and
here the co. earns three cheers) not a penny
of this profit was divided. The interest earn-
ings alone exceeded the total dividend paid,
so something more than the whole of the
underwriting profit was put by to add to the
reserves and give further strength to this
splendid office. Certainly, looked at in a
hard, cold way, the co., because of the rapid
growth of its risks, ought to do what it
has done: but there are a lot of cos. that
wouldn't do it so suddenly.
The next table shows how that policy of
hanging on to profits has strengthened the
position :—•
Funds in Proportion
Premiums. Funds. to Premiums.
1895.. £267,917 £449,551 168 p.c.
1900.. 342,036 481,485 141 „
1905.. 425,991 640,916 150 „
1910.. 605,509 784,107 129 „
1911.. 638.007 841,370 131 „
1912.. 676,097 897,424 132 „
1913.. 702,968 967,521 137 „
1914.. 699,310 1,032.059 148 „
1915.. 740,646 1,103,169 149 „
You can’t absolutely measure risks; but the
premiums paid are the nearest approach to
a standard, premiums being calculated to
cover the average risks and leave just enough
over to pay for expenses and give a fair
profit. This co.’s average losses are, say,
60 p.c. of the premiums. So in 1910 it had
£215 towards meeting every £lOO of losses
which might then reasonably have been
looked for in the next ensuing year; and
now it has £248. In other words, at this
moment, without collecting another farthing
of premiums, it could meet in a day the losses
that ordinarily come in two and a half years.
That, of course, is if it could realise its
assets. And on the whole they are a very
good lot. Approximately half of the funds
is in Government securities, and pretty well
another quarter of a million could be
scraped together in cash. The rest is mostly
freeholds (£376,652) and mortgages
(£197.135).
* * * *
The Australian Gaslight Co. (Syd-
ney) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves,
it e c £
Dee., 1909.. 63,711 15 p.e. = 60,000 3,711 372,999
Premiums on new shares . . 49,988 422.987
June, 1910.. 18,013 15 p.c. = 62,450 378,550
Premiums on new shares . . 10 378,560
Dec., 1910.. 79,279 15 p.e. = 63,750 15,529 394,089
June, 1911.. 68,125 15 „ „ 63,750 4,375 398,464
Dec., 1911.. 79,304 15 „ „ 63,750 15,554 414,018
June, 1912.. 69,002 15 ~ ~ 63,750 5,252 419,270
Deficit.
Reserves transferred to capital, £424,998 5,728
Reserves.
Dec., 1912.. 82,765 10 p.c. = 63,750 19,015 13.287
June, 1913.. 58,035 10 „,. 63,750 7,572
“A”A“B” “C”
Shares Shares
10 p.c. 7 p.c.
Dec., 1913.. 74,514 63,750 8778 1,986 9,558
9 p.c.
June, 1914.. 68,288 57,375 8925 1,988 11,546
7 p.c.
Dec., 1914.. 52,696 44,625 8925 10,692
6 p.c.
June, 1915.. 53,463 44,625 7650 1,188 11,880
Dec., 1915.. 55,472 44,625 7650 3,197 15,077
This co. is one of the very few mentioned in
the schedule of the Gas Act which fixed a
standard rate of dividend and a standard
price. When the div. on the ordinary
capital issued within the period allowed by
the Act is 10 p.c. the standard rate for this
co. is 3s. 6d. per 1000 ft. It presently
became impossible to pay 10 p.c.—as one
might reasonably have expected, assuming
that the assets were appraised at anything
like their full value for the purpose of recon-
structing the capital of the co. Thereupon,
pleading that there had been an increase in
costs, the result in part of wages awards,
the co. put up the selling price to 3s. lOd.
This was reviewed by the Prices Commis-
sion 12 months ago and eventually allowed ;
but the matter has been re-opened. The
directors report: “No final decision has
been come to, but there is every reason to
believe that when the whole of the evidence
has been submitted the present rate will be
maintained.”
*
On the figures as they appear in the first
table it is difficult to see how any other con-
clusion could be come to. But they are not
the only figures. The old question as to the
fair amount to be written off against depre-
ciation arises once more. This is really
how the matter stands: —
Dec.,’l4. Dec.,’ls.
Total revenue .. ..£407,910 £435,036
Working expenditure . . 305,619 282,925
Working profit ..£102,291 £152,111
Less net interest . . 25,595 36,402
Less written off . . 24,000 60,237
Profit £52,696 £55,472
So, though the profit disclosed for the past
half-year is only £2776 more than for the
corresponding half of 1914, it would have
been £39,013 more had only the same
amount been written off against deprecia-
tion. This paper has no means of telling
whether £60,237 is a fair thing to charge
against the half-year’s revenue or not. If
£60,237 is a fair thing now, £24,000 must
have been ridiculously little before. It is
to this point that inquiry should be directed.
In the old days the favorite plan of the
N. S. Wales gas co. was to cloak its real
earnings by writing off large sums out of
profits and spending them on additions;
with the result that wthen the new Act came
along the true value of the assets of some
cos. was found to be more than double the
book value. The new Act was supposed to
lay down a basis on which cos. should pro-
vide for depreciation. If it doesn’t do so,
and do it effectively, the Act is of very little
use indeed.
One thing is quite clear. If the £24,000
which was written off to cover depreciation
in former half-years is a fair thing, then the
co. will soon be in a position to pay more
than the present 7 p.c. on “A” and “B” and
6 p.c. on “C” shares. An additional £15,000
per half-year would pay 2 p.c. more on the
former and 1 p.c. on the latter. The
£2-1.000, by the way, does not have to cover
repairs and renewals. They are charged
direct to working account. The total pay-
ments and allowances are :
Dec.,’l4. Dec.f’lS.
Repairs and renewals of plant ..£24,360 £34,195
Ditto of mains . . . . . . 22,533 19,625
Repairs of meters and stoves . . 13’389 10,385
Depreciation written off gross profits 24,000 60,237
Total . . £84,282 £124,442
The position altogether seems distinctly
better than one would judge either from the
movement of the disclosed net profit or from
the present rate of dividend. The capital
is £1.275.000 of “A” and “B” capital (10
p.c. standard) and £255,000 “C” capital (7
p.c. standard) ; there is outstanding £BOO,OOO
of 4 and 5 p.c. debenture stock and £724.250
of temporary loans costing from 3 to 5 p.c.
* * * *
The North Shore Gas Co. (Sydney) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1908. . £11,532 Bp.e. = £6,000 £5,532 £35,580
Premiums on new shares .. 216 35 796
June, 1909.. 7,133 8 p.c. = 6,148 985 36/781
Dec., 1909.. 5,195 8„ „ 6,300 35,676
Loss.
June, 1910.. 4,225 8 „„ 6,300 25 151
Profit.
Dec., 1910. . 12,716 8 „ „ 6,646 6,070 31 221
June, 1911.. 13,536 8 ~ „ -7,196 6,340 37,561
Premiums on new shares . . 49 37 610
Dec., 1911.. 14,393 lOp.c. = 9,371 5,022 42 632
June, 1912. 14,237 10 ~ „ 9,683 4,554 47’,186
| Assets written up. Reserves trans-
Dec., 1912-J ferred to capital, £82,687.
t 28,611 lOp.c. = 11,989 16,622 63,808
Reserves transferred to capital, £63,000 808
June, 1913.. 12,885 7p.c.= 12,848 37 845
Dec., 1913.. 13,652 7 „ „ 13,876 621
Dec., 1914.. 28,229 64 „„ 26,596 1,633 2,254
, —Shares.—,
“A” “B” Total.
Dec., 1915.. 31,164 61%6%29,912 1 252 3 506
The capital of the co. as at Dee. 31 was made
up as follows : —-
Capital as at 30/6/T2 .. £195,000
Reserves then capitalised . . 145,687
New capital as at 31/12/’14.. £92,691
Ditto paid up during year . . 55,378 148,069
Total .. .. £488,756
In this total there are: —
“A” £1 shares (10 p.c. standard), fully paid £378,000
“B” £1 shares ( 7 p.c. standard) 15/- paid 110,756
And another 2s. bd. per share on the “B’s”
was payable on January 1. In addition to
the share capital the co. has raised £lOO,OOO
on 4| p.c. debentures, and £46,12S on tem-
porary loan (deposits), costing from 3| to
M P-c.
The net profit is £2935 greater than for
the preceding year; but the co.’s business has
given better results than those figures sug-
gest. Compare the operations this way :
1914. 1915.
Gross receipts .. ..£132,571 £149,461
Total outgoings . . . . 92,453 93,714
Gross profit .. .. £40,118 £55,747
Less Interest .. .. 356 6,995
Depreciation . . .. 11,533 17,588
Net profit .. .. £28,229 £31,164
Disregarding depreciation, the profit for 1914
wms thus £39,762 and for 1914 £48,752. Even
after allowing for the increased capital and
also for the fact that a somewhat larger
provision for wear and tear is necessary on
account of the greater amount of capital
now invested, the year’s results were dis-
tinctly better than those for 1914. This is
to a small extent due to cheaper coal and a
smaller wages bill on the manufacturing
side, but mainly to the higher price charged
for gas and increased revenue from
residuals. The latter (coke, tar and am-
monia liquor) are now an important factor,
bringing in last year no less than £19,251
as against £16,848 in 1914. Under the Gas
Act, which led to the re-valuation of assets
and the reconstitution of the capital, the
standard selling price was fixed at 3s. 6d.
and the standard dividend at 10 p.c. on old
(“A”) capital. That dividend was naturally
impossible on a capital fixed on the basis
of the full value of the assets; wherefore
the selling price was raised to 3s. lOd. As
a matter of fact, the average dividend on the
capital actually paid is greater now than it
was before the Gas Act was passed, and the
price of gas is also higher. So the co.,
which was supposed to have been hard hit
b* T the new law, has benefited, and the public
is the loser. Also it was assumed that the
law would draw the fangs of this and other
cos. and compel them to hereafter give the
public the benefit of improved processes and
the natural reduction in costs through a
gradually increasing output. As a matter of
fact, however, this co. can, under certain
circumstances, pay about £9500 a year more
to shareholders, and still be entitled to charge
3s. lOd. per 1000. It can certainly pay
over £14,000 a year more before the public
is entitled under the Act to get gas for less
than the standard 3s. 6d. On the whole it
is fairly plain that, in this contest with
Private Enterprise (if it really was a con-
test), the blundering Holman Government
fell in ; and, as usual, dragged the public with
it. What the co.’s prospects are for making
the extra money is another matter: they
certainly won’t be improved by the gradual
extension of the City Council’s electric
mains in the northern suburbs.
N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Co. (Svd-
ney)
Writ- Added
ten to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Dee., ’OB.. 4,996 6 p.c. = 2752 2,244 42,044
June, ’09.. 6,458 6 „ „ 2752 3,706 45,-750
Dec., ’09.. 4,627 6 „ „ 2752 1,875 47,625
June, ’lO. . 12,230 12 ~ ~ 5504 6,726 54,351
Dec., ’lO.. 12,125 12 „ „ 5504 6,621 60,972
June, ’ll.. 11.449 12 „ „ 5504 —• 5,945 66,917
Dec., ’ll.. 14,145 10 ~ ~ 7338 6,807 73.724
Transferred to capital, £55,038 . . 18 686
June, T 2. . 25,252 114 p.c. = 8164 17,088 35,774
Dec., ’12.. 14,165 114 „ „ 8164 6,001 41,775
June, ’l3. . 15,138 114 „ ~8164 6,974 48,749
Dec., ’13.. 16,589 114 „ „ 8898 7,691 56,440
Transferred to capital, £18,346 . . 38 094
June, ’l4. . 14,211 114 p.c. = 8898 5,313 43’407
Dec.. '14.. 14.549 114 „ „ 8898 5,651 49,058
June, D>. . 12.522 114 „ ~ SS9S 3,624 52,682
Dec., In.. 3,956 6 „ ~ 4953 51,685
It is all a tale of woe—dear provisions for
the co. s refreshment rooms; drought and
shortage of fat stock and consequent Gov-
ernment interdiction of exports, which meant
idleness in the cold-storage department;
drought in the cow country, and trouble in
the butter market, with a Prices Regulation
Board to keep the market for both butter
and milk in subjection ; higher wages under
awards of courts and boards; and finally (or
thereabouts) stiff prices for fodder for the
beast that carries around the milk and
the precious half-pound of butter. There
appears to be no attempt to make things
out to have been worse than they really have
been. Anyway, this doesn’t suggest it:—
T . ~ Dec.,’lo. Dec.,’l4. June,’ls. Dec.,’ls.
Liquid assets (in-
eluding stock). . £64,881 £78.970 £73 4?7 £74 304
Liabilities.. .. 16,410 60,325 49,573 55^579
Surplus . . £48,471 £18,645 £23,854 £lB 7<>s
Between 1910 and 1914 the co. spent large
sums on new plant, etc., especiallv in con-
nection with cold storage; so there is no
significance about the movement shown be-
tween those dates. In the past 12 months
the co. has apparently added nothing of anv
consequence to its works; and still its other
assets (less liabilities) stand only just where
they did 12 months ago.
It is a large change from the history of
the previous five exceedingly profitable
years. But it is very doubtful whether
those past years are much of a guide to the
future. Either of two things may upset all
calculations. (1) The capital outlay on
property and plant has recently been almost
doubled, and there is no sort of guarantee
that because you have earned 10s a dav
with an ice-cream freezer you will earn 10s
a day with a peanut-roaster, even though it
does cost the same money. (2) This co is
wholly in the food-supply line, and it is' to
food that the price-fixers will hang on long-
e®f:, The trouble a co. like this is bound to
stnke is that, while the price-fixer will fix
the price when his maximum isn’t reallv
high enough, competition will step in and
RnM-hA P 3f r hpn th | maximum is too high.
But the u hole price-fixing business is stupid
and is the tackling of a big problem f rom
the wrong end. \\ hen a dozen men are com
peting there is no need to fix a price unZ
it be a minimum price—a principle which
labor unionism long ago properly recoeniseH
The only case in which you need to fix
maximum is where there is a monopoly. a
The Southland Frozen Meat an* d p„„
duce Export Co. (Invercargill, M.L.) : _L
Dividends. Writ- To
Profits. Pref. Ord. Total Off. serves. series
Dec.. £ £ £ £ *vts-
-3904.. 7,808 5 p.c. 2* p.c. 1697 2000 4in
1905.. 5,976 5 „ 2J„ 1767 2000 2*o9^™?
1906.. 10,134 5 „ 4 „ 2065 2000 6 069 5q
On All Shares. ’ “ a ’"°
1907.. 15,571 6J p.c. = 2711 3580 9,280 39 n-.n
1908.. 13,326 6 „ ~.2714 5889 4 723 43 m
1909.. 13,190 6 „ „ 2729 6530 3 931 ►
1910.. 21,101 8 „ „ 3641 6057 11 403 59’ n?
1911.-22,593 8 „ „ 3642 8128 10:823 69 930
£22,761 of reserves transferred to capital 47 iro
1912.. 15,444 8 p.c. = 5463 7913 2 068 49 937
1913.. 11,236 8 „ „ 5463 8054 Ifi’qfl
1914.. 12,424 8 „ „ 5463 6432 509474^
Net. ,4So
1915.. 24,382 10 „ „ 6828 ? 17,554 65,039
The management has some shame, and
shrinks from putting the accounts forward
in the old way. Formerly they showed the
“'profit on operations for the year,” and then
an appropriation was made to cover wear
and tear. This year the profit is shown net
so as not to take the breath away; and the
amount written off is not mentioned. Still
ir. is probable that it wasn’t much if any:
thing above the average five or six thou-
sand. If there had been a big amount
stuffed away we should expect to find it
among the more or less liquid assets. These
have increased by £33,320, and the liabilities
by £0737, leaving a net improvement of
£23,583. which doesn’t suggest that much
was made beyond the disclosed profit. Rut
Tite Bulletin isn’t going to be dogmatic
on this point, because the liabilities this
year include contingent liabilities— items
which won’t become real liabilities unless
some unspecified accident happens.
Ten years’ history is further shown in
this table:—
1905. 1913. 1914. 1915.
Capital.. .. £45,027 £68,283 £68,283 £68,283
Liabilities . . 29,625 29,103 28,001 37 738
Works . . . . 83,918 129,711 127,079 123’743
Stock . . . . 6,624 12,130 12,018 11,691
Other assets.. 9,579 8,948 10,135 43,455
The co. draws its supplies from the cold,
sodden South, where the sheep-man’s
troubles are in the winter and not in the
summer. Last summer there was a drought
in some northern parts of Maoriland. Then
out of a double misfortune the Scotchmen
of Otago and Southland coined money;
buying the sheep that the northerners
were compelled to sell for a little,
they used the southern grass to fatten
and their fine works and big stores to
hold the carcases for export at war prices.
This net profit of over 35 p.c. on capital is the
result. So far as extra profit resulted from
the South’s ability to fatten lambs when the
North couldn’t, the co. was entitled to it.
So far as it was war profit, it ought to be
taken from this and every other similarly
placed co. and restored to the nation.
* * * *
Port Adelaide Dock Co. (S.A.) :
To Re- , Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, ’09.. £3683 7 p.c. =£2680 £lOO3 £21,206
Dec., ’09.. 5203 7 „ „ 2680 2523 23,729
June, TO.. 4882 9 .. „ 3446 1436 25,165
Dec., TO.. 6746 9 ~ ~ 3446 3300 28,465
June, ’ll.. 4997 11 .. .. 4211 786 29,251
Dee., ’ll.. 7760 15 ~ .. 5743 2017 31,268
June, T 2.. 5302 15 .. ~ 5743 30,827
Dec., T 2. . 6671 15 .. ~ 5743 928 31,755
June, '13.. 6161 15 „ „ 574.3 418 32,173
Dec., T 3. . 6321 15 „ „ 5743 578 32,751
June, T 4. . 6382 15 „ „ 5743 639 33,390
Dec., T 4. . 4250 8 ~ „ 3063 1187 34,577
June, T 5. . 1841 5 „ „ 1914 34,504
Dec., T 5.. 3895 10 „,, 3828 67 34,571
Earnings fell pretty heavily, certainly, in
the first half of last year; but things were
made to appear worse because the half-year
had to carry the whole year’s land and in-
come taxes. The same practice is adopted
regarding municipal rates; instead of mak-
ing each half carry a moiety, one half has
to struggle under the lot. The co. is a solid
old institution which has been putting a nice
bit by. Seven years ago it owed £5028 and
owned £4775 apart from the wharf, dock and
plant; now it owes only £OO4 and has £3223
more or less liquid. Meantime it has put
something like £13,000 into property and
plant, besides thoroughly maintaining the
assets. A very comfortable investment while
it lasts. But the State is pretty sure to
take over at least the wharf, which forms
the bulk of the co.’s property, before very
long.
*. * * *
Newcastle-Wallsend Coal Co. (N. S
Wales) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1908. . £10,431 20p.c.= £lO,OOO £431 £52,014
June, 1909.. 10,370 20 „„ 10,000 370 52,384
Dec., 1909.. 4,090 10 „ „ 5,000 51,474
June, 1910.. 5.115 10 „„ 5,000 115 51.589
Dec., 1910.. 10,562 20 ~ ~ 10,000 562 52,151
June, 1911.. 4,163 10 „„ 5,000 51,314
Dec., 1911.. 5.694 10 „,, 5,000 694 52,008
June, 1912.. 5.329 10 „„ 5,000 329 52.337
Dec., 1912.. 5,771 10 „ „ 5,000 771 53,108
June, 1913.. 7.660 15 „„ 7,500 160 53,268
Dec., 1913.. 10,996 20 „„ 10,000 996 54,264
Assets written up and £lOO,OOO
transferred to capital .. • • 63,966
June, 1914.. 10,676 10p.c.= 10,000 676 64,642
Dec., 1914.. 10,105 10 „„ 10,000 105 64,747
June, 1915.. 2,400 5 „„ 5,000 62,147
Dec., 1915. . 4,970 5 „ „ 5,000 62,117
For many years the fixed assets, including
rolling stock, stood in the books at some-
where about £91,000. Then, as 20 p.c. divi-
dends provoke hostile attentions these times,
it was decided to revalue the assets and
adjust the capital accordingly. As at Dec..
1913, the item stood in the balance-sheet at
£91,890; six months later it had blossomed
to £200,955; and even that was alleged to
be the value “less internal reserves.” The
profits are shown net —that is, “after provid-
ing for wear and tear, etc.”; and if the
recent valuation was a fair one it looks as
if in past years an excessive amount was
deducted from profits to pay for renewals.
M hether the same practice is still being fol-
lowed this paper hasn’t the smallest idea.
Only this can be said: the co. has a very
long history of fat dividends running up to as
much as £4 ss. per year in the old days
(= £55.000) ; and, though the life of the
niine at Newcastle must expire some day t no
indication of reserves is ever given), the


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
2,4 & 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY
and EFFICIENT
MANAGEMENT
can best be obtained by the
appointment of this Company as
Trustee, Executor or
Administrator, etc.
LOW CHARGES.
BOOKLET ON APPLICATION.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited.
(“THE M.L.C.”)
Assets Exceed £9,300,000
Annual Income Exceeds ... £1,400,000
The Company is distinguished for
FINANCIAL STRENGTH
and
ECONOMICAL MANAGEMENT.
ViARE BOANTO
\f£lß BCNErOS-
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
Th ‘ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Capital £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid=up 82,500
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
Infinite toil would not enable you to sweep away
a mist, but “Chromol” Belting will dispel all your
power worries. “Chromol” Belting is mineral tanned
and possesses heat- and moisture-resisting qualities
that prevent deterioration when exposed to atmo-
spheric conditions. It has been tried out on the
largest mining plants at Broken Hill and Kalgoorlie,
and is now used on many of the heaviest and most
important drives. Equally efficient as a conveyor or
a driving belt. Obtainable from the makers, J. C.
Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York Street, Sydney
(Opp. Q. V. Markets). Sold in Victoria by Geo.
Russell Pty. Ltd., Flinders Street, Melbourne; South
Australia: J. McKell, Timpson Street, Port Adelaide;
Queensland: Queensland Machinery Co., Ltd., Bris-
bane; West Australia: Horace Summers, Howard
Street, Perth; Broken Hill: Geo. C. Dempster,
Argent Street. — Advt.
ALUMINOFERRIC is used by the Sydney Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards and graziers
for precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is simply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours’
time the most discolored water will be as- clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless.
Sole agents: William Adams & Company Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.— Advt.
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to (is. 3d. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is. ;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. — a saving of 2s. sd.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow 16in. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers. — Advt. [2
* * * *
Extract from The Citizen, London, 15th Septem-
ber, 1915: “Colonial Mutual Life Office. —In the
personal accident and sickness department, also the
result of the operations for the year has been
entirely satisfactory, and bears indisputable evidence
that the Society’s method of dealing promptly and
generously with its just claims meets with increas-
ing support and appreciation. The profits enabled
the directors to declare a 2 per cent, bonus
addition to all the benefits covered. This addition
is permanent, and likely to be increased from year
to year.”— Advt. ' [5
PIONEER WOOD PIPE TANKS for water, wine,
vinegar, acids, oil, cyanide or mine liquors are
constructed in all sizes from 500 to 100,000 gallons.
They are easily despatched, being carried in sections
and erected on arrival. Catalogue from The Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Contractors to Federal
and State Governments, 57 York Street, Sydney
(Head Office.) — Advt.
* *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * * *
In addition to making Wrought Iron, Steel and
Cast-Iron Pipes, Messrs, Mephan Ferguson Proprie-
tary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description.— Advt.
The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting Com-
pany of Australia, Limited. —By mutual consent
Mr. Francis H. Snow has retired from the above com-
pany, and the Ore Purchase Department at Bridge St.,
Sydney, has been closed. Sellers of ore should now com-
municate direct with the Works. Port Kembla.— Advt.
* * * *
Australian Machinery Co., Ltd., Charlotte Street,
Brisbane, are specialists in pumping machinery, and
will submit prices with arrangement drawings and
details upon receipt of necessary data of any size or
type of plant.— Advt.
* * * *
The Australian Amicable Assurance Associa-
tion, Limited. —Unparalleled progress in the Fire
and Accident Departments. The increase of premium
income, December, 1915, over December, 1914, was
289%. The increase of premium income, January,
1916, over January, 1915, was 295%. For the first
half of February, 1916, the premium income shows
an increase of 50% over the premiums for the whole
of February, 1915. The underwriting is conducted
on the most conservative, safe, up-to-date methods
yet adopted in Australia.— Advt.
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majofity of leading
mines in Australia. — Advt.
* * * »
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Silberberg & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney;.
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne. — Advt.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £545,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,351 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 81,500 0 0
£782,611 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
™ prepares to prolong its valuable connec-
L bv acquiring and immediately develop-
in' a freehold at West Maitland. Appar-
ently it is this purchase that has cut down
]he surplus of liquid assets from £64.581 to
£36 433 during the half-year. Even
that is a nice little bit to develop
a shallow coal mine with. Its neigh-
bor Wickham and Bullock Island, began the
iob' on about eighteenpence. And did it.
Besides its mines the co. owns valuable town
lands at Wallsend, and sells a bit when it
can. *
“D.F.”: The Hobart Gas Go. proposes to
use the £BOOO cash it got from the Govern-
ment for the electric side of its business in
naving off its overdraft and improving its
gas reticulation. Of the odd £44.519 which
the Government has paid over in inscribed
stock, the shareholders are to get a bit:
£12.000 is to go to pay a £2 call, which will
make the 6000 shares fully paid to £2O.
Then the shareholders are to get £3 6s. Bd.
in stock or cash for each share they hold,
which will mop up £20,000.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Mines Department promptly
got to work on the scheme to introduce
Chinese to Ardlethan, reported here last
week, and it isn’t likely to come to anything.
Still the Chinese —three of them —are being
kept there, apparently with the idea of push-
ing them in somewhere if an opening can
be found. There are enough things militat-
ing against recruiting without introducing
this shadow of yeliow labor ; and it is to be
hoped that the Commonwealth and State
will not fail to throw one single available
stone at the people responsible.
Broken Hill has taken its coat off again,
though, things are far from calm and settled.
The A.M.A., under pressure from the metro-
politan unions, agreed to go to work pend-
ing the Arbitration proceedings ; but where-
as the owners have agreed to abide by the
result, whatever it may be, and not shut
any mine down, the miners are hesitating to
give the same guarantee. As Ikey Moses
puts it. they “want a bit both ways,” win
or lose; and, fair or unfair, they are going
to get it too.
* * * *
A tin show that didn’t do badly despite
the dry spell was the Elsinore, Tingha
(N.S.W.). It runs two plants, and by
hard pushing No. 1 gathered in 334 tons of
oxide, while No. 2 contributed 131 tons.
The latter plant is to be fitted with new
raiment, put on to a fresh site and started
as a steam sluicing unit instead of running
as a gravitation goer. Altogether 63.330
cub. yds. went over the boxes during the last
campaign, costs panning out at while
the run of the ground was 1.3291 b. What
the co. should do is to state the area of
ground available for the sluice and its
value, and also burst up the gecrec.v that
exists over the average price got for the tin.
Without these particulars too much has to
be taken on trust. Roughly it looks as if
the co. has been getting about £lOO per ton
for its oxide at a cost of under £7O per ton ;
so that the net profit has approximated £3O
per ton. The co. is in credit, and as it is
run from Melbourne on thrifty Aberdeen
lines, should soon have some more dividends
to throw about.
* * * *
Amalgamated Hill End (N.S.W.) report
for January has a nasty sting in its tail:
“Altogether the prospects for the month
have been as disappointing as they were
bright during the previous month.” This
will probably be the history of the mine
throughout—sensation to-day and slump to-
morrow. The enterprise is deserving of
something better than the disappointments
which have so far been experienced. Numeri-
cally the co.’s share register is the strongest
in N.S.W., and success would give a much-
needed stimulus to the languishing—almost
moribund —gold-mining industry of the
State.
* * * *
The C.S.A., Cobar (N.S.W.), is doing
useful development at 500 ft., where the
south drive is in 323 ft. Three crosscuts
have proved that the mine contains plenty
of solid sulphides assaying low for copper
but high for iron and sulphur. There are
also enrichments of siliceous ore, for C.S.A.
isn’t a purely basic proposition. The pro-
blem isn’t how to make 10 p.c. copper pay,
but how to turn to economical account the
vast quantity of 4p.c. ore of a basic or
semi-basic nature. It is really a heavy con-
centrate, and in some countries would be
highly esteemed because of its sulphur con-
tents.
Hard times have struck the Rose of Den-
mark, Gaffney’s Creek (Vic.). After being
the mainstay of the little township for eight
years or more, the co. has applied for a three
months’ suspension to obtain capital. Rea-
sons given for the stoppage are low-grade
stone and. higher scale of wages. As usual
in such circumstances local opinion is that
it the co. had carried out development work
instead of simply gouging out the ground
ll le Previous manager had opened up, the
• ? Se , wou ld still be going strong. The co.
intends, according to its half-yearly report,
to erect an air compressor and instal rock
drills, and thus endeavor to make the low-
grade stuff pay.
Cock’s Pioneer, Eldorado (Vic.), gives
the results of its third clean up, and though
it was a short go compared with the other
two it pans out nicely. Here are the
figures:—
Drift. Gold. Tin Ore.
Runs. cub. yds. o z. tons.
No. 1 . . 385,000 3051 40
No. 2 . . 240,000 2732* 38
No. 3 .. 100,000 1199" 15£
Though Arthur Moline is a whale on figures
costs aren’t disclosed, and the co. doesn’t
help the bull by telling him what the
ground averages. No. 1 run was worth
No. 2 ran out at Is. 3d., and No. 3
seems to have hit about the same average.
Water supply has been 0.1 v., and as whis-
pers are current that boring down the gutter
is not too bad, any loose scrip showing is
being gathered up by the “stable.”
*■***
Judging by all reports Warrenmang,
Avoea (Vic.), isn’t taking a lot of financial
risk, and in such a patchy district
that’s sound policy. Water .chased the men
up from 90ft. to 60ft., where north and
south about 260 ft. of driving was done as
a fair bit of prospecting. What’s exposed
is from to sft. of formation. As an
initial bulk sampling gave a 240 z. yield,
there "may be more in it than the term gener-
ally implies. Manager Davidson chats
about “payable” to “good payable” gold for
tlm full length of the shoot, but even if he
isn’t right no one will go broke, as costs
must be low.
From its 1915 output the Hampden co.
now admits to having sold to John Bull
5000 tons of copper at £100; and the Mount
Morgan, Mount Lyell and Wallaroo and
Moonta cos. could doubtless also supply
some interesting figures if they cared to. A
whisper oozes from Collins House concern-
ing a possible combination “under Govern-
ment control” —whatever that may mean—
to handle the Commonwealth’s 40,000 tons
output of the metal. However, so far as
the Hampden is concerned, the extra icing
on the cake was not made an excuse to lift
the quarterly div. above the 2s. mark,
though the Board could easily have been
more generous.
<■ * * *
Lode Hill (Q.) hasn’t done much in the
half-year. A credit balance of £1345 has
shrunk to £827, despite a call. The yields
were ragged affairs; only 20.000 cub. yds.
of dirt were shifted for 17 tons of tin oxide.
Work was cut short in two ways. First,
preparation had to be made to open up the
Roaring Meg block. Next, at Christmas
time, the staff made off to Cooktown to
bieak the drought. But it isn’t all gloom.
No. 1 face is now proving a bigger area of
wash than Northey had dared to hope for.
On the other hand, No. 2 may cut out in
the gully any time, and although he has
some odd patches as a stand-by there won’t
be much towards a div. contributed from
this quarter. Northey says severe things
not only about the hardness of the ground
but because his team don’t shape as well at
their job as he expects. Worries here pos-
sibly account for his silence over the old
block on which the co. was floated. The
Board follows his lead in saying nothing
about that ground; but that won’t satisfy
the crowd that bought in at 17s. and was told
by some directors that stones weren’t there
and tin was.
* * * *
Bonnie Dundee, Charters Towers, has
quickly pulled itself out of debt and on to
the dividend list. It has declared a six-
penny (£2797) on 111,805 shares; and as
the mine is capable of raising 300 tons of
stone per month, more dividends are likely
to drop in during this year. The Bonnie
obtained several loans from the Queensland
Mines Department in 1913 to help it to
develop a section of the Brilliant reef. This
money, amounting with interest to £llO9,
has now been repaid.
* * * *
The wonderful old Burra mine (S.A.),
which set Australia looking for copper, has
been closed down for 30 years, and the two
or three attempts made to do something
with it have failed. A few years ago the
Burra Burra Copper Mine Co. was formed,
chiefly to test the old story that veins of
cooper ran down below the big basin which
has been scooped out; and a magnetic separa-
tor was also included in the scheme. But
the results were no better than those got
by other triers, and the other day the
liquidators put the whole lot up at auction.
For the entire property A. J. Mcßride, a
local grazier, offered £6OOO. but that wasn’t
accepted. The land (freehold) was then put
up in lots of from 10 to 140 acres, and
brought from £5 15s. to £9 an acre for farm-
ing. Then the liquidators thought better of
an earlier bid and let Mcßride have 262
acres —the mine block proper, with mineral
rights —for £3OOO.
* * *• *
Westralia’s output of minerals other than
gold for 1915 amounted to £194,036, of
which £77,636 represented copper. £41,391
tin, £14.024 silver, £39,291 silver-lead
ore, £19,337 coal and £1757 miscellaneous.
The State’s production of these minerals
now aggregates £3,821,659, of which copper
and tin account for over two-thirds.
Running late as usual, the report of the
Fremantle Trading Co., alias Fremantle
Smelters, Ltd., for the year ended July last
arrived the other day. It states that after
debiting working expenses and writing £4884
off plant a credit of £B7 remains. This, with
£835 brought in. makes a total of £922,
which is carried forward. During the year
18,662 tons of lead, gold and silver ore were
dug out of the co.’s Baddera (Northampton)
mines and treated for £41,988. An increase
of £3 7s. per ton was obtained for lead, but
this was more than counterbalanced by
higher freights, insurance and other charges.
In October last arrangements were con-
cluded with the State Government and Com-
monwealth Bank which enables the co. to
complete the reduction plants on its mines
and remodel the Fremantle smelters where
the outputs are about to be treated and pig-
lead produced. The Board has also con-
tracted to handle lead ores from other
W estralian cos. •
Corinthian North (W.A.) ha s ; discarded
its oxidised plant and is now treating sul-
phides only. Contrary to the usual run of
things it has been found that the sulphides
are richer in gold than the oxidised. An
extraction of over 20s. per ton is being ob-
tained, and as working costs are under 15s.
the outlook is good. Sixty tons are handled
daily, and it is hoped to increase to 80 tons ;
but as forcing the tonnage is liable to be
detrimental to extraction, the management
is going slow. Heavy percentage of sulphur
in the ore necessitates the greatest possible
care with roasting. In fact, compared with
the Corinthian, roasting at Ivalgoorlie is a
simple business.
* * * *
Westralia accounted for more than 60 p.c.
of the Commonwealth’s gold output in 1915,
and although a bad start was made this year,
by some of the big Ivalgoorlie mines closing
down for a week or so for want of fuel, local
optimists are hopeful that this percentage will
be maintained, if not exceeded. There are
some prophets who also count on an increase
in the gold yield of the State, but in view
of the way a number of the large producers
are drooping this is hardly likely.
After being several times on the point of
death Laverton (W.A.) is livening up.
Since its resurrection some months ago the
Lancefield output has steadily gone up in
value and is tipped to reach £13,000 in a
month or two. Westhead Bros, are again on
gold at the British Flag, the show thrown up
in a hurry by the Peacock crowd, and accord-
ing to local reports the shoot from which 67
tons were taken and crushed for £2855 is
rich in deeper ground. Ore of double the
value of that raised and treated last year is
declared to be showing for a good length in
the Lady Harriet, and the Ida 11. is said to
be getting ready to declare bigger outputs
and earn larger profits.
The Lyell (Tas.) branch of the F.M.E.A.
has fallen into line with Broken Hill in
flouting the award of the Arbitration Court.
The Court gave a small increase to the men
in the smelters and others working outside
the actual mines. Thereupon the local
F.M.E.A. resorted to “direct action” and
demanded that the Mount Lyell Co. should
grant the full wages and conditions which
they unsuccessfully claimed at Court. The
co., of course, declined the proposal, and then
came the threat of strike, followed by a con-
ference and the patching-up of the grievances.
The main trouble is that the miners, especi-
ally those working on contract, are making
big wages, some of them up to £1 per day,
and the smelters men don’t like their 9s. per
day or thereabouts. Yankee copper people
who control the market are bleeding poor
old John Bull and his allies most unmerci-
fully, and as the Lyell co. benefits by the
high price the workmen all want their whack
of the blood-money. The fact that they
incidentally riddle a hole in the Arbitration
system doesn’t worry them. Under an ideal
system they would, of course, benefit: wages
would vary with the price of metals, as they
do at Moonta and Wallaroo, where strikes
are only things the people read about.
* * * *
“Bendigo”: N.S.W. Mines Department
might note, with advantage, what is being
done elsewhere to assist gold-mining. The
Victorian Department has granted £lO,OOO
towards the resuscitation of the old Morning
Star mine at Woods Point; £25.000 to the
Chaffinch Co. to spend on its Hansel Mon-
day mine at Bendigo ; £lOOO to the Central
Plateau Co., Ballarat; and £750 to the Great
Boulder Co. for the further unwatering of
the Magdala-Moon light mine at Stawell,
over which it holds an option. All these
grants are subject to the companies spend-
ing £ for £. It may seem a paltry thing for
a prosperous co. like the Great Boulder to
ask for such assistance, but that' doesn’t
affect the principle. The Maoriland Depart-
ment has given a subsidy of £lO,OOO towards
the reopening of the once-famous Welcome
mine at Boatman’s, near Reefton. From
1873 to 1886 the mine paid £103,500 in divi-
dends on a called-up capital of £3750, or
an average of 212 per cent, for 13 years.
Had the proper system of compelling mining
lessees to set apart a certain percentage of
profits as a reserve for future exploratory
work been observed, probably the Welcome
mine would never have been closed down, and
there would have been no necessity for specu-
lators to go cap in hand to the Government.
In N. S. Wales it is impossible to get any
such assistance. There are several big shows
which, owing to grossly inefficient manage-
ment, have been lying idle for years. Many
of these would be worked again if the Gov-
ernment would give a helping hand. Queens-
land makes a pretence of offering assistance
towards the development of mines, but, as a
prominent N.Q. man stated the other day,
the man who makes such an application is
subjected to so many insults, indignities
and humiliations that he must have an ex-
ceptionally thick hide to make the second
request.
*■ * * *
M. 8.: Will be dealt with shortly. The
rolling stock belongs to the co Inter-
ested: (1) About £1,030,000. (2) About
£412,000. (3) Four or five years, all going
well. . . .8.G.5.: Still working; but develop-
ment is fearfully backward.


Charles
Hlidsiecks
Vintage 1906
CMPM
HE PLUS ULTRA
m
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
A Good Corn
Remover.
Those who suffer from corns and hard skin
on the soles of the feet w'll find it a great
boon to apply a little Atla Resin to the corn,
which, when applied to the corn or hard skin,
and a little covering of cotton wool on the
the top to prevent it sticking to the stocking,
will remove the corn in a day or two. The
Atla Resin seems to act by getting thor-
oughly into complete contact with the corn,
and thus being able to penetrate it, and not
to act on the surface only. It is certainly
the latest cure for these troublesome and
painful structures, and, according to all re-
ports by those who have used it, one of the
best.* [2
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET <O. CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FE.SQ CEL CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
SINCE 1679
SINCE
679.
HAIG & HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, February 14, 191 G.
My Dear Arini. —
One day this w 7 eek an official party will
catch an early train and be w 7 hisked up
Newcastle way. Walsh Island and the
munition works are the goal. The trippers
will include Governor Strickland, Premier
Holman, bankers Bussell French and Deni-
son Aliller, and H. Y. Braddon. Skipper
E Avards. the small sailor in command of the
Dash (now in port) will attend the picnic.
Private Secretary A’ictor Hood is over
from Victoria on a holiday. He has been
assuring inquiring friends w 7 ho ask after the
new 7 C.AI.G.-ship that it is possible to bear
it with a struggle.
Help d’Apice, after a long fight with the
Alan with the Scythe, is almost a winner.
He is putting in the final touches at Aloss
A'ale, in his old billet as handy man to
Governor Strickland. Ilis Ex.’s family, by
the way, may camp on the hilltop till early
in April. Lady Edeline, in mourning for
her only brother de la Warr, has taken the
death to heart very acutely.
Some of the Shropshires are here again
on guard duty. The attire in which Tommy
Kangaroo attended to his job in Egypt in-
cluded. as you know, a garment called
“shorts.” Tw r o shorts would make a toler-
able trouser length for a tall ish schoolboy ;
yet the air of dignity surrounding a long
officer of the “Shrops” as he did the block
in shorts the other afternoon was the most
impressive spectacle the fashionable idlers
have seen since the last Indian regiment
came this way out of the Arabian Nights.
An Australian woman, Dr. Helen Sexton,
had the enviable privilege recently of decor-
ating a French soldier. Captain Phillipe,
minus one leg in consequence of severe
wounds tow'ards the end of 1915, w 7 on the
Aledaille Alilitaire and Croix de Guerre, and
Dr. Helen, as Alajor under the French War
Office system, was asked to pin the decora-
tions on the hero’s breast. She did so in
soldierly style in the Australian hospital,
Paris.
The Westralian boys, recently back
from a tour of ’Alurka and Canada, won
applause from their shipmates on the voy-
age to Sydney. Said a much-travelled indi-
vidual: “Anyone who says that young Aus-
tralians are not amenable to discipline can
take my tip, he doesn’t know 7 w r hat he is
talking about. This party of 30 or so
youths, from about 13 to 18 years of age,
never once, so far as I know, trod on the
corns of the most fussy passenger.”
William Sandford, retired ironmaster, is
homeward bound, via the ’Frisco route, from
his seventeenth sea trip. This time his
journey w 7 as to exchange handshakes with
a brother in the U.S.A., w 7 ho has since
crossed the Jordan. A son of AA’illiam, Esk.
as a flight lieutenant in the British naval
air service, is amusing himself distributing
bombs amongst the enemy and chasing Zeps
over the North Sea. He fell into the icy
w'aters the other day, but a thoughtful mine-
sweeper was handy and fished him out.
Those w 7 ho made a pilgrimage to Darling
Harbor on Friday to welcome friends on the
Niagara had a stormy time. Due at 2 p.m.
the big A'ancouver liner w 7 asn’t chained up
till nearly 7 o’clock. Aleanwhile the w 7 ind
and rain thoroughly earned all that w 7 as
whispered about their characters. Ashmead
Bartlett, a long, lean specimen of journal-
ist, w 7 as amongst the first to patronise the
gangway. A returned-soldiers’ dinner was
waiting for him ashore, and he was in a
hurry to keep his appointment w 7 ith the
chops before they went cold on him. On
the ship Bartlett w 7 as addicted to the full
dress of the trenches —a singlet and a pair
of trousers. Perhaps that accounted for the
way he so frequently defeated his opponents
at bridge and other sea-going pastimes.
Officially, there is a slight frost over the
Bartlett lectures; unofficially, he drew a
packed audience into the Tow r n Hall on
Saturday night.
Local Society, remembering that Bart-
lett’s papa had married the ancient Baroness
Burdett Coutts. w 7 as anxious to see his son.
He didn’t impress them, that not being his
line of business. Neither did the organ,
which hid itself behind a great w 7 hite screen,
impress them. It w 7 as dumb throughout the
proceedings. Australian audiences are used
to a garnish of music with their entertain-
ments, and even “Tipperary” would
have shifted some of Saturday night’s
gloom. Also, there were none of the
interesting lantern slides that w 7 ere ex-
pected, and the gloom increased. AA hat
w T e call Society, my dear, which has
long struggled not to lose track of its “h’s,”
pricked its ears as the w 7 ar correspondent’s
“g’s” were dropping like ripe tomatoes. In
one English county (I forget which) g-drop-
ping is a fashionable hobby 7 . Governor
Jersey’s lady pursued it w 7 ith such
consistency during her reign hereabouts
that for years anybody w 7 ho wanted
to be considered Somebody bit off the
tail of “cornin’ ” and “goin’ ” as care-
fully as a Yankee drummer bites off the end
of his cigar. Bartlett show 7 ed us a lot of
points about the affectation, but Gallipoli
beat him. The “g‘” was at the wrong end.
The AVar Chest and the 19th Battalion
fund are likely to share nearly £4OO.
This little lot comes from the profits of a
recent revue in which some of our “Society ’
girls entertained themselves and their friends
at Alanly. There was a crowded audience
of admirers, and although they gave even the
feeblest items the boisterous hand the show 7
couldn’t compare with a recent effort in the
Repertory, w'hen, under brisker management,
some of those w T ho played at the Village gave
a capital performance. Sweet young things
clad in gauzy drapery sold programmes for
“about half a crown” apiece, or as much
more as they could get for the good cause.
A handsome young charmer. Winifred Alit-
chell, was the star of the galaxy. In gold
gauze and trimmings she gave a graceful
drawing-room edition of a Salome dance. .
Black-and-white artist Cecil llartt sends
a coo-ee from llarelield Hospital, Afiddlesex
(Eng.), where he is recovering from shrapnel
wounds. “We’ve just recovered,” he writes,
“from a gorgeous Christmas and New Year.
I can’t recall a better Christmas than this,
though I’ve had a few 7 good ones. Everybody
did everything that was pleasant for us;
all w 7 e had to do w r as to enjoy ourselves.
I’m afraid I’m going to be sacked from here
shortly, and w'ill probably be sent back to
the best country on earth. This hospital is
really a bit of Australia transplanted. The
estate belongs to an Australian (W. B.
Leake) and the hospital is staffed by Aus-
tralians, with two exceptions. There’s no
one on earth to approach within coo-ee of
our Australian sisters. They’re abso-
lutely perfect, and if you hear of anyone
saying a word against them kindly take his
name and address, and when I get home I’ll
be very pleased to attend to his case.”
The Emmeline AA'oolley scholarship, which
gives the winner three years’ hard labor
(gratis) at the Royal Academy of Alusic, is
again due. The competition is open to
virls under the voting age. and the candidates
must have gone through five years’ study in
N. S. AA'ales. Arthur Hull, 10 Castlereagli-
street. will explain details.
The late Aliss AA'oolley, a one-time pillar
of the local musical community, was a
daughter of the bygone Professor whose
methods of examination at Sydney ’Varsity
w T ere so immensely popular. He believed in
trusting to the honor of the young gentlemen
w 7 ho sat for degrees, but one of our Judges,
w T ho knew 7, whispers that the Professor’s
confidence w y as not always w 7 ell placed. When
the good man’s creaking shoes and cheery
w'histle were heard in the offing, cram books
w 7 ere thrust out of sight. In consequence, a
few undeserving cases each year got away
safely with the ’A’arsity hallmark.
Dr. Jim Lamrock. well known in amateur
sport circles, died the other day. His
widow, who used to be a Aliss Campbell, is
a A'ictorian. She had the dreadful double
loss of husband and father on the same day.
The tall Norah Anderson, who was
married in London a few 7 weeks ago, w 7 as the
youngest of the family. The late David
Anderson (he w 7 as manager of the Orient
S.S. Co.) and the family had been so many
years at this end that w 7 e had forgotten they
were not Australian natives. The handsome
sisters, in spite of a highly-decorative style
in dress (or perhaps because of it) made a
considerable flutter amongst our gilded
youth. But gilded youth w 7 as disappointed.
Norah married Lieut. Roy Hume Williams,
of the British Army Service Corps. The
bells rang at St. Paul’s, Ivnightsbridge
(Eng.).
Airs. Afacarthur Onslow 7 , Airs. Llarry
Finn (one of our chief socks referees). Airs.
Arthur Alacarthur, Airs. Keith Jopp, Airs.
Wilkinson and Airs. Arthur Tower, who are
working overtime for the 13th Battalion
were stormed at their headquarters on the
4th floor of Bull’s Chambers the other day
by a flock of visitors anxious to learn how 7
business was in the comfort-producing line.
They found it humming. The pace had been
so fast that, as one of the executive hurriedly
explained, they had “an awful rush getting
nine cases packed and innumerable visitors.”
The packing of innumerable visitors is a new
industry. It’s a pity it’s been overlooked so
long. Pink carnations, asparagus fern and
other blooms decked the big room, wdiich w*as
further decorated with home-made sweets.
A communique waft issued that Airs. Sar-
gent will give the first prize in the forth-
coming sock Marathon. Competitors must
send in evidences of their skill as knitters
by March 13.
Back from England by the Niagara. Miss
Marcia Brace, the horticulturist, who will
now make Australia her home. _ “You don’t
know what war means here,” said the spade-
wielding lady ; “at least, not as they know it
in Europe.” In the intervals of working for
British Tommies at a canteen in France, and
rolling up her cuffs for Bed Cross work in
London, the traveller studied some results
of women’s horticultural experiments in
Britain, U.S.A. and Canada.
The Aus. Mining Corps Comforts I und is
clamoring for workers. Its address is “Bob-
son’s,” Canberra House, Elizabeth and Liver-
pool streets. Mrs. Fewtrell, wife of the 0.C.,
is president.
Ex-politician G. S. Beeby and his wife
came back on the A ancouver boat last week.
A short while back Hilda Harnett, a
blossom of the Monaro tree, went to Egypt
aboard a hospital ship to do clerical work
for the Red Cross Commissioners. She
proved such a success that the \\ ar. Chest
people thought they would like assistance
of the same kind; so Daisy, sister of Hilda,
agreed to provide it, and should reach the
land of the 70 plagues in a few weeks.
The N.S.W. Amateur Swimming Associa-
tion welcomed the Queensland mermaids who
came this way last week. Mrs. Hugh
Mclntosh, as president of the Ma association,
and the sec.. Airs. Chambers, were officers-
commanding the evening party 7 at the \\ ent-
worth.
On Saturday afternoon the men’s baths at
Manly' was the testing water. The Banana-
landers made a strong but unpayable effort
to snatch the seaweed halo from the tawny
locks of Fanny Durack. The race, the 100
y 7 ards championship of Australia, was the
event of the meeting. The Queensland dam-
sels were shrouded in crimson dressing-gowns
as they 7 poised on the plank ready to jump.
At the signal little brown limbs slipped out
of the wraps. Fanny Duraek’s big green and
gold drape (made for the Swedish Olympic
of four years ago) dropped, and away they
went. Fanny showed us that wonderful
header of hers before flashing after her
pilot ffsh, Alina Wylie. As usual the world’s
champion lady swimmer was too good for
her rival; but Mina was a brilliant second.
Airs. King, mother of Jane, who put in good
work as 4th in the 100 yards race, was one of
the Q. chaperons. The juniors were out for
fun. As gurgling youngsters, like eels,
slipped to the winning planks, their names
had to be corkscrewed from them out of a
mouthful of salt water. Then they would
submarine again, in the sheer joy of life. A
few of the original council of the Amateur
Sw'imming Association still object to the
presence of the male creature at these
sports, but the mothers of the mermaids
claim that the men liven up the proceedings.
Governor Strickland came from Aloss Vale
to preside at the Voluntary Labor for Sol-
diers’ Homes movement. The vestibule of
the Town Hall housed the meeting. His
Ex. warmed up to the subject and brought
his fist down hard, close to the inkpot, to
emphasise his remarks. The Alayor, who
was adjacent, leaped. J. W. Kettlewell,
who has the job no one else wants—organ-
iser of the transport to French’s Forest-
calmed his Ex. with a word of explanation in
his ear.
Stephen Alatthew Harris, A.1.E.F., grand-
son of ex-Alayor Alat Harris, was quietly
wed the other day. The bride was Buby
Alurphy, a Tumut girl. Young Harris
departs for the Front forthwith.
Owfing to the death of Justice Street’s son
(killed in action) the wedding of an elder
brother, Kenneth, was only a comparatively 7
glittering affair. The groom serves as lieut.
in the German Concentration Camp, and, up
to date, can’t be spared for active service.
The bride is Jessie Lillingston, of the Clar-
ence Biver district. Squatter Will Ogilvie,
a relative of the lady, handed her over to
her soldier. The Street family is still in
.mourning for the gallant youngster w 7 ho was
picked out by General Walker for special
mention in the early struggle upon Gallipoli.
The Army Service Corps committee (the
original, which is in headquarters at 18
Barrack-street) is organising a gift after-
noon. You are invited to hand in anything
that you can get away w 7 ith for the Cause.
Feb. 23 is the date. Aliss Lottie Gilbert,
one of the toilers in this sock-yard, has in-
duced herself to take a short holiday. She
leaves for Hobart in the Aledina.
The Chinese bridal party that made a pil-
grimage to the altar of St. Andrew 7 ’s Cathe-
dral is heavily backed by solid cash. The
leading lady, Alabel Quoy, is the eld-
est daughter of a wealthy Chinese
merchant. The groom, Joseph Liu. is
a good-looking Chinaman who was edu-
cated at Wahroonga College. For
while he was on the staff of the Chinese
Consulate in Melbourne, but he came over
the border to live in Sydney. Alderman
Barlow took the chair at the' wedding ban-
quet. No less than seven marble docks
were included in a gorgeous display 0 f
presents. I forget how many cases of silver-
ware will have to be insured against
burglars.
Autumn fashions are already forecasting
the shivering days to come. Coats, heavv
enough to sink a trawler, are being’ dusted
of moth-balls prior to inspection, and
capes are reported to be “in.” ’ Thev
are the upper terrace of the autumn
frock and have a heavy ballast of
fur. The lower terraces show the
same Esquimau edge. Velvet is the pre-
vailing pile, but some of us will manage to
exist the winter in mere serge. The horror
of cotton-backed velveteen that wears into
bald patches can’t be contemplated with un-
due satisfaction.
The George Innes widow, who used to be
Emily Jane Smith, of Bathurst, is in Eng-
land. She’s not a widow now, having mar-
ried Biard d’Aunet. a one-time French
Consul in Sydney. Still she prefers the rin™
of “Lady Innes” on her visiting cards.
Mrs. Alan Carroll, widow of the doctor
who used to barrack for the preservation of
child life, is still in the Fog. It hasn’t
agreed with her. and she has been convalesc-
ing in Surrey after a severe illness. Lilian
Mitchell, the young Sydney singer who went
to the other side with Mrs. Carroll, is still
cultivating trills.
The Polish Belief Fund committee (11am-
ilton-street) is glowing with the satisfaction
of good work done. Word has come from the
Swiss branch of the relief distributors that
baby Kosciusko is now wearing the little
duds made in N. S. Wales.
George Barnum (the name makes you
think of the circus man) has joined the great
majority. The J.C.W. play-producer has put
a plain gold ring on the finger of Florence
Casey.
Mosman Town Hall is to house this week’s
fiery oratory of the women’s anti-bar move-
ment. Walter Bentley will harangue the
beer mug.
The Advisory Board re the Women's new
agricultural experiment at Pitt Town Farm
has a strong political flavor. Mrs. Griffith,
Mrs. Ashford. Mrs. Estell and Mrs. Dwyer
are the dominating personalities.
Ostrich plumes are going to tower once
more if some of the early models can be
taken as good tips. For 12 months or so
they have been drooping quietly on the brims
of feminine millinery. Now they will stand
up like fluffy flagpoles.
One of the Muswellbrook Keys, John of
that ilk. is'looking for a job in khaki. lie is
in England on the quest.
The Belgian visitor. Miss Lore, will give
her first voice display in public on
February 24. She warbles at the French
concert in the Conservatorium.
Mrs. John Hughes and her two daughters
are booked for England, and will leave next
month. Two of the six sons of the Hughes
family are lieutenants in the Dublin Fusi-
liers, while a third puts on khaki in his home
town very soon.
The fruit trade has been giving a lift to
the Bed Cross. Mr. Horsfall, of the Sydney
Fruit Co., offered the brigade the use of the
firm’s Sussex-street premises rent free. Then
merchant Jessep and others of the Exchange,
backed by various growers, rolled up
with plenty of fruit, and jam-makiug —to
supply invalided soldiers and their depend-
ants —became the business of the moment.
Patriotic dames have tucked up their sleeves
to such purpose that in two or three weeks a
quarter of a ton of jam has bubbled to a
climax. Mrs. J. M. Creed was overseer of
the cooks.
Have you seen the new Welsh hats?
They are black with a tiny wreath of baby
buds round the crown. Miss Flewellywn
knew 7 what she was about when she twanged
a harp under this fascinating headgear.
Now it’s sitting on the sun-kissed locks of
the Sydney 7 girl. Its shade is negligibly
but it makes a quaint autumn fancy.
A Bananaland soprano, Jose Bytheway,
a name she inherited from her father, an
Ipswich man, recently said she would to
Claude Taylor, of the British Board of
Trade. The cake was cut at the domicile of
the Harry Carson pair, of Gray’s Inn. Lon-
don. The young couple has settled down to
domesticity at Pembroke Gardens, London,
W.
Any old rags to give away? If you have,
send them to Mrs. Philip Street, president
of the Old Linen Brigade. The doctors are
asking for soft-boiled rags for bandages, etc.,
at the Front. The depot is 124 Oxford-
street.
Tours affectionately.
VANDORIAN.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME
At the War.
flpppfes
«ps&gs*9*3#e
l#i§BS
sSKSgisw*
*•
r *-A«S^
:■
3g3gB®s&s>? :
«£gy2SsY-
■*•---'■
- *3
' "V ? '
.«r-
- •
.?. --■
■sire!
ice?
S>
t&95»
I
/
£■*
%
n
/
r"^i
:■;■-■
-■
..*•
■
&£
/
r -
%
!ws^\SSi
**s»
ttrtSrK/ -
V
:X
-■
SR
■ r- ■-
*g
X
S*p&p%ggp|ggp
l sy%SP'J®rJ’
*■ V '.k XX. --- XlVr’.' ;
W&&X£
rM-if s .'C’;;-fc;i#
><s
fix'?:'
ss*@»sf
rT-:
m
C>i
«sp
3@W
ft
■sB*l
#3
m-
Vx
cr.
■-V.
3€
SsB
■ *>
Hi
gg
EX
mr
Y&r
%gg
S 3
• X-'
X
■-•>•
m
y£
£
•••<•
m -
->?;-
5?
-:•••
■.si 1 *
>:
;-■
»« <! -’^#eTsi.>.
~Jr ■'&
\V-
&
iMSS-
-7 .r- v
«S 3
P%p
m
rt'li-iw-''-';; ifijßi
■&ss»&- ■;^i»-!55053? { -'“, -
!WS
as
♦*3<
■sf?
r x<r-s*:<S £
:
k ; .
-Vi;
ft: .&gr
"&?Z-
Ki
<V'
&
&
Stit
,x-
-ppSiSI
L - ''-j5X&&' : '''•}&?'•>«> Ji'**' .v
'■. XCV^
5-1: .-**
15%3
■ jrfkSii
s*Sxtr ! 2y*'
Xf* - :
iZcnOS*
:,-V"
m
<£»■
ne fL
M j>
yF'HfP-jgt-
-x“
*v
Cobra,” Sfrg Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Sleeps as all
Good soldiers do.
From his hard
Camp bed he springs
When the first
Clear bugle rings.
o o
Bright and early ‘
With a smile
Is his ready
“COBRA" style;
But a sleepy
Voice declares :
“ Bugles were not
Made for bears ! ”


■
hS.'i-i
SF.IO
F ashionable F elts
Quality Hats are the only kind found at
Farmer’s, and direct communication with the
centres where Hat Styles originate keeps us in
the forefront as dictators of Men's Hat fashions.
A good hat costs but little more than the
inferior kind in the first instance, but lasts twice
as long, and gives splendid service long after the
price has been forgotten.
Note the stylish Felt illustrated; comes in
smart city shapes. Brims, 2} and 2§ inches
wide,* bows at back or side, cut or turn-over
edges. Colors: Slate, Grey, Green, Fawn,
Brown.
TRICES
FROM
12/6
Others at 14/6 and 16/6; Stetson’s
this shape, 39/6.
FARMER'S, SYDNEY.
PITT, MARKET & GEORGE STREETS.
SORELLE
announce the opening of their
PERMANENT
SYDNEY ESTABLISHMENT
on Ground Floor, T. & G. Buildings, on TUESDAY,
7th MAKCH. Latest Models Dresses and Millinery.
Under supervision of GRACE PALOTTA.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, February 14, 1916.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The Genthelps are throwing themselves
twice daily from the battlements of Federal
Government House since the G.-G. decided
to cut the acquaintance of the bookmakers
during the war. Lady Helen has scarcely
put in an appearance on a course since
August, 1914. But then she doesn’t bet.
The Federal Government House Red
Crossers who heretofore adjourned to the
vice-regal parlor for afternoon tea now pay
a caterer to supply buns and tea alongside
the patriotic work-tables. The story goes
that certain workers fed themselves too vio-
lently and generally carried on as if famine
relief were being distributed. Then they
had a vulgar habit of ordering the splendid
flunkeys about as if splendid flunkeys were
mere waiters or lost dogs. It couldn’t last;
and it didn’t.
Whilst staying with the Agar Wynnes at
Nerrin Nerrin for some duck-shooting, State
Governor Stanley has worked off a number
of country visits. This ought to be satis-
factory to the taxpayers. It is practically
impossible to get enough town work to keep
the two Exes, going, especially now that one
of them has tabooed horse racing.
A street collection by women for sick
and disabled Army nurses is fixed for Feb-
ruary 24. Which reminds me that Lady
Helen lately took her string of women visi-
ters to see the Nurse Cavell film at West’s.
Apparently we’re all beginning to take
notice of Australian cino. productions.
When High Commissioner Fisher left for
London he was burdened with a letter by
the Peace and Arbitration Society of this
country, asking him to push the Society’s
aims with the right people. Goodness
knows what Fisher will do about it, but
while he’s thinking it over the Society is
busy reiterating its dreary old foolishness
about the substitution of arbitration for
war, simultaneous reduction of armaments,
publicity and democratic control of foreign
policy, nationalisation of armament manu-
facture (What’s the use of the nationalisa-
tion or armament manufacture if arbitra-
tion is to supersede war?), promotion of
international friendship, and the applica-
tion of moral standards to international
affairs. Probably the worst that has ever
been said of the Peace Society is that it is
attempting to dam the flowing tide of war
with an opposing torrent of words.
Mrs. Major James gave a party at the
Overseas Club on Friday, to welcome Miss
novelist Prichard. Mrs. Pearce was clothed
in powder blue from hat to shoes, while the
hostess, in cream, looked as cool as a soda-
fountain. The guest was also in cream, set
off by a presentation bunch of the first wattle
of the season. Mrs. Fred Eggleston had a
transparency of black Spanish lace; but Mrs.
Gibbs and the Goodison dame were in white
cloth. Mrs. Carlyle Smythe inhabited some
garments concerning which I have forgotten.
A young Bananaland pianist named Cahill
trifled with the piano, while a tenor friend
tried to make his voice audible above the
cackle.
One more Rest Room was opened on Fri-
day in Haigh’s Buildings, Collins-street.
Mrs. Ewing (wife of the medico) and the
Godfrey girls are the godfairies, and Mrs.
Ewing had the first month’s rent paid before
the official overture ; she also saw to it that
there were no preliminary expenses unpaid.
Various warriors’ wives, including Mrs.
Colonel Tivey and the haughty Sellheim
dame, had an afternoon’s recreation at the
Independent LI all, Collins-street, last week.
The steam-like roar of gossip had to be cut
off at intervals when Esther or Betty Pater-
son or Dorothea Low sang. Margaret
Coopered prettily at the piano. Betty’s
contributions to the programme were practi-
cally ordered by Lady Helen. As her Ex.
did" not attend, the compliment rather
missed fire.
At time of writing a tuppenny war about
buttons is raging. The Nurse Cavell Fund
patriots are to sell buttons on February 24,
which will be called Commonwealth Button
Day. The women on the committee want
to handle the money themselves; but the
male buttoners don’t think they should
bother their beautifully-hatted heads with
the sordid details. The latest dispatch says
that the Hennessy dame was talking
earnestly to the Madden dame, while
daughter L. Madden leant nonchalantly
against one of the doorposts and shrugged
her shoulders at some obstinate men. When
last sighted, Mrs. Carty Salmon was deep
in polite argument with the Gaud Mayor.
Thus do the Best People fill in time while
the world works.
The lawyers are going to get a few hand-
fuls of the thousands that Dr. Atkinson, of
Bendigo, left behind him. The late rich
man married several times and made numer-
ous wills. What is apparently the most
recent will devises the bulk of his money to
the most recent wife. The offspring of
earlier marriages are going to argue the
point at great expense.
Melbourne is not to miss its Agricultural
Show this year. Last year the Show 7 Grounds
were a military camp at the time w 7 hen the
prize sheep and the fatted calf should have
been on view ; but Defence Minister Pearce
has informed the R.A.S. that the military
occupation will be ended by the end of July.
So the Show 7 will be at the old address from
2flth to 30th September.
George Nicholson, a well-known Brighton
tooth-doctor, sees in the Appam affair an
endorsement of a suggestion made by him
w T hen the torpedoing of unarmed merchant-
men commenced. In the Moewe raids the
Appam is said to have been the only boat
carrying Germans, and w r as the only
attacked vessel not sunk. Nicholson’s idea
is the simple one of putting German host-
ages on British steamers ; and he communi-
cated it to the British Admiralty in due
course. It w r as the First Lord’s busy day
when George's letter came, so his reply w r as
confined to about tw 7 o lines. Still, the
British authorities are gradually arriving at
the state w T hen they will agree to do some-
thing serious; and the hostage-idea looks
quite legitimate when applied to vesspls
running the sort of risks the Lusitania ran.
The three leading yachts in the Port Mel-
bourne Yacht Club’s race last Saturday
were butting like goats through a lumpy
sea off Albert Park when a 14-foot open
dinghy overturned and emptied four men
and a boy into Hobson’s Bay. The race was
at once forgotten by the three skippers, and
the yachts w 7 ent about and sped for the
struggling people in the water. S.J.S.. the
winner in the humanity race, got three
of the men and the boy, aud the Naomi
hauled the fourth man aboard. There wasn’t
another available survivor for the gallant
C.J.M. Of course, the scheduled race was
called off. When I heard the news I stood
on the far end of the pier and gave 39 cheers
and w 7 aved my umbrella in the teeth of the
gale.
Dear Adelaide rattles her fountain type-
writer :
I fully expect you to be astonished at the announce-
ment of the marriage of’ ex-Crown Solicitor Dashwood
to Miss Klevesahle. The bride is a sister-in-law to
Dr. Angas Johnson, who is on long leave prior to
retiring. And you might allow yourself to be
delighted by the engagement of Stewart Ringwood,
son of the late Mi*. F. W. Ringwood, of the Customs
Department, to Colleen, elder daughter of the T. A.
Caterers, of St. Peter’s College.
Government House is still more or less shut up,
half the household being absent on holiday. But
w 7 hy worry? The picture shows are open.
Now to be severely educational. J. Christie
Wright, the newly-appointed principal of the School
of Art, arrived on Tuesday. He escaped from Scot-
land, where he annexed the national diploma for
sculpture and was a Byrne scholar. Two out of the
three years he has spent in the Commonwealth have
been spent in lecturing at Sydney Teachers’ College.
Captain Sexton, who is one of the youngest of
his rank hereabouts, has been nursing a badly-wounded
arm since the early days of Gallipoli. He has now
been declared fit for service again, and has gone
joyfully into camp. Speaking of Gallipoli reminds
me that Mr. Owen Smyth’s second son is off to the
Front. His brother, who was a lieutenant in the
10th Battalion, was killed soon after the Landing.
Sand-bag making is progressing so vigorously here
that at intervals material threatens to run short.
The Commercial Travellers took the work up a short
time ago, and have already turned out almost 2000
bags, doing the stitching for the most part in
trains. I’d like to see one of them at it.
The £2OOO collected by this State for an aeroplane
has safely reached the War Office. The receipt will
come on the back of a photograph of the machine.
A movement is afoot (I like that mellow 7 old
phrase) to form a company or gang of riflemen for
the war trail. Arthur, Hill, president of the Metro-
politan Rifle Club, is trying to get the squad together.
The wrangle about the chairmanship of the Patri-
otic Fund continues, and the latest development is
that Mayor Isaacs has been offered, in his private,
not official, capacity, a seat on the committee. This
he has refused, with a rider that he is prepared to
settle the argument by handing the w 7 hole of the
original documents connected with the foundation of
the fund to the press. *
We are proud that two out of the three doctors
chosen for the command of the field-ambulances for
the 50,000 are South Australians —Lieut.-Cols. M. H.
Downey and John Corbin. Downey has been
superintendent of the Parkside Mental Hospital
since Dr. Cleland’s retirement. Corbin left here in
November, 1914, with the Ist Stationary Hospital,
and w 7 as subsequently transferred to the No. 1 Aus-
tralian -Clearing Hospital at Lemnos. He was at
Gallipoli from April 25 till August 20.
C. A. Unbehaun, electrical engineer in the Post-
master-General’s Department, is retiring from the
service after 43 years’ toil. The State’s first tele-
phone experiments were made on Christmas day,
1877, with a set of instruments which he had the
making of.
The Recreation Hall for Wounded Soldiers at
Keswick, built by the Catholic Women’s League and
furnished by the children of the State schools, was
opened by Lady Galway on Friday afternoon. As
the residents well know 7, Keswick is a drear place
for the men who are well enough to be out of bed,
and the new hall should help them to cheer up.
Bracy, the big-little man who was head of
Dalgety’s motor-business, has gone to a war-
job abroad, wearing a presentation gold
watch, with some flattering words inscribed
inside. He helped a good deal with the
motor transport. Dalgety’s gave him a din-
ner and a gold cigar case, and handed several
keepsakes to Mrs. Bracy, wdiose little dinners
used to be social events.
Wilfred Beaver has returned to Melbourne
after attending to a Government job in
Papua for some years. The sunbrowned
young man impatiently paces the Block while
waiting for some sort of military job, for, of
course, he is off to the war. He encountered
the enemy in a small way in the very early
days and now wants a larger helping.
Golf-champion Frank Macoboy has gone
into camp in his native Bendigo.
Tenor George Castles, who has lately
been touring with sister Amy, has passed
the doctor and is about to begin military
training. Until he joined Amy, George had
a London billet in the office of the Victorian
Agent-General.
Barrister Fred Eggleston, a learned young
son of the Judge, has enlisted. He was
mayor of Caulfield last year, and is leaving
behind him a charming young wife and three
youngsters.
11. IT. Champion is now sorting out the
knives and forks for the meal he is arrang-
ing for war-correspondent Ashmead Bart-
lett. It is to be an “all men” feast.
Dr. Springthorpe, aback from the Front,
is again dashing up and down Collins-street.
He looks thinner, but otherwise seems no
worse for all the excitement, except that he
talks as if he were delivering military orders
and has grown a monocle.
Tennis-player Alf Dunlop is back in Mel-
bourne, telling more' or less thrilling stories
of his experiences as a special in darkest
London and how he beat off a Zeppelin
with a walking-stick.
Word comes from England that millionaire
Lebbeus Hordern, who left Australia to get
a seat in rhe Royal Aviation Corps, has
been turned down through something amiss
with his vision. Hordern gathered his bird
knowledge from Frenchman Guillaux, and
soared during practice flights over Sydney
and the family emporium. Being denied
the air. he intends taking the field as one of
the field artillery.
Joan Bagot and Edith Hope Campbell
persuaded Harry Bagot to drive them
through from Toorak to Mallacoota with
an expensive selection of motor-driven
machinery. They wore knee-short sport-
ing skirts and knee-high leather boots, and in
the last part of their drive they saw wild
game going for its life, the w.g. having seen
them first.
Mrs. Lavertine (she used to be Ethel
Gunn, of Melbourne) is away from her home
in Ireland and staying with her babies at
an English port, within long-visiting distance
of her young sailor husband. Once, after a
long wait, she got him home on leave, only
to find that his hair had gone white in the
long watch for the enemy.
Nora Beresford, daughter of Archdeacon
Beresford. of Launceston, has gone to Cairo
or somewhere in the trouble-zone with Mrs.
Norman Robertson. Dr. Robertson is on
duty in Egypt and his wife annexed the
breezy Tasmanian girl as travelling com-
panion.
Mrs. Carty Salmon went up in an aero-
plane the other morning. Her friend Mrs.
Sydney Pickles has flown so often that she
is almost an angel, and naturally Mrs.
Salmon was envious. A young expert of the
Aviation School at Point Cook arranged a
flight for the plump matron, who was first
wrapped in a ponderous fur coat and then
laced to the machine. “Cramp, my dear,
and intense cold on the face.” she said when
she landed ; otherwise she enjoyed being an
apprentice angel.
I he widow of Tommy O’Brien has been
putting up at Menzies’ for a spell before
leaving for Japan. Meanwhile she has aired
the smartest of half-mourning.
The Herbert Power pair, who are mourn-
ing the loss of the eldest son, went awav
westward with one r of their quartette o'f
daughters last week. Both of the surviving
lower sons are at the Front, one in France
the other in Egypt.
ti sa fi e ßa Laidlaw, of the ancient
! ai^ lly ’ ' \ S discovered to have
left £40,000 to her relatives, the golden slice
being her share of the Robert Laidlaw for-
tune Spring Bank, the now' somewhat
frayed Laidlaw property, is in the hands of
the. agents, and the next step will probably
be the division of the orphaned acres ' into
suburban villa blocks,
Aileen Goldstein* who is a titian-haired
and younger edition of sister Vida, is un-
packmg after a year in poor old Europe
with one of the Rede girls.
I he Bendigo 1) atson Coopers are all ver-
satile, but Ivy is more so than the other
eight. She was “Yestelle” of a short but
famous theatrical season. Now she is
chicken farming somewhere in the hills.
Mrs. Henry Butler is shortly leaving for
Lngiand. The charitable Brighton dame
will be much missed by those who need lieln
and many a committee will break u» in
gloom after formally granting her of
absence. Daughter Lin accompanies her
mother on the long trip.
Balsillie. wireless expert and possible
rain-maker, is in town. He looks con-
tented, plump and prosperous and not at
all like the haggard student of the earlv
experimental years. Balsillie is now abso
lutely sure of himself and assures peonk
he did not give up a snug Government billet
for a myth. lie is lying low, but not too
low, while working, tooth and bones, on hie
rainmaking machinery. Experiments are
being hurried on and everything is under
stood to be going satisfactorily. Soon there
will be rain at will for Australia, and people
who are soaked when they don’t want to
be soaked will be looking for Balsillie with
fury and a heavy hand.
The book of the hour for musical circles
is the ample and excellent biographv 0 f
Coleridge Taylor, by an intimate friend
C. P». Sayers. Taylor’s father was a full-
blooded negro, who went from Sierra Leone
to England to qualify as a doctor. His
English Desdeinona was only 17 when thev
married. Othello’s ardor, however, flickered
out. He deserted Desdemona and returned
to Sierra Leone, where he died. The young
widow then married a white mechanic. The
little piebald Coleridge was noticed first as
a member of a suburban choir and as vio-
linist. Generous patronage got him into
the Royal College of Music, for violin and
piano, and composition under Stan-
ford. Striking originality in barbaric
strain of bis Hiawatha. Composed a great
deal more, but nothing so popular. Mar-
ried white Miss Walmsley, in face of keen
opposition, as may well be imagined, but
the marriage was happy. Went three times
to the United States, immensely welcomed
by the nigs and honorably by the whites.
Elsie Davis (Mrs. I’hilippo Navaretti).
who lately came back to Australia from Eng-
land and Italy with a large grand-operatic
repertory, recently sung for Charlie Tait,
and, as a result, an Auditorium concert is
being arranged, and, d.v., will happen dur
ing the first week in March, or thereabouts.
Mrs. John Sanderson is to give a concert
for the Wounded Soldiers’ Fund at which
she will sing duets with Tom Shelford. Ruby
Gray will also help to brighten the proceed-
ings.
Bishop Anderson, of Riverina, has been
given the money by the Anglicans of his
wide diocese and told to get himself a motor.
It is no good trying to overtake sin with a
horse and buggy, but a motoring bishop may
scatter the powers of darkness with the
flash of bis righteous searchlights.
Edward Dyson and Mrs. Ted are in Syd-
ney, awaiting the production, “Faet’ry
’Ands.” E.D. was anxious for the last week
of rehearsals to be conducted under per-
sonal supervision. The author of “Fact’rv
’Ands,” who is no optimist as a rule, has
great hopes that his play will be a winner.
Ethel Ryan, daughter of the T. B. Ryans
of Merrimu, Bacchus Marsh, will be the
bride of Captain Roy Watson to-day
(Thursday). Only Ryans and Watsons
have been invited ; but as both families are
rich and numerous, the function won't lack
splendor or noise on that account.
Berenice, daughter of the Fords of Portsea,
has said “Yes” to Gibson McKernan, of
Hawthorn House, Balmattum (Vic.).
Mrs. Geoff Stuart (once Cecily Innes-
Noad) is the proud mother of a small pink
son. His father, the lieutenant, is rolling
somewhere in the North Sea, and the Inncs-
Noads. who dwell these days in England
have the monopoly of the audible cheers.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.
James Grant, Victoria’s first plough-
factor, died at Carlton (Vic.) the other di
a hard toiler of 88. lie lived at the nor!
end of Elizabetli-street, next to his works.
In the early days of the trade Grant started
filling a local need on a small scale; but
by-and-bye be found there was room for
something larger, and branched out. Still,
most of the money was made by the men
who followed in his tracks. The actual
pioneer in Victorian plough-making was
Edward Henty, of Portland; but his solitary
effort was mostly an assembling of imported
parts. At the time of the 1880 Exhibition
the implement was lent to Hugh Lennon,
one of the men who went into agricultural
implements after Grant and whose name
still sells a lot of good ploughs, and was dis-
played by him side by side with the up-to-
date product of that time. It is now in the
National Museum.
The brilliant Dr. Martin, of Falmerston
North, author of “A Surgeon in Khaki,” has
left again for the Front as major with the
M.L. Field Ambulance. The corps is in his
opinion better both in personnel and equip-
ment than anything he saw' in France.
Martin is going to see if he can’t kill the
regulation that no major operation must be
attempted till the wounded man reaches the
base hospital. This is mostly a matter of
a couple of days, and the French and Ger-
man commands are now allowing surgeons
to go up near the lines, or at any rate to
work in the clearing hospital. But the old
rule is still insisted on by the English, foi
the purpose of keeping their lines clear,
though the surgeons say that great numbeis
of men who die could be saved if immedi-
ately attended to, especially in the case ol
abdominal wounds.


C
(7*
ft
£
*£■-
mmm
i > i / / / \ ■>-: ■
| O'
f iferf
v-
• n
/A
'
% *'//■<■/,
< ( . ./// **
/O' '
Wfn"f
/ / / fffi,.
■ , #/ //// //
- ;■ / / / . /
X /
/Ah
V v
, v
/ .
/ /
MAKERS OF HISTORY.
THE above reproduced portrait drawing - of Admiral Jellicoe, Commanding North Sea Fleet,
is one of a series of Twelve Present Day Men who are Makers of History. The
series, specially drawn for us by W. Jardine, have been reproduced on the finest art paper,
ind retain the freshness and technique of the original drawings, and, being entirely free
:rom advertising, are suitable for framing. We will be pleased to forward the complete set
to any address in Australia or New Zealand on receipt of 6d. in postage stamps to cover
:ost of mailing, etc. Owing to a limited number of these sets, we advise you to write early to
JAMES WATSON & CO, LTD., Bromley House, Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
§<’J - fl * I - I
K.Y
L' WH I


THE UTILITY
SPORT-SHIRT
FOR ANY-TIME WEAR.
The most convenient Shirt yet introduced, a special
feature being the adaptable collar. Can be worn three
ways: Ist, button up; 2nd, medium neglige; 3rd,
open to middle button. This Shirt is
THE IDEAL OF COMFORT
AND SMARTNESS
You can wear it to Business, Sports, Camping, any
time, anywhere. Made in White mercerised cotton
twill. Splendidly made. Great value.
Post Free to any part of Australia.
Price 5 6
CHAS. LANE & CO.
THE MAIL-ORDER HOUSE FOR MEN.
Note our Elizabeth Street,
only Address: MELBOURNE.
PTY.
LTD.
The small insert picture shows the collar
button up for every-day wear.
%
rw
A
m
=>i
-
c°
V
V
■MORRISs 1
IMPERIAL
Obtainable ill Chemi*ts and Stores
HEALS ANY WOUND OR SORE
If you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won’t
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind
no matter of how long standing, you can cure it
quickly and surely with
WILKINSON'S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price 16, posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON. Chemist
I] Wickham Street, Yaliey, Brisbane
STOPS FALLING HAIR.
This Home-made Mixture Stops Dandruff
and Falling Hair and Aids Its Growth.
To a half-pint of water add :
Bay Rum l° z -
Orlex Compound A small box
Glycerine j° z>
These are all simple ingredients that you
can buy from any chemist at very little cost,
and mix them yourself. Apply to the scalp
once a day for two weeks, then once every
other week, until all the mixture is used. A
half-pint should be enough to rid the head or
dandruff and kill the dandruff germs. R
stops the hair from falling out. and ■'relieves
itching and scalp diseases.
Although it is not a dye. it acts upon the
hair roots and will darken streaked, faded
grey hair in 10 or 15 days. It promotes the
growth of the hair and makes harsh hair
soft and glossy". L-
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“D.F.”: The white seal mentioned in a
recent Bulletin as having been killed by some
destructive fool at Burnie (Tas.), who alleged that
he thought it was going to bite him, has a mate
who haunts the rocks and beaches a mile or so west
of the town. It is a sort of pet of the old black-
smith of those parts, who saves fish for it and feeds
it. So far it has not been killed, and it seems to
intend to take good care it shall not be, for it
keeps well out of the way of everyone except the
blacksmith.
ON THE MARANOA.
BLACK BOY (during an eclipse of the
moon): “Here Boss! Boss! Where
the moon gone?"
BOSS ( sleepily ). “Dashed if I know. I
never touched it."
“Papua”: The Marconi insect that “Kuku-
kuku” (B. 6/l/’l6) speaks of recalls another species
of Cicada (I venture to name the Mareoni animal as
a Cicada ) known to the miners and prospectors all
over Papua as the six o’clock. Mr. 6 p.m. never
makes any great error in his time; in fact, so exact
is he in tuning up for his evening overture that
the whites in the jungle use him as a town clock
to check their watches by. In hardly any instance
have I found him more than a minute out either
way. The insect has a call like a rattle with
metallic sounders, and to hear him going full force
all around your camp after you have spent the day
wading through the pouring rain is quite comfort-
ing Especially if you have just wrapped yourself
around a plump young roasted Goura pigeon and
new yams. Besides the 6 o’clock there are several
other insects that go in for the Morse code when
the sun drops behind the peaks; but, barring the
“blacksmith,” who is always making horseshoes on
a tinkly anvil, the six o’clock is the most useful.
LIFE'S DRAMA AT BILLYGOAT FLAT.
ITEM. —The Mayor, John Jinkins, Esq., Jay
Pay.
ITEM. —The phonograph playing “Lead,
Kindly Light," by a crack brass band.
ITEM. — HIS Worship fondly enjoying the
illusion that he is doing it all himself.
Dear Bulletin, —To settle a wager of
half a pint of beer made at the Hard-Drinker’s
Arms, will you please answer this question: “How
does a man know that he is dead?”—Yours, Edward
Howler.
* * * *
“D.F.”: Apropos neutral notes. Some of
the old hands on Zeehan (Tas.) had very little faith
in banks, and one miner who got together 20 £5
notes hid them for safe-keeping under the water-
barrel outside his door, reckoning that no one would
look for them there. No one did ; but when he went
to get them he found the wood-lice had cleaned them
up and left nothing but a few chewed pieces.
* * *
“McNorth”: As an article of food for a
white man-there is a mighty difference between the
coastal village pig of Papua and the inland variety.
Fuzzy-top of the coast rarely feeds his Denis, but
lets him do all the scavenging work. Therefore he
is an abomination and a thing to be avoided by
even the most hungry Gentile. Brown Brudder is,
of course, not the least fastidious; he’ll tear into a
feed of the filthy pork with relish. In inland Papua,
on the other hand, the pigs are regularly fed with
wholesome vegetables. At many villages in the
Mekeo district I have seen scores of women prepar-
ing sweet-potatoes, pumpkins, etc., for the grunters’
supper. They had wooden troughs to feed them out
of. And fine, healthy swine they were, too —not at
all like the miserable, long-beaked Captain Cookers
of the coast. When the rare white man visits the
far inland mountain tribes the nigs., if friendly, will
kill a pig for him. I once pursued the unwilling
dwt. for months in the interior, and my whole meat
supply was obtained in this way. The natives con-
sidered two ounces of salt and a jew’s-harp fair ex-
change for a pig weighing a hundred pounds or more.
* * * *
“Tropicus”: The venture of scientist Dr.
Eric Mjoberg to explore the unknown portion of
New Guinea per aeroplane, though apparently feasible
to people without knowledge of the countrv, is
looked on .by the few people (mostly Australians)
v'lth experience of the difficulties and dangers of
inland travel through the mountainous island as
equal in foolishness to that of the late lamented Dr.
Andre, of Arctic fame. Sufficient of the interior of
Pr.pua has been explored to give the geographers
enough data on which to base an opinion of what
the unknown portion is like. Practically the whole
0‘ the interior is clothed with dense jungle in the
lowlands, while the rest of the land is a maze of
tremendous mountain ranges with peaks climbing
up to within a thousand feet or so of the snowline
(in the tropics the perpetual snow-line is about
14,000 feet above the sea). The country is well
watered by creeks and rivers, mostly swift streams,
though a few of the larger ones can be navigated
by high-powered vessels. The population is without
exception bitterly hostile to strangers, so that a well-
armed party will be necessary to prevent the learned
Mjoberg meeting the fate of Werner and Macintosh,
who were eaten by the hill-men. Owing to the dense
jur.gle, which is always thicker along the water-
courses and rivers, the landing of a ’plane will be
a matter of some difficulty and danger, and the rising
of the machine will also be risky for the same reason.
Air currents will also be a source of danger to the
airmen, for enormous peaks, almost as numerous as
those of the Himalayas, broken by passes at various
altitudes, make the winds play varied pranks. To
add to all these difficulties is the daily fog, which
accompanies the daily rains. My own experience
has been that once over 3000 feet the rain is prac-
tically incessant from about midday until daybreak
every morning. Many and many days have I had
to go into camp before 2 p.m. owing to the thick
fog blanketing everything out of sight and making
further walking or climbing actually dangerous. Con-
sidering all these obstacles —only a few of the main
ones—l can only see a gigantic failure in store for
the Mjoberg proposition, if not the total obliteration
of the whole band of explorers. There is only one
way to explore Papua—on foot, with a good team
of native carriers an! plenty of food and firearms.
* * * *
“Vigilans”: The estuarine crocodile .is a
fighter from birth. The great enemies of the young
are birds. As soon as they see one hovering they
raise themselves on their fore paws, bend their backs
and lift up their heads, opening their wide jaws to
show their teeth, which are as sharp as needles.
While the attention of the infant is engaged with one
feathered foe another will seize it by the neck and
lift it bodily into the air. If it were not for birds
and fish the North coast-line and the rivers would
simply be solid with reptiles. A female will lay 70
eggs in one nest, and these are incubated by atmo-
spheric heat. The blackfellow will eat almost any-
thing, but he bars croc. “That one stinking fellow!”
is his reason. But the gall-bladder is in great
request and highly prized by the nigger medical
profession. Rubbed over the body it is supposed to
give strength.
* * * *
“Mainshaft”: Charlie Webb, of the
Broncho, brought a Yilgarn black boy from Southern
Cross to Perth and took him to Cottesloe Beach for
his first sight of the sea. The intelligent goldfields
black was not so much attracted by the sea as by
the interminable sand dunes—the biggest tailing heaps
h-; had ever seen. He looked at the miles of sand
north, south and east of him, and said, “By Crise,
Charlie, this dam fine place for plenty cyanide
plant!”
* * * *
“Musketoon”: There is one class of snake
which finds favor with the cocky. This is the carpet
creeper. I know a selection holder who treats those
of the species on his place as sacred. As rabbit-
killers and micecatchers he swears by them, and it
is no out-of-the-way thing to see him carrying a
bag of carpet snakes to different parts of his run
where the bunnies have gained a strong hold. During
harvest-time, when the haystacks are being built,
these snakes come in and peg out claims round
about. Then when the time is ripe they make a
grand raid on the mice.
A MATTER OF NECESSITY.
“W hat! You earning £2 a week and wanting to get married?”
“Well , you know as well as I do, Dad, a chap can't live on two quid a week."
Teddington : As next-door neighbor, I
R P mr CO n trad - Ct m O , rCP ° rt ° f the Weribone horse
Belar covering 114 miles in a day. The record
mentioned was not performed by the horse, but by
the rider, A. L. Thew, present manager of Weribone,
who, when E. B. Buchanan (now inspector for Golds-
brough, Mort) was ill, rode from Talavera to Roma
20 a m£2es. to SSL hours
It s n ot an unusual thing f or
the bush worker to “jar” a hand, and as it j.
painful business this tip will be useful , most
sufferer rub the place affected hard and at on
a< to stop the bruised blood from clotting arnMl, 50
keep soaking the hand in water a little hotter th
he can nicely stand. I lost the big finger of
right hand through a jar; but since being nut my
to this trick I have never lost another. 1 on
A GREAT HIT.
ACTOR: “Yes, my dear, I was once hit by a
shell."
SHE: “ Really! Who threw the egg?"
“Rasmus”: Not generally known that the
black-capped tern and many other seagulls of the
genus larus nest very extensively in Central Aus-
tralia. After 20 years’ observation writer concludes
that they work north from the Bight on to the
Great Salt Lakes, and thence on to the edge of the
floodwaters of the Mulligan, Georgina and Lower
Diamantina. On the Mooraberrie run at present
there are hundreds of thousands of those birds, and
the many small islets on Teeta Lake (one of the
waters of the run) are covered thickly with the
beautiful eggs.
“Moana”: Fish are captured in many
strange ways, but here’s my entry for the novelty
certificate. At Taheke, away at the northern end of
Maoriland, there is a waterfall that tumbles down
upon a ledge of flat rock and forms the end of the
section for the whitebait that struggle up from the
distant sea. The waterfall effectively bars their pro-
gress, and they wriggle to the ledge of rock in
millions and sit there enjoying the view. When
Henare feels like whitebait for tea he sends his
wahine down with a kerosene-tin and a shovel. Any-
one know a surer and simpler method of collecting
fish ?
(Continued on page 24 .)
AT THE TURN OF THE TRACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Not me! Why should I blew my cheque
At Pat O’Brien’s bar ?
It only means I’ll end a wreck
Like many old mates are.
Take Bogan Bill 1 Those days are gone—
I’ll keep the road, and pass straight on.
Poor Bill! I won’t forget that night
I spent a year ago.
We all got drunk, and wanted fight,
And tried to -wreck the show.
Bill had the horrors, played the goat,
And grabbed a knife and cut his throat.
I won’t end up like Bill. I’ll keep
The hard-earned cheque I’ve got,
And buy some cows—l’m sick of sheep.
I know a little spot
Not far from home, down Seymour way.
I'll try to own myself some day.
I’m not done yet, and that’s my pride,
Though long I’ve knocked about
Prom shed to shed, the Darling side,
A cursed land of drought.
I’d like to know what good to me
The Darling’s ever like to be!
I’ve seen too much of greasy wool;
The station cooks are mean,
And tucker bags are seldom full,
And whalers all go lean.
A hungry, thirsty land’s the West —
Give me the South, and take the rest.
I wonder what’s become of Kate?
And there was Nellie, too.
Will Mary meet me at the gate
The way she used to do?
They'll all be glad to see me back....
Hullo 1 I’m on to Paddy’s track !
I won’t turn off. It’s not too late—
The years have passed somehow.
Mary will understand... .and Kate....
Will they be married now?
Some day I’ll own a farm and dairy,
And marry Kate—or, maybe, Mary.
I didn’t know I’d come so far.
I’m dreaming. What a din
The boys are making in the bar!
My oath, I’m going in!
It’s all the same; hope ends in sorrow—
The pub to-day and damn to-morrow.
VICTORIA.
LOUIS ESSON.


Re-establish Good Health by Puriiying
the Blood and Nourishing the Nerves.
HEAN
TONIC
®
Wi
mu.
The Modern Home Remedy for
Nervous Breakdown,
Summer Fag,
Mental Depression,
Headache,
Backache,
Anaemia,.
Insomnia,
VT . .
NiraraUia '
Hysteria,
And other Disorders of the Nervous System,
LEADING ANALYTICAL CHEMIST’S OPINION.
MR. J. LAKER MACMILLAN, F.C.S., Consulting and Analytical Chemist, late
Analyst under the Public Health Act, N.S.W., and formerly Professor of Chemistry at the
General Assembly’s Institution, Calcutta University, has submitted the following report as to the
purity and efficacy of HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS:
Wool Exchange,
Macquarie Place,
Sydney, January 24, 1910.
This is to certify that I have chemically examined a sample of HEAN’S TONIC
NERVE NUTS, taken haphazard from stock.
I find the ingredients to conform in every respect with the formula at the same
time confided to me. I also find that all of such ingredients are of good quality, and that
they have been skilfully blended. This latter is of great consequence, because the
radical component, if unskilfully prepared and incorporated with the other medica-
ments, would in a short time become therapeutically inert. Ail of the ingredients are
of high therapeutic value, and work harmoniously one with the other. The
combination, indeed, seems to me to have been a matter of some thought; at any
rate the NERVE NUTS are all that you claim them to be, and their appearance bears
the stamp of the highest pharmaceutic art.
Briefly, they are calculated to act as a speedy blood restorative and builder of
nerve tissue. This is indisputable, and I say so as a pharmacologist of unique and
long experience, quite apart from my analytic capacity.
Yours faithfully,
J. LAKER MACMILLAN, F.C.S.
You will be well advised if you give HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS an adequate
trial. A bottle containing sufficient for a ten days’ course costs 35., or six
for 17s. 3d. If your chemist or store cannot supply HEAN’S TONIC NERVE
NUTS, fill in the attached form, send, with payment, and your order will be attended to by
return mail.
MR. G. W. lIEAN,
Chemist, 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Enclosed herewith please find shillings and pence, for which send me
bottles of Mean’s Tonic Nerve Nuts as per your advertisement in The Bulletin.
(State whether Mr., Mrs. or Miss.)
Name
Occupation
Address
M
Mistakes in Customers’ Accounts cause
a loss of money and trade,
Mr. Shopkeeper.
Do you have disputes with your customers?
How much money have you lost on account of
those disputes ?
Do vou know whether or not your customers get
proper credit for money paid on account, and
that you get all the money?
Do you know whether or not their accounts ai e
kept in a business-like manner?
THINK!
4
As a business man you should investigate how
an up-to-date National Cash Register prevents
mistakes and makes satisfied customers. Write
us for full information.
The National Cash Register Company
of Australasia Ltd.,
Head Office: 119 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
Leviathan Riding and
Working Trousers.
You’ll get more wear, comfort and
general satisfaction from these Ready-
to-Wear Trousers than from any you’ve
yet worn.
The materials are the toughest woven.
They’re cut to give ease and room, yet
fit well. Soundly sewn and reinforced
at all parts subject to strain.
READY TO WEAR.
Riding Trousers. Khaki or Olive Drill.
Strongly made with side straps and loops
for belt.
Price—Post Free ... 7/6
Riding Trousers. Leather Tweed. The
toughest of tough materials. Made with
riveted buttons, Denim pockets and non-
split seat seam.
Price—Post Free ...10/6
Riding Rreeches. Made in England with
a free, full, "cut” from Khaki Garbicord.
Laced at knee and self strapped.
Price—Post Free ...18 6
Working Trousers. A solid worsted effect
Fabric, “just right” for the man who
works hard.
Price —Post Free ... 6/9
A SIZE FOR EVERY MAN.
When ordering Trousers state Waist, Seat
and inside leg measurement.
WE PAY THE FREIGHT.
by rail or post to any part) of Australia.
SATISFACTION OR MONEY BACK
on the return of the goods, is what we
guarantee.
The LEVIATHAN
Corner Swanston and
Bourke Sts., flelbourne
vr<-
Mi*
£
m'-
s *>•:
F H
a
■...
•v
m
rm
yi
The
Thrill of
the Band
is heard at its best on REGAL
records, because the magnificent
recording brings out all the glory
of the music, the splendour of the
instruments, and the talents of the
picked musicians. Among the
famous bands Exclusively playing
for REGALS are the
SCOTS GUARDS BAND
SILVER STARS BAND
WINGATES PRIZE BAND
KINGS MILITARY BAND
jJsk y° ur d ea l er
clay some for you.
liill
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR REGAL RECORDS—
SYDNEY, N.S.W.—Grafonola, Etil., Daking House, Raw6on Place. '
MELBOURNE, VIC. — Proprietary, Ltd., 269 Swanston St.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street. •
PERTH, W.A.—H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.—Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Webley Sons and Gofton, J.td., 243 High St,
DUNEDIN, N.Z. —Hayward and Garratt, Ltd. '
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


V
Duval s Co.
13 Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY.
475 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
300 Adelaide St.,
BRISBANE.
CORNELL LTD.,
ADELAIDE.
A. C. McCALLUM,
PERTH.
Best in the Long Run
IDEAS
•FOUNDED’ 1888’
Phillips, Ormonde (Inc.) Propy. Ltd.
Consu/f/np Snp/neer's, Patenf fJSfomc yS
one/ 7/~cjc/e rfpenfis • 17QUEE N
MELBOURNE
The BLACK OPAL STORE.
OPALS, PEARLS, SAPPHIRES.
Specialty Australian Gems
89 Market Street, near Hyde Park, Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, formerly Manager White Cliffs
Opal Mines, PROPRIETOR.
m
■
Add exchange
to country
cheques:
Victoria, 6d;
!/• Inter-State.
Buy Direct from the Manufacturer,
and Save 25 Per Cent.
Our Illustration is in Glace Kid or Box Calf. Fair
stitched to heel, on an up-to-date Anglo-American
Model. This is an Ideal Country Boot, with an
appearance fit for a Prince or a Premier. At the pnee
— l6/6 Carriage Paid—it is the Best Boot Value
being offered in the Commonwealth.
Send To-day for Full Illustrated
Catalogue.
HY. HARRIS,
50 McKean Street, N. Fitzroy,
... MELBOURNE.
“Bayview”: Along the west coast of
Tasmania, about Strahan, there is a continual drift of
sand inland when the wind blows from the west —
and it blows that way about two days out of three.
A single windy night covered a road running through
a cutting at West Strahan with 4ft. of sand. Later,
the struggle to keep the road open was given up,
and it is now 16ft. below the surface. Along the
coast the advancing sand has in places buried a
forest of trees that used to be 40ft. high. Near the
mouth of the Henty River a big sand-dune 100 ft.
high is advancing towards the Strahan-Zeehan rail-
way line, and there’s going to be a broth of a fight
presently. The Strahan Marine Board has planted
miles of sand-dunes with marram grass, but it is
only just beginning to do its work.
“N. or M.”: Durability of Australian
timbers? Our old barn —-blue-gum slabs —has
never had a lick of paint to keep out the wet
since it was put up in ’23, and it has not yet begun
to notice that time is passing. The man who built
it came to Tasmania with my grandfather, and the
manner of. his death is a curious commentary on
early conditions. Whilst he was sleeping beside
his cart on the tw'o-day track between farms a
district constable came upon the camp. Evidently
the constable was seeing snakes, for putting his
gun to the man’s chest he shot him for a bush-
ranger. There was a fuss about it afterwards, but
the culprit got off on the humorous plea that his
victim had a disease of the heart that must event-
ually have killed him anyhow.
“Hamer”: The aeronautic habits of
spiders have been brought into notice by an unusual
happening in Westralia, where, at Preston Valley,
a fall was reported of a soft, downy substance re-
sembling show. In a lesser degree the same pheno-
menon was witnessed in other localities; and the
bush scientist chewed his shirt buttons to pulp in an
endeavor to explain the thing. At last the regular
brand of naturalist got to work and found that the
snow consisted of millions of young spiders seeking
new quarters. The baby spider, when he wants to
see what the world contains to eat, simply lets out
some sails of web, and floats upon them ; and he can
ascend or descend by letting out or taking in his
ballooning threads. Dr. Cleland, micro-biologist of
the Sydney Health Department, reckons the West-
ralian incident unique in the world’s history. But
then the world hasn’t been looking when a lot of
things have happened.
* * * *
“Pick”: Jack Peters, a Nimitybelle
(N.S.W.) teamster, camped at Native Dog Creek,
found' in the morning that his team had gone off
home, a distance of 17 miles. He removed one pair
of shafts from his waggon, harnessed up his old
saddle-horse Sailor, and drew the waggon to Nimity-
belle. The mighty pull included Native Dog Hill, a
three-mile steep up-grade, and the waggon, which
itself weighed 25cwt., contained scwt. of potatoes,
tarpaulin, teamster’s outfit and the harness of the
fellows that should have been giving a hand.
CONTRIBUTORY NEGLIGENCE.
OLD LADY: “The poor man! Has he met with an accident ?”
SOBER FRIEND: “Yes, mum. He didn't mix enough water with it.”
“Yarrum” : Once, riding from Wollongong
to Appin (N.S.W.), I came upon an old-man kangaroo
sitting on the road side on the Bulli Mountain, near
“The Lookout.” He was the biggest and most dis-
tressed ’roo I’ve ever seen. Evidently he had been
hunted to. a standstill by dogs that he had lost in
the brush. I rode up beside him and lashed him
with a whip ; but he only shook his head, and a look
of murder that I shall never forget leapt into his
eyes. That was enough for me. As I wished to live
to fight another day I cleared out. The old fellow
watched me till I was out of sight, shaking his
napper at intervals. A couple of days later, at
Campbelltown, I read that a bailiff had on the same
day encountered a kangaroo at the same
spot, and had been picked up in a dying condi-
tion and taken to the Bulli hospital. His clothes
were all ribboned- and gone from him; and there
was a deep gash in his left thigh from which he
bled profusely. It seems the bailiff came on the
’roo soon after I left the animal; and some evil-
minded people went so far as to assert that I had
stationed him there and left him in an exasperated
condition, knowing that the bailiff, who was making
a call on a friend of mine, would shortly pass that
way. There might have been police-court proceed-
ings ; but the sergeant said the whole darn’d thing
locked too ridiculous, and he wouldn’t move. There
was, too, of course, my previous good character.
* * * *
“Moana” : Tohungaism still flourishes
amongst the Maoris in the inaccessible portions of
the North Island. The Tohunga Suppression Act
is supposed to deal with these medicine men, but
when the tohunga has his place of business 93
miles or so from the nearest policeman, the Act
doesn’t get a run for its provisions. A lot of
tohungas are Europeans and frequently they are
women. One of the latter was run in by the Health
Department at Rotorua recently for treating typhoid
by the simple system of throwing a bucket of
cold water over the patient. She was a poor sort of
business woman, for she was killing off her patients
and thereby cutting off her source of income. She
was given six months to think things over. A white
man was also captured who had been practising
amongst the brown population for years and had
been passing himself off as a medical man. He
was fined £25 and urged to get work.
“Devilfish” : The divers who go down into
40 feet of water to scratch out the foundations
for the 60-ton concrete blocks used in building the
new breakwater at Burnie (Tas.) have to work with
hands bare, their wrists tightly clasped by rubber
bands to keep the water from getting up their
sleeves. The result is that they are a good deal
troubled by parrot fish, which nibble at their paws
under the impression that they are something good
to eat. The other day one of the divers ran up
against two devilfish, one about 6ft. from tip to tip
of his arms or legs, or lines of communication, or
whatever they are, and the other about twice as big.
.They looked like being nasty, but he managed to
scare them away.
SO DIFFERENT NOW.
MR. McSHORTHORN, M.L.C.: "Come on.
boys. who'll make another to go to the
Front?”
RILLJIM : “Me.”
MR. McSHORTHORN, M.L.C.: “I'm proud to
meet you.”
BILLIM : “Then what did yer sool yer dog
on to me for the last time I asked yeh
for a job?”
“Snell”: Croppy Millet, down to enlist,
has been telling me all about Mr. William Smith.
Mr. Smith is about as large again as an average bull-
ant, and Croppy picked him up on the road to
Cabbage Flat. “He’d bin filled up with a yarn about
the cockies on Cabbage Flat an’ all along the river
wantin’ ’ands fer ’arvestin’ at thirty-seven an’ six
a week an’ their keep, which was all me aunt. You
should ’ave seen the load Mr. Smith had up. It
would ’ave broke the back iv a pack mule, an’ I’d
blush t’ put it on a bullock. He told me he was
goin’ t’ Cabbage Flat t’ stay, an’ so thought it best
t’ take everythin’ a farm ’and would le likely to
want. ’Struth, these newchums paralyse me, an’ I
cud on’y sit ’n’ gape at him sweatin’ under his
four-’orse waggon-load iv baggage.” “Bi t,” said I,
“how do you know Mr. Smith was a newchum?”
“How do I know?” said Millet. “How do I know?
Gcrstruth, when we come to make camp he unloaded
out iv his pack a blanky iron bed l”
* * * *
“C. 11.5.”: Let us change the subject. In
ISS9 I was rolling pills in the Riverina.
In that year and at that place I had to
treat some dozen cases of “black-spider” bite. The
arachnoid in question had a quadrilateral red mark
on the back. Symptoms: pain, semi-delirium, partial
paralysis (paresis), and many" neurotic conditions,
with profound depression, which in some cases threat-
ened death. No deaths occurred, however. Time
went on, and no other cases were met with. In (or
about) 1903 in the lower north of S. Aus. the writer
had one case to deal with. None since—until a few
days ago. Then, a mile or two from Adelaide, the
writer was called to a case that reminded him of the
old “black-spider’ bite. He recommended a search for
the spider, and a whole family were found in the
usual place (locality censored), and the queen
mother is now in the writer's possession. Now, Abo-
rigindliars, I have a lot more to say about it.
* * * ♦
“Eddyson”; Barns called his mine The
Release, but the disgusted diggers of Blue Pete, who
had been industriously seeking the reef for years, in-
variably spoke of it as Hell’s Luck. Daniel Barns
was a stranger. He arrived at Blue Pete on Tuesday
evening, a prematurely aged, sallow, covert man with
a profuse growth of face hair, and on Wednesday
morning he found the reef; and the reef, as everyone
anticipated, was rich enough to establish the finder
as a duly-certified Fatman for the remainder of his
days. Naturally there was great disgust among the
identities of Blue Pete, men who had stuck to the
district through many adversities, working out every
ounce of wash on Pancake Flat, worrying and grub-
bing through the hard country on Red Hill after tor-
tuous, tantalising, little leaders that led nowhere and
produced just enough gold to keep a man stringing
along on the thin edge of necessity, always in the
hope of getting on to the real good thing one of
those days. Barns had done nothing for Blue Pete ;
he had merely walked in and taken the cake, without
entering into the competition. D Barns! -
Barns! Barns! Barns was cursed from Hoi-
man’s store to west of sunset. The cow had taken
up a lease right to the limit of his allowance as
discoverer, and the lode beyond his ground was not
likely to be worth wording about, lodes being eccen-
tric in the district, going down sharply and strad-
dling, but taking little elbow-room. Blast Barns!
Barns ! Every man who took a job in his mine
had a heart-burning grievance against him. Barns
took about £50,000 out of The Release before he
floated it, and then he went abroad to enjoy his
easily-gotten gold, and Mcßride was at liberty to
speak, because Mcßride was no longer a pensioner on
The Release. Barns’s contract with Mcßride was
simple. “You get three pounds a week for just as
long as the story is not told,” said Barns. Mcßride
was an ex-constable. Twenty years earlier he had
made a bit of a name for himself by capturing Arthur
Trinket, wanted for cattle-stealing and a trifle of
manslaughter. Trinket got 20 years’ gaol, was
deprived of his privileges for a daring attempt to
beat Pentridge, and when liberated appeared as
Arthur Barns at Blue Pete. Mcßride was the only
man in the district who knew Barns to be Trinket,
the ex-gaolbird. But even Mcßride did not know,
when he captured Trinket 20 years earlier, that the
latter was taking the big risk of running into Bairns-
dale because of his eagerness to register a rich reef
he had just discovered in the hills at Blue Pete.
That was a subsequent confession. After the facts
got about old diggers in Gippsland entertained them-
selves in their off hours trying to feel as they would
feei if cooped in gaol for 20 years, with the know-
ledge of a flaring yellow reef hidden by a handful of
dirt, and waiting for some other fellow to unearth
it. The general opinion of Blue Pete was succinctly
expressed by Tatford: “Begord, he earned it!”
* * * *
“Barcoo”: You can have all the other
fodder trees as long as you give me the mulga.
Some years ago the Warrego (Q.) country was a
dry and blithering wilderness, and butcher’s meat
was at vanishing point in Charleville. But
it throve remarkably well out where bullockies
were camped with their cattle' in some dense mulga
scrub close to a permanent hole. They had been
for months felling scrub when Armstrong, the Charle-
ville meat man, interviewed the punchers and
arranged for a weekly supply of animated bullock
at a price per head which made the owners think
Rothschild wasn’t all he was cracked up to be. It
'vas splendid meat, and Charleville lived on fat
working bullock for over six months and enjoyed it.
A few years ago I inspected 10,000 wethers 70
miles out from Cudgellico (N.S.W.), on the Mount
Hope road, running on a paddock of dense mulga
which was alive with rabbits, and I estimated 65
per cent, were fit for the butcher.
* * * »
‘■J.H.L.”: There is a leathery kind of
substance, much like a mushroom, growing on the
sides of trees, which by most bushmen is called
snake bread. They' say that snakes eat this, but I
have my doubts, as it is usually as tough as a
rasher of old saddle. Anybody tell me the rights
of it ?


UN
OP
\
DUN LOPS
GIVE THE BEST SERVICE
No Tyre Troubles
For Months!
is the happy experience of thous-
ands of motorists, who have their
cars shod with Australian made
DUNLOP
The great strength, fine quality and
extra care taken in their manufacture
—in addition to the fact that every
“ Dunlop ” is specially made to with-
stand hard work on our rough roads,
is the reason these reliable tyres give
superior service furthermore the
first cost of “Dunlops” is less than the
imported article—whilst their running
cost is infinitely more economical.
ALWAYS USE “DUNLOPS,” IT PAYS!
Obtainable all Garages. Illustrated List on application
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
(Founders of the Pneumatic Ture Industry)
Melhfinrnp
Sydney
Christchurch
Adelaide
Wellington
Perth
T.aunreston
Rrishanp.


There’s a LIFE-SAVING POWER about
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
That makes it NECESSARY in ACUTE Cases.
One Dose of this Wonderful Remedy will very often prove
sufficient if taken at the commencement of a Cold j but the
class of case that HEARNE’S fairly REVELS IN is one that
the ORDINARY remedies have failed to make any im-
pression upon. Herein lies the REAL VALUE of HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE—a Medicine that can be given with
PERFECT SAFETY and the UTMOST CONFIDENCE to the
YOUNGEST CHILDREN and very AGED SUFFERERS, as it
does NOT contain, and has NEVER contained
any poison or harmful drugs.
For COUGHS, CROUP,
COLDS on tHe CHEST,
WEAK LUNGS.
mm
&
I^/Zi
f
ifm
<{
•w
8?
s
Kg
y
0Z
>2-
■
13.
<s<
rti.v.f
From all CHEMISTS and STORES.
If not obtainable in your
district, send direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co. Ltd.
Geelong, Victoria.
Sydney. N.S.W. Wellington, N.Z.
“T.W.A.”: “Van Eck” (B. 30/12/15)
mentioned that an American picture pirate
made £3OOO out of counterfeit Chaplin
01ms, and that Australia may be the dump-
ground of many duplicate productions. One
of the counterfeits landed lately in a suburb.
But the indistinct photography at a speed
unknown to the average picture-goer gave
the fraud away. If this one happened to be
the standard quality of the piracies the
market must have been glutted at the first
taste.
“Horatio”: It isn’t generally known that
Chidley, of “The Answer” and the abbrevi-
ated garments, married one of the best-
known and prettiest young actresses of her
day—Ada Grantleigh, who made her debut
as Kate Kelly in “Ostracised,” the original
Kelly Gang drama, produced at the old
wooden Princess’s Theatre, Melbourne. She
was a Miss Ada Harris (of Adelaide), sister
of Sophie Harris, who for a long time was
a member of Williamson’s opera companies.
Sophie later went to England and ran a
company of her own. She is now in America.
Mrs. Chidley died in Melbourne a few years
ago.
“Haresfoot”: Rehearsal is no test of a
piece. All experts prophesied the failure of
"Bunty Pulls the Strings.” So with every-
thing that chalks out a new line. The
final disaster to manager Buckstone was the
slump of a version of Labiche's “Voyage of
M Perrichon.” Yet the actors and actresses
could scarcely rehearse it for laughing. The
audience never saw where the laugh came
in. Buckstone’s company was too old.
Bland Holt would have dropped into this
fault, through attachment to his crowd.
V hen Buckstone rehearsed Sothern for Dun-
dreary, all the company sneered at the play.
Sothern called them Buckstone’s Pensioners.
After a week’s performance, which seemed
to bear the company out, Buckstone stuck
up a notice in the greenroom : “Change Next
Saturday Night.” Mathews was only a
chance visitor. He exclaimed: “What do
you mean? Keep this man on.” The result
was 400 nights, with profit of £30,000 each
to Buckstone and Sothern.
“First Old Man”: The imported star’s
faithful dresser was at the wings when his
boss bounded on to the stage. He listened
to the applause that burst out from the front
of the house. “Did you hear that?” he
exclaimed enthusiastically to one of the
stage-hands. “Gee! That’s something like
a reception—it’s an overation!” And some-
how, 10 minutes later, the word seemed to
fit.
“Haresfoot’s” judgment: Musgrove was
the ablest manager educed by Australia and
developed here. Coppin made huge mistakes
and was broken three times. Even Wil-
liamson was not quite up to “Muzzy” for
nous and tact. The fact that he was
Lyster’s nephew helped him professionally.
He began as assistant to his father, selling
opera books and taking money at payboxes.
Then came his big chance. Lyster fell ill,
and therefore couldn’t send Jim Kitts to
pilot the Opera Co. through Maoriland.
Mrs. Lyster said “Send George.” Lyster:
“What, that boy?” But the boy went and
did well for boss and self. He was next
heard of with Dunning, fetching the “Tam-
bour Major” crowd from England. Har-
wood was in it, as helpful adviser. Pass
the W., G. and M. period in which Garner
proved a pot between two kettles. Then Mus-
grove. as a free man, conquered London with
the “Belle of New York,” though they did
call him the Crazy Kangaroo; and the rest
is too recent to need mention.
“S.S.”: He was met coming down the
gallery stairs. There was a man behind
helping. He arrived on the general level of
the city with two somersaults and a flop-
Then the man behind dusted his fingers, and
went upstairs again. The prostrate person
had a new black eye and had mislaid a gilt-
edged front tooth. lie was most distressed.
“Look here,” said he, straightening out a
crumpled programme. He read: “ ‘lf the
show pleases you, tell your friends; if not,
tell us. We are here to please you!’” He
groaned. “What d’yeh think of that?” he
said. “And I on’y up and said one turn
was rotten.” Plainly it is not wise to take
a theatrical programme too literally.
AN APPEAL FOR SYMPATHY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[Author’s note. —I have discovered these touchine
lines on a recent Tivoli (Melb.) S
“A world of suffering may lie
Beneath this painted mask.
When sorrow overtakes us
Alone we bear the brunt,
Maybe a heart is breaking,
But you never know in front.”
It gives you pause, doesn’t it? The poem goes on to
say you only see a baggy suit, a fpnny hat, some
paint upon the nose, and so you do not sympathise
Alas, that it should he so. I think we should start
a reform, and treat these poor people differently.]
It was a pale, dejected crowd
In circle, pit and stalls,
And when the actors joked aloud
. Its sighing shook the walls.
A pro. came out in pants too wide,
Red-nosed, big-mouthed and goggle-eyed—
The audience broke down and cried!
Two brothers did a kr.ock-about;
The people shed a tear.
The small one kicked his partner stout,
And jumped and bit his ear.
The act was funny, that we owned,
Yet all the stalls in pity moaned—.
The circle in deep anguish groaned.
Then came a saucy serio,
Of lingerie she sang.
There was a time when this would go
With one terrific bang;
But now the circle said: ‘‘Poor thing!”
The stalls began its hands to wring,
The gallery was snivelling.
The pros, are comic, but each chap
May have his secret woe.
The red-nosed one has boils, mayhap;
Perhaps the serio
Has lost her aunt; the dancer thin,
Alas 1 may have the bailiffs in.
Don’t laugh at them, it is a sin!
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.
The Inky Way.
“ Jw-osp”: Now it is Bernard Ingleby,
poet, philosopher, lost-soul and good fellow
all-round, who has given his name to the
military authorities in Ch’ch (M.L.), and
is trying sw’ap a vigorous Pegasus for a
pair of nm.cary boots.
* * . * *
“Trot” : A Maoriland newspaper : —•
Is Sir lan Hamilton not a verse writer, and what
writer of verse was ever other than a non-practical
man?
The fact is, of course, that Australian verse-
builders are among the most practical men in
the Commonwealth. Henry Lawson’s com-
puting-machine, for use in mercantile offices,
is regarded as a really brilliant invention, and
is employed by the thousand all over the
world. Moreover, his patent wheelbarrow
and combined pick and shovel, with motor
attachment, is used by every regiment at flip
Front, the revenue from patent royalties
alone yielding several thousands a year.
Other instances of the verse-maker’s severely
practical mind are afforded by the Arthur
Adams famous portable posthole, Frank
Morton’s silencer for attachment to suburban
phonographs and his bathing costume and
heating apparatus designed for use on Maori-
land beaches, David McKee Wright’s auto-
matic hairclipper, and “Kodak’s” standard
work on household carpentry and laying
linoleum. The only exception to the rule that
the verse-maker is by nature a mechanical
genius is C. J. Dennis; but even he can make
a tart which all Australia admits is bonzer.
Hasn’t Maoriland tried one of Dennis’s
tarts?
* * * *
Ted Colles, black-and-white artist, who
has been doing his bit along the. firing-line
with the Army Medical Corps, is now a
draughtsman at the headquarters of the Ist
Artillery division.
* * * *
“Y.Z.”: The Age has been scooping the
Argus most cruelly. The former got home
with a couple of columns of illuminating
facts concerning German actions and inten-
tions in Australia, that left its higher-up
contemporary feeling the scalding effects of
the soup it had been in. A week or so later
the democratic daily scored with a full, true
and particular account of the evacuation of
Gallipoli, written by Dr. Springthorpe and
wired from Westralia, that must have made
anything available to the Argus later on
about as popular as stale eggs. It makes a
big difference just now, when nobody has
any politics in particular apart from the
w-ar, and the one thing expected from a
newspaper is blood and gunpowder.
“G.D.M.” : Notice that Baron Drydog has
been entertained by the Whitefriars Club?
Had that honor myself four years ago, just
before I came home. It is the most exclu-
sive dining club in London, because every
member has to be somebody. I wasn’t any-
body, being merely a guest. Alfred Sutro
was chairman in the old-fashioned room of
Anderton’s, a century-old hotel in Ludgate
Hill, alongside Sir John Bennett’s famous
clock shop. Well, Sutro was in the chair,
and the subject for discussion after the beef
steak and the roast beef was “What view
should the dramatic author take of the
stage?” Arthur Bourchier opened with this
strong lead, “that the duty of the stage and
consequently of the writer of plays was to
uplift humanity.” Most of the White Friars
coughed into their liqueur glasses. Then
Pinero gave Bourchier • once round on that
viewpoint and declared for the instruction
of the masses. More coughing and choking
by the guests, who included Pett Ridge,
Hamilton Fyfe, Francis Gribble, Walter
Emanuel, R. Hichens, Haddon Chambers,
Robert Barr, Jerome K. Jerome, Charles
Garvice, et hoc. About midnight, as an
honored guest from a far-away land, I was
permitted, to hazard the opinion that the
proper view for a dramatic author was
through the box office. (Loud applause.)
Then Major Mackenna, formerly of Kyneton
(Vic.), and then on the Daily Mail, joined
me in an early-morning visit to the Press
Club in Wine Office Court, E.C., where we
met three more Australian pressmen on
Harmsworth’s papers and ate cold beef and
pickles till 6 a.m. Next day Arthur Mur-
ray, a Maorilander, then editor of the
Financial Times, was fined a guinea for
keeping the steward of the Press Club out
of bed after 5 a.m.
* * * *
“0.K.”: Censorship! Why kick at it as
a new species of leg-iron? By ancient cus-
tom, a man who gets buried in Melbourne
cannot put what epitaph he pleases on his
own tombstone. The proposed prose or verse
has to be passed by the fatheaded censor of
the cemetery, whose other name is Wowser.
For any one of the tribe I write an epitaph
on a tablet of scorn: —
Here lies an ass who vetoed epitaphs
That would have moved mankind to kindly laughs;
But now his witless head is laid to rest,
Himself at last provides a tombstone jest.
Himself is now a theme for harmless jokes,
AVhich erstwhile he denied to brighter blokes;
Squeezing the matter from his mental cyst,
Men draw a moral from the moralist.
* * * *
“Y.Z.”: Literary talent is for ever seeking
an outlet. There is a man in Melbourne who
could do fairly well as a trouser-hand, but
having heard the call of the wild muses
prefers to tramp the Inky Way. For years
be eked out a kind of subsistence by writing
memorial verses. Taking his bare facts from
the “Deaths” advertisements he built up a
24-line poem about deceased, and then called
on the bereaved, and delivered the goods. The
effort almost invariably produced ss. Of late
Blank has adopted a new feature. He now
hunts bis prey in the columns of the society
papers. When an engagement is announced
that suits his book he goes to work with an
assiduity that would be the making of a
special correspondent, ferreting out facts con-
cerning the young man. Later, he calls upon
the blushing bride-that-is-to be with a neatly-
typed synopsis of the life and works of John
William. No bride-that-is-to be is indiffer-
ent to the hidden past of her John William,
and, as a rule, Blank gets his price. Now
and then he gets kicked; but that is only
part of the lot austere that afflicts the man
of letters here.
• « » «
“Will G. Buck”: The only left-handed
comp, in Townsville (Q.) is G. Kingsbury,
who runs the Labor weekly, The Federal.
He got the thumb and first two fingers blown
off his right hand dynamiting fish, but he
can set five sticks of pica in an hour (which
is good going), can “empty” his own stick
and can take a lift of 31 lines of pica to
“dis.” Any Inkywayman guess how he does
it?
* * * *
“Harrison O.”: A distressing feature of
the popularity won for Australia by Galli-
poli Bill is the burning desire shown lately
by Gold Country critics to take notice of
what they are pleased to regard as this
country’s “literature.” The Oxford pro-
fessor who lately held forth in the Times
is not the only jester of the kind. Another
spreads himself in the Empire Review on
“The Australian in Literature: a Glance
at a Colonial Product.” (Smart little
chaps, doncherknow !) The reviewer, apolo-
gising for the paucity of our literary output
(only about one-hundredth of which has,
apparently, come under his notice), men-
tions that “men and women on a huge ranch,
or surrounded by the manifold toils of a
bush settlement, have small leisure, little
energy, perhaps little inclination for the
intellectual avocations or the arts.” So
there are still decently-educated English
duffers who look upon us as a nation of
bushwhackers, and doubtless imagine that
Gilbert Murray and Melba were brought up
on ranches and spent their young days
rounding up steers and hunting the coyote.
According to the Empire Review the most
notable poets Australia has produced are
Domett, Gordon and Kendall. Why Domett,
who was born in England, came to Maori-
land, died in England, and wrote verse
which, for the most part, is about as char-
acteristic of this country as the- lyrics of
Princess Nukata, Heaven and the Empire
reviewer alone know. The writer’s list of
the Australian novelists who count includes
Guy Boothby and Mrs. Humphrey Ward,
while Ethel Turner, Mrs. Gunn,
Adams, Louis Stone and others are left to
languish in darkness. Since the Empire
writer would appear to be about a quarter
ot a century behind the times, it is up to
somebody, with the object of indicating the
scope of Australian literature, to forward
without delay copies of “The Sentimental
Bloke,” Ernest Scott’s Life of Flinders, the
collected w’orks of Victor Dalev and Henry
Lawson, with “Bellerive” and Bruce Smith
to show us in our lighter moods.
* • * •
“F.N.T.”: A point worthy the attention
of th e bcw P.M.G. has been made in regard
to trade and technical journals by William
Elsum, a Melbourne man who has special
reasons for knowing how the Boot-builders’
Budget and the Galvanized-iron Gazette
are feeling. Elsum believes that, under the
proposed alterations in the postal rates for
newspapers, the monthly “tech.” may suffer
a bump which will in some cases prove fatal.
These journals bring a certain amount of
cheap education to those interested in the
manufacturing or should-be-manufacturing
industries, whether students or wage-
earners ; and Elsum reminds the P.M.G.
that “under the most pronounced Protec-
tionist tariff, technical literature, tools of
trade and the like receive special considera-
tion. Since P.M.G. Webster belongs to a
Government which every now and again
declares itself to favor a policy of encourag-
ing local industry, that up-to-the-minute
reformer should take a second look at the
Elsum aspect of his new revenue-producing
device. s
* * • •
One of the little weeklies that formerly
printed photographs of flannelled Melbourne
bayside campers recently played a dreadful
trick on the elegant and refined “Seren-
aders, Heehaws,” “Buccaneers,” and so
on.. It still showed them lounging beneath
their banners, but instead of the old note
° f „. admiration i(: added the savage query-
‘\V here are the recruiting sergeants ?” When
you see a mild little paper turn and bite the
straw-hat that fed it you shudder to think
what war is liable to change a curate into.
THE SKIN BOOK.
[FOR THEe BULLETIN.]
He grew no corn, he milked no cows, he wore no
sword upon his thigh,
But in their cups he sang to kings, and cursed a
world whose heart was dry.
They flung him silver for his meed; he spent the
coin but scorned the gift.
B; sure he found the roads too long, the harp he
carried hard to lift.
Yet wonder wakened at his voice ; his fingers tingled
on the strings ;
Men spake with awe of that he sang as of a morning
full of wings.
He wrote strange words on leaves of skin that other
times might know ai;d read,
And dreamed the spilling of his ink would count
him as a holy deed.
The kings were buried in the mound. They gave the
harper man a place
Beside the feet of one dead lord who wore a stone
before his face.
The changing ages came and went. A riper world
with larger cares
Crept up upon the ancient things and smote and slew
them unawares.
He grew no corn, he milked no cows, he wore no
sword upon his thigh ;
His narrow grave was grassed and green beneath a
wide and heedless sky.
And did men pause to wonder still at words that
long ago he wrote?
Alas 1 The skin-book of his pride was eaten by a
careless goat 1
N.s.w.
PAT O’MAORI.


Model 75
Electric Lights
Electric Starter
Five-Seater, £,295
Single-Seater, £290
R
s
The Ideal Combination
Comfort-Convenience-Economy
Everything that goes to make a car up-to-date in design,
construction and equipment is found in the new Model 75.
It has virtually all the advantages of the large, expensive
cars at a price well within reach of the average pocketbook.
The powerful block motor is of the
most approved —most modern —type.
Ignition is by high-tension magneto.
There is an electric starting and lighting
system of the highly efficient two-unit type.
The car is very easy to handle. Electric
switches are on the steering column. Anyone
can operate the easy working clutch. I lie
steering' wheel is large and turns easily. In
fact, every detail makes for convenience and
ease of control.
Model 75 has the real riding comfort
afforded by roomy, comfortable seats, deep
upholstery and cantilever rear springs.
Yet the light weight, ipcwt., assures
unusual economy in maintenance and
operation.
No other car of similar price even com-
pares with this new Overland in points that
make for complete satisfaction.
Let us prove this to you with a
demonstration.
Long Stroke Block Motor.
Electric Starter —Electric Lights.
HIGH-TENSION MAGNETO IGNITION.
Electric switches on steering column.
Right-hand steering—centre levers.
Instrument Board on Cowl Dash.
Cantilever Reaj- Springs.
Deep, Soft Upholstery, High Back Seats.
Wheelbase 104 inches (2642 mm.)
Large tyres, 31 x 4.
SPECIFICATIONS:
Demountable, detachable rints —one
extra.
Rear Axle, full-floating type.
Large, powerful brakes.
Thermo-Syphon cooling.
Body, streamline with one-piece cowl.
Rain-vision Windshield, ventilating
type, built-in.
Crowned fenders.
Lustrous coach finish.
Nickel and polished aluminium trim-
mings.
Electric engine starter and generator,
electric horn, rear and dash lamps
and headlight dimmers, storage
battery.
One-man Mohair hood cover; magnetic
speedometer; electric horn; combina-
tion rear light and license bracket;
hinged rug rail; foot rest; tyre
carrier in rear; full set of tools; tyre
repair kit; jack and pump.
COMPLETE INFORMATION ON REQUEST.
AUSTRAL!A :
E G EAGER & SON LTD., 299 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
THE CO-OPERATIVE MOTOR SOCIETY LTD., 41 Hunter Street, Sydney.
THE KELLOW-FALKINER MOTOR CO., 206 Russell Street, Melbourne.
MURRAY AUNGER LTD., 60 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
ANDERSON & ADAMS LTD., W.A.
H. C. HEATHORN &. CO., Hobart, Tasmania.
NEW ZEALAND:
HAT RICK & CO., Wellington and Wanganui.
NEW ZEALAND FARMERS’ CO-OP. ASSOCIATION, Christchurch.
Full information oil vccjucst to (i’iy of the abovemeiitioned Dcalcis.


iHimngapwnwmi
Solid Silver-mounted Manicure Set
finest quality instruments, cut glass jar, 25/
Engraved, 27/6.
mm
Ssei
'
Two Hobnail Cut Glass Toilet Bottles, Puff Jar and
Vaseline Pot, with richly embossed solid silver tops, in silk-lined
Morocco case, £2/5/-
.
■ mii.r
Solid Silver-mounted Gent’s Hair Brushes and
Cloth Brush, in silk-lined case, £2/15/-
HANDSOME
TOILET GIFTS
Delightful in appearance
and reasonable in price.
===»-y*
v. <- :• - K /- • 1
m
*rif?rr
1111!!!
'‘’ri\^ichfi-rf^ ;
>^.^^v2^Mlllliluuiullllli!l
as
, <«iii
'- V S V\ v " >.'\"i*j>. ■ ‘ j
■ ■ ■ V--. • -■ - •'•: Vv:’/-. -'
■'
i :
Y>l¥ .
Solid Silver Handsomely Embossed “Empire”
Design Brush, Mirror and Comb, £3/157-
Two brushes and Comb, £3/3/-.
i/*size
Sterling Silver-mounted Shoe Hook, Luc and
Glove Hook, highly burnished, 8/6.
A. SAUNDERS,
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER,
m
mm
■ v - pp
SYDNEY
t«»Mi
Solid Silver Handsomely Embossed “Empire”
Design Hair Brush and Comb, silver-drawn bristles
in Morocco case, 30/-
Solid Silver-mounted Sewing Companion, com-
prising four articles, in silk-lined Morocco case, 15/6,
SR
m
B 5
a
m
mm
MM
Solid Silver Plain “Concave” Design Manicure
Set, finest quality instruments, £2/15/-
807-817 GEORGE ST
(Opp. Railway Station) SYDNEY
IMPROVED
Compass
Clynometer
For Taking LEVELS and ANGLES.
Reading inclinations in inches
per yard or degrees.
Invaluable to Prospector, Miner, Geologist,
Engineer and Squatter.
Strong, Compact. Best lacquer brass,
2iin. dia., Solid Leather Case,
Printed Instructions, POSTED
22 16
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.,
189-191 George Street, Brisbane.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery,
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, bv Hubert Wales, 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life.
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatcn-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain fop. the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train fop. all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/8.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d
8
8
in
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in. plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of voung
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this srreat work. It will be posted to
ANY address for EIGHT SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
sup- BOOKSELLER TO THE- COMMONWEALTH. ~mE
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), is. How TO
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Od.
Sklf Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers' Handybook, Is 3d!
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Like of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan's Engine Driver’s Guide,
os 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss!
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. 25 Tears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OX MY STOCK CAN
IXE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my...,
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Makk Up, Illustrated Guide to the Sbag-e, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Ur. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s do.
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the
Ring, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Covers
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is -a.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Decrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s (id post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Cuevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Kong
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post tree.
Bknnarr Macfaddkn’s Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife's Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post.
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. D y >. -
mos and Electric Motors. Is 2d. Moore’s universal,
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, clot
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyante,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of hy Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY


Modern Farm Implements
An excellent record in wheat-growing,
achieved on Mr. J. G. Ritchie’s farm, at
Kerrigan, N.S.W., convincingly estab-
lishes the value of labor-saving agricul-
tural machinery constructed on the best
principles. Except that he had been
well equipped in this respect, it is more
than doubtful if Mr. Ritchie could have
successfully carried out his programme.
For he not only had a large area to place
under wheat, but he had to rely solely
upon hired labor, which, naturally, will
not work the long hours for which many
farmers are noted.
The problem was solved by the aid ot
labor-saving machinery, manufactured at
Mr. 11. V. McKay’s factory, Sunshine.
The Sunflower one-way cultivator did
die lion’s share of preparing the land for
s e ed, the drought of the previous year
having left it largely in a condition of
fallow. The manner in which this valu-
able implement daily pulverised and re-1
duced a large area of ground to a good
tilth is described as being wonderful. A
feature which makes the Sunflower one-
way cultivator stand out is the manner
in which it sticks to its work. The
machine observes a perfectly straight line
with ease, and there is none of the ten-
dency to depart from a true alignment
which is characteristic of so many im-
plements working on this principle.
Thanks to the Sunshine machine, the
large area of 1555 acres was soon ready
for the plough—an important achieve-
ment in a district where climatic condi-
tions necessitate the completion of sow-
ing by the end of May. The seed, with
its light dressing of superphosphate, w T as
placed in the ground at a speedy rate by means of three large
Sunshine drills. Our illustration depicts the twenty-hoe size
by which from 25 to 30 acres can be seeded daily, and fertil-
ised in a most satisfactory manner. In this drill the upper
structure is carried on a cross tie beam of great strength,
made of the best channel steel. To this are attached stub
axles, on which the wheels are fixed —an arrangement that
prevents them dipping inwards. As many practical farmers
know to their cost this is a tendency inescapable in the case
of wide drills equipped with revolving axles. The transverse
movement of the lifting lever is another feature that wins
recognition for the Sunshine drill.
The prolific harvest, which is in course of being gathered
on Mr. Ritchie’s farm, reflects the efficacy of the cultural
and seeding methods employed. Two largest-sized Sunshine
harvesters are now busily engaged in taking off the crop,
which is estmated to yield 25 bushels to the acre. The ease
and thoroughness with which they work are marvellous, the
automatic raising and lowering gear being greatly appreci-
ated by the drivers. The experience gained on this farm
conclusively proves that the largest-sized Sunshines will
gather a crop quite as
easily as the smaller
machine, and with no
manifestation whatever of
the side draught problem,
which, in other cases, is
a perennial source of
trouble.
1.—The Sunflower One-way Cultivator Thoroughly Broke up the Land. 2.-A large Sun Drill Rapidly Seeded. 3.-Two Sunshine Harvesters of the Largest Size Rapidly
Gathered the Ripened Grain. 4.—And Discharged it into Bags Ready for Marketing.
THE MAKING OF A RICH HARVEST.


hfmCw&dft JCotel
Sydmely. IN.S.W.»
,
The Wentworth Hotel Summer Garden, as in previous seasons
rendezvous of the Elite.
is still the
Delightfully cool and comfortable, it is ideal for Luncheons Dinners
Teas, Supper and Wedding Parties and all semi open-air functions. ’
Afternoon
Visitors to Sydney will find the Wentworth Hotel most popular, central and
up to date in a modern conveniences, including telephones in bedrooms com-
municating with the Exchange.
The Appointments, Linen and Service are superb, and compare
favorably with the best Hotels in the Commonwealth.
more
than
Terms on application.
Mrs. H. MACLURCAX, Manageress.
Isot merely big guns, bayonets and aero-
planes are going to win the war, but stout
hearts inspired by the spirit of freedom, says
Scotch.—Advt! 1 ’ Kmg Ge ° rge IV * to P not( '' h
N° savoury dish
is complete
without salt: yet
how little salt is
needed. There-
fore why not use
only the best —
CEREBOS
SALT
POLITICAL
POINTS
“O’Phimerty”: The argument in Tassy
whether Earle is Attorney-General ends in
his favor by withdrawal of the appeal to the
High Court against the decision of the State
Courts.- The contention was that as Earle
was not a lawyer he was ineligible for the
billet. This at first looks sound enough, but
consider how it would cut if applied all
round. I know rat least one State Treasurer
who never handled more than £lBO a year
before he got the job of minding the public
cashbox, and who is as innocent of financial
acumen as he is of bigamy. A Parliamen-
tary candidate once asked me to revise his
election manifesto. It is the naked truth
that there was not a sentence in it without
orthographical or grammatical error. Not
long afterwards he became Minister for Edu-
cation. The late Tas. Premier, Solomon,
told me when he became Minister of Mines
that he didn’t know the difference between
galena and quartz, and had no idea what
poppet-heads were.
OUT OF TUNE.
The City Council is contemplating a by-law to
enforce motorists to adopt a horn with a' uniform
note. —Press item.
ROBERT (with the tuning fork): “Yu’re jist
a troifle flat, me mahn, so Oi’ll have ter
thrubble ye fer yer name an’ addresh.”
Joseph Bradshaw, the Northern Territory-
pioneer, happened to be handy when the
papers published King O’Malley’s wild jest
about watering the N.T. by means of an
under-sea main from the Purari River in
Papua. Bradshaw, iu reply, wrote seven
lines, but they were enough to bomb the
whole wild scheme. He merely said it was
unfortunate that the joke should have been
perpetrated in the wet season, when the
N.T.’s own rivers, the Ord, Victoria, Daly
and Roper, were all big enough to drown
the Purari.
It looks as if Billjim hadn't enough to
argue about with the Turk after all. Any-
how, one of him has forwarded from the
trenches to Tiie Bulletin an infuriated
complaint about the dangers of the Refer-
endum, and he knocks off only “because the
shrapnel is getting a bit thick.” This Bill-
jim seems to think that the vote is a more
explosive substance than the stuff with which
the enemy was, at time of writing, trying
to out him. It shows what some men on the
edge of the grave will stop to think about.
(P.S.—lf you're going in that direction the
edge of the grave is the best place to stop
and consider matters.)
THE PICK-ME-UP.
“When the Devil was sick
The Devil a saint would be.
When the Devil was well
The devil a saint was he.”
The Speck is still learning a bit about
reproductive public works. The Ulverstone-
Nietta line, built at a cost of over £lOO.OOO.
was opened for traffic on December 20, and
according to the Railway Department’s tally
it had earned up to February 4 a total of
£23, or about 10s. a day. The country is
being opened up with a vengeance.
A further instalment of the political eco-
nomy of MacSnavel was delivered to some
M.L. farm laborers the other week, the in-
formation imparted being that the rate in
Seawtland, where the boss came from, used
to be every 60 minutes and quarry your
own parritch. Then one of the men with
a hoe mentioned something about the boss
getting Hd. each for chops, and was fired on
the spot for being an agitator and a shirker
and the thin end of the wedge.
“D.F.” : It’s no wonder some Government
enterprises are not a success. Last March
the Tasmanian Director of Agriculture sent
35 head of cattle to pasture on the Swan
Basin experimental area. There was plenty
of grass then, and at the end of June some-
one offered £lO per head for the stock, or
£350 for the lot. It was not taken, but in
November, when about a dozen had died of
starvation, they were auctioned. The 23
brought £ll7 ss. Sd. There is some fine
business acumen displayed when Ministers
and their departments get to work on jobs
they know nothing about.
Adverting to the present lofty prices of
many drugs, Customs Minister Tudor lately
lamented that so few of the drugs we use
arc manufactured here. “Lanoline, for in-
stance,” he said, “has vaulted from Bd. to
4s. 3d. per lb., yet millions of pounds’ weight
of the basis of this article were running to
waste down the rivers from the wool-scour-
ing works.” Exactly! The wasted by-pro-
ducts of many of our industries would* more
than pay the cost of the manufacture of the
staple article, but what practical encourage-
ment does the Protectionist Labor Govern-
ment of Australia offer? If an Australian
wool-scourer utilises waste product and puts
lanoline on the market at about Is. per lb!
—as he probably could —what guarantee
has he that as soon as the war is over the
foreigner won’t dump his surplus supplies
here at about 6d.? What is the use of Tudor
solemnly announcing that he is “interested”
m this question? All that Australia wants
to know is what he and the all-stop Govern-
ment he decorates is going to do about it
“The Imported Prophet”: The. war is
teaching us things with a vengeance. A
few years ago the man who prophesied that
Australia would not only supply itself with
steel, but would actually be shipping muni-
tion steel to England would have been urged
to go and sleep it off. Yet these things have
come to pass. A few years hence and the
continent will be growing its own tea, rice,
silk, cotton, and manufacturing the latter
into what the 4-tariff calls “dress piece
goods,” etc. Then that dream of “Rimu’s”
(B. 3/2/TG) about evacuating England and
making George V. Lord Mayor of the North-
ern Territory will be in a fair way to realisa-
tion.
Malvern, which is if anything a more
truculently Liberal suburb than blessed
Toorak, has of late shown an inclination to
bury the party hatchet. The latest ameni-
ties took place at a meeting of the local
council, in which only one Labor member,
Louis Holmes, has ever sat. The assembled
patriots decided without serious argument
to change the name of one street from Bis-
marck to Hughes, after the Prime Minister
(loud applause), and another from Fischer
to Fisher, after the High Commissioner
(continued cheers) ; and then, still hooray-
ing, the councillors followed the King a
short distance until they reached the
mayoral cupboard.
The victory last week of Cold Tea Brunt-
nell over Labor candidate Walford at Parra-
matta by more than 1000 majority, was a
pretty sharp facer for the Holman Govern-
ment. Last election Walford ran Tom Mox-
ham, the “Liberal,” to within 190 votes, and
his victory at this by-election was con-
fidently reckoned on. The Libs, took a tre-
mer>d«'*r> risk in selecting Bruntnell as the
party man in order to heal an internecine
quarrel. For generations Parramatta has
fought its elections on purely personal
grounds. The sectarian issue, the silvertail
issue, the asylum vote, and the fruit-case vote
were always above party. To bring in an
outsider like Salvation Bruntnell might have
lost the seat. When the parish pump em-
phatically c-hoses a foreigner to a local man
who is a Holmanitix it looks as if Holman
has got a second *puff of the big squall
coming.
“Stenog” : There is far too much common-
sense used in the Public Service. To start
with, my name has a combination of the
letters “iv,” which, when written, frequently
read as “w.” I thought I’d better register
a youngster a few months ago, and, having
had experience with birth certificates dis-
agreeing in the spelling with what the owner
of the name thought it should be, I typed
the declarations. A few days later I re-
ceived a hurried visit from a sergeant of
police with a cargo of blank forms, who
assured me that a birth registration form
must be filled in with hand-writing. Does
anyone want to bet that should a copy of
that certificate he required in the future the
name will not be spelt with a “w”? Inci-
dentally, if any aged and experienced red-
tapist can tell me why type is barred on
these certificates I'll withdraw my antago-
nism to the Old Duffers’ Pension Bill.
NO CONVENIENCES.
CHARMING HUSBAND: “Never saw such a
place as this! There's not a thing in
the house a man can prop up a news-
paper with.”
The first applicant for an assessment of
the landlord's demands by the N.S.W. Fair
Rents Court is a member of the Leg.
Assembly. His complaint is that for the
palace he inhabits 18s. 6d. a week has to be
parted, whereas 12 years ago 11s. Gd. was
enough. A quite irrelevant piece of evidence
which will not be admitted may be that
M.L.A.’s voted themselves £4 a week extra
screw not long ago without passing a Fair
M age Act.
The war has disclosed the amazing fact
that Australia has been importing even its
dried herbs, like marjoram, mint, sage, thyme
and parsley, which have been grown mostly
m 1 ranee. Now, of course, there is a short-
,s.° Tasmania is thinking—good old
thinking —of getting into the business. The
prices per cwt. f.o.b. London before the war
were: Marjoram, 555.; thyme. 355.: mint
Jnot much used), 1355.; sage, 675.; parsley,
‘ os * t Sydney firm which buys some of
these herbs by the ton has offered to pay
those prices plus 4d. per lb. duty and the
normal freight from London to Sydney 1455.
per ton. The plants are easy enough to
grow; so, if somebody is prepared to work
there is no visible reason why we should
ever import them again.
It bobs up again, this time in the Camper
down (\ k*. ) Chronicle: “Wanted— married
couple; no encumbrance Apply _____
This ? *' ho ! nak es the possession
or children an industrial disability i« „
bachelor of military age. He has'Vario,,!
brothers, also of military age. Not one of
them has enlisted. They are wealthy sheen
farmers. Three more cheers for the voinh
tary system of defence! oUin '
COLD FEET AGAIN.
HELEN : “I don't think Uncle Cecil will make
much of a soldier.”
GEORGE: “Why not ?”
HELEN: “Oh, nuffin'! Only I heard Mummy
telling him at tea-time not to be afraid
of the butter!”
•
Launceston (Tas.) having plenty of cheap
electrical power available, hoped with the
advent of Federation to become a manufac-
turing centre, or at any rate the little band
of Protectionists there did. But when
Deakin fused hope died. Now it has been
revived, and the little factories are surpris-
ing the natives with the goods they make.
The Government has agreed to give' prefer-
ence to the local article for State require-
ments, and the Australian Government
is being urgently requested to build
up the tariff to provide absolute pro-
tection to such articles as can be made in
sufficient quantity at home. There is suffi-
cient material on the banks of the Tamar to
supply all Australia with cement and iron,
the potteries are the finest on the continent,
and the woollen goods would chase most of
the imported stuff off the premises in a fair
competition.
Wanganui (M.L.) continues to pay inter-
est on the great importing lunacy. Two
years ago its Harbor Board decided to in-
vest in a dredge to handle the silt with which
the local river persists in filling the artificial
harbor and sent the order away to the Clyde.
Incidentally it also had to send an
engineer there to watch the con-
tractor. At that stage the war
broke out, and everything was
dropped to handle naval work.
Now after IS months’ delay, during
which the Wanganui has been doing
its worst, the dredge has struggled
along to completion. But it has
to come out through the Suez
Canal. The builders on the Clyde
say that if the contraption is tor-
pedoed it cannot undertake to
build another one for several
years, and it advises the fools in
Wanganui to leave their costly
white elephant in the Clyde until
the war ends. And as that is the
only thing Wanganui can do, and
as the war may last for ever, the
river can ruin the harbor in that
time ; and, as interest is being paid
on the p.n. tied up in bonnie Scot-
land, there is a horrible slump in
the importing doctrine at the place
where the sculling matches used to
rage. Meanwhile down in Dunedin
there are clever engineers who could have
built the dredge long ago; and. anyhow, one
dredge at work on the Wanganui is easily
worth a hundred tied up in the land of
McTavish.
One Australian caricaturist is wondering
if this story will appear in the reminiscences
of George Reid. George was looking at a
caricature of himself that had to be sub-
mitted to him before going to print. “But,
my dear boy,” said the Eyeglass testily;
“my toes do not turn in like that.” “I’m
afraid, sir, you are not in a position to
judge,” said the black-and-white artisan.
THE CALL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Blood! Blood and Iron for the gross, blaspheming
Prussian,
Trampling down the nations on his smoking road
to Hdl!
Gold for the sons of France! Gold for the Russian,
And gold for Australia to do its fighting well!
More Blood ! More iron for the bully of the ages,
Storming in his frenzy towards the cold, clear gaze
of God !
Speed him with gold whilst importunate he rages!
Hear now your money with cannon-thunder shod !
Men! Men and gold for the ending of the madness!
Call, trumpets! Call! Let the valiant war-drums
beat!
So shall we end I But we first must give with glad-
ness.
Empty j our coffers to stay his bloody feet!
You that must stay bj" your stricken hearths and
tremble!
Give of your store so the j’oung with Mars may
feast 1
You that should go, neither linger nor dissemble!
Each to his post for the herding of the Beast!
N.S.W.
TRUMPETER.


SPORTING NOVELS
Readers of sporting stories have been well catered for by Australian
writers. In the famous
‘Bookstall” Series of Australian Books
the most successful fiction library published in Australia, there are
more than a score of books with a sporting plot whose sales closely
approach the half-million mark. Mr. Arthur Wright has just
contributed a notable addition to this series of snorting novels —
“UNDER A CLOUD,”
by Arthur Wright.
The best novel yet written by this popular Australian novelist. The
story chiefly concerns a remarkably successful jockev. who in his
hour of triumph ruins his career by—but that would be handing over
the key to a splendid story which no reader of sporting novels should
miss. “Lnder a Cloud’ is full of incident and possesses a strong
love interest.
OTHER SPORTING NOVELS
“IN THE LAST STRIDE” (by Arthur
Wright) deals with incidents in several
sports—football, boxing and horseracing—
and an all-round athlete is the hero of the
story. In addition to the sporting interest,
there are several exciting episodes (includ-
ing an opium-smuggling adventure), and
there is a strong love interest.
“EROS! EROS WINS!” (by F. Agar)
proves quite as exciting as its title indicates.
It is a brightly-written story which suc-
cessfully exposes much turf villainy.
“RUNG IN” (by Arthur Wright) carries a
sub-title which, to a certain extent, explains
the book: “A Taste of the Turf, Interwoven
with a Murder Mystery and a Love Story.”
It is a sparkling novel, possessing great
dramatic strength.
“A ROGUE’S LUCK” (by Arthur Wright)
does not require any further recommendation
than that it is by the Australian author
whom both press and public acclaim as a
serious rival of Nat Gould. In this book
Mr. Arthur Wright has provided an excep-
tionally strong and clever story which has
proved one of the most popular of his books.
“WOLAROI’S CUP” (by Ambrose Pratt)
presents a picture of a Melbourne Cup-
winner in the making, and a splendid de-
scriptive account of the methods adopted by
owners, trainers and jockeys is given. The
story possesses a strong love interest, and is
a clever handling of an entirely new plot.
“GAMBLERS’ GOLD” (by Arthur Wright)
is a good, thrilling, sensational story in
which the course of true love is impeded bv
the effects of an old-time tragedy, but which
is again set on its happy way by means of
some fine sporting incidents.
“IX RACING SILK” (by Gerald R. Bald-
win) is an interesting tale of the turf, inter-
mingled with an absorbing love story. An
exposition of the shady wavs of an unscrupu-
lous bookmaker is a feature of the book.
“THE MARE WITH THE SILVER
HOOF” (by Bob Allen) is, of course, a
!-tory of the turf —-a story with an exceed-
ingly clever and interesting plot, by a
writer whose turf technique is perfect.
“Easily the best racing novel that has come
under our notice,” says the Stock and
Station Journal.
Price: One Shilling Each; Posted 1/1.
All Bookstalls and Booksellers in the Commonwealth.
WRITE FOR COMPLETE CATALOGUE.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. Ltd., 476 George St., Sydney
CAPITAL
djdd I
IRAQI X M<UK J 7 T»AOf X.
gfFnfcVau. «
rrt£>
m
An Eagle on a Globe
Circular Saws
Manufactured by Highly-skillecl Workmen.
From Best Sheffield Crucible
Cast-Steel Plates,
Size 6in. dia. to 54in.
SAW REPAIRING A
SPECIALITY.
Engineers
“Ultra Capital’
and “Capital”
High - speed
Twist Drills.
We carry Large Stocks.
In Sizes: “Ultra-Capital,”
sin. to 4in. ; “Capital,”
sin. to 2in.
Contractors to the
N.S.W. Govt.
TOOL STEELS. —“Ultra Capital” and “New Capital” High-speed Steels,
Carbon Steels, Double Extra, Best Warranted, and Warranted qualities.
mining steel. —Octagon, Cruciform and Hollow Sections.
W rite for Full Particulars, advising for ichat purpose Steel Required.
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Sheffield, England.
* Australian Offices—
-379 Kent Street, Sydney; 264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne;
n 46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie; Cliff Street, Fremantle.
Electric Meters
and Instruments
4 <?
s:
Meters and Instruments of all types are designed,
manufactured, and tested at Trafford Park,
Manchester, bv the British Westinghouse Electric
and Manufacturing Go., Ltd.
There are sufficient types for you to select one
exactly suited to your requirements whether for
switchboard or portable use.
They are sensitive without being delicate and
perfectly dead beat.
1 hey embody all the latest improvements in their
design and construction. They are given a high
grade finish and present a pleasing appearance.
They combine ideal simplicity with permanent
accuracy, unimpaired by temperature changes,
throughout a long life.
Portable types are compact and light, in neatly
finished dust-proof cases.
The accuracy of Westinghouse meters is a safe-
guard against loss of revenue and their use reduces
inspection and maintenance costs to a minimum.
The highest grade of measuring instruments is
the only grade for your purpose.
SEND YOUR ENQUIRIES TO NEAREST OFFICE.
rstinoliousf
Manchester
Head Office for Australia:
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Agents:
Standard Waygood Hercules Ltd.
77. King Street. Sydney.
Elder. Shenton & Co.. Ltd..
Williams Street, Perth.
Elder, Smith & Co.. Ltd..
27-31. Currie Street, Adelaide.
Elder. Smith & Co., Ltd.,
84-88, William Street, Melbourne.
Agents in New Zealand : Turnbull and Jones. Ltd.,
Wellington, Auckland. Christchurch, and Dunedin.
iiiiijimiiiiMiiiiiiiiMMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiimMMiiiiiiiiimmmiiiiMiiiiuiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiii
Park, Manchester, England.
■Gentlemen ■
LET ME GET HOLD OF YOUR PUMP
I*ll show you a trick or two that
will maKc you“sit up and think.”
it
:
I am no experiment I have
proved my worth Summer and
Winter all over Australia.
I'll deliver all the water von
want where yon want it and
when you want it —at less than
one penny per hour.
No belts or pump jack to
bother with, no anchor posts,
no special platform.
Give me a job and I’ll always
remain faithfully yours
The Fuller and Johnson
FARM PUMP
ENGINE
Write to Pumping Department
for Full Particulars.
Buzacott Co. Ltd.
7 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY ; g 110 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LiniTED, Redfern, Sydney.
RHEUMATISM.
RELIEF GAINED BY USING
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT RILLS.
COMSTOCK’S NERVE AND BONE
LINIMENT ALSO A USEFUL
REMEDY.
“I have suffered with Rheumatism for very
many years,” writes Mrs. Elizabeth Jenkins,
of 818 Cumberland Street, North Dunedin,
N.Z.. “and have tried almost every medicine
to afford me relief from time to time. After
taking a course of your remedy several V^l ,s
ago I found Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Ribs
did me much good, and I derived great benefit
from their use. I might add nothing has
afforded me more relief than Dr. Morse s
Indian Root Pills, also Comstock’s Nerve
and Bone Liniment has given me relief from
swollen joints and reduces pain when rubbed
in as an embrocation. You may use this
testimony.”
Comstock’s Nerve and Bone Limiment may
be obtained at all the leadiug chemists and
stores, or will be forwarded by mail (post
paid) at the same price, 2/6 per bottle.
Address—The W. 11. Comstock Co., Ltd.,
Lang Street, Sydney.— Advt.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The Governor-General’s announcement
that he will attend no more race meetings while the
war lasts can be accepted as an uncensored expres-
sion of opinion about the situation. The practical
effect of it will probably be just nil. Still, no
erbwd stands more in need of a warning than the
crowd: that puts in too much of its time on the
course. Professional sports are mere careless optim-
ists, as a rule; the average man who interests him-
self in racing is a profoundly-stupid optimist always.
He can see nothing but a sure winner for the Allies
in the war news; but vice-royalty’s tip that matters
are not less than serious may make him take a pull
and consider the position, if he does, he won’t be
so sanguine that all is a safe bet.
Red Signal is much fancied for the New-
market Handicap, on the assumption that the colt
has recovered his two-year-old form. If he has he is,
of course, absurdly well handicapped at 7st. 71b.
seeing that he won the Maribyrnong Plate, and
thereby showed a liking for the straight run at
Flemington. Three Star, the Sydney colt that finished
second to Red Signal 16 months ago, has to give him
111 b. jin the Newmarket. Colts that “go off” after
their ’two-year-old season don’t ordinarily come on
again. But there are many exceptions. Mala, for in-
stance, lost form after running only second for the
Maribyrnong in 1908. In March, 1910, he was a
rather lucky winner of the Newmarket. And Mala
carried Bst. lib., or 81b. more than Red Signal’s
burden.
*■*•*•*•
Melbourne’s “autumn” racing rally starts
at Caulfield on Saturday. The 5£ furlongs Oakleigh
Plate sometimes reveals the coming Newmarket
winner and sometimes doesn’t, the get-away being
of more vital importance in the Caulfield sprint than
in the straight six furlongs at Flemington. Ludo-
vitch among the imported goods looks a likely
winner, also Woorak, in spite of his lOst. 51b.,
seems pretty certain to go near it if he starts.
Red fern, apparently backed for the Newmarket, may
start on Saturday for his first race in Australia, and
if the English “crack” should be saddled up his per-
formance will provide the event of the afternoon.
Rumor says of Redfern to-day what it said of Land
of Song a year ago, when Rumor was not very wide
of the truth.
* * # ♦
The V.R.C. committee has rejected the
entries of Sydian (imp.) in the nomination
of F. H. Lewis, brother to jockey Bob. F.H.L.
was prepared to make a statutory declaration that
he owned every hair in the gee-gee’s tail, but evi-
dently the V.R.C. committee didn’t believe every
hair in the tale. Anyhow, rumor had spoken of
Sydian as “ ‘Bobby’ Lewis’s horse,” and it had been
very considerably backed for the Newmarket Handi-
cap on the understanding that Robert was the man
behind the gun.
* * ■* *
The refusal of the entry of Red Dennis
on the ground of his savageness provides the import-
ers of English racers with food for reflection. Un-
reasonably bad-tempered animals will not be worth
buying for Australia if they are to be duly out-
lawed when they get here. Certainly the turf doesn’t
want the troublesome beasts. Much less are they
wanted for breeding purposes.
MeShortodds has found 1916 happy and
prosperous up Brisbane way. On the two principal
courses, Ascot (Q.T.C.) and Albion Park (John
Wren), not a single favorite got home in the first
19 races of the year, and up to last week onlv
four favorites had arrived where they were wanted
in the 37 races decided. Of the 33 favorites which .
delayed themselves on the journey 15 ran into second
place, but of course that didn’t cause any trouble
down in Judah.
The ’chaser Bullawarra returned to Mel-
bourne the other day, but the village bells were not
rung in his honor. Bullawarra, like Damio of old,
went to England to win the Liverpool Grand
National. He failed dismally. Fast racing over the
sticks in Victoria is not much of a preparation for
a longer journey over a rough course where the
jumps are numerous and various. Bullawarra was
really a brilliant hurdle racer, but was not quite
the class of animal for the Liverpool job.
Newhaven, who ran clean away with the
V.R.C. Derby and Melbourne Cup and won a Cham-
pion Stakes before going to England to distinguish
himself, was sold the other day in N.S.W. for 20
guineas. Even at 23 years Newhaven would fetch a
substantial sum if he had a respectable record at
the stud. But he hasn’t. In his racing days he was
said to be not quite thoroughbred on the dam’s side,
in which case his super-excellence was a fluke and
his offspring not likely to inherit the accident. They
didn’t. Up till a year or so ago he was at Harry
Osborne’s Currandooley property.
* * * *
Trafalgar, who won £22.200 in his turf
career, has not proved so successful at the stud as on
the race track. He is to be sold.
“Bar One” : What is the Betting Market
and where is it? According to the law, it is illegal
to bet anywhere but on a licensed racecourse, nor
may a newspaper publish the odds. Yet this item
appeared in a Sydney daily last week, and is a
sample of what is printed every day: “A sensation
was caused in the local betting market, Purple
King being backed for Newmarket Handicap in the
right quarter. The first bets were made at a long
figure, but in a very little time Purnle King’s figure
was a twentieth of what it had been. Cyklon now heads
the list two points away from Redfern, second favor-
ite.” Why do the police not arrest this mysterious
“betting market” ? Lately 40 brave Hops mobilised
in George and Pitt streets for a raid on a hazard
school, and, marching past all the haunts where real
gambling takes nlace, made a magnificent assault on
a humpy out Waterloo way and arrested a score of
players who didn’t possess £lOO among them.
“S.S.” : I met Bricky Smith the other day
on a pony course. I knew Bricky two years ago as
a promising lightweight, with one of the” neatest left
hands that ever dotted an eye. Another character-
istic of Bricky was his naive simplicity—not, I
admit, a particularly distinguishing mark among
pugs, whom I have found to be singularly ingenuous,
as a rule, and easy marks for any cheap swindler.
When I last saw Master Smith in the ring he was
shaping well for the State championship ; but for two
years he has been doing no public milling. He was
now acting as tout for one of the most unpleasant-
looking three-card monte men it has been my mis-
fortune to see. Bricky had just persuaded a turnip-
faced youth from Briagolong to chance five bob on
the little queen, when he caught my eye. “Not been
boxing lately?” I said. “No,” said Bricky. “I give
up the game. Oh, yes, I was pushin’ in all right;
but I ’ad t’ give it up. Me girl didn’t like it, an
said she'd chuck me if I didn’t turn-to an’ earn a
honest livin’.”
“Snaffle” : About the retirement of handi-
eapper Menzies from the V.R.C. Former handicap-
pers were thought too severe on powerful stables, and
I think Menzies had the most crystalline judgment
on record in Melbourne. Even Barnard started more
squalls. This was the club’s first paid handicapper;
perhaps first in the world. The Melbourne Cup
Handicap was framed by Standish, H. Fisher and
Leonard in 1869. Barnard commenced the next year,
and lasted till ’9l, when he gave Carbine lOst. 121 b.
F. F. Dakin began in ’92, and died in Sydney in
1903. Then Menzies took up the job. Scarr was
handicapper for the A.J.C. from ’7l to ’95, Thomp-
son ’95, ’97, Daly since. In South Australia Hughes
ruled from ’75 to 1913, when his son took over the
job. Barnard, Vowles, Maitland and Lang all handi-
capped at Caulfield. Westralia has had numerous
handicappers, including J. H. Smith, W. E. Dakin,
Geary, Main and Bell. Monaghan long handicapped
both for Hobart and Launceston. The work-is now
divided by Weaver (Racing Club), Parker (Turf
Club). Richardson has long been Queensland handi-
eapper. Admiral Rous, always honorary, was the
first eminent handicapper for the English Jockey
Club. Nowadays handicappers are licensed by the
Jockey Club and appointed for different meetings.
* * * »
It was business as usual, only more so, at
the Hobart Cup meeting at Elwiek (Tas.). The
attendance was a record, and so was the amount
which went through the tote —£12,764 10s. Of this
£4261 went on the Cup race, Polska, the winner,
carrying £1238 10s. The next biggest tote on Cup
day was 1914 with £12,371 10s., while last year the
sum dropped to £10,355 10s. Except for the open-
ing race, the Trial Handicap, every event of the day
was won by a mare. R. Lewis rode three winners—
Polska (Hobart Cup), Queen Battery (Elwiek Futur-
ity Stakes), and Honorine (Flying Handicap).
* * * *
“The Nomad” : The atmosphere surround-
ing unregistered racing in Southern Queensland is
full of electricity. At the Maryborough meeting on
January 22 a nag known as Chunda won a race, but
when his jockey weighed in he was 231 b. short!
Amidst the hullaballo that followed it was ascer-
tained that Chunda’s navigator had lost his ballast
overboard on the voyage. Just here the stewards
brought their wisdom to bear on the situation, and
ordered the race to be re-run, declared all bets off,
and fined Chunda’s conductor £2. According to the
laws of racing their duty was to have disqualified
Chunda, and, provided there was no breath of sus-
CANNONBALL BAKER about to take a
1000-mile spin before breakfast.
picion as to collusion between the connections of
Chunda and Paddy (who ran second), awarded the
race to Paddy. Their action brought on a regular
cyclone. Paddy’s owner (McDowell) refused to run
his horse again, and complained to the Kedron Park
Club (Brisbane), with which the Maryborough con-
cern is affiliated. The Maryborough stewards then
paid McDowell the prize money, and as Chunda won
the run-off his owner also collected prize-money. On
February 3 the Kedron Park committee sat in judg-
ment and said that the decision of the Maryborough
stewards was against all the laws and customs of
racing, and also remarked that “a repetition of the
same will result in the cancellation of the Mary-
borough club’s affiliation with the Kedron Club.”
Meanwhile a dramatic touch was lent the proceedings
by Chunda’s jockey taking the value of his £2 fine
out of the hide of some unknown individual whom
he suspected of having tampered with his saddle.
“Mujik”: I want to know what’s the mat-
ter with a scheme on these lines. Owners to be
divided into three divisions. Dinkum, Ri-buck and
Crook. Trainers and jockeys to come under similar
headings, and not to be allowed to train, ride or
pull an animal belonging to a person outside their
permits. Clubs to eater exclusively for one class of
owner, with the exception that each club would on
certain days have to provide a race, carrying the
largest prize-money, for prads owned by individuals
in one of the other two divisions. Thus the A.J.C.
and V.R.C. would have a race for crook-owners at
every meeting, the object being to give them a
chance of making good, the winning proprietor to
immediately become a member of the Dinkum bro-
therhood, the owners, trainers and riders of the re-
maining nags to be warned off all courses for the rest
of their misspent lives. The horses, too, should be
put in their classes so as to keep maidens competing
with maidens, winners of one race competing for
permission to start in a race for winners of two
races, and so on ; no horse that had won under Bst.
to compete below that tonnage, and none that had
won with 9st. to be allowed to run off weight and
get among the 7st. lot. And it should be a hard and
fast rule that a horse which did not win or nearly
win once out of every five starts should be destroyed
by an official slayer appointed by the Government or
the Peace Societv. Moreover, every horse should be
presented at the'post with a certificate from a veter-
inary surgeon declaring that he was fit to run and
wasn't full of grass or water or iniquity, and the
jockeys, after being blindfolded, should draw for
horses at a distance of 1135 yards from everyone in-
terested in the quadrupeds. Further, any person who
made a noise that the jockeys could hear, or who
played a musical instrument or a banjo, or otherwise
disturbed the holy calm before the boys had their
eyes uncovered, should be boiled in his shirt. This
would give the turf and Ikey a great moral uplift,
and if it was in full blast I wouldn’t have backed
the stumer I got on to seven times last season and
let the brute run without a bean of mine on the day
he won at 30 to 1.
“Moana”: There was an interesting race
meeting at the Chatham Islands on December 28.
The programme consisted of six events, the biggest
race being the Cup, for which the bait was 25 sovs.
Twelve alleged racehorses were scraped together for
the meeting and managed to divide the money fairly
evenly. I won the two most important races myself,
“Mr.'G. Tuuata’s blk g Moana, by Carnegie—Kuku-
rangi,’’ collaring the Cup and the Jockey Club Han-
dicap. C. Black was the most successful pilot, steer-
ing three winners and two seconds out of five
mounts; but he was run close by a brown boy named
Perei with two firsts and two seconds.
The American niiddleweiglits “Knockout”
Brown and Fritz Holland assembled to take it out of
one another’s hide at Sydney Stadium on Saturday,
and did it over 20 rounds, when Arthur
Scott pronounced Brown the winner. Whereat
the crowd made loud noises of disapproval.
There was not much to become agitated
about. Brown repeated his rushing, bashing tactics
and raged with miscalculated fury, missing often
by a mile and sometimes by an inch. More than once
he had Holland rattled, and Fritz had to use all his
wits to get safely out of the agitation. As boxers
there is no comparison between the two. Holland
is a pastmaster at the business. Brown doesn’t
know how to box. He is just a crudely aggressive
walloper, with considerable speed and great endur-
ance, and perhaps he scored more points by his
rushes and swings than Fritz. But the man who
knows best on that score is the referee, and what he
says goes. Scott said “Brown.” Which ends the
argument as far as The Bulletin is concerned.
Heavyweights Pat Doran and Albert
Lloyd collided at Melbourne on Saturday, and after
putting up a wonderfully game defence against the
more meaty Patrick the unlucky Lloyd didn't win.
it was a good, hefty sort of scrap in which Doran
hit most frequently, and the result thereof has
set the big fellows in several States glaring at one
another with much hopefulness that the large person
is coming into fashion again.
“Eryander”: “When Nature was makin’
me a fighter she left off at the hands.” Thus Tom
Spring after he had knocked his fists to pieces on the
adamantine skull of Jack Langan, the devil-may-care
irishman who afterwards became Spring’s fast friend.
Complete opposites in many respects, the pair had
the same free, open and generous nature —“sports” to
the tips of their fingers. When Spring had captured
the championship of England it was commonly said
that he could retain it without striking a blow,
because he could neither be hit nor worn-down, and
the comparatively unknown Hibernian’s challenge
was therefore taken as a mere piece of cheap bluff.
Opinion changed, however, after it had taken Spring
two hours and a half to knock out a man who, dur-
ing all that time, never managed to get a blow
through Tom’s automatically perfect defence. The
result was plenty of backing for Langan’s second try
for the championship and the very big money—-for
those days—of £5OO a-side. Langan was a 70-inpher to
Spring’s 72, and was giving away a stone and a half,
but he went in like a hurricane, hurling out terrific
smashes that must have wrought havoc if they had
landed. But Springs perfect stop was always just
where it was wanted, and in the meantime he was
working ruin upon his opponent’s features, and, inci-
dentally, upon his own hands. His fists got so bad
at last that he couldn’t hit with them,
though his impassable defence remained, and Langan
tried wrestling. Spring was master at that, too : yet
the game Irishman came tottering up again and
again, only to be shoved gently over by Tom, who
gave Langan’s seconds a pretty large piece of his
mind for not taking the beaten man away. They
paid no heed, and the second hour had gone before
Spring finished the job.
Adelaide cricket results are not officially
reckoned this season, so many good men having gone
to the war. So tar as play has gone, Port Adelaide
is easily top, with an unbeaten record. This is
unusual; Port generally expects to win the football
premiership, but has been only moderate in the
summer game. The present position is largely due
to Rundell, the inter-State all-rounder. He has
been much helped by Scott, the fast bowler from
Sydney, who, in addition to his bowling, is proving
a profitable batsman.
* * * *
What the faded sport of cricket wants is
a few score batsmen like P. Shea, of Essendon (V.).
For his collapsing side against South Melbourne last
Saturday Shea, who has the reputation of never prac-
tising and of loving an uphill fight, hit up a spirited
157 not out ar.d pulled the game out of the mud.
In 23 consecutive scoring strokes he made only two
singles. Cricket worth watching !
“A.H.”: This is my entry for the finest
catch or series of catches in a match. During an
Australian-South African test, played on the M.C.C.
Ground, W. J. Whitty walloped a ball on its way to
what everybody counted as a certain sixer. But
Dave Nourse, sprinting around the boundary,' made
one of the finest hold-ons ever seen on the Melbourne
ground. Four-fifths of the spectators thought he had
missed it and of the other two-fifths only half was
present.
■****
A once famous Yorkshire cricketer, Louis
Hall, went the way of all flesh in Fogland at the end
oi last year. He played in the days of Tom Emmett
George Ulyett and Ted Peate, and had a great repu-
tation as a stonewaller, rivalling even Scotton and
Barlow, who have always been considered the dizzy
limit at the careful game. Hall played for York-
shire against the early Australian teams, and as a
rule was one of the opening pair at a period when
Yorkshire owned several of the best pros, in Fogland.
* * * *
I’. F. (“Plum”) Warner, the
„ who ,regained the “Ashes” for England in
1903-4 and again in 1911-12 (although he had little
to do with the latter conquest), is up against it
?.S m ’ ~U ui' ] ri£ the hist match of the 1911-12 tour
Plum, who had scored a centurv, was stricken
with colitis, which subsequently developed into a duo-
denal ulcer and put an end to his further participa-
tion in the tour, and “Johnny-Won’t-Hit-To-day”
Douglas took charge of the team. Now the con-
queror of “Snowy” Baker was not popular with his
men, and things became serious at Brisbane. Johnny
came back to Sydney by boat, whilst the others re-
turned by rail. Warner had something to say, and
said it—someone would he sent back to England
" al i ner I ? ea " t what he sai(l all hands settled
down to work amicably. An English pressman found
a reply to the Johnny-Won’t-Hit-To-day” gag with
are°JAV.HT? ome ' TrmmPhant ” Dou - ,as ’ s initials
They still seem to find time to plav lawn
tennis ,n France Last month the championship
singles were played in connection with a
ment at La Boulie Versailles, when a plaver named
Meumer collected the honor b* outing one Freyssl in
the final tussle by 6—3, 6—2. Frevs/ hmvLr
had the satisfaction of winning the handicap sin°-l e s
from scratch, defeating Gentien hi the final
score sheet reading 6 —3, 6—5. None of the’ real
cracks were seen on the courts. They are all busy in
noith Fiance volleying to the squareheads.
The tennis favorites of IJ.S.A. had a had
time again at the recent Pacific States charnnkm
ships. Media Bjurstedt until recently lady S”*
champion, was expected to go right through to h
final. Big odds were given that she would do this
and that she would then annihilate Mrs. Wightma ’
who recently beat her in Noo Yark for the n,
ship. But Mol la never saw the final. She bumped
early against an unknown named Anita Mvors
outed her by o—6, 6—4, 6-4. Anita went through
to the final, where she found Mrs. Wightman (whom
everybody regarded as a fluke champion) above her
class. The men’s singles were amazing. All Uncle’
best players, except McLoughlin, were present Th
red-haired “comet,” having got tired of being' wined
out, had side-tracked himself. Johnston, regarded as
invincible, met an almost unheard-of individual named
Johns to start with, and that was the end of John
ston. Griffin, the next string to Johnston, was ex'
pected to keep the champions’ end up, but he was
early wiped out by a new man named Hahu who
sounds like a Maori haka.
There has been a weird sort of muddle
in Maoriland for many months. The last swimming
championships were held at Napier, and the Hawkes
Bay centre in consideration of this had to find the
cash for the trophies. But cash was hard to get, and
as a lot of entry fees were never paid and the public
stayed away in immense quantities, the Hawkes Bav
officials found themselves very much on the wrong
side of the balance-sheet. Instead of calling in the
official assignee and paying so much in the £ to the
winners they handed North Island winners what they
had won and held back the orders due to the Can-
terbury swimmers who had won a lot of the events.
The descendants of the Wool Kings invited the M.L.
Association, to use the axe, and that body ordered
the Hawkes Bay centre to get the cash, honestly if
possibly, but to get it, and to pay up. The brilliant
financiers in Napier rose to the occasion hv
scraping a few pounds together, and, instead of send-
ing the usual open orders, bought a few pots and
rushed them south. When swimmers there who were
entitled to £2 worth of trophy were offered electro-
plate to the value of ss. they fainted. On recovery
they advised the Napier delegate who was doing the
offering to take the trash away, and then requested
the Association to get a gun. Hawkes Bay has
been again ordered to pay up, but will probably have
to do it in the popular M.L. fashion—either by
giving an lOU or a P.N.
W. McArthur’s fine rifle-shooting at Rand-
wick (Sydney) range on Saturday was worth enthus-
ing over. In seven shots each at 900yds. and
1000yds. he began with a three and then dropped
the other 13 bullets right into the bull’s optic—6B
out of a possible 70.
* * * *
There was some elaborate shooting the
other day when the Christchurch (M.L.) Rifle Club
got on the Cashmere range. The ranges fired at
were 300, 500 and 600 yards, and E. F. Sandford, H.
Reynolds and F. A. Judkins shot up a century each
out of a possible 105. This is a record for the
range. The average of the club was 92 per man, and
the average of the 10 highest scores was 96.
“Cannonball” Baker, the U.S.A. speed-
monger who recently pushed his Indian motor-bike
lively enough to collect a few world’s records, re-
ceived a final shove off lately in Sydney at a shivoo
provided by the Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. Baker
proposes to call round later with a powerful racing
auto and whiz through .the atmosphere after world’s
car records.
* * * *
“Spoke”: There’s a fluster in Victoria’s
cycling kitchen over G. Halpin reducing the half-mile
amateur record to 54 3-ssec. The chief argument is
that as Ilalpin’s time in the final was given as 60sre.
the watches must have taken fright and bolted. The
official timekeeper, however, sticks to it that the
clocks were under control. Therefore unless someone
can prove they were not the record ought to pass. As
there is no chance of the governing body accepting
the time the row might as well subside.
A few Australasian athletes who recently
drifted into khaki: P. O’Shea, holder of fastest time
in last Warrnambool-Melbourne road race and win-
ner of two Timaru-Christchurch (M.L.) road
events ; O. J. Wood, see. of N.S.W. Rowing Associa-
tion; Jim Cross, sec. of Vic. A.A.A.; and McGill,
Nicholls and Cogle, Sydney amateur rowing first-
flighters. Up to last week 1700 N.S.W. Rugbyites
had enlisted ; and Leichhardt Rowing Club is repre-
sented on the job by 78 members of its crews.
“Musketoon”: While Frank Birtles was
running his car across Central Australia on his last
trip he ran out of oil. No oil-bearing plants being
available he shot three gohannas, boiled them down
in a naphtha tin, skimmed off the oil, and tried it on
the engine. It acted all right, but while any of the
gohanna oil remained in the engine he had great
trouble in steering the ear. It was always trying to
climb trees.
“Verdad”: A popular sport amongst the
Guasos of Chile, who correspond to the Gauchos of
Argentine (the S. American stockmen, etc.), is la
barra. Outside most country stores and pubs is a
round wooden bar, at least six inches in diameter,
fixed very strongly by upright posts and stays, in a
horizontal position at the height of a horse’s shoul-
der, so that the nags can put their necks over it. This
bar is anything over 20ft. long. Two horsemen ride
up to it in the middle, both on the same side. Then
they push sidc-wavs against one another, the object of
each being to shove the other fellow past the end of
the bar. As many more as like join in, until there
are sometimes 10 a side. It is very rough on the
horses, but that doesn’t seem to trouble the riders.
A well-trained horse at the game is worth a lot of
money.
The Ma State bowlers have waddled
through the first round of their play for the season
and have arrived at the exciting stages. Not many
men at the game would be accepted by the military
authorities, but they have as a body set an example
that could easily be copied by the ancients of other
States. Nearly £20,000 have been subscribed in
the pavilions for patriotic funds, and all inter-State
matches have been barred until Villum the Vampire
has taken the count. This year hundreds have parted
up entrance fees of 10 and five shillings, all of which
goes to the funds, the ultimate winners to be
handed little scraps of paper that will be prized
more than golden goblets.


What’s Your Chance of Wimviag a Fight?
Perhaps you’re game, gritty and of good physique. But still
3'our chance is mighty small, if you’re up against a skilful boxer.
Just imagine yourself as a skilful boxer—oool, calm and
collected —using your brains to “draw” your opponent—putting the
weight of your body behind your blows—countering his leads —
hitting him where it’s most effective, until eventually he’s confused
and bewildered. You can then hit him when and where you
like.
With such a knowledge you’d have absolute confidence in your
ability to look after yourself. And confidence is three-fourths of
winning. Then, why hesitate to learn the best “moves” of the
world’s most famous boxers, as taught by me?
I Teach Boxing by Post
teach it in a practical, simple way that’s easily
understood. I thoroughly explain and illustrate every
serviceable move in Scientific Boxing.
Here is what one pupil reported:—
“Before starting on your instructions I thought
a fighter was born. I am now satisfied that your
lessons will make almost any man an efficient
fighter.”—G.M.li., Peeramon, Q.
You ought to write for my illustrated Booklet,
“Scientific Boxing in Your Home,” which gives
fuller particulars, cost of tuition. Just write your
name and address on this advertisement and post to
me. I’ll know what you mean. Send three penny
stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
466 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
HELENA
DUTCH
PLANTERS
Do you like a fine, mild
cigar? If so, you
should try my Helena
Dutch Planters.
They are excellent
smokes, mild in flavor
and delightful in
aroma. Each cigar
is enclosed in a fibre
wrapper. I import
them direct from Hol-
land, hence their low
price.
In boxes of 25, 8/6.
In boxes of 50, 16/6.
Postage on 25:
N.S.W., 6d.
Inter-State. Sd.
Postage on 50:
N.S.W., 9d.
Inter-State, 1/2.
My catalog illustrates
every class of smoker’s
requirements, and is sure
to interest you. Write for
a free copy.
A. M. Solomon,
“CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 Pitt Street, Sydney.
iaS
STRAIGHT
FROM THE
WELL.
ifl
is
NATURE’S
BEST.
Ask Yourself These
Questions when Purchasing
Has the machine PROVED its superi- Cy
ority in open competition ■
Is it easy to drive, simple of control and ty
luxurious to ride ■
Does it possess ample reserves of power fy
for ail exigencies *
Has it been built to last
Shall I get 20 shillings in the £ value for fy
the money I spend ■
Ask the man who rides an
Indian
Catalogue D Post Free upon request.
Rhodes Motorcycle Co.,
109-111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co., Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
RIG N E Y
SHOES
are recognised as the very finest footwear
made, because of their beautiful lines and
high-grade, made-to-order qualities.
We illustrate a Patent Colt Oxford Shoe, a
very popular made-to-order style. The
brogue cap affords very reliable wear.
Price - 2716
Also in Tan Velour Calf, same price.
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG. l
the rigney SHOE CO.
“The Men's Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,“
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Building's, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
/
$
\
THE BEST FOR ALU
■Athletes
Bosisto’s
Parrot Brand
Eucalyptus Oil
Essential to
Athletic Fitness.
I±f Australian Remedy
for Colds, Bronchitis,
Rheumatism, etc.
CAUTION —Always ask for
BOSISTO’S
PARROT BRAND
as substitutes may be
offered to you.
■>
3*4
” Dierby Boß|
"or All-round WeS&
Worth all of
4 W'
PU, il. m§ .
but we can afford to seil it
much below its . market
our big and early
S 'bdjflhg : :hAs in the case of this
VTA
line left us unaffected
the rises uj leather. ..
1
■ mm
m
Posf / free
The “Wearite” Derby is made with a thoroughness and attention to
detail usually associated only with high-priced Footwear—in Fine,
Fully Matured Box Calf—Leather Lined—with Stout Sole and full,
round Toe. —A Boot that combines Comfort and Capacity for Service
with Lightness and Good Looks, and a particularly Valuable Boot
for Country Use.
POST YOUR ORDER NOW.
LINCOLN, STUART & CO. E&
“SPECIALISTS IN OUTFITTING BY MAIL,”
244-254 FLINDERS ST. = MELBOURNE.


“Biff” for Sore,
Tired Feet
Tender Feet, Sore Feet, Swollen Feet
cured without delay. New Foot
Medicine Quickly Banishes All
Foot Ailments
“How ‘Biff’
does help
Sore Feet.”
To those who are troubled with sore, tender,
aching, swollen, perspiring, unpleasant smelling
feet, bunions, corns or hard skin, “BIFF” will
bring quick relief and gladness to the feet. Use
“BIFF” today and banish all pain and discomfit.
By using “BIFF” once a week you will insure
your feet against all foot troubles. “BIFF” is a
scientific compound which draws out all poisonous
matter from the feet, which clog and choke pores
of the skin. One application of this unique com-
pound will render the feet sweet and antiseptic,
its delightful results must be experienced to be
believed.
MRS. CARTER WRITES For years my fee!
gave me much trouble. It was purgatory to
have to walk far, but after using one box of
"Biff” I can walk with perfect ease and com-
fort, there is nothing to compare with your
preparation for foot trouble.”
“Biff” can be obtained through all chemists and
stores ; if not in stock send direct to the _ manu-
facturers. Price Is. 6d. per box, or triple size box
4r. (triple box contains three times the Is.6d. size).
The “Biff” Manufacturing Co., 114 a Pitt Street,
S- dney.
Have You a BAD LEG
perhaps surrounded with inflammation and
swollen, that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Perhaps
your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored. The disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Trv the great British Remedy
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which you will find a certain remedy.
Also for Poisoned Hands, House-
maid Knees, Carbuncles, Absces-
ses, Snake and Insect Bites, &c.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store.
British Prices, 1/3 and 3/-
ALBSRT & CO., Albert House, Farringdon St.,
Agents —■ LONDON, Eng.
ELLIOTT BROS.
W. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, etc.
Every Dinner Table
this Summer will serve
Ice Creams or Iced
Fruits and so
ARNOTT’S
“ADORA”
CREAM
WAFERS
will be in popular demand
These Wafers are unique in every
way, being just half the size of our
ordinary wafers, and having more
cream filling in them (and a more de-
licious filling !) Two shapes—Diamond
and Plain. Ask for Arnott’s “Adoras.”
They are the finest Wafers you can buy.
AT ALL GROCERS
The Bulletin
Stock Saddle
This latest saddle of ours combines manv of mn-
COMFORT INNOVATIONS in Saddles— the
dippy pigskin seat, the rough out-flaps for grip, our
G.S. panel with the short stuffing and leather points
the long girth straps and long flaps. It is fitted up as
illustrated with folded leather girth, stirrup leathers
4-bar nickel-plated stirrups and SURCINGLE. The
knee-pads are well made and strong and the right shape
for comfort. If you prefer all smooth leather instead of
rough-out say so when ordering, and give your height
and weight.
Price £slos.
Freight Free
for Cash.
to anv port or railway station in N.S.W. or anv direct port
in the other States, New Zealand or Fiji.
RING HEAD BRIDLE, rein and billet in one piece,
1-inch cheeks and reins, with Bradoon Bit, 10/6 post
free. If ordered with Saddle, 9/6; Saddle Cloth, 4/(5.
or a yard of good Saddle Check, 4/6.
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON LTD.
Saddlers & Harness Maßers,
393 George St. and 32 Hunter St., Sydney.
the
ORIGINAL
AND ONLY
GENUINE
PHOSFERINE
1/-2/6-4/6
of all Chemists
Sold
bIhIISPb?®!
, o«5, G
->' ,^ro n , r o»hO "
RPn\-
' .n> TAT ' STSo
“«'5OU h O
g@S|§lS^
Ftfrt.,? t r ~*n/, <s#f7
ggggil
Australasia
a and Itie
Empire f/
A PROVEN REMEDY
FOR
KRVOUSNESa.
lEJDIOESTION,
Supplied by 'ROYAL COMMANDS to
the: royal fam/ly
HIM The Empress of Russia,
H.M. The King of~ 3pain ,
HM. The King of Greece,
H. M. The Queen cFßoamenia,
Ere. ETc. E7E
PHOSFCRI/NE
Ernscires Vigorous
Health and gives
Slfengrh and EThergy.
If served
with a sub-
stitute not
bearing the
name Ashton
& Parsons
Ltd., post the
package to 408
Collins St., Melb.,
when the genuine
article will be for-
warded and the cost
of postage refunded.
Sbe ©ran& prior? of
Ob< 9xbex of tb< fjoepital or St. 3ebn
«t SornMlcm. in JEiifllanb.
+
Chtiruui i
LADY sloggett 20th July, 1915
Messrs. Ashton & Parsons, Ltd.,
Gentlemen,
We are requested by the Com-
missioners of the St. John Ambulance
Association at Havre and elsewhere
to supply, for use in the Base
Hospitals, 1,000 2/9 bottles of
Phosferine.
They inform us that your remedy
is in constant requisition by the
Field Hospitals, and from the reports
they receive, it is held in high
esteem as a Tonic possessing valuable
recuperative qualities.
I shall be obliged by your imme-
diate attention, as it is necessary
to get the Phosferine forwarded to
France as quickly as possible.
(Lady) Helen S. Sloggett.
P.S. —You are quite at liber
to use this as you think fit.
u
Produced entirely under the British
Flag by British Labour, from
Australasian Wool.
99
«*
Wt]
Quality Stockings and Socks
for Ladies, Children & Men.
Comfortable in all weathers, Jason Stockings and Socks He snug to
the skin, and possess a remarkable silky finish. Many tasteful
designs plain, embroidered, lace ; anklets, clox, pendants.
Insist on Jason Stockings and Socks—which are all-wool, and oil
soft, silky finish. See the Jason Tab on every pair. Drapers
and Outfitters everywhere. in case of difficulty write *o
JASON HOSIERY CO.. I EICESTER, ENG.
EVERYTHING IM RINGS’ SEND FOR OUR SPECiAL RING CATALOGUE
CHOICE DIAMONDS MOUNTED IN SOUD I 8' T GOLD
r
15/-
It’rQ
7/15/
, SATISFACTION , 15SIISilXiS?fIlP' r 0« *^'^^ir* ? »'EFUNDED _,w
nAKERS Of RINGS IN WHICH THE STONES DO STAY.
5
m
5/Jof
Min
u>
■»Z
6/10/'
P 73
“The Old Soldier” explains how to make
generals:—
Someone in the House of Commons recently asked
Asquith if the Government was going to be more
careful in choosing its generals. That’s one of the
asinine questions that stamps the member for the
Hunt Club. In time of peace the choice of generals
in all armies is a gamble. Nothing can be done but
put officers through the usual courses of training
in the military schools and drill in their regiments,
and watch the C.O.’s and inspecting-general's confi-
dential reports. As the apprentice generals get older
a few of them will turn out quite hopeless, and will
be politely sacked, but the majority who have no
special vices will rise to commands. The less
efficient of them soon drop to it that they will never
be employed in the field. The old Duke of Welling-
ton, who, it was rumored, knew something about the
trade, once explained that “the perfection of practi-
cal war is to move troops as steadily and coolly on
a field of battle as on parade.” So, having at last
selected your general, he must be tried on a field
of battle before you can be sure he is to be trusted
there, and will not get flurried and lose his head. If
he loses his head he loses his job. Sometimes he
loses his life, which is nearly as bad.
“Warre”: The small, necessary things
count as well. For instance, heavy horse-
shoes are practically unobtainable in the
Commonwealth. It is quite a usual
thing in agricultural towns to see farmers
with strings of team horses vainly trying
to get them shod for wheat-carting. But it
is always the same old tale, “No shoes at
present, and can’t say when there will be
any.” Shipments (always shipments!) are,
you see, so irregular.
“F.H.” : Dr. Charles Sutton, an old-estab-
lished practitioner at North Carlton (Vic.),
has a hobby outside his ordinary work. It
is that of considering the plants of his own
country how they grow. Lately he has
assisted botany-professor Alfred Ewart (Mel-
bourne Uni.) and a select committee of the
Field Naturalists’ Club in compiling a list
of “Vernacular Names of Victorian Plants,”
and the same is being printed as a sort of
serial in the Joubnal op Agriculture. The
list contains a vast amount of particular
information, much of which should be of
value to Australia. It is interesting to be
told, for instance, that the timber of the
bonewood geebung is “useful for tool
handles” and that the sweet quandong and
bitter quandong both “take a fine polish and
are excellent for cabinet work.” To a country
which imports its clotlies-pegs from the
U.S., such precise information is liable
to be of extreme value at any moment, and
the sooner Dr. Sutton and the Professor
I ell us what Australian wood makes good
pegs the better for our industrial future.
“Norbell”: The recent literary limelight-
ing of the aged excursion steamer Edina
recalls how that reliable old lady made a
big hit in a moving-picture a few years ago.
The hero of the photoplay took an agonised
farewell of his weeping girl, and dashed up
the gangway of the mighty ocean greyhound
that was to carry him to dear old England.
The leviathan mailboat let go her for’ard
spring, and swung round to start on her
long, lone journey. Then a delighted audi-
ence read the steamer’s name on the stern.
It was the dear old Edina!
“Chug”: If “kumogen,” the new plant-
food which Professor W. B. Bottomley is
making out of peat, is all that is claimed
for it there is a tremendous future for Ire-
land apart from Home Rule. The new stuff
is produced by the operation of certain
bacteria on common peat and the growth
which it promotes is somethin? of the first
magnitude. The bogs of Ireland, great
areas of solid peat which leave miles of the
country desolate, have hitherto defied the
scientist to turn them into wheat fields or
even pastures ; but “humogen” will not only
make them among the richest portions of the
earth’s surface but actually give them a tre-
mendous value for the supply of fertility to
the barren lands of other countries. Ire-
land, with her waste of bogland, could never
support more than seven or eight million
people, and has rarely supported more than
five million in all her distressful history;
but with the bogland “kumogenised,” her
population in a generation or two might
easily equal that of England. It looks as
if the discovery had come at the right tick
of the clock. A process by which the
earth’s fertility can be increased tenfold is
just the thing to save Europe when the war
has exhausted the nation’s savings to the
last traybit. On the other hand, it won’t
save Australia. The greater the primary
production of Europe the lower the prices
for most of the things we have to sell there ;
in other words, the more we shall have to
produce in order to pay our interest bill.
Which is another reason for thinking hard
before we make another trip to Cohen’s.
THE FOURTH CAB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I ordered four cabs for the funeral.
It seemed the decent thing to do for Dad.
Although he wasn’t, maybe, what you’d call
A public man, in his own quiet way he had
• A few old friends, acquaintances and such;
Four roomy cabs, I guessed, would take them all.
I did the best I could —it wasn’t much:
I ordered four cabs for the funeral.
I ordered four cabs for the funeral.
Although the undertaker man suggested five,
I told him, though he said that four looked small,
Bob wouldn’t want more if he was alive.
But on the day I thought that I would cry;
At breakfast time the rain began to fall;
And only seven mourners came, though 1
Had ordered four cabs for the funeral.
I ordered four cabs for the funeral.
They should have been packed, it seemed to me.
I advertised the time of the burial —-
And all that came had room enough in three!
It nearly broke my widow’s heart to find
That empty cab, with crepe, black gloves and all,
That followed the procession right behind.
I’d ordered four cabs for the funeral.
I ordered four cabs for the funeral.
I took the nice young burial-man’s advice;
But when I looked behind and saw it crawl
Empty along the street, it wasn’t nice;
It seemed to be on Bob a sort of slight.
The neighbors and the p’liceman saw it all!
It spoiled the show for me. I cried that night.
I’d ordered four cabs for the funeral.
N.3.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


Piccadilly Circus, London
The Directors of the largest hotel
in the Empire, or even in Europe,
a magnificent hostelry completed
and opened in June last, ordered
from us a Beale Horizontal Grand
Piano for the principal reception
room. We have no London show-
rooms, but had supplied an order for
pianos, also quite unsolicited, for
their other large hotel, the Strand
Palace. Instructions were sent to
us from London in 1914 as follows :
“ We wish you to make, for use in
“ the Regent Palace Hotel, now in
“ course of erection at Piccadilly
“ Circus: One full-sized Concert
“ Grand Piano in burr walnut, latest
“ model, with only exterior ornamen-
“ tation sufficient to be dignified.
“ We think it unnecessary to give you
“ any instructions as to quality—
“ as you will know to supply an
“ instrument of the best.”
We have since received letters of
strong commendation from con-
noisseurs of high reputes upon the
instrument.
Even in time of war, this handsome
hotel, whose splendid reception
rooms are finished as examples of
strictly classical architecture, is
crowded daily with visitors. Any-
one sojourning in London who omits
to call at the Regent Palace, and
everyone goes to Piccadilly Circus,
misses one of the finest sights of the
great Metropolis.
There are about 1200 bedrooms, and
the whole of the arrangements are
modern, hygienic and comfortable.
The Beale Pianos were awarded at
the great Franco-British Exhibition,
London, 1908, Grand Prize and three
Gold Medals for their points of excel-
lence, being the highest award given
for any pianos.
L_
!C
or
a
i
A m
SC;
3*
-Jli
S '•'k'
v\\\-^V
,
yss^s.
X
BE*
s=j®
Head Office and Factories : 41 -47 TRAFALGAR ST., ANN AND ALE, S /DNE /
City Showrooms : 136 LIVERPOOL STREEI, S 7DNLY
Branches at Newcastle, Lismore, Bathurst, Orange, Wagga, Broken Hill, Brisbane, Maryborough,
Rockhampton, Townsville, Cairns, Mackay, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth


VL
The Problem of
Brain Fag,
Nervous
Prostration
and Backache,
Fisher’s
Phospherme
THE TRUE
SOLUTION.
Nurse Bell-Boyd’s story:—“l was com-
pletely run down through overwork, and
suffered severely from Brain Fag. I had
to give up my occupation altogether. As
a nurse, of course, I know something of
medicine, and I tried numerous powerful
tonics but gained no relief. A sister nurse
said, ‘Never mind, you try Fisher’s Phos-
pherine.’ I did. In one day I experienced
a feeling of restful repose that I had not
felt for months. In a week I felt as though
I had been taking a six weeks’ rest cure at
the mountains or the seaside. I was in per-
fect health. Fisher’s Phospherine is far and
away the most powerful nerve strengthener
and rest-giver that can be had, no matter
what you pay. I am convinced of that.” —
Charlotte Bell-Boyd, 324 Riley Street, Surry
Hills, Sydney. Declared to be true before
Charles Lovely, J.P.
Five drops of Fisher’s Phospherine in a
tumblerful of of water pleases the palate
and purifies the blood.
THE GREAT NERVE AND
BRAIN FOOD.
All Chemists, 1/-; four times
the quantity, 2/6. Take no other
—always Fisher’s.
Chemists,
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
F.79.P.
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment- the Perfected New
1916 ThinßgceiverModel
Mears Ear Phonp many times as efficient
media Lai rnong and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight-
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 CiEOROE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City, SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
The LUCKY GEM of the EAST
Brings Luck and Happiness to everyone.
Must be worn on the person.
The lucky LUNARIA (a real gem) is
supplied by an Indian Brahmin, or High Priest,
and is an emblem of prosperity.
If it brings you luck, as it has done for
thousands of others, tell your friends.
Posted free to all parts of Australia, 2/6 each.
Sole Agents—ALLAN HARRIS & CO. LTD.,
Gem Merchants, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
THE “CORSO ’
A shapely boot with smart, fawn
Gabardine leg. Patent Colt Golosh,
dull leather facing and top, light
welted soles. Sizes and half-sizes
2-7 27/6
Also, with Grey Gabardine top,
lace or button.
WE PAY POSTAGE.
For Distinctive Footwear,
135 King Street, SYDNEY.
IF any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the
original.
214 George Street, Sydney.
lb
Drs. Wimpale and Harley-Streete,
Compare their notes whene ’erthey meet,
And it pleases us to hear them say,
They ’re prescribing' Je Holds ’ every day.
After taking IRON ‘Jelloids’ the blood becomes enriched and
strengthened, the appetite is restored, vitality is renewed. Anaemia
quickly disappears, giving place to vigorous and buoyant spirits.
Iron ‘ Jelloids ’ are commended by the Medical Profession.
The “ Nursing Record and Hospital World ” : —“The prices of them
“are very moderate, and the invention deserves the approval of the
“ Medical Profession, which it is obtaining in such a marked measure.”
A fortnight’s trial ( Price 1/6) will convince yon.
For Women, No. 2. Special Tonic for Men, No. 2A. (containing Quinine).
For Children, No. 1. Sold in England at 1/H and 2/9. per box.
Obtainable at all Chemists throughout Australia.
Wholesale: Druggists' Sundries Ltd., 82, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
DO YOV LIKE TO
DPAW
If you are
anxious to de-
velop ycur tal-
ent for Draw-
ing so that
you can make
money,
COPY THIS
SKETCH
and send it to
us for FREE
CRITICISM.
B 1 a e k-a n d-
white artists are well paid for their
sketches, and the work is extremely in-
teresting. If you have any liking for
drawing at all just copy this face and
let us see what you can do with it.
THE AUSTRALIAN SCHOOL OF SKETCHING,
Dept. 8.1, Bond Street, Sydney.
THE BRITISH MADE
YELLOW METAL NIB
GOLDEN
WATTLE
m
Smooth and durable, as it does not
corrode or break. Just the kind
of nib to improve characterless,
illegible handwriting. The best
of writers like it and use it, and
with ladies it is a great favourite.
SIXPENCE & ONE SHILLING PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS
MANUFACTURED BY
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
Steel, Gold a Fountain Pen Makers
Edinburgh, Glasgow & London
The Ideal Perfume.
The greater your desire for distinc-
tiveness in perfumes the more you
will like Yardley’s—the British
Eau-de-Cologne that is fragrant but
not obtrusive.
Thu-de-G^^ne
is so highly concentrated
and richly aromatic that
it is the most economical
you could use. A little
goes a long way. Its
fragrance lingers.
The name is the guaran-
tee of the quality,
Va'idlc/J
8 New Bond Street,
London W.
NMiimuiiiiiiisiiiiiMl
J « yi\RDLEVS ’
l| L EAUDE
j 4), Cologne '
T
-GCA-*
TRADE MARK
The TYRES
which increase comfort
and give longer service
at reduced cost.
BRITISH THROUGHOUT
20% Discount off Table Plate
Our experiment of a couple of years
ago of taking the wholesale catalogues
of the great English Manufacturers of
Electro-Silver and Solid Silver Goods,
and deducting 20 per cent., or 4s. in the
£, from their prices, was of a revolu-
tionary character, and might have landed
us in heavy loss; but
IT DID NOT,
owing to our great output, and so we
are continuing the discount. It only
gives a bare commission on many lines,
but commissions count if numerous
enough.
ery heavily plated on special hard white metal
10-inch Entree Dish 42/-
Less 20 per cent, discount 8/3
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.,
PLAIN FIGURES—CASH ONLY.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
YOU CAN GROW YOUR HAIR
SUCCESSFUL SCIENTIFIC TREATMENT
FREE OF CHARGE.
Do you suffer from loss of hair? —Does vour
hair get prematurely grey?—ls your hair stripy,
sticky or matted?—Do you suffer from dandruff,
itching or eczema of the scalp?—Are you bald-
headed or about to become so ?
If you suffer from any of the above-mentioned
hair-troubles do not neglect it, but try to relieve
the trouble at once. Delays are dangerous. Write
at once for our illustrated booklet,
“THE TRIUMPH OF SCIENCE OVER BALDNESS,”
(By an Eminent European Specialist.)
FREE TREATMENT.
We want to prove to you at our own risk that
the Oalvacura Hair Treatment stops the falling
of the hair; destroys dandruff and eczema of the
scalp and promotes the growth of new hair. We
will send you a $l.OO box of Calvacura No. 1,
together with the above-mentioned booklet, “The
Triumph of Science Over Baldness,” if you send
us your name and address, together with 10 cents
in silver or postage stamps to help pay the dis-
tribution expenses.
FOR OLD OR
YOUNG,
BOTH SEXES.
Out out the coupon below and send to-dav t°
Union Laboratory, Box 335, Union, N.Y.,
Union Laboratory, Box 335, Union, N.Y., h-S.- •
Please find enclosed 10 cents to help P*.
distribution expenses. Kindly send me at
your $l.OO Calvacura No. 1 and your booKiei,
"The Triumph of Science Over Balan
(Enclose this coupon in your letter.)
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. ho
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
H. J. Downs: Better come down and
bring all your knowledge with you. We’ll charter
the boat or fleet....A Subscriber: Couldn’t use it
without knowing a lot more about the case....
Cleido: Thanks; but another man was ahead of you
on that job. Ready to consider other sporting pars.
.... Fulmano: Thanks, but have no use for worse
municipal systems than our 0wn.... The Chiel:
Three dull women saying “My!” about the habits
of Manly surfers don’t interest U5....M.8.: “Two
Letters” is an artificial yarn about people who don’t
matter... .A.A.C.: What a yarn you might have
made of that “Crochet Hook” if you had dropped
the conventional p05e....8i1l Smith: Your worst
fears are realised. .. .G. 8.: “Memory’s Road” and
a “Garden Ghost” won’t get anywhere M.A.:
Yarn doesn’t convince... .M.P.: Not up.... Haldane:
Outski. . . .Matoka : Dull, overworked notion....
Ildus: Not nearly up. ...H.8.8. :
And above the friendly basket
Fluttered dimly that you sent us
Till the editor's red dragon
And the office cleaner’s mouse-hound
Blent in one tremendous slogan—
“ Out you unexpectant Turk!”
That sort of verse could go on for ever. Longfellow
when he used it to write “Hiawatha” had to get the
fire brigade to put out his pen....T.C.: “Botany
Bay” parody no g00d... .F.C.: Blank verse begin-
ning “Hail, attribute divine!” makes us foam with
rage.. . .Rally: Dreary verse.... A.Y.G.: Dull prose
written in verse lines which won’t scan and seldom
rhyme.... J.K.8.: Bump at the end of each stanza
like, a falling kerosene tin.... Frank Must: Verse
rages like an unshaven kitten... .Basil Lorraine:
Your people are as frank as religious tomcats and
as dull. . . .8.V.F.: Very nearly, but too machine-
made. .. .C. Maclean: Frenzied rhyme about a bald
dog not up. .. .F.W.8.: Not hopeless. Try again....
F.W.G.: And after that the chow who talked like a
blaekfellow died also. . . .T.H.J.: Not quite. . . .Disap-
pointed Punter: “Hard Luck” no good. (It never
i5.)....H. Morris: You can’t rhyme “short” with
“fraught”... .T.C.: Nearly blinded by mad hand-
writing. Why must every letter have a crack in it
like every verse?... .E.J.C.: Dreary yarn about com-
positors killed with much enthusiasm.... Skean Dhu:
Guide-book of no interest. No guide-book ever is.
C.O.M.: Old stuff badly hashed up.... J.W.C.:
Leaving out half the necessary rhymes produces an
effect like a cat walking on its front feet.... A.J.G.:
Doesn’t get there... .E.P.: You don’t get enough
steam into your “Wake up” screech.... P.F.: You
say six times that “The Devil was on the Job,” but
what did he d 0?... .W.P.S.: Not good enough....
M.T.: Verse of your “own composement” has one
drawback —it isn’t verse.... E.E.: Verse rejected.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.R.: There’s not much joy in your line, and your
ideas are p00r... .F.A.T.: No modern young man
wears home-made trousers such as you draw....
Mack: Not quite. .. .F.C.: Muddy and distorted....
A.S.: One gag is old and the other dull. Also the
drawings are bad. . . .S.T. Don’t want the sarcastic
tailor’s dummy... .E.K.: Strained jest and a wooden
drawing. ... H.W.: Too thin and wiry.... Pug: The
gentleman is obviously a wandering idiot who would
noc be able to count one d0g.... Frank M.: The
joke aches dreadfully... . W.D.: If you sin artistically
again do it on a larger piece of board... .C.E.J.:
Just a coffin without any relieving humor... .H.J.8.:
You never saw a panto, girl that shape, or, if you
did, what’s her address?... .H.E.P.: It isn’t a car-
toon; it’s a fog of black specks.... Elias E.: If your
previous attempt was as bad as the drunk one you
may count it as dead... . C.W.E.: Sketch produces
feeling of deep depression.... R.M.: Strained gag
and a sad, -cold drawing.... Kiss: Horribly angular
exhibit E.W.M.: The Jews don’t deserve it....
H.W.: Old idea, and who owns the dog ?.... Myrtle
W.: We can’t bless your little art... .P.J.G.: Faint
and feathery illustration of thin gag. . . .M.W.:
Decent beginner’s stuff —no commercial val. e.
Arthur du Boise, of Sydney, well known
in shipping circles, who decided to go to the
war, but not in the company of the A.1.E.F.,
shipped on board the Clan McTavish as
purser, to join a corps in England. His
ship was in the mysterious doings in which
the Appam figured, and was sunk after a
fight; at least she figured in a choice collec-
tion of anecdotes about the business. The
Australian agents have received information
that the white crew of the McTavish was
saved.
“Eddyson” from the choir loft: —
Revival meetings were frequent at Yam. Yam
being a great Cornish centre, and intensely Wesleyan,
had religion in the form of spasms, and a red-hot
revival came along at least twice a year. The most
interesting meeting I remember happened on the
night of Brother Taunton’s first public appearance
in the township. Brother Taunton came to us with
a reputation earned in other Cousin Jack quarters
as a terrific uplifter and a terrible disturber
of the spirit. He proved to be a short,
broad, hard-faced, ignorant man, with two
moods, one a sort of pitiful, snivelling appeal,
the other a roaring, damnation-scaring, Hell-
shaking, salvation-under-compulsion frantic attack.
About a dozen bright young spirits of Yam had
assembled in the nor’-west corner of the little
weatherboard chapel, with the deliberate intention
of blocking Brother Taunton’s mission. The revival-
ist bore with them for just ten minutes after start-
ing his address. Then he carefully placed a paper
marker, closed the good book, took off his spectacles,
placed them on the Bible, took off his coat, hung
it on the pulpit, and went over to the godless ones.
He raised the nearest young man with one hard paw
like a bull’s foot, and knocked him down with
another. He fought the second young man in the
aisle for one minute, and finished him with a
stomach punch. The third occupied him 15 seconds,
the fourth was pleased to desist after one hit. Then
Brother Geordie Taunton went back to his pulpit,
resumed his coat, adjusted his spectacles, opened the
good book, and said: “We will now take up the col-
lection, and if any of my dear young Christian
friends on the right are still unsatisfied, I will fight
them for the whole of the offertory, one down the
other come on.” Brother Taunton had been a hard-
living, hard-fighting sailor-man before receiving
grace. “It be my o-pinion,” said he, “the Looard
don’t care how He gets a man so long as He do
get ’un, and there’s nowt like two big fists to soften
a hard heart.”


The “General Electric Review’s”
Bonus Offer.
IN order to introduce the “G.E. Review” to new subscribers we are
offering, as a subscription bonus, a copy of the revised and enlarged
edition of “Commercial Electrical Testing” (an authentic handbook of
electrical testing), by Mr. E. F. Collins, Technical Superintendent
of the Schenectady Works, of the General Electric Co.
The “General Electric Review” is a journal published every
month describing fully the latest development and improvements of all
modern electrical machinery in a simple yet comprehensive manner.
■gc- i Fach month it contains eighty or ninety pages of valuable
information comprising authoritative articles by engineer specialists on
research, recent discovery, manufacture and practice.
Write us with regard to this really valuable book.
i. ifrfcrn?
vi 1 1.".TT ■■■■ —■' ■ ■—- ■■ 1 - - ~
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
BERTH (W.A.) : Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
— Agents—
‘Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tulloek and Co., Ltd., Launceston; Oliver & Oliver, Ltd., MacQuarie Street, Hobart.
IMPORTANT
Look to Your Teeth.
There are uo teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort, and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.. Melbourne.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
Quickly removes SKIN ERUPTIONS,
ensuring A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
Yhe slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable Pimples,
disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema disappear
by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
Siurf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin Specialists,
J.Pepper&Co., Ltd., Bedford Laboratories, London,
S.E., England, and can be obtained from any
chemists and stores throughout the world.
Quickly removes the effects of Sunscorch.
r^>
The Band that sets your feet a-tapping!
The Coldstream Guards —the "Fighting Cold-
streams” —the finest Military Band that ever
made music for the march or the concert-hall!
Hear their stirring music as it comes, clearly
interpreted, from the famous
GRAMOPHONE RECORDS
This baud has played practically every musical composition of
importance ever written —played them all for “His Master’s V oice.”
No other records can give you “Coldstream” music.
Similarly the Black Diamonds Band, the Colonial Cavalry, the
Ragtime Band, the Metropolitan, Pryor’s Band, Scots Guards Pipers
and Drummers, and the Spanish Band of La Principal Del Prelada
have rendered selections for “His Master’s Voice.”
Get the COMPLETE catalogue from nearest accredited dealer or
from
“ gramophone »•
Registered Trade Mark
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
PILE PILLS
HAVE PERMANENTLY CURED.
Established 1891.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
Non-aperient. Have cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering oyer 40 years.
MADE AND SOLD BY A. MURPHY, WOY
WOY, N.S.W., Sole Proprietor.
Price 3/- per box, or a course of 8
boxes for £l. All postage Free,
under plain cover.
On sale at all leading Druggists, Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout the States.
BE GOOD
TO YOUR
COMPLEXION
USE
Nyal’s
Face
Cream
1/6 & 2/6 per jar.
FOR SALE BY
CHEMISTS ONLY


Bunking:, Public C<
om patties.
&c.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners—-
R. A. WARDEN (President), W„II. O’M. WOOD,
H. D. HALL.
SECURITY AND SATISFACTORY
INTEREST FOR YOUR SAVINGS.
DEPOSITS received from Is. upwards.
INTEREST paid at 3J per cent, per annum
on all balances up to £5OO on accounts
opened under the conditions of Government
Savings Bank Acts, and up to £2OO on
accounts opened with the late Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Deposits guaranteed bv the Government.
MONEY TO LEND TO FARMERS
AND SETTLERS.
in amounts up to £5OO, repayable by instal-
ments extending over 31 years. Interest 5 per
cent.
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES THROUGH-
OUT THE STATE.
POST OFFICES are NOT NOW Agencies
for this Bank.
By order of the Commissioners.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL. £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY.
Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, IC.C.M.G.
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
Bondon Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Brandies throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (31st December, 1915) . . £1,196,108
RESERVE FUND £75,000
HEAD OFFICE : George & King- Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37 Tlireadneedle Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS — Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Arthur S. Barton,
Esq.; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq. ; Herbert R.
Lysagiit, Esq. ; George F. Todman, Esq.
Blanches throughout New South Wales k Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK.
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital . . . . . . 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 190,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq.;
Jas. Milne, Esq.
General Manager —W. Y. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throng bout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland. Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking Do.
of Sydney, [imited.
Capital Paid-up.. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,805,000 0 0
Reserve Capital . . .. 2,000,000 0 0
• £5,805,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
lion. 11. E. Katkr, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dnsns, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and J. J. Brenan, Esq.
General Manager: H. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDXEY.
London Office: 18 Birch in Lane.
Directors;: F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S. Littleton;
N. D. Cohen, Esq. Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of Deiu Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up 992,295
Uncalled Capital .. . . .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,057,170
GRANTS DRAFTS
Britain and Ireland, and other places
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other
at Interest. for
fixed periods, and
Banking business.
The Colonial Mutual Jife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOX
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments a::u
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLI.INS STKEET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Lunds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £0,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The lion. C. J. Roberts. C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith. K.C., M.P.
Shipping &c.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D
ORMONDE
ORAMA
ORVIETO
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA
ORONTES
OMR AH
New
and luxuri-
oiis Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads ; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
ur/Imm ® a^in K s f, 'om BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
(UNDER THE BRITISH FLAG)
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA,
and PAPEETE (TAHITI).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AME LIC A or EUROPE, in connection
with all United States and Canadian
Railways.
v Steamers sail from Wellington:—
MOANA, MAITAI,
March 2. March 30.
Steamers leave Sydney:—
Feb. 24. March 23.
i«rr^JiF'^, E 5 S STAY 24 HOURS AT PAPEETE
THE PEARL OF THE PACIFIC.”
Return tickets available by various routes.
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
Particulars and pamphlets obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND. LTD.,
259 George Street, S.vdriej'.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
*CAIRNS
(‘Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports).
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports)
NORTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Feb. 19.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Feb. 23.
Leaves Sydne}' Feb. 20.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne March 1.
Leaves Sydney March 4.
SOUTH.
PEREGRINE (3500 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Feb. 26.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
SAMOA-HONOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
Sailings from Sydney:—
MAR. 8, MAR. 29, APRIL 19, MAY 10.
AppIy:— OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
VORE
rabaul
rev,
hi.
S WtA
j Ava
THtttWAW
II
■r£h'
BRISBANE
NORFOLK
LORO
HOWE
YDNE
W////////
CLBOURHE
S3ort^
Holiday^
bruises
JAVA.SINSAPOR£
& Pacific Isles.
BurnsPmlp&CHtp
Send for Pamphlet*
BANK OF
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability -
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
Directors:
WALES.
£3,500,000
£2,600.000
£3,500,000
£9,600.000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar,_ Iv.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Robert Lionel. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, U.iYi.Ti., AI.E.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buck land. Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: Shepheard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq.; Alfred George Milson, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office 29 Threadneedle St , EC.
344 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London'
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
■T. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager. '
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development. Queens-
a m 3 of "“bournled scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
piospective settler and to the honest worker. e
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
Branch Office:
279 George Street, Sydney, N.S.VV.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Commonwealth
Sank " Australia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY
Open
for all
General Banking Business
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
in the
principal
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world. 8
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth
United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits’
Advances made against approved securities. 1
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at over
Minimum
Deposit
2550
Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua
Interest at
per annum
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
JAMES ICELL, Deputy Governor. June, 1915 DENIS >N MILLER
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
Capital Subscribed .. .. ..£250,000
Capital Paid-up.. ... ..£lOO,OOO
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits.. £15,365
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
The Company acts as Executor, Joint Executor, Trus-
tee, Administrator or Attorney under Power for absen-
tees, and is the only Trustee Company empowered by
Act of Parliament to operate in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 48 Young Street.
The Hon. Sir CHARLES K. MACIvELLAR, M.L C.
H. Y. BRADDON, Esq. I JAMES KIDD, Esq.
11. W. BELL, Esq. | 11. M. PITT, Esq.
Full information as to terms, etc., obtainable on
Application to JOHN MAIR, Manager.
COLORED POST-CARDS, bv Harry J.
Weston —“WEEKLY WORRIES.” Set
of six. posted free. 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co.. 214 George Street. Sydney.
T"HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
larly e to ( ?— lPany S magnifice,lt Steamers trade regu-
i\\ LED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE IiKI T 1 vpi’i*
macleay ax’d Kn»°,'&
KI\LRS, also to BYRON BAY rnirir’c
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA. ’ 01 1 s
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction will,
S ,' ''ALLS and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS
to include first- or second-class rail to BEISBAYi’’
thence to Tweed Heads-steamer to Murwilhfmbah’
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence P?ve™
there connecting with one of the Kners >
date liners for SYDNEY, or ttce-rersa Pany S up ' to ‘
ROUND TICKETS —First-class ran' ,
steamer. £G Bs. 6d. : second-class rail aliri* 8 !? 0 " ° n
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d. ai anc * Peerage
For Guide and all particulars apply—
BOCHUNG OFFICE. 261 GEORGE* ST„ SYDNEY,
isuui-.ui A. BELL, Managing Director.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIPS
(LIMITED). '
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS,
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DIM BOOL A, March li
and April 8.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
INNAMINCKA, Feb W
MORIaLTA, Feb. 2C
RUPARA, March 4,
PARINGA, March 11.
‘ Saloon Passage Tickets are intercliamreihio
the first Port of call with other Inter State rl L •"
on al. services subject to con.litio“s7
ascertained on application at the Company's Office
G. S. YUIIX & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BIUDGE STREET. SYDNEY
The Vancouver Route
VIA NEW ZEALAND, FIJI AND
HONOLULU.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
CAN ADI AN-AUSTRAL ASIAN R M
LINE.
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Raihvav
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
OPERATING THE LARGEST, NEWEST FASTEST
AND BEST-EQUIPPED VESSELS ’ TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN
CONTINENT.
SAILINGS:
fTwin-Screw. *Triple-Screw. Fitted with Cabins
ae luxe, suites, bedstead rooms, laundry, nursery
wireless, etc.
Passengers stopping off at Suva can obtain evert
comfort and convenience at the new and palatial
Grand Pacific Hotel. Coupons at specially-reduced
rates are available to passengers.
For full particulars and pamphlets apply
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“ Uiimaroa," “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
_ All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Federal & Shire Lines
STEAM TO LIVERPOOL via NEW ZEALAND
and SOUTH AMERICA.
T.S.S. “ SOMERSET.”
11,000 Tons. CAPTAIN JARVIS.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
SAILING SYDNEY about MARCH 3, 1916.
SAILING MELBOURNE about MARCH 9, 1916-
Fare to Liverpool, £4B.
Excellent accommodation for a limited number of
. Saloon Passengers,
well-lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.-
All passengers must produce Passports before booking.
For full information apply to
BIRT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN &’ CO. PTY. LTD.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide.
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
lo and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,000 tons
T . 5.5. “ KANOWNA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ KYARRA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy,
tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel by
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
fir=t port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, also
ivith the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fiji Trade;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing set
Daily Papers.
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
TF any illustration appearing in The
J Bulletin takes youi fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the
original.
TTuT&ulietin.
214 George Street, Sydney.


k eorge hotel,
f St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
The Australia Hotel
BUSINESS AS USUAL.
The Management of the “Australia”
Hotel are gratified to state that, not-
withstanding the upset caused by the
recent tire they are able to announce
“business as usual.” The service in
the Grand Dining Room, on the
Balcony, and in the Winter Garden
is being conducted in the same style
that has made the “Australia” Hotel
so popular with its patrons, while the
arrangements for Private Dinners and
Suppers are working with their accus-
tomed satisfaction.
Throughout the holiday season
arrangements for Afternoon Teas will,
as usual, be carried out in the Winter
Garden, which has been running con-
tinuously throughout.
J. URE SMITH, Manager.
TONE AND TONICS.
The word tone, as applied to the human
system, implies that the various organs of the
body are performing their functions naturally
and well. When any of the functions are
impaired they ,are said to be “out of tone.”
Tonics are those medicines which restore
tone. There are various tonics to act on
particular organs, but undoubtedly the
favorite tonic of medical men. the one suit-
able for the greatest number of cases, is one
which acts upon the blood. The blood
reaches every part of the body, and when it
is built up the whole system quickly benefits.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are a non-alco-
holic tonic that builds up the blood, making
it rich and red and able to supply to the
tissues of the body the nourishment they need
to keep them in health.
Most general debility results from thin
blood. Every part of the body suffers and
one “feels badly all over.” AN hen the blood
is restored and a health-giving stream is
going to every part of the body you soon see
the result of a better appetite, an improved
digestion, brighter eyes; better color in
cheeks and lips.
Dr. NVilliams’ Pink Pills are a most valu-
able family tonic and should be taken by
every member of the family except infants
whenever the general health is not what it
should be. Much downright sickness has
been saved by the use of a tonic or support-
ing medicine in times of physical depression.
All dealers sell Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. —
Advt.
Getting a Clear Complexion.
Constipation disfigures the complexion
wit,h pimples and blotches. Poisonous mat-
ter which should have been expelled from
the system is retained and gives rise to im-
purities in the blood. Cosmetics and oint-
ments are more likely than not to aggravate
the trouble 'by blocking the pores of the
skin. Regularity must be established to re-
move the trouble.
I’inkettes, the dainty new laxative, quickly
clear away all offending matter without the
least griping or discomfort. In every house-
hold such a simple, safe medicine is needed.
Pinkettes are tiny, sugar-coated ovals, pleas-
ant and easy to take.
Pinkettes are a corrective for bad breath,
will clear the complexion, and are recom-
mended for torpid liver, biliousness, head-
aches, constipation and whenever a gentle
laxative is required. Write to the Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co., Sydney, for a free
trial sample, mentioning Tiie Bulletin.
Pinkettes are Is. a bottle at all medicine
dealers.— Advt. '
DAIMLER
Motor carriages
COWERCIAE YEHI6IEES ~
Agricultural Tractors
™« DAiML E R CO MPA N Y
COVENTRY, ENGLAND,
Ray’s Hair Dye.
When Grey Hair begins
to show, rejuvenate
your ap p e arance
with
KAY’S
DYE..
Harmless and In-
stantaneous.
S 3 different shades.
Post pattern of
hair with order.
r 4/10, 7/11,10/9,
POSTED.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 Block Arcade, Collins Street, Melbourne.
1
2
Jokes,Puzzles,Tricks, Novelties
Write for our
New Novelty
Catalog.
IT’S FREE.
3
The three puzzles illustrated are strongly made and nickel-
plated. They are very tricky to do, and will cause endless
amusement. Price, post free, (id. each, or the three for 1/3.
Six puzzles, different from the above, post free for 2/3.
H.L. Hutchinson Ltd.
New York Novelty Co.
708-710 George St., Haymarket, SYDNEY
At the Front where worth is measured
by efficiency and readiness, Waterman’s Ideal
is held in highest esteem.
4 Types —Regular, Safety,
Self-Filling, Pump-Filling.
" Safety ” Type best for
Soldiers, Sailors, Doctors,
and Red Cross Nurses.
Of Stationers & Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. SLOAN,
Cbe |)eu Corner,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
Australia: 350, George St, Sydney
“HAVING A GOOD TIME”—
expresses the feeling's of every Shaver who uses this Masterpiece of
Cutlery Manufacture. The siiver-steel blade of
THE. “PLUM" RAZOR
is the last word in Razor tempering. Its action is swift, keen and
delightful.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep this razor in perfect order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- This line makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITREN,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY-
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS
Successful
Tooth Cleaning
Sold by local
Druggists &• Stores.
Mads by
F.C. Calvert & Co.
Manchester, Eng.
should be more than a mere
phrase, —it becomes actual
fact for the people who use
z,
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Choose Well the Ring
and Buy It NOW
-S'
k
3
sL
S 3
F&r
o*3
kJ>
Every new design,
every conccivftbic
Pattern in
Betrothal Bings
stocked by
STEWART
DAWSON’S.
There are two reasons for this advice: One
is the impending scarcity of Diamonds avail-
able for distribution from the World’s centres
of supply. The other is that in the matter
of selection the Treasure House can place
before you the finest assortment of Diamond
Engagement Rings in the Commonwealth.
Send for
OUR HANDSOME BOOK OF
DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RINGS
which contains the Ring-size Card for order-
ing by Post.
5-DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT
RINGS.
Selected Stones, in 18ct. Gold and
Platinum, £5 55., £6 10s., £7 10s.,
£8 10s., £lO 10s., etc.
STEWART DAWSON’S
Strand Corner, 412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
EVERY
MAN
who considers Quality and Appear-
ance in selecting his Footwear will
find his requirements fully satis-
fied if he wears
ABBEY SHOES.
We illustrate one of our latest-
m o d e 1 s —a special high-grade
Patent Bal., with perforated golosh
and Grey Suede Legs.
Price 40/"
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY.
313 George Street,
Between (i.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
GfISBiSQNRAT,
Marble'S
JOINTED RIFLE ROD
Strong, stiff, rigid, as a
one-piece rod, yet can be
taken apart in a minute and
packed in a compact case—
easily carried
in pocket or
belt. Made of
brass or steel
, —will last a
1 lifetime. Note
the construc-
tion. Connec-
tions are of steel. Dowels
relieve Bcrews of allsjde strain
and give perfect rigidity.. Pat-
ented steel swivel permits
cleaner or cloth to revolve and
follow rifling—gets every par-
ticle of dirt.
Marbles
RIFLE CLEANER
gets every speck of lead,
rust and powder crust. Goes
right into angles of grooves,
cleaning and polishing them
thoroughly. Most efficient
cleaner ever invented.
Ask your dealer for these
Rifle Rods and Cleaners.
Complete illustrated catalogue
of Marble’s ‘‘Sixty Sporting
Specialties” sent postpaid on
request.
Marble Arms & Mfg. Co.
611 Delta Avenue
Gladstone, Mich., U.S. A.
Cable Address "Marble" Gladstone
Australian & New Zealand Rep sent a
HARRY NICLOEN, Box 1349, SYDNEY
'dll T3/lIMS 'SINIQP T33IS 'SNOIIO3S SStfhß
(188)
MODERN TOOLS
FOR THE
GARDEN and
flowers,
“NORCROSS” Cultivator-hoes
have revolutionised Hand
Cultivating. The sharp,
tapering Shovels literally
tear up the earth from
lin. to 6in. deep, leav-
ing ground level, loose
and untrampled. And it
is done with such ease
and speed as to make
gardening an extreme
pleasure.
They work closer to
plants without injuring
them than any other
tool.
Ask your Ironmonger
or write our Agents
S. SCOTT-YOUNG LTD.,
1 Bond Street, Sydney.
■m&m
C. S. NORCROSS & SONS, Manufacturers,
Bushnell, Illinois, U.S.A.


4
V
Your copy of
Finney 9 s
Summer
Sale Book
is ready waiting for
your name and address
Send it to-day!
Finney, Isles
& Co. Limited
The Big Block , Brisbane
r J ,HE AUTHORS’ ALLIANCE is pre-
pared to consider and place MSS.
Literary work of all kinds dealt with by
experts who place authors’ interests first
Twenty years’ experience. Write for pro-
spectus. 100 Flinders Street,. Melbourne;
and at London and ‘New York. -C '
jtfi' STe »e l
THE BEST AND MOST
ECONOMICAL STATIONERY
IN THE WORLD
carries the KOLOK trade mark. No office Is
sending out the best British-made stationery
unless KOLOK TYPEWRITER CARBONS,
PEN AND PENCIL CARBONS and TYPE-
WRITER RIBBONS are used. The KOLOK
ECONOMY BINDER has no equal. Every
businessman should at once see that his
office uses Kolok makes.
ALL STATIONERS. .
Australasian Agent :-C. F. BICKFORD,
5 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
IN BANANA LAND
‘lhe Aomad”: Maurice Baldwin, who
handles the secretarial pen for the Queens-
land Turf Club, has entered the ranks of
Bumbledom, being returned as an alderman
of the Hamilton Town Council. Hamilton
is the Brisbane suburb which contains Ascot
course and the great majority of the racing
fraternity. Baldwin first leaped into public
notice as secretary of the Queensland Rugby
Union, a position he held for many years
Later lie was secretary to Tattersall’s Club’
Brisbane, and moved on from there to his
present job. He js a man of energy, tact
and backbone, which is something novel in
Bumbledom.
Treasurer Theodore having invited the
Brisbane Fish. Board to elect whether it
wih die by suicide or become deceased by
assassination, it decided to await the blow.
H was time trouble came upon it. Its con-
stitution read all right when Kidston handed
it the charter, but it has failed to supply
jisli at a reasonable rate. The Greek ring
has as tight a grip on the business as ever,
and the fins lie sells are as dear as meat.
Meanwhile the fishermen are being starved.
So the Government, after throwing the
Board down, will make an attempt to do
the right thing as Sosli fish purveyors.
“Itan”: When you make an inquiring
remark about pear in the hearing of Lands
Department officials their countenances are
covered with gloom. And if you mention the
plan devised for destroying the enemy by
O. C. Roberts, the gloom increases. Roberts
has had nearly three years in which to show
what he could do. It is granted that he
has had difficulties to meet, including the
war, which made his chlorine-gas materials
scarce. But, allowing for all that, he has
nothing like reclaimed the first 10,000-acre
block. He has had to face the trouble
that, during the dry weather’, the pear is
an obstinate absorbent. But the country
where the operations are going on is
mostly drought-stricken at the best. It
would be interesting to know what the job
lias cost up to date. If it is in the
vicinity of the value of the land when cleared
why not say so and be done with the sus-
pense? The Minister has already said that
while waiting for the results of the Roberts
experiment hundreds of settlers have been
waiting on the fence. At the rate the Rob-
A HONEYMOON ITEM.
SHE: “Yus, a nice thing I've let meself in fer be marrying you, George Jones. Why,
you ain't got nothink!”
GEORGE : “No, Hemma, only you.”
erts party is going they will get on to the
100,000 acres in 30 years. All this time,
too (icrite this on every hlotting-pad) , the
curse is clutching a million acres of new
country per year. Its arms are now out
almost as far as Charleville, and if it is
not Chreful some of it will be falling over
The Edge during the next year or two. It
is the greatest land thief on earth, and
Parliament and officialdom seem dazed by
the rebuffs the vegetable has given their fre-
quent schemes of eradication.
“Itan”: The Burnett is the country the
State Government has principally in view
for settlement by soldiers. But the posi-
tion has been complicated- by. the Eossils
rejecting the proposed Mount-Ganindah rail-
way line. There are at least a million acres
of. occupiable land locked up there, more
suitable for farming on n a sihall scale than
for anything else. It is declared by experts
that a great part of the area is “ultra-first.”
Thousands of acres of it will grow lucerne,
tens of thousands will accommodate itself
to. maize, and hundreds-of thousands are
suitable for the dairyman. Lately a sur-
veyor dropped across a block of 10,000
acres of chocolate scrub on a plateau which
the Department knew nothing about. All
this fine belt of country lies behind Glad-
stone, shut off by the.' towering Dawes
Range. •• • • -*
“Musketoon”: Bishop Frodsham. who at
one time wore stockings in Northern
Bananaland, relates how it once came to
pass that a well-known i-acehorse named
Ilis Lordship was racing with success in
his diocese. A Brisbane journal one day
had the following interesting item : —•
Bishop Frodsham is down with an attack of fever
at Cairns. His Lordship is scratched for all engage-
ments.
“Barcoo”: The 30 tradesmen of Rock-
hampton who dressed their shops for a
week’s sale of Australian-made goods de-
serve, the Grand Cross for their national sen-
timent and the brave display they made. The
bright, particular feature of the show was
the cabinet work and furniture made from
Bananaland woods. These goods were a
revelation, and they were all manufactured
locally in small shops. The prices w-ere
quite one half, probably a quarter, less than
the material -would command if sent abroad.
\Yhat priceless woods tropical Aus. con-
tains in the bean tree, maple, mahogany,
common oak, silky oak, walnut, red and
white cedar. These timbers have a mqst
delightful texture and all take an especially
high and durable polish. Yet improvident,
bat-eyed, politicians have encouraged a
devastating waste of these timbers in the
places of their luxuriant growth.
Masts of Ships.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A ragged blind by a window flutters and
lifts and dips,
And over the sordid houses, the small,
square, sunbaked houses,
Over the many houses I see the masts of
ships.
Between, the streets of a city, the blistering
_ road and by-way,
The' glitter of dressed shop-windows, the
flaunting bid of the windows;
Beyond is the wide blue river, door to the
wide blue highway.
The trams rush by in the sunshine; the dust
is a choking cloud.
The women pass to their shopping, their
Saturday morning shopping.
The sails on the ships are folded, close as a
dead man’s shroud.
But the \ ision will interpret with graphic
and eager lips
The misty wavering signposts, the delicate,
sea-stained signposts,
Ihe call to a hidden island I find in the
masts of ships!
Oh, long, hot streets of the city ! The selling
and the buying !
The horrible grin of windows, the garish
blatant windows. . . .
The echo of plashing waters, the gulls by
Tweed Heads flying!
The rocks where the wild surf thunders:
Point Danger, smooth and high ;
And the cloudy greys of Fingal, and the
steamboat outward bound ;
The merge of the azure outlines that are
either sea or sky.
Oh, the aching lure of the slender masts, the
bar of the many walls !. . . .
The wind has suddenly left us, grown sick
for the sea and left us.
The ragged blind in the stillness over the
window falls.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, February 12, 1916.
My Dear Thargomindaii, —
Our girleens, and some of us who wear
om hats at a more matronly angle, cheered
iu great spirit this week when we got word
that some of our Christmas billies had been
captured on board camel, somewhere in the
desert, by men of Bananaland’s 31st Batta-
lion. Almost all our tinned comforts had
previously found its way to Victorian an’d
New South Wales brigands, and that was
nearly as good. We’re proud of them all,
but we have a sneaking special regard for
the boys of the North.
A battered warrior explained to me the
other day how it is that some of the re-
turned wounded from the 15th Battalion
wear the sign of crossed swords on their
tunic. It appears that, at Quinn’s Post,
the 15th, already somewhat cut up, sallied
our to lend a hand to the 16th, which was
in a hot corner. The crossed swords orna-
ment the men who were wounded in the
ensuing proceedings. So the young Austra-
lian army building up its traditions and
settling the form of its war paint.
The cards distributed at the Anzac Club’s
Christmas party show a striking sketch by
A. H. Fullwood, whose work has often ap-
peared in The Bulletin. A khaki lad
with his back to the Gallipoli cliffs is coo-
eemg across a stretch of sea to a girl in
white standing on Australia’s shore. A
bunch of wattle, an A.I.P. badge and a fleet
of warships are part of the effects.
.Tos6 Bytheway Taylor had a big compli-
ment paid her the week before she married
Claude Taylor. She was asked to go to
Havi;e for four months and warble to the
lommies there. At present she is putting
her flat in order; but she will return to the
concert business later on.
Aithui Benjamin, tbe promising Queens-
land youngster who put aside bis musical
career in order to crowd into khaki, recently
conducted an orchestra in uniform while it
played one of his own compositions.
Dr. Eleanor Bourne, first Queensland girl
to collect an exhibition at Sydney Uni., is
back there for a post-graduate course.
Eleanor has been chief medical-officer to our
Education _ Department for the last few
years, and is in a hurry to get out and apply
bandages in a military hospital. 1 y
J. W. Heatherington has been elected to
the mayoral chair of Brisbane. Last time
i.» IMO, he was appointed
by the Governor-m-Council. The city aider-
men had got themselyes tied up in‘such a
series of deadlocks that there wouldn’t haye
been a selection for the rabbit-skin job if
This Vl tL r e ga TT m^ hi " ery hadQ,t taken a turn.
11ns time Heatherington comes in at the
and’i“order! S “ ile * pertectlr de “°-
• S '*? ilton ’ Mayoress of South Brisbane,
is on the wiirpath to increase S.B.’s con-
tribution to patriotic funds. Picture shows
are threatened weekly and a skating cai dvll
looms in the future. 8
Grizel Cochrane Baillie, the last
before the Goold-Atfams heir to see the lijht
or day in Queensland Government n
will shortly “come om” in Londo™' fe
ing to the family traditions, the
(inzel ot the clan came out as a hi„if na
woman and got away with the warrant?*
her father’s execution by sticking Un Z
King s messenger who carried it. e
Mrs. E. A. Falkner, who has been one 0 f
the leading exponents of knitting
the Toowoomba Sock and Comfort F,! D f
dames, was farewelled by ’the ladies nf M
heme l this week She and her to',, "
left for Sydney to-day and will steam 7
Wilson’s territory by the Niagara. Then.!
to England in time for the spring Ze r !n n
raids or the declaration of general conscrip
Mrs. Arthur Mort, of Franklyn Y»l*
arranged a concert on Thursday night m
raise funds for the purchase of trombone!
and cornets for the new Queensland baftn
lions. Colonel Lee and his handsome grev
haired wife filled a front pew, and behimi
them the solid cohorts of squattoS
smiled their patriotic approval. Some of
the Mort daughters danced and one sang
Mrs Richard Steacey, better known hi
Queensland as Elsie Denham, daughter of
Digbv D., late Premier, has a daughter
The infant’s dad is iu the firing-line with a
Canadian contingent as chaplain.
Miss O’Shea, one of Brisbane’s most
popular hostesses, is holidaying in Sydney
with Mrs. Norman Pope, another Queens
lander. Mrs. Pope toils two days a week
at a soldiers’ club and manages to provide
a lot of comforts for kliaki-clad boys.
Lex Macnaughton, only son of the Judge
who had to drop his course at the Melbourne
Flying School and take on a hard battle with
pneumonia, has completely driven off the
enemy, lie is now getting ready to tackle
the cloudy ascents and spiral drops which
are the joy of the bird-man’s game.
The Red Cross Society is about to splash
heavily and acquire a motor,-car. It wili
honk just in time to save the reason of the
delicacy section of the society, which starts
out these hot days to leave jellies at the
military hospitals and arrives bearing some-
thing that looks like a thick, warm rasp-
berry drink.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Workers have not yet forgotten Commis-
sioner Cahill, who as head of the police
made things hum during the strike on Feb-
ruary 2 in 1912.. On the anniversary of
that day the Brisbane Industrial Council
passed a motion calling upon the Govern-
ment to remove the Commissioner from his
job. When out of office the Ryan Govern-
ment said they would do something in this
direction if they ever got the chance. Well,
they got the chance, but, as in the case of a
lot of other things that come home to roost,
they have so far failed to identify it.
“Centurion”: “Barcoo” (B. 3/2/16)
seems to be very anxious as to whether
Bulletin readers will credit the age, 100
years, of George Furness, of Maryborough.
“Barcoo” states that a birth certificate was
produced, but as the earliest registration
was undertaken in 1837 (England), I doubt
it. Tasmania followed in 1837; W. Aus.,
3841; South Aus., 1842; Victoria, 1853;
N.S.W. and Q’land, 1856; and Ireland, 1864.
Previously such system as was in vogue was
practically kept going, more or less, by the
different churches.
“Strawberry’s Valet” on the suppression
of Private Enterprise :
The vendor of watered cow-essence in Queensland
has a harder row to hoe than in most other places.
Henderson, Government Analyst, worked out som'’
years ago an ingenious and accurate method of
detecting added water by observation on the freezing
point of the fluid ascribed to Mrs. Bull. e
vendor’s able advocate was wont to impress a Benc’i
by pointing out that the wet season was on, and
that cows inclined to be dry naturally absorbed water
when standing in damp grass; or by quoting labori-
ously-collected lists of freak cows that gave unusually
small quantities of fat in their milk. The Queens-
land Health Department adopted Henderson’s method
about 1911, and the first subsequent case called forth
the usual forensic effort. Then Henderson climbed
into the box, and in five minutes blew the absorbent
cow, and the freak cow, and all the other swindling
excuses clean out of the milk-can. They have never
got back, and defending the milkman is no longer
regarded as a steady job for Gent. One. The only
hope nowadays is a tearful appeal for the ill-used
client on the ground that the boy who drove the cart
left the lid off the can and the drought broke up
before he delivered the goods. Recent cases in Bris-
bane have resulted in fines of £lO and £2O and
costs, and a hearty promise of three months’ gaol if
caught again. Withal, the Health authorities esti-
mate that Brisbane milkmen sell £4OOO worth of
water annually under the guise of calf’s joy. Bris-
bane parents are beginning to hope that a day will
dawn when a magistrate will nerve himself up to
really hand out a term of genuine quod to one of
the mean swindlers who not only cheat infants and
invalids of their nourishment, but poison them with
the fluid supplied by the Water and Sewerage Board
at a considerably cheaper rate.


%
the
’Portland
for A POUND
A really high-grade Lawn Mower that
clips closely and evenly. Very sturdily
built of carefully-selected materials, and
well finished. Runs as easily as a bicycle.
The four sharp 12-inch blades are expertly
tempered to give maximum service.
It’s a Beauty
Call and see
it to=day, or
let’s send you
one.
We have many other first-rate Mowers attractively priced.
Also specials in Hose Sprinklers and guaranteed Garden
Tools. We will gladly send you our list on request.
“DANRS”
Otherwise John DanKs (EL Son. Propy. Ltd.
Everything for the Gardener.
324 PITT STREET, Near Liverpool Street, SYDNEY.
F.I.A.T. Motor Lorries
For Transporting your Wool, Wheat, Dairy Produce, etc.
THEY ARE GIVING SATISFACTION IN ALL PARTS OF AUSTRALIA.
A FEW COUNTRY USERS
Messrs. W. E. Bramble & Sons, Newcastle. Mr. H. C. Bottle, Crookwell.
Messrs. G. M. Hayward & Co., Rylstone. Mr. H. M. Johnston, Windsor.
Mr. F. Hodge, Hill End. Nimbin Dairy Co., Richmond River.
The Jamberoo Co-operative Dairy Co., Jamberoo.
The Water Conservation and Irrigation Commission, Murrumbidgee.
1
W ,
24-3 TON—LORRY CHASSIS 24-3 TON
ARE NOW AVAILABLE.
SEND FOR PARTICULARS.
TEL. 583
CITY 584.
GARRATTS LTD.
ALICK McNEIL,
Gen. Manager.
173-175 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
y
MM
/||ii|jiliw/
wcnp
k
4
W/'V*W
!#/
/;
»
t'A
vV'//
/
£
sr
Fractured Motor
Cylinder.
Ask the foreman at the garage if
Ring or write us, and we will tell
process 0 wiHweld MyMve^v^ny^trT as good in a “brace of shakes.” Do not allow anyone f Penuadeyou tta*
P the breakage cannot be repaired, and that you will require to buy new parts. It is not true. Am break can be
welded stronger than ever. AND THIS, TOO, AT VERA SMALL COST.
A broken cog can be welded and new teeth cut in the matter of minutes,
he knows of the Oxy-Acetylene process. If he does not, find a man wio does
U rf' 1 G A*R AGE PROPRIETOR, —If you have not vet got a plant you should hasten to get one. With out
crocks at hand vour name would go forth for up-to-dateness, perfect craftsmanship and for reasonable prices And
remember your clients expect you to do their work with the latest appliances. So that if you notice they day by
dav descit you for the bigger works in the next street, you will know that your opponent works with the Oxy-
Acetvlene welding and cutting process. It is a simple plant, is easily portable, and its cost is trifling.
AIR FARMER —If you have a broken machine or blade, take it to an engineer or blacksmith who
has our plant, and ’he will repair it for you inside a few minutes. Write to us, and we will advise who
hUS b'iociTno. 1 'shows a fractured motor cylinder. No. 2 is the mended article after treatment with
Oxy-A«-tyleriC;neer , g not {ully conV ersant with this process cannot be said to have yet mastered his
business, and should at once write us for catalogues and all printed matter.
Following are a few of the broken and worn machinery parts our process will make new' again:—
Cracked or broken Aluminium Crank or Gear Cases. Differential Boxes Steering Wheels Cylinders
Pistons, Cranks, Clutches, Cardan Shafts, Band Brakes, Worn Keywavs in Shafts. Pieces welded to broken Geais
Bnd any kind can be welded, including Cast Iron, Wrought Iron, Mild Steel, Brass, Copper,
Gun Metal, etc., which cannot be repaired by any other process.
The Commonwealth Oxygen Co. Ltd.,
The Permanent Trustee Building,
25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
Aeents— MELBOURNE : Fyvie & Stewart, Collins House, Collins Street; BRISBANE : Evans, Deakin Co.,
S 172 Edward Street; ADELAIDE : Alex Ingram &Co , Wyatt Street;
PERTH: Ceo. Wills & Co. Ltd., Murray Street.
Finished Job After
Treatment.


Good Health, Good Looks,
Good Spirits, Good Sleep
A clear head, clear complexion, clear eye,
clear bowels are the reward
of keeping the liver clear:
and Carter’s Little
Liver Pills take
care of that. Don’t
wait to be bilious.
Keep them at
hand. Purely
vegetable.
Sate for
children.
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill—Small Dose —Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
Treat your
hair kindly
You desire fine, beautiful hair.
Therefore you must treat it
kindly—nourish it, preserve it,
care for it by regularly using
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR
OIL
“For Your Hair/'
This preparation has heen used for over
120 years —it has proved its value time
and time again. Do not try experi-
mental remedies on your hair—get a
bottle of Howland's Macassar Oil at
your chemist’s. Also sold in a Golden
colour for Fair or Grey Hair. Rowland
& Son, 67, Hatton-garden, London, E.C.
ißgrrcz
HORROCKSES
V
long Cloths
: appearance prese'tt&d-
*<tm
a
C«
if -
St
: •
mk: Jfc
l
'
b.
i. :
/■■■ .
Think of the
Economy of Tulle
€]J Do you realise that you can
obtain hats that are chic, stylish, and
becoming— at a very economical cost
—by having them trimmed with “Dy-
namo” Rainproof Tulle?
Cfl “Dynamo” Rainproof Tulle is the
one Tulle guaranteed lastingly water-
proof. It is the world’s most durable,
and therefore most economical, Tulle.
That is why you should
ask your Milliner to use
“ Dynamo ” Rainproof
Tulle—or get it from your
dealer yourself.
:
R^NPROOF Tulle
36 ins. wide. In Black, White
and all fashionable shades.
9d., l(Hd., 1/-, 1/3 and 1/6
per yard upwards.
All the lest Milliners use “Dynamo” Rainproof
Tulle. All the best Stores sell it by the yard. Ask for
it by name. But if you wish to be sure that you are
supplied with the genuine, you must insist on seeing the
name and trade mark on the card on which the Tulle is
wound.
“DYNAMO” ENQUIRY DEPT.,
Carlton House, York Street, Sydney.
Get the
Pen made and
guaranteed by the
Largest Firm of
Fountain Pen
Manufacturers in
Great P>ritain :
the Onoto.
The Onoto is made by
Thomas de la Rue & Co.,
Ltd., who guaiantee it all
British, and designed to
last a lifetime.
The Onoto fills itself in a
flash, from any ink supply.
The Onoto cannot leak, no
matter how you carry it.
Onoto
Self-Filling - -
gaiety Fountain
Pen
ar >d upwards of
all Stationers. Jewellers, and
Stores. Booklet about the
Onoto Pen free on appl ca-
tion to Thomas de la Rue
&Co , Ltd., , 94 Bunhill
Low, London, E.C., or the
Australasian Representa-
tives, No.man Baker and
Longhurst, S o York Street,
Sydney.
Ask for ONOTO INK
“Best for all pens.
THE. GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
& rheumatic pills.
Tlig famous that aotnallv fp-
- li£ r e/^?*EUMATIS* EUMATISM > GOIJT - lumbago,
SCIATICA and MUSCULAR RHEUMA-
TISM.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores. 1/- and 2/6 per box.
Drout .y- ( 0 220 Strand. Loudon.
A £l4 Machine
With 5 Drawers
£8 10s.
15 pit ad WRITTEN
GUARANTEE
Packed & Delivered Free
A.N.A. Sewing
—■ Machine fn
25 QUEEN VICTORIA MARKETS
(near Town Hall), SYDNEY.
Also at Errol Street, North Melbourne- 7 „
Adelaide; Baird’s Arcade, Perth; 39 Ctoorm *2?!
Launceston ; and 123 Elizabeth street,
TALKS ON BICYCLE BUYING—
No. 2.
irffyuUafion
'"THE long established
1 reputation beund a
bicycle built of genuine
B.S. A. Fittings is a guarantee
of satisfaction. You cannot
go wrong if guided by the
B.S.A. name as it is never
associated with any but the
highest quality. Should you
ever wish to sell your
machine the B.S.A. name
is a valuable asset and will
help you to make a good
sale, whereas a second-hand
cheap "pattern” machine is
only worth scrap price.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF GENUINE
□TIN
“THOROUGHLY BRITISH.“
B.S.A. Handbook
free from
D. Y. RENNIE,
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
Anthony Horderns’
Universal Bicycle.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with
EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub, Free
Wheel on both gears, Back-pedalling
and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop
Tyres. As ridden by FRANCIS
BIRTEES. £l2/10/-. Write for
Trice lust, post free.
Anthony Hordern#Sons
Only Universal Providers, Ltd.
New Palace Emporium,
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
(fIPILLfIRINE
CROWS' MOUSTACHES
!
<?
A Moustache-grower
that has stood the
test of over 30 yeais
must be regarded as
a genuine prepara-
tion. Capillahis*
never fails to de-
velop a strong growth
on the upper up-
Try it to-day.
PRICE 10 6 JAR-POST FREE.
Craig: & Aitken,
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over^SO^jyears^^^^
“Kuranui” : Any woman can tell one hat
from another, but all ships look alike. On
a recent Saturday the departure of an 8000-
tcnner bound south front Sydney was sud-
denly put back two hours, and one of the
lady passengers decided to scurry up town
and buy another box of nose-powder. She
returned to the right wharf and compla-
cently climbed aboard another steamer of
the same line, but about half the size. The
smaller ship was loaded for Brisbane, and
the unobservant traveller didn’t discover
what she had done until she casually asked
a fellow-passenger what time he thought
they would get to Melbourne. When she
was told they weren’t going that way at all,
she scuttled down the gangway and rushed
round to the proper sea-castle, only to find
that the drawbridge was up and all com-
munication with the shore cut off. She
danced a little on the -wharf and attracted
two sympathetic water policemen. Some-
body murmured that she might go through
one of the ground-floor portholes, and pre-
sently the lady, with her hat off and muscles
rjgid, was trying to get herself posted like
the letter which says that all at home are
well. But she wasn’t the right shape, and
the game seemed to be up when the gang-
way came squeaking down and enabled her
to run upstairs and rejoin her luggage. The
man asked the captain of the tower to
let down the drawbridge afterwards told the
smoking-room that his few remarks set the
bridge on fire.
There is one willing huntress in eiaori-
land. When she was invited to a wedding
the other day she replied that she would
very much like to be present, but before
accepting would be glad of an assurance
that the groom had either enlisted or offered
his services and been rejected.
“Kettledrum’s’’ Fable of the Day :
This is the Fable of Bashful Sixteen, who dwelt
in the city of Wollygog. Most fables have a moral,
but in this the moral foozled its approach.
The Virtuous Maiden foresaw at the early age of
16, just as she was about to put her hair up, that
owing to the dearth of men, it behoved her, unless
she wished to remain a Maiden to the end of her
days, to get busy with a view to a Permanent Srttlc-
ment. In the advent of the Dardanelles Button Day
she perceived her opportunity, and laid her plans
accordingly. She turned a deaf ear to the warnings
of those who stated that under the Existing System
of patriotic collections young girls were getting into
habits of Freedom and Familiarity with Entire
Strangers. She put her hair on top, stocked a basket
with buttons, and arrayed herself in the fetching
costume of a French Maid. To the youths of her
own age or a little older she tendered the Frozen
Stare, so different from the Goo-goo Eye which they
expected as of right and custom. And when they
suggested appointments later, she simply Turned up
her Nose. With her buttons as a bait she awaited
her chance.
It came in the guise of a wealthy Banker in a
motor-car, who attempted the Heavy Father act, and
was graciously permitted to drive her to within a
block of her home. She allowed no Impertinent
Familiarities, refused a theatre invitation, and at
last, after much urging, permitted him to call next
Sunday. He took her for a drive, and she was as
temptingly distant as the Commonwealth Gold
Reserve behind steel bars. Indeed, reserve was her
strong point—so much so that he ended by asking
permission to See Mamma. The rest was easy—in
the beginning a three years’ engagement, “because
Birdie was yet too young to know her own Mind,”
and in the end a wedding which filled a column of
the local Times and made three paragraphs in the
metropolitan weeklies.
There is, as has been said, no moral to this fas-
cinating tale, which, indeed, may better be described
as a Moral Certainty, although the other cats assert
that Patriotism is the last refuge of Scoundrels.
“Trot”: Most trades-unionists object to
industrial conscription. But they approve
enthusiastically of fixing the price of com-
modities wheat, butter, milk, meat, sugar
and so forth. Will someone explain the dif-
ference between the two things? If the
State says to Cocky, “You shall sell your
butter at Is. a pound, ’ is not this compelling
Cocky to work on his farm for a fixed wage
and indistinguishable from saying to Bill
Smith, “You shall sell your labor in a factory
tor Is. an hour”? To say that Cocky is not
under any compulsion to work is mere eva-
sion, because he must work or lose his farm
and his sucking pig and herd of Strawberry,
ihe fact seems to be that everyone is in
fav ’°r of compulsion for everyone but himself,
and 90 per cent, of the people who call them-
selves Socialists are determined not to sam-
ple their own medicine.
THE FIRST-CLASS PASSENGER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The pampered first-class passenger tramps up and
down the deck,
And when he grunts a steward runs and almost
breaks his neck ;
He growls like blazes at the food, and feels ex-
tremely sore
Unless he’s overwhelmed with things he rarely gets
ashore.
The bloated first-class passenger sprawls like a fatted
ox;
He fills the long sea hours with food and sleeps and
shows his socks ;
With snores across the summer seas, heaped in a
canvas chair,
He speeds above the rolling waves and makes the
mermaids stare.
Anon he wakes and idly blinks at God’s great
masterpiece,
The wide, untamed and changeless sea where Man s
small frettings cease:
And then he staggers to the bar and buys a sharp-
toothed drink
To further dull his food-drugged mind, for, oh! he
hates "to think.
Blue coasts may spread romantic wiles and rock-
faced mountains stare,
He turns his back and shuffles cards and counts his
coin with care ;
Or if, like some Columbus, he looks proudly out to
sea
He brags of rotten ha’penny socks he sold for one-
and-three.
The first-class passenger is found wherever we may
go,
And always he’s the envy of us blankers down below,
For he’s got all the. things we want, including lots
of brass.
All luxury’s annoying if you're booked through
“second class.”
N.S.W.
THE STEWARD.


Send Ctutsgsia/iAic? Kodak Pictures
to your Soldier friend to cheer him up
And give him a Vest Pocket Autographic
Kodak to take snapshots of his own
personal share in this Great War.
Thousands of Soldiers’ Kodaks —Vest Pocket
Autographic Kodaks —are in use at the Front, and
are splendidly adapted to active-service conditions.
Light, take up no more room than a diary, and can be carried in
the pocket. All exposed parts are rustproof ; very strong, easy to
use, always read} 7 for business, need no focussing.
They take splendid little pictures 2\ x If inches, which are
easily enlarged. Price 30/-.
Inspect it yourself, or write for descriptive circular.
There are Autographic Kodaks—any one of which you can learn to use
in half an hour —from 30/- to £l5/2/-.
No. 3 Folding Autographic Kodak, for pictures x34 inches. Price
£4/7/6.
No. 3a Folding Autographic Kodak, for postcard pictures 54 x 3-1 inches
Price £5/10/-
Ask for very interesting illustrated booklet, ‘‘Holiday Time is Kodak Time.
Of all'Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD
Incorporating: Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd-
-379 George Street, SYDNEY; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE;
250-252 Queen St., Brisbane; 37 Bundle St., Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth St., Hobart; Ruthven St., Toowoomba;
Flinders St., Townsville; Denham St., Rockhampton; 346 Argent St., Broken Hill; Dixon St., Wellington,
N.Z.; 3 Lome St., Auckland, N.Z.; and 76 Stuart St., Dunedin, > T .Z.
V
m
* t
, >:>■>
Edison Blue Amberol
Records for February.
mm
Whatever your individual taste, this list of new records will
most assuredly include much to your liking.
Among those which will be extremely popular are: “My Bugler
Boy” (Helen Clark) ; “Sons of Old Britannia” (Thomas
Chalmers) ; “If With All, Your Hearts —Elijah” (Ileed Miller) ;
“Jolly Coppersmith” (New York Military Band) ; “Insect
Powder Agent” (Billy Golden and Jas. Marlowe) ; “Row Me
on the River, Romeo” (Billy Murray).
After you have carefully read through the list make your
selections early. ,
Blue Amberol Regular Records.
2543 —Benediction of the Poignards
Huguenots. Edison Concert Band
2549—Paprika—Lu Lu-Fado. For dancing.
National Promenade Band
2555—Tip-Top Tipperary Mary. Baritone,
orch. acc.
Joseph A. Phillips and Chorus
2563 — Brown October Ale —Robin Hood.
Baritone, orch acc.
Thomas Chalmers and Chorus
•
2564 Jolly Coppersmith. With Anvil,
Singing and Whistling'.
New York Military Band
2565 That’s An Irish Lullaby (Too-ra-loo-
ra-100-ral) Shameen Dhu. Tenor,
orch. acc. Manuel ltomain
2566—1 f With All, Your Hearts—Elijah
(Recitative and Aria). Tenor, orch.
acc. Reed Miller
2509—Hearts and Flowers.
• American Standard Orchestra
2575—After the Roses Have Faded Away.
Contralto and Baritone, orch acc.
Helen Clark and Joseph A. Phillips
257G---Doodle-oodln Dec. Baritone and Tenor,
orch acc.
Arthur Collins and Byron G. Harlan
2577 —Genius Loci. Ist and 2nd Violins,
Viola, Violoncello and Bass.
String' Quintet
2594 —My Sunshine (O’Sole Mio). Tenor,
orch ace. Charles W. Harrison
2598 — Insect, Powder Agent. Coon vaudeville
sketch with banjo.
Billy Golden and James Marlowe
2599 — Irish Eyes of Love —Heart of Paddy
Whack. Tenor, orch acc.
Frank X. Doyle
2(502 —O, That We Two Were Maying.
Soprano and Baritone, orch. acc.
Elizabeth Spencer and Thomas Chalmers
23362 —Sons of Old Britannia. Baritone,
orch aec. Thomas Chalmers
23371 —There Must be Little Cupids in the
Briny. Tenor, orch. acc.
Billy Murray
23372 —My Bugler Boy. Contralto, orch acc.
Helen’ Clark
23373 —Friend. Baritone, orch. acc.
Frederick J. Wheeler
23374—R0w Me on the River, Romeo. Tenor,
orch. acc. Billy Murray
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street. Sydney.
DON’T FIDDLE
WHILE ROME BURNS
Or, in other words, don't look on while the rabbits make
a permanent home on your property.
ARM YOURSELF WITH A
U
SUDDETH
99
Fumigator & Smoker
and
KILL WHOLE COLONIES AT ONE GO.
A
'A
:C r ,
m
is**
USERS SAY:
My property was
badly infested last
winter, but I have got
them almost wiped out
now.
J. E. GALL,
Tycannah.
I have just success-
fully cleared 200 acres
and can safely say I
have not left a rabbit
behind me..
S. A. HARROD,
Gulgong.
Post this coupon, and special 25-page illustrated Catalogue will he sent
free by return. »
Please post me catalogue giving particulars of Suddeth Fumigators and
Smokers.
Name
Address .
B.
BUZACOTT &. CO. LTD., 7 Market Street, Sydney.
NEWELL & CO,, 189 King Street, Melbourne.
E. RICH & CO. LTD., Brisbane, Queensland.
W. HART & SON, Launceston, Tasmania.
CHAS. WILCOX & CO. LTD., Weymouth Street, Adelaide.
MURRAY ROBERTS & CO., Dunedin, New Zealand.


Missing Friends.
WILL WALTER TULLOCH, late of
Carnoustie, Scotland, send his address
to Watson’s Latrobe Bond, 453-5 Latrobe
Street, Melbourne.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
I V O L I THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EYEN-INGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Plans at Nicholson’s and Tivoli.
J IVOI.I THEATRE, M E L BOU R N E .
NIGHTLY AT EIGHT.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
A BIG BOOM!
TIVOLI FOLLIES
OF 1915-1916.
EVERYTHING NEW AND DOWN TO DATE.
Plan at Glen’s.,
|_| E R "v MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present a Dashing,
Dumps-Defying Delight,
SO LONG, LETTY.
With a brilliant cast.
Plans Paling’s. Day Sales Callose's.
Amusements.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S Realistic Production of
UNDER EIRE.
A vivid dramatic story of the violation of Belgium.
Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
The white ci t
Rushcutter’s Bay, Sydney.
OPEN NIGHTLY, 7.30 TO 11.
ADMISSION SIXPENCE.
T. H. ESLICK, General Manager.
xmmwwwwM
The garden theatre,
BAYSWATER ROAD, DARLINGHURST.
One (1) Minute from top William Street.
MR. EDWARD BRANSCOMBE’S
DANDIES COMPANY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
CHANGE PROGRAMME EVERY THURSDAY.
Prices 2/6 (Reserved), 2/- and 1/-.
Theatre ’Phone: William Street 512.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
The picture block theatres'
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-.
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., present their Gorgeous
Annual Panto. Extravaganza,
MOTHER GOOSE.
Plan at Allan’s. -
Prices: 6/-, 4/-, .2/- and 1/-.
The Boot- Croaker
Am gas system:
CHEAPER THAN
tlecfricity, Coal-Gas, Acetylene or Kerosene.
and BETTER THAN All.
INTER-STATE AGENTS
Buzacott & Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Dangar, Gedye & Co.,
Young St., Sydney.
J. Bartram & Son ud.'
Bourke St., Melbourne
Works: 269 Toorak Rd..
Melbourne
YOU HAVE A BEAUTIFUL FACE
r
But Your Nose ?
imwj,
Before
After,
**r*'
In this age attention to your appearance is an
absolute necessity if you expect to make the most
out of life. Not only should you wish to appear
attractive as possible for your own self-satisfac-
tion, whi-ch is alone well worth your efforts, but
you will find the world in general judging you
greatly, if not wholly, by your “looks,” therefore
it pays to “look your best” at all times.
Permit no one to see you looking
otherwise ; it will injure your welfare ! Upon
the impression you constantly make rests the
failure or success of your life. Which is to he
•7 oj l r ultimate destiny ? My new nose-shaper
Tracfos (Model 22) corrects now ill-shaped
noses without operation quickly, safely and per-
manently. Is pleasant and does not interfere
with one’s daily occupation, being worn at night
Write to-day for free booklet, which tells yoii
how to_ correct ill-shaped noses without cost if
not satisfactory.
TRILETY, Face Specialist,
173 Ackerman Bldg., Blnghampton, N.V., U.S.A.
Amusements.
■HEAT RE ROYAL,
Direction J ~
O.WlLLfjlffigfgJ!''***.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., present the Brilliant Far
IT PAYS TO ADVERTISE.
Prices: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalk «
Stalls, 4/-; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at &* / ‘ ;
ING’S theatre, YFlTi«(nriorr
Lessees.... BERT BAILEY & JULIUS PR a A
1 )ilection PHILIP LYTTON TTn
Representative GEO. L. MERRIMay
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 19 MAV
PHILIP LYTTON presents’
THE WAYBACKS
AT HOME AND IN TOWN
THE COMEDY THAT CATCHES EVERYBODY
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Allan’s
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOLRXE
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
First appearance of
SHAKSPEARIAN CO. in
GEORGE MARLOW'S
HAMLET.
Popular Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
I J O U THEATRE, MELBOI’ rITF
FULLER’S THEATRES & VAUDEVILLE LTD
Governing Director .... BEN J. FULLER,
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
Afternoon 2.30. Evening at 8.
DEL BAITY’ and JAP, CHARLES EDENBURV
THREE STARRS. KINGSLEY and GRAHAM
PHILLIP SISTERS, ALSACE and LORRAINF
FRANK HERBERTE, CASSELLI SISTERS, JESSIF
and DOLLY MILLER, VAL and LOTTIE NEWMAN
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Matinees: 1/6, 1/- and fid!
|_J () Y T'S PICTUR E~S\ MELBOURNE!
BEST AND MOST.
TWO BIG SHOWS.
HOYT'S OWN: Bourke Street, next Theatre Royal.
OLYMPIA: Prince's Bridge.
Birch & carroll
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for .the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE
Druids’ Art Union.
Total Value of Prizes, £750.
Ist PRIZE, £400; 2nd PRIZE, £lOO.
Value Guaranteed.
100 Prizes. TICKETS, OXE SHILLING.
Upon receipt of postal note for 1/- ticket
will be forwarded to any part of the Com-
monw T ealth. Do not delay. Send postal
note and addressed envelope to the Secre-
tary,
R. A. BARRY.
715 George Street, Sydney.
MARLIN
HIGH -VELOCITY
RIFLES
Four of these famous side-ejecting,
high-power rifles have been aclded to
our list, and they are well worth
investigating by big-game shooters.
.32 cal. H.V. Rifle, 95/-
.32/40 and .38/55 H.V. Carbines, 90-
.32/40 and 38/55 H.V. Rifles, 95/-
.33 cal. H.V. Special Rifles, £5/15/-
Sent by mail they cost 4/8 extra, but
the cartridges have to be sent by boat
or rail.
AlcocK (EL Pierce,
318 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
[youOaMe"WYOuONfFEi
JAMES C. BALDWIN
ALBERT ROAD. HAMILTON. .
EXCELLENT
quality
SHEFFIELD
STEEL
I Length Inches closed, thin and smooth. This is a
serviceable gentleman’s knife, and to ensure it against logs
have your name on one or both sides. Price 2/6 P osl
free anywhere. Name and not more than three word
address, 3/-» Write order very clearly, as inscription can
[never be altered. The UNION Co., 299 Elizabeth Street, Mejh,
[the sqLderTncToßC h
, 6/6
Supplies its own best
Handy for Tradesmen and Amateurs. Ready for ns*
in one minute anywhere. The trouble of a soldering J
is heating the bit and keeping it hot. The Soldering
[is charged with beneine or petrol and it heats the ™rj~.
'bit in a minute and keeps it at the right heat nnti
[is done Easily managed Makes soldering a pleasn
[THE 0-K iRTOufaTPOCKErOGffi
•ill pror
is positively guaranteed for one year, r _
bably last several years. The
«ill never wear out. Only l/9>
'where. Try it for a week and havey ,
back if you say ao. One 61 •”« «
benzine a week. Cheaper,
handier than matches. Bntis •
Smaller than a pencil in your p«ca
Strong* heavily nicfcelrpUt*®-
The UNION Mfg. Company 999 F.luabeih Street, jjefcggtJ
“F.L.T.” : AUSTRALIA stands for a lot of
things; but would you mind telling my friend
the shirker that when he sees the letters on
a soldier’s shoulder they stand for Are you
Satisfied to Remain a Loafer in Australia?
There are several alternatives to Loafer.
Louse, for example, the fellow who keeps
his own feet from freezing by living on the
warm blood of some harder worker.
In some of the newer carriages on the Vic-
torian railways the panelling is of Queens-
land maple, a handsome wood that is par-
ticularly suitable for the manufacture of
interior fittings, being of compact grain but
easily worked. It is an omen of changing
•fortunes for Australian timbers; and there
are other indications of awakening interest.
The Victorian Institute of Architects is
now persistently advocating the branding and
seasoning of local timbers and their use. in
house-construction. A section of Victorian
mill-owners has also at last decided to do
the right thing by adequately seasoning the
home-grown output and selecting a distinc-
tive brand for each item thereof. Consider-
ing the proven superiority of properly-sea-
soned Australian wood both below and
above ground; with its strength and its fire-
resisting qualities, this is a simple business
proposition which can have only one result.
“J.E.”: Re non-delivery of soldiers’ let-
ters. One of the cruellest examples to come
under my notice was the case of an Anzac’s
father whose letters were returned to him
with “Deserter” stamped in red across the
face of the envelope. The town is a small
one, so the return- of the correspondence
soon became known all over the place, and
the anguished man could hardly look his
friends in the face. A couple of months
later a letter arrived from Heliopolis Hos-
pital, where the supposed deserter was being
cared for. He had been shot in the foot
while guarding the Suez Canal, had been
left for a day or two out in the desert, and
finally brought in unconscious. I haven’t
heard of anybody being shot for the libel,
but I know a man who’d undertake the job
if lie could find the libeller.
“Maintop”: Australian shipping com-
panies are busy selling their old vessels for
more than their original cost to foreigners.
Late sales include the Peregrine, Innamincka
and Aldenham. Many inter-State boats of a
better value are engaged on time charter trad-
ing to foreign ports, which assists in making
local tonnage scarce. From a patriotic stand-
point all surplus vessels should be used
to transport the Australian harvest to
Europe, and it is about time that the Aus-
tralian Government shut down on ship-selling
during the crisis. Such a step is just as
urgent as the Don’t-export-pollard-and-bran
ultimatum that has been fired at the
farmers.
“F.H.R.”: The vigilance of the police is
really startling. Five months back there
was a shortage of dynamite, and our regular
supplies from Tamworth (N.S.W.) being cut
off, I set out per sulky and horse to buy up
all I could find in the small villages up
north. I went as far as Walcha and bought
every plug available, and this lot amounted
to cases. But the police didn’t know
anything about it. They slept calmly on
while an utter stranger carted away in the
direction of the bridge that spans the
McDonald River, near Woolbrook, sufficient
explosive to pass it off the face of the earth.
Had I been an enterprising German I could
have disarranged the Great Northern rail-
road quite easily while strict guard was
being kept over the Ilawkesbury. And when
you come to think of it:, one old bridge is as
good as another to stop a train at.
“0.K.” : If there be any truth in the story
that the newest brand of warplane is so
stable in its flight that “a child can guide
it,” why do we still get so much talk about
the personal achievements of certain men on
monoplanes? Air fighting is not a new Olym-
pian game at which championships are to be
Avon and records broken. We Avant no more
of these stories of individual effort and com-
paratively unimportant heroism. What doth
it profit a nation paying 14,000,000 a day for
its Avar if airman X takes airman Z prisoner,
or vice versa? Duels betAveen one “famous”
aviator and another ought by this time to be
beneath newspaper notice. If the hea\ Ty-
engined machines have attained stability and
can be engineered by any capable trained
operator, we want to hear about whole fleets
of them, not samples. The first side that
puts 5000 battle-’planes into action is going
to end this ridiculously long-drawn-out war ;
for the Germans are not so obsessed with the
cant of militarism that they fail to see the
possibilities of 5000 fighting biplanes drop-
ping 20,000 bombs on their sacred works of
Essen.
Maurice Blackburn, M.L.A. (Vic.), comes
again:—-
In my letter summarised in “Come Out of the
Clouds” (B. 10/2/’l6) I spoke for myself only.
But as Thk Bulletin repeats its request for an
exact statement of the Avay conscription of wealth
is to be achieved, here are my views: (1) I do not
think a tax on unrealised wealth practical or desir-
able. (2) I dread an extension of incontrovertible
paper. (3) I want an income-tax which will (a)
exempt from taxation the amount, necessarily vary-
ing, required for a taxpayer’s maintenance and his
dependents, but this amount should in no case
exceed £3OO a year; (6) tax the excess progress-
ively until the income above £lOOO shall all be
taken. (4) If large capital sums are required for emer-
gencies the Government should (a) ascertain from
the National Register the amount of disclosed
wealth which can be taken without impairing l
necessary industries; (6) compel the payment of
that wealth, in individually assessed proportions,
from the persons shown by the Register to be its
owners; (c) undertake that the money so taken
shall be repaid without interest by instalments
spreading over a stated number of years ; (d) repay
instalments out of revenue raised by progressive
income-tax.
Iu what way this Aveakens The Bulletin’s
argument that when Blackburn and others
were talking about conscription of wealth
they meant taxation looks a fairly substan-
tial conundrum. It is made no easier of
solution by the proposition to repay out of
taxation the large capital sums which could
be appropriated “without impairing neces-
sary industry.” That is not conscription
of wealth for purposes of war —nor any-
thing like it. It is the forfeiture of certain
people’s earnings to pay back to other people
the cash expended on gunpowder, and the
net result of it AA’Ould be to make production
valueless.
“Petrograd reports that, as a reprisal for
the Dvinsk air raid, Russian aeroplanes bom-
barded Ponevesh. They blew up a stretch of
railway and an ammunition train.” But why
talk of “reprisal”? The blowing up of a
stretch of railway and an ammunition train
would count as a military achievement if it
were done by field artillery. Why, then, call
such air raids “reprisals,” as though by
way of apology?
Arthur Rodgers, M.11.R. for Wannon
(Vic.), has a scheme which he believes will
yield a tidy sum for the aid of the maimed
men and the dependants of fallen soldiers
long before the benefits of a land-settlement
policy can make themselves felt. Rodgers’s
device is to get each of the farmers of his
electorate to set aside a stated section of this
year’s cultivated ground, the produce there-
from to be sold for the fund. So far those
who have said “Yes” have been above expec-
tations.


pain. Cuticura Soap and Oint-
ment Completely Healed.
Kin Kin, Via Cooran, Queensland. —
“For two years I suffered with a rash all
over my body being particularly bad on my
back. After a time it broke out in small
sores which used to itch and burn so much
that I could not sleep at night and when I
was working it used to nearly send me mad
with the pain. At first I scratched it but
as it made it worse I refrained from doing
so again. Seeing an advertisement about
Cuticura I obtained some Cuticura Soap
and Cuticura Ointment and after using
them as directed I was completely cured.
“I also found the Cuticura Ointment good
for a cut on my hand which it healed up
in two or three days.” (Signed) D. Abra-
hams, Apr. 21, 1914.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
Teach Cadets
to shoot
The Ross “ Cadet ” Rifle is a
,22 calibre rifle, made expressly
for Cadet Organizations to the
ROSS “CADET'
”, .22 CALIBRE
specifications of the
Canadian Government.
It is strong and
serviceable, shoots .22
calibre short, long, or
long rifle cartridges—
(the most inexpensive
made), and has self-
ejecting straight pull
action.
It is an excellent and
safe arm to use to drill
youths and teach them
how to shoot.
The price is £2-10,
in Canada ; discounts
are quoted on orders
for quantities.
Full particulars on application. 715
Ross Rifle Co.,Quebec, Canada.
t
BENGER’S
is the
most easily
digested
Food
obtainable.
It is expressly
devised to be fully
nourishing- when
natural digestion
isenfeebled, whether
in child or adult.
It is prepared with fresh
new milk and forms a dainty
and delicious cream, which
fully satisfies “hunger-faint-
ness,” and soothes internal
discomfort. Benger’s is the
safe food in illness, and in
convalescence promotes
rapid recovery.
Delicate children thrive on it.
Food
For CHILDREN,
Invalids and the aged
is sold by Druggists, etc., everywhere.
Bender’s Booklet —A little work of authority on
the special feeding of Children, Invalids,and the
Aged, will be sent post free on application to :
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd.,Manchester, Eng:.
Branch Ojfrices— New YORK (U.s.A.) 92, William Street
SYDNEY (N.S.W.) 117, Pitt Street.
Canadian Agents— National Drug Co., Ltd., Montreal.
lBO A
Letters Copied While Writing
(in ink) by using your own Letter-paper
With this Book, You slip your
paper into the holder and write,
and by the act of writing you
secure a perfect letter and a •
perfect copy. There is no
sign of copying. 400 octavo Bin. x oin., or 200 quarto
letters, can be copied in NSC/200 Book, size 10* x
°*> post free 4/6; or NSC/400 DOUBLE Capacity
tor 6/-. _ Special Small Octavo Book, making 200
copies, Bin. x sin., post free 3/6 ; double capacity, 4/6.
sample of the celebrated Zanetic Ink Paper, which
produces this result, free, if stamped-addressed
envelope sent to S. B. Zanetic. Leicester, England.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-
paying office in the World. HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C. ; Hon. Jas. Burns, M.L.C. ; Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C.;
Samuel Hordern, Esq.
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Accumulated Funds, £33,500,000. Annual Income, £4,500,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1914 .. £1,034,346 Total Bonuses distributed .. £19,808,000
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. Write for prospectus
and full information without delay.
•s§?
&
THIS instep-strap shoe has been specially
designed to look trim and dainty
beneath those delightfully feminine
frills and flounced hems that have
returned to vogue again. It is a particularly
pretty shoe, with a fine air of individuality
about it. The front part is patent leather,
and the back and strap are black flowered
brocade, set off by an attractive slide and
ornament of dull silver. The picture gives
some idea of the happiness of this combina-
tion, but the shoe itself is far more charm-
ing than the picture. Made in the dainty,
short-fronted shape and with that smart
Cuban heel which makes walking so comfort-
able, it really is a “find” in the way of
shoes. And ladies will see other and equally
delightful shoes in the latest Bostock ship-
ments, especially if they view them at once.
Bostock No.
826
//
1
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostoclc.”
On sale at all leading stores. Look
for the name “Bostoek” on the soles.
GS
The Helping Hand
To-day, some poor, suffering soul has been
turned away from St. Vincent’s Hospital—
turned away in anguish and despair because
your helping hand was not outstretched in
time. “There is no room!” was the only
answer that could be given to that poor
soul’s appeal. Can you withhold the
Helping Hand any longer?
A million shillings are needed to provide
150 more beds. Let one shilling at least
come from you. Hand it in to any local
collector and receive - a coupon in exchange.
Twenty shillings or coupons entitle you to a
ticket in a draw for an Engaved Solid
Gold Plaque, value One Hundred and
Fifty Pounds sterling, and the entry of
your name as a member of
The Million Shilling League
Tickets for the Plaque will be issued from
the central office.
St. Vincent’s Hospital, Melbourne
appeal for a Million Shillings.
(Issued on behalf of St. Vincent's Hospital by Gordon Sf Gotch Pty. Ltd.)
The Hon. Treas. of the Fund are Arthur S. Baillieu and Edward Fitz Gerald, to whom all
moneys may be paid or sent, at the Central Office, Collins House (4th Floor), Collins St., Melb.
The Sydney and Suburban
Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
The “Safety
For Safety.
For Reliability.
For Regularity.
For Durability.
First ” Movement
For Smooth Running.
For Fast Running.
For Heavy Lifting.
For Economical Upkeep.
Instal Up-to-date Hydraulic Lifts
Hydraulic Elevators, Lifts, Hoists, etc., at prices to suit all requirements.
Complete Hydraulic Plants for Lifting, Pressing, Dumping, etc.
Lift Maintenance, Inspection and Repairs a Specialty
Quotations supplied for all classes of Lift Maintenance and Repairs, Renewal of Lift-
ing Ropes and other parts. Rest Workmanship at Lowest Rates.
Large Stocks High-pressure Pipes, Valves and Tubing always on hand.
Make Sure Your Orders Reach the Right Company .
No connection with any other Lift Insurance, Inspection or Maintenance Company.
14 Martin Place, Sydney.
A. MAINE HERON,
Manager.
NOTE.—Hydraulic Power will Never Fail You.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“N.T.”: The newest thing in Victorian
railroad-engines, now being built under the
direction of Chief Mechanical-engineer
Shannon, is commonly known as the Wal-
schaert A 2. This looks like good news for
pro-Germans; but the correct spelling of the
engine’s Christian name is really Wal-
schaerts, and its godfather was a Belgian
mechanic. The A 2 part of the new hauler
is mostly of Australian design,' the Wal-
schaert addition being a valve gear which,
after exhaustive trials, has superseded the
British device. These Walschaert A2’s will
be the most powerful engines on any Aus-
tralian railroad, and the inhabitants of such
rather-neglected Victorian regions as that,
say, between Womerah and Wool Wool
(where, as everyone knows, the midday
express does 21 miles in 90 minutes) are
hopeful that the time may be reduced when
the up-to-date tractors get into action.
* Hr * *
“D.F.”: Tasmania has an idea that she
may get something out of the proposed Com-
monwealth Research Institute. For a start
a deputation has urged the State Govern-
ment to put £2OOO into an electrical indus-
trial research laboratory at Hobart with
the object of finding out how to make the
best use of the State’s hydro-electric scheme
and other things. The Federal Government
is to be asked to help the scheme along, in
view of the national importance of using
Tasmania’s water-power, by endowing it
with a fellowship of the Central Institute.
Premier Earle says he will try tc find the
£2OOO if the Federal Government will do
its bit; and the best bit the Federal Govern-
ment can do is to put on such thumping
duties that there will be a sure market for
the manufactures when they do arrive.
* * * *
“Quidam”: It was on a Queensland gold
field and he had tried many ways of earning
a dishonest crust, but the proceeds had all
faded away. Consequently, some weeks
later an enthusiastic throng, including a
bank manager, a doctor and several com-
mercial heavyweights, with an attractive
cargo of drinkables, asked an assayer as a
trusted friend to accompany them on a mis-
sion combining pleasure and business. On
the way, after swearing him to strict sec-
recy till all transfers, etc., had been com-
pleted, they confided to him that, merely to
add his expert evidence to what they had
no doubt of, they wanted him to examine
a fabulously rich quicksilver lode they were
about to complete the purchase of, the lode
containing not only cinnibar but native mer-
cury. For £lOO they were to acquire a large
interest in the show, which they had already
inspected; and the discoverer was to meet
them on the ground that day, sign the last
necessary documents, and receive the £3O
balance outstanding of the purchase money.
The assayer’s expert opinion of the dis-
coverer slightly dashed the enthusiasm of
the speculators, and the absence of the gen-
tleman from the site on their arrival further
enhanced the uneasy feeling; but absolutely
unchristian language broke loose when care-
ful examination of the lode showed that the
“cinnibar” was only buck quartz painted with
red lead, while the “native mercury” had
been carefully poured from a bottle into
the quartz scientifically cracked and shat-
tered by a small charge in a 10ft. drill hole.
The lode is still there, also the mercury, but
the venerable recipient of those 70 beautiful
golden sovereigns has never returned to claim
the £3.0 still outstanding. To this day the
unprecedented vocabulary employed by that
band of leading citizens during their vol-
canic return to the township is remembered
with unholy glee by those who enjoyed the
glad privilege of hearing it.
* * * *
“A. Jim” : About the conference on forest
conservation talked of by the Gov’nor-Gen-
eral. It is to be hoped that nothing will be
done to stop the destruction of our tallow-
w T ood and other soft timbers, because any
reckless action in that direction would seri-
ously interfere with the arrival of ships
stacked to the masthead with Yaukee wood.
At one time the Richmond River dis-
trict (N.S.W.) was one big stretch
of softwood brush, none of which was
supposed to have any value, with the
exception perhaps of cedar, which was so
highly prized that in odd places. you can
still find stretches of cedar fencing. _ The
rest of the timber was felled and burned.
Rosewood, black bean, ash —it all went in
the flames. There are many places where
the same performance can be repeated, and
what I want to know is why, instead of
interfering with P. Enterprise with a fire-
stick, we cannot concentrate all our energies
on carrying out the war and knocking off
work? Moreover, it isn’t the Hun in our
midst who is busy with axe and firestick.
but good, patriotic Australians who are firm
believers in the greatness of our vast natural
resources, and in importing the natural re-
sources of other countries in large quantities.
* * * *
“D.F.”: The North-West Coast (Tas.)
is always putting up records in adipose
spuds, and now one J. Peirce, of Wesley
Yale, has gathered in the biggest crop of
oats ever harvested in the Bpeck From 10
acres he got 1100 bushels, or 110 bushels
per acre. The grain was mounted on straw
Bft. high, which also sounds like a record.
From a much bigger area he got 96 bushels
per acre.
COVERED BY INSURANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The burglar who had broken in
Was bent on getting Cohen’s gold.
He searched the Hebrew to the skin,
And Cohen sat serene and bold.
“Mein friend,” he said, “I’m game to bet
Von sinkle kvid you do nod get.”
The rash intruder drew a gun,
And held it under Cohen’s nose;
But Mossy did not turn to run,
No hint of funk did he disclose.
He sprayed upon the rogue a smile
Entirely free from Yiddish guile.
“Now, ante up,” the villain cried,
“Or by the holy hook I’ll fire!”
But Mossy simply sighed: “All righd,
Shust fire avay as you require.
Vy don’d you fire? It fears me not —
I haf der fire insurance got!”
VICTORIA.
TALLY T.


We Sell only
RELIABLE SPORTING
GOODS.
Our Motto: “Goods Right-Prices Right.”
.. # tua T’ <? WHY we endeavor to always satisfy,
SATISFIED CUSTOMER is our best advertisement, THAT S WHY we
TENNIS REQUISITES.
GOLF MATERIAL
%
f
For full particulars of Tennis,
Golf and all Sporting Materials,
see our illustrated Sports List.
Post free to any address.
We specially recommend our M.S.
Haymarket Rackets and Balls as
being absolutely the best value
procurable.
RACKETS.
(Postage on one racket: N.S.W., 9d.
other States, 1/2.)
M.S. Handicap, full size 6/-
C. 8.8. Special 9/0
M.S. Champion 11/6
C. 8.8., cork handle .. 13/6
C. 8.8., Quadruple . 15/6
M.S. Haymarket 22/6
Havmarket, Special 27/6
Haymarket, Selected.. 35/-
Haymarket, Ex. Special 37/6
Ay re’s Handicap 14/6
Ayre’s A 1
Ay re’s Double Central..
Ayre’s Champion
Ayre’s S.N.D
Slazenger’s Renshaw ..
Slazenger’s Demon
Slazenger’s Whitehouse
Slazenger’s E.G.M
Slazenger’s Doherty ...
Slazenger’s Stadium ...
16/6
18/9
22/6
45/-
15/-
22/6
27/6
36/6
40/-
45/-
(Postage on
BALLS.
one doz.: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
Each. Doz.
Grey Regulation.. -/6 5/6
Grey Regulation,
superior .... - /10 97-
Challenge, covered 1/- 11/-
Ayre’s Court, cov’d 1/- 11/6
Each. Doz.
Dunlop Champion 1/6 16/6
Haymarket Special 1/8 18/6
Avre’s Champion 1/8 19/-
Slazenger’s Cham-
pion 1/8 19/-
NETS.
Steam Tarred and Waterproof, full size, 5/6, 8/6, 11/6, 13/6
Steam Tarred and Waterproof, wire head line —
13/6, 16/6, 22/6, 27/6, 33/-
Our stock of Golfing Requisites is unsurpassed, and comprises
Clubs, Balls, etc., by the world’s leading makers.
CLUBS.
Postage on one club: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
M.S. Drivers and Irons.. 5/-, 7/6 Brassies.. o/6, 8/0
Auchterlonie Drivers and Irons 8/-
Simpson’s Drivers and Irons.. 7/6
J. Braid’s Drivers and Irons 8/-
Cann and Taylor’s Irons 7/-, 8/-
Spalding’s Irons & Drivers 5/6, 7/9
Braid Mills’ Aluminium Putters
BALLS.
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
Watson’s No. 10
Silver King (Yel.
Dot)
Silver King (Black
Dot)
White Dimple ..
Midget Dimple ..
Domino Dimple
Black & White
Dimple ....
Challenger King
Arch Colonel
Glory Dimple ..
CADDY BAGS.
Waterproof Canvas, leather bottom and sling—
7/6, 9/-, 12/6, 14/6
Solid Hide, best quality 17/6, 21/-, 25/-
HAYMARKET
•SYONEY-
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS’ OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KING STREET; also at NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE.
■v
i
A
V'
VCi
SPB
We are Specialists in all kinds of
SPORTING REPAIR WORK.
V
THE GIES REVERSE PEAR.
The GIES is built in three sizes of the enclosed and open type, so that it
is the best-fitted reverse gear for the greatest number of power boats. It is
the simplest reversing mechanism made. The few parts it has are all inter-
changeable as they are jig madte to accuracy. High-grade materials and first-
class°workmanship; combined with right design, make the GIES the most depend-
able reversing device on the market. ~ ,
GIES Gears are not an experiment, they are the result of
10 years’ experience in building reverse gears exclusively. Over
30 000 satisfied customers are our best recommendations.
DEALERS: We wish to secure responsible dealers wherever
we have no representation. We feel certain that reliable
importers will want to represent the GIES line, once they have
investigated its merits. The GIES offers any dealer a com-
plete line of reverse gears to fit any make of engine. Rightly
priced and widely advertised, the GIES will be a quick-selling',
money-making line to handle. Write for our special dealers
proposition to-dlay. Cable Address.
GIES GEAR CO., Detroit, Mich., U.S.A.
GIESGEAR,
DETROIT.
■M
m:
S
High-class Machinery Means
Greater Profits to the User
We have large and varied stocks of High-grade Machines
by well-known makers, comprising:—
Lathes, Millers, Shapers, Planers, Drilling
Machines, Woodworking Machinery, etc.
Write for Catalogue.
c
Proprietary Limited
Established 1860.
Collins Street, Melbourne and —Bathurst Street, Sydney.
No. 304 A
OSTER
MACHINES
BELT CEL MOTOR
DRIVEN
47 distinct die-
stocks and screw-
ing machines.
One to fit your
pipe-threading
needs.
Australian Representative:
CHARLES WRIGHT,
Box 251, CPO-, Melbourne, Vic,
FOR ALL-ROUND
PIPE-THREADING
OSTER Pipe-Threading Machines excel because of
their wide range of usefulness concentrated in the
smallest floor space of any threading machines.
The machine shown at the left, No.
304 A, threads 8 sizes of pipe
from 1-inch to 4-inch diameter,
and bolts all sizes from Hnch to
If-inch. Special features of Oster
Machines are: Automatic die re-
lease, quick-opening dies, automatic
oil pump and simple, convenient
die-head. For clean-cut threads
and quick work use Oster Machines.
The Oster Mfg. Co.
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
[i
A
a
%
Vj
Exercise tHe Same Care
in choosing cartridges for your .22 calibre rifle as you
do for your larger calibred rifle or revolver.
.22 CALIBRE CARTRIDGES
a J I ’ e carefully made and accurately loaded. Their reputation has
been gained by their great accuracy and penetrative powers, and
they are stamped with the approval of the world’s foremost small
bore shooters. Our trade mark is your guarantee.
We shall be pleased to send, postpaid to any address, interesting infor-
mation for shooters. When writing, send us the
name of your dealer.
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
Woolworth Building. New York City
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative,
P.O. Box 686, Melbourne.
REMINGTON
UMC
JL
1
Contractors to the British and Colonial Governments,
Exclusive Ag'ents Wanted
to Sell Gasoline Engines
MARINE, STATIONARY AND
PORT ABLE OUTBOARD MOTORS.
2-11. P. PORTABLE.
Write at once to
The Caille Perfection Motor Co.,
506 CAILLE STREET,
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
“WORLD’S LARGEST BUILDER'S OF
TWO-CYCLE MOTORS.’*
We manufacture every practical type of Gasoline
Motor. Prices Right. Quality First.


WHOS THE LADY?
She uses
REXONA
SOAP.
She is Miss Ethel Dane, the ch-i raring
actress whom everyone admires; she’s
a true Rexona Girl, and knows the
value of a good complexion. An; you
a Rexona Girl, too? Read what Miss
Dane says:—
“I cannot understand why anyone
should use a skin food or face cream
when Rexona Soap answers the pur-
pose of both so well. I have found it
simply delightful to the skin, and as
a shampoo for the hair it is truly
wonderful.
“I shall recommend it to all my
girl friends, and I wish Rexona
every success.”
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) ETHEL DANE.
•; {.
f
i
/f
Miss ETHEL DANE,
(from a Murmann
Studio Photograph).
Rexona, the Aristocrat of Soaps.
Why not enjoy a good complexion? You cannot, if you do not care for the delicate skin
of the face. When you wash your face do you realise that it is not enough to remove simply
the dirt, but that your skin needs a soothing, healing influence to keep your complexion fresh
and free from blemish ? Scented toilet soaps are often very pleasant, but do not assert this
influence, as you are well aware. Many of them contain free alkali, which tends
to dry up the skin and destroy its delicate textures. Even the better class of such soaps do
not in any way help to im-
prove the skin, but Rexona
Skin and Facial Soap is not
only an absolutely pure soap,
but is medicated on the same
principle as the famous Rexona
Ointment, which is famous
throughout all of Australasia
as the Rapid Healer. That
is why Rexona Soap really
does for the skin and face
what cosmetics are supposed to
do, by ensuring not only a
clean face but a pure and
healthy skin, and thus gives
you a clear complexion. Don’t
forget now is the time. •
Take a Tablet home to-night.
It is beautifully put up, and
sold at Is. per tablet; or you
can get it in boxes, each con-
taining three tablets.
SSS
iORTWI
Kh Uk
JA SKIN fit FACIAL
remit Bw«
!W.
MEO\CATtO SOAP.
This WEEK’S TOILET HINTS
THE LATEST AND SMARTEST BEAUTY RECIPES COLLECTED FROM VARIOUS
EXPERT BEAUTY WRITERS.
A “Blackhead” Secret.
An instantaneous remedy for blackheads, oily skin
and enlarged pores.
Blackheads, oily skins and enlarged pores
usually go together, but can be instantly cor-
rected by a unique new process. A tablet of
stymol, obtained from the chemist, is dropped
in a tumbler of hot water which will then of
course “fizz” briskly. When the effervescence
has subsided the face is bathed with the
Stymol-charged water and then dried with a
towel. The offending blackheads, of their own
accord, come right off on the towel, the large
oily pores immediately contract and efface
themselves naturally. There is no squeezing,
forcing or any drastic action. The skin is
left uninjured, smooth, soft and cool. A few
such treatments should be taken at intervals
of three or four days thereafter in order to
ensure the permanence of the pleasing result
so quickly obtained.
Grey Hair—Home Remedy.
An old-fashioned, home-made recipe restores youthful
appearance.
There are plenty of reasons why grey hair
is not desirable and plenty of reasons why
hair dyes should not be used. But, on the
other hand, there is no reason why you should
have grey hair if you do not want it. To turn
the hair back to a natural color is really a
very simple matter. One has only to get from
the chemist an ounce of concentrate of tamma-
lite and mix it with four ounces of bay rum.
Apply to the hair with a small sponge for a
few nights and the greyness will gradually
disappear. This liquid is not sticky or greasy
and does not injure the hair in any way. It
has been used for generations with most satis-
factory results by those who have known the
formula.
To Kill Roots of
Superfluous Hair.
“Home Science.”
Women annoyed with disfiguring growths
of superfluous hair wish to know not merely
how to temporarily remove the hair, but how
to kill the hair roots permanently. For this
purpose pure powdered pheminol may be
applied directly to the objectionable hair
growth. The recommended treatment is
designed not only to instantly remove the
hair but also to actually kill the roots so that
the growth will not return. About an ounce
of pheminol. obtainable from the chemist,
should be sufficient.
The Real Cause of Most
Bad Complexions.
“Health and Beauty.”
It is an accepted fact that no truly beautiful
complexion ever came out of jars and bottles,
and the longer one uses cosmetics the worse
the complexion becomes. Skin, to be healthy,
must breathe. It also must expel, through
the pores, its share of the body’s effete
material. Creams and powders clog the
pores, interfering both with elimination and
breathing. If more women understood this
there would be fewer self-ruined complexions.
If they would use ordinary mercolised wax
instead of cosmetics they would have natural
healthy complexions.
About Hair Tonics.
“Novel Recipes.”
Each week almost one hears of some won-
derful discovery for improving the hair, and
although this paragraph may seem a little
superfluous, an old-fashioned recipe may come
as a welcome change. One thing about it is
that it will grow hair, and also prevent it
falling out. From your chemist get an origi-
nal package of boranium, to this add J-pint of
bay rum, allow it to stand 30 minutes, then
add sufficient water to make half a pint. Rub
briskly into the scalp with the finger-tips and
you will immediately experience that clean
tingling sensation which is a sure sign of
healthy action. [2
“Australian Made
Combs,
2/= each.
Cutters,
6d.each.
Postage extra. Ask for them at every shed,
or send direct to the Manager,
AUSTRALIAN COMB & CUTTER WORKS,
Corner Larkin & Sparkes Streets, Camper-
down, Sydney; or Head Office: FEDERAL
PASTORAL SHEARING CO. LTD., Chamber of
Commerce Building’s, George Street, Sydney.
I M
-Ttr
The Grows of God.
A PARABLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
YELLOW day in a long, lean year,
Barren the glade and bare the lea.
Hunger’s thought that was kin to
fear
Worked to sin in the soul of me.
Sun upon sun had a mocking gleam,
The birds went over on sickly wing
Oh, take your share of the weak man’s
dream —
Shell to drink and a song to sing.
Meal in the bin, will it last a week?
Buck and hoof, will the herd go by ?
Fowl and salmon are far to seek:
Children wail, for the milk is dry.
Brown sword idle and patched with green.
Cob’s grey silk on the yellow bow —
Oh, soul of my sin, were the white flocks
seen
Morn and eve in the vale below ?
Limbs that were weak with the sloth of fear,
Eyes all red with the hunger-lust—
How shall ye follow the light of spear,
How be true to the reiver’s trust?
Feace or war? ’Twas a choice made vain.
Death is death, be it wdiite or red.
Put ye your breath in the horn again—
God has crows and they must be fed!
King was I called; but the pain gripped sore.
Wolf-men they; but their lord was fear.
Slinking down through the dark we bore —-
Hunger’s fang was a shaking spear.
Fed men, loud with the lust of life,
Rose on our path in dawnlight grey.
Short and bitter and dark the strife—
God’s crows followed the falling prey.
Brown sword smoking against the sun,
Yellow bow to the hard shaft bent —
Lo, from the fangs of the wolf they run ;
Who shall follow the way they went?
March! For the end of the strife is nigh.
Blow on the horn! We have bled them
deep.
Spits shall turn as the red sparks fly.
On ye brave; for the word is sheep!
Slinking up through the day we crept;
Hot wounds dripped and the feet were
slow.
Over our march a black wing swept—•
Spare an arrow to stay the crow!
Eyes all red with famine and fear,
Long we sought where the white flocks
strayed.
Lame arms dragging the weary spear.
We sank at last to the ground dismayed.
Circled above us the crows of God;
Curses died on the failing tongue ;
Cold wounds pressed on the bitter sod—
Death, the gage to the victor flung.
Yellow day in a long, lean year;
Came the sheep from the valley bead ;
And a shepherd boy with a whistle clear
Drove them over us stark and dead.
Peace or war? ’Twas a choice made vain.
Death is death, be it red or white :
But the crows of God grew sleek again
In the yellow morn of a haggard night!
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The Red Bullock.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FOR three years Drayton, on his period-
ical visits to Barvunyah, had been
watching the growth of the beast and
cursihg the fact that it had some other
man’s brand on its rump. It had become an
obsession with him. A year-old steer when
it had been first pointed out to him by the
head stockman, it had put on bone and sub-
stance with every passing month till it had
become one of the heaviest beasts on the
run, a wild-horned, flashing-eyed beauty
whose coat of glossy red satin caught the eye
on every cattle-camp.
“Thirteen hundred if it’s a pound,”
thought Drayton, watching it lustfully.
“And it’s grown fat on my grass !”
It was that fact more than any other that
kept Drayton’s avarice at a warm glow. His
grass was sacred to him, and it was a com-
mon saying among passing drovers that if
he could he would hobble the galahs that
came circling down in grey-and-crimson
clouds on to the green herbage of his night-
paddock. He w r as a hard-grained man who
had sweated every pound of his fortune out
of a close-fisted and tenacious world, and
what he had he held.
The red bullock was a problem to him. He
did not know to whom it belonged, for the
brand on its rump had been burned in badly,
and the bottom half of a circle was the only
evidence that it had ever groaned beneath a
naming iron. Yet it did not belong to any
of the stations that bordered on Bargunyah,
for none of them branded on the rump.
More likely it was a straggler from one of
the half-dozen mobs that had been travelling
for grass during the bad year, and they all
hailed from a couple of hundred miles away.
Drayton was not going to trouble to write
and find out about it, even if there were any
possibility of discovering the rightful owner.
Moreover, he had come to consider the
beast as his own. Its wild horns and glossy
re d i Coa t had become a familiar figure on the
cattle-camp when he mustered to cut out the
nalt-yearly niob of fats. With seven thou-
aand cattle running wild over the mulca
ri dges and barley-grass flats of his run he
could not bear the thought of losing this par-
icular bullock. It carried thirteen hundred
pounds of beef and bone under its satin hide,
and it bad eaten his grass!
But what could he do w T ith it? He shrank
from putting his own brand upon it, for even
the blackboys knew that it was not his legi-
timate property. And he could not send it
off with his own fats to be trucked. Even if
he branded it and squared his own overseer
the mob would have to pass through Larry
Doyle’s grazing lease on their w 7 ay to the
rail, and twenty years before Doyle had done
time for killing Bargunyah cattle for beef!
The old man was easy-going, and apparently
had forgiven Drayton long since, but Dray-
ton was suspicious, and could never rid him-
self of the notion that Doyle was merely
waiting his chance.
“And he’d spot that red steer among five
hundred,” thought Drayton. “The old waster
isn’t as simple as he looks.”
In his attitude towards Doyle and his
sleepy-looking son there was something of
the implacable hostility of a man towards a
thing he has wronged. He read guile into
all the old man’s actions, and found deep
cunning even in his friendliness. In his mind
Doyle was always visualised as a black crow
perched at the Bargunyah gate awaiting an
opportunity to play Nemesis, and though
Drayton despised him he became uneasy
when the image came back to him.
And, curiously enough, he always thought
of Doyle in conjunction with the red steer.
There was no reason to believe Doyle knew
about it, yet by some association of ideas
they seemed to link themselves together.
Often on his visits to Bargunyah, when the
nights were too hot for sleep, Drayton lay
awake listening to the pepperina trailing its
ghostly fingers along the tin roof, and think-
ing of the thirteen hundred pounds of beef
that was apparently doomed to toughen with
age because of the want of a proper mark
on the hide that enclosed it.
“Damn the beast!” he muttered to him-
self. “It’s caused me more worry that it’s
worth. I’ve half a mir.d to drop it in its
tracks and leave it to the crows.”
Yet he knew very we'iJ that he was incapa-
ble of such a wasteful action. Instead he
had it put among the herd of killers in the
home paddock in the hope that the new over-
seer might use it for in mistake. But
the new overseer had a careful eye and a
Conscience, and when Drayton rode out a
few months later he found it still alive. With
an assumption of innocent casualness he
pointed it out to the overseer.
“That would make a fine bit of beef,” he
said. “You’d better take it next.”
The overseer glanced at him curiously.
“I’ve had a look at it,” he said. “It’s
got some sort of brand on it, but not ours.”
“It’s grown fat on our grass, anyway,”
snapped Drayton.
But he did not pursue the subject further.
He could not urge the new overseer to com-
mit a felony, and, besides, the latter might
have heard the story of Doyle ! And so the
red bullock remained in the home paddock,
its wild horns and flashing coat looking oddly
out of place among the herd of old cows
that Bargunyah had selected for the year’s
beef. It was still there one November after-
noon when Drayton rode out on his seventy-
mile journey from the township, the journey
he had made every three months in the last
ten years with automatic regularity, but this
time a day earlier than usual.
The overseer and the two stockmen were
out at the back of the run mending some
yards, and Drayton’s early arrival brought
consternation to the face of the half-caste
cook, for there was no beef in the cask.
“Boss was coming in to-morrow to kill,”
the latter stuttered in explanation.
“Never mind,” grunted Drayton. “Send a
boy to get the killers in. I’ll see to it
myself.”
A little later he was sitting on top of a
post working the drafting-gate, while the
powdered dust of the yard rose up from
underneath five score hoofs and choked in
his throat. At the blacks’ camp over the
creek word had been passed round that it
was killing-day, and a horde of gins, picca-
ninnies and dogs had poured over to lend a
hand and fight afterwards for the offal. They
squatted near the gallows or clambered over
the rails, peering at the dazed beasts and
chattering excitedly. There was a pungent
smell of dust, dried blood and burning leaves.
Drayton’s quick eyes sized up each beast
as it came through. He had not thought of
the red bullock till it bounded into the little
pen, its heaving body streaked with sweat,
and its eyes bulging with fear of the un-
known. It was a lordly beast. Drayton’s
vision just then w T as that of a hungry man
and a butcher, and the temptation came to
him in a flash.
“Take him!” he yelled to the grinning
blackboy who held the gate of the crush.
The gate swung open and the beast gal-
loped through and up the narrowing crush
till a barrier slammed in front of it and a
couple of rails were swiftly shoved in behind,
jamming it tight. All the wild beast’s lust
of life was concentrated in its mad bellow,
and its struggles shook the stout posts of
the yard. It seemed to see at once the
whetted knives waiting in the bucket, the
sharp axe leaning against the gallows, and
the shady creek-bend in the corner of the
cow-paddock where the grass grew fat and
sweet. Round about it the blacks crowded,
their fingers itching to peel off the smoking
hide.
Drayton himself w y as deliberate enough in
his movements. Now that the decision had
been made a queer uneasiness seemed to
have taken possession of him. He was a
justice of the peace, a man of standing in
the country, a rich man by any standard;
and yet here he was at the old game ! Men
had been sent down for doing as much at
the back of his own run.
But there was not a white man anywhere
near, and the camp blacks would not bother
about brands. He could burn the hide easily
enough before the overseer and the stockman
came in, and anyway, the beast had eaten
his grass! Three-fourths of it at least
belonged to him, he calculated, as he stood
astride the crush with his axe poised, trying
to keep clear of the terrific horns.
Ten minutes later, his hands dabbled with
blood, he was ripping up the beast’s belly
with his knife, while the gins dragged away
the unwanted portions of the carcase and
roasted them over their fires. Blood and
(Continued on next page.)


Affects tHe WHole System
No patient can live more than a few hours
when the kidneys cease to act.
For the kidneys are the blood-filters. When
they fail to act the blood is left in a poisoned
state.
The heart, the lungs, the digestive organs,
the brain and the nervous system all have to
depend upon the blood for their nourishment,
and they cannot he nourished by poisoned blood.
That is why kidney trouble is so serious—-
the vital organs are always liable to become
involved.
The earlier symptoms of weak kidneys are:
Patient feels very drowsy, heavy and irritable;
the sight is affected, and there may be headache.
Later, the watery swellings of dropsy appear,
there is pain in the loins and back, or patient
gets rheumatism. Nearly every case is accom-
panied by some disturbance of the urinary
system, such as irregularity in action, gravel
or stone.
The advanced forms of kidney disease are
not curable, but in the earlier stages Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills often prove invaluable.
Many bad cases of dropsy, stone, stoppage
caused by obstruction of the channels, rheuma-
tism and lumbago have been completely cured
by this remedy, and patients have reported
themselves still well many years later. Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills arouse sluggish kidneys
to a natural activity, enabling them to keep the
blood properly filtered, and to throw off the
poisonous uric acid and waste water, which
cause so much mischief when left too long in
the system.
“Every
Picture
Tells a
Story.”
3T
KIDNEY TROUBLE CURED.
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
THREE YEARS CURED.
Mrs. J. Wigmore, 21b Ann-street, Balmain, says:
“Twelve months ago Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
cured me of backache, headaches, dizziness, and
strengthened and toned up my kidneys so thoroughly
that 1 now feel a different woman. I suffered ter-
ribly before I took these pills. I was always in pain,
and my back was so lame that I could hardly get
about. Besides these symptoms of kidney disorder 1
had urinary trouble, the secretions being thick and
cloudy, and containing a red sediment. Suffering as
I was, you can readily understand that 1 am very
grateful to Doan’s Backache Kidney Tills for m.v
quick and lasting cure. 1 say ‘lasting,’ because 1
have been quite well since my cure was effected
twelve months ago. I strongly recommend all who
suffer as I once did to take Doan’s Backache Kidney
pills, which 1 consider the finest kidney remedy
known.” 'M
Two years later Mrs. Wigmore says:—“Three
years have elapsed since Doan’s Backache Kidney
Tills cured me of backache and kidney trouble, and 1
am pleased to say I have had no return of my old
complaint since.”
SIX MONTHS CURED.
Mrs. W. Toulton, 6 Campbell Street, Balmai ,
Sydney, says:—“My husband suffered terribly from
backache and kidney trouble for some time. The pain
in his back were often so bad tha’t he could scarce y
move, and it was impossible for him to stoop to lac
his boots. If he tried to bend his back in any way
the pain was so awful that, he could not help screa
ing out. 11 is ankles and legs swelled a good deal, an
he always felt dull and tired, and could not get prop
rest at night. The kidney secretions were aisu
affected, being thick and cloudy, with a red sechme •
He was really far from well, but until he took Boa
Backache Kidney Tills nothing did him any good. V 1 ,
remedy was recommended to him, and it wor
wonders. After taking two bottles there was a deci
improvement, and by the time he had used sew
bottles of these famous pills a perfect cure
effected, and he has never suffered from backache a
kidney trouble since, a. period of over six months.
3
Backache
Kidney
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
by all chemists and stores at 2/9 P er
bottle, or post free on receipt of pi ice
from Foster-McClellan Co., 79
Street, Sydney.
offal were everywhere, and the dogs and
piccaninnies fought for the leavings. So
preoccupied was Drayton with his work that
hi did not hear the beat of hoofs on the turf
or notice that a rider had reined up beside
him.
“Nice bit of beef.” said a voice.
“It’s all that,” grunted Drayton, his hands
in the steaming carcase.
He looked up. The stranger was Steve
Doyle, a sleepy-looking young fellow of
twenty-two, with dry, chapped lips that
always seemed to be open in a nervous grin.
Somehow the sweat stood put in small
nodules on Drayton’s forehead, and he was
conscious of the coldness of every bead
of it. The fellow bad always been an enigma
to him, just like his father. He could not
tell by the smile whether he was cunning or
merely good-natured and stupid. And it was
impossible to say how much he knew now.
Drayton’s hands were trembling as the
carcase swung in air, but he stripped the
hide over the tail and folded it up with great
care. He felt two hot spots in the back of
his neck as if young Doyle’s eyes were burn-
ing into him. A thought suddenly occurred
to him.
“You’ve come about those colts?” he said.
“Yes,” drawled Doyle. “When I saw you
pass to-day I thought I’d ride over.”
Drayton looked at him searchingly.
“Well, come and have something to eat,
and we’ll talk it over.”
The matter of the colts had been hanging
fire for over six months. Old Doyle wanted
fifty pounds for the five of them, and Dray-
ton would only offer forty. They were good
plugs, just what he wanted for rough work
among the timber, but he was determined
that old Doyle would get nothing out of
him. Yet the blue, vacuous eyes of the
young man in the saddle exercised a queer
fascination over him, and though he had an
impulse to get rid of his presence at all costs
he could not let him go away without finding
out how much he knew.
He cut some strips of steak off the skirt
and drove the cart with the hide in it down
to the yard, Doyle following. When he had
washed his hands and changed his blood-
soaked shirt and trousers Drayton felt more
himself. He watched Doyle like a hawk as
he sat opposite him at supper, watched the
jerky movements of his eyes and hands, yet
could not discover anything in him to
fear. No, the fellow was too stupid to
strike. It was in his father that the danger
lay, in that cunning, crafty old man who
had waited twenty years for his revenge. To
Drayton there was something diabolic in a
man who could wait so long, and he could
use what Steve would tell him in a hundred
different ways. In spite of himself he felt a
cold trickle run down his spine.
“A nice bit of steak,” said Steve with a
nervous grin.
Drayton’s eyes saw the red bullock in the
yard and the black crow perched on the gate.
He said quickly :
“About those colts. I’m ready to offer you
fifty for them.”
“Right,” said his companion.
Drayton hesitated, his eyes searching the
young man’s face.
“But tell your father I’ll ride down and
look at them first. It’s six months since Ive
seen them.”
Doyle’s eyes opened and his mouth hung
slack.
“I thought you’d ’ve heard,” he said.
“What?” snapped Drayton.
“I thought you’d 've heard,” repeated
Doyle stupidly—“the old man’s been dead
nearly five weeks.”
Drayton’s mouth dropped ajar for the frac-
tion of a second, and then snapped tight.
There seemed to be nothing to say at the
moment. He helped himself to some more
steak.
VANCE PALMER.
Only One Girl.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
boundary-rider, while he fries a
couple of chops, sings the only two
lines of the only one song he knows.
He is dressed in a shirt and a pair of boots.
When the lines of the song become mono-
tonous he whistles a tune. It is a lone life
on an out-station, but he seems quite happy.
His collie looks interestedly at the cooking
operation, his month gaping in a canine
grin.
Outside is desolation —ringbarked trees,
a blistering sunlight and bare loam. The
flies even crowd inside for shelter, and swarm
over the loaf of damper and golden syrup
tin which contains the sugar.
The collie suddenly jumps to the door to
smell a stranger, and the boundary-rider,
looking up, sees a pilgrim with a bundle on
his back.
“Day,” he says. Visitors are scarce, but
he shows no enthusiasm.
“How fur to Wantergideree?” asks the
man at the door.
“Twenty-seven miles if yer foller the
track.” The boundary-rider puts two more
chops in the pan.
The swagman walks in and drops his
burden by the door, sits down and wipes
the perspiration from his forehead with his
sleeve. He looks like a man who has dissi-
pated.
For a few minutes the sizzling of the
chops is the only sociable sound, but at
length the stranger says in an inquiring-
tone : t
“Heered they’re goin’ to sink a dam at
the station?”
“Don’t know. Maybe,” says the boun-
dary-rider. “The bloke who brings me the
rations has no conversation, and I never
hears any news.”
After some minutes contemplating the
boundary-rider’s bare legs, the dam-sinker
asks: “Why don’t yer put yer trousers on?”
There is a tone of resentment in the query.
“On’y got one pair, and I’ve just washed
’em. I’ve got a shop pair, but I want ter
keep them new if I goes away.”
He throws an extra tin plate opposite
the stranger, and then puts two chops on it.
“Back yer cart in,” he invites.
The dam-sinker seems in no hurry, having
the manner of a man you ask to drink and
who has wanted to be asked. At length he
takes the red- capsule of a bottle from his
pocket and places it before him on the table.
“Grace before meat,” he says, starting to
eat. and adding, with his mouth full, "All
’at’s left of the last dam I sunk.”
“Wot is it?” asks the boundary-rider, tak-
ing it in his hand. .
“Summit of Rosy Rapture,” says the dam-
sinkgr.
The boundary-rider throws it on the table
and goes outside quickly. He hurries down
to the tank, and sits beside his trousers,
which are drying. Now and again he sighs.
The flies buzz round without worrying him.
A crow quarks a comment from the skeleton
limb of a dead tree, and another crow flies
up to see what is the matter. The sad man
does not bother about crows; his misery
seems too great. The collie comes after him
and rubs his black nose under his arm as if
to comfort him, but the boundary-rider is
past comforting. He sighs some more. Then
he feels his trousers and puts them on, and
goes back to his breakfast.
“Took bad?” asks the dam-sinker, who has
finished liis meal and is smoking.
“It was nuthin’, on’y somethin’ that red
capsule put me in mind of.”
He eats for a while.
“Funny ’ow things bring things back. I
never see a red label without thinkin’ of a
piece I met in Sydney oncet.”
“Good lookin’?”
“Dunno,” reflectively. “But she wuz a
shinin’ bit of skirt, for all that. Bit of
allright. Sort of girl you meet oncet in a
lifetime.”
“They’re all the same,” remarks the dam-
sinker, cynically.
“Is ’orses all the same?” the boundary-
rider asks keenly.
“No, horses is different.”
“So’s wimmin,” clinches the occupant of
the lonely hut.
“I never thought of women that way,”
says the dam-sinker.
“S’pose you’ve not had much ter do with
them. If yer’d seen this little piece yer’d ’ave
seen a difference. Little piece yer meet
oncet in yer lifetime, that’s wot she wuz,
en it’s me that’s tellin’ it.”
“’Ow did yer come ter meet her?”
“Jest arst her to ’ave a drink. Wot I
liked about ’er she wuz so sensible. Fust
she arst me ’ow much money I ’ad. Then
she says: ‘lf I wuz you I wouldn’t stop
here. It’s not you they want,’ she says,
‘it’s on’y yer money. It’s a den of sharks,’
she says. ‘A lot of men is took down in
this pub,’ she tells me. Then she says,
‘lf you come down to my place I’ll look
after you. There’s on’y meself there, so
yer’ll on’y have yerself to spend yer money
on.’ ”
“I’d ’ave fought shy of her,” says the
dam-sinker, reflectively. “Did yer go?”
“Wot do you think? I told meself, ‘This
is a bit of skirt yer meets oncet in a life-
time.’ I liked the sensible wav
talkin'. Her ’ouse wuz a bit of ad o{
too. an’ I didn’t a „, b»4 e rf
round intm’ for liquor. The™ , ai W
her. The bottles ’ad red
you’ve got. That’s wot brougi t it k a V hat
again. & 11 a ‘l up
"’Ow long did the money last*) tv,
she ask you about it?” ' J tidn't
“Next mornin’ she says to me ‘T „ , I
make out where yer keeps yer splosh’ , nt
I tells her, ‘ln the Savings Bank’ ‘Ti ‘ n ’
no Hies on you.’ she says. ‘Yer’ caa’tul 8
me yer come from the Never’ s h 7 kid
‘Wot you don’t know ain’t worth
But ’ she says, ‘money in the si*n« ££
? >“.?«'» stop at a m3**
then if yer gets dupery they can’t get X
from yer pockets at a time. But whm, ! h
’ave a little girl ter look after ver the i‘° U
way is ter give it to ’er to mind for ,5
Even if yer both gets shickere'd she haft
safe down her stockin’ where nobody would
think of lookin . You know ’ow it VS
the_ Savings Banks,’ she says. ‘ T li e ’
always a lot of spielers ’angin’ around m
the lookout for bush blokes cornin’ to ( L»
some money. They look like decent com
but they’d ’ave yer eyebrows oft yer if
brows could be pawned. Not that I
ter nnnd yer money for yer,’ she says ‘R
I wouldn’t leave it in the Savinss Bint”’
“Did you take it out?”
“ w ® u » J? r , ,f e > she ’ad such a sensible
way of talkin’.”
“I bet she took yer down.”
“No, she didn’. She tole me next mornin’
that somebody must ’ave broke in an’ stole
it. an’ she wusn’t a girl ’at would tell t
lie.” “ ‘
“Bet yer she asked yer ter go?’
“We did ’ave a bit of a barney, ghe
tole me I’d better be goin’. I asks why. 'm
tell you Gorstruth,’ she says, ‘l’m gettin’ a
bit tired of yer.’ ‘Thought yer said ver
liked me?' I arsts. ‘Well, when I gets ter
know yer better.’ she says, ‘there is.parts
of yer I don't like. For one thing, I don’t
like yer freckles.’ ‘A bloke can’t ’elp his
freckles.’ I says. ‘That’s true,’ she says.
‘But,’ she says, ‘you’ve got the wrong color
of hair, too. an’ you’re bandy. Another
thing, yer spits too much when yer smokes.
I could never abear a man who is always
spittin’.’ ‘l’d give up spittin’,’ I tole her.
‘lt’s not that,’ she says. ‘Fact is, it’s ev'ry
bit of yer that’s wrong, and ennyway, me
proper bloke is cornin’ ’ome to-day, and he
mightn’t like to see you about the ’ouse.”’
“After I'd 'ad a think, I reckoned I’d bet-
ter go to save a row. But it’s took me along
time to get over it. If I’d been a good-
lookin’ bloke, en ’adn’t ’ave ’ad the ’abit of
spittin’. en if there ’adn’t ’ave been another
bloke, I might ’ave ’ad some chance with
’er.”
“Well, I wouldn’t growl about it,” says
the dam-sinker, with a show of sympathy.
“There's plenty more cheques yet, and
Plenty more girls if you only look out-for
them."
“There's plenty cheques all right,” says
the boundary-rider. “An’, after all, money
was meant to go. But there’s on’y one girl.”
ROBERT BROTHERS.


Bg Independent and Generate Your Own Current.
A Westinghouse Cross
Vertical Enclosed
Semi = Diesel Oil Engine,
owing’ to its speed, may-
be direct coupled to a
GENERATOR, thus
saving floor space and belt
transmission losses.
Its Distinguishing Features
are described in Booklet
Write to-day for
a copy to —
estinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.
nd Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane,
land G.'iiCß: 93-107jFeatherstonSt., Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
DON’T LOOK OLD!
But restore your grey and faded hairs to their natural color with
LOCKYER’A sulphur.
HAIR RESTORER
1/6 SOLD EVERYWHERE. 1/6
Lockyer s gives health to the hair and restores the
natural color. It cleanses the scalp, and makes
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
This world-famed Hair Restorer is prepared bv the great
Hair Specialists, J. Pepper & Co. Ltd., Bedford Laboratories
London, Eng., and can be obtained direct from them bv
post, or from any Chemists and Stores throughout the World.
As worn by our Brave Soldiers.
Every Patriotic Person should
wear one of these Brooches.
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN
BULL DOG BROOCH.
These splendid Brooches made in Australia and finished in
Gold, Silver, orOxodised Metal are sold retail at 2/6 each.
For the purpose of making these Brooches more popular
throughout the Commonwealth, we have decided to give
everyone an opportunity of obtaining Valuable Prizes for
acting as our agents. SEND NO MONEY, your name
and address will do, and by return mail we will send you
6of these Highly finished Brooches. When sold
remit us our money, and we will forward you the prize you
select from our Up-to-date Catalogue of Watches, Chains,
Clothing, Bracelets, Handbags, etc. Write To-day to the
SIMPLEX NOVELTY CO., Pitt-st, Sydney.
What our Troops Think
Hqldsworthy Camp, 7th October, 1915.
S. Fielder, Esq., Randwick. Dear Sir—On
behalf of our Company I wish to state that
we have derived great benefit from ‘your
famous Exzerma. A great number of our
Company, suffered from sore feet caused
through marching; also sunburn and chapped
lips, and were quickly cured by Eizerma.
Believe me, Yours faithfully,
Corporal Brown of the 10th, A.I.E.F.
All Chemists and Druggists, or from
S. FIELDER, Randwick, Sydney.
2/6 5/ t - [i
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard=
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring ana
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
681 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original anti Only Genuine
Testimony
with Mich
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices In
England—
-1/I*. 2/9 & 4/b.
Made in England.
;
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks at
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUQHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
‘he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Aota like a .charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
Three Sizes—
\ I A h.p.
2 H.p.
H.p.
mm
QMS
:: DETACHABLE::
ROWBOAT MOTOR
is the most successful and perfect motor of
this kind on the market. Over 40,000 now
in use. Very simple and easy to operate.
Can be attached to any boat in a few
minutes—adjustable to depth and angle of
stern. Speed up to eight miles -an hour.
with high-tension-, built-in-the-fly-
wheel Magneto. Fitted with Automatic
Reverse and Maxim Silencer. Operated by
Petrol, and lubrication is automatic.
Of invaluable assistance on the farm for pumping water driving +
To transform motor into a power machine is the work of a few
Propeller is removed and a belt pulley substituted. few mmutes -
Descriptive Booklet sent post free on application to
H. A. GODDARD, 378 Collins Street, Melbourne- 82 Pi» « » „
404 Queen Street, Brisbane- Cliff I ltt Stieet. Sydney;
Chambers fopp. G.P.0.), Auckland, N Z™ 6 ’ Frema ntle; Remington
ft Dominant position
among proprietary medicines is held to-day by Beecham’s Pills after being
before the public for the lengthy period of seventy years. This fact alone,
furnishes overwhelming proof of the splendid value of this preparation.
It shows very clearly that Beecham's Pills have fully justified their claim
upon the public confidence. The unrivalled success of Beecham's Pills
supplies the best guarantee that those who have not yet tried them will
derive benefit if they will but put this excellent medicine to the test,
rieecham s Pills contain in their composition nothing but the most health-
giving ingredients of the finest quality obtainable. Beecham’s Pills do not
claim to be a “cure-all” but they may be relied upon to improve the
digestive powers, strengthen the stomach, correct and stimulate the liver
and generally promote a condition of sound health and abundant bodily
vigour. Their undoubted success in these directions is the explanation
of the dominant position held to-day by
Bedlam’s Pills
Sold in boxes, labelled, price Io£d. (36 pills) 1/1 £ (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (O O) Whisky.
Dogs Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated "Waters and Cordials.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
f^-
cures Write for Book.
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road. London, Eng*
Insist on '* Singleton s' —refuse all substitutes.
///
\
Grown od British owned plantations
in the British West Indian Island
of Montserrat,
M Shipped in British vessels.
Montserrat
Lime Juice
The finest health beverage. Warranted
by a British -firm of world-wide renown.
Of All Storekeepers.
ana aona teacher & Webb, Ltd. Liverpool & London,
. ' SHi
The Delicate Magneto
is the very life of your cycle or car. It requires the
skill of the expert to adjust and repair. Send yours to
Moody &. Co.,
343 Kent Street, Sydney,
who have specialised in electrical work for years, and
who undertake to repair quickly and cheaply, and
guarantee to make it work equal to new again or
make no charge.
Drink
Horlick’s Malted
Milk and you know
that you are buying purity
plus strength. Recommended
by Doctors.
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILK (
Sample
will
; sent on reoeipt
s to Hutchinson
Jamieson St.,
stamps
Sydney
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
KYNOCH “SWIFT” is
THE Cartridge for the
“man on the land.”
Smokeless—effective—
reliable—it is a really
good, low-priced Cart-
ridge, and is deservedly
popular.
Factory loaded; uni-
form in pattern and
penetration.
BRITISH MADE.
SPT7K
'+t :■' S'* >'/v*
V?
\
m
■ -.''V vi
&S - - ‘ S
u
V;'
&&-AI
W*s.
is
gl§§|i|§i^§
rl', 1 --
V*-'
turn
y%
oV
agggs
£s*'
$
saw


The All-Australian
Power Transmitter.
f'[V£ANGROVITEg|g
LEATHER
iMuwißlmj
which is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
WOLFE’S
*SCHNAPP*S
dispels
Bardie’s Genuine
Used in place of Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE, ROT, HEAT, ACID g ANT PROOF.
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES HARPIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
“Courier” Buildings, Brisbane; & Melbourne
*
im
l
m
i
A
/
A re-invigorating
Tonic Beverage.
Reliable Machinery
far FARMS STATION REQUIREMENTS
Tangye Eampless Oil Engines.
Tangye Benzine Engines.
Tangye Suction Gas Plants.
Tangye Irrigation Plants and Pumps.
Tangye Steam Engines and Vertical Boilers.
Clayton & Shuttlevvortli Portable Steam
and Traction Engines, Thrashers, Steam
Koad Boilers and Waggons.
m/.\ §
- - n .
“CLAYTON” PORTABLE STEAM ENGINE.
With Large Wheels to give
Ample Clearance.
TANOYE LAMPLEBS OIL ENGINE
Started Quickly like a Benzine Engine.
Munro Chaffeutters and Saw Benches.
(lane Milking Machines.
Nicholson & Morrow “Union” Harvesters,
Ploughs, Drills, Cultivators, etc.
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing Machines.
D ALGETY "g CO. Ltd.
Sole Agents,
Miller’s Point, Sydney, and all Branches.
For genuine satisfaction
use only the
Worlds standard machine
m
m
The
•q .
SHEEP
MACHINES
JWgely& Co. Ltd. Sole
u
'
rs
k'
mm'*
irr
For the GARAGE
and REPAIR SHOP
Improved Designs GARAGE AIR COMPRESSORS.
Even in the small garage and repair shop the installation of one of these little compressors is indispensable,
both from a point of economy and greater convenience.
INFLATING TYRES, CLEANING CARS AND INACCESSIBLE PARTS OF ENGINES, OPERATING SMALL
PNEUMATIC TOOLS, such as AIR HOISTS, RIVETING and CHIPPING HAMMERS, DRILLS, etc., are among the
numerous applications for which they are particularly recommended.
Call and inspect our Stock, or write for full descriptive Catalogue.
■V. M'f
&
■ g
CO. LTD.,
Engineers © Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney.
; .
m
CHE.RSE.N
FOR AIR.
FASTEST CUTTING
SMALLEST CONSUMPTION
LOWEST UPKEEP
LARGE STOCKS.
ENQUIRE NOW OF
GIANT
FOR STEAM.
SIMPLEST, MOST CONVENIENT.
BlocK shows Drill mounted on
Quarry Bar.
Indispensable to Contractors, etc.
N GUTHRIDGE LTD., Equitable Building, Sydney; and London.
