

The Genial
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
u n M,, X C ° trac 1 ° rs Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
** ** MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in ail parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
n all Classes of SECURITY,
ILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
i
o
a
Ui
H-
UJ
Q.
Ld
D
h
z:
o
\T
• i
to
Ik
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. And Telephone: City 9325.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, Genera! Manager.
giMfElSiniiißiiniiE.MiiigEagiiii.aiH^.s
O' i
11 :il -■:ill 111 ■ :■ ill:I
II!
=-.■.33
iIL
x -
I i-iii--1 ijaani
r/Ti£
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
Keep Your Home Clean and Healthy
And Free from all Insect Pests by using
Radium Spray
Sold at all department stores. Radium Spray is
made in Australia by an Australian firm.
RADIUM CHEMICAL CO. LTD.
210 Clarence Street, Sydney.
bAHS
BACON
u
s S.H.B.
CHUBB'S
SPRINGLESS
LOCKS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
J
HANSENS
Ik
unket
tablets
fo, INDIGESTION
an* DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
GOLF
BALLS
“THE SILVER KING”
THE BEST BALL
OF ALL
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
GOLF
BALLS
r
*
t
Royal
Dutch
COCOA.
SUPERIOR
IN
EVERY WAY*
nL
sum
MaKe it a
Malthoid
Roof!
—because of Malthoid’s proven ability to withstand the
lavages of the elements, because it is waterproof, fume-
proof and practically wear proof. It is a roofing that is
“Not the same as others.”
The architect specifies it for city
buildings and suburban homes—
he knows that it will please his
client and add to his reputation.
Xiet us send you a batch of
Malthoid booklets!
The Paraffine Paint Co.
(L>. 5. EVANS, Aust. Rep.)
Chaliis House Sydney.
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
BL
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
extra
SPECIAL
S .V. O.
HADFIELD
Stone-Breakers
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. *
ROAD-MAKING
MACHINERY.
QlOlVdO
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
!h - p, -^ gh
FREZONF
lavender
II.» - -
The Bulletin
Yol. 37.—N0. 1889. J
[Thursday, April 27, 1916.
Registered at the General Tost Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


TECHNICAL
OFFERS
DURING OUR BIG BOOK SALE.
( Postages shown in parentheses.)
Durand’s Practical Marine Engineering, 22/6 for
Lamb’s 6 Leather Dressing. 33/- for 15/- (Bd.).
Patton’s Practical Treatise on Foundations. 28/- for
10/ ‘ Manual of Mining. 28/- for 12/6 (7d.).
Rickett’s and Miller Notes on Assaying. 18/- for
7/6 (5d.).
Lodge’s Notes on Assaying. 20/- for 7/6 (5d.).
Peter’s Modern Copper Smelting. 25/- for 15/- (Bd.l.
Ricker’s Design and Construction of Roofs. 33/- fat
GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP'T'Y LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
MUSTDIE.
NON POISONOUS POWDER.
THE GKW INSECT BESTOMr”
f lies.
Fleas.
Bugs.
\ Mosquitoes
"» 9!
9*
“MUSTDIE
POWDER must not be mistaken for insecticide
or common insect powders, some of wnien .
under fancy names, for “MUSTDIE’ contains
an ingredient .particularly fatal to c
house pest aptly tenned “The Typhoid Fly.
FREE SAMPLE. .
Write to “Mustdie,” Dept. H, Bos ‘
G.P.0., Sydney, for a trial tin, forwarded post >
or send 9d. in stamps for a full-size tin.
“MUSTDIE” is sold everywhere by Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers.
9d. per tin. _
The Red Page
Misery, Muck, Cesspool and
Slaughter-house
Of that 500-mile-long slaughter-house and
cesspool combined, which is called “the
Front,” E. Alexander Powell, author of
Fighting -in Flanders, now publishes the best
description yet given. Vive La France!
(Heineutaun, 3s. 6d.) is practically a pic-
ture of a peaceful country-side transformed
by hums* agency into “a garbage heap, a
cesspool and a charnel house,” or, in two
words, “misery and muck.” And the veil
of secrecy that the Allies have di-awn
over their military operations! Localising
Powell’s example, imagine a battle in which
more men were engaged and the results of
which were more momentous than Waterloo,
Gettysburg and Sedan combined being fought
at Eubbo in December, and the people of
Sydney not knowing the details of that
battle, the names of the regiments engaged,
the losses, or, indeed, the actual result, until
the following March! That is what hap-
pened in this-war.
Powell’s first glance at the new French
uniform: “The far end of the valley was
filled with what appeared at first glance to
be a low-hanging cloud of grey-blue mist, but
which, as we drew nearer, I'esolved itself into
dense masses of troops drawn up in review’
formation.” Powell has changed his mind
about the comparative invisibility of the Ger-
man greenish-grey uniform. The French is
still less visible. “At 300 yards 20,000 men
men could scarcely be distinguishable from
the landscape.”
The difficulty of an allied offensive is
frankly stated. “The opposing armies are
not simply entrenched. They have pro-
tected themselves with masses of concrete
and steel armor, so that the so-called trenches
are in reality concrete forts, shielded and
casemated with armor plate, flanked with
rapid-firers and mortars, linked to 'one
another hy mai’vellously concealed communi-
cating trenches, w r hich are protected in turn by
the fire of heavy batteries, guarded by the most
ingenious entanglements.... and defended
by machine guns, in the enormous proportion
of one to every 50 men, mounted behind
steel plates and capable of firing 600 shots a
minute... .That is the sort of wall wririch one
side or the other will have to break throxxgh
in order to win this war; and the only way
to take such a position is by frontal attack.”
J*
This acute observer, given every facility
to see the real thing along the 500-mile fron-
tier cesspool, is not. quite so certain that
we are going to win, or at least with the
ease prophesied by our local politicians.
“The British soldier has at last come to
realise the terrible gravity of the situation
which faces him. You don’t hear him sing-
ing ‘Tipperary’ any more, or boasting about
w’hat he is going to do w’hen he gets to
Berlin. He has come to have a most pro-
found respect for the fighting qualities of
the men in the spiked helmets. He knows
that he, an amateur boxer, is up against the
world’s heavyweight professional champion,
and he perfectly appreciates that he has, to
use his own expression, ‘a hell of a job’ in
front of him....He had alx*eady found out,
to his cost and to his very great disgust, that
his opponent has no intention of being ham-
pered by Marquis of Queensberry rules.
But one of these days, w’hen he gets quite
ready, the British soldier is going to give
that opponent the surprise of his life by
landing on him with both feet, spikes on his
shoes and brass knuckles on his fingers.”
But Powell definitely states that he
doesn’t believe (1) that the British Army
is the most efficient killing machine in exist-
ence, and (2) that its complete and early
triumph is assured. “Neither of which asser-
tions would be true.” The British only
began to build their w’ar-machine when the
Huns had completed theirs. And when we
have finished our machine, after the war, it
will hai-dly resemble at all the machine we
had started to build. “After this war is
over the British Army will no longer be
officered by the British aristocracy. The
wholesale promotions of enlisted men made
necessary by the appalling losses among the
officers will result in completely changing
the complexion of the British military
establishment.” In a word, it will closely
approximate to the Australian Army.
Emphasising the awful effects of high
explosives, Powell asks: “Is it any wonder
that hundreds of officers and men are going
insane from the strain that they are under,
and that hundreds more are in the hospitals
suffering from neuritis and nervous break-
down? Is it any wonder that, when their
term in the trenches is over, they have to
be taken out of sight and sound of battle
and their shattered nerves restored by means
of a carefully-planned routine of sports and
games, as though they w’ere children in a
kindergarten?”
What do the French think of the English?
The replies that Powell got to his frequent
inquiry were not excessively flattering.
“They regard her lack of military prepared-
ness and the deficiency of technique among
the British officers as inexcusable; they con-
sider the deep-seated opposition to conscrip-
tion in England as incomprehensible; they
view the bickerings between British capital
and labor as little short of criminal; they
regard the British officers who needlessly
expose themselves as being not heroic but
insane." Powell heard a Frenchman say to
an Englishman, “To listen to you English
and to read your newspapers, one would
think that there was no one in France ex-
cept the British Army and a few Germans.”
The British soldier of the new army isn’t
at all like the traditional rollicking, reckless
Tommy Atkins. He has not joined for a
lark. He has joined because he felt he ought
to. “He knows that the headlines which
appear regularly in the. English papers
announcing ’another British advance are-
generally buncombe. He knows that it isn't
a question of advancing but of hanging on.
He knows that he will have to fight with
every ounce of fight there is in him if he
is to remain where he is now. He knows
that before the Germans can be driven out
of France and Belgium, much less across
the Rhine, all England will be wearing
crape. He knows that there is no truth in
the reports that the enemy is weakening
He knows that it is going to be a long
war—probably a very long war indeed....
Out along the battle-front they are not sing-
ing much, they are not boasting at all, but
they have settled down to the herculean
task that lies before them with a grim deter-
mination, a bull-dog tenacity of purpose,
which is eventually, I believe, going to
prove the deciding factor in the war.”
And in the Vosges this American corres-
pondent saw what trench life in the cess-
pool was really like. “War is not only
fighting. Bronchitis is more deadly than
bullets. Pneumonia does more harm than
poison-gas. Shells are less dangerous than
lack of sanitation. To be attacked by sti’ange
and terrible diseases ; to stand day after day,
week after week, between walls of oozy mud
and amid seas of slime; to be eaten alive by
vermin; to suffer the intolerable irritation
of the itch; to be caked with mud and filth;
to go for weeks and perhaps months with
no opportunity to bathe; to be so foul of
person that you are an offence to all who
come near—such are the real horrors of the
trench.” Misery and muck !
Jt
Of coui’se, the German does not fight fair.
He used to have a habit, when lying
wounded, of shooting the French soldiers in
the back. Now, when the Foreign Legion
goes into action, each company is followed
by men with axes, whose business it is to
see that such incidents do not happen again.
Powell found no evidence of the British
belief that the Hun regiments are now made
up of young lads and elderly men. The
immense majority of the prisoners he saw
were men between 18 and 40, in the very
pink of physical condition —but they didn’t
seem at all averse to being taken prisoner.
Powell mentions a great number of ingeni-
ous expedients that in this close trench
fighting the combatants have invented for
assault and defence. The Germans are said
to dig shallow pools outside their trenches,
cement the bottom, and fill them with acid,
masked by boughs or straw. A soldier
stumbling into the pool would have his feet
burned off. Where the trenches are close,
the men roll over the tops of their trenches
in front great spirals of heavy telegraph
wire, against which the ordinary artillery
bombardment or the soldier’s wire-cutters
are of little avail. “The French troops now
frequently advance to the assault carrying
huge rolls of thick linoleum, which is un-
rolled and thrown across the entanglements,
thus forming a sort of bridge by means of
which the attacking force is enabled to cross'
the river of barbed wire in front of the
German trenches.” Scene-painters from the
French theatres have been mobilised in order
to paint scenery for the purpose of masking
gun-positions v Fowell has actually seen guns
thus masked —in a sort of tent, which is
painted to harmonise with the scenery. Open
roads are thus cleverly screened, painted to
look like a row of trees; but the precaution
must be taken of watering the road, or the
dust of the traffic would betray the contriv-
ance to the enemy. “Both sides have long
been daubing field-guns and caissons and
other bulky equipment with all the colors
of the rainbow, like a futurist picture, so
that they assume the properties of a chame-
leon and become indistinguishable from the
landscape. Now they are painting the faces
of the snipers, and splashing their uniforms
and rifle-barrels with many colors and tying
to their heads wisps of grass and foliage.”
A new use for Futurists! Why shouldn’t
we mobilise our own artists ? Lister Lister’s
gum-trees would deceive the cutest Hun.
This war always seems to find the Allies
caught napping. First it was big guns, and
then shells. Ploddingly we set to work to
catch up with these indispensable articles;
but by the time we are ready, we shall
probably find that the Huns are tired of
shells and have invented something much
better. . Then we will set to work to catch
up again—only to find that the Huns have
gone one better. The latest method of the
Huns is vitriol throwing. Powell vouches
for this assertion. The French caught one
of the fiends—and didn’t shoot him. “You
see, monsieur, we French are civilised.”
In this vivid volume, Powell writes the
most thrilling account of the most thrilling
struggle in history—the French advance in
Champagne, last September. And after it
was over, he says: “The thing of which the
Champagne battle-field most reminded me
was a garbage-heap. It looked and smelled
as though, all the garbage cans in Europe
and America had been emptied upon it....
The captured German trenches presented the
most horrible sight that I have ever seen or
ever expect to see.” It was 15 miles of
garbage, chiefly human.
Finally he tells us of the most novel of all
the uses to which air-craft have been put in
this war. That is, to drop spies in the
enemy’s territory. Our aviators frequently
fly across the German lines, and drop in
some secluded place an intelligence officer dis-
guised as a farm-hand. A few days later
the aviator returns to the same spot to pick
the spy up. “The exploits of some of these
secret agents thus dropped from the sky
upon enemy soil would make the wildest fic-
tion seem tame.”
So, by the way. does Powell’s faithful
account of the modern misery and muck that
v is called war.
The Anzac Sonnet
There were 71 ways of constructing Anzac
lays, and nearly every one of then! were, more
or less, right. In fact, the ability of the Aus-
tralasian to write sonnets is nearly equal
to his ability to fight. Not more than six
missed the correct sonnet form, though many
entries were fatally flawed by technical errors
of metre, rime, or length of line.
Good, but undistinguished, sonnets were
provided by: R.S.W., R.W.M., A. G. Water-
worth, H.B.Y., Tom Leonard, L. H. Living-
ston, Mary Bayliss, J. F. Jones. . .
Sonnets of a higher quality were received
from: D.G.G., Marcus Gibson, Chas. F. de
Monchaux, A, Finlayson, M. H. Jopling, H.
W. Stewart (2), Ben Sun, E. J. O’C.,
O.N.G., Edward Harrington (who if he is as
youthful as his kindergarten handwriting sug-
gests, has, possibly, a big future before him),
A. Gore Jones and N.G.
H. Stewart obliges with a Turkish point of
view:—•
Seventeen fine sonnets were left in for final
sifting. Y. Tierney is too prosaic, too full
of facts. F. S. Burnell, on the other hand,
might have been writing of any soldier slain
in any war: he failed to localise his well-
expressed theme. “Jimdick” makes the minor
mistake of an inner rime, fatal to the son-
net-reader’s sensitive ear, “And made that
final grand despairing stand,” and also loses
himself in grandiloquent phrases. One of
G. K. Soward’s variants shows itself inferior
to the other, reserved for further adjudica-
tion. George R. Hambidge ends on an
original note, but there are crudities in ex-
pression and a little confusion of time and
locality. A.A.N., with a brilliant, but not
perfect, sestette, makes, too obviously, his
ideas depend on his rimes in his octette.
R. A. Broinowski tells:—
How hero-men came from the Southern seas
With sunlight in their blood, and graved the name
Australia on the scroll of deeds sublime.
but the rest of his imagery is conventional.
“The thorny laurels of Gallipoli,” of which
“AEneas Hayseed” finely sings, is preceded by
some halting lines, such as “To climb and
pant with blood-stained hands to cling,” in
which the interior assonance of “pant*’ and
“hands ’ annoys the ear, and there is some
confusion in the author’s expression of his
meaning. S. Elliott Napier’s sonnet is fine,
but not so fine as his second try, to be con-
sidered later. E. H. Russell spoils her stir-
ring sestette with one padded-out line, in
which, in search of a rime, she informs us
that Australia “teems with wealth of wine
and corn” —a fact intrusive in her theme.
Seven splendid sonnets remain. They all
merit publication, and will appear later on
this page. Lilia Gormhuille McKay just
spoils by a conventional final line her artistic
sonnet. Both Mary A. K. Robb and J.L.B.
deserve the prize, were the level of the entries
not so high. Their sonnets are admirably
wrought, without palpable defect, but also
without the special excellencies of the others.
C. E. Moore's sonnet runs through a .
t ff co “ ventloEal ™t to a noble close t
Elliott. Napier neatly expresses a
which is inherent m many of the InX
sent in; but the rest of his sonnet k * ets
what artificial; his pulse h as nS T*
stirred. not bee »
The three sonnets remaining malm ni, •
extremely difficult. g ke ehoic e
So Bartlett Adamson (Box 1536, G.P.O.
Wellington, M.L.) wins with this example
of fine craftsmanship, lacking the thrill con-
veyed by G. K. Soward’s splendid vision, as
stern and arresting as the cliffs of Anzac.
Bartlett Adamson’s sonnet is too pellucid,
too smooth, almost too complacent. But it
is excellent work.
From the New York Times :—
A.B.M.—The poem, “Where the West Begins,” was
written by Arthur Chapman, a young Western poet,
and was originally published in the Denver Republi-
can. It is as follows: —
Out where the handclasp’s a little stronger,
Out where a smile dwells a little longer,
That’s where the West begins.
Out where the sun’s a little brighter,
Where the snow that falls is a trifle wlmcr.
Where the bonds of home are a wee bit tighter,
That’s where the West begins.
Out where the skies are a trifle bluer,
Out where friendship’s a little truer,
That’s where the West begins.
Out where a fresher breeze is blowing, , t
Where there is laughter in every strt
Where there’s more of reaping and less of sowing,
That’s where the West begins.
Out where the world is in the making.
Where fewer hearts with despair are aching-
That’s where the West begins.. 0 f
Where there is more of singing ana i®»
Where tlferels mare of giving and less of
And a man makes friends without half t.
That’s where the West begins.
The “young Western poet” must have rea
Barcroft Boake’s “Where the Dead ,
Lie” and adapted it. That’s what happen
to Bracken’s “Not Understood, B
“Amateur Rider,” etc., in U.S.A.
They came; ’twas Allah’s will that they should land,
And so he turned our bullets in their flight,
And by Mahomet’s sacred the fight
Was a good fight, for these were men: the sand
Ran red with blood; for doubtless Allah planned
That many True Believers should delight
In all the joys of Paradise that night—•
And doubtless many Infidels be damned.
They lied, those German pigs (May dogs defile
Their graves !). They said that it was written we
Should capture many men, and every gun;
And they were Spirited away the while
We"slept; the sun rose on an empty sea.
Kismet! Kismet 1 May Allah’s will be done 1
“Mick Much” just misses with a sonnet
in the language of sentimental blokes. “Bill
the Goose.” though he meets his Gallipoli in
the sonnet form, provides the best line pro-
duced by this competition. His concoction
is x-eprinted, partly as an awful warning to
inefficient sonneteers, but chiefly for his final
line.
The silent ship is sneakin’ through the night—
The parson bloke has give us all the ’ump;
We sees the beach, and in the water jump.
The flamin’ barbed-wire tangles holds us tight.
A shell screams out. Then Hell breaks loose, en’ twict
I stops a pill, but, ’struth, when we gets near,
I drives me bayonet through some poor cow’s ear.
Me cobber laughs, then drops en’ gurgles “Christ!”
I does me block with the warm blood stench,
En’ fights like ’Ell till me eye
Runs down me face, en’ I drops in the trench....
Australians don’t moan nor cry ;
But thinkin’ makes me two ’ands clench.
Anzac 1 Where me cobbers lie!
M. S. Wallace gives us good Australian,
though he does rime “saw” and “war.”
(There was one competitor who revived the
ancient rime of “failure” with “Australia,”
and another who made “war” rime with
“immortal”).
Wot’s this ’ere chat erbout Gallipoli
An’ Anzac ’eroes, an’ ther clarssic shore?
Yer’d think they’d never seen a Man before
Ter ’ear ’em fork. Jist wot it seems ter me
’Oo’s bin, an’ knows it worn’t no victerey,
But jist the lousiest stretch uv bleedin’ war.
Is this—they wuz ther best I ever saw,
But none wuz better than I thort ’e’d bel
Real decent blokes wuz with us, real white men,
So p’raps it ain’t tew bad ter ’ear ther skite
That shows yew. coves ’ow blanky good they were.
An’ now, in fewcher, if yew ’ear uv fight,
Uv flamin’, furst-elarss stoush, well then
Yew tell ’em this: “Orstrylier will be there!”
The most arresting sonnet, that bv ft
K. Soward, has many flaws. “Britain-'
pressed” is a colloquial remark f or
to make, and the seventh line k
horribly slithery with vowels; but the curt
charging sentences triumphantly tk„
reckless spirit of Anzac. However the fatal
rime, “pressed— expressed” counts’ this w
effort out. But for that rime, ail thfotto
weaknesses would have been condoned.
A knapsacked figure on a mountain crest
In broad-brimpied hat, a rifle held on high t
What doth portend outlined against the
sky ?
The hay'net's gleam is ruddy! What his
/Egean waves make answer: “Britain’s
pressed!
These are her cubs! We, who heard
Helen sigh,
Hold Ilium and Salamis in eye.
Ne’er saw such deeds as hath 'this hour]
expressed!” '
Here's Anzae’s story to the end of Time:—
Full-fledged there rose a Nation in a
night!
One hour and ever fame! That leap on
shore!
Thou khaki figure rushing up the height
Art note Australia! Voice and bronze and
rhyme
Shall hail and limn thee so for evermore!
G. K. SOWARD.
Guy Innes has an awkward “witnesseth”
necessary for metre and rime, and he has a
fatal love for alliteration; but his conclusion
is splendid.
Baptised hy fire and here confirmed by death
Their travail baffled hy the bloody stair
That led to glory's altar, these made fair
Australia's honor with their dying breath,
And passed with faith fulfilled; as witnesseth
The price that proved their proniise—and for
naught?
Not so—for though they found not what
they sought,
Fate found them fame, and Fame a death-
less wreath.
Though ashes strew their place of sacrifice,
The dead and their undying deeds shall tell—
That those ivho still fight on may understand
And fight on still—of that supreme device
To found eternal on the hills of hell
Australia’s altar in an alien land.
GUY INNES.
ANZAC.
By BARTLETT ADAMSON.
By purple hills and opalescent sea
And sunlit leagues of plain they lived, and
they
Were summery-hearted all, and life teas gay,
And peace was theirs, and love, and liberty.
And when the ' clarion sounded suddenly,
They went, a rollicking hand of hoys at play,
Tilted at doom, and there, at Anzac Bay,
Died....hut they taught the world what
men there he.
And Ansae now is an enchanted shore;
A tragic splendor, and a holy name;
A deed eternity will still acclaim;
A loss that crowns the victories of yore;
A glorious golden dome for evermore
Shining above the minarets of fame.


ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS
Canton Guard Lever Harrows
-
.M. iill
an.
3 lEro
CT
DR
J
J
-' _
J J J
1057
Similar in construction to the ordinary TJ-Bar Lever Harrow, with the addition
of the Guards that protect the ends of the tooth bars.
This Harrow is superior to all others for use in orchards, vineyards or trashy
ground. The ends of the tooth bars being protected, prevents injury from colliding
with trees or shrubs, and avoids the accumulation of trash that would foul the
ordinary Harrow.
By throwing the levers forward the teeth are thrown back for transporting, or
to clear the Harrow of trash.
Made in two sections of 25 or 30 teeth to the Section. The teeth are 8 inches
long by \ inch square.
2 Sections of 25 teeth each, with bars as shown, weight 2031 b., width Bft.,
complete .. .. .. •• •• •• •• •• •• 80/-
2 Sections of 30 teeth each, with bars as shown, weight 2311 b., width 10ft.,
complete .. .. .. .. • • .. •. • • 00/-
THE STAR DISC HARROW
THE STAR DISC
HARROW contains all
the features of any im-
portance in a disc har-
row, and includes besides
many advantages and
conveniences for the
cheap and successful use
of such an implement.
The seat is so arranged
that it can be adjusted
for a light or heavj
driver, and all excess of
weight taken off the
horses’ necks. A two-
wheeled fore truck takes
the place of the pole, do-
ing away with all friction
on the horses and enab-
ling the operator to turn
his team in their own
length.
Light 2-Horse, sft. wide, 10 discs, IGin. size of discs, 3021 b. net weight £8
2- or 3-llorse, Gft. wide, 12 discs, IGin. size of discs, 3691 b. net weight (Ao. lx
1065) •• ••
All Star Harrows have two levers. Cleaners included.
If
m
WIARD PATENT PLOUGHS
luwiiiiiiSS
- Ji
No. 62, Pony Plough, will plough 3in. to sin. deep, Gin. to Sin. wide ; Wood Beam,
weight 401 b., with wheel, 27/-. Extra Shares, 9(1.
No. 100, Two-Horse Steel Beam Plough, as illustrated, fitted with ordinary
Colonial Coulter, and with Iron Handles ; will plough Gin. to 9in. deep, loin,
to 14in. wide; weight, 1061 b., 80/-. Extra Shares, 1/9.
No. 21. One-Horse Swivel Plough, Wood Beam, will plough 4in. to Tin. deep,
Gin. to lOin. wide; weight, 771 b., 55/-. Extra Shares, 1/6.
Send for Price List of Agricultural
Implements and Tools of Trade,
Post Free on request.
Canton Scotch Clipper Plough, lOin. Steel Beam, for two Horses, weight nllb.,
with one Steel Share, 87/6. Extra Steel Shares, 9/6.
CANTON No. 4
DISC PLOUGH.
■'k -
THE CANTON DISC PLOUGH has been universally successful for general
use everywhere (in hard, soft, dry, wet, old or new soil).
The Discs are 26in. in diameter, and the Single Disc will turn furrows
from 3 to 12 inches, and the gang ploughs have adjustments of equal dimensions
between each Disc. The Discs have dust-proof boxes, and are set at the proper
angle to revolve freely when in contact with the soil. The soil is turned completely
over and is thoroughly pulverised. Can be adjusted to cut 10 or 12 inches.
1- weight G72lb. .. . . . . Trice, £l5/2/6
2- weight 7801 b. .. .. .. Price, £l9/7/6
3- weight 9001 b. . . .. .. Price, £22/5/-
26in. Spare Discs, 24/- each.
MS
No. Tx 1050. — New Model One-Horse Plough, iron handles, low set, like the
famous Scotch ploughs (No. Tx 1056) .. .. .. .. .. 55/a
Empire All Steel
Cultivator
/
We specially recommend this Cultivator, as, with the attachments, it can be
used for cultivating almost any crop.
With Attachments, weight 901 b.. 38/6. Extra Tines, I|,
Sweeps, 10in., 1/2; 12in., 1/4; 14in., 1/6 each.
Hilling Board Attachments, 10/6 pair.
Extension Pieces, to make into 7-Tine Cultivator, 7/6 pair.
IRON PLOUGHS.
No. 0/ — One-Horse Iron Plough, as illustrated, with one extra share and spanner ;
weight 1161 b.; will do Tin. to Sin. depth and width.. .. .. £4/5/-
Two-Horse Iron Plough, similar to No. 0, but much stronger _ .. £6
The Little Beauty Iron Pony Plough, weight 821 b.; will do Tin. to Sin. depth
and width .. . . . . .. .. . . • • • • • • 58/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


*
9
/
y for y
Rifles, Revolvers and Pistols
No matter how accurate a rifle or pistol may be, if
the cartridges used in it are variable, the results ob-
tained will be disappointing. Winchester cart-
ridges in all calibers are sure fire, accurate and
uniform. They are made by experts in a plant
having every facility for turning out perfect
work. A trial will prove their high quality.
ASK FOR THE W BRAND.
M\'
\\V
4\
%
1
//TO.
MARK
TRACK
&
r*
S
$
High-class Machinery Means
Greater Profits to the User
We have large and varied stocks of High-grade Machines
by well-known makers, comprising :
Lathes, Millers, Shapers, Planers, Drilling
Machines, Woodworking Machinery, etc.
‘WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
c
Proprietary Limited,
Established 1860
Collins Street, Melbourne and Bathurst Street, Sydney.
'Hie fiooty-Croaker
CHEAPER THAN
Electricity, Coal Gas, Kerosene
and BETTER THAN All.
a
INTER STATE AGENTS
Buzacott & Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
p
A
Dangar, Gedye & Co.,
Young St., Sydney.
J. Bartram & Son [ft;
Bourke St., Melbourne
Works : 269 Toorak Rd.
Melbourne
m
When something is wanted
to put on a burn or scald,
to heai a cut, scratch,
or skin sore, apply
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Ointment
It soon relieves the soreners and pro-
motes a qui k cure, while for a skin
wound especially its antiseptic virtue is
important. On other occasions also
it is useful—for insect bites or stings,
for eczema, ringworm, and skin ail-
ments generally—whenever a healing
antiseptic ointment is needed.
Local Stores and Chemists sell it.
Made by F.C.CALVERT & Co. , Manchester, En&
MODERN TOOLS
FOR THE
GARDEN and
FLOWERS.
NORCROSS” Cultivator-hoes
have revolutionised Hand
Cultivating. The sharp,
tapering Shovels literally
tear up the earth from
lin. to 6in. deep, leav-
ing ground level, loose
and untrampled. And it
is done with such ease
and speed as to make
gardening an extreme
pleasure.
They work closer to
plants without injuring
them than any other
tool.
Ask your Ironmonger
or write our Agents—
S. SCOTT-YOUNG LTD.,
1 Bond Street, Sydney
C. S. NORCROSS & SONS, Manufacturers,
Bushnell, Illinois, U.S.A.
HEALTH
IS
ABSOLUTELY
INDISPENSABLE
TO THE
BUSINESS MAN.
=== I HAVE ONLY ■=
Clements Tonic
TO THANK
These words have been written countless
times by thousands of persons situate ail
over Australia, who have testified to the
value of this life-lengthening and health-
assuring medicine. It is as good for
"°men as for men. Business people and
housewives should never be without it.
It promotes health and general strength.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL IT.


Kidney Trouble
A Scientific Cure.
There is only one real scientific method of
curing kidney disease, and that is to wash
away the uric acid (the poison) right out of
the system.
The proper way for this to be done is to
drink from three to four pints of pure water
per day, and with each glass of water should
be taken some mild yet penetrating antisep-
tic. The proper one to take is contained
in De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
It has the wonderful property of penetra-
ting every crevice of the kidneys and blad-
der, and wherever it touches it washes away
all sediment and bad secretions, and makes
the kidneys and bladder perfectly healthy.
Any sufferer can try this experiment for him-
self by getting a box of De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills at his chemist’s —all chem-
ists sell them —and you will, within a very
5T3
U
li;
Poisonous pain-causing Uric Acid in the
8100d —like little bits of broken glass.
few hours, know positively that the seat of
the trouble has been touched. When you see
the muddy, blue-colored urine you know this
is true. The effect of this experiment is most
remarkable.
The quick relief which these wonderful
little pills bring is, so our readers say, noth-
ing short of marvellous. This applies equally
to rheumatism, gout, gravel, backache, tired
feeling, dropsy, Bright’s disease, constipa-
tion, cloudy urine, inflammation of the blad-
der, or other symptoms of urinary trouble.
To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid of
the cause —the poisonous uric acid. Re-
member to do this a real remedy must pass
through the kidneys and the bladder, and not
through the bowels, as most kidney pills do.
When you see the urine change to a muddy,
bluish color —a feature which distinguishes
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills from all
others —you know beyond all doubt that
they have put their healing touch on the
right spot —the kidneys and the bladder. A
wonderful pill—straight to the kidneys—
that is why De Witt’s Pills give such amaz-
ingly quick relief —every time. A perma-
nent cure follows in almost every case. Look
for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2/9 box of
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, which
are made expressly for kidney and bladder
trouble.
BE ADVISED!
DON’T RUN
RISKS!!
How many fail to regard
Colds seriously. It is one
of the commonest troubles
and at the same time most disastrous —because
most neglected.
The Safest, Surest, Speediest and
Pleasantest method of getting rid of Coughs
and colds are
Wilson’s Pino-Mentho
Pastilles
A pastille dissolved in the mouth will pro-
duce immediate relief. Obtain a tin at
once from your Chemist.
The cost is only 1/-
ALEX. WILSON 8 CO., 17 Pitt St.,Sydney
YOUR HAIR
WILL
LOOK BETTER
I will be finer, softer, smoother, S£
Scurf and Dandruff will disappear, ®
if you take care of it by using m
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR
OIL,
which will Preserve, Nourish, and
Strengthen it, and as it penetrates to
the roots will replace the loss of the
Natural Oil in the Hair, the want of
which causes Baldness. It is sold in a
Golden Colour for Fair Hair, of Stores,
Chemists, Hairdressers, and Howland’s,
67, Hatton-garden, London, Avoid
cheap worthless imitations under the
same or similar name which have no
Eestorative Properties and do not
contain that delightful perfume
Otto of Hoses for which Howland’s
Macassar Oil has been so long famous.
BonnincJtorrs
IRJShTMOSS
For Children
Nothing is more irritating than the continual
coughing of children. Unchecked, a cold so
quickly spreads to others. To instantly re-
lieve, and quickly cure COUGHS, COLDS
or WHOOPING COUGH, give the child-
ren “ Bonnington’s Irish Moss.” Take none
but—
Beware of
Imitations
BONNINGTON’S
TOBACCO KILLS!
w.
►2 <9
a
$
)
Face to Face with Death !
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a positive cure for
the Tobacco and Cigarette Habits. It is abso-
lutely harmless, leaves no reaction or bad after-
effects, and cures permanently.
Free Package Offer.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a trial
package of this wonderful remedy, together
with our Free Booklet, Testimonials, etc.
TRIAL PACKAGE often effects a CURE.
Mr. 11. Smith, of Park Farm, Jericho, Tas-
mania, says: “I was a hard smoker for 30
years, hut since takinn your sample of Tobacco
Specific I have never had a smoke.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G,
29 O’Connell Street, Sydney. [3.
are: you
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIK CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It docs away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE vet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within tlie
reach of all. Can vou ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FRE^.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
IF any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the
original.
ffie'fyixlidm.
214 George Street, Sydney.
Rheumatism
The case of Rheumatism or Gout
which Kruschen Salts cannot benefit
has yet to be discovered. This
famous British remedy is also
recommended by Medical Men in
cases of Lumbago, Sciatica, Eczema,
Constipation, and Liver and Kidney
Disorders.
KRUSCHEN AT THE FRONT
Since the outbreak of the War, enormous
quantities of Kruschen Salts have been ordered
by, and delivered to the British Authorities, for
the use of the British Forces overseas and in
the Base Hospitals at Home. Kruschen Salts
are prescribed by Medical Men the world over.
THE WORD KRUSCHEN
The trade mark “ Kruse hen ” is a legacy—•
handed down from generation to generation of
the family of Evan Griffiths Hughes, the sole
Manufacturers of Kruschen Salts, and one of
the oldest firms of Manufacturing Chemists in
the County of Lancashire. Established 1754
160 years ago.
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754.
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers,
and stores throughout Australia,
Wholesale Distributing Agents :
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
68, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester,
England.
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2 /-
Per Bottle.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I Had a Garden.
I had a garden high above the town ;
The brave sun smiled on it, the first spring
flowers
Blossomed and shone like jewels in a crown.
I smelled the warm earth moist with
quickening showers.
A tall white lily, like some fair girl saint,
Swayed in an ecstasy of purity ;
And there herbs grew of fragrance sweet
and faint,
While o’er it all laughed breezes from th»
sea.
I had a garden ! God, am I bereft
Of all that sweetness I was wont to
know ?
I stand at gaze—none of its fragrance left!
And still up from the sea the glad winds
blow!
I had a garden high above the town;
You laid it waste, then left it bare and
brown!
N.S.W.
JOHN EGAN.
The Fern-Men.
An you set the new moon in the crotch of a
tree,
An you bide when the day’s at the turn,
On the twist o’ the little grey track you will
see
The little brown men in the fern;
But your eyes must be kind in the front o’
your head
And your heart must be soft for to ken;
And ’tis hush you must keep and ’tis soft
you must tread
If you’d meet with the little brown men.
You must pluck from your ears all o’ bad
they have heard,
You must brush up your coat or your
gown,
For the little brown men will take fright at
a word,
And they hate the drab dust of the town.
You must spread out your sins on the lap o’
the Night
If the brown nimble men you would see,
For your soul must be clean and your heart
must be white
As the moon in the crotch o’ the tree.
If you do all these things and you tarry a
space
And you never give cause for alarm,
You will find a big blossom flung full at your
face
And feel a wee fist on your arm ;
While over the twigs like the steps of the
breeze
From the fronds of the fern and the roots,
The tiny brown men will swarm up on your
knees
Or squat on the ground by your boots.
A score of wee fellows all flowered and
furred
And brown as the bark on the bole,
And each brings a dower of music and w T ord
To weave into songs for the Soul.
And they’ll breathe on your lip the sweet
breath of the earth,
And they’ll fill up your heart as an urn ;
Till it throbs with the warmth and the magic
and mirth
That rustle all day ’mid the fern.
And they’ll bide till the new moon drops
over and down
And the red in the sky shows beyond ;
For they know and take fright at the flare
o’ the town
And they’ll leap for the stalk and the
frond ;
And you’ll know ’twas a wind round the turn
of th’ day,
Or a little grey mouse in the bark,
Or the blithe little men as they rustled away
On their nimble light legs through the
dark.
O the furry fern-men are afraid of the street
And the taint of the Town in the grip,
And the ties of the City which drag at the
feet
And the jargon that lies on the lip!
And ’tis pity the folk in the square and the
mart
Who know not the joys that await;
For the towers of the City crush down on
the heart
And the Soul is nailed up in the crate!
MAORILAND.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
A Memory.
A little tea-room somewhere by the sea,
Glass joybells clashing low and lovingly,
Slight painted things that came from old
Japan,
Dyed pampas grass, a dusty palm-leaf fan ;
Outside the wind blown down a crooked
street,
And sun and ocean whispers, sleepy, sweet.
A wide and shady hotel balcony,
Cape Fingal with a smoke trail on its lee,
A flutt’ring blind some saucy zephyr shook,
A man’s voice reading from an open book;
Or rocky slopes where questing white moths
pass
Above the blue-eyed blossoms in the grass,
And ice-clear breakers thundering below.
O Memory, that sometimes hurts me so,
Upon the throbbing pulse of Loss you lay
The cool white finger of a happy day!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Prayer.
Heaven help poor human folks that are
For discipline by Heaven sent
To be, from dawn to evening^star,
The moralists’ advertisement!
N.S.W.
F. M.


Si
m
-
I
m,
“PERDRIAU”
The Macintosh that is guaranteed to keep you absolutely dry in the heaviest
downpour.
The materials are proofed with pure rubber, and will withstand tropical
conditions.
We are Waterproof Clothing Specialists, and can fulfil the requirements of
Man, Woman, Boy or Girl.
Full range of Patterns and Illustrated Catalogue free on request.
Range
Letter
B
C
D
MEN’S RAGLAN.
Material
TWEED, light weight (Derby)
CASHMERE, medium weight
SViades
Dark Grey
Olive
CASHMERE, special quality, medium weight ...
CANTON, light weight Fawn and
Olive)
Slate j
Price
35 -
42-
50 -
WOMEN’S
Material
CASHMERE
INDI ANAS
CASHMERE
RAGLAN.
Shades
... Olive
Dark Navy
... Olive
Price
25-
27 6
42-
EVERY COAT GUARANTEED WATERPROOF.
Perdriau Macintoshes and other Rubber Goods can be supplied through your
Storekeeper or direct from the Manufacturers —
VA
A
a
TO
1
-2.
Manufactured
in Australia by
0 0
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH.
John Lysaght Limited will be pleased, upon
application, to forward a free copy of the
new and enlarged edition of their “ Referee ”
to Every Property Owner and Galvanized
Iron User. This Book contains a quantity
of carefully compiled infor-
mation which will be found
both useful and interesting.
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Supplied to the
Naval and Military
Authorities in
Great Britain and
Australia.
TWO IN ONE Shoe Polish
UNLUCKY FOR DIRTY BOOTS.
The Shine that Won’t Rub Off.
It doesn’t lie greasy on the surface of a boot.
It feeds leather as no other Polish does.
It is absolutely free from Turpentine, Acid or Spirits.
It oils as well as polishes, hut doesn’t soil the clothing. As its name
implies, it is a paste polish that combines all the good qualities of the
liquid and paste polishes without their injurious effects.
Colors: Black, Tan, White.
STOCKED BY ALL LEADING WHOLESALE FIRMS AND STOREKEEPERS.
AYERS <EL JAMES PTY. LTD., Sole Australasian Agents,
122.128 Flinders Street, Melbourne; 19 York Street, Sydney.
Tke Jallywells
r*
a?
Noiv here you sec,
Neat as can he,
Friend Jollywell in
His Groceree.
The maid demure,
You may he sure,
Is asking him
For “Rex” Goods Pure.
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese,
He sells with ease,
No “Just as goods ”
Can ever please.
“Rex” Goods are
Twice as Good
As “Just as Goods
There is no similarity in accepting a gilt-
edged security and buying a gold brick.
Neither is there any similarity in buying
the well-filled tin of piquant
- “REX”
Luncheon Cheese
to accepting the tin of cheese often offered you as
“just as good” as “Rex” —but which is insipid,
lacking in body and flavor —and only three-parts
filled.
Don’t be satisfied with any hut “REX” Brand,
for “REX” LUNCHEON CHEESE possesses all
the valuable digestive properties of perfectly-
matured full Cream Cheese —with an added
piquancy that delights every taste.
Z^R
t s
Sold by Grocers Everywhere in Sanitary
Solderless Tins, or in Opal Porcelain Jars
of British Manufacture.
Go to the Grocer who stocks “Retx’’ Goods
He will be pleased to hear you ask for
“Rex” Ham Pate.
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, ljlb. tins.
“Rex” Camp Pie, in tins.
“Rex” Brand Lard, for cooking
purposes, in lib. prints.
“Rex” Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
“Rex” Piss’ Feet in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Bunch Tongues in Jelly, lib.
‘Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib.
Temporarily out of stock.
tins.
tins.
FO(j<alTT, JONES & CO. LTD
Curers of “ Rex ” Hams and Bacon ;
Packers of “ Rex ” Pure Food Products.
Thorne’s has a deliciously
captivating flavour that con-
noisseurs prefer and that
every man can relish.
Look for the “black square”
bottle.
WHISKY
“INCOMPARABLE"
Old Highland Malt


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
THURSDAY, APRIL 27, L 916.
Price f<».
VOL. 37.-No- 18Sn.
THE TIGER HUNT.
When Dr. Liebknecht, the Socialist leader, was speaking, a number of deputies, greatly excited, demanded his expulsion, and approached hint menacingly.
A deguty mounted the tribone and tore documents of Dr. Liebknect's hand. The President indignantly refused hear Dr. Liehknecht. Several of the
Progressives tried to drag him outside.-Cable.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
•‘Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor tvill carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return ail unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. IFAen MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Ml Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. 11'. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 585
39th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets. Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon. —lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth. .Vaoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom , All Sea Route. 160 z.,
Id. Only one neicspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Sioz. to 10oz., Sid.;
lOoz. to ISoz., Sd.; elsewhere, )oz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
'ffte'jßxxlleZzoi.
THURSDAY, APRIL 27, 1916.
PEACE WITH HARDWARE.
For the 735th time within IS months
someone has been heard explaining that
mechanical appliances are soon to be so
perfect that war will be impossible. On
this occasion it is the British flying-man
Pemberton Billing, lately elected to the
House of Commons as an exhortation to
the Government to get a move on. Thus
the prophetic Billing, whose remarks were
considered worth cabling to Australia :
The development of aeronautics is the forerunner
of universal peace. Britain or another nation will
within 10 or 20 years possess 100,000 airships,
divided into 100 squadrons, capable of devastating
the principal cities of an enemy country in a single
night.
It is an easy vision, this, of a vast covey of
aeroplanes and dirigibles advancing across
the sky to its work of annihilation; but all
sorts of things are missing. For instance,
the calculation appears to be based upon
the theory that, while one lot of people are
accumulating an enormous outfit of aerial
ironmongery, other people will go on living
in cities in the fashion of to-day. It pre-
supposes a world standing still, except in
one particular. If cities can be fortified
against attack sideways, they can also be
made secure against delivery of hostilities
from the perpendicular. The town planners
and engineers have yet to be heard from on
the subject, of course; but even with human
ingenuity as it is, the municipal umbrella
is clearly within the bounds of possibility
and the collapsible city not beyond achieve-
ment. In any case people herd together in
cities only because they have not yet eman-
cipated themselves from bad habits. They
started it mostly because there was safety
in numbers, and continue doing it because
there is cash and convenience of a kind in
numbers now. Once they discover that, in
addition to there being moral and commer-
cial reasons to justify decentralisation, there
is also a physical argument, they will com-
mence to sprinkle themselves over the land-
scape and rub the huge city off the map
under the Social and Military Precautions
Act. When there is only insecurity in
cities there will not be any cities, and that
is all about it. The safest place for man
at one time was up a tree. Later on it was
in a cave. Necessity compelled him to take
up new addresses, and he can do it again.
Cities were under suspicion long before the
warrior thought of attack from the air.
The world is a bit doubtful about where
some of its greatest human ant-heaps were
situated.
* * * *
This idea of a new implement being the
thing that is going to achieve universal
peace on account of its frightfulness is as
old as the memoirs of the man who first
attached a stone to a sinew from the tail of
a dinosaur and brained the unenlightened
savage who came to steal the raw steak
from his pantry. When some forgotten
patriot originally brought an educated
elephant into the game it was reckoned by
his contemporaries that he had settled mat-
ters for all time. But he hadn’t. All he
had done was to make them worse and
encourage the man next door to give his
inventive faculties a chance. The discovery
of gunpowder put what looked like an all-
conquering means of devastation into the
hands of its first proprietors; the repeating
rifle, the bursting shell, the armored war-
ship and all the rest of it represented tre-
mendous advances over the old-fashioned
knife and axe and catapult. But not one
of them made war any less frequent; and
at the end of all the discovery and perfection
of lethal equipment, war at rock-bottom is
still merely the struggle of one man to get
close enough to another to stick a piece of
steel into his innards. From the historical
point of view there is no more reason to
suppose that development of aeronautics
will make fire-eating democracies or
demented autocrats any less inclined to go
out on the warpath with their liigh-sky
fleets and squadrons than the construction
of torpedoes, submarines and Dreadnoughts
has induced them to bolt for the interior.
For every punch there is a block, and while
it may happen that the addition of flying to
the accomplishments of man is destined to
introduce new methods of organised assault
and battery, the betting is at least 100 to 1
that defence against this kind of devasta-
tion will become just as effective as it has
been made against other forms of disorderly
conduct. To this paper it looks far more
likely that expansion of the German’s poison
gas and flame-squirting apparatus will
restrain war than possession of a multitude
of aeroplanes and Zeppelins. If every nation
on earth had a local hell from which by
turning two or three taps a consuming fire
could be projected in any direction required
and for any distance, it is quite probable
that plans for invading the backyard next
door would cease to be fashionable. But
even then a long time would have to pass
before everyone could be convinced that it
was safe to let the taps get out of repair.
* * * *
Once it is firmly established after repeated
trials that to touch any given country means
sudden death to the toucher, war will begin
to become unpopular, and men and women
be at last convinced of its horror and folly.
They are not convinced yet, nor anything
like it. There were more men engaged in
war yesterday than were ever before
gathered for purposes of slaughter since the
world began to cool, and vast numbers of
them are setting about the job with mediaeval
ferocity. The result of it is certainly going
to be what the results of previous wars
have been —impoverishment, demoralisation,
misery and woe. But as physical pain is
something the individual memory quickly
discards, so it would seem that the agonies
of war soon vanish before a revival of the
impulses which lead to war. In times of
peace everyone is ready to agree that war
has always been a terrible curse; and when
it arrives they are mostly eager to lynch
. anyone who was responsible for not being
ready to engage in the curse. If any fore-
runner of peace seemed more reliable than
another it was this more or less com-
mon agreement among men that war is an
abomination; but all experience proves that
the influence of this feeling lasts only until
somebody thinks it a good time to fight.
The mere lifting of armies from the ground
to battle in the clouds can obviously do
no more to JLianish war than the existing
facilities for shifting armies about by sea.
The community with a punch is reasonably
secure from a covetous enemy so long as
the punch is heavier than the assailant cares
about taking. But if he has 50.000 aero-
planes and someone can throw 100.000
against him without creating complications
which will bring 500.000 winging through
the atmosphere, the plight of the first will
be no more secure than if he were depending
on cavalry and-infantry and submarines and
Dreadnoughts. Pending the installation of
the local hells before mentioned the only
guarantee any country has of life is to be
prepared to argue the point, and one of the
surest methods of being unready to do this
would be to start constructing huge numbers
ot implements for the purpose of achieving
universal peace, instead of all the instru-
ments that are necessary for hurting some-
one when there is no peace. To speak of
the aeroplane as a forerunner of eternal
friendliness looks like referring to night as
the forerunner of day. It is—but darkness
arrives again all the same.
A MYSTERY OF HOT-CROSS BUYS.
Nobody above the age of nine years ever really
desired to eat a hot-cross bun on Good Fri-
day, yet by custom and convention an enor-
mous number of people over a long period
of years have conspired to devour the diffi-
cult thing; and the recent refusal of Sydney
bakers to produce or evolve it was in certain
prints discussed with tragic intensity. Many
years ago. when it seemed a fair thing that
people should do a bit of extra penance before
the feast of Easter, it was the custom to
bake dull and sodden buns, freely sprinkled
with grit and ashes and marked with a cross,
through which the weary penitent was wont
to slowly chew his sorrowful way. Later,
with the growth of the community, the bak
ing of the buns was transferred from the
domestic hearth to the big tradesman’s oven,
from which the unpalatable brown things
were turned out in their tens of thousands.
But the public, while it didn’t mind on a
special occasion eating its own dust and cin-
ders. soon objected to paying good money for
such stuff, and a compromise was reached
whereby spices and other flavorings, which
looked sufficiently like dirt to please the
eye of Heaven, were substituted for the
coal-grit in the buns. A well-marked cross
remained to keep the penitential idea to the
fore; and the religious sense was satisfied.
From that time onward nobody except the
maker really knew what a hot-cross bun con-
tained. The spice largely disappeared ; the
heavy, stodgy nature of the cakelet was
changed ; currants dotted the dough as freely
as in other buns, and the mark of the cross
slowly faded until there was nothing left
but a suggestion of something which had
meant a lot to our devotional ancestors. The
hot-cross bun, of all its former attributes,
preserved only its mystery —a mystery as
deep and dark almost as that of the wildest
sausage stuffed at early dawn with the
mortal remains of many beasts. Yet in that
mystery were none of the old elements, for
it was simply a mystery of the bakehouse,
and those who held the key of it had neither
understanding of the meaning of a hot-cross
bun nor sympathy with th.e_ ancient spirit
that desired for its sins to chew dust and
ashes.
* ♦ * *
Modern life is very much a hot-cross bun.
In the process of evolution men agreed upon
certain measures of self-sacrifice for the
common good, and were willing to give up
a lot of natural rights as a sort of return for
the safety and protection that organised
society offered them. They were in a
measure willing to chew the dust and
ashes of self-abasement before kings
and leaders, on condition that those
kings and leaders kept the organisation going
which made the cow safe in the paddock and
insured the periodic filling of the meal-bin.
As time went on. however, the citizens of
most lands became fastidious about the cin-
ders in their social food, and asserted what
they called the rights of man. In the bun
of life certain more-or-less bitter spices were
substituted for the original grit that set the
teeth on edge; and as time went on these
gave place in turn to the currants of alleged
political freedom ; and even the mark of the
cross which stood for the penitential view
of the ordinary citizen's attitude to the State
began to disappear, until only by the closest
scrutiny could any sign of it be seen upon
the bun. But the mystery remained.
Nobody ever quite knew what the funda-
mental ingredients in that bun of Society
were, and in later years the manufacturers
of the article have more and more lost grip
of the essentials in its construction, until
people wonder whether the bun isn’t, after
all, a makeshift for a potato pie, and whether
a plain French roll mightn’t fill the bill
better than the thing as it now exists. The
mystery remains; and the bun continues to
be eaten, though with increasing misgiving.
* * * *
Knowledge is very much a hot-cross bun.
In the most ancient days a few magnificent
and holy people professed to hold the keys
of all that was to be known; and the great
bulk of the world’s rank and file were content
to sit at their feet and eat the grit and ashes
of self-contempt in the sodden dough of
ignorance. Then enlightenment came, with
much boasting, to scatter dirt-colored spice
in the bits of popular education that
authority allowed. And still the game went
on. until to-day authority is a mixed proposi-
tion, with no understanding of its original
place in the scheme, and knowledge is a
mystery with more mystery baked into it
to make it brown, and a few currants of
accuracy here and there in the mass. And
the same sort of analogy applied to a dozen
of the phases of existence and the watch-
words of progress will be found quite work-
able. Always there is the idea of peni-
tential dust and ashes in the early career of
the bun. always the intermediate spice that
looks like dust and ashes but tastes differ-
ently, and at last there are the sparse cur-
rants in- the white mass, from the brown-
baked top of which the mark of the original
cross of sacrifice is beginning to disappear
or has already vanished. But nothing among
all the ideas or forces to which the parable
of the bun can be applied is so close to the
original in the story of its evolution as the
thing we call patriotism. It began in self-
sacrificial dirt-eating, it passed through the
period of spice substitution, it developed on
into the stage of currants and the disappear-
ing cross : and with its final change it became
a thing of ever-deepening mystery that had
lost all touch with original motives and aims.
Of course, . unlike some of the other buns,
patriotism is in all stages of development at
one and the same time. There are good
patriots to-day gritting their teeth hard
on the sacrificial bun; there are middling
patriots eating the spiced thing that is still
obscurely linked with the original thought;
and there are flag-flapping zealots of much
noise eating the sort with the currants scat-
tered under a cross-less crust. And it all
goes by the name of patriotism, even as a
bun is always a bun, whether it contains
street-sweepings or ambrosia.
WOOL—THE HYPOCRITE!
‘Sea Island” takes a vegetable view:—
“ltiMU’s” yarn about cotton (B. 13/4/’l6) is an elu-
sive ana deceptive curse with which I am forced partly
>0 agree, though in the main I repudiate and-abhor it
Imported cotton may be the liar he says it is, and
the cotton-importing crowd may deserve all he
says about them ; but when it comes to a plain con-
troversy between Australian wool and Australian
cotton, all the decency, honor and gentlemanly con-
duct is on the side of the vegetable. What is im-
ported cotton, anyhow, but the lackey and parasite
of that smug, oily hypocrite, wool? It was wool
that grabbed the great bulk of Australian land and
scattered 10 miserable sheep over a landscape which
might have been a settler's homestead; it was wool
that stood always in the road of progressive reform,
and that, while it didn t use brown brother to elia«e
or barber its sheep, lifted a solid sneer against the
White Australia policy: it was wool that saw no
use in Federation or Defence, and that in its dull
merino fashion helped the advocates of congestion
and Freetrade and every other abomination
Cotton, on the other hand—the genuine Australian
cotton—as far as it has got, has been an industrv
of the small farmer, conducted by the farmer s own
family, tending to closer settlement of the countrv
and giving decent returns for the moderate labor of
white men. On the face of things, it is Australian
cotton that is the honest proposition, and Amo v
wool that is the smug, hypocritical liar ’ t a ian
* * * '
Take this question that “Rimu” raises ab
kid’s singlet and pants. The general idea that 1
is the proper wear next the skin has some nointl°°
its favor in the colder districts, though the ln
wearing Australian doesn’t seem to have degenem!',
to any extent through his habit of necle f
grandma’s advice on the subject; but even h
cotton has an advantage of its own. Flannel t
which “Rimo” despises, may attract pneumonia aln
may be dangerous in case of fire; but wool’’
perpetual danger because it can’t be thoroughly
cleaned. Germs of many diseases can only be "
moved from clothing by boiling, and cotton
regularly boiled ; but the fibre of wool is destroy rt
if in washing you raise it to a temperature a bov
that at which the giddy microbe thrives and multi
plies. In the case of the kid, the mother has
better chance of keeping him from the cold which
she can feel and the flame which she can see th
from the secret death hidden in the warm but
uncleansable wool. A silk industry for Australi
may be most desirable; linen, which involves
strenuous work on the part of the flax-growers and
is particularly exhausting to the soil on which the
fibre is raised, may get a footing some day in the
colder parts of the continent; but over a huge
portion of the Commonwealth cotton offers the
surest crop for the least outlay and labor. If on
merely sentimental grounds or from some anti-
quated notion that wool is, under all circumstances
a better wear we should turn down this source of
potential wealth, we deserve all that may be coming
to us.
* * * *
In Queensland, where Daniel Jones has been
fighting for support for the cotton industry, the
weather conditions which often make wheat-growing
a bitter failure exactly suit cotton. The rainfall
is sufficient for the wheat, but it comes at the
wrong time of year. With a dry winter and a wet
summer cotton makes marvellous growth. More
than this, while in America and elsewhere cotton
has to be planted annually, many of the best varieties
are perennial in Queensland, and give fine returns
of the highest-quality fibre after standing several
years with a minimum of cultivation. To the
cow-farmer who has broken his heart and enslaved
his children over Strawberry, cotton-growing would
be only- a pleasant pastime; and for the returned
soldier who wishes to go on the land it offers the
safest and easiest road. In the Northern Territory,
where the conditions are similar or superior to
those of Queensland, cotton is the direct track to
successful settlement. Cnee the politicians are
brought to book and compelled to keep their pledges
with regard to the direct North and South railway,
there is no reason why cotton of the finest staple
grown by white men on their own holdings should
not bulk as one of Australia's biggest industries.
* * * *
The real curse of cotton narrows itself down to the
curse of importing it. Cotton can be grown here
and manufactured here; and we have no sort of use
for the product of nigger lands or nigger looms.
In America the nigger is largely out of the business,
but all sorts of discolored persons are at it else-
where. Build up the tariff by all possible means,
keep Australia's jobs for Australia's people, but don't
heap curses on a harmless vegetable whose intentions
are of the best. Wool, on the other hand, has a
lot to answer for, since it is in the very nature of
the greasy stuff that it makes for land-monopoly and
every anti-Australian sentiment.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Passing Round the Hat for Billjim.
An appeal is made by the Commonwealth
and State Governments for subscriptions to
a fund “to assist necessitous soldiers to gain
a permanent livelihood after the war”; and
The Bulletin hopes that it will be liber-
ally responded to. This paper isn't going to
pretend a real liking for it. Taking up sub-
scriptions in aid of the distressed Pole and
Belgian may be all very well. Holding out
the hat for coin to discharge the public obli-
gations to Billjim is a different proposi-
tion. As it has apparently to be either this
or worse, the time seems ripe to prevent the
worse thing happening. But while the poli-
ticians are beating up money for the fund,
one more appeal may well be made to them
to consider what is happening to the cashbox
generally. All over Australia to-day there
is a carnival of waste in progress, ranging
from the good solid cash that is being
blewed on 14 Houses of Parliament and
seven Cocked Hats to the equally valuable
coin disappearing down the drains at the
Post Office and throughout the Defence
Department. Money taken directly from
the taxpayers’ pockets or acquired with a
p.n. is being squandered with blind disre-
gard of the past, present and future, lha
the country will be faced with heavy respon-
sibilities to soldiers long before the war is
over, and still heavier when it ends, is not,
apparently, given even passing consideration.
Money that should be saved is fntteie
away; credit that should be protected i
heavily discounted. It is not too much
say that in two years Australia will ha
literally wasted more cash than it will
for this repatriation fund. And it all com
out of the citizens’ purse. The job or P
viding for the soldiers is one which sbou
be discharged by Parliament at o°®j.
the taxpayer, and if the politicians did t
duty they would see that this was d ■
What is contemplated now is to shore U P>
the cost of the taxpayer, a demented sup
structure of extravagance and allow
voluntary principle to attend to the res
candle alight at both ends is being ,
to melt by sticking a match into the m
1 ♦ ■
The Crime and the Punishment.
When Roman citizens, not content with
breaking the Carthaginian power, i - - ,
that Carthage should be destroyed rt j
branch, they were acting with a
more common sense than most <»
modern critics will give them credit •
Phoenician had a bad name all am
Mediterranean : and in the rise of •
the Old Word saw the unpleasantness « g
Phoenician crystalising into enl P ir V som e
stood for free institutions and ir
measure for fair play: C arthag - terS
plutocracy, for the rule of neb wasn ’t
over communities of slaves. . * viatic
gentle-handed; but Carthage was


in the matter of cruelty. Of course, the
destruction of the big African city arid the
complete breaking up of the race that held
it looks a pretty inhuman business; but it
might have been still more inhuman to leave
there the elements of fresh trouble and
"more widespread bloodshed in the years to
follow. The old story is worth looking into
in the light of the curious cry for gentle
treatment for the German at the close of the
war. For centuries Germany has been the
centre of the European war-plague. The
barbarian forces which destroyed the Roman
Empire —all, except one or two horrible
things which trekked over from Asia —were
made in Germany. For a thousand years,
wherever you found a bitter, savage mob
breaking a quiet and well-ordered country-
side, you could lay a king’s ransom to a
wheelbarrow that the mob was of Teutonic
origin. The outbreak of Wilhelm is merely
the old running amok of the Goth and Van-
dal, phis organisation; and the story of
Belgium and Servia is a repetition of things
which occurred in an earlier age, seen in the
limelight which the modern press supplies.
If Germany were to be judged on the part
which first and last the German race has
played in Europe, the verdict might quite
reasonably be national destruction; but such
a punishment would so shock and debase
those who took on the job of executioners
that it is not to be thought of. On the
other hand, anybody who talks about kind-
ness to Germany when the war stops is
simply preaching unkindness to Frenchmen
and Englishmen and Belgians. Given the
chance, the Teuton will come at it again;
and if England is spending £5,000,000 a day
merely to give him that chance, it is pretty
poor finance. Clearly the gentle people who
have made Belgium a suburb of Hell can’t
be trusted with firearms, or with the trade
that enables them to buy firearms, or with
the friendship that enables them to create a
trade to enable them to buy firearms. If
Europe decides that the German is for ever-
more to feed pigs and grow cabbages and
report at the nearest police station if he
wants to get a pass to see a picture-show,
Europe will be only taking a wise precaution
for her own good. The war is not won yet;
but when it is won the arrest of the criminal
nation of homicides who made it will have
cost such a price that penal servitude for
the term of its natural life will not be too
heavy a price for that nation to pay. What
recruit other than a lunatic would offer his
services if it were understood that the end
was to be a gentle request to the German not
to do it again?
The N.S.W. Public Service.
Tiie N. S. Wales Public Service has been
given another Superannuation Fund; and,
as usual, the fattest get the most fat. In
a matter of this kind the men who are
approaching the retiring age are always the
snag in the river. To provide himself with
an annuity that would be worth having, the
public servant of 55 who is doomed to the
block at 60 would need to pay a premium
that is beyond the power of the ordinary
man. The new scheme makes a compro-
mise : it is not compulsory for public ser-
vants who are over 30, but every servant who
is over 30 may contribute to a pension of
£lO4 a year as though he were only of that
beautiful age. So to obtain a pension of
£lO4 a year a man of 55 will pay in alto-
gether £77, whereas the public servant who
actually is 30 will pay in £465 —assuming
that in both cases 60 is the retiring age.
The servant of advanced years, and thus
usually of advanced salary, will in this way
benefit very greatly at the expense of the
younger man of more moderate means. The
younger man certainly gets some advantage :
if he dies before he is 60 his widow is to
draw half the amount of the pension he has
been contributing for, with £l3 a year for each
of his children under 16. A start had to be
made, however, and whenever it was made
the ; old men would present the same diffi-
culty. The one crumb of consolation is
that as the veterans drop out the thing will
right itself. No doubt it would be possible
to devise a scheme that would not do an
injustice to either the younger public ser-
vants or the taxpayers, by whjch the older
servants could get their pension without
drawing something to which they were
not entitled. Three-fourths of the ser-
vants who retire at 60 are, taking
one consideration with another, as valu-
able as they were at 55. Nominally,
then, the officer might retire on his pension
at 60, but, while drawing only his pension
pay, might be required to put in six or 12
or 24 months’ service, as the case might be,
in order to thus make good his contributions.
The Government in that event would pay
into the fund the difference between the
man’s salary and the pension. The majority
of officers would be just as happily em-
ployed in their old posts for a few extra
months as in wandering about looking for
somebody to help them kill time. But,
naturally, the men of advanced years are
the men who mostly guide Ministers; and
if they can get a pension without paying for
it, they are not likely to insist upon pay-
ment. Apart from this feature of the
scheme there isn’t much wrong wi.h it.
And when it is all boiled down there isn’t
much of any rbmarkable value in it, either.
It is the proper thing, no doubt, to require
the public service to make provision for its
old age; but to a great extent that had
been already done through the regulation
which requires all officers on joining the ser-
vice to take out an insurance policy, increas-
ing it as their pay rises. These policies
may now be either continued or dis-
continued. If an officer is wise and
wants to continue his policy, though he
feels he cannot keep up the payment of
premiums, he may hand the policy over
to the Board of the Superannuation Fund,
which will pay the premiums, and, when the
policy matures, will collect the insurance
and hand it over less the amount of the
premiums paid by the Board, plus Si per
cent, compound interest. As it is a rotten
life office which doesn’t earn for its policy-
holders a good deal more than per cent.,
the public servant will presumably rush this
offer. It means, in effect, that the good old
State is going to borrow money at anything
up to 5 per cent, to lend to him at per
cent. But this paper doesn’t expect to see
any kick coming from the taxpayers on that
score. They are too used to it: they stand
up to be milked as placidly as any Straw-
berry in the country. The few who might
be disposed to throw out a leg, chew, instead,
the usual old cud : the bulk of the new pro-
visions will only come in after the war.
And obviously what is only going to happen
to-morrow doesn’t matter.
+
Fish Oh!
When the N. S. Wales Government decided
that it wouldn’t be honest to its party or its
principles it resolved that it would engage
in industries which the daily papers might
call “Socialistic,” and which, with that label,
might convince the rank and file of the
Laborites that Holman and Co. were still
the -despised and rejected of Fat, and as
such to be supported at election time. The
confidence trick practised on the public was
pretty transparent, but the results of the
various enterprises are in the nature of
calamity. As these things were the Gov-
ernment’s big bluff, it might reasonably have
been expected that a great deal of effort
would have been expended to keep them up
to the mark and force them to show the
administrative ability of those in charge.
But apparently the Government didn’t care
a hang for anything except the advertise-
ment to be gained by starting them. Some
have been successful; more have been
failures; and the net result is much “lost
money.” Black, arriving late in the Minis-
try, had a promising scheme. He would
catch fish and sell it in Sydney. Every-
body wanted fish; and to keep the scaly
things well in the public eye would count a
lot of votes at election time. Besides, who
would think of the forgotten non-borrowing
plank or the failure to abolish the Legisla-
tive Council while he was actually eating
cheap Government fish? So the trawlers
went out and the shops were opened and
Black made many fishy speeches in a solemn
tone. Now the result begins to be known.
Up to date, according to the Auditor-General,
there has been a loss of fSOOO. Certainly, as
“lost money” goes, £BOOO isn’t much. Another
Government might quite easily have lost
£50,000 in the same way; but the Auditor-
General knocks out every excuse before it is
uttered. The accounts in connection with
the business were muddled in a fashion that
called for special and particular notice.
The position is not a cheerful one. The
Holman Government was placed in office to
carry out certain reforms. It side-stepped
the things it was appointed to do and elected
to sell fish instead. It has sold fish so badly
that it is doubtful whether even Wade and
Fitzpatrick combined could have done it
worse.
+.
Besides inferentially offering an insult to
Australian working men, by suggesting that
they in particular escaped service under the
present system, Navy Minister Jensen was
guilty of what, in the nation’s crisis, is an
unpatriotic and degrading appeal to narrow
class prejudices. His suggestion, made to
an Eight Hour audience, was that Conscrip-
tion compels only the poor to shed their
blood, while the rich are not compelled to
shed even their money. Stand the grotesque
statement on its head, and you get some-
thing near the truth. The physically fit
capitalist may have to give his money and
his life. The working man employed indis-
pensably in any war industry gives neither
life nor money. He is the conscript who
stays at home and draws good wages. To-
day in conscripted Germany, Austria and
France, hundreds of thousands of “poor”
men, who have had military training, are
employed in heavy work on the home rail-
ways, or in cannon foundries, etc., far from
the roar of battle, whilst all the wealthy
men of military age and fitness are on mili-
tary service at the Front, not being exempted
by any other qualification of usefulness.
Among the dead or maimed conscripts of
Germany are thousands of spectacled “pro-
fessional” men, whilst armies of lusty
workers are engaged in munition-making.
The able-bodied expert toiler at Krupp’s is
never asked to give his life’s blood. But
the dandy son of the millionaire merchant
or banker is the first to be required to go
and fight. Jensen’s “argument” is not an
argument at all. It is just an audacious
mis-statement offered in excuse for a vote-
bunting Government that is under the thumb
of a small section whose ingrained class
prejudices keep them unteachable.
♦
General Monro’s despatch on the evacua-
tion of Gallipoli is an exceptional document,
embracing considerations usually not taken
into account in such reports. According to
a summary : —•
He found the troops suffering through various
causes from strain and continuous exposure, to shell-
fire, from which it was impossible to withdraw them,
because every corner of the peninsula was exposed to
fire. They were also very much enervated by
endemic summer diseases, and were gravely under-
officered owing to losses in earlier battles. The make-
shift mingling of foot and mounted troops necessary
for holding the front did not tend to efficiency.
In short, the position had every imaginable
defect. It was too narrow and too shallow ;
consequently it was impossible to keep the
reserves and supports out of range of the
enemy’s artillery, which meant that they
could never get proper rest. What that
means to men engaged in the prolonged
defence of an entrenched position only those
who have experienced it can fully under-
stand. The range and rapidity of fire of
artillery have never been greater than in
this war, and not only the range and rapidity
of fire, but also the effectiveness of the
ammunition. An added risk is read in
the serious charge of General Monro against
those who were concerned in the organisa-
tion of the force sent to the Peninsula, and
it no doubt applies as much to the British
war chiefs as to the Australasian, because
all of them depended on the unreliable
voluntary system for supplying leaders.
What sort of officers can a nation expect
when in ordinary circumstances they never
have to handle more than a hundred or two
men, and are then suddenly called upon to
dispose of tens of thousands under the most
difficult conditions?
+
The new Liberal Government in Tasmania
got a smack in the eye to start with. Premier
Lee achieved the support of Whitsitt, the
Independent Dictator, by a promise that
neither Mulcaiiy nor Payne, both ex-Min-
isters, should have a place in his Ministry ;
and with Whitsitt he would have 16 mem-
bers, facing 14 on the Labor side. But now
W. H. Burgess, ex-Treasurer and Liberal
member for Denison, has cut loose from the
Liberal Caucus. He intends to sit on the
cross-benches and has told Lee that he does
not recognise him as leader, will attend
no more meetings of the Liberal party under
present conditions, and will refuse to be
bound by the decision of the majority of the
party. This, all things considered, is good
news. When Burgess, and Whitsitt, and
Mulcaiiy, and Payne, and a dozen others
form themselves into parties of one, there
will be a fair chance of an Elective Ministry,
with an honest expression of opinion in the
House for the first time. At present the
majority doesn’t rule. Under the party sys-
tem the majority of a majority does the
ruling. In Tasmania this means that nine
men, forming a majority of the Liberal
crowd, pass laws to which the other 21 may
be violently opposed. The party system,
reinforced by the Caucus, has not a thing in
common with democracy.
The Commonwealth has decided, at last, to
stop the wastage of Australian shipping in-
duced by the tremendous prices that people
all over the world are prepared to pay for
anything that can float. It let the Peregrine,
which had been sold by the Australian
Steamship Co., clear for Shanghai; then it
woke up, and, after the Adelaide S. S. Co.
had agreed to sell the Innamineka to North-
ern buyers, refused the vessel’s clearance.
Both parties—buyers and sellers —made a
song about the fact that the held-up vessel
was going to Hongkong, a British port,
whereas the Peregrine was allowed to clear
for a mere treaty port. But that is not the
point, of course. Australia has her own
shipping requirements to consider; and a
stop to the export of water-vehicles must be
made somewhere. That an entire stranger
has stolen Brown’s doormat while he was
asleep is no reason why Brown, having
wakened, should allow a relative to get away
with the morning milk.
♦
A Victorian bank, which had successfully
experimented with women in other branches
of the service, has lately appointed its first
ledgerkeeper, vice a man enlisted. Before
men began to come back from the
Front in numbers, it was in many
business houses found advisable to
replace the absent fighting-men with
young women. Presumably the Vic-
torian bank is now employing female labor
because, incredible as it may seem, the
supply of returned soldier isn’t equal to
the employers’ demands. Still, it would be
interesting to learn for certain if the right
kind of inquiry had been made in the right
place, a bank billet being so peculiarly suit-
able for the returned soldier with the right
qualifications and the right kind of disable-
ment.
»
“The Old Soldier” :
There seems to be a good deal of agitation in cer-
tain quarters about the way to get a commission in
the Commonwealth army, and, to allay it, Head-
quarters has issued instructions consistent with
commonsense but for one thing:—
Persons who have never held a commission must
enlist in the ordinary way in the A.I.F. for general
service. On arrival at Liverpool or any other dep6t
an application can be made at once for admission
to an N.C.O. school. Candidates must have a
knowledge of platoon drill.
Quite right. But why the school? A recruit would
be of no use as an N.C.O. till he had been dismissed
recruit’s drill, and he would learn his duty a great
deal better while doing it in the ranks. If he was
a really clever youngster he would soon find his level
as an N.C.0., and would learn more in a week doing
duty than in six months in a theoretical school.
The school, it is alleged, is a necessity on account
of the changes in drill. Nonsense! The British
army changes its drill about every six months, and
the regimental officer has to accustom himself with
very little help to the new book when it comes
out. Anyone who remembers the old light-infantry
drill of anytime back to 50 years ago, with its
words of command, could handle a company or a
battalion to-day, after studying the book for an
evening. Always a great many things have been
practised that have never found their way into the
drill-books. For instance, the captain of a leading
company, on coming to thick timber, would put
himself at the head of his men, and say: “Follow
me,” and they would follow him in single-file, if
they could do no better. Yet where is that laid
down? Where is the regulation for the old-
fashioned escort for guns—three files in extended
order to each gun, and the rest of the company
extended on the flanks, not looking to their own
officers for orders, but conforming to the movements
of the guns ? Such things are not to be found in
any drill-book, yet they have been practised by
British infantry and artillery for IQjQ years and
more.
♦
The Sunday-school superintendent might
take Whitsitt as the text of an
address on the. importance of little things.
Whitsitt is the man who has been making a
see-saw of Tasmanian politics for two or
three years past. And it’s all because a
couple of Liberal Ministers forgot their
manners. At the time Whitsitt was a good
Liberal; and (this is the story as lately told
by the Argus) : —•
An inspector discovered moths in Mr. Whitsitt’s
potatoes and prohibited their export. Mr. Whitsitt
appealed to the Minister for Agriculture—a Liberal
—to have the embargo removed; but the Minister
declined to distinguish between Liberal and Labor
potatoes. This testing of Mr. Whitsitt’s Liberalism
was too much for him, and from getting moths in his
potatoes he got moths in his politics.
But it wasn’t so much what Liberalism didn’t
do as the rude way in which it didn’t do it.
Whitsitt, on behalf of the farmers of his
electorate, including himself, wired the Pre-
mier asking a question about a certain sec-
tion of the Potato Diseases Act (1909), and
the Premier didn’t reply. Then Whitsitt
wired the Minister for Agriculture another
question concerning the Act, and requested a
Yes or a No. He got what he considered an
evasive Yes-No. Then, when neither Premier
nor Minister would give him the information
he and his fellow spud-cockies wanted,
Whitsitt bumped them with a far from
evasive bump and listened to their expiring
squeals with calm approval. His subsequent
offences against good politics don’t alter the
fact that Liberalism received a bitter lesson
in manners as a result of its characteristic
attempt to sidestep an issue.
♦
When golden Niagaras of the Empire’s cash
are being poured out every day, it is inter-
esting to read a disclosure made by General
O’Moore Creagh, late Commander-in-Chief
in India, while explaining the uses and func-
tions of a general staff^
It has always seemed to me that there should be a
commercial intelligence branch in the Ministry of War
which would advise the spending departments of the
General Staff as to the best and most suitable market
to make purchases in, and also as to the reliability of
contractors. If this were done much greater economy
would be ensured in military expenditure. Some six
years ago, when organising a General Staff for the
army in India, I tried to establish within the fold
of the Ministry of War a commercial intelligence
branch, but I could not get the necessary funds,
although a very trifling initial expenditure for the
purpose would have secured an enormous future
saving of Government money.
What is the matter? Is it because the whole
surroundings of the British military machine
are so corrupt that suggestions for prevent-
ing waste and doing the vast business of the
army in a business manner are always turned
down? It is difficult to suggest any other
reason that will hold water —except plain
idiocy.
♦
“Watcher” from the Front Door: —
The Commonwealth’s demonstration farms and 1
sheep stations in the Northern Territory make the
practical man feel ill. The only thing they demon-
strate is how much money they can spend without
getting any return for it. For that sort of thing
they could earn Y.C.’s all through the year. If
the Government would give a bonus for experts’
scalps there might be some hope for the Territory.
What between incompetent officials and experts who
know nothing of the conditions of the country they
are sent at large expense to report on and run, the
poor old Territory has not much chance of coming
out on the credit side in any of her experiments.
We are told we can grow anything in the agricul-
tural line; but then the question arises what to do
with the stuff when it is grown. The only thing
that has a chance here at present is stock-raising,
and that is pretty well a dead letter, as the best of
the country is held by foreign capital. We are
told that Vestey Bros., the big people who have
been given facilities in return for putting up freezing
works, etc., are all-British. But are they? I see
questions are being asked in the House of Commons
as to why this all-British company is removing its
headquarters to the United States. It is said by
some that the idea is to avoid war taxes —which
would be a patriotic way of helping good old
Britain, eh? Anyway, it is a well-known fact that
all through Queensland and the Tableland the
American octopus is reaching out in all directions
to secure a monopoly of the meat trade; and there
are cattle stations on the Tableland whose output
of fats for the next four years has been secured by
this benevolent Trust. This country ought to be a
reservoir from which the South could draw the meat
that makes Anzacs, and draw it at a reasonable
price. But, instead, it has no rail connection, and
is used merely as the playground of “experts” and a
doubtful monopolist or two.
♦
“Ex South African,” apropos of the
Empire’s obligation to uphold the White-
Australia policy in return for Australia's
help in the war: —
During the last two years I have been instru-
mental in getting a number of people from South
Africa to take up orchard land in Tasmania. Their
one common reason for making the change has been
that they wanted to get away from the neighborhood
of the blacks. Throughout South Africa the kaffir
is displacing the white man in all branches of
manual work, and in Capetown, Durban, Pretoria
and elsewhere the Indian is gradually ousting the
white trader. It is only a matter of a little time
when S’Africa will be another India—a country
populated by colored people ruled by a compara-
tively few white administrators and wealthy men
whose descendants will, in the end, meet the fate
of the other white men. Professor Broom, the South
African scientist, in a lecture in Johannesburg,
expressed the opinion that before another hundred
years all the whites would have retreated to Aus-
tralia. All these S’African immigrants who have come
to Tasmania send the same message to Australians:
Hold fast to your resolve to reserve the island con-
tinent for the white man.
Not Yet.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
We still have not all the troops in Western. France
which should be there, though our strategy has im-
proved since the General Staff regained its function
in October. Our output of guns and munitions is
still below that of France and Germany.
— Col. Repington, in London Times.
We were not ready many months ago
When the storm broke,
And over ruined lands the headlong foe
Rushed, stroke on stroke,
Trampling our honor in the bloody dust —-
The honor in which nations set their trust.
Earth may forget;
But while the chorus of loud death is pealing
The haggard ghosts with fear about us
stealing
Ask are we ready yet!
A great offensive some day may be ours
When, loud and strong,
The awful concert of our gathered powers
Breaks into song ;
When, with tremendous might on land and
sea,
We teach stern lessons to the kings-to-be ;
And rolling down,
A wild, red harvest of destruction reaping.
With blow on blow across new fields is
sweeping
The Teuton to his tomb.
But now days grow to weeks and weeks to
years,
Trust faints and dies.
The skeletons of nations cold with fears
In horror rise.
They point to us, to ours, to them who led,
To the long front of battle grim and red.
Can these forget?
They lift once more their trembling hands
appealing;
And Famine, in the tracks of misery reeling,
Pleads “Are you ready yet?"
N.S.W.
D.M.W.


GAELIC WHISKY
the old smuggler
<et -*w
5°V
bott 1«5
iS
GAELIC
The Perfect Whisky
... in ...
The Perfect Bottle.
DISTILLED IN THE
HIGHLANDS of SCOTLAND.
The Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
INSURANCES EFFECTED FOR
Fire, Personal, Accident, Hailstone, Five Stock.
Workmen’s Compensation, Plate Glass, etc., at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: Corner Pitt and King Streets, Sydney. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
BEST - ALWAYS.
m
nil t
m
Velveteen
every yard is marked with
the letters L-O-U-I-S.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Sc ppl v
J ARRAU and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C,
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68$ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the woi'hh
Billjim on His Travels.
Woodrow Wilson seems to have got
writer’s cramp, and unless there have to be
more Notes explaining the last Note it looks
as if Brother Jonathan will at last knock
the Hun off his list of acquaintances and
refuse to take delivery of any more corres-
pondence. What this would lead to can he
left to the future and the submarine to
decide; but it seems about time that the
Yank at least stopped having official rela-
tions with a murderer whose hands arc red
with the blood of American citizens and
who refuses to stop hurrying more of them
into Kingdom Come if be gets a chance.
This all-in torpedo policy, pursued by the
German, outrages every principle of war for
which the United States stands, and there
is nothing for the President to gain except
contempt by resisting it with mere ink. To
Australia the exchange of documents
between Berlin and Washington is of less
concern just at the moment than the address
of Billjim, who mostly seems to have been
swallowed up by an animal called Official
Precaution. Lately some of our lads were
reported to have had a little desert fighting
away to the north-east of Suez, and there is
a story about General Birdwood telling
some of the wounded Anzacs who are attend-
ing frequent divine service with A. Fisher
in London to get well and hurry up to
France. This suggests that Bill and Jim
may be in the thick of things again directly:
and as the tilings which happen in the region
of Gaul are the ones which really matter in
this disturbance, William and James arc
likely to have various fresh experiences to
write home about. Meanwhile the gory
struggle around Verdun goes on, there is
apparently a big scrap pending in Flanders,
on the Russian Front both sides are crouch-
ing ready to spring, and the end is still a
long way round the corner. The other day
the landscape in Mesopotamia carried a
brighter appearance: but since then the
clouds have gathered again and the only
thing that can be definitely made out through
the murk is more muddle. Even the unintel-
ligent Censorship can’t quite hide that. In
the midst of it all John Bull is holding a
secret sitting of Parliament to decide whether
he is going to put every man under arms:
and there are 500 reasons why he should
hurry up and do what he should have done
long ago. The risk of a stalemate is very
considerable and is not going 1o be avoided
by hanging back in the traces because the
collar pinches.
Melbourne Herald lias come to the con-
clusion that the Jews are “a far-seeing
people.” They have to be. Otherwise they
would always be bumping themselves.
Billy Kuhnel —everybody called him
Billy—died very suddenly in Adelaide last
week. After playing a game of billiards at
the Stock Exchange Gluh he walked into
the street, and heart-trouble carried him off
within a few minutes, lie w T as head of a
big piano-business, and one of S.A.’s many
third-generation good citizens of the German
stock of 70 years ago. Neither looking, nor
speaking, nor feeling like anything but a
good Australian, he could - afford to joke
about his descent. “Oh, I’m dead,” he told
a pressman last year, cheerfully. “Didn’t
you bear? I was sending guns disguised as
pianos, and, when a ease got burst open on
the railway platform and gave the plot
away, I committed suicide! Ani/body will
tell you that.” Kuhnel was a great racing-
cyclist in the high-machine days 30 years
ago, one of the first men in South Airs. to
steer a motor-car. and an enthusiastic owner
of racehorses. He was only 53 when the
end came. The old racing against Busst
and Davis and the other champions had told
at last.
From chairman .T. Reid, of “Pineapple”
Huttons, Ltd.: —
“0.K.” (B. 20/4/’l6) is neither quite fair nor
quite correct when he states that the late D. Mit-
chell was responsible for the greatly-improverl quality
and mildness of hams and bacon generally in recent
years. The fact to be remembered in comparing 28
years ago with the present is that refrigeration was
not in many cases applied to bacon factories in the
former period, and the work had to be done in
cellars, the temperature of which could not be con-
trolled ; lienee heavily salted and unsuitable bacon.
These last 15 years have seen refrigeration used in
almost every modern curing house, with the result
that bacon and hams are being treated in a manner
quite impossible prior to the introduction of freezers.
So far as my co. is concerned, we were one of the
first to make use of refrigeration, and 25 years ago
we were turning out mildly-cured bacon and hams
both at Melbourne and Brisbane, to be as much
appreciated in Australia as in the markets of the so-
called “East.” Australia has not, in my opinion,
sufficiently honored the men from whose brains sprang
the modern freezing machine, without which the vast
business in perishable products could not be con-
ducted.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOK COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Mother Goose”
Criterion “On Trial”
Palace “Peg o’ My Heart”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Garden The Dandies
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
The White City Various Shows
Wirths’ New Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “So Long, Letty”
Royal ... “The Boomerang”
King’s “The Squaw Man”
Princess’s “Dick Whittington and His Cat”
Bijou Fuller Vaudeville
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s Own & Olympia Hoyt’s Pictures
Auditorium The Ideals of 1916
Glaciarium Ice Skating
A youth in the agonies of calf-love is the
cause of “The Boomerang” at Melbourne
Royal. The poor lad. Budd Woodbridge,
has conceived a deathless passion for a dam-
sel named Grace, and growing limp and
loony in consequence is thrust by his mamma
into the inexpert hands of Dr. Sumner for
inspection and diagnosis. The medico,
readily identifying Budd’s complaint, pre-
scribes a course of treatment combining hypo-
dermic injections with physical exercise, and
including the attentions of a nice amateur
nurse. Budd patiently submits to the per-
secution, and even allows Sumner to directly
“O N TRIAL ,” AT SYDNEY CRITERION.
Frank Elliott addresses the Court.
imperil his attachment by freely editing his
correspondence to his donah and substituting
stealthy insults for the feverish imagery of
love. After a month of this treatment the
boy gives such a marvellous imitation of a
cooling regard that the doctor considers it
safe to throw' Grace in his way. just to
let her see how thoroughly he has been cured
of his fancy. But the doc. reckons without the
lady. Her guile is superior to his science.
Result is that at an evening party she con-
fronts Budd with the last throb of her
breaking heart, and he is soon bestowing
copious endearments on her powdered neck.
Apparently the only point in the comedy of
the doctor’s failure is that his sententious
scoffs at Budd’s emotion become verbal
boomerangs later on, when he suddenly sur-
renders to the aforesaid nurse’s glad eyes
and finishes up the show as badly rattled as
his patient.
“The Boomerang” is stronger in its by-
play than in its argument or dialogue, and
its humor on the whole is conventional and
artless. The scenery, however, is likeable
in its handsome simplicity, and the acting,
if not remarkable, is almost sufficient unto
the characters and the frivolity thereof.
Hale Hamilton, perhaps, leaves the greatest
sense of injury by filling Dr. Sumner with
his own loud, combative good nature. Hale
is rarely soft or soothing. In moments call-
ing for subtle intrigue an obtruded chin and
a roar are the better part of his diplomacy.
Miss Tannehill as Nurse Virginia Xelva is
relentless in her unruffled repose. She never
spares the audience a jot of the serene pro-
fessional air necessary for the part. In the
role of Budd Woodbridge Donald Bowles
practically reduces his actor’s art to an exhi-
bition of well-creased clothes and melancholy
profiles. Nevertheless he is as quaint as
maybe, his broken-hearted voice being a
delicious idiocy. Miss Beatrice Nichols as
Budd’s tart is a meagre excuse for the young
man’s foolishness. Honeyed innocence is
not quite her forte. Miss Ghiloni as Budd’s
fond mamma also seems a bit short of the
requisite gentleness. In fact, her nearest
approach to that agreeable quality is a sort
of playful pugnacity. Nancye Stewart,
Mattee Brown, Leslie Victor; Edwin Lester,
Charles Wheeler and John Ardizoni figure
inconspicuously in minor parts, the Italian
gentleman making a better job of a French
servant than he did of the demented Dago
in “Twin Beds.”
At Sydney Adelphi they don’t forget that
there is a laugh in Shakspeare. And why
should they, especially when “Twelfth
Night” is on? Why restrict the play to the
severe boundaries of the literary text, wffien
if the yarn the story hinges on has anv
meaning it is that Malvolio was an ass and
a wowser whom the author wanted to hold
up to ridicule? Malvolio is a pompous, self-
righteous sort of Bumble, whose type sur-
vives the passage of the centuries and the
scorn of satirists. His hide is as tough as
an alligator’s, his vanity of that order which
almost reaches the sublime, his condescend-
ing bumptiousness exquisite in its offensive-
ness. When the vixenish Maria hooked him,
she used the methods her sex has employed
on such fish ever since the world began.
Allan Wilkie plays the part with intelli-
gence and skill ; and if at times the tiling-
looks like comic-opera, wffiat is there to
grumble at when Malvolio is being so effec-
tively stripped of all his humbug and ex-
hibited as a thoroughbred donkey? Wilkie
sees to it that the laugh is on Malvolio all
the time, and right through his work is en-
titled to commendation. Australia has seen
many Malvolios, but few r have been better
than this. As for the rest of the cast, there
are the usual bright and the usual dismal
spots. Miss Hunter-Watts gets through as
Viola very well indeed, and the pining
melancholy of a robust Duke of Illyria re-
ceives adequate elocutionary treatment from
Walter Hunt. John Cosgrove found the
garb of Toby much more comfortable than
the royal robes of Denmark, and as Sir Jack
Belch held up that end of the performance
with a firm hand and an emphatic hie. He
had need to, for Andrew Aguecheek sparkled
with extreme difficulty and the Jester had a
hard job. Maria was a cat. Miss Elwyn
Harvey made the lady one. Hers was a
really excellent performance.
On Saturday Allan Wilkie Shyloek will
lose his ducats and his daughter and his
pound of flesh. It w T as hard luck for the
Jew ? ; and as all the favorites have been
going down at Rand wick, and the price of
meat is a serious business in Sydney just
now, George Marlow is preparing for a
frantic rush to the only place where the
Chosen can be seen getting it in the neck.
Arriving with the reputation of a so long
run in Sydney it says much for “So Long.
Letty,” that the show came almost up to
expectation in Melbourne, at Her Majesty’s.
The entertainment seems heartless and soul-
less, like many other things made in
America, and the music has only a rag-time
swing, but the effects have a certain smart-
ness of their own. The touch of novelty is
there. The two scenes and the many dresses
are gladdening to the eye, and numerous
ridiculous incidents are absurdly beautiful.
Act 1., where the pleasing “So Long” melody
occurs, has some spots of dulness in its
dialogue, but Act 11. is always good fun of
one sort or other. When it threatens to lose
its punch the floodgates of frivolity are sud-
denly opened, and an inexplicable stream
of girl pours into Tommy’s trellis garden.
Anything happens in “So Long, Letty,” and
it mostly happens for the very best.
The two married couples who change
partners for a week get full opportunity for
histrionic fooling. Dorothy Bruntom as
the frisky Letty. puts more variety into her
work than Connie Ediss, as the wife w i
radiates from the kitchen. Connie has t "
sense of grotesque humor which is rave
womankind, hut she travels all the time m
one mannerism. She strikes a note i.l M #
ing peevishness and sticks to it Her f
nerism and her rotundity grow somewhSi
monotonous and lose a little of their origin*
value. lield lusher is familiarly grotesnnl
as the lean, well-fed husband, and &
man is the same melodious, earnest strh
after farcical humor as in some' nrevir.nl
characters. But Workman has S T
face, voice or temperament for extravagamk
farcical acting. Nature cut him out for.
bank director, and circumstances led him
astray.
Ten years ago “The Squaw Man” boomed
in Melbourne at Her Majesty’s, nor is there
any reason why it shouldn’t now renew its
profitable youth at the King’s, except that
British military officahs. who wore scarlet
jackets and fussed about their precious Reei
mental Fund in 1906, are mostly clothed in
khaki or fine-linen bandages to-day Jfili
tary times have changed. The first’ act u
“The Squaw Man” is a very ’Murkan con
ception of an English ’lgh Society gathering
at the Earl of Kerhill's country house or
rather, in the garden thereof—where the
brothah officahs of the noble Earl present him
with a loving cup in recognition of his s. M-
vices as trustee of the Regimental Fund
But the noble Earl has embezzled the fund
and the chief concern of himself and his
noble mother is to save the Family Title
from disgrace. So mother persuades her
heroic nephew Jim to pretend to he the
embezzler by bolting to Utah (U.SA i
under shadow of suspicion, Jim being "the
limit in self-sacrificial quixoticism as well
as the soul of honor. He humps the burden
of his noble cousin’s shame for the sake of
that high-horn blighter’s pretty wife Diana
who is dead struck on him. ' There’s no
aristocratic dissimulation about Diana.
When alone with heroic James in the gar-
den she tells him that no matter what ill-
fortune his Family I’ride may lead him into
he will always have the love of w T omen—-
which is what vulgar, people would call giv-
ing him the straight griffin. Nevertheless
Jim goes away without kissing Diana, and
the love of woman breaks out in a new place.
When he takes to cow-punching in ’Murka
(cows being meek quadrupeds that rarely
punch back i a little Indian girl gets so
struck on Jim that his chivalrous nature
can’t help itself. The red-skin lady acquires
the habit of saving his life. Incidentally,
she kills Cash Hawkins, a lurid had man who
is about to put a bullet iiito Jim’s soul of
honor. He marries the persistent, unspeak-
able little woman, and their half-breed
papoose is a few years old wffien the Family
solicitor and Diana come from England to
tell him that the blighter Earl is dead and
himself is the lawful successor to the title,
the estates and Diana, if he wants ’em. This
is where the faithful little squaw becomes a
pathetic inconvenience. Her decease is
essential to the happiness of Jim, Diana and
the Family Name; so she shoots herself.
Her father, the boss rooster of the Ute tribe,
produces her corpse as evidence of good
faith.
* * * *
The melodrama, which has pretensions to
merit, seems in some respects better acted
than of old. Guy Hastings puts a lot of
Menetti and Sidell
at Sydney Tivoli.
force and feeling into the hero character,
and is thoroughly manly where Charles V al-
dron was rather effeminate. He gives an
air of health and strength to the sickest
sentimentalities of the play in all four acts.
Also, Miss Carrie Hallett, as Diana, although
she lacks “finish” and importance, is at least
natural in places, whereas Ola Jane Hum-
phrey was always artificial. Bellairs is a
distinctly shame-faced Earl, and Miss Bevan
is a truculent, harsh-voiced edition of the
Mother, ready to tell any darned lie to save
“SO LONG, LETTY.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sing bev for a wife who loves to gad,
Though not at heart a sinner,
Who makes her doting husband sad
By quite forgetting dinner!
Sing hey for a wife who feeds the brute—
She’s a matron stout and dowdy—-
Whilst he flies round in a smart sac suit
And sighs for raptures rowdy.
Sing hey for two contrasted hubs,
Ore fond of home, one fond of clubs,
Who give or take domestic snubs
And suffer sorrows petty ;
And here’s to the girls,
The stylish chorus girls,
The girls in “So Long, Letty.”
Sing hey for a maid that’s said to be
A-drowning in the ocean.
Her rescue from a mystic sea
Is quite a Yankee notion.
Sing hey for an Aunt and a slim young Phil,
Who cut less ice in acting
Than the forty girls, not on the bill,
Whose charms are so distracting.
God bless the whirlwind dancing pair,
The nimble man and the lady fair !
And bless those legs beyond compare,
So gracefully coquettey,
Of the eight nice girls,
The merry, merry girls—
The girls in “So Long, Letty.”
VICTORIA.
O.K.


pOORD&SOK
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
ft
DT
Swift & Company L,td., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
itIIMWO"
XmCHWHiSKf
"Whisky de Luxe
DANIEL CRAVFORDS
RED STAR
c*M
THE PEAPES DINNER-JACKET SUIT
Correct in every detail for informal social functions,
and for club and lodge wear, the Peapes Dinner-
Jacket Suit is also economical in price. It is
noteworthy that now, when good black cloths are
so scarce, we have an ample supply secured by
early contracting.
The coat is cut with peaked lapel, seam only or
seam and vent in back. The cloth used is fast
Black Venetian, with Super Silk facings. Full suit
"ready-to-wear 84 / -
Coat only, 52/6; Vest, 10/6; Trousers, 18/6.
WE PAY POSTAGE.
Please state chest, waist and inside-leg measurements.
New Catalogue on request.
Peapes & Co., Ltd.
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 George Street, SYDNEY
!=,■
JLJL
□□
Ji
DDL
;he Family Honor. The scenes of cow-
punching and bar-room life are convincing
enough. Cash Hawkins, played by Geo.
Bryant, the stage manager of the show, is
about the baddest rustler that ever fingered
a gun with malice aforethought. His career
is a crowded half-hour of evil intentions, and
his sudden death is a note of tragic realism.
Also Miss Gleeson (the squaw) and her
feathered parent are strangely human items.
The Bailey-Grant firm runs this thickly-
populated drama at the King’s, and if it runs
up to its old reputation “The Squaw Man”
should be a winner.
The upside-down melodrama, “On Trial,”
at Sydney Criterion, provides an exciting
evening for amateur detectives. These, on
thinking the play over, discover some
difficulties in the plot that are not men-
tioned in the evidence. For instance, how
did the murderer manage to get into, the
millionaire’s house? The burglar wouldn’t
be likely to let another man in, would he?
After listening to an artist and a woman
arguing about the splendor of “Mother
Goose” and last year’s outbreak at Her
Majesty’s (Sydney) present scribe is con-
tent to leave it to the swarming Easter
crowds.
“Peg o’ My Heart,” with Sara Allgood in
the lead, is broguing prosperously at Sydney
Palace. Always in the holiday season this
compact little theatre is liable to feel like
an Oriental lady who tiglit-laces shame-
lessly ; and with so good a show as “Peg o’
My Heart” it is, this Easter, feeling that
way more than usual.
* * *
When the elephants tiptoe silently amidst
the palatial appointments at Wirths’ Sydney
hippodrome, and after standing on their
hindlegs, dancing a tango and otherwise
behaving after the manner of all well-con-
ducted monsters of the forest, slink out
again one by one, they have to be revived
with smelling-salts and peanuts, the atmo-
sphere of grandeur about the place having a
serious effect upon their nerves. But it is
quite different with the seals. Considerable
trouble has been experienced in restraining
these cultivated cousins of the mermaid
from taking front seats in the dress-circle
and applauding the other performers. By a
compromise George Wirtli has provided the
hairy musicians and tightrope walkers with
a private box, and from this they give three
cheers when May Wirth somersaults and
the Japs, leap from nowhere with unerring-
precision to the tops of their heads and back
again.
Like the contemplative adjutant bird,
Sydney Tivoli seems to be very satisfied with
its long bill. The managerial advt. repeats
one name four times and five others twice.
The artists who are only mentioned once
have probably kicked up a row about it
before this. Marie King Scott is the artist
of whom the house is proudest; but there
would be trouble if some rival drove up with
a closed furniture van and tried to abduct
Menetti and Sidelli, Cardo and Noll, the
Three Ivundles and Jack Bornhold.
Scouts of winter are warning the open-air
shows to stand from under. The Dandies
are preparing to vacate their entrenchment
at Branscombe’s Garden Theatre (Sydney),
and a couple of weeks will see the close of
the season. Meanwhile special old-favorite
programmes are maintaining the cheerfulness
of the show, and friends of the co. are
invited to nominate any item that is linked
with fond memories of a visit to the garden.
* * * *
King Carnival still jingles his bells at
the White City, and the young Gumleaves
from the bush have been having the time of
their lives with him. Beauty competitions
are the rage at the big playground just now.
and after Rider Haggard has seen what
Sydney can produce in this department he’ll
have no difficulty in inducing British
Tommies to come to Australia after the war,
land or no land.
The Ideals of 1916, at Melbourne Audi-
torium, continue to suggest starlit summer
skies. Also an odor of brine from the sea-
side. They are a fairly versatile company,
with the exception of the gentle pianist
whose name is Fred. Fred is much too
lovely to be versatile, but his glance across
the keyboard is absolutely killing.
❖ * *
Twelve farewells of the Follies are being
crowded into this week at the Melbourne
Tivoli. A protracted season will come to a
well-earned conclusion on Saturday, by
which time the names of everybody required
to fill the gap will be duly announced to a
listening world. Meanwhile all things at the
Tiv. are as they were in last Bulletin.
Fred Villiers, who has been talking war
at Melbourne Athenaeum Hall since Satur-
day last, was advertised to say no more
about it after to-night (Thursday). This
arrangement, however, may not receive the
sanction of F.Y.’s dear old friend, General
Desire. If the General orders him to stand
and deliver another lecture, Villiers will
have to obey. Protests from Carlyle Smythe
will be useless.
Fresh arrivals at Melbourne Bijou on
Saturday were Freddie James and Paris
Green, both recently imported from U.S.A.
James calls himself the “Worst Juggler on
Earth,” and on the evidence The Bulletin
fines him sd. for slander, with costs. Paris
Green, w T ho is in the monologue business,
is an equally satisfactory entertainer. He
has a heap of bright new T stories, and one
at least loses nothing in piquancy for being
Harry Burgess as
Marlin Spike.
"DICK WHIT
TINGTON AND
HISCAT," AT
MELBOURNE
PRINCESS'S.
Frank Crossley as
Alderman Fitz-
warren.
a trifle out of bounds. The newest inhabi-
tants also include Bellora, Ella Airlie, Bol-
linger and Reynolds, Gick Watson, Sterling
and Love and Madge Maitland. The last-
named, who is described as the “Irish Girl
from America,” is a curious reminder of
Daisy Jerome; hut she is not so unruly in
action as Daissq and her character work is
on a higher plane of humor.
The panto, at Melbourne Princess’s is
taking full advantage of the Easter season,
when autumnal-tinted frivolity takes a final
flutter and panto, is in the fashion of the
times. Dan Thomas is still the livest wire
of “Whittington,” and the Ballet of Bare
Legs continues to emphasise the fact that
beauty unadorned is oft admired the most.
* s;:
Adelaide shows have now’ got into their
usual winter clothes. The Williamsonian
pictures have vanished from the Royal. They
were a fine set, introducing the brilliant
Theda Bara, and showing that an old friend,
Nance O’Neil, is still on deck. The trouble
was they began with their best thing, “Car-
men,” instead of working up to it. For
Easter “The Dancing Mistress” has come
in. At the Tivoli last year’s Con-
way and Fitzherbert, have had a successful
week as Raffles and Sherlock Holmes in an
American play that brings those two heroes
together. The King’s has the juggler Testro,
who should be a star if he only had some
new feats; also Coleman whistles, and
Cumby and Brown are conventional coons.
At the Queen’s, the deft little Napoleonic
conjurer Malini is giving a one-man show
—an unusual idea these times.
While fond Australian mothers have been
sending their youngsters to England so that
they mightn’t have to mix with the unedu-
cated, unmannerly Jimbills they’d be sure
to find in the Australian army, Dr. Brissen-
den, one of the most learned, bookish law-
yers in Australia, and a man with a very big
practice, has dropped into the line in Sydney
as a private, and is well content to leave in
a few weeks as such.
Scores of civil servants in Tasmania
have been making it understood that they
burn to fight, but that a hard-hearted
Government declines to give them leave.
Well, according to a soul-less official return,
only 19 out of the men eligible have
been refused leave, and the names
of a few of those who have been
pleading the alleged barrier cannot be
discovered in the document. Out of
1041 officers eligible for service only
224 have enlisted. This is fairly disreput-
able seeing that the Government has made
definite promise that those who go shall
get their old jobs when they return, or some-
thing equivalent.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“H. 0.”: Why “So Long, Letty”? Not so
long as broad.
“Norbell” : I went to the panto. “Mother
Goose” here (Brisbane) the other night, and
sat with all the other baldheaded, happy
children in the stalls. During the show a
burly person in some sort of make-believe
uniform squeezed along the row of _ bony
knees and fatted calves and thrust a picture
postcard into the hands of every stallite.
Presently he squeezed back again and sug-
gested a “silver coin” from each individual.
Thinking it was a patriotic collection, as
usual, everybody sparred up, and when the
lights flared we read, “Three Dutchmen on
their journey round the World. Started
22nd March, 1914, from Brussels (Bel-
gium) without money. They may not beg
and must earn their living by the sale of
postcards. Please buy one and pay what
you like.” The same old fake! But what
a cast-iron nerve these three “Dutchmen”
must have to try it on at a time like this !
Also, who let ’em do it at the panto.? Fur-
ther, why don’t the police swap some hard
and useful work for the swindle?
“Screen” : Jane Shore, on the movies, has
been sending a fiost of people to their history
books. As the fourth Edward’s left-handed
wife she exercised all her power for good-
just like Lola Montez with the dotard King
of Bavaria till the Jesuits snuffed her out,
and sent her acting “Lola Montez in
Bavaria” in Australia. Although historians
conspire to smother Jane Shore, she is the
most famous woman in English history next
to the queens. There is Rowe’s old tragedy
of Jane Shore. Also one by Wills, in which
Miss Heath, Wilson Barrett’s wife, acted
with him. The last-mentioned play was
produced in Melbourne by Mrs. G. B. W.
Lewis.
“Vocalist”: What “O K.” says about
Theophilus Roberts (B. 13/4/T6), the Mel-
bourne voice-restorer, applies equally to
Roland Foster in Sydney. In my own case,
after being debarred from singing by nose
and throat troubles for nearly eight years,
my voice has developed so greatly that I
am now at work professionally with success,
and the throat specialist I was under is
surprised at the difference in the voice. Like
Roberts, Foster believes that, generally
speaking, the vocal organs are as normal in
construction as our hands, and that any intel-
ligent person with an ear for music can
acquire the power to sing without causing
the neighbors to send for the police.
“Private Boxer”: Only last year both
lan Maclaren and Allan Wilkie were appear-
ing at Sydney Criterion in the J. C. William-
son version of a United States drammer
called “Inside the Lines.” The work of
both mummers was voted commonplace in
the factory-made piece. This year one is
starring in Shakspeare and making a suc-
cess of it, and the other is compelling admi-
ration by his high-class work in modern
comedy. All of which seems to prove that
United States drammer is deadly, and that,
given the good stuff, there are plenty of
brainy actors available to play it.
Irene Browne recently skipped into
musical comedy in London. She was filling
a minor part in “Who is He?” at the Hay-
market, when Robert Courtneidge coaxed
her away for the lead in “My Lady Frayle,”
for which Arthur Wimperis and Max Pem-
berton constructed lyrics. They called it
“Vivien” for the trial provincial tour.
“Kaniva”: A man’s fame dies with him.
Jim Bell, who had been on the Rickards
circuit for nearly 30 years, and for
the last 10 had been one of its stage
managers, attracted an audience of two to
his funeral the other day. J. R. Greville,
the comedian who amused countless thou-
sands, was followed on his farewell by his
old partners Harwood, Stewart and Hen-
nings. Not one “pro.” followed Johnny
Cowan, the old-time minstrel, although he
had appeared at benefits for his fellow-man
times without number. John Bryan, another
well-known theatrical, who was in the first
cast of the “Silver King” in Melbourne, also
raised but a couple of followers.
From London : “The Tiger’s Cub,” at the
Garrick, is about the rowdiest and roaringest
mining play on record —a sort of Bret Harte
nightmare. Madge Titheradge is the dog-
whipped heroine of this extraordinary piece,
and whatever else she may think of it she
will agree that it is the most strenuous
knockabout part she has ever played.
She does it in a fine, full-blooded, melo-
dramatic style which has captured all the
critics.
Minnie Tittell Brune was in the cast, of
“The Love Thief.” a Canadian melodrama
which moved the Maple Leaf soldiers in
London to derision and metaphoric cabbage.
What she said is not recorded, but she must
have said something. It was an ungovern-
able habit of hers to say something between
her pantings.
“U.S.”: Stevenson’s novels were for a long
time regarded as impossible for the stage.
Then Mansfield astonished the Yanks with
“Jekyl and Hyde.” Now “Treasure Island”
has been produced as a play at the Punch and
Judy, in New York. Great success. Four
acts and nine scenes, adapted by J. E. Good-
man. The piece was first tried on the dog at;
Albany, and failed, but manager Hopkins
insisted on giving it a run on the Great White
Way. Edward Emery is fine as John Silver.
There is only one female and no love interest.
This the public finds mighty refreshing. Ed-
ward Emery is brother of Winifred, who
visited Australia with her father, Sam
Emery. Sam’s father, John, was a celebrated
comedian, and John’s father, too, was a
theatrical. The thespian history of the family
is unbroken since 1712. It is remarkable
that two other eurrently-successful New York
plays have no love interest —“Young
America” and an adaptation of Hauptmann’s
“Weavers.”
“Stargazer” gets an extra turn : —•
I experienced an unusual diversion at a motion-
picture show in St. Kilda (Vic.) the other evening.
An ordinary, machine-made drama from one of those
American factories where they turn them out, true
to scale, at the rate of a million a week, was in
progress, when the audience was thrilled by an omin-
ous growling like that of a famished Zoo tiger
attacked by a rabbit. The growling gave place to
a deep-throated barking, and a huge dog—of the
mastiff sect, I am informed —bounded up the aisle,
roaring with emotion, ' and went straight for the
party on the film. The screen was solid, and the
dog shut up into a lump where he hit, and recoiled
in a ball, amazed and somewhat confused, but wholly
unconvinced. He tried again with every demonstra-
tion of canine emotion, and once more he o’erleapt
himself. He tried again, and failed again, while
the audience shrieked in chorus, with squeals that
were half rapture and half holy terror. Then the
small, barbered French poodle in the picture that was
the real occasion of the mastiff’s demonstration
trotted off the film. The big tyke went after him,
and ran all in a heap off the platform. He picked
himself up, now thoroughly roused, and went tearing
round and round the picture screen, barking,, yelping
and sniffing, seeking the mysterious poodle, and
promising him a merciless death should they meet.
The dog’s owner and a large attendant captured
Crusoe after a long chase and threw him out; but
for half an hour the exasperated animal could be
heard, coursing round the building, still in quest
of that contemptible but bewild'eringly elusive
French poodle.
“Harrison O.”: After having endured a
series of blatant Yankee plays performed
by mostly indifferent mimes, I learn, on the
authority of the J. C. Williamson press
agent, that, when here, Yankee performers
are at pains to “broaden” their style, so as
to appeal to the crude perceptions of Aus-
tralian theatregoers. A paragraph circu-
lated in Melbourne quotes the dictum of a
member of the noisy “Twin Beds” show
that “a remark which in America would
evoke roars of laughter if merely uttered in
a quiet way, without throwing it at the
audience, would in Australia be passed over,
so here we color it up a bit.” It is perhaps
natural thus to make a virtue of incapacity,
but to attempt to excuse crudity on the
ground that artistry would not be recog-
nised is merely rubbing the salt of insult
into injuries already done to the artistic
conscience of the Australian playgoing
public.
(Continued on page 26.)
Chief Justice Murray, of South Aus.,
passed on an interesting decision the other
day. The Federal Probate Act provides that
duty shall be levied and paid upon the value
of estates of persons dying after the com-
mencement of the Act. Frederick Flavel
died at 7.45 on the morning of December 21,
1914, and the Bill did not receive the
Governor-General’s assent, and thus become
law, until after 10 a.m. on that day. It
was consequently argued that Flavel was not
a person dying after the commencement of
the Act, and that his estate was not liable
for duty. To the layman the point seems
good, but the Commissioner for Taxes
decided against it. The executors ' then
appealed to the Supreme Court; but Justice
Murray, following the authority of English
cases, held that it was a recognised and well-
known rule that the Law took no notice of
fractions of days, and that an Act which
came into operation on a given day became
law as soon as the day commenced. So the
executors passed sadly out of court to meet
that hungry animal, Costs, licking its lips on
the doorstep.
A WASTED PERFORMANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From the recruiting depot strode
Jules Greasepaint; on his chest
His chin was sunk, and on his brow
Sat gloom. I greeted him: “How now?
And did you pass the test?”
He nodded. As his hand I grasped
He showed no sign of joy,
But merely frowned and heaved a sigh,
Then murmured, sorrow in his eye:
“A wretched house, my boy l”
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


The “D.J.” Riding Breeches
<*■■ ■&****
from 1 6 6 pair.
These Breeches are cut to ensure perfect ease in the saddle,
they are strengthened where necessary, and the materials
have been specially selected to withstand hard wear.
In odorless Canton Moleskin, white or drab, full cut,
strapped knees laced or buttoned.
All sizes ready to wear ;. . 16/6
Same style in Khaki Drill 16/6
In Bedford Cord from 27 /6
In Drab Cashmerette 32/6
State Waist Measurement when Ordering.
IYE PAY CARRIAGE.
DAVID JONES LIMITED,
Opp. G.P.0., SYDNEY
/
fvy//'
tc/cp
You surely do bar the door to
your owa pleasures
unless you use
“LUXURIA.”
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date H°te
now complete in every detail, a •
under the management of
Usher, the Comforts of a 1e “
Home are assured. The cui
and Service will compare a
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent.
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Directoi.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
Australia has a Labor Government and
an Arbitration law, and a unionist in Syd-
ney the other day told how the two between
them were helping the nation through its
greatest crisis. He looked for an engineer-
ing job at Garden Island, but as there
was a strike on there was nothing doing
for him. So he went over to Melbourne
and secured an engagement, but before he
could take his coat off there was a sudden
crash of tools being downed. Hearing a
rumor that work was going on at the Clyde
shops (Sydney), he rushed back to find
another strike commencing there. Then,
with the aid of a black tracker and a
bloodhound he ran down a billet at Eveleigh,
but the day he reported the same old curse
settled on that place. Whereupon in bit-
terness of soul and the fear of lifelong idle-
ness, he wrote to the newspapers to say in
effect (1) that he was a good unionist; (2)
that his object in becoming a unionist was
to improve his prospects; (3) that his pros-
pects were on offer to the first comer at
seven for 6d.; (4) that his luck was so
rotten bad that he believed if he died
the grave-sinkers’ union would go on strike
and his body would have to be hung over the
limb of a tree.
WOMEN ARE SO SELFISH.
“You said that, when I married you, you would gratify my every wish.”
“Well, what are you wishing for notv?”
“ I’m wishing that I’d never seen you."
At Sydney Quarter Sessions Judge
Scholes has been earning a mixed reputa-
tion. On the average, his Honor has shown
more leniency than this Court has known
for an age, and in the cases of young offen-
ders sentences have been suspended in a
record number of cases. Yet occasionally
the learned Judge imposes quite unexpected
sentences, married offenders being singularly
unfortunate. His Honor’s idea was ex-
plained in a recent case, in which it was
mentioned on behalf of a defendant, charged
with stealing furniture from a firm which
employed him at £2 10s. per week, that he
was married. On this the Judge gave the
opinion that the man with a wife should
be more severely punished than a single
man, because he knew in committing an
offence that he would bring trouble upon
others. Solomon believes, in short, that if
a man is driven to crime by the pressure of
necessity, such as might easily fall upon a
married man with £2 10s. a week, he is a
worse criminal, than the man who, having
only himself to think of, adds to his punting
money (say) by felony. This paper is no
advocate of thieving; still it hopes that the
good-hearted Scholes may live long enough
to find out that many a man with a hungry
wife and children has stolen because the
best thing in his whole composition told him
to do it.
* * * *
Major Billjim found it waiting for him on
the mess-table at Tel-el-Kebir the other
morning : —•
His Excellency The Major,
I am called Abdou Mohammed who was a helping-
man for the Australian man who is called Shaly the
cooker of your Excellency.
I tell your Excellency that Shaly the same brought
me to help him in the cook-room, and promised me
that he gives me daily six P.T. (piastres) to consider
of mj’ work with him ; for that, I worked with him a
month only without I did not take from him money;
and when 1 said to him that he gives me my charge
for a month he refused that.
Now I presented this letter to your Excellency after
my begs; and thanks to order him to give me my
wage; because your Excellency the biggest director
of him ; and I have my old father, mother, and my
family; and all these I supply them with food to
eat.
God bless your Excellency.
Your Servant,
Abdou Mohammed.
The Major paid.
Justice Rooth, one of Westralia’s im-
ported wigs, added at the last Criminal
sittings to his already remarkable record.
A man of 25 years committed a loathsome
offence upon the infant daughter of the
family he was living with. The monster,
or lunatic, communicated a venereal disease
to the five-year-old child, and pleaded in
defence that his passions had mastered him.
Rooth, J., made some noises and handed
out a sentence of 18 months. On the
following day an aborigine who —according
to the charge —attempted to rape a girl of
16 years was given two years’ hard. But petty
pilferers and a horse-stealer received sen-
tences of from three to five years. Horrible
offences against children are shockingly com-
mon in Perth, and a little more of Booth's
style of dealing with them will lead the
married citizen to take a gun into his own
hands.
Now that Hans across the Sea is tighten-
ing his belt, German papers are telling their
readers that by chewing more and eating
less they will satisfy their hunger and at
the same time reduce their tucker bills.
Hoch l Now der victory
Comes into view;
Here is der recipe:
“Chew und eschew 1”
THE LESSER OF TWO EVILS.
“I suppose you have a lot of trouble keeping your wife dressed in the height of fashion?”
“Yes; but it’s nothing to the trouble I’d have if I didn’t."
That a doctor’s prescription written in
a dog version of a dead language may be
mis-read with deadly effect was shown at
Melbourne the other day. A Ivew medico
wrote on a prescription: “One tablespoonful
to be taken hora somni ,” which is the un-
English way they have in the Doctors’
Union of writing “bed-time.” The chemist
who made up the mixture —a sleeping
draught—read the words “hora omni”
(every hour), and wrote the label for the
bottle accordingly. When the patient had
been given three doses of the draught, which
contained morphia, the family did not like
the look of him, and he died soon after the
arrival of the hastily-summoned doctor. As
the patient had been in a very low state
and w r as about due to leave the world, and as
several members of the Doctors’ Union gave
evidence that the morphia was not enough
to kill a man, the Coroner merely remarked
that the chemist had been careless, and
returned a verdict of misadventure. He
might have made a few observations anent
the absurdity of writing medical directions
in a dead language, but he did not —perhaps
because he is a member of the Doctors’
Union himself.
* * * *
“Whizzer”: Melbourne is at present
harassed by great clouds of children who
rush hither and thither on what are locally
known as “scooters” —things like a capital
L on wheels. The scootist places one foot
on the horizontal part of the L, and, grasp-
ing the top of the perpendicular section,
propels himself into the distant and oft-times
sensational future by a succession of back-
kicks with his free foot. The noise made
by a battalion of these engines resembles
that of curtain-fire at Verdun. They are
in use by boys and girls from 7 a.m. to 10
p.m., and collisions with citizens have been
so numerous that ratepayers are protesting
in a bruised voice to the local councils. The
police view is that the kiddies are too young
to be prosecuted for driving vehicles on the
footpath, so the law merely warns them to
go elsewhere. They promptly do so at 12
miles an hour, with results similar to those
set forth in Neil Lyons’s story of the little
girl and the Belgian officer. What with
motors, scooters, electric cars and uproar-
ious nippers in box-trucks on every down
grade, the Melbourne citizen nowadays is as
full of dints as last year’s jam-tin.
The tale of a Melbourne tragedy of last
week had an unusual sort of postscript. The
man was Gerard Fondabury, a railway em-
ployee of 50; the woman, his wife, was 40;
the serpent was a sailor-man. The last-
mentioned refusing to be choked off, and the
wife being unduly fond of him, the harassed
husband shot her and then himself. As the
bodies were on the way to the morgue a
letter arrived from the cause of the trouble
asking the woman to meet him that night
and make arrangements for eloping. Police
search of the house, a small dwelling in
West Melbourne, gave some queer results.
Fondabury was really Van der Berg, of
Dutch birth, naturalised in T 2, though in
the naturhlisation papers he called himself
German ; and amongst his papers was found
a plan of trenches, roads and gullies between
Ilerbertsholie and Bitappa, at Rabaul, the
how and why of its existence being a mystery
that the Defence authorities ought to know
something about, but probably never will.
* * * *
An Adelaide man is getting an expensive
lesson in the law of divorce. He said things
about his wife. She denied them, and said
the same about him, besides accusing him of
cruelty. This brought on the scene two
other women whom she had named, and who
insisted on coming in to defend their reputa-
tion. There was a leisurely trial, 29 days
of it, and then the jury returned a bunch
of negatives —nothing wrong with the hus-
band ; nothing wrong with the “interven-
ing” ladies; no cruelty; and about the
wife’s conduct they simply couldn’t agree.
All this was last year; and now the winter
campaign is opening again. The husband
naturally wants a fresh trial on the one
point that was not settled. She that
the whole case must be re-tried, if any of it
is ; and the Court agrees with her. By way
of clearing off some of the magnificent accu-
mulation of Costs, it has ordered that she
shall pay those of the other ladies whom she
dragged in. But, as for her own, “the rule
is that a wife is entitled to be provided by
her husband with the means of defending
herself in a matrimonial suit, and her soli-
citor cannot be deprived of the right to
receive his Costs at the husband’s expense,
even though the defence should he unsuccess
ful.” A lawyer with lady clients seems o
be on a good wicket.
UNINFRINGED NEUTRALITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A mighty Zeppelin soaring high,
Immersed in the celestial sky,
Exploded bombs—some six or seven—
And played the very deuce in Heaven.
The murderous Huns’ destructive fire
Killed more than half the heavenly choir,
Destroyed the golden streets, and tore
Serene archangels by the score.
The news clutched Wilson by the throat.
He armed. But Kaiser William wrote,
And soothed him with this sweet advice:
“There are no Yanks in Paradise!”
VICTORIA.
S.S.


the fine
value of
The “DUNCLIFFE”
'p'HE next Felt Hat you buy
may be in every way worthy
and quite good from the view-
point of style and appropriate-
ness. But the point is this: —
We do not believe it is possible for you to get quite
such good value for the price in any other Hat but the
“Dt’NCLIFFE.” Its brim is unbound —may be worn
anyway. Send for a Hat on approval. It may be
returned and cash refunded if unsuitable.
10/fo POST
FREE.
Light & Dark Grey
or Fawn. Please
state size.
PIKE
Toowoomba.
LIMITED
BRISBANE.
Townsville.
teTOMMGm
i@«ss mwm
The Marvellous Contrivance
that makes it possible to dis-
pense with buttons, hooks and
eyes and press-studs in men’s and
women’s garments. One simple
movement and the garment is
opened or closed.
The World has been Wait-
ing for the Hookless
Fastener.
It saves time, trouble and tem-
per. Is fixed in a few minutes,
and is indestructible.
Ask to see it at. your draper’s
or tailor’s.
The Hookless Fastener Co.
Elizabeth House, ( Australasia )>
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
“A new comedian
with a genuine cast of
funniness free from all
signs of Chaplinitis,”
is the way Kitty Kelly,
of the New York
Tribune, describes
Ilarry Watson in the
Film Comedy’s
“The Mishaps of
Musty Suffer.” The
first of this new
discovery’s film
should just about
re a e h Sydney in
time to save the
life of the comedy end of the cinema busi-
ness. The marvel of it is that it has taken
such a time to unearth another laughter-
getter. However, Musty is well-heralded
with the added credential that he gets his
laughs without descending to vulgarity, and
that’s the only kind of comedian worthy the
name. —Advt.
i
/ /
Musty.
“Longy” : Owing to the excessive remune-
ration attached to the job of cleaning country
schools in N. S. Wales, prospective cleaners
generally take fright when the subject is
mentioned, and the work falls to the
teachers, who toil as a rule for less pay than
a piek-and-shovel man. With a view, there-
fore, of having the work done on sound
principles the Education Dept, has issued
instructions on the subject of how to do it.
Here they are: (1) All floors must be swept
daily with sawdust dampened in disinfect-
ant; (2) all walls and ceilings must be
cleaned once a quarter; (3) all desks, seats,
tables, etc., should be dusted every morning
with a moist cloth; (4) all rooms to be
scrubbed out once a quarter; (5) all presses
and cupboards to be cleaned out periodically
and washed with soap and soda; (6) floors
of all w.c.’s to be scrubbed with soap and
water once a week. The pay for this is
9s. 3d. a month, payable half-yearly all at
once!
THE PERSONAL INTEREST.
SHE: “I suppose you read the divorce
cases?”
HE: “Only when I am the co-respondent.”
“B.B.” : They run in, all shapes. It was
Ali Hussein, of the Indian Army Transport
in Mesopotamia, who reported himself with
a bullet in his shoulder. Said the doctor:
“When did you get this?” “In the battle,
sahib,” answered our mule-walloping
brother. “But that was three days ago.
Why didn’t you report yourself before?”
“Sahib, I had no time. The wounded were
too many.”
GALLANTRY.
“How old do you think I am?"
“Not nearly as old as you look.”
"Well, how old do you think I look?''
“Not nearly as old as you are.”
“Musketoon” : W. A. Murray, a constable
at Forbes (N.S.W.), with 17 years’ service
behind him, decided to change uniforms last
week. To get from blue to khaki he tells
me he had to resign from the force, and so
his long service goes for nothing. At least
he’s assured that it will go for nothing. But
I guess the Department will change its mind
if the right sort of row is made. No doubt
it is most important that the country should
be policed; but if George Black can’t get
the job done temporarily by men who are
unfit for war service, then he isn’t nearly as
ingenious as he used to be when he patched
my Bulletin paragraphs 25 years ago.
* * * *
Probably the oldest specimen of human
handiwork extant in Australasia has just
been unearthed in the tin-bearing gravel near
Gladstone (Tas.). It is a beautifully chipped
little cutting or scraping tool liin. long and
the same in breadth, and it was found at a
depth of 30 feet from the surface and well
below the marine deposits which cover this
part of the country. The material is a
semi-transparent chalcedony—not the chert
generally used by the aborigines for their
tools. Black Brother of Tasmania must
have been a very unprogressive
individual, for this ancient tool,
which probably dates back many
hundreds of thousands of years,
shows better work than the stone
implements used by the aborigines
within historic times, though they
are all of the same general type.
The theory is that some black-
fellow dropped his pocket-knife in
the gravel away back before Bass
Straits began, that later this part
of the country sank under water,
that a thick deposit of marine
sediment, in places over 100 feet
thick, was laid down, and that
finally the marine deposits were heaved
out of the water again. And now
at last a miner has stumbled on the old-
time implement when he was trying to sluice
out alluvial tin. The tool is of exactly the
same type as the palaeolithic flints from
very old deposits in Spain and elsewhere.
Probably there weren’t any patents that long
B.C.
* * *
The latest egg-laying competition in Mel-
bourne has resulted in the breaking of three
world’s records. This has inspired a patriot
to hang on the fence at Burnley a notice:
“Our Hens Have Done Their Duty. Do
Yours.”
"Do not kiss on the lips,” is portion of
what Melbourne Herald describes as the
“platonic prophylaxis” laid down by Dr.
B. J. Bull, University bacteriologist, in his
Victorian anti-meningitis campaign. Very
good. But when a Hawthorn engineer came
home on April 7, after having omitted to
kiss his wife at his departure, he found her
dying, with a rifle beside her and a bullet
wound in her breast. Both she and her
husband were members of rifle clubs, and
the method she adopted was to lie down on
the bed and press the trigger with a poker.
At the inquest the Coroner, having been
informed that before she died the woman
had sobbed “He did not kiss me or say
good-bye,” took the view that she had mag-
nified a domestic quarrel. But he gave no
guidance to husbands in the matter of choos-
ing between tragedies and meningitis.
THE WINTER GIRL.
She shivers in furs by day, yet a smile will
warm her at night.
In the art of sitting down on a thing and
. . ... . , TT , , ,
not moving till it is dead, Hobart hasn’t
much to learn. Back m 1912 an inter-State
Conference was held to make uniform regu-
lations under the Foods and Drugs Acts, and
amongst other things agreed on were cere
tain provisions for improving butchers’
shops. In Tas. the turning on of the new
machinery was left to the local bodies, and
about the end of 1914 Hobart City Council
had got to the stage of giving the butchers
(two of whom happeu to be aldermen)
notice to bar out the too-frcqueut fly and
keep their shops more or less clean. On
August 12, 1915, 45 butchers were sum-
moned for breaches of the regulations, but
they proved that the regulations had not
been tabled in Parliament within the proper
time and legally didn’t exist. So the Gov-
ernment re-gazetted them on September 14,
but made them purport to come into force
on January 13, 1915, which rendered them
retrospective and void. The Government
then hatched another effort on December 28,
but mislaid it until January 25, 1.916, when
the regulations were properly gazetted. Two
months later Hobart City Council solemnly
decided to give the butchers six months'
more notice that the regulations were coming
into force. By this time the Chief Health
Officer was getting a little weary of the
farce, so he stepped in and told the Council
that he would take over the administration
of the thing, and that if the butchers didn’t
comply with the regulations right away
there would be something doing. The Coun-
cil replied that he was welcome to the job, as
the speed required to keep up with it was
an undue interference with the liberty of the
subject, or something like that.
* * * *
The other day the cable reported that
upward of 1,000,000 Armenians had been
massacred by the Turks. “The English,”
the message concluded, “are endeavoring to
arouse popular feeling in Armenia against
the Turks.” There’s the Bulldog Breed for
you—ready to tackle anything, even the
task of making you unfriendly towards the
man who has been in the habit of dropping
in before breakfast and massacring a few of
your family.
* * » *
The reflections of a Beast:—
There’s a lot of human nature among the suffra-
gettes. Mrs. Pankhurst, who is still the leader of
the married and elderly parties, became a whole-
hearted anti-German as soon as the true inwardness
of the war was made clear. They exhort mankind to
keep on fighting until German militarism is knocked
out and Freedom is herself again. The awful
destruction of husbands and marriageable men doesn’t
turn them from the main principle of suffragettism,
which is directly opposed to German man-made des-
potism. But the spinster suffragettes! The strong-
minded girls who have not tasted matrimony and
are mostly old enough to be afraid of dying in igno
ranee of its flavor! They don’t want any further
destruction of possible husbands in any Cause what-
soever. Here we have little Adela Pankhurst (who is
still quite huggable) and the Virgin Vida, Saint
Cecilia Johns and others braving the suspicion of pro-
Germanism rather than desist from calling on the
war to stop. They complain of nothing save the
slaughter of men —the men most of them affected to
despise as long as they remained in the flesh, but
whom they are so screamingly sorry to lose. Miss
Sylvia Pankhurst, in England, appears to be doing
her little bit to stop the war by championing the
cause of any strikers who block the way to success.
She has formed a sort of Labor Unrest Federation,
which would have held a meeting in Trafalgar
Square the other day if a party of stand-no-nonsense
Anzacs hadn’t intervened. Still that will only stop
Sylvia for a week or two. Why doesn’t some brave
Anzac marry her and keep her quiet for good?
One of the results of the war is the filling
up of the Australian mercantile marine with
foreign sailors. The Australian service is
a paradise to the overseas sailor, and he is
a constant new arrival. Long Bay Gaol
always has a batch of
deep - sea teailormen
“doing a month” as a
penalty for ship deser-
tion, their object
being, mainly, to get
aboard Australian
vessels. Since the
Kaiser went mad
quite a number of
Australian seamen
have taken a shore job
in khaki, and foreign
A.B.’s have climbed
into their bunks. Now
the Federated Sea-
men’s Union of Maori-
land is demanding a
promise that returned
sailor-soldiers will be
given preference when they get their oil-
skins out again, and the Australian Union
will probably fall into line.
* * # *
A soldier-man in an Adelaide police court
was charged with flourishing a revolver and
making blood-curdling threats to his wife.
He expressed a wish to get away into camp
as soon as possible; on which a dull Court
told him to go to war, but solemnly bound
him over to keep the peace for 12 months.
. “The Tenth”: Opposite the Continental
in Cairo is a huge statue of Sulieman Pasha
or some other Gippy on horseback. One
of our coves thought the nag wanted a feed,
so overnight he climbed up and put a nose-
bag on. How he got there beats me; but
Jimbill will go to a bit of trouble for the
sake of a ’orse he’s taken a fancy to.
MINERVA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Chill Age with furtive talons claws
My blood, though fain would I be merry;
Would I were young to-day, because,
Minerva’s with me on the terry.
That is the name I’ve given her
For reference, since I do not know her;
Her own, maybe, I’d much prefer;
And I've a heart I’d love to show her.
Minerva’s slender and most sweet—
V mouth provocative but shy;
A something variable and fleet
Just scintillating in her eye.
But should I speak to her she’d scorn
With tilted nose my simple word,
And make me wish myself unborn.
These stale conventions are absurd.
Her ankles slim ! Her dimpled neck !....
A grim regret is o’er me stealing
That I must hold myself in check
And coolly glance at her unfeeling.
I’d like to catch her by the chin
And kiss away her mouth’s rich sorrow ;
But that would be a grit .oils sin—
And I’ll be forty-eight to-morrow!
So there she sits, and here sit I,
And never shall we kiss and cuddle.
Though Beauty holds her sovereignty,
This life’s a curious sort of muddle.
But still Minerva, sitting there
Demurely, glorifies the ferry.
And life is sweet, and maids are fair....
Thank God ! say I, and let's be merry!
N.S.W.
JOSEPHUS Q. HARRIS.


Cwiliwt ui»ll be moch changed lhe vaW
tf is hardly be expected -ihaTthe
million* reTorW
will be able ro drof iheir sold ,enns
hab.-Ts and r»Tum -To
all aiT"
once
iWai -tVrruz faMier uj\U conduct"
-{he Monday in
* —•
fev e, || e ,
rtuJ Joht ' Henr^
er U|e t^Tlaw,,
Itfe 'slaughter
Sunday
d» rtner uoill Seem
like old Times
dWis 15 ]oncs abpoi
-\o rHtne his motile/- in-la^o
QdiS helmets will
Come in use-j^l,
unll enable
householder 1Z more eftecMf
deal loliW canvassers, collecTocs
and relations .
AFTER THE WAR.


THE PAYMENT OF SALOME


JfyaeuL
Chaving
(2)TICK
L6V6RX
For an
Ideal Shave
*:~c
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
|WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS GO ROUNJJ?
LEWIS&WMITTY MAKERS
HORLICK'
MALTED MIL
JstA
For dispelling that tired feeling—for building up debili-
tated and depleted energies—take Horlick’s. liorlick’s
Malted Milk is the Ideal Food-Drink and is made
in a moment with the addition of water only.
Btry it at the soda fountain
. AA 'I'J INYU.-
mM
NOl**
,r
The 1\
“Buxton
If you would have the right
quality, shape, weight, and
price, wear WOODROW’S
famous hat always.
GbtainaLle all Leading Stores.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Took the last trench at Dunedin (M.L.)
the other day, Lieut. 11. It. Martineau,
Y.C. He got his bit of bronze at Game
Tree during the Boer AA 7 ar, and was
wounded three times and lost one arm while
earning it. Prior to that he had been
through the Matabele campaign and the
Natal rebellion. When the present scrap
started he took his one arm into it as
transport officer of the Otago Infantry Bat-
talion. Recently he was invalided from
Egypt, and was 42 when the end came.
AVinthrop Duckett, of the AA’est Aus-
tralian, remembered some of the old em-
ployees in his will, but not to the extent that
was generally expected. The young wife —
she is still in the 20’s—gets about £3OOO a
year. Her five children, four girls
and a boy, are bequeathed £lO,OOO each.
The Perth University gets £40.000 (when
the sum to be invested is swollen to that
amount) to build a AVinthrop Hall ; and
among many others the Anglican Church
and the Zoo also benefit. But it is not yet
certain whether all the legatees will be able
to get as much as Haekett wanted them to.
A late recruit is Desmond Duffy, son of
Justice Frank Gavan Duffy, of the High
Court and grandson of Charles Gavan
Duffy, now dead.
Two sons of ex-Senator Arthur Rae
(who is one of the Senate candidates with
the Labor endorsement, and therefore may
be Senator again) are off to the Front. Ma
State’s selected Labor bunch are doing well;
another of them, Peter Bowling, has sent
off almost a regiment.
Joseph Parr, who heard the Last Post in
Wileannia (N.S.W.) Hospital at the age
of 90, was a sergeant-major in the llth
Hussars and a survivor of the Charge of
the Light Brigade at Balaclava. This dash
was looked upon as the last word in terrible
valor, but that was in the days before the
war-devils stoked-up in earnest. His old regi-
ment fought for the Turks against the Rus-
sians, which was a howling pity. If it had
been the other way about those graves of
our beloved dead would not be in Gallipoli.
Eric Unwin, who can wear a Military
Cross nowadays, is a Sydney boy, born in
the Ma capital in 1894. His father, now
deceased, was a one-time secretary to Gover-
nor Loftus in Sydney, and was afterwards
iu the State military forces. Young Unwin,
who went to England with his mother some
years ago, graduated from the Military
College at Sandhurst just before Bill broke
loose, and was part of the first British expe-
ditionary force sent to France, going as a
second lieutenant in the Army Service Corps.
He has now climbed to a captaincy, and
figured in despatches not long ago.
Governor Barron, after serving a year
over the normal period, will leave Westralia
iu a few months’ time. There will be no
moaning at the bar when Sir Harry and his
dame put out to sea. His Ex. ra,n up against
public opinion two or three years ago by
breaking away from the precedent which
allowed the S.P.C.A. the use of the vice-regal
ballroom for its annual subscription dance.
Later on he made himself ridiculous by but-
ting in as a war prophet. After the Marne
affair he could not open a kindergarten or a
bottle without assuring his hearers, “as an
old soldier,” that the war would be over
before Christmas. Punctured as a
prophet, Barron finally came out as an advo-
cate of olive culture —not of the branch, but
of the berry.
J. AY. AA r ood, just dead at Brighton (Eng.),
was a follower of “Elijah” Dowie in Colling-
wood, Melbourne, and cheekily pretended to
the same gifts of healing. In the English
seaside resort he found many adherents, par-
ticularly a rich old maid, who built him a
gorgeous edifice in Edward-street, the so-
called “Temple of Jehovah.” AA 7 ood pro-
claimed himself a re-incarnation of Solomon
—a more difficult character to sustain than
Elijah—but his sayings went down amongst
the unwise. The “Army of the Lord” was
formed and Solomon, in robes of purple and
gold, would sit on a throne, with men,
women and children dancing like Dervishes
before him in “The Golden Circle.” Poor
Sol. and his religious ballet burst up long
ago and the Salvation Army got the Temple.
THE PROPER TREATMENT.
SHE: “Realty, this is becoming unbearable.
Who have you been drinking with this
time?”
HE: “ Tha'sh orri'; hie—you earn’ pump
me.”
SHE: “It’s a pity. It would do you all the
good in the world.”
Mostly the artist has been pictured as a
man with long hair and no muscle to speak
of, a high strung person who loathed dirt
and smoke and untidy ways of dying. Yet
no little group of men in Australia has
yielded so large a number of recruits. Of
The Bulletin's black-and-white contribu-
tors Colics and Sommers left in the first
days of the war. Booth and Hartt followed,
then Townshend ; next Mattinson went into
camp in the West, now Hugh McCrae
has enlisted in Victoria, and Fred Brown
goes in this week with the idea of giving
the Huns some new ideas about Topliet. The
veteran “Hop,” by the way, is understood
to be the last private left from the American
Civil War. The few other survivors are all
colonels at the very least.
THE LITERARY WAY OF PUTTING IT.
SUPPORTER: “Hear you’ve passed Slogger
Bill out of the team?”
SECRETARY: “Yes. Had to. Too much
Fitchett about him.”
SUPPORTER: “Too much what?”
SECRETARY : “Too much Fitchett—deeds that
stun the umpire.”
The Drury statue of C. C. Kingston has
been in Adelaide some time, but the erec-
tion of it has been delayed by a squabble
over the pedestal and steps. These have
now been fixed, and the statue is to be
erected and unveiled about the first week in
May. The site is at one side of Victoria
Square, looking on to West Adelaide, King-
ston’s old and faithful district for the S.
Aus. Assembly.
All the good ’uns aren’t in khaki, though,
like those who are, this one doesn’t think
lie’s doing anything out of the ordinary.
He is Mervin Birkensleigh, of Bairnsdale
(Vic.). Dad sailed for Egypt lately, and
while he was in camp the youngster ploughed
a paddock and planted peas, etc. Every
morning he goes round his rabbit-
traps, collects the bunnies for market,
and then attends school. He is fully 11.
and just a typical Australian kid. And
still they wonder how it is Billjim is full of
initiative and resource.
That Marquis of Clanricarde who died in
London the other day had one great distinc-
tion: he was the best-hated Irishman of his
time. Everybody loathed him, and no one
more cordially than A. J. Balfour. The
second son of an Earl who was British Am-
bassador at St. Petersburg and Lord Privy
Seal, and of a mother whose brother was the
first Earl Canning, Hubert George de Burgh,
then 42 years old, fluked the title through
the death of his elder brother, a distinguished
Indian soldier. That was in 1574. He
went over to Ireland to attend the old man’s
funeral, stopped the work of rebuilding
Portumna Castle, and only once set foot on
the old sod again—when he appeared as de-
fendant in a suit for damages brought in the
Four Courts at Dublin by his agent, Joyce,
the successor of Blake, who had been shot
dead at Loughrea. Something like war
was for a long time waged on the Clanri-
carde estates in Galway. The county was
deluged with police and military; every
homestead was levelled to the ground. The
poor wretches who had wrested a meagre
living from the soil —they were descend-
ants of the retainers of a long line of feudal
landlords —drifted away into space and the
pool-house. After one lot of’ evictions a
few were accommodated with shelter in the
chapel yard at Cloncoe, near Woodford.
Clanricarde brought some old charter into
action, secured an injunction against Father
Costelloe, the parish priest, and they were
hunted further on. The estate became a
profitless waste, but the Marquis was a
man of great wealth and could afford to
enjoy his frightfulness. In the end the
Crown gave him a quarter of a million for
the place and told him to go> to Hell. He,
however, delayed until he was 84.
“N. or M”: The
Swiss Hermann Ritz.
lecturer on languages
at the Tasmanian
University, and of late
interpreter to the
Censors department
could pick up a lan-
guage in the casual
way ordinary folk read
a novel. At the time
at his death last month
he wielded 15 different
languages with ease,
and was adding Mal-
tese to the collection.
In his lighter moments
he toyed with Chinese
and the fragmentary
aboriginal dialects of
Tasmania. He left a
host of friends and a
few enemies—the lat-
ter the product of an
uncompromising out-
spokenness which im-
pelled him at times to
“speak faithfully” to
his adversary.
C. 11. Cropper, men-
tioned for “conspicu-
ous gallantry” in
Flanders, hailed from
Goulburn (N.S.AV.),
and took an Engineer-
ing degree at Sydney
Uni. some 20 years
ago. When the Kaiser
broke loose Cropper
was a mining engineer
on a tin proposition
in the Malay States,
but he went to Eng-
land and got a com-
mission in an infantry
regiment, being later
transferred to the
Royal Engineers, in which he is now cap-
tain. C. W. Cropper, sec of the A.J.C., is
a brother ; and a sister is married to Alex-
ander MacCormick, Sydney’s top-notch
surgeon.
Maoriland’s prophet Rua, whose surnames
being interpreted are Canaan Hepzibah; ran
up pretty well the whole gamut of tapu
Scriptural names in his bush-Mormon career.
He began unnretentiously by comparing
himself to Solomon, which was warranted
by his penchant for fat young wahines and
plenty of them. Next he was John the
Baptist, because, as he explained, John and
he both lifted up their voices in the wilder-
ness and lived on scrub turkeys and damper.
Then he gave the prophet Isaiah a turn,
and encouraged by the applause of the
Urewera brethren he grabbed the halo of
the Wairua tapu, the Holy Ghost. A little
later he explained to a scared constable that
he was Jesus Christ. The policeman retired
to break the news to the Government, and
when the Government sent another Hop to
verify the information he found that Rua had
gained a step in rank in the interval. “I
am a god,” said the holy man. His next
move was into plain, ordinary quod.
CORRECTION AND CONFESSION
THE LADY: “What causes you to hey!
Drink I presume?”
THE BEGGER: “No, lady—the leant of it.”
Burnet Gray, an occasional Bulletin
contributor, is off to the war in the capacity
of company sergeant-major. Gray, who
still looks as young as he feels, is a coun-
cillor of St. Ivilda (A 7 ic.) these times —the
third St. Ivilda councillor to go where duty
calls and danger waits them. Brigadier-
General Hughes and Major Duigan are the
other two.
CLEON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Cleon lias gone to gaping Syracuse—
Onr Cleon, safely smuggled, to diffuse
The dreams of Labor and Democracy;
Across a greedy, trade-embittered sea,
Safely lie's stewed to TTarmswortli’s friendly realm,
Youth at the prow, and Pleasure at the helm,
.roll ns on the poop to save him from the foe,
With handy basins round the bunk below.
An eager crowd awaits him on the pier,
The high priests snigger, and the small boys cheer.
Great Cleon! ’Tis the time for festival,
'The flutes are playing in the banquet hall,
'The meats are smoking, and the tables spread,
Where wait Sicilian damsels garlanded ;
Bald-headed elder statesmen, grave and bland,
Plunged in deep thought, extend a withered hand ;
And as the lemonade and buns go round,
Secrets of State and stratagems profound
Are whispered, as a prelude, all the while
The pompous matrons gossip, gush and smile.
Ah! this is better than a mess of beans!
He learns at last, learns what an Empire means,
Eyeing the table with fat turkeys spread.
(The hungry sheep look up and are not fed.)
Doubts are resolved, his speech is ready now.
Why should lie plod behind a four-ox plough
In far Boetia? For lie’s darkly thinking
Diplomacy’s devised by eating, drinking,
And how a nation at a feast divine
Is sometimes bartered o’er a jug of wine.
Cleon arises, and his wild eyes gleam ;
His rhetoric bursts forth, a lava stream,
Grander than Etna ; fierce gesticulation
Electrifies the half-awakened nation.
lie claws the air, then like a tiger springs,
Turns somersaults about the whirling rings,
Rides on the lightning, and directs the gale,
To point a moral or adorn a tale;
From sphere to sphere in splendid frenzy hurled
Lest one good purpose should corrupt the world,
Rumbles, spits fire, in voice of thunder calls,
Dazzles some venerable generals,
And frets and struts his hour upon the stage
Greedy to shine in the next morning's page,
Startles the Harmsworth press to cables fine,
Feels at each par., and lives along the line.
But when the blazing peroration’s o’er
They find he's said what they’ve all said before.
What of Boetia? Let Boetia keep
Her humble place, and clip the woolly sheep,
In pastoral peace, nor strive aught else to know
But how the lucerne springs, the pumpkins grow.
The tables roar. 'The eldest statesman wakes,
Rises on crutches, gives his hand, and shakes.
'The people shout: “Hail, bail to Cleon’s name!”
And: “God's demesne, Boetia!” they exclaim.
Not once or twice in our colonial stoiy
The path to Iloundsditeh was the path to glory.
Perchance he feels some vague presentiment
His blushing honors may be permanent.
But what of Labor? Let the workers frown—■
Have they yet met him with a parsley crown?
And what of Nationhood? A tiresome theme!
Draw close the silken bonds, prolong the dream!
VICTORIA.
GANESHA.


BURBERRY
S7>e Faultless Raincoat
f
\v
r>
Ni
Burberry
are literally
they do ever
waterproof garment.
Gabardine Raincoats
faultless, possessing' as
y requisite of the ideal
Absolutely impenetrable by rain, this
first essential quality of any rainproof Coat
is permanent in a Burberry and remains so
through every stage of wear till the very last.
Light in weight and small in bulk,
the Burberry Coat is no inconvenience to
carry and is beautifully cool to wear in
tropical weather because the fabric is perfectly
self ventilating.
o
And for this reason a Burberry garment,
although waterproof and windproof as well,
retains the natural warmth of the bodv on a
j
cold day without the disadvantage of over-
heating experienced with many other makes
of waterproofed coats.
Of the fabric itself this much needs
to be said. The appearance of Burberry
Gabardine has been widely imitated, yet it
J 7 j
remains infinitely superior because the
proofing and character of its make up
cannot be reproduced.
Adaptable to any service, the Burberry
Gabardine will withstand the roughest
wear, may be easily cleaned from any kind
of grease or dirt, and despite all will maintain
its appearance of smartness which at first
glance is its greatest attraction.
o o
BURBERRY RAINCOATS.
URBERRY Gabardine Raincoats are all single-
breasted styles in Walking - or Driving lengths,
buttoning to neck with turn-down collar (as illus-
tration) or with ordinary step collar.
Choice may also be made of either vertical or flap
pockets, but all coats have silk-lined sleeves and
strapped cuffs.
According to quality the coats are partly silk or wool
lined, but may also be had wholly unlined.
Colorings include shades of Fawn, Brown, Green and
Grey. Prices range —
£4/I#/-. £5/5/-, £6/6/-, £6(15/-, £«|S|-
CARRIAGE IS PAID ON ALL COUNTRY ORDERS.
LIE
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods,
484 to 490 GEORGE STREET; and
3 to 17 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
(New Branch Shop, 304 George Street, near Hunter Street.)


NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
MonoDei
Samsonite
Geiatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatin*
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
Before Making Your Will, or Settling Your Proper*)!;
WRITE to, or call on.
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE.
Lowest Charges. No Profits. State Guarantee.
Culwulla Chambers
Sydney
67 castlereagb Street,
’ N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Insurance Office of Australia.
Ltd. (Sydney), which was founded in 1910,
and began with a deficit of £5-50 represent-
ing preliminary exes.:—
Towards
Nov Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Di licit.
_ £5,250
1911.! £4115 Nil £4115 1,135
Dec., Loss.
1912.. 436 Nil L®'*
Adjustment Re insurance Co., £36i 1,938
1913.. 963 Nil 2,901
1914.. 5212 Nil 8,113
Re-Insurance Co. purchase, £3730 11,848
Profit.
1915.. 6256 Nil 6256 0,092
This looks better. But things are really not
quite as good as that. The true amount
of capital not represented by tangible assets
is more than £5592, because the total
amount received as premiums has been taken
credit for, and no charge has been made
against it in respect of unexpired risks. The
net premiums for the year were £93,516,
and it is probable that, as an average, the
policies have at least four months to run —
they may have more. Plainly, then, those
premiums have been only two-thirds earned.
Deduct from them the commissions and
expenses of management, say £36,(X>O. and
divide the remainder by three, and you have
about £20.000 which the co. ought to have
put by in an Unearned Premiums Fund.
That would bring the'deficit to over £25,000
—the amount which the co. must make
before it can say that the capital is really
intact. On the other hand, there is the
goodwill of the business: and though good-
will has no place in a fire office’s balance-
sheet Tiie Bulletin certainly isn't pre-
pared to say that the 1.0.A.’s connection
isn’t now worth a good deal of money. The
directors say it was valued “for Federal
purposes' recently at £40.000. This paper
isn’t prepared to name any figure. But
with something like 1200 or 1300 share-
holders scattered, over the continent and
Tasmania, the co. is wonderfully well placed
to get a very big and cheap and profitable
business. So far it hasn’t had a very profit-
able business. The losses have been much
too large. Most of the 1200 or 1300 share-
holders no doubt have good business to place
—the private residence risk, for instance.
But it doesn’t look as if it was that sort
which* has flowed to the co. Anyway, the
loss rate last year was 55.6 p.c.. and that
is too high, especially in view of the large
number of new policies issued during the
year, many of them no doubt late in the
term. There is no good reason why share-
holders shouldn’t give the co. their business
—and there is plainly an excellent reason
why they should. The co. certainly hasn’t
the largest amount of funds in proportion
to risks of any co. in Australia; but its
position, on the other hand, isn’t weak. It
has £50,000 on deposit (including £lO,OOO
lodged with the Government of Victoria)
and £9OOO in public loans, besides mortgages
and freeholds: and though it has £28.828
of liabilities (which seems excessive), it
also has £20.285 owing by agents and sundry
debtors (which seems excessive too) and
£4192 of cash balances.
The progress of the business is further
shown in this comparison:—
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. R ite. Rate.
1911. . £25.951 £6.748 £17.537 26.0 p.e. 67.5 n.C.
1912.. 47.241 22.443 27.845 47.5 ~ ~«9 „
1913.. 54.61 S 22.911 35.275 41.9 .. 6L6 „
1914.. 67,510 39.292 35.222 58.2 .. 511 „
1915.. 93.516 52,002 37,019 55.6 .. 39.5 ~
The recent reduction of the expense rate is
the lest f; at ere of that -table; and there
ought to be room to cut off another 5 p.c.
That would mean a 5 p.c. dividend for
shareholders: and to a very large extent it
rests with shareholders whether they get ft
or not.
During .the year the co. took over the
Re-Insurance Co., whose formation was
never justified. This cost the 1.0. A. £3735.
and in the table at the top of these remarks
that amount, having been paid for goodwill,
is not reckoned as an asset. For the pre-
sent it is so included in the published
accounts, though the directors promise to
write it off out of profits in the next three
or four years. It is to be hoped they will
find profits so good that they will be
encouraged to do it all before then.
* * * *
The Freehold Assets Co. (Melbourne),
which in 1907 succeeded the Freehold Assets
Realisation Co., whose job was to act as
undertaker to the Freehold Investment and
Banking Co.: —
Reserves.
Taken over from old co. .. £14.119
To Re-
Profits- Dividends. serves.
Jan.. 1908.. £1.484 Nil £1484 15.603
Written off reserves. £2957 12,646
Dec., 1908.. 6,540 7p.c. = £5197 1343 13.959
Dee.. 1909.. 7,284 8 „ 5939 1345 15.334
Dee.. 1910.. 11.327 104..,. 7795 3532 15.866
Dee., 1911.. 8.569 9 ~ „ 6682 1887 20.753
Dee., 1912.. 8,319 9 ~ ~ 6682 1637 22.390
Dre.. 1913. . 8.302 9 .. .. 6682 1620 24.010
Dc.. 1914.. 9.040 9 .. .. 6682 2358 26.368
Dec.. 1915.. 6.599 9 .. ~ 6682 217 26,585
And to that £6899 you can if you like add
£1360 which has been put to a realisation
fund. Most of the property sales are made
on terms, and the profit or expected profit
or some of it is passed to this suspense
account; it amounted to £22.442 at the end
of the year, and the sale of the 1 ictoria
Buildings, completed since the year ended,
“will permit of a further substantial addi-
tion.” The co.'s position is further shown
in this comparison :
1908. 1914. 1915.
Liabilities £89,954 £107,748 £102,659
Realisation suspense account 7,460 21,080 22,442
Property .. .. .. 76,438 61,130 60,3<8
Shares in other cos. .. 6,256 113,225 113,225
Balances owing . . . . 58.440 35,530 29,29 j.
Other assets .. .. 46,589 23,269 26,/48
The share capital is £74.245. So an amount
in excess of the capital and the ordinary
reserves is represented by “shares in other
cos.”; and that being so the co.’s own
accounts don’t give its shareholders much of
an idea as to what their investment is worth.
For instance, these other cos. may be accu-
mulating large reserves —or, again, they
may be doing the other thing. The assets
of the “other cos.” consist very largely of
unpaid balances on purchases; and these
other cos. may have contingency reserves,
or this co.'s own reserves may have to pro-
vide for the contingencies. It is obviously,
then, not a concern to be bought into on
the strength of what its own balance-sheet
tells you. If everything is worth just what
the balance-sheet says it is worth —including
the shares in other cos. —each £1 share is
represented by about 335. of assets W hat-
ever it may be now it was no doubt a fine
purchase when the Baillieus got their hands
on it. W. L., J. L. Wharton and Hyndman
are the directors, with a London board
which originally represented the old boom
banks’ creditors, but is now of not much
consequence.
Standard Mutual Building Society
(Melbourne) :—•
Profits on Writ-
Pro- Property ten Re-
fits. Sales. Dividends. Off. serves.
Julv, 1908. .£2102 £753 8 p.e.=£1912£700 £19,415
Jan., 1909.. 2009 379 8 „ „ 1912 19,891
July, 1909.. 2211 161 8 ~ „ 1912 20,351
Jan., 1910.. 2319 294 8 ~ „ 1912 21.052
July, 1910.. 2233 1239 8 ~ ~ 1912 501 22,111
Jan., 1911.. 2342 1043 8 „ „ 1912 23.584
Julv, 1911.. 2626 1710 8 „ „ 1912 26,008
Jan., 1912.. 2714 2956 9J „ „ 2231 29,447
July, 1912.. 3132 ' 859 8 ~ „ 2294 31,144
£9560 Reserves transferred to Capital.. 21,584
Jan., 1913.. 3038 486 8 p.c.= 2294 22,814
Julv, 1913.. 3237 122 8 „ „ 2294 23.879
Jan., 1914.. 3295 423 8 ~ ~ 2294 25.303
Julv, 1914.. 3471 778 8 „ „ 2294 27,258
Jan., 1915.. 3612 360 S ~ ~ 2294 28,936
Julv, 1915. . 3400 139 10 „ „ 2868 29,607
Jan., 1916.. 3622 10 „ „ 2868 30,361
This is the first time for many a year that
no profit on sales has been shown. Most
of it was at any time only profit in a
manner of speaking. The society, having
been left with a large mass of securities on
its hands 20-odd years ago. wrote them
down and reduced its capital by half: and
the ‘'profit" simply means that things turned
out less badly than had been thus provided
for. Now the chances are that property-
values will steadily sag for a few years, and
instead of profits to come in there may be
losses to wipe out. Anyway, it is significant
that, instead of lately reducing its foreclosed
property, the society shows a trifle more on
hand than it did 12 months ago. The next
figures take us back to the time of the
revaluation :
July,’ol. Jan.,’ls. July,Ts. Jan.,'l6.
Liabilities .. £37,015 £40,766 £39.587 £37,76S
Advances . . 19.99 S 119,881 120,095 117.226
Foreclosures .. 72.305 8,481 7,912 7,937
Cash. etc. .. 2,778 990 1.412 3.192
However, though the tendency of property-
values will probably be downward, this and
other societies have had plenty of warning,
and ought to be making themselves snug. The
repayments on the older advances should
brin? the outstandings well within the re-
duced value of the properties: and no doubt
the directors, being old hands at the game,
are see in? that they get a good margin of
security «>r. any new advances. The pro-
babilities a.e that the volume of business
w : ll shrink: but there will he one compen-
sation in the higher va’u? of money. The
co. will however, be extraordinarily lucky if
it can go on paying 10 p.c. and showing a
margin over it, seeing that it has only
£37,76S of other people's money at risk in
the business.
* * * *
A. and E. Ellis, Ltd., sawmillers and
timber merchants, of Sydney and the
N.S.W. northern rivers :
To Re- Re-
Profits. - Dividends. serves, serves.
Aug., 1911.. - £25
.. 1912.. £6117 10p.c. = £4955 £1162 1187
.. 1913.. 7588 JO „.. 5597 1991 3178
Feb., 1914.. 4218 10 .. „ 3495 723 3901
Aug.. 1914.. 439 S 7 ~ .. 2625 1773 5674
Feb., 1915.. 3771 8 „ „ 3000 771 6445
Aug.. 1915.. 3744 8 .. 3000 744 7189
Feb., 1916.. 3736 S „ „ 3000 736 7925
“A large amount of business has been done
with the Commonwealth and State Govern-
ments during the half-year.” the directors
say; and that no doubt accounts for the
abundance of milk in the half-year’s cocoa-
nut. The time must of course come when
the Governments won’t be able to borrow;
X. S. Wales, for instance, has in the past
eight years raised half as much as it did
in all its previous 110 years, and it is quite
absurd to suppose that that sort of thing
can continue. How insane the policy is
may be judged from the fact that, after
lately spending £8,000,000 a year, allegedly
in developing the country, the Government
now declares that it must go on borrowing
in order to prevent widespread unemploy-
ment. Even if the country could go on
borrowing—which it won’t be able to do —
nothing is more certain than that the people
will presently see what a fraud the whole
thing has been, and will stop it. And then
there is going to be unemployment. The
X. S. Wales Government says truly that that
is' what the stoppage of borrowing would
mean now. But it will mean that whenever it
is stopped: and the longer it goes on the
worse the position will be when it is stopped.
The cry of distress will go up, and there is
nothing like that cry for inciting private
people to follow the State and shut down
on expenditure, especially in building ana
construction. The Bulletin therefore sees
a slack time coming for those in the timbei
trade. This co. will, however, be in a better
position to meet it than some others, because
its stocks are comparatively small and its
liabilities exceptionally light. Stock runs
to onlv £29.618 and total liabilities are
£lB 073, against which the co. has book
debts of £11,333. The rest of its assets con-
sist chiefly of mills, vessels and punts, a
£15.000 mill, plant and wharf at lihrs
Point (Sydney), and suburban yards, lhe
share capital is £75,000.
* * * *
The Farmers’ Co operative Auctioneer-
ing Co (Waikato, M.L.) :
Dividends. Bonus and Written Re.
Jan., Profits. (8 p.c.). Rebate. Off. serves.
1910 .. £0,491
1911. . £10,470 £4538 £2534 £750 8,139
1912.. 14,696 7336 2965 1000 11,534
Premiums on shares, £459 .. W 993
1913.. 18,922 9832 4326
Premiums on new shares, £436 .. 1/ ,193
1914.. 19.105 10,653 4991 20,654
Premiums on new shares, £341 .. 20,990
Pref. Ord.
6 p.e. 8 p.c.
1915.. 18,767 296 11.452 5493 __ 22,521
Premiums on new shares, £llo .. 22,63 b
1916.. 24,438 921 11,665 7537 26,951
In addition to that £26.951 of reserves there
is £19,000 to the credit of a “special reserve
for doubtful debts.” Ordinarily such a fund
wouldn't be regarded as a reserve at all: the
common practice is to write down
the book-debts asset by the amount
of the fund. In this case, however,
it may be a more or less genuine
reserve, because the profits are shown "•after
providing for bad and doubtful debts, and
there is £152 brought into profit from the
recovery of bad debts previously written off.
If the practice is to write down all debts
considered bad or doubtful, then the specific
reserve might better be called a reserve for
contingencies. But The Bulletin views
the figures of this co. with some suspicion.
For example, in an official “circular letter
to shareholders” explaining the position, it
is said: “The figures show that the assets
of the co. are sufficient to pay all the present
liabilities (£123.473) and all the capital
paid up by shareholders (£164.7351 and
then leave a sum .of £75.701 as a surplus.”
If that were soothe total of the assets
should be £366.909, and they are nothing of
the sort: they are. according to the balance-
sheet. only £354,823 —and that is giving all
the book debts (against which there is a
reserve) the credit for being worth 20s. in
the £.
Excluding the reserve against doubiful
debts, the position has moved as follows
(the figures are as at Jan. 31. before making
the annual appropriations) :
1911. 1915. 1916.
Capital and reserves .. £86,338 £199,262 £214,849
Liabilities . . . . 72,872 92,103 123,474
Propertv accounts .. 19,702 26,519 32,398
Book debts .. .. 136,688 260.971 298,836
Stock 5.092 17,469 23.037
Cash, etc. .. . . 231 406 552
The liabilities include moneys owing on cur-
rent account (£66.023). on fixed deposits and
on overdraft and mortgage. The book lebts
are nearly all "amounts due to co. on current
account.” The co. thus appears to be doing
something very like a banking business; and
what sort of a fist it .will make of it depends
chiefly on its management. The weak point
is that, with £66.023 owing by the co. on
current account, the cash on hand amounts
to only £4Bl : and a bank director who saw
his bank issue such figures would wonder
what sort of a time he was in for. Yet.
provided there is no untidy rush for money,
the concern is thoroughly sound, assuming
that ordinary prudence has been used in
making advances or giving credit. The co.
owes altogether only £123.474. and there
are £354.823 of assets: and no ordinary bank
can show figures like that.
* * * *
Theatre Royal Proprietary Co. (Mel-
bourne) :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
June, ’08..£1330 24 p.c. = £6OO £730 £6176
Dec., ’OB.. 1619 24 „ „ 600 1019 7195
June, ’09.. 1494 24 „ ~ 600 894 8089
Dec., ’09.. 1444 24 ~ ~ 600 £5OO 344 8433
June, TO.. 1429 24 ~ „ 600 9000 262
Dec., TO.. 1616 24 .. ~ 600 1016 1278
June, ’ll.. 77. 24 „ „ 600 177 1455
Dec., ’ll.. 1709 24 „ ~ 600 706 403 1858
June, T 2.. 1100 24 „ „ 600 350 150 2008
_ , Deficit.
Dec., 12.. 1096 24 ~ ~ 600 2650 146
_ . „ Reserves.
June, T 3.. 158024 „ „ 600 486 494 348
Dec., ’13.. 1775 24 „ ~ 600 891 284 63' 7
June, T 4.. 1539 24 ~ ~ 600 450 459 1121
Dec., T 4.. 1423 24 ~ ~ 600 450 373 1494
•June, To.. 1447 24 ~ „ 600 450 397 1891
Dec., T 5.. 1799 3f „ „ 900 450 449 2340
In six years, besides spending a bit of money
on re-decoration, etc., the co. has got £6901
to the good : in 1909 its excess of liabilities
over liquid assets was £1097. and now it has
£5804 of liquid assets in excess of liabilities.
But that isn’t all surplus profit, because its*
o'" n tenure is leasehold, and it is writing
£ooo each half-year off premises account
and £l5O off the electric-light installation.
The J.C.W. Co. has a lease till 1928. and
during the last 10 years the rent will be
higher. The capital is £48.000: and the
co. has till about the middle of the centurv
to get it back. It hasn't got very far yet':
previously, when it had saved up a bit. all of
it and more went in making structural altera-
tions prescribed by the Law.
The Ipswich Gas and Coke Co m
land) (Queens-
Feb., Profit. Dividend. To Reserves r>
1910.. £ 1869 10p.c. = £ l 2OO £fifiq Reser '«.
1911.. 2181 10 „„ 1200 os? £ 5537
1912.. 2417 10 „ „ 1700 6518
1913.. 2020 10 „„ 2000 on 723 5
1914.. 2102 10 „ „ 2000 7255
Written off, £BOO “ 135 '
1915.. 2366 10pic.= 2466 11 *>557
Transferred to capital tfiimn 6 * 57
1916.. 3423 10 „ „ 3150 273 °° - 57
This doesn’t look good. Hitherto it k°
been the pretty general practice to write «
something substantial against depreoioM
and the profits shown until this vear no,! '
!„ 1914-15, lor instance. £lOOO
off. lor the past year, apparently the
directors were so eager to pay the old in
p.c. on the newly inflated capital that ti,
couldn’t write off the old £lOOO witS
showing a deficit instead of a reserve R
the plant etc,, is worth £lOOO less than it
12 months ago, and if it was then vain l
correctly, there is a deficit now whether h
ostrich shows his head or not. And if tli
has been depreciation during the year tta
assuming it hasn’t been counterbalanced in
expenditure on renewals, extensions etc
charged to working account (and there is
no trace of that), then the true profit waJ
£3423. and it is doubtful whether the divi
dend was earned. It is a pitv to see a
generally well-managed concern ‘ going this
way.
* * *
The recent bubble was nicely blown but
the expected has happened—the*inside crowd
and brokers have the cash, and Perth and
Westonia punters the scrip. One dav the
Central management mailed a list of assav<
running up to 10oz., on the mine-office door
"When Westonia punters saw this they fell
over themselves in their rush to the' tele-
graph office with buying orders up to £5 Ilk
The publication of assays in this wav
was a simple move, and those who knew
enough to come in out of the wet saw
through it; but Westonia punters did not
even begin to think till the lOoz. assays
were followed by -a 13dwt. clean-up. I t
has been suggested that there is a bullion
reserve at the mine, but nothing definite is
known about this except that assays such
as have been published from the Central
certainly ought, in view of last month’s yield
to be able to provide two bullion reserves.
Edna May Deeps is “still cementing: hope
resume sinking soon.’* So run the official
reports. The truth is the Deeps has no
earthly chance of striking the Edna May
reef in the main shaft with present water
appliances, and most of those intimately con-
cerned with the show know it. Sydney
bought this stock pretty solidly at two pounds
and can now console itself with the fact
that it possesses something dear at much
less than that.
Consolidated has exposed a few tons of
low-grade ore. but there is nothing exposed
in the mine at present to justify the hope
that the stock is yet worth more than Is.
Golden Points had a flutter also, but as
regards this show it can be said that the
manager has been distinctly moderate in his
official representations as to the value of
developments. Westonia punters boomed
this stock on their own account, and if they
have been left with some wallpaper they
have only themselves to blame.
The Battler is erecting plant to deal with
a vein exposed in the Battler workings. The
vein is certainly small: nevertheless, judged
from the point of view of ore reserves. Bat-
tlers are worth Deeps, Consolidated and
Golden Points combined.
* * * *
Edna May has paid £175.000 in dividends
and is now bagging specimen ore from lower
workings: but the public hears little of this
sort of thing. Edna May people appear to
permit yields to do the talking. But what
a rattle there would be if some of the
adjoining shows could get a few bags or
even a few ounces of such ore as is now
being broken in Edna May!
* * * *
The Westralian Board appointed a year
ago to attend to miners’ complaints has
given the first annual account of itself. All
sorts of cases have been handled. One man
crippled with rheumatism was sent away on
a stretcher and returned full of gratitude
without the aid of even a stick. Another
man with falling eyesight was sent to an
eastern specialist and underwent a success-
ful operation. Still another, with heart dis-
ease. was found lighter and more suitable
occupation, while the number of tubercular
cases were far too numerous to particularise.
In every instance, the Board paid 1
patient’s expenses, cost of treatment, etc.
and made a living allowance to dependen t
during his absence. In one case it
more. A miner borrowed £lO from a mon .
lender six years ago, and alter P t
ing £4O in interest he still 0
£l7. The Board paid the debt. an“
is allowing the beneficiary to refund i
small instalments without interest.
Board’s present income is £254 a week,
of this, beneficiaries receive £T~ | "
only £34 a week to nrovide for
cases: and. to make matters worse. ,
come is steadily declining. East sessu
Government introduced a Bill to ma
tributions to the fund compulsory,
this meant giving contributors a leg'
to benefits the measure was uroppo - j s
X.S.W. Miners’ Accident Relict t
curiouslv enough referred to as a
example: it is said that through
being compelled to contribute <«• J | V
night, this fund has accumulate . n
£350,000, from which the workers can
no immediate relief. One might J u " ‘ j t
say that the A.M.P. is a re Th % U Jr>
has accumulated £30.000.000- ff ;th
can get immediate relief ll tlie -, , f or life
an accident. If they are disabled


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
33 to 39 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY
and EFFICIENT
MANAGEMENT
can best be obtained by the
appointment of this Company as
Trustee, Executor or
Administrator, etc.
LOW CHARGES.
Trust Funds now under the Company’s
Control exceed £12,500,000.
BOOKLET ON APPLICATION
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
America, to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain .. 3,- !,« {^™T>
New Zealand.. 4ld.
Canada .. 3,4 W J gSSSSK>
VS.A
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations may be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
408 Collins Street, Melbourne. Tel. 2588.
J. MILAVARD. Manager in the Pacific,
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Aftt&OMTO
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
Th ‘ 1.0. A
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
AGENTS WANTED,
Blanches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
“Why should we use it?’’ said a well-known mine-
manager. “What’s the advantage?’’ This gave us
another oppovtunity of emphasising the sterling
qualities of “Chromol” belting—its durability, its
pliability, its dependability under all conditions.
“Chromol” is mineral tanned, which gives the leather
a longer fibre, consequently it is more elastic and
more durable. It resists heat and moisture and does
not readily deteriorate. Used exclusively on many
of the stiffest drives in the largest mining plants in
the Commonwealth, it has proved its merit under
most severe conditions. J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd.,
“Pioneer” Leather Works, 117 York Street, Sydney.
Inter-State agents: Victoria: George Russell P’t’y
Ltd., Flinders Street, Melbourne; South Australia:
J. McKell, Timpson Street, Port Adelaide; West
Australia: Horace Summers, Howard Street, Perth;
Queensland: Queensland Machinery Co., Brisbane;
Broken Hill: Geo. 'C. Dempster, Argent Street. —
AI)VT.
* * * *
ALUMINOFERRIC is used by the Sydney Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards and graziers
for precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is simply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours’
time the most discolored water will be as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless.
Sole agents: William Adams & Company Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth. — Advt.
For rapid and accurate sizing of samples, the
Hoover Rapid Laboratory Sizer is unsurpassed. An
ordinary hand test over 12 different mesh screens
takes about 10 hours to complete ; the Hoover Sizer
will make the same test in about half an hour. By
the use of one of these Sizers the saving in time
would, in a very short while, cover the small initial
cost of the machine. The machine can be dressed
with any series of screens. The Austral Otis Eng.
Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, will be pleased to furnish
particulars.— Advt. [3
Extract from The Searchlight, London, Septem-
ber, 1915: “Colonial Mutual Life Assurance. —As in
the past, it is undoubtedly true that a great deal of
the headway made last year was due to the astute
initiative and enterprise of the management, but we
are inclined to think, all the same, that the real
secret of success has been the character of the poli-
cies -placed before the assuring public.”— Advt. [7
* * * *
PIONEER WOOD PIPE TANKS for water, wine,
vinegar, acids, oil, cyanide or mine liquors are
constructed in all sizes from 500 to 100,0C0 gallons.
They are easily despatched, being carried in sections
and erected on arrival. Catalogue from The Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Contractors to Federal
and State Governments, 57 York Street, Sydney
(Head Office.) — Advt.
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
In addition to making Wrought Iron, Steel and
Cast-Iron Pipes, Messrs, Mephan Ferguson Proprie-
tary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves,- Bolts, Nelyambo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description.— Advt.
The celebrated “Leplastrier” road-graders are most
suitable for Australian conditions. Prices range
from £25 upwards. Full particulars from the Aus-
tralian Machinery Co. Ltd., Charlotte Street, Bris-
bane. — Advt.
The Australian Amicable Assurance Associa-
tion Limited. —This company continues to make
solid progress —accepting only gilt-edged insurances.
The premium income for the first four months of the
present financial year was considerably greater than
the income for the first 10 months of last year. The
income for March, 1916, alone exceeded the income
for the first four months of last year. Although
three times the business is being written, expenses
are being greatly reduced.—Advt.
* * * *
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.—Advt.
* * * #
and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt’.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Silberberg & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney ;
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne. — Advt.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£545,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,351 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 81,500 0 0
£782.611 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World,
the relief continues for life; if they are
killed their children are maintained till they
are self-supporting, and their widows during
their widowhood. As soon as the accumu-
lations and contributions are in excess of
the .requirements, as ascertained by the
Government Actuary, the scale is altered.
Two alterations, both in favor of the con-
tributors—who, by the way, supply only
half the funds —have been made already.
Altogether, it is the finest insurance scheme
in existence in Australia; and that the
accumulation of funds should be regarded in
the West as a failure is one of the weirdest
jokes this paper has heard for some time.
An almost amazing body of ore has been
run into by the diamond drill which is prob-
ifig at the 12170 ft. (bottom) level in the
Broken Hill South. The bore was put out
so as to cut as nearly as possible across the
lode at right angles to the walls ; and on a
recent measurement 94ft. of ore had been
disclosed, running up to most extraordinary
values: —
Lead. Zinc.
10ft. .. 12.0 p.c. 13.0 p.c.
20ft. .. 10.9 „ 10.8 „
10ft. . . 17.9 „ 24.0 „
38ft. .. 27.7 „ 30.5 „
10ft. .. 14.8 „ 11.0 „
So for 38ft. this body contains (besides
unmentioned silver) 58.2 p.c. of metal. The
managing director doesn’t seem to over-state
the case when he adds to the figures the
note: “This is a very important develop-
ment.” Previous to this the ore reserves
were estimated at 3,350,000 tons; and on
past performances The Bulletin (9/3/T6)
reckoned there was an “ultimate value” of
upwards of £lO per share in that lot and in
the liquid assets in hand.
« * « ft
. Vegetable Creek (N.S.W.) hands out a
sixpenny, and the Board has added
£l5OO to the reserve of £lOOO. Enuna-
ville produced 1045 tons of high-grade and
easily-smelted stream tin last year; and this
in' its journey to the seaboard was railed
over the most extensive coal-field in Aus-
tralia. With cheap coal and coke we have
unrivalled advantages for smelting tin ore
and the production of tin plate; still we
continue to export ore and import plate.
Just now this madness comes home to us,
because we have to pay unheard-of freight
on shipments both ways.
Newcastle (N.S.W.) exported only 777,359
tons of coal during the first three months of
this year; it sent off 1,013,001 tons for a
similar period of 1915. Those mines that
depend on the export trade are having a
bad year. But it is only temporary —there
is- a good time coming with the development
of metallurgical and secondary industries.
* * * *
New Chum Goldfields, Bendigo, having
lost the shoot of gold that brought it such a
patch of dividends 12 months ago, has been
coveting its neighbor’s vineyard. This
desire to grab related to a slab of 600 feet
held by the big Victoria Proprietary pro John
Bull on the Nell Gwynne line. London has
put £lOO,OOO into this Bendigo gamble and
got in return a couple of divs., a deep shaft
and a spick-and-span plant. As more cash
cannot be raised in England just now, and as
three years have passed since the tributors
gave the mine best, New Chum Goldfields
had a fair claim to follow its reef over the
boundary into the Victoria Prop.’s ground,
provided it was ready to man the area.
Now it gets the block from the Warden on
that understanding, leaving the Victoria
Prop, with shaft and plant to expand in the
other direction if it cares to blossom out
again.
Home Reef, at Wandiligong (Vic.),
started with a shoot 30ft. long. At 130 ft.
depth it had developed to 300 ft. in length.
A section 70ft. south kept about the lOdwt.
mark; then came 50ft. of poor stuff, next
50ft. of Bdwt. ground ; finally 130 ft. of 4dwt.
reef. Costs are fairly cheap in the district,
but a new shaft is needed, with the testing
of other reefs on the claims. The stone
broken so far has averaged about Bdwt., and
with a sft. reef showing at 135 ft. it is worth
while seeing whether better values make in
the deep ground.
* * * *
The Victorian gold yield is shrinking
visibly owing to the tired feeling of call-
payers and the few really good divs. that
are being produced. March saw only
24,5000 z. won, a decline of 93500 z. compared
with March, 1915. This tailing-off has gone
on all this year, so that for the past quarter
the gold won (63,3000 z.) was 15,4000 z. less
than in the first term of 1915.
Justice Powers’s dictum that if the gold-
mining industry couldn’t pay better wages it
had better die is knocking the stuffing out of
Ballarat East shows. The other day Vic-
toria United decided to give life best. New
Normanby would have next shut down if the
miners hadn’t practically contracted them-
selves out of the Arbitration Court’s award.
Now Llanberris No. 1 is begging alms of
the State Treasurer. This is to enable it to
prospect at 1200 ft. for the big make of
quartz that kept the co. alive and gave tri-
butors a crust when jogging along at 1100 ft.
Only £2OOO is needed, and the directors don’t
mind giving the State a lien over the plant
as security for a loan. A mine that has
turned out £400,000 of gold oughtn’t to have
to do such a crawl for that bit of cash for
development work. However, there it is;
and the situation is all the more perilous
because the closing-down of the Llanberris
would mean putting the extinguisher on
Llanberris South and Last Chance, with a
consequent throwing out of pretty w r ell 500
workers.
Something will have to liven Walhalla
(Vic.), or it will soon pass out as a mining
town. A few parties keep picking out
patches of good stone in the upper levels of
the old Long Tunnel, and there is talk of a
run of ounce yields, but a lot more ginger will
be necessary before the show will buzz even
at that point. Down south, Cohen’s Long
Tunnel has ceased flirting with greasy heads
and slippery ground above the battery site, so
there may be a chance of the stampers
rattling before the winter snows are over.
The co. has at last got its paw firmly on
the old South Long Tunnel lease. Hopes
run high that the spur reef out of which the
good assays came will be traced east of the
south shaft, as there will then be an induce-
ment to drive out to test it at depth. The
south end of Cohen’s reef can also be picked
over and a crosscut can be got out west to
test the reef under Goodwin’s shaft. All this
makes up an attractive little programme-—if
it were not for the uneasy feeling that that
interfering fellow, the old miner, may have
been there already.
* * * *
There is plenty of competition in Westra-
lia for the new billets of workmen in-
spectors of mines. Nominations are pouring
in, and upwards of a hundred threaten to go
to the ballot for the two full-time jobs at
Kalgoorlie. The union is urging the appoint-
ment of three full-time inspectors for the
other fields in place of half- and part-time
men. It says that if this plan is not adopted
some inspectors will get only one day’s
work a fortnight from the Department and
for the balance of the time will be merely
employees in the mines where probably they
have insisted on certain alterations being
made. This, as the union points out, won’t
do at all.
* * * *
Corinthian North (W.A.) reckons it has
turned the corner. Prospects in the sul-
phide area are good, and returns from the
plant now being installed are, from all
accounts, going to earn dividends almost
right away. To date the mine has pro-
duced about £40,000, but plant, develop-
ment, treatment troubles and transport
charges have swallowed it up, and a bit
more besides. Some 20,000 shares were
placed by the Board last year, and the co.’s
nominal capital is now £32,000 in 10s.
shares, of which Dorrie Doolette and friends
hold the bulk.
* * * *
Meekatharra (W.A.) is in trouble. For
weeks it has been paralysed by a miners’
strike at the Fenian, and now the Queen
of the Hills has added to its misery by
closing down. The stoppage of this show is
due to the want of a suitable mill to treat
refractory sulphides; and its present owner,
the Lake View and Oroya, can’t just now
finance a purchase.
Wilfrid Rickard, who ran the New Chum
Goldfields, Bendigo, for a couple of genera-
tions on 3dwt. stuff, is shifting camp to Mt.
Magnet (W.A.). There he is to try to make
a mine out of Hartrick’s Empress, which,
so far, has duffered out wherever worked.
That a man with Rickard’s reputation for
cheap handling should be sent to the job
makes it look as if the Empress wasn’t
reckoned an ounce show any more.
8., M. and Co. are gradually getting out
of the West. At one time they bossed
nearly all the best mines there, and with
the aid of Hoover, who was then a partner
in the firm, looked like getting the rest.
Then the Perseverance and Horseshoe, over
which they never had a very strong hold,
slipped through their fingers, and the South
Ivalgurli and several of the smaller fry
parted from them some years later. To-day
they are general managers of the Lake
View and Star, Oroya Links, Yuanmi,
Great Fingall and Sons of Gwalia; but they
are only nominally in control of the first
three, and are liable to be bumped out
any moment by Hoover, Govett and Co.,
who boss the Boards. In fact, the only
mine where their word is really law is the
Gwalia. The strange part of the business
is that their management is probably better
than ever it was.
Chaffers’ London liquidator is trying to
raise the dead. He proposes to form a new
free-from-debt co. to acquire any portion of
the old mine that can be got “on reasonable
terms” and to take bver two leases known
as the Auckland and Fortuna on the Mt.
Margaret field. From these latter, it is
stated, £20,000 worth of gold has already
been obtained. The new concern’s nominal
capital is £02,500, in 1,000,000 shares of
Is. 3d. ; but as the float is being engineered
by a London syndicate which wants 100,000
paid shares and £5OOO in cash for its ser-
vices, the dead is likely to remain where it is.
Black Range’s old mine at Sandstone
(W.A.) has passed away. Its life was not
a long one, but its performances were good.
Altogether some 200,000 odd tons were
extracted and treated for nearly three-quar-
ters of a million sterling, and shareholders
got about a third of it in dividends. The
Board spent a good deal of time and money
in searching for a new property, and after
turning down several fastened on to the
Pinnacles, near Cue. The plant has been
removed to this show, and crushing will
be started very shortly. According to official
reports the Pinnacles is on a fairly good
wicket. It has £lB,OOO in hand, an easily-
worked lode formation of £2 to £3 value,
and over £lOO,OOO profit in sight.
* * * *
Capital is being sought in London to
resurrect Randall’s (W.A.), but it would
be far better to let the dead rest. The
Santa Claus syndicate, which started two
years ago to bring the field back to life, has
given up hope after spending £13,000 of its
own and about £6OOO of Government money.
With others Santa Claus is now turning its
attention to a line-deposit concession at Lake
Clifton, in the South-West (W.A.), out of
which it expects to make a recovery.
* * * *
Yilgarn Consols (W.A.) has come to
light after what a Kalgoorlie paper terms
“a long seclusion” and is busy window-dress-
ing the Karridale at Burtville. The Consols
was floated two years ago with a slender
capital to make money out of an alleged
mine near Southern Cross. It failed, and
nothing was heard of it until it reappeared
on the Karridale. The latter is a 24-acre
block with a narrow reef from which 4000
tons have been extracted for a return of
£50,000. Water beat the prospectors at
80ft. and the show was abandoned. Opinions
are conflicting in regard to it, but The
Bulletin believes it would turn out all
right if worked on a small scale by a crowd
which knew the meaning of economy.
At the annual meeting of the Chamber of
Mines (W.A.) in Kalgoorlie the other day
Dick Hamilton, of the Gt. Boulder, presided
for the nineteenth time in succession.
* * * *
Leisner’s Wolfram Block (Q.) has been
placed on the list of the Sydney Stock
Exchange. There are 75,000 shares of 6s.
each; 50,000 of these are paid up, and a
recently issued 10,000 contribs. still leave
15,000 in reserve. Leisner’s is one of the
two richest little wolfram claims in N.Q. The
ore is a mixture of that metal with molyb-
denite and bismuth, occurring in pipes near
the contact of granite and slate. The patchy
nature of the ore is proved by the small
output of only 1800 tons of high-grade stuff
from Wolfram Camp in 17 years. Leisner’s
is down 450 ft. and is the deepest claim on
these rare metals in Queensland, and one
of the deepest in the world. In six months
290 tons were mined and crushed for £3780.
The co. owes £lOOO to the Queensland Gov-
ernment, and recently increased its capital
to equip the claim properly and push on
development.
* * * *
Bonnie Dundee, Charters Towers, has
crushed 1011 tons for £5153, roughly £5 2s.
per ton, compared with £7 4s. 9d. from the
previous crushing. Wages, stores, etc., are
all on the rise, so Bonnie will take breathing
time between dividends. News from the
mine is rather depressing.
G. D. Meudell says he is not going to let
Treasurer Higgs beat him when it comes
to chasing oil in Tas. A veto having been
put on the raising of the capital in Australia,
Meudell observes that he is going to get the
needful outside Australia. To which, of
course, Higgs will have no objection what-
ever.
* * * »
Tasmanian tin claims are recovering their
lost strength. Briseis from the main work-
ings got 43 tons of black tin in March, which
compares with 36 tons in February. Mutual
Hill gave two tons last month. Mt.
Bischoff reported 35 tons black tin for the
month. Bischoff carries 12.000 shares, while
Briseis has 600,000. Briseis is entirely allu-
vial and has paid £402,000, compared with
Bischoff’s £2,436.000; but the latter has had
a much longer life and had the advantage
of securing a virgin claim and the most
remarkable tin deposit in Australia. There
are still 1,600,000 tons of gossan, porphyry,
slate and detrital matter, but it is very low
grade.
There is a nice bonus brewing for Queens-
land Insurance shareholders. Present paid
capital is £150,000, in £1 shares. The formal
reserve fund was last year carried up to
£125,000; and, besides, there is a reserve of
over £lOO,OOO to cover unexpired risks. How
much of the £125,000 will be transferred to
capital hasn’t been disclosed; but probably,
in view of the corpulence of the unearned
premium fund, £25,000 will be thought suffi-
cient to leave as a formal reserve. The
important question, of course, is What will
they pay on that? On past performances
10 p.c. would appear to be quite possible.
Speakman’s (W.A.) is going to have
another try. A supply of fresh water is
being laid on to the battery, and the co.
hopes thus to reconcile extraction with assay
values. About 50 tons, estimated to average
between 9dwt. and lOdwt., is awaiting treat-
ment, and a fair quantity of similar stuff is
said to be in sight. Whether there is enough
to give shareholders a dividend is, however,
extremely doubtful.
From Meekatharra :—•
Fenian has a labor dispute on hand over the
question of a minimum wage of 13s. 4d. a shift.
The mine has been closed two months now. The
syndicate is prepared to pay the wages, but refuses
to sign an agreement, and Bill refuses to work with-
out an agreement. Queen of the Hills has shut up
its treatment plant, and only a few men are em-
ployed. They are prospecting at No. 6 level. The
local yarn is that the tandem gas-engine didn't
prove a success, hence the closure. The Com-
modore has given it best, and hauled up rails, air-
pipes, etc. Treatment of rccumulated slimes is
expected to return a profit. Ingliston, adjoining, is
crosscutting for the reef at the bottom level, with
a hard bar in the face, which is not improving the
prospects. Ingliston Consols is opening up well at
No. 8 level, and locally is hailed as another Fenian,
which mine it adjoins. Ingliston Extended (gener-
ally under a cloud) is crosscutting and driving for
the West lode at the 550 ft. level. The mill is
going on ore from the East lode, which has length-
ened and improved in value at this depth.


Under
Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
Charles Heidsieck
mmiwm
champagne
Heims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
A GOOD REMEDY FOR
SALLOW COMPLEXIONS.
Everyone may have a clear and bright
complexion, free from furrows or wrinkles, if
they will only take a little daily trouble in
the following manner : Buy some Puritol wax
from the chemist or draper, and apply every
night, lap a little cold water on the face ten
times with the hands every morning, allow-
ing it to get thoroughly round the closed
eyes, and pinch the skin very gently across
all wrinkles. Puritol Wax Soap, which
leaves a fine film of wax on the skin, should
be used ; this acts as a protective during the
day. This treatment arouses the dormant
nerves and blood vessels, and undoubtedly
accounts for many of the clear complexions
so much admired by those who do not yet
know the secret.— Advt. [3
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET (SL CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FESQ (Si CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
SINCE 1679.
SINCE
HAIG & HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, Afrit. 24, 1916.
My Dear Arinj.—
The G.-G. took a preliminary canter round
the Show before it was opened with a cork-
screw. Clad in his Quaker-grey _ rigout,
with his favorite pudding-basin millinery,
he interviewed the uttermost pig on Tues-
day. On Thursday the grounds teemed with
Excellencies. The Victorian Stanleys had
fine weather for their excursion. But
the poor old public got more or less drenched
in Friday’s .downpour, and stormed the
trams in dripping battalions.
A genuine blue-and-gold day—made only in
Australia —arched the formal opening of the
Show. The Strickland chaise drove into the
ring with Lady Edeline, his Ex. and three
daughters. The eldest treasure’s white-cloth
coat —one of the long pleated species—and
trim skirt were amongst the best exhibits.
President Sam Hordern —a proud man the
day, with his first Show breaking a string of
records —met the party. Then the prize bone
and beef made a stately progress round the
sward. The haughty tread of the beef—
notably the Shorthorns, who are It this year
—showed an instinctive sense of the price of
steak. Later those present saw his Ex. open
the carnival. Hearing was out of the ques-
tion. The orchestra in the ring simply
drowned the soloist.
The Women’s Industries were worse even
than usual. One section is devoted to crochet
quilts—hideous cross-stitch of the old carpet-
slipper pattern—and knobby cushions ; and
it interests nobody but the exhibitors.
Needlecraft, except in the lingerie cases,
apparently reached the “worst ever” this
show. Red Cross activity in the country is
responsible for the feeble response to the
call of an always'-weak pavilion.
In the pumpkin shed the mere house-
keeper could only gaze in stunned amaze-
ment at the produce from the Promised
Land. Pyramids of fruit and vegetables,
cured pig, and mountains of cheese and
butter showed that Australia can still grow
more than it consumes. The dark-eyed lady
or gentleman in the city protests that these
things are “ver’ scarce” and sells doubtful
apples at 2d. apiece. Yet Batlow alone,
judging by its exhibit, could supply the
whole of our Best Suburbs.
The Women’s Horticultural Guild has a
tea and jam tent, but it only got its sign
up after the opening day. Visitors previ-
ously unable to find this retreat then rushed
the provender. Proceeds go towards a
depot in the city which hopes to inciden-
tally benefit the wives of returned soldiers.
Mrs. Bertram Stevens, the president, did the
star turn as scone-maker. She was occa-
sionally sent for from her fastness in front
of the stove to explain that domestic science
would be included in the spade-ladies’ cur-
riculum. Mrs. Lindsay, formerly well
known at Forbes, was general manager of
the forage department.
In spite of a gorgeous Easter we couldn’t
get away from the war. The will of the
late Major Jenkins, killed at Gallipoli, was
proved during the week. The estate is
worth just under £14,000. The popular
ox-artilleryman was a brother of Mrs.
J. H. P. Murray, who comes this way for
the winter.
At the big Show lunch Rider Haggard’s
easy impromptu remarks were vociferously
encored. Printer Sam Lees, in his other-
wise spirited address on things in general,
came a literary cropper. He alluded “to
that delightful novel, ‘Far from the Madding
Crowd,’ by our distinguished visitor.” Then
there was a great peace.
After Friday’s storm Easter Saturday
bounced in with cloudless skies and a nip
in the air—just the weather the race-goers
would have ordered. Cool enough for the
new winter garb, not too cold for the last
ninons of summer. Velvet, with a fur
edge, is the primary fancy of the season.
Made in one piece, or with the long, wide
coat falling over the short skirts, it is put
together with sufficient breadth to house a
crinoline. With this rig-out the Philip
Morton girls wore the latest tartlet milli-
nery. The latest touch, a tinsel belt, cheap-
ened the look of one otherwise handsome
frock.
In spite of its habit of travelling to the
cleaners every few week-ends, white cloth
is In. A creamy princess robe (a thing we
haven’t seen in winter stuff for years),
edged with brown fur, was worn by a fas-
cinating stranger. Nigger brown—it’s a
few shades off ebony—is having a great
innings. The Tom Hughes lady was clothed
in silk of this Uncle Tom tint. Mrs.
Arthur Griffith, in a cosy fur coat, was
spotted with ermine here and there. Mrs.
Spencer Brunton took out from her Sara-
toga in the recent unpacking the latest gasp
in striped black silk. It’s so new that it looks
mid-Victorian, for that's where the tight-
fitting jacket and wide, plain skirt (the
latter suggested a wired understudy) came
from.
Paradise plumes tossed on many a race
hat, in spite of infuriated bird-lovers. The
ostrich is taking a comparative rest, though
he’s still plucked for neckwear. A grass-green
silk with a high storm frill, worn by Mary
Grimley, was on the summery side. Here
and there a daring damsel stepped out in
white muslin. Leopard-skin mats trailed
round other shoulders, and ears were rugged
in Antarctic collars.
Ex-Mayoress Richards, quietly gowned,
was in the members’ reserve for a while.
But the G.-G.’s ukase, “No races till after
the war,” either kept most of our Second-
best away or incited them to make a stealthy-
rush at the shrouded official stand. What
the vice-regal young gentlemen have done
with themselves, besides inspecting mangel-
wurzels, goodness knows! 'What they have
said on each race morn —but no! Let’s try
not to forget we’re ladies.
Dr. Roger Hughes, in khaki, paced the
lawn with his Eileen. Her other name was
Maher a few weeks ago. Mr. Arthur Gor-
don had a daughter or two under his wing,
but they were in the semi-disguise of ultra-
plain frocks. A stack of country McMasters
and Campbells and a woolly Merewether
or two were in the station contingent.
In town for race week is Mrs. Kenneth
Mackay, the tall, picturesque lady from Wall-
endbeen homestead. The Pine Ridge Buck-
lands, as usual, followed the geegee to Rand-
wick. Mrs. Lex Craig—she was a
Queensland belle not so many years ago—
finishes a summer here with the races before
booking her sleeper for Brisbane. Mrs. Yald-
wyn, mother of Beatrice, came from Queens-
land to meet her just arrived-from-London
girl, and she, too, took an outing at Rand-
wick.
This is Cicely
Courtneidge, who
was married in
London the other
day - dressed for
her part in “The
Arcadians.” She’s
one of the daintiest
little things on the
English stage —in
father’s companies,
of course. Cicely
was born in Aus-
tralia, and, a dozen
years later, when
Dad was “produe-
in g” Shakspeare
for his old friend
Musgrove, she
made her first
stage appearance
here as Pease-
blossom. She might
at least have had her wedding in Australia,
too.
The G.-G. and his lady went up to St.
Ignatius’s College, on “the River,” the other
day. A watery guard of honor, the renowed
college eights, splashed to meet them. The shy-
est person on the premises, the learned Father
Pigot, who knows nearly all the world
knows about earthquakes, has to be lassoed
on such occasions. Besides having his
vast knowledge of seismic thrills, this
modest cleric is quite a brilliant
pianist. Sydneysiders who travelled to
England in the same mailboat used
to wonder who the retiring musician was who
fled into silence when footsteps approached.
Finally the earthquake authority was run to
ground as the surreptitious performer. But
he could rarely be persuaded to oblige an
audience.
Colonel Sandford, of the Permanent
Artillery, goes into “A” Quarters in Vic-
toria Barracks. He has been State Com-
mandant in S. Australia, so it’s like promo-
tion backwards to take a second place here
under somebody whose life’s job hasn’t been
soldiering. But that's the kind of thing the
professional soldier is used to nowadays. He
has made the stupid blunder of only studying
military tactics.
Do you remember the tall Queensland sub.,
young Kelly? For a while he fretted on
the Permanent chain in Victoria. Now he’s
off to join a Flying Corps at the Front. His
orderly, by the way, who enlisted as a full
private, has an income of £5OOO or so a
year. No wonder poor old Tommy Atkins
wonders how the Australian does himself
so well on 355. a week!
Jack An till, who has been through the
Gallipoli turmoil, is now Brigadier-General
somewhere at the Front. That’s all the
damages he has sustained up to date.
Lieut. Clive Backhouse, of a Strathfield
family, had a date with his best girl, Vera
Rogers, of Chatswood, the other day. Clive,
by the way, is the fourth to get into khaki
in that household. The other three brothers
are already in the thick of the uproar. The
bride’s plumage was white shimmer with a
snowfall of tulle, garlanded with rosebuds.
A couple of warriors in khaki looked after
the bridesmaids, and a few dozen Back-
houses, including his Honor, were present to
show that there was no ill-feeling.
Town and Country Matrons have put their
purses together as of yore. Their pre-war
Easter hop is resuscitated this week as a
mixed show. After the concert wilts away
our Second-best People are once more pre-
pared to dance till the early milkman ham-
mers at the back gate. The Very Best are
themselves hammering at a gate. Tickets are
7s. 6d. Proceeds are to be cut up between
the Manly hospital and the French’s Forest
fund. Mrs. Jack Campbell and Mrs. Hotham
are moving spirits in the affair. At the
Pacific (Manly) on April 28.
A good-bye sing-song to Lieut. Carmichael,
the recent Minister for Education who bad
most to do with turning Government House
stables into a Conservatorium, drew a fair
audience to the old mews. After a tempestu-
ous blare down Macquarie-street the Rifle-
men’s battalion band stamped up with a
tail of casual followers and stray dogs. The
programme had the Verbrugghen quartette
to tone up the first half. Lottie Dearn ham-
mered conscientiously at Chopin’s study in
C Minor after ambling through a Grieg noc-
turne. When a long list of performers
snatched one bar rest the Conservatorium
staff, per Verbrugghen, handed the departing
sojer a silver photo-frame shrining the Bel-
gian conductor’s pensive countenance. Mrs.
Carmichael, in a becoming white frock, got a
presentation posy and took it into a front
seat, with Chief Secretary Black and his
wife near by.
Dr. and Mrs. McGill’s only daughter Nell
has agreed to be Best Queen to Pex-cy King,
of Tulloona station, out Moree way. The
McGills used to mend the broken bones of
that woolly district, but they’re Bingara
folks of late.
Mrs. Pelloe, the Mildura lady who sat
in her saddle all the way to Sydney—it’s
nearly 700 miles—is a tall, slender young
woman with a soft voice, a velvet manner
and a steel wrist. She rides either side-
saddle or astride, but prefers the old way when
she’s taking the jumps. One of Victoria’s lead-
ing amateur horsewomen, she’s been collecting
show-ring prizes for years. “Our horses
were tired when we reached Sydney,” she
says, “but my friend Miss Cox and I were so
fresh that —so we were told afterwards —we
looked as if we’d just ridden into the city
from Centennial Park. Some of the
back hotels —we couldn’t always reach a
homestead —were fairly rough, though we
enjoyed the experience. The landlord would
come out to greet us. After trying to
‘place’ us, he would say: ‘Hello, Missus!
First or second class?’ If what we had
here and there was first class, we’re glad we
weren’t crowded into the other.”
This year the Maddrell family came to
town from Braidwood for more reasons than
the Show. Father gives his daughter May
to one of the Downes brothers of Brownlow
Hill early this week. Brother Edgar mar-
ried Isabel, the elder Maddrell girl, some
time ago. I fancy that one has been in khaki
for months.
“Peg o’ My Heart,” at the Palace, gives
the jaded playgoer a taste of the real
thing. I mean the Dublin brogue which
falls from the lips of Sara Allgood like
clotted cream. The “Irish” hero and
heroine generally own up to Putney or
’Ampstead as their native heath. Sarapeg’s
touzled yellow curls are a good many shades
lighter than the coat of her wild Irish ter-
rier, but they both fit the part. Tait’s lead-
ing lady is a plump little dumpling with
the beauty of rounded arm and dimpled
hand that Erin’s daughters generally pre-
sent to an admiring world.
A granddaughter of the late Francis
Suttor, M.L.C., walked down St. James’s
aisle on the arm of Lieut. Alan Audsley, of
the R.F.A. The bride, Margaret Collam, is
the Sandeman Collams’ only girl. Mother
was a Suttor.
Ruby, a daughter of the late David Rob-
ertson, of Betliunga Park and Rockview
station, beyond old Junee, held out her finger
when Hugh Aytoun-Young. a Scot from
Perthshire,_ produced the wedding-ring.. The
Mosman kirk was trimmed with flowers for
the occasion. The bride’s snow-white drapery
was veiled in Honiton lace. The white
heather in her posy travelled from Scotland
to be amongst those present. The brides-
maids, Grace Robertson and wee Effie
Fraser, were our home-grown blooms.
One Ruby reminds me of another. Ruby
Winckler, the artist-girl with the wonderful
imagination, came home the other day. She
has, as you know, been illustrating" fairy-
zsmZLr™ ana *4t;
Beatrice Yaldw vn
who returned 'to
her native
with the “Pe.
"(hr” m - °>
lir 1 ; 80ldei1 ’
haired y ou , u
charmer. She left
here ; n short froefe
rnat was when
womenkind J r
them long-had a
course of dramatic
ai 't m the Tr
school, and g ra d,,
the foot"
lights. She looks
the Part of the i ev
lefif I s 1 o , mai 'len,
Ethel Chichester
and that’s all the
stalls, demand 0 f
ing you our beauty’s picture^ atllce ‘ Im send-
Prominent Sydney Jews, ‘excepting R ahhi
Cohen and Ins wife, were eonsni,.,L .
their absence from the Repertor? the otlmr
evening; let the show, “The
Heart,” in Yiddish, was racy of Hebrew £
in Europe. Even the occasional Gen
could appreciate the emotional acting
Jacob Strunin, a newly-arrived rJLJ
actor of the Israelite persuasion. His wife
equally clever as the Innkeeper’s missus'
was the mirth-raiser of the play n
almost without scenery and in' the mos
primitive manner through four acts p/
digious waits between each act, and'an im
portunate prompter who rushed into action
before he was needed, couldn’t kill the vim
ot the piece. “The Jewish Heart” is “<>
comic opera.” But as the Hebrew lady wl lo
played the part of Baroness Popesska went
convulsively through two acts, and the hern
was killed in a scuffle before his mother’
ey es, the laughter was only intermittent
Though Yiddish is to Hebrew what the £
timental Bloke’s classics are to the Oxford
bleat, our wealthy Jews might support these
struggling members of their own race through
their brief season in May.
Surgeon Herbert Moran—he who used to
specialise in the muddied football field-
goes to N’York in June. lie has been more
or less at war work for some time.
George Vivers, the tall King’s Plains
squatter, has left for the other side to go
into khaki, though there’s quite a good
chance of doing it in his native State. The
big Cornstalk learned medicine, but prefers
wool —for many golden reasons—and never
encourages any allusion to “Dr.” Still his
knowledge may be mighty useful in the firing
line.
The Youngsters’ Welfare Exhibition in
May has a list of patrons as long almost as
the road, to Berlin. The exhibits already
entered include nearly everything—even a
Reformed Sunday School. You can’t think
what a reprobate an unregenerate Sunday
School is.
The Sydney Clerical Women’s Association
wisely cut off its new “Patriotic Club” tail.
The tag led to confusion with the old origi-
nal firm in Bligh-street. Now it brandishes
the impressive name, “Clerical Women War
Workers.” Already out of its modest
monthly members’ subscription of Is. it
has handed £lO 10s. to the Y.M.C.A. for
its work at the Front. It buys wool to knit,
and it finds the wherewithal to help feed
the hungry mattock-swingers at French’s
Forest. Something of a record on a thrum-
mer a week !
Mayoresses of country towns —a formid-
able body when the city calls for help—have
already forwarded their sympathy with the
Edith Cavell memorial fund. Later they will
organise the usual brigandage. The State-
school kiddie is just getting a few marbles
for himself after prodigious self-denial for
the patriotic hat. But there’s a suggestion
that the girls should again indulge in a
famine in hair-bows and chocolate for the
nurses’ home. And ho doubt they will rise
to the occasion.
Most of our war news may be smoked out
by the censors, but through the photographer
and the cartoonist we at least know what the
generals of the world look like. A former
generation had to depend on art when art
was really something else. In the Sydney
Gallery hangs an old print entitled “Re
Heroes of Waterloo.” It shows one side of a
room crammed with chubby, middle-aged
gentlemen in full uniform and various styles
of whisker.' They seem as unconscious o
one another as so many lunatics, and evei.'
single one of them has a Cupid’s-bow moutu.
If that artist were alive and working: to-day
I suppose he would be busy fitting a Cupids
bow to Hindenburg—or Kitchener.
Yours affectionately’,
VANDORIAN.


CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP nOME.
At the War.
t. %*■,
iff
YiV
a/W/1
WIWJ
m
iw
hW&
W {
H-r-
-\ \
V
&
v
mi
Hi
</ J r '\
>..y
n)S
% ~a,/
sMU:
.'-fcA
X
m
t
CvCP
'■4* t-A: ’ >/ /- •’•' J//.*/ ' ■ sH?, \
'////
r?
St
A
IS
\y
ft y 1
\ AsSr*
,/f
■> /
■X
,r
a t
/♦;/
M
, V '• - .'
: n
gf,
S///
*tzZ>.
a.y
A-
“
iX
si3?
*W_*>
'**&**&
£B5
4/
M J£ST JKJ
IJtM
v " .J& jafflifc
?/**
■Wft
>,-■/ */¥ / X\ ,
•*; \
/ -t'"
f>' fs
V.
A v
XaT/W
£3
/st f’l
/ //*'! >
V JP^
,$fZ
r
Y t '+ ■
A,
.<*
t-f
■ C
*m*
rP\
H
,- v--<
*
A*!<
•v-v;
83
a::
■7 V ,A
iSW
/>.;- •
rtiaS"
-*dS
■> r'-
Pt
r—A;
v?s.
an*.
m
MX
] ,r-
R
//
ssi
f n
X s
X i/i hi % m
/• m 1/
I• V \ . \vA v \ ? ,A / •» >♦./> i* r&'
In- •’, YW'I \ i- il ~?:*iu
m
-7/i# //
i ’ wAX
- V A V?.!
V-
CtA
/ . : A
/
A' /
I i ;1. } C
: !S/ I il\ / .1 /
If
1 ■ \ \
, /
M A
#.-/ if ii /
///4m
77//
,\
„ / ■:
//'
7
i'
till
£>-S>Ck >•
£~i»
\
Cobra,” Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Does some Red Cross
Rescues too ;
When the Red C mss
D oo; has found
Some poor hero
On the ground,
Chuncler’s there as
Quick as light,
And before the
Chill of night
o
Each poor chap is
In his cot.
“ COBRA” always
J
Saves a lot.


Farmer’s Smokers’ Sundries
SOCIAL
PITI/W««S1 f
No. OK4B.
SPECIALLY SELECTED QUALITY.
UNIFORMLY KEEN VALUE.
OR48 —“Victoria House’’
Smoking Mixture. Finds
immediate favor with every
devotee of “My Lady Nico-
tine.” 4oz. tins, 2/-; Boz.
tins, 4/-; per lb., 8/-
OR49 —Farmer’s High-grade
Hand-made Cigarettes.
31b. box, containing 80 (Egyp-
tian). Price 5/-
-Jlb. box, containing 90 (Rus-
sian). Price 5/.
box, containing 90 (Vir-
ginian). Price.... 4/6
Carriage Paid to any part
of Australia.
FARMER'S
Pitt, Market
I and
George Streets,
SYDNEY
G
garett
No. OR49,
milE AUTHORS’ ALLIANCE is pre-
pared to consider and place MSS.
Literary work of all kinds dealt with by
experts who place authors’ interests first.
Twenty years’ experience. Write for pro-
spectus. 100 Flinders Street, Melbourne;
and at London and New York.
HOW DRUGS DELUDE DYSPEPTICS.
A MENACE TO HEALTH.
Dyspeptics who take drugs commit a
against their health, for drugs do '“° ver
dyspepsia, neither do they possess t P .
to neutralise acid in the stomach, v
the underlying cause of most forms *
five and stomach trouble. Drug
appear to give relief in , 1 because
digestion and dyspepsia, but that an( j
they numb the nerves of the stoma 1 I}eg
render them insensible to pain, lie
the chief danger; the ' h ®] e the
trouble are covered up and hidden, - n
cause of the trouble —that is, t • gs
the stomach —remains as _ actn e t}me
dangerous as ever, and may in cot
cause gastric ulcers to form. an d
Physicians have demonstrated oy , n
over again that the stomach cannot
strength or the digestive organs f re e
power to function normally unless achieved
from irritant acid, and this can b a
with safety and certainty by ta o
teaspoonful of bisurated magnesia caD
water immediately after every m,- en t
be relied upon to neutralise acid and P«
fermentation of the food. _ „ mr >lnved to'
This method is now being P
hospitals throughout the c * rec ipe
marked success, and we are su rea ders.
will prove valuable to many o o btain-
No difficulty should be experienced in o
ing the bisurated magnesia, for-it 1 make
by high-class chemists everywher mag .
sure that vou get the btsuratx c itrates
nesia, for the oxides, sulphates and
are quite unsuitable. —Anvx.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, April 24, 1916.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The vice-regals have lately been chasing
round like the characters in a comic film.
The moving Stanleys have just slipped over
the State frontier to visit the G.-G. pair in
Sydney. Just before they started they did
a return from Tasmania, and rushed around
opening shows till it made me dizzy to look
at them.
A vice-regal affair up country the other
day was given a touch of unexpected vivacity
by the conduct of the sweet child, seven-year-
old daughter of a local nabob, who had been
decked in pink to pass the usual bouquet to
her Ex. The darling little thing handed up
the dahlias all right; then, after hanging
round for five minutes, made a rush, and
recovered the floral tribute. “Give em
back, go on,” said the innocent. “You ve
had ’em long enough !”
Dr. Jack Gordon is having a ten-iuinute
rest from Egypt. He was Red Grossing
under fire for eight months on Gallipoli, and
was originally in charge of the First General
Hospital. In those days he put up at
Mena House. The hospitals, by the way,
are all being rearranged. So, it seems, are
most other things. It is reckoned that in
six months’ time there won’t be more than
90 Generals in one another’s way in Egypt,
and it is then hoped that, as an average, an
order won’t be countermanded and restored
and countermanded again more than 11
times.
When Colonel Springthorpe made his
recent hurried visit to Melbourne he spent
most of his spare time giving workers advice
as to the best things to send to the soldiers
in Egypt. He strongly recommended great
quantities of apples (the consignees to lure
part of a sailer if cargo space were not
available in a steamer) and any other fruits
that would stand the voyage. But he
crossed oranges off the list. People in
Egypt can get plenty of splendid oranges.
Guy Madden is doing his share for the
Empire, as usual. He has been lining a fair,
round uniform since early in the war;
but not much has been heard of
him lately, with the exception of a
few rumors as to his possible departure
for parts unknown at an early date,
or later. The other night, however,
he again rose to the surface and received
honorable mention in the newspapers. He
had faced several hundreds of soldiers and
come through the ordeal without losing an
ounce of flesh. The soldiers were at a
Y.M.C.A.-hall concert in the Domain camp,
and Captain Guy took the chair wuth great
dash and unbounded intrepidity.
Andrew Millett has given up his honorary
job as secretary to the Australian Literature
Society, which exists to encourage the local
author by reading and reciting his works,
and is not to be confounded with the Litera-
ture Society of Melbourne. That concern
makes a hobby of dead ones like Shakspeare,
and usually ignores the very existence of
Australian writers can spell much
better. Millett’s time is now entirely taken
up with military-camp activities.
A. L. Gunning, who came here from
S’Africa (w’here his dad is director of the
Transvaal Zoological Gardens and the Pre-
toria museum) to join Marshall Hall a
couple of years ago, and is knowm to concert-
goers as a quiet, convincing pianist, has
joined the Army Medical Corps.
One of the Collins-street rest rooms for
soldiers started a post office, where the war-
riors might receive their letters and despatch
replies —after compiling same with the sta-
tionery, pens, ink, typewriter and stamps
provided by staunch patriots. I understand
a great locker full of envelopes empties itself
in a twinkling, and the other supplies melt
like icecream in a stokehold. Mrs. Ewflng
is voluntarily acting as chief postmistress.
Essendon is feeling very sore about the
discovery of its two presentation motor-
ambulances standing idle and neglected in
a warehouse near Victoria Docks, London.
They had been there for six months or
more. Essendon will now take up another
collection and send England an alarm clock.
The Sliakspearians have decided on _ a
miniature Anne Hathaway cottage—lattice
w T indow T s and all —as their Anzac stand in
the city on Friday, 28th. They want holly
berries and autumn foliage to sell, and are
invoking the aid of the Macedonians and
those that do dwell at Creswick, Daylesford
and Ballarat.
Sister Sissie Stephens, daughter of the
Age’s long-established sub-editor, went off
in one of the latest hospital ships bound for
ports unknown. She is one of the nurses
sent to relieve the Red Capes who are due
for a rest.
The Carse widow, straight from Egypt
and London, w 7 here son Frank has been
invalided, is off to the Riverina to put in
the fireside months on a Falkiner brother’s
sheep station. She will take the baby grand-
daughter, the daughter-in-law having gone
to nurse the soldier-son.
Dunlop, the tennis-player, is back in
Melbourne after doing patriotic patrol work
in London for many months. A brief eight
weeks before the war he played with the
burglarious Crown Prince and took food at
the same table with Little Willie Sikes and
four French and Dutch court sportsmen,
none of whom guessed what bad company
they were in. Before the guns began Dun-
lop' and his wife travelled through France.
Spain, Switzerland and Germany, and had
the time of their lives, the tennis champion
being felted so frequently that they appeared
to glide along a river of champagne. Every
time they went out at night somebody’s
opera-box yawned to receive them, and
they were entertained so lavishly that they
scarcely ever had a hotel bill to pay. Then
war came and it was all over like a beautiful
dream filled with food.
Adelaide rings up again :
Unley—which I hope you remember is technically
a city and on the same level as London and New
York —selected Saturday as Gallipoli Day, and added
£6OO to the Red Cross and the Trench Comforts Funds.
The Galways divided their time between that and
the Inter-College Sports. There were also races at
Victoria Park, but we girls don’t go to races now.
Mrs. Carew Reynell, whose husband was killed at
Gallipoli, returned by the Kashgar from Egypt,
where she spent about four months. Before she left
she helped to establish a reading-room and canteen
at the 3rd Light Horse Brigade Camp at Heliopolis.
The Wattle Day League and the State Government
are planning an Apple Day for May 5, in the hope
of collecting some of the surplus crop and putting
it on transports for the men on their w’ay to the
Front. That’s a good idea. The Government will
provide cases and rail carriage for donations of
fruit. As most of the Hills gardens are carpeted with
windfalls, the armies should be munching hard
presently.
Lieut. F. Cutlack, who was beginning to make his
name as a writer when he got a commission in the
British artillery at the beginning of the war, is in
England, convalescing after 12 months at the Front
with his battery. He has to thank Bill’s poison-gas
for a first attack of bronchitis.
Charles Reade —the one who didn’t write “It’s
Never Too Late to Mend’’ —is busy polishing up
the Government’s Town Planning Bill. Apparently,
we are to profit by the mistakes of the older States
and make due provision for expansion so that we
won’t find ourselves suddenly compelled to pay
heavily for land and buildings required for railway
accommodation and so forth. It sounds lovely, and
it’s a pity we didn’t think of it before.
The Government is showing further signs of tackling
one difficulty, and Premier Vaughan has appealed
to the public not to burn its old papers, but keep
them for re-pulping in the mill we’re going to get
by-and-bye.
Frederic Villiers has just told us in a couple of
war lectures what he thinks of the military pros-
pects. But I won’t divulge what he said. He was
lunched by the Commonwealth Club, and had com-
plimentary speeches poured all over him.
Major E. N. Johnston has left for the U.S.A., after
putting the Government on the right track in regard
to Murray River matters. He has completed the
whole of his job, except for the report on the
opening of the port at the mouth. This will be sent
from America and read with keen delight by all
good novel eaters. I love reports on rivers.
Woman is coming to her own —or her husband’s.
The appointment of a third woman “bobby” has been
decided upon, and the Premier babbles of more in
the near future. Of course you mustn’t call them
Roberts. They are, officially, patrols.
The Lady Galway Belgium Book—2ooo copies of
which are to help the Belgian Fund at 7s. 6d. each —
is soon to be on the counters.
Died at North Adelaide, on Wednesday morning,
Mrs. Peterswald, widow of one of our best-known
Commissioners of the Police. She came to the State
with her husband in ’52.
The H. P. Gills were amongst the passengers by
the Mooltan, booked for England, which is to be
their home in the future.
Chief Justice Way’s death leaves all sorts of
prominent positions vacant. One of them has been
filled by Eustace Grundy, K.C., who becomes Grand'
Master of Freemasons after being D.G.M. and P.G.M.
and as much more as you like during Way’s 32-year
tenure of the chair. Piper, another K.C., is Deputy-
Grundy.
There is one happy town in S. Australia, at any
rate. Cockburn, on the railway between Broken Hill
and Adelaide, straddles across the line between the
two States, and has one pub. in each stirrup. The
migration between the two States has increased re-
markably since the S. Aus. stirrup went dry every
evening at 6 p.m.
Erskine Parker, of Launceston, who
handicaps for the Tasmanian Turf Club,
will some day, barring accidents, have a
lord as a son-in-law. His daughter Leonora
Mary has said “I will” in London to the
Hon. Francis Ormond Eaton, eldest son of
Lord Cheylesmore. The bridegroom is
a lieutenant in the Grenadier Guards, and
cut the honeymoon very short to get back
to the firing-line.
Major Dare —the youngster who rushed
up from a lieutenancy like a skyrocket—
lately cabled Rita Moss that he could find
time to marry her if she would pack up and
meet him half-way. The b lfr sister laJt
the hint and departed with her mster ms
Wednesday. Mamma was one of Bijou
Wilson’s amazon Misses before she
and went to live at Brighton Beach
Gerald, youngest son of .J he , K {^ tish
Officers, and now a captain in the British
Army, has been made one " * th * T ‘J 1 . 18
Ken sine ton, daughter of an Anglo-Indian
•judge g The bridegroom’s late mother was
one of the rich Hebden clan, whose genero-
sity is said to be in proportion to then
impressive fortunes. _ , , ,
It’s “the thing” to be married in the Churcn
of England Grammar School Chapel just
nnw anf i the girl who has snared an Ulcl
BoT’is the env/of h er set. The latest hero-
ine is Marjorie Groman, of Mansfield, who
came to town during the week to marry
Captain L. A. Smith, son of the late Di.
f f
' Randolph Bedford is now grandpa. The
greatness was thrust upon him by daughter
Rita (Mrs. Jimmy Young), whose girl-baby
has been front-named Australia Bedford.
Brewer McCracken, who departed this
life last year, left a few barrels of cash
behind for his wife and family. I beliete
the total is something like £200,000. \\ hat
is it the boys sing when homeward bound
in the last train? “Beer, Beer, Glorious
Beer!” . .
The widow of the late politician William
Sliiels has single-handed brought her family
safely through the Ilun’s submarines, after
wandering about Europe for nearly tluee
years. #
A statue of the late James Cuming has
just been planted in the allegedly chemically-
pure but sometimes over-perfumed Melbourne
suburb of Footscray. Margaret Baskerviile
did the sculping. Apart from the debatable
propriety of erecting a statue in memory ot
a good citizen who would probably have pre-
ferred to see the cash go to the Children’s
Hospital, the only visible blot on the busi-
ness is that Italian marble was used instead
of Australian. Better and more durable
marble than ever Carrara produced is avail-
able in Gippsland.
The Stanleys visited Edward Officer’s
patriotic picture show just before they
whirled away to Sydney. Before they left
a red spot came out on a canvas full ot
Darling River gpms.
The Arts and Crafters sat at the boots of
the Stanleys one day last week, and all
went well enough until Professor Spencer
hurled a shower of barbed criticisms into
the happy circle. The most terrible moment
was when he denounced the kookaburra, emu,
kangaroo and wattle flower as being unsuited
for decorative art. and recommended a study
of the Black Australian’s shield patterns
and so forth. Then his Ex. followed on and
shocked all the girls by saying he was in-
clined to agree with Spencer. But he had
a good word to say for the wattle when, as
a tower of blossom, it leaned lovingly over
the Yarra at Warrandyte. He suggested
that some effort be made to get a loan
exhibit of furniture, jewellery and other
crafts from South Kensington Museum. All
this was served up with some jam about the
capacity of the Australian to do excellent
work; but the gathering broke up looking
very thoughtful. You see it was hardly
what the workers expected.
Amy Castles, soon off to the U.S.A. if
Wilson doesn’t reach for his gun, gave a con-
cert in the Town Hall on Saturday night
and got a fine house, considering the rush
of Easter shows. Summed up it was a
packed floor and a thin balcony. Amy sang
from inside an amber-colored gown—a dream
of a thing netted over with ribbon-threaded
trellis and decorated with some cunning
touches of cobalt, blue and black. Encores
were greedily demanded, and she seemed
tired when she got to the last item on the
bill —a glorious thing from “Louise.” Of
course the music-drinkers absolutely refused
to go until she returned and shouted
another round. Soldier-brother George
was not available, and Hector Gold-
spink warbled in his stead. Amadio
communed a bit with liis flute, and
Laurie Kennedy made his ’cello sing. Wil-
liam Burrell was at the piano. As the
concert was not clearly labelled “Farewell”
we may hear Amy again before she goes.
Rocco di Gilio, the Italian who came to
Melbourne a couple of decades ago with
little more than a flute, a toothbrush and an
extra pair of boots, has found Australia kind.
Part of his cash success is due to the fact
that, in following his profession of string-
band provider, he has always been prepared
to sandwich an engagement at the Market
Gardeners’ Bay Picnic between' a Govern-
ment House programme and a little music
for a Gaud Mayoral soiree. The di Gilio
night-travelling outfit, in which his weary
bandsmen find their way back to barracks
when the dancing’s done, is a marvel of
antiquity. It is_a cut between an 1887 vic-
toria and an 1877 omnibus. At suburban
dances, when the concern is propped up
against the landscape for the evening, it is
occupied by a succession of amorous couples,
while within the festive hall Rocco is point-
ing the way to a perfectly heavenly time with
his trills and tootles. In the breath-taking
intervals of his flutings, Rocco bestows a
long series of white-toothed smiles upon the
fairest of the flock whirling by. They seem
to like it, too. Di Gilio, by the way, has a
nephew doing “real” music at the University
Conservatorium—August di Gilio, a very
bright and promising student under fiddler
Carmen Delprat.
Stanley Adams, whose fiddle is nowadays
often heard in good company, commenced
with the banjo. His father was known,
more than 20 years ago, as Melbourne’s one
and only topnoteh twanger. He ran a banjo-
works in Queen’s Walk and taught Toorak
all it knew of the instrument. Young Adams
followed in father’s footsteps, and presently
went ahead on a new track. ll e used to
appear on a variety of platforms, but
nowhere attracted such notice as when he
appeared between acts during a theatrical
season and produced a remarkable burst of
melody from his limited vehicle. p ress
critics took him seriously as a musician and
urged him to study an instrument more
worthy of his talent. So he began fiddling
at the Marshall Hall Conservatorium, and
after a few years became that concern’s most
press-noticed pupil. Afterwards he took to
playing for a crust in theatrical orchestras
a calling in which from time to time a good
deal of sound Australian talent is buried
alive, and so disappeared awhile from public
notice. But lie had the goods.
The father of Carrie Haase tried putting
up another name on his baker’s carts, but it
was disallowed and the original surname
had to be painted on again. The man of
dough must think it hard luck when daughter
Carrie can change her stage name to Hallett
and go unchallenged. Are recitations less
important than bread?
Carrie Moore, whose principal-boyishness
is a main support of the Dick Whittington
pantomime, at the Princess’s, will shortly
enter a private hospital to he operated oil
for an affection of the throat. But there is
nothing to indicate that Carrie is down-
hearted.
Mooroopna, a quiet little town among the
orchards of the Goulburn Valley, is in the
throes of an industrial struggle. The local
fruitpickers went on strike for higher wages,
and, stirred to emulation, the schoolboys
formed a union to secure shorter hours and
the abolition of ’’keeping in.” The entrance
fee was four marbles, and any youngster who
had been “skun,” and was therefore unable
to buy in. was in the cold. On the principle
of preference to unionists, no boy who
was a member of the union would
play alleys with a non-member. The
unionists even elected officers, includ-
ing an organiser and a “rep.” They
then asked J. McPherson, an A.W.U. organ-
iser who was in the district in connection
with the fruitpickers’ strike, to put their case
before the teacher. He wisely refused, and
the nippers are fighting it out among them-
selves, to the accompaniment of black eyes
and bruised faces on both sides.
Frank Tudor, Minister of Customs, com-
plimented the Austral Clock Co. on the birth
of a new Australian industry at the co.’s
special exhibition of clock-frames made from
beautiful Australian hardwood. Blackwood
from Warburton, oak from Tasmania and
Queensland, and mountain ash from X. S.
Wales and Victoria were a few of the timbers
used. The prices, so the yarn went, are about
30 per cent, less than those of the imported
goods which tumble in here by the thousand
from the U.S.A. now that the German is
barred. A fine specimen clock with an Aus-
tral frame was presented to the Empire Rest
Rooms for soldiers, and the Minister ap-
plauded the finish of the local work as “ex-
cellent.” But he didn’t promise an excellent
increase of duty on the wooden clock cases
from oversea. One trouble, I expect, is that
the stupid people who run such things
always, as in this case, skite about being
able to make the article 30 per cent, or some-
thing cheaper than the foreigner is selling
his stuff for. It is mostly an absurd tarra-
diddle. but it gives the politician an excuse
for doing nothing. Why should he do any-
thing when the market can be so easily con-
trolled without a duty? Then the importer,
who has been making a sinful profit, winks
liis eve, suddenly drops his prices, lives on
his fat for a while, and there is another
infant Australian industry being buried in a
lonely liftle grave.
War-correspondent Frederic V illiers
stormed Melbourne Athenaeum on Saturday
night like an artist and a showman.
Sprucely groomed from whiskers to shoe-
tip, he bowed gracefully, in front or a pic-
ture screen flanked by crimson curtains, an
handy to a reading-desk shrouded in blacK
and iit with a concealed electric light. Lae
lecturer was armed with a stick of tne
ordinary walking length, but decorated wi
a tassel; and a steel extension sprang tr
the innards of this cudgel when maps
appeared on the screen. As usual a num
of the slides arrived upside down; 1 nev
go to a show of this sort without teen g
how good God is to lanternists to keep tie
right away from the lecturers. Besides maps
and slides, Villiers also has moving pictures
and his own sketches. And above all he <s
his Manner, which, I am sure, came do
from Heaven.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


•• -*r
- :
DEWAR
m
■
v ---
4
-
V,
\
iwl
Bfi
; ’v:
1
■
m
■
v> :
rl
m
m
€
8
■■■
r
V5
I "
ESHii
*?!
SSSSSS
mmm
mmm
_ -JOB*.
MT
Copyright
“THE PIPER”
REPRODUCED FROM THE ORIGINAL PAINTING IN THE POSSESSION OF
JOHN DEWAR & SONS. L™' scoicK whiskv: Distiikrs A Rerth & London


p
M
£
% -cl
SHIRTS THAT GIVE
FULL SATISFACTION
are the kind we specialise. Everything is introduced to
add wearing life to the garment. Our popular
“ DOUBLE-LIFE” SHIRT
is winning constant approval and new customers, because
the fit and cut are right and
OUR NOTED COT-TAFFETA MATERIALS
fjy®, s P le ndid wear and look smart always. The Neck-band is
reinforced. Our Sleeve Lift adds comfort. Made in Blue,
Black and Hello Stripes. Colors guaranteed.
Marvellous Value.
POST FREE 4/6 TO ANY STATE.
CHAS. LANE & CO. PTY. LTD.
ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Martin’s Pills are sold by W. H. Soul
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them!
Be sure j-ou get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
as
&
c°
MORRISs
IMPERIAL
ft EYE.
°>NTMEN^
Obtainable *ll Chemists and Stores
Letters Copied While Writing
(in ink) by using your own Letter-
with this Book. You slip your
paper into the holder and write,
and by the act of writing; y<
secure a perfect letter and a
perfect copy. There is no - .. onn „„«to
sign of copying. 400 octavo 8m. x om., or 200 q
letters, can be copied in NSC/LCO J? 1Z p L y
81, post free 4/6; or NSC/400 DOUBLE Capacity
for 6/-. Special Small Octavo Book, making -
copies, 8in. x 5in., post free 3/6 ; double capacity,'
Sample of the celebrated Zanetic Ink Paper, ,
produces this result, free, if stamped-add ,
envelope sent to S. B. Zanetic. Leicester, L „
paper
THE GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
fix MRs
GOUT
& RHEUMATIC FILLS.
The famous Remedy that a ® t “?ru4GO,
lieves RHEUMATISM, GOUT, LI MBAW,
SCIATICA and MUSCULAR KHEI- -
TISM.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores. 1/- and 2/6 per b 0 ’
Prout & Co.. 229 Strand. London^^
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
‘‘l2 x 12” : Concerning “Mulga’s” bullock-
tying act (B. 30/3/’I6), I claim the following to be
a place-getter in the competition. When J. S. Drew
managed Mt. Mitchell (N.S.W.) for Amos and
Bitchie he had some smart blackbovs. Notable among
these were “Oban Tommy” and “Paddy Malone.”
ild cattle were then, in the ’9o’s, very numerous in
New England, especially on the rough country about
the head waters of the Orara, Mitchell, Oban, Aber-
fovle and Guy Fawkes. One day Jack Drew and the
blacks started a mob of wilds. Each threw a beast
and each boy tied his according to fancy.
“Malone’s” capture was a cock-horned Hereford-type
bullock. Paddy had tied him by placing his off fore-
leg behind the off horn. We had Old Nick’s own job
to let him loose.
* * * *
“Quidam” : The old residents of the Blue
Mountains (N.S.W.) are for the most part a primi-
tive, unenterprising crowd, relics of the spacious
days when fences were few and any settler on a
little bit of land had the run of many square miles
round it for his stock. They represent the period
when brush fences and bark roofs were the order of
the day, and in many cases they have not pro-
gressed beyond it yet; wherefore their general
poverty and inevitable future extinction. But they
possess one charming characteristic, and that is their
hospitality. No matter how
poor and no matter how rough
the conditions under which
they live, the casual visitor is
always assured of a share of
whatever is going. Whatever
time he drops in, whether a
former acquaintance or not,
preparations for a
“cup of tea” at
once begin, the
“cup of tea” being
a substantial meal.
Generally there is
no tempting his
politeness to a re-
fusal by asking
would he like any
refreshment; the
setting out of the
repast starts auto-
matically with his
entrance. The floor
may be of earth,
and the seating
accommodation the
ancient hardwood
stools that grandfather made out of slabs
many decades ago, but the hospitality is
there as a matter of course. For genuine,
spontaneous hospitality that takes no
heed of social stutus, or whether a feed in
time will return nine, they can give
several points and a bad beating to many
richer and higher-toned communities.
There is no better place to be lost in,
caught in a snowstorm, left by your
horses or otherwise in dire straits than
these Blue Mountains, if only you can
accidentally happen upon the home of one of the old
settlers. It is unfortunately necessary to add that
the characteristic is not epidemic among the new
settlers from afar. Some of them are less addicted
to dispensing hospitality than to dispensing with it.
“Mulga” : The white ant of the Northern
Territory is probably the largest of its kind in the
Commonwealth, being from lin. to ljin. in
length. This termite plays havoc with the
mango cocoanut and pawpaw plants. It enters a tree
below the ground, and makes its way through the
roots into the trunk. Should the insects by any
chance get too near the outside of the trunk and
cause it to open, the crack is closed with a composi-
tion of vegetable matter and earth to prevent maraud-
ers entering. Having dined sufficiently on one tree
the gluttons make their way through an underground
tunnel to their next banquet.
“A.S.H.”: Here’s my experience. Had
some half-grown pigs running in a paddock over the
Tarwin river in Victoria. I brought them over
to the styes, but they got out and made for the old
haunts across the river. Some swam straight across,
but a couple went more downstream, and their
throats were cut or torn with the forefeet, and bled
profusely. The others were only slightly torn. I
know for certain of one pig which cut its throat so
badly while swimming that it bled to death.
* * * #
“Te Pana” : I renewed acquaintance with
Apia (Samoa) recently. If the old, gin-soaking
beachcomber could do the same the juniper-berry
juice would be as apid in his mouth. Times on
the “beach” have changed. The smell of benzine
from motor-cars kills the perfume of the frangi-
panni, the drink dispensaries are as modern as
the pub at the corner of George-street, and Miss
Losa Samoa swaggers on the promenade all-te-same
white sister. The Maoriland garrison controls the
town, and the boys are a tough-looking crowd.
They are a bit grubby, and the bulk of their razors
have rusted. Mosquito bites, dust, perspiration and
thirst are at the old address, but the notes of a
bugle supersede the boom of the “lali,” and khaki
dominates the color scheme. One of the few relics
of the past is the boneheap of the German gunboat
Adler, cast ashore in a breeze at the time Westport
(M.L.) coal enabled the Calliope to go out and give
the fuel a world-wide advertisement.
“Biddy B.”: Here’s a strange death for a
horse. We had a paddock of 1200 acres, and wanted
a dam scooped. A trial shaft 6x2x12 had been
sunk to see if the ground would hold. There were
12 horses running in the paddock, amongst them a
valuable saddle nag. At night he spotted the fresh
earth thrown up out of the shaft, went to roll on
it, and slipped into the hole back first. As his head
had to double up so that he could comfortably fit in,
his neck was broken. It was a borrowed horse, so, of
course, he didn’t know that we wanted the shaft.
“Cleveland” : Talk about sheep-tallying and
bag-sewing reminds me of the time I was loading
wheat at Portland, Oregon. The wharves are built
high above the shipping to allow of the grain bags
finding their way into the ship’s hold by gravitation.
I was told off to tally, and although there were
three shoots working most of the time, every truck-
load of three bags was weighed and checked by one
man. This sounds easy; but listen. The ark in
question staggered away from the shoots with 52,000
bags stowed in her innards, all of which were in-
sinuated into her in 27£ working hours. Also, this
was bagged as it was shipped, and the sewing was
done by four men, which means near enough to 473
bags per hour per man for me! I tried to see how
it was done, and got a cast in my eye in the
process.
E. AND O.E.
THE GAY OLD DEVIL : “ What's the new bar-
maid like, Florrie?”
HEBE: “Well, if all the things we hear about
her are not true, then she's not much
worse than the rest of us.”
“L.G.W.”: Tell “Bad Australian” (B.
23/3/T6) that freshwater cod are plentiful in the
Upper Clarence (N.S.W.) and tributaries; also eels
in great quantity. I have heard that specimens of
the former, weighing up to 501 b. and 601 b., have
been caught in the Nymboida. Is it a fact that the
Clarence is the only eastern water on which the cod
is found ?
BINGHI'S BLANKETS.
NEWCHUM : “And what use do you make of all those dogs?"
BILLY: “Plenty dog, plenty warm. Berry cold down in black feller's camp these nights."
“P.P.M.” : The man who was. given a rally
in the Abo. pages recently for sewing 225 sacks a
day was only a beginner at the pastime. If he were
sewing in some of the factories at Footscray or
Yarraville and did not sew and ticket 225 sacks in
under tour hours he would be fired as incompetent.
What is considered a good day’s work is an average
of 80 sacks an hour; if lewt. bags, 100 an hour.
Conditions, two lugs, six stitches and a tag between.
lam a sewer at Cockbell’s. Am good, but not fast. My
best is 655 sacks. On another occasion the boss asked
me to sew a load for a waiting lorry , while the men
w’ere having their dinner. I sewed 72 sacks and had
half of them loaded in 45 minutes. Another day for
a wager I sewed 13 sacks and was on the lug of the
fourteenth in'five minutes. And there are sewers
about here that could lose me. To put up a record
I reckon a fast man in good nick should average two
sacks a minute throughout the day.
“Barb”: “McNorth’s” (B. 23/3/T6)
directions for the “bushman ’ whm mislays himself
are reliable sometimes, and in level forest country.
But in hilly country and scrub the timber grows and
leans all way’s ; the wind blows ditto. If a man has
not taken notice of the lie of the country or of
conspicuous trees during his march, and requires the
points of the compass to guide him back, let him
start a good fire, camp and wait for the sun.
If he won’t or can’t do that, let him “blaze” eare-
fuHy as he cruises round to pick up his tracks, so
thgt he may return to the spot where he left his
smoky fire if unsuccessful. Then he may at least have
a chance of being discovered by a search party.
Some men have an instinctive sense of direction, but
they are few, and deservedly celebrated where they
are known. A man I knew could find his way’ any-
where. You couldn’t “bush” him. I asked him
once: “How does Tintown lie from here?” “Oh,” he
replied, “about sunset.” Then he hesitated. “No,”
he said, “a little bit east of that!”
“Snell”: I went through Port Melbourne
with a friend one afternoon recently to call on a
transport. In a small street a large woman darted
out and seized a grubby small boy playing with
several other grubby small boys in the gutter. She
spanked him with Amazonian vigor, admonishing
him at the same time with a flow that would have
made a railway-ganger blush. “For pity’s sake,
don't knock the boy’s head quite off! ” expostulated
my friend. “Y’mind y’r own business,” said the
lady. “I won’t have ’im in the street pickin’
up bad langwidge!”
Bulloo : I* or the best all-round timber
in the bush my nomination is beefwood. Out here in
the sou’-west corner of Queensland it is used for most
things, from firewood to furniture. Certainlv burn-
ing is not its best point, unless the mosquitoes are
busy, but for yards—especially stub yards—fence
posts, window frames, sashes, doors, tables and forms
it takes a lot of beating. Its appearance when dressed
is not its least attraction.
G.X.McIv. : Mention of Bill w .
misfortune (B. 2/3/’l6) introduces the Udes
brother in astonishment, who lives next of his
This chap enclosed a mob of chicken, • °° r to me ’
fence, the uprights for which he cut fr * nettin ?
tree. The posts (about 4in. diamete,
have long since sprouted, and the n H ° n?ltmll >')
remains of it) is about 10 feet in the air* (the
“Caliacl” : It was in the Cloudy Bay dis-
trict, Papua, tha't this drama was staged. A party
of murderers was wanted, and as the police were
travelling through the scrub they heard a noise as of
a pig moving. A native Hop went to investigate,
and suddenly came upon one of the sons of Cain
facing him. Both rifles went up and the men stood
looking along the barrels at each other in perfect
silence until the brown murderer’s nerve failed him
and he dropped his weapon and ran. The policeman’s
gun teas empty.
“Barcoo” : When the Queensland Central
railway was being pushed out west I learned some
of the distinguished titles conferred upon a number
of the women who frequent the navvies’ camps. Have
a taste: “Calico Kate,” “The Long-handled Shovel,”
“The Short-handled Shovel,” “Yellow Liz,” “Chinese
Annie,” “The Black Stump,” “Duckfoot Sue,” “The
Scrub Turkey,” “The Mallee Hen,” “The Hen and
Chickens,” “The Lame Duck” and “Lousey Lou.”
Others I am forwarding in asbestos.
* * * #
“Mrs. Lance Rawson”: Apropos flying
foxes as a table dainty, I have often used them, and
during the fruit and honey season they are not bad,
but the strong smell of the wings disgusts most people
who would otherwise try the flesh. My plan was to
throw the fox on to a hot fire and burn off the wings,
then skin the body or scrape it clean, cut into pieces
and soak in vinegar and water or salt and water
for a few hours. Then, if pumpkins are “in,” cut
a slice off the stalk end of a good-sized one, scoop
out the seeds, etc., and fill in with fox, an onion
chopped up, salt, pepper, a little rice or macaroni,
and about a cupful of water. Put the pumpkin’s lid
on and cook —in the ashes for preference. If the foxes
are young and fat you’d hardly know them from
sucking-pig. Most bushmen exclaim at the idea of
eating iguana, yet there are few bush dainties equal
to the tail-end of a young “go” curried. As a
matter of fact, very few bush-dwellers are aware of
the many edible creatures there are around them.
One has to be meat-hungry to find them out, and
then learn how to cook them. I once dined a
Queensland Judge and his suite on iguana curry.
It not only received his Honor's approval, but he
asked for more next day. Certainly, I did not give
it a name other than “bush game.”
(Continued on page 24J
FAITHLESSNESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Most people knew that Paddy Burke was mashed
Upon the buxom barmaid at The Mast.
There, ev’ry week, his fresh-got notes he cashed ;
And, when she left, his sky was overcast;
Now anyone who likes to drink a beer
His tale of woman’s faithlessness may hear.
“She’s gone away, and never left for me
No bloomin’ word! Me love ’as gone for nix!
I useter spend each ev’nin’ after tea
Till closing-time, an’ come erlong at six
Each morning, just to see ’er in the bar.
An’ yet she’s gone. That shows what women are!
“Devotion—that was me! When I would speak
She’d turn ’er nose up at me, honor bright!
And yet I’d spend me wages, week by week,
On booze to chat ’er! An’, ’ere, ev’ry night,
Full as an egg I got, just fer ’er sake.
And now she’s vanished. Women take the cake!”
N.S.W.
HAMER.


The Nourishment
Your Nerves Need.
HEAN
TONIC
*
Hi
Wi
K
* step*:
The Modern Home Remedy
... for ...
Nervous Breakdown
Mental Depression
Nervous Dyspepsia
Brain Fag
Headaches
Backache
Anaemia
Insomnia
Neuralgia
and other Disorders of
the Nervous System.
What Users Say.
Letters like the following are being received every day from people
prominent in professional, commercial, industrial and social circles:
LES DARCY, the Middle-weight Champion of the
World, writes:
“Feeling depressed after my hardest training, I was
recommended by a friend to try Tonic Nerve Nuts.
Their effect was excellent. I must say I feel real fit
again, and I advise anyone going in for training to use
Hean’s Tonic Nerve Nuts.”
DICK ARNST, the ex-champion Cyclist and Sculler writes:
“It may interest you to know that I am a user and great believer in
your two preparations, Bean’s Essence and Hean’s Tonic Nerve Nuts.
The cough mixture, so easily made from Hean’s Essence, in my opinion, is
superior to anything else procurable; while the Nerve Nuts are unques-
tionably all that you claim for them. Ido a good deal of pigeon-shooting
and can speak from experience as to their nerve-steadying effect. I wish
you all the success you deserve.”
HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS cost 3 - per bottle,
sufficient for 10 days, or G bottles for 17/3.
HEAN’S ESSENCE, the great Money-saving Remedy for Coughs, Colds
and Throat Troubles, costs 25., and makes one pint finest-quality mix-
ture, equal to 12s. worth of ordinary remedies.
If not stocked by your Chemist or store, send direct to the Manufacturer —
G. W. HEAN, chemist, 178 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
This Superior Garbinette
RAINCOAT
for 35 -
This Garbinette Raincoat is in
the very fashionable Olive color.
] t is made with the much-favored
Raglan Shoulders, Step or Storm
Collar, Tab Cuffs, and is lined
with Check Plaid.
It is light in weight, but exceed-
ingly warm, and is proof against
Rain, Wind and Dust.
Price
Freight Paid to any
Part of Australia.
We can supply other Gar-
bin ette Raincoats —in better
qualitie s —in all the
fashionable colorings, at
42/-, 45/=, 50/-, 55/ =, 63/-.
Our New Winter Catalog
is ready. Write now for
a Free Copy.
n
i
t: is
f
a
■
The Leviathan
Corner Swanston 8 Bourke Streets, Melbourne.
The COOPER LITTLE WONDER
A RemarKable Combination of High
Quality, Completeness and Low Price
It has successfully settled the Crutching and Shearing
problem for more than 500 woolgrowers in Australia,
LET IT DO THE SAME FOR YOU!
MOUNTED ON A LORRY with Everything
Ready tor INSTANT WORK for only
£6O
Or STATIONARY, £.50.
An Ideal Plant for Crutching and Shearing from 500 to 5000 Sheep.
Comprises a High-grade 2-B.H.P. Engine, fitted with Magneto,
Water Tank, Automatic Lubricators, etc.
A hoy can start and run it, with our book of instructions, without
difficulty. The Power Grinder includes Glue, Emery, and all extras.
The Handpieces are our latest model, which have made a name in
Australia for light running and LOW COST OF UPKEEP never before
equalled. The lorry includes wheel chocks, tarpaulin and tool-box, as
shown.
ENGINE CAN BE USED FOE OTHER WORK.
Send us your order. Can Ship promptly.
Cooper Engineering Co. Ltd.
134 Sussex Street, Sydney. 486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
£


If you want the very best
FLANNELETTE
the Old Country Produces
HORROCKSES'
SEE HORROCKSES’ NAME ON SELVEDGE
and decline all substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers
HIGHEST AWARDS AT ALL THE GREAT EXHIBITIONS.
HEALS ANY WOUND OR SORE
If you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won’t
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind,
no matter of how long standing, you can cure it
quickly and surely with
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price 1/6, posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist
1] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
The BLACK OPAL STORE.
OPALS, PEARLS, SAPPHIRES.
Specialty Australian Gems
89 Market Street, near Hyde Park, Sydney.
E ' F ' formerly Manager Wliite
Cliffs Opal Mines, Proprietor.
A Wonderful
Offer—
hnnf^ h ® bo . ot here illustrated is one you know well by sight—the
ino- thpin hy jnembera of the Expeditionary Forces. We are mak-
r .+ t lOUSan -^ s ,*he order of the Government, who have
o nni examine pass every pair before delivery is taken.
reaTlv affects "fifis flnished > fail to pass him—not for any* fault that
one boot h^ni h vT^ ar 0r eom ? ort > b,lt f °r such minute defects as
thin the h f 3S '\ e one-eighth of an inch higher at the liack
sufficilntlv* e!e : °t ne slug being out of place; or the heel not being
sufficiently even to pass the spirit-level test.
Nothing else is wrong with the rejects.
They re SOEID LEATHER THROUGHOUT,
aie built to withstand the toughest usa«*e to
MAXIMUM amount of com-
JOKT TO THE WEARER, and are GUAR-
ANTEED to do so.
WRITE NOW FOR A PAIR. TheVre
ideal for country and other hard wear, and
carriage paid—are
J HE GREATEST BOOT
A ALUE EV ER OFFERED.
6d. Exchange must be added to Country
Cheques.
50 McKean Street, North
Fitzrov,
V ictoria.
w
146
Carriane
Paid.
‘Tick”: “Flinderino” (B. 23/3/TG) asks
if snakes possess the poxx'er of fascination. They do
xx-hen a small bird or animal is their victim. I
twice saw snake mesmerism exerted, once by a huge
tiger upon a fantail, and once by a black five-footer
on a half-grown rabbit. The bird, with fluttering,
drooped wings and every aspect of extreme terror,
and moving as though drawn in jerks by a string,
approached the scaley horror, which lay motionless
with head slightly raised. The rabbit, though near
a burrow, made no effort to escape, but squealed
incessantly and darted from side to side, its move-
ments apparently concerting xvith a gentle sideways
motion of the snake’s head. In each ease, as I
xvaded into the argument, the spell broke, and the
entranced hastily made room for the subsequent
proceedings. “Flinderino” asserts that most animals
treat snakes with indifference. That’s not my
experience. I have seen sheep, xvhen packed in a
lane, scramble over each other to avoid a craxvler in
their midst, and I have also seen a tied-up horse
tremble and sweat when a snake crawled near. One
animal, however, I observed that had an apparent
liking for snake. He was a bullock that stood calmly
chewing a three-footer xxhile it xvrithed and con-
torted under the discomforting process.
“Spraggs”: Some years ago I camped with
a mob of fats on the Haunted Hills, near Morwcll
(Vic.), and found those bumps true to name. The
mob broke about midnight, and as the surrounding
country is all open and very scrubby they took some
gathering. Old drovers have told me since that they
have met xvith the same experience. Whaffor?
* * * *
“Nymboi”: “Bad Australian” is right (B.
23/3/’l6). Freshwater cod and eels do reside to-
gether, and I have often caught both on the Nym-
boida and Orara rix’ers, N.S.W. North Coast. About
15 years ago I xvas introduced to a tremendous cod
xvhich the binghis had just captured ; it turned the
scales at 661 b., and had a head like a miniature
xvhale’s. Both the abox'e-noted streams are, unfor-
tunately, becoming gradually short of cod. I have
known Ihe time xx'hen one could journey up the Nym-
boida and almost invariably succeed in landing at
least 20 beautiful fish within a fexv hours. White
grubs out of the oak trees seem to be their favorite
tucker.
* * * *
“W.C.M.”: A certain cure for wounds in
horses is Stockholm-tar. A nag of mine galloped
into a barb-wire fence. When I disentangled him
I xvent for the gun, but was stopped by the local
blacksmith, xvho plastered the cuts xvith tar. They
xvere pretty bad cuts, the upper part of each foreleg
being opened to the hone, and there were -tears on
the chest and hind legs. The horse was turned out
on the grass and tarred each day for a week. Six
weeks later I rode the neddy 30 miles, and after-
wards sold him at a profit. The only marks left
by the xvire were slight scars on the legs. I’ve
tried tar several times since for horses and dogs,
and, as everyone knows, its use is universal in the
rhea ling-shed, and always with the same result.
* * * *
“Moann ”: Years back opossums were
shipped across the Tasman to Maoriland and at once
started to thrive. They were rigidly protected, and
recently there xx’as a lot of talk about the future of
Loan Land’s fur industry owing to a discovery that
the colder climate of the pawned islands has had the
. effect of increasing the length and- weight of
’possum’s overcoat. Almost simultaneously xvith this
glad news a howl went up from the fruit-farmers of
the West Coast and Nelson because thousands of the
animals were raiding gardens and orchards. These
people craved immediate permission to murder ihe
’possums, and a worried official in Wellington is
trying to decide whether to preserve the fur industry
or protect the fruitgrowers.
SHE’D RISK IT.
"And I suppose all you young men are saying
‘Yes'? I am sure I only Irish I had the
chance."
“Billy W.” : “Hydros” (B. 6/4/’3G) wants
to know how Corriedales are bred. Ensor has 20,000
of them roaming over his White Rock estate, out of
Itangiora (M.L.), and he started in the ’Bo’s with a
Lincoln-Merino cross. The wool was pretty poor,
though, and he scrapped the Lincolns for English
Leicesters. Wholesale culling and the careful mating
of the progeny have enabled him to build up a very
useful, even type.
A PATRIOT.
FOWLHOUSE FREDRICK: "In my opinion. Egbert, these places orter be put down. It’s
wot I call tradin' with the enemy."
“Cict”: A most uncomfortable aspect is
shown to the world at large by the common Jexv-
lizard who has been caught napping by a horde of
meat ants. I strayed the other day against one that
had been thus attacked. The defendant disported
himself freely in a reckless and wholly unusual kind
of way. He threw himself up recklessly against the
atmosphere. Likewise he fervently scraped himself
on all handy materials, but to no purpose. Then at
last he played his trump-card, and won. Bolting for
a mass of loose sand he delved his way thereunder,
and the xxdngless tormentors, deprived of their game,
sat in an aimless manner on the several grains of
earth therearound, with wonderment inscribed on
their different .countenances. Shortly after, they
left the spot for fresh pastures, and after about a
quarter of an hour the fugitive emerged, inspected
his wrongs and damages, dried iris eyes on a conveni-
ent clod, and ambled homewards just as the supper-
hell rang.
* * * *
“Tiger”: Can any truthful Abo. give a
better record of dog-travelling than this? About
three years ago a short-haired collie, with a bit of
all-nations strain in him, followed the coach from
Stanley to Wynyard (Tas.) and back, close on 90
miles. The driver gax’e him a feed, and being o\x 7ner-
les= the mong. decided to board at the stables. For
nearly 12 months he did the return trip xvith the
coach daily, until the trains started running. Then
lie retired from business.
* * * *
“Sarto” : Some lime ago I called for three
cheers for a good Australian—the she-oak—that kept
hundreds of cattle alive during the late drought.
Now I would like to mention that if I were you I
wouldn't put it on the menu at too many meals
unless you’re using special teeth. I’ve lately found
out that, owing to the acid the x’egetable contains,
as a destroyer of Strawberry’s grinding apparatus it
is No. 1.
“K.Q.”: Let me into this argument re
pigs cutting their throats when swimming. The
last fresh in the Hunter River brought doxxrn and
precipitated on Stockton (N.S.W.) beach the remains
of an ancient hog with distinct scratches on each
side of the neck. The general belief in those parts
is that the suiciding commences after the pig becomes
fatigued from strenuous swimming.
“E.S.S.”: There is nothing so pugnacious,
so ready and bold in defence, as a jumper. The bull-
ant is more retiring, but interfere with him and he
will attack with ferocity. The jumpers do not wait
for a declaration of hostilities. They will follow an
intruder several yards from the nest, leaping oxer
grass and sticks in their eagerness to overtake him.
The bull-ant is fierce and determined in attack, but
he does not sacrifice himself in a mad frenzy like the
other. “The day when the bull-ant stung father”
is a date that is long fixed in the mind of the bush
youngster. The jumper’s sting, thougli causing
intense pain and raising a white lump, does not
impart quite the same tingling, burning, paralysing
sensation as that of the bigger ant.
Tick” : The Abo. who denies that pigs
cut their throats when swimming is only half-mast
high in veracity. In fresh water a pig generally
swims so low aft that he catches his jaws and throat
with his forepaws until badly scored and bleeding.
In salt water the increased buoyancy assists to a
better swim. At Bermagui (N.S.W,) I once saw a
log pig go overboard. It cut its throat badly before
landing, though it put up a swim of only 200 yards.
But when the s.s. Bega dived with us off Cuttagee
beach, and 100 pigs were left without lifebelts, one
was sighted from the deck of the Coomonderry, near
Montague Island, 16 hours later. It had traversed 18
miles dead against the current and was still battling
strongly in a heavy sea.
“John P.” : The latest imported pest that
the farmers of Maoriland are howling to hav ”
hilated by return post is the red deer. Se J* am,i '
the Morvern Hills in Southern M.L. 'awaken'”
morning to find a herd of 200 to 300 excited"
leaping about in their turnip paddocks, andT*
deer are protected all the cocky can do is m , ■. 6
someone suggesting that loan money be used to h
machine-guns and high-explosive shell to deal"
the pest. Last season free licenses to slav A
the vicinity of the Morvern Hills were issued, bTt hv
the time an infuriated cocky got through with en
reading of the volume of conditions the deer i, a , he
ished to the hills and were hiding. They are £2
at such a rate and are enjoying life to such an ex'll!
that if something isn’t done soon they will short! T
numerous enough to leap all over the count™
take charge of the farms. Everyone has a pet sehehf
for wiping them out. But why not cling I T
ancient M.L. system and import a shipment of doer
eating lions? When that has been done lion-tame '
could easily be imported from Berlin to deal
the new trouble.
“Boro-Belle”: At Mackay a fine sample
of a crocogator’s jaw, about 2ft. in length, with
perfect set of white, glistening teeth, adorns a fane'
smith’s window. The owner on one occasion refused
£4O for it. That was before the war. At Halifax
on the Herbert River, as many as eight stuffed
’gators occupy the space along' the walls usually
taken up by framed whisky advts. The largest
specimen is 25ft. and the smallest a couple of feet
Some fine samples of the Proserpine River species
are to be seen adorning the walls of the Adelaide
Steamship Co.’s offices at Mackay. Crocodile shoot-
ing was a popular sport some years ago, when the
Proserpine sugar used to be brought to Mackay for
transhipment south, before the railway line to Bowen
was completed. The hides were tanned with man-
grove bark on the spot, and though some are j2* or
15 .>’ ears old,’they are in a splendid state of preser-
vation. At one of the pubs a stuffed croc., about 4ft.
long, was hoisted near the ceiling, in a glass case
It was only there a week when a cool-eyed drunk
threw a decanter and brought the sleeping lizard on
to the bar counter, where it now serves as a match-
striker.
* * * #
‘Tick”: The evolutions of bird flocks,
about which “Nivel” seeks' information (B.
23/3/’] 6), are all a matter of “follow my leader."
Sheep and rushing cattle wheel and ring in the
same way. So also do soldier crabs and schools of
fish. If “Nivel” has observed how closely masses of
flying birds will miss telegraph wires or a wire-
netting fence into which the leaders have almost
dashed before rising, he may judge of the sudden-
ness with which a bird can adapt its flight to a
change of direction.
* * * # ,
“S. S. Severn”: A relation of Neptune’s
elephant came up from the deep seas lately on -an
island in Papuan waters. I didn’t see it, but a man
who doesn’t pour into himself more than the usual
amount said it was about 30ft. long and covered
with long, curly wool like a sheep. The marine
jumbuck was dead when washed up on the beach.
The adjacent niggers saw in the beast the fulfilment
of traditional ill-luck. Somebody should take out an
injunction against tradition to prevent its coming
home to roost.
AFTER A SLANDER CASE.
MEDICAL EXAMINER (to prospective inmate):
“But you're ail right. You can TALK.’
PROSPECTIVE INMATE: “That’s just the
trouble. Can't something be done to
stop it?”
“Musketoon”: The fox now takes mint-
sauce with his iamb. Arthur Cox, orehardist of Mus-
wellbrook (N.S.W.), tells me that one night recently
he baited some peaches with cyanide, and next
morning found a dead fox. Then he used strychnine,
worked up on the peaches, and his haul was four
foxes. When did Rufus turn vegetarian?
A MASSIVE RESISTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
A youth of 19, weighing lOst. 81b., with a chest-
measurement of 48in., presented himself for enlist-
ment, but was rejected on the ground of being al>nor-
mally fat.
The doctor slowly shook his head ;
The youth stood ponderous and passive.
“No; you won't do, my lad,” he said,
For nineteen you are much too massive.”
Bui, said the youth, “you passed a man
As big as I am, if not bigger.”
“Ah, yes,” the medico began,
“I must admit he’d ample figure.
“He landed at Gallipoli,
And, though a most persistent trier,
He could not fit the trench, you see—-
And then the fat was in the fire.”
VICTORIA.
J.A.V.S.


THE SUCCESSFUL MOTOR COVER
Depends on Three Thing’s :
1. The Right Canvas! 2. The Right Rubber!
3« Scientific Construction and First=class Workmanship!
All Three are embodied in
DUNLOP TYRES
THE RIGHT CANVAS.
nOST Motorists know that the strength of a
cover is dependent solely on the strength and
quality of the canvas used in building up the
inside casing of a tyre, but few realise what a
difference there is in the many grades of canvas used
by tyre makers—a difference not only of quality but in
price. You know that if a casing fails, the tyre fails.
Now, to reduce this possibility to a minimum, we use
in the manufacture of Dunlop Covers from 5 to 7 plies
of the most expensive and strongest sea island cotton
canvas made. An inch strip of one ply only of this
canvas has a breaking strain of 335 lbs., so you can
imagine what the strength of a 5 to 7 ply Dunlop casing
amounts to. The result is a resilient and remarkably
strong casing, capable of withstanding the jolts and
jars incidental to driving thousands of miles on our
roads. We could make a cheaper casing, and save
considerable money thereby, but our name and
reputation goes wit a every Dunlop Cover. We offer
you the advantage that such high quality ensures.
This is one reason why you should always specify
“Dunlops”—and there are others!
THE SECRET OF THE
STRENGTH AND SUCCESS
OF A DUNLOP TYRE CAS-
ING lays in this high-grade
Canvas, of which from 4 to
7 plies are used in the con-
struction, according to the
size of cover.
WASHED PARA RUBBER.
This is what makes the Dunlop
wearing- Tread so tough, and offers
such a resistance to cuts and chips.
It is expensive, but it’s necessary to
ensure a big mileage. Few Tyres
in the world are made of such
high-grade Rubber as “DUNLOPS”
Hence their success on our roads!
>'**»*. ,
*—**& 'W's ..• - V.- 2L, V
THE RIGHT RUBBER.
HERE are various grades of Rubber, and then
on top of that dozens of ways of compound-
n ing and adulterating, so much so that in some
Motor Tyres the wearing tread cuts and chips like
hard putty—not so “ Dunlops ” ! It’s all a question
of whether the manufacturer wants a big profit—
(sans a reputation) —or a fair profit with an assured
increase in satisfied customers. We aim for satisfied
customers, and get them, by using only the highest
grade and most expensive Rubbers for our wearing
treads. They are extremely tough and resilient, and
give the greatest resistance to wear and chipping.
The illustration herewith is a sample of the washed
high-grade Rubber that has made the “ Dunlop” tread
famous for wear and reliability throughout this
country. No better Rubber can be purchased, and
we use it because we are determined that “ Dunlops ”
are going to maintain their “big mileage” reputation.
THIS IS ANOTHER REASON WHY YOU ARE
CERTAIN OF GOOD RESULTS IF YOU USE
DUNLOP TYRES.
THE RIGHT CONSTRUCTION.
OOD MATERIALS are useless unless the right mode of construction is
followed. Like everything else, there is a cheap way and a proper
way of making Motor Covers. The Dunlop way is not a cheap process,
but is one that aims at giving motorists good results. In the first place, the
casings are accurately built up by a remarkable piece of machinery that ensures
every ply of canvas being properly stretched on the core, and rolled down
smoothly, leaving no possible chance for a loose ply or a wrinkle. 1 his is a very
important factor in tyre strength. The method in vogue in most factories is to
stretch canvas by hand, resulting in unevenly built up casings that will soonei or
later show a weakness. We eliminate the human element and produce tyres that
are absolutely uniform. The next stage is the fitting of-a covei ing over the casing,
and semi-vulcanising same in moulds under heavy pressure. The second important
“Dunlop” feature is the wearing tread, this is built up of 8 to 10 strips ot high-
grade Rubber compound, which are shaped into one homogeneous mass by heavy
pressure and then semi-vulcanised. The tread is then wrapped on to the casing
and again vulcanised. This process means more labour and more expense, but it
ensures your getting a cover that is correctly vulcanised m all parts, and one that
will give the maximum of wear. Therefore —Sir—in the Dunlop you get the right
maiprinl thp ritfht mnstruction and, iudging by our sales, thousands ot motorists
Se getting sat ffacUonlyou havi not tried the latest “Dunlops” let these facts influence you. BUY A “DUNLOP” AND TEST
THE MILEAGE AND IF THAT COUNTS THEN WE WILL HAVE ANOTHER PERMANENT AND SATISFIED CUSTOMER.
STOCKED ALL LEADING GARAGES.
Illustrated List on Application .
A?
One of the Dunlop Casing Making Machine*
THE DUNLOP
RUBBER CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
108 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
53 Cameron Street, Launceston.
255 Clarence Street, Sydney.
67 King Street, Perth.
103-105 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
95 Courtenay Place, Wellington.
268-274 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
116 Worcester Street, Christchurch


There is Nothing Better than
HEARN E’S
Bronchitis Cure
For COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST
CROUP and WEAK LUNGS
This Medicine can be given with PERFECT
SAFETY and the UTMOST CONFIDENCE
to the YOUNGEST CHILD, as it does NOT
contain, and has NEVER contained any poison
or harmful drugs. It is very pleasant to take,
and children take it readily—even CLAMOR
for it. HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE
is prepared by our MR. 'W. G. HEARNE
who is a REGISTERED CHEMIST
with nearly forty years' experience.
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION
W:
m
tUf-
K
w
n
&
7 A
/'/
7
it;
KL\
X
&
£
25..
.. ■«•
. s\.
fy
i
hi it
<7
3
11
r-i
If not obtainable locally
send direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Wellington. N.Z.
Always ask for
“HEARNE’S”
Died in London, Mrs. Henry Pettitt, pro-
fessionally known as Annette Read, and for
long years before the English public. Among
other notable actors she had played with
were G. V. Brooke, J. L. Toole and Smith,
the colored tragedian. Henry, her husband,
ran a prolific melodrama mill 25 years ago
and ground out ‘’The World,” “Woman’s
Revenge,” “Taken from Life,” “Sailor’s
Knot,” “A Million of Money” and a barrel
of others.
“Peter D.”: Have seen no mention of a
singularly beautiful performance given by
George Titheradge. It was in “Grierson’s
Way,” by H. V. Esmond, produced in ’97 at
the Haymarket Theatre, London, for a series
of matinees. It never attained the dignity of
an evening “bill,” though Heaven alone
knows why. Titheradge played Grierson,
supported by Lena Ashwell (very fine),
Fred Terry as the villain (an abominably-
stagey performance), and the author as a
lialf-demented player of the violin, a cripple
(painfully realistic). It was a strong,
thoughtful play, with Titheradge at his very
best.
“Adelaide”: Hazel Morris’s bad and dan-
gerous habit of guying members of the
audience started a newspaper correspondence
in Adelaide. And it was not press-agent
work either, for it only began when she was
gone. There are two kinds of men in every
audience: those who rather enjoy having
the limelight turned on them, and those
who loathe it. The Morris woman’s Yankee
trick of coming right down and kissing a
victim on his bald spot, or tangoing along
the aisle with another, more or less unwill-
ing, drives the sensitive ones frantic; and
some day an exasperated man will certainly
ask a Court to give him about a thousand
pounds to settle his feelings.
“0.K.” remembers many circuses:—
The passing crazes, varying fashions and stable
customs in acrobatics and gymnastics are interesting
to the student of theatrical business. The crazes in
all cases present dangerousness in an ugly form; the
established customs are essentially graceful. Flying
trapeze work, invented more than half a century ago
by a Frenchman named Lestard, was an attraction
for all time, of course. A thing of beauty is a joy
for ever. The well-calculated system of swinging-
trapezes was practised and developed until it lost its
“thrill'’ for the public; but the beauty of the aerial
spring from bar to bar —the vault or somersault—
could never fade. It remains a permanent feature in
gymnastics. Similar work performed with fixed
horizontal-bars has its recurring vogues but is l® s
adaptable to added feats of gymnastics —the novelties
that give commercial value to a turn. For some
few years there was an epidemic of “rope sliding
by women acrobats, who came down slowly, hea
foremost with one leg twined around the rope (or
vice versa), whilst an attendant turned it to set t e
figure gracefully revolving. This went out o
fashion, because the element of danger was lac ing
and there was little poetry of motion in it. e
poetry was in the poses, and the performance " as
“living statuary” rather than gymnastics. Hea to
head balancing, made wonderful by the undernea
man walking up and down a spiral staircase, wi
inverted “brother"’ stretched perpendicularly ao'
him, had as much vogue as the feats of arre
jumping, which were ingeniously dangerous, u e
less pleasing to the eye than head-balancing '®P a
Meanwhile the “human pyramid” form of acio a 1 >
with its jumping and somersaulting from one
shoulders to another’s, went on as usual. 18 .
of work —the Craggs Family introduced it o
tralia —is most graceful and almost charming
expertness. So it never can become °' l ’ o f. 6 ’, re .
the rapid, knockabout, ground-tumbling " 1C
quires crude comedy effects to renew the era
it. In place of three circus clowns we go a•
ago an invariable trio of ground-tumblers K
as grotesque old men, doing unlovely deer s o
in ragged, baggy garments. And how
is the chair-and-table-balancing style .
ment! A man balances himself on the topmo 0 j
of a shaky pyramid of furniture and then
it, falling ungracefully to the stage, or
carefully down without upsetting any turn l
feat requires no picturesque exercise o
agility by the human form divine. It has
in it. It is the craze of the passing hour.
“8.J.”: Have just come acrossi this
Jacob Larwood’s “Theatrical Anecdote^
Some years since, during the run 0 [ own , a
mime at the Theatre Royal, Melbou > b jj c 0 n
native of Victoria, took his benefit. Droce ssion,
this occasion were regaled with agr „ the stage
in which the beneficiare was drawn ..j vel -tisenient
“by a magnificent team” —so said t ‘ com ical,
—of 24 tomcats. The effect certai ? aI)( j one
for one poor tom would pull on Vj py the
another, and the triumphant m arc /terrific cater
orchestra was almost drowned by pad been
wauling of the Thomas cats. A long r c i o wn
fastened to the triumphal car, l cats were
was seated; to this rope the un to the oth®
attached, and the end of it was c ] o wn W K
side of the stage. Thus toms, ,
hauled across, to the delight of the
audience. , aDS ther e
It reads like a mendacity, but l 5? poverty
is a grain of truth somewhere.
Pointer know?
Business, Robbery, etc.
The warning yell of G. A. Morehouse: —
In May last I agreed to purchase a cottage at
Lawson (N.S.W.). I signed the contract, paid the
usual deposit, and as the seller had the place insured
for £5OO I did not bother to reinsure, thinking, as
thousands of others do, that the existing policy kept
the place covered until the transfer had been signed.
Before the transfer had been completed a bushfire
burnt the place out, and the insurance people refused
our claim, pleading no liability. Now, if the signing
of the contract killed the policy, why did the com-
pany quietly accept the renewal premium in Septem-
ber, four months after the signing of the contract?
The renewal receipt which I have before me plainly
states it is to renew the policy until August, 1916
and it isn’t August yet. If any Bulletin readers
have had a similar experience or are interested I
would like to hear from them, with a view to co-
operation in getting the law amended. As it stands,
buyers are committed to the purchase as soon as the
contract is signed ; but if the house is burnt down
between the signing of the contract and the comple-
tion of the transfer, they have no redress.
“Quidam”: Judging by the progress- of
events in the country districts of N. S.
Wales the prospects of cheap meat in the
near future are not brilliant. Almost every
second man is working, has worked, or is
thinking of working a deal in meat on the
hoof, and in most cases it refers to a cow.
The lady has to be an exceedingly good
milker nowadays to escape being delivered
over to the nearest butcher for execution,
and in most cases directly even a good
milker goes dry she departs to the block, too.
If the same sort of thing is going on all
over Australia —and I suppose it is—the
prophets who predict enormous prosperity
for Australia when the war is over, ex-
pecting that she is going to sell meat at
high prices to half the world, had better
get busy showing how a country which has
slaughtered most of its female cattle is
going to throw even the poor dog a bone.
* * * *
“Merrigal” : When they build a pub nowa-
days they call it the Metropolitan or some-
thing like that; but in the gay old times in
N. S. Wales they weren’t so stodgy. Here is a
list of the signs under which you could hear
a corkscrew squeak a hundred years or so
ago:—
Babes in the Wood, Bav Horse, Bee Hive, Bell,
Billy Blue, Bird in the Hand, Black Dog, Black
Horse, Butter Fly.
Cat and Bagpipes, Cat and Mutton, Cheshire Cheese,
Cottage in the Grove, Cottage of Content, Crooked
Billet.
Derwent Cottage, Dog and Duck, Dolphin, Donnv
Brook Fair, Dove and Olive, Dun Cow.
Emu, Evening Gun, Erin-go-Braugh.
Flower Pot, Fox and Grapes, Fox and Hounds, Fox
Under a Hill.
George and Dragon, Green Gate, Green Man, Grey-
hound.
Harp of Erin, Help a Lame Dog Over the Stile,
Help Me thro’ the World, Highland Laddie, Hope and
Anchor, Horse and Plough.
Industrious Settler.
Jew’s Harp, Jolly Miller, Jolly Soldier
Kangaroo.
Lamb and Lark, Leaping Bar, Leather Bottle,
Lemon Tree, Limerick Races.
Man of Kent.
Native Companion, New Inn, Noah’s Ark.
Old Ground Young, Old St. Patrick.
Pack Horse, Peacock, Pilgrim, Policeman's Arms.
Queen Catherine.
lied Bull, Red Cross, Robin Hood, Rum Puncheon.
Sailor’s Return, Saint Andrew, Scotch Thistle,
Sheer Hulk, Shepherd and Flock, Ship and Mermaid,
Speed the Plough, St. Patrick, Straggler.
Tam O’Shanter, Three Brothers, Three Horse Shoes,
Three Legs of Man, Three Twins, Traveller.
Union Revived.
Welsh Harp, Wheaten Sheaf, Woodlark, Woodman.
* * * *
“Billjim’s Sister”: Inquiring for Austra-
lian-made cashmere stockings recently at a
large Melbourne drapery, I was handed a
pair stamped “Made in England.” On point-
ing this out to the duchess behind the
counter, I was told “We used to stock Aus-
tralian, but we’re sold out.” Evidently they
were too tired to order another supply. How-
ever, I have that pleased feeling of standing
in “Made in Australia” hosiery, as the local
store is a good patriot, although a very small
one—perhaps on that account.
* * * *
The championship at explaining how
water came to be present in milk he was
selling is held by a milkman at Wellington
(M.L.). When bailed up by an inspector
he pointed out that it had been raining that
morning, that water had collected round the
rim of his hat, and that when he bent down
to ladle out milk the other moisture ran off
into the can.
* * * *
“Torrens” : The short but keen drought of
1914-15 is getting in its after effects in the
matter of brandy. Australia uses on an
average 425,000 gallons a year, of which
150,000 are homegrown. Europe has had
several other things to think of since August,
1914, besides grape-growing, yet it wants the
spirit more than ever, for hospital use; and,
as brandy has to mature for at least two
years, the poor last-but-one crop in Australia
is going to make itself felt shortly. So the
wineries have been paying up to to a ton
for distillation grapes in South Aus tins
season —a most unusual price: nearly a
penny per pound.
“Burnley” : I wish somebody in the know
would give me the hang of things as regards
matches. Inquiries at the big Melbourne
factory justify the statement (B. 16/6/
that 20 million good pipe-lights are being
turned out daily, and that Queensland hoop-
pine and maple are being used with satis-
faction. Yet here is my experience. On
March 2 I stepped into a city grocers and
asked for two dozen matches. He handed
me the local articles at 3d. per dozen. On
March 10 I asked the same man for two
dozen more. He charged the same
but would only sell me one dozen, though he
assured me I could have another dozen next
dav if 1 called. (Just here I remembered
Mrs. Burnley’s similar experience with
sugar, which suddenly became plentiful as
soon as the price was raised to 3|d.) On
March 27 1 asked a suburban grocer for
matches. He planked down a packet of
Japanese and demanded 6d. After recovei-
ing from that shock I investigated four
consecutive grocers. All proffered Jap
matches, but at sd, while two had British-
made at ssd. Not one of the lot had a
Melbourne-made match for sale._ Consider-
ing the sudden rise from 3d. to and the
deadly persistence of the Jap matches, I
want to know what’s the game.
“Hawker”: As to enamelware mugs, etc.
(B. 16/3/TG), let us get down to details.
“Cliff Street” says an Adelaide firm makes
them. If so, what does it do with them?
Also, at what price does it sell them? For
months now such mugs have been unobtain-
able at the wholesale houses in Melbourne.
A small lot came along lately (English),
and were being sold wholesale at Bs. for
1-pts. and 9s. 6d. for f-pts.—exactly double
pre-war prices—when the Defence Depart-
ment said it wanted them all for the camps.
One house has a few still for sale (f-pts. at
95.), but they are Jap. and won’t compare
with English enamel. Now if the Ade-
laide firm has any on offer —and it ought to
be able to turn them out at less than the
present prices of imported—why doesn’t it
get them into the Melbourne warehouses?
* * * *
A leading fluff shop in Sydney found this
in its mail-bag from Africa last week :
Dear Sir, —Your name has recommended Be to
me as marrow & I hear your vews as popular there-
fore I beg to the your attention to Please for your
Illustration If you Supply I should very as Much
I Beg asknowledge to let me Received the Pcture
from your Sample of Clothe & Catalogue Shoe &
measurement form & Silks Stand Reader and kind
of merchandeses Dont you refuse If you please We
should as deal therefore how ever are you just be
Essay as honest I wait to found your rejionden Let
me hear from you as no delay await to the nexet
amail.
The firm is still gazing blankly at the valen-
tine.
* * * *
“Uncertificated”: It’s not often you get
the -final kick from a circular, but that
experience was mine last week. I had
come to the last ragged end of my resources.
My boots were burst, my trousers bagging
at the knees, my credit down in the mud and
general ruin impending. And in the blackest
hour of my despair arrived a smiling post-
man laden with a circular from a safe-
deposit company, illustrated with prison-like
pictures of barred vaults and filled with
entreaties to me to go and lock all
my spare valuables and cash away
in its steel and concrete stomach, where
they and it would be safe for ever.
If the manager of the accursed place had
called upon me personally three riiinutes
after I had received his advertisement, I
would have taken great delight in strangling
him like a gentleman in a specially-bought
pair of white cotton gloves.
* * * *
John Currie, of Lara, in the Western Dis-
trict of Victoria, is the timber authority of
the Lismore Plains. In 1872 there were
only four trees in his neighborhood. Now on
four Currie stations there are 1200 acres
planted with mostly-Australian timber. On
Titanga Patrick Lang has 500 acres; the
Omans have 100 acres, and at Gnarpurt
James Manifold owns 800 acres of valuable
growth of various kinds and ages. Alto-
gether, according to a recent calculation, a
million and a quarter trees are now growing
on the Plains, and already they are worth
over fSO.OOO. It is a helpful object-lesson in
a neglected branch of Australian industry.
* * * *
“S. & Co.”: Can you give us a suitable
name for our knitted bedsocks? We used
to have a big turnover in this line. Last
year we called them footwarmers, and didn’t
sell a dozen pairs.
THE APPLE-EATERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Thanks to the generous efforts of the press and the
kindly co-operation of the people, apples are now
being eaten by all classes in extraordinary quantities,
and it is probable that the great bulk of our surplus
crop will be disposed of. —Victorian orchardist.
The place where once I took my lunch,
’Twas then a peaceable retreat,
Is rendered awful by the scrunch
Of those who endless apples eat;
It seems that all repose is fled —
My wife eats apples in her bed!
In theatres the people sit,
And eat and eat, and never cease ;
In stalls and gallery and pit
There is no hope of earthly peace.
The player’s tale is drowned beneath
The tireless grind of loyal teeth.
The barber chew's an apple w'here
I have my curls curtailed, and e’en
In church they swamp the parson’s prayer
With apple-eating. People mean
To eat three hundred thousand tons—
Thank God it wasn’t onions !
VIC TORI A.
EDDYSON.
SETTLING-UP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They say if I
Should settle down,
I’d find that Care
No more would frown;
But 'tis this sorrow
Fills my eup—
I have no means
To settle up !
N.S.W.
H. M.
MARY AUSTRALIA’S LAMB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mary had a little lamb;
Its fleece shone like the sun;
She cut the stuff from off its back
And sold it to the Hun.
The weather it got cool one day,
So Mary went to town;
But owing to the war they say
She bought no winter gown.
The clever Meat Ring bought the lamb
For foreign use, I hear,
And Mary dined on Yankee beans
As chops were far too dear.
Once Mary had a little lamb....
The story, I’m afraid,
Shows Mary hasn’t speed enough
To collar German trade.
N.s.w.
UNCLE BOB.
AUSTRALIAN MUSIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Special Australian music has been arranged for th
choristers, organ and band.
—Cable in reference to Anzac celebration.
Australian music! How is this thing done?
What magic novel melodies are flowing?
What harvests of the tuning-fork are won?
What strange horns and trombones are they blow-
ing?
What pipes, what timbrels, what wild ecstasy
Have Anzac stalwarts brought from oversea?
Somewhere a concertina, bleating long,
Sets feet amid the eucalyptus moving,
Or follows some unending dirge of song,
To wombats and the ring-tailed ’possum proving
The vast extent of the parental joy
That sheltered round “the Wild Colonial Boy.”
Is this Australian music? God forbid!
Some harmony of wilder, grander merit—
In flowery places of the deep bush hid—
The children of that bush must needs inherit.
Shall London hear borne on her fogs along
Some sun-sweet sweep of continental song?
Australian music! Who and what and how?
This thing eludes me. I have never met it.
Bleat of the sheep and mooing of the cow!
A mighty theme is ours, but who shall set it?
Instead, I fear the tortured English air
Will squirm to tootlings of “Australia Fair.”
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.


&
mm
M
sppsiiiwwH
THE UNIVERSAL CAR
S/6e
•ford
Australasia’s
Universal Car
SELECTED BY 21.124 AUSTRALASIAN MOTORISTS.
1 That the “Ford” is “Australasia’s
Universal Car” is easily borne
out by tbe facfl tbat 21,124 Have
been sold in tbe Commonwealth
and New Zealand up to April 4.
1916, and tbe variety of its uses
abundantly proves its ability.
IT
IT
The Motor Car has become an indispensable part of the economic life of the
Commonwealth. Originally an article used for pleasure only, the Motor Car has
advanced to a position in the business world unsurpassed in importance by any other
commercial or industrial feature in Australia.
It is of untold importance to the Farmer, the Station Owner and the Orchardist,
playing an invaluable part in the transport of produce, fruit, fodder, supplies, etc.
The Doctor through its agency saves valuable lives, the Salesman reaches territory
impossible of access, without its aid. The Business Man finds it an integral part of
his business, in the hack country the Mails are carried by Car, Motor Ambulances are
equipped for War Service, whilst Storekeepers, Butchers, Bakers, Dairymen and a
host of other tradespeople keep pace with their deliveries only by employing the
Motor Car.
In short, there is hardly a business activity in Australia in which the Motor Car does
not play a liighly-important part. In this development of commercial and industrial
conditions the Ford has led the way and performed the greatest work. It has been
calculated that 90 per cent, of the Ford Cars in Australia are directly or indirectly
used in connection with business activities.
mvi
•-a
cs
7r
FORD 5=Passenger
Touring Car
including 20h.p. Model T Car, fitted with
->() x Siin. Tyres, Magneto, Ignition, Cape
Cart Hood, Glass Screen, Pair Side Lamps,
one Tail Lamp for oil, pair Electric Head
Lamps, Louvres in Bonnet, Hood Envelope,
Horn, Lifting Jack, Tyre Pump, Repair Kit
for Tyres, Tools, Tool Roll.
FORD 2=Passenger
Runabout
including 20h.p. Model T Car, fitted with
30 x 3iin. Tyres, Magneto Ignition, Cape
Cart Hood, Glass Screen, Pair Side Lamps,
one Tail Lamp for oil, pair Electric Head
Lights, Louvres in Bonnet, Hood Envelope,
Horn, Lifting Jack, Tyre Pump, Repair Kit
for Tyres, Tools, Tool Roll.
The “Ford” is a British car manufactured
and built in Canada under the British flag'
by Canadian workmen who are employed
by the “Ford”
Motor Co.
of Canada
hi m i t e d.
K*V
l
I
A
L
m
dm
Jvx'j
kMliiimi
I m
m
liiM
«
am
m
iW
H:.
Representatives of The Ford Motor Co. of Canada Limited
South Australia:
DUNCAN & FRASER LTD.
Franklin Street,
Adelaide.
Queensland:
Queensland Motor Agency Ltd.
Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
Victoria:
TARRANT MOTORS PTY. LTD.
112 Russell Street,
Melbourne.
New South Wales:
DAVIES & FEHON MOTORS LTD.
112 Hunter Street,
Sydney.


fSB®&
A. {Saunders’ Cheese Disli, pure silver-plated,
Ai quality, highly burnished, fancy, embossed edges,
£2/15/-
X
\
r
r
A. Saunders’ Luncheon
Cruet, pure Silver-plated Nickel
Silver, A 1 quality, 20/-
A. Saunders’ Nut Dish, pure
Silver-plated Nickel Silver, highly
burnished, 20/-
With Cracks, 25/-
WZ3
A. Saunders’ Sugar
Scuttle (Al), Silver-plated,
richly engraved, 25/-
WEDDING GIFTS
3
r
S.i
‘ A. Saunders’ Preserve
Dish, pure Silver-plated, Cry-
stal Glass, 11/0.
A. Saunders’ Tea and Coffee Service, A 1 quality. “Concave” design, Fancy, Embossed
Border, Gilt-lined, with Covers, £9.
cm
£0 ae
TSfWV
A. Saunders’ Hot
Water Jug, pure Sil-
ver-plated, richly en-
graved, 30 /-
A. Saunders’ Toast and Butter
Combination, pure Silver-plated Nickel
-Silver, 15/6.
A. Saunders’ Butter Dish,
pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
20/-
A. Saunders’ Butter Dish, pure
“Shell” design, 25/«
Silver-plated,
A. Saunders’ Sugar and Cream
Stand, Silver-plated Frame, Floral
China, H/6.
A. Saunders’ Biscuit Barrel,
Solid English Oak, pure Silver-
plated Mounts, 25/-
807-817 George Street,
A. SAUNDERS,
(Opp, Railway Station), Sydney
" >
IMPROVED
Compass
Clynometer
For Taking LEVELS and ANGLES.
Reading inclinations in inches
per yard or degrees.
Invaluable to Prospector, Miner, Geologist,
Engineer amt Squatter.
Strong, Compact. Best lacquer brass,
2£in. dia., Solid Leather Case,
Printed Instructions, POSTED
22;6
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.,
189=191 George Street, Brisbane.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
ROOK OF NATURE AND lI,BUST R ATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mkrrik
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's Silent Friend, Is 6d. Nk.d Donnelly’s Aur
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
Uow to Danck, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. “ Moll
Flandkrs, a rare book l>y De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tub
Horse, Is. Vkntriloquism Madb East, Is. Up-ro-
Datk Comic Reciter. Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth. 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller's Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales. 13.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Eove, Is post free. Fowler s Science of Life
10s fid. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests ior minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Hod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, os. Not Guilty (Blaten-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, fid. Britain fop. the’
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases op Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value. Is 6d. French Polishing
ind Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/8.
How ro Make Sweets. Jams and Syrups. Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook s Guide, Is 6d
%
I
%
HOME cyclopedia
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 124 S Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of voting
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete,, unabridged,
cloth-covpred edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for EIGHT SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER
TO THE. COMMONWEALTH.-*:?
Ull’SY FORTUNE TELLING (J ARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, <sc., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers' Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, is 3d. Metal-working fop. Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Plano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle s
Card Games (Ruies for all Games), Is. How to
MeBmkriBe, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Evert
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor., cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d-
Self Instructor : Every Mas His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3c.
Complete Bookkeeping. 2s. Lifk of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver's Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hkptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don’t be tooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MV STOCK CAN
IIE GOT FROM THIS A DVT.
Write for my....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS. MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT’ BY RETURN POST. NO 0 •
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SEAL
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to tlie 3uj; e , ls
posted. New Tricks with Cards. Is. SAI I ’ ll0 ’ ' e ' lll , l l .„.'
Is. old Bush Songs, Is 3d most. 1)k. Jlilkori . ■
wife's Handbook, 93 practical illustrations, - •
Aristotle, 3/0. Adam L. Gordon’s 1 ohms, cod j >
1/3. Practical Palmistry. Is. Champions
Ring, Is 3d. Guidk to Ai ctionkering. <* • ,
History Court op England, Is 3d post. ' ,
Lkttp.r Writkr, Is. All About iNCuiiAroRS,
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Be.' t
Decrees, New Edition. Is posted. / . ,
Dictionary, Vi posted. Tokology, •* ' >
INGKRSOLL'B WORKS, Sd, 3S. HOW TO R* A . t
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chkvassks A goNg
Wifk, 3s rid posteti. Wonderful Bi >
Book, over 300 latest swings, 1* &
Bbnnarp. Macfadden's Works, nil at a l•
Sappho is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers
Boilers Assistant, Is od. Ihe " ikk vmi-
ls 3d posted. Fruits op Philosophy. Is P°* ; . B ‘, S d
Recitations and Readings, Is 3«. •.• ;
ITS CURE, is 3d posted leather
abridged Dictionary, I<oo pages, lw° lll 4
bound, my price, 15s post paid (wnv pa *• * A _
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, is -■■ * t
MOS AND Electric Motors. Is 20. Mookk * clotih
Assistant and Complete. Mechanic, 1 ® 1 " v( J TASf «
bound, 10s 6d oosted. The Secrets ok , : c cora .
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs i words and
plete), Is dd posted. The Age op ,5 fQ.p
posted, WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO v*


ABBEY
SHOES
are the choice of the man who
makes a point of having the BBfel.
In appearance, comfort, and ser-
vice, they always give the utmost
satisfaction.
We illustrate one of our latest
model s—a special, high-grade
, Patent Bal.. with perforated Golosh,
and Grey Suede Legs.
Price - 40/-
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage Extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney
Troublesome Constipation*
Sufferers from constipation know from
experience that after temporary relief has
been obtained by the use of a purgative, the
condition often becomes worse. Most strong
purgatives have a tendency to cause consti-
pation after their immediate effects are over.
Pinkettes, the new laxative, are a real help
in correcting the irregularity. They do not
wear out in their effects, and taken accord-
ing to directions, the patient will find that
they soon help to create a healthy regularity.
They are a safe family medicine because they
contain no habit creating drug; they are
daintily got up ; are easily given to children
and they act thoroughly without causing
sickness and griping. Write for a free trial
sample to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. ot
Australasia, Ltd., Sydney, mentioning The
Bulletin. They are sold by all medicine
dealers at Is. per bottle. — Advt.
DAIMLER
sotor Carriages
Commercial Vehicles ~
Agricootrai Tractors
t« DAIMLER COMPANY
COVENTRY, ENGLAND,
YOUR 32 TEETH
are 32 reasons for using
TheOxygcn Tooth Powder
Oxygen is Nature's great purifier ; that
is why “Calox’’ prevents dental troubles,
by removing the cause
of tooth decay.
YOU CAN SEE
the whitening effect of
the OXYGEN when
using “CALOX.”
All Chemists,
D rape rs, Fancy
Goods Stores and
Tobacconists.
%
CALOX
THe BanK of Adelaide.
FIFTIETH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS TO THE
SHAREHOLDERS.
It is with pleasure the Directors submit herewith for the information of Shareholders the Balance-
Sheet of the Bank as on 27th March, 1916, also Statements of Profit and Loss and the Reserve Fund
on that date.
The Balance of Profit and boss is .. .. .. .. .. .. ■■ £62,996 lo 0
which it is proposed to appropriate as follows: —
To Dividend at the rate of 8 per cent, per annum
20,000 0 0
leaving a balance of.. .. •• •• .. •• •• •• •• £42,996 lo 0
to be carried forward.
An Interim Dividend at the rate of S per cent, per annum was paid in November last.
Since the last Report agencies have been opened at Muljarra, Port Rickaby and Wvnarka, and the
Wilkawatt agency has been reopened. . .
It is with much regret we record the death in December last of Mr. James Harvey, who occupied
a seat at the Board for 23 years—during the last two as Chairman of Directors.
In February last Mr. FI. C. E. Muecke resigned his seat at the Board, after 21 years valuable ser-
vice as a director.
The Chairmanship of Directors was filled by the election of Mr. Arthur Waterhouse, and tne two
vacancies on the directorate were filled respectively by the election of Messrs. Howard W. Llojd and
Arthur G. Rymill. . fVI „
It is noteworthy that the 11th December last was the 50th anniversary ot the date on which tne
bank opened its doors for business.
Attention is called to a new’ item in the Balance-sheet, viz., Government Wheat Advances Account,
£602,843 —this necessarily affects Cash Balances.
The General Annual
William Street,. Adelaide,
called upon to elect two < —..- ...
Esq., who retire by rotation, and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The Shareholders will also have to elect tw’o Auditors for the ensuing year, and to fix the remunera-
tion of the retiring Auditors.
ssarily affects Cash Balances.
ual Meeting will be held in the Board Room at the head office of the bank, King
lide, on Wednesday, 3rd May, 1916, at 12 noon, at which the Shareholders will be
:wo directors in place of Arthur Graham Rymill, Esq., and James Richard Fowler,
BALANCE-SHEET ON MARCH 27, 1916.
LIABILITIES.
To Capital paid-up £500,000 0 0
„ Reserve Fund 510,000 0 0
~ Profit and Loss 62,996 15 0
£1,072,996
~ Notes in circulation . . . . 9,700
~ Bills in circulation . . • • 121.127
~ Balances due to other banks . . 22.293
~ Deposits .. .. •• 3,459,742
~ Interest accrued on fixed deposits
and rebate on bills discounted 1 40,895
15
0
16
0
6
1
0
0
4
.3
2
ASSETS.
By Specie, bullion,
and cash bal-
ances . . . . £446,497 0 6
~ Australian notes 247,845 10 0
„ Government de-
bentures . . 466,386 12 3
„ Municipal de-
bentures . . 3,440 0 0
„ Money at short
call . . . . 65,000 0 0
„ Balances due
from other banks 77,070 16 9
i ~ Xotes of other
banks . . 26 0 0
~ Remittances in
transitu .. 260,666 3 0
£1,566,932 2 6
~ Bank premises and furniture.. 115,923 1 0
~ Government Wheat Advances
account .. . . .. • • 602,843 3 1
Bills receivable and all other
advances .. .. 2,441,056 12 5
£4,726,754 19 0
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FROM MARCH 29, 1915, to MARCH 27, 19HL
To Dividend in May,
1915 . . • ■ £20,000 0 0
~ Dividend in Novem-
ber, 1915 . . 20,000 0 0
„ Balance
£40,000 0 0
62,990 15 0
£102,996 15 0
. . £53.190 11 5
By Balance March 29, 1915..
„ Net Profit, include
ing recoveries and
after making pro-
vision for bad and
doubtful debts,
interest accrued
on fixed deposits
and rebate on
bills discounted
and expenses at
head office and 52
branches, includ-
ing salaries, rents,
etc £52,530 6 1
~ Less land and in-
come taxes, £2809
12s. 6d. ; note tax,
£214 10s. .. 3,024 2 0
49,806 3 7
£102,996 15 0
RESERVE FUND.
To Balance at this date
. . £510,000 0 0
£510,000 0 0
By Balance March 29, 1915. .
..£510,000 0 0
£510,000 0 0
JOHN SHIELS, Manager.
W. P. COTTRELL, Accountant.
ARTHUR WATERHOUSE,
GEORGE BROOK MAN,
JAS. R. FOWLER,
HOWARD W. LLOYD,
A. O. RYMILL.
Directors.
We have compared the above Balance-sheet with the books and accounts of the Bank ot Adelaide,
fnv the vear ending March 27, 1916, and certify that it is a correct abstract ot the *>ame. \\ eha e
counted the cash and examined the bills on hand at the head office—the Attets and Liabilities at e
branches other than London have been taken on the certificates of the managers and accountants ot the
respective branches, and those of the London branch as cabled by the London managei.
Adelaide, April 12, 1916.
W. L. WARE, F.C.P.A.,
WILLIAM NEILL, F.C.P.A.,
Auditors.
fifi
rouiiumirai
The latest and by far the best idea in “Self-fillers.” Simply
r&ise lever, dip nib in ink, lower lever, find the pen is filled.
Ask to see this new type at any Stationers or Jewellers.
/I
IN!\
Australia :
HAROLD D. DIXON,
105 Clarence Street, Sydney
Waterman’s Ideals also in
Regular and Safety types.
Three Sizes-
iy 2 K.p.
2 K.p.
3 J 4 K.p
CZJ
l Wm
The EVINRUD
:: DETACHABLE::
ROWBOAT MOTOR
-4
is the most supqjr.ssfnl and perfect motor of
this kind market. Over 40,000 now a
in use. Very simple and easy to operate.
Can be attached to any boat in a few
minutes —adjustable to depth and angle of
stern. Speed up to eight miles an hour.
Equipped with high-tension, built-in-the-fly-
wheel Magneto. Fitted with Automatic
Reverse and Maxim Silencer. Operated by
Petrol, and lubrication is automatic.
Of invaluable assistance on the farm for pumping water, driving separator, etc.
To transform motor into a power machine is the work of a few minutes.
Propeller is removed and a belt pulley substituted.
Descriptive Booklet sent post free on application to
Uescripuve r>ooiviui sail
H 1 GODDARD, 376 Collins Street, Melbourne; 82 Pitt Street, Sydney;
* *404 Queen Street, Brisbane; Cliff Street, Fremantle; Remington
Chambers (opp. G.P.0.), Auckland, N.Z.
Remington
UllUfll'K lUMM. VR.i 1 *’• —-
local agents required in all towns where not represented.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller. .
PORTRAIT of H.M. KING GEORGE
V., in Coronation Robes. Size 30
x2O inches. Colored. Mounted on
Board, eyeletted, 3s. Unmounted, Is-
AN UNTAMED TERRITORY. The
Northern Territory of Australia. By
ELSIE R. MASSON. With Illus-
trations and Maps. Extra Crown
Bvo. 6s.
Nature: “The most perplexing Australian
problem is that of the Northern Territory, and
all interested in the present efforts to solve
it will welcome Miss Masson’s interesting
sketches of that vast land of dilemmas. The
book deals with various phases of life and
work in the Northern Territory, and records
the impression of a keen and sympathetic ob-
server who had unusual opportunities for insight
into its present condition and prospects. .. .
Miss Masson’s sketches should prove a contribu-
tion of permanent value to its literature, as an
instructive picture of the country during the
most critical stage in its development.”
LEAVES FROM A FIELD NOTE-
BOOK. By J. H. MORGAN, late
Home Office Commissioner with the
British Expeditionary Force. Extra
crown Bvo, ss. net.
The Globe : “One who has nothing but praise
for this admirable book, which records the
impressions of a trained observer, whose official
duties took him behind the scenes to a greater
extent than has been the case with most writers
of war books.” ____
ORDEAL BY BATTLE. Abridged
Edition. By F. S. OLIVER. Crown
Bvo., Is. net.
The Daily Mail: “No extracts can do justice
to the vigor and irony of what is beyond ques-
tion the most remarkable piece of political
writing that the present war has evoked. Mr.
Oliver’s introduction is a veritable masterpiece.
AIRCRAFT IN WAR AND PEACE.
By WILLIAM A. ROBSON. With
Illustrations. Crown Bvo. Us. 6d.
net.
Motor: “The book is one that can be read
with profit by everyone interested in flight. The
author has collected a great deal of information
as to what has already been done in the
present war.”
HEART OF EUROPE. By RALPH
ADAMS CRAM. Illustrated. Bvo,
10s. 6d. net.
This work describes Northern France, Bel-
gium and Flanders, and the treasures of art
and beauty enshrined in that beautiful land
before the devastation of the great war.
“THE GRAPHIC” PICTORIAL
MAP OF THE DARDANELLES.
Every Fort, Hill and River clearly
shown, and every landing made up to
Aug. 7 carefully marked. Size 12 x
20 inches. Beautifully puoduced in
Color. 6d. net. /
W. & A. K. JOHNSTON'S
WAR MAPS.
THE MIDDLE EAST. Illustrating
the Campaigns in MESOPOTAMIA,
PERSIA and THE CAUCASUS.
Size 35 x 23 inches. Colored Cloth,
folded, Is. (id. net. Unmounted Sheet,
(id. net.
THE BALKAN STATES. Size 25 x
20 inches. Colored Cloth, folded,
Is. 6d. net. Unmounted Sheet, 6d.
net.
“THE ROUND TABLE”
A Quarterly Review of the Politics of the British
Empire.
Contents for March:
Tiie War for Public Right.
Production in Peace and War.
The Problem of Women in Industry.
America’s Reaction to The War.
Also Articles from “Australia,” “New Zealand,”
“Canada ” and “South Africa.”
Price 2fl. 6d. per copy, or 10s. per annum, post
free to any address within the Empire.
MACMILLAN’S EMPIRE LIBRARY.
Paper Covers, 2/6; Cloth, 3/6 per
BY A NEW WRITER.
650 I POSE. By STELLA BENSON.
Spectator : “The entrance of a new writer
of undoubted talent into the arena of fiction is
a welcome incident at all times, and Miss
Benson’s talent is beyond question.”
651 THE SHEPHERD OF THE
NORTH. By RICHARD AUMERLE
~ MATTER.
*** The hero of this book is a Roman Catholic
Bishop of singularly fine character. The story
of his work among the people of the Adirondack
country, and particularly of the part that he
plays in the fight that is waged against an
encroaching railroad, is intensely dramatic,
4nd>'comes to a thrilling climax with a forest
re, described in a most vivid and powerful
manner.
652 THE RUDDER. A Novel with
several Heroes. By MARY S.
WATTS, Author of The Rise of
Jennie Cushing, etc.
*** Mrs. Watts’s new volume contains the
history of an intelligent, well-bred girl, who
touches life at many points. The story is
told with the charm of manner, the know-
ledge of human nature, and the humor that
are always to be found in books by this
author, and it is consequently of very great
interest.
A Complete Catalogue of Macmillan’s Empire
Library will be sent on application.
MACMILLAN SCO.LTD.
MELBOURNE and LONDON.


Sydin ejy. IN.S.W.
ihe "Wentworth Garden, with its beautiful surroundings is
nleal for Luncheons, Dinners, Afternoon Teas, Supper and
Wedding Parties, and all semi-outdoor functions.
Visitors to Sydney will find the Wentworth Hotel -most popular,
cential and up to date m all modern conveniences, including telephones
in bedrooms, communicating with the Exchange.
The Appointments, Linen and Service are superb, and compare more
than favorably with the best Hotels in the Commonwealth.
Terms on application.
Mrs. H. MACLURCAN, Manageress.
CROSS, FEVERISH, BILIOUS CHILDREN
NEED CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Ijook, Mother! See if the tongue is
coated; this denotes sluggish
liver and bowels.
Mother! You’re child isn’t naturally cross
and peevish. See if the tongue is coated;
this is a sure sign that its little stomach,
liver and bowels need attention at once.
When listless, pale, feverish, “stuffy” with
cold, throat sore ; when the child has tainted
breath and doesn’t eat, sleep or act naturally
or has stomach-ache or diarrhoea, remember,
a gentle liver and bowel cleansing should
always be the first treatment given.
Nothing equals California Syrup of Figs
' ' Califig”—for children’s ills ; give a tea-
spoonful, and in a few hours all the
matter, sour bile and fermenting rood .
in the bowels pass out of the syste >
you have a healthy and playful ch ,A u<
All children love this harmless, deiic
fruit laxative, and it never fails to e .
good “inside cleansing.” lhrectio
babies, children of all ages and g>'"" n
are plainly on the bottle.
Keep it handy in your home. •
given to-day saves a sick child to-ni
but get the genuine. Ask your chem f
a bottle of “Califig”—California SjiaP
Figs—then look and see that it is m ‘ ■
the California Fig Syrup Company. „
substitutes. All chemists sell 8
California Syrup of Figs —in bottles
sizes, Is. lid. and Is. 9d.
POLITICAL
POINTS
A NATIONAL CALAMITY.
“Luck seems to follow that hoy.”
"What a pity hick isn’t a recruiting ser-
geant!”
Chadband and McStiggins managed to get
in a word or two for poor old I key when a
“fake” Totalizator Bill was thrown at the
N. S. Wales Assembly. Chadband’s main
argument was that the effect of intro-
ducing the totalisator is to make Ikey more
prosperous, and that “in no place where
the totalisator has been installed has the
bookmaker disappeared.” I key’s principal
objection to the machine is that it will force
him to get work. Which suggests that
McStiggins reckons he knows more about
the game than the children of Israel. And
Israel, to do him justice, is too astute to
call McStiggins a poor old fool.
The passage of the Eight Hours Bill
through the N.S.W. Parliament, after many
difficulties with the Uppish House, makes a
more considerable change than many people
may suppose, because out of 1050 occupa-
tions regulated by awards only 727 have
already secured the 48 hours week. Now,
directly the Act is proclaimed, the man who
delivers the milk, the clerk who has been
in the habit of working unpaid overtime,
and scores of others will start watching the
clock with renewed interest.
“Mr. William Hughes, anyone can see, is
a man who will go far.” Yes, we have seen
Australian democratic leaders go far in
London ere this —quite to the Devil, in fact.
Westralia’s lately-imposed Profit Tax is
giving the State’s one great industry a
punch on the nose, because a stupid Depart-
ment insists that money spent on develop-
ment work is profit. Of course it isn't
any more than the money which a draper
spends on advertising or sign-writing or
which a grocer spends in sending round for
orders is profit. No doubt taxes must be
raised ; but it is suicidal to penalise people
for spending money in the attempt to
develop the great natural resources that we
are told are so much in need of development.
Jensen, Minister for the Navy, has been
explaining that under conscription “the
poor and the middle classes would suffer.”
Perhaps he will now explain (1) how much
they have gained by not having conscrip-
tion; (2) how much the French poor and
middle-class have lost in consequence of the
nation being ready to meet the invader with
a bayonet; and (3) how much better off in
human life and cash John Bull is on account
of being still not quite ready after 18
months of war. When he has done this,
Jensen might proceed to explain what a
fine thing it was for the poor and middle-
class men to die at Lonesome Pine because
the voluntary system hadn’t provided
enough to back them up. And then, all that
done, the Government might appropriately
tie Jensen up in the back yard.
“Grizzled Darling” explains how Peacock
economises;—
How is this for circumlocution ■or plain idiocy?
A Victorian State Department frequently corresponds
with another one on the floor immediately beneath.
To do so it solemnly licks a stamp and puts it on the
envelope, which it sometimes marks “URGENT,”
and stealthily conveys the letter downstairs past, or
through, the office it is addressed to, and out to the
street pillar-box. Some time that day or night the
P.O. motor whirls it along another stage, and it
passes through half-a-dozen pairs of hands in the
G.P.O. before finally wending its way back, a day
or two later, to the starting point—or, to be
strictly accurate, to within I7|ft. of it as the smoke
flics.
To the argument of Bung that closing up
the pubs at six o’clock is an interference
with the liberty of people who work until
that hour, and “therefore inconsistent with
democracy,” Cold Tea puts it forward that
this is an attempt to give a new defini-
tion to democracy—“the right to get drunk.”
It all hints at the controversial bogs that
people are going to get into later on when
their blood is really up. There is nothing
inconsistent with democracy in shutting up
pubs, or fruit shops or picture shows, or
I. WAV. orators or any other thing, person
or place which the democrat thinks ought to
be shut; riioreover, if it were decided by
popular vote to shut up every wowser in the
land. Bung would give three cheers for
such a vindication of democratic principles.
He would also forget to say anything about
the liberty of the individual. So far as
getting drunk is concerned, democracy does
most emphatically cherish the right to deter-
mine whether it will go on the jag or not.
What is inconsistent with democratic gov-
ernment is to conspire to prevent the demo-
crat deciding whether the democracy, in addi-
tion to consuming wine and beer, shall also
itself manufacture these liquids and sell
them.
Even Hughes has been talking in London
about the “millions to be spent in putting
people on the land after the war” —and
every land shark and monopolist in Aus-
tralia licked his lips as he read it. The
conversion of boom land values into perma-
nent national debt represents something
mightily appetising to Fat; but if in addi-
tion to a few other things which have to
be shouldered labor acquires that pup—well,
it will find itself with an animal on the
premises that can be relied upon to rob the
kitchen three times a day for all eternity.
There is a- movement within the N. S.
Wales Labor party to get rid of the glue
around the axle; which indicates that all
the members are not demoralised. But that
stalwart champion of Liberalism, Sydney
Telegraph, sees great danger in this, and
wildly calls upon the “moderate elements”
in the Labor movement to resist being
dropped out, because unless they can hang-
on Labor will become a mere Ishmaelite.
This is very fiue. The elements Labor has
to get rid of are the loanmongers, muddlers
and spongers who conceive that the aim of
the Labor movement is to keep them in a
job. And it is just this “moderate” sec-
tion that Liberalism wants to see undis-
turbed, clinging like Old Men of the Sea
around Labor’s neck. Liberalism knows
that, burdened with that disastrous load.
Labor is already growing ashamed of itself.
It is not a party which will fight for its
platform and principles that the great
dailies want to argue the point with. To
them a Parliamentary party which pro-
claims its own degradation is a much more
agreeable opponent.
Billy Hughes knows quite well how to
smash the Kaiser and capture all the trade
6t Germany. But Billy Hughes’s Govern-
ment doesn’t know how to settle a strike
of half-a-dozen cutters who are hanging up
tin- work of making uniforms for the troops
at the Federal clothing factory. You see,
the Kaiser hasn’t got a vote in West Sydney.
A CHIP OFF THE OLD BLOCK.
HANS: “Gome and Way Zeppelins at our
blace, Max. We god a new baby.”
In exporting as well as in importing the
foreign-trade habit gets in its unpatriotic
work. Notwithstanding the huge wheat yield
the Victorian flourmills are half idle, while
bran and pollard are becoming scarcer daily.
The beauty of exporting wheat in place of
flour is that you not only send away certain
valuable offals for which you practically get
nothing, but you simultaneously hamper the
dairy-farming industry and deprive the soil
of the country of certain much-needed essen-
tials. Also you give the foreigner a lot of
work that he has no time to do just now.
Yet the Federal Government still goes on
claiming that it is out to encourage Aus-
tralian industry in every form.
Heaven only knows where the insanity of
our party politics is going to lead us. The
other day, as one lot of Government work-
men went out after building a new and
costly block of shops near the Sydney rail-
way station, another lot of Government
workmen came in to demolish the premises,
most of which had never been occupied. The
appalling part of the business was that the
building was completed although it was
known at the time that the land it occupied
might be required for the city railway-—the
railway which is being pushed on with at this
time simply and solely because t' e Govern-
ment is under an obligation to provide the
impeccable Norton Griffiths syndicate with
a certain amount of work every year.
W. 11. Lee, the new apprentice Premier
of Tasmania, is a maker of waggons and
ploughs, and has been seven years in Par-
liament. lie is Chief Secretary, and
though quite unqualified has also taken
on the Education Dept. Lee is a pillar of
Cold Tea and a rigid 6 o’clocker. His
second in command is Lewis, a belted knight
who has been 24 years in Parliament and
Premier several times; but he is so
hopelessly conservative that in 1912 his own
party shunted him in favor of the late A. E.
Solomon. Lewis is Treasurer, as he has
been before; also he is to handle Mines,
things about which he knows nothing. He
is a supporter of Rung and a 10 o’clocker.
V. B. Propsting, a schoolmaster turned
lawyer, and a man of much ability but little
backbone, who was once Premier, but has
been buried in the House of Dodery for
years, is Attorney-General and also Minister
for Railways. Lastly, J. B. Ilavs, a farmer
who once chased gold in W.A., is Minister
for Lands, Works and Agriculture after a
three years’ run in Parliament. Shields,
M.L.C., a man of brains and abilitv and
the possessor of a spine, was offered the
Attorney-Generalship, but declined it,
though he accepted office without a port-
folio The new Ministry is hooked for a
passage ’ for its mf kiority consists of
A hitsitt and several ex-Ministers, such as
Burgess, Ilean. Mulcahy and Payne, who
all ought to have been asked in.
Simon Hickey, the SecretarT^
Walds Parliamentary Laborites 1, X &
the other evening on the beauts t ess °“
party system. About two V eai ° tllp
busied himself with an innJL a "° h, ‘
to control Public Accountants " leflsnt e
with select committees, laying? orA? ' v|| «t
leaves to introduce, reporting! o f“« the tab| f.
and other gear, the committee
oidy reached on the last nigfi o f»**
session. ihree men, Abbott p 16 leceil t
1 itzpa trick, who had acted’ g « a11 and
nuttee that recommended the e coa-
showed their extreme impartiality i Ure ’
against it, thus defeating Hickev J - VOti "S
attempt to even get his political l r llis
name. lamucai gosling .
The voluntary system is a
system. Because the nation is ?•°" S
for defence, when a great war ] ln a ‘ n( ' (1
authorities have to give command^ ‘ h, ‘
who have never been tried. No , nno J “
body of officers have proved n (ei ' a,) *''
and in the scramble for high os j emsel '' es;
is unholy wirepulling—poUtica? In as 1 thm
sectarian. The result ‘is 2 ‘f a »d
might expect—confusion and at .° n, ‘
The Censorship gag s the press it f Crifiee '
men at the Front If the Smi tlu '
told thousands of people who still ni; d bf
the voluntary fetich would , b c t 0
discredited tiling and demand on”? and
all universal training. and fw
Amidst the flood of guff tint i« „ •
into Australia about what the LondL P ° Unn?
are saying in regard to
tho Da.iy Chmkiclb « ik,™!
beacon of joy :—• 1 1 Ke 3
His creed is not what we call Protection a
Hughes considers our Protection a mere Yd wA
capitalism designed to exploit the ct t 0
whereas his Protection is the latet
social democracy An essential to success is th
exclusion of rival workmen who come in to taint
race by a lower standard of living and reduce wL?
It also necessarily means that foreign prorW g i
be kept out in order that nothing teS
with the wages fixed by the courts. 8 8 ee e
And this about a country into which foreign
products are pouring like a deluge! The
latest discovery of social democracy here-
abouts—if there is such a thing—is that i
man who had been a lifelong Freetrader
found out he was wrong and rushed off to
the other end of the earth to yell for •'lm-
perial unity” and tell the people thei* to do
the very thing that lie had kept Australia
from doing—left his job here untouched and
hurried away to urge someone else to do the
thing which it was infinitely more necessary
for his own debt-riddm country to do.
THE SELFISHNESS OF WOMAN.
H E: “ Won't you say ‘yes' and make me the
happiest man in the world?”
S HE: “Sorry, hut I want to he happy
myself.'”
Professor Gregory, the geologist of laf 1
University, who lias been visiting Australia,
says that we have been devoting too muw
attention to mining and not enough to scien-
tific agriculture. The chemist, he is sure,
could make millions of acres of no\y-unusw
lands highly profitable. But this is g' )iu f
too far. The Bulletin doesn’t think a
will be really necessary to poison the L
landlords. At any rate a stiff land-t
without exemption, should be tried first.
THE RED TAPE WORM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Thousands of pounds a year are being saved
through economies approved by Senator Pearce. The
issue of red-tape, ink, pencils, string and sealing-
wax is watched to prevent waste. — Melb. Herald.
“The time has come,” the statesman said,
“For taking stock of things—-
Of pencils, tape and sealing-wax,
And all small reckonings;
For cutting down expenditure,
And tightening the strings.”
It was the Red Tape Worm that heard
Tlie ukase of the boss
To cut his vast gyrations short,
And it was very cross—•
“For am not I,” it asked with truth,
“A high and mighty Joss?
“For years I have securely held
The service by the wrists;
My bonds controlled Base Records, and
The Casualty Lists,
And Military Orders tied
With many turns and twists.
“Nay, further, were it not for me
The Censor had been lost;
For him 1 bound men’s hands, what time
He chloroformed the host,
And ’neath his anaesthetic touch
Tlie truth gave up the ghost.
“ ’Twas I that braked efficiency,
And strapped the gag secure
Between Administration’s teeth
To make its slowness sure;
And anything approaching haste
I did my best to cure.
“And now arises one who dares
My services to spurn ;
But time is short, and tape is long,
As all reformers learn ;
His die is cast, for at the last
The Red Tape Worm will turn.”
VICTORIA.
THE PARASITE.


SPORTING NOVELS
Readers of Sporting Stories have been well catered
for by Australian writers. In the famous
Bookstall ’ ’ Series of Australian Books
the . most successful library published in Australia, there are more than a
score of sporting novels, whose sales closely approach the half-million mark.
The latest addition:
“UNDER A CLOUD,”
By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
The best novel yet written by this
popular Australian Author. The
story of a remarkably successful
jockey, whose career is ruined in his
hour of triumph. But that is only
the beginning of a new and mysterious
career that leads the reader into all
sorts of unexpected situations.
ARTRUR^J^a
WmGMT
‘IN THE LAST STRIDE” (by Arthur
Wright) deals with incidents in several sports
—football, boxing and horseracing—and an all-
round athlete is the hero of the story. In
addition to the sporting interest, there are
several exciting episodes (including an opium-
smuggling adventure), and there is a strong
love interest.
‘EROS! EROS WINS!” (by F. Agar)
proves quite as exciting as its title indicates.
It is a brightly-written story which success-
fully exposes much turf villainy.
‘RUNG IN” (by Arthur Wright) carries a
sub-title which, to a certain extent, explains
the book: “A Taste of the Turf, Interwoven
with a Murder Mystery and a Love Story.”
It is a sparkling novel, possessing great
dramatic strength.
‘A ROGUE’S LUCK” (by Arthur Wright)
does not require any further recommendation
than that it is by the Australian author
whom both press and public acclaim as a
serious rival of Nat Gould. In this book
Mr. Arthur Wright has provided an excep-
tionally strong and clever story which has
proved one of the most popular of his books.
“WOLAROI’S CUP” (by Ambrose Pratt)
presents a picture of a Melbourne Cup-winner
in the making, and a splendid descriptive
account of the methods adopted by owners,
trainers and jockeys is given. The story
possesses a strong love interest, and is a clever
handling of an entirely new plot.
“GAMBLERS’ GOLD” (by Arthur Wright)
is a good, thrilling, sensational story in
which the course of true love is impeded by
the effects of an old-time tragedy, but which
is again set on its happy way by means of
some fine sporting incidents.
“IN RACING SILK” (by Gerald R. Bald-
win) is an interesting tale of the turf, inter-
mingled with an absorbing love story. An
exposition of the shady ways of an unscrupu-
lous bookmaker is a feature of the book.
“THE MARE WITH THE SILVER
HOOF” (by Bob Allen) is, of course, a
story of the turf —a story with an exceed-
ingly clever and interesting plot, by a writer
whose turf techinque is perfect. “Easily the
best racing novel that has come under our
notice,” says the Stock and Station
Journal.
Price: One Shilling Each; Posted 1/1.
All Bookstalls and Booksellers in the Commonwealth.
WRITE FOR COMPLETE CATALOGUE.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. Ltd., 476 George St., Sydney
British-made
rColumbia^
Records jjy
SUPPLEMENT NO. 16 NOW ON SALE.
Send far Complete Catalog.
THOMAS BEECHAM
Conducting the Beecham Symphony
Oreh. in a Most Individual
Interpretation.
12-inch Double-Sided, 6/-
Symphony Pathetique—snd Move-
ment
Symphony Pathetique—3rd Move-
ment (Tschaikowsky)
W. H. SQUIRE
Britain’s T ''ing of ’Cellists.
12-inch Double-Sided, 6/-
The Broken Melody (Van Biene)
LlOl7 Brink to Me only with Thine
Eyes (arr. W. H. Squire)
10-inch Double-Sided, 4/3.
1)1327
When You Come Home (W. II
Squire?
Passe Pied ((tlllstl
Mr. Hamilton Harty at the Piano.
ALBERT SAMMONS
(Violin).
12-inch Double-Sided, 6/-
1.1018 |
Saraltantla (Jean Marie Leclair)
Bagatelle (Sammons)
Madame CLARA BUTT
EXCLUSIVE TO COLUMBIA.
12-inch Single-Sided, 15/-
74004
“Samson and Delilah’’: Mon
Cceur s’ouvre a ta voix
(Saint Saens)
Sung in French (Key D flat)
With Orchestra conducted by Sir Henry
J. Wood.
12-inch Single-Sided, 7/6.
71X8 Husheen (Needham) 1 T ''ey A).
With Piano.
ELSA STRALIA
(Soprano),
in Records of Unusual Beauty.
12-inch Single-Sided, 15/-
71005 “Ernani”: Ernani, Ernani, in-
volarni (Verdi). Sung in Italian.
With Orchestra.
12-inch Single-Sided, 7/6.
7119 Good-Bye (Tosti). With Or-
chestra.
JEAN VALUER
(Basso),
in Famous “Herodiade" Air.
12-inch Single-Sided, 10/0.
75001 “Herodiade”: Scene de Phannel
(Massenet. Sung in French.
With Orchestra.
Double-Sided 12-inch Record, 5/-
Our Greatest Comedian Exclusive
to Columbia
GEORGE ROBEY
What Was There Was Good
(Percy Kdgar)
Where’s the Butler?
(Sax Rohmer)
Double-Sided 12-inch Record, 5/-
Tbe Greatest Band in the British Array.
Regimental Band of
H.M. GRENADIER GUARDS
Dr. A. Williams, M.V.0., Conductor.
578 {
Keminiscences of Guonod. In
Parts (arr. F. Godfrey)
More Delightful Records of
JACOB’S T ROC A DERI ANS
Double-Sided 12-inch Records, 5/
Blue Eyes (H. Nicholls)
You Great Big Wonderful Baby
(Nat. D. Ayer)
Double-Sided 10-inch Record, 3/
2625 {
Good-Bye, Virginia
My Bird of Paradise
(Schwartz)
(Berlin)
Double-Sided 10-inch Record, 3/
Two Great Oratorio Numbers,
CARRIE HERWIN
Contralto (with Orchestra).
God Shall Wipe Away All Tears
(Sullivan)
O Rest in the Lord, from “Elijah”
(Mendelssohn)
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS
SYDNEY, N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, Rawson Place.
MELBOURNE, VIC. —Dinsdale’s Proprietary, Ltd., 269 Swanston St.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A.—H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street
WELLINGTON, N.Z. —Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z. —Webley Sons and Gofton, Ltd., 243 High St,
DUNEDIN, N.Z. —Hayward and Garratt, Ltd. -
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
/
as
MADE BY NESTLES
SL
*1
V,
OBU Mk
r
r yy w
A
II » ..1 fl II
HERE you have a milk that you can
depend upon—always. You can depend
upon it for Purity and Freshness for the
value and the full nutriment that milk should yield you.
In the kitchen ‘IDEAL’ Brand MILK is a treasure. You can
use it for making so many delicious dishes.
‘IDEAL ’Brand MILK is the purest, richest dairy milk from which a part of the water
is evaporated. Its delicious creaminess, its absolute purity, and the ease with which
VZ ffildren can digest it. make it indeed the ‘IDEAL’ Brand MILK for every purpose.
IN TINS, OF ALL GROCERS & STORES


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
That ere Easter is again with us its S
spirit of peace may have P en^ ho pe
warring nations of earth is the dev .
of that peaceful spirit, King George 1
notch Scotch. — Advt. .
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of Catarrh, Hay
Fever, Bronchitis, Influenza,
Catarrhal Deafness, etc.
Medlcator, with complete trea ..
ment, only 10/-, P o6 *, f !! ee ' @
Write for Free Pamphlet.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The running in the Autumn Stakes and
St. Leger at the A.J.C. meeting was a wholly-unreli-
able guide as to what was to follow —during the
first two days, anyhow. In the open w.f.a. event
(ljj-mile), Carlita looked the best of the bunch on
paper. But she didn’t look particularly good to the
eye, though naturally that didn’t prevent her starting
favorite, because among the crowd who go a-racing
the number who take the trouble to inspect the
animal carrying their cash is relatively small. Giru
had a solid 'following. Reputation was at 4’s, Green
Cap at 10’s, and Amata, who was being given a
longer run than usual, at 12’s. Half a mile from
home Lewis had to ride Green Cap, and following
Giru into the straight he got his head in front at
the distance, to the great joy of punters who had
been backing him for the Cup. But what seemed
like a good thing didn’t come off; Reputation, arriv-
ing with a long, strong challenge, cut down the
leaders at every stride and won by a clear length.
Green Cap faded away in the last pinch and finished
behind Giru, Amata and Carlita. Incidentally, Scout-
master, winner of the last Metropolitan, was about
the tenth to finish. Reputation’s performance was a
strikingly good one, and brought him into great
demand for the big event on Monday—-until it was
discovered that one of his legs had filled and he had
been given a holiday.
Patrobas, Cetigne, Kandos and Common Law made
up the St. Leger field. Cetigne, starting at 7 to 4
on, looked a moral, for the Melbourne Cup winner
was clearly a long way from being himself. It
turned out a poor race to watch. After a mile had
been covered at a slow pace Cetigne was taken to the
front ahead of Common Law, and sharpening up the
speed reached the straight just clear of Kandos. Up
to the distance Cetigne appeared to be drawing away,
but there Kandos came again, and after an all-in
tussle appropriated the bacon by a long neck from
the Derby winner. Cetigne may have been made too
much use of on the passage ; but it is very doubtful
whether there is much in this excuse. What seems
a quite reasonable explanation is that Kandos won
on his merits. To the writer, Cetigne did not appear
to stay too well. On the day it seemed a fairly
safe conclusion that the Cup was going to be worth
seeing.
It W’as the 51st Doncaster Handicap, and for
Woorak (9st. 121 b.) there was money in hatsful. It
was piled on the brilliant deceiver down to 3 to 1,
and there were heaps more for “Baron” Brown’s
flighty-headed Quairneta, who by her win in the
Rosehill Flying had sprung into popular favor.
Though this was only her second appearance in public
4’s were considered fair odds in a field of 24, in-
cluding some of the best milers in the Common-
wealth. Always a slick beginner, Woorak was
auicklv in the Van, upsides with Rosedell. What a
beautiful galloper he is! Sweeping round the bend
the white-faced wonder ran ahead, and thousands
of punters started feeling if their tickets were safe.
At "the turn it looked as if the Epsom was being
repeated, with Woorak coming home alone. The
well-backed Lord Nagar (Bst. 21b.) and Pilbarra
(Bst. 31b.), who had been well forward up till this
stage, had now faded away, but Brattle (Bst. 101 b.)
and Eurobin (Bst. 131 b.) were hanging on to argue
the point, and at the distance were asking the flying
chestnut how much longer he could last. This is a
question Woorak never likes, and though he stalled
off Brattle, the other, galloping with great resolu-
tion, wore him down. Thus the Doncaster was
pulled off by Eurobin after a desperate, gruelling
finish. There were not many feeling for tickets on
him, and from the land of Israel there broke a
sound like unto a cataract of cash disappearing into
deep, cavernous receptacles. Quairneta had got
tangled up in the field, and stayed there. .The mile
was run in “393.”
The whole tribe of professional tipsters, punters,
touts, trainers, breeding specialists and all the rest
of them were uppercut and outed when Eurobin
came to light in the Doncaster. Here was a horse
with an exceptional winning record, which had been
heavily backed for the Newmarket Handicap, and had
been working lately at Randwick right under the
public nose. When stripped before the race he looked
very' well. Yet scarcely anyone gave him a dog’s
chance. He drifted away to the post at any old
price—30, 40, 50 to 1 according to the Ikey con-
sulted—while the public wildly threw good, reliable
currency on a pony with a welter-weight. All of
which once more proves that for the average man to
try to pick the winner of a handicap is equivalent
to exporting gold to Judea, and that what racing
men don’t know about their business would fill a
large-sized book. On form and condition Eurobin
stood out as one of the best horses in training, as
this paper last week took the opportunity of remark-
ing. He won because he galloped like a champion,
lie was a rank outsider mainly because the public
has long, pendulous ears.
For the Cup on Monday the democracy would
have nothing but Green Cap (7st. 71b.) —why
Heaven only knows, for the price on offer was just
plain murder. There was a field of 26, the horse
apart from his win at the Hawkesbury had to be
taken very largely on trust, his running in the Autumn
Stakes had not been at all impressive, yet Ikey had to
work hard writing tickets at two to one —with 25
others going for the bag! Certainly he carried a
stone and a half below w.f.a., but the odds were
enough to scare a Chinaman. Kandos (Bst. 21b.)
and Dollar Dictator (6st. 71b.) were backed at
eights, Cetigne and Giru at 12’s, and the rest
petered out at 20’s, 40’s and 50’s. And once more
the public w r ent down with the familiar old thud
and recent running was turned inside out and upside
down. After about seven furlongs had been left
behind Prince Bardolph (7st. 31b.), a despised out-
sider, hopped past Foil and Giru into the lead, and
clapping on the pace showed the way round the back,
Green Cap being at this point about seventh, while
neither Kandos nor Cetigne had been sighted. Was
it to be last year’s performance, when Scotch Artil-
lery led from end to end? The crowd W'atched in
silence, and MeShortodds breathed heavily through
his nose. At the bend Lewis brought the favorite
up under pressure, and was on terms with Prince
Bardolph as they swung into , the straight. “Green
Cap,” “Green Cap. easy!” was roared by thousands.
But they roared too soon. . The pace had been a
killer, and Prince Bardolph, coming away from the
tiring field, Won by a good two lengths. He out-
stayed and out-galloped everything, and when the
clock stopped it said “24|” —the fastest two miles
ever run in the Commonwealth. Scoutmaster was
third. Cetigne was nowhere.
* * * *
This paper did its best to warn punters
against allowing Eurobin to run loose last Saturday.
Since the son of Andria won his race at Flemington
on New Year’s Day The Bulletin has published
several laudatory remarks upon him. Eurobin is a
high-class horse that might have won anything before
his merits were discovered to the handicappers. He’d
have got into a Melbourne Cup at ist. and
made a certainty of it, always presuming that he
wasn’t subjected to a “severe preparation. ’ Geldings
don’t want it.
* * * *
Riding horses these days is a profitable
business. Young Foulsham, through piloting Luro-
bin and Kandos in Doncaster and St. Leger, pocketed
£l7B. There is a human story attached to the
Doncaster. Rank outsider and red-hot favorite fought
out the finish. Woorak is trained by Ike Foulsham ;
it was his nephew aboard Eurobin who cut down the
hope of the multitude. The Doncaster winner was
stabled at the Coach and Horses, Randwick, and
when the nag was being taken to the course the land-
lady called out to the lad, “Put half a crown on for
me!” “Better keep it in your purse, Missus,” he
called back. The purse would have been fatter by
£6 10s. if she hadn’t. But no matter what price a
horse starts at it’s a million to one on some lucky
bargee planking a bit on. After Eurobin arrived an
excited individual fled to the telegraph office and
with trembling hand managed to compose a wire
home to the missus declaring that he had won
£lOO. He told the envious clerk that he dreamt
about the result. Several Noses with bulging bags
bemoaned that they had laid £2OO to £4 about the
brute. They are never satisfied.
On Saturday and Monday the aggregate
punter fell into the soup right over his ears. Some
of the wagering was deadly. Proceedings opened
right enough with the Spire winning the Hurdles
at nine to two (he negotiated the two miles in
3min. 41 Isec. —an Australian record, and only -Jsec.
outside the world’s best) and then blue ruin brooded
over the landscape. Not another favorite got home
during the day. Long-priced outsiders bobbed up
with horrid regularity. In the Sires’ Produce Stakes
Miss Tressady was at two’s and five to two. She
finished absolutely last. The imported Sydian,
about whom there was much mystery in Vic. lately,
went out in the High-weight Handicap in fierce
demand at three’s in a crowd of 27, and at the end
there were 26 animals ahead of the wretched prad.
This, with the fall of Giru, Carlita, Woorak, Quair-
neta and Cetigne, left the public about enough
to pay its tram fare home. But it came back
with more cash on Monday and tackled Ikey again
and got jumped on from the start. Wolaroi was
the single favorite who arrived in time. Of the 12
races run on the two days the winners of 11 xvere
sired bv imported horses.
* * * *
After Monday there was no doubt about
the name of the most expeditious youngster of the
year. It is Wolaroi, who achieved the rich Cham-
pagne Stakes after a vigorous set-to with Portrina.
He carried 9st. 61b. and ran the six furlongs in
lmin. 13sec. The Newcastle-owned filly, Thana,
which won the still richer Sires’ Produce Stakes on
the opening day, got 21b. and a beating into third
place in the Champagne. But she is a rare good
filly, all the same. Wolaroi has now appropriated
more cash than any previous two-year-old had ever
raked together in Australia.
* * * *
The gilt attached to the Doncaster (£2106)
and the Cup ( £4342) went to Vic. Prince Bardolph
was purchased as a yearling in Sydney for 270 gns.
He is trained by Mark Whitty at Flemington.
Eurobin hails from Gippsland, and is leased by his
trainer, J. Whitebourne. Both animals are geldings.
A horse that has been much in the lime-
light on Melbourne suburban courses lately is Short
Rain. At Mentone, carrying Bst. 51b., he won the
third-division handicap after being backed from 20’s
to 8-1. Following Monday, at Moonee Valiev, he
started second favorite in the April Purse, and just
got there from the crack 14.2 pony Carwelkin. Next,
at Sandown Park, he met Carwelkin on 181 b. worse
terms, and won again. Another Aurofodina in the
making perhaps.
* * * *
“Spreader”: A champion racehorse has to
gallop for his reputation. A champion sire in most
cases is a rank opportunist. First-class wives will
make a name for any good horse, but a moke like
Positano would have been a dead certainty to miss
getting classic or first-class handicap winners from
station mares. Sir Modred, bred in Maoriland in
1877, turned out later on to be the best all-round
sire in America. He opened his stud career in J. B.
Ilaggin’s stables, where success for him was predes-
tined. Carbine at Welbeck had another oppor-
tunity of the made-to-order sort. The best-proved
horses as sires and ornaments of the Australian
turf are Positano and Fisherman, though the latter
did all his cheque-earning as a racehorse in Eng-
land. The blood of Panic, originally imported to
Tasmania in ’6O, has proved the most far-reaching.
Of the born-to-blush-unseen contingent, Sunrise, who
stood in the Junee district for years, was never
mated with any really first-class mares, yet perpe-
trated a phenomenal number of winners till old age
gathered him in. AVhat might he have accomplished
at llobartville,. or St. Albans? As new and unex-
pected traits come to light all the “lines of blood”
and “characteristic” theories go by the board and
take their place on the back shelves in company
with Mendelisms and figure deductions. The Aus-
tralian thoroughbred is the compeer of his English
relatives in most things, barring perhaps the ability
to whirl over 1320 yards with a postage stamp on
deck —and that, after all, is the thing that matters
most in our present stage of lunacy.
* * * »
Some racing prads have the rottenest luck.
A nag named Limpet at present performing in
Maoriland has started nine times this season. She
won once, and in the next eight attempts ran into
a place that wasn’t first. Another, Prince Eddie,
has out of 11 starts scored one solitary win and
scrambled into 10 other places.
This war is really getting too absurd!
Anyhow, the S. Aus. Jockey Club evidently thinks so;
for it asked the military authorities whether they
couldn’t get off Morphettville racecourse before the
Adelaide Cup week comes on. The authorities re-
plied, “regretfully,” that they can’t possibly do it;
so the Adelaide Cup and Goodwood will be "run this
year, like the Birthday Cup and City Handicap, at
Victoria Park.
* * * *
Steeplechasing is booming in Wilson’s
country, where it has never before been popular.
At the United Hunt’s meeting, to start on May 13
at Belmont, a big handicap sw’eepstake of 21 miles is
to be run, the added money being 700 sovs., which
will make the event worth over 1000 sovs. to the
winner. The meeting is to extend over two days,
with 13 events, all across country or over sticks.
* * * #
The German Derby will, unless the Allies
get there first, be run at Hamburg on June 25, so
the Hun evidently reckons he won’t be eating racing
nags for a day or two.
* * * *
Tommy Horan, great batsman, delightful
cricket writer and genial soul, has finished his
innings. By Victorians of the late ’7o’s and early
’Bo’s he was looked upon almost as a prodigy, and
many old-timers still contend that Victoria has pro-
duced no greater batsman. Certain it is that Mel-
bourne saw no greater leg-hitter, and if there weie
only a few Horans in the game to-day the abomin-
able leg-theory business would soon be dead. Horan was
a run-getter, thumping up century scores against Eng-
land (one), N. 8. Wales (three), South Aus. (one),
and in many minor contests. In first-class and pen-
nant cricket he accumulated about 10,000 runs, and
made thousands more in minor contests.
The late Thomas Horan was one of the
galaxy of stars that made up the ’B2 Australian
XI, which was famous for beating, for the first time
on earth, a picked English XL This memorable
match was played at Lords, and Australia won by
seven runs. What a team it was! Blackham,
Bonnor, Boyle, McDonnell, Palmer, Horan (Vic.),
A Bannerman, Murdoch, Garrett, Jones, Massie,
Spofforth (N.S.W.), G. Giffen (S.A.). Horan came
back with a batting average of 2a, which was con-
sidered good in those days Most of the famous
team are still alive. Tom Garrett is Public trustee
in n. S. Wales, and Harry Massie is general manager
of the Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney. One of
the mast curious events in Horan’s career was the
disposal of Billy Murdoch in the inter-State match,
N. S. Wales v. Vic., played at Sydney in January,
1882. N.S.W., batting first, amassed 775, a huge
score. Murdoch was over 300 when, as a last resort,
Horan went on to bowl —for the first time in his
life. Billy glanced one of his deliveries to leg, and
Blackham, who was keeping sticks, chased the ball.
As he was wearily plodding back from the boundary
he yelled to Horan to go on bowling. Horan went
on, and there not being a wicketkeeper Murdoch
went for a slog. He mishit, and the ball went fly-
ing over his head to a spot usually without a fields-
man. Blackham strolling in-field happened to be in
the way, and the epoch-marking innings came to an
end. Horan developed into quite a decent change-
bowler afterwards.
* * *
“Myna”: Tommy Horan was noted for
several things, among them his appetite, the size of
his hat, and his memory. Old-time cricketers speak
with wonder of his gastronomic feats and his vast
hat was almost as well known in Melbourne streets
as that of the late lamented Ranfurly Knox. 1t was
usually worn well down on to the back of his head,
and in close contact with his ears. Tommy’s memory
frequently caused him to recite poetry and prose,
particularly such as had been perpetrated by one
Shakspeare. In his younger days he was verra
careful o’ the siller. It is related that on one of his
tours practically half his personal expenditure con-
sisted of the £6"or £7 a dress-suit cost him. Yet he
was thoroughbred Irish, born on the ould sod in ’55.
* * * *
Tommy Horan’s death leaves only Frank
Allan and Jack Blackham of the Victorian section
of Dave Gregory’s famous 1878 Australian XI.
Only three barrackers—W. Slight, W. Trump and
Dave Scott —cheered them off at Spencer-street via
Sydney, for England; and Scott is the only remnant
of that cheer still above ground. After a tour of
37 matches (18 of which were won) how the thou-
sands cheered when they came back again ! Horan
never got that incident out of his life. He w T as a
great cricketer, but at the end his greatest pride was
in those two boys of his who are helping to save
civilisation from Kultur.
* * * *
“Devilfish”: Away back about 3800
attempts to acclimatise salmon and salmon-trout in
Tasmania were begun. The salmon-trout have stocked
rivers all over the island, but though the efforts to
get the real salmon to feel at home
were successful for a while the fish
eventually disappeared. The theory
is that they went to sea and forgot
to come back; anyway, it is doubtful
if there is one left now in any Tas-
manian stream, though there is no
obvious reason why there should not
be. Every now and then someone
blow's in with a yarn of having
caught the real Simon Pure in the
Pieman or the Gordon or some other
West Coast stream, but these seem
to be big salmon-trout run to seed;
none of those submitted to experts
have been diagnosed as real salmon.
They certainly grow to an exalted
size; there is an authenticated case
of a 401 b. fish from the Pieman, and
I have heard a legend of a 60-pounder.
They don’t waste time fishing with
rods, reels and flies on the West
Coast; they use a net, a dynamite
plug or a gun. The anglers on the Pieman used to
stand on a convenient rock, and when the back of
a big fish ploughing his way up-stream showed
above the water they had at him with a bullet or a
charge of shot.
* * * *
The Moana on its last trip dropped at
Wellington (M.L.) an old friend —the Rev. M.
Molyneaux, the athletic parson who a few years
dgo brought out a team of English footballers.
Recently he has been a naval chaplain; but he wants
to fight alongside some of his old Maori antagonists,
and has come all this way to enlist.
* * * *
Rugby in Auckland (M.L.) appears likely
to be wiped out this season among boys.
Delegates of the various clubs recently decided to
recommend the Union that no player over 20 years
of age should be permitted to come into the competi-
tions. So deadly in earnest about it were the club
representatives that they refused to entertain a pro-
posal to exempt men over 20 who had offered to
enlist and had been turned down by the doctor.
* * * *
St. Peter’s College (Adelaide) broke its
long run of failure in sport at this year’s athletic
meeting, winning from Prince Alfred’s by 12 points.
The competition was keen all through, and no boy
won more than two events. R. M. Fowler cut the
hurdles record for this fixture down to 16 4-ssec.
Old-time successes give St. Peter’s 14 wins against
five in these annual contests.
* * * #
The Yanks aren’t too proud to slay one
another, anyhow. During the recent season 16
players were killed while playing the weird brand of
murder known as American football.
* * * *
Swimming records by women given in
the New York Police Gazette Annual, 1916, are
all at sea. Annette Kellerman is given as the
record-holder of a mile, with 32min. 44sec. This
is only 6min. 36sec. slower than Fanny Durack’s
time ! E. McKay’s 6min. 51sec. is alleged to be the
feminine record for 440yds. It isn’t. Fanny
Durack’s 6min. 3 2-ssec. is. The same girl’s 2min.
57sec. for 200yds. is ssec. behind Eanny’s time for
220yds. The 75yds. and lOOydSi records are placed
at 57 4-ssec7 and lmin. 12 3-ssec. The Australienne
long ago clipped them down to 49 4-ssec. and
lmin. 6sec.
* * * *
“K.T.P.”: “0.K.” (B. 13/4/’l6) is wrong
when he says Donald Dinnie found nobody his equal
at hammer-throwing when he came to Aus-
tralia. On Melbourne Cricket Ground (26/l/’9l)
Hughie Kneebone beat Donald in projecting 561 b.
of ironmongery—Kneebone, 30ft. 6in. ; Dinnie, 25ft.
Bin. On the same day Kneebone beat the Scot at
throwing the hammer and tied with him at tossing
the caber. One of Kneebone’s feats was to put a
561 b. weight from a standing mark 20ft. 6in. Dinnie
could not equal this. Kneebone on several other
occasions defeated Dinnie at weight-putting and
hammer-throwing.
* * * *
When Albert Bird died lately at Bendigo
(Vie.), no one took any notice; yet in his time
the old man had been one of the greatest distance
runners the world has known. Born in ’46 at
Sheffield, he beat all the cracks of his day, and with
Hewitt and Topley was brought by George Coppin
to Melbourne, where he made his first appearance
on New Year’s Day, ’7O, in a mile handicap. In
this he gave starts up to 360 yards and won easily.
So good was he that the management had to make
relay matches for him. At Adelaide on one occa-
sion he ran 11 miles inside the hour, and raced nine
men 10 miles, the first running two and the others
a mile apiece. He oleaned up the whole-bunch at
every mile. Bird at one time put a cross on on*
of Victoria’s best-known bookmakers, when he mp«l
Bradshaw, of Ballarat, and Foster, of Maoriland over
five miles, each of his opponents having to run n
miles. Bird told the writer that he received £2(m
from one Ikey to lose and £4OO from another to
win, and win he did, beating Bradshaw at the half
distance and Foster at the finish. He was a little
man, sft. spn. in height, and Bst. 91b. in racinv
condition, but could stretch his pins over 7ft Bin-~
a freak stride for such a shortv. After his racine
career he went to the wall in quick time, and used
to hawk fruit and clean boots for a crust Old
sports who have seen peds come and go claim for Bird
that he was the prettiest distance runner they remem
ber. He got through thousands playing hazards.
Harry Stone, the American newsboy pug
who returned to Sydney a couple of weeks ago for
a season of bash, had a strenuous Eastertide. On
Saturday he collided with Herb McCoy at the Sta-
dium, and, after smoking a few cigars over Sunday
was ready to mix it with Tommy Uren on Monday
at the same establishment. Stone, isn’t a first-
flighter in Dallarland, but is fairly ’ dose up, and
since last seen in these parts has become rather
more expert in his own peculiar style of hit, duck
and jump. He is the swinging door all the time
and on well-oiled hinges, too. McCoy found him
more or less ungetatable, and over the greater part
of the journey was fooled and well outpointed. Some-
times the Victorian looks good enough to meet any-
thing. Saturday was not one of these occasions
But in Uren—taller, more vigorous and with a
heavier punch than McCoy—Stone found himself with
a different sort of job on hand, and spent most of
his time getting out of trouble. Uren carried the
fight on top of him throughout, and it was Stone
who didn’t win. The main result of all this un-
pleasantness is to create more uncertainty about the
relative greatness of Messrs. McCoy and Uren, which
can only be settled by more punch on the nose.
Because it packed up and rushed to press
a day early last week this page forgot to mention
that on the previous Saturday the colors of the
Lonsdale Belt holder, Llew Edwards, were lowered
for the second time in Australia at Melbourne. Bert
Spargo did it. The disturbance was odorless and inces-
sant. In the early stages Spargo took the bit in his
teeth, attacking both flanks and the centre and covering
up when Edwards started reprisals. In the ninth round
Llewellyn revived the spirit of ancient Cambria, and
began distributing bewilderment with short-range
left and right hooks to the gallery. Edwards’s
backers were already getting measured for new
suits, but after the fifteenth interval Spargo came
back with sufficient success to receive the referee's
fatherly pat. Then the crowd took a deep breath
and yelled a benediction.
Melbourne stoush-eaters were on starva-
tion diet last Saturday night, the debauch to have
been promoted by Bill Carrie and Jim Lynch being
mostly debacle. William stood afar off and, with
FRANCIS BIRTLES on the move.
all possible gentleness, hammered the unsophisticated
James into forgetfulness. The exhibition extended
over four rounds.
Melbourne Athletic Pavilion, in Exhibi-
tion-street, tor many years dedicated to the worship
of Stoush, has had its name altered to Gladstone
Hall, and r.owanights earnest brethren meet there ana
box a few strenuous rounds with Satan. Frank
Slavin, Peter Jackson, Peter Newton, Joe Goddard
and others with wallops to conjure with helped to
make the fame of the “Pay.,” and the late • ■ ■
Purves and John Madden were persistent attendants.
* * * *
The Yanks are at last beginning to hold
their own at the game of dashing round a wo ° e V
saucer in a motor-car. In the recent 350 mites \ -
at Long Island for the Astor Cup cars built in the
neighborhood came first and second, averaging stig j
over 102 miles per hour for the run. Althougn
’Murcan builders of pleasure cars have gone "
multi-cylinder engines—such as sixes, eights anu ,
twelves, or “twin-sixes,” as they are called no
the things are used by them in speed contests.
England six- and eight-cylindered cars are used
racing, and a 12-cylindered Sunbeam has pel 0
some mighty feats, but such cars have not been
for the ordinary market. On the other ha ,
Yanks have stuck to the four-cylindered machine t
racing, and are rapidly bringing it to such ‘
that it looks like becoming the ultimate type tor
kinds of work. *
* * * ,
For a country which some people don t
think capable of making a mousetrap Australia
done so badly. In the matter of motor transp
etc., it has had some good wins—thanks 1 | •• t - s
Colonel Tarrant, Chairman of the Defence Departme
Motor Transport Board. Both the Divisional Suppti
Column, under Colonel Moon, and the Diviso
Ammunition Park, under Colonel Hmbridg ,
work in France, were organised throughout by
At the Newport workshops the same man » re
a travelling motor workshop was carried nr ; 2 inal
these two outfits left for the Front, ancl . w ;th
concern is doing duty in France in c 0 ? ■ uen tly
numerous British vehicles which were sfi
built on the same plan. Incidentally Ta w h 0 Hy
has thus far built three aeroplane engine > y,’ e
of Australian construction, and now in
Point Cook school. # *
This has been a good fishing season
at Rotorua (M.L.), but the proud catch q{
rainbow trout landed from Lake Roto • were
them weighed 2011 b. and the other 12 • - e the
in splendid condition, so probably they trout
senior bishop and the junior bishop
congregation.


My Scientific Exercises are Keys to
Health and Strength.
%
y
Fa
Your health and strength depend upon exercise.
Exercise is the judicious movement of the organs of body, so
that they will not become flabby through want of use.
When an organ becomes flabby it cannot carry out its functions
in a natural way. It goes from bad to worse. Eventually it is a
source of never-ending annoyance—then chronic ill-health.
Judicious exercise is the key of health.
It cuts out monotony, accomplishes permanent results quickly,
takes up very little time. Every movement goes right to the spot.
My Postal Course of Health and Strength Exercises
,°f. exercises prescribed to suit the particular requirements
It is the key of better health and greater strength. It’s
benefiting hundreds throughout Australasia and New Zealand.
It is making them stronger and better men. Here’s one
pupil’s experience:—
“I, feel much stronger and better in every way since I
started your Coiurse. I thank you most sincerely for bring-
ing me better health. I will always recommend vour Postal
Course to my friends.” H. L. S., Warwick, Q.
Walking is a fine exercise, but few can find time for a
daily five-mile jaunt. But everyone can spare fifteen
minutes a day. Devote that time to my Special Health
Exercises, and you’ll be delighted with the results.
Full particulars of my methods and fees are given in my
booklet, “Health and Strength from Self-Culture,” which
will be promptly sent to you if you will write for it. Just
write your name and address across this advertisement. I’ll
know what you mean. Send three penny stamps for postage
REG. L. (“Snowy’ ) BAKER,
489 Belmont Buildings, SYDNEY.
MY GUARANTEE IS
“S A T T S FACTION,
OR YOUR MONEY
REFUNDED in
FULL.” There are
no exceptions to this
rule, therefore you
run no risk in order-
ing your smokes from
me.
My Helena
Dutch
Planters
will appeal to all who
require a mild and fine-
flavored cigar at a moder-
ate price. They are excel-
lent value.
Each cigar is enclosed in
a fibre wrapper. I import
them direct from the
manufacturers in Holland,
hence the low price.
In boxes of 25 8/t»
In boxes of 50 16/6
Postage on 25:
N.S.W., t>d.
Inter-State, Sd.
Postage on 50:
N.S.W., 9d.
Inter-State, 1/2.
My illustrated catalog will
interest every smoker.
Send for a free copy.
A. M. Solomon
(Cigar Expert),
173 Pitt Street, Sydney.
di
WIW
%mu
Armoured cars of the
Allies are run on
SHELL'
BENZINE
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO LTD
Hfndiwi
Makes All Australia
Your Pleasure Ground
WKITK t-oR CATALOGUE ”l>"
RHODES MOTOR CYCLE CO.
109.113 RUSSELL ST
MELBOURNE.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL * SKINS.
Personal attention
to all consignments.
Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
YOUR
NEW
SHOES
•—buy them at the Rigney Shoe Stores, and
prove for yourself just what the name
“RIGNEY” on a shoe means in comfort,
style and long service.
We illustrate a Patent Colt Oxford Shoe
a very popular and high-grade "made-to-
order” style. The brogue cap affords very
reliable wear.
Price - 27|0
Also in Tan Velour Calf, same price.
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG. |
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,"
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY-
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
/
■
THE BEST FOR ALL
-Athletes
Bosisto’s
Parrot Brand
Eucalyptus Oil
Essential to
Athletic Fitness.
111! Australian Remedy
for Colds, Bronchitis,
Rheumatism, etc.
CAUTION—AIways ask for
BOSISTO’S
PARROT BRAND
as substitutes may be
offered to you.
mm
'
44»
m
*
*
DAMP PROOF BOOT
This “Wearite’’Model is something unique, by reason of,
its Exclusive Feature —“ Rubber-Packing.” This consists
of a Fine Sheet of Rubber inserted between the Welt and
the sole, through which no moisture can penetrate, and
which renders the Boot absolutely Damp-Proof. But apart
from this feature, the Boot represents really out-of-the-
ordinary value, it would be
PROPERLY PRICED AT 22/6
the beautiful quality of the Fine, Soft Stout, Fully Matured
Box-Calf in which it is made and the perfection ot its
manufacture meriting this amount which would be further
justified by present market rates. We can qtiote 18/6
because the iine is part of an immense purchase
made before the Recent Rises in Leather— :
The ‘'Rubber-Packed Wearite’'is Leather-Lined from Tag
to Toe : - has Welted Double Soles—is stocked in Full
Round Toe as shewn and in \ sizes.
POST YOUR ORDER.
We Pay Freight. We Guarantee Satisfaction-
Lincoln, Stuart & Co.
244-254 Flinders Street : MELBOURNE.
.X ; ‘ •£, ‘ ‘A
IfieTbin Sheet
of Rubber between.
.
mm.
■ ;•
m
Wm


£
tm
I
!
!
y///////////mm/////m//////m//////////
For
Wet
Shampoo
There is
nothing
better
for the
hair
than
1 cil m a
Shampoo Sachets—they
thoroughly cleanse the
scalp, help the hair to
grow (they are the only
wet shampoos that do
this), and give a feeling of
comfort and cleanliness that
ordinary shampoos and
household soaps cannot
equal. A necessity (not a
luxury) for all who value
their appearance and
British made.
1
Shampoo Sachets
(For Wet Shampoo).
Price 3d. Packet.
Of Chemists, Druggists, Stores, etc.
Icilma ia pronouncei Eye-Silma.
.J. C Gambles & Co., Agents, ,
11 Commerce House, Melbourne.
A S t
p-Jemf lensk (9 fc
|l|e>ufhjltl appear^ce;'prcsen3e4 ;
| hu usita ’ '•• '••><
rte«rj-.
tst
■
M
£
Geo. E. Keith
“PARIS”
Model.
An All-Patent Boot
An admirable style for dress wear.
Very fine finish. Light welted soles
and that smart, long shape desired by
the well-dressed, i- and half-sizes
37/6
Visitor's. —Call while in Sydney and
see our distinctive styles.
We Pay Postage.
Write for Catalogue.
P
For Distinctive Footwear,
135 King Street, SYDNEY.
How to Treat Your Hair and Complexion.
A Few Simple Beauty Hints.
By Mdlle. GABY DESLYS, the weil=known Parisian Actress.
YOU ask me for a few hints on tne
treatment of the hair and complexion.
Well, the less “treatment” you give
the skin the better. 1 do not
believe much in massage, but a
little cream to the face is neces-
sary to counteract the effects of
wind or sun. What cream
would I recommend? Well, I
advise you to use a little mer-
colised wax every night and
again in the morning, after
washing the face. Rub it
gently into the skin, then wipe
off any superfluous wax and
dust a little barri-agar over
the face. You will find that
this will be the only “treat-
ment” necessary and will keep
your face fresh and youthful-
looking for all your life. The mercolised
wax removes all the dead outer skin, so
that you have always a fair, fresh com-
plexion like a girl’s.
For the hair, the first and most important
m
Photo: Wrather & Buys.
thing is a good shampoo. Never u 8e anv
thing inferior to wash the hair with Get
some good stallax from your chemist and use
a teaspoonrul in a cup,of hot
water. Then rinse the hair
well and it will look bright and
glossy.
A tome is. necessary when the
hair is inclined to fall out more
than it should, and is always
good to use during the spring
and autumn. Then the hair
needs a little—What do you call
itV—stimulant, and for this 1
would advise you to get a packet
of boranium and mix it with
some bay rum ; dab this into the
roots and it will not only stop
the fall, but make your hair
grow long and thick. Give your
hair a good brushing every; night, and that
will be all that you need do.
Blackheads Fly Away.
Instantaneous Remedy for Blackheads, Greasy Skin and Enlarged Pores.
A practically instantaneous remedy for
blackheads, greasy skins and enlarged pores,
recently discovered, is now coming into
general use in the boudoir. It is very
simple, harmless and pleasant. Drop a
sty mol tablet, obtained at the chemist’s, in
a tumblerful of hot water. After the effer-
vescence has subsided bathe the face in the
liquid, using a small sponge or soft cloth.
In a few minutes dry the face and the offen-
sive blackheads will come right off on the
towel. Also the large oily pores immedi-
ately close up and efface themselves natu-
rally. _ The greasiness disappears and the
skin is left smooth, soft and cool. This
simple treatment is then repeated a few
times at intervals of four or five days, to
ensure the permanence of the result.
Grey Hair—Home Remedy.
An old-fashioned Recipe restores Youthful Appearance.
There are plenty of reasons why grey
hair is not desirable, and plenty of reasons
why hair dyes should not be used. But, on
the other hand, there is no reason why you
should have grey hair if you do not want
it. To turn the hair back to a natural color
is really a very simple matter. One has
only to get from the chemist two ounces of
concentrate of tammalite and mix it with
three ounces of bay rum. Apply to the
hair with a small sponge for a few nights
and the greyness will gradually disappear.
This liquid is not sticky or greasy and does
not injure the hair in any way. It has been
used for generations with most satisfactory
results by those who have known the
formula.
To Kill Roots of Superfluous Hair.
The most Effective Formula ever Discovered
Women annoyed with disfiguring growths
of superfluous hair wish to know not merely
how to temporarily remove the hair, but how
to kill the hair roots permanently. For
this purpose pure powdered pheminol may be
applied directly to the objectionable hair
growth. The recommended treatment is
designed not only to instantly remove the
hair but also to actually kill the roots so that
the growth will not return. About an ounce
of pheminol, obtainable from the chemist,
should be sufficient.
Good News for Fat People.
Something New in Obesity Cures.
A London chemist says: “The latest
method of reducing obesity certainly is far
more pleasant and convenient than all pre-
vious methods. It consists merely in eating
clynol berries. The fat person who wants
to reduce without the usual rigid diet, exer-
cise, sweating baths, etc., now puts a few
of these little brown berries in his or her
pocket and eats three or four each day.”
Clynol berries not only eliminate fat from
the body, but also correct the tendency,
which is usually constitutional, to create
fatty matter. No discomfort whatever is
caused by their action ; in fact, except for
the loss of superfluous fat and the feeling
of “fitness” so created, you would not be
aware that these little berries were doing
their work.
Local inquiry shows that clynol berries are
not very well known in this country, but
the demand is increasing: daily, and any
chemist can quickly procure them if specially
requested to do so.
Stockings and Socks
for Patriots’ wear
ti
i 4
Quality Stockings and Socks
for Ladies, Children & Men
Are guaranteed by the Brand to be entirely
British made, and are produced from pure
Australasian wool. By buying only Jason you
help the Old Country—besides securing the
finest value in the world.
Insist on Jason Stockings and Socks—which are
ali-wool, and of soft, silky finish. See thei Jason
Tab on every pair. Drapers and outfitters everywhere.
In case of difficulty write to
Jason Hosiers' Co.. Leicester, Eng.
Aa 61
THE KEENESS of the “PLUM”
USs
\\
MA
gives pleasure to every man who shaves.
THE “PLUM" RAZOR
will shave the stiffest beard as smoothly and softly as if it were down
No dragging, no catching. The blade is of unmatched keenness.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
IVe keep this razor in perfect order for two yea ,- s, free of chaige.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21 /-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/
All the above Post Free.
This line makes a lovely present.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITREN
G 54 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
“We have won for ourselves the reputation
of a white-livered people,” laments ex-
President Teddy Roosevelt. The Bulletin
won’t go so far as to say the American liver
is white, exactly—it’s just a neutral tint.
Three soldier brothers named Renton,
from near Drouin (Vic.), just about get
into the record class. The baby, aged 18, is
6ft. long and weighs 12 stone. One of his
brothers can’t* stand erect under 6ft. 4in..
and carries 15 stone around with him. The
eldest brother towers 6ft. 6in. A few more
Rentons would make the Kaiser think the
famous Guard of Frederick of Prussia had
risen from the dead and turned traitor to
lvultur.
Adolf Leselien, Adelaide’s old gymnastic
instructor who went out the other day at
80, belonged to a family whose name was
originally Leszczynski, which is Polish: the
Germanised form, was adopted when the
family settled in Holstein, then under Danish
rule. Young Leselien left for South Aus. at
21, and presently took up teaching. In
conjunction with the school he ran a gymna-
sium, and from that grew what for years
was the best-known physical-culture school
in Australia. The late Samuel Way, Chief
Justice, was one of his early pupils. Once
on a time he made a quaint effort to revive
cross-bow contests, and ran them for a while
near the old Maid and Magpie. But he let
the side-line die quietly when it had had its
season.
“Jack” Cochran, of N.S.W. Assembly, who
was recently told to stand down for the rest
of the session, has been one of the big disap-
pointments in the Labor ranks. When he
secured the selection for Darling Harbor he
enjoyed an amazing popularity, and was
regarded by unionists as a man of special
ability. His claims for inclusion in the
first Labor Government, although he was
then a new member, were reckoned to be con-
siderable, and many optimists tipped him
for the job of Minister for Labor. But he
has drifted until he is content to be, appar-
ently, just “the member for The Rocks,” in
which capacity he asks indignant questions
as to why a tenant in the resumed area who
owes 79 weeks’ rent has been given notice
to quit, instead of having the rent reduced?
“N. or M.”: I have found the oldest
memorial window on record. It adorns All
Saints’ Anglican Church, Hobart. The two
lights represent John the Baptist and James
respectively, with a broad stone mullion
between. At the bottom of the left light
may be read :
S. John Baptist
late of Simon Springs
Erected by his widow
Captious people skip the mullion and read
right across ; but it isn’t half as interesting
that way.
“Fax”: The shabby genteel woman who
has looked on better days must renounce her
old claim to have been “brought up as a
lady.” She was bounced out of it the other
Monday by 200 female unionists in the
Melbourne Eight Hours procession. Those
smart young daughters of Labor, wearing
white silk blouses with dark skirts, blue ties
and blue-banded white hats, followed a
bannerette inscribed “Pioneer Lady
Marchers, 1915.” There’s nothing to be
said against an assertion of lady-likeness—
except that it isn’t ladylike. Cultured
women nowadays speak of themselves as
such, and even the leisured sisters who have
political axes to grind are content to be a
'Women’s National League. They have prac-
tically swapped terms with ' the Ladv
Marchers.
“D.E.”: Westralian Governments, past
and present, have been more than considerate
to the capitalist who takes up land for
speculative purposes. In the. north-east
beyond Laverton there is an enormous tract
of fine sheep and cattle country. Feed is
plentiful and abundant, and good stock water
can be got by sinking 50ft. to 80ft. The
only drawback is the dingo, which could
easily be coped with. Yet this land is almost
unused; it is largely held by fatmen who
conform to no regulations as to stocking and
fencing, and who pay only a nominal rent
in the hope that one day they will get out at
a profit. Meantime the small man with
honest intentions can’t make a start unless
he goes to places remote from the railway
terminus. Westralia has given too much
attention to the man who proposed to grow
wheat (and in many cases can’t) and much
too little to the small man who would grow
stock if he had a chance. In that respect
it could learn a lot from Queensland.
A new one has been tried on an Adelaide
police court. Accused was not, he declared
in great detail, intoxicated in the street.
While doing his work he had got sulphuric
acid into his system, and had to drink a
mixture of methylated spirit and whisky to
counteract the effects. You couldn’t call the
action of a medical remedy intoxication
surely? Indecent .conduct (as also charged)
—well, perhaps. But drunkenness—never !
Btill, a heartless Bench said “25 bob” in the
same old way.
The Melbourne undertaker’s man is asking
for a dress allowance of £26 a year Either
this or that his livery of grief shall be pro-
vided by the boss. Lately, by a Wages
LSoard decision, a few shillings a week were
added to the wages of these toilers.
Promptly the master-ghoul decided to get
even. His helpers had always provided their
own habiliments of gloom; now the boss
determined that, instead of allowing them
to P lc k up an old topper here and a not-too-
shabby flogger there, the outfit must hence-
forth be a new one to start with. Although
nobody worth mentioning, outside of Gov-
ernment House and John Madden’s flat,
wears the frock-and-topper nowadays, there
are still enough wearers to show the devas-
tating effect that constant use has on the
dreadful outfit. Wherefore 30 shillings a
week doesn’t seem an extravagant estimate
for a whole year s supply, to be used seven
days a week in all weathers, and on Mel-
bourne’s dusty, dirty roads at that. An
easy, economical way out of the difficulty
would _be for the State Ministry to bring
in a little bill prohibiting frill at funerals
Several thousands of Australia’s finest citi-
zens have lately been buried without it in a
far country; and they sleep as soundly as
the most splendidly-planted of those buried
here. Besides, this is the time for economy *
isn’t it?


A Remarkable Offer!
“It is almost in the nature of a fine contri-
bution to the War Funds” was the remark
passed the other day by a friendly critic.
The offer is as follows: —lf desired, we
will grant to every purchaser of our
Pianos on time payment, a Life Policy,
which provides that if the hirer, with intent
to purchase, should die before the completion
of payments, the Piano is to become the
property of the person named in the Policy
—absolutely without further payment. Thus
the husband or son meets with a fatal accident,
or suddenly dies, leaving behind a Beale Piano
which is being purchased on instalment plan,
and his widow keeps the Piano without paying
any further instalment; a souvenir of her
husband’s wise forethought and of the generos-
ity of Beale & Co.
It will further enhance the value of your Beale Piano to remem-
ber that it is not made in Germany, where the piano-makers
are fighting against us, but in Australia, by your own com-
rades and under the humane conditions of Australian labour.
You can possess a Beale Piano to-day. If you do not care
to pay cash, we can arrange the easiest terms to suit you,
and will make a liberal allowance for the old instrument, if
' -
you have one.
Mr. OCTAVIUS C. BEALE, Founder and present Controlling Director
of this business, was born at Mt. Mellick, Queen’s County, Ireland,
of an old Irish family. The directors and managers throughout the
business are all descendents of British families for many generations.
There are no Germans employed in the business, and no supplies are
obtained from Germany.
BEALE & CO., Limited
Showrooms : 333 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
232 KING ST., NEWTOWN ; 14 OXFORD ST., PADDINGTON ; and at BATHURST, ORANGE,
LISMORE, NEWCASTLE, GOULBURN and WAGGA.
Agents for the sale of Beale Australian Pianos in Victoria : MAPLES, Melbourne suburbs.
Tasmania : WILLIAMS BROS., Hobart ; and MAPLES, Launceston.
South Australia : JOHN EVANS, LTD., Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Head Office and Factories : 41-47 TRAFALGAR STREET, ANNANDALE.


lourßaty
REQUIRES FISHER’S
TEETHING POWDERS
when troubled with teething, bad
digestion, sickness, flatulency and
pain. They contain no poisons.
The Rev. C. T. Forscutt, 8.A.,
Principal of Rockdale College,
writes: —
“I write to testify to the value
of your Teething Powders. Our
baby suffered very, much in her
teething. A 1 adSyjattominen ded
your Infants’ TeCThing Powders,
and our little sufferer soon got
well. Hundreds of children die
with teeth troubles, and I believe
ours would have died but for your
Teething Powders. I shall feel it
my duty to recommend your
Powders to any of our friends
whose children may suffer in their
teething.”
Sold in Boxes —
20 Powders, 1/-
60 Powders, 2/6.
All Chemists and Stores, or direct
from
FISHER & CO.,
Chemists,
337 George Street,
SYDNEY
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day. —The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment -the Perfected New
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mpars Far Phnno man y times as efflcient
meaii rnone and powerful as the o id
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 391 G City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
WESTERN MACHINERY
WHEELED SCOOPS and DRAG SCRAPERS,
PLOUGHS FOR CONTRACTORS,
WESTERN ROAD GRADERS,
ELEVATING GRADERS, RQCK CRUSHERS,
ROAD PLANER and FINISHER,
DUMP CARS, SCARIFIERS.
(Large Stocks Carried).
Catalogs and Full Information from
the Sole Agents.
E. D. MORRISON 8 CO. LTD.,
257 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Teach Cadets
to shoot
ROSS "CADET.
.22 CALIBRE
The Ross “Cadet” Rifle is a
.22 calibre rifle, made expressly
for Cadet Organizations to the
specifications of the
Canadian Government.
It is strong and
serviceable, shoots .22
calibre short, long, or
long rifle cartridges—
(the most inexpensive
made), and has self-
ejecting, straight-pull
action.
It is an excellent and
safe arm to use to drill
youths and teach them
how to shoot, and is
powerful enough to use
for any except larger
game.
The price is £2-10,
in Canada; discounts
are quoted on orders
for quantities.
Full particulars on application.
715
Ross Rifle Co., Quebec, Canada
Information and Prices can be obtained from—
Mr. HUGH SCOTT-YOUNG,
P.O. Box 1031, Melbourne, Australia.
The Bulletin
Stock Saddle
This latest saddle of ours combines m,™ .
COMFORT INNOVATIONS Sues 7
flippy pisrskm seat, the rough out-flaps for LI; the
G.S. panel with the short stuffing and leathef Pl ■ our
the long girth straps and long flaps, it j= fittpri r ’°"' ts >
illustrated with folded leather girth, stirrim i„ as
4-bar nickel-plated stirrups and SLTtOIXCr W
knee-pads are well madej.and strong and thf .drV i_r e
for comfort. If you prefer all smooth leather SA
and"weS.t" 3 ’ S ° “ and give - VOur
Price £5-18-6
Freight Free
for Cash
to any port or railway station in N.S.W.
in the other States, New Zealand or Fiji.
or any direct port
KING HEAD BRIDLE, with rein and billet in one
piece, and one inch cheeks and rein, 11/6, post free, for
cash. If ordered with Saddle, 10/6,
Illustrated Catalogue Post Flee.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON LTD.
Saddlers & Harness Mahers
393 George St. and 32 Hunter St., Sydney
The Sydney 8 Suburban Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
Mutual Life Building 14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
For all classes of Lift Maintenance, Repairs, Renewals <*f Lifting Ropes and other parts
—for Hydraulic Material, Pipes, Valves, Tubing and High Pressure Stocks generally,
Best Workmanship and Material. Quotations supplied.
IMPORTANT
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort and good
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/-tube every-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
HiE m
ncubato J
BROODY HENS for 12/6.
The “HATCHO” 15-egg Incubator
is a perfect substitute for a Broody
Hen, will hatch every fertile egg,
simple to use, cannot get out of order.
Over 4000 sold last season.
Price 12/6 complete, carriage paid.
Egg Testers 1/2 each. Agents wanted.
K. CASTON & CO., Dept. H.,
40 Hunter Street, Sydney.
MONtserraT
SAUCE
WM
* .
mm
MADE FROM THE
CELEBRATED
MONTSERRAT
LIME JUICE.
ITS PURITY
and great
DIGESTIVE
VALUE
make it the finest
Sauce procurable.
Of All Storekeepers.
t
mm
*#s=.
ffl
Loaded in London
■with the popular
English powders
The lightning
speed of the game
bird is easily matched
by the even pellet distribution, velocity
and penetration of Remington - UMC
REMINGTON”
Cartridges
Made in 12, 16, 20, 24,
28, 32 (14 m/m) and 36
(410 or 12 m/m) gauge
TRY
THEM
Obtainable from leading dealers
everywhere catalogue post-
free on request.
Remington Arms-Union
Metallic Cartridge Co.
Woolworth Bldg , New York City
St. Stephens House
Westminster,
S.W.,
I nndoD
THEY ASTONISH THE TRADE.
They are such marvellous value that the silver men
cannot understand it: HOW IS IT DONE ? Well,
our managing director when in Sheffield was ordering
Solid Silver Goods very largely, and asked for quota-
tions for an enormous number of Sauce Boats, to be
made at slack times. To be extra heavyweights that
would wear for hundreds of years. To be of approved
designs and plain, so as to be easily cleaned. To be
paid for spot cash against delivery in London.
RESULT —Solid Silver Sauce Boats of unparalleled
value. Indeed, Solid Silver at less than the usual
price of Electro-plate. This is one only of a number
of similar-value Solid Silver lines. Sauce Boats are
supplied with tray if desired.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTP.,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney,
PLAIN FIGURES-
OASH ONLY.
Very heavy Solid Silver Sauce 45/.
illustrated • 9/•
Less 20 % discount -----
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. Ao
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
L.R.: Much obliged. But you’re wrong.
The type of that page has been changed only once
in 12 years, and then it was made slightly larger.
. ...F.H.C.: Afraid the scheme is impracticable.
You see, there are 10,000 contingencies to provide
for. .. .R.G.C.: Very fair verse. Glad to hear from-
you.. ..M.A.: Don’t care for “The Coward”....
M.M.W.: Pars, accepted will be paid for; forward
date and page of their appearance to the accountant.
.. . .Biuebush : Nothing in it. .. .M. McM.: Don’t
know the meaning of the abo. words “kolodong” and
“woolla woolla”... .391: Speak kindly of it? Why
should we? It is a fraud on the p00r... .Donald
Gildea: Dull, artificial verse with four lines badly
out of scansion. And what on earth do you mean by
a line iike “Wading across their fellow’s’ ocean
graves”? Grey Man: Ninety-six weary lines to say
that a dog ought to have his bark cut off without
shedding any of his teeth?... .H.H.H.: “Rise and
Fall of Dinny” is a dull yarn poorly told. .. .Delta:
Nothing doing. We don’t reprint... .G.K.S.: Not
up.... Chick: “Dream Girl” falls over her feet....
j.J.T.: Not for us. Passed @n as requested....
C.W.G.: Satyr verses over the odds. .. . 8.8. H.: They
won’t see the clumsy, inane thing in this paper....
T.A.N.: Too bitter. There isn’t as much shirk as
all ‘that. .. .J.N.N.: Handling too rugged for the
theme. .. .R.M.V.: More Anzac! Never met the verb
“to fatherhood” before... .H.A.S.: Writing great
lives on the pages of the sea seems a wet and un-
healthy pastime... .A. 1.: “Bravest thing on
Earth” label wisely shifted to other shoulders, but
verse won’t carry it... .G.R.H.: Noted that Bismarck
is not in Heaven. Well, maybe Heaven will pull
through without him.... Scout: Sorry, but not up.
. ...E.J.8.: 0ut.... Maitai: If you take pains to
leave no mark on your manuscript by which it can
be identified, and to give no clue in your letter to
the name of your yarns, how can you expect an
answer? Possibly the “Scully” story is yours. If
so,-we see no hope whatever... .J.G.: Verse doesn’t
get there.... Lyn: Poor stuff with a limp in every
second line... .C.P.S.: Too frail. .. .M.T.: No ; but a
promising first attempt... .E.C.F.: Anaemic jokelet
shooed 0ff.... .H.S.S.: “Kindly correct it where
necessary.” We did. There’s none of it now.... Lek
Dewar: “A Summer Morn” is an example of what
can be achieved by one who has nothing to write
about and doesn't know how’ to do it... .D.M.C.: “To
Arms” wouldn’t rouse a mosquito to take vengeance
on a cow. . . .M.T.: What do you mean by preserving
the contents of the dealg,? Doesn’t it seem a bit
indecent?... .T.J.D.: “My Benefit” didn’t grip us.
Can't trace others mentioned.... R.W.C.: The
Bulletin does not buy or print syndicated matter.
....Mark M.: No room; no inclination if there was
r00m.... Thankoffering: Don’t agree with you at all.
It’s not the business of a Government to go out
with a begging bowl in its hand and a placard
hanging on its chest—“l’m not blind or lame; I'm
only too lazy to work.”... .5.8.: Please don’t....
C. Ness (Eng.): Thanks; they arc fine fellow’s. But
we quite expected them to do that sort of thing. At
home here they’ve been doing it for years. Twenty
.years ago writer, on a dry bush track, met a man
who had thrown up his job and was walking 180
miles to vote. You don’t expect men with grit like
that to stick at a trifle... .Essenay: Ought to have
been a good par. in that man; but you haven’t pro-
duced it. Get to the facts. You can’t make your
yarns too direct. Half the time of the sub-editors
on this paper is spent in making paragraphs W’alk
straight across the street in their ovm clothes, instead
of first putting on a fancy-dress disguise and
ambling round three blocks... .T.V.8.: Good verse,
but idea done to death. .. .F.S.: “Hard Lines” is the
old conventional tale of suicide badly done. .. .N.C.:
An old theme and too slight... .J.C.M.: Well, look
at one verse of it in print:—-
Yes them are the coves to enlist, now,
Like Daniel or An-an-i-as:—-
Why.Golia useter kill millions
With a blanky jawbone of an ass.
... .E.S.fc.O.: “Incomprehensible niy love” scans to
be the most intelligible line in it....R.5.: This
paper isn't published in New York. . . .M.F.M.: It's
a dreadful thing. Did he put the whole sheep in
his tucker-bag, and do you imply that dances are
conducted on that plan in the Coolibah district?.
R.F.N.: Tired verses no use... .H.E.S.M.: Why not
take The Sentimental Bloke with you?.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.H.L.: You’re a badly-tangled art critic
Nooje: Very sour and low-spirited production....
J.N.: Your humor’s too young, and you can’t draw
yet. . . .8.5. A.: Some faint idea of the job, but that’s
not enough to start presswork 0n.... Vera M.: It’s
rather wooden and the gag is 01d.!.. Rob S.: An
eggshell idea....K.: Bit gruesonw, and afraid, it
might be thought too hard on Samuel. .. . C.C.: Very
good idea. .. .Atlas: Glad to hear from you again.
“Yigilans” slices a piece from the roof of
Australia: —
Bill Lawrie, who has sold out his stations in the
Northern Territory to Yestey Bros., is about as
tough a man as one would meet in any country in
the world. For 37 years he has roughed it in the
open on the Adelaide, Alligator and Roper rivers,
with occasional trips to the East and South. For
nearly three decades he has hunted buffalo and
cattle and slept on the ground, and now, though over
70, looks as fit as Verbrugghen’s violin. The pro-
perties acquired by Vestey Bros, comprise the
Adelaide River, most of the Alligator and some of the
Roper. This country is in close proximity to Dar-
win, and is the best portion of Arnheim Land. Here
are to be found buffalo, Brahmin cattle, Timor ponies
and brumbies running wild, besides goats and pigs.
The swamp lands have been likened to Saigon, and
pronounced suitable for rice-growing. There are
strips of jungle containing good soil; but large
tracts of open downs would make excellent paddy-
fields with systematic drainage. Cotton grows wild
all over the country. It would appear that Yestey
Bros, and the Union Co. (practically the same Con-
cern) will soon hold a mortgage on the Territory.
This crowd, in conjunction with Bovril Ltd., holds
the Ord, Margaret and Sturt rivers (Westralia) ;
nearly all the Victoria River; Hodgson Downs and
the Elsey, on the Roper; the Alligator and Adel-
aide country ; and portion of the Katherine River—an
enormous tract of country. Apparently under the
Gilruth regime monopoly rules the roost. Vestey
Bros, will not develop the North. The meatworks
will no doubt give a little employment, but the
small landholder whom the country most needs will
not get a look-in. Lawrie says farming is a hopeless
proposition, as the soil is mostly poor; but all cattle-
men say that.


l '--:
It
'
G.E. Motors
Save Money
-’r
*£S
-‘•VSv?
•«.-.-so -
Onlv by using G.E. Motors can you appreciate the advantages to be gained by their utilisation.
Why not purchase them now and derive the benefits you will obtain from them, viz.: —
Improved Ventilation
Decreased Insurance
Lower Fire Risk
Reduction of Wastag'e
Better Lig'Ht Distribution
Lessened Employer’s Liability
Enhanced Quality of Producft.
#
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE—CITY 3510 (5 lines).
BRISBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
BERTH (W.A.) : Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
— Agents —
“Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
TELEPHONE—CENTRAL 2646. 2647 ; CITY 95 79.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd,
Auckland. Christchurch. Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock and Co., Ltd., Launceston; Oliver & Oliver. Ltd., MacQuarie Street, Hobart.
-
The “BUSHMAN
Lever Watch, 21/
For Any Wear
or Any Wearer
Anywhere
THE MOST DEPENDABLE GUINEA
WATCH IN AUSTRALIA.
No amount of jolting or jarring can
“administer a shock” to its working
parts. This is why Workmen. Bush-
men, Boundary Riders, Railway
Guards, Motorists and Travellers
regard it as their standby.
COMPENSATION BALANCE—lienee its accuracy. THE CASE is
oxidised steel—dust, dirt and damp proof. Dial is PLAIN, with
crystal glass. PRICE, 21/-, Postage Paid.
Complete Catalogue of Watches and Jewellery Post Free.
solid
stout
Stewart Dawson’s,
Strand Corner,
412 George Street, Sydney.
JOKES, TRICKS, PUZZLES, NOVELTIES.
Write for our New
Novelty Catalog.
SENT FREE.
DEVIL’S PUZZLE MATCH BOX.
0^
nQO°
00
The Match Box which is different from all other puzzle-
boxes. You’ll never open it until you read the directions.
Made of Nickel-plate, beautifully finished. Without doubt
the most ingenious Puzzle Match Box that has ever been
made. Price, Post Free, with Instructions, 2/-
SOMETHING SPECIAL.
Winter is coming, and you’ll want something to help to pass
the dreary nights away. We are offering a special box of
Jokes and Puzzles, suitable for young and old, which will
cause no end of fun and amusement. The box contains the
following:— _ . ,
1 Box of Match Puzzles, 1 Changing Card Trick,
3 Different Wire Puzzles, 1 Joker’s laghted Cigar-
-1 Fortune-telling Fish, ette,
1 Five Wood Squares 1 Joker’s Box of Matches,
Puzzle, 1 Dark Question Joke.
The Box of Jokes Sent Post Free for 2/6.
H. L. HUTCHINSON Ltd.,
New York Novelty Co.,
708-710 George St., Haymarket, Sydney
DON’T GO BACK HOME
without a
Rasters
Cf
GRAMOPHONE
ii
The folk who stayed at home for Easter will
find THEIR good time come along when the
“Gramophone” arrives. You, too, will enjoy it
just as much during all the Winter evenings, when
there’s little to do but sit around. Then you can
have a full concert-programme, with Caruso, Elman,
McCormack, and all the star-artistes of Opera,
Revue and Vaudeville, and the best Bands of the
Empire.
Accredited dealers everywhere. Look for the sign:
“His Master’s Voice.”
CALL IN AND
HEAR IT PLAYED.
"GRAMOPHONE”
Registered Trade Mark
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 PITT STREET .SYDNEY.


Hanking;, Public Companies. &c.
You can obtain BETTER INTER-
EST and EVERY FACILITY FOR
SAYING at the
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
The STATE Savings Institution
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
DEPOSITS RECEIVED FROM 1 -
UPWARDS?
Interest paid at 32 per cent, on balances up
to £5OO. except on accounts opened with
the late Savings Bank of N.S.W., which are
limited to £2OO.
Cultivate the habit of making regular
deposits—no matter how small.
The Repayment of all Deposits is Guaran-
teed by the Government of New South Wales.
By Older of the Commissioners.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE,
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED,
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Directors : Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY.
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, li.C.M.G.
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 Oeorge Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Brandies throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian gank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (31st December, 1915) .. £1,196,108
RESERVE FUND .. .. .. £75,000
HEAD OFFICE: George* King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37 TlireadneedleStreet, E.C.
DIRECTORS — Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Slt, Esq., LL.D. ; Arthur S. Barton,
Esq. ; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq. ; Herbert R.
Lvsagiit, Esq. ; George F. Todman, Esq.
Brandies throughout New South Wales J: Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
I’aid-up Capital . . . . . . 480,000 0 0
Reserve' Fund.. .. .. .. 200,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.01T1.609 4 5
All new business since IS9S specially protected.
Pi sectors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
fhe Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, [imited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. £2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. . . 1,805,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,805,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. Chairman,
lion. 11. E. Eater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and J. J. Brenan, Esq.
General Manager: 11. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq. Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up . . .. .. 992,295
Uncalled Capital .. .. . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and-Undivided Profits 2.057,170
CRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa. Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Colonial (|)utual Qife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOB
Mutual J.i'V Assurance. Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STHEET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £0,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible:
- Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office foe New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts. C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Shipping &c.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
Staterooms, with bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms,
Private Bathrooms, Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Regular sailings from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Lta.,
l2 Martin Place, SvnxßT.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
(UNDER THE BRITISH FLAC)
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA,
and PAPEETE (TAHITI).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE, in connection
with al! United States and Canadian
Railways.
Steamers sail from Wellington ;
May 25, June 22,
' MAITAI. MOANA.
*Conneeting steamer leaves Sydney :
May 18, June 15.
STEAMERS STAY 24 HOURS AT PAPEETE,
“THE PEARL OF THE PACIFIC.”
Return tickets available by various routes.
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
Particulars and pamphlets obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND. LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting):
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY '>
TOWNSVILLE
‘CAIRNS
(‘Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports).,
NORTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney April 29.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne May 3.
Leaves Sydney May 6.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
I .ea ves Melbourne May 10.
Leaves Sydney May 13.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports)
SOUTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney May 13.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOI,ID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
via
SAMOA-HONOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
Sailings from Sydney:—
MAY 10, MAY 31, JUNE 21, JULY 12.
Apply:— O CEA N IC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Something' Unique in
Island Tours
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
£3,500,000
£2,600,000
£3,500,000
£9.600.000
Directors:
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Maclvellar, K.C.M.G.
M.L.C., President.
Robert Lionel Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosberv, M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: Shepheard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq.; Alfred George Milson, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St., E C.
344 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
.T. RUSSELL FRENCH.-General Manager.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
Branch Office:
279 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
T. C. TROEDSOX, Director.
Commonwealth
I HEAD OFFICE
ft k
sank ot Sustralia
SYDNEY
Open
for a.ll
General Banking Business
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
in the
principal
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth,
United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits.
Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at over
Minimum
Deposit
1
2550
Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua
Interest at n:
per annum
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
JAMES KELL. Depatr Governor. Jn we, 1915 DENIS *X MILLER. Guver
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
Capital Subscribed .. .. ..£250,000
Capital Paid-up.. .. .. ..£lOO,OOO
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits.. £15,365
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
The Company acts as Executor, Joint Executor, Trus-
tee, Administrator or Attorney under Power for absen-
tees, and is the only Trustee Company empowered by
Act of Parliament to operate in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 43 Young Street.
Directors.
The Hon. Sir CHARLES K. HACKELLAR. M.L.G.
H. Y T . BRADDON, Esq. | JAMES KIDD, Esq.
H. W. BELL, Esq. | 1L M. PITT, Esq.
Full information as to terms, etc., obtainable on
application to JOHN MAIR, Manager.
COLORED POST-CARDS, bv Harry J.
Weston— “WEEKLY WORRIES.” * Set
of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street, Sydney.
"["HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Lttf.
The Company s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to:—
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE. DELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS: also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination lickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to lweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Bvron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up to-
date liners for SIDNEY, or vice-verixx.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer. £6 S-. 6d, : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGSS ST;, SYDNEY
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
TH E ADELAIDE STEAMSHIPCD.
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE o
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTMm.
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORk'*
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
OIMBOOLA, May C
and June 3.
BRISBANE
-UACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
I‘ARINGA, April *)
MORIALTA, May,/
ALLINGA, Ma h '
KUPARA, May 20,
Saloon Passage Tickets »r„ ~,r
on' a fi jl St S e P r o viee 0 s f
_lm 6 BRIDGE STREET, STB®.
The Vancouver Route
VIA NEW ZEALAND, Fiji »v h
HONOLULU.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
AUSTRALIA, NEvTzEALAND, CANADA
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN T? M
LINE. IUL
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific I!aih var
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENIJI AND
OPERATING THE LARGEST, NEWEST l \STm
AND BEST-EQUIPPED VESSELS ’
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND m AMFRPv
CONTINENT. “
SAILINGS:
Steamers.
t MAKURA ..
* NIAGARA..
t MAKURA .
* NIAGARA ..
Leave
Disp
Leave
Auckland
Sydney
lons.
Tons.
3 p. in.
8,100
12,200
20,000
12,200
20,000
May 11
May 16
June 13
July li
Aug. 8
13,500
June 8
8,100
July 6
13,500
Aug.
fTwin-Screw. ‘Triple-Screw. Fitted with Cabins
de luxe, suites, bedstead rooms, laundry, nursery
wireless, etc. " '
Passengers stopping off at Suva can obtain every
comfort and convenience at the new and palatial
Grand Pacific Hotel. Coupons at specially-reduced
rates are available to passengers.
For full particulars and pamphlets applv
UNION STEAM SIMP COMPANY OP N.Z., HO.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“ Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” "Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Anil All Ports.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom, via Suez Canal, Cape of Good Hope,
Torres Straits.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. M IRELbhij
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine. Surgeon and
Stewardess. Electric Fans.
FARE TO LONDON OR LIVERPOOL, £4B.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to RV
BIRT * CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; luw
BULL, MARTIN A' CO., Brisbane; Me LMKAIin-
McEACHARN A CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH A CO. LTD., Adelaide,
H. JONES A CO. LTD., Hobart.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and rijl.
r.S.S. “ INDARRA ”
r.S.S. “ KANOWNA”
r.S.S. “ KYARRA”
r.S.S. “ LEVUKA”
r.S.S. “ \\ YREEMA”
5.5. “ WYANDRA”
10,000 tons
7000 tons
7000 tons
6500 tons
6500 tons
4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health tnp j
le enjoyment of beautiful scenery sho osses s
le A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company s steameis P
1 up-to date arrangements for con y en l® .„ nt After
rt, making travel safe, easy and P v ets are
•st port of call, First and Second Dan j es> also
iterchangeable with all Interstate Co P ... ;
ith the Union S.S. Co.'s steamers* in Jbe see
trtieulars on application. For dates
aily Papers. miTCh
•URNS, PHILP S COMPANY LlMnft
Agents, 11 BRIDGE S
The Standard Remedy which has outlived
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMEN
In use since 1596.
Write for Book
Write for Book. CURES --urc ttfPAK SIGHT
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SW
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road. c
insist on •• Singleton s‘ -refuse all subsntuteSr


* *
Clr-i
-
i
N
f*k
I
H ■
With the
KODAK
you can take a
and make a written
picture
record.
And from the taking to the making of the picture the
whole process is carried out in daylight. The written note
becomes a permanent part of the picture, and adds
immeasurably to its interest and value.
The Autographic Kodak is of inestimable value to architects,
builders, contractors of all kinds, progressive men on the
land, manufacturers, motorists, tourists, holiday-makers,
week-end ramblers, sportsmen, amateur gardeners and every
person whose aim is to keep a lasting memento of every
pleasing and important event.
There are Autographic Kodaks from 30/- to £l5/2/-, and you can learn
to use one in half an hour.
The Vest Pocket Autographic Kodak —the Soldier’s Kodak —takes clear,
sharp little pictures, 2 % x 1 % inches, which are easily enlarged.
Price 30/-
The 3A Folding Autographic Kodak is the most popular camera in the
world. Takes postcard pictures, 5y 2 x 3% inches. Price £5/10/-
“Take a Kodak on every outing.”
Ask for your copy of the latest Kodak Catalogue.
Of all Kodak Dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
Incorporating- Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
250-252 Queen St., Brisbane; 87 Bundle St., Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth St., Hobart;
Ruthven St., Toowoomba; Flinders St., Townsville; Denham St., Rockhampton;
346 Argent St., Broken Hill; Dpcon St., Wellington, N Z.; 3 Eorne St., Auckland,
N.Z.; and 76 Stuart St., Dunedin, N.Z.
//
A
r
n
W
n
//\V/\V
o
m
Vawat
►//A / /\Va n ' / A
X/xV^AV
WA
IF
A/
/
/
/
'lyii
'aV/\\
\
r
\
m
c c
1
(Reed. Trade Marki
Refined in appearance, but
durable and economical.
For practical service-value and real economy,
“ Viyella ” is unequalled. It combines
beauty with comfort, softness with dura-
bility, and lightness with warmth.
“ Viyella,” for its unique health-value, was awarded the
certificate of the London Institute of Hygiene. It
absorbs the body’s moisture, then quickly emitting it,
prevents chill. -
It is distinguished by smartness and good quality, and
any garments you may make of this excellent material
will be distinctive and serviceable.
All high-class drapers and storekeepers stock it. If unobtain-
able in your vicinity, send to us for the name of the nearest
dealer. I. and R. MORLEY, 56 Market Street, Sydney ; 250
Flinders Lane, Melbourne; or 50 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.


Recipe to STOP DANDRUFF
This Home-made Mixture Stops Dandruff
and Falling' Hair and Aids Its
Growth.
To a half-pint of water add :
Bay Rum loz.
Orlex Compound a small hox
Glycerine - Joz.
These are all simple ingredients that you
can buy from any chemist at very little cost,
and mix them yourself. Apply to the scalp
once a day for two weeks, then once every
other week until all the mixture is used. A
half-pint should be enough to rid the head of
dandruff and kill the dandruff germs. It
stops the hair from falling out, and relieves
itching and scalp diseases.
Although it is not a dyej it acts upon the
hair roots and will darken streaked, faded,
grey hair in 10 or 15 days. It promotes the
growth of the hair and makes harsh hair
soft and glossy.—Advt. .[4
BelleVue Hotel
Reconstructed. BRISBANE.
Electric Lift. Perfect Sanitary Arrangements.
Incomparable Position Easterly Aspect
Overlooking Botanical Cardens.
MRS. A. FINNIGAN, Proprietress.
Ray’s Hair Dye.
When Grey Hair begins
to show, rejuvenate
your ap p e arance
with
RAY’S
DYE.
Harmless and In-
stantaneous.
33 different shades.
Post pattern of
hair with order.
4/10,7/11,10/9.
POSTED.
MADAME LEIGH.
Vi & 23 Block Arcade, Collins Street, Melbourne.
CEREBOS
SALT
is prepared under
ideal conditions in
a model factory
situate amid green
fields near the sea.
It is always dry
and free-running,
and above all, ab-
solutely pure.
srer>
THE BEST AND MOST
ECONOMICAL STATIONERY
IN THE WORLD
carries the KOLOK trade nia ■ sta tioner?
sending out the best Bntish-m CARBONS-
unless KOLOK TYPEWRITE - yypE-
PEN AND PENCIL CARBON& »'A g OIj oK
WRITER RIBBONS are used, tu
ECONOMY BINDER has no equ& his
businessman should at once
office uses Kolok makes.
ALL STATIONERS.
. * r F BICKFORB.
Australasian Agent.—C. r.
5 Hamilton Street. Sydney
IN BANANA LAND
“Bill” : Ipswich is the highest-rated muni-
cipality in Queensland, local ratepayers being
hit just as heavily as the Act permits. Now
the city has decided that in future footpaths
must be swept with a hair broom instead
of the usual millet brush, because someone
has discovered that millet wears out footpaths
too rapidly. 1 suppose we’ll have to do it.
If the Sphinx had been dusted every morn-
ing from the time it was unveiled or
“opened.” there would only be about a pound
of it left by now. And the footpaths of
Ipswich are just as important as any monu-
ment.
“D.” : Dan Jones, of Brisbane, who swells
like a gobbler with indignation at the leth-
argy of officialdom when you mention cotton
in Queensland, has found some time to look
into the fruit-fly’s habits. He has proved
that eitronella aided by sticky paper is a
lure to the destroyer. The idea no doubt
was got by the attraction which ordinary
kerosene oil has for the same pest. They
simply plunge into the liquid. But Daniel
says eitronella is ever so much more sudden.
1 1 might be worth trying this for sheep
flies. Of all the insect pests in Australia this
one. has- worked most destruction, though
during the past couple of years he seems to
have gone somewhere on leave.
The Queensland Bar is licking its lips.
The Government lately established an Insur-
ance Department and aimed at giving it a
monopoly of. the accident business. There
was the usual conflict between the two
Houses, with the result that the measure iu
one place seems to give private offices the
right to go ahead and in another tells em-
ployers That they must turn into the public
shop. Goodwyn, who left the Ocean office
and became associated with Earle Herman,
has been appointed manager of the State
Department; and he went ahead on the
-assumption that he was the only pebble on
the beach. The other offices thereupon took
advice ; and now the finest lot of Costs the
Queensland Bar has known for years is
being got ready for the banquet. The whole
trouble arises out of the absurd system of
having one House which has authority from
the people to say “Yes,” and another House
which, though it doesn’t represent anybody,
has the right to say “No.” Either House
could probably produce a decent measure;
but when the two snarl over one bone the
result is just about as satisfactory as a ser-
mon would be if the Devil preached it from
notes supplied by the prophet Jeremiah.
"Itan”: If the millions of acres of first-
class agricultural land in the Taroom dis-
trict do not soon get a railway to make their
development possible, the whole area will go
over to the prickly-pear curse’s account.
Indeed, the porcupine is already sticking out
that way and moving forward at high speed,
per emus and cattle. This alarming pest
is really an Empire problem, since there will
soon be great demand for land by men now
in the armies. Apparently our own officials
and politicians are too busy with other mat-
ters to get solidly to grips with the soil-
devouring devil. One would think that the
loss Of 30 million acres would spur some sort
of action into these dead horses to save clean
country. Apparently they’re so dead that
nothing will spur them.
Another seandal is being stirred up in
Brisbane. In despair of getting justice any
other way the workers at the Blind Institute
lately paid their fees to qualify for member-
ship. and this year rolled up to the annual
meeting. They censured the committee and
called on the Government to intervene, and
to show their determination re-elected the
president, who had been discharged pre-
viously by the management. Their earn-
ings, they allege, run to about 28s. per
week, and they tell such a story of petty
tyranny that the Government can’t well
help taking notice.
John Gill, carrier of Cuunamulla. is
entered for the casual Australian competi-
tion. John married Minnie in 1899, and they
lived happily out West for 16 years, being
blessed meanwhile with a family of five. Last
New Year’s Day—or it may have been a
twelve-month earlier, Alinnie decided to begin
life afresh, so she strolled over to another
carrier’s house, 200 yards away, and made
a new start as Charlie Goulding’s missus.
John felt slighted, but stayed at home with
the children. He says he saw Alinnie working
about Goulding’s place often, yet he never
threw it in her face. But no man is
master of Himself, and John, in a fit of
impatience, asked Pope Cooper. C.J., for a
decree nisi. His surprised Honor handed
it over with a bewildered look aud some
vague remarks about something or other.
A LAST BARGAIN.
FIRST SHIPWRECKED PASSENGER: “ There's no hope. We shall sink in a moment!”
THE OTHER ONE: “ Here , vait a minute, qrick. I'll sell yer me vatch ’alf-price — you'll
never yet another chance.”
The sugar cocky cannot get his
Tommy Tanna or his Ah Cow, so he is
taking on foreigners and turning down the
Australian or English Jimbill. At Innisfail
whole gangs have been engaged to replace
the men who have done the cutting since
Tanna’s repatriation. The thing is such a
scandal that even the local recruiting com-
mittee is objecting; for it points out that
men who had said “Yes” are now declining
to go to the Front because of the local bosses
freezing on to foreigners. These men say
that when they return they will find fellows
who can’t speak seven words of English
permanently installed, and they will have to
whistle for a job themselves. The A.W.U.
committee is putting in a kick, and the
recruiting committee intends to see what
Senator Pearce has to say about it. No one
objects to these foreigners getting a job, but
the local Billjim can't stand a policy of
preference.
Tom Glassey, first “official” Labor man in
Australia, and first leader of the Queensland
Labor party, nowadays takes a hand in help-
ing Aberdare Colliery to pay dividends.
The Government proposes to consider
the Alt. Coolon mineral field, discov-
ered two years ago, but thus far undeveloped.
Only scratching has been done, but there are
vague rumors about samples of coarse gold
being taken into Charters Towers. I In-
field is 150 miles from Bowen. Clermont and
Ravenswood. It is said that the mineral belt
is pretty extensive, and that theie aie wol
fram shows attracting attention. Queens-
land badly wants a new mining held. Char-
ters Towers is very ill, and Gympie is giving
up quartz crushing for dairying. It is
astonishing with what tenacity people hang
on to a mining field with a past. Even the
Government departments cannot get out of
the habit of regarding a field as a perma-
nency. though the undertaker may be ham-
mering at. the door. The Agricultural De-
partment is watching the good old Towers
field starve to death without making the
slightest effort to see if the wide stretches of
second-class country around it cannot be
put to profitable use. Surely the land is
fit for something? The trouble is that the
Agricultural Department is about the most
unenterprising institution on the face of
God's earth.
‘‘Globe”: The Yankee talks a lot about
his long-distance ’phones; for a change,
listen to us. Here’s a telegraph-line in Aus-
tralia which takes beating. At night Bris-
bane sends press to Cairns. Only 1000-odd
miles if. you can get straight through cer-
tainly ; but there are times you can’t. One
night the usual storm had burst the coastal
line in several places, so we rigged lines this
way. Mt. Surprise, about 200 miles west of
Cairns, joined us to the Townsville line.
From Townsville to Cloncurry was the next
section, a mere SOO miles or so, due west.
Then south to Tambo, Muttaburra and
Roma. The rest was easy, through Too-
woomba to Brisbane. That made about
3000 the lot. and through rougher country
than the U.S.A. knows, a good part being
tropical jungle. The line worked well, and
the people read the news the next morning
with no knowledge of the remarkable track
it came along.
Billy Hughes.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It’s strike an - strike from morn to night
An’ Billy Hughes can’t end it;
It’s leave the tariff w’ere it was
Fer Billy Hughes won’t mend it;
It’s live on foreign goods an’ loan
In this rich land Australian,
An’ skim the oil from off the soil
To fatten up the alien.
No wonder Billy wandered “ ’Ome”
AY’ ere ’e could cut a figger
-Vn’ leave the debt an’ toil an’ sweat,
To talk o’ somethin’ bigger;
The man who couldn’t shift the muck
Beside ’is cottage door
It cheers ’im mighty w’en ’e shows
The way to win a war.
QUEENSLAND.
BILLIO.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP
Brisbane, April 22. fiq r
Mv Dear Tjiargomindah,—
This has been a slack week On -pi
day the Gov. did his best to raise the !?'
oh depression by unfurling two new fll g "
the Central State School and hv distril?/'
some spare patriotic remarks amongst t?
youngsters. The Minister for Ed uc J
(Mr. Hardacre) also improved the 2 "
hour and incidentally mentioned that
special Anzac number of the school pan 1
was being prepared. After the talking i
exhausted, the school-committee- served o t
rations to his Ex.. Capt. and Mr< rw
Mr. and Mrs. Hardacre, Senator Rvott
.Maugham I inlayson. M.11.R.. Mrs ilh
ington (the Mayoress), W Huxh^
a few other eminent citizens. Mr T,"
(chairman) and Miss Madge Lewis rec£]
the guests and led them to the food Sim?
interruptions occurred at all the St,u
schools, excepting that there was no other
food 1 ' 1 ' 118 ° £ flagS: an< m ° Stly not so mS
Marjorie Robertson, only daughter of the
J. A. Robertsons, treasures a diamond riiw
presonted her (on conditions) bvCapt Gavin
Row. an Englishman who is somewhere with
his regiment. Capt. Low’s family lives nr
Scribblestown. Dublin. Mrs. J. A. i> o | )ei ! t
son and her daughter are at present iu lon
don. where they went to see a soldier sou
and brother.
•T. Allan and his elder daughter have left
for England. The elder Allan boy has been
at one of the Fronts ever since the war
overture began. Tom. the younger son. ha,
recently gone into camp.
The races to-day drew a big crowd. The
King’s local agent spent most of the after-
noon in the members’ stand, but Capt. and
Mrs. Cosens, the latter in peach-colored
crepe de chine, paraded the lawn.
“Carmen,” flickered by J. C. Williamson
packed Her Alajesty’s, which had been
transformed for the occasion. Fountains, a
trellis in front of the boxes, and paper rose,
a bloom inside, gave the old place quite a
gay and youthful expression. When we do
get going in this hamlet, my dear, we do
things properly.
Yours affectionately.
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Lancelot Guy Rawson, for the last 16 or
17 years Crown Lands Ranger at Rockhamp-
ton, is in camp at Enoggera. He is a son
of the late Lance Rawson, connected with
the pioneering days of Bananaland as one of
the Rawson brothers, who owned The Hol-
low, at Port Alaekay. They were sons of
Chas. Stansfield Rawson, formerly in the
East India Co.’s service, and, incidentally,
cousins of Governor Rawson (N.S.W.).
The mother was a Collinson —a family full
of admirals and generals. A large number
of relatives, on both sides, have gone to the
Front, and several have been killed. Another,
son of Charlie Rawson, one of the Hollow
brothers, is in camp in Sydney. Altogether,
old Viking Rawson’s relatives make a good
showing in this struggle.
“Barcoo” : Jimmy Ahfoo has had a
funeral. Fifteen years ago Jimmy was in-
contestably the best-known man in Queens-
land. not excepting politicians. Miner at
Croydon, storekeeper in Springsure, and pub-
lican at every stopping place on the Central
lino as it poked its way to Longreach, wag
and “white” man. no one had anything but
good to say of him. Born in Canton Jj
years ago, and resident in this State for do
years, lie reared a family of II stalwart
Queenslanders. They were mostly musicians:
at Longreach there was a string orchestra
composed of eight members of the family
At that time the live business head of the
firm was the eldest daughter, a vocalw
quite out of the ordinary. At present unit
one runs a large and successful picture hi-
euit” in West Queensland.
“Boro-Belle”: Re “Bill’s” par. (P-
-20/4/T6) about the 30 Beaudesert settlers
who propose to give sheep-raising a chanc
on the coastal regions. For the past - 11
years Captain Adderton, a retired sea-dog.
has been wool-growing on Lindeman Islan •
a fragment of 15 square miles. 50 miles noi
of Mackay. There some 13000 sheep are pro-
ducing overcoats, while nearly llaw go ■
add a point or two to the profits. At ai
island 20 miles north of Mackay. R llSs
Bros., cane-growers, of Proserpine,
successfully stocked the place with s •
Their first effort five years ago was a ra
ure, owing to a shipload of 1-00 s h pe P P ,
chased at Townsville _ rushing down to
water’s edge and suiciding en »ias
attempting to drain the Pacific.


t ?
\
Xi
.J& l '%*■
~y*F y v !%'
*’ £'
: v;
IS
- u
&
W
*
a?{
A:>»‘
\
m. *22
.\W|
*1
■
; •v^
3*#
r
■
iy
1
»
or
1
8c
after a hard, day’s
3


Try This: Two
Generations Old
And never failed yet to keep the bowels
regular, the temper smooth, the liver active, the
appetite vigorous and healthy. The recipe is:
“Keep Carter’s Little
Liver Pills where you
know where to find them
and don’t wait to be
bilious. They’re
a pleasure to
take.” Children
prefer them.
Purely
vegetable.
Carters!
HTTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill—Small Dote—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
Have You a BAD LEG
perhaps surrounded with inflammation and
swollen, that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Perhaps
your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored. The disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Try the great British Remedy
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which you will find a certain remedy.
Also for Poisoned Hands, House-
maid Knees, Carbuncles, Absces-
ses, Snake and Insect Bites, &c.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store.
British Prices, 1/3 and 3/-
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farringdon St.,
Agents — LONDON, Eng. •
ELLIOTT BROS.
W. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, etc.
“Biff” for Sore,
Tired Feet
Tender Feet, Sore Feet, Swollen Feel
cured without delay. New Foot
Medicine Quickly Banishes All
Foot Ailments
r
z
“How ‘Biff’
does help
Sore Feet.”
To those who are troubled with sore, tender,
aching, swollen, perspiring, unpleasant smelling
feet, bunions, corns or hard skin, “BIFF” will
bring quick relief and gladness to the feet. Use
“BIFF” today and banish all pain and discomfit.
By using “BIFF” once a week you will insure
your feet against all foot troubles. “BIFF” is a
scientific compound which draws out all poisonous
matter from the feet, which clog and choke pores
of the skin. One application of this unique com-
pound will render the feet sweet and antiseptic.
Its delightful results must be experienced to be
believed.
MRS. CARTER WRITES For years my feet
gave me much trouble. It was purgatory to
have to walk far, but after using one box of
“Biff” I can walk with perfect ease and com-
fort, there is nothing to compare with your
preparation for foot trouble.”
“Biff” can be obtained through all chemists and
stores ; if not in stock send direct to the manu-
facturers. Price Is. 6d. per box, or triple size box
4s. (triple box contains three times the Is.6d. size).
The “Biff" Manufacturing Co., 114 a Pitt Street,
Sydney.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
Quickly removes SKIN ERUPTIONS,
ensuring A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable Pimples,
disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema disappear
by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Badness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
Scurf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
Sulpholineis prepared by the great Skin Specialists,
J. Pepper &Co. , Ltd., Bedford Laboratories, London,
S.E., England, and can be obtained from any
chemists and stores throughout the world.
Quickly removes the effects of Sunscorch.
MILITARY
BROOCHES
LATEST NOVELTY
Australia or Rising Sun,
18-carat Gold Plated, 2/-
Sterling Siver 36 ; Solid
Gold, 15/- and 21/-
Send for our Complete List of rt al
Military Badge Brooches.
Hothwell’s Ltd.
Edward Street, Brisbane.
■ih'l
m
.
E
m
■ !
A £l4 Machine
With 5 Drawers
£8 10s.
,sy gs r aL w S®
Packed & Delivered Free
A.N.A. Sewing
Machine rn
25 QUEEN VICTORIA MARKETS
(near Town Hall), SYDNEY
Also at Errol Street, North Melbourne' 7 «
Adelaue; Baird’s Arcade, Perth- 39 n*’ 7 Ar cade,
Launceston; and 123 Elizabeth Street Hob Street '
m
Ors. Wlmpole and Harley-Streete,
Compare their notes whene ’er they meet,
And it pleases us to hear them say,
They ’re prescribing’ Jelioids ’ every day.
After taking Iron ‘Jelloids’ the blood becomes enriched and
strengthened, the appetite is restored, vitality is renewed. Anaemia
quickly disappears, giving place to vigorous and buoyant spirits.
Iron ‘ Jelloids ’ are commended by the Medical Profession.
The “ Nursing Record and Hospital World" : —“The prices of them
are very moderate, and the invention deserves the approval of the
which it is obtaining in such a marked measure.”
trial ( Price 1/6 ) will convince you.
Special Tonic for Men, No. 2A. (containing Quinine).
Sold in England at 1/1| and 2/9. per box.
Obtainable at all Chemists throughout Australia.
Wholesale: Druggists' Sundries Ltd., 82, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W,
Medical Profession,
A fortnight’s
For Women, No. 2.
For Children, No. 1
RSq
SEASICK
%
9
Guaranteed to Cure or Money Returned.
FOR SEA SICKNESS
& TRAIN SICKNESS
MOTHERSILL’S has received the
fmest testimonials from the world’s
greatest travellers, men, women,
and institutions.
MOTHERSII L’S is guaranteed
not to contain Cocaine, Morphine,
Opium, Chlo:a], or any other of
the coal tar products.
Used by Royalty, Nobility, Doctors,
Clergymen, &c., &c., on Atlantic,
Pacific and other liners, by Polytechnic
Norway Tours. &c , &c.
I\o BAD AFTER EFFECTS.
In two sizes of all Chemists.
MOTHERSiLL REMEDY CO., LTD,
82, Pitt Street, Svdesy.
CHRISTIE’S
£P£CMUS£
TWO
L/NES
skirt 5
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE
/INO
PATTERNS
TO
CHRISTIE'S
The STRAND
V ---
' 5
520 GEORGES T SYDNEY
if /IONTER § T NEWCASTLE
7K
Bovril makes other fools
nourish you. It has a
Bodv-building power proved
equal to from 10 to 20 times
the amount of Bovril taken.
WILLIAM M
Ask your Stationer foraSampleof
William Mitchellsi
£ WILLIAM
■o MITCHELL’S
CDWT CLASS SHOULDER
N?.9. First Class Shoulder Pen
the Original Quality By The ORIGINAL MAKER.
I ASK YOUR STATIONER FOR A SAMPLE BOX OF 24 ASSORTED PATTER^
Willis Little, an M.L.C. who represents
the stouter section of the North-East Pro-
vince, has decided that Benalla is too far
from the city for a sick man, and has re-
signed. He was elected a dozen years ago
and shared the representation of his province
with Otto Sachse, now Chairman of Com-
mittees.
G.-G. Ferguson is visiting Tassy shortly
to give the Speck’s hydro-electric enterprise
a flying start. The event comes off on May
6. and by that time manager Butters reckons
he will be able to deliver power at Hobart
to all and sundry. His main trouble just
now is that he has so many people after
power that he reckons he may have to quad-
ruple his 9000 h.p. installation right away.
South Australia’s Mines Department re-
ports that the State had its record produc-
tion of minerals in 1915. Considering that
S. Aus., in all its expanse, cannot find true
coal, or a regular field of either gold or
silver, it did well to just top the million
pounds sterling last year. Copper has
always been the State’s strong point, and
with a big war demand at war-time prices,
the red metal accounted for well over half
the total, with ironstone-flux and ore (for
the Broken Hill Prop.) making over another
quarter. Salt —which is hardly “mined,”
being scraped off the surface of the dry
lakes —was a bad third with £BO,OOO, and
everything else was an also-ran. Gold
totalled under £26,000. The best S.A. has
ever done in that line was £76,000. And yet
there is the color everywhere. A man
can knock out tucker in almost any of the
gullies close to Adelaide; but the big deposit,
if ever found, seems likely to be up toward
the centre of the continent. Meanwhile,
copper is being produced to a value un-
equalled since the boom of 10 years ago and
the bigger one of half a century back.
“Try Fluke’s” story of Maoriland’s latest
“prophet” :
The trouble of the long-haired Rua, who has just
been carried off to quod after a shooting perform-
ance in M.L., was that he was no soldier—no second
Te Kooti. In the wild bush country of the
Urewera, where the acres mostly run up to the
moon, and the trails twist up the narrow beds of
rocky creeks like the tracks of a bolting politician,
an army corps could be ambuscaded. I have ridden
those trails and trudged the ranges with some of the
bare-legged old Hauhaus who live there, and can
only marvel at the extraordinary good luck that
attended the M.L. constabulary’s expedition. The
police didn’t worry about strategy or flanking parties
or rear attacks; they simply floundered in at the
front door, found the ridiculous medicine-man
having his curly tresses combed, and in the confused
gun-play that followed shot two of his tribe dead,
while constable O’Hara woodened out another wid
a stick. Rua halted between two minds too long.
Any other brown brother with a military eye could
have cut up the force pretty well anywhere on the
single-file bushtrack through the canons and up the
break-neck ridges. Now the M.L. citizen is wonder-
ing what the bill will be, and whether it wouldn’t
have been cheaper to have sent a plain John Hop
to get the runaway singlehanded instead of despatch-
ing ammunition-waggons and a caravan of pack-
horses and a restaurant and 60 brawny Johns on a
picnic. The Rua comedy started with an ordinary
tinpot police-court case. Justice Minister Herdman’s
quakings made it a costly imitation of a South
American insurrection.
“Cockaigne”: No, Henry Chaplin, British
M.P., fervent Protectionist and advocate of
close land settlement, who has just acquired
a peerage, is not as well-known hereabouts
as Cholly ; but if there had been any flicker-
onerators in the long ago they might have
got Henry in some extra-good films. In ’64 he
was engaged to marry Flo Paget, a daughter
of Lord Anglesey. On the day before
the morn on which they were to say “I will”
Henry drove Flo to the door of Marshall
and Snelgrove’s big London drapery, where
she said she wanted to go a-shopping. She
went inside, there met the Marquis of Has-
tings, scuttled away through a back door
and married him. The laugh w r as up to
Hastings. Three years later the favorite
for the Derbs 7 was the Marquis of Hastings’s
Earl, backed by him to win £lOO.OOO. Her-
mit, owmed by Henry Chaplin, was at 100 to
one, and his trainer. Machell, brought the
animal on to the course with its coat brushed
the wrong way. The race was run in a
snowstorm and Hermit won. Hastings
sadly patted the winner’s neck and then
walked slowly away—ruined, for his extrava-
gances had been gross. He died soon after.
Chaplin had the laugh that time. The
widowed Flo afterwards married Sir George
C-hetwynd, and in later years both were very
friendly with the man she jilted. Chaplin
did not marry till ’76, when he captured
Florence Leveson-Gower, daughter of the
wealthy Duke of Sutherland. She lived only
five years. As a young man Chaplin was
very rich, but latterly depreciation of his
Lincolnshire estates had made him what
Society calls Poor. Which means that he
isn’t bloated.
“Bulldozer’s” libellous story :
Late Chief Justice Way hadn’t an ounce of humor
in his dapper little body, but he caused more laughs
in court than any other S. Aus. Judge. Mostly, of
course, the laughs suffered a foul death, being stifled
at birth, owing to the joke being quite unintentional.
But many a time on the rising of the Court the tale
would be re-told in the robbing (I mean robing)
room, and then the Bar would let itself go. On one
occasion a K.C. (now harpooned by the Master
Fisherman) was steering the little Chief through a
beautifully-technical argument relating to contingent
remainders, when the Associate whispered to 'Sonor
that someone on the telephone wanted to know what
he had done in reference to a certain matter. From
the little man’s expression it was evident that
nothing had been done, and he was clearly puzzled
what to say in reply. He got out of his seat and
walked up and down the dais behind it pondering
deeply. The argument on contingent remainders
began to falter, and finally petered out. The un-
canny silence aroused the little Chief, and, looking
round, he said encouragingly: “Go on, Mr. Hammer-
head ; I am following you.” Mr. Hammerhead
bogged in again, his dorsal fin barely visible, and
the Judge immediately went on circuit again. At
length, after about five minutes’ perambulation, the
little Chief, with a snap of resolution, rapped out
to his Associate “Just ring off!” and resumed his
seat. Not a muscle on the collective face of the
brazen Bar moved, but the writer (who was collecting
data for his famous work, “The Encyclopaedia of Deep
Sea Denizens”) beat hastily for the open sea.


vv
Little Lectures
Nurse ‘Wincarnis.’
{Lecture No 3.)
Run-Down
When your system is under*
mined by worry or overwork
when your vitality is
lowered when you feel
“ any-how ” when your
nerves are “ on edge ”
when the least exertion tires
you —you are in a Run-down
condition. Your system is
like a plant that is drooping
for want of water. And just
as water revives a drooping
plant —so ‘ Wincarnis ’ gives
new life and new vitality to
a ‘ run-down ’ constitution.
Because ‘ Wincarnis ’ pos-
sesses a four-fold power.
It is a Tonic, a Restorative,
a Blood-maker and a Nerve
Food —all in one. Therefore
creates new strength, new
blood, new nerve force and
new vitality. The benefit
begins from the first wine-
glassful. You can feel it
doing you good. Over 10,000
Doctors recommend ‘ Win-
carnis,’ especially to those
who are Weak, Anaemic,
‘Nervy’ or Run-down.
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
‘Wincarnis’ is made in England by
COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Wincarnis
Works, Norwich. You can buy
‘Wincarnis’ from all Chemists and
Stores selling wines, prices 4/- and
6/6, but if you experience any diffi-
culty in obtaining it, write direct
to Sole Distributing Agents, Fassett
& Johnson, 6-7 Barrack St., Sydney.
in
hm
G
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
The Australia Hotel
BUSINESS AS USUAL.
The Management of the “Australia”
Hotel are gratified to state that, not-
withstanding the upset caused by the
recent fire they are able to announce
“business as usual.” The service in
the Grand Dining Room, on the
Balcony, and in the Winter Garden
is being conducted in the same style
that has made the “Australia” Hotel
so popular with its patrons, while the
arrangements for Private Dinners and
Suppers are working with their accus-
tomed satisfaction.
Throughout the holiday season
arrangements for Afternoon Teas will,
as usual, be carried out in the Winter
Garden, which has been running con-
tinuously throughout.
J. URE SMITH, Manager.
/
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Lgyptiati Henna before all others ; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
A “ nib ” in
every style
“ Whatever your style of
handwriting, you will find
that I can supply you with
the very nib that suits you
best. Ash for me personally
at the shop to-day.
The Onoto fills itself with
ink easily and quickly
from any ink supply. It
is the one pen that you
can rely upon to fill itself
properly. It can’t leak.
If you buy the wrong kind
of pen to-day you will
probably wish for an
Onoto to-morrow—so be
sure to get an
Onoto
The pen to possess
Price 12/- and upwards of all
Stationers, Jewellers, and Stores,
Booklet about the Onoto Pen free
on application to Thos. de la
Rue & Co., Ltd., 104 Bunhill
Row, London, E.C., or the Aus-
tralasian Representatives, Nor-
man Baker and Longhurst, 50
York Street, Sydney.
Ask for ONOTO INK
—Best for all pens.
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral
asian, (id. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hoi
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tno
telephone, and obtain information withou.
charge.
Real Hair Grower
Found at Last!
The Great American Discovery “Crystolis”
Grows Hair in 30 Days.
£2OO Reward if We Fail on Our Guarantee.
Try It at Our RisK Post Coupon To-day.
This Man is Grow n_ Eak Cry« tclis ” is just the thing-for such cases.
Here’s good news at last for men and women whose
hair is falling, who are growing bald and grey,
whose scalps are covered with dandruff that nothing
seems to keep away, and whose heads itch like mad.
Good news even for those who imagine themselves
hopelessly and incurably bald, or who suffer from
hair or scalp trouble of any kind.
We have had granted to us the sole Australasian
rights for the great American discovery, Crystolis,
the new hair remedy that in America and Europe has
been called the most wonderful scalp discovery of the
century, having been awarded Gold Medals at the big
Paris and Brussels Expositions.
Hundreds of men and women have written us to
tell of the phenomenal results obtained by its use.
People who have been bald for years tell how they
now glory in their beautiful hair. Others who have
had dandruff all their lives say they have now a
clean, healthy scalp and that hair stopped falling
after a few applications of this wonderful new treat-
ment.
We don't care whether you are bothered with fall-
ing hair, prematurely grey hair, matted hair, brittle
hair, or stringy hair ; dandruff, itching scalp, or any
or all forms of hair trouble, we want you to try
‘CRYSTOLIS” at our risk.
We give j r ou a binding - guarantee without any
“strings” or red tape, that it won’t cost you a cent,
if we do not prove to you that “Crystolis” will do
all we claim for it, and, what’s important, we have
plenty of money to back our guarantee. We have
deposited £2OO in our local bank as a special fund
to be forfeited if we fail to comply with this con-
tract. Cut out the coupon below, and post it to-day
to Creslo Laboratories, Divis. 200-U, Malcolm Build-
ings, 25 6a George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
FREE COUPON.
The Creslo Laboratories, Divis. 200-U,
Malcolm Buildings, 256 a, George Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
I am a reader of the Sydney .Bulletin.
Prove to me without cost how “Crystolis’
stops falling hair, grows new hair, banishes
dandruff and itching scalps, and restores prema-
ture grey and faded hair to natural color.
Write your name and address plainly and
Pin this Coupon to Your Letter.
7~¥e.
If any illustration appearing in T E
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
“ Buy this tyre and me with it _
my name is ‘ MILES ’” —
Says Mercury Motorised i
-x
I
I
r
r
«t WASNT christened ‘Miles’in an idle moment
I carry the message of Avon Tyres, and I urge
Avon claims because mileage is the first and last and
greatest thing motorists look for in tyres.
“Why 9 Because long life is only possible to tyres that are
built of the right stuff and built right. Rubber that cuts and
punctures easily causes endless trouble, and must obviously coma
to a speedy end ; fabric walls that are inherently weak lead to
dangerous bursts and premature disruption.
“Fit Avon tyres proven time and again in actual service to
be capable of greatest average mileage—and you find that they
necessarily fill all other needs in the fullest measure. The very
length of Avon Service demonstrates their cut-resisting tough-
ness, sinewy wall-strength and luxurious resilience. Ibe fact
that you get Avon Service at lowest cost per mile is the
argument,”
<s?
B
r
—-p
Agents: N. J. HOWES 8 CO., 212 Clarence Street, Sydney.


Missing Friends.
1 > ELATIVES of JAMES GRAHAM,
IV miner, who died at Marranboy,
Northern Territory, on 22nd April, !f»l5,
are requested to communicate with the
Public Trustee, Darwin. N.T. Deceased
.Tames Graham is supposed to have had a
sister residing in South Australia.
Legal Notices.
rp O WILLIAM HENNESSEY last'hoard
I of in State of Victoria and his children
and to all persons claiming by through or
under him.
PURSUANT to the directions of the Hon-
orable Frederick Revann Chapman, a Judge
of the Supreme Court of New Zealand, under
Section 25 of The Public Trust Office Amend-
ment Act 1913, you are hereby called upon to
send in to the undersigned on or before the
Ist day of September 1916 your claim to a
share in the estate of .Tames Hennessey late
of Bennetts, Canterbury, N.Z., Farmer,
deceased, who died on the 2nd day of Novem-
ber 1906. intestate, failing which such estate
will be distributed among the persons entitled
thereto disregarding your claim.
Dated at Wellington, N.Z., this Bth day of
March 1916.
J. W. MACDONALD,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office.
Wellington, N.Z.
STATUTORY NOTICE TO
CREDITORS.
RE PETER ARCHIBALD MARGACH,
Deceased.
PURSUANT to the provisions of “The
Trustees and Executors Act of 1897," notice
is hereby given that all creditors and other
persons having any claims or demands upon
or against the Estate of Peter Archibald
Margach, late of Innisfail. in the State of
Queensland, Sugar Cane Farmer, deceased,
who died on the tenth day of February, 1916,
at Sydney, in the State of New South
Wales, are hereby required to send in, in
writing, particulars of their debts or claims
to the undersigned, Solicitor for David
Hunter of Innisfail, in the said State, Sugar
Cane Farmer and Mary Kate Margach, of
Innisfail aforesaid, the lawful Widow of the
said deceased, the Executor and Executrix
respectively named in the will of the said
deceased, on or before Saturday, the
twentieth day of May, 1916. And notice is
further given that after the expiration of
the last mentioned day, the said Executor
and Executrix will proceed to distribute the
assets of the said deceased amongst the per-
sons entitled thereto, having regard only to
the claims of which the Executor and
Executrix shall then have had notice, and
that the said Executor and Executrix will
not be liable for the assets, or any part
thereof, so distributed to any person of
whose debt or claim they shall not have
had notice at the time of such distribution.
Dated this thirteenth day of April, 1916.
E. IVOR HAVARD.
Solicitor for the said David Hunter and
Mary Kate Margach,
Innisfail.
Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 20/4/’l6.
Appointment of Master, Mate and
Engineer (Temporary) for Tug Boat.
A PPLICATIOXS are invited from per-
_tL sons qualified to fill the temporary
positions of Master. Mate and Engineer, on
Tug Boat for duty at Henderson Naval
Base, Coekburn Sound. W.A., or at any
other Naval Base as required.
Salary will be as follows: —
Master .. .. £24 per month.
Mate _ .. . . £l6 per month.
Engineer .. .. £23 per month.
A Sustenance Allowance of 4/- per diem
will be paid to officers when afloat and
unable to return ashore at night.
Further particulars may be obtained from
the Commonwealth of Australia Gazette,
or from the Naval Secretary, Department of
the Navv. Melbourne.
J. A. JENSEN,
Minister of State for the Navy.
Business Announcements.
(fIPILLdRINE
CROWS MOUSTACHES
QUICKLY !
7
Many men shave the
upper lip because
their moustaches are
of a straggly growth.
If this is your
trouble, rub CAPIL-
LARIN'E well into
the hair-roots for a
month. Then let the
moustache grow, and
note the wonderful improvement.
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE.
Craig: & Aitken,
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
START BUSINESS YOURSELF.
We supply Fancy Goods, Post Cards, Drapery, Tobac-
conists, Stationery, Jewellery, Id., 3d. and 6d. Bazaar
Goods, Toys, Confectionery, Cutlery, etc. Sample
cases £5 upwards sent by return. Guide Catalogue,
“Success in Business,” 3d.
H. Michaels & Son,
14-15 Cromwell House, High Holborn,
London, W.C., England. [1
Amusements.
Hurry Rickard** Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
JIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Plans at Nicholson’s and Tivoli.
MELBOURNE.
”|-IVOI,I THEATRE.
NIGHTLY AT EIGHT.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
LAST NIGHTS OF
TIVOLI FOLLIES
OF 1915-1916.
EVERYTHING NEW AND DOWN TO DATE.
Plan at Glen’s.
THE BIG SHOW. THE BIG SHOW.
THE BIG SHOW. THE BIG SHOW.
w
IRTH BROS., LTD., GREATEST SHOW
ON EARTH.
WIRTHS’ NEW HIPPODROME,
lIAYMARKET.
NIGHTLY AT 8. NIGHTLY AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AND
HOLIDAYS.
Prices: Dress Circle, 5/-.; Arena Stalls, 5/-;
Stalls, 4/-; Back Stalls, 3/-; and Family Circle, 2/-.
Plan at Nicholson’s and Hotel Australia.
H
E H
MA3ES T Y ' S,
SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C.
WILLIAMSON, LTD., present their Gorgeous
Annual Pantomime Extravaganza,
MOTH LR GOOSE.
A HOST OF NEW ARTISTS. A RIOT OF FUN.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales, Callose’s.
R ITERION THEATRE. SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
J. C
WILLIAMSON’S Dramatic Attraction for
1916, introducing
The Brilliant London Emotional Star Actress,
MADGE FABIAN
ON TRIAL.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
H E
G A R DEN T 11 E A T R E,
BAYSWATER ROAD, DARLINGHURST.
One (1) Minute from top William Street.
MR. EDWARD BRANSCOMBE’S
RAN DILS COM PAN Y.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
CHANGE PROGRAMME EVERY THURSDAY.
Prices 2/6 (Reserved), 2/- and 1/-.
Theatre ’Phone: William Street 512.
Business Announcements.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
MEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500.000.
Fire insurances
Marine Risks ..
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
' Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
tx^vuna
CURES
ECZEMA
Writing from Cobargo, in January, 1916,
Mr. J. McCleary says:—“l did not credit
there was such a wonderful liquid on the
face of the planet that could do what
Exzerma has done for me. I had tried
everything that I saw advertised, without
the slightest improvement; but with one
bottle of Exzerma I was almost cured —
this after two years’ suffering. I was afraid
to mix with people and got as far into the
bush as I could. Xow I can once more
mix with the bunch.” All Chemists and
Druggists. or from [2
S. FIELDER, Randwick, Sydney. 5/-, 2 6
mumnaa.
A k 1U UvV
Jackel plated, silver plated and brass
lancets are kept laughingly bright
without trouble by this wonder polish.
Iwo sizes. Sold by all Grocery, Hard*
ware and Drug Stores.
Look for Photo on Can
PRACTICAL HYPNOTISM
Mesmeric Theories and Biological Practices, by Comte
ie Samt Gertnam, with 30 Illustrations. By means
t> l t n~i^ m,rk * b e 80011 *°y° n ' may become a
skilled hypnotist and exercise this strange in-
fluence over others. The 6rst chapter explains
how everybody may hypnotise, the second
describes the method ol hypnotism, and so on
through 2£4 pages, concluding with an expo-
sition of curing diseases by hypnotic
The Unionr 2 / 3 H >P no ‘“ D '«. «/©.
— U,ll0r> Co “ 2 W Elisabeth Street, M.lJj
p
Amusements.
ALA C K THEA T K E. SI'DNE V
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
JtkN.TAITS NEWENCLISH C°
PEC,
OM Y
A COMEDY OF YOUTH
v by cI.HARTLEY MANNERS.
THE SUPREME SUCCESS OF SUCCESSES
Box Plans now open at Nicholson’s.
T H
E WHITE CITY.
Kusheutter’s Bay, Sydney.
OPEN NIGHTLY. 7.30 TO 11.
ADMISSION SIXPENCE.
T. H. ESLICIv, General Manager.
mwinfwwM
\V. BARRINGTON MILLER, General
Union Theatres Limited, presents the
Manager
new
x
-f" RIANGLE PL,AYS AT
1 THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MOTION PICTURE ENTER-
TAINMENT as it should be.
SESSIONS: 11.45 a.m., 2 p.m.,
4.15 p.m. EVERY DAY, and
8 p.m.
Prices: 6d. to 2/6. Box Plan at Paling’s.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
THE PICTURE BLOCK THEATRES
1 In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-.
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller. General Manager.
|_|ER MAJESTY'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
1 * Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
EYERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
SO LONG, LE I TY.
A WHIRLWIND OF GAIETY.
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and 1/-.
THEATRE ROY AL, .MELBOURNE.
1 Direction J C. WILLIAMSON, Ltu.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HALE HAMILTON and MYRTLE TANNEHILL
in
The Famous American Comedy Success,
THE BOOM E RANG.
Prices: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-:
Stalls, 4/-; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
GEORGE MARLOW presents the Brilliant
Extravaganza,
DICK WHITTINGTON
AND HIS CAT.
K
Popular Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 11-
ing7 S theatre, melbo u r n e.
Lessees....BEßT BAILEY & JULIUS GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
FIRST APPEARANCE OF THE BERT BAILEY CO.
in
THE SQUAW MAN
(By arrangement with J. C. Williamson, Ltd.)
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Allan’s.
1“ H E A U D
ITO R I
MELBOURNE.
U M
EVERY EVENING.
J. & N. TAIT present,
By arrangement with Jack Waller,
THL IDLALS OP 1916.
Direct from Principal Theatres, London.
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Box Plan at Allan’s.
RiJ or theatre, m e l b o u r n i
FULLER’S THEATRES & VAUDEVILLE LT
Governing Director BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY
Afternoon 2.30. Evening at 8.
STERLING AND LOVE, PARIS GREEN
JAMES. MADGE MAITLAND MARR V\’n FV
GICK WATSON, ELLA AIRLIE THREE S\TON
BOLLINGER AND REYNOLDS, BELLORA.
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Matinees: 1/6, 1/- and 6<
Qlaciarium, melbourni
REAL ICE SKATING.
EVERY AFTERNOON AND
EVENING.
H° YTS P 1 C TI «E S, MEUioiKNE
BEST AND MOST.
TWO BIG SHOWS.
HOYT’S OWN: Bourke Street, next Theatre Royal.
OLYMPIA: Princes Bridge.
gim & CARROLL
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
1 laying Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
Business Announcrnipn^
TALKS ON BICYCLE BUYING-
No. l.
%ukWUll
a
\
S'// I 1
Vi
1
JL —the three piled rifles—■
appears on all B.S.A. parts
and unless the bicycle you
buy bears this mark it is not
built throughout with genuine
BS A. Fittings. The B.S.A.
Mark has always been asso-
ciated with all that is best in
cycle construction —it is your
protection against the sub-
stitution of cheap pattern
fittings, and is a guarantee
of freedom from trouble.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF GENUINE
A
ITTIN^§
"THOROUGHLY BRITISH.'
B.S.A. Handbook
free from
D Y. RENNIE
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
Australia* Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
1
Anthony Horderns’
Universal Bicycle.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with
EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub, Free
Wheel on both gears, Back-pedalling
and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop
Tyres. As ridden by FRANCIS
BIRTLES. £l2/10/-. Write for
Price List, post free.
Anthony Hordern BSons
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
WAVERLEY !
THE “BOON AND BLESSING” NIB ;
You can depend on a W aver ey.
Its quality and durability ms
it a world - wide favourite,
writes so smoothly and lasts so
well that one Waverley outlasts
two or three nibs of an inferio
kind. The Beservoir Waverley
does 200 words with one <hP-
6d. & 1/- PER boX
SOLD BY STATIONERS
AND DEALERS
M ACNIVEN & CAMEBON, LTD.
Steel, Gold & Fountain pen MahER
Edinburgh. Glasgow a London
how To'srofr
THE
tf yon give v ourself a chance,
money-making profession acting IL *»» j.;\ v
gets iIC'OO a week for a s
work, vet he used to work in a pit for o - c .
Send only ONE SHILLING for * b° ok J of “
tions 44 How to Go on the Stage, an ' a
become famons. travel all over tne
high salary and enjoy every moment o ' ■
The I,MON' Company. 299


ALL OVER FACE
Cuticura Ointment Healed in Three
Weeks Leaving No Disfigurement.
Also Healed Burn on Girl’s Leg.
Bedfordale P. 0., Via Armadale, W. A.—
“My little boy aged two and a half years
fell down and skinned his nose. He picked
it when getting better which caused big
sores to break out all over his face, dis-
charging and very painful.
“I at last saw Cuticura advertised. I
bought a tin of Cuticura Ointment, and I
am thankful to say that it cured his face in
three weeks, leaving no disfigurement.
“I also used the Cuticura Ointment on
my little girl who burned the calf of her leg
on a buggy lamp very badly. It was in-
flamed for some weeks. I tried the Cuticura
Ointment and as in the boy’s case it effected
a perfect cure.” (Signed) Mrs. Harry Wil-
liams, Feb. 14, 1914.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
Benger’s is
natural food entire-
ly free from any
chemical substance
whatsoever.
X
It is different
from all other
foods in being
scientifically
combined with
natural diges-
tive principles.
♦
Food
is prepared for child, invalid,
or aged person, with fresh new milk,
and in course of preparation, both
the Food and the milk are partiaMy
digested, as desired.
This unique feature enables Benger's Food
to be assimilated under almost all conditions
of illness and digestive disorder.
Benger's Food is sold in tins by Chemists , etc., everywhere.
An interesting booklet explaining how Benger’s Foo l ‘assists Nature*
fo Invalids Convalescents, post t ee from
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER,Eng:
Branch Offtc s : . . n
NEW YORK (U.S A.l 9?, William St. SYDNEY (N.S.W.) 117, Pitt St.
Canadian /gents— Naf : o al Drug & Chemical Co., Ltd., 34.
I?SA Gabriel St., MONTREAL, and branches throughout CANADA.
Druids’ Art Union.
Total Value of Prizes, £750.
Ist PRIZE, £400; 2nd PRIZE, £lOO.
Value Guaranteed.
100 Prizes. TICKETS, ONE SHILLING.
Upon receipt of postal note for 1/- ticket
will be forwarded to any part of the Com-
monwealth. Do not delay. Send postal
note and addressed envelope to the Secre-
tary,
R. A. BARRY.
715 George Street, Sydney.
MARLIN
HIGH -VELOCITY
RIFLES
Four of these famous side-ejecting,
high-power rifles have been added to
our list, and they are well worth
investigating by big-game shooters.
.32 cal. H.V. Rifle, 95/-
.32/40 and .38/55 H.V. Carbines, 90/-
.32/40 and 38/55 H.V. Rifles, 95/-
.33 cal. H.V. Special Rifles, £5/15/-
Sent by mail they cost 4/8 extra, but
the cartridges have to be sent by boat
or rail.
AlcocK (&L Pierce,
318 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the
paying office in the World. HEAD OFFICE .. 87 PITT STREET, SYDJNE*.
Directors Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman; Hon. K. J.
Black, M.L.C. ; Hon. Jas. Burns, M.L.C. ; Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., h.e. ,
Samuel Hordern, Esq.
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. 11. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Accumulated Funds, £33,500,000. Annual Income, £4,500,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1914 .. £1,034,340 Total Bonuses distributed .. £19,808,000
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. Write for prospectus
and full information without delay.
Mm
BOOTS have come back again and no mistake.
But such dreams of boots, up-to-date,
dainty, delightful, fit accompaniment to the
flounced taffeta frocks of the day, which
combine smart modernity with old-world charm.
Paris and London both are now tripping to work
and play in short-fronted, high-heeled, suede-
topped boots like the Bostock style here illus-
It is a smart little boot, there is no doubt
about that, and every bit as comfortable as it is
smart. The beautifully fitting last on which it is
made sees to that, and lots of women, who have
never imagined they could wear a short-fronted
style, will be amazed to find how comfortable it
is, how jolly it makes their feet look.
Then for those who want something different,
who prefer shoes perhaps, there is a fine range of
styles to select from, all as up-to-date and charm-
ing as this model, and all safe to wear well and
feel as peculiarly one’s own as if they had been
made to measure.
Bost.oek No.
P 6476
s#
J
*0
None genuine unless
stamped “Bostock.”
828
See that the name “Bostock”
is stamped on the soles.
n
A
£
The Edison Diamond
Disc Phonograph
is different and superior
to any other talking machine.
In nearly every musical sound —though heard as one note a
combination of several notes is really there. The different
relative numbers and intensities of this combination of notes
make the difference in Tone Quality. The lowest tone is called
the fundamental tone; the softer and sweeter tones are called the
overtones. If the overtones are absent from a note, the resulting
sound is thin and strident. For the first time in the history of
the Talking Machine the overtones can be recorded —and
accurately reproduced on the Edison Diamond Disc Phonograph.
The records are of an entirely new material —manufactured under
a secret process from a chemical compound of such great density
and hardness that the most minute sound-wave can be engraved
upon it, and no amount of wear will efface or distort it.
There are numerous factors which go to make the Edison Diamond
Disc the finest musical instrument the world knows; by hearing
it you can prove for yourself that it is a wonderful instrument
the only talking machine capable of pleasing the most exacting
music-lovers.
Illustrated catalog of all information post free on request.
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
The Inky Way.
J. J. Hall, till recently head reporter of
the Bendigo Advertiser, has taken on a
harder job as sec. of the newly-mooted Vic.
Farmers’ Union. Still, he has moved a bit
amongst the class he seeks to serve, so pro-
bably has sized the problem he is up
against—the prickly end of it being the
collection of the ten bob a year subscription.
* * * *
It is a fearful thing to try to be humorous
in front of a Police Court bench. The other
day The Bystander, a London illustrated
weekly, was “up” for publishing a cartoon
entitled “Reported Missing,” which depicted
a private soldier, wearing a sun-helmet, lying
under a tree, hugging a bottle of rum. The
prosecution claimed that the cartoon was a
gross libel on the forces, and likely to pre-
judice discipline, especially as it was drawn
by an officer. Furthermore, it tended to
prejudice recruiting. An indignant beak
fined the publishers £lOO, the editou£so, and
Lieut. C. G. Bernard, who drew the picture,
£25. Next time a London beak fines a sfel-
dier for being drunk, or even suggests that
a soldier can be drunk, this paper urges
The Bystander to call around and try to
collect £175 from it for grossly libelling the
King’s forces.
* * * *
Rifleman E. 11. Thompson, present address
the high seas; is a promising young Dunedin
(M.L.) artist, and publisher of The
Sketciier. He had produced five numbers
of his periodical with much success, and was
in the act of preparing No. 6, when he
decided to close the den and call on the Hun
to subscribe to a hastily-published bullet.
There’s going to be trouble for Sydney
Telegraph’s linotype presently. It may
play tricks on most people with impunity,
but when it talks of “the 16 pudges on the
N. S. Wales bench” it is liable to make ill-
feeling where ill-feeling really matters.
* * * *
Nelson (M.L.) Evening Mail celebrated
its jubilee the other day, having been
founded in 1866 by the late R. Lucas, father
of the present owner. The special issue to
mark the occasion was of more than usual
interest by reason of its accounts of the
famous Wairau massacre and the notorious
Maungatapu murders, which were big inci-
dents in the early days of Nelson. The
Mail, which began life as a humble sheet
produced on a hand press, is now a prosper-
ous and bulky journal that drops, from the
most modern machines. One unique point
about it is that the whole of its staff, with
the solitary exception of the linotype
engineer, started life on the paper as a boy.
* * * *
That keen-eyed humorist Robert Brothers
was concerned in a recent rescue from
drowning at Durban, S’Africa. He was
taking a Saturday-afternoon stroll with his
12-year-old son when they saw three girl-
bathers floundering in the Illovo River. One
of them was floating face downwards when
Brothers plunged in to help. But .he. isn’t
as good at swimming as he is at spinning a
yarn, and Australian literature was going
under when young Brothers swam into the
plot and assisted everybody to a happy
ending. # ,
“Norbell”: J. Dobbs, of the Morning
Bulletin, Rockhampton, has put .up a
record of half a century at the case with the
one employer, which is probably unbeaten on
the Australian Inky Way.
* * * *
From the Sydney report of a court-mar-
tial : —•
Sergeant Granter took it for granted that the grant
had been granted.
Well, grant that Granter expected the grant
to be granted, can It be granted that Granter
was entitled to anticipate the grant? That
is the question before the sub-editor.
“Itan”: The signed-article foolishness
reached the limit of absurdity during a recent
Queensland by-election campaign. One of
the principal reasons for its adoption was
that the appending of a signature to a para-
graph would ensure accuracy and truth. As
a matter of fact, there was never more wilful
lying at any election than at the one just
fought in Fortitude Valley, The responsi-
bility in some cases has been evaded by the
whole staff signing the articles; and in the
case of the Courier the editor’s name was
bracketed with the real writer’s, though he
at the time was out of the State. Not that
that mattered, of course. He no doubt left
his instructions. And probably they , didn’t
represent his personal views either,-but were
merely as near his views as the views of
his bosses would let him get.
THE SPECTATOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With puckered brow I stand aside
And watch the passing show.
While strong-lipped knights, in lusty pride,
Into the lists all eager ride,
To answer blow with blow,
At Life’s fierce tournament I blink,
And smudge it o’er with printer's ink.
Men’s yearnings, strivings, loves and hates
But furnish me with pars.
Perchance a fighter’s wounded, then
Straightway I rush with fountain-pen
To open up his scars;
And with an “X” I seek to show
The place where he received the blow.
Though men may fight and women love,
And kingdoms rise and fall,
And cities rust, and nations die,
In these affairs no part have I
Although I write of all.
While others in the whirlpool fight
And do —I merely sit and write !
My soul I bartered for a “nose,”
My blood is turned to ink,
And with a cold, myopic eye
I watch life’s stream go surging by—•
And thus upon the brink
I’ll crouch until the tomb is ripe,
And help supply the nation’s tripe!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


We Sell only RELIABLE
SPORTING GOODS
Our Motto : “Goods Right—Prices Right.”
A SATISFIED CUSTOMER is our best advertisement, THAT'S WHY we endeavor to always satisfy
TENNIS REQUISITES.
a
2
p^lj
(Postage
We specially recommend our M.S.
Haymarket Rackets and Balls as
being absolutely the best value
procurable.
RACKETS.
on one racket: N.S.W., 9d.;
other States, 1/2.)
M.S. Handicap, full size 6/-
C. 8.8. Special 9/6
M.S. Champion 11/6
C. 8.8., cork handle .. 13/6
C. 8.8., Quadruple .... 15/6
M.S. Haymarket 22/6
Havmarket, Special .... 27 /6
Haymarket, Selected.. 35 / -
Haymarket, Ex. Special 37 /6
Ay re’s Handicap 14/6
Ayre’s A 1 16/6
Ayre’s Double Central.. 18/9
Ayre’s Champion 22/6
Ayre’s S.N.D 45/-
Slazenger’s Renshaw .. 15/-
Slazenger's Demon .... 22/6
Slazenger’s Whitehouse 27/6
Slazenger’s E.G.M 36/6
Slazenger’s Doherty ... 40/-
Slazenger’s Stadium ... 45 /-
BALLS.
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
Each. Doz.
Grey Regulation.. -/ 6 5/6
Grey Regulation,
superior .... - /10 97-
Challenge, covered 1/- 11/-
Avre’s Court, cov’d II- 11/6
Each. Doz.
Dunlop Champion 1/6 16/6
Havmarket Special 1/8 18/6
Ayre’s Champion 1/8 19/-
Slazenger’s Cham-
pion
1/8 19/-
NETS.
Steam Tarred and Waterproof, full size, 5/6, 8/6, 11/6, 13/6
Steam Tarred and Waterproof, wire head line —
13/6, 16/6, 22/6, 27/6, 33/-
GOLF M ATERI A L
Our stock of Golfing Requisites is unsurpassed, and comprises
Clubs, Balls, etc., by the world’s leading makers.
CLUBS.
Postage on one club: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
M.S. Drivers and Irons.. 5/-, 7/6 Brassies .. 5/6, 8/6
Auchterlonie Drivers and Irons 8/- Brassies 9/-
Simpson’s Drivers and Irons.. 7/6 Brassies 8/-
J. Braid's Drivers and Irons 8/- Brassies 9/-
Cann and Taylor’s Irons 7/-, 8/- Brassies 9/-
Spalding’s Irons & Drivers 5/6, 7/9 Brassies .. 5/6, 9/6
Braid Mills’ Aluminium Putters 10/6
Patrick Bulldog Spoons, Ladies’ favorite 10/6
BALLS.
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
Each. Doz.
Watson’s No. 10 3/- 347-
Silver King (Yel.
Dot) 3/- 357-
Silver King (Black
Dot) 3/- 357-
White Dimple .. 3/3 387-
Midget Dimple .. 3/3 387-
Domino Dimple 3/3 387-
Black & White
Dimple 3/3 387-
Challenger King 3/3 397-
Arch Colonel .. 3/6 397-
Glory Dimple .. 4/3 487-
CADDY BAGS.
Waterproof Canvas, leather bottom and sling—
7/6, 9/-, 12/6, 14/6
Solid Hide, best quality 17/6, 21/-, 25/-
■A
flm
rr y \ A
P
wet
- -
IoM
For full particulars of Tennis,
Golf and all Sporting Materials,
see our illustrated Sports List.
Post free to any address.
Mick Simmons W
NAYMARKET
•SYDNEY*
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS’ OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KINO STREET; also at NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE.
We are Specialists in all kinds of I
SPORTING REPAIR WORK.
•••••
*\
■\/<=
m
,’i
-4
w
*c
i
»«•
x>
€
(
»0
if
SB
2?*#
u
7
"I
Insist on your dealer
supplying you. He can
easily obtain O-Cedar
Catalogues and Dealer
Samples and Prices from
Gibbs, Bright & Co.
37 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
Sole Australian Agents.
Also at Melbourne, Brisbane
Adelaide and Fremantle.
o<§feM°p
O-Cedar Polish-Mop
(Triangle Model) is a great
time and labour - saving
device, plus a hygienic
house-cleaning appliance. It
insures thoroughly clean and,
therefore, sanitary surround-
ings because it picks up and
holds all dust and dirt. It has
an adjustable and convenient
handle, 54 inches —an innova-
tion appreciated by housewives
the world over.
4 Cleans as
It Polishes 99
SIMPLY add a few drops
of O-Cedar Polish to a
cloth dampened with
water. Go over any
piece of furniture or
woodwork, and polish
with a dry cloth. See
how O-Cedar cleans, dusts,
polishes and really beautifies all at one time.
Polish
[Registered in principal countries]
produces a hard, dry, gloss-like lustre or polish that is last-
ing. This lustre is retained if you put a few drops of O-Cedar
on your dust-cloth as you use it daily.
O-Cedar Polish sold by all leading dealers, in convenient
sizes. Try it. You will be delighted with the work it does.
CHANNELL CHEMICAL CO.
Chicago London Toronto Buenos Aires
Cable Address: ‘Ocedar’
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
KYNOCH “SWIFT” is
THE Cartridge for the
“man on the land.”
Smokeless —effective-
reliable —it is a really
good, low-priced Cart-
ridge, and is deservedly
popular.
Factory loaded; uni-
form in pattern and
penetration.
BRITISH MADE.
t Oy.:
'N
&
i-m.
wm
.t'—
m
h 3&
uv
&
7V^
*
“O.A.
BE GOOD
TO YOUR
COMPLEXION
USE
NyaPs
Face
Cream
1/6 & 2/6 per J ar -
FOR SALE BY
CHEMISTS ONL»


mfh
M
WATCH THE
SMILES GROW
When you Banish
the Coughs and
Colds with
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
It won’t take the folks at home long
to notice the difference when they
start to use Dr. Sheldon’s New Dis-
covery. For New Discovery is known
far and wide as an unequalled Cough
Remedy. It’s the finest remedy you
ever used —bar none. When you
use it you can be mighty sure that
Coughs and Colds will soon vanish.
No wonder, though, for Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery has been compiled on
scientific lines, and is designed to
relieve the cold without upsetting the digestive
organs. Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is the
quickest, safest, and best-known remedy for
Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Bronchitis, and all
Throat and Chest troubles. It is a remedy
that can always be relied upon.
Don't Forget to take a Bottle
Home to-night.
Price 1/6 and 3/-
#
D« Sheldons
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
Baby is a Connoisseur
in his own little way
He likes —and must have —the best. You
cannot be too cautious in selecting his
food. Use a proved food —a food which
has been in the front rank for years.
MeJliris Fbod
Mellin’s Food is the proved
most efficacious equivalent to
Mother’s Milk, and satisfac-
torily fulfils all the require-
ments of an artificial food.
Set out to feed
baby right. Next
to breast-feed-
ing, the Mellin’s
Feeding Bottle
has most advan-
tages. A trial
convinces you.
A Sample of Mellin's Food, with useful Handbook for Mothers, “The
Care of Infants in Australia,” will be sent post Free. Write to-day to
MESSRS. GOLLIN & CO. PROPRIETARY, LTD., SYDNEY.
FOX
Look for These Brands!
Now, when there is considerable difficulty in
securing reliable Dye Wares, more than usual
care is necessary in the selection of Blue and
Black Serges, Coatings and Dress Goods.
The Genuine FOX Serges
have the trade marks, here illustrated, stamped
on every yard of the material which is guaranteed
Pure Wool Fast Dye Thoroughly Shrunk
by Fox Brothers & Co. Ltd., Wellington, Somerset, England
the only manufacturers of the genuine Fox Serges and the originators
of the now famous Khaki Serge and F.I.P. Puttee.
If you have any difficulty in obtaining genuine Fox Serges locally, write direct to the
agents, Messrs. Stogdale & Sons Pty. Ltd., Box 1802, G.P.0., Sydney, who will
supply the address of the nearest Storekeeper stocking it.
In Exile.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A RIBAND of silver, the river spills
Between the willows that line its
banks;
The poplars stretch to the bosomy hills
In formal rows, and my tongue gives
thanks
For the splendid peace of it all. . . .and yet
The exile within me cannot forget!
Too primly millinered, too precise
The landscape seems ; and a sullen pain
Grapples my heart in an occult vise,
Rouses a yeasty fear in my brain
Lest the Fates, untoward, elect that I
See not my homeland before I die.
Though surely the mood will pass, I know,
Yet just as surely will it recur;
Wisdom cajoles me, “Should this be so,
So let it be and make no demur!”
But Wisdom and I we could never agree ;
Her slattern dugs have no milk for me.
\nd wistful and lonely and ill at ease
I stroll down the garden to where I know
(Ah, well I know them, these dear old
trees!)
A couple of fine old Blue Gums grow ;
p m ay be a whimsey of my own mind,
But to me these Blue Gums are mately kind.
I stroke their butts and I kiss their leaves
And I speak to them softly, so none can
hear,
We tell each other how exile grieves,
And somehow it seems less hard to bear;
They’re not the same as at home, but yet
I know, like me, that they don’t forget.
MAOKILAND.
BERNARD INGLEBY.
The Renegade of K3.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE aerial-alarm gong boomed out im-
peratively from the observation
tower.
The waiting Prussian lieutenant snatched
the hastily-written message from the field-
telephonist and rushed across to the mess-
tent of the K 3 Flying Corps.
“Five, Seven, Twelve and Sixteen —to
repel dirigibles,” he shouted, thrusting his
head into the opening.
Fifty yards away four armored Etrich
monoplanes were being hurriedly wheeled
around in readiness for the start. Three
minutes later Holbach, Graf, Yon Schenk
and Vassmer were aboard their machines,
strapped in and facing the easterly breeze.
Captain Euler was finishing his final
order: “....and at any cost they must not
touch the magazines.”
The four monoplanes with a space of
forty feet between them rose into the air in
a line. As they passed over No. 4 Aerial
Defence Battery, with its eight test-tubes
of death pointing skyward, Yassmer, who
was the least experienced of the four, shivered
involuntarily; for he remembered the bleed-
ing torso that had fallen beside him from the
zenith, a memento of the unsuccessful
French raid of the previous day. After re-
leasing the trailing antennae of his wireless
he concentrated his attention upon their
objective. Two Lebaudy dirigibles were
approaching from the south-east, about half
a mile from each other, and quite four thou-
sand feet up from the plain.
Vassmer's wireless receiver throbbed into
activity. “Extend,” came the order. “Five,
Twelve —right. Seven, Sixteen —left. Keep
out of line of fire until signalled.”
Vassmer swung his machine over to the
left, with Graf close behind him, both rising
steadily. An incendiary shell from No. 4
Battery burst over the nearer Lebaudy like
a splash of blazing oil, but was not effective.
Then both airships opened fire from their
forward turrets.
Six times Yassmer felt the air-furrows of
passing shells, and he glanced swiftly across
to the right. No. 5 monoplane suddenly
sagged in the middle; then two halves flut-
tered down in a three-thousand-feet drop.
The next instant Vassmer saw a blinding
flash out of the corner of his eye, and on
looking backward caught a glimpse of Graf’s
machine whirling earthward in fragments
like a shattered match-hox.
“Two!” he grunted, and clenched his
teeth.
“Twelve and Sixteen,” buzzed the wireless
—“attack!”
He swept around in a curve to the left
and banked-over in the turn so that he was
moving parallel to the nearer dirigible, but
two hundred feet overhead. A ribbon of
flame shot upward from the Maxim that was
mounted on the airship’s upper sheathing,
and the steel base of No. Sixteen’s cockpit
jerked and rattled violently. The airman
opened his bomb-release, dropped four Zol-
emnite bombs, and soared upwards.
A crumpled mass of metal sheathing tore
op past him like a flying rag, and his mono-
plane was almost overturned by the dis-
placed air. The airman stared over the side.
The dirigible was ablaze from amidships to
stern and sinking rapidly.
Three-quarters of a mile away to the west
Von Schenk was hovering above the other
french airship. A charge of grapeshot
ripped his main planes into shreds, and the
disabled monoplane—with its hundredweight
load of Zolemnite bombs —crashed down
upon the roof of the Lebaudy.
vassmer, hurrying westward to Yon
Schenk’s _ assistance, nearly lost control of
his machine—the explosion was so appalling
that he thought the world had been split by
a monstrous fireball.
He was abruptly awakened by the re-
newed buzzing of his wireless: “Sixteen, if
uninjured, examine coastline and report.”
He swerved to the east and rose high
above the crest of Needle-top Hill. As he
gazed seaward he saw that an aero-aquatic
duel was in progress not more than a mile
away. A large British seaplane was circling
at a height of fifteen hundred feet above a
submarine, whose conical steel battery stood
out of the water like a small grey pyramid.
As Yassmer approached, with his quick-firer
ready, the invisible loopholes encircling the
armored cone ejected spurts of fire. The
tail of the seaplane disappeared in a cloud
of yellow smoke, and the next moment the
fore portion crumpled up and fell. A great
blaze splashed outward as the head struck
the sea, and after the fumes had eddied up
from the surface the submarine headed
northward and dived.
Yassmer followed the coastline eastward
for eighteen miles, and after easing down to
half-speed commenced to call up the K 3 base.
He transmitted HQ for fully four minutes
before receiving any reply.
“English seaplane sunk by submarine,” he
signalled. “Coastline clear. No ships in
sight. Am twenty miles east from Needle-
Top. Your signals weak.”
“Station destroyed by shell,” came the
answer. “Am using portable set. Order.
French right flank advancing near canal.
Reconnoitre and return immediate.”
The airman acknowledged the order and
turned inland over the hills.
As he approached the extreme right of
the battle-front a dull rumbling commenced
to soak through the helmet into his ears.
Away over to the south-east he could see
floating masses of smoke rising high into
the air. He pulled out the frame of the
skeleton map from its rack and clasped it
over his route-chart, ready for working on.
The orderly firing of his motor became
suddenly erratic, and a disquieting sugges-
tion thrust itself upon him. He plumbed
his oil-tank with feverish haste ; then, with
a curse, began a compulsory volplane. He
quickly determined to land on the flat top of
a hill that lay to the right. He accomplished
the landing without mishap, dismounted, and,
after unbolting his small quick-firer and
standing it on the ground alongside his
machine, awaited developments.
On the plain below he could see the gleam-
ing, pencil like guns, whose steel belchings
could rend open a granite cliff. There they
stood, breathing smoke and erupting sudden
death like mechanical volcanoes.
Over to the north-east and moving in ex-
tended formation two French and one Brit-
ish regiment were converging upon the inter-
section of two roads. The airman watched
with a feeling of fascination.
All at once, and almost in the middle of
the British regiment, there appeared a long,
wavering flame that lengthened until the
approaching body of men was bisected by a
river of fire a quarter of a mile long—an oil-
mine, the trench for which had been dug
during the previous week. Into the divided
host the German battery projected a steel
and leaden storm from a background of
blazing spurts and eddying vapors.
Half a mile away, and raising great clouds
of yellow dust, an ammunition transport was
hurrying along to the firing-line.
As Vassmer was observing its rapid ap-
proach along the recently-constructed road a
black shadow flicked over the hill from the
rear, and a British Sopwith biplane swept
downward and outward over the plain.
A blue flash spat backward from the cock-
pit, and a mighty hammer seemed to strike
the wireless receiver that was clasped to his
left ear. For a few seconds he was deafened
by the influx of sounds from around him, the
hideous thunder of bursting shrapnel and
the crackling roar of machine-guns.
In a state of maddening impotence he
noticed that the vulturine flight of the Sop-
with was directed towards the motor-lorries,
and he wrenched the smashed wireless hel-
met from his head and flung it into the
bushes. The biplane turned and then passed
high above the lorries, moving in the same
direction. A rapid succession of black
objects dropped out of it, like a broken
string of beads.
The earth gaped wide in a monstrous
vomiting of fire. Great flakes of steel
splashed upwards like spray into the riven
air. Then Vassmer’s eardrums were almost
shattered by an awful devastating roar—a
blast from the Pit —that surged against him
from the plain in a mighty wave.
At five hundred feet above the smoking
rent in the ground the biplane was rolling
and heaving. A shell hurtled over the
machine, like a flying worm. For a moment
the swaying fabric reared up vertically and
then stood still. Out of her head shot a
vivid gi*een flame, and an expanding cloud
of smoke enveloped the framework. When
the cloud had dissipated, the remains of the
Sopwith were scattered in and around a
gaping hole.
The oil-trench was still burning fiercely,
though in many places the flames had been
quenched by the tortured living and the
roasting dead. Through the gaps in this
fiendish barrier the British and French in-
fantry were swarming like ants between the
cracks in a door—to face a battery of
machine-guns that sprayed leaden death upon
them out of steel nozzles.
By degrees the airman became aware of
an extraordinary feeling of mental and
physical exhilaration. He fancied that his
body was expanding to a fearful size.
Suddenly he noticed that a monoplane was
approaching from the south-east, and for a
time was in doubt....
Leaning back against a rock, with his
quick-firer ready for action, he waited
anxiously. The nearing airman, when about
five hundred yards from the stationary
machine, became suspicious, and attempted
a dangerous turn. The quick-firer rattled
and shook venomously, and a helmeted head
that recklessly appeared over the side of the
cockpit abruptly jerked backward.
In less than thirty seconds an uncon-
trolled monoplane crashed head forward
against the hillside and turned over, with its
tail pointing skyward. Yassmer scrambled
down the slope, and, after dragging the dead
pilot out of his seat, unscrewed the auxiliary
oil-tank.
Ten minutes later No. 16 was gliding over
the plain, and Vassmer’s automatism was
(Continued on next page.)


What is
BACKACHE?
Backache is the Kidneys ' Call for Help.
*v
A
&
U
i
f\t
c<k \
" Every Picture *
tells a Story."
When a Woman has Backache, Headache, Rheumatic Twinges,
Urinary Trouble; when she has Aching Limbs and Swollen Joints,
WEAK KIDNEYS ARE THE CAUSE.
A woman has more than her share of burdens in life.
The care of the house, the needs of the family, the
making and mending and constant anxiety for everybody
round except herself.
It is not surprising that women are subject to kidney
weakness their kidneys cannot stand the strain that’s forced
upon them.
Backache from morn till night, worn and tired before
mid-day with headache, dizziness —to stoop is painful, and to
rise again is torture.
Sallowness, weak heart, sleeplessness, sciatica, rheuma-
tism, dropsy, gravel, stone are outcomes of diseased and tired
kidneys.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills act directly upon the
kidneys they help them to filter the blood to take out the
uric acid and impurities that cause the aching back —they give
relief in cases of dropsy, heart palpitation, neuralgia, lumbago,
rheumatism, sciatica, stone, gravel and all urinary ailments.
SYDNEY WOHAN CURED.
Mrs. C. Wigmore, 174 Darling Street, Balmain, says:—“Twelve
months ago Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me of backache, head-
aches, dizziness, and strengthened and toned-up my kidneys so thoroughly
that I now feel a different woman. I suffered terribly before I took
these Pills. I was always in pain, and my back was so lame that 1
could hardly get about. Besides these symptoms of kidney disorder, 1
had urinary trouble, the secretions being thick and cloudy and contain-
ing a red sediment. Suffering as I was, you can readily understand
that I am very grateful to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for my quick
and lasting cure. I say “lasting” because I have been quite well since
my cure was effected twelve months ago. I strongly recommend all who
suffer as I once did to take Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, which I
consider the finest kidney remedy known.”
Four years later Mrs. Wigmore says:—“Five years have elapsed
since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me of backache and kidnej
trouble, and I am pleased to say I have had no return of my old complain
since.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all Chemists and A oie
keepers at 2s. 9d. per bottle, or will be posted on receipt of price 07
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
sM
)k\mXVMS
. * *dS J'A
PILES
A Lasting Cure by
DOAN’S OINTMENT*
Mr. James Higgins, 21 Terry Street, Surry Hills, Sydney. saJS :
“Some years ago I suffered a lot from Itching Piles, the irritation D
very trying, particularly so at night and during the hot weat “ e p n - s
friend advised me to try Doan’s Ointment, and, knowing how good
Backache Kidney Pills were, I got a pot at once, and it. P rav ~v
blessing. After a few applications I got relief, and as I continued
the remedy the improvement was maintained, until finally ' ie
completely disappeared. Five years have elapsed since I used v
Ointment, and I have had no return of the ailment all that V er
cannot speak too highly of Doan’s Ointment, and recommend it to
sufferers.” .
Two years later Mrs. Higgins says:—“My husband is still free ci t e
torture of Piles, and has been since Doan’s Ointment cured him
years ago.”
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2/
per pot, or post free by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt St., Sj n •
developing into blood-lusting madness. The
thunderings from the earth seemed to fade
into vague murmurings, and he swept above
the battling thousands like a giant striding
over an army of ants.
A projectile tore upwards through the left
wing of his monoplane with a whining roar,
and burst far away overhead.
Vassmer laughed into the quaking air,
laughed like an unchained fiend in the ecstasy
of destruction.
“Shoot, you vermin—shoot!” he screamed
over the side.
Ills body quivered incessantly and seemed
to exude a fiery perspiration, and his head
felt like a red-hot globe. He could see the
slim, demure little tubes that stood on
three legs and squirted leaden drops, and he
yelled a greeting to them. He shouted with
fierce outbursts of diabolical merriment as
great furrows were ripped through the
charging masses, furrows that were lanes of
blood and twisting limbs.
Every shell that burst harmlessly in the
air enraged him.
“Lower ! Lower !” he roared, and thrust
one arm upward with splayed-out fingers as
if to grasp the firmament and smash it down
upon them. For he knew that they were
the spawn of vileness and futility. Huge
clouds of grey vapor billowed around him.
The air was sweet in his nostrils —sweet
with the perfume of streaming blood and
burning flesh. It was the incense of the
slaughter-house—incense rising to Vassmer
(he Omnipotent, Vassmer the Hod of Battles,
Vassmer the Sadist of Sudden Death.
He leaned over and flung his bombs broad-
cast, as a Titan might have hurled the light-
nings.
A shell slit the whirling vapors and struck
the tail of his monoplane. The air-dis-
placement of the bursting charge smote his
back and head like an avalanche, and
machine and man fell together.
Four hours later a bruised and exhausted
man lay sleeping on a camp-stretcher. A
file of men and an officer entered the tent.
The officer walked across to the sleeper and
kicked him.
“Up, you dog!” he shouted.
Five minutes afterwards, a dazed man,
with his back to a gorgeous sunset, stood
facing a firing-party. The last sound that
Vassmer heard in this world was the word
"Fire!”
* * * *
In the K 3 mess-tent that night the con-
versation was fitful and every face was
frowning.
“Yes,” said Von Alten to his brother,
“saw him myself. Fired on poor Korner
from the hilltop and brought him down.
Six of his bombs dropped on our Head-
quarters, and all the others killed our own
men. He got General Rotermund and Major
Stiebel with the first two, and Von Ritzenau
died in the ambulance. The old folly—a
damned amateur given a commission ! A
pup clad in a lion’s skin !”
The Bavarian Flight-Commander at the
head of the table stood erect with his glass
uplifted.
“My children,” he said solemnly, “to the
three who died like men.” Then he spat
behind him. “For Vassmer —who died like
a swine!”
HAROLD LINDSAY.
The Stolen God.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“T DON’T know how it is.” said the
second mate thoughtfully, “but I
never yet heard of a captain who got
on with his chief engineer. The Old Man
always seems to have an idea that the man
down below is a potterin’ passenger, and
the engineer generally suffers from the
hauntin’ suspicion that the Old Man is a
sunburnt old figurehead. They’re never more
than polite to one another, but each attends
to his own job, and between them the Brit-
ish mercantile marine makes big d vkiends
for the people who kill time round London.
I often wonder whither I’ll hate my -.-hief
when I’m old and gettin’ near the end of my
tether.”
lie looked thoughtfully across to where
the stevedores were shipping murderous-
looking slings of steel rails out of a rusted
tramp to the chatter and wheeze of a fussy
steam winch. “That’s rotten stuff to
handle —I’m glad I haven’t got to do it.
Have you a match V” I had.
Presently his pipe was going again. “I
once sailed with a pair of crusty old devils
who hated one another like H—l. The Old
Man had no particular vices—unless it was
a healthy craze for neatness ; but the engi-
neer had a mania for collecting any sort of
bird or animal or reptile he could get hold
of and selling it at a profit in the next port
they touched at. He always had some sort
of his rubbish on board, and as often as not
it was something that smelt or bit or stung,
or that took up valuable room. The Old Man
used to nearly go mad ; but the engineer was
some sort of relation of the owners, so the
Old Man wasn’t game to exercise the full
authority he had as master of the ship. We
were trading between the Indian ports at
that time, and, as you know, most of them
are places where you can get snakes and
things cheap. The old Chief thoroughly
enjoyed himself for a while, for, as well as
justifying his infernal instinct for messing
about with animated horrors, he was keep-
ing the Old Man hopping with rage, and
making lots of money. I believe that old
waster would have sold his grandmother to
a zoo if he had been offered a price for her.
Worst of it was that he gradually became
known as a buyer amongst the rag-tag and
bob-tail natives of the ports, and w r e were
kept busy chasing them and their goods off
the ship when in harbor. It wasn’t condu-
cive to discipline.
“But the Old Man didn’t venture to kick
really hard until Mac went ashore at
some God-forsaken place and, in a moment
of mad enthusiasm, stole the sacred monkey
out of one of the filthy temples. Heaven
only knows how he managed he came
off in the afternoon in one of the native boats
with the little grey beast blinking under his
coat, and hurried down to his quarters to
hide it.
“They couldn’t have missed it for some
time, because no fuss was made until a
couple of hours later, when the Old Man
was taking it easy in his cane-lounge on the
bridge. Quite suddenly (it was a still, wind-
less evening) the dirty town across the bay
seemed to boil over. Tom-toms and things
droned and buzzed and boomed, and under-
neath it all we could hear the angry murmur
of a crowd. I tell you I felt glad we were
out in the stream, instead of Being tied up
to a wharf.
“‘What will they be up to nowT growled
the Old Man. ‘ls it another releegious
festival, think you?’ Poor old chap! he
hadn’t seen the Chief come aboard and didn t
know what was in store for him.
“‘I don’t think so, sir. Perhaps it s a
Avedding.’
“‘Mebbe—mebbe! But they must be
very popular people, I’m tliinkin’, if they re
making all that fuss over them.’
“The racket, instead of subsiding, and
staying up toAvn where it had started,
seemed to increase and come nearer, and
presently I saw a lot of niggers swarming
on to the beach. The Old Man picked up
his binoculars quite casually; but as soon
as he had the picnic focussed I saw him
stiffen. ‘They’re very excited, yon!’ he
muttered. Then he wheeled on me. ‘Has
Mr. McClyde been ashore this afternoon?’
“ ‘Yes. sir,’ I said. .
“ ‘An’ did he bring anything with him ..
“It was no good lying. ‘Yes, sir. I think
he had a monkey with him.’
“The old man fairly leapt out of his
chair. ‘A monkey! It sno ordinary mon-
key they’re makin’ that fuss about!....
Good God ! I believe it’s the sacred monkey
he’s got! Tell him to hide the d- —d thing at
once, and see me here on the bridge. Here,
and tell him to bring his gun with him.
And do you get mine and your own.’
“As I hurried down the ladder he picked
up his glasses again and levelled them at
the beach, Avhere balf the population seemed
to be falling into boats.
“I soon rooted out old McClyde Qvhom I
had disco\ T ered gloating o\ r er his prize), and
he got his gun and accompanied me back to
the bridge looking as guilty as a schoolboy.
“ ‘Where did you get the monkey?’ shouted
the Old Man, as soon as Ave came in sight.
“ ‘I took it from a dirty hole of a temple
because they wouldn’t sell it to me,’ growled
the Chief.
“ ‘Man, did ye not know the thing Avas
sacred V
“ ‘Oh, I didn’t think they’d mind !’
“‘Didn’t think they’d mind!’ shouted the
Old Man. ‘Look yonder!’ and he pointed
to as nasty a collection of lunatics as you
could wish to see. They were paddling like
mad for the ship—a Avhole procession of ’em,
and you could lniA’e heard the yells for
miles.
“‘I can’t make up my mind,’ says the
skipper presently. ‘I don’t know whether to
give the thing back to them or throw it into
the fires and tell them Ave never saw it!’
“ ‘No monkey of mine goes into the fires,’
growled the Chief.
“ ‘lt’s their monkey,’ says the skipper. ‘lff
they don’t get it back neither you nor I will
ever be safe in this hole again. You took
their god, Mr. McClyde.’
“‘lt’s my- god now!’
“ ‘l’m responsible for the safety of this
ship, Mr. McClyde. These niggers will be
alongside and aboard of us in another minute
or so. You’ll bring up that monkey, Mr.
McClyde.’
“Old McClyde grumbled something in his
beard AA r hich we couldn’t hear; but the Old
Man guessed it was a refusal, and it broke
him up. Before I could offer to go and get
the thing the poor old skipper Avas actually
shaking his fist in McClyde’s face. ‘Ye’ve
been bringin’ yer crawlin’ rubbish aboard my
ship for years, but up to iioav it’s been only
rubbish; an’, so far as I k- ow. it was your
own dirty property —b light and paid for.
But this time ye’ve stolen a monkey-god in
a port that yer owners want to use, an’ I’m
not goin' to stand by an’ see ye do it. Now,
Mr. McClyde, will ye go an’ get tha brute —-
an’ bring a bag an’ a’ here with you to put
it OA r erside in. Hurry, man, or they’ll be on
top of us all!’ And they were, too. Luck-
ily the accommodation-ladder had been
hauled up, and the ship being in light trim
she stood up like a house on the Avater. The
yelling savages clustered round us and stood
up cursing in their boats while we looked
down and fired a shot or two to discourage
them.
“ ‘What d’ye want?' howled the Old Man
when they were a bit out of breath, and it
Avas possible for a human being to make
himself heard.
“An ugly brute stood up in a canoe and
made a long, rambling, passionate speech
which seemed to be half-threats and half-pro-
mises. The only understandable point he
made was that the monkey-god must be
restored to them.
“ ‘Will ye go away if I give ye the mon-
key?’ yells the skipper.
“Yes, they’ll go away and pray for every-
body on board for ever !
“ ‘Bight, then !. . . .Over with that monkey,
Mr. McClyde!’ And down came a closed
bag on a line with something kicking and
wriggling inside it.
“You heard such a row as those
brutes kicked up when they saw their
treasure coming back to them. The High
Priest —or Avhoever he Avas —took the bag
with his own hands, and the other boats
crowded round as close as they could get.
But that Priest wasn’t taking any more
chances Avith his live joss; once he got it
safely in his arms he sat down in his dinghy
and told his men to pull for the shore—
which they did with all the other boats pelt-
ing in their wake. In a minute or so they
were all gone and half-way to the beach.
“ ‘And now, Mr. McClyde—now that
they’ve gone, and we’re safe,’ said the Old
Man turning to the Chief—‘l hope this’ll
be a lesson to ye.’
“ ‘lt will!’ says the Chief Avith a queer
smile. ‘lt will be a lesson to me and it will
be a lesson to them. That’s the cook’s cat
they’ve got in the bag.’ ”
KODAK.


The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
Ne vZealand Office: 93-107|Featherston St., Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
DON’T LOOK OLD!
But restore your grey and faded hairs to their natural color with
LOCKYERVV SULPHUR
HAIR RESTORER
1/6 SOLD EVERYWHERE. 1/6
Lockyer s gives health to the hair and restores the
natural color. It cleanses the scalp, and makes
the most perfect Ilair Dressing.
This world-famed Hair Restorer is prepared by the great
Hair Specialists, J. Pepper & Co. Ltd., Bedford Laboratories,
London, Kng., and can be obtained direct from them bv
post, or from any Chemists and Stores throughout the World".
8*rtCUARt>Y0U* HEALTH
CWorodjiwe
The Original and Only Genuine.
BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
TION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
CLOIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, lfS, 8/-, 5/-.
Made in England.
FREE!
As worn by our Brave Soldiers.
Every Patriotic Person should
wear one of these Brooches.
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN
BULL DOG BROOCH.
These splendid Brooches made in Australia and finished in
Gold, Silver, orOxodised Metal are sold retail at 2/6 each.
For the purpose of making these Brooches more popular
throughout the Commonwealth, we have decided to give
everyone an opportunity qLobtaining Valuable Prizes for
acting as our agents. SEND NO MONEY, your name
and address will do, and by return mail we will send you
6of these Highly finished Brooches. When sold
remit us our money, and we will forward you the prize you
select from our Up-to-date Catalogue of Watches, Chains,
Clothing, Bracelets, Handbags, etc. Write To-day to the
SIMPLEX NOVELTY CO., Pitt-st., Sydney.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray's English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
DINNEFORD'Sj
Magnesia
DINNEFORD’S
IMt-Vru...
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
"DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
Do you feel Throaty
Tlien fly to the nearest Chemist and ask for
EVANS’ Pastilles.
Invaluable for throat and voice, affording instant relief. A
never failing remedy. Doctors prescribe them.
Evans Sons Lescher & Webb, Ltd., London.
Take Care or your Digestion
and your digestion will take care of you. At any rate, it is certain that
when you exercise care with regard to this important function you are
safe-guarding your health at its base. This is perfectly easy to under-
stand when it is remembered that unless the work of digestion and
assimilation is efficiently performed the system will not'obtain the
nourishment it requires. It commonly happens when the stomach
becomes upset, that unless speedy attention is given to the matter, other
organs of the body suffer derangement, resulting in general ill-health.
Bp Taking
Beecham’s Pills—the famous digestive medicine that more than any other
has secured the favour and confidence of the public—disorders of the
stomach, bowels, liver and kidneys, are quickly arrested. The appetite
improves, the food is more thoroughly assimilated, and the blood ispurified.
ror securing a sound digestion, which is the necessity and foundation of
sound health, take
Beechams Pills
Sold in boxes, labelled, price iO&d. (36 pills) 1/1J (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
No. 304 A
FOR ALL-ROUND
PIPE-THREADING
OSTER Pipe-Threading Machines excel because of
their wide range of usefulness concentrated in the
smallest floor space of any threading machines.
The machine shown at the left, No.
304 A, threads 8 sizes of pipe
from 1-inch to 4-inch diameter,
and bolts all sizes from to
lf-inch. Special features of Oster
Machines are: Automatic die re-
lease, quick-opening dies, automatic
oil pump and simple, convenient
die-head. For clean-cut threads
and quick work use Oster Machines.
OSTER
MACHINES
BELT (Sl motor
DRIVEN
47 distinct die-
stocks and screw,
ing machines.
One to fit your
pipe-threading
Australian Representative:
CHARLES WRIGHT,
Box 251, C.P.0., Melbourne, Vio.
The Oster Mfg. Co.
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
Safety-Comfort-Saving
Safety is built into every Firestone Tyre
through skilled and careful construction in
the largest exclusive tyre plant in America.
Comfort through extra quantity and supreme
quality of fine, resilient rubber exclusively.
f!restotie
Most
Miles
per
Shilling
%
%
Economy through the
mileage and service that
such material and experi-
ence mean.
Saving in the price because
Firestone methods of
marketing are so managed
that you get whatever you
need in tyre service with
least handling and expense.
Your dealer has Firestone
Tyres, Tubes and Acces-
sories for Automobiles, Mo-
torcycles and Bicycles, in all
types and sizes; or he can get
them easily.
Distributors
New South Wole* Wert Australia
Grimley, Ltd. Anderson & Adams, Ltd.
Sydney Perth
_ South Australia Victoria
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd. Tarrant Motors Pty., Ltd.
Adelaide Melbourne
FIRESTONE TIRE AND RUBBER CO.
America’s Largest Exclusive Tyre
and Rim Makers ”
Akron.. Ohio, U. S. A.
Branches and Dealers Everywhere
Factory Representative:
It. E. Ludlow, care of American Consul. Sydney


The All-Australian
Power Transmitter.
INGROVTT
LEATHER I
KBLTliiMg
which is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
It’s the
Original
Look for
the Name
Hardie’s Genuine
Used In place of Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE, ROT, HEAT, ACID 8 ANT PROOF.
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES HARPIE * CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
“Courier” Buildings, Brisbane; & Melbourne
A
05
*
There
is only
ONE
Reliable Machinery
for FARM 8 STATION REQUIREMENTS
Tangye Eampless Oil Engines.
Tangye Benzine Engines.
Tangye Suctfon Gas Plants.
Tangye Irrigation Plants and Pumps.
Tangye Steam Engines and Vertical Boilers.
Clayton & Shuttleworth Portable Steam
and Traction Engines, Thrashers, Steam
Rond Rollers and Waggons.
■— —-
“CLAYTON” PORTABLE STEAM ENGINE.
With Large Wheels to give
Ample Clearance.
TANGYE LAMPLESS OIL ENGINE.
Started Quickly like a Benzine Engine.
Munro Chaff cutters and Saw Benches.
Gane Milking; Machines.
Nicholson & Morrow “Union” Harvesters,
Ploughs, Drills, Cultivators, etc.
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing Machines.
DALGETY 8 CO. Ltd.
Sole Agents,
Miller’s Point, Sydney, and all Branches.
THE
Sheep Shearing Machine
has beaten all others in open competition, and holds the
world’s record for Machines sold and number of sheep shorn
annually.
This year we are specialising in a new liong-Bearing Bush, which is
devised to replace the old front and back bushes, and ensures: Perfect
lubrication, coolness in running, easy adjustment of parts, correct
length of bush in relation to spindle and economy in spare parts.
Fully descriptive printed matter mailed post free on request.
Sole Agents:
DALGETY & CO. LTD.
Miller’s Point, Sydney.
m
POWER TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT-
DODGE SPLIT
ULLEYS.
We want yon to become acquainted witb the excellent mechanical
features of these Pulleys, which cost you no more than other
types of metal pulleys.
They are not ordinary StocK" Pulleys—their construction repre-
sents the greatest merit attained in the pulley art, and for
GENERAL ALL-ROUND ENGINEERING and FACTORY WORK
appeal to the most discriminating of power uses.
Call and allow us to explain its special features, or permit us to
send you one for trial purposes-
SOLE DISTRIBUTING
AGENTS
PARKE
Engineers <£L Machinery Merchants, I
60 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.5.W. |
The Best Protection for our Soldiers.
ci«e him an ABBOTT GERM-PROOF POCKET FILTER
and insure for him a supply of Clear, Pure Water anywhere.
Contained in Handsome Electroplated Meta! Case.
Price
Also Filters for all other Purposes.
AUSTRALIAN MADE.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Equitable Bldg., Sydney
