

The Genial Spirit
Machinery Merchants,
Mining and Contractors’
Kent street, Sydney,
107
Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Hequisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE
On all Classes of SECURITY,
DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
m 1 m &
I
-
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAQH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre.
Telephone: City 9325.
And at
*B6 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
SS9 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S .W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
ĥ
ħ
' Used in plenty
Makes forty look
like twenty"
3>
c/’) CO
CP
□
so
h
ĥ
sSfej
it back.
I must have
PincAppSc Brand
7T
ħ
FIRE
RESISTING
JUNKER made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doetors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSENS
I
h
fo, INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel
BALLS
((
99
“ BfILL
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
OLF
ALLS
MALTHOID COATING
Makes roofs last as long as the buildings.
Malthoid roofs that have been
erected for some years should have
a coat of Malthoid Coating.
Given periodical coatings of this
special Paint, they will last as
long as the buildings they cover.
The cost is negligible.:
The Paraffine Paint Co., Challis House, Sydney (D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager). Agents everywhere.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L
LOCOMOTIVE, GENERAL 8c AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERS.
:\ RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL 8e FARM WAGGONS. IRON 8c MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
GRANVILLE
ĥ
MINING
MACHINERY
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CMALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. „
Roll Shells, Shoes
and Dies, and ail
STEEL CASTINGS.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
lavender
WATER.
The Bulletin
Vol. 37.—N0. 1900.]
[Thursday, July 13, 1916.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, JJ.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BKMMIHWt
(Postages
shown in
parentheses.)
Who’s Who in the Theatre, by John Parker. 14/- (lid.).
Motion Picture Making and Exhibiting, bv J. B.
Rnthburn, illus. 8/6 (3d.).
A System of Physical Chemistry, 2 vols., by W. C.
Lewis. 24/6 (7d.).
The Luck of Thirteen, by Mr. and Mrs. Jan Gordon,
illus. 10/- (3d.).
A Dominie’s Dor, bj' A. S. Neil. 3/6 (2d.).
Om- Fighting Services, by Sir Evelyn Wood, illus.
28/- (6d.).
Potsdam Princes, by Ethel Howard. Illus. 8/6
(3d.).
Shrapnel Shell Manufacture, by D. T. Hamilton
illus. 13/6 (5d.).
ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP’T'Y LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S
Eumenthol Jujubes.
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC AND
116
PROPHYLACTIC,
NOS
SJVOA
m 3
rjrtF
SUITABLE FOR OLD AND YOUNG.
The Medical Press and Circular
says: “These Jujubes should be of spe-
cial service to Lecturers, Public Singers
and Speakers, and, indeed, to all who
are called upon to use their voices fre-
quently for prolonged periods.”
For Coughs, Colds, Sort Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza and the
Prevention of Consumption.
SUITED FOR OLD AND YOUNG.
The Red Page
Nothing but praise can be given to Prof.
D. A. Welsh, of Sydney University, for his
straight-spoken pamphlet entitled The
Health of the Forces and the Forces of
Health. The Y.M.O.A. has printed 25,000
copies of this address to the A.I ? Forces, for
free distribution among our soldiers. In
lucid language and with a splendid candor
that insists that, despite the apparent indi-
cations that things are not what they seem
and that the time is not yet mellow, a spade
is a spade, Welsh tells all that a soldier
needs to know about the value of protective
inoculation against infectious diseases, the
influence of alcohol on disability, disease
and death, and the results of contagious
venereal diseases. There are three
things that the average recruit may be for-
given for bucking against: “Why should I
have to get a sore arm through vaccination?
Why shouldn’t I go on a jag? Why
shouldn’t I have a lark with a tart?” This
“straight talk to reasonable men” is deliv-
ered with a sweet reasonableness and a
scientific conviction that will surely appeal
to even unreasonable, that is merely igno-
rantly youthful, recruits. Our forces need
these explanations no more than any other
army; but for practical purposes this tiny
pamphlet should become the recruit’s credo.
The Australian Comic Dictionary, by
Turner 0. Lingo (Cole, Is.), is drearily and
determinedly comic. The dreadfulness of
this sort of machine-made humor is apparent
from haphazard quotations from one page:
“Bread —Rises in the yeast and sets in the
vest... .Baw Baws —Mountains famous for
their breed of black sheep. ‘Baw baw
black sheep.’ Barbed Wire —A can-
tankerous arrangement for tearing the letter
‘L’ in your clothes. Give it an inch, and
it will take an ell.”!
of “One Little Wallaby,” who politely says
“Sir” wlieu addressed by the author of
Halek and Almoni, patriotic things like: —
Rouse, Australians! Sons and Daughters,
Not for glory, not for fame!
Bravely, brightly marching on —•
O Australians, win a noble name!
things like the sentimental story of two good
young Germans, things like the conundrum :
Where, oh where on Australian strand,
Is humble Hodge with the horny hand?
He is not here, we know him not,
But in his glace we now have got
Many who shuffle, many who shirk,
Workmen who detest their work;
And worse than these, if all be true,
Men who detest their masters too.
and things like “An Old Bachelor’s Address
to his Dog” :
Thou Spotted Mystery, with brain and heart,
Who in my lonely life hast now a part,
Thou, canst not know how dear to me thou art!
Hm! This page hardly knows what to
say about the author of Halek and A lmoni;
hut it has a vague suspicion that John H.
Nicholson is a Spotted Mystery.
Trade Unionism in Australia, the report
of a conference held in June, 1915, edited by
Meredith Atkinson (Education Dept., Syd-
ney), contains some leading ideas that can
be traced throughout the majority of the
papers read and the discussions thereon.
These may be briefly summarised thus:
“Trade Unionism in Australia, and its politi-
cal expression, the Labor Party, has reached
the end of a great phase in its programme of
development. It is suffering chiefly from a
lack of ideas. Not only has it left behind
that wonderful period of strenuous pioneer-
ing, but it seems to have used up the sifts
and inspiration of the pioneers themselves.
The workers have learnt to rely far too much
upon Parliamentary effort alone. This has
produced two main effects: {a) A belief that
things economic are easy to understand, and
easy to change; (6) inevitable disappoint-
ment in the failure of Labor Governments to
make anew heaven and anew earth. The
questions of Labor and Capital are still
being treated in the old-fashioned, traditional
ways. The worker is still content to fight
the capitalist with ail his might, without
ever seeking to analyse the complexities of
commerce, or ever thinking that they have
any vital relation to him. The self-compla-
cency of the Australian workers greatly re-
tards their intellectual progress. Though the
achievements of their movement are very re-
markable, the present barrenness of ideas
threatens it with a stagnation worse than
defeat.” And Meredith Atkinson succinctly
adds: “To this new crop of problems there is
only one solution —the higher education of
the people in all matters of civic duty and
public concern. We must avoid the peril of
mistaking advanced social legislation for
advanced social efficiency.”
£
Robert McJannett, author of Heroes of the
Dardanelles and Other Poems ( Age Prihtery,
Queanbeyan; 6d.), begins with a false rime:
In bygone days the poet sung
Of men who fought and fell,
To-day we sing of the heroes young
The lads of the Dardanelles.
The rest is just like that.
d*
Another “Selection” is out. This time it is
Grandpa’s Selection (N.S.W. Bookstall, Syd-
ney, Is.). Steele Rudd’s Grandpa is a crusty
old bloke, who owns most of the county,
and keeps his numerous descendants working
for him in the vague hope that some day the
propertv will come to them. The usual
Steele Rudd incidents happen. The author
is this continent’s finest example of the bene-
fits of intensive culture. He has left no inch
of the original selection unturned; but the
land looks like being worked out in the near
future.
— «
It is said that if the British War Office
could find the author of The Young Officer’s
Guide- to Knowledge they would intern him.
The fourth, enlarged, edition of this little
book, by “The Senior Major” (Harrison, per
Angus and Robertson), contains several un-
solicited testimonials, one of which is: “The
Adjutant writes: ‘The C.O. wishes to see
you at the Orderly Room immediately.’ ”
The young officer will find much wisdom
beneath this delightful parody of military
text-books. “The expression ‘Without fail’
is in constant use in the Service. It implies
a premonition on the part of the user of the
expression that there will be failure. It
usually accompanies an order given in
writing... .Such an order is, of course, fore-
doomed to failure... .It follows from the use
of the words ‘without fail’ that the authori-
ties do not expect officers to carry out all
orders indiscriminately, but expect them to
use a wise discretion in selecting those orders
which it would be as well to obey. Without
this well-understood license the King’s Regu-
lations would be unbearable... .Generally
speaking, an officer is only asked for his
reasons in writing when it is well known
that he has none to give... .Do not learn the
Training Regulations too thoroughly. From
the time thev are issued they begin to be
obsolete. Go on doing the same thing every
year ip the same old way. modified by local
conditions (i.e., your Brigadier’s mental
obsessions). Besides, the Training Regula-
tions last but for one season, whereas you
will have the same G.O. and Brigadier for
several years, and the G.O. and Brigadier
cannot be amended by the clerk at the War
Office.” Various neat dodges are suggested if
the young officer is not quite sure of his drill.
Australian
Lindsay Russell is to be congratulated
having, at last, got away from the two sub
jects of Roman Catholicism and sex tha
have given her the formula for a large cir
culation among a certain class of readers
The Interior (Ward, Lock) is an effort to
tell a romantic story in a romantic Aus
tralia. Wisely the author has moulded he
story on familiar lines. There is the cole
English girl, engaged to the nice young Eng
lishman, heir, of course, to an earldom or
something. As his uncle marries again
and the earldom is therefore off —though the
wise reader will not worry on that account
since anything might happen in this sori
of novel—the chilly English girl marries a
title made in sardines, and the young Eng-
lishman, who had, of course, come out to
Australia to make a fabulous fortune in
pearls, loses all his capital, and is compelled
to work as a diver for a half-caste employer.
At Nyasha, an island on the north-west
coast of Australia, the hero finds two girls,
the inevitable. Jane (who limps, and is a
drab-colored female at first, but grows more
and more beautiful and less limpy in each
succeeding chapter) and the half-caste Talu-
meni, who wears the inevitable scarlet
hibiscus behind her brown ears. Not only
do both want him, but Jane’s society sister,
whose mother has looked up the hero in
Debrett, or the telephone directory, or
something, determines to capture him. And
the hero believes the lies that Jane’s elder
sister tells him, and Jane believes the worst
of the hero. So the hero goes to the bad
and marries the hibiscus maiden, and a nice
black baby arrives. Lindsay Russell believes
in being thorough; but still the wise reader
knows "her author too well to worry. The
limping Jand, but only limping slightly now,
is bound to become the Countess of Mount-
shields, and his Lordship not only finds
pearls of fabulous value, but receives another
fortune from his god-mother. Again Lind-
say Russell is thorough.
The novel is written without distinction.
“The Interior’’ is merely mentioned: the
action takes place on the island of Nyasha,
where, as Jane sententiously remarks, “the
word stranger soon loses its meaning. We
have the Australian spirit of freedom and
welcome here At first, Englishmen being
reserved, are suspicious, conventionally
shocked at our frankness. They consider
our independence pf thought socialistic....
A true Australian hides nothing. Every-
thing must be open and wide, unrolled before
him like the plains of the desert. The
spirit of wide, uncramped spaces and wide,
uncramped thoughts is born and bred in
us... .1 must have space, a place alone for
myself to walk in, to think my own thoughts,
to have an untrammelled creed more human
than ritualistic. Ritualism to me has always
meant effeminacy of person as well as
thought. It cramps and obscures the human
and finer tissues. Like a draped window,
it shuts out the light. It treats the soul
as the Egyptians treated their mummies. It
binds them with wrapping afterwards.” Evi-
dently Jane, the storekeeper’s daughter and
drudge, will maike an excellent countess.
But in the picture of life at Nyasha and in
the characterisation of the minor person-
ages of the conventional plot, there is much
excellent Australian work. The bullocky
and the farmer who wants to marry Jane
are faithful Australian portraits; the life of
the pearlers is vividly depicted; and the
reader does get an impression of the reality
of the mixed community of Nyasha. For
that success Lindsay Russell is sincerely
congratulated.
John H. Nicholson, who states that he is
author of Halek and Almoni , proffers A
Book of Verse (Gordon and Gotch. Bris-
bane). His verses will do nobody any harm.
Most of them are devout; but he varies his
religious solemnity by things like the story
An Australian Decalogue
1. 1 am the land of thy birth, and of great
promise: thou shall not exploit me.
2. Thou shalt not take the name of Pro-
tection in vain.
3. Remember that thou keepest holy thy
national rights.
i- Honor thy country and thy people.
5. Tliou shalt not kill Australian industry.
6. Thou shalt not be unfaithful to Aus-
tralia’s interests.
7. Thou shalt not steal capital away from
thy country.
S. Thou shalt not bear false testimony, say-
ing, “ Australia’s home manufactures
are not as good as the foreign article.”
!). 'Thou shalt not covet the profits on
imported goods.
10. Thou shalt not cast a speculative eye
upon thy foreign neighbors’ profit-
mongering with sweated labor.
N.S.W.
“MA'FRESH.”
Rhythm
Let us consider Rhythm in English Verse,
Prose and /Speech, an ingenious theory pro-
pounded by D. S. Mac Coil in Essays and
Studies by Members of the English Associa-
tion, vol. V. (Clarendon Press, Oxford;
6s. 6d. out here). His revolutionary sugges-
tion is to express rhythm in musical nota-
tion, changing the foot to the bar. The
clumsiness of the old symbols in use by
grammarians is obviated by the new system.
Mac Coil shows that neither in his system
nor in the modem musical notation does the
bar-mark mean a check or pause. Indepen-
dently of the bar-groupings in music, another
set of groups among the notes is established
by curved lines above them. These groups
frequently cross the bars. They indicate
the groups of notes that are to be taken
together; and between one group and an-
other a slight pause takes place which does
not enter into the rhythmical notation. This
exactly corresponds with the logical group-
ings of words in verse—“the natural mouth-
fuls of words that we take.” Verse-rhythm
is music-rhythm. The unit of the line in
verse, as, of the “section” in music, is the
bar, and the bar itself consists of one or
more beats, the same in number for the bars
of a given verse. Verse is written chiefly in
3-time, but 4-time also exists, revealing itself
by a noticeable accent on the third beat.
“In intelligent, expressive reading, rhythm
is subject to constant small interruptions,
slackenings and quickenings; it rarely or
never exists as the normal notation repre-
sents it. Exactly the same thing is true of
all music.... All these variations are extra-
rhythmical ; the mind accepts them as means
of expression affecting tempo, the rate of
rhythm, but not rhythm itself.”
Mac Coil makes the interesting discovery
that there is no line of verse that will not
scan. He is led to this discovery by the fact
that every passage in prose will scan. There
is a x’hythm in both verse and prose. Where
a line of verse is said not to scan, it merely
falls into another metre, with a foot too
many, or too few, for the metre required. It
may not scan for a given measure, but it will
scan. All speech is rhythmic. “Verse itself
would be a fantastic, if not impossible, im-
position upon language, if the collocations of
measured feet out of which it builds its lines
were not already present in habitual speech.
M. Jourdain was astounded to be told that
he had been speaking prose without knowing
it. We must give him the further shock of
learning that he has been speaking rhythm
without knowing it; that not only prose, but
ordinary speech, is rhythmic.”
Since English verse consists of 3-time
measure, with a rare use of 4-time, we
should expect that the habitual measure of
English prose would also be 3-time. “Verse
being selected from collocations and sequences
that are used in prose, the raw material
must have the same character... .We speak,
as we breathe, rhythmically, and we fit in
our syllables, making them of various lengths,
so that they fall into a 3-time measure.”
Consider the metrical quality of a Sydney
Morning Herald editorial: —
While it | must be ad\mitted that in
War time ex\periments are { justified to
Meet\ special e\mergencies,
This can | only be | held to ap-
Ply to | details and | not to
Great ! principles of | policy.
Honesty in fin\ancial relationships, and
Fairplay as be\tween individuals and
Nations | cannot be ac\cepted as an ex-
Arnple to | follow.
Any composer could set this charming
lyric in 3-time, allowing rests in the first bar
of the third and the sixth line, and where
necessary, as happens in music, making four
equally-stressed syllables in one bar to be
taken in the time of three. But if prose is
thus shown to have the same rhythmical
framework as verse, where is the distinction
between the two? Prose does not insist on
the repetition of one foot, the foot to which
verse, with however many departures through
what is termed “resolution,” keeps returning.
Resolution is called by Robert Bridges “in-
verted stress”: and he has found that in
Milton's blank verse, this liberty with the
foot, e.g., putting a trochee instead of the
regular iambic, is much more frequent at the
beginning of the line than at the end. The
reason why this holds good in modern Eng-
lish verse is that “the opening feet encourage
the ear to expect metre, the final feet make
the expectation a certainty. It is therefore
to the end of the line we listen to make sure
of the character of the metre, and any tam-
pering with it endangers our certainty of
that character. The reverse is true of prose.
Verse singles out a rhythmical pattern,
and disturbs it least at the end of the lines,
where its presence is most marked... .and
marked more strongly by the device of rime.
In typical prose, rhythmical structure,
though existing, is not brought to the front,
but takes a secondary place in conscious-
ness.”
Emphasis is got in verse, as in music, by
the breaking up of the even run of the
metre. “This troubling of the flow, enrich-
ing the rhythm as it does and relieving its
monotony, must be carried out warily, if it is
not to imperil the character of verse as
verse; but it is the very principle of prose,
which is a vehicle of emphasis rather than of
rhythm.... Prose is the medium of clear
statement, of argument, of logic, and de-
mands for these the utmost flexibility of
stress. Hence the frequency and freedom of
‘resolution,’ the tripping or dragging of
syllables, the avoidance or unostentatious
existence of metrical run with all that it
involves.” We must regard prose and verse
but as the extremities of a continuous chain,
at one end of which is freedom of syllable
and emphasis, and, at the other, strictness of
foot and metrical pattern.
About a Hack
Loudon Times talks sense about Shake-
speare—sense that will be blasphemy to our
local Shakespeare Societies. “We may be
sure that he would be surprised rather than
pleased to find that lie had become an institu-
tion If all these plays are perfect, if they
always manifest omnipotence, omniscience,
and the loftiest intentions, they must have
been produced by a god; and we know
enough about S. to be sure that he was not
at all like a god. We know that he was
something of a hack, like Mozart and Tin-
toret. He wrote to earn his living, and
did not care much what became of his plays
after they had been acted. lie never even
had a university education, and there are
one or two scandalous stories about him.
How could such a man become an institu-
tion?. .. .If S. could see his plays acted now
he would know how unworthy he was to have
written them. For this kind of perform-
ance, he would say, I should have written
something quite different; and if he could
read some of the books about him, he would
say, for this kind of criticism 1 ought to
have written something no less different.”
The critic suggests that S. would have pre-
ferred to celebrate this tercentenary by abol-
ishing it. “For artists have their peculiar
vanities, and one of them is a desire to be
liked for what they have done best. The
real S. must have known quite well that,
like other human beings, he did not always
do his best; but this institutional S. always
did his best, and therefore he is not a human
being, and so not an artist. He is praised
indiscriminately for passages of which the
real S. must have been a little ashamed, if
he ever remembered them, and of which he
certainly would not care to be reminded;
and the effect of this praise is to make him
seem almost a dull writer. But the real S.,
unlike some of the greatest poets, was at
great pains not to be dull. He was an en-
tertainer who succeeded because he was
much entertained with life.. . .But the bores
have almost persuaded us that he is too great
and good to be amusing, and they have made
a practice of quoting in speeches and books
those passages from him which are least
amusing, which, divorced from their context,
seem almost dull.
“As an artist S. has been more sinned
against than sinning, and yet he certainly
sinned. He wrote from hand to mouth,
and was often content with his second best
both in conception and in execution. We
may guess that he had an itch for writing,
which was encouraged by his enormous pro-
fessional facility. No doubt he enjoyed his
own rhetoric, enjoyed writing it and hearing
it spouted on the stage; but he would not
have enjoyed hearing a bore quote it as if
it were a kind of gospel. He knew well
enough that his rhetoric was only a useful
makeshift, even if he' had the Elizabethan
love of it.. . .The actors declaimed it swiftly
and the audience liked it, just as we like the
arpeggios of a virtuoso pianist ; yet it was
not meant to be listened to very closely....
But now we do listen to Shakespeare’s
rhetoric closely, and pedants tell us that it
is all high poetry....
“He had no egotistical love of perfection.
What he desired was to be equal to the
heaven-sent moment when it came; and he
never knew when it. would come in the course
of his trade. . . .He was a professional writer,
but not a professional poet like Milton or
Dante; he practised no austerities of art or
of experience, but opened his mind to earth
and heaven, living and writing as if he were
just an ordinary man with a gift....He
must have lived more largely than Dante or
Milton, must have wasted his time more,
have been less fastidious with himself and
with others. . . .He was a man, like all great
artists, living desperately in a hand-to-mouth
struggle, and not a god conceiving and exe-
cuting without haste or rest.”....


A
XL
FX3I
No. FX3l.—Becoming
boat and Skirt Cos-
tume; in fine Coating
Serge,. Navy and Biack, new
shaped -Coliar and Cuffs,
boat lined White Japanese
Silk, flared Skirt, to fit giris
17 to 19 years .... 72/6
g Anthony Horderns* for Fashion 8 Economy ;
Fashion and Economy go hand in hand at the New Palace Emporium, where
Everything that is wanted to carry on the business of life is brought under
the influence of Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices. Some examples
from the Fashion Show Rooms are illustrated on this page. Write for new
edition of the Fashion Portfolio, posted free on request.
h
Set AB. —Siberian Ermine Set,
2-strand Stole; 70in. x 4in., new Bag'
Muff, Tails , and Paws, bordered
gathered Satin; Fur both sides,
18in. x 13iri;...nn Set 34 GnS.
j w vrtr
Set VW. —Black Foxeline Set, Stole
finished at back, Heads and Brush, 40in. x Tin.
Bag-shaped Muff, Brushes to match, 14in. x
17in. Stole, 23/6. Muff, 19/6. 'Or the
Set 41/-
»v
Set ND. — Sealette Set, lined silk,
trimmed Silk fringe, Stole, 42in. x 74in.
Muff, 16in. x 14in 35/-
S'maller Sets ... 16/6, 10/11
M
F-X'l
No. PXl.—lnexpensive
Tailored Coat and
Skirt Costume, i ]l flne
Navy Serge; Coat fashion-
ably cut, fitted Self Belt;
perfect-fitting Skirt, -for girls
14 to 19 years—
Size 6, 55/6; 7, 55/6, 8 .
57/6; 9, 57/6.
/
m
Si
62r
No. 627.—We11-made Coat, in soft
Blanket Tweed, easy-fitting shape,
sleeves set-in with wide belt and
strapped at waist, Tab fastenings and
smart Military Belt. In shades of Light
or Dark Grey 42/-
3531
No. 8331.—Dressy Sports
Coat, of Corduroy Velveteen, inset
Sleeves, Collar and Revers, smart
Military Pockets and belt at waist.
In Red, Cerise, Rose, Tangerine—
-27/6
a
7011
No. 7011. —Fashionable
Coat, three-quarter length, of
Black Pony Cloth, new flared
Skirt, inset Sleeves, Military
Collar, finished belt at waist,
lined Black Polonaise 49/6
m
r 63
No. 563. — Warm Winter Coat, of
Blanket Frieze in loose Raglan cut, suit-
able for walking or driving, Coat Collar
and Revers, can be fastened high at neck,
large envelope pockets. In Navy, Clerical
Grey, and Dark Heather shades. . 32/6
No. 8445. —Serviceable Coat,
of Navy Vicuna Cloth, full length,
long waist effect, with new, flared
Skirt, inset Sleeves with' deep turn-
back Cuff, fastens Braid, Buttons
and Ornaments. Similar style in
Black 39/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd.
Only Universal
Providers*
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield 1 Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


WINCHESTER
i mm-
1
%
tJZ.
«» V
w
w
Self-Loading
Rifles
•32, .35, .351 and .401
Calibers
Winchester Self-Loading rifles
are not cumbersome, compli-
cated or unsightly, but simple,
handsome and well-balanced
guns. Their use permits rapid
shooting with great accuracy and
on account of the novelty and ease
of their operation, they add much
to the pleasure of rifle shooting
either at target or game. For hunt-
ing game which is generally shot on
the run, a Winchester Self-Loading
rifle is particularly handy and effective.
The four different calibers in which this
type of Winchester is made are suitable
for hunting all kinds of game, the cart-
ridges they use being of the most modern
type, giving excellent penetration and great
shocking effect. If you are going to buy a
rifle look over the Winchester Self-Loaders.
The Trigger Controlled Repeaters
TO
r
FPpeibbe!
iliiiiaOTi
■ *
mm
iffli
'
£
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s.
6d. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Par-
ticulars posted on application to
The Manager.
<3
O
EAU- DE
& BEST
M/A
.JERSEY
AD
ĥ
I
J.C.
OF ALL STORES, CHEMISTS AND PERFUMERS,
Xs. 6d. to 21s. jp<er bottle.
Australasian Agents:
GAMBLES & Co., Commerce House, MELBOURNE.
The Booty - Croaker
CHEAPER THAN
Electricity, Coal-Gas, Acetylene or Kerosene.
and BETTER THAN All.
4
Uj
INTER STATE AGENTS
Buzacott & Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Dangar, Gedye & Co.,
Young St., Sydney.
J. Bartram & Son [s:
Bourke St., Melbourne
Works: 269 Toorak Rd.,
Melbourne
ħ
h
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
ĥ
Seven
Prize Medals.
Works : Birmingham, England.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
TO SOLDIERS and SHOOTERS.
Revolvers and Quns at
Greatly Reduced Prices
TRADE MARK
ħ
Special REVOLVER for trench warfare, 320-calibre, throw-open, blued, 5-
chambered, complete with pouch. PRICE, 27/6. D.8.8.L. Hammerless
GUN, W. W. Greener wedge-fast crossbolt, 12-gauge, box spring triggers, auto-
matic patent safety snap action, pistol grip, walnut stock, engine-turned rib.
MONTH’S TRIAL. Usually £lO/10/-. REDUCED TO £7/5/-. D.8.8.L
GUN, walnut stock, pistol grip, best blued steel barrels, tested, left barrel full
choke, right modified, rebounding locks, solid strikers. W W Greener
patent wedge-fast crossbolt. MONTH’S TRIAL. £3/12/6. D.8.8.L. GUN
FARMER’S FRIEND—I2-gauge, choke bore, pistol grip, English walnut
stock. PRICE 45/-. Orchard RIFLE, will not damage the trees, kill at
40 yards. PRICE 20/- Special line Rabbit Rifles, snipers, take 22 short
and 22 long cartridges, kill at 100 yards. FOR ONE MONTH ONLY, 12/6
each. Cartridges, 1/- 100. Write for our Illustrated Catalogue.
SMALL ARMS CO
Importers and Indentors,
229-231 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
“I Felt Extremely Weak
and Gould Scarcely Walk.”
“I Was Laid Up in a Hospital.”
“But am now Completely Restored, and my Sleep is
Rendered Most Refreshing.” The Wonders of Clements Tonic!
THERE are many Business Men in Sydney to-day who feel the effect of the
great heat, the strenuous times caused by the War, and the worry of business
to such a degree that they are more dead than alive when the day closes —•
almost too fatigued to reach home. To those men the letter published below by
a prominent city accountant appeals, for it tells in a few words how jaded nerve
strength can be restored, insomnia banished, and ; health regained bv the use of
this well-recognised remedy. Clements Tonic. It is the medicine that decreases
weakness and increases strength. It should be in all houses in these oppressive
days. No house is medically equipped without it. Read this letter: —-
200 Victoria Street, DarlinghurSt, Sydney, 11/12/’l5.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTI). V
“After suifecing ajhd .feeing ill in hospital for about 12
months, I meiPa frieitd»of mine (a chemist), and, feeling
extremely weak and scarcely able to walk properly, I asked
him what I should take to bring some vigor into my system.
“He strongly advised Clements Tonic, and, not to be
sceptical about it, I took his advice and have since thanked
him most heartily. That was about six weeks ago, and I can
most truthfully say that the Tonic HAS CREATED WONDERS.
“My constitution is almost completely restored. From
restless nights I can now sleep soundly, awakening in the
morning thoroughly refreshed. My appetite, which was very
jaded, has returned, and I thoroughly enjoy every meal I take.
“You can make use of what I have written, as it is a
man’s duty to advise his fellow beings what benefit he derives
from a medicine that will do universal good. I really feel
TWENTY YEARS YOUNGER SINCE TAKING THE TONIC.”
“(Signed) J. N. S. CLARKE.”
If you have Insomnia you should take Clements Tonic, and Sleep LIKE A CHILD.
It is the great WEAIv-NERVE Remedy in Peace or War. Its effect on the jaded
constitution is magical. It does, good because it is good. All Chemists and Stores
sell it.


Kidney Trouble
A Scientific Cure.
There is only one real scientific method of
curing kidney disease, and that is to wash
away the uric acid (the poison) right out of
the system.
The proper way for this to be done is to
drink from three to four pints of pure water
per day, and with each glass of water should
be taken some mild yet penetrating antisep-
tic. The proper one to take is contained
in De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
It has the wonderful property of penetra-
ting every crevice of the kidneys and blad-
der, and wherever it touches it washes away
all sediment and bad secretions, and makes
the kidneys and bladder perfectly healthy.
Any sufferer can try this experiment for him-
self by getting a box of De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills at his chemist’s —all chem-
ists sell them—and you will, within a very
OS
Lot,
Poisonous pain-causing Uric Acid in the
8100d —like little bits of broken glass.
few hours, know positively that the seat of
the trouble has been touched. When you see
the muddy, blue-colored urine you know this
is true. The effect of this experiment is most
remarkable.
The quick relief which these wonderful
little pills bring is, so our readers say, noth-
ing short of marvellous. This applies equally
to rheumatism, gout, gravel, backache, tired
feeling, dropsy, Bright’s disease, constipa-
tion, cloudy urine, inflammation of the blad-
der, or other symptoms of urinary trouble.
To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid of
the cause —the poisonous uric acid. Re-
member to do this a real remedy must pass
through the kidneys and the bladder, and not
through the bowels, as most kidney pills do.
When you see the urine change to a muddy,
bluish color —a feature which distinguishes
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills from all
others—you know beyond all doubt that
they have put their healing touch on the
right spot—the kidneys and the bladder. A
wonderful pill—straight to the kidneys—
that is why De Witt’s Pills give such amaz-
ingly quick relief —every time. A perma-
nent cure follows in almost every case. Look
for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2/9 box of
De Witt’s Kidney c.nd Bladder Pills, which
are made expressly for kidney and bladder
trouble.
WORLD’S CYCLE RECORD
h
M. Planes on a 7 year ol.l British-made All.
Steel MEAD MODELE SUPEKBE
‘COVENTRY FLYER•
Rode 34,366 Miles in 366 Hays
(officially authenticated'. Beat cv r 650 coin-
petitors on up-to-date c>desT
MEAD CYCLES STAND THE TEST.
WARRANTED FIFTEEN ■'YEARS.
Dunlop Tyres, Variable-Speed "Gears, etc.
Latest
Models
£3-10 to £9
Direct from factory, Packed Free, C;.triage
Paid to your p6rt. Ten Days’ Free ni„l.
iMptor Cycles and Cycle-Cars at Factory
Prices. Write for Free Art Catalogue!
and Marvellous Offers. Agents J4 anted.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
(Dept. A 282 ), LIVERPOOL.
ĥ
THE GREAT COLD
PREVENTIVE.
Wilson’s
Pino-Mentho
Pastilles.
The moment you feel you have a cold
coming, that same moment—act. Don’t
hesitate, or the cold may beat you.
Wilson’s Pino-Mentho Pastilles are wonder-
fully effective in checking cold. The
moment a pastille is dissolved in the mouth
the rich pine vapors are released and thor-
oughly search out the cold. Their soothing,
healing properties are immediately felt.
Always keep a tin handy—they’ll save you
a lot of trouble. Obtainable from all reliable
Chemists and Stores, 1/3 per tin. But
make sure it’s Wilson’s Pino-Mentho.
Alex. Wilson & Co.
17a Pitt Street, Sydney.
are: you
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not onlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
wlr.
'AV.'.V
ywißisn
as.
For Elderly People
Elderly people so often suffer from BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, and other complaints of the throat and
chest. A neglected COLD leads to more serious
troubles. Instant relief is given by “Bonnington’s
Irish Moss,” and young and old benefit alike. Take
none but—
Beware of
Imitations
BONNINGTON’S
ħ
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
i'. m
:
IS*
N Mirror Like Polish
on your car adds to the pleasure and prestige of motoring
and increases the market value of your machine. With but
very little effort you, yourself, can keep the finish of your
car like new —use Johnson’s Cleaner and Prepared Wax.
Johnson’s Cleaner
really cleans—it entirely removes all stains, discolorations, scum, road-
oil, tar and grease from body, hood and fenders. Even those spots that
are ground in—mud freckles —and surface scratches which you thought
were permanent—will disappear, like magic under Johnson’s Cleaner.
And it doesn’t injure or scratch the varnish —simply cleans and
prepares it for the wax polish.
Johnson’s Prepared WflX
is a boon to the man who takes care of his own car—it makes a "wash”
last twice as long. OLD CAES require both Cleaner and Wax —the
Cleaner two or three times a year—and the Wax every six or eight weeks.
NEW CAES need only the Wax —to protect the varnish. This will keep
your car like new indefinitely.
JOHNSON’S PEEPAEED AVAN is conveniently put up —always ready
for use —no tools or brushes required—all you need is a muslin or woollen
rag.
Will Not Collect Dust
There are many other uses for Johnson’s Prepared Wax —-try it for cleaning and
polishing youf
Floors
Linoleum
Woodwork
Piano
Furniture
Leather Goods
Shoes
Golf Clubs
Gunstocks,
etc.
JOHNSON’S PREPARED WAX is the standard polish for motor vehicles. It
gives a thin, protecting coat over the varnish, adding years to its life. It covers
up mars and scratches, prevents checking, sheds water and imparts a perfectly
hard, dry, glass-like finish that cannot gather dust.
Post the Coupon for General Trial Packages
—sufficient for cleaning and polishing two small cars,
Sydney: Holdsworth, Macpherson & Co. (Whol.) ; D. C. Ramsay & Co.; Jas. Sandy & Co.;
H. H. Groth & Co.; Mark Foy’s Ltd.; F. Lassetter & Co. Melbourne : Jas. Hardie &' Co.
(Whol.) ;H. J Corder; Mutual Stores; ffm. & Geo. Dean; John Danks & Son. Adelaide:
King & Co., Weymouth Street. Brisbane: Jas. Sloan & Co.; R. S. Exton & Co. Perth:
Hamer & Co. (Whol); Jas. Eastward Ltd. Launceston : Hart & Sons Co. Hobart: Davis
& Co. Auckland: Hill & Plummer Ltd. Wellington (N.Z.) : Gollin & Co. Pty. Ltd.
S. C. JOHNSON & SON, Racine, Wis.
Cable Address: “JOHNSON, RACINE.”
Australasian Office: 379 Kent Street, Sydney.
S. C. JOHNSON & SON —(Address c/o your nearest distributor). AO
I enclose Cd. for a trial tin of Johnson’s Prepared Wax, sufficient for polishing several pieces
of furniture, a small floor, a square of linoleum or a motor-car. Please also send me your new
1/- Color Book free.
Name
Address
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Lamp.
I wonder why, since you are lost, you seem
Much nearer to me than you were before!
It is as though I caught the friendly gleam
Of lamplight shining through a half-closed
door,
Knowing I cannot cross the threshold
more ;
Knowing that one within the room to-night,
Clasping that lamp in fond, possessive right,
Holds it too near her heart to see its light!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The Homing.
Hung with gold were all the trees,
When, in joyous vein,
Roland came to Itaff'erty’s
Riding o’er the plain ;
Wattle-gold were Roland’s thoughts,
Riding o’er the plain.
Kate, whose hair is raven silk,
Spied him as lie Sped ;
Throat of milk and cheeks of milk
Dyed a rosy red ;
All the good blood of her veins
Flushed her rosy red.
Not in all the countryside
Was her like, for sure—
Tall and sweet and Irish-eyed,
Kind and water-pure;
Passion, turning snow to fire,
Left her crystal pure.
Wintry north and sunny south,
Ice and fire that glows—
Such was she; her’’rosebud mouth
Matching any rose;
And a bee might fool himself
Thinking it a rose.
Roland takes her in his arms,
Mouth to mouth is pressed ;
All the world with all its charms
Lies on Roland’s breast; ■
Youth and glowing womanhood
Thrilling on his breast.
Roland, there is work to do!
Speak and have no fears;
Tell her, though.-fier eyes of blue
Melt away in'-tears ;
Time’s hand hath a handkerchief
To wipe away such tears.
Hold her close, and clasp her close,
Kiss her eyes and hair ;
Love has got a thousand foes
Lurking everywhere.
Look ! How silently they fall,
Shadows everywhere!
Drear and dismal are the trees
When, in sombre vein,
Roland goes from Rafferty’s,
Riding o’er the plain;
Mulga brown are Roland’s thoughts,
Riding o’er the plain.
Roland’s fighting now in France,
Far from Rafferty’s;
Sometimes, in a midnight trance,
What is this he sees?
Can it be brown mulga plains,
Station roofs he sees?
Who is she that musing waits,
Pensively that stands
Silent by the sliprail gates,
White of throat and hands?
Ah, that snowy swell of throat!
Ah, those little hands!
Roland, dreams are sometimes true,
Lit by Heaven’s lights!
By the sliprails eyes of blue
Watch and wait o’ nights;
While along the rugged creeks
Curlews call o’ nights.
Roland’s wounded —marred, alas!
Stricken grievously!
Just a wreck of all he was,
Scarred and ill to see;
Gone the grace that won her love,
Made him good to see.
Drenched and dripping are the trees
When, across the plain,
Roland comes to Rafferty’s,
Riding through the rain ;
Mulga brown are Roland’s thoughts,
Riding through the rain.
Kate, her Irish eyes grown dim
While the hot tears start,
Runs, arms stretched, and says to him,
Heart held close to heart:
“Cushla ! Cushla, rest your head
Close against my heart!”
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Sad Thoughts.
Green grass, green grass,
Ne’er I see you now
But cometh recollection of the lily of Her
brow.
Green grass, green grass, x
Life is sad, I vow.
Church bells, church bells,
Tolling through the dusk;
Memories creep back to me—a scent of
fading musk.
Church bells, church bells,
Life is but a husk.
Red star, red star,
Cold art thou to me;
Tears are unavailing for love’s lost sanctity.
Red star, red star,
It was not to be.
Green grass, green grass,
Church bells and a star;
All is ash and Dead Sea fruit and hopes
a-buried far.
Whatsername and Thingimibob
I wonder where they are.
N.S.W.
BILLY B.


RELIEF for RUPTURE
Our SPECIAL
ELASTIC TRUSS.
PRICES
Single, 17/6.
Double, 22/6.
Why suffer discomfort? You can
secure relief by wearing our ELASTIC
TRUSS, which is COOL,SAFE, STRONG
and DURABLE. It has no steel spring
to chafe the body. The merits of this
truss are attested by all who use it.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
Denyer Brothers,
281 George St., SYDNEY.
(Opposite Hunter Street)
ft
i
m
m
m
§s^
sa.
i
m
G*'.
m
-
TT IGH flying, fast-
-*■ -*• going game ne-
cessitates a powerful
Loaded in London
•with the popular
English powders
curate
cartridge.
Try the
“ARROW” Brand
Obtainable from leading dealers every-
where — catalogue post-free on request.
Remington Arms-Union
Metallic Cartridge Co.
Woolworlh Bldg., New York City
St. Stephens House
Westminster, S.W.
London
h
r-;
CM
Made
'An 8, 10,
12,16. 20,
24 and 28 gauge
Australian Manager, D. D. BRYANT, Box 688, Melbourne.
ĥ
If any illustration appearing in T.e
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
CAR COMPANY,,
The New 1910 Model, 4-24*
AMERICA’S FINEST PRODUCTION
AT A POPULAR PRICE.
A PERFECT SPECIFICATION.
MOTOR —Four cylinder; enclosed valves, adjustable, tappets. Cylinders—Cast era bloc,
bore 3J, stroke 4|. FRAME —Channel, pressed steel. HORSE POWER —22i R.A.C. OILING
SYSTEM —Force feed and splash system, with sight feed on dash. POWER PLANT —Unit in
construction. COOLING SYSTEM —Thermo syphon. RADIATOR —Honeycomb; special
Pullman type. CARBURETION —Schebler Model R. IGNITION —High-tension magneto.
TRANSMISSION —Selective sliding type, ball bearing, three speeds forward, one reverse.
CLUTCH—SingIe steel plate drive, having two wire-woven asbestos discs, between which the
steel driving plate is located. Clutch completely housed and runs in oil, and requires no adjust-
ment. AXLES —Front, solid drop-forged 1-beam ; rear full-floating. BRAKES —Internal and
external, lOin. WHEELS —Wood; demountable rims. SPRINGS —-Front, semi-elliptic; rear,
full cantilever. STEERING —17in. wheel, worm and sector irreversible, special Pullman
make and design. BODY —Beautiful stream-line; five passenger; standard color, putty grey, nickel
radiator, nickel fittings. DOORS—“U” type; concealed hinges. FENDERS —Special Pullman
tvpe; crowned. DRlVE—Right-hand centre control, emergency brake lever forward of centre and
out of way. WHEEL BASE —114 inches. LlGHTlNG—Electric, 12 volt., storage battery, Apple
Co. dynamo, lOin. headlights, dimming attachment for street and city use, and electric tail
light. ' STARTING —Electric self-starter, Apple Co., most reliable and efficient. WIND
SHIELD —Clear and rain vision, ventilating, exclusive Pullman type, conforming to and built
integral with curved cowl dash. 1100D —One-man khaki hood, easy-folding, quick-acting side
curtains, carried in hood; hood fastens rigidly to wind shield. HORN —Electric Klaxon.
SPEEDOMETER —Stewart trip and season mileatre. GASOLINE TANK —Carried in cowl;
capacity, 10 gallons. INSTRUMENT BOARD —Electric light switch; ignition switch, speed-
ometer, gasoline filler and sight-feed oiler and light on dash. REGULAR EQUIPMENT —Wind
shield, one-man top, quick-acting curtains, speedometer, electric horn, pump, jack, tyre repair
outfit and tools, tyre irons; and extra rim in the rear; weight, fully equipped, 191 cwt. ; 4in.
tyres, “Batavia.” Genuine full-leather upholstery.
A Complete Car can be supplied in
Roadster (Single-seater) Models.
BSSftSlf
V• :
PULLMAN.—Right-hand Drive
French Grey—Khaki Top.
Tear off slip on this page and mail to any of the firms named below, and by return you
will receive “Pullman” literature.
PULLMAN CARS.
Without any obligation to me please forward copy of Illustrated Pullman Car Booklet.
Name .
Address
Bulletin.
Melbourne:
FINLAY BROS.,
675 Elizabeth Street.
Brisbane:
»T. G. O’RYAN & Co.,
128 William Street.
Sydney:
HUGHES IJROS.,
196 Elizabeth Street.
New Zealand:
J. A. BEDPATH &
SON, Cashel St.,
Christchurch.
Tasmania:
DUNCAN LOANE,
The Esplanade,
West Devonport.
Adelaide:
VIVIAN LEWIS Ltd
Gaivler Place.
Perth:
LLOYDS LTD.,
888 Hay Street,
Perth.
, -
-
:
M*
SMITH’S
Four-Jet Carburetter
is the only one which gives maximum power with
maximum economy. Holds World’s Record—maximum
p OW er— R.A.C. certificate —3G-61 miles to gallon 311 cwt.
car.
Fitted Standard, Crossley, Humber, Daimler,
Tilley-Stevens and Launchester, Sizaire-Berwick.
Follow Experts’ Advice.
Fit SMITH’S Carburetter.
Write lull particulars to
S. SMITH (Si SONS,
Manchester, London, and
199 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Are You Deaf?
If so, you can be
relieved by using:
WILSON'S C3MMON-SENSE EAR-DRUMS
A new scientific invention, entirely different in
construction from all other devices. Assist
the deaf when all other devices fail, and where
medical skill has given no relief. They are
soft, comfortable and invisible; have no wire
or string attachment.
Write for Booklet. Mention this Paper.
STAR NOVELTY CO., 498, Elizabeth St., Melbourne. [1
mMNIMBLEFOOT
DANCER!
OF THE WORLD |
JIGS. HORNPIPES. REELS. |
STEP DANCES. FLIP FLAPS
and BREAKDOWNS, in per-1
feet time, wonderful beel I
14 inear*
You have only to beat time
to any kind of Step Dance
and Tim Nintblefoot will
“shake his legs’’in the most
amazing manner. You never
saw finer dancing in your life.
\ Never-failing amusement
for old and youngf h
clever toy, strongly
' made Ouly 1/3, deli-,
fvcred free. The UNION Kluab.th l
M
m
■
n
m
BEST
in the
LONG
RUN.
DUVAL & CO.,
13 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY; 145 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE; 300 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
CORNELL LTD., Adelaide.
A. C. McCALLUM, perth.
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD, hobart.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, lor Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 37.—N0. 1900.
THURSDAY, JULY 13, 1916.
Thrice 6d.
THE SKELETON STARTS FOR THE FRONT.
MELBOURNE, Wednesday.—The Federal Cabinet Is proposing to consider action with a view to securing more effective control of venereal diseases.
Under the invalid pension system of the Commonwealth, pensions are being paid to 7444 persons on account of preventable diseases, of which 4938 are
venereal in origin. Mr. Tudor promises to bring the matter before Cabinet. —News item.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for Tiie
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £ 1 10s. per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped hirers are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted• for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central Neivs Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.: G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1(1)1 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, San Francisco;
Childs News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San
Diego, Cal.; Queen City Neivs Co., Randolph and
Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Honolulu.. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt.. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon. —lT. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth. Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord llowe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bloz. to 10oz., Sid.;
lOoz. to ISoz., 3d.; elsewhere, l/oz., Id., and Id. each
additional ?.OZ.
xZleZzm,.
. THURSDAY, JULY 13, 1916.
CIVILISATION.
We have it on the authority of pretty well
everybody who has opened a mouth to de-
nounce the Germans that the war is being
fought in the interests of Civilisation. The
large word slides forth easily and seems to
mean something, though no orator can pause
in his whirling flight to explain just what he
does mean. Before the guns began to light
up some of the inner darkness of Europe
there was much talk of effete civilisation, of
getting back from it to nature and leading the
simple life; and the general notion appeared
t( be that civilisation was mostly a com-
pound of first-class railway carriages, Grand
Hotels, porcelain baths, Wagner music,
champagne, missionary societies, musical
comedy, cable service, bishop’s garden parties,
typewriters, silk stockings, philately, patent
medicines, mining shares, penny tram-fares,
scented soap, Mrs. Pankiiurst, radium,
Antarctic exploration, Charlie Chaplin,
Pomeranian pups, egg-laying competitions,
Labor, “lost money,” wireless telegraphy,
chocolate creams, motor-cars and Turkish
cigarettes, with a general atmosphere of
meaningless unrest, a Beef Trust grazing on
the front lawn, and a warship doing police
duty on the nearest salt-water pond. The
thing as a whole was difficult to visualise, but
“civilisation” was used to sum it all up; and
when that word was breathed one section of
the world wanted to get out and riot, while
the other yawned gracefully behind a fat
white hand. .Still, it was tlie tune to which
most of the peoples danced, except those who
lived between the Rhine and the Vistula,
where the music set to the daily sausage went
by the name of Kultur. Then the powder-
barrel blew up and Kultur took Civilisation
by the throat and tried to knock its head
against Asia on the one hand and the
Western Ocean on the other.
# # # #
To “save civilisation” is the job offered to
Bjlljim at the recruiting meeting, as well as
to the neutral nations like Roumania and the
United States which have so far taken no
hand in the turmoil. Yet if civilisation means
what it has been reputed to mean, its sal-
vation doesn’t look to any great extent worth
while. To save France —to protect the vine-
yard where the grapes grow and the white
cottage in the garden plot—that is under-
standable. To save Britain from the results
of the fatuous policy of the past and to
smash back the foe that would assail an
honor intimately bound up with our own
Australians have no difficulty in . compre-
hending that. To protect the rights of
small nations, and say once and for all to the
biggest bullies among the peoples that they
must be treated as outlaws the moment they
set a boot on the territory of a lightweight
independent State, is a thing that must
appeal to most men. To burst, break and
destroy a huge military Power that has
existed only for aggression, is an undertak-
ing to be entered into with good heart and a
happy, humorous sensation about the fighting
knuckles. To make war on so tremendous
a scale against the breaker of peace that
war may henceforth be as unpopular with
idle kings as tiger-snakes are with house-
maids—-this has an exalted religious
beauty about it that makes even martyrdom
at the snap of a machine-gun seem almost
worth while. But to fight for civilisation!
Why should the appeal of the scented soap
and silk stockings and Beef Trust move any
man to take up a rifle or sacrifice one
hour of his pleasant leisure with Amaryllis
in the shade, or with the two-up school on
the vacant section? Civilisation looks about
the last thing anybody ought to fight for
unless he happens to have a solid investment
in the wearisome and variegated business
that wears that name.
* * » •
And it is exactly because everybody is
supposed to have some sort of investment in
the thing that the unimaginative appeal is
thus made. The ordinary citizen is asked to go
out and do battle for civilisation because it
means to him an interest in a block of land
which the silk stockings and the Bishop’s
garden-party tend to inflate above its use
value, or because it is somehow linked up
with a job which wouldn’t be of much
account if it were not for Charlie Chaplin
and chocolate creams. Civilisation, or what
passes for it, has as many tentacles as life
itself; and somewhere it has its grip on
each individual. However disreputable or
uninteresting or objectionable it may appear
in the mass, there is a deadly fear at the
hearts of most men that it might let go of
them, and that they might fall off into some
unspecified place that isn’t blessed at all,
even though the Beef Trust and the musical
comedy do not operate there. To be with-
out tuppence in a world where tuppence is
Gon is a prospect that makes most men cold
under the socks. At the same time, if the
great guns in Flanders, France and Galicia
were only roaring for the world’s right to
carry such a heterogeneous and unprofitable
burden as the thing called civilisation in-
volves, the whole game wouldn’t be worth
the life of one man who can look up to the
good sun and sky and feel that there is
something in living that is more than Pomer-
anian pups and wireless telegraphy. Under
the burden of the things it made and did and
pretended to enjoy, ancient Rome broke
down in a hopeless welter of Athanasian
creeds and Gothic whiskers; and even
Greece attempting to add lumber to its airy
load of art, poetry and philosophy smashed
its sinewy back when half-way up the world’s
staircase. Likewise, if the thing called
civilisation were all we had to fight for,
Teuton kultur might save itself the expense
of making guns and strategic retreats,
because the weight of the mixed* assortment
on top of us would in the end crush us more
completely than a whole herd of 15-inch guns
fed with the bitterest Hymns of Hate ever
played on the organ of destruction.
* * * *
Civilisation —the civilisation referred to
by the political orator and the morning
papers—is a poor business. But the inner
meaning of the word, which has been warped
from its proper purpose, suggests things so
big that they might be worth more than the
life of any' individual and even worth the
sacrifice of whole States in the interests of
the infant in the go-cart. Civilisation —the
real civilisation —has nothing to do with
Grand Hotels or musical comedy or bishop’s
garden parties. It is utterly unconnected
with any of the mere externals which the
twentieth century labels Progress. It is, in
its best sense, a term referring solely to the
individual’s relation to the State; but people
of mean ideas, backed by some of those who
make dictionaries, have taken the word and
attempted to* force it to wear gaudy rags of
modern manufacture to hide its honest pur-
pose. Civilisation is, in fact, something
which turns entirely on citizenship—citizen-
isation. The civilised man is the man who
rises to the full height of citizenship; the
civilised State the State where all men are
in that real and full citizenship—not merely
potential citizens, but citizens in standing
and endeavor. As there isn’t such a State
and never has been, it follows that there
isn’t any civilisation yet: but the dream of
a civilised State and a civilised world per-
sists, and no human dream is quite so big.
And, perhaps—though the people who use
the word don’t know it—the war may pave
the way for the real thing; for there is some-
thing in the spirit of France and England and
Australia, and even of Russia, that makes
that great dream a far-off possibility. Ger-
many, with her bitter disregard for the indi-
vidual, could never evolve a true citizenship,
for all her kultur ; but in the other lands,
despite much that is unequal and slipshod
and vain and impotent for good, there is
the kindlier human outlook which, set to
political tunes, works towards the bigger
harmony of full civilisation. The man who
takes a rifle in his hand and goes out to look
for the Kaiser may be fighting for a lot of
things that are not worth while; but he is
helping to smash down something which
bars the whole world’s road to something
better. We can carry the dreariest bishop’s
garden-party, flanked and supported by
Charlie Chaplin and a whole menagerie
of Pomeranian pups, with better hope than
we could endure the sight of Germany in the
foremost place among world Powers.
THE ACCLIMATISATION OF
FANTODS.
How many times has Australia heard about
something or other being “the thin end of
the wedge”? Some day a zealous statis-
tician will reckon the number up. In the
meantime it can safely be estimated at a
million. The growth of the Labor party
was at one time said to be the thin end of
the wedge which was going to burst the
bonds of Empire. Inauguration of the
Australian navy was described by frenzied
“loyalists,” reckless in their similes, as the
thin end of the wedge that would cut the
painter. Lately the weary old phrase has
been used to decorate another spook. This
time the wedge is conscription, and Aus-
tralians are clamorously incited to beware
because conscription of soldiers will lead to
“conscription of labor.” The argument or
yell or whatever it is boils down, in the first
place, to an objection to compulsory defence
service because it is not accompanied by
something called conscription of wealth; and
even if it was thus accompanied there is a
nigger in the woodpile, it seems, and the
whole blessed thing is anathema. Something
like this was talked in Britain before the
war, and was one of the main reasons for
what happened at Mons and several other
places afterwards. This paper has many
times asked what its advocates mean by
conscription of wealth, as the term is used
in relation to defence, but has not yet
succeeded in getting an understandable
definition. What it now wants to find out
is exactly what is suggested by this hob-
goblin labelled “conscription <4 labor” which
is going to destroy trades unionism. Aus-
tralian workers are being told that it is a
thing to be frightened of; that to protect
themselves against it they must resist com-
pulsory service in the national army to the
uttermost; that traitors are scheming to
sell them a gold brick. Very well. All this
accumulation of warning implies the exist-
ence of a large, full-blooded horror some-
where off-stage. What is it?
The object apparently is to make the man
who listens believe that there is a con-
spiracy afoot to by some undefined process
dragoon him into industrial servitude —to
make him work in the mine or workshop
or office or somewhere at the point of the
bayonet. And if he listens long enough and
has a sufficiently lively imagination, he will
presently fancy something like this appear-
ing in the newspapers;—
Bill Jims, 30, a member of the 43rd division of
the A.W.U., district 317, subdivision 469, was
charged with being absent when the roll was called
prior to work commencing on dam-sinking contract
No. 19682. Defendant pleaded that he was suffering
from enteritis, but the Court said enteritis was not
included in the schedule of exemptions. Defendant
was evidently a shirker. He was fined £. 50 or 12
months’ hard labor in the third division (scrub-
cutting), and ordered to be reduced from the ss. to
the 3s. per day grade of dam-sinker.
And then the wretched visionary will
remark, “’Struth —that’s no good to me!”
and give three cheers for anti-conscription
and the defence of human liberty from
oppression. Or if he fails to become afflicted
with a nightmare of this sort, the hope
seems to be that he will get a notion into
his head that he is to be compelled to work
ir. a mine after serving an apprenticeship
as a draper, or as a carpenter instead of
following his usual occupation of quarter-
master on a bullock-waggon. It is possible
that there may be some Australians who are
genuinely scared of their lives becoming
involved in tragedies of this kind. But the
horror has no real existence. It is a myth,
a twin-brother to G. Reid’s socialistic tiger.
* •* * * .
The choice the French citizen had was
not between freedom and enslaving himself
in the manner just described, but between
liberty and being enslaved by somebody else.
The same choice had to be made at a
desperately late hour by J. Bull. Both
answered it in the same way. Where is the
choice different to the Austt-alian? How
much greater security, national or indivi-
dual, was to be obtained by the Frenchman
or the Englishman through replying “No”?
To put up the theory that the British work-
man, because of his new liability to military
service, is in any worse position industrially
than he was before would be absurd. True,
ideas of civic responsibility have already
been greatly influenced by the change, and
will inevitably be still further widened.
Compulsory military service means a step
in social organisation—-in industrial organi-
sation. But since when have Australian
workers learned the iniquity inherent in
either of those things? When did they
begin to fear that the organisation of labor
was something they should shrink from
attempting? What are their State labor
bureaus for, their wages boards, their
preference-to-union rules? The trend of
modern thought in every country on earth
has been in the direction of encouraging
search for ways of escape from the chaos
created by a disorganised industrialism.
Labor has everywhere been calling for a
greater social tidiness, for co-operative
citizenship, for tliq protecting hand of State
organisation and regulation; and because
Socialism has held out promise of regenera-
tion, Labor’s aims have always been towards
the socialistic goal—at all events, in theory.
So Labor has everything to gain and nothing
to fear from industrial organisation, even
with an obligation to military service as part
of the outfit.
THE WAR CORRESPONDENT’S
DEFENCE.
Australia’s official war-correspondent
Bean yarns about a colleague and passes
on to a general explanation: —
I am sorry that Malcolm Ross’s own papers have
not always been fair to him. At a time when he
was living well in the field of fire of the particularly
nasty and attentive gun which we, used to ascribe
to Anafarta, I read comments in the Maoriland press
of which the only possible intention was to raise
doubts as to whether he was going under fire at all.
Ross got to Anzac as straight as ever he could and
spent his first night there sleeping on the beach,
which, I will undertake, was a hotter corner than
any of his critics have ever dreamed of making up
their beds in. During the Hill 60 fight Ross and
the Y.M.C.A. delegate who went out to see it, in trying
to reach a good viewpoint, got into an old trench
which had a Turk in the other end of it —and you
don’t want to get much closer than that unless you
are privileged to pick up a rifle and shoot with it,
which war correspondents are not. Ross hung on until
the end of Gallipoli, although he was very ill —1
think with a form of typhoid, really, although it was
never satisfactorily diagnosed. And the last day
I was round at Maoriland Headquarters before the
evacuation, there he was on a camp bed in a dug-out
in that most Unhappy Valley, with no sort of over-
head protection from shrapnel or dropping bullets
except a tarpaulin. The M.L.- Headquarters was con-
stantly shelled with six- or eight-inch high-explosive
howitzer stuff, and in the worst bombardments most
of the staff to retire very properly to the deep
tunnels which had been cut out as offices and signal
station, etc., for use at such times. But Ross in his
feverish condition found the safe places too cold or
insupportable for one reason or another, and went
off back to his dugout to lie there listening to
the “crumps’* coming slowly down from the sky on
to the valleyside. You can hear each of those things
’for about six seconds before it arrives, and to know
that every one of them will come to earth some-
where within a hundred yards (but quite impartially
as to the exact point) is not the best condition for
a sick man. Ross managed to get up Rhododendron
Spur (which was something like climbing Mount
Cook) a day or two before the end, to see his own
chaps. And when he collapsed on the cruiser from
which we were both watching the evacuation, the mes-
sage which he had struggled to write for his press,
and which he handed to me, was a graphic one;
and it was only unsent because the Censor, when we
remaining correspondents had a talk with him, laid
down certain lines which clearly ruled the whole of
it out.
The war correspondent is supposed to be up against
the Censor all the time. But I honestly cannot
remember anything that I have written which has
been cut out and which they were not perfectly
right in cutting out, as I realised later. Our mes-
sages about the evacuation were chopped to little
bits; but then they knew, what we did not, that
Ilelles also was likely to be evacuated. And though
we had written very carefully within the lines at
first laid down by the Censor, yet no one who knew
the difficulties of Holies could feel in the slightest
degree aggrieved if the authorities, after the mes-
sages were written, made up their minds that it was
necessary to be still stricter, with the lives of
40,000 men hanging in the air.
I know that it must seem irritating to Aus-
tralians at times not to get more detail as to such
few events as do stand out from the daily life in
the trenches, or as to where their men are, what
each unit is doing, and so forth. We should have
chafed horribly at all this restraint if the authorities
had not had the wisdom to let us live right in the
heart of things. When you know that your own
staff would gladly risk a minor action in order to
find out exactly what units of the enemy are in front
of them, and when you actually see the enemy hurl-
ing men against your trenches for that object
and no other, how can you possibly work up a
righteous rage against the powers that be for for-
bidding you to present him with the information for
a penny? The 'military information, that is. Whether
it is good policy to strike out whatever may alarm
the 'public is another matter. But the Censor is not
responsible for the policy.
You often hear it said: “Of course, the enemy
knows who is in front of him ! Of course, he knows
exactly what is happening here and all about us!”
But when you see the enemy fighting not once but
literally hundreds of times to get this very informa-
tion, how can you believe it? He may have his
suspicions; but, if so, he evidently thinks it worth
fighting to discover for certain. And the reason is
simply that if you always knew exactly' where the
enemy is weak and exactly where he is strong, you
would always be able to beat him, and he would
never be able to beat you. If you knew that before
every' attack—by you or him —your job would be
finished there and then.
Two years ago, if I had been prevented from pub-
lishing a photo, of Anzac Beach while we W'ere
there, I would have asked you to print some unprint-
able things about the man who stopped it. But
when one knew how our gunners would have given
their eyes to possess even the haziest snapshot of any
recognisable portion of the reverse slopes of Legge
Valley—how it would have been tenderly enlarged,
and copies of it studied for days on end under a
magnifving-glass in every battery behind our lines;
copies sent to the War Office, copies filed for record,
copies argued over and wrangled over in artillery'
headquarters, and sent to bomb gunners and observers
—when one knew that, how could one be indignant
at any precaution to keep us from making a present
like that to the enemy? It is all very well to risk
these things at 12,000 miles. But if the enemy hap-
pens to recognise a supply dump or an ordnance
store or an inhabited barrack, and your son happens
to be working there, then it is his almost certain
death—that is all. There goes down a red mark on
a map, a tick in blue pencil against the corner of a
field. That place comes up on the routine for some
battery. And the next day a shell lands amongst a
dozen men who are sitting there.
You can take a responsibility like that if you are
ignorant. But how can you if you know? I re-
member that long before we left Gallipoli an article
appeared in a London paper in which it was said
that the Turks’ “Beachy Bill’’ had accounted for over
a thousand casualties at Anzac. The man who wrote
that was as innocent of meaning any harm as a babe
unborn. But there were at the time hundreds of
Australians and British whose work was sheer Hell
when that gun was firing. Gen. Birdwood himself
was living light in the centre of its zone, and all the
brains of our army. Work on the beach was only
possible with any safety during the times when that
gun was not firing, arid fortunately until the later
part of our stay those intervals were long—sometimes
a whole day'. But towards the end they simply shelled
us off that beach. I don’t suppose they had seen the
paper. But what else could they have done if they
had? It was a returned soldier who gave the paper
that information. How could we be indignant
because the Censor prohibited the war correspondents
from mentioning the effects of Turkish gunfire? No
one who realised the result would ever have thought
of asking him to pass it. All of which seems to me
to point to the wisdom of letting your correspond-
ents live right up at the Front, where they can see
plenty that is interesting and know what is harmful
—and why.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Senator’s Queer Testimonial to
Voluntaryism.
Argument about the relative merits of com-
pulsory service and voluntaryism as the basis
of national defence ended in Australia
months ago. There is now no real differ-
ence of opinion on the subject. The wild


words that are being thrown around by a
few noisy individuals are not contributions
to serious controversy. They are mere yelps.
The poor, footling politicians who are dodg-
ing among sentences barren of meaning, or
publicly washing one hand and waving the
other in anguish, or cowering away in their
offices, or taking a trip to Fiji or some-
where, are merely behaving in this matter
as they do in every other. No sane man
believed that Britain would ever pull
through this war without scrapping the sys-
tem she had clung to through ignorance and
deceit and vanity. It was the compulsory
service of the French poilu and the Russian
peasant that saved her bacon. The reason
Australia, instead of adopting the rational,
ordered system of other countries, has relied
upon the frenzied roar and the adjective and
the spirit of adventure in her manhood, is
not that the judgment of the people wavered
between choice of the two methods, but
because the instinct of machine-ridden poli-
ticians told them there might be danger to
their skins. Voluntaryism has been main-
tained not because it was more just or more
reliable or a speedier method of procedure,
or in any sense a sounder national invest-
ment, but because a few individuals reckoned
their job was at stake. Patriots every one!
Meanwhile the part played by Senator Gar-
diner, assistant Minister of Defence, in the
wordy sham-fight, is a heartrending spec-
tacle. Addressing a meeting in Sydney a
week ago he made the usual remarks to the
effect that it is only possible to win the war
by weight of numbers, and that it is the
duty of every man to enlist. And then he
proceeded to orate about “shirkers and idlers
and wasters not being the men wanted in
the firing-line, which was the place of free
men fighting freedom’s cause.” This paper
earnestly implores Gardiner, who is a decent
fellow and sensible as a . rule, to knock off 1 .
The words “shirker” and “waster” coming
from the mouth of a defender of voluntary-
ism are the strongest possible proof that he
knows his case to be as dead as mutton. A
man who does not voluntarily enlist need
be neither a shirker nor a waster. The sys-
tem is based upon the maintenance of indi-
vidual option. In this is supposed to rest
its great virtues. Once that is taken
it hasn’t a leg to stand on. For Gardiner
to blow the thing to pieces by flinging explo-
sive language into its vitals is indecent.
And for a man professing to expound the
duties of citizenship and reviling civic
shirkers and wasters to barrack that these
objects of his wrath should be given extended
opportunities to shirk and waste looks very
like a cynical jeer at the public intelligence.
The Anguish of Gregory Wade Because
Wool and Wheat Are Up.
“Tinkering with the Law of Supply and
Demand” seems to be the most hideous of
all sins, in the estimation of the Ma State’s
arch-Liberal Wade. To this dreadful offence
Wade traces all of society’s woes. Making
some remarks the other day to a party
corroboree about Llolman’s performances,
he got into figures and explained that the
depreciation in the purchasing power of
the sovereign in N. S. Wales was due to
“foolish tinkering” with the alleged Law
aforesaid. Surely Wade has enough muni-
tions for the bombardment of Holman
without throwing damp crackers at the
young man. Increases in the price of com-
modities have not been peculiar to N. S.
Wales or to Australia or to any other place.
The phenomenon of an ascending price level
lias been world-wide —in places where there
lias been no tinkering as well as where
tinkering is a local industry. Holman’s
efforts as a tinker have had no effect on the
price of imported pickles or the price
charged by a London butcher for chops or
by a New York tailor for pants or a Scot-
tish shipowner for freight. And if Wade
got into office to-morrow morning and threw
the tinkering apparatus out into the street
and set his joss of Supply and Demand up
in a high place on a 999 years’ tenure, the
price of wheat in London or the cost _ of
whisky in Maoriland or the purchasing
power of the dollar in Chicago would be
affected to the extent of less than To
find the reason for gold becoming cheaper
is a difficult problem. Possibly the answer
may be in the prevalence of gold ; the vast
increase in social and industrial parasitism
may have something to do with the matter.
Economists struggling with the subject in
every language have reached about half a
million conclusions, but this paper has not
yet come across one who pronounced
Holman to be the culprit. Of course none
of them may have heard of the gentleman;
but that is another thing. In any case it
is of little importance. Provided wages keep
pace with prices, high levels are not an
evil. There is nothing for Australia to wail
over if her exports are purchased for several
millions more than a similar quantity of
goods had to be sold for years ago. The
circumstance makes her debt lighter and
puts more cash into Australian pockets. A
wage-earner who finds that 255. has to be
parted with to acquire as much as 18s. did
10 years ago may have reason to complain
about quite a lot of things; but if he has
255. instead of 18s. his quarrel is not with
high prices. If the wage earner in Aus-
tralia has not got ahead of the rising tide
it is not because Holman has tinkered with
something; it is because public policy has
not been directed to the task of protecting
the national earnings from exploitation. It
has secured men better wages to meet higher
prices; but by draining the country of
immense sums for interest, by increasing
taxation on every unit of the community,
and by inflating land values and rent, it
has failed at a vital point in economics.
And it is to try to cover up this failure
and to fight off the accumulating evidence
of evasion that Governments in Australia
are frantically borrowing wherever they see
sixpence. High prices of goods have been
no handicap to Australians, but wooden-
headed, muddling, profligate politicians
have. Almost every advance in wages
secured by the workers has been snatched
from them by taxation at the hands of
spendthrift Governments and by landlords
whose properties have been inflated in value
by tlfe borrowing boom. Now what is 0. G.
Wade prepared to do about it? Sit down
and moan, and have a boom on his own
account, or bell the cat?
♦
Freetrade and Superiority.
Admiral Jellicoe’s official report of the
Jutland battle mentions a boy who stuck to
his post when all his mates were killed and
he himself had been mortally wounded.
But that instance of adhesiveness was noth-
ing alongside the quality of those stalwarts
of Freetrade who still try to keep the flag of
Cobden flying when the Avar has blown the
ground from under their feet and a great
wave of returning sanity is sweeping over
England. “Freetrade,” according to a
memorandum issued by a crowd of British
Parliamentarians, “will be more necessary
than ever for Britain and the Empire after
the war, in view of the resumption of com-
mercial and manufacturing superiority.”
These people seem to be entirely blind to
the trend of feeling and the meaning _ of
events. Their pet political doctrine is being
paid for in blood all along the Front in
France and Flanders, and yet they want
to see it continued in the years to come,
despite all the evidence that its continuance
would mean national loss and more and
greater bloodshed in the future. The calm
assumption that England will resume com-
mercial and manufacturing superiority at
the end of the war is an indication of the
make of these CoBDEN-ite minds. After the
war England, a nation with enormous debts
to pay, will have to get to work and lose a
lot of honest sweat at her job. The easy
arrangement by which a country, peopled
mostly by the idle and the unemployed,
gathered in the interest from investments
abroad and the cash earned by her ships as
general carriers of foreign produce, is at an
end. When Bull takes off his coat Free-
trade must stand aside and let him toil;
and a few million soldiers who have learned
the meaning of things in the war-smoke are
likely to see that it does so. The fact is
those slow-thoughted Parliamentarians with
their memorandums and manifestos are
assuming that they are still aliive, whereas
politically they died in August, 1914.
Picture Sho'"’« *nd Politics.
A furious fight L .-ging in the Speck.
Nearly everyone wants a censorship _ of
“pictures,” but they all want something
different. The people in the business want
a Federal censorship which will do the
trick once for all, but the Y.W.C.A. and
the deacons reckon that censorship is such a
good thing that you can’t have too much of
it, and go for a Federal censorship of all
imported films and six State censorships on
the top of that. Some of them carry their
logic further and want to give all the local
Bumbles a power of censorship over the
pictures within their boundaries as well.
The Ministry doesn’t know what to do with
the contradictory requests, some asking it
to leave it to the Federal Government, some
to appoint a few Boards of censors, and
some to let John Hop manage it. So it is
going to Melbourne to ask somebody there
what he thinks and then to Sydney to see
how N. S. Wales is getting on with its local
censorship. The picture-show proprietors
claim that State censorship with six Boards
giving different rulings and a Federal cen-
sorship on top of them would nearly kill
the business; and some of the others say
“Well, what if it does!” The whole tur-
moil ought to send the public thinking over
two things. First, how far is this censor-
ship business going to run? The closing of
pubs at 6 o’clock is, of course, part of the
same movement. Where are we going to
stop in our course of interfering with other
people’s actions? The Y.W.C.A. and the
deacons mustn’t expect to have it all their
own way. Tgns of thousands of people
believe, for instance, that church “revival”
meetings are pernicious. Hundreds of
sermons preached every Sunday of the year
are calculated to make the minds of those
who hear them mean and narrow. A good
case can certainly be made out for the
censorship of sermons. And of fashions. And
of food. And of personal ornaments. And of
the names we give our helpless youngsters.
The tendency is to pick away at the other
person’s liberty, compounding for sins we
are inclined to by damning those we have
no mind to. There may be a little philan-
thropy in it here and there; but there is
far more Pharisaism, and a good deal of
the delight of badly-informed persons in
exercising a little new-found authority over
somebody else. After we have considered
the question of this interference with per-
sonal freedom, the people interested in the
picture business, at any rate, might reflect
that unification would do more to help them
out of their troubles than anything else. To
most people, perhaps, unification is some dry
stick which merely crackles now and again
in a dull political article. The fact that
unification seeks to do pmrisely the thing
that these showmen want done, and to do it
not only for them but for all others who find
themselves in a similar difficulty, may con-
vince them that unification isn’t a dry stick,
but is a live question of bread and butter.
Labor and Loafer.
The best friends of i,abor in Victoria have
taken but little stock in the Political Labor
Council since it threw its arms around Mel-
bourne’s malodorous tote and displayed an
affectionate interest in those proprietary
race-meetings which are mere hooks to hang
a gamble on. Nor is the Labor cause likely
to regain any of its lost strength from the
latest utterance of the Melbourne branch of
the P.L.C. The other Monday night it
agreed to the following motion: —
That this branch of the Political Labor Council
strongly protests against the proposed drastic cur-
tailment of racing by the Chief Secretary (Mr.
McLeod). It considers that its only effect would be
to impose unnecessary hardship upon thousands of
worthy citizens, the great majority of whom are
ineligible for military service, by depriving them of
their livelihood at a time of great stress. The throw-
ing out of employment of these men at such a critical
period of industrial stress could not but have a
demoralising effect.
Commonsense squirms at the mendacity of
this protest against the curtailment of mid-
week pony sprinting and trotter meetings. In
the first place tkbre are no “thousands of
worthy citizens” who will lose their liveli-
hood. From the Labor point of view no
worthy citizen is a parasite. There are only
two classes in the world —the workers and
the loafers. The Labor party is only
for the workers, and it must make
up its mind (it has in most places)
that it can have no truck with the
loafer, no matter what sort of clothes he
wears, no matter what he says his politics
are. The parasite who contributes to the
Labor party’s funds is no less a parasite on
that account; in fact, if he does it in the
hope of corrupting Labor he is the very
worst and most dangerous kind of enemy.
Nor is the parasite who yells Labor plati-
tudes at the top of his voice any the less
a parasite on that account. For the unfor-
tunate wretch who, as stable-boy or clerk,
ministers to the chief parasite, the Labor
party may reasonably have a certain amount
of sympathy. But when the party says that
for the sake of this handful of servants we
shouldn’t disturb the parasitic system, it
utterly stultifies itself. If it asks that this
parasite shall not be disturbed because he
lives by sucking other people, then it cannot
ask that the big landlord shall be interfered
with by a land tax from following his occu-
pation of also sucking people.
*.
Wanted—Some New Gags.
The great weakness of the Liberal party
lies in its inability to invent new gags and
catchwords. This it is that robs its confer-
ences of all interest and provokes the scorn
of those who merely look on at the game as
it is played. As an advertiser Joe Cook
has some skill, but it isn’t the sort of skill
that helps his crowd towards power. If
somebody could whisper to the Liberal en-
thusiasts that the term Socialist doesn’t
carry any reproach worth mentioning, it
w'ould be gain. There may have been a time
when the venerable and overworked tiger,
which is still chief beast in the distressing
menagerie, roared with some stage effect, but
it is so long ago that nobody except a few
slumberous individuals with their brains
under their waistcoats can remember
the public terror. Since then the tiger
has been exhibited so often and let
loose with such wild warnings that
the average person regards it as stuffed
with air. Sosh is no more dangerous than
cabbage or soap, though, in practice in N. S.
Wales, the animal rarely pays for its keep.
If the Liberal party could invent a new gag
once in seven or eight years it would be more
entertaining. Of course, its opponents are
equally uninventive and are still hammering
at “wage slavery” and some other sadly over-
taxed phrases, but that doesn’t matter so much
when they have organisation and a majority,
as well as the power to spend public cash.
With the Liberals it is a vital matter.
Couldn’t Joe Cook or somebody put in a
shilling advertisement in one of the great
daily newspapers, asking for suggestions for
the salvation of the “right-thinking”? There
are plenty of ingenious people who would sell
ideas to earn an odd guinea; and the money
might be well spent if it created the impres-
sion that the crowd who want to put Labor
out of office had enough energy to say some
new words or some old words in new arrange-
ment. As things are at present the Liberal
Conference proceedings in N. S. Wales are
an exact duplicate of those of six or seven
years ago, and as they didn’t make for suc-
cess then, their chances now are not exactly
brilliant.
The Curse of Party Government Once
More.
ViC. Laborites have apparently developed a
species of idiocy that is incurable. Just
now Premier Peacock is introducing anti-
strike legislation, and if the Laborites of
the State had any nous they would fall on
Peacock’s neck and tell him he was just
the kind, good uncle they were looking for;
and they would help him to mould the
legislation so that it would do them a lot
of good. Instead, because he belongs to an
opposite party, they condemn the whole
work. Yet some of these Laborites have
just concluded an eight-weeks’ strike for
better conditions, from which the net gain
to them was nil, while the net loss was
considerable. One union has blewed most
of the £I2OO it possessed, several others
have dropped nearly as much, and many
more have nothing to show for the sums
they donated but the kind thoughts of their
mates —a pleasant possession, but no good
to buy dripping with. Besides these cor-
porate losses the strikers individually are
some thousands the poorer, their employers
are considerably worse off, and a lot of
people who had nothing whatever to do
with the argument are out of pocket and in
a bad temper. Certainly the late strikers
have a promise from Peacock to fully inves-
tigate the matter in dispute and legislate
accordingly; but as he had given a similar
promise on Feb. 24, which promise was
withdrawn immediately the threat to strike
was made, they are obviously no better off
than they were at first. Yet, in spite of
these facts and others equally well knowm
to them, they oppose Peacock’s anti-strike
legislation. Isn’t it carrying the party
insanity a bit far?
“Shirkers, Idlers and Wasters.”
The idea of Senator Gardiner, Assistant
Minister of Defence, that “shirkers, idlers
and wasters” are no use as soldiers, isn’t
based on very good historical evidence. The
British armies of the past—little armies
that did astoundingly big things now and
then —-were mostly built out of the very
materials Gardiner condemns. Nelson’s
heroic sailors were generally gathered in
from the riff-raff of seaport towns by the
simple expedient of the press-gang ; and such
people after a few months’ stiff naval train-
ing fought with the best and huzzaed
lustily as they waded after their leaders
through blood and splinters. It is in peace
and the ordinary ways of trade and work
that the “shirkers, idlers and wasters” fail;
and they mostly fail for lack of the
thoroughgoing military discipline which,
properly applied, might make men of the
worst of them. One of the soundest argu-
ments for universal military training in
time of peace is the stiffeniug-up it gives
to natures which would otherwise go flaccid
and limp. As for the cold feet aspect of
things, the present war has proved more
thoroughly than ever the plain fact that
cowardice is a very rare failing. The seem-
ing coward, hardened by military toils and
exercises, is as likely to win the V.C. as the
next man. So, altogether. Gardiner’s yarn
is a pretty poor one and is about as valuable
to the anti-conscriptionists as mottled soap
to a sausage maker.
♦
The case of Ignatius Tribich “Lincoln.”
now in gaol, is an interesting outcome of
the war. It points more than one moral.
Firstly, there is the story of how this Hun-
garian Jew came to England some years ago,
assumed the Anglo-Saxon name of Lincoln,
and worked the “wowser” ticket while wow-
serism and pro-Germanism were the ruling
political influences. He got the billet of
private secretary to Seeboiim Rowntree, a
member of the peace-at-any-price persuasion,
who financed him in his enterprises. And
Tribich was very enterprising. Under the
best English wowser auspices he adopted the
Anglican faith, and was pushed into the
House of Commons by his pacificist friends.
All this was possible to any intelligent for-
eigner in England before the war. The
wonder to-day is that Tribich didn’t get
into the Privy Council. But he lost his seat
in the House, and soon after the war began
was heard of from America. There, being a
Hun, he had to brag. He bragged of how he
had been a German spy imposing on der silly
Pritishcrs. Then two of his wowser cham-
pions complained that he had forged their
names to bills, and he was extradited from
the U.S.A. and sentenced to some penal ser-
vitude. In the dock the degraded being who
had boasted of being a German spy accused
himself of having “offered the British Ad-
miralty a scheme which would have destroyed
the German fleet a year ago.” Of such arc
the treacherous enemy aliens whom England
for so many years delighted to honor!
♦
The Commission that had been examining the
innards of the Vic. Public Service produced
its report last week! and it was just the same
old yarn over again about waste, muddle
and Tite Barnacle, Esq. The Common-
wealth and States seem to struggle for pre-
eminence in wasting their revenues and
raiding the taxpayers’ pocket for more.
While politicians are eternally whining about
the exploitation of the people, they are them-
selves sanctioning an exploitation of the
grossest character. When charged with this
their defence is invariable —a ridicule of
skinflints, a torrent of words about the duty
of the State towards its employees, and a
frantic demand 'to be given the name and
address of the individual who should be
thrown out of his job. Of course this kind
of talk is easy and cheap. But it has
nothing to do with the point under considera-
tion. No reasonable citizen wants to see
a public service treated on miserly prin-
ciples, or suggests that any particular per-
son should be fired, or wants to see the State
evade its duty. What every taxpayer has
the right to demand is that he shall not be
bled to maintain someone else in a soft job;
that the public service of the country shall
not be an organised shirk; and that Parlia-
ments shall protect the pulilic purse. How
many Australian politicians can honestly
say that this demand has been met?
«.
How these idea-jugglers do run mad on a
new topic! Because women in England and
France have done war-work, they see the
whole social scheme of things falling to
pieces. Listening to them one would think
that a woman had never done a stroke
of work before. But what happens? Here
and there one finds a well-paid milliner, a
woman-secretary or a schoolmistress holding
on till well past the marriageable age—and
usually regretting it! The home and the
husband and the baby idea coax all but a
very few away from the schoolroom and
the. desk before all the sheen has gone from
their hair. The woman with her inherited
dread of fading beauty and loneliness plays
always and wisely for security; she sees
how her unprotected sisters are swindled,
and how the unmated are looked down'upon,
and she is very well aware that, provided
she has average luck in her choice of hus-
bands, she will have a better time by the
unsensational fireside where she really
belongs.
4 —_—
The Telegraph is at its worst in discussing
the simple and sensible plan proposed to
cure the congestion on Sydney footpaths.
Chief Secretary Black, lately home from
Adelaide, observed that even in that gener-
ously-spaced city, where a chain-wide street
is considered narrow, and the principal
street is 132 ft. across, notices every-
where warn pedestrians to Keep to the
Right, and those who are obstinate in not
doing so may be taken in hand by the police.
Sydney, with more people, and streets less
wide and less straight, would find much
relief in such a bylaw. But “the cure would
be worse than the disease,” says the I).T.
fatuously. “In matters of this kind the Gov-
ernment never does wrong in leaving some-
thing to the people’s own commonsense.”
But it is precisely in little matters of this
kind that the public has no chance of show-
ing commonsense. Those who have it are
blocked by those who haven’t. The public
wants to be put on the track of not treading
on its own feet and bumping into its own
ribs; but someone has to suggest how, and to
check the few fools who won’t play the
game. And who should take that lead if not
the City Council? Commonsense did not
prevent men from spitting all over the foot-
paths, or women from wearing hat-spikes
that were a public danger. Adelaide and
other sensible cities just said that those
things should not be done, and then fined a
handful of obstinate ones to show that the
order was really meant; and within a few
months nobody thought any longer of doing
the noxious thing. The D.T. admits cheer-
fully that Sydney pedestrians may be seen
“oscillating ridiculously in front of each
other” for want of some rule of the road.
“But the damage done is seldom great. And
in the end they all get through.” They
get through. In the end. Just the same
old cry of the spineless British Conservative
echoing down the centuries. We shall mud-


V./>
What Counts Most with You?
The Price You Pay ?
Or the Wear You Get for What You Pay ?
The price of a tyre is, broadly speaking, the cold,
hard cash, or its equivalent, that you are called
upon to hand over in exchange for the tyre
itself.
The cost of a tyre is based on the service it gives,
and the mileage, and should be the first considera-
tion in making a selection.
Which is best for you? An ordinary tyre priced
at £7 and giving 3000 miles, or a Goodyear All-
Weather Tread at £9 giving at least 5000 miles,
and often up to 10,000 miles, WITHOUT A
PUNCTURE OR BUOW OUT.
A lower price does not compensate for poor
results, and this fact impresses itself every time
you are tempted to make an experiment with “a
cheaper one.”
Figure this up—rubber costs the same all over
the world, and so do other component parts of
the tyre, so if a Arm is in the business to stay
they MUST give value for money.
After all, motorists are not easily fooled, and it
is only the non-progressive manufacturer who
sacrifices quality in the interests of a lower price.
The “diamonds” of the Goodyear All-Weather
Tread are seen on the roads more than ever before.
Have you ever considered WHY ?
Goodyear Tyres, Tubes, Belting, Hose and Packings are now obtainable
throughout Australia and N.Z.
die through somehow. And sometimes we
don’t, and if we do it is at the cost of great
discomfort and loss*. Up against an opponent
with method, as in the present European
disturbance, Britain has lost millions of
money and thousands of lives, just through
having decided that it could get through in
the end somehow.
The Allied Leap at the Hun.
There is something doing note, at any rate.
And by the time the European summer is
over something will have broken, for it is
inconceivable that war can be waged on the
present scale without disastrous results to
one or other of the combatants. From the
Allies’ point of view the position looks more
hopeful than at any time since the struggle
began. That the Russian has given the Aus-
trian a terrible mauling • appears certain.
That the German has arrived at the stage
when the problem for him is how long he
can keep the fighting away from his own
cities and villages is reasonably clear. But
about the German’s strength there is much
yet to learn, even though there be no doubt
that relatively to his opponents he is consider-
ably weaker than he was a year ago. The
exact extent of that strength and weakness
is being measured east and west. If the
conflicting yarns which come from behind the
Rhine were entitled to credence the end
would appear to be not far away. But they
are not to be trusted. The map is the only
reliable guide. During the last week this
has changed a little to the advantage of the
Allies, but it is no use expecting to soon
hear of the German picking up his traps and
scuttling away out of Flanders by the road
he came. His position there is vital to him.
He will fight far harder for Belgium than
for Poland. The day the German withdraws
from Antwerp will be the day on which he
confesses himself beaten. While he is there
the hardest part of the Allies’ job will re-
main unfinished. The significance of the ad-
vance made by the British and French troops
lately cannot for the present be estimated.
The losses have apparently been very great
all round. If the thrust can be continued
to Peronne the Hun will be a mighty uncom-
fortable person, called upon to do some quick
shifting, for at Peronne the French would be
unpleasantly close to his innards. And the
French are not far off. How our own boys
are getting along and what they are doing in
this stupendous mix-up is frequently ex-
plained in elaborate reports from the scene
extending to fully two lines of print. But,
thank God, every time any of the Aus-
tralian politicians who are prowling around
London dining-rooms start working their
jaws about the Anzacs, this bright young
democracy hears it all.
Webster, Postmaster-General, is angrily
shrieking against the Melbourne morning
papers for censoring his statements. It is
annoying; but Webster still has an advan-
tage over the newspapers. Webster can
talk about the things the newspapers sup-
press, but the newspapers can’t talk about
the things his Government suppresses.
The Paul Joseph bubble in Adelaide has
now definitely burst, with a loud report and
an uncertain amount of evil smell. His
solicitors have published, “on behalf of rela-
tives and friends” —presumably the venerable
pastor Bevan, his father-in-law —and with
his own permission, a candid statement that
he merely “had expectations of inheriting”
the large estate of a Tasmanian sheep-
farmer (which he “informed his friends that
he had inherited”) and that “the supposed
inheritance cannot be materialised.” He has
resigned his connection with the ministry,
and work on his pet scheme of a City Temple
—about which lie steadily bluffed inquiring
interviewers up till a few days ago —has been
given up, with the walls a few feet high.
“He appears to have no appreciable means or
resources at all,” the candid lawyers sum up.
“So far as can be ascertained, he has done
practically nothing to benefit himself or his
family. No explanation of his various rash
enterprises can be offered by his friends,
beyond their belief that he was the victim of
a delusion, and the support afforded by the
Bank evidently encouraged him in this direc-
tion.” The one solid, outstanding fact is that
he p’aid £OOOO in real money for the
late Chief Justice Way’s home, Montefiore.
and the exact ground on which that support
was “afforded by the Bank” is the main
point that remains to be settled.
From a Liberal ewe-lamb: —
The Liberal Ass. which has been conferring in
Sydney most of the week, was feted and fed musically
and otherwise at the Theosophists’ Hall the other
night. The president, the Macarthur Onslow lady,
talked gracefully and hostessed in ebony velvet and
unusual lace. Popular Eleanor Cameron enjoyed her
talkative turn more than Mrs. C. G. Wade, who
seemed glad to get off her feet; and Gregory also
made a few well-frozen remarks. Country delegates
abounded, and there weren’t any infants in arms to
spoil the harmony.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOIi COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Merry Widow"
Criterion “The Boomerang"
Palace “Peg o’My Heart”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “To-night’s the Night”
Roy'al “Romance”
Kino’s .... “Duncan McClure and the Poor Parson”
Princess’s Gonsalez Italian Opera Co.
Bijou Fuller Vaudeville
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s Own & Olymima Hoyt’s Pictures
Glaciarium Ice Skating
Auditorium The Ideals of 1910
The mechanism of “The Boomerang”
creaks noisily and unnecessarily in the
second act; and the humor of the comedy re-
sides in situation and not in the character
of the persons. Nevertheless this latest im-
portation, played at Sydney Criterion on
Saturday night, may be accepted with grati-
tude as the best that the dramatists of the
United States have done for us in this diffi-
cult line. But if we must go to the United
States even for our light comedy it is a pity
that there is not enough intelligence in the
Firm to sub-edit the script so that it will not
offend Australian susceptibilities. On the
opening night, when the doctor informed his
patient that his complaint was “bugs,” there
was a gasp of surprise from the audience.
“Bugs” may mean many things in America;
but it means only one thing in Australia,
and anybody suffering that way is a person
to be avoided.
* * * *
“The Boomerang” is a comedy of Spring
love. A young man named Budd becomes a
nervous wreck because a sprightly damsel,
tired of having him always around, flirts
with another youth. Budd is brought by
his mother to Dr. Sumner, and, as always
happens on the stage, the youth is the doc-
tor’s first patient. The doctor discovers
Budd’s infatuation and undertakes to cure
him. Though he injects an alleged serum
into the youth’s arm, really his treatment is
designed to inject the germ of jealousy into
the callous damsel’s heart. The services of
a pretty nurse, appointed to look after Budd
for a month, make the cure rapid. The
sprightly damsel, by doctor’s orders rebuffed,
begins to find herself interested in the in-
accessible Budd, and her jealousy against
the nurse brings about the inevitable pro-
posal. The delightful element of the comedy
comes in when the doctor, who has explained
to the pretty nurse that love is merely a
game, and has expounded all its rules, sud-
denly finds himself in love with the nurse, hit
by the return of the boomerang he had so
lightly, yet so unerringly, thrown. In a
charming scene the nurse happily recognises
all the signs of his infatuation for her, as
previously laid down by the doctor; and she
has no trouble in stunning him for life with
marriage. That is all the plot that matters ;
and from such slight materials an English
writer of light comedy should have had no
“THE BOOMERANG.” AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Dr. Hale Hamilton's first patient, Donald
Bowles.
trouble in building a delightful play; but
the American authors, in order to eke out
their third act, have to interpolate a pre-
posterous sub-plot, in which the nurse
becomes the heiress of fabulous millions.
For the first time since his arrival in Aus-
tralia Hale Hamilton gets his chance. He
takes it. For two acts he subordinates his
personality to the play: he is just a nice
young doctor. Then, suddenly love-stricken
—and the sight of Myrtle Tannehill in her
evening dress is ample provocation—he por-
trays the agony of his jealousy in a com-
pletely convincing way. His “business”
while waiting for patients is unforced and
sure; and at the end of the play he has
created a real personality with a multitude
of subtle touches. Donald Bowles, as the
melancholy Budd, is again a grotesque de-
light. His nervous breakdown is so clev-
erly led up to that this one serious touch in
the comedy does not get a single incongruous
laugh; and his triumph is that the part
seems to have been conceived for his manner-
isms and his physique. Myrtle Tannehill, as
the demure nurse, plays with her usual
freshness and freedom from stage tricks. As
the nurse, she is only a nurse; and when
the woman is allowed to appear she is all
woman. Celia Ghiloni manages a colorless
part with distinction, but Beatrice Nichols
and Nancye Stewart do not yet manage
the delicate subtleties of their new
medium. The rest of the cast don’t mat-
ter. The principal scene, a doctor’s sur-
gery, will interest the 8.M.A., and is
responsible for more humor than is usually
to be found in Macquarie-street.
In “Romance,” which came new to Aus-
tralia at Melbourne Royal, the unrealities,
incongruities and essential absurdities are
too many and various to be detailed in a
disrespectful notice. A drama in which the
clergyman hero adores and is adored by the
notorious mistress of his prime benefactor
and chief parishioner, whilst the benefactor
takes a back seat and shakes his head, is
not an entertainment to be regarded seri-
ously. “Romance” is just a jerry-built
Yankee drama, constructed of stolen
materials, cemented with mushy sentiment-
ality and embellished with all the orna-
mental devices the author could think of.
Scenery and dressing are interesting. The
show pleases the eye. And the musical
accessories to He mushy sentimentality
diverge as far as possible from the beaten
track. The Bishop’s gramophone—Lord
bless him for that! —is a delight, in its own
weird way. It reels off a Lauder record,
for instance, and would sing “So Long.
Letty,” if General Desire insisted on it. The
gram, sweetens the prologue and furnishes
an accompaniment to the picturesque end
of the epilogue. The parson and the prima
donna, or the prima donna and her pro-
tector, never talk of love unless an
accompaniment is being sung by an opera
chorus in the ballroom downstairs or the
glee party in the church school-room or the
hymn singers in the street. Everything
happens picturesquely, as in a Family
Herald novelette. Possibly the people who
love novelettes and strong theatrical effects
will rush for this play. Its author ought to
blush for it. The main story gives a terrible
lot. of scope for cut-and-dried emotional
acting to Miss Fabian and Frank Harvey.
If either of them had a striking personality
or a magnetic voice the effect would be more
convincing; but the lady, anyhow, achieves
a charming appearance in her early-Vic-
torian head of hair and quaint finery. Syd-
ney’ Stirling, as the devoted benefactor of
the sky pilot who robs him of his “tart,”
almost succeeds in not being ridiculous.
HORACE GOLDIN AT THE SYDNEY
TIVOLI.
The conjuring hero, with his magic pistol,
vanishes a tiger and saves the heroine from
being devoured.
Gerald Uarcourt is unutterably out of place
as the Bishop’s grandson. Among 20 other
capable and well-placed artists who don't
really matter to the story, Miss Alma Rock
Phillips is quite charming. And George
Upward’s scenic work is excellent.
“To-Night’s the Night.” staged for the
first time at Melbourne Majesty’s on Satur-
day, is a somewhat crude reminder of "The
Girl in the Taxi” without the freedom and
the French abandon that distinguished the
latter in its dullest moments. The collec-
tion of fashionable idlers who indulge in
sub-rosa gallantries in the present outbreak
are not especially striking in their in-
decorum. They comprise two or three phil-
andering bachelors, a couple of faithless
husbands, the wife of one and the niece of
the other watching the pair at their giddy
devotions, and a bogus French maid driven
by the general contagion to bestow generous
endearments all round. But the dissipation
of the party is merely suggested, for they
pair off in boxes at a Covent Garden
masked ball, with demands for champagne
breaking the monotony of their concealment.
Occasionally they emerge to clown and sing,
and their “business” and their warbling,
combined with some irrelevant specialties,
manage to keep the flimsy entertainment
from falling to pieces. Strictly considered,
“To-Night’s the Night” is an irruption of
vaudeville turns furnishing insufficient evi-
dence to support the alluring allegation of
naughtiness conveyed in the title. Further,
the music is mainly a mixture of rum-ti-
tummy melodies and ragtime stuff, and the
dialogue seems to involve the funny men in
the tedium of gagging to keep it going. But
the principal fault of the piece on Saturday
was its unnecessary length. Undeserved
encores and superfluous comedy served to
prolong the agony a half-hour or more
beyond the usual stopping time.
* * * *
The conspicuous features of the show are
the chorus work, the handsome scenery and
dressing, and the attractive dancing of Daisy
and Sydney Yates, Rita Nugent and .Tack
Hooker and Wyonne Haybittle. The last-
mentioned girleen is an interesting novice
in toe-dancing, and possesses the limbs and
confidence of a mature coryphee. Among
the players Alfred Frith scores most points
as the Hon. Dudley Mitten ; but the part is
so slight that it hardly compensates the
“THE FIGHTING HOPE,”
Starring Laura Hope Crews.
Lasky Paramount Feature at The Globe.
Rose Function (Cleo Ridgley) saucily re-
marks: “I am the woman Grainger stole the
money for.”
The Star of the Film is seen on the left —
the other is Gerald Ward.
ROMANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A gentle Yankee bishop in a dressing-gown ornate
Sat musing in his study when the hour was growing
late.
Except that he had lost his wife and kept his
youthful tones,
Tie might have been the aged toff who creaked in
“Milestones.”
His awful grandson wished to wed an actress from the
stage,
And thus the Bishop’s soul was stirred, despite his
rank and age,
To tell the boy a story—and the curtain, falling
slow,
Whilst the change was indicated by the lighting
dim and low,
Was raised, as lately happened in another Yankee
show,
On a visionary story of the days of long ago.
’Twas the story of the Bishop at the age of 28,
When he labored as a rector, and was looking for a
mate,
A story that was novel once but now is very stale—
An altered yarn of Johnny Storm and giddy Glory
Quayle,
Where all the characters were blessed with ample
worldly means,
And all the men wore ruffled shirts and girls wore
crinolines.
The rector was The Christian man who tried to lose
his honor,
Whilst Glory Quayle (in this case) was a Dago
prima donna.
Her eyes were shining lamps of love, but from her
ruby lips
Came language like to “Steaka noyst—ice creama—
fishanchips.”
She played some lingo jokes on John, to please her
passing whim,
And so he fell in love with her and she in love with
him.
Their love was sometimes pure as snow ; sometimes
they were content
To paddle in a tepid stream of sickly sentiment.
If Margherita tempted Tom, temptation he with-
stood ;
He said his prayers till something chanced to change
his pious mood,
But when at last he tempted her she told him to be
Good.
And from her bedroom John went forth on blighted
hopes to brood.
The curtain slowly fell, the lights went dim and low
once more.
The lights went up and Thomas was the Bishop as
before.
His awful grandson, having heard his grand-dad’s
strange romance,
Went off to wed the actress girl and take his
bloomin’ chance.
His sister stroked dear grandpa down, and with a
tender laugh
Left him to his reflections sad and tuneful phono-
graph.
lie fixed a “Mignon” record on that best of gramo-
phones,
And whilst the strains of music soothed his poor old
marrowbones,
He sat and thought how like he was to Knight in
“Milestones.”
VICTORIA.
O. K.


ĥ
H E N K E S’
SCHNAPPS
Holland’s best production—an absolutely ideal tonio.
Awarded many gold medals for purity.
ħ
HAUNTING MUSICAL SUCCESS !
“THE PERFECT SON<£”
(Being the Love Strain from the incidental music of the successful film
production, “The Birth of a Nation.’ - )
BY JOSEPH CARL BREIL.
Piano Solo (Continental Fingering) 2/-net
Vocal Arrangement in D (B-E) & Eb 2/-net
CHAPPELL & CO. LTD., 235 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
MAY BE HAP of ALL MUSIC-SELLERS
h
Counteract Rising Costs
Practical Economy in Tailoring"
Materials are now expensive. How, then, can a good suit be
obtained without greater than usual outlay V Our Economic
Tailoring makes it easily obtainable. Early contracts
brought us the materials, workroom facilities enable us to
keep down costs. Thus we can still offer unique values
without increasing prices. The new patterns give the proof.
May we send them—also self-measurement form and
catalogue ?
SPITS TO MEASURE, £3 !s\- to £4/10/-
We Pay Postage.
Peapes (Q. Co. Ltd.,
Men’s Outfitters,
30P & 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
actor for the trouble of opening his mouth.
Field Fisher is frequently lost in the con-
fusion as one of the wicked husbands, Robin
Carrawa.v; but C. H. Workman, as the other
erring Benedict, Montague Lovitt-Lovitt,
looks as if his frivolity amounts to a con-
viction. Plunket is an allegedly tempestu-
ous Dago episode in the past of
frail ladies. But surely his stiffness
and angularity would cool any woman’s
grande passion. Sudden intimacy with
the other sex fills Fred Maguire, as
Iltnry, with schoolboyish glee; but it
requires something exceptional in feminine
beguilement to upset Sydney l'ates’s aplomb
as a noble lord. Robert Greig’s John Bull
burliness and complacence are not aids to
a perfect realisation of the French waiter,
Alphonse. Connie Ediss, as a Cockney lydy
disguised as a French maid, is a promis-
cuous canoodler who mostly muffles her
peevish undertone in the coat collars of the
available men. Marie Eaton endeavors to
pass as a heady liqueur in Workman’s even-
ing-out, and the experience makes Workman
suddenly perceive the solid virtues of his
missus—played with arctic austerity by
Ethel Morrison. The nicest lady in the
crowd is Daisy Yates, whose natural, un-
affected comeliness as Mrs. Carraway is a
refreshing contrast to the artificiality of
her friend Dorothy Brunton. Dorothy sings
and acts very daintily as usual, but appar-
ently lias nobody to tell her that the colors
she affects make her yellow-wigged pretti-
ness look glaring.
Last week “La Tosca” was the only new
production at Melbourne Princess’s, where
the Italian operas come from. For the rest
it was revivals and full houses and an in-
evitable steady improvement in the orches-
tra, conducted by one or other Gonsalez.
Brother Giovanni handled the musicians in
the “Tosca” case, and very gently and
deftly he put the work through. The hall-
mark of Puccini’s orchestration was sweetly
developed, except iu one or two places where
the very occasional chorus mattered, these
defects being most evident at the first at-
tempt. Judged in the bulk, “Tosca” was up
to the average of the co.’s results. Capelli,
the tenor, sang and acted almost excellently
as Cavaradossi, whilst Mrs. De Revers
scored one better than her usual in the name
part, and tall Belloni, as Baron Scarpia—
that dirtiest of operatic dogs!—was at. least
an impressive figure, till the prima donna
drove a carving knife into his black heart
and left him dead upon the carpet. “Tosca,”
save for the lady’s flirtatious display of
jealousy early in the first act, is lurid melo-
drama played to a sympathetic accompani-
ment. The Belloni-De Revers interview was
conducted with due moderation on both
sides. The picturesque Baron was not too
offensively wicked, nor the lady too exuber-
antly distressed. Caesaroni chalked his
countenance and sang passably as the
hunted fugitive who is said to have taken
poison at the bottom of a well, and Mosca,
in the small “comic” part of the sacristan,
AT MELBOURNE
AUDITORIUM.
Evelyn Scotney
(Soprano).
Howard White
(Basso).
had a make-up which emphasised the fact
that Italy is the birthland of the pantomime
clown.
* * * *
New productions for this week are “Mig-
non” (to-night) and “The Barber of
Seville” on Saturday. Chorus reinforce-
ments have arrived from Italy, by the way.
These will be specially acceptable in
“Faust” next week.
*
Two Merry Widows take alternate per-
formances at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, these
times. No. 1 is Minnie Love and No. 2
Ethel Cadman. The Prince Danilo with
whom they are both in love (alternately) is
Leslie Holland, and he manages to make the
spoilt young royalty more likeable than Hig-
ginson used to. Andrew in his time behaved
more like a pettish schoolgirl than a real
man in tailor’s trousers, and the infatuation
of the first Widows was an inexplicable thing
to most men who saw the show. Phil Smith
(in the clothes and make-up of Popoff) gives
another clever impersonation of Phil Smith,
and Florence Young (in some striking gowns)
parades with success as Natalie, his dutiful
wife. Reg Roberts gets back to his old
form as Jolidon, and Charles Albert scores
a pass with Nisch, the burlesque Legation
messenger. Nellie Payne almost flies as Fifi.
She is the modern butterfly fluttering over a
mossy frivolity that is only kept alive by its
music. The old firm of Lo-Lo, Do-Do and
Co. seem to be wearing new dresses; but the
garments of the chorus are almost as tired
as the old, old gags.
“Peg o’ My Heart” hoisted the century at
the Palace in the early part of the week.
A second souvenir night has been arranged
for this Friday, and the last Sydney per-
formance will happen on Wednesday, July 19.
Peering through the blue gunpowder haze
the Sydney Royalist regretfully decides that
Julius Knight is at last too mature to look
the part of the reckless, lovesick Irish
Guardsman in “Under Fire.” If Streetman,
the German-English spy, had seen such a
man weeping behind a treeguard in Berlin,
he would have decided that his grief was
due to a sudden slump in securities, and
passed on. And when Captain Larry Knight
starts to make impetuous Irish love to
Lizette Parkes, the devoted stallite has to
hurriedly allow him a discount of 25 years
for cash. Of the women, Frances Anderson
gets the best chance as the flapper daughter
Jeanne of old stage-innkeeper J. B.
Atholwood, who is dragged out and shot
by the invading Germans when the tele-
phone he knew nothing of is found in the
chimney. It is the best moment of the
show, and neither player misses any of the
tragedy. Lizette Parkes is the best-brushed
heroine who ever searched a modern battle-
field for a wounded hero and eventually
found him in a ruined church. The play
is well mounted, and if only some of the
heroes could be wounded in the arm or the
foot by way of variety, it would be as
realistic as anyone could wish these times.
The curtain rises on “The Third Degree” on
Saturday night.
As the Fiji Nephew and the company pro-
moter discovered many years ago, people love
to be well and truly taken in. So long as
the illusionist doesn’t finish the trick by wav-
ing his coat-tails at the side-door of a pub
arid turning the beautiful prospectus-dream
into an insolvency court and a suicide’s
grave, the man who pays doesn’t mind a bit.
Horace Goldin, who deals in faked miracles
and has 35 assistants and enough props to
anchor him firmly until a policeman is called,
is now at Sydney Tivoli doing painless de-
ceptions. It’s a thoroughly enjoyable show
to everyone but the worrying type of oerson
who wants to see the works. The part of
the entertainment that isn’t Goldin is filled
in by violinist Max Selinsky, Margaret
Jewell (soprano), clowns Mennetti and
Sedelli and some others.
Wish Wynne and the “Something Doing”
revue disappear from the Fuller programme
at Sydney Adelplii this week, and »n Satur-
day a musical burlesque co. will illustrate
“The Follies of Pleasure.”
Sydney screenings this week :—•
Crystal Palace: “Australia Prepared”—an in-
teresting stroll through the Commonwealth munition
and equipment factories, and an inspection of all
branches of the A.I.F. in training. But there won t
be any picture of a corps of censors armed with blue
pencils striking out thing’s that are likely to trouble
the Government.
Lyceum: “A Child of Paris,” an Apache thriller;
“The Children in the House,” a cleverly-acted
tragedy of the home; and two reels of “Auto
Trouble.”
Empress: “The Bugle Call,” a Triangle domestic
drama featuring boy-hero William Collier.
** * *
At Melbourne King’s there will be one
more week of “Duncan McClure,” and
then the Bert Bailey co. will rush away
from Melbourne, leaving the King’s to
“Peg o’ My Heart.”
The Russian musicians with the easily-
pronounced names have given their last
performance, for the present, at Melbourne
Auditorium. Songstress Evelyn Scotney
and Howard White will do likewise to-night.
On Saturday the “Ideals of 1916,” whose
title is still incomprehensible to the multi-
tude, will return to the Audi, with some
fresh changes of programme.
Hugh Mclntosh’s latest captures in
Amurka were exhibited at Melbourne Tivoli
on Saturday. The weirdest of the throng is
an alleged Red Injun royalty, Os-ko-Mon,
who prances about in gaudy upholstery and
makes strange noises. In the conclusion
of a furious turn he gives an imitation of
a hungry dog-show, at the same time nearly
whirling his arms off his naked torso iu
an ecstasy of prospective homicide. This
is supposed to be a war dance. The most
pleasing turn on the bill is an acro-
batic specialty by Jack and Foris. Miss
Evelyn Cunningham, character songstress,
is more nasally assertive than her com-
patriot, Grace Hanson, ■ who has a voice of
some compass and an unaffected manner.
Vandinoff and Louie, described as novelty
painters, oblige with hasty impressions of
flowers, whilst Mack and Mabelle are merely
celebrated for the clog-dancing of Mack.
The rest of the new acts include the con-
ventional fall-about business of O’Donnell
and a scarecrow attendant, and the black-
faced and dancing of Leighton
and Kennedy. Also reappearing is the
beauteous Nana Stirling in the taking
trapeze work which permits a chaste but
g( nerous revelation of her curves.
%
A song and chatter act by Soman and
Dillon was the principal novelty at Mel-
bourne Bijou last week-end. Miss Soman
is responsible for the singing, and Mr. Dillon
contributes most of the chatter in a loud
voice and a deplorable check suit, liarring-
ton Reynolds, reappearing, revives the
unctuous accent of Father Kelly in a sketch
called “The Burglar.” Dorothy Harris, also
a repeat, revels in ragtime and the latest
fashions as before; whilst Jessie Barlee,
who previously appeared at the Bijou with
comedian Phil Smith, is now seen on her
own in a musical-comedy specialty. Among
the remainder Phil Percival continues to
cause larfter with his fanciful energy at the
piano.
ITALIAN GRAND OPERA, AT MELBOURNE
PRINCESS'S (“LA TOSCA”).
Mosca as
Sacrestano.
Belloni as
Scarpia.
De Revers as
Tosco.
Gapelli, the
tenor, as
Cavaradossi.
“The Come Back,” a heart-throb story of
high society and “the great north woods,”
headed Hoyt’s triple-feature bill in Mel-
bourne last Saturday. The other screenings
were “A Woman's Resurrection,” based on
Tolstoy’s yarn, and “Life’s Whirlpool,”
adapted from Frank Norris’s novel,
“McTeague.” The moral of the latter is
described with arithmetical precision by the
advt. as “The sins you do two by two, you
must pay for one by one.” If the saying is
applicable to the leading sinners in the film,
they will have to file their schedule.
Adelaide King’s has suddenly lost its
temporary monopoly of drama. While it
shows the Kelly Gang, Brandon Cremer puts
on the old Musketeers at the Tivoli, and
Marlow a Shakspeare selection at the
Royal. “The Birth of a Nation” picture
has moved on to Broken Hill, after beating
the local film-record. A fine stirrer-up of
inter-racial strife this story must have been
in the U.S.A., for it moved Adelaide audi-
ences, who have no special objection to the
negro, to wild joy at seeing him shot or
ridden down by cavalry. The Town Hall
has been busy with Vatican pictures, which
had a poor season, and the Nurse Cavell
sequel, which is having a good one. (This
Australian production is foolishly called
“La Revanche”; why not “The Avenging”?)
Coleman proves to be the most interesting
war-lecturer yet heard. He has a sense of
humor and a fund of- anecdotes; also he has
been, as a motor-driver, where the shells fell
thick. At West’s, American drama; at
Wondergraph, the Irish trouble and a per-
son named C. Chaplin, who seems to be
popular. Daisy Jerome discovered at least
one fine girl singer in her voice-trials at the
Majestic, whose bill is pleasant without
being exciting.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Melbourne is to have still another picture
theatre, in Swanston-street, near Flinders-
street. It will be six storeys high, will be
made suitable for light comedy and vaudeville
as well as films, and will stand on the shoul-
ders of a. terrace of shops. Total cost will
exceed £llO,OOO, and the strip of city it will
cover was bought at £lOOO per foot.
“Fax”: Melbourne
Repertory Co.’s per-
formance of “Quin-
ney’s” was entertaining
but unsatisfactory.
“Quinney’s” is a con-
spiracy of three un-
worldly - wise people
against an experienced
old tactician. Evi-
dently the sympathies
of the women in the
audience are intended
to go to the girl, her
mother and the young-
man, whilst fathers in
general side with the
father. But the ama-
teur who plays the
young man has a cold,
repellent personality,
and the plot of the
comedy puts him in the
position of a black-
mailer. As presented
in the Repertory show
he thus becomes a cold-
blooded young. schemer,
whom the audience dis-
likes. Consequently the
father’s opposition to
the sweethearting has
the audience’s sympa-
thy, which isn’t what
the author intended at
all.
“0.K.”: Anyone with half an ear can guess
that Verdi’s “Tin Ballo in Maschera” pro-
vided inspiration for Arthur Sullivan’s bright-
est music. You get the quaint orchestral
effects, the lively lilting melody which is
associated with “lolantlie” in particular, and
the patter-song movement. It was a very
popular opera at the time the Gilbert and
Sullivan partnership began. Heaven knows
why it hasn’t remained the biggest draw of
all Verdi’s works, for although it is old-
fashioned by comparison with “Otello” or
even “Aida,” it is more brilliantly melodious
than e ; ’ er, and far more advanced in com-
position than the earlier Verdi operas that are
oftener played.
“J.F.H.”: On Monday, May 15, the
amusements tax came into operation in Lon-
don with very little friction or disturbance.
It ranges from a penny in the gallery up to
a bob in the stalls. They took it “like
lambs,” reports one manager, and another
says, “I believe it has come to say.” It has
been coming for years, and we should have
had it soon even if there had been no war.
The only house that reported serious trouble
was the Coliseum. “Business has appreci-
ably slackened on account of the tax,” says
Stoll. “Hundreds of people did not realise
that the tax was a Government matter and
demurred at paying it, many walking away.”
But, then, Stoll wrote long letters to the
papers while the tax was still in the pro-
posal stage, condemning it as unfair and
unjustifiable in every way.
“Bob Martin”: I stepped lightly into
Keath’s Theatre, Philadelphia. U.S.A., the
other night and found Albert Whelan shar-
ing the headlines with Bessie Clayton, one
of Uncle Wilson’s best dancers. Albert, is
trading under the signboard “The Australian
Entertainer.”
(Continued on page 26.)
TO A STAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Twinkle, twinkle, little star,
How I wonder what you are,
With your figure's lissome glee,
Scarcely clad from neck to knee;
Are you widow, maid or dame?
What, I wonder, is your name?
“Clare de Vere” I’m sure it’s not I
For the bills I care no jot;
And by any other name
Your appeal would be the same.
Though your feet may be of clay
They can dance the blues away.
Though your teeth are not your own,
And your tresses are on loan
(These are points my own dear Ruth
Mentions in the cause of Truth),
From the faraway d.c.
They are good enough for me.
What, though, of the day, dear girl,
When you are too stiff to twirl ?
Have you in your stocking slim
Something more than merely limb?....
But while Age still grins afar,
Twinkle, twinkle, little star!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


MS
;—i
&
si
:
OFFICERS’
■SERVICE"
UNIFORMS.
David Jones Ltd. have pleasure in advising that they are making
a specialty of Military Outfits —including every article of
clothing required. Having secured from London the. services oj
an expert Military Cutter, perfect satisfaction is guaranteed.
Officers’ Uniforms, Regulation Cloth, all-wool Khaki, exact to
military specifications, comprising:—
Field Service Jacket (“Orient” to measure) £2 15 O
Or in Khaki Cheviot, made-to-measure (high-
grade tailoring) £3 15 0
Breeches, Regulation Military Cord, strapped
(“Orient” to measure) £1 15 0
Or in mounted Service Woollen Cord, strapped
with the same material, made-to-measure
(high-grade tailoring) £2 10 O
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
Write for our new edition of the complete Military Booklet,
post free to any address.
DAVID JONES LTD., °S?iSZZ
DOCTORS
RECOMMEND
CUBE Y’S
PRY cm
For Kidney Complaints
and Rheumatism.
Obtainable Everywhere in Quarts 8 Pints.
TUCKER & CO., SYDNEY,
Sole Agen's.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
now complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER, ■
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
RETRIBUTION.
“Do you smile at my costume?”
“Apologies —I will weep at the cost.”
From Philadelphia North American :— ■
The Adjutant-General reports that there are 234,482
men in the United States who have had military
training. But has he got their present addresses?
Surely all the colonels haven’t been mislaid!
“Ex-Hangman”: A cheery Sydney news-
paper correspondent clamored for room to
swing a cat —the one I used to operate with
before my business was ruined by modern
milk-and-water ideas. This time my grand
oid instrument is being prescribed for bur-
glars who break into houses occupied
by women dependents of soldiers away on
active service. But, much as I would wel-
come a revival of my old trade, I am afraid
the hiss of the lash would revive too many
painful memories; so the fruity admirers of
the lash would do their country a kindly
service by trasferring their faith and admi-
ration to the thumbscrew, or the rack, or
any other grand old remedy that we haven’t
already tried. And it would revive my
confidence in human nature if these cat
advocates who take pen-names like “Human-
ity” were willing to register their _ titles
and addresses and enter into securities to
ask me to tea after I had started practice
again. In the past I found myself barred
from the drawing-rooms and conservatories
oi: the very people who clamored loudest for
my professional services, and I don't want
it to happen again. Though outwardly
revolting, I am inwardly a sensitive soul
with social ambitions.
* * * *
“Eggs-a-cook”: The Cairo cookshops have
advanced a stage beyond the Egyptian hash-
mosque which displayed a notice: “English
and French spoken: Australian understood.”
In front of me is a manifesto of the edible
cargo of a tuck-shop which proudly heralds
its attractions thus :
SQUARE DINKUM TUCKER!
MELBOURNE AND WELLINGTON RESTAURANT.
No 23 Nubar Pasha Street, near railway
station, Cairo.
THIS JOINT IS DINKUM.
Special Price for the Glorious Soldiers.
Bread Fast. Dinner. Afternoon Tea.
Pay a visit and you will be very well satistied.
Then follows a list of edibles which would
put to shame the Hole in the Wall in its
palmiest days.
# * * *
“Mirrool”: The first of the khaki chaps
who were unloaded at Egypt were all
“McKenzie” to the Gyppy kids. Seems there
were various Scotch engineers, mostly
McKenzie, employed on the Canal; hence
“McKenzie” became another word for an
Englislier. But we’ve taught these young-
sters a lot in 12 months, and “cobber” is
the new word when the Gyppy wants to be
most friendly. - So any hour of the day any
one of the 97 Generals wno lately pervaded
Egypt was liable to be pulled up short by a
dirty, unclad kid with the cry of “Paper,
cobber?”
* * * *
“Petifi”: Captain Ruthe, skipper for
many years of the Helen Denny and fellow-
clippers of the Shaw-Savill sailing fleet,
floated into Sydney lately and yarned about
the windjammer and the recrudescence
thereof. Steamers will continue to _ carry
perishable and seasonable goods, this old
salt thinks, but the ordinary cargo boat of
tlie future will be the sailer, fitted with
propellers for emergency purposes. Cheap-
ness of construction will be one reason
for the reversion, since a dozen sailers
can be built for the cost of one big
P. and O. liner. Even now there
would be more ’jammers only for the
scarcity of officers and sailors. “I
mean real sailors,” says Ruthe, “for
you can’t call those on steamships
sailormen. Mates with sailing-ship
qualifications are very scarce, and so
are men. I had to pay a mate £4O to
help me bring the
schooner Orete
across from Auck-
land lately. It was
only an 11-days’ trip,
too. I could have
got plenty of steam-
ship mates for a lot
less money, but the
Navigation Depart-
ment insisted on my
having one with sail-
ing qualifications.
Nearly all the sailor-
men of to-day are
foreigners. Shock-
ing ! The Govern-
ment ought never to
have let one sailing-
ship pass away.”
Merely the rambling
of an old man preju-
diced in favor of the
things of his youth?
Who knows ? The
arrow and hand-
grenade and stink-
pot and body armor
have come back; and who shall say that the
old windjammer won’t be asked to report for
duty again?
* # * •
“Pint Pot”: Concerning the often-heard
proposals to immortalise some local worthy
by naming a street after him, how much is
that sort of remembrance worth? The future
Mrs. Pint Pot took me to “the pictures”
the other night. They showed us some
views of London, accompanied by a “lecture”
from an obvious immigrant who was earning
an honest bob between remittances. The
London G.P.O. came on the screen. “Har,”
said the. lecturer pathetically, “St.-Martin’s-
KEEPING HIE WORD.
HE: “But I promised my wife I would never marry again.”
SHE: “And will you cast me off because of a promise to a dead woman?”
HE: “Ah! But she isn't dead yet.”
le-Grand! ’Ow hint’resting to know that
you Sydney people ’ave kept up the connec-
tion with the ’Ome Land by giving to the
street in front of your hown General Post
Hoffice the nime of Martin Plice”! Not a
soul in the audience laughed or wept or
otherwise expressed dissent. Poor old long-
dead Jimmy Martin, one-time Chief Justice
of the Ma State, whose memory the City
Council thought it was keeping green for
ever by calling the street aforesaid by his
name —how he must gyrate in his grave
every night the lecturer lets off that remark.
* * -if *
“Billy T.”: I don’t think Melbourne will
ever again adopt the rival Queens method of
making a collection. After four or five
weeks’ fighting the contest for St. Vincent’s
Hospital panned out only about £7OOO. And
in one day Sydneyside gathered in £30,000 by
touching the buttton for another good cause.
The queens’ struggle degenerated into a sort
of faction fight, in which the worthiness of
the real object w r as often lost sight of, the
aim being to boost one queen and bash all
the others. The crowning glory in the
Exhibition Building, too, was a source of
only subdued satisfaction. Their Majesties
looked very depressed, and little Miss Low,
as the feathered sprite who performed the
act of coronation, was apparently the only
cheei’ful item :—-
Then happy Low lie down;
Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown.
* * # *
“B.B.”: After thoroughly understanding
the Admiralty’s despatches about the Jut-
land business I turned to some more cabled
information (7/7/T6) on the war that we
are engaged in. Have a helping:—
London, Thursday.—The Daily Chronicle states
that Sir Edward Grey, Secretary for Foreign Affairs,
is to be raised to the peerage.
London, Thursday.—Sir Thomas Mackenzie (High
Commissioner) and General Richardson (Staff), with
the visiting members of Parliament, inspected the
Maorilanders encamped at Salisbury Plain. The
troops are in excellent condition.
Amsterdam, Thursday.—There have been violent
pro-Liebknecht demonstrations and wholesale arrests
in Leipsic and Bremen.
The police nearly killed a man in Bremen who was
shouting “Long live the Allies.”
And I was just wondering how we were
getting on.
"Bill Wattle”: I’ve got an aunt who
writes every mail and says our minds must
be full of the glorious deeds of our com-
rades-in-arms. Dear old soul, don’t disa-
buse her; what would she say if she knew
we thought oftener of jam than glory? Of
course we think a lot of Birdwood; but
his victories are nothing compared with
what “Barney” Wise did when he placed an
order for Australian jam. After a few
months of “Tickler” and other brands of
marmalade too numerous to mention, the
welcome label “Stanmore Apricot Jam”
delighted our eyes one spring morning. Last
season’s “constant” was plum and apple
amongst the British troops; but until the
advent of Stanmore marmalade was the one
and only with us. Once a tin of strawberry
arrived by accident, and there were three
killed and two wounded in the crush. One
gunner commenced a scrapbook of jam labels.
He indexed it systematically, but so far has
only had to turn to M when showing his
“collection.” Even the inevitable small boy
who keeps up with the column asks for
“marmlaide” and “besqueet,” or pipes pret-
tily for “Onzaic souv’neer.”
WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH OUR
GIRLS?
Owing to shortage of woollens ladies must use
less material in their gowns. —Fashion item.
THE BOY AT THE GUN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Here is an instance: John Travers, aged 16, aboard
the Chester, was mortally wounded early in the
action, yet lie remained alone in a most exposed post
awaiting orders with the gun’s crew dead all round.
—Admiral Jellicoe’s report.
The boy stood on the burning, buckled deck,
The gun’s crew round him dead;
The flying shells, intent the ship to wreck,
Shrieked wildly overhead.
A gnawing pain distressed him as he stood
And tried to point the gun ;
And yet he grimly smiled, for it was good
To make the Germans run.
That other boy, by the Egyptian shore,
Waited his father’s voice;
Amid the rolling flames and battle roar
Death was his faithful choice.
But this lad, wounded, dying, stood his ground
And toiled with his last breath,
Exulting that his gun had one more round
Of hot steel winged with death.
In the loud battle’s chances, while the sea
Thick hazed at sunset lay,
Who knew amid the flames where victory
W r ould place her wreath that day ?
And one more shell, perchance, might turn the scale—
His stubborn heart of pride,
Aching for triumph, could not shrink or fail,
Though in the test he died.
Count up the loss in steel and guns and men,
W T ith praise for those who fell 1
The easy flowing of a peaceful pen
May tell us all is well.
All is not well. Although such sacrifice
Buy us a fearless sea,
In lives like this we pay too great a price
For kingliest victory.
Somewhere, remote and breathing peaceful airs,
Sit those who lightly made
This horror, gathering their cheap-bought wares
In paths of foreign trade.
These found the guns for bitter German use;
And theirs is still the shame
That brave lads die when storms of hate are loose —
Their fat hands lit the flame!
.v.s.w.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


IF BILIOUS OR CONSTIPATED TAKE
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Harmless fruit laxative cleanses
stomach, liver and bowels
without griping or
discomfort.
An acid stomach, clogged with fermenting,
ill-digested food, means that the liver is not
doing its duty. Nature provided ripe fruit
juices to keep the liver up to its work.
California Syrup of Figs—“Califig”—is a
deliciously refreshing fruit laxative which is
always in season. You can keep it at hand,
and it will be an unfailing friend whenever
the tongue is coated, bowels sluggish, breath
foul, throat dry or sore, stomach full of
wind, and head hot and aching. You can
take a dose whenever it is needed, as safely
as you could eat fresh fruit. In a short
while you will feel the benefit. The bowels
will be gently relieved, and the stomach
cleansed and sweetened as the undigested
food is moved on and got rid of. The tongue
will grow clean again and the head will be
cooled and cleared. There is no mistaking
the beneficial effects of California Syrup of
Figs—“Califig.” Directions are with it for
adults and children of all ages. This
pleasant laxative is good for all, and cannot
possibly harm even the most delicate, but
you must ask for “Califig”—California
Syrup of Figs, and look for the name and
trade-mark of the California Fig Syrup Co.
All chemists sell “Califig”—California
Syrup of Figs— in bottles of two sizes,
1/li and 1/y. [1
ĥ
mEnm
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION.
TARIFF : 1
Bed'and Breakfast . ... 6/6 each person
Board and Residence . 11/ per day
.Board and Residence 70/ per week
EXCELLENT CUISINE PERFECT SERVICE
EVERY MODERN COMFORT AND CONVENIENCE
Campbell Street
fill.
/^anaqer.
ħ
"Exile”: .Tames Carroll, for 20 years or
so Native Minister in Maoriland, gave a
fascinating talk to the passengers on the
Makura, on which he was travelling to Eon-
don to hold a korero with Lloyd George.
After describing the origin of the present
human races—which lie neatly classified into
Caucasians, Jews and Maoris —Timi let go
on the past, present and future of his
mother’s people. He was full of good
stories. Thus he told of a travelling Eng-
lish johnnie named Csesar being introduced
to a Maori chief who was wearing a blanket
and smoking a black clay pipe. The chief had
been well educated and had been in London.
To the newchum’s surprise the dignified
Maori said, “Good morning, Mr. Csesar, and
how’s Brutus?” When this story was told
to a pioneer squatter next day he said,
“There you are, that comes of teaching the
natives the Bible.” At the end of his lec-
ture Chief Carroll was asked whether it was
not desirable to change the name of the
Dominion to Maoriland. “Of course,” he
said. “The Bulletin for years has called
it Maoriland, and I am strongly in favor of
that name, and would support the altera-
tion. Now’s a good time to make it, too —
can’t hope for a better. We’ve got some
reason to keep the Maori in remembrance.
Zealand —well, what’s Zealand or any other
part of Holland done for us in this great
life struggle?”
* * *
A man with an unusually appropriate
name turned up at a God-forsaken place in
Maoriland the other day. He was at his
job in a mill when he heard that two well-
sinkers near by had been overcome by bad
air. He promptly had himself lowered
nearly 200 ft. into the shaft in the hope of
making a rescue. The welcome so stag-
gered him that he was hauled out uncon-
REFORMED.
THE LADY: “So your brother’s quite settled
down now he is married?”
THE CYNIC: “Oh, yes—for a year or two!”
scious. When he recovered he merely said,
“Let her go,” and they lowered him again.
For the second time the gas outed him and
once more he was dragged to the surface
unconscious. This time when he car/e
round he was so annoyed that he crowded
himself into a smoke helmet and went down
to settle the business. He managed to
send the men up, too; but they were
dead. The chap’s name was Noble Johnson,
and he did it proud.
ACROSS THE EQUATOR.
I SAAGS: “Dose drawsers fids you jusd peautiful, mine friendt. Now uin't id?"
CUSTOMER: “Y-y’yes; but don’t you think they are a trifle tight under the arms?"
“F.H.”: Apropos the war-time boom in
fortune-telling (B. 15/6/’l(>). I know of
one dame, living in a city Hat and with an
independent income behind her, who
encourages a male “medium,” and invites
her acquaintances to be ministered unto by
the frowsy parasite. The victims come
along of an evening, as many as 15 or 20
at a time. The loafer has , all the old busi-
ness—everybody sitting in the usual circle,
holding hands hard, so that the unbeliever
won’t be able to thrash round
unexpectedly and expose things.
Then follow the usual snorts,
grunts, heavy breathing and
“trance-medium’’ talk of a mys-
terious Arthur, James or William
in another world, -with particular
inquiries concerning departed sol-
diers ; thrilling demonstration of
phosphorus Avaved on a piece of
paper in the dark ; and “medium”-
conversations in English with cer-
tain spirits understood to have left
the body in other countries, with
pidgin-English replies in shrill
spirit-voices. Spirits always an-
swer questions in a weak falsetto.
Somebody asked a question in
French one night when a spirit
named Mossoo Something was
doing the pidgin replies, and the
insult nearly broke up the meet-
ing. The money in the medium’s
hat is not usually less than two
bob a head —sometimes much more
from thankful communicants—
which makes perhaps 30s. for an
ordinary evening; and then there
are private seances, arranged as a
result of these crowded affairs, and
for such appointments special rates
of as much as three guineas are charged and
easily got. It shows what an unhealthy,
hysterical state of mind a lot of us have
fallen into.
Tommy Anzac is all right, and so is his
little sister Jane. The latest Royal Humane
Society awards include one to a Jung Jung
(Vic.) girl of 14. Gladys Sylvia Krelle, who
took the unrehearsed part of a toreador and
saved her father’s life. Last September
Krelle senior was attacked by a bull, whose
horns he seized after they had tossed him
in the air. The beast was about to toss
again, when Gladys rushed in and tried to
flog him off with a whip. At the next attack
pa’s coat was torn off. Gladys snatched it
and threw it over the bull’s horns, blinding
the tornado and allowing dad to escape.
Then the beast attacked the girl and hurled
her right over his head; but she miracu-
lously came down feet first, and that gave
her a chance to get away to safety.
The state of suspended animation which
has overtaken the project of the Rev. Raul
Joseph to build in the Holy City of Adelaide
a temple eclipsing that of the late Solomon
has spread to the proudest work of a down
South furnishing warehouse. Joseph was
under the impression that he had been left
large sums by Jacob Burden,, who died in
Tasmania in 1915. In that belief he bought
the late C.J. Way’s mansion, Montefiore,
and it was given out that he intended to
furnish it in a style that would make Melba’s
Coombe Cottage look like a deserted dug-out.
But Paul Joseph, after all, was not men-
tioned in Burden’s will, and lie says he will
start again, friendless and penniless, to
ensure that no one shall suffer by deed or
word of his. The furniture for Montefiore
was ordered from a Collins-street (Melb.)
firm, which, except for £5OO worth sent to
Adelaide, now has the goods on its hands.
And they are truly exquisite. A Hekald
reporter, who saw them, wrote with bated
pen:—•
There was a very tasteful silk couch, covered with
luxurious cushions, which was to have been sold for
£57 10s.; massive silk drawing-room chairs, each
one in a handsome and expensive flowered linen cover
of charming' design; velvet pile carpets that had been
especially made; most ornate cornices ; and, in short,
many articles of the most expensive nature and
beautiful design, such as would be selected by a per-
son of artistic and refined temperament who had
ample means at command.
It is the very devil, this artistic tempera-
ment !
* * * *
As Australian artist Jack Sommers sees
Flanders: —
A big gold bumble-bee buzzes inquisitively round
my head; a thrush trills his vespers across the
fields, with their rows of elms full of the trans-
parent blue haze of France in summer. The little
farms, white-walled and brown-thatched, nestle amid
the green cornfields. High in the blue, rows and
rows of little cloudlets mark the passage of a
spying ’plane. A sausage-shaped observation balloon
swings afar off behind the tall Lombardy poplars,
and at the back of me in the big old barn I can
hear Australian voices as my comrades wrangle and
joke as eveiv
And this is Flanders, and close to the firing-line.
The peasants, the peasants of “The Angelus’’ of Millet,
work in their fields in the traditional manner, as
their ancestors have worked for centuries, amid the
clash of arms. So they ploughed round the bloody
fray of Agineourt, so they reaped beside the roaring
fight of Waterloo. Le Bon Dieu or Notre Dame des
Secours will see that all i 3 well.
What a change from the rolling plains of
Tripoli, or the peaked, ravined, bloody hills of
Anzac! It seems but yesterday since all was sand
and rock; here all are flowers, birds and trees.
Around are villages full of quaint little inns with
tiled floors and shining stoves where our soldiers
lounge and drink prodigious quantities of the
country beer, which is about as intoxicating as soda
and milk. Soldiers of Australia, hoe in hand, assist
the stalwart maidens of Flanders in the field, but 1
wot not from love of agricultural pursuits. Soldiers
of Anzac stroll along the leafy lanes with the people
of France —good pals already—or play with the rosy-
cheeked children in the village streets. Love and
friendship bridge the linguistic gaps.
Far away, from over in the avenue of big elms,
dreaming in the setting sun, the mellow note of the
cuckoo floats ever and again—just two soft notes at
a sixth interval “cuck-00-cuck-oo,” the very soul of
pastoral peace. Across the calm evening roar the
great guns, like giant surf on a beach of iron.
Sometimes the irritable, peevish rattle ol' the maxims
clatters past the smiling fields; and from above
us two aeroplanes begin a combat, and now one
falls like a meteor.
Last night, after the beautiful old gold moon
swung above the poplars, 1 was walking with a mate
when we heard the well-known song of the ’plane
overhead and then the crash of the aerial bond) as it
struck the earth in a geyser of flame—a miss. It
is weird this soft, swooping attack on a still night—-
that stealthy, owl-like dip out of the infinite, the
rapid crescendo of the bombs’ flight, the roar that
shakes the earth —sinister, fascinating, unearthly.
A red lady-bird poised on a stalk above my
paper regards me a moment before making off.
The thrush in the hawthorn blossoms is playing
Caruso to a blackbird Melba, and the sun dropping
slowly into a bank of haze leaves a chill on the
twilight air.
* * * *
“J.F.H.” (London) : A Sydney parson, the
ILev. E. A. Colvin, has been raising a riot
at the annual meeting of the Colonial Church
Society. This organisation received £33,202
last year to spread the gospel in Greater
Britain. Apparently Colvin’s original idea
was merely to say that Australia was not
getting its fair share of the swag, because
during the last 10 years 10 times more
money had gone to Canada than Australia.
But murmurs of discontent angered him into
telling the English Churchman precisely
what he thought of him. He recently
preached, he said, to a congregation of 1100,
and a thousand coppers were subsequently
counted in the collection plates. “In Syd-
ney,” said Colvin, “I served in one parish
for 15 years, and during all that time I did
not see 15 coppers on the plates. If the
people of Australia gave like the English,
we would have to close 75 out of every 100 of
our churches.” Eventually the Colonial
Church Sociey got so annoyed with Colvin’s
candid Australian that they beat him down
with sticks and umbrellas. But he was
able to deliver a parting shot. As he fled
from the platform he shouted above the din:
“This Society ought to do more for the Anzac
than the Chinaman. Then go and do it.”
But the serious question is: Would he be
an Anzac after the Society'had finished with
him?
MORE GOLD WATER.
The N. S. Wales Alliance has decided to commence
immediately a campaign on the advantages of no-
lieense. —News item.
BUNG: “ 'Ere, this is positively indecent.
I've ’ad one cold bath this year already.”
Do they know us in London? Perhaps
they do, but their manner is a bit _ distant
when they write. Here is a chatty bit about
the land we live in from the weekly edition
of the Times: —
This Over-Seas Club draws contributions, as its
name suggests, from every land. We glanced through
their card system, which requires two drawers for
Australia and Maoriland, and we happened upon such
familiar names at Malvern, Colac, Melbourne and
other little places; Ararat, Balranald, Sydney, and
other suburbs.
Amiable enough, but a bit Over-Seasoned.
THE SEA’S VACATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Like some old Martha Washington in grey
She cleans the rocks and beaches where they cast
Their empty tins and broken food away,
Glad to be done with picnic crowds at last.
The golden sands that once were warm and bright
She smooths with waves and scours with hissing
foam;
Knowing no wages board, she works all night
And makes all ready for her next At Home.
The lantern-moon held high to light her toil,
She rolls a jamtin at the dozing shark;
When there’s no moon you see her white suds boil,
And hear her slopping in the singing dark.
And when next summer comes, arrayed in blue,
She'll dimple lightly to her lovers’ toes;
But in this month of hurricane and rue
Her winter floorcloth at her job she throws.
x.s.w.
THE LONELY POLICEMAN.


RESUSCITATING THE APPARENTLY DEAD.


THE SICK EAGLE.
ZURIOH, Tuesday. — A neutral correspondent describes Germany as the spectacle of a sick mind in a vigorous body. The nation’s spirit is troubled. Everybody is full of doubts. There is a gloving certainly that the An tre -Germans will be unable to dietae peace forms.
HANS: “Ah, my poor Eagle, you were too slow —and now the pigeons you went out to pluck have grown into Eagles, too!"


h
Chaving
<2)TICK
, ,/X ,
XL£V£RX
/" ! 4dJ
z mm
J
{■M
to
For an
Ideal Shave
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
ĥ
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's,
ħ
/
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY.
Belle Vue Hotel
Reconstructed. BRISBANE.
Electric Lift. Perfect Sanitary Arrangements.
Incomparable Position. Easterly Aspect.
Overlooking Botanical Gardens.
MRS. A. FINNIC AN, Proprietress.
For Cold
Weather
Pure Wool Hood ... 3/6
For CAMP or on SERVICE
Heavy Balaclava Cap 4 6
Waterpr’f Cap for same 3/6
Post One to Your Soldier
%
ROTHWELL’S LTD.,
EDWARD ST.,
BRISBANE
CURLY HAIR.
“WAVCURR” imparts Beautiful PER-
MANENT CURES. One packet sufficient, how-
ever listless your hair. One testimonial says: “My
hair soon became a mass of- wavy curls.’’ Result cer-
tain. Price 2/9. Special reduction for few weeks.
Send 1/6 only for large-size 2/9 packet. The
New Wavcurl Co., 67 Cromwell House,
Fulwood Place, Holborn. London, W.C., England. [2
PERSONAL
ITEMS
JACK SHIR LOW, etcher.
The Mitchell Library bought a set of his
etchings the other day.
Tiev. Leyton Richards, with whom The
Bulletin had a little back-chat on Austra-
lian military policy when he was pastor of
the Collins-street Congregational Church
(Melb.), continues his peace-at-any-price
crusade in London. On returning to Eng-
land he was called to one of the most influ-
ential pastorates of his communion, but his
old kink has brought about a crisis resulting
in his resignation, to take effect at the end
of June.
From sketching a poddy calf with char-
coal on a piece of bark to painting pictures
in oils which are hung on the line at the
Royal Academy involves a long climb, but
11. Septimus Power has accomplished it.
During his sojourn of some years in South
Aus. he made a name as a painter of
animals, and the Adelaide gallery bought
“After the Day’s Toil” 12 years ago. It
was before this, though, that during an
interval in his job on a dairy farm he
sketched the junior bull, and the irate cocky
promptly ended his engagement, regarding
art as ultra vires. “The Anzacs in Egypt,”
on the line at the Academy, is a spirited
Light Horse charge, and another. “The
Enemy in Sight,” portrays an alert group
of mounted Australians. Power himself
offered to enlist, but was rejected. His
work in Victoria in 1913 included an oil
painting of the Hon. Thomas and Judith
Denman on Shetland ponies—a surprise
birthday present to the kiddies' mother
from their pa, then G.-G.
Drawn (at the risk of briny sacked) by Hugh McCrae.
A GHOORKA FOR “ COPY .”
COLONEL NEWELL. Chief Military
Censor, Melbourne.
Died at Sydney, W. J. Trickett, 72, who
was eight years member of the Ma State
Assembly and 28 years in the Council. Born
at Gibraltar, he came to Sydney in 1853
with his father, who established the Sydney
Mint. He was a member of two old-time
Ministries, as P.M.G. and Minister for
Public Instruction, and was Chairman of
Committees of both Assembly and Council,
and .for three years acting-President. In
private life he pursued Costs and was pre-
sident of N.S.W. Cricket Association.
Will Dyson’s second London exhibition of
cartoons is being held in the ballroom of the
Savoy Hotel, and is run in the interests of
a new peace movement of Anglo-American
origin. In addition to cartoons, the artist
contributes a series of lithographs, a branch
in which he has been working lately with
striking effect. Dyson will see the exhibition
through, and then it is a case of off to the
war.
Vito Loscoceo, who passed out in New-
castle (N.S.W.) hospital the other day,
could wear a whole string of medals for
saving life at sea. In 1882, when he was
25, the New England went ashore at the
Clarence River entrance, in an easterly
gale. Loscocco, with two other young Dago
fishermen, put out in a boat and saved 16
persons in the teeth of the storm. The
Shipwreck Relief Society reckoned it was
worth a gold medal apiece, and the Humane
Society sent bronze medals also. Vito then
got a billet in the N.S.W. Navigation Depart-
ment, and in 1909 was one of the Newcastle
lifeboat crew that saved all hands from the
US. schooner Alpena, in Stockton Bight.
Uncle Sham sent gold trinkets to the boat’s
crew in due course. A couple of others,
won single-handed, completed his outfit.
Frank Bryant, one of the Labor pillars
which prop up the House of Fat, subsides
into a comfy seat as Government rep. on the
Metropolitan (Sydney) Water and Sewer-
age Board. Bryant battled chiefly as
organiser of N.S.W. Typographical Union;
and between whiles made two futile efforts
to talk himself into the cushions of the
Legislative Assembly. His chief assets are
a tilted hat, volubility and abnormal push-
forwardness.
A. A. Farthing. Vic. M.L.A., kept his
word and turned up at the recruiting dep6t
as soon as he had finished his argument
with parson Worrall. The doctor, however,
turned the small coin down; whereon it
proceeded to seek distraction in an appeal
against the adverse verdict in the parson
case.
“Nemo”: Poor little Jimmy Mirams had
a tough struggle in his old age ‘. but l ! 6 was
full of pluck. Returning to his original
of newsagent and booksellei, ke *
satisfied to merely wait for
that didn’t come, but so late as nine months
ago energetically filled in the slack houis y
hawking his wares from door to door.
The infernal luck of it again. Captain A.
Beekman, of the Maoriland Elngineers, alter
serving up hot-cross bombs unlimited to the
enemy, was invalided home. M lien
was appointed to instructional duties, and,
as part of these, he was the other day show-
ing the Fourteenth Reinforcements at Wel-
lington the tricks of trench fighting. He set
and lit a high-explosive bomb with a
losec. fuse, and was preparing to throw it
when the death-dealing thing exploded in
his hand. An hour later he was dead.
Hetty Green, who has had to leave behind
a fortune estimated at 20 millions sterling,
had the unusual experience of being sung
about by name in comic opera, lhe U.o-A.
papers handed her a reputation for miserli-
ness, her occasional big gifts being con-
veniently overlooked. In “The Belle of New
York,” as written, it was Russell Sage who
“would fall down dead if he had to pay my
salary.” When Russell Sage died, Hetty
Green’s name, being the right length, was
fitted into the vacant space; and a good
many astonished Australians had to ask
who she was.
Harry Jackson, Public Works Minister in
the S. Aus. Government, is back in his
office after a long illness which has turned
out better than at one time seemed likely.
His first job was to announce to Adelaide
that a water-scarcity is now practically im-
possible for a long time to come. A June
of record rain has filled the Happy Valley,
Hope Valley and Thorndon Park reservoirs
to overflowing, and now Jackson considers
the city and suburbs could get along if it
doesn’t rain a drop for two years. Mean-
while, another lake is being made at Mill-
brook, to increase the supply at the higher
levels.
“T. 0.1.”: Apropos Paris Nesbit at the
Bar and his son on the Bench (B. 6/7/’IG).
John Wylde, an early Judge of N.S.W.
(1824), was son of the then Clerk of the
Peace in Sydney, and, strange to say, the
son from the Bench made frequent reference
to the errors of his father. Judge Wylde
was afterwards Chief Justice of the Cape,
and a brother became Lord Tl'uro and Chan-
cellor of England.
“Joe Sunday”: Recent paragraphs about
“Chummy” Fleming, the Demosthenes of
Melbourne’s Yarra Bank, recall little
“Tommy” Trenton, who used to haunt the
Fleming soap-box and confidently await his
call. He had (still has, for all I know)
one infallible remedy for social evils—free
second-class passenger trains. Trenton was
the comic relief of the show, and when the
W. T. CAHILL,
President Sydney
Labor Council.
impatient Bankers
wearied of
Fleming’s hammer-
like fist and gloomy
prophecies, the call
would go up for
the merry, dingy
little man with his
mouth buried in a
tucked - in beard.
Another favorite
performer was a
tall old gentleman
made up as Moses
11. One memor-
able Sunday he
gnashed his teeth
at an irreverent
audience. “I will
not lecture to a lot
of Philistines!” he
roared, cramming
his Bible into a
tail pocket. I never
saw him again.
But he looked so
old that I never
expected to.
The German authorities allowed the
Socialistic reformer. Dr. Karl Liebknecht,
to go a'long way before applying pressure,
hut when he started pointing out to the pos-
si hie mothers of Germany that if this war
continued there would he few possible fathers
in Germany the Kaiser fell on him and
gaoled him for 30 months. Still, Liebknecht
is right; if things go on as they are going,
calling Germany the Fatherland will sound
like a gibe.
General-manager W. V. Ralston, of the
Q. N. Bank, is scoring three bull’s eyes with
one shot. He wants to do a bit for his
country, he wants to get others to do a bit,
and he wants to help the lower-paid people
in the bank’s service to do a bit for them-
selves ; and he has struck an extremely prac-
tical idea which serves all three purposes.
To every member of- the staff drawing £2OO
a year or under, who will apply for a £lO
Commonwealth War bond, he will give, from
his own personal resources, a second £lO
bond. “To the applicants,” he says in a
circular, “it only means saving ss. per week,
LIEUTENANT
“JIMMY”
THROSSELL,
V.O.
or £1 per month,
for 10 months;
but when the
final payment is
made they will
receive bonds for
£2O and a full
half-year’s inter-
est in December.”
The Q. N. has 83
branches, and at
least 200 messen-
gers, typists and
clerks may be ex-
pected to set
themselves to the
patriotic job of
saving ss. a week,
so that first their
country and in
the end they
themselves may
have the benefit
of still another
ss.
“Try Fluke”: About the most strenuous
fashion of training-down in preparation for
soldiering is Maoriland whaleman Jack
Norton’s. Norton is one of a famous family
of blubber-hunters hailing from the To
Awaiti whaling station —“old Tarwliite” as
the harpoon-men call it —and he scales some
pounds beyond 17st. This is slightly over the
limit for Hun-hunting, and Jack realises
that a few of those pounds must come off.
so he has engaged with an Australian firm
for a sealing expedition to Macquarie
Island, in the remote South, by way of gentle
exercise. A diet of seal and penguin, and
not much of that, is likely to do the tri^,
“Billy” Robison, of the N. S. Wales Crown
Law Department, easily one of Sydney’s
most popular solicitors, died last week after
a cruelly-long fight with tuberculosis. He
had appeared for the Crown in all the
police-court proceedings of any importai
for years past, and never a defendant hud
to complain of not getting a fair deal from
him. Billy was a son of William Robinson,
first Director of Charitable Institutions in
N.S.W., and was only 43 when he went over
the hill.
Baldwin Spencer, bushman, ethnologist
and professor of biology at Melbourne Uni.,
doesn’t seem to have altered his nature
even though he did lately let them brand
him K.C.M.G. The other day Dr. Deeper,
the unctuous and wordy warden of Trinity,
arose at a meeting of the National Gallery
trustees and suggested that the Spencer mis-
cellany of human relics, recently handed
over to the Museum by its collector, should
be formally “received” at a public ceremony.
At once Spencer made a shuffling noise with
his feet and got up to wave away the prof-
fered honor with both hands. It is one
thing to accept a bauble to oblige a lady, or
as a tribute to one’s profession, but it’s
quite another matter to he verbally pawed-
over by a hunch of tail-talkers as a reward
for scientific accomplishments.
BILLY BOY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
N.S.W.
Are you going' to the war,
Billy Hov, Billy Boy?
Are you going to the war,
Billy Boy? *
Yes, I’m going to the war,
And I should have gone before;
But I hesitate no more —
Billy Boy.
Are you sailing on the sea,
Billy Boy, Billy Boy?
Are you sailing on the sea,
Billy Boy?
Yes, I'm sailing on the sea,
And I'm sick as I can he ;
But that’s all that’s wrong with me—•
Billy Boy.
Are you landed wijdi the girls,
Billy Boy, Billy Boy?
Are you landed with the girls,
Billy Boy?
Yes, I’m landed with the girls,
"With their red and raven curls,
And the lords and dooks and earls—
Billy Boy.
Are you fighting in the trench,
Billy Boy, Billy Boy?
Are you fighting’in the trench,
Billy Boy ?
Yes, I’m fighting in the trench,
And I’m fighting for the French,
In the heat and in the stench—
Billy Boy.
Oh, he answered to the call,
Billy Boy, Billy Boy;
Now he answers not at all,
Billy Boy.
He is sleeping in his grave,
With the bravest of the brave,
Dead the Christian world to save,
Billy Boyl
Oh, he sailed to take his chance,
Billy Boy, Billy Boy,
In retreat or in advance,
Billy Boyl
Oh, he sailed to take his chance
In retreat or in advance—
Dead for Gundagai and France,
Billy Boy!
Dead for Hay and Yass and France,
Billy Boyl
HENRY LAWSON.
CHILDREN AT THE WAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“All my children are away at the war.”
—From a mother's letter.
They are not men who lead the charge
And storm the fire-swept hill;
These heroes on Hell’s flaming marge
Are only children still.
They go with swords their graves to win,
With gold to buy the mart;
Yet they are only children in
The garden of some heart.
Oh, what small, tinsel gaud is Fame,
What foolish toy is Gold,
To her who bears the radiant name—
Whose arms the world enfold !
N.S.W.
KURANUT.


■
m
■
o
IMO Vvj


Overall, McCray, Ltd.
Bald Rock,
BALMAIN.
SPECIALTY
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS Deep and Shallow—
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES.
Send for Booklet on our AIR RIFT for non-flowing bores and where the water has receded.
Satisfactorily tested by the Water Conservation Department, Sydney. Adopted by the Government
for increasing’ supply at Pera Bore, Bourke. 1°
BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE, ANTIMONIAL LEAD,
LINO METAL, SPELTER, ZINC
DUST, REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of: —
SILICIOUS ORES, containing
Lead, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buyers of:-
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
All enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
BUCYRUS CO. Milwaukee
Steam Shovels, Drag' Cine Excavators.
Sole Agents-WILLI AM ADAMS 00. COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Pertb.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Tiie Electric Light Department ok the
Sydney City Council :
Sinking Deficit
Fund less
Contri- Written Sinking
Dec., Profit. bution. Off. fund.
io ofi ( £8,04S .£3,349 £I4OO £2,319
} Net profit on loan flotation, £357 . . 1.902
1907-
{Loan flotation and other expenses, £lOl 2,063
Goodwill Empire-Co., £31,000 .. 33,063
Compensation for disturbance, £13,300 19,763
Profit. Si liking'Fund. Written Off.
19,144 3,587 1400 2,019
1908
(Goodwill of purchases, £79,375 .. Si,.>y4
Less loan premiums, £IOOO. . • . . 80,394
Profit. Sinking Fund. Written Off.
17,097 4,052 02,697
3909.. 37,371 5,211 25,320
Loan expenses, £627 .. .. .. 25,953
Reserves.
1910.. 45,471 6,999 19,518
1911.. 61,441 6.999 80,959
1912.. 79,489 9,216 160,448
Goodwill Redfern purchase, £20,000. . 140,448
Loan discounts, £7497 .. .. 132,951
1913.. 105,531 11.368 238,482
1014
f Goodwill of Palace E.L. Cos., £IO,OOO 228,482
-J Loan flotation and other exes., £14,505 213,917
I 129,948 13,585 343,805
1915
; ( Loan flotation and other exes., £10,300 333,499
i 132,040 15,770 - 400,145
Scattered through that table you will notice
various references to goodwill—goodwill of
Empire Cos., of Redfern purchase, of Palace
Cos. It, was this way. Before the City
Council went into the lighting business
several small cos. were selling current in
different parts of the city. They competed
with the Council for a while; then, one by
one, they and the Council agreed that this
was stupid, and the Council bought them
out on easy terms —bought the goodwill, that
is, without the plants, which the city didn’t
want. The last of the payments was made
a couple of years ago ; and these goodwills
have practically disappeared from the
balance-sheet. They stand now as an
asset for only £17.180. The cleaning up has
thus been most satisfactory; the position
stands at present as follows:
Reserves
Sinking Fund .. .. £93,505
Depreciation Fund . . 264,033
Renewals Reserve .. 72,714
Capital Reserve.. .. 13,300
P. and L. Account . . 67,440
Total reserves .. £510,992
Less Goodwill .. .. £17,180
Loan flotations, etc. .. 27,667
Net reserves (including Deprecia-
tion and Renewal Funds) .. £466,145
Practically half of the gross reserves is in
the Depreciation Fund; and that is being
built up by annual contributions of 3 p.c. on
the capital expenditure. So, if the plant,
etc., is worth its book value, then the city
owns £466,145 more than it has borrowed on
account of the whole undertaking. Or put it
this way: the undertaking (including stores
and spares), has cost about £2,450,000 ; and it
has (1) paid interest, (2) paid £140,375 for
private businesses, (3) maintained works,
etc.. (4) provided £93,505 towards a sink-
ing fund and paid for all loan flotations, and
(5) has £372,640 saved up towards renewals,
etc. In the light of experience gathered up
to 1909 it was reckoned that 3 p.c. p.a. all
round was enough to put by for wear and
tear; but the longer experience of the Mel-
bourne undertaking throws doubt on that.
Anyway, there is 3 p.c. and over £IOO,OOO
to spare. From this it is clear enough that
ample provision is being made against wear
and tear. Moreover, there is a sinking fund
which in the far-distant future will repay the
loans and thus permit the city to really own
the undertaking. Then, having no interest
to pay, it will be possible to supply light
and power at a much lower rate than is being
done at present, other things being equal.
The next table shows what the city has to
look forward to in that respect:—
Working Net In-
Revenue. Expenses. Revenue, terest. Loss.
1904.. £4,061 £5,313 £2,436 £3,688
1905.. 22,176 15,005 £7,171 7,874 703
Profit.
1906.. 40,983 21,567 19,416 10,931 8,485
1907.. 65,868 31,899. 33,969 15,025 18,944
1908.. 93,600 56,785 36,815 19,380 17,435
1909.. 128.980 67,338 61,642 24,575 37,067
1910.. 166,047 88,497 77,550 27,763 49,787
1911.. 190,289 95,428 94,861 33,851 61,010
1912.. 234,324 111,562 122,762 42,324 80,438
1913.. 301,637 138,626 163,011 53,931 110,080
1914.. 350,145 156,338 193,807 64,595 129,212
1915.. 388,559 167,518 221,041 73,709 147,332
Interest thus takes just under 20 p.c. of the
gross revenue from sales and rentals.
The final table shows the liabilities: —
Due on Due on Due to Other
Debentures. Overdrafts. Companies. Creditors.
1907 .. £350,000 £23,005 £23,051 £9,987
1908 . . 475,000 Nil 85.487 17,632
1909 .. 560,000 Nil 80.034 11,712
1910 . . 750,000 Nil 57,530 22,033
1911 . . 750.000 153,922 42,693 27,067
1912 .. 1,000,000 161,077 27,812 49.123
1913 . . 1,251,600 279,474 Nil 38,924
1914 .. 1,654,500 71,330 1,100 40,312
1915 . . 1,879,500 187,061 Nil 60,987
This money, by the way, hasn’t all been
spent in the city. Thus of the £2,301.71!*
which has been put into stations, mains,
plant and services, no less than £763,530
has been spent in suburbs which have entered
into contracts with the City Council: and
further desirable extensions are in progress.
* * * *
Allen Taylor and Cos., Ltd., timber fiier-
chants, etc. (Sydney) :
Reserves*
Td (including
Re- Insurance
Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserve).
May, ’09.. £6389 10 p.c. = £3760 £2639 £5,346
Premiums on new shares 1875 7,221
Nov., '09.. 5029 19 p.c. =' 3750 1279 8,500
May, ’lO.. 5377 10 „„ 3795 1582 10,082
Premiums on new shares 3125 13,207
Nov., ’lO.. 6605 10 p.c. = 4614 1991 15,198
May, ’ll.. 6306 10 ~ „ 5000 1306 16,504
Nov., ’ll.. 6522 10' „ „ 5000 1522 18.026
Prenvinms.on new Shares 3125 21,151
Mav, ’12.. 6561 10 p.c. = 6054 507 21,658
Nov., ’12.. - 7743 10 „ „ 6250 1193 23.151
May, ’13.. 7484 10 „„ 6250 1234 21.385
Nov., ’13.. 8318 10 „„ 6250 2068 26,453
Mav, ’14.. 8776 10 „ „ 6771 2005 28,458
Nov., ’14.. 9729 10 „„ 7500 2229 30,687
Mav, ’15.. 9239 10 „ „ 7500 1739 32,426
Nov., ’15.. 8723 10 „ „ 7500 1223 33,649
May, '16.. 8614 10 „ „ 7500 1 114 34,763
“Although trade in sawn timber has not
been as large as in former years the half-
year’s operations, on the whole, disclose
satisfactory results," the directors say.
“Contracts on hand will afford ample work
for some time to come.” Contracts will no
doubt continue just as long as this country
is spending borrowed millions. Last year
the N. S. Wales Government spent nine
millions of loan money: and the bulk of it
went in railway and similar works, which
call for much timber of the class that Allen
Taylor and Cos. deal in. There will be no
nine millions a year to spend after the war.
At present bur spendings are quite mad.
The Commonwealth Government sets the
pace, paying some men twice as much as they
were previously earning-*—arid not for going
out and taking the risk of a bullet, either.
And such prices arc being asked and paid for
goods that there are firms, whose profits for
the year just ended were double those of a
normal year. This co. is. still in the happy
position of handling a line which is affected
by the mania for spending money without
regard to value. But just as it has benefited
in a special manner from the borrowing
boom, with all inflation of prices as well
as a multiplication of orders, so it will
suffer in a special manner when the orgy
stops and we have to set to the . work of
cleaning the .slate.
This co. will meet the changed circum-
stances with several .things in its fayor.
But take in this comparison:—
-LIABILITIES.
N0v.,’06. Mav,Tl.Mav,'ls, N0v.,’15. May,’l6.
£ £ £ ; £ ,£
Capital .. 60,000 100.000 150,000 150,000 150,000
Debts .. 9,597 9,547 29,689 32,254 30,431
Assets.
Country mills 3,825 12,035’ 45,837 53,363 '’60,714
Pyrmont
wharves,
mill, etc... 15,900 6,000 5,750 0,500 5,250*
.Vessels . . 18,050 25,066 32,085 ■ 18,750 17,006
Book debts,
etc. ..25,517 42,767 45,627 48,721 53,270
Cash, etc... 1.010 9,197 33,878 .41,974 29,126
Stocks . . 9,502 23,686 31,438 29,096 30,328
First, liabilities are still light, though they
are heavier than they used to be. On the
other side, stocks are exceptionally small,
because Allen Taylor’s specialise in lines
like sleepers, which don’t have to be kept in
stock. But, if stocks don’t have to be kept,
the co. has found it advisable during the
last few years to lay out a lot of money in
country mills, tram-lines, etc. These will
be dead assets liable to severe depreciation
in a dull time; but, at any rate, they won’t
be costing the co. money, and in addition to
such assets the co. has in book debts, cash
and stocks —all fairly liquid—the £112,724
shown above, plus £27,000 invested apart
from the business for the benefit of the
insurance fund; total £139,724. And no
doubt the vessels are saleable at all of their
book value. The co. has thus an extraor-
dinary proportion of its capital in more or
less liquid form. And there is every reason
to believe that the other assets have been
written down fairly hard out of surplus
profits, ostensibly against depreciation.
* » # *
Wentworth Hotel, Ltd. (Sydney), was
formed in April, 1912, to purchase the free-
hold of a well-known city hotel, extend the
premises and carry on the business. For
goodwill (including license) £8750 was paid
to the vendor, and £lOBl went in preliminary
exes. The co. thus started with £9831 of
capital unrepresented by tangible assets.
Subsequent proceedings: —
In Reduction
\nril Profits. Dividends, of Deficit. Deficit.
— £9831
1913!. £3464 Nil £3464 6367
1914.. 1682 Nil 1682 46feo
1915. . 634 Nil 5319
Profit.
1916.. 310 Nil 310 0009
Not much to go crazy over ; nevertheless
the co.'s position is unquestionably better,
owing apparently to very determined
economy. Ixiok at this comparison, which
shows the results better: —
*19117 1915. 1916.
Liabilities.. .. £26,394 £.25,179 £23,585
Freeholds".. .. 35,791, 35,791 35,<91
< Leasehold .. .. 2,527 ; 2,696 2,696
Furniture, etc. .. 15,829 14,4,1 13,08,
Stocks, cash, etc... 2,563 1,901 2,001
So in two years liabilities have been reduced
by £2SO9; and less than £6OO of that is due
to the "’reduction of stocks and cash. Of
course this doesn’t mean that the true profits
during the past couple of years have been
£2809 less £OOO, because there is the wear
and teur of furniture, etc., to come out of
that. However, the position is distinctly
improved; and that isn t too bad con-
sidering the almost complete stoppage of
overseas traffic, on which this high-class
residential house largely depends, added to
the opening of a couple more-centrally situ-
ated hotels of the same class during the
year. The Wentworth no doubt suffers
from the fact that it is a few yards out of
the racket of the city; but if that is a dis-
qualification it will be removed when the
City railway disgorges passengers in Wyn-
yanl Square. Meantime the directors (who
are not drawing any fees) are sending up
supplications for cheaper chops—and
cheaper labor to correspond with the cheaper
chops.
# * « *
Western District Co-operative Pro-
duce Cos. (Victoria) :
Bonus to Slip- Re-
April, Profits. Dividends, pliers, etc. serves.
1910.. £4989 5 p.e. = £BO £4747 £2857
1911.. 7153 5 „,, 181 6897 2932
1912.. 9696 5 „ „ 314 8454 3860
1913.. 6437 5 „,. 672 5975 3650
1914.. 6462 5 ~ „ 899 5555 3658
1915.. 3105 5 ~,,1100 1952 3711
1916.. 6044 5 ~,,1102 3395 5258
The line dealing with the year to April. 1915,
lias been recast. Twelve months ago there
was £1357 available for distribution, and a
division was contingent on the success of the
following half-year. Business turned out
moderately good, so £1342 was cut up in
January ; and that amount has been added
to the £6lO previously distributed as bonus
to co operative customers. Matters in the
Western District are still not what they
were, because it takes more than one good
year to restore the dairy stock wiped out in
a bad drought; and the 1914-15 drought was
something extra. One result is that in the
past season about £200,000 less butter was
produced Ivy this co.’s associated factories
than in' 1913-14, when normal conditions pre-
vailed. Nevertheless the general outlook
isn’t gloomy; and if the co-operators have
had bad times they may at least congratu-
late themselves upon having formed a co.
in good times which has done their market-
ing and financed tlieir box factory and per-
formed cither services for a very modest 5
p.c., eitlicr returning all the balance of pro-
fit to themselves or holding it in reserve for
their benefit. As for the co. itself, it had
on April 30 liabilities of £34,093 —mostly
overdraft artel amounts owing for supplies—
while apart from premises and plant it had
assets valued at £52,133. mostly'book debts
and st's-k.. The position is thus easy.
«> » # *
The Coastal Farmers’ Co-operative
Society, Ltd. (Sydney) r
Bonus
Net to Con- To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends.': signors, serves, serves.
1905.. 6 p.c. = £368 £4,188 £402 £1,252
1906.. 4,206 6 „ „ 432 4,126 9OO
1907.. 4,352 6 ~ „ 479 3,873 9OO
1908.. 8,010 6 ~ ~ 535 7,285 190 1,090
1909.. 9,924 6 „ ~ 704 9,186 34 1,124
1910.. 10,144 6 „ „ 865 10,403
1911.. 9,221 6 „ ~ 946 8,244 31 31
1912.. 12,667 6 „ „ 1032 11,571 64 95
1913.. 17,718 6 ~,,1222 14,948 1548 1,643
1914.. 15,522 6 ~ „ 1446 14,056 20 1,663
1915.. 18,993 6 „ „ 1605 16,681 707 2,370
1916.. 19,557 6 „ „ 1892 18,325 - 1,710
This co. managed a turnover of £1,810.539
last year on a capital of £31,530 and no
reserves to speak of. Certainly on March
31 there were liabilities of just-on £90,000;
but against that there were of book
debts, with other assets valued at £30,141
apart from plant, sheds, etc. The book debts
represent little more than a fortnight’s trad-
ing ; and apparently the society’s excellent
rule of a fortnight’s credit or less is
strictly adhered to in the produce section.
In no other way would it be possible to carry
on without incurring dangerous liabilities.
Even this system can’t wholly eliminate
bad debts. For the past six months, for
example. £496 had to be written off; and
it is significant that £155 of this is debited
to the grain and vegetable sections. The
turnover in these is probably not one-
twentieth of that of the produce section;
but it seems to be impracticable to apply
the same strict rule to them —especially to
the grain and fodder section —and the result
is shown in the altogether disproportionate
though still not serious amount of bad debts.
The fruit and vegetable section seems to be
getting fairly on its feet; and this is good
news for producers as well as Consumers.
In this matter there is in sight no other
organisation from which so much may rea-
sonably be expected as from the Coastal
Farmers. Last year it handled £1,810,539
worth of produce—mostly butter —at a cost
of £53,000. This included cost of
receiving into stores, sale and distribution
to retailers, and collection —everything,
in fact, including the exes, of establishing
the fruit and vegetable branch. It amounts
to under 3 p c.—and the s'ales, it must be
remembered, are to retailers, mostly store-
keepers, and not to wholesalers. This co..
if it does as much in the fruit and vegetable
trade as it has in the butter business, will
earn three extra cheers.
* * * *
"Table Tray” on an insurance matter: —
Obviously The Bulletin’s recent query as to what
policy-holder was having his premiums forfeited at
the present time on account of his inability to keep
up his payments, and the remarks about cash sur-
render of policies, applied to Ordinary branch assur-
ances. But what of Industrial policies? It is well
known that life policies issued in this department do
not carry- any cash value, and are promptly lapsed in
the event of the premiums being a certain number
of weeks in arrear—usually about four. Admittedly,
a paid-up policy for a proportionate amount of the
original sum assured is allowed on application, in
the case of a policy which has been on the books for
a certain specified time —generally about five years.
But in no case are policies kept alive automatically
as in the Ordinary side of the business.
In some offices a system obtains of renewing lapsed
policies by lien; that is, an amount equal to the
premiums owing is advanced to re-instate the policy,
which amount is deducted when the policy becomes a
claim, no interest being charged. At best this would
amount in the last analysis to a kind of self-emascu-
lation, each lieii filching away a certain portion of
the sum assured. But allowing for the extra cost
attached to Industrial insurance, surely it should be
possible to grant a free policy to those who have
paid for a given term —on a pro rain basis, of course
—provided that application was made foV it
within a reasonable time after the policy had been
declared void. Many exhaust the allotted days of
grace in what often proves to be a vain hope of
being able to make themselves good on the books,
and, the policy lapsing in the meantime, they
become ineligible for a free or paid-up policy. This
notwithstanding the fact that the voided policy may
have been any number of years old.
Strange as it may seem, there are thousands of
Industrial policy-holders who can pay (say) a
shilling a week, when it is collected at the
door, but who could not pay a year’s or even a
quarter's premium in advance, and thereby become
entitled to the benefits of the Ordinary branch; and
because perhaps of sickness or unemployment over-
taking them, it is against the dictates of common
justice that they should be cut oft ruthlessly from
all benefits. Clearly, some distinction should be
made between the 12-inonth-old policy-holder and
the one who has struggled with his payments three
or four or more years, and then finds himself in
difficulties.
“\Y .A.M. ; My Iriend. who died intestate.
Ibid invested £IOO in the first War Loan,
and had elected to take inscribed stock.
Application to the Treasury for transfer to
the next of kin reveals that "the Act
requires the production of Probate of Will
or Letters of Administration before Stock
can be transferred.” In the Savings Bank
in cases of intestacy the next of kin can
obtain sums of less than £2OO without the
aid of lawyers. Now, merely because my
friend invested his little bit in inscribed
stock instead of bonds, I have to patronise
Costs to the extent, I am informed, of
about £lB. You will thus see that it is to
the advantage of persons of small means to
take bonds in preference to inscribed stock.
They bring in the same interest.
Vic. gold-mining toughs—and others—met
in Melbourne last week at Dave Sterling’s
invitation to organise forces .against the
War Times Profits Bill. F. 11. Bathurst,
the old Argus man who is in Clarke’s office
nowadays, put on his I-know-all-about-it air,
and was soon in holts with Stock Exchange
orator May because the latter suggested
that if mining cos. were allowed to make
a fair deduction for depreciation as well as
8 p.c. on paid up capital, they ought to grin
and bear the load. White-haired McGowan
really settled the matter. His 40 years’
experience in Bendigo told him that there
was startling danger in any proposal to
take half the profits in excess of the aver-
age profits of the previous three years.
Everybody who knows the ups aud clowns
of Bendigo mines will agree with McGowan.
For 15 or 20 years a co. pokes about
after a reef, and, having found it, in three or
four years makes a few tens of thousands—-
in rare cases hundreds of thousands. Then
it falls back, making nothing for another 15
or 20 years, while others come, to the front.
That the cos. which happen to come
to the front just now should be penalised
is no sort of justice at all. They don’t owe
a farthing of their profits to the war. In
fact, their profits are much less than they
would be if there were no war. They don't
stand on the same footing as cos. devoted
to the mining of commercial metals; and
the gold-mining people ought to be careful
that the others don’t creep into safety under
their wing.
* * * *
Great Cobar (N.S.W.) has been running
along in a don’t-care style with one furnace
—after a week’s spell to settle an argument
with the engine-drivers over an advance in
wages—and has just blown in a second
furnace. _ It’s a pity someone who has an
interest in the co. doesn’t ask a few ques-
tions. For instance, “When does the man-
agement expect to treat the GSO tons Great
Cobar, 250 tons Cobar Gold and 50 tons
Chesney ores per day promised some time
ago?” Also: “Does the present system of
running the Cobar Gold and Chesnev mines
show a profit?” The Government, as a big
shareholder, should have a look round to
find out if it is getting the best run for its
money.
* * * *
Mount Drysdale, Cobar, is to he given
another run. this time by a syndicate
fathered by M. A. Padula, a local business
man who was one of the lucky shareholders
when gold was plentiful, and the late W. .T.
Hogan controlled affairs. The Cobar habit
of “having a good time while it lasts” was
in full operation, and when the rich shoot
of gold ran out there was little money avail-
able to look for more, so the mine closed.


The British Westinghouse Electric & M?g. Co., Ltd.
Wcstinghousc
Magnetic Brakes
With improved skid-proof attachment, absolutely
prevents skidding even at the highest speeds.
h
SPECIAL FEATURES:—
Immediate and powerful action.
The wheels cannot be skidded.
Prevents motor “ flashing over.”
Reduces destructive arcing in the controller, and
materially reduces the strain on the car insu-
lation by preventing the voltage in the braking
circuit from reaching dangerously high values.
Head Office for Australia :
QUEENSLAND BUILDING, 84, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
Worka—Trafford Park, Manchester, England.
Safety first is the end to which Fm tory Act
Laws are working- these days. “Chromol” Leather
Belting helps both you and the Law. It gets a
pulley hugging grip at once—doesn’t need to be
“coaxed” to run, and transmits the maximum of
power at the minimum of expense under all con-
ditions. Every foot is made of flawless Australian
ox hide, and the genuine bears the name. Beware
of the “just as good.” J. C. Ludowici and Son,
Ltd., 117 York Street, Sydney (Opp. Q.V. Markets).
Inter-State Agents.—Victoria: Geo. Russell Pty. Ltd.,
Flinders Street, Melbourne; South Australia: .L
McKell, Timpson Street, Port Adelaide; West Aus-
tralia: Horace Summers, Howard Street, Perth;
Queensland: Queensland Machinery Co., Brisbane;
Broken Hill: Geo. 0. Dempster, Argent Street.
Write to our nearest office and secure a trial length
to-day.—A dvt.
* * * *
Efficiency in all classes of mining machinery is one
of the predominating features which presents itself
to the mine manager. The Australian General Elec-
tric Company of Sydney and Melbourne, who have
supplied a great portion of the mining apparatus in-
stalled throughout Australasia, are thoroughly con-
versant with the demands of all classes of electrical
mining machinery, and place themselves at the ser-
vice of all who require information or quotations in
connection with any class of electrical mining sup-
plies.— Advt.
* » • *
ALUMINOFERRTC is used by the Sydney Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards and graziers
for precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is simply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours’
time the most discolored water will be as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless.
Sole agents: William Adams & Company Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth. — Advt.
* * * *
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vie.) crushed and spread 8000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to os. 3d. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is. ;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOcj/— a saviny of 2s. sd.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow 16in. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.— Advt. [2
* * * *
Extract from Joint Stock Companies Journal,
London, 15th September, 1915: “Insurance.—
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society. The Acci-
dent Branch—in which the policyholders have the
unusual privilege of sharing in the profits by means
of a system of bonuses—is steadily progressing in
the magnitude of its operations and the amount
of its profits. It is in the Ordinary Branch, how-
ever, that people in this country are interested.
It is the. backbone of the whole thing; and in all
respects it presents an appearance of strength
and vigor which promises still better things to come,
despite war and all its troubles.”— Advt. [2
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Stave Pite, the most satisfactory
pressure pipe to install. Used by the foremost
mining companies in Australasia. There is no corro-
sion, no rust, and is unaffected by mineralised water.
Send for illustrated catalogue. The Australian Wood
Pipe Company Limited, 57 'York Street, Sydney.
Factories; N. S. Wales, Victoria, South Australia.—
Advt.
* » * *
Molybdenite Ores.— We have a special plant in
Sydney for the treatment of Molybdenite Ores, and
will treat large or small parcels for producers. Syd-
ney Export Co. Ltd., 1 Bond Street, Sydney.—Advt. [3
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Earth-handling and Road-building Machinery,
Concrete Mixers, Robey Traction Engines, National
Suction Gas Engines, modern conveying outfits, pump-
ing installations, stonecrushing plants specialised in
by Australian Machinery Co. Ltd., Charlotte Street,
Brisbane; and Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
Mine managers, when requiring new Stean
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcoel
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Paten
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leadin;
mines in Australia.—Advt.
and Foreign Patents
IDEAS.—Commonwealth
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins'’street, Mel
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty yearV practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt,
* * * #
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H B
Silberberg & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney;
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
e are Born to
VOI m
u| sjnsui
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Capital £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up 82,500
ACINTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £545,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,351 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 81,500 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. ■
Gen. Man. : Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office! 31 Budge Row v Cannon Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting; Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
North Cobar, the English-owned hole in
the- ground immediately joining the Great
Cobar on the north, has resumed operations.
Heaven alone knows the reason. It surely
can’t be with any serious intention of making
both ends meet. This crowd of good sports
should be told by some responsible person
that there’s no hope of North Cobar becom-
ing a payable proposition.
* * * *
The Sulphide Corporation, which has
hitherto- sent away its bullion unrefined,
intends to go ahead with a refinery at Cockle
Creek (N.S.W.). The B. 11. Prop, has
been doing this work in Australia for 20
years past, and has met with fewer difficul-
ties than most operations have had to over-
come. It won’t, therefore, be a question of
experimenting.
* * * *
“Mainshaft”: The discovery of the Luck-
now brown reef at Orange (N.S.W.) lias
made some local people sorry they weren’t
deaf when it was mentioned. When the
writer saw the alleged field it was repre-
sented by rolling clay country—clay extra-
ordinarily stubborn to water, with a few
ounce bits of angular quartz to the cubic
foot. The hole said to have bottomed on the
brown reef had been neatly filled in—may be
for fear that the local investor should fall
in and break both arms and legs before he
could sign a cheque.
* * -* *
Since Bendigo became a field it hasn’t pub-
lished such a shocking balance-sheet as that
for the first half of 1910. Dividends came
down to the miserable total of £5295 —-practi-
cally a sixth of what they were in either half
of 1915. If this goes on the A.M.A. won't
need to bother about rounding up Victorian
mine unionists who do contract work, for
people won’t put cash into fields that don’t
give profits. That is the stage Bendigo is at
to-day. The last three and a half years’
figures drive home that fact: —
Half-year Gold
ended oz. Calls. Dividends.
June, 1913 .. 1-9,374 £54,096 £57,578
Dec., 1913 .. 89,208 36,253 77,538
June, 1914 .. 88,263 33,114 81,798
Dec., 1914 .. 73,067 29,055 44,050
June, 1915 .. 59,885 25,561 31,685
Dee., 1915 .. 58,898 23,687 30,902
June, 1916 .. 43,068 17,300 5,295
During the first half of 1913 it cost £6 10s.
roughly in gold and calls to earn £1 in divi-
dends ; last half-year the sum needed was
£36. In other words, £172,272 of gold and
£17,306 of calls only frothed up £5295 for
shareholders. No wonder the machinery
man is talking about a glut of second-hand
plant.
Duke Extended, Maryborough (Vic,), is
in the wibbly-wobbly stage. The co. wants
to lean on the State to test whether the
gutter improves before sweeping into the
Duke Consols ground. Geologist Herman
isn’t favorable to buttressing the claim, and
if the Minister listens to him the odds are
that another Victorian deep-lead show will
pass under the hammer. That would leave
the Duke Consols as the sole survivor of
the long line of great deep-lead mines that
turned out millions of gold from the Duke
and Majored gutters. And Duke Consols
looks only a shade less bilious than the
Extended.
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) prospectors are
still busy at Mt. Lucky, on the East Mt.
Margaret field, but so far they have found
nothing of importance. Later on it is
proposed to give the ridges north of
Morgans a trial, and one or two other likely
places on the same field are to be tested.
Meanwhile the co. is being held up as an
example for the other big shows to follow.
Some of them have from time to time taken
options, and in a few instances acquired
new shows, but in most cases they have
seemed to want another Boulder Horseshoe
or Ivanhoe before making a deal. Hitherto
the finding of new fields in the State lias
been left mostly to hard-up battlers whose
activities have been hampered for want of
cash.
* * * *
Westralian Chamber of Mines produces
some striking instances of the injustice of
the War-Time Profits Bill proposal to heav 1
ily tax the earnings of gold-mining cos. in
excess of the average for the previous three
years. Great Boulder and Ivanhoe, both
of which, on account of lower-grade ore and
increased expenditure, cannot hope to in-
crease their profits, would escape the tax.
But Edna May, which is looking forward to
bigger surpluses when the new slimes plant
is in full operation, would be hard bit. Sev-
eral promising small mines would be almost
bashed out of existence. The old-established,
well-developed, steadily-producing shows are
not likely to be affected, but the new ones
will have no way of escape. If gold-
mining is not exempted from the provisions
of the Bill, the Chamber points out that the
industry will receive an uncalled-for bump
Seeing that any extra profits that may be
earned by Westralian mines cannot be due
to war conditions, the Chamber reasonably
looks to the Treasurer to do the fair thin".
Ennuin, 12 miles north of Bullfinch
(W.A.), is again obtruding itself on public
notice. This time several good returns
averaging up to (ioz. are announced, and a
couple of shows are already on the market.
Gold was found in this locality before Cool-
gardie or evefi Southern Cross was heard
of. but its prospects have never been so
bright as they are now. So far, however,
the district has only been tested in shallow
ground, and, like many places on the Yil-
garn field, may go to pot at depth.
* * * #
Greenfinch (W.A.) has decided to have
another go. A prospecting shaft is to be
sunk on the Recovery lease in a locality
where it is claimed “numerous fair-sized
veins carrying gold have been found on and
near the surface.” The co. is building on
the hope of these formations making into
the original reef at depth, and thus providing
anew shoot of payable value to give the
shares a flutter.
* * * *
The Edna Central’s May clean-up finished
the cement, and manager Williams then offi-
cially gave it out that such dirt, assaying
only 10s., was too poor to treat. If this
didn’t mean that last month saw only new-
make stone go to the battery, then the fact
ought to have been stated. Anyway, taking
that as the right deduction, this nice com-
parison follows : —•.
Run of Mine. New Make.
tons. Value. tons. Value.
January .. 2312 23/2
February .. 2567 37/- 837 74/-
March ' .. 3023 29/6 1119 54/6
April .. 2904 2S/H 1600 39/-
May . . 2881 33/- 1758 46/-
June .. —•- 2835 26/10
That’s enough to show how the new make is
shaping under the battery test.
* * * *
Commodore (W.A.) has secured another
property at Meekatharra. This time it
has taken an option on the Kopje leases,
which in the last eight or nine years have
produced some 10,000 tons of 9dwt. ore from
within 130 ft. of the surface. Nothing has
been heard lately about the Commodore’s
other new venture near Hill End (N.S.W.).
* * # *
Golden Horseshoe (W.A.) treated 243,504
long tons in 1915 for a return of £448,046.
Costs, including £34,584 written off develop-
ment, with dividend and income taxes
£13,077, absorbed Jill but £95,518. Divi-
dends amounting to ss. (Id. per share mopped
up £82,500; £12,500 was taken to reduce
the debenture indebtedness, and the remain-
ing £2296 has been carried forward. Lia-
bilities at the close of the year were : Sundry
creditors £35,423. debentures £56,300 and
unclaimed dividends £17,712. Against these
there was bullion and cash in hand £33,331.
The expenses in connection with the Lon-
don and Hamburg bromo-cyanide litigation
totalled £2429. General-manager Jack
Sutherland in his annual report estimates
the ore reserves at 704,559 tons, containing
324,217 fine oz., and he says that the slight
decrease in tonnage compared with the pre-
vious year is more, than compensated for
by the increase in value. To the end of
1915 .3,520,675 tons had been extracted
from the mine, and the yield was approxi-
mately 96 tons 174 cwt. of gold, valued at
£9.880,829. about a third of which has been
paid in dividends.
•* * *
When three months ago the Westralian
Full Court upheld the appeal of the State
Taxation Department that developmental
costs in gold mining were not taxable, the
respondent co., Lake View and Oroya,
backed up by the Chamber of . Mines,
threatened to appeal to the Privy Council.
Lately, however, representatives of both
sides have met, and there is a chance of the
matter being adjusted without any further
contribution to Costs.
* * * *
“Pirate” from Papua :
The tall price of copper has not affected the shows
on Astrolabe a bit; things are still dead, and hardly
a miner with sufficient coin in his clothes to buy a
beer pervades Moresby. The Laloki, the biggest of
the propositions, one of tlie Great Fitzroy C'O.’s
babies, is still lgid up. A mild argument between
the original owners and the co. livened up interest in
the mine a while back, but on the co. receiving
another six months’ exemption, the interest evapo-
rated. The Japanese experts who took options over
most of the shows some few months ago have not .yet
intimated whether they will take over any of the
properties, but development from Nippon seems off.
Considering the amount of high-grade ore already
exposed—in the Laloki alone nearly half a million tons
Of 17 p.c., or thereabouts- —it is surprising that these
mines do not attract attention from investors in
Australia. They are all practically within 20 miles
of a fine harbor, and the country between is not
rough. No engineering difficulties are present; and a
great deal of the sleepers and bridging material could
be obtained, close to the track, from the forests on
the Laloki River. Unfortunately, past history shows
the propensity of the owners to open their mouths too
wide when naming a price. If only one mine is taken
over by a business-like co. and economically man-
aged the profit will entice a herd of capitalists, and
then Papua’s pioneer copper field will get a proper
hearing.
The drill ou Briini Island (Tas.) hasn’t
come on oil yet, but others have got oil on
another specklet. Near Badger Corner,
Flinders Island, there is a deposit of peat
which yields a semi-solid oil. There’s a
good deal of peat, hut whether the extract is
of any value or whether, if it is, it can be
got in payable quantities, has yet to be seen.
The capacity of the Great Lake or some
other place to deliver the goods is to be put
to the test by the agreement just fixed up
between the Tas. Government and Amal-
gamated Zinc (De Bavay’s) for the supply
of power. The Government provides a site
for the works at Risdon, near Hobart, and
the co. proposes to start with a unit using
•5000 or 4000 h.p., and to work up towards
50,000. The present plant ought to supply
the first instalment, but if all goes well it
won’t be long before they have to duplicate
or quadruple it. If the Mount Lyell Cos.
then comes along for 50,000 li.p., it looks as
though a lot of the. State’s water outside the
Great Lake will have to be harnessed up.
* * * *
When Andrew Stenhouse, of Broken Hill,
picked up all the cheap Ruby Flat (Tas.)
tin shares knocking about, he was reckoned
to have more cash than sense. But there
have been very few better investments. Every
winter Is. or Is. 6d. comes to holders, who
pouch the 33 p.c. profit and then sit down
for the helping they know will come along
next year, Ruby Flat got going before
Lindsay Clark took on the Briseis. The
last half-year’s run went 1.141 b. tin oxide,
out of which Is. in divs. was paid, with
another left in the boxes. The co. has
about worked out its old patch, and, like Y
Water, will have to wrestle with poorer
stuff. Still, sluicing is so cheap that even
if the “sprats” don’t come along so quickly
there should be still plenty awaiting the net.
* # * *
The Treasurer of Queensland has just
published his annual statement. The State
has spent five millions of trust and loan
money during the last 12 months, and has im-
posed new taxation (land and amended
income tax) to the extent of half a million.
A surplus of £34,000 is the net apparent
result; but some £235,000 of the legitimate
expenditure of 1915-10 was anticipated and
rushed into 1914-15 accounts (following
Willie Kidston’s rotten precedent) and no
corresponding operation to balance things
has been performed this year, so that the
surplus is a myth and a Fiji uncle. Ilolman
and co. have found apt financial pupils in
the Northern State.
* * * *
Fiji: (1) The National Mutual is sending
out renewal notices to men within military
age. One arrived at this office while your
complaint was under inquiry. The society
alleges that the old practice has not been
altered. (2) It is true that persons in default
who have allowed the surrender value of their
policies to be exhausted, and whose policies
are therefore liable to forfeiture, must pay
a higher premium if they reinstate them in
order to protect themselves because they are
going to the Front. But there is no injustice
in that.
* * * *
Philippine Dredges, Ltd., clawed up over
24000 z. from three dredges in April. May
brought a yield of 19830 z. June looked un-
promising when a dredge had to tie up for
repairs. However, No. 2 stuck to the patch
it had been wallowing in, and served up
15050 z. from 77,361 cub. yards, while No. 3
slogged out 5740 z. from 39,854 cubic yards
in a fortnight. As about 40oz. per dredge
should cover all outgo, the return is a
very substantial one. Presently, the deben-
ture holder, instead of having to be asked to
renew his p.n’s, will want to let his money
stay in the show.
* * * #
A queer prospectus has been issued in
Maoriland inviting capital for the N.Z. Iron
Ore Smelting and Manufacturing Cos. The
public is offered 35,000 shares of £1 each,
the other 25,000 going to the Moturoa Iron
and Steel Syndicate, which is alleged to
have a process for converting the Taranaki
ironsands into pig. Practically all the in-
formation given about the process is that
“experiments and demonstrations have been
carried on at Moturoa during the past 12
months, and from actual practice it has been
found that pig-iron can be produced at a
cost of not exceeding £3 per ton.” If any
independent engineer or chemist has investi-
gated the process his report is not furnished;
and no estimate of the cost of the plant is
given. But the co. may go to allotment
when £SOO is subscribed; and the vendors
take £IOOO. “When 5000 shares have been
applied for it is intended to hold a demon-
stration at the works, at Moturoa”; and
what these works consist of isn’t mentioned.
The process, which appears to be the inven-
tion of W. P. Heskett, may be the finest
thing M.L. has ever seen; but the manner
in which the promoters get to work looks
like courting failure.
* * * *
During June Cloncurry (Q.) produced
1032 tons blister copper from 11,714 tons
crude ore. Mt. Elliott gave 98, Mt. Cuth-
bert 201, Hampden 616 and Corella 117. A
striking feature is that the first two show
an average of over 10 p.c. ore, while the
Corella return is a shade over 5 p.c. Hamp-
den recovered between 8 p.c. and 9 p.c., but
its return includes 107 tons of copper from
917 tons of bought ore. Hampden is
anxious to preserve this customs trade, and
has appointed a representative at Clon-
curry.
* * . * *
South Aus., which produces very little
gold, managed to top the £1,000,000 mark
for base metals last year. Copper and iron-
stone (for the B. 11. Prop.) are the most
important minerals. The value of the iron-
stone shipped out of the State was £264,012,
which on 237,375 tons is a shade over 225.
per ton. This year’s return is likely to show
a big increase on that.


Heelings
Est. 1818.
Copenhagen
rDiNfi'M
heering
PELLJSSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
No riore Grey Hair
A Simple and Effective Mixture Can Be
Prepared at Home That Soon Darkens
the Silver Locks.
Grey, streaked and faded hair is as un-
sightly as it is unnecessary. Youth is our
greatest asset, and we should preserve it
and prolong it by every proper means avail-
able. Here is a remarkably good recipe,
simple and inexpensive, which can be readily
prepared at your own home.
To a half-pint of water add:
Bay Rum
Orlex Compound 1 small box.
You can get these ingredients at any
chemist’s, and the preparation will be-just as
efficacious for removing dandruff, stopping
falling hair and other scalp ailments as toi
darkening grey hair. Apply it once a-day
until the hair reaches the desired shade, and
then one application, every other week will
be all that is needed. Be sure to tiy thn.
It’s fine.—Advt. 1"
PAULINE et CIE
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE,
Announce Special Reductions in all their
French, English and Pauline Models.
3rd Floor,
Denison House Chambers, George St.
mm
TRADE mark
The TYRES
which increase comfort
and give longer service
at reduced cost.
BRITISH THROUGHOUT
SINCE 1679.
SINCE 1679.
HAIG & HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, July 10, 191 G.
My Dear Arini, —
The G.-G. is collecting some of Westralia’s
wood to add to his timber-yard exhibits,
llis Ex. makes forestry a hobby, and lias
already a tine assortment of local stuff.
Now jar rah and karri will follow him, as
excess baggage, back to the Yarra.
His Ex. will also bring over a chip or
two of a new timber called Caledonian
wooden-head, lie discovered it at an enter-
tainment given him by the llaggis Society
of Perth. Calling at a second-hand music
shop the com-mittee found a German _ in-
strument and an Australian side by side.
D’you know which one they “honored” their
guest with? The German! They didn’t go
a hundred yards down the street and ask
Beale if he could supply a good box of
Australian music for the occasion. They
didn’t even ask the agents of British makers.
They apparently just rolled into the second-
hand shop and said “We’re entertainin’ the
representative of the British Empire, moil.
Ila’e ye got some cheap secon’-hand German
thing that we can play ‘llule Britannia’
on?”
When the Royal Yorks were seeing Mel-
bourne and the Commonwealth fireworks,
Sydney visitors came near being mangled in
one society crush. This was at_ Flemington
on a big day when the Royalties were on
view. Upstairs a seething horde were
locked together in the grandstand in a fierce
struggle to be near the sandwich-Elysium
below. The late W. J. Tric-kett, M.L.C.,
who passed away last week, took hold of
one section and held the fort to protect a
small contingent of Sydney women from
falling under the feet of the crowd. After
it was all over he emerged from the scrum
with his silk hat banged out of shape and
the general appearance of a moulting leg-
horn. It was the day of the white feather
boa, and in the struggle his coat was flaked
with the fluff.
A Hilder Loan Exhibition of water colors
opens at the Society of Artists’ rooms in
Queen Victoria Markets on Friday. The
admirers of the dead colorist’s work who
are not lucky enough to possess originals
will find available a small memorial book
containing reproductions of his delicate
paintings and sketches, as well as personal
and biographical notes by artist friends.
Next time we have a Button Day, some-
thing better than the War Chest’s fl em-
blem might well be evolved. The only
handsome badge on June 30 was that usu-
ally worn by the stallholders. A few
hardy wights.' after a careful search, were
able to purchase it at ss. This effort had
a circular gilt edge, and was about the size
of a half-crown. The “pound” button was
merely the “bob button” with a gold back;
and the “bob button” might have been two
a ha’penny on its appearance.
Even the optimism of manager Freddie
Shipman hadn’t visioned such a house as
flocked to Paul Dufault’s last Sydney con-
cert. It was so great that the green lattice
hedge on the Town Hall platform was
bundled up like firewood and hurled out of
the way to make a little more room. In
the hall vassals ran this way and that,
carrying chairs in quartets, and banged them
down wherever there was space for four
spindly legs. Mrs. Freddie, almost sub-
merged in the crowd, wore a dashing scarlet
coat —not too adjacent to her auburn locks.
As a special item Dufault sang a rhythmic
song, “For Thee,” a graceful composition by
Raimund Pechotseh, the composer fiddling an
accompaniment. The rest of the company
was on its usual beat.
After a brief triumphal tour through New-
castle and Maitland, Miss Soubeiran —repre-
senting the French League of Help—hurried
back to her eyrie in Macdonell House. Here
a committee pondered chiefly on the coming
of July 14 and the national fete. No big
Sydney effort for cash is to mark a day
which keeps solemn tally of the heroic dead.
But Newcastle and Maitland (the latter has
Mrs. Willie Mac Kay amongst the organisers)
are frankly out for loot. One enterprisi -g
maiden goes round with a liighly-respectable
monkey and rgan. Father pushes .he
hurdy-gurdy as chaperon, and Miss Pretty
sells peanuts to the tune of the Marseillaise.
Mrs. Play oust took the chair at the French
League’s korero, and Mrs. Jewett read a
few preliminary statements. Then came
a pile of letters full of gratitude and kisses
to Australia, in reply to bales of goods the
League had sent to France. What our
kiddies are doing for the orphans of the Re-
public lias to be seen to be realised. Little
heaps of garments, beautifully made, _ are
sandwiched with hidden treasures that little
Australians have passed on to Baby
Frangcis.
Grandsons of Dr. Jenkins, of Nepean
Towers in the long ago, are meeting each
other unexpectedly in the French war zone.
The other day a son of George Jenkins, a
station-owner in this State, and the eldest
boy of the late Major Jenkins, recognised
each other in the fighting line. Hardly time
for a coo-ee —then to business!
But even that wasn’t so surprising a
meeting as two other N. S. Wales boys had
somewhere in Arabia. The younger of the
two had been sick and in a details camp at
Cairo, and on recovery was ordered to renort
to a battery east of Suez. Arrived there
late lie turned in, and had got half-way
asleep when he learned from the talk of his
tent-mates that his own elder brother was
0.0. As they had been great pals lie post-
poned sleep and tumbled out to salute the
boss. Tongues didn’t stop at 10 that night.
Herewith a por-
trait of Dorothy
Gumming, the young
Australian actress
who has made good
in a very short
time. Many play-
goers call her
the best dramatic
artiste we’ve had
since Maud Jeffries.
She’s just finished
packing up for the
TJ.S.A. Miss
Ballenger, a
daughter of the
Colonel, goes with
her. The adven-
turous young paii-
have lots of the
tilings that (sometimes) command fame and
fortune.
Mrs. Dick Bagot, of Adelaide, is over to
holiday with a son who has broken away
from family traditions and is a teacher in
Sydney Grammar School. The original
Bagot, Edward, now gathered to his fathers,
used to make Adelaide turn round to look.
Dressed like John Bull, and usually flicking
a short riding-whip, he mostly talked cattle
and wool. Mrs. Dick was a shoot of that
King family which once owned the ».-»■.
Advertiser.
The sweet-voiced Mrs. F. J. lUley will
sing no more in St. Mary’s choir, for
years she has been, heard only on rare occa-
sions anywhere. In spite of diminished
vocal power, the once noted oratorio
soprano was always delightful to listen to.
They were less hurried in the days when
Mrs. Riley studied and perfected her art
After a long struggle with the Scythe, the
voice passed into Silence last week.
By the last trip of the Remuera from
Maoriland Dr. Alice Moreland started foi
Europe and war work. Dr. Alice, when her
name was Moorhouse, was one ot Chnst
church’s first lady doctors and practised on
patients until she married headmaster More
land, of Christ’s College. After a very tew
years she was left a widow, and resumed her
profession. ,
A new short cut through the French s
Forest settlement was recently blazed, and
stones and frees were marked with the broad
arrow. A few days later a party of green
English trippers found their way to the hive.
“Disgraceful!” they exclaimed—and ex-
claimed it so often that they were asked for
particulars. “Why, to put returned soldiers
in a convict settlement!” they explained, and
pointed to the frequent broad-arrows as evi-
dences of the shame.
About 80 Sydney Grammar Schoolboys
■rave a week of their winter holidays to camp
and work at French’s Forest. Now they re
backing the Old Boys’ Union in its prepara-
tions for a farewell chop with headmaster
Sloman.
One of the most alert and smartly groomed
old gentlemen in this city passed over the
Border on July 6—the late William New-
combe, at 85. Besides having comfortable pri-
vate means he drew a comfortable pension.
Until a vear or so ago, when he met with an
accident' his dapper, active figure was well
known in suburban sporting circles, for-
merly a crack shot, he kept up a practical
interest in local bull’s-eyes till his last and
about his first—long illness laid him aside.
Mrs. Ernest Broughton was his only child.
“Rosna,” writing from London, tells me
that the Dublin riots incidentally licked up
some Australian art. With the burning ot
the Royal Hibernian Academy Arthur Bur-
gess's picture of our ships the Sydney and
Parramatta (“The Long Wash of Austral-
asian Seas’’), ns well as “Treasure” —a piece
of N.S.W. coast—and “The End of the
Ein den,” disappeared in smoke. Lambert
and Fullwood also had pictures there, but
the artists hadn’t been able to learn then-
fate when “Rosna” wrote.
The Wattle Day League holds its birthch
partv this year on August 1 instead
month later. The golden bloom is in »ts full
est beauty next month, and its higl P •
esses will decorate all the soldieis camps
and city havens with the tasselled ghi.
the bush. f
There’s no ill-will, but a difference of
oninion, between the \\ attle League of - • •
Wales and the Kindergarten Union. in
League, which started the movement years
ago, decided that in this State wattle should
not be used for profit on
Day. The Union sees cash for the kiddies
in ‘the festival, and this year as last it
means to hold up the public with
pence a bunch” at the street corners.
Edna Hazel, a daughter of the Arnold
Harpins, of Kurrajong Heights, said she
would to Sergeant George Young, only so
of the late Graham Bell Young, of nji.
Grandfather was an lawyer of
years ago—Lord Young, K.C., P.C. Ldna
also had a grandfather she likes to chat
about—Parson Scott, Sydney s first *
eminent Astronomer. After the Church
had earned its fee at St. Jamess there
was a party at the Womens Chatnotic
Club, which had an early spring of led,
white and blue flowers.
The Ernest Brookes couple (she is a
daughter of James Burns) are now m
London. They’re in the swell tourist men-
agerie at Taplow. Some of the Chisholms
are in the same hamlet.
Bishop Langley’s daughter Lulu went in
the Makura for a health tun to Vancouver.
She was in the Hobart railway smash a
while ago, and jangled nerves want a tonic.
Ituth and Nancy Chisholm are travelling
lials. . _ ...
Mrs. Arthur Usher had a hurried call to
a sick mother in Melbourne last week.
Final schemes for a big bridge pait.v
Pensliurst, to help the Neutral Bay branch
of the Bed Cross, had just come to a head.
But Young Australia triumphed again—a
daughter guaranteed to take charge ot IoU
guests, and the affair wasn t postponed, lhe
bridgers will add a cosy cheque to the
water-suburbs’ funds.
Eric Mugliston, youngest of the sons of
the late Dr. Mugliston, of Neutral Bay, who
supports the stars of a lieutenant in the Ist
DA C was married the other day at
Brighton (Eng.) to Bl&nclie, daughter of
the Leonard Neales. Besides being youn 0
and good to look upon the new Mrs.
Mugliston owns a valuable contralto.
Another of the Muglistons, Kathleen, who
is nursing in a French hospital at Dunkirk,
motored across GO miles of well-shelled
Fiance recently to have a word with brother
Daly, who is a private with the Anzac
Army. Till then they hadn’t seen one
another for years.
For persisting in hurling bombs at the
enemy for several hours after being wounded
in the neck, Bryan, of the .John Hughes
family, has had the Military Cross pinned
to his tunic. Brother Gilbert was tempo-
rarily put out of action the same day by a
dose of poison gas.
Mrs. J. H. P.
Murray and only
daughter Mary are
on the trail of a
Sydney flat. That
settled, they’ll un-
pack their chattels
for a long stay in
these parts. Mean-
while, here’s a
photo, of our own
home-grown Excel-
lency, Lieut.-Gov.
Murray, of Papua,
lie goes back to his
vast territory in a
few days. At Port
Moresby his hos-
pitable roof shel-
ters so many wan-
dering writers and
artists that the cult like to claim him as
their own. He’s a son, you’ll remember, of
the late Terence Aubrey Murray, who was
Speaker and later President of the Council
in our own Parliament in years long gone.
Mrs. Minns writes to her black-and-white
artist of the cheeriness of wounded Austra-
lians in London. For instance, young
Donnelly, a brother of Mrs. Timothy Cogh-
lan, who had been very badly smashed up,
became quite hilarious when he was able, to
move one finger. Donnelly knew nothing
of his damages till he found himself spitting
out his front teeth one by one. Mrs.
Sheldon and Mrs. Townsend (the latter is
wife of a Punch artist), with others, run
a soldiers’ buffet in Vauxhill Bridge-road. A
plate of ham for 3d. and a huge helping of
bacon with two eggs curled on top for -Dd..
The ladies in charge even look after the
“drunks,” and put them intact into their
trains, not always an easy job for .women.
“Began the daylight saving by putting our
clocks on an hour,” says Mrs. Minns an en-
thusiastic gardener, who doesn t nund wna
o’clock she gets up to chase the aphis ott nei
roses.
In spite of the great exodus from Egypt-
a few Australian women still drive aroun<-
Cairo’s outskirts. There has even been a
recent Australian wedding. The bride comes
from a N.S.W. pastoralist stock—the
Cunninghams, of the Southern district.
Brother Andy gave his sister away to Major
Davies, of the A.1.F., in the presence ot a
pale-pink bridesmaid —Miss McPhillamy, ot
Bathurst —and other reliable witnesses.
There’ll be a queer mix-up if “Colonel
McMillan, of the Sal. Army, gets precedence
of the York-street knight McMillan on the
Makura. The “Army" representative also
lias his missus aboard the Canadian liner.
When A.D.C. Wallis bolted for the Front
in the latter days of 1914, he left most of
his clothes behind in Sydney. The necessary
toothbrush he hurriedly stuffed into a suit-
case. A few weeks ago lie wrote for the
almost-forgotten gear, and a pal undertook
to look through and re-pack the stuff tor
England. Ye gods and silver fishes! Crum-
bling ruins of once gorgeous uniforms met
the eye. I hope the barely convalescent hero
won’t get a relapse when he sees how moths
do break through and steal!
Bob Gillespie, the flour-miller, is showing
his pretty wife Japan as a change from
Waliroonga. Mrs. Bob writes in ecstatic
italics of the good time they’re having.
Amongst other novelties they’ve been stay-
ing at a hotel which is like an Arabian
Nights’ Dream. The Jap proprietor was
educated at an English public school, and
then graduated at Oxford, where he learnt
the famous bleat. The Gillespies return to
their rose bushes in August.
The versatile Dora Ohlfsen, who closed her
studio in Home when Italy came into the
general row, is back again in the ancient
city. Or was, a few wee*.s ago. Just now
she’s probably in a cap and apron as a war-
trained nurse, looking after Italian wounded.
A lot of well-known Cornstalks -formeily
V.A.D’s and afterwards on the trained stall
—are now in France. There also are sisters
Nora Gilchrist, Gladys Webster and Mollie
Arthur, of Sydney.
A recent photo, shows Captain T. E.
Donne in khaki as officer in charge of the
Dominion’s war records in London. He is
without the flowing golden moustache of
yore, but otherwise is unchanged since the
days when Waimangu spouted tons of hot
mud, and then sulked, to the great disgust
of the tourist chief.
Our old friend Grace Watson sends some
literature about the Anzac Buffet in London.
The rooms, which include a club, are open
at 9 o’clock in the morning. Commissioner
Andy Fisher (greatly daring) described it
as the best thing of the kind he had seen
in the grey old city, and made a postscript
out of its “purely Australian atmosphere.”
Fifty-one thousand books have been
covered and sent away to our fighting boys
from the Red Cross depdt in Pitt-street.
That is pretty good, isn’t it? And since
November last the depot has made £lO2 by
the sale of books that were too worn to
stand repairs and a long voyage. Now the
British Navy is going to have a share in
the reading matter, for the goddesses in the
Pitt-street machine have started to send
books to the great grey fleet through the
Sydney Chamber of Commerce.
An undergrad, newspaper, the organ of
the University of Minnesota, lately con-
ducted an inquiry among the young women
students on the problem: “What kind
of man would you marry?” Doctors simply
surged to the front. One girl wanted to
marry a poet, but stipulated that he should
earn at least 600 dollars a year and he a
teetotaller. How exacting! Two maidens
would be satisfied with actors. One
for a poet, two for actors; yet they say
girls are romantic! Farmers, business men.
engineers and parsons came in that order
after the doctors. They don’t even seem to
have heard of the war in Minnesota. If
you took a referendum in Australasia of the
kind of man you’d marry, the collective reply
would be, “Anything in khaki.”
Short frocks make the condition of the
Town Hall platform a matter of indifference
to present-day lady-birds. At concerts in
the reign of the fish tail —d’ you remember
poor Nordica navigating a mermaid effect in
white satin over the floor? —a white rag.
like a sail cloth, used to be hurriedly tacked
down to save trouble. Now t Florence
Scapini’s high heels clatter under an abbre-
viated dress length, and Pauline Bindley’s
hem is inches off the boards.
Gibbs, Bright and Co. (39 Pitt-street)
have come to the rescue of the homeless 30th
Battalion Comforts ladies. They were
burnt out. you’ll remember, in the big blaze
that wiped Winn’s building off Oxford-street.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


HARDY BROTHERS LTD.
JEWELLERS, WATCHMAKERS, SILVERSMITHS.
WEDDING PRESENTS.
COMPLIMENTARY PRESENTS.
BIRTHDAY PRESENTS.
Ktrvx
mam
m
sse
—wffssa?
Hardy Bros. Utd.
Invite an Inspec-
tion of Their
Extensive Stock
of Useful and
Dainty Table
Requisites, Suit-
able for Gifts
for all occasions.
Dark Green Five-proof China Casserole Dish, with Silver-plated
Frame and Handles, Length 9i inches.
£3 18 0
*8
Five Per Cent. Discount
Allowed on all Cash
Transactions.
Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Post Free on
Request.
SHOWROOMS -
13 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
Round Green Fire-proof China Chafing
Sih r er-plated Stand, with Handles, Diameter
£4 4 0
Dish, on
9 inches.
116-118 Queen Street
BRISBANE.
HARDY BROS. (SYDNEY and BRISBANE) LTD., 32 OLD BURLINGTON STREET, LONDON, W
•pjq svo}2v}**vh uj
w
E
are gratified beyond words, and we
are sure our many friends and clients
will likewise be glad to learn that the
Commonwealth Government has now
taken the necessary steps, and has re-
moved the German shareholder from this Company.
As is known already to many, this German share-
holder who by the way never controlled the
business, left Australia over 5 years ago, and has
never since acted in any way for the Company.
We have much pleasure in publicly announcing the
fact that no German or enemy shareholder exists
in Harringtons Ltd., and not even a member of
the staff or workman of enemy nationality is in
the employ of the Company.
The firm of Harringtons was founded by the
undersigned, who has with him in the business
three other brothers, and whose father spent
practically his whole life in the British Navy and
Coast Guard Service.
UP
JOHN HARRINGTON - - - Managing Director
Photographic Merchants and Manufacturers—and for over a quarter
of a century the principal distributors in the Southern Hemisphere of
BRITISH MADE CAMERAS and PHOTO SUPPLIES
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, AUCKLAND & WELLINGTON, N.Z.
HARRINGTONS’ HANDBOOK
OF PHOTOGRAPHY
containing: 250 pag;es of valuable information, with
prices for all the best Cameras and Photo Supplies,
is now ready*
GET YOUR COPY NOW.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
'The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-
paying office in the World. HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman; Hon. R._J.
Black, M.L.C. ; Hon. Jas. Burns, M.L.C. ; Hon. F. E. Winchcombe. M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., Iv.C. ;
Samuel Hordern, Esq.
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. H. W. AFBEULY, Secretary.
Accumulated Funds, £35,000,000. Annual Income, £4,770,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1915 .. £848,528. Total Bonuses distributed .. £20,670,000.
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. Write for prospectus
and full information without delay.
Two Inexpensive Models
of the Famous
Rasters
GRAMOPHONE
Because the “Gramophone” is a world-leader, and embodies all
the greatest improvements in talking-machine construction, it
must not be concluded that it is an expensive instrument.
These two models are popular the world over, and are within
the scope of the average purse.
“INTERMEDIATE”
In Polished Oak, Satin finish, with
“Morning Glory” Flower Horn —
£7 15 0
“MONARCH JUNIOR”
In Varnished Quartered Oak, Nickel-
plated Fittings. Colored Enamel Flower
Horn £lO 10 0
With Oak Horn £l3 0 0
Both have the famous “Gooseneck,” and
“Exhibition” Sound Box.
Ask your nearest dealer to play them.
Instrument catalogue, record lists, and
name of nearest accredited dealer on
request.
ĥ
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY
<• GRAMOPHONE ”
Registered Trade Marie
/////////
'A
0
'/AVI if r?,m II
JD
%
Guard Against Substitution
The “VALET” Blade, as enclosed with each Auto Strop
Safety Razor, is the only Genuine Blade for the Auto Strop
Safety Razor.
A Warning to the Public
There are many cheap, insidious substitutes of imitation
blades being foisted on to the public for the genuine
Auto Strop Valet Blade. The Auto Strop Safety Razor Co.
Ltd. asks you to refuse them and to use only Auto Strop
“VALET” Blades in the famous Auto Strop Safety Razors.
Price in the Commonwealth, 3/- packet.
Price in New Zealand, - - 3/6 packet.
Obtainable everywhere throughout the Commonwealth
and New Zealand.
Managing Agent for Australasia:
RALPH ABERCROMBY, Denison House,
380 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NO BLADE SO KEEN
MHOBaa
NO SHAVE SO
CLEAN.


JB4O 19J6
Seventy-six Years.
FARMER’S
CASH
BONUS
SALE
Boot Bargains*
ħ
Usual Prices:
21/-, 22/6, 25/-,
27/6.
Sale Price,
And Less the Cash Bonus.
12/6
Finishes on Saturday.
Tremendous Reductions and all further Less
the 10 per cent. Bonus (2/- in the £).
These are extra Big Bargain Value and invite
immediate investigation by the economically-
minded.
Not one of them is sold anywhere at less than
21/-, many of them at 22/6, 25/-, and 27/6. A
detailed description is impossible, but all classes
of Leather, both Black and Tan, are represented.
All Mail Orders which bear Saturday’s
postmark will be executed at the reduced
price and Less the Cash Bonus.
We
Pay
Carriage
on these
goods to
any part of
Australia.
FARMER'S,
Pitt, Market
and
George Streets ,
SYDNEY.
Gage Hats
are the Correct Expression of Good Style.
[s
Australia’s Greatest March Sons',
The Anzac Marseillaise
Sung Everywhere. •
PRICE, 6d.; Posted, 7d.
LOEBEL & CO.,
13 Koyal Arcade, Melbourne.
Wholesale Distributers, where you can hear it
played over.
Personal.
T OSEPH JOHNSTON, Engineer, for-
nierly in employ of Wellington Harbor
Board, New Zealand, is asked to communi-
cate with the undersigned, from whom lie
will learn something to his advantage. Any-
one knowing the whereabouts of the said
Joseph Johnston, or of his descendants, is
requested to write. He was last heard of in
Broken Hill some years ago.
STAFFORD AND STAFFORD,
Solicitors,
33 Johnston Street. Wellington.
New Zealand.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, July 10, 1916.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The State House was opened for business
ou Wednesday by Governor Stanley, who
looked as if he didn’t know that one of the
proposed jobs was the abolition of the post
he leans against. The fourpenny pomp and
circumstance of the circus was cut down
by at least a penny on this sad occasion.
The vice-regal carriage trundled along with
an escort of mounted police, and Secretary
Victor Hood, in neat afternoon calling dress,
accompanied his braided and buttoned chief,
whose smile was broad and infectious. Per-
haps he felt cheered by the thought that,
whatever happened to the glittering job,
he would have had his fun out of it.
The ladies’ gallery was bright because
the dressy and socially-inclined have so few
opportunities these times. Down in the
special cage, slim and pretty Lady Stanley
supported an ivory brocaded velvet cloak.
AY lien her gorgeous husband departed he
left Genthelp Conant bound in scarlet to
attend her at the tea party. They looked
like a very artistic poster.
President Davies had the usual teix party.
But his wife was ill and sent a nice girl
as her substitute to do the handshaking at
the door. Major Baird, the young Ballarat
member who distinguished himself at the
war and was invalided home, was present
and received very warm welcomes. Bussell
Clarke in khaki was saying good-bye all
round. lie has added a fine coat of Mari-
byrnong-camp tan to his complexion. Mrs.
liussell Clarke looked demure and charming
with a lovely fur collar to her coat.
Mackenzie, of the Railways, had his wife
down from Echuca. Mrs. Weedon wore
small pink roses in the floppy velvet hat of
an Italian opera basso. Gaud Mayor
Hennessy and his lady swam to and fro.
She inhabited a beautiful floral-silk gown
with Chinchilla furs. (By the way, another
bomb of this session is a Bill to do away
with aldermen in Melbourne. They are not
going to drop the present lot into the river
with bricks in their tail pockets; but, even
so, the idea is horrible.) The Frank
Madden dame wore a round feather-pugged
toque exactly like a Fijian’s hair-thatch.
The daughters, on the other hand, discarded
their usual theatrical style and appeared in
quiet tailorings.
Guests everywhere were congratulating
Sachse on his re-election as Chairman of
Committees in the Council. It is becoming
a habit with Sachse; he will be President
some day.
■.The pretty little Adamson girl—fair with
pink and blue trimmings—trotted about
with a sister whose new name I disre-
member. Foreign consuls were scattered
about. The new Chinese consul is young
and good-looking; the Belgian vice-consul
lias a perfect complexion and talks French
to the girls who frequent the Alliance
Frangaise.
The Grand National Steeplechase on
Saturday finished the serious horse-business
with a flourish of hoofs. The two other
galloping days were drowned in icy rains,
so Saturday’s racegoers were thankful for
even brief bursts of sunshine. Somebody
sighted a gorgeous car-driver in the pad-
dock. We all thought for a moment that
it was a Prodigal Excellency ; but it wasn’t,
after all. The genthelps these days have
to carry wraps at bazaar openings and tame-
cat afternoons. If the war goes on much
longer they may form a trades union, No. 1
rule of which will demand for the members
the right to go to races, war or no war.
The many Manifolds, dressed in overcoats
and valuable skins, gathered for a eorroboree
on the soppy lawn when brave old Coradjill
carried the yellow and violet colors to the
winning post in the Steeple, and thereby
earned £1444. The weather suited the noble
old animal, and a delighted backer, who
smashed his brolly over the back of the
stand, yelled the truth when he proclaimed
“Coradjill would win up to the saddle in
mud!” His Camperdown owners are getting
back into a winning vein after a long slump.
The Charlie Fairbairns watched their Booli-
gal lose his rider and then sail over every
jump like a misguided stag, and Bullawarra,
'the favorite, earned only third money for
the Norman Falkiners. The Leigh and Nor-
man Falkiner womenfolk were round the
birdcage, pretty nearly lost in huge fur coats.
Mrs. Geoffrey Syme wore a Dolly Warden
coat cut from one of the seals that Shackle-
ton didn’t eat. Mrs. Billy Williams livened
her heavy skins with a duck of a sapphire-
blue straw hat. Her sables were shaped
like a ’Varsity gown with an ermine hood.
The social super-Dreadnoughts have to think
out special shapes for their furs now that
hide coats are worn by everybody, and shop
and factory girls get their rabbit-skins on
time payment. Lawyer Ardley, from Warr-
nambool, walked the lawn in a trim frock
coat, while his wife supported 10 yards of
sealskin. Mrs. Leslie Macdonald was so
belted and basqued in blue that her numer-
ous, full, and very short skirts looked like
a Maori belle’s clothes. Mrs. Guy Sher-
wood, back from her travels, wore natty
khaki tailorings. Queen Mills of Gipps-
land the First received congratulations in
electric blue.
Nearly every woman in sight wore a short
fur coat and very high, spatted boots.
Much of the footwear was too tight, judging
by furrowed, anxious brows. The fashion-
able high heels and narrow toes always make
a big woman in furs look top-heavy, and the
inevitable happened at last on Saturday.
A massive dame toppled over in front of the
grandstand, revealing plump legs, and her
stout husband blushed furiously as he helped
her up amid cheers. A social accident like
that discovers how many Chesterfields a
race crowd doesn’t "contain, llubby looked
furious enough to eat her —and the bill for
the (censored) boots has probably still to
arrive.
The Stanley dame went along to the Town
Hail on Saturday afternoon in her cream
brocade velvet coat. The Gaud Mayor was
to open a show of antiques, and she wanted
to see him do it. Many of the exhibits had
tried to get a new start in life, at the r ed-
eral Government House auction. Others
were new dug-outs of great value. Melba
has a keen eye for the genuine article, and
she picked up some bargains at the vice-
regal show three months back. Present exhi-
bition will last for a week or two, and the
useful Sassiety flapper is to hand tea.
Jealousy spoilt whatever chances the
Queen Carnival pageant had of being a real
entertainment. There was practically no
co-operation —merely ieuds and sly. obstruc-
tion. “We have no connection with those
Queens,” said one procession leader haught-
ily. ‘‘One of them stole my best figure tor
her court!” So there were several separate
shows instead of one big one. Char-
lotte Hemming led a Shakspearian proces-
sion; Fritz Hart and wife commanded a
Greek crowd ; and Mrs. McCubbin, on belnilt
of the Artists, ran an “Australia” show ot
her own. She secured a Juuoesque girl
from Bendigo with a good contralto voice
to play the name-part, and Miss Australia
was to burst into song when she reached
the steps, thus revealing herself to the sur-
prised world as a new Voice. But there
was no music for the turn; so poor Miss
Australia was left standing half-paralysed
with embarrassment until a hand beckoned
frantically to her to return, and she gal-
loped to cover with her Australian fames
panting behind her.
The nuns of St. Vincent’s, for whom it
was all done— ostensibly, at any rate—are
packing off some of the overworked secre-
taries to their country rest-home tor a
month’s recuperation.
Queen Mills, of Gippsland, has been made
a life governor of St. Vincent s. 1 he sisters
of the big hospital entertained her at altei-
noon-tea last week, and gave her much praise
and an illuminated address. H.M. in her
turn gave a supper party at the Occidental
to all the members of her false-alarm Court
and to several rival claimants for the pennj
crown she won after a clash of bank
accounts. ..
The patriotic league figureheaded by the
Hennessy dame —a busy concern which
boasts that every item of its service is
voluntary—is taking time by the front hail,
and begins to garner a harvest of Christmas
gifts for the men on the Australian war-
ships, as well as for the wirelessers and
the bridging train. Superintendent Beatrice
Henty is directing operations as usual, with
one eve on Mesopotamia and the other on
the North Sea, both hands full of cheques
from earnest contributors, and a voice
hoarse from attempting to Get Something
Done before the next boat leaves, every-
body is to receive something this Christmas,
and any girl who wants to pack a little
box on her very own can get the regulation
pattern for Gd. at the Town Hall.
Melba is getting drawn into the Arts and
Crafts whirlpool. The A. and C. gave a
special flax-spinning show on Thursday and
Friday, and the top-noter came along to see.
So far she has used a spinning-wheel only
in grand opera, but is thinking now of
twirling it for its own sake. Mrs. Oswald
Svme is very proud of the useful nature ot
the latest A. and C. work On Friday there
was an exhibition and sale at which some
lucky woman bought a whole trousseau ot
liandwrought treasures. Lady Stanley, a
keen enthusiast, took a great fancy to the
coloring in a May Vale enamel and per-
suaded his Ex. to buy it for her. Mis.
Geoffrey Syme bought heaps of things. Some
capable needlewomen are putting their best
skill into jolly little frocks for children
which sell much better than the old time
“fancy work.”
Verdun has cost Australia another of its
well-liked French citizens, and widowed
another Australian girl. As soon as the war
broke out A. J. Gabriel, general manager for
the Michelin tyre people in Australia, lett to
rejoin his regiment; he and his brother one
of the principals in the Miehelin business
France —were both sergeants m tne 14t>tn.
The brother was killed in the earliest
the invasion; Andre Gabriel lasted throug
until April 13, when lie was buried alive by
a shell at Dead Man’s Hill.
Tewkesbury, mining man and boss ot the
Oriental, is coming back to Melbourne with
a line trophy—a dag that bears the auto-
graphs of Joffre, Kitchener and lesser war
giants. The bit of bunting will be auctioned
during Cup week when the air is full or
dying money. .
Major Balmain, husband of the Fanban-n
heiress, has cabled the exciting news that he
has an excellent new job on th< r..-"f 1 ;'
quarters Staff in France. W ife
now on the way to England, and will have
to re-direct her baggage train to I ans.
Dorothy Bridges was one of the first of the
social enthusiasts to rush into Melbourne
Hospital as a trainee when war broke out.
She eventually went under with measles, ot
mumps, or something, and was sent north to
Bananaland to recuperate. There she has
been staying with Mrs. Foxtou. Mie is due
back in Melbourne now, and is very eager to
get into a cap again.
The McMickings have come down to town
from the border for a winter of Ked-C rossing
and such seasonable dissipations, lhey ure
the station folk who claim ex-G.-G. Dudley
as a connection of some sort and have a
winter's lease of the Bartons’ house in
Toorak.
The Harry Emmertons, reinforced by
daughter Mrs. Norman Brookes, gave a tea-
party last Thursday to welcome Mrs. Beach-
croft, wife of the visiting Indian Judge. It
was just as frivolous and well-dressed a party
as the war limit allows, and I can tell ,\ on
the war-limit doesn’t cramp the best-dressers.
Mrs. Alex. Landale heard last week that
her nephew and son-in-law, Cyril, has been
shrapnelled in the knee after a year in the
British trenches. Cyril is an Anglo-Aus-
tralian member of the clan and was travel-
ling this way with wife Edythe when the
war began. lie hurried back to England
and picked up a commission before wading
into the battle. His captaincy came to him
in his last trench.
Syd Dalrymple, formerly one of the nicest
ballroom stars of Melbourne, is busy some-
where along the thunderous lines. He has
lately been made a captain and llight-com-
mander in the R.F.C.
Brenda Sutherland, daughter of the late
Alexander anil one of Melbourne’s ’Varsity
girls, has got through her finals in domestic
science at Toronto University (Canada),
and won a special gold medal. An offer to
go on the teaching' staff of the University
of Wisconsin is now being considered.
Erica Lines is taking papa Oscar away
for a short trip to London, to gave him a
change from the dignified gloom of the Bank
of N. S. Wales. Nowadays Erica is an ami-
able, unambitious damsel, mostly engaged in
domestic matters, new clothes and so forth.
But there was a period, in the days when the
late Franklin Peterson was a newly-imported
professor, during which her doting parents
had an idea that their little Erica was an
infant prodigy ; so they sent her up to the
Con. wfith a pink ribbon in her hair, a violin-
case in one hand and a doll m the other.
However, time cures most ambitions. After
a few months under Henry Curtis little
Erica folded up her collapsible music-stand,
and the Con. knew her no more.
Word has been received by a Melbourne
friend of Lord Dicky Nevill that the ami-
able liichard is laid up in a Canadian hospi-
tal with a fractured thigh. It happened
through a slip on a railway platform while
he was serving his country as A.D.C. to the
Connaughts.
Muriel, daughter of Sydney Stott, of the
Business College, is now a practising archi-
tect in Melbourne. Her special line is plain
home-building, with particular attention to
such up-to-date details as the cat’s-kennel,
the chemically-pure jam-closet and the de-
horning of the domestic dilemma, with all
sorts of built-in help for the housewife who
is her own “general.” Apparently Sydney
hasn’t a w r oman-architect with a brass-plate
of her own; but for 10 years or more most
of the designing in John Dunstan and Son’s
office has been the work of a capable daugh-
ter of John’s. Mabel Dunstan mixes church
architecture with the domestic-aids hobby.
From Berrambool, the Moffatt wool-farm
on the pleasant upper reaches of the Hop-
kins, a new anthologist has stepped forward.
This time it is Mrs. Bill Moffatt with a most
exclusive publication concerning Food. It
contains representative items from the house-
wives of many well-known, well-fed Western
District sheeperies; and the nature of these
prescriptions gives some indication of the
simple habits of the Victorian squattoemcy
in its native haunts. The cash from Mrs.
Moffatt.’s effort is to go the usual way taese
times.
Painter Fred MeCubbin’s modesty made
him forget one interesting item when he
was writing his recently-published memoirs.
In his young days he had a real operatic
tenor voice and was one of the choristers at
St. Paul’s.
May Yale Gilfillan is due to start a fort-
night of art in the Besant Rooms, Centre-
wav, on Wednesday. Enamels, miniatures
and little sketches will be shown. When
May isn’t busy with portrait work in her
studio she does outdoor sketching in quiet
country places, or in one of the many old-
fashioned Melbourne gardens where she and
her easel are always welcome.
The Bulletin’s old contributor “Exile"
tells me that Ambrose Patterson has been
holding an exhibition of paintings in Hono-
lulu. The collection consists chiefly of land-
scapes painted on the islands of Oahu and
Hawaii, along with two or three European
studies and a few Japanese scenes. Tin-
most ambitious picture is of the volcanic
peaks and rugged mountains surrounding
Honolulu, taken from the Pali, the hill on tin-
outskirts of the town which you must climb.
Alice McCullagh, of the famous Wood-
lands station in the Western District, is in
Melbourne for three months’ Red Crossing.
When a squatter’s girl wants to visit town
now the Cross is the device she paints on
her trunks. Before the war the dentist
was the country cousin’s best excuse for a
leaf- from the family cheque-book. Alice,
who is a rider of note, patrols Collins-street
in a mannish black coat and hat, and
mounted on a huge white hack.
Billy Moffat, son of the John Moffats ot
Brighton, where the cabbage grows, married
Ethel Machin last week as quietly as possi-
ble. But as his family have been part o!
Brighton since the Flood, and all the social
battle-fleet of Old St. Hilda know the bride,
it wasn’t a dead-quiet function. Dome
Moffat and Nellie Machin spotted perfect
frocks in bridesmaid parts, and the bride
appeared in white cloth with the finest white-
fox pelt that ever grew in Siberia. Trooper
Fullarton and Keith Allard—also in khaki—
were the escorts for the bridesmaids.
Irene, one of the smart twin daughters of
the Kiuniel Thompsons, walked into Scots'
Kirk last Thursday as lierself and came out
Mrs. Angus Reid. No guests at all, my dear
—only myself under a seat admiring her
lovely cream cloth duds. Twin-sister Florrie
shadowed her in a cute frock of hydrangea
blue crepe de chine, and they were both
smothered in furs. Leslie Elder best-manned
the pretty show, and afterwards the small
wedding party went off to the Thompson
home and showed themselves off to a family
party, which I watched from a tree. Angus
is son of the Reids, of Camperdown.
Another engagement —this time Capt.
Australia to Miss England. The man is
Dr. Rupert Reynell, 11.A.M.C., of the Coul-
ter Hospital, in Grosveqor Square, a son
of Walter Reynell, of Reynella (S.A.), to
Una Shaw-Stewart, a pretty and brainy
damsel who has half the peerage in her
family, including the Duke of Westminster
and the Marquis of Bath, and goodness
knows how many more.
There was a cloud over Wellington (MX.)
recently, when appendicitis killed Mrs. Willie
Levien. Her husband was away; he left
his sheep and his family to go and fight.
Mrs. Levien used to be Zoe Johnston. Her
death makes the second recent loss Charlie
Johnston, M.L.C., has had; a son, Earle, was
killed in France, and three others still wear
khaki.
A recruiting sergeant who is busy in a
Wimmera town tried hard to convince an
eligible young man that it was about time
he got a gun. The young man demurred,
and the r.s. eventually discovered that the
possible recruit was hanging back only on
account of his girl. The collector of volun-
tary armies then tackled the girl and used
his eloquence there. She burst into tears
and sobbed, “Oh, I can't! I’ve already
let five of them go—five I was engaged to!’’
Health-Minister McLeod is dealing with
the meningitis epidemic in Victoria by call
ing on the people to attend a series of free
lectures, at which they are shown various
ways of protecting themselves from, tin-
disease. One way is to refrain from attend-
ing public lectures, etc. McLeod mayn’t bo
able to see a joke; but he can make one,
all right.
There is a devoted band of workers who
“mend” for the soldiers in camp, and none
are more blessed than they. Some of the
boys in camp haven’t a soul else to put in a
stitch for them. The leader is Mrs. Gar-
rard, wife of the Colonel in charge of
Broadmeadows Camp; and Mrs. Knight, of
St. Kilda-road, is one of her captains. Miss
Rosenthal is secretary, and. when mending-
gives out, they work hard at packets of
clothes for the troopships. Mrs. Valdi
Mellor has just made an appeal to these
busy women to succor the orphans of French
soldiers. Anyone wishing to help with
gifts of clothing or money may hand them in
to the secretary on the first floor of Prell’s
Buildings.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


DEWAR
SmfaiP-s
V '* . A
1)
v
. g V
> ♦.
Scottish of
Kfoo feiafaUentfo Gcntuvy.
DEWAR’S
A Scottish Gentleman of the Eighteenth Century, and another
fine product of the period —Dewar’s Whisky. Proved, trusted,
renowned, the drink of our forefathers is our drink to-day
—evolved into the cosmopolitan beverage of the world.
Copyright.
JOHN DEWAR & SONS, LT?- Scotch Whisky Distillers, Perth & London


Don’t Trifle
with a Cough
take
Of all Chemists,
1/3. 2/9. 4/6
There is positively nothing equal to Angier’s
Emulsion for coughs, bronchitis, and all
chest affections. Not only does it heal and
strengthen throat and lungs,- but it promotes
appetite, aids digestion, and builds up
I strength. For upwards of twenty-two years
I Angier’s Emulsion has been prescribed by
the medical profession and used in hospitals.
It is the standard approved remedy for
coughs and lung troubles.
FREE TRIAL
BOTTLE.
Send name and address, 4d. postage, and mention this paper.
Angier Chemical Co., Ltd., 7, Barrack Street, Sydney.
A Signal
Siieciii
ThcTOP-WOTCHScctck
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
BY PROXY.
WIFEY: “Why do you talk like that? You know I never pester yon for money."
HUBBY: “No, hut the people you buy things of do."
“Tiger”: “Hay” (B. 1/G/T6) is quite cor-
rect ; there is only one species of emu in Australia.
There were two, the Australian and Tasmanian
being distinct species, but, unfortunately, the Speck’s
■bird is extinct. Paris Museum has, I think, a
specimen, while an English collector has an egg.
Each of these exhibits is valued at about £lO,OOO.
They are the only two of the Tasmanian species
known. “Hay” mentions finding from one "to a dozen
eggs in an emu nest. The latter number was evi-
dently from a nest not quite ready for hatching, as
the emu invariably lays an odd number of eggs. The
most I have seen in one nest was 17, but have
heard of 19.
“Polstan”: The rabbit has a good deal
more sense than he is generally credited with. New-
chum trappers find this out as their visions of for-
tune disappear. The novice nearly always tackles a
warren first, setting a trap in every entrance; then
he retires under the impression that he has every
rabbit that wants to pass in or out. Later, he
is astonished to find that his catch isn't worth a
brace of drinks. A rabbit always knows when his
burrow has been interfered with, and leaps the trap.
Should one get caught the rest don’t try to pass the
entrances. Old trappers seldom set at a burrow, but
when they do they lay the trap above the entrance,
where the rabbits always frolic at sundown. Again,
the newchum, setting in open country, carefully con-
ceals the trap so that Bunny will walk on it in his
sleep. Bunny keeps off it with enthusiasm. The
experienced rnan meets cunning with cunning, and
digs a hole for his trap big enough to lose a cow in,
packing the earth well around the spring and smooth-
ing the earth over the plate with a twig. Brer
Babbit loves new earth better than his squaw, and
when he spots the grave he. loses his caution and
digs into it with all 10 claws. Besult, a free trip
to the city.
* * * •
“Quidam”: The ads. extolling the virtues
of different “skin foods” would lead one to suppose
an attractive skin was a good asset. In some in-
stances it is an advantage to be without it, as wit-
ness the wombat. Years ago, before Australians had
discovered virtue in ani'thing Australian, millions
of ’possums and thousands of wallabies, kangaroos
and wallaroos were to be found in the N.S.W. Blue
Mountains. The local inhabitants slaughtered them
off in the interests of “sport” and their crops in a
desultory sort of way, generally regarding them as
not worth the trouble of skinning. Then it was
discovered that people in other countries valued
them for their fur, and the fool Australian mur-
dered them as rapidly as possible and sold the pelts
at low prices to outsiders, while the wealthy female of
his kind arrayed herself in fox and otter and sea-
elephant and rhinoceros hides imported from abroad.
To-day ’possum in the Blue Mountains is as common
as elk in George-street, while native bears are
only found in Norman Lindsay pictures. But through
all this saturnalia of slaughter and stupidity one
aboriginal inhabitant still goes on his placid way
in large numbers, and that is the drowsy old wom-
bat. This gifted creature, known as “badger,” in
accordance with the good old habit of importing
everything, even names, is apparently descended
from a prehistoric native bear that was too lazy to
climb trees, so took to subterranean habits. Ilis
skin is useless for market purposes ; consequently he
inhabits the earth in large numbers, and as he has
sufficient sense to stay underground all day, he
would have a good chance of hearing the last trump
were it not for two unfortunate failings. One is
that when a rabbit-proof fence obstructs his noc-
turnal travels, he simply goes straight on and
generally removes about two chains of netting.
This makes Cocky foam at the mere mention of his
name. His other failing is his predilection for
walking on to a rabbit-trap and going home with
tlie attachment. Judging by the remarks of trap-
pers some wombats must be a moving mass of iron-
mongery. If by any chance the spike holds, he
merely ploughs up all the ground within reach, and
then dozes off Tor a refreshing sleep. If liberated
in the morning he leaves at a canter for his dug-
out, and disappears for another sleep. A wombat
has more capacity for sleep than anything else in
the world—except perhaps George Reid. Inciden-
tally, the question of ploughing fields by means of
wombats, tied by a fencing wire to a stake in the
middle, might advantageously be made the subject
of a Royal Commission. With circular fields and
automatically-lengthening fencing-wire there might
be millions in the idea.
DIFFERENT.
M A: “But, dearie, you know it hurts me as much, as it does you."
DEARIE: “Yes, ma, but not in the same place! Boo-hoo!”
“Leo Lear”: After presenting the wedge-
tailed eagle with the cheque that goes to our largest
flying bird, I otter another prize for the smallest.
In Victoria there are several miniatures eligible.
If it wasn’t for the length of his tail feathers there
would be only one in it, the emu-wren. Its appen-
dage takes up 44in. of the bird's total of Clin. ; the
body would be lost in an eggeup. Yet this mite has
sometimes forced on him the rearing of the hefty
young of the bronze cuckoo, a bird three times his
size. Emu-wren’s tail is unique among our birds; it
consists of five long, separate, erect, emu-like feath-
ers. Though seldom seen, the chook is common in
reed-beds and rushes ; but keep a clear eye, for it is
quick in its movements, shy and silent. For total
length birds of stumpy tails, such as the little-tit
and the mistletoe-bird, each about 3jim overall, put
in a strong claim in the featherweight class. The
former is one of our most useful insect-eaters, and
the latter the host that spreads the mistletoe pest in
Australian forests. He is of beautiful scarlet and
steel-blue plumage and not out of the chorus in the
Melba line.
* * * *
“M.M.” : These rides, I think, will take some
beating. In 1856 a police magistrate named Price, who
weighed 14st. at least, rode from Wangaratta to Kil-
more, 120 miles, in one day. The horse was a chest-
nut known as liory, about 16 hands. ltory was
none the worse at the end of the journey, but, all the
same, no more police horses were lent to Price. In
the early ’7o's two troopers in the Mansfield district
of Victoria rode, on the same day, close on 100 miles.
Constable James was on Pugilist, a sluggish horse
which had to be forced along the first hour or so.
The other horse, Punch by name—he was shaped
something like a giraffe—carried Constable Scanlan
(12st.) over the Puzzle Ranges and was ridden hard
in pursuit of prisoners who had escaped from the gaol
at Kilmore. Scanlan was subsequently one of the
victims of the Kelly gang.
* * * *
“Crosscut”: Re “J.A.D.’s” (B. 15/6/T6)
information about ox-chauffeurs doing black magic
with a whip. Let me tell him that if “Long Joe”
was around the mills in Southern Vic. nowadays he
would soon get his walking ticket if the blood
spurted when his whip fell. A whip cut soon heals,
but the hair always stands up along It and reduces
the animal’s value. A whip, properly used, marks, but
in a day or two the mark is gone and leaves nothing
to show that the bullock is a slug.
* * * *
“Pick”: “Tibia” (B. 15/6/T6) condemns
spider’s web for stoppage of bleeding, because some-
one died from blood-poisoning after its use. Yet
cleanly gathered and applied it has often enough
been proven a successful stanch. I once saved a
valuable horse with a cut artery by the use of web
after the bush vets, had failed with everything else.
Come to think of it, too, the horse or bloque that
bleeds to death is just as dead as the one that goes
aloft from blood poisoning.
“Pick”: A big sea-eagle beating up against
a storm can teach points to the best yachtsman that
ever hauled in a jibsail. I watched one facing'
a southerly “buster” over Wintle’s Point (N.S.W.).
The wind was pushing on at the rate of 100 miles
per hour, but the bird floated aloft seemingly motion-
less, except that he swayed occasionally from side to
side and with each lurch alternately changed the
screw-sweep of his long wings. My impression was
that the gale howling across the exposed point,
against which I could hardly advance, had quite
bested the big fellow, but, after steadily testing his
strength for a time, he surged ahead with no apparent
effort, and, not tacking a yard, sailed onward against
the tempest. I failed in a mental calculation .to
estimate how many tons per square inch of eagle
that blow must have exerted; I could only marvel at
the ease with which the bird’s rigid wings outdid
the elements.
THE EXCEPTION THAT PROVED
THE RULE.
“But I don't understand you. You always
say you don't care how much a chap
talks shop."
“ That's all very well. But this fellow's an
undertaker!"
“Barcoo”: I’m entering Chas. Freeman,
jumbuek barbel - of Scone, Longreach (Q.), in the
All-Aged Stakes. He has been peeling profits off
the “monkey’s” back for 43 years, and has just
reached the three-score mile-post. He can still pitch
130 or 140 down the shoots daily. In one season he
shore 27,000 sheep, and for the whole year cleaned
up 40,000. Calculating from a rough diary kept
by him his total to date reaches 970,000. The old
’un was barbering at Daw River Downs (Q.) the
year Ted Williams took 14,900 sheep out of the
shed during 16J weeks’ shearing. These are two
records, I claim.
(Continued on page 24.)
THE LOVER AND THE CYNIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Lover in me said: “Her eyes
Are exquisitely blue.”
The Cynic in me said: “Unwise
In color schemes are you !
You’d be the same old easy prey
To any other tint;
Besides, I make me bold to say
Their blueness has a squint!”
The Lover in me said: “Her skin
Is white as driven snow,
Except upon her cheeks, wherein
Twjn roses pinkly glow.”
The Cynic in me said: “What rot!”—
Before the “rot” a dash—
“ And have you noticed that she’s got
A most pronounced moustache!”
The Lover in me said: “Her hair
Resembles shredded gold ;
The owner of such treasure rare
Is good to have and hold!”
The Cynic in me said: “The crop
That draggles from her head
Reminds me of a reddle-mop
Because it is so red!”
The Lover in me said: “Her voice
Is sweet as honey’s drips ;
Were I a bee I would rejoice
To linger near her lips.”
Tlie Cynic in me said: “Mayhap;
But in the by-and-bye
I fancy I can hear her snap :
‘You dirty dog, you lie!’ ”
The Lover in me said: “She’s just
The Lily of Desire—
For her I’d go through mud and dust,
Through famine, flood and fire!”
The Cynic in me said: “Perchance;
And p’r’aps through seas of gore—
But in the Book of Old Romance
I’ve read that tale before!”
The Lover in me lost his heart,
The loss was most complete ;
And though a heart’s a valued part
The loss was sweet —so sweet!
The Cynic in me sagely said:
“Most flatly I refuse
To ecstacise. But go ahead —■
It's all you have to lose!”
N.S.IV.
R. J. CASSIDY.


The “Red Spot” is Now On.
Get Busy
ill
This is your big-
chance to save money
on all kinds of Men’s
Wear. Prices have
slumped in every de-
partment —the “ Red
Spot” rides rampant
throughout the build-
ing. In our “Red
Spot” Catalogue you
will find many tempt-
ing lines. Write for
a copy, and send your
letter diredt to Desk
R. Send soon —
delay means
disappointment.
/*■
Overcoat
Snap.
These are splendid cold-resisters.
They are cut on ample, stylish lines
that give maximum comfort and
good looks. The “Red Spot”
has reduced the price to 21/9,
and you’ll have to order early.
A Suit of Style.
Murdoch’s good Tailoring is too
well known to need any special
praise. Send the coupon and get
samples of the new materials —
Red Spotted down to 58/D the
Suit to Measure.
Fill in the Coupon.
DESK B.
Messrs. Murdoch’s In Park Street Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
Please forward patterns of “Red Spot”
Suitings at 58/9, also tape and self-
measurement form.
NAME
ADDRESS
Murdoch’s
IN PARK
ST. LTD,
Sydney
“Where the GOOD Hats are.”
“Billy Hughes buys
a Soda Fountain."
Any day Australia might expect this news.
We warn the Australian public not to he the least surprised
to find a Soda Fountain in little Billy’s knapsack. He’s got
the happy knack of doing the right thing at the right time.
The right thing for you to do is to instal a Soda Fountain.
The time is now. The place to get the goods is—
Nelson’s Carbonating Co. Ltd., 219 George Street, Sydney.
fas
Life’s success is made up
in two words, “grasping
opportunities.” In the race
for success, the man with
the Soda Fountain leaves
his competitors far behind.
Australia sent you a great
message through the ballot-
box. Now it’s up to you.
Just think, where are you
going to be? Out in front
or in the ruck?
Complete Plants Ready for
use from
We invite inquiry. We want to tell you all about tlie wonderful
Soda Fountain business. We carry tlie largest stocks of Soda
Fountain material in Australia.
£25
NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. LTD.,
The House of Quality 219 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at Turbot Buildings, Turbot Street, BRISBANE.
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH.
s
2a
r”'r
%
m
e
Playing a record with your own
expression with the “ Graduola device
Manufactured and Sold only by
You can purchase
A VOCALION
from £l2lO-
- response to an insistent demand for the
wonderful Aeolian-Vocalion in less expensive
styles than the models already catalogued,
we are now able to announce 3 new models,
D, E and F. These new Vocalions have
all the characteristic qualities of the more
expensive styles, and make a worthy
addition to this line of famous DISC
reproducing instruments.
Intending Purchasers of a Disc Machine are invited to hear the
Vocation. Its Superior Tone and Exclusive Musical and Mechanical
Features will make a Direct Appeal to Music Lovers.
The cost is no more than ordinary instruments of
other makes —Catalogue B and Price List mailed
free on request. Extended payments arranged.
LARGE STOCKS OF ALL THE BEST DISC RECORDS .
THE PIANOLA COMPANY
384 George Street, SYDNEY
(Opp. Beard Watson’s),
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE , BRISBANE .


Martin's Pills are sold by W. H. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
C°
V
1 S3dfl3 m
«o
"IVIdHdWI
I SSlddOW I
Obtainable all Chemists and Stores
TkeCHIASTOLITE
or Luck
Stone
The Wonderful Old-World War Charm.
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM.
Found in Australia.
Mounted as Pendants in 9ct. Gold, from 10/6 each.
Mounted as Rings in 9ct. Gold, from 20/- each.
The Black Opal Store, 89 Market St., Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, Cem Merchant, Proprietor.
Since It Costs No More to insist on having Zanetic
in your Penduplicate books, why not enjoy the pei -
feet, permanent pencopies obtained with such a
minimum of effort? If any difficulty in getting
supplied, either books complete or the sheets alone
furnished by S. B. Zanetic, Zanetic Works, Leicester,
England. ZANETIC is ALL BRITISH; contains no
foreign dye.—Advt.
h
ĥ
The SIGNS of SUPERIORITY
in Blue and Black Serges, Coatings,
and Dress materials are proclaimed
by the trade-marks here illustrated.
Every yard of
Genuine FOX Serges
bears these trade-marks. Ask for
“Fox” Serges—look for the trade-
marks —insist on these guarantees of
quality.
Manufactured by FOX Brothers & Go. Ltd., Somerset,
Eng. If you cannot obtain F6x Serges locally write
the agents. Stogdale & S6ns Pty. Ltd., Box
G.P.0., Sydney, who will tell you the nearest store-
keeper stocking it.
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-14 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
“Yancy”: Can any of the mob put forth
any toil which is as hard as lucerne pressing? My
view is that for unpleasantness, coupled with hard,
yakker, it can’t be beat. Perspiration and lucerne
leaf make an excellent dye, and if a man happens
to be hairy the only way to get rid of the other vege-
tation is to use time and a currycomb. What is a
good day’s work, say, on a Sim’s or Clyde? I have
heard of the former turning out six tons while five
tons have been spoken of on the Clyde.
“C.H.S.” : “How far can a ’roo leap?” (B.
22/6/’l6). Well, I don’t know. Never measured
tracks for linear distance; but a flying doe once
jumped over me. And I was riding a full-sized horse,
too. It was in or about 1881, at Mamambra
(N.S.W.). The whole district turned out to round
up kangaroos and yard them. IVe camped out over-
night and started the “drive” at daybreak into a
wing-yard. At the end it was—ough ! It was Ger-
man. But while closing in on them one poor doe
rushed me and went over my head and came down
with a smashed leg. Also, later on, an “old-man”
gave me a gash on the thigh. The scar is there yet.
And serves me right.
* * • *
“Happy Days” : I have tried many white-
ant-destroyers, and the best is a mixture of 2oz. of
arsenic to a pound of treacle. A few days after this
mixture has been plastered about the ants will dis-
appear. The Education Department of N. S. Wales
employs an expert whose method is usually success-
ful, but I can’t say what he uses. He treated two
ravaged wooden schools that I had charge of on the
coast, and the termites came no more. Perhaps he
got Mrs. Lee Cowie Harrison to reason with them in
order that the Allies might win the war.
■K- * * *
“Barcoo” stalks a dainty bird or two:—
Excepting the Territory, Bananaland is the most
liberally supplied with wild fowl, and nearly all
the birds look well on a dish. The most notable
are the plain turkey or bustard, the wild goose, the
scrub turkey, and the Cape Barron goose. On the
western downs at present the bustard is very numer-
ous, and stalkers are having a fine time. One gun
recently made a bag of 15 in the afternoon, but a
motor-car was used to get within range. To stalk
the shy fowl on foot is almost an impossibility,
except by using a sporting rifle and taking a shot
at from 175 to 200 yards. When the grass is
shooting after rain the bird rapidly puts on new
flesh, as white and palatable as chicken. I have
known a fat old cock-bird tip the beam at 261 b., but
a 12-months-old rooster of 121 b. or 141 b. is best for
the table. Properly seasoned, and baked by a cook
who won’t forget to apply the basting spoon, there
is no more toothsome morsel. The bustard’s chief
haunts are about the plains round the head of the
Gulf waters. A mob of 40 to 60, advancing in
extended order in the open plain, after the elusive
grasshopper, is a common sight. Of the other game,
the scrub turkey is about the best, and is plentiful
in the dense bush fringing the coast. All depends
on the cook whether it or the wild goose is the more
delicious. To get the goose the sportsman must be
THEORY AND PRACTICE.
P HYSICIAN: “As a physician I condemn the
use of alcohol.”
F RIEND: “But you use it yourself.”
PHYSICIAN: “Yes; but not as a physician.
When I drink I am just an ordinary
human being.”
on the scene of operations just before daybreak; the
rest is easy. The daintiest of small fowl is the
pigmy goose, very plentiful in the large fresh-water
lagoons fringing the Gulf. Split in two and grilled
—well, quail is tough mutton to it.
UNDER COMPULSION.
MR. M EEKUS: “I must
say my wife is the best
woman in the world.”
MR. CHEEKUS: “Uni-
ties. I suppose you
must."
“Whistling Bill”: “Sarto” (B. 4/5/’.16)
has only scratched the bare surface of kerosene-tin
possibilities. With one side cut out, six tins in their
cases, the latter nailed together with a couple of
slats at the sides, make an excellent
chest of drawers. Six is a convenient
number, but any number of additions
may be made on the sectional prin-
ciple. Cut diagonally, each tin pro-
vides two hanging shelves. Covered
with felt and warmed by a carefully-
regulated spirit lamp, a kerosene tin
makes a very passable incubator.
Filled with concrete it will serve to
build up house-stumps in white-ant
country. If high stumps are needed
the tops and bottoms of the tins are
cut out and the sections slipped into
each other to the required elevation.
With a slit in one side and a piece
of the metal turned out to deflect
rain, it is a frequent bush letter-box.
Half a tin with Y-shaped cuts in its
sides provides an excellent rest for
small painted or varnished articles
which require to be coated all over
without obvious marks or touching
up. Fitted with a wooden handle
running lengthways, or a wire handle
covered with an old piece of hose, it
is a handy picnic basket. Cut length-
ways, at a depth of four inches or so,
there is in each sound kerosene tin a
useful baking dish for meat, or a
tray for striking seeds out of reach
of ants and other pests. Provided
with a balanced door on top and six
inches of water it is a successful
mouse-trap. Or, by cutting a star-
shaped opening in the top, turning
the points of the star inwards, and
baiting with fish or meat, a kerosene tin fur-
nishes a means of indicating to thieving dogs and
cats that their presence is not desired. There are
some five score other uses.
“Daybreak”: Re the peculiar manner in
which some animals meet their doom. My boss had
a champion milk-producer of the Durham persuasion,
with gracefully-curved horns pointed in the direction
of St. Peter’s address* One morning she was miss-
ing, and long and diligent search failed to locate
her. About a fortnight later we came across her
remains in a little clump of bush just outside the
boundary fence. She had evidently gone there to
camp, and during the night one of her gracefully-
curved rippers had become fast in the root of a
tree, which was no thicker than the horn itself,
and just sufficiently arched from the ground to let
Daisy’s ornament pass underneath. Horn and root
were locked together like two clasped fingers.
“Snell”: Mortman was a cocky of stern
teetotal conviction. He ran his 640 acres as a
prohibition district, and an employee found smelling
of any of the known drinks was instantly dismissed
with an indelible stain on his escutcheon. When
fire got into Mortman’s stacks one night, Crogan
was the last upon the scene. But when he did
arrive he came with exceptional celerity, and his
enthusiasm in the cause was unbounded. By this
time, however, the big haystack was one massive con-
flagration. The heroic Crogan went straight at it,
bare-handed, clawing the blazing hay with imbecile
ferocity. The fire was already in his shirt, when
two men tore him off. Crogan walloped himself
loose and ploughed into the flaming element once
more. This time he lost two-thirds of an excellent
head of hair. Believing his man mad, Mortman took
him by the left leg, and hauled him to a safe dis-
tance. “Stay here, you fool!” he said. “Fool
yerself!” yelled Crogan, fighting to be free. “It’s
very well fer you, wid on'y yer dirty hay, but I ve
ha’f a bottle iv whisky planted in that shtack.”
“D.F.”: Even the dogs had better
memories in the good olil days. In June, 1786.
one Marshall, master of the transport Scarborough,
left a Newfoundland hound behind him in Sydney.
He did not come back till May, 1790, and then, on
the evidence of Judge-Advocate Collins, the dog
swam off as soon as the ship anchored in the harbor,
climbed on board to welcome his old master, and
would not leave him again.
“Constant Reader”: A buyer from a
north-west town recently rode his horse down the
Leichhardt River and nearly to Burketown, then
back by Cantooweal and in and out to nearly all
stations en route, and then back to Calton Hills, a
distance of over 500 miles. He started on April 1
and finished on the afternoon of the 23rd. lie says
he travelled only 14 days out of the 23, that his
weight was 12st.; saddle 241 b.; valise, tucker, etc.,
about 101 b. or 151 b. This good Australian horse'had
no feed except grass on the trip.
* * * *
“Pick”: “Agricola” opineth that the
moisture exuded from wattle trees at certain seasons
is due to the irritation of some grub under the
peeling. If he calls in on that grub he will not
find him at home. The weeping wattles are always
found in low or damp places, and the drip from
their twigs and bark is simply surplus sap oozing
out. Along parts of the dry bed of Lake George,
where wattles have sprung up abundantly, this
weeping is excessive. Sheep get wet when camping
in the shade, and the grass below remains green and
luxuriant throughout the driest summer.
V * * *
“Hay”: It is a fact that there are men in
the bush who are able to find their way about with-
out any kind of guiding landmarks. Towards the
south-west corner of N. S. Wales, in country
densely covered with mulga and needlewood Scrub,
where it was impossible to see more than a hundred
yards ahead, a search party had been all day following
the tracks of a lost boy. Towards evening he was found,
and the party wanted to get buck to camp by the
shortest cut possible. But where was the camp ? “11l
take you back in a straight line,” said a bushman ;
and he did. Asked how he knew the way he said
he just felt that he was going in the right direction.
His movements had nothing to do with keen obser-
vation of natural objects, for the objects were all
alike in appearance. Binghi in his own districts
possesses this faculty in a marked degree, and can
generally go in a direct line to any point he wishes
to reach. I believe the ability to take a beeline to
any given place is a rare and valuable gift, though
many bushmen through long years of experience
have cultivated a habit of observation which serves
them almost as well.
“Nick Bottom”: “Sandgroper” needn’t
bite his thumb at “P.L.’s” yarn about bullocks
sweating through their hides. I have humored a
good many steers and can vouch for it that they do
perspire through their skins the same as any other
Christian. It is true that more moisture is passed
off per medium of muzzle and tongue, but some gets
through Nobby’s hide in the good old-fashioned way.
I have seen bullocks that sweated as much as some
horses, and, incidentally, I have seen horses that
sweated less than some bullocks.
EXPLAINING HIS MOTIVE.
MIKE (to friend who has fallen down the
well): “I say, Pat, how d'ye come to
fall in, at all?”
VOICE FROM BELOW: “Damme! I didn’t
come to fall in. I came to yet some
water!”
“St. Jimmy”: Recently, in the bush, I
came across a low-forked tree one stem of which was
a peppermint gum, the other a silver top. The fork
was about 2ft. from the ground and each stem had
a height of some 30ft. In the common trunk each
half of the tree maintained its peculiarities of bark,
and there was no sign of a junction. Could the
result have been obtained by a natural graft through
some injury, say, to one of the trees when young?
WANTED—A BUFFALO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wanted —a Buffalo, second-hand and in good con-
dition. —Daily paper.
My wants are many, but I have not wept
Salt tears upon my pillow in the night
For lack of shaggy quadrupeds. I kept
Guinea-pigs for my infantile delight;
But camel, buffalo and crocodile,
As pets, I never yet have deemed worth while.
Why should this advertising person seek
To graze such beasts on his suburban lawn?
Are there not cows of dappled hide and sleek
To yield him quarts of milk at dewy dawn?
Are there not dogs that any wight may keep
Whose midnight barkings may pollute his sleep?
Why must a buffalo be his for choice?
Why should its hairy hump be second-hand?
May not his soul in Persian cats rejoice—
New cats with floating tails and whiskers bland?
Alas, his mind is set. It must be so.
Produce the large and festive buffalo!
What’s that? An incubator he demands?
His buffalo is but a metaphor?
Or would he hatch from eggs the beast that stands
There in cold print? These puzzles I abhor.
Are buffaloes employed in this sad day
For hatching eggs that common roosters lay?
K.S.W.
MARY McC.


h
a Studebaker 'fOUO’takind a SO"hill on an
unbeaten road with intermediate dear
FOUD CYLINDER
Touring Car _t~
JZ
*
0:
M
H.
c
os
<a
p-*
/k
Note short distance mixture travels
from carburetor to cylinders Flexibil-
ity and Fuel-economy result
* * # *
This rear-axte shows how freely Tim-
ken bearings are usedto reducefHctlon.
There are 13 In all in the Studebaker
0
(3)
V
;^ eV
\
«!^*» c ??SS'-''-l
*&«%>**
Reproduced from actual
photograph (a fen at
Longmont , ColoU S A
-built to stand up on
the roughest roads-
thats the Studebaker
By concentrating on practically one
chassis for the past five years Studebaker
engineers have produced one of the best
cars in the world. Strength, tight-
ness, simplicity and accessibility
are the keynotes of its construction
The chassis, of channel steel, is scientifically
proportioned arid reinforced to always preserve
alignment. And it is perfectly “balanced" —
it drives straight as an arrow.
In the Studebaker all driving thrusts are taken
up by radius rods and a pressed steel torque
arm, so Studebaker springs have just one
function to absorb the inequalities
of the road. And Studebaker springs are
amply large long, supple, resilient they
smooth out the roughest roads.
But it's the Studebaker engine that make 9
these cars the hill-climbers that they are.
Long-stroke, high-speed, high-efficiency, with
notable improvements in the design of the
pistons, the crankshaft, the intake manifold and
the bearings, it is one of the smoothest running
motors ever built, and probably the MOST
ECONOMICAL.
Let us show you the ability of this car. If
you cannot call, a request will bring you inter-
esting illustrated descriptive matter.
STATE IMPORTERS FOR AUSTRALASIA—
VICTORIA—TURNER BROS., Swanston Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND—CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA-ARMSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY Perth
SOUTH AUSTRALIA —Messrs. T. J. RICHARDS & SONS LIMITED, Adelaide
TASMANIA—W. H. GAHAGAN, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND-ADAMS LIMITED, Christchurch
General Distributors
for Australasia—
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Ltd.
177 Elizabeth St.,
SYDNEY.


The Aged and Infirm
are sometimes more susceptible to COUGHS and COLDS on the
CHEST than the young and vigorous. When an aged person gets
a Cold, it is of the utmost importance that not only is the BEST
REMEDY taken immediately, but that the Remedy is one that
does NOT cause any Heart Depression, nor in any way weaken
an already frail constitution. In such a case, HEARNE S Bronchitis
Cure is just THE proper Medicine to use, a 3 it is the QUICKEST,
SAFEST and BEST—a Remedy that is just as effective with
YOUNG PEOPLE.
ys
L
7Z
a
rr—
-14
< • fM C S ity-y-ym^
Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure
The Finest Remedy in the World
For Coughs, Croup,
Colds on the Chest
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION
Price 2/6 and 4/6 (double size)
From all Chemists and Stores.
If not obtainable in your
district, send direct to —
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Offices —
Sydney, N.S.W., Wellington, N.Z.
“O.P. Side”: “The Royal Divorce” should
be sent to the scrapheap before it alienates
the noblest of our Allies. Written, appar-
ently by a stage carpenter with an axe. when
the bulk of the English still regarded France
with foolish and traditional dislike and dis-
trust, it is an insult equally to France and
Italy. Napoleon idealised and loved Jose-
phine. as the letters from his early campaigns
witness. She was already a hack of the
Revolution when he married her, a Creole
with the loose morality of her time. Despite
his desire for nn heir, it is unlikely that a
great idealist like Napoleon would ever have
thrown her down but for her unfaith-
fulness. lie had no luck with women,
because be understood them as imperfectly
as did Shakspeare—another great idealist.
Yet this drivelling play persists in falsifying
history to make Josephine a meek Griselda.
The rather foolish introductory ’S which
Victor Kelly made popular in Australia in
“Mother Goose” is rampant in England.
Among new revues are “’S Nice” and “ S
onlv a Rumor.” Other taking titles are
“Fads and Fancies,” “Kiss me. Sergeant!
and the painfully appropriate “Lights out!
London.”
“J.F.IL”: J. M. Barrie's “A Kiss for
Cinderella,” produced at the Wyndham, is
in the fantastic vein of “Peter Pan.” It was
to have been a half-hour variety-theatre
sketch entitled “Cinderella in War-time,”
with onlv four .characters; but in the pro-
cess of composition it grew and developed
until it became a full-sized two-hour play.
It is written around a little maid-of-all-
worlc, who conceives it to be her duty to do
her bit” in war-time. Her “bit” takes the
form of mothering homeless babies in an
East-end slum. These are suspicious times
in London, so a young policeman calls to in-
vestigate this unknown Cinderella, finds
everything all right, remains to admire, and
finally falls in love, with the customary stage
conclusion. Hilda Trevelyan is little Cin-
ders and Gerald Du Maurier the senti-
mental bobby, Henriette Walker, a severe
lady doctor, and a journalistic peer, is
pulled in to enable Barrie to play with the
Censor, for whom nobody has any respect.
Barrie’s recent efforts have not been suc-
cesses, but this one looks like putting his
crown on again.
A Melbourne friend of the Argus is both-
ered by bands that pass in the night and the
tunes they blow at him: —
It does not tend to help one’s sleep by having
1000 men inarch past your door, headed by a full
brass band, and the strains of “Hello! Hello!
Who’s Your Lady Friend; Who’s the Little Girlie
by Your Side?”
It doesn’t seem the sort of trouble one should
pass on to a decorous lady-paper. And, in
any case, the hon. member should give notice
of a question like that.
In connection with the new British war
tax on amusements, theatre and picture-
show managements were given the choice
of three methods: (1) They could purchase
stamps of the various values and affix them
to the tickets of admission; (2) they could
purchase Government-stamped tickets of
admission; or (3) by giving the authorities
a £5OO guarantee, they could pay on certified
weekly returns. Most West End and sub-
urban houses decided to adopt the third
plan; a few are utilising the stamped
tickets.
“S.S.”: Well-known writers in England
are combining to defend their property
against the pirates who turn stories into
biographic dramas. There is urgent need
for some such system of self-defence. In
several films issued by an American firm I
have discovered a similarity to a set of
eccentric Australian stories of my own pub-
lished seven or eight years ago—-a similarity
too marked and too consistent to be mere
coincidence. There are scores of Yankees
making fat incomes out of this work of con-
triving dumb drama, and not a few of them
are able to meet the demand by sticking to
a liberal policy of thieving.
The long wait between the Melba
“Otello” act and the first act of “Quinney’s”
at the Rep. has been explained. Some of
the Italian opera principals were sitting-
in the front row of the stalls for the opera
item. They rushed behind the scenes at
curtain-fall, and were followed by a second
wave of excitable Allies. Falling at and
on Melba’s glorious feet, they kissed her
white brocade shoes, her hands and the
hem of her singing nightie, and generally
were so demonstrative that the stage hands
couldn’t get Desdemona’s bed off and the
mock Chippendales on.
“J.F.H.” (London) : Haddon Chambers,
back in London from his annual visit to
the Yankee, reports unfavorably of the
manners and customs of the monarchs of
the movies. The Australian has had some
of his plays filmed in the States—“ The
Idler,” “The Fatal Cord,” etc. Technically,
he says the cinematograph is wonderful,
“but the persons with whom one has to deal
are simply uncouth. They do not under-
stand the temperament and needs of the
artist.” In these disgusting circumstances
Haddon has decided for the present merely
to “respond to the demand for permission
to adapt my plays to the picture theatre,
get the best fees I can, and not distress
myself in the least with the artistic
results.” Extracting what further consolation
he needs from the thought that the commer-
cial hogs will cut their own throats in due
course. “Picture art is just a sturdy infant
now. It will emancipate itself. You can
already see its struggles, and it has a
future which defies imagination.”
The Inky Way.
When Kitchener was in Christchurch
(M.L.) a cub reporter with ambitions took
himself by the ear and whispered that the
newspaper world would be at bis boots if
he could only get an interview with the big
soldier. He got drunk on the idea, and
after much mental agony and card-shoving
was ushered in and approached his prey.
Kitchener looked at the lion-tamer with
cold, uninspiring eyes, and waited.
“Good afternoon!” at length ejaculated
the reporter.
“Good afternoon,” said the Lion.
Then there was a silence of about two
months.
“I —I represent the Morning Babbler,”
stammered the unhappy youth.
“Oh!”
Then another Arctic winter of silence.
At last, gathering all his forces for a big
offensive, the journalist gasped: “Have you
anything to say. Lord Kitchener?”
“What would I have to say?” queried the
Inscrutable, cruelly.
The most miserable journalist in the
world was searching himself madly for the
right answer when “K” gave him the free-
dom of Christchurch wfith a crisp “Good
afternoon!”
There is at least one journalist who
rejects the post-mortem discovery that “K”
was really a genial person.
“B.B.”: Australia has had some bright
press boys when it came to nosing out a
couple of shillings to carry on with until
payday, but Sydney’s representative was It.
One morning, I was waiting at the church
when his jills strode up and said, “I say,
old chappie, lend me half a crown.” ‘‘Can’t,
old cock,” I answered. ‘‘l’ve just lent my
last half-crown to old Stifkens.” “Ah!”
(sniffing the air like a fox hound), “which
way did old Stifkens go?”
* * * *
“F.N.T.”: In the Journalist for June
the question of cheap literary labor is
politely mentioned, with particular refer-
ence to “a Labor member contributing
articles to a country newspaper.” The
member, having been approached on the
matter by the A.J.A., explained that _ he
wrote his articles because of the “political
benefit” received from them; and he is
alleged to be still doing it. Like the
scribbling clergyman, who gets his wage
from other sources and can afford to write
for a few shillings a column, the Parlia-
mentary free-contributor is an intruder and
a pest in a trade which a body of earnest
brain-workers is trying hard to elevate.
What would happen if an M.P., having his
salary to go on with, hutted in to the wharf-
lumping profession, and filled in spare time
at 3d. an hour?
* * * *
Our Mary Grant Bruce has settled in
Cork after recovering from a serious illness;
and no doubt the most distressful country
will yield her “copy” for another hook or
two to put on the shelves beside her good
Australian bush stories. This Gippsland
girl, whose uncle was Dean of Cork, married
her cousin, George Bruce, a major in the
strafing industry.
* * * *
“Potts and Slurk”: For years the Age
has taken great pride in a lecture periodically
delivered by one of its employees. Stung to
a retort by the 999th appearance of the usual
par. announcing that “Mr. G. A. Sweetland
will lecture on ‘How a Great Newspaper is
Produced,’ ” the hireling minion of a reptile
contemporary snapped out: “Good quad ! If
they’ve got a man who knows how a great
newspaper is produced, why the devil don’t
they keep him in the office?”
On the whole the indefinitely-suspended
N. S. Wales Labor daily has got easily out
of what might have been serious difficulties
with its general manager and editor. J. C.
Watson has been pretty steadily engaged in
looking up land for soldiers; now D. J.
Gilbert is appointed secretary of the semi-
public Australian Soldiers’ Repatriation
Fund, at £750 a year.
Headline from Sydney Daily Telegraph
(4/7/TO) :—•
£5 FOR A DUCK.
Brunette or blonde?
“Revilo” : The skirt is becoming frequent
on the Inky Way in Maoriland. The chief
reporter of Napier Herald is one of the
long-haired sex, Woodville Examiner and
Feilding Star have females on their
editorial staffs, and Reefton Times has long
been run by a woman. AYe'll have to alter
it to the Winky Way.
* * * *
“J.F.H.” from London :
The Daily Mail, the paper that without a doubt
revolutionised London journalism, completed its 20th
year on May 4, and Alfred Harmsworth, Lord Xorth-
cliffe, spreads "himself over two pages in recording
its achievements. At its start, he says, he spent a
couple of days and nights in the office without taking
off his clothes. Then having seen the baby safely
born he went home and slept for 22 hours, and would
have slept longer if the household had not become
alarmed and roused him. The Daily Mail was
in his mind and thoroughly thought out years
before it was born. From his 17th to his 20th year
he was a freelance in London, contributing to any
paper that would take his “copy,” and the knowledge
thus acquired convinced him that “the ease and
laxity of the directors of the London dailies, their
watertight compartments, and their smug compla-
cency needed an awakening in the national interest.”
So he stirred them up as soon as- the time, the
money and the opportunity arrived. Only one man
at the top listened to his ideas. That was George
Augusta Sala, of the Daily Telegraph. Sala bore
with young Harmsworth ventilating his ideas of what
a London morning paper should be, and then dis-
missed the enthusiast with: “Take my advice and
have nothing to do with journalism. I have been
at it for 40 years, and I know.” The youngster’s
father, who was a barrister, gave him the same
COLLES’S IDEA OF COLLES GOME
MARCHING HOME AGAIN.
advice, and urged him to qualify for briefs. But he
was determined. He started Answers, and scored his
first success. Then he took up the derelict London
Evening News, in which the Conservative party had
lost £300,000, and soon transferred it into a first-
class paying- property. So the ground was prepared
for the Daily Mail and the beginning of a new
epoch in London journalism. Incidentally, North-
cliffe gives off this dictum: “The best possible edu-
cation for a young journalist is a knowledge of
French and a period of initiation in a provincial
newspaper office.”
* » * *
These days the contents bills of the papers
are so sloppy with gore that a man was
drowned in them the other day. The Hobart
Mercury reported the accident: —
London was staggered when people learned the
news that Lord Kitchener had been drowned in the
posters of the early editions of the evening papers.
* * * *
“G.H.”: The claim that Melbourne
Herald, with 16 employees who have been
in the service over 30 years, has “the best
array of newspaper veterans in Australia”
cannot he justified. There are 60 persons
in the Age office who have been continuously
employed there for 30 years and over. The
Herald’s oldest inhabitant (he is in the
publishing department) attached himself to
the office 40 years ago, but the Age has a
youth in its publishing department who
started work there 59 years back. In the
linotype room there are two men with 49,
one with 46, two with 45, two with 44, one
with 41 and two with 40 years’ service.
There are 15 men who have been over 35
years on the job, 33 for over 30, and 36 for-
ever 25 years. There are five others
who have been working continuously in the
office for the last 25 years, but these are
looked down on as mere temporary hands.
The oldest member of the literary staff has
been there 38 years.
* * * #
Recent recruit: —•
Cecil Claude Montgomery, lion operator, Chapel-
street, Kogarah.
Anyway, that is what Sydney Evening
News tells us. He ought to be a good man
for the job.
* * * *
The dreamed-of Australasian newspaper
workers’ federation gets a little nearer by
reason of the latest move of the writing men
in Maoriland. The proprietors of most of
the newspapers in the Commonwealth are
sorry that owing to the war they cannot
agree to the rates and conditions that the
Australian Journalists’ Association believes
to be a fair thing, so the Arbitration Court
is to take a hand in the argument. But,
just in case of accidents, Maoriland is pledg-
ing that its men will not accept work in
Australia at pay less than the A.J.A.
declares to be right. Australian pressmen
reckon that if they ever get a chance they’ll
pay back the over-Tasman scribes in their
own good coin.
* * * *
Adelaide (Sunday) Mail, since its recon-
struction and change of management, is
doing comfortably, and has just declared an
interim 6 per cent, dividend.
* * * *
“Billy” Moore, playwright, journalist and
last of Melbourne’s Bohemians, who has
been acting and writing in London of
recent years, is now a staff-sergeant-major
in the British A.M.C.
THE SHE-POET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The she-poet sings like a bird on the boug’h
Of the slug and the snail and the eyes of the cow;
The afternoon-tea man he drugs her with hope,
And she likes him well for his critical dope.
The she-poet plays with the tiniest things—
Gauze trousers for fairies and ninepenny wings;
The shoes of the beetle, the tram-fares of gnats....
And all to get shillings to trim her d —d hats.
A tea-box transports her to scented Cathay,
An orange-skin peeling to Florida Bay ;
And she can get tenderly, dreamily drunk
On the leathery smell of an old steamer trunk.
The beautiful ladies she writes of for pelf
Are the visions (re-built) that she has of herself;
And six-footer lovers (impossible narks!)
Swim dreamily round her like mesmerised sharks.
The she-poet is most amazingly free
Until there’s a baby to bounce on her knee;
Then somehow all writing ambition is shed,
And life is all putting the baby to bed.
Then Afternoon Critics with others may sup
And ask with a smirk for “another fresh cup” ;
The she-poet sews with no frown on her brow ;
What cares she for six-footer ghost-lovers note?
O tender she-poets that burble alone,
And see Passion moving each stick and each stone,
You will not cease brewing your fiddle-dee-dee
Till ordered to do so by Baby O.C.
N.S.W.
VERSE-BOILER.
HARD LABOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr thinks that the most exacting rftles in
“On Trial” are those of the jurymen. “For, he
says, “we have nothing to do and yet must appear
intelligent.” —Daily paper piffle.
To look well is the hero’s job ;
The heroine has but to sob
Or purr in sweet content;
But that which we have got to do,
The actor’s hardest task, is to
Appear intelligent!
VICTORIA.
H. O.


More for Less Money!
® MAZDA Lamps
= With Drawn-wire Filaments =
m
m
":
Mel
f:
#:
m
0
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE—CITY 3510 (5 lines).
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.) : Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
Agents—
“Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
TELEPHONE—CENTRAL 2646, 2647 ; CITY 9579,
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock & Co., Ltd., Launceston; Oliver & Oliver, Ltd., MacQnarie Street, Hobart.


''VV'V'x'VV^
wm
m ■
'tmA
iii W.MWii
OVA
.
* / . '
/-v;
A. Saunders’ Gent’s Solid Silver
Hunting Keyless Lever Watch, full
jeweller] movement, eompoiration balance,
adjusted time spring’, £2, £2/10/-, £3,
£3/10/-, £4, £3, £O/10/-, £7/10/-,
£B, £lO. All gr uanteed.
A. Saunders’
Oct. Gold
Photo Ring,
showing cover
open, 25/*
Initials can he
engraved on cover
when closed.
A. launders’
f)ct. Solid
Gold Battalion
Col r Ring,
arv Battalion
color an be sup-
plied. Lady’s
size, 21/-
Gent’s size,
25/-
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Goia and Plat-
inoid Brooch, set Dianu .. a.id Olivine,
£4/10/-
A. Saunders’ Solid 9ct G*Jd Expanding Wrist-
let Watch, full jewelled. Le>r.r movement, £7/10/-,
15ct. Gold, £l2/10/-. Similar styles, £3/10/-, £4,
£4/10/-, £5, £6.
Sydney’s Leading Jeweller.
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Oval Cluster
Ring, set Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£l2/10/-
Set nil Diamonds,
£25.
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Ring, set five
pure Diamonds,
£5/10/.
A. Saunders*
Oct. Gold
Necklace, set
Diamonds and
Pearls, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Bracelet, set Pearls
and Amethyst, or red stones, 80/-
Send for Complete Illustrated Price List.
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Brooch, «t pure
double-cut Diamond, £5. Larger Diamond, 17/10/-,
£lO, £l5, £2O.
a
TONEY
a
i
A. Saunders’ Wristlet Watch, with Military Refju-
lation Strap, Nickel or Gun-metal Case, full jewelled, Lover
movement, reliable timekeeper, 2«5/-* Superior grades,
30/-, 35/-. Silver, £2, £2/10/-, £3. Gold filled,
£3/10/-, £4, £4/10/-. Solid Gold, £5, £5/10/-,
£O, £O/10/-, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’
Solid Gold
Wedding Ring,
9ct„ 10/-
15ct., 15/-
18ct. 20/-,
25/-, 30/-,
£2.
A. Saunders’ Gold
Anzac Brooch, set Pearls,
A. Saunders’
Solid Gold
Wedding King,
9ct., 15/-
15ct., 25/-
1 Set. £2,
£2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS,
807-17 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Ring, three
Double-cut Dia-
monds, £4/10/-
•A. Saunders’
18ot. Gold
Rin<r. set five
Pure Doublf -cut
Diamonds, £ 15.
Smaller Dial .< nds,
£lO.
A. Saunders’
Oct. Gold
Necklace, set
Aquamarines or
Tourmalines,. £2.
A. Saunders’ Gent’s Solid
Nickel Keyless Lever Watch,
full jewelled, with patent adjusted bal-
ance, non-magnetic time spring, dust- and
water-proof cases, 20/-. Higher grades,
25/-, 30/-. All guaranteed.
A. Saunders’
Solid Gold
Hand Clasp
Bing, 20/-,
25/-, 30/-
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Bing, set three
pure Diamonds,
£lO.
Larger Diamonds,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
Oct. Gold
Lady’s Signet
Ring, 15/-
15ct., 30/-
18ct. 35/-
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Ring, set three
Pure Double-cut
Diamonds, £lO.
A. Saunders’ Wristlet Watch, jewelled lever
movement, reliable timekeeper, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-,
Silver, £2, £2/10/-, £3. All guaranteed.
(Opp. Railway Station.)
ĥ
MILITARY
COMPASS
Especially adapted for
general all-round military
requirements.
THE RIGHT COMPASS
FOR THE SOLDIER.
For ascertaining any angle
of direction at night-time
and as a Sight Compass
for finding horizontal bear-
ings and angles during the
day.
2in. Diameter, Brass
Case, strongly constructed
with Leather Case.
45/-, Post Free.
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.
189-191 George Street, BRISBANE.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
I
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from—whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough— you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMEP FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Merrie
England. Bd. How to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dr.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art of Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston’s Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, II - posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, Bd., and all the Rational Press Re-
prints (send for list). Joys of Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
llandybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler’s Science
of Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. Sandow’s Book of
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History
of the Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain <for the British,
Sd. How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins,
1/- posted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.
m
m
m
HOME cyclopedia
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. , 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS,, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain la
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the nunds o »
and old, but about which they feel a delxcacy m consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to lnnumerab e
esting subjects concerning marriage, which mahesit a veiy
superior guide to the action of men and women both in ana
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipate
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fu*- . ’
can afford to dispense with the information graced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just\ arrived
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Obmplebe, unabridge ,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It wil
to ANY address for EIGHT SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
Prof. Fowler’s Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks* Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS— LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, V-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. Tiie White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
tenter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speak-
ing Made Easy, 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits l/-i
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers Ha,
■rook 1/6 Complete Bookkeeping, 2/o. l<ife
of Deeming, il ustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Vkrmb, 1/J
cpiF Taught, 1/2. Wannan s .ljsgine
Driver’s Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile boccaccto
Superb Manhood, 5/- DecaMeron of
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/b eacn
posted. Lee’s Priceless Riscipes 1/6 ported;
Women’s Secrets, 1/- P°st. IF ? /2 ‘
bourne, 1/- posted. The Paybacks, / •
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book y° u
want I’ve got it.
Pon t be fooled into paying more.
yo“r P ca e sh my Pri< ir'Bs t tabli t s h h e e , d 25* Yearl
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking •
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY,
ORDERS' SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up., Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
II- posted. New Tricks with Cards, 1/- Sappho,
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 post. Dr.
Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical illus-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Gor-
don’s Poems, complete, 1/6, Practical Palmistry,
1/3. Guide to Auctioneeuing, 2/6. Secret His-
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers’ Letter
Writer 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Mor-
gan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees,
New Edition, 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
8d posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoll’s Works,
Bd' 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
posted ’ Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’
Assistant, 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Bexnarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5/6 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New Recita-
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and Its
Cure 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather, bound,
mv price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas?).
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, 1/2. Moore’s Universal Assist-
ant and Complete Meohanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound 10/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
1/- post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music
complete), 1/6 posted. 'The Age of Reason, by
PaThe, posted Bd. WRITE TOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR
Cheap Book Depot*
67 8 69 Market Street, Sydney (only*


TO MOTOR TRAVELLERS.
-cTT UXTED, by leading New Zealand
YY * Firm a Traveller experienced in sell-
: \ rotor Tyres and Motor Accessory Lines.
One with special knowledge of Solid Rubber
Tvres preferred. .
* Applications, giving fullest particulars as
to age ability and previous experience, and
accompanied by copies of references, to be
addressed to —
“MOTOR TYRE TRAVELLER,”
Care Charles Haines Advertising Agency,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Missingr Friends.
InLLEN O’NEILL, daughter of DENIS
[i O’NEILL and MARY O’NEILL, for-
merly Walsh, formerly of Invercargill, New
Zealand, is requested to communicate with
the NATIONAL TRUSTEES, EXECU-
TORS AND AGENCY COMPANY OF
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED, No. 113
Queen Street. Melbourne, Victoria, Aus- 1
tralia. when she will hear something to her
advantage.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSiI.
1* IVO L I TUBA Tlt E, SVI) N E Y
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Plans at Nicholson’s and Tivoli.
-piVOJLI THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
NIGHTLY AT EIGHT.
LEIGHTON & KENNEDY, O’DONNELL & BLAIR,
OS-KO-MON, JACK & FORIS, FLOYD, MACK &
MABELLE, EVELYN CUNNINGHAM, VANDINOFF
& LOUIE, GRACE HANSON, NORTON & EARL,
LOOSE & STERLING.
Plan at Glen’s.
HE It MA,IES T Y ’ S, SYI)N E Y.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
ROYAL COMIC OPERA SEASON.
FOR EIGHT NIGHTS ONLY.
The most entrancing of Modern Operatic Productions,
THE MElillY WIDOW.
Plans at Paling's. Day Sales Callose’s.
CRITERION THEAT RE, SYDNEY.
EVEJtY EVENING AT 8.
HALE HAMILTON, MYRTLE TANNEHILL and
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S Clever Company of Comedians
in the reigriing success of London and New York,
THE BOOMERANG,
A delightful Three-act Comedy.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J&N.TAITS NEW ENGLISH C®
PEG.
OM Y
A COMEDY OF YOUTH
by d HARTLEY MANNERS.
THE SU PREME SUCCESS OF SUCCESSES
Box Plans now open at Nicholson’s.
W! BARRINGTON MILLER, Managing
Union Theatres Limited, presents the
Director
new
7
-r mangle plays at
1 THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MOTION PICTURE ENTER-
TAINMENT as it should be.
SESSIONS: 1145 a.m., 2 p.m.,
4.15 p.m. EVERY DAY, and
8 p.m.
Prices: 6d. to 2/6. Box Plan at Paling’s. '
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
IJNION PICTURE TH E-A TR E S
w In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS. "
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show*
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
G BEATER .J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ 1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
Every Evening at 7.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
TO-NIGHT’S THU NIGHT.
A BRILLIANT NEW MUSICAL PLAY.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and 1 /-.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
Every Evening at 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
ROMANCE.
The Outstanding Success of the 1915-1916 Dramatic
Season in England and America.
Prices: 6/-, 4/- and 2/-.
RINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietors: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JULY 15.
GEO. MARLOW presents the GONSALEZ ITALIAN
OPERA CO. in
IL BARBIERE DI SIVIGLTA.
Monday (July 17), 1L BARBIERE DI SIVIGLIA ;
Tuesday, LUCIA; Wednesday, TOSCA; MIGNON
(Matinee) ; Thursday and Friday, FAUST.
Popular Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/-.
ING’S THEATRE, M E L B O U R N E.
Lessees BERT BAILEY & JULIUS GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
FIRST APPEARANCE OF THE BERT BAILEY CO.
in
DUNCAN McCLURE and
THE POOR PARSON.
An Intensely Funny Comedy Drama by Steele Rudd.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Allan’s,
Amusements.
The auditorium,
MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, JULY 15.
J. & N. TAIT present,
by arrangement with JACK WALLER,
THE IDEALS OP 1916.
FOR A SHORT FAREWELL SEASON.
Prices: 8/-, 2/- and !/•■ Plan at Allan's.
RIJOU THEATRE, MELItOU R N E.
** FULLER’S THEATRES & VAUDEVILLE LTD.
Governing Director BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
Afternoon 2.30. Evening at 8.
r PHIL PERCtVAL, SOMAN & DILLON, LES
LEGERTS, MANKIN THE FROG, DOROTHY
HARRIS, JESSIE BARLEE, HARRINGTON REY-
DEVON D UO LRKXCE JOHNSTONE & MAXIMO,
Prices:*3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Matinges: 1/6, 1/- and 6d.
QIACI A R I U 31, MELBOURNE.
heal lcl skating.
EVERY AFTERNOON AND
EVENING.
|-f ° v PIC TUR E S, MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.
TW O 151 G sIIO W s.
HOYT’S OWN: Bourke Street, next Theatre Royal.
OLYMPIA: Prince's Bridge.
E» I R C H & CARROL L
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba tc
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Heap Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
Motor Accessories
“We have it—will get
it —or it isn’t made.”
We have the Motor Accessories you want at
prices that drive away dull care. These are
a few: FORD Electric Lighting CONVER-
SION SETS, 30/-, complete with bulbs.
WEED Anti-skid CHAINS, all sizes, from
£2/5/- set. SEMENTOL—to stop that leak-
ing radiator, 6/-. Hellensen Flash Cells, Hot
Shot Dry Batteries, all sizes. Write us for
full particulars.
Darby Auto Supplies
Co. Pty. Ltd.,
334=336 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
u
We will send you two card tricks;!
' very perplexing to onlookers,' yet any 1
one can do them, tor ONE SHICUNG/
also our Just tor Fun Catalogue. 112 pages.'
Illustrated, of Trlqke, Puzzles, Jokers, <feo, I
The UNION Co.,2JsElliatieth St., Melb.i
Business Notioes.
Used the
World Over
w
MOTOR
...CARS
'**.«»**
DAIMLER
sotor Carriages
VEHICLES'-
Agricultural Tractors
the mm l l n compa m «.•
COVENTRY, ENGLAND.
CA3BISDN PAT.
Marbles
JOINTED RIFLE ROD
Strong, stiff, rigid, as a
one-piece rod, yet can be
taken apart in a minute and
packed in a compact case—
easily carried
in pocket or
belt. Made of
brass or steel
—will last a
lifetime. Note
the construc-
tion. Connec-
tions are of steel. Dowels
relieve screws of all side strain
and give perfect rigidity. Pat-
ented steel swivel permits
cleaner or cloth to revolve and
follow rilling— gets every par-
ticle of dirt.
RIFLE CLEANER
gets every speck of lead,
rust and powder crust. Goes
right into angles of grooves,
cleaning and polishing them
thoroughly. Most efficient
cleaner ever invented.
Ask your dealer for these
Rifle Rods and Cleaners.
Complete Illustrated catalogue
of Marble’* "Sixty Sporting
Specialties" sent postpaid on
request.
Marble Arms & Mf g. Co.
611 Delta Avenue
Gladstone, Mich., U.S. A.
Cable Address “Marble" Gladstone
Australian & New Zealand Rep’aent’s
HARRY MGLOEN, Box 1349, SYDNEY m>B)
ħ
SveatherGlass & thermometer
Size 12 inches high, 5 inches broad,, nicely
Lcarved wood frame, metal casing around'
mercury Thermometer. A very'
'sensitive Weather Glass,, foretells from 12 to'
24 hours every atmospheric Valuable
to everybody, especially so to farmelrs, sports*
mien, travellers and business men generally.
Strongly built, not liable to get out of order
Duly 4/6* securely packed and post free
i to any address. The UNION Manufacturing and
Agency Company. 209 Elizabelh Slreet, Melbourne.
R
LOCAL
PATRIOTISM
|. Your
Aim? c
Then have a JHOT
at smoking
The Australian Tobacco.
1
T
X
Dinneford’s
Magnesia
VK4I
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“ DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
u
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens*
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
Branch Office:
279 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W
T. C. TROEDSON, Director,
h
ABBEY
SHOES!
Their distinctive, dressy Appear-
ance will probably be the first
thing to attract you to Abbey
Shoes.
The high quality that will reveal
itself after long wear will appeal
to your sense of economy, and you
will become a permanent customer.
We illustrate one of our latest
models, a special high-grade Patent
Bal., with Perforated Golosh and
Grey Suede Legs.
Price - 40/-
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between (i.P.O. and Hunter SL_
222 Pitt Street, v
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
BRILLIANT LIGHTS.
300 Candle-power self-contained
Lamps .. . Price £2/15/-
250 Candle-power self-contained
Lanterns . . Price £2/12/6
These prices cannot be beaten.
Guaranteed perfectly safe —burn kerosene or
benzine—fuel costs less than Jd. per hour.
The most serviceable and economical lamps
and lanterns ever introduced. Of interest to
the trade. Write for circular. *
Wisconsin Row Boat Motors
These famous outboard engines are in use in
all parts of the world. Five models in stock,
same as supplied to several (governments;
quality guaranteed. Prices. from £lB/iO/-
upwards.
Write or call for further particulars.
ADDISON PARKER,
34- Clarence Street, SYDNEY, i
An inexpensive
PHONOGRAPH
The Edison “Amberola” X is a splendid
instrument; it will play and sing - the world’s
best music; runs smoothly and perfectly;
reproduces clearly and correctly.
It affords a wonderful variety of entertain-
ment, and every member of your household
will be delighted with it.
Is handy-sized; can be moved about without
difficulty, and is sterling- value at £B/10/-
There are Edison Phonographs from £3/10/-
upwards.
Call on your local Edison dealer for more
information,- or write to us for catalog.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. ’
(Wholesale Only), 364-312 Kent Street, Sydney.
IF any illustration appearing in iTiiE
Bulletin takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the
original.
214 George Street, Sydney.


N
D
Y
rs
EIY
The Wentworth Garden, with its beautiful surroundings, is
ideal for Luncheons, Dinners, Afternoon Teas, Supper and
Wedding Parties, and all semi-outdoor functions.
Visitors to Sydney will find the Wentworth Hotel most popular,
central and up to date in all modern conveniences, including telephones
in bedrooms, communicating with the Exchange.
The Appointments, Linen and Service are superb, and compare more
than favorably with the best Hotels in the Commonwealth.
Terms on application.
Mrs. H. MACLURCAN, Manageress.
ag
Carolin Machinery Co.,
Stanley Street, west Melbourne,
and
Angel Place, Sydney.
ADELAIDE & BRISBANE.
'Champion Steel Reversible
Self-coupling Road Roller
Size 25 tons, will load up to 41 tons.
» 3 5 „ „ „ „ 55 „
» 45 „ „ „ „ 65 „
» 55 „ „ „ „ 75 „
Built of steel throughout, made of two independent
sections with a five-foot face (giving a rolling -
width of five feet) and is five feet in diameter.
Fitted with brake which will stop the Roller on
the steepest grade.
HAS NO EQUAL ON THE MARKET.
“Champion” Road Graders, Steel Stone
Crushers, Steel Wiard Road Plows,
Wheel and Drag Earth Scoops, Steel
Concrete Carts, Concrete Mixers, Steel
Tubular Barrows.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Recently the Defence Department im-
ported three 50-h.p. motor-lorries for haul-
ing heavy ordnance in the Commonwealth.
They are built on the British pattern now
in use in Flanders, with massive armor
shields over the wheels to protect them from
the shell-fire they will have to meet on
their trips to Williamstown, Footscray and
such disturbed places. The bodies of the
concerns are to be built here. Of course
the chassis had to be imported. Australia
can’t build chassis. Certainly not.
BURNING LOW.
Premier Peacock introduces a Daylight
Saving Bill. Now, daylight saving is a
sensible invention which should enrich this
country several pounds per annum; but
Peaeock knows that for one State to carry
out the principle, and not the whole Com-
monwealth, would create wild confusion,
Still, it will he an excuse for not doing
something else.
August 1 is the last day for receiving
applications for the War Loan. Every pos-
sible pound is wanted. If Australia doesn’t
provide the money to pay for her share in
the war, then John Bull must do it; and it
would be indescribably mean to tap John at
this time. For one thing, we are selling
him wool and meat at previously unheard-of
prices; for another, merely to finance him-
self and his allies John has the biggest job
of his life in hand. • On application 10 per
cent, of the amount subscribed must be
paid; payment of the balance is extended
over periods to suit applicants. It can be
paid in four instalments, the last on Xov.
15, in which case the applicant will get a
full half-year’s interest on Dec. 15; or 10
per cent, may be paid monthly from Sep-
tember onwards, in which case the applicant
NOT MUCH COMFORT FOR UNCLE.
FRANZ JOSEF: “ Wilhelm, I’ve got a dread-
ful feeling I’m going under."
WILHELM: "Veil, ve are all in der von Lout,
uin'dt ve?"
will got £3 11s. 4d. per cent, on June 15,
1917, and thereafter per cent, per annu n.
paid half-yearly; or (for subscribers of £lOO
and under) monthly instalments will be
taken, and the full 44 per cent, will be paid
on June 30, 1917 —a rate of interest which
should attract everybody who has hitherto
been in the habit of dropping a few pounds
into the Savings Bank.
After all, two Chambers don’t seem
enough: we ought to have three—or per-
haps four. Vic.’s “House of Review’’ not
long back carefully pondered over and sol-
emnly passed a simple little Bill for Ihe
registration and examination of midwives.
Now it is discovered that the new law,
while empowering the Midwives Board to
pay fees to doctors summoned by midwives
in emergency, makes no provision for the
supply of the necessary funds to the Board.
So an amending Act is to be passed. Now,
what would happen to, say, a gang of plate-
layers who made such a botch of a job as
that ?
Something that is happening in the new
Education building in Adelaide looks like
the writing on the wall. The Department
used to be housed in the G.P.0., but was
pushed out, and the Government began to
build new offices for it. Then the Taxa-
tion Deparment looked in, and was given
the ground floor. But the demands of the
tax-gatherers went on growing, and
Education has now been pushed out of the
first floor also, and has taken refuge up near
the roof of its home.
Melbourne Age becomes more unreason-
able every day. For instance, it wants to know
why Australia is importing shiploads of
goods which could be manufactured on the
premises, and why the Federal Government
stubbornly refuses to do anything to prevent
control of the home market passing more
and more out of Australian control? There
seems to be no satisfying some people.
Hasn’t Hughes made a special trip to yell
into John Bull’s ear that he must arise and
awake and do what Australia has not done?
And hasn’t Hughes asked John why he
doesn’t buy some of the sugar Bananaland
has omitted to grow? What more can any
paper want?
There is lamentation in London, and the
Times has allowed itself to be dragged into
the chorus. The debenture-holders of the
Midland Railway Co. of Westralia were
called to a meeting; whereupon the chairman
wept over the fact that the co. was liable
to pay £12.000 a year tax on land which
was producing only £BOO a year; _and the
Times suggested that Mr. Hughes would
listen to the cry and pass a special Act
empowering the co. to go on holding the land
out of use, waiting for the time to come
when on account of the increased demand for
farms it could squeeze hundreds of thou-
sands of pounds of unearned increment out
of people. But the Times didn’t put it in
quite that honest way—it merely suggested
that the co. should be given a special Act
exempting it from taxation.
The two-House system gets a beautiful
advt. in Adelaide, where Crawford Vaughan
frankly admits that he had to bribe the
Leg. Council to pass the Six O’clock Clos-
ing Bill, lie didn’t pay money, of course;
lu- simply had to agree to exempt the Fat-
man’s Adelaide Club from the operation of
the measure; wherefore that measure didn't
represent the honest opinion ot either
House. But Vaughan isn't finished yet.
Having got the principal Bill safely through,
he now intends to introduce an amending
Bill cutting out the exemption, and then
the country will be able to see exactly who’s
who.
Tudor, Minister for Customs, struck a
curiosity at Tweed Heads, where the State
boundaries of Queensland and X. S. Wales
are divided by about 10ft. and a Chinaman.
A wire fence rurls along
each alleged boundary,
and the piece of
tory between “flbesn’t
seem to be claimed by
either. In earlier and
more enterprising days
that 10ft. of ground
might have made his-
tory, for evidently the
State law stops at
either fence, and the
piece between has to
struggle along as best it
can, being merely a bit
of Australia. The thing
looks typical, somehow,
of the whole State busi-
ness. The States can’t
cover all the ground,
and the Federation is
told severely to keep to
its own special job, and
a Chinaman or some-
thing else that isn’t
exactly a blessing slips between.
Premier Holman explains that what he
calls his “surplus” will result in "the
national debt being reduced even in this
difficult year.” Of course. Any fool could
see that. It goes this way. Holman, after
getting a suspension of sinking-fund pay-
ments, and carrying £1,107,520 of expendi-
ture to “suspense”—which means that it
isn’t counted in—produces from somewhere a
balance of £149,590 and “reduces” with this
the debt which during the year he increased
by £8,700,043. It is quite simple. Incident-
ally, the alleged reduction does not amount
to half of the increased charge for interest.
VIVE LA FRANCE.
GREENGROCER ( softly): “That’s Brown’s new
bride, and she’ll be after her half-peck of
French beans. Tell her they’re just
arrived from Paris —she won’t buy ’em
locally grown.”
From the April English Review: —
Britain at war, struggling all the while with the
bag of tricks of her politicians, under the strategics
of popular government, in which speech-making is
the standard of merit.
Just so. Facing Armageddon with the jaw-
bone of an ass!
HIS BIT.
Mr. Hoyle, N.S.W. Minister for Railways, yester-
day made an appeal for supplies of men’s old felt and
hard hats, to he re-made for women’s wear and sold
to augment funds in aid of Australian soldiers.
DAN DOMAIN: “ Belonged to a Guvnor, that
'at did, lady! The gardener give it ter
me, an’ I give it ter Mr. ’Ogle fer the
patriotics. They’ve done it up a treat,
an’ it suits yer fine; hut, bless your
soul, I’d know me old lid anywheres!”
Those people who talk about buying
British-made goods in order to give J. Bull
a lift, got a stinging one to go on with last
week. Australia had pottered about with
munition-making for a few months until
finally John got tired. Then, through Lloyd
George, he cabled: “If you want to help
Britain you can best do it by meeting your
own trade requirements, thus freeing British
people and factories for the work of munition-
making.” Even John, wild importer as he
has been, has got tired at last of the folly
of carrying one lot of things that we can’t
make very well from Australia to England
and then carrying another lot of things that
we cordd make very well from England to
Australia.
The S. M. llebald,
in the issue in which
it was very annoyed
with Hughes for buy-
ing a line of steamers,
printed an article
pointing out that Ger-
man shipping, run
practically in partner-
ship with the German
Government, and sub-
sidised heavily by the
German people, had
been rapidly wiping
out British shipping,
run exclusively by
Private Enterprise.
The Herald appar-
ently detests the idea
of a nation taxing it-
self to buy a ship, but
wouldn’t mind it tax-
ing itself to buy the
other fellow a ship.
The same Vic. Rail-
way Department
which instructs ’way-
back station-masters
to discard soft shirts
and wear stiff collars,
that the service may be
dignified, is still con-
templating the possi-
bility of a deficit.
Some of its methods
seem to make the pos-
sibility a certainty.
On Grand National
Day a railway man de-
tailed for gate duty on
Flemington platform
at 3.30 went out to
pick ’em, and was
three minutes late on
his job. For this he
has been suspended—
on full pay. How long
he will draw his screw for doing nothing is a
matter that departmental etiquette will
decide. But whatever the total it will have
to go down on the wrong side of Profit and
Loss.
Thank Heaven, William Ivendell, one of
the three new members of the Vic. Leg.
Council, has discovered the reason for the
high price of meat. It is owing to the kill-
ing' of sheep by “fox-terriers kept for coursing
purposes by trades-unionists in the Geelong
district.” It would be humorous if it didn’t
indicate that if Ivendell were asked to
support a measure for controlling meat and
other trusts, he would be almost certain to
say Pish!
THE FIRST SQUEAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
German newspapers protest against the British
using gas, which they refer to as “deadlier than the
German variety.”— Cable.
Mothinks I hear a shrillsome sound
’Midst Armageddon’s din—
A sharp and painful shrillsome sound
from where our biggest cannons pound
The habitations underground
That Hun-hogs hide within;
Those .strongholds once of faith profound
In Deutschcr power to win!
Two years ago with gruntings glad
The Iluu-hogs ran amuck ;
Weak Belgium heard their gruntings glad,
Whilst Russia sighed, and France was sad,
And small respect gay Berlin had
For Britain's vaunted pluck.
Oh, everywhere the hogs went mad,
And where they went they stuck!
But now the grunts are heard no more.
At Berlin, Hamburg, Kiel,
The holy church bells chime no more,
No bunting flutters as of yore
Because of triumphs in der var—•
Those triumphs vain, unreal.
Amidst the distant battle’s roar
I hear, methinks, a squeal!
The sure recoil of Frightfulness
The Hun-hogs now shall feel—-
The penalties of Frightfulness,
The quid pro quo, no more or less,
The wage of wanton wickedness,
The creed of Blood and Steel.
The hog’s expression of distress
Has ever been a squeal!
VICTORIA.
EDMUND FISHER.


ĥ
ħ
PALING’S
... for the ...
Best Pianos
Satisfaction Guaranteed y«nw«iri ■rm
m
H
CHappell Pianos.
BRITISH MADE
SINCE 1812.
These famous Pianos have over one hundred years
of experience incorporated in their construction,
and are noted for their evenness of scale, purity of
tone and beauty of case design. Call and inspect
them. Easy Terms. Catalogues free.
Sames Pianos.
MADE IN
ENGLAND.
On account of their sweetness of tone, fine touch
and great durability, our SAMES All-British
Pianos are favorites with our customers in all parts
of Australia. Sold on Easy Terms. Catalogues
posted free.
Estey Pianos.
FIRST
MANUFACTURED
IN 1879.
These Pianos contain new features in construction
that make them a most desirable piano for extreme
climates. First made in 1879, and each Estey
Piano is sold fully guaranteed. Catalogues posted
free.
Victor Pianos.
“WE’VE SOLD
THOUSANDS and
THOUSANDS.”
Full, sweet tone, sound construction, long wear and
honest value is what our customers get when they
decide on purchasing a VICTOR Piano at Paling’s.
The most popular pianos in Australia. Easy
Terms. Ash for Illustrated Catalogue.
PALING’S CATALOGUE POSTED FREE
Also printed Price List Please write for them to-night if you cannot conveniently call
at our Showrooms to inspect. WE TAKE OKD PIANOS IN EXCHANGE.
W. H. PALING ®. CO. LTD.
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. And at BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, TOOWOOMBA and LISMORE.
Sole Agents for Behning, Chappell, Estey and Victor Player Pianos.
A Splendid Toilet
Cream
I
m
r>:*
I
sa
I
I
I
i
I
No matter what
you pay for it, you
can get nothing
better for your skin
and complexion than
Icilma Cream. This
is a big claim
but it's true. You
wonder how it can be
sold at its price ?
Let us explain:
Icilma Cream has the
largest sale of any
British-made toilet cream
and is used by beautiful
women all over the world —
from far Japan to Southern
Patagc-nia, from Arctic
Russia to Equatic Africa.
For this reason, and this al ne,
Icilma Cream can be sold in
Australia at 1/6 per pot.
Its vast success is due to the
Icilma Natural Water which it
contains-this stimulates the
skin and regulates the flow of
natural oils. Use it daily and
look your best.
The famous English toilet preparation.
Fragrant and non-greasy. Guaranteed not to grow hair.
Price 1/6 per pot.
Of Chemists, Druggists, Stoves, etc.
Icilma is pronounced Eye-Siltna.
J. C. GAMBLES & CO..
Sole Australian Agents, 11 Commerce House, Melbourne.
Diamonds
Enormously
Reduced.
3 Fine Diamonds,
set in pure
Platinum, choicely
cased, £B/8/-
Fine Diamonds, set
in Platinum,
choicclv cased,
£7/7/-
5 Fine Diamonds,
set in Platinum,
ehoieelr cased,
£lO/10/-
Pour years ago we took on a Sole Agency calling for an enormous output of diamonds, and
with a view to making the turnover we offered them at merely a broker's commission on the
Antwerp cutter’s cost.
It barely paid vs the first year, the second year the sales were so great it did better, and the
tnirci ycfii bctiGi still, <mcl so wg cii’G continuing tlic experiment further.
We only stock the best grade of Diamonds, but our prices are THE LOWEST.
There is no duty on Diamonds.
We are the Sole Agents for one of the largest cutters of Antwerp and Amsterdam.
Fairfax Rohrrt«s
PLAIN FIGURES cash only. * 9
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTcR STREET.
!2>
I? any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin * ’:es your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
a %t v a «»
and
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
See also page 42.
■
t.
.
X
-
if!
‘
:
-
m
bib
wm
'
\
'' ' ■ ; ‘;
'
MOTOR SCHOONER “EVANCERIC,” SOUTH SEAS MISSION.
Fitted with 50-l).p. SKANDIA crude-oil engines, speed 10 knots. Fuel Cost
Is. 2d. per hour full speed.
NELSON S ROBERTSON,
Lofttis Street
SYDNEY.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
This is war-time ! Minutes are
precious. Be up and doing.
Waste no time. Shave your-
self. Do it quickest and
safest with the
NO STROPPING NO HONING
Sold everywhere, 23/6. British Made.
Write for free booklet. Agents: S.
Hoffnung & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney;
Gillette Safety Razor, Ltd., London, Eng.
t»ao«
MARK
Sf3rTP!rFP>|
JHNOWM TH9
/■WHL© OVfc*
ĥ
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
APPOINTMENT
ħ
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
Price 1/- per Bottle. Of all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
h
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Last.week s remarks on G. X. Steeplechase
chances cast a sad reflection on the uncertainty of
any experienced juniper being tit and willing to get
round the Steeple course on any given day. The
Bulletin mentioned only five horses out of the 17
starters. Four of them—Booligal, Artillery, Bill,
Chess and Canadium—came tot grief in the running.
They either fell from under, the rider, or the rider
got tilted off the horse. The other member of the
quintet—Bullawarra—finished third, and would doubt-
less have won had he been cherry-ripe for his 12st.
bib. job. The time for the race was equal to the
second best on record, and llsee. better than Flash
Jacks last year. When Flash Jack won Booligal
finished third, and Highland*Clan was a good fifth,
with Coradjill 10 lengths further back. This year it
was Coradjill’s turn To win, the other three horses
having come to grief. Booligal and Highland Clan
had been reckoned the surest jumpers in the field.
They couldn’t fall. But they did.
Coradjill, placed third in 1913 and 1911, lias now
run in four successive Nationals without falling. But
in minor events he has several times fallen —or lost
his jockey, or performed very badly. There was
nothing to lie said against his Chance on Saturday
except that he had seemed not quite brilliant enough
in previous years, and had been less reliable than
some of the other old stagers. The stable was under-
stood to have as much regard for Canadium as for
Coradjill, and the public in general gave hardly a
thought to the respectable identity that ultimately
was the hero of the day. So there was no applause
to speak of when Coradjill returned to scale, although
the Manifold colors are popular, in the sense that
they are the colors of an owner who races for the
sake of the sport, and doesn’t rush in to take all the
long prices about his gees.
Lord Dudley, winner of the Doutta Galls Hurdle
this year, must be exceptionally intelligent in the
horse-sense of the word. In a hurdle race on the
previous Wednesday he slipped and tilted his jockey
off. That seemed to suit him nicely. Riderless, lie
went along, contentedly jumping the hurtles on his
own, and with no idea of bolting away from the
field. lie waited on the leader until he was over the
last hurdle, and at the distance post lie shot to
the front and won easily. As soon as he was past
the judge’s box he pulled himself up and made for
the “lane” leading to the weigh-in. The old
jumpers seem to look for the usual happenings when
they get into the straight for home. When Ungala,
the only survivor out of a field of six, was being-
cantered in for the Footscray Steeple last Saturday
the lonely animal was evidently inclined to shy.
Ho couldn’t understand why lie was merely, lobbing
along with nothing in front of him or chasing him.
And the crowd was applauding ironically. Why?
The horse suspected, perhaps, that a trick was being-
played on him. This way of winning a steeplechase
seemed a dashed sight too easy to be true.
* * * *
“Dink”: Only one out of six runners fin-
ished in Y.'R.C. Footscray Steeplechase on
Saturday; biit that doesn’t establish a record.
In an event over obstacles in Adelaide years
ago not one of the 10 runners oompleted
the course without a fall. Towards the finish
one very tired animal alone was standing up. There was
a single hurdle between the nag and the cash, and as
the boy on top knew what had happened to the
other nine he steadied his failing mount until the
pace was almost a walk. The nag reached for the
hurdle too soon. It got it's forelegs over safely, but,
out of either sheer cussedness or exhaustion, refused
to bring its hindquarters across. The next episode
was the ludicrous spectacle of half a horse each side
of a hurdle, a jockey frantically trying to induce it
to complete the act, and a crowd of punters howling
tcrhlm to' get off and lift the animal by the stern.
* * * *
3?lie Sandringham Steeple at Victoria
Pai-k (Adelaide) on July 1 was not conventional
either. The favorites, Island and Forest Prince,
turned sevens at the first two fences, whereupon the
Prince picked himself up and continued the. race
riderless, jumping beautifully and never once getting
in the way of the other horses. Near the grandstand,
another horse refused to take the regulation jump
and tried the fence at the side instead, catch-
ing his hindlegs in the pickets. Round near South
Terrace additional interest was given the race by a
greyhound deciding to take a hand. Tlie Prince,
without a rider, won, and Muldoon came next. Of
course, the tote, in its pig-headed way, paid on tlie
second animal.
* * * *
If there is plenty of space between the
hurdles St. Medoe has a chance. He has won two
jumping races, both at the same place. One was last
month; the other on Saturday. There are fewer
obstacles to he jumped at. Warwick Farm (Sydney)
than on any course this writer knows, and among
“the boys” there is a yarn on the subject. A press-
man went to report a meeting there for the first tinie.
On other courses he had been accustomed to see the
jumpers rise into the atmosphere after travelling
about a furlong. “Give ’em to me when they get to
the first hurdle,” he said to his mate with the
glasses, and stood by with ready pencil to put ’em
down. “Ribuck,” said the other chap, and winked
at someone. Off the nags went, and when, after
going half a mile, they hadn’t met anything to
spring over, a horrible suspicion struck the man with
paper and pencil that he had made a mistake in the
character of the, race, and was getting left in the
soup. “Hi,” he roared, “for the love o’ Moses get
busy and tell me what’s happening in this sprint.
I thought it was the ’urdles.”
* * * *
Unless he ordered the poultry before
going out to Warwick Farm (Sydney) on Saturday
there was no turkey for Ike next day. Five favorites
won in succession, but disqualification of one of the
prads interrupted the public’s glee. About a year
ago McShortodds felt like putting up the shutters
owing to the number of favorites which were landing
the goods Saturday after Saturday on Sydney subur-
ban courses. Punters are now wondering if Satur-
day was the start of another wave of miraculous
events. Possibly the books would welcon/e a mild
epidemic of the kind in view of the approach of the
big Spring meetings. Money was pretty tight last
time there was a gathering of the clang at Rand-
wick, and as the brotherhood looks upon Randwick
as the brightest spot on earth, most of them would
have visions of a harvest if a limited amount of
hurley were scattered about during tha next few
weeks.
* * * *
When a man is annoyed and gives vent to
his feelings the circumstance is described in the
argot of the Sydney turf as “going Chris O’Rourke.”
As Chris O’Rourke ia the owner of La Balfour, who
reached the judge first in Warwick Farm Pace
Welter on Saturday but had the race taken away
for interference with Applique in the straight, it
is fair to assume that lie felt pretty sour about
things in general. His luck lias been out for a long
time: About the best bit of flesh he has—or ever
had—is Lady Mascot, a 14-1 pony which has won
races with tremendous weights on board.
Not often does a race take so much wiu-
ning as did the last Tattersall’s Cup in Adelaide.
First, it was postponed from Monday to Saturday on
aceount of wet weather. Then Juan Fernandez and
Maori Lad ran a dead heat. (Many thought J.F. had
just got home.) Protest lodged agaiaat J.F. for in-
terference ; dismissed. The run-off looked as close a
finish as the first race, but Maori Lad got a half-head
verdict. The J.F. party had something up its
sleeve, and protested against M.L. under Rule 29, the
horse having changed ownership since nomination.
The facts were all right, but the stewards evidently
thought the point should have been argued sooner,
and they declined to punish backers by upsetting the
result, though they fined (he owner £25. It was the
obviously fair thing to do. In fact, no horse ought to
be disqualified for any legal shortcoming unless the
point is raised before the race. If not qualified to
start, prevent him from starting. To let him start
when ho cannot possibly keep the verdict if he gels
it is putting innocent backers even more into the
soup than usual.
During its first half-year N.S.W. betting
tax provided £58,960. This was contributed through
Sydney and metropolitan “books” only; tbc country
returns will drop into the next half-year. The Hol-
man Government not unreasonably looks forward to
collecting about £120,000 for the year; and even
then it is absolutely certain that it isn’t getting
anything near the amount which a 10 per cent, tax
through the totalisator would disgorge. On what
they get out of the game the “books” are able to
lmy benzine for their cars and have a royal time.
The totalisator doesn’t have even biscuits and choose,
and all the surplus would go to either the public
or tlie Treasury.
•* ~ * # *
“Monna”: When lOTTseph Ward rose up
in the M.L. House of Reps, the other night and
casually announced a surplus of “over £2,000,000 ster-
ling” he should have called for three cheers for the
tote. From three trotting clubs in Christchurch
(Metropolitan, Canterbury Park and New Brighton)
a contribution to the revenue of £20,132 rolled in
during last season, while Isaac Shortodds ground his
teeth and Brother Pecksniff groaned at his elbow.
The Prince Consort of the Federated Bool-
makers' Queen at the recent Melbourne Car-
nival.
Tom Cannon, old time pilot and trainer
Of English gee-gees, was 70 a. few weeks ago anrl
going strong. He was only 3st. 121 b. when he
started business in ’6O on Lord Portsmouth’s My
Uncle. Tom’s first important win was on Repulse in
the Thousand Guineas in ’65. He had a long and
honorable innings in the saddle. Though lie only
bagged one Derby—on Shotover—he had a narrow
escape _ from getting another. That was when he
■booted the half-bred Curzon along in a dingdong
finish with Sir Visto. *
* * * *
Tlie death of John Crozier removes
another of the famous old sporting family of Adel-
aide'.- The elder John Grozier was M.L.O. of South
Aus., and the Croziers and Piles divided their time
between station-owning on the Darling and racing at
Morphettville and Flemington. John the younger
owned the St. Albans stud before W. R. Wilson, and
spent the latter part of his life in Victoria. Among
the best racers he owned in a long career were First
Water, Security, Vakeel and Gunga Din.
* * * *
.John Lord, dead in Adelaide at 64, put
in a busy life at hotel-keeping—at Coolgardie in the
early days, but mostly in S.A., at Moonta (where
his father was' manager of the big mine), Quorn
and Adelaide. .An early shot at racing with a
single horse (which he named Lord John) was so
successful that he took up the game in earnest. His
son owns the steeplechaser El Progreso.
* * * *
A doyen amongst sportsmen, Abel John
Cobcrofty of Maitland (N.S.AV.), recently covered his
91st year. He is a Hawkesbury native, but has lived
in East Maitland for over 60 years. On his side-
board he displays cups of the Maitland, Jerry’s
Plains, and Wollombi Jockey Clubs and other trophies
which he has won.
* * * *
Died at Hobart the other day, Henry
(“Tosh”) Jones, at one time a well-known rider
on Tasmanian courses. Away back in ’75 he steered
Remorse when that nag won the first hurdle race
run on the Elwiclc course. For 20 or 30 years
the old man had -been a horse-buying commissioner.
* * *
Mr. James Glahby has become a patron of
the Australkin-:turf—Which, by the way, has been a
dangerous sport for pugs of eminence, as a rule.
With layer-of-odds Jack Boles he recently acquired
the juniper Busra, which finished second to BallLta
in the ’chasers' flat race at Flemington, and ran well
in the big Steeple. The price paid was not excessive,
and Busra is an honest plod who may pay for his
munitions. Then, again, he may not. There is a lot
more may and may ndt about jutaping nags than
there is about the revenue from glove-scrapping.
When Harry G. Hawker, the Australian
aviator, climbed upward for 24,408 ft. at Brooklands
(Eng.) recently, all previous records dived into the
dustbin. Frenchman E. Audemars held the record
(22,171 ft.) before then; and Hawker liad the best
British figures (18,393 ft.). The vehicle was a
powerful 110-h.p. Sopwith fighting biplane-—-one of
the new British machines which are making air
excursions very unprofitable for the Hun.
E. Burman, killed in California, was the
dare-devil motor-pilot who in April, 1911, on Day-
ton Beach, Florida, guided a racing car over a
straightaway mile in 25 2-ssee. So far as is known,
this is the greatest speed yet attained by machinery.
When Burman did it a patient, weary-eyed old man
carrying a scvthe said “Hum” and reflectively felt
the edge of his implement. The old man was wait-
ing again on the big ra'ce-track at Corona the other
day, and as Burman was whirling all out Hie inside
back tyre burst, and —well, the rest doesn t matter
except that a mangled heap of ironmongery deposited
itself 167 vards away. Probably Burman never knew
what happened. The old man is merciful —some-
times, # #
Fred Kay reappeared at Sydney Stadium
on Saturday after a long, absence, and Mr. 11. Stone,
of the U.S.A., had been invited to meet him. So
pleased were they that they forgot to leap about as
much as usual, and gave a really good exhibition of
boxing Kay’s queer methods worried Stone a lot.
A left used 'like a right w a disconcerting thing to
be up again, anyhow. The pleasantness raged the
whole distant*, and at the end Arthur Scott pro-
nounced for Kay. He was about right, but there was
not much between them.
* * * ... *
Tt is cabled that Jack Dillon intends
leaving New York for Australia. Maybe; but when
the Stadium people were last in communication with
Mr. Dillon his mouth was too wide open, and the
subject dropped. Since the* he lias whipped various
persons, the two most recent of liis victims being
Moran and Flynn. Of course, there is just the possi-
bility that Dillon may make the trip because there
isn’t much left for him to do in Yankeeland, tor
outside of Jess Willard the heavyweights are a poor
lot, and a match with the long fellow might, not be
taken seriously. A meeting in Australia with Darcy
would, of course, be a tremendous draw, for Dillon
is unquestionably a topnotcher. None of the
weiglits will have anything to do with him unless
lie makes the weight, and that is one of the things
he cannot do. And judging by what happens to
most of tlie Americans who come to this part of the
world, he would find it a still harder thing to do
here.
* * * "
What is the strength of Mike Gibbons?
East year at N’Yark lie put up a performance with
I’ackey McFarland which left behind it a long, lin-
gering smell. More recently then* was an encounter
with Australia’s old friend Jeff Smith, which if it
didn’t happen to be a stall suggested that there
was a lot of hot-air behind Michael’s reputation.
'The other day the New Yorkers saw Mike again—
this time against Ted Lewis, the English-born pug
who lost to Herb McCoy at Melbourne in July, 14.
Lewis got all over him. According to the published
accounts of the affair there seemed to be some doubt
as to whether Gibbons was a trier, but there was no
doubt about the rottenness of his showing. He left
the ring amid enthusiastic hoots and with a shat-
tered reputation. Sam Austin writes in the Police
Gazette that he doesn’t know anybody who would
give 30 cents to see him in the ring again. So it
may not, after all, he so hard to induce Mr. Gibbous
to come along and accept cash for an argument with
Darcy. Dollars may be getting a bit scarce for him
in Yankeeland.
■* * *
Freddie Welsh, the Welshman who got
the lightweight crown and about 2d. by defeating
Ititchie in London a couple of years ago, was
lately suspended for four months by the Wisconsin
(U.S.A.) Boxing Commission and has announced
his retirement from the game. He reckons he has
made enough to live on. Most likely* but he couldn t
have made much more. Even the lemons were
beginning to hurt him. Welsh is 30 and has been
handing round biff for 11 years.
* * * *
Brudder Johnson, who had to skip by the
light o’ the moon from England because he pushed
a finger into somebody’s eye and annoyed some
girls bv his affability, was doing music-hall stunts
in Spain when last heard from. But the local Don
was looking at him with a cold eye, and a mouth
full of gold teeth had been heard several times
inquiring about steamers going to S. America.
Australia’s old-time “Paddy”—otherwise
Frank —Slavin bobs up again, this time in London,
where he is doing a music-hall turn. Although .he
was lately billed at the Oxford as “the ex-champion
of the world” his show apparently is confined to the
recounting of his adventures in and out of the ring
in many parts of the world, and in assuiing his
hearers that the reports of his death from time to
time have one and all been inventions. *
* * * *
Maconacliy, the Maoriland billiardist,
promises to make light of an agreement to restrict
losing hazard breaks to a sequence of 25—and the
Lindrums, doubtless, could make it lighter. Mac
and Fred Lindrum have been playing on those terms
at Alcock’s in Melbourne. The champion gave a
start of 3000 in 18,000, and played the top of the
table” game mostly, while Maconacliy wrestled with
the difficulty of having to discontinue the Gray stroke
when he had scored 25 consecutive hazards He was
■it liberty, of course, to resume his favorite method
of scoring after making a cannon. His policy was
to link, if possible, a series of hazard sequences
together by means of cannons, choosing an opportune
moment for breaking off a sequence when it was near-
ing the 25 limit. He worked the scheme very
cleverly after a while. On the seventh day of the
long job Mac made breaks of 345 and 282 in the
same session. In the bigger break he had four
sequences of hazards—2o, or more, each time—with
links of all-round play. Evidently this new system
admits, in the hands of a pastmaster, of greater
possibilities than the more delicate forms of all-round
plav which are mostly confined to the spot end of the
table The Gray stroke cannot be robbed of its
efficacy in a game save by restricting it to sequences
of two or three, as was done with the spot stroke
when it had reduced champion billiards to dull
monotony.
When one ancient goes anothei
follows him. J. E. Fellowes, who played for
( E ng.) half a century ago and other counties
wards, had considerable fame as a bowler, and s
W. G. Grace with multitudinous overs. nur
Grace—who was a bowler, too —remembered
about him was that one day Fellowes hit him
three 6’s and a 2 off successive deliveries. Hie o s
fellow reckoned it was quite uncalled for.
R. J. Collins (Carlton Harriers) is a
shining light in Victorian amateur athletics
season. In the opening run he made short "O'"!-
the State’s topnotchers, and, a week before, defeate
\V. P. O’Neil (three- and live-miles champion) m
“home run.” On Saturday Collins achieved furth ®
glow by putting up fastest time in the foui-mne
road-race at Brighton (23min. llsec.). #
At Botany (Sydney) on Saturday M. J-
Grandemange defeated cross-country champion O-
Hayden for the chibs’ mile championship in 4mm.
.>•’l-ssec., and brother 11. Graudeniange took the
pannikin attached to the 2i-niile notice handicap.
Up at Mudgee sister Bessie (same family) was 'me o
have a flutter with Miss Meers for the N.S.W. 3 aJa ''
100yds. professional championship; hut water on me
track caused a postponement until July 22.
\ * *
Charlie Fittler worked up a fine turn of
speed in the Parramatta-to-Windsor road-race —the
first “open” event of the Sydney bike season
whirling over the journey from scratch in 08min.
Osec. Fittler is the best pedaller in the Ma State
nowadays, and looks a cert, for scratch events during
the season.
* * * *
June 30 was the 50tli anniversary of the
first telegraphic chess battle fought in Maoriland.
Hostilities broke out between Canterbury and Nelson
shortly after wire communication had been estab-
lished". The contest consisted of two games, and as
fully five moves per night were perpetrated there
was" tremendous excitement and urgent appeals made
to the Governor to ancst the parties for scorching
or something. But the Governor was a boy of the
bulldog breed and refused to intervene. So the
battle raged on to the hitter end. At the expiration
of three months Christchurch had forced a way
through the Nelson defence and captured all the posi-
tions in two places. It was a strenuous go.
The Law met the Press at bowls in Syd-
ney on Saturday, and Six-and-Eight won all but two
rinks out of six. Scores: 131 —IUO. The rink which
included this paper’s reps, went down by the greatest
majority (20 —14), and an uncouth critic in the pay
of a reptile contemporary attributes the downfall to
the fact that the 70th anniversary of “Hop’s” birth-
day had been celebrated the previous evening.
* * * *
Eastern Suburbs Rugby League toe-
ballers put up something in the nature of a record
on Saturday when they rushed up 03 points to nil
against Western Suburbs. The star performer was
“Wally” Messenger, who kicked 10 goals and scored
a try—23 points. This boy, though not nearly so
brilliant a performer as brother “Dally,” is probably
just as good at landing goals. He is lucky to be in
the game at all. Two seasons back he developed a.
knee which at the time looked certain to put him
out of the business. Writer has seen him in agony
one minute and racing down the field or kicking a
goal the next as if nothing had happened. The ex-
planation is that Messenger knows exactly where his
loose cartilage is, and when it gets adrift is able to
push it back into position at a moment’s notice.
• * * *
There is a story about politicians and
lawn-tennis in the new biography of Anthony Wild-
ing. Towards the end of his life the champion
Maorilander formed a great friendship with A. J.
Balfour, who is a moderately good veteran. Once
Wilding pulled him through an open doubles handi-
cap at Nice. “You are the best Cabinet Minister
living, anyway,” said the junior, but sjioiled it by
adding: “No: there is one who could give you points
and a beating.” There was some friendly talk of
challenging the Unknown. Englishman-like, Balfour
thought of Englishmen only. Lyttelton was dead,
F. E. Smith not yet in the Cabinet; it seemed a
good thing. At last Wilding made ids nomination—
F. M. B. Fisher, of Wellington, Cabinet Minister and
in his time a doubles champion of M.L.
* * * *
“Bad Australian” (from South America) :
Will anyone enlighten me as to the way of getting
ahead of the salmon trout which infests the Laguna
del Inca? Some fine fish have been killed in this
lake, but not a solitary one in a sportsman-like way.
A plug' of dynamite is the only bait that has given
any result so far, although all sorts of complete
anglers have tried natural and unnatural bait. The
Laguna, which is 9000 ft. above sea-level, is about one
mile long, half-mile wide, and several hundred feet
deep. The water is intensely cold and contains very
little vegetation, but it swarms with a curious kind
of water bug, something like a very diminutive
shrimp. The trout will not bite at these bugs,
either fresh or on toast, nor do they seem to hanker
after March- or blow-flies, wasps, hornets, green heads,
young lizards, worms, condor’s innards or whisky
corks. As the price of dynamite has kited away up
out of sight I want to know what I am to do about
it. v


h
ĥ
Good Health is Within
Your Reach !—a
Good health waits on good digestion.
Good digestion is the result of sufficient and proper exercise,
therefore good health is within the reach of all.
IF you wish to become strong and healthy—to be always
physically fit —you must have proper exercise. Lack of
exercise means poor digestion—poor muscular development—
insufficient strength to ward off the many complaints to
which mankind is susceptible. Get strong, and stay strong.
My Postal Course of
Health and Strength Exercises
will make you fit, and keep 3 f ou strong and healthy.
The surest and safest way to improve the seen, and unseen,
muscles is by means of health exercises—exercises that
drive a copious supply of rich, virile blood throughout the
system—nourishing the whole system with oxygen, expelling
waste tissue, building up new tissue, benefiting every part
of your body.
The BAKER EXERCISES consist entirely of good exercises
based on these lines, and have been tested and proved by
experience.
Let me send you a copy of my Booklet, “HEALTH AND
STRENGTH FROM SELF-CULTURE.” It tells all about my
health-giving exercises and methods, terms, etc. Send three
penny stamps for postage. Just write your name and address
across this advertisement. I'll know what you mean.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
5,5
Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
WHAT IS IN THEM?
The first Test of all
Cigars is, “What is in
them ?”
CAROLINA
CHERUTOS
give a satisfactory
answer. T hey are
“M A D B IN II A -
YANA” of the most
select Yuelta Abajo
Tobacco.
Because they are Cheru-
tos —open at both ends
—they cost ever so
much less than a choice
Havana cigar—yet they
are just as good to
smoke. You can buy
them in sil v e r-foi I
bundles of 5 for 2/-
Carolina Cherutos,
5 for 21- ; 35/- per 100
Postage on 5,2 d.
Postage on 300 :
N.S.W. 9d.
Interstate 1/2.
Every smoker should have
my catalog of cigars,
tobacco, cigarettes, pipes,
and all smokers’ requisites.
Send for a free copy.
ħ
Actual Size.
A. M. SOLOMON,
CIGAR EXPERT,
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
tO
-'giiiuimmmiiitiminiiiiiitijimiiiiismmaiimuiUßniraiisaßtnmnnff^
Your Tour
a Success
By
Using
BSiiuniiniiinniimii
Gifts for
Friends in Camp.
We have made a special feature of gifts for
our soldier boys, and at present hold an
unrivalled stock from which to select some
practical but pleasant memento for your
soldier friend before he goes off to the Front.
Note these values:—
Soldiers’ Money Belts, with
pockets, from 3/6
Soldiers’ Wristlet Watches from
12/6
Wristlet Watches, with luminous
dials, special value .... 22/6
Knife, Fork and Spoon, in leather
case . . . . 47-
Soldier’s Met : al Shaving Mirror, in
leather case, pocket size 2/6
Tobacco Pouches from ... 1/6
CRAIG & AITKEN,
|654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.|
Established over 30 Years.
-H
>-u_a -
fgjGTtEB
However You Travel Notv
—On the Swift, Safe,
Sure Indian Motocycle .
CATALOGS WITH PLEASURE.
MELBOURNE : Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. Pty. Ltd.,
109-113 Russell Street.
SYDNEY ; Milledge Bros. Ltd.,
156 Castlereagh Street.
BRISBANE : Canada Cycle & Motor Agency Ltd.,
Adelaide and Creek Streets.
ADELAIDE : Eyes & Crowle Ltd.,
76-79 Pirie Street.
LAUNCESTON : John King & Sons Ltd..
Charles StreeL
PERTH : Armstrong Cycle and Motor Agency,
Hay Street.
r
h
fir*
ieSis
Zs \a
e=?
British-Made
Crushing,
Grinding, i
Mining and
Cement
Machinery,
Bail Mills,
Tube Mills,
etc.
Wiite for Particulars and Quotations.
NOYES BROS.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD.; 499 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
RIGNEY SHOES FOR MEN.
Every dictate of comfort, economy and pride
in appearance prompts the man of taste and
refinement to give preference' to RIGNEY
SHOES.
We illustrate a high-grade PATENT KID
GOLOSII RAL., with Interwoven Glace Kid
Leg, Very Light Soles and Hand-sewn- Welt.
Price - 40/-
Also in Tan Willow Calf ...... 37/0
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ĥ
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men's Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
N.S.W. Liberal Conference passed a reso-
lution last week, on the motion of Cocks,
M.L.A., “that the Caucus pledge now signed
by members of the Labor party be declared
illegal.” This can be taken as evidence that
what Liberalism wants more than anything
else is a pair of Cocks’s reliable spectacles.
The Caucus pledge may be objectionable in
some ways, but it is about the only protec-
tion a considerable section of the electors
have against something 10 times worse. In
some form it is inseparable from party gov-
ernment ; and if the Libs, want to get to
rock bottom, the place to start digging it*
easy to find. In the meantime it might look
better if Cocks proposed to make illegal
the methods relied upon by the Libs, to keep
iheir crowd in order.
dunlop
IT’S THE
ROAD RESULTS
THAT COUNT!
If-vc
MOTORISTS!
Why Buy Imported Tyres
when you can purchase
DUNLOPJ
which stand pre-eminent
in Australia for
Quality, Service
and Satisfaction
for
LESS....
MONEY
...A Few...
Dunlop Prices.
Compare with Prices of
Imported Tyres of Similar
Sizes and Weights.
COVER TUBE
30 x3M - £5/3/- 23/-
(American Size)
31 x 4% - £6/13/- 32/-
(American Size) Oversize for 30 x 3i
32 x 3% - £5/12/- 26/-
(American Size)
33 x A'A - £7/3/- 34/-
(American Size) Oversize for 32 x3j
815 x 105 - £6/15/- 34/-
880 x 120 - £B/5/- 40/-
Illustrated Catalogue on Application
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Launceston,
Perth, Brisbane, Wellington, Christchurch.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME. At the War.
§s2*3
m
WmS
mM
mm
VM
mms
mm
“ * : wii j
v, ’
aSDef
■ 181
■Hjpm
11
i %
mJk
S&
,'V ■■•• • ,.,
its®
31
F'
S»*
IM
Mm
!«F|
mmw&m
ffT'
‘}m§
h.vn
■<Tlfe ,<5
f W
t \ iiiUF?
:•>.. •
■*mss
ITSh
H
V;-
sg»
i® 1
-: .• ..
? •//,//,-
iSi
%
■Jm
sSg
aMMji*
mmw\
V&f&vV'i'. r.
i’a^
s^fs3<raSßKf2
si
'.i&j/titifr-i ;u ; r-sj«W
SI
tgT.ii®/.' IJN&iimpgSF
$ 3SH|
w&mmmm
\\
%
KIM
fei
H»>* v «*Vv^
ii
s r W<.
x
s>'-' t
'af^rfiiy
3sfe
3/
li
*y.rf
7S
A’
-w$
W
11l
5X
K '■?&«/
1
Hi
&3
n
»i-&
MHB3
HI
Pi
ssa
I|ilSß; / ftrißalfe
pS&te
Ss.
BSteis
-X
ms
1$
BP^
■&«£
M
sa«iw
M 1
m
y ~j
.'-V«
:yy
;j
■
n
,4**^
f : «
a*
-M;
" rmX, j
rV/ ,l> v '; : v
•;ft-■ ;/,•£'. .Vf* 1 ;/?v SL
'l#
,a#.
;^r'
ita*
>'J£
v ‘;\ i
p'vf'W l
■1
1
I
wmm
■ f’
mem
rm
mm ®v?
?ii
©;
; 'Vjf> 5
mm
m
■s
' ;#v- ',»l<;
vFifp
5 A
'OrJf
m
m
t •'",. 'aw/;
> -.<>:. <r , j . vx . iffiX’} ■/' -A' jl
•: ;,< 'v-yi"' :
•’':r-i
Cobra,” Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Helped the new
Offensive too;
When the crashing
Guns were done,
Chunder, Bear and
Everyone
Leapt the tren ch es.
“Forward, all!”
D own the lines they
H earcl him call.
Noiv the Hun has
Got to heed!
Good old "COBRA
In the lead!


MAKES WALKING
EASIER!
Liberal room for the toes, neat,
even finish—a truly COMFORTABLE
Hoot in the moderate American Derby
lace style.
t'ine-KTainul Tan W illow Calf U7/<»
Tan Year Call IS/(i
Black Box Calf J 9/(1
I‘ost I'rce,
Write for Catalogue.
For Distinctive Footwear,
135 King Street, SYDNEY.
Make Mirrors Shine
and . .
Glassware Sparkle
by using
I IflUflf
fi«fTW« M
I UIU
Oil
A few drops will do. Apply
with cloth or sponge and rub
briskly with dry cloth or cham-
ois. A fine polish will come
ħ
quickly.
“THREE-IN-ONE”
lubricates every-
thing. It cleans,
polishes, and pre-
vents rust indoors
and out.
“THREE-IN-ONE”
has imitators. Get
the Genuine!
Reid & Reid,
Australasian
Agents,
Harris Street.
Wellington, N. i.
HAINES-15
EXPLOSIVES
ARE THE PRODUCTS OF
OVER A CENTURY’S EXPERIENCE
Explosives packed especially to com-
ply with requirements of Australia
and other foreign countries.
Our SAFETY Explosives for use in
dusty and gaseous coal mines have
passed the rigid tests of the United
States Government’s Bureau of Mines.
Thirty factories 5n the United States.
Plants on both the Atlantic and Pacific
Coasts assure prompt shipments.
OBTAIN MAXIMUM RESULTS
BY SPECIFYING
DUPONT EXPLOSIVES
E.l.du Pont de Nemours & Co.
WORLD’S LARGEST MAKERS
OF EXPLOSIVES
Wilmington, Delaware, U. S. A.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
Henry W. Peabody & Co., Sydney, N. S, W.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We SuprLV—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard=
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68* PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
REAL SATISFACTION
Some people are satisfied with anything. Some require the fullest
measure. Others put up with all kinds of trouble because they do not
know the perfect satisfaction to be obtained
From a F.I.A.T. CAR
Motorists who know will have nothing else.
The following is a regular sample of F.I.A.T. satisfaction: —
Coior a,
The Manager, 2nd April, WIG.
Garratts Ltd., SYDNEY.
Dear Sir, —
ft is now Til O (2) years and six months since I bought my F.1.A.T.,
and during that time I have used it constantly, travelling over 16,000
miles.
I feel that I ought to let you know how well it has served me, and
how wonderfully satisfactory it has been.
I have never been stuck up. nor had to put a spanner on a nut, not
even to take out a spark plug.
I cun only say that owning a F.I.A.T. Car means real pleasure and
complete satisfaction.
Yours truly,
( Signed) JAMES CASS.
15/20 5- and 7-Passenger Model de Luxe, £.750
GARRATTS LTD.
ALICK McNEIL, General Manager.
173-175 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
GAILLEI9I6 MODEL 5-SPEED
OUTBOARD MOTOR—
With Bosch High-tension Magneto.
The motor that you do not have to stop and
start the reverse way to go astern —you just
press the button to go astern, ahead, or
remain stationary without stopping engine.
Improved Silencer, etc., etc.
Caille Yankee Outboard Motors with
Battery and H.T. Magneto Ignition.
Caille Marine Engines, 2 to 8 h.p. in stock.
SCRIPPS 4=CYCLE ENGINES.
.LATEST MODELS JUST LANDED.
All Spare Parts and Complete Boat Equipments Supplied
■Sole Australasian Agents:
■
m
±ri
Benson Brothers Limited,
51-53 Druitt Street, SYDNEY; 60 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
Reduce the Cost of Trustee Administration by appointing .. .
THE PERMANENT OF "'V«°, u t t .S, wal “-
TRUSTEE COMPANY "SSES"*
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors, Attorneys, Agents, Etc.
ESTATES, PROPERTIES, FUNDS, Etc., MANAGED EFFICIENTLY *ND ECONOMICALLY..
Full Particulars on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [2
Made in Australia
POLISH MOP
will polish
mat floor and furniture
• easier and belter •
ALL STORES OR POLI-SHINE MOP CO., 48 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY
h
THE “PLUM”—ALWAYS!!
ĥ
ħ
h
You’ll want no other Razor when you try the “Plum.” It gives as
close a shave as any man need wish for.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR
is a highly scientific production, its silver-steel blade being tempered
to such a pitch of perfection that it leaves the face like velvet.
Shaves in a quarter the time.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/ - This line makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITK.EN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
“Silas”: Oh these Australians who will
dawdle their years propping up a post! I’ve
just been talking to the mother of one of
them. He was born in Collingwood, edu-
cated in the State Schools, and went to sea.
After looking in on the British Columbian
big timber and seeing something of mining
life in Alaska, he joined the mounted con-
stabulary in Dublin, but didn’t care for
that and took to the water again. Later he
chipped in with the pearlers in our northern
waters, and drifted inland to shoot buffaloes.
He was making a nice thing out of hides
when the war broke out. Enlisting just as
soon as he could reach a depot, he fought
with the Anzacs, and is now 23 years of age.
"Ilaka”: As in the days of old the
widow’s mite gets the superin h sneer. They
were auctioning a painting in Maoriland
on behalf of the Bed Cross funds, and as
usual each purchaser returned it for resale.
It was being offered for the manyth time,
when a big, hard-faced toiler dug in with a
bid of ss. This was promptly rejected,
while a little squeak from the dress-circle
was translated by the auctioneer into £5 ss.
Yet five bob’s worth of something might
have saved a Maorilander’s life at the
Front.
“Dun Brown”: Melbourne Herald the
other evening published a photograph of a
young man with the remark that he “has the
distinction of having been the first to receive
one of the medals issued by the Defence
Department to those medically unfit for
service.” There is something nauseating
in these attempts to make heroes out of the
physically defective. The Herald would
not rush to supply a photograph of a youth
who had acquired the “distinction” of fail-
ing to pass the matriculation or some simi-
lar examination. The physically unfit, may
be entitled to sympathy, but no man worth
his salt wishes to proclaim his unfitness
through a picture in the papers.
“Tin Cynic”: Who says women aren’t
philosophical? I first sighted the lady who
converted me just as she started to sprint
for a tram in George-street, Sydney. Fate
had handicapped her with a baby, seven par-
cels and an insecure hat which fell over her
right eye at the first leap and partly blinded
her. “Must catch that boat at th’ Quay!”
she said to the baby as she streaked past me.
"'he tram was then crouched at the inter-
section of King and George streets waiting
for the cross-over signal, and it jolted for-
ward just as she reached out a hand to catch
the guard-rail. Down went the over-
balanced sprinter, and the baby and parcels
rolled on the line. A prompt woman fielded
the infant and placed it in the mother’s arms
as she staggered to her feet and stood staring
after the escaped electric and the destination-
box on its receding back. “Oh!” she sighed
in a relieved voice, “it’s only goin’ to Miller's
Point, after all! Oh, that’s all right!”
“F.N.T.” : A 50 per cent, increase in the
price of a Yictorian whisky-’n’-soda is put
down to a combination between the L.V.A.
and the associated breweries. An increase
in the price of bottled spirits was bound
to come, and was justified. But that in-
crease didn’t nearly warrant a 50 per cent,
rise in the retail price. The explanation
lies in an agreement alleged to have been
made between the L.V.A. and the breweries,
the latter promising not to supply beer to
price-cutting publicans except at an exor-
bitant rate. This is a good thing (1) for
the publican, who gets an exceedingly high
rate for his spirits, by which he makes more
money though selling fewer nobblers; and
(2) for the breweries, since a restricted sale
of spirits means a bigger sale of beer. (Loud
cheers from L.V.A. publicans and the
associated breweries.) The apple-cart, how-
ever. is in danger of being overturned by
the “bottle” stores. John Richardson, who
runs two such, as well as the Exchange
Hotel over the way from the Town Hall,
with the Cafe Franca is above it, declares
that his brewery-combine beer has been
stopped because he refused to bind himself
only to sell bottled spirits at the prices
mentioned in the L.V.A. and breweries’
agreement. Boiled down, this means that if
there were no compulsion on the part of
the breweries, it would be possible for the
public to get bottled whisky at a rate pro-
portioned to the wholesale increase—which
rate would certainly not be as high as that
now charged by the associated covenanters.
The new development suggests that whole-
sale butcher Bill Angliss may yet combine
with Sun Kee Jang, of the Western Market,
to fix the price of chops and oranges.
“Cynicus”: Friend “Gumsucker” tells of
a soldier’s wife who is living with a Hun
(B. 25/5/T6). She must be full sister
to the traitress who degrades the
name of another soldier. This man
—a Boer war veteran —deft Brisbane
early in September, 1914. for the Front,
and was seven • months on Gallipoli.
On returning, a few weeks ago. he found his
wife had been living with an Austrian all
the time he was away and had a child five
months old. For the whole period
she drew £4 10s. per month of his
pay, and a similar amount of her brother’s.
Can nothing be done in cases of this sort?
Surely the police must know, since these
fellows have to report themselves.
“D.F.”: Tasmania may want factories and
industries, but it puts a pretty stiff tax on
any co. that dares start them. To begin
with, when a co. registers in the Speck,
there’s a stamp duty of Id. for every £ of
nominal capital, and then there’s a registra-
tion fee of £1 per £lOOO of capital up to
£5OOO, and a lower scale of charges for
everything above that. There are a few
other charges, but they don’t amount to so
much. If it’s a mining co. it gets off with
the stamp duty and Is. for a registration
certificate. But if a trading co. registers some-
where else it has only to put down a lump
sum of £5O, and it can do as much business
as it in Tasmania. If it’s a mining
co. it does not pay anything. In the case
of a co. with a capital of £12,000 it costs
nearly £6O to register, while it can get regis-
tered in Victoria for about a twentieth of
that.


r ISHER'S BEAUTY PILLS for the
IVFRmakf Cl PAR COMPLEXION:
- ©
kiSr>
, ,5
Wliat every woman wants.
It is no use being well gowned if you
have a blotchy complexion.
A pimple on your nose takes away
your self-respect.
The being has to he born who can be
dignified and at the same time harbor
a pimple.
Your pleasure is gone because you
are thinking about it all the time.
You are wondering when it is going
to burst.
It is Nature’s signal that your blood
is out of order.
A course of Fisher’s Beauty Fills
for the liver will remove the pimple
and prevent others coming.
They go to the root of the trouble.
Fisher’s Beauty Pills
FOR THE LIVER
Remove Pimples and Sallow Com-
plexion. A safe remedy for Indiges-
tion, Headache, Backache and Consti-
pation.
They make the eyes bright.
ALWAYS ASK FOB
FISHER’S LIVER PILLS.
All Chemists anti Stores, 1/- per
bottle.
Chemists,
337 George Street, SYDNEY.
F.43.8P.
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing- Instru-
ment the Perfected New
ĥ
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mean Ear Phone
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
WESTERN MACHINERY
WHEELED SCOOPS and DRAG SCRAPERS,
PLOUGHS FOR CONTRACTORS,
WESTERN ROAD GRADERS,
ELEVATING GRADERS, ROCK CRUSHERS,
ROAD PLANER and FINISHER,
DUMP CARS, SCARIFIERS.
(Large Stocks Carried).
Catalogs and Full Information from
the Sole Agents.
E. D. MORRISON £ CO. LTD.,
257 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HP
WALNUT
m
Hi
“HA
•ncubatd
BROODY HENS for 12/0.
The “HATCHO” 15-egg Incubator
is a perfect substitute for a Broody
Hen, will hatch every fertile egg,
simple to use, cannot get out of order.
Over 4000 sold last season.
Price 12/6 complete, carriage paid.
Egg Testers 1/2 each. Agents wanted.
R. CASTON & CO., Dept. H.,
40 Hunter Street,. Sydney.
How to Treat Yo\ir Hair and Complexion
A Few Simple Beauty Hints.
By Mdlle. GABY
DESLYS, the well-known Parisian Actress.
YOU ask me for a few hints on the
treatment of the hair and complexion.
Wei], the less “treatment” you give
the skin the better. I do not
believe much in massage, but a
little cream to the face is neces-
sary to counteract the effects of
wind or sun. What cream
would I recommend V Well, I
advise you to use a little mer-
eolised wax every night and
again in the morning, after
washing the face. Hub it
gently into the skiu. then wipe
otf any superfluous wax and
dust a little barri-agar over
the face. You will find that
this will be the only "treat-
ment” necessary and will keep
your face fresh and youthful-
looking for all your life. The mercolised
wax removes all the dead outer skin, so
that you have always a fair, fresh com-
plex-ion like a girl’s.
For the hair, the first and most important
I’hoto: Wrather
thing is a good shampoo. Never use any
thing inferior to wash the hair with. Get
some good stallax from your chemist and use
a teaspoonful in a cup of hot
water. Then rinse the hair
well and it will look bright and
glossy.
A tonic is necessary when the
hair is inclined to fall out more
than it should, and is always
good to use during the spring
and autumn. Then the hair
needs a little —what do you call
it? —stimulant, and for this I
would advise you to get a packet
of boranium and mix it with
some bay rum ; dab this into the
roots and it will not only stop
the fall, but make your hair
grow long and thick. Give your
hair a good brushing every night, and that
will bo all that you need do.
m
&
Blackheads Fly Away.
Instantaneous Remedy for Blackheads, Greasy Skin and Enlaiged I ores.
A practically instantaneous remedy for
blackheads, greasy skins and enlarged pores,
recently discovered, is now coming into
general use in the boudoir. It: is very
simple, harmless and pleasant. Drop a
stymol tablet, obtained at the chemist’s, in
a tumblerful of hot water. After the effer-
vescence has subsided bathe tin* face in the
liquid, using a small sponge or soft cloth.
In a few minutes dry the face and the offen-
sive blackheads will come right off on the
towel. Also the large oily pores immedi-
ately close up and efface themselves natu-
rally. The greasiness disappears and the
skin is left smooth, soft and cool. This
simple treatment is then repeated a few
limes at intervals of four or five days, to
ensure the permanence of the result.
Grey Hair— Home Remedy.
An old-fashioned Recipe restores Youthful Appearance.
There are plenty of reasons why grey
hair is not desirable, and plenty of reasons
why hair dyes should not be used. But, on
the' other hand, there is no reason why you
should have grey hair if you do not want
it. To turn the hair back to a natural color
is really a very simple matter. One has
only to'get from the chemist two ounces of
concentrate of tamnmlite and mix it with
three ounces of bay ruin. Apply to the
hair with a small sponge for a few nights
and the greyness will gradually disappear.
This liquid is not sticky or greasy and does
not injure the hair in any way. It has been
used for generations • with most satisfactory
results by those who have known the
formula.
To Kill Roots of Superfluous Hair.
The most Effective Formula ever Discovered.
Women annoyed with disfiguring growths
of superfluous hair wish to know not merely
how to temporarily remove the hair, but how
to kill the hair roots permanently. For
this purpose pure powdered pheminol may be
applied directly to the objectionable hair
growth. The recommended treatment is
designed not only to instantly remove the
hair but also to actually kill the roots so that
the growth will not return. About an ounce
of pheminol, obtainable from the chemist,
should be sufficient.
Good News for Fat People.
Something New in Obesity Cures.
A London chemist says: u The latest,
method of reducing obesity certainly is fax-
more pleasant and convenient than all pre-
vious methods. It consists merely in eating
clynol berries. The fat person who wants
to reduce without the usual rigid diet, exer-
cise, sweating baths, etc., now puts a few
of these little brown berries in his or her
pocket and eats three or four each day.”
Clynol berries not only eliminate fat from
the body, but also correct the tendency,
which is usually constitutional, to create
fatty matter. No discomfort whatever is
caused by their action; in fact, except for
the loss of superfluous fat and the feeling
of “fitness” so created, you would not be
aware that these little berries were doing
their work.
Local inquiry shows that clynol berries are
not very well known in this country, but
the demand is increasing daily, and any
chemist can quickly procure them if specially
requested to do so.
f I
T<\ ICE
Afternoon tea means afternoon chat,
The subjects are varied—they’ll see to
that.
The last new book—the latest plays —
break dances and the ragtime craze,
The subsect ot ‘Jellolds of course, Is
And though we say It - they’re always
praised.
After taking IRON ‘jELLOIDS' the blood becomes enriched and
strengthened, the appetite is restored, vitality is renewed, Anaemia
quickly disappears, giving place to vigorous and buoyant spirits.
ħ
‘lron ‘Jelloids’ are indeed a splendid
shall always recommend them to
Miss H. Foley, Brixton, writes.
“tonic and very pleasant to take.
“anyone who is run-down.”
A fortnight’s trial ( Pnce 1/6) will convince you.
For Women, No. 2. Special Tonic for Men, No. 2A. (containing Quinine).
For Children. No. 1. Sold in England at 1/H and 2/9 per box.
Obtainable at all Chemists throughout Australia.
Wholesale: Druggists' Sundries Ltd., cr. Clarence & Market Sts., Sydney.
h
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) trill be
taken of communications tnsulfictently stamped.
Same and address must appear on the MSS. A o
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
T.L.11.: The point is, How much bus gone
out of the country since the last loan was floated .
If we had spent all the money in Australia, obvi-
ously the ownership would simply have changed
from one lot of Australians to another lot, and the
country ought to be in as good a position to get a
loan from the second as from the first lot. If there
were 10 men in a boat and six of them had V2O,
and you borrowed the £2O and paid it away to eight
of them, the £2O would still be in the boat. The
only circumstances in which it wouldn’t be in the
boat and available for re-borrowing would be if the
boat landed at a desert island and the crew paid some
of the £2O to an outsider for admittance to the local
picture-show.... Hewer: Thanks, but not enough
general interest.... Brook H.: Get straight to it.
If where you want to go is just across the street,
don’t wander round a couple of blocks to gel there.
. ...E.8.J.; Thanks; but we are overwhelmed on
that subject T.A.R.: But the war-census cards
merely stated the person's own opinion of his medi-
cal fitness, not a doctor’s. Still, that doesn t affect
the mysterious difference between the proportion of
rejects in N. S. Wales and Vic A.G.McC.: No
particulars available: write the Westralian Dept, of
Agriculture. ... 11. D..M.: The Act is not part of the
Constitution, which merely enables the Federal
Parliament to legislate in matters of Defence. The
Defence Act can be amended or slaughtered at any
time by Parliament, but the Constitution can be
altered only by referendum and Parliament....
S.W.S.: When did you find anything like that in
this paper?... .Jonathan S.: Couldn't get excited
over it... .M.G.S.: Not enough in it.... 1t.A.8.:
Blank verse wants some extra grace... .M.A.:
“Cousin Jack” doesn't get us 1.A.P.: Sorry, but
not nearly up.... Faro: Well written, but too harsh
at the edges.... Woolly: Cut par. out and address
the accountant with your name, page and date of
issue. Verse no g00d... .11.A.C.: “The Transport”
is not verse, but tangled and disordered prose....
Austra: Too many bumps.... V.F.K,: Bright, but
lines out of scansion J.S.P.: Worse verses have
been published, but not here... .Warradulla: Some
promise... .E.L.: You have our sympathy if your
life’s as much out of tune as your verse....Kcnric:
Broken-nosed females who entice youths to write
about their charms in that liop-and-jump metre
ought to be asphyxiated.... Poor Me: You’re poor,
all right, if that represents your wealth of ideas....
Freckles: It has about as much originality as a loaf
of bread... .C.8.A.: N 0.... St. Jimmy: No use. Why
do you put those irritating accents on all the
stressed syllables?, They don't improve the scan-
sion: and it needs improving, the Lord knows....
Clotho: “When War returns on its ravening wings
to the dread depths of iniquity and destruction
from which it raised its hydra-head—what then?”
A headache... .M.A.P.: Clever bits in it; but Maria
couldn’t talk like that... .A.8.C.: Not for us.
Might sell elsewhere.... Ox: Lame and dreary stuff.
. ...J.A.Y.: Come ini—
Old England, in her glory, received a sudden shock
As if a comet’s tail were passing through her block.
Free lands are brought to bay.
Sweet Liberty will not thaw,
The erst-peaceful days of Europe are
Hell, and nothing more.
. ...A.T.T.: Doesn’t even resemble verse.... By
Cripes: Dreary stuff... .G.G.: Good idea, but bumps.
. ...H.H.W.: “Casual Australian” stuff misses, but
not by much.... Winderoo: Take the horrible misfit
jest away and hide it from the eye of Heaven....
Ma’feesh: Lame and brokenwinded. .. . Mick : Not
up. Anyhow, Potts Point is mostly boarding-houses
and fat Jewesses. .. .N.E.S.: Just the ordinary,
fluent, feminine ramble without idea or purpose....
J.C.: No use... .11.5. Q.: “Spell Oh” would have had
a good chance if the lines had been in scansion....
A.T.M.W.: Held for inquest... .N.L.W.: Verse not
quite up. ... 8.C.: The verse is something like your
swamp. It doesn’t look bad till it bogs you in
cheap and noisy commonplace... .Elsie Bennett:
Plunge right in and don’t worry about the punctua-
tion :—•
.. . .Rusticus: Pleasing, but not up... . P.C.M.: Don't
worry. You’ll find another girl if the verses indicate
your real feelings.... Goff: Verse has no merit....
J.K.8.: That kind of verse is among the worst
calamities of war....Tas: It goes back, and you
won't find a teardrop on it L.A.P.: Not a gleam
in it. ...L.D.: Can’t believe the statement, but here
it is in all its Homeric grandeur:—
... .M.8.R.P.: For all practical purposes “yew”
rhymes with “too.” To speak “strictly” of rhyme
is almost impossible. There is a difference of final
sound so slight that by some sort of aural gym-
nastics you might catch it, but nobody reads verse
standing on his head with his ear turned inside out.
J.H.G.: “A Voice from the Bush” is by Mowbray
Morris, aide-de-camp to S. Aus. Gov. Fergusson,
1869-73... .W.J.D.: Henry Lawson’s “The Last Re-
view” was published in “When I Was King, and
Other Verses’-’ (Angus and Robertson, Sydney)
H.S.M. (and others): Quite right, and the Office
Curate was quite wrong—until too late. Bishop
Cooper did marry.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.M.: The Bulletin first heard that joke in its
Sunday-school days....D.A.: No, thanks... .A.M.G.:
Too weak... .H.M.: The old complaint—unsuitable.
....Bird: At least one of your eggs has been bor-
rowed.... Gregory: Very creaky humor.
A motley gathering from the Bush
Critical of either push
Under the moon they were content
With a dulcet instrument
Shorty Ordi-sh on his concertina played
Which oft delights both man and maid
When within log-house they hop
And we’ve seen ’em in a butcher’s shop
Rubbing shoulders ’gainst the quivering meat
Oh 1 It was a funny treat
“Gents, now grab yer mutton”
Says the Hem See, Charley Sutton
But the Fancy Ball had a proper baud
And every way it did the grand
In the Chapel there was good Brother Gollow
Directing bun worry and muffin swallow
And declaring that this Festivawl
Was better than a Fancy Ball.
Under the pale gleaming night,
A shell came into sight,
Some German had flung it ’tis true,
And as soon as it came into view,
One of the bravest of Anzac men
Picked it up before you could count ten;
With a terrible shout he lifted it high,
And flung it far into the sky,
It landed afar in the Germans trench,
And although it gave his right arm a wrench
It burst in the trench with. a. horrible roar, .
And slaughtered Germans by the score.


Put it where the pain comes!
Sore Throat
Pneumonia
Sprains
Chest Colds
Backache
Pleurisy
Bronchitis
Neuralgia
Rheumatism
Quinsy
Neuritis
Lumbago
Complete relief from the pain caused by these and other ailments —no matter
of how long standing—follows the application of Themogene. Thermogene
is absolutely safe—suitable for both young and old. It is sure in action
and easy to apply. It stimulates the soothing inner warmth of Nature
and brings to the affected part an increased supply of health and invigor-
ating blood to battle with and take away the foreign irritating substance.
Its comforting warmth brings new life and strength to the aching part.
THERMOGENE
1 ABSORBENT WADDING
The joint that is throbbing, the chest that is
racked with coughing, the back, the head, or
limb that is aching with pain, will find immediate
relief when Thermogene is applied. Pain will
subside, the throbbing will cease, and the com-
forting warmth will permeate the whole affected
part. Thermogene is far superior to the old-
time poultice. It is hygienic in use, clean to
handle and comfortable to wear. A piece
can be tacked to the underclothing, over the
affected part, or applied by means of a simple
tape bandage. It can be worn night and day
without any inconvenience or interference with
ordinary work. Thermogene is recommended
and used by Doctors and Nurses everywhere.
An unsolicited Testimonial from Driver T. Wilson,
i 249 i, A.S.C. 67, Coy, Indian Meerut Div.,
Expeditionary Force :
“ I beg to give you this testimonial from the Front regarding
the value of your remedy, Thermogene, which has been used
by me with wonderful effects. I have been very bad with
rheumatics and bad chest owing to the hard weather which we
have had to endure out here. A comrade gave me a packet of
your Thermogene Wool, and I can surely say it did me a great
deal of good, and I am pleased to recommend it to my comrades
and the public at home. “ (Signed) Dr. T. WILSON.”
Another unsolicited Testimonial : —
“ The Crescent, Sutton.
“ I think you should have the following extract from a letter
I have just received from the firing line. We sent your
wadding to my brother, and he writes thus :
“ ‘ I will wrap the Thermogene Wool around my big toes the
first time we are allowed to take our boots off. The wool
you sewed inside my belt before I came out completely cured
the pain in my back, and I have had no return of it.’
“E. BEST.”
4 *
is
n.
f
r
h I
At all Chemists 1/3 per Box.
FREE.
Write for illustrated
book on Thermogene
treatment, which tells
how to get the best results. Send a
postcard to-day toThermogene Bureau,
5 & 7 f Barrack Sreet, Sydney, N.S.W.
Sole Agents for Australasia :
FASSETT & JOHNSON,
5 & 7, Barrack St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Manufactured by :
THERMOGENE Co., Ltd.,
Hayward’s Heath, Sussex, Eng.
m
tb^
m
i m
Ssff 0
m
BRITISH OWNED & BRITISH MADE by BRITISH LABOUR


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA E. N GL AN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
ORMONDE
ORAMA
ORVIETO
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA
ORONTES
OMR AH
. Geared Turbine
.Triple-Screw
. .Twin-Screw
15.000 Regd. Tons.
13,000 „
12.130 „
12.129 „
12,124 „
12,077 „
12,036 ~
9,023 „
8,282
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabin«s-de-luxe;
Staterooms, with bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms,
Private Bathrooms, Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Regular sailings from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting):—
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACIiAY
TOWNSVILLE
*CAIRNS
(•Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports).
NORTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney July 15.
COOMA (1000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne July 19.
Leaves Sydney July 22.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne July 20.
Leaves Sydney July 29.
Melbourne!
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports)
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney July 22.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Hanking, Public Companies. Sc.
' ~ THE.
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED CBWLEY.
lion. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, K.C.M.G.
lion. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH -WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
W LIMITED.
1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. ..
SUBSCRIBED.. .. •• •• £1,198,6/9
PAID-UP (31st December, 1915) . . £1,196.108
RESERVE FUND .•. • • £ 75,000
HEAD OFFICE: George*King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37ThreadneedleStreet, E.C.
DIRECTORS — Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Arthur S. Barton,
Esq. ; Frank N. Yarivood, Esq.; Herbert R.
Lysagiit, Esq.; George F. Todman, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Whales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to -June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £ ?an’oon n n
Paid-up Capital .. ■ • • • 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. •• •• 200,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091.669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ,
Hon G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq.;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
fhe Commercial Banking Co,
of Sydney, limited.
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
..£2,000,000 0 0
.. 1,805,000 0 0
.. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,805,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. Chairman,
lion. 11. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dinns, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and J. J. Brenan, Esq.
General Manager: H. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birch in Lane.
Directors: ■F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. 11. S. Littleton ,
N. D. Cohen, Esq. Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of flew Z aalan d.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Juaranteed Stock
'reference Shares
Irdinarv Shares
Paid-up
Jncalled Capital
‘( £1,500,000)
£529,988
750,000
1,000,000
500.000
’serve Fund and Undivided Profits S.llsieoß
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia. New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places
DECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transact* all otHer usual Banking business.
Shipping Ac.
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line to Vancouver
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADE G
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE, CALLING AT
AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (Fiji) and HONOLI LI (Hawaii).
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction t . l ' e . k; VN ( VkfVt * L ViVes,
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, G REA 1
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
Leave Sydney, Noon. Leave Auckland.
AUG. 3
AUG. 31
SEPT. 28.
OCT. 26
AUG. S
SEPT. 5
OCT. 3
OCT. 31
t Twin Screw. * Triple Screw. Fitted with Cabins De Luxe, Suites, ueusieuu
Nursery, Wireless, etc.
AROUND THE WORLD HOOKINGS. RETURNING VIA CHINA AND JAPAN, OR
SUEZ CANAL OR SOUTH AFRICA. _____
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco.
VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States .Canada.or y
Around the .World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning
STEAMERS SAIL FROM WELLINGTON (N.Z.).
*MAITAI, 201 li July. *MOANA, 17th August.
“Connecting Steamers leave Sydney—l3th July, 10th August.
Passengers Transfer at Wellington to the Mail Steamer immediately on arrival.
Vessels stay 24 hours at Papeete, “The Pearl of the Pacific.
VIA
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
The Paradise
of the Pacific.”
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday In tlie Largest and Finest Steamers Trading to America-
K.M.S. Niagara ami R.M.B. Makura.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing Nineteen Days’ Stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Reach —“The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
RETURN FARES: First Class, £4B; Second Class, £33.
Winter T
Fiji
Lcvuka,
Suva,
Lautoka,
Samoa »»■*. Friendly Islands
Monthly Sailings" from Sydney and Auckland.
Tonga.
T.S.S. ATUA (3444 tons). S.S. TALUNE (2087 tons).
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services apply, c vf mev
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sidney.
Something' Unique in
ĥ
Island Tours
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PMILP &
CO. LTD.,
9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
ħ
h
£3,500,000
£2,675,000
£3,500,000
£9.675.000
Directors:
The Hon. Sir Charles IC. MacKellar, K.C.M.U,
M.L.C., President.
Robert Lionel Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.U., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buck land, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: Shepherd Edgecliff Laidley, Esq. ; Alfred Geo r Esq- EC
Hea !^S^S^^de S ®n^^st r ali f^S , Fiji, Papua and London.
'tt.'A&srsx sus
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Cncu . t?ttq9PT,Tj FTtENCH. General Manager.
(fommonu'ealtMiifc Bank of Sustralta
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
Open
for all
General Banking Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign- places direct.
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of ciedit issued RR ■ „ n omm on-
Bankin" and Exchange Business of every description interest paid on
wealth. United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts, opene .
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
Minimum
Deposit
At all
2600
Branches, and over
Agencies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest at g°/
per annum ,0
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
„ ,q ;e DENISOS MILLER. Governor
JAMES KELL. Deputy Governor. June, TJIO «
COMPARE THE ADVANTAGES
offered toy the «
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales
—The STATE Savings Institution
(Head Office: 11 Moore Street, Sydney)
and
DEPOSIT YOUR SAVINGS IN THIS BANK .
Deposits RECEIVED from 1/- upwards.
Accounts may be opened in the depositor’s OWN NAME, or IN TRUST for,
or JOINTLY with, other persons.
Interest allowed at 3f% per annum on every complete £ up to £5OO, except on accounts opened
in the late Savings Bank of N.S.W., which are limited to £2OO.
The repayment of all deposits is guaranteed by the Government of New South Wales.
By order of the Commissioners. J. 11. DAVIES, Secretary.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
FORT PIRIE
And GULF FORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DIMBOOLA, July 29 and
August. 26.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
MORI ALTA, July 16.
RUPARA, July 22.
PARINGA, July 20.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Oilice.
G. S. YIIILI * CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BIUDGI2 STUIiET. SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
" Ulimaroa,” "Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” "Victoria.”
All ot Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND POUTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
' and
IN FASTEST TIME
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
via
SAMOA- HONOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to. London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
Sailings from Sydney:—
AUG. 2, AUG. 23, SEPT. 13, OCT. 4.
Apply:— OCEA NIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom, via Suez Canal, Cape of Good Hope,
Torres Straits.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw—l2,soo tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine. Surgeon and
Stewardess. Electric Fans.
FARE TO LONDON OR LIVERPOOL, £4B.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply, to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Svdney and Brisbane: TURN-
BULL, MARTIN .& CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD., Hobart.
“j“HE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Comumation Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer. £6 Bs. fid.: second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road. London, Eng,
Insist on “ Sineleton s' —refuse all substitutes.-
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. 31URPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Rox, or a Course of
8 Roxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throug'hout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.


The Motorists’ Nail Proof Hero
n
_>
/V
12. A. 1617.
y
Tw,
m
y&L,
s
a 4h±
m
m
ic
A
a
-z
V^r
r
Wlf/IIM/lIIJWIIIW/) In 0/1)11)1 /// #7/ >D ////;/ m lf,il) #|i M %|///i|i/|
MIICHELIM
ittIFS
<s>
&
ib
Without any apology whatever to von Hindenburg,
MICHELIN TYRES
can be obtained at all the leading garages.
ORLICK’S MALTED MILK
NOW IS THE TIME TO TEST IT.
To all those who are lacking in robust health or are “run down from any
cause whatsoever, Horlicks is warmly recommended. It is an ideal restorative
for the wife and mother in the home, as well as for the husband or business man
unduly harassed at his daily calling. Children thrive upon it.
Sample will be sent on receipt of 2d. in s'amps.
HUTCHINSON & CO., LTD., 26 Jamieson Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
n r
* rA *T3.
lUifflt
'JtSSr*-Sf"£
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
Quickly removes SKIN ERUPTIONS,
ensuring A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
Vhe slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable Pimples,
disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema disappear
by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
SwUrf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
Sulpholineis prepared by the great Skin Specialists,
J. Pepper &Co., Ltd., Bedford Laboratories, London,
S.E., England, and can be obtained from any
chemists and stores throughout the world.
Quickly removes the effects of Sunscorch.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Bbixish Austral-
asian, (id. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High llol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tne
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
“Pyjama time ”
is his time for using
Oriverl l^
To®lh Powder
05
INSECTIBANE
This Popular Fly
Killer and Insect
Destroyer is now
obtainable.
ALL CHEMISTS and STORES.
m,
Little Lectures
by Nurse ’Winc*rn<s.
(Lecture Vo a.)
“Nerves”
Our nerves are similar to an
intricate network of telegraph
wires. Controlled and nour-
ished by a portion of the
brain —known as the nerve
centres —the delicate thread-
like nerves radiate in all di-
rections throughout the body.
So long as the nerve centres
are capable of continually
supplying nourishment to the
nerves, the nerves will remain
strong and healthy. But
directly the nerve centres be-
ome weakened by overwork,
worry or anxiety, they are un-
able to transmit the necessary
nourishment, and the nerves
b icome worn out and '‘ on
edge.” Then it is that a sud-
den sound makes you “ jump”
—you get irritable—you suffer
from neuralgia—you are rest-
less and depressed. In this con-
dition there is nothing to equal
ĥ
Because, being a powerful
nerve food, ‘ Wincarnis ’ gets
right to the root of the trouble,
and, by creating a supply of
new nerve force, stimulates
and re-vitalises the whole
nervous system. Try ‘Win-
carnis ’ for ‘Nerves.’ It
is wonderful. Over 10,000
Doctors recommend it
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
‘Wincarnis’ is made in England by
COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Wincarnis
Works, Norwich. You can buy
‘Wincarnis’ from all Chemists and
Stores selling wines, prices 4/- and
6/6, but if you experience any diffi-
culty in obtaining it, write direct
to Sole Distributing Agents, Fassett
& Johnson, 5-7 Barrack St., Sydney.
w EORGE HOTEL
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
The Australia Hotel
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone 7260, Telegrams—
-4 lines. Australia,
P.O. Box 1610. Sydney,
The Premier Hotel of Australasia.
Has accommodation for 300 Guests. Single
and double Bedrooms and Suites, with Bath-
room attached. Hot and Cold Water, Auto-
matic Telephones and Electric Heaters
throughout. Visitors have the preference of
the American or European Plan of rating.
Two special Grill-rooms are attached, in
addition to Main Dining-room, seating 600
Guests. The Winter Garden is the largest
in Australasia, and is the meeting-place of
the Elite of Sydney, who foregather for
Afternoon Teas and Supper after the Theatre.
A High-class Orchestra furnishes Music twice
a day.
Single Rooms from 16/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Double Rooms from 32/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Room and Breakfast from; 11/-
per day.
Suites of Apartments. as per arrangement.
,T. TTBE SMTTTT-. Manager.
/
%
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘AItABIS'
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the. bfst and
cheapest I have ever used,” ■■i- • ■ • J Y'j \ j
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna lias the largest ; Sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market, Avbid in-
ferior imitations to deceive r <.ypu. Look for ‘th,fe* signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlov on genuine.- PrreeT7- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and "Stores in Australia.


The Allied combined offensive and other
movements flashlight the signal through the
mists of doubt that Hunism rapidly nears its
end. So suggests that royal and gracious spirit,
King George IV. topnotch Scotch.— Advt.
IF STOMACH HURTS DRINK HOT
WATER.
A SPECIALIST’S ADVICE.
“If dyspeptics, sufferers from flatulence,
indigestion, acidity, gastric catarrh, etc.,
would only take a quarter teaspoonful of
bisurated magnesia in half a glass of hot
water immediately after eating, they would
soon forget that they were ever afflicted
with stomach trouble, and doctors would
have to look elsewhere for patients.’’ In
explanation of these words the specialist
stated that most forms of stomach trouble
were due to acidity and fermentation of the
food contents combined with insufficient
blood supply to the stomach. Hot water
increases the blood supply and bisurated
magnesia instantly neutralises the acid and
stops food fermentation; the combination
of the two, therefore, being extremely
efficient and infinitely preferable to the
use of artificial digestives, stimulants and
medicines. It should be mentioned, though,
that the form of magnesia referred to is
quite distinct from the sulphates, citrates,
oxides or the often-met mixtures of bismuth
and magnesia, and to prevent confusion you
should ask the chemist very distinctly for
bisurated magnesia.— Advt.
Produced entirely under
the British Flag - 1
"SteerL
h
ĥ
Underwear
Made in England from fine Australasian Wool, Jason Underwear
gives greater comfort than any other you ever wore.
New “Olympic'* Brand
Owing to the high prices of the yarns from which Jason All-wool goods are
made, the manufacturers have introduced temporarily lower lines containing a
° f pottou-bearing the same guarantee of quality as the regular lines.
Your dealer will supply you. Sole manufacturers 6
’* UNDERWEAR CO., LEICESTER, ENG.
JASON
Abyr
9
BARMET^H
Hi
RUBBER
HEELS Hi
Made in Australia-
Why nil Sake advantage of the comfort
offered by Barnet Glass Rubber Heels )
The springy, resilient-rubber stops all jars
and shocks to the spine and doubles the
pleasures of walking. Barnet
Heels are' made of the purest jfnaferials
obtainaplefywith a view to giving faithful
service.'.Upsist on "Barnet Glass."
From All 800 l and Stores.
RUBBER CO. LTD.
ħ
IN
BANANA LAND
Brisbane is spending some £BOO,OOO on a
sewerage scheme to dump the city waste into
Moretou Bay. Meantime Queensland’s
biggest town prison is being illuminated
very effectively by means of a gas derived
from its own sewage. Is it good policy,
after all, to hurl a cheap illuminant into the
Pacific ?
A 10-bob-a-day railway-man on his annual
leave gets a free first-class railway pass;
but the poorer paid gets only a second-class
pass. Some of the men reckon this is a
class distinction, and so it is. Why not go
the whole hog and give the pound-a-day man
the vice-regal car?
“Boro-Belle”: The Government has
approved of a scheme of irrigation for the
repurchased Inkerman Estate, in the Lower
Burdekiu. The proposal is to serve 160
settlers and 25,000 acres of land, the esti-
mated cost being about £225,000, for which
expenditure a cane crop of 50 tons to the
acre can practically be assured. Each
grower will be called upon to pay 7s. 71d.
an acre, and another slice of the continent
will no longer need to waste energy in pray-
ing for rain.
Passed out lately, Malcolm Geddes, of
Toowoomba, aged 87; John Maltman, of
Landsborough, 88; and James Muir, of
Brisbane, w r ho was on about the same mark.
All three were concerned with early public
affairs of the North. Geddes suffered his
brother bumbles in the Toowoomba Town
Council for 28 years. Jimmy Muir was
frae Ayrshire, and when he was not growing
sugar was busy shooting or playing bowls
—ho fathered the Queensland Bowling Asso-
ciation. The venerable Maltman, also from
Scotland, was the first selector on the Mary
River. His last days were put in at
Mooloolah.
“W.G.8.”: J. Campbell (once Arch-
deacon Campbell), who lias lately been
demonstrating the paper pulp properties of
blady grass and cane tops, deserves notice
as a good Australian. It was he who intro-
duced cotton growing in the North and
proved it could be made a payable industry
with a little assistance, but as the Govern-
ment did not give him any encouragement
the new industry had to be abandoned. He
recently made some paper from blady grass
and wrote a letter to the authorities on it
to demonstrate the possibilities. He had
no plant, and made the samples with two
brass 'sheets and an ordinary clothes-
wringei*.
The Queensland Cement and Lime Co. is
nearly ready to make a start on the manu-
facture of cement, with lime and pulverised
limestone as sidelines. The co. has large
supplies of limestone and clay on its own
properties, obtains coal from pits a few miles
away, and is only obliged to draw its gypsum
from a distance. Its works at Darra and
Gore are of the latest pattern, everything
being driven by electricity and designed to
join the greatest efficiency with the least
cost. Apart from the demand for cement to
replace the made-in-German.v article, the co.
expects to do a good business in pulverised
limestone for agricultural purposes while
simultaneously showing that it is better to
support 200 people in making cement than
15 in rolling the barrelled article out of a
ship.
Ipswich has dropped shell making.
Defective steel was one trouble and ‘Jazy
strikes” were another. But, in any case,
Queensland could help munition making
twice as effectively by growing cotton on a
few of its millions of suitable acres.
Veteran missionary Brown told Brisbane
last week that the cannibal was much mis-
understood. In Papua, he said, some of the
cannibals were “very nice fellows.” This
exchange of compliments seems a fair
thing. What the missionary now says of
the cannibal is no more than the cannibal
used to say of the missionary.
A big deputation of six-o’clock closers
who waited on Acting-Premier Theodore re-
cently impressed upon him (1) that they
wanted a referendum about beer, (2) that
they objected to a referendum about any-
thing else. Theodore impressed upon the
deputation that the use of the referendum
ought to be regularised, and promised to in-
troduce into next session of Parliament a
measure providing for the general use of
the Initiative and Referendum. Whereupon
the six-o’clockers lifted up their voices in
clamorous protestation, and angrily promised
to come back again in thousands and argue
the point. So it looks very likely that things
will get tied up in a knot, because the Leg.
Council is pretty sure to fling Theodore’s
Bill into the ash-barreL
HOSE.
MRS. MALAPROP (of Cow flat): “No, I don’t want no woolly stockin’s —they irrigate me
legs terrible.”
Bm Hamilton, Queensland Minister for
Mines, was a Shearers’ Union official in the
days of the willing strikes; and his reward
was three years’ gaol. Lately he went to
Rockhampton to inquire into a local mining
matter, and took up the Under-Secretary and
the usual party. They were met by the
chief public-service potentate of the town —
an officer, as it happened, of Hamilton’s
Department, and went to their hotel. There
the public-service potentate began to arrange
for the deputations which wanted to see
the Minister. Where would lie be pleased
to see them? Won I d the courthouse suit
him—it was airy, comfortable, spacious and
well lighted? It would do him very well
the Minister said I will arrange
for the deputations to meet you at the coui't-
bouse,” said the potentate. “You know
. .. . r , «xr now w w p ;„!>» pir _
wnere it is. ( ivnow wneie it is. ex-
claimed Bill. Why, I know every
s P lke I “.« ie do ? k •' , , Tt was th e courthouse
where Bui received his sentence.
The Dreamer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dream dreams! Though the world is all
about thee,
Hidden in mists, where gleams no sun of
ours,
Passion and pain have lost the power to
rout thee,
Happy amid dream-sunshine and dream-
flowers.
Sleep deep! What gain is in the waking?
Some nlainer goal to guide thy groping feet?
Some skill to spare a heart from gainless
aching?
Better the dreams that keep thy nature
sweet!
Dream thy dreams! Who knowetli if they
be not
Real as this man-wrought mirth and sorrow
seem ?
Man made the earth-scars that thy closed
eyes see not;
God made the soul that fasliioncth the
dream.
QUEENSLAND.
A. T. M. W.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane. July 8, 1016.
My Dear Thargomindah,-
The public meeting to start-off the Resi-
dential Club for Returned Soldiers and
Sailors was held in the Exhibition Hall on
Tuesday night. Mayor Hetherington pre-
sided, and Lady Goold-Adams, Minister for
Railways Adamson, Brig.-General Lee, chap-
lains Merrington and Plane (both late of
Gallipoli), Canon de Witt Batty and Major
Tolmie winnowed the subject well. The
speakers were allowed five minutes apiece,
except the lady, who, with due recognition
of the fact that she’d have twice as much to
say, was given 10. Ilodley It. Gelston, an
Adelaide man, supplied the meeting with
some information about the Anzac buffdt in
London —hints that will come in handy.
Nellie Black and Amy Murphy, who are
singing at the Empire this week, had a tea-
party on Tuesday at Netherway. Having
pacified their guests’ cold-weather appetites,
they proceeded to lift up their voices by
way of satisfying the artistic needs of the
congregation.
Lady Goold-Adams dropped in at the Wool
Spinning Guild rooms on Wednesday, and
did a little manufacturing on her own
gmt on th? J^lL^amVto 6
TJe Moigan dame also came to see what
wa ~ .: s \ _ ~ ..
Club, and Mis. Elliott spread the festive
doughnut before about 200 guests at the
borne green to-day. A most strenuous aftei-
noon.
Mrs. Henry Browne, who died at Nerang
recently, had almost reached her 90th year,
&he leaves a thriving colony of Brownes
and Coopers. Her first husband was a regi-
mental clergyman, and her late husband,
U. J. Browne, w r as a soldier. That Gapt.
Nolan who carried the message which
caused the Balaclava charge danced with
hor the nigbt before hG sailGd from England,
of her. brothers disappeared in the
? arly days °/ tlie Maori war. They were
farmers, and were among the first white
settlera ’ rdered
Wattle Day on Friday resulted m about
±voo being wheedled from citizens. A pro-
cession of decorated motor-cars attracted
suburbanites into town in the afternoon,
and they were easy prey for the collecting
boxes. It is announced that if the Federal
Government supplies artificial limbs, the
cash will be devoted to the help of returned
Billjim in some other wmy.
Lieut. G. M. Thompson, of the Blst Bat-
talion, was married at St. John’s on Thurs-
day night to Lottie Bond. Chaplain Garland
tied the knot, and a big party of brother
officers, relatives and friends were mobilised
for the occasion. The wedding garment was
of white silk tulle and taffetas; and the
veil made its last previous appearance in
public on the pretty head of Mrs. Glynn
Connolly, a cousin of the bride. Nourish-
ment was provided at Bodelwyn, the hos-
pitable home of Mrs. G. Bond, the bride’s
grandmother.
Mrs. Bond has a son and four grandsons
at the war. Tom Bond, who got the D.S.O.
for his work in Ilabaul, and was after-
wards mentioned in despatches while at
Gallipoli with the bridging train, is the son.
The Brisbane Amateur Operatic Society
opened its season of “Floradora” to-night.
All proceeds go to the patriotic funds.
Forty-seven excited people clamored round
a thing like a huge birdcage. One clerk,
inside, did his best to give them all receipts
simultaneously. Outside the birdcage about
a dozen male clerks sauntered in a leisurely
way, one female clerk spoke into the ’phone
in a dulcet voice, another patted her hair
into place, and three office boys exchanged
friendly punches. The scene of the comedy
was tlie new State Insurance Office, and
your Australia Jane was trying to insure
iier waslierlady.
Nurse Amy Perry, who has been in the
Department of Public Health for the last 14
years, is to marry S. Dudley, a fellow officer,
next week. The plague and smallpox out-
breaks found a deadly enemy in Nurse Perry,
and the Department found an invaluable
helper. The unfortunates at the Peel Island
lazarette will never forget her services to
them. Mr. Dudley has helped her in the
good work. Minister Huxham the other day
passed over a letter of praise from the
Department, a cheque from the staff, and
another from the Government.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
The Full Court lias delivered itself of a
weighty decision concerning the State Fire
Insurance undertaking. The Government
started lire business because it believed it
had a general power to go ahead at its dis-
cretion. Boiled down, the Court now says
(1) that Insurance Commissioner Goodwyn
may transact lire business provided he does
not state that the Government is at liis back
to guarantee policies, and (2) that it is for
the people to say if they are prepared to
take the risk.
Education-Minister Hardacre had just
finished orating to a batch of returned sol-
diers when one grey-haired fighter ejacu-
lated, “ ’Scuse me, but. I’m a shipmate of
yours; I was on the Nowshera with you.”
‘‘.Hooray!” gasped the usually quiet little
Minister, as he grabbed the Anzac’s hand;
“we put up a good fight, didn’t we!” Later,
Hardacre confided to a curious audience
that he came out in the Nowshera 30 years
ago and led a revolt on board against a
drunken doctor. Pte. Dunning, the grey-
haired warrior, was one of his fellow-rebels
on that occasion.
An emissary of the I.W.W. aroused
Treasurer Theodore’s wrath lately by attach-
ing to his desk a notice bearing the legend
“Go Slow.” In view of the Treasurer’s just-
published Financial Statement, the tip looks
good advice from an unexpected quarter.


, //
r 'ii
lim ,t Ed
=»
B=V LINSEED O.L& CAKE MIULL,
&=
=- #1
k
tey. , ■N ,W'/
/m mIS-.
'' I >0
IT/ /
r^>
iui.
mu.
'w, a.,
\
r
\
<sr
Yi
V
V-
V
1
o
c
f Protected.
It’s Great!
The big' Oil Industry at Parramatta, built up by the
Linseed Oil manufactured by Meggitt Ltd.
MEGGITT’S LINSEED OIL is made from the Purest Linseed of India
by Australian Workmen for the Australian Climate,
Brought to the Highest Pitch of Maturity
Under and for Local Conditions.
All Painters and Users of Linseed Oil should insist on getting- Meggitt’s.
By so doing they will
Help mike Australia Prosperous
Not one gallon leaves the works before its maturity and purity are properly
tested.
FARMERS should feed their cattle and pigs, horses and poultry on one
ration per day of Meggitt Linseed Oil Meal, which has no superior
in the world as a cattle fodder.
ALL STORES. Full particulars write
It. S. Exton & Co. Ltd., Brisbane.
Harrison Ramsay Pty. Ltd., Melbourne and Adelaide
Win. Adams & Co., Perth.
F. W. Heritage & Co., Launceston and Hobart.
Blair Reed & Co., Wellington, N.Z.
Agents.
n
m
L
Linseed Oil Manufacturers,- PARRAMATTA, N.S.W.


Little Friends
of the Liver
They’re little but they’re good: they’re gentle
and they’re kind: they’re full of health that
leads to health and please be sure they’re
signed : '<
Carter’s Little Liver Pills bear the
above signature. .... .
h
Purely
Vegetable :
famous for
two genera-
tions.
Small Pm,
Small Dose,
Small Price.
.Carters
•ITTLE
IIVER
[PILLS,
SP£CIAUS£
TWO
/./A/PS
I# 5
$
0
CATALOGUf
and
PATTERNS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
1 : ■
; m
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
ST HOOTER ST NEWCASTLE
SCIATICA, 60CT, LUMBAGO, etc.
In the majority of eases of Rheumatism,
Gout, Sciatica and similar complaints the
excruciating pain is caused by sharp-pointed
crystals of Uric Acid penetrating the delicate
and highly-sensitive nerves of the body. To
effect a cure this excess of Uric Acid must be
removed, and no treatment that does not aim
at this result will effect a cure.
Dr. Parker’s Great Indian
Rheumatic Remedy
goes to the root of the trouble, and by remov-
ing the cause quickly affords relief and
eventually effects a permanent cure. Read
the following testimonial:—
SEVERE CASE OP RHEUMATISM CURED.
Merino, Vic. — l suffered terrible pain
across the groin, around the loins and hips,
right down to the ankle. I could not sit up
or lie with any comfort. After taking a few
doses of- your medicine I could get about. I
am most thankful to you for the benefit I
have received from your wonderful medicine.
Hoping that others will go to you for relief
and kindness.—Your gratefully,
DONALD CAMPBELL.
Send 10/6, and medicine will be forwarded by
return, or write for sample and book (postage
3d.) to " F< PARKER,
Specialist for Rheumatism,
111 Rawson Place, Railway, Sydney.
ĥ
KING OF ALL METAL POLISHES
Keeps automobile fittings new and makes
all metals a pleasure to look at. The only
safe polish for aluminum. Made of the
finest oils—no acid or ammonia used.
Does the work quickly and gives a last-
ing polish. Sold in two size cans by all
Grocery, Hardware and Drug Stores.
— ___ l JjOgk_forjtlie ii Photo_on_C«i^^____
ħ
HAVE YOU A
BAD LEG
perhaps so surrounded with inflammation and
swollen that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Perhaps
vour knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated ; the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored. The disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Try the great British Remedy:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which will give certain relief.
And for Poisoned Hands, House-
maid’s Knee, Carbuncles, Absces-
ses, Snake and Insect Bites, &c.
Sold in England at 1/3 & 3/- per box.
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farringdon St.,
LONDON, Eng.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store, and
stocked by all the Wholesale Houses in the
Commonwealth. M
Commonwealth of Australia
4 Yi per cent. WAR LOAN, 1925
Extended Instalment Subscriptions
Applicants may, if they so desire, pay instalments over an extended period as follows :
£lO per cent', on application up to Ist August, 1918, and a further £lO per cent, on or
before each of the following dates
Ist September, 1916
2nd October. 1916
Ist November, 1916
Ist December, 1916
3rd January, 1917
Ist February,l9l7
let March. 1917
2nd April. 1917
Ist May. 1917
In the case of Subscribers for amounts over £lOO a full year 8 interest will be paid on 15th
June, 1917, after adjustment, at 4 j per cent, per annum for the extended period.
In the case of Subscribers for amounts up to £lOO a full year's interest at 4} per cent, will
be paid on 30th June, 1917, without any adjustment.
Private Investors, Institutions and Firms are Invited to subscribe to the full
extent of their financial capacity.
Employers are earnestly requested to interest their staff and help the grand total.
Employees and Others are enabled under this proposal to take their share of the
burden, equally, according to their means, with the large firms and institutions.
Preserve your Country’s Prosperity. Vour Security is Australia’s
Application Forms and all information available at any Bank. State Savings Bank,
or Post Office.
Commonwealth Bank op Australia. tBth June, 1910
f
THE woman who tries Bostock shoes for the first
time realises, as soon as her foot slides home,
that here is something different, something
easier and more flexible, than anything she
has yet dreamed of. Then, when she steps out in
them, what an exultant feeling she has of lightness,
buoyancy and freedom. On the top of this, too, there
is that delightful confidence and assurance that come
of being well-dressed and knowing it. For Bostock
shoes are always designed with one eye on the
fashions of the day and one eye on the ultimate sat-
isfaction of the wearer. The result is shoes so well
fitting and so easy, that they feel just like one’s best-
loved old pair, yet so dainty, so original, so
thoroughly well-made that they look and, after quite
a l<>r or s. ear. co' t'mie to look the newest and smart-
est things imaginable.
Rostock No.
P 6472
/
/■
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostnnlj.”
On sale at all leading stores. Look
for the name “Bostock” on the soles.
831
DEVIL’S PUZZLE MATCHBOX.
The Matchbox, which is different from all
other puzzle-boxes. You’ll never open it until
you read the directions. Made of Nickel-plate,
beautifully finished. Without doubt the most
ingenious Puzzle Matchbox that has ever been
made. Price, Post Free, with Instruc-
tions, 2/-
Jokes, Puzzles, Tricks,
Novelties
Write for our New Novelty
Catalog—lT’S FREE.
«S
Mr
t
SHOCKING
CIGARETTE
CASE.
A splendid have.
No sooner do you
open the case than
you drop it as
quickly.
Post Free, 9d.
H
. L. Hutchinson Ltd.,
708-710 George Street, Haymarket, Sydney.
Ak
z&ni j a.jl m
The DETACHABLE OUTBOARD MOTOR.
u
Unequalled
Compression.
Cost of
Running:
3d. per hour.
2# B.H.P,
Guaranteed for
12 Months.
The Latest Improvements.
Patent, Self-locking Steering Device.
Propeller turns with Rudder, which
means the most effective steering possible.
High Tension (waterproof) Rever-
sible Magneto Ignition, of the very
best make.
Submersible Parts made from best bronze;
rust-proof.
Remarkable Simplicity.
Highest Efficiency.
Perfect Reliability.
Unexcelled Durability.
“The ‘Alka’ will propel you through life.”
Arrange for a demonstration, or write
to-day for Catalogue and Price to
See also page 31.
NELSON
Sole
Australasian Agents,
8 ROBERTSON,
11-17 Loftus Street, SYDNEY.
One nomination received by the Geelong
branch of the A.N.A. in connection with its
attempt to discover the oldest-living Aus-
tralian native is that of George McDonald,
who was born about 30 miles from Sydney
03 years ago. George is the oldest of a
family of 12. The youngest is a chit of 70.
“Curlew” of an Australian V.C.: —
I relished “Bill Back's” Gallipoli par. (B.
25/5/’r6) about Lieut.-Colonel Leslie May gar, V.C.,
“doing his duty in ‘slops,’ depressed headgear and an
outsize jacket with a forlornly old-maidish expres-
sion.” That is just what one would expect of him.
And I'll bet when it came to digging-in he took
his turn with the tools. If there had been any
chopping competitions in Gallipoli he would have
taken a lot of beating. Some 35 years ago in the
Huffy hills (part of the Strathbogie ranges) Leslie
as a mere youngster smote the wilderness with his
brothers, all of them noted bushmen. The great
tragedy of his eventful life happened in the bush,
lie and his brother Horace were felling trees for a
line of fence. Leslie’s was nearly through, and, as
it was on the balance, he got Horace with a long
pole to try to send it the way they desired. As it
had a few pounds too much lean for them Horace
left and was going back to his tree. Just then the
tree fell, and an outstretched limb, catching in
another tree, canted it sideways, knocking Horace to
the grouiftl. Death was instantaneous. They were
miles from home, and it was night before Leslie
got another brother to help take the dead man
home. It was a tragic little procession: the old
father leading the way through the wilderness with a
lantern; the two brothers stumbling behind with their
burden.
“My oath, they’re all earning after the
war.” He was a returned soldier with one
working hand and the emphasis of language
which Birdwood declared would go through
to Berlin if it could be turned into bullets.
In Egypt this Billjim had met the British
soldier in all his varieties, and everywhere
had found him tilled with the one idea of
getting to Australia. The sooner a few high-
placed politicians realise what it will mean
if these men come and find neither land nor
work, the better.
“Dyer”: Re dumping after the war. I
quite agree with “Croson” (B. 22/6/T6)
that the busy neutrals will attend to that
end of the game. Take dyes for instance.
It is an open secret in the trade that cer-
tain firms in U.S.A. now hold large stocks
of German synthetic dyes, cotton colors
mostly, which they dribble out at prices
about a thousand per cent, above cost. A
local firm got into touch with a gang that
had a couple of hundredweight of cotton
black, alleged to be manufactured in Swit-
zerland. The firm took a hundredweight at
275. Gd. per lb. ex ’Frisco. Incidentally,
when the stuff was put into use it was
found to be adulterated with about 27 per
cent, of Glauber’s Salt. A tariff directed
against our present enemies won’t stop those
who will be our worst enemies after the war.
The Victorian taxpayer last year had to foot
a bill for £3116 for free railway passes. The
list includes the item : “To members —opening
and prorogation of Parliament, £1354.” As
the Treasury pays the Railway Commis-
sioners a fixed sum of £5OOO annually for the
all-lines passes issued to all members of Par-
liament, the item require- some explanation.
Does Peacock in his private capacity pay
the fares of his mine managers’ wives when
they go forth on a “jollo”?
Much of the evidence given lately to a
Special Commission on Gold in S’Africa
makes the crime of those who ran Britain
into the Boer war look blacker than ever.
Said one witness a couple of months ago:—
It was the wise and liberal measures of the Kruger
days that made these fields. I came to the Trans-
vaal in ISB6 with much capital and was heartily
welcomed by Paul Kruger and everybody around
him; and it is more of his policy and breadth of
view I would like to see in evidence to-day.
The greedy foreign Jews, however, weren't
satisfied. To-day their representatives are
telling the Commission that there never
would have been a mining industry on the
Rand if present laws and conditions had
prevailed at the outset. For once in a way
Time has got its punch in on the right jaw.
There would be less complaint against the
continuance of the old custom of importing
English parsons to fill Australian bishoprics
if the parsons were selected on their merits
as family producers. An imported Aus-
tralian bishop who brought 10 sons with
him and settled them on the land might
be worthy of his hire. They ought to be
elected on the same principle as the parish
beadle in Dickens: “Brown for bishop ! Six
small children and more to follow.” But
no consideration is ever given to our popu-
lation requirements. The first three
Bishops of Melbourne were all childless.
“0.K.”: Melbourne Age is exhorting its
old friend Private Enterprise to build
trawlers, start distributing agencies and
follow the lead of the Holman Government
in increasing and cheapening the fish supply
for Melbourne and Victoria. The demand
for improved facilities would seem more im-
pressive if it were admitted that Victorian
waters teem with fish waiting to be caught.
But this is not admitted. Men who profess
to know something about the subject and
are not personally interested in the trade
declare that the trouble with the fish supply
and the price of the commodity in Mel-
bourne is the frequent impossibility of -catch-
ing goods sufficient to meet even the present
demand, much less an increased demand at
a lower price. If the Peacock Government
were capable of tackling any question with
whole-hearted concern for the public inter-
est, it would tackle the fishing question
without further delay. As matters stand
the people ask, “Why aren’t we offered fair
temptation to buy more fish in place of the
meat we devour too freely?” And the pro-
fessedly well-informed person who is pos-
sibly a dupe or a liar, answers, “Because it
wouldn’t pay anybody to tempt you.”
MY WINTER LOVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Daffodils, wherever you blow,
Here in the North, or the southern snow ;
Daffodils, wherever I go,
This is the message I’d have you know:
My heart, your heart;
Pain, love or a burial cart—
Just as God or the Devil wills,
Daffodils, daffodils.
N.S.W.
THE SNAKE.


V
\
r\
m
C-3
<3
55
CP
a
S
c
w
s\
s
|K
N m
rif \\
r
s.
<£'
i j or/,
n
<&
L
?i ;x
/
j
Jfl
firMNNY ‘ £tl/?MBEI?L/qiN
j ( C OPvPiCn T E D )
chemist or medicine vendor for the
You Have a Bad Oold
don t waste valuable time experimenting with unknown mixtures—
sucking cough lollies, or trying to prepare some decoction at home—
which nine times out of ten proves a failure. Simply ask any reliable
one medicine they all stock—the old reliable and well tried
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.
When you have contracted a cold it is no time for experiments ;
you want to get rid of it as quickly as possible, for every cold
weakens the lungs, lowers the vitality, and paves the way for more
serious diseases.
Anyone who has had experience in the use of Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy will tell you that it will cure a cold at any time, that
it is not necessary to take it in time ’ in order to effect a cure, also
that it will cure anybody’s cold, not only yours but your friends’
and neighbours’.
Chemists who have sold and used this remedy for nearly half a
century will vouch for these facts. This remedy has gained its wide
reputation and extensive sale by the prompt cures of colds which
it effects.
Chamberlain s Cough Remedy is a preparation that can always
be depended upon that not only cures the cold but counteracts any
tendency towards pneumonia. It is sold at eighteen pence a bottle,
a price within the reach of all, and can be obtained at all chemists
and medicine vendors.”
All retailers are authorised to sell Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy under a guarantee ; if it does not
do all that we claim we will refund the price paid
tyJouKu Jo\ Jfux&K -
ANY PEE SON may
use this COUPON,
h
ĥ
ħ
YOU CAN WEIGH AND MEASURE WHAT YOU SHOULD IN
PROPORTION TO WHAT YOUR HEIGHT IS!
During the past eight years 10,000 immaturely-
developed men and women have been developed to
correct weight and proportions by Dr. Falliere’s
Flesh-Food Treatment.
An advertiser who offers something for a coupon and attempts to collect for
it later is guilty of endeavoring to obtain money under false pretences. Should
we collect we would be liable to a criminal charge. ?
CUT OUT THIS COUPON.
Good for 13/4 worth of our
Famous Treatment.
(FOR 30 DAYS ONLY.)
FALLIERE CO., Sydney.
Please send, to me, in exchange for this coupon, which is
the equivalent of the actual cash , 13/4 worth of Dr.
Falliere’s Flesh-Food treatment. I enclose sd. in stamps
to ensure prompt delivery. I have never had a free trial.
STATE
MR., MRS.
OR MISS.
Name
Bul.
Address
Only one free supply allowed one family. There are no strings to this offer.
SfcND COUPON TO=DAY
OFFER FOR 30 DAYS ONLY. |
SEE
WHAT
OTHERS
SAY OF
FLESH-
FOOD.
LET US
SEND YOU
SCORES OF
SUCH
GRATEFUL
LETTERS.
(5811)
GAINED OVER 141 b.
The Manager.— Midlaton, S.A.
Dear Sir, —Since using Flesh-rood
I have gained over 141 b., which
makes me now 11 stone, so that I
have no need for any more treat-
ment. Thanking you for your kind-
ness, —I remain, yours truly,
S. DANNENBERG.
The Manager,— Atherton, Qld.
Dear Sir, —I am very pleased to
tell you that I have improved under
your treatment, having gained 101 b.
in a couple of weeks, and my neigh-
bors are remarking the great change
in my appearance. I need no further
treatment, and am showing your
papers to any of my friends whom
I think I can induce to take your
treatment.—Yours faithfully,
MRS. J. W. JAGGERS.
GAINED SATISFACTORILY.
Xlie Manager,— Emerald, W.A.
Dear Sir, —I do not think I shall
require any more Flesh-Food, as I
have gained satisfactorily in weight
and measurements, and my health
has never been better. Thanking
you very much for all your kind
attention to me.—l remain, yours
faithfully. MBS. H. MCDONALD.
Kiara, Westville, N.S.W.
The Manager,—
Dear Sir,—l have finished the
treatment, and am more than pleased
with the result. I have gained both
in weight and measurements, and
find myself in much better health
than for a long time past. Beally,
the results of your treatment are
wonderful, and in such a short time,
too! Thanking you for all you
have done for me.—Yours sincerely,
S. BOAKDMIN.
FALEIERE CO., 1103 Ash St., Sydney (Est. 1907)


Arnott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDRENS FOOD.”
Three Sizes—
-IVz h.p.
2 H.p.
3)4 Ji.p.
h
TheEVINRUDE
:: DETACHABLE::
ROWBOAT MOTOR
is the most successful and perfect motor of
this kind on the market. Over 40,000 now
in use. Very simple and easy to operate.
Can be attached to any boat in a few
minutes —adjustable to depth and angle of
stern. Speed up to eight miles an hour.
Equipped with high-tension, built-in-the-fly-
wheel Magneto. Fitted with Automatic
Reverse and Maxim Silencer. Operated by
Petrol, and lubrication is automatic.
Of invaluable assistance on the farm for pumping water, driving separator, etc.
To transform motor into a power machine is the work of a few minutes.
Propeller is removed and a belt pulley substituted.
Descriptive Booklet sent post free on application to
H. A. GODDARD, 376 Collins Street, Melbourne; 82 Pitt Street, Sydney;
404 Queen Street, Brisbane; Cliff Street, Fremantle; Remington
Chambers (opp. G.P.0.), Auckland, N.Z.
LOCAL AGENTS REQUIRED IN ALL TOWNS WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
mm
-1
m
Hot breezes of summer —driving rains of the off-season —
won’t penetrate
Certain-teed
ROOFING
This product represents the culminating effort of the largest
manufacturers of their kind in the world: —it will give splendid
service and the cost is moderate.
Leading architects the world overspecify Certain-teed. Prominent
buildings, large and small —residences, stands, hotels, booths and
bungalows—areroofed with Certain-teed.
Obtain samples from your local distributor. He car-
ries a full stock. Orders will be filled promptly.
GENERAL ROOFING MFG. CO.
Manufacturers of world-known Certain-teed products.
Reinforced Flat Roofing Roll Roofing Damp Course Building Paper
Insulating Paper Paints Wall Board
EXPORT OFFICES: New York and San Francisco. U. S. A. Cable Address: ’Genromco’.
FACTORIES: York, Pennsylvania; Marseilles and E. St. Louis, Illinois, U. S. A.
Australian Office: Perpetual Trustee Funding, Hunter Street, Sydney.
Full local stocks carried by John Danks & Sons Pty. Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Go, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments.
Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES : 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Ams No. 98AT.
Double Seamer.
ĥ
Make Your
Own Cans.
If you buy Tin Cans of any
description you are paying for
these machines.
WHY NOT OWN THEM?
Make your own cans and the
machines will pay for themselves.
Even the small Can Maker or
Packer, whose output is only 5000
to 10,000 Cans per day, will save
money by using the
“AMS SYSTEM”
for making or closing Sanitary
Cans.
offief
east.
We have machines exactly suited to your needs, whether
your output is 5000 or 100,000 Cans per day.
We will gladly send, without obligation, prices and
pictures of machines adapted to your needs. Send us
samples of your cans or drawings with complete dimen-
sions, and state the quantity you make.
CORRESPONDENCE IN ALL LANGUAGES.
Address Dept. C-14
The MAX AMS
Machine Company,
Bridgeport, Conn.
Agents t
W. E. HUGHES (a CO., London, E.C., England.
H. W. PEABODY (SL CO., Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
ALL BRITISH
H
TYKES
RIBBED
are made by a
special process to
withstand the ex-
cessive strain of
tropical climates
and Colonial roads.
They have proved
consistently suc-
cessful under the
most rigorous tests,
and will appeal
strongly to motor-
ists on account of
their staunch ser-
vice and quite ex-
ceptional durability
Write for Booklets to —
GEORGE SPENCER, MOULTON & CO„ Ltd.,
77-79, Cannon Street, London, England.
Stockists:
MELBOURNE :
MOLLOY & CO.. 129, King Street.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
COTTON BROS., 212, Madras Street.
P.C.B. — 6o
m
'/Mi
m
¥/
For Writing Home
A FILLER IS BOUND TO QET
BROKEN AT THE FRONT.
The Onoto needs no filler; it fills itself from any
ink supply, and cleans the nib while filling.
The Onoto never leaks in any position. You send
it out to your friend at the Front full of ink ready
for immediate use.
The nilitary- ize Onoto Pen is just the right size
for a soldiers pocket
Need*
no
filler.
Onofo
as Pen
from
12/-
THOMAS DE LA RUE &> CO . Ltd., Bunhill Road,
London. E.C. Australasian Managing Agents
NORMAN BAKER LONGHURST, 50 York
Street, Sydney.
mm
&
m
rrL
Carcf
Restore the Voice with
g^sEPncTHRpAT
allaying all irritation of
the throat and clearing the
voice perfectly.
Evans Sons Lescher & Webb, Ltd., London.
The “Service” Combination
Knife, Fork and Spoon.
A NEAT COMPACT GIFT FOR THE SOLDIERS.
'N3dO
Indispensable when at the
Front. The three separate
articles close up into one, as
shown in the bottom illustra-
tion. Consequently they take
up next to no room in the kit.
The spoon is nickel-plated, and
the knife and fork have
polished wood handles. Strong
and well-made for lengthy
service.
PRICE ONLY 4/6
COMPLETE.
A similar Outfit, Sheffield
make, in leather case, with
strap for attaching to belt.
Price 8/6
ħ
Special List of
Suitable Presents
for Soldiers sent
Post Free.
CLOSED.
STEWART DAWSON’S.
Strand Corner, George Street, Sydney


v
HANDS LIKE VELVET
Kept So by Daily Use of Cuti-.
cura. Trial Free.
On retiring soak hands in hot Cuticursi
Soapsuds, dry and rub the Ointment into
the hands some minutes.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
“Well gentlemen I take
off my hat to you,—
-:v : >
such a beautifully
made rifle and such
shooting I never
expected to see...
Up to 800 yards I
could hit anything
I shot at... I killed
a big bull, over 500
yards away, and did
it so easy... The
'Ross’ is good
enough for me... It
has a nice balance,
is light and has a
will say to anyone who is looking for the
best thing in Rifles get a ‘Ross' .280,
and you will never be disappointed.”
JAS. L. McLaughlin, Hunter and Guide,
Valley, Wyoming.
In his enthusiastic praise of the Ross . 280
Rifle, Mr. McLaughlin echoes the apprecia-
tion of the most skilled of the big game
hunters all over the world. Using the .280
Ross Sporting Ammunition with copper tube
expanding bullet ( patented ) it is a wonderful
help towards a successful trip. Any game
fairly hit is anchored. 1015
AT LEADING DEALERS
Illustrated catalogue sent on request.
ROSS RIFLE CO., Quebec, Canada
Information and Prices can be obtained from- —
Mr. HUGH SCOTT-YOUNG,
P.O. Box 1031, Melbourne, Australia.
A DELICIOUS SOUP
is made even nicer by
adding a little Bisto,
which thickens as well
as colours and salts
Soups, Stews, etc.
h
SpTtmd'd
also for
Gravies.
All Grocers. In Tins. Made by CEREBOS, LTDk
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort,
it takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post vou a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
—“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
Mr. Frank Ford (Blaclcall P. 0., Q’land)
writes: “I was a heavy smoker for 65 years,
but after taking your treatment for H days /
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G. 29 O’Connell Street. Sydney.
[2.
I
f-w#
v\«
P jl.)
£
V->
te#
i
10
2
9
8
BIG BEN
■
M
m
For Punctual Rising
It’s no trick to get
up in the morning.
It’s no trick to wake
on time. Arrange it
the night before. Set
Big Ben for your
rising hour and tumble
into bed.
Sleep! Sleep soundly—
forget that you must wake
on time. It is Big Ben’s
duty to remember.
Carefully, accurately,
Big Ben gauges your
sleep.
One tick at a time. He
waits till the last second.
He lets you enjoy the last
wink of sleep.
Then—a cheerful ring on a
mellow-toned gong and you’re
awake.
Big Ben is seven inches tall,
well built, handsome, punctual.
He has a big, easily read dial—a
cheerful, deep toned voice—large, com-
fortable winding keys—a light running
movement with watch-like escapement
—an alarm that calls steadily for
minutes or intermittently for ten.
Big Ben undergoes a hundred inspec-
tions in the making and six rigid timing
tests before leaving the factory of the
Western Clock Co., La Salle, 111.,
U.S.A., Makers of Westclox. At all
clock dealers, price 12/6; postage 1/-
extra.
Lumbago
The case of Rheumatism or Gout
which Kruschen Salts cannot benefit
has yet to be discovered. This
famous British remedy is also
recommended by Medical Men in
cases of Lumbago, Sciatica, Eczema,
Constipation, and Liver and Kidney
Disorders.
KRUSCHEN AT THE FRONT
Since the outbreak of the War, enormous
quantities of Kruschen Salts have been ordered
by, and delivered to the British Authorities, for
the use of the British Forces overseas and in
the Base Hospitals at Home. Kruschen Salts
are prescribed by Medical Men the world over.
THE WORD KRUSCHEN
The trade mark “ Kruschen ” is a legacy—
handed down from generation to generation of
the family of Evan Griffiths Hughes, the sole
Manufacturers of Kruschen Salts, and one of
the oldest firms of Manufacturing Chemists in
the County of Lancashire. Established 1754 —
160 years ago.
Knischen Salts
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754.
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE
ONE PRICE
2/-
Per Bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocery
and stores throughout Australia,
Wholesale Distributing Agents:
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
68, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester,
England.
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
21-
Per Bottle.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“K. 8.”: “Hamer’s” statement (B. 1/G/’l6)
that “the habit of adding interest on over-
due accounts is entirely illegal” is not cor-
rect. By the common law, where the con-
tract is silent as to interest it is generally
presumed not to be within the contemplation
of the parties, and so cannot be claimed.
It is allowable, however, upon mercantile
securities by the custom of merchants; also
by particular usages of . trade, and by the
particular course of dealing between the
parties which would be evidence of an
implied agreement. Interest is allowable on
bills of exchange, promissory notes, and other
mercantile securities in the nature of dam-
ages. Under our Common Law Procedure
Act a jury can also award interest on an
overdue claim where there was a fixed time
for payment or, if there is no fixed time for
payment, when a demand has been made
in writing, and such demand contained a
notice that interest would be claimed.
* * * *
“D.F.”: About “Kopje’s” moralisings on
museums and things (B. 22/6/T6), the
proof of the apple is in the eating, and in
January I have eaten apples that had been
kept in It. It. Bealey’s dug-out apple-store
at Kangaroo Valley (Tas.) since the pre-
ceding season, and were still firm, sound
and well-flavored. Of course for business
purposes you don’t really want to keep
them that long; it's from September to
November that the Yankee apple comes into
Australia. There’s too much fresh fruit
about after November starts to make it
worth while having very many apples on
hand. “Kopje” reckons that if this method
of storage was any good every fruitgrower
in Tas. would be doing it that way; but it
doesn’t follow. Co-operation is good; yet
the Speck’s fruitgrowers mostly avoid it
with great enthusiasm.
“Tin-Opener”: Whenever I puncture a
sardine-tin I always wonder .what I will
find —anything but sardines, I’m prepared to
bet. As the comic character of a play of
my youth used to put it: “They call' ’em
sardines har lar hooley, but they’re only
sprats in hile!” The Vic. State Ministry,
“at the instance of the Imperial authori-
ties,” believes the time is ripe to put things
shipshape. Therefore the latest Gazette
contains a solemn notification in these
words:—■
The trade and all concerned are hereby warned
that the term “sardine” can lawfully be applied
only to the immature pilchard, and that fish other
than the immature pilchard imported into the State
of Victoria and described as “sardines” will contra-
vene the provisions of the Goods Act 1915.
Now I am hoping that Peacock will look
into the sausage of commerce. Most of
these mysterious packets could do with a
similar cautioning.
“K.W.F.”: The other morning I sighted
an advertisement in an Adelaide daily ask-
ing for a bid for the old Willyama, which
ran on a rock in Marion Bay, Yorke Penin-
sula, about 10 years ago. The rock which
pierced the ship now acts as a pivot on
which she turns with the tide. Hopeless land-
lubbers think the old ruin is merely lying
at anchor. By the way. I’ve had some
queer fishing at Marion Bay: I’ve yanked
splendid schnapper out of the Willyama’s
flooded hold.
* * « *
“Sid”: Get tubes for the cow-milking
championship. We’ve used them for three
years, and they have so much to recommend
them over hand-milking that it’s a shame to
mention the two in the same breath. Four
small silver cylinders with three holes up
each side, near the top, are pushed up the
teats, and away comes the juice from all four
at once. You simply sit and meditate while
the tank runs dry, which takes from two to
four minutes, and no stripping needed
either. I’ve never had a cow yet that ob-
jected to the tubes, and they’ve never caused
any damage. They’re just the thing fox-
sore teats; but our cows’ teats don’t become
sore. They save an enormous amount of
blanky, and any agent will give away a set
for nothing or thereabouts.
THE 7.30 CRAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I didn’t twig the fact at first;
’Twas doubtless keeping up its “burst”
After “the night before.”
At half-past seven I purchased it,
And stowing it within my kit
Homewards that cray I bore.
I hadn’t walked a block when Brown
I met, and Jobson too (the town
Seemed full of pals of mine) ;
“Adjournment” was proposed, and we
Till eight o’clock agreeably
Regaled ourselves with wine.
That is, we got to wine at length,
For whisky seems to lose its strength
After twelve drinks these days;
Till “time I” we drained the potent cup;
Then Jobson said: “Let’s go and sup,”
And Brown suggested crays.
“I have mine here,” said I, and quick
Produced it —oh, my oath, ’twas “shick" —
Full up, soused to the wide 1
A boozier cray you never saw;
It had the shakes in ev’ry claw —-
’Twas jim-jams typified 1
Jobson and Brown gave it one look,
“Got ’em again!” they cried, and took
Both to their heels in fright.
Left with a most unhandsome drunk,
Into a doorway then I slunk
To hide it from men’s sight.
I got it back into the bag,
The shocking sample of a jag,
Hiccupping with a grin ;
If I had not been there to steer
It home —I tried to make that clear—
It would have got run in.
Once early closing had in me,
I own, a bitter enemy,
But now my voice I raise
For six o’clock—and earlier still,
If that severe restriction will
Ensure us sober crays!
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


GUNS
of Quality
and Stability.
SUNOL TOBACCO.
Highest-grade Virginian.
Dark or Light.
Sample 2oz. pkt. ltd., or 11b.
6/6 (post free to any address).
ĥ
ħ
h
811. ISAAC HOLLIS 8 SONS’ "THE RELIABLE" D.8.8.L. Gun,
top lever, bar action, 30in, real twist or steel
barrels, Greener cross bolt, both choke, rebounding locks
snap fore-end, chambered for2|in. cartridges. Guaranteed for all Smokeless Powders
half-p.stol grip, walnut stock; weight from to 7Alb _
delivered, £7 lOs.
812. Same Gun, with 32in. barrels DELIVERED, £7/15/-
GOLDEN KEY
CIGARS DE LUXE.
British made.
Sample box of 5 cigars,
2/6 (post free).
J
-r
826. C. H. Crawford's D.8.8.L Gun,
12 or 10-gauge, top lever, double bolt, 30in. barrels,
left choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved, bar locks, Greener cross bolt,
nitro proof; weight of 12-gauge, about 7|lb. ; of
16-gauge, about 6Jlb. DELIVERED,
£5 5s
Same as above, 12-gauge 32in. barrels or 20-gauge 30in. barrels, 5/- extra.
GUN and all
kinds of
SPORTING
REPAIR WORK
a Specialty.
n
WE STOCK EVERYTHIMi
FOR EVERY SPORT
Send for
our Price
List of
Guns,
Rifles,
Revolvers
and all
Sporting
Goods,
Post Free
to any
address.
840. Boswell’s High-grade D.8.8.L. Hammerless Pigeon Gun, “The Reliable,”
12-gauge, top lever, Anson and Deeley action, barrels both choke, side clips, Gieener X
Holt, chambered for 2, cartridges, uitro proved, pistol grip, elaborately engraved; weight
about 71b. Delivered £l7 10s.
“Goods right—Prices right.”
fas.
830. DOMOULINS’ D.8.8.L. GUN,
12-guuge, top lever, 30in. real twist barrels,
choke, side clips, square Greener cross bolt,
highly engraved, pistol grip, walnut stock, ,
patent fore-end ; weight about 71b. POBI FRRE, £4l 10j m
TD.
mm.
m
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KING STREET; also at NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE.
Is Your
Baby
Delicate?
< -At
ill
7<V.i
■I v*”
Mother and Child.
Babyby 2 months.
Fed from birth on the ' Ailenburys' Foods.
WHAT a marked difference there is
between the fretful, puny, ailing infant,
and the child whose face always bears
the smile and look of perfect health and con-
tentment. Mothers should early realize that much
depends on How Baby is Fed. The right food
given at the proper age means rest and comfort
for the mother and a sound healthy constitution
for her little one in after years. If, for any
reason, Baby cannot be given the natural food,
do not select a substitute merely because it is
cheap in price. Adopt what experience has
proved to be the Simplest and Most Successful
Method of Infant Feeding, i.e., The ‘Allenburys’
Foods. These Foods provide a Pure, Complete and
Progressive Dietary specially adapted to each
stage of a child’s development. They are not
expensive to buy when judged by the uniform good
results which follow their use; this is the true
standard of comparison. The'Allenburys’Foods are
used and recommended by members of the Medical
and Nursing Professions throughout the world.
The Foods that contain all the essential elements
to promote brain and body development.
s&llenburys Beads
Write for free book "Infant Feeding and Management .*•
64 pages of valuable information for every mother •
MILK FOOD No. 1. From Birth to
3 months.
MILK FOOD No. 2. From 3 to
7 months.
MALTED FOOD No. 3. From
7 months upwards.
RUSKS (Malted). From 10 months.
THE ‘ALLENBURYS’ FEEDER
Simplest, Safest, and Best.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd.
13, Market Street, Sydney. I
ESTABLISHED 1715.
I
I
The
reed
\>o r 95
ikWeP
IYOURNAWIE
RUBBER
STAMP
Only 1 19
[just like good writing, to stamp your • letters, linen,
|books, cards, Blc. Prevents mistakes.
Clear
and distinct
exactly this style, with self-inking pad. Post free
to any address. Far better than pen writing' “Pre-
ferable to signing your name for many purposes. Clear
and distinct, prevents mistakes. The tJNION Manufacturing
jmd Agency Company, 299 Elizabeth Street,, Melbourne _
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORES,
Just wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and you’ll have the skin healed and healthy
quicker than with any other ointment on earth.
Everyone says so who has used it. Write for
tin now. 1/6, posted 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist.
Wickham Street. Valley. Brisbane.
Quenches
Thirst
Helps
Appetite
Made in
Australia
for Australians
by Australians
SPEAR M
Sweetens
Breath
Aids
Digestion
Chew it
after every
meal
1
A
■tto
SP?
9o
3d, per packet of 5
big bars at Chemists,
Confectioners and
Stores, or address
J, C, Gambles & Co,,
Commerce House,
Melbourne,
Ask for
free copy of
“WRIGLEY'S MOTHER
GOOSE " book, in colors.
Be Sure it’s Wrigley’s


DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY
for Coughs
and Colds.
B es t for Children and Grown FolK too.
r
fm
Wo :■ v
SZitb
»V-\
%e #..*.' ..... t >
'Z/7* • /
■
✓
: ,»
.-•••- :
J fi
Safeguard
the Children.
TAKE NOTICE OF
THEIR LITTLE
COLDS.
It is only a little
cold, you say—still it
often means a lot of
suffering for the little
folk and worry for
mother, so be wise and
get the best that can
be had. Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery is a
wonderful remedy for
all Coughs and Colds,
preventing Influenza,
Pneumonia and Bron-
chitis. It is the safe-
guard of many a home,
and robs the winter of
all its terrors. See
that your children keep
bright, healthy and
rosy with the help of
Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery.
PROTECTS FROM WINTER’S ILLS.
Winter is now here, and we are all
, , . , , ~, T liable to sudden chills and colds, so
be piepared and have a bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery close at hand,
and take a dose at the first sign of a cold. It will relieve and soothe you, and
prevent further trouble.
Stops Coughs Banishes Colds.
o! e 'iV.. U^ n '. e r a , n( V hil^: en all over the country use and know the worth
w n° n S K e l V * l D,S r OV ery- Aie y°« one of them? If not, don’t
bay a bottle at once and be ready to pounce on to the first
cold that makes its appearance. Don’t forget, Dr. Sheldon’s New Dis-
covery is the ever-ready friend that should be in every household to
protect you from all Winter Ills.
Price 1/6 and 3/-
D» Sheldon's
NewDiscoveri
ĥ
stno
aNv
shoho
Day after day,
Despatches say
Enemy trenches
“Nibbled ” away.
To keep apace
The Jolly wells trace
With map and pins
The war’s stern chase.
Army and Fleet
All may greet
With gifts of “REX” goods
And messages neat.
The Jollywells
a
©
'Fi' ;
“What to Eat and
How to Get Over it”
was the title of a magazine recently
published by two women—one a Cook’
ing School Instructress, the other a
Medical Student.
To those who are troubled about “get-
ting over what they eat,” we give a
piece of good advice —GRATIS!
Keep a tin of
“REX” Luncheon Cheese
handy. Take a little after each meal, then give the merry “ha, ha!” to the
Indigestion Fiend. For “REX” LUNCHEON CHEESE is a valuable aid to
good digestion, and can be taken by young or old, strong or feeble, without fear
of after effects.
It contains the maximum number of food calories —is rich in protein and
possesses all the valuable digestive properties of perfectly-matured, full-cream
cheese.
Try it on crackers or buttered bread. It is specially good for late-night suppers.
Sold by Grocers everywhere in Solderless, Sanitary Tins, or in Opal Porcelain Jars
of British Manufacture.
INSIST ON “REX” BRAND.
THERE IS NO OTHER “JUST THE SAME.”
Other “REX” CANNED DELICACIES are:—
“Rex” Ham Pate.
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, ljlb. tins.
“Rex” Camp Pie, in tins.
“Rex” Brand Bard, for cooking purposes, in lib. prints.
Temporarily out of Stock.
“Rex” Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pigs’ Feet in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Bunch Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.,
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon;
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products.
5?
gC
E
x
BRMtI
The Sunday Dinner.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rpi HERE is a fragrant odor in the air,
' I 1 . The murmurs of the distant church
are blending
With clatterings from kitchenwards
that seem
To be unending ;
The air is fragrant, not with incense toast-
ing,
But rich meats roasting.
This is the Day of Rest; and through the
morn
There’s been a rush of people churchward
faring,
And others with a zeal that is no less
In haste preparing
That festival beloved of saint and sinner,
The Sunday dinner.
The heathen in his blindness and his isle,
Who owns a god of wood and doubtful
beauty
Considers when from warfare he returns
It’s simple duty
To bring before his god the foe he’s beaten,
That he be eaten.
Even the modern man who knows no church,
Who owns no creed, and never goes to meet-
ing,
Preserves implicitly the ancient rite
Of sacred eating;
About the feast—a thing he seldom loses—
He quite enthuses.
The man of holiness—aye, even he,
Holy enough to take up the collection—
Esteems the keeping of the feast no breach
Of circumspection.
Ilis soul gloats gladly ’neath his righteous
scowl
O’er roasting fowl.
Less affluent folk, who through the humdrum
week
Stay appetites with foods of savor meagre,
Look forward to the Sabbath day with souls
And stomachs eager;
With beef dr lamb, plum-duff or roly-poly,
They keep it wholly.
0 blest observance! Hash-house boarders
sniff
Well-savored smells from kitchen altars
floating,
And all the long, dull morn, that seems to
drag,
They spend in gloating
(Jn that one meal, of every one-and-twenty,
That yields them plenty.
Why, I myself, here in my little room,
Wooing the muse to nass Hie ime of wait-
ing,
Have e ars keen-set for that glad moment. I
Shall hear abating
W ithin the church the sound of final singing
And the bell ringing!
N.S.W.
Hamer.
Pro Patria.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MK. JONES, Rubanaka Island rep-
resentative of Oceanic Quarries,
Limited, was puzzled and vaguely
uneasy. The German Governor and his aide-
de-camp, sometimes together but usually
separately, had for the last few days kept
him almost continuous company. Bluffly
jolly as ever, the men had shown no deviation
, fiom old friendship; yet he was becoming
oppressed with a sense of being under sur-
veillance, a feeling he found impossible to
shake off. Really at the Governor’s sugges-
tion, he had got into the way of
. with his routine work as
n his distinguished visitors were a-bsent.
Even _ while attending to his duties
n i “i nd , searc hed for an explanation.
Eould they have secret instructions per wire-
less to keep an eye on him, the British man-
ager of the German island with its almost
all-German staff He knew the precarious-
+i? SS Position and could not imagine
the official watchfnlness being other than
personal. He knew, too, that some very
exalted personages were members of the
International Syndicate for which he was so
strenuously ripping the island asunder that
huge dividends might be made. The repre-
sentative could think of no dereliction of
duty or flagging of pressure on his under-
lings. He knew well enough that he held his
position because of his singular capacity for
getting the best results for the company out
ot European as well as Pacific Islands and
Asiatic labor, without at the same time
earning their combined animosity. His
appointment came about only after several
imported German managers with character-
istic bombast had set the staff by the ears,
thereby severely hitting the company’s
pocket.
One advantage he had retained over his
German staff and the Government officials—-
his unsuspected knowledge of their language,
xnere bad been times when he questioned
his right to hold the advantage, but. his con-
science always reminded him that he had
high precedent. Y\ ith the Antipodean repre-
sentative of Oceanic Quarries, Limited for
teilow traveller, years before he entered the
company s service, he had seen the great
man listen to the excited arguments of two
blackbearded French Marist Brothers, with-
out sign that he understood their speech •
only a tense watchfulness in the lean
face aroused Mr. Jones’s observation.
Jones was a plain man with a plain
name, so he strangled his qualms with
tne argument that if it was good
enough for the dignitary who could
moie easily dismiss him than he could sack
an indentured kanaka, it was also good
enough for Jones, the Island representative,
and an advantage which might some day
benefit the company. For Jones had but
one thought—the company. Besides, the
duty of the representative frequently ran
counter to the inclinations of the man He
had earned and accepted that disagreeable
tact long ago.
Never by look or sign had the repre-
sentative suggested that he understood his
visitors’ conversation. Seated at his desk he
listened idly, in his groping for a motive,
but the subjects held no interest for him and
slid off his memory like any other inessential.
Behind him, lolling on cane lounges, the
two men were conversing in low but earnest
voices. The representative sat staring
across his desk through the open window,
out over the blinding sand between the cocoa-
nut palms, to where the end of the shipping
jetty joined the sand shelving up .from the
beach. His eyes followed the tipcars’ head-
long run down the incline from the bin with
the precious ore that made the island the
most potentially wealthy for its size on the
globe, and saw it hit the curve in the line;
the slender figure of one of the kanaka boys
riding on the end of each car leisurely bent
down and with a bit of scantling for im-
promptu break on a wheel checked the cars’
swift run toward the end of the jetty. The
metallic noise of wheels running on solid
earth changed to the deeper rumble across
the decking of the jetty; the dusky heads
flashed nast the inner girders of the canti-
lever—the representative’s heart ceased beat-
ing for a moment, and in the midst of that
Equatorial afternoon heat he felt cold and
faint. Involuntarily he glanced down to
see if his hands trembled ; but his body was
motionless, and his eyes turned, now unsee-
ing] y, to the end of the jetty.
“But if he knew that a state of war exists
between us and England, what would he do?”
the A.D.C. was replying to some remark of
his chief’s.
“What could he do?” the Governor de-
manded. “With negligible exceptions his
white employees are Germans and will be
under my orders. The Condor arrives to-
morrow to put a prize crew on board the
steamer loading out there ; then she steams
across to Nabakia, captures the island
and the four enemy steamers loading
over there, and convoys the lot to
Blanch Hafen. What is to upset the
programme? The operator at the wire-
less is keeping in touch with our cruiser,
so what could he do, even if he knew? Think
of the prestige the exploit will give us! Be-,
sides, he daren’t do anything—l am in-
formed that he is fully instructed.”
There was no numbness in the representa-
tive’s brain now, when the most momentous
decision of his life had to be made. The
Governor was right. He had his instructions:
“Meet the Government in everything, re-
gardless of cost or inconvenience.” Given,
verbally, in time of peace, he felt no doubt
hut that they were to be read according to
gubernatorial interpretation. Deviation
from instructions would break him —he
knew his company well enough for that. On
some pretext or other he would be flung aside
like a worn-out shoe. He had struggled and
worked, only himself knew how hard, for the
position he held at the top of that particular
tree, and a fall would be absolutely dis-
astrous.
But —the Empire? Jones knew the Con-
dor as the crack ship of the German Equa-
torial Squadron. The coup, he perceived,
had been planned as a blow to British pres-
age among the native people of Oceania.
Besides, the Mikado and Uncle Sam were
looking on. How would he reconcile it with
his conscience if he lifted no hand to parry
the blow? The information he held forced
Jones, the Plain Man, to the branch-
ing of the road, and his conscience said
“Choose !” He looked down the vista and
wondered would there be time should he
choose as a plain man would —and would he
be allowed the opportunity? His future —he
looked back to the curve of line binding jetty
to beach. A carload of ore, with only one
clutch locked by a careless kanaka
hand, struck the curve heavily. The
carbody, secured by but a" single
clutch, jumped to the shock, rebounded
on the carriage, lifted the off wheels
off the rails, swerved, and capsized
right across the line, with the two follow-
ing cars hurtling into the wreck, in a tangle
of smashed car, bodies and scattered ore, to
the shrieks and handclapping of kanaka car-
boys. A homicidally-minded wharfinger
came tearing along the jetty. The represen-
tative looked on. unmoved. His future—
what was his future against the prestige of
the Empire? He had a little son down in
Australia. Some day, when grown to under-
standing, it would be rather a fine thing for
him to know that his father had not failed
in the larger duty. Glancing again the
vista of road lay straight and without branch
before him. Resolutely he began to write. '
Presently the conversation ceased, and he
heard his watchers get on their feet and
step toward him. Steady-handed, Jones
turned the sheet on the blotter and ran his
hand over the back of it. At the action the
A.lJ.c. stepped to the window and looked
out to where, moored to a huge buoy and
swinging just clear of the outer fringe of
the coast reef, a '7OOO-tonner with
loud clatter of winches was whipping her
cargo of ore aboard. He was joined bv the
representative. y
“The boys are just in the humor to make
this our record shipping if the weather will
only hold good till day after to-morrow,”
he said thoughtfully. “But I don’t like the
look of the sky. Frowning, he tapped the
W ! t l , a ® n S er - The officials, too,
studied the instrument with some anxiety
but made no comment. “I am going off to
the ship to see how they are shaping and to
f£L t:[ ] e skl PPer s opinion on the weather.
driff wmL slir ' lui l to-night and
duft, but be ready to tie up again early in
*¥ You gentlemen care for a
tup off. He asked the question carelessly
suspecting that he would not be allowed to
go unattended. The problem was to warn
the captain and get him off to Nabakia to
Kw h a^ n «t th 4?' her Shil,S ' Bre “ tMes^
said the Governor at last. J ’ ’
The white-clad men were met at the
accommodation-ladder by the captain
was cordial at the prospect of 'speedy
lehyerance from_ a berth he heartily dis-
hked, and led his visitors into the chart
room for refreshments, while the renJe-
sentaßve put superfluous questions about
the loading Unwittingly the A.D.C. came
on the St 1 " 8 * he "Pi-ion
(Continued on next page.)


51R
\v
\ \»'\J
V ■ \
m v
/
&
%
i
’t
Peps Guard
throat & Lungs.
Everyone needs Peps at this time
of the year, because this scientific
breathable medicine in tablet form
gives just the help Nature requires
to light against the hidden perils of
Chilly July, when the weather is
treacherous. Be it only a husky
cough, a slight irritation in the
throat, or just a suspicion of pain
and soreness about the chest, it is
time to take a few Peps, which are
entirely different from old-fashioned loz-
enges and drug-laden mixtures, but infinitely
more effective.
The Peps way of stopping chest troubles is Nature s
way. As the little brown tablet dissolves in the
mouth, the medicinal pine-air is released in the form of
fumes which mix with the breath and thus convey a valuable
soothing and strengthening agent direct through the bronchial
tubes to the lungs, which cannot be reached by liquid mixtures that are
simply swallowed into the stomach.
A Comforting Glow in the CHest,
as the Peps fumes enter, stimulates the whole of the breathing organs, and
means defence against coughs, colds and chills, which, unresisted,*would
work havoc with the strongest constitution. The Peps fumes are not
merely antiseptic, but germicidal. They destroy the cold-germ, protect the
delicate lining membrane of the throat and bronchial tubes from dangeroufe
infection, and positively arrest chest trouble in its earliest Stage.
There can be no finer safeguard against the perils of July’s chilly days
than Peps, which are a unique concentration Of the particular medicines
which Nature has furnished for the treatment of human tlii’oat and chest
ailments. Peps contain no Opium or other harmful drugs, and are as
useful to the apparently robust as they are absolutely indispensable to the
weak-chested and convalescent. PEPS NIP A COLD IN IHE BUD.
PEPS GO DIRECT TO THE LUNGS,
t*eps, the unequalled I
remedy for Throat]
and Chest co m-
plaihts, are obtain-
able from all chem-
ists, at 1/B and 3/-
per box, or direct
from Falford (A’sia)
Ltd., 39 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
ħ
h
“THE TRUE BREATHING CUBE.”
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them ‘‘Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
Choose a “ Swan.
ĥ
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer—those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
The
SWAN SAFETY”
Can't L**ak,
Blot. Miss,
os* Scratch!
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
Catalogue free on request.
MArflE, TODD & CO., London and
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J> A. BURKE,
Branches.
5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney.
ħ
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to tie
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
“No faith in it,” growled the skipper—
“one never knows what minute it changes
on these open coasts.”
Time sped, and the representative became
desperate. Would there never be an open-
ing? Must he take fortune in both hands
and openly order the ship away? The men
were leaning over the bridge-deck rail con-
versing as the cargo falls swung the
baskets of ore on board and dumped it into
the holds.
“Government gig alongside, sir,” the
third mate reported. Involuntarily the
A.D.G. stepped to the gangway to meet the
New Guinea orderly whose bushy head
bobbed above the rail. Dexterously Jones
slipped the letter into the captain’s nearest
pocket.
“Listen —and show no surprise,” he
whispered, tensely. “There is war between
England and Germany. To-morrow a Ger-
man cruiser is to capture you and, later,
the English steamers over at Nabakia
Island. Take my letter straight to the
British Resident on Nabakia. I take all
responsibility. My letter will justify you.
When you see us step on the beach, slip
your moorings and clear out. Nothing
unforeseen; make for Sjdney for instruc-
tions. Never mind the boats alongside
being empty or full.... Yes, Captain, you
can rely on us sending cargo as fast as you
can take it,” he said aloud as the A.D.C.
returned, pocketing a letter.
“The Governor has sent for me and is
waiting on the beach —there is room in my
gig, Mr. Yones.”
“So you gentlemen must go,” said the
skipper regretfully. “Shall I see you to-
morrow?”
“You can depend on mo, Captain,” laughed
the A.D.C.
The three men on the beach turned and
stared in surprise at the clank and loud
splash of a mooring cable. The water
between the stem and the buoy fender still
bubbled where it had sunk, and the bows
of the big steamer showed glistening patches
where the water had splashed. The screw
churned sluggishly under the counter: the
high iron sides slid past the buoy. .
“What on earth is-lie up to now?” cried
the representative, angrily. “Ah, there go
his signals—come, gentlemen, let us see
what he has to say.”
“Nothing could have happened,’ the
A.D.C. assured his Governor as they
hurried to the reperesentative’s office, with
the tall flagstaff before the verandah. “He
bad no opportunity, even had he known.” •
“Weather threatening. Return to-mor-
row,” said the combinations. Jones ran up
the answering pennant and showed the
reading in the code book. “That settles the
record breaking,” he muttered ruefully, as
if to himself
The big tramp slowly steamed straight
out; then the froth under her counter dis-
appeared and broadside to the wind she
began drifting away from the island. on the
Equatorial current. Jones fclt easier, lie
knew that the skipper would, drift till dark,
then go full speed for Nabakia.
Up there, piercing the clouds, the wireless
mast gathered in next morning the messages
transmitted to the eagerly-listening Gover-
nor. The impatience on his face deepened.
“All I can get, your. Excellency, is:
‘Coming,’ ” the operator reiterated.
“The Condor must have captured that
steamer and put a prize crew on board—
there is no other way to account for her
failure to be at moorings this morning,’
ventured the A.D.C.
The Governor did not reply. His eyes
followed the keen-sighted native orderlies.
Suddenly he reached for the telescope.
“Ah!” he said with satisfaction. “Here
the Condor herself is coming. No- wonder
the messages are laconic.”
Smoke out of great funnels darkened the
sky, and the wireless masts reared above
the horizon infinitely faster than any steamer
that ever loaded at the island could, rise
hers. With a glow of pride the Kaiser’s
representative watched the approaching ves-
sel gradually widen the distance between the
masts to a spread that amazed him.
“But,” said the A.D.C. hesitatingly, “she
comes from the direction of Nabakia! If
so”
His chief’s face had gone grey, and the
long scar, his cherished memento of the
Heidelberg duel, stretching from temple to
the corner of his mouth, gleamed purple
across his cheek.
“Donnenvetter!” he swore aloud, as he
made out the great grey funnels and the
sinister upper works of the leviathan hurt-
ling towards the island. “That is not our
Condor. It is the Australian dreadnought
we have heard so much about.” Turning to
the operator: “On your life, get the Condor
and warn her; and you, Herr Captain, mus-
ter the guard, secure all the English”
“The warship sends: ‘I hold you respon-
sible, personally, for the civil population,’ ”,
interrupted the scared operator.
“That is all right,” said the Governor
grimly. “Herr Yones, you are clever as you
are brave; nevertheless, you are my priso-
ner of war until the Australia arrives. I
would like to include the captain of your
loading steamer, but circumstances” —he
motioned toward the Australian Grey Ter-
ror —“are against me.”
E. OSBORNE.
The Family Grave.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DURING my final leave (which expired
this evening) I took a lonely trip
out to the family grave. It gave
me a shock to find it overgrown and neg-
lected-looking in the midst of tidily-kept
plots and expensive new tombstones; but
lack of money combined with some Irish
instinct of avoiding the place of sorrow has
always prevented 11s from cutting a figure
in that well-groomed cemetery. Perhaps,
after all, instinct is the best guide, and a
grave, like a wound, should be allowed to
heal. If I should not come home I will be
quite content to know that there are trees
and grass above me, and someone remember-
ing, far away.
As I turned to go I saw further down
the hillside an enormous grave-allotment,
fenced heavily and expensively with iron
and labelled in deathless marble and
hopeless lead, “THE FAMILY GRAVE OF
MICHAEL O’DUBLIN.” It started me
on an old, old trail, and I walked down to
have a last look at the lonely little white
headstone tucked away in one corner.
Leaning with crossed arms on the railings
of Michael’s indecently-large burying plot, I
read the inscription on the stone: —
Sacred to the Memorv of
MARY AGNES O’DUBLIN,
Beloved Wife of MICHAEL O’DLBLIN.
Died May 14, 1899.
Aged 22 years.
And of PATRICK JOHN MICHAEL O’DUBLIN,
Infant Son of the above.
Died May 15. 1899,
Aged 1 day.
The enormous allotment was in beautiful
order; but I knew that it was the work of
a paid stranger, for I found him finishing it
as I came up, and he borrowed a fill for Ills
pipe, which he lit before he climbed over
Michael’s beautiful fence and plodded along
to the next grave on his round.
When he had gone I looked long at the
pathetic little stone and thought of the
winter afternoon 1 first met her at a foot-
ball match. She was a dainty little thing*
full of animation, and with all the charm of
a pretty, well-mannered child. The large
and fatuous Mick, who had just become
engaged to her by virtue of his father s
brewery-made thousands and the sentimental
scheming of several female relations on both
sides, stood by his prize with the air of a
showman. Oh, he was raw!. A dozen fine
fellows had been in love with Mary; but
none of them had money, and the little girl
hadn’t the determination and force of charac-
ter necessary to overcome Heaven knows how
many interfering women. So she accepted
Michael and his £5O ring as an obliging child
accepts a present it doesn’t particularly
want, and all the women who wouldn t have
to live with Michael and bear his children
were delighted in that disinterested way
women have.
Michael had a heavy mind and took him-
self very seriously. He was assisted in
his vanity by a lot of people who wouldn t
have bothered themselves particularly if he
hadn’t been the only son of old attack
O’Dublin,'the rich brewer and good Catholic.
Everybody who needed money for a fund oi
a subscription was nice to Mick for the sake
of bis father’s thousands which would soon
be his, and Mick accepted it all placidly as
liis due. . „
The O’Dublin wedding was a great affair
—or as great as the large congregation or
St. Patrick’s could make it. Michael in
his wedding garments looked more uke a
prize ox than ever, while Ins lovely ntue
bride seemed, if possible, more frail
child-like in the oppressive dead-white dress
and veil. Mother Church United them for
ever with all possible ceremony, and after-
wards there was a heavy-weight wedding
breakfast, which was just as wasteful a
vulgar as a suburban caterer could make It.
Then at last they escaped for the honey-
moon, and a month later found the pool
little girl trying to command the enormous
establishment the riches of old O’Dublin had
provided for her. .
Everything in the place except the-little
bride was ugly and oppressively massive, jo
the O’Dublins had “spared no expense
with the usual depressing result. But Mick
and his father were fatdbusly proud, and
the hordes of bulling women who came
dressed Up in their best clothes to play ladies
with Mary and bore her to death, were ex-
perienced sycophants who wouldn t have
disabused the O’Dublins even if they had
known better —which they didn t. All these
suburban squaws told Mary she was
lucky girl,” and Mary politely agreed with
them that she was. If she seemed to hesi-
tate they breathlessly reminded her that she
had everything”-—which she had, though
there was a lot of it she could have done
without. And even then, when Mary thong
she had everything she could possibly be
loaded with, Mick was quietly negotiating
for the last possible requirement of well to
do Christian gentlefolk, i.e.. a family grave.
He took her out to view the latest luxuiy
on a brilliant Sunday afternoon when every-
body—-especially a bride of six months—
should have been thinking of. life and the ]oy
of living. Still acting up to Ins showman
instinct, he kept his dreadful secret until
thev were face to face with the staring label
and the enclosed patch of ground which lie
had reserved for himself, his wife and ms
numerous descendants. When the little gn
at his side realised that she was facing her
own grave-plot, she collapsed gently on the
grass and gave Mick one of the few real
scares of his untroubled life. He had a bad
hour or two getting her home. The horror
of the thing stayed with her, and when her
time came it killed her. Her baby survived
her one day, and the first funeral that wound
its expensively pompous way out to the
waiting plot was an emotional spree to the
morbid-minded for weeks afterwards.
Mick mourned honestly for six months,
and spoke of eternal widowerhood. But
before his new black clothes bad been aired
the church matchmakers were at work again
like crows, for Mick was far too rich to be
left alone. He held out for 18 months; at
the end of that period he was abducted in
lioly matrimony by a hard-faced woman who
Avas feared but not respected by the stricter
members of the congregation. After her cap-
ture of the i’ic-li voting widoiver she Avas cor-
dially hated in a' subterranean Avay.
The new Mrs. O’Dublin is a masterful
Avoman and a somewhat reckless pacemaker.
Mick. Avho has really very little force of
character for a 16st. man, has been trans-
formed into some sort of suburban society
husband; he is more bearable that way, blit
Mrs. O’Dublin’s views about families al*e
very modern, and as there have been no
babies in eight years, the chance of Mick
ever being a patriarch and presiding over a
crowded family grave seems to be small. If
the pair aren’t drowned in a torpedoed ship
AAdiilst hurrying about the world, they will
eventually arrive at that hungry plot of
ground aiid make queer company for the first
little wife who sleeps there with the baby who
Avas hurriedly loaded Avith three names at the
christening font just in time to be buried in
the grave that killed his mother.
I wonder if Mick ever took his second Avife
out to view her last resting-place!
K.


We are Confident that
THE WESTINGHOUSE-MORSE SILENT
Sar '■
%
-
t
<'*■
■
*
s* . 2i£> ’ : »
0
sws
v-4
‘ROCKER-
JOINT’
CHAIN
will appeal to you as
an important factor
in the problem of
Costs redaction.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET
BCVS.3IO to-
h
Queensland Agents Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
No /Zealand Office : 93-107(Featherston St., Wellington.
Concord West, N.S.W.
ĥ
DON’T LOOK OLD!
Bui restore your grey and faded hairs to their natural color with
LOCKYER'f SULPHUR
HAIR RESTORER
1/6 SOM) EVERYWHERE. 1/6
Loek.ver’s gives health to the hair and restores the
natural color. It cleanses the scalp, and makes
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
This world-famed Hair Restorer is prepared by the great
Hair Specialists, J. Pepper & Co. Ltd., Bedford Laboratories,
London, Eng., and can be obtained direct from them by
post, of from any Chemists and Stores throughout the World.
SAFEGUARD YOOR health
jvrJ.CoHis Brownes
CWor *
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Co ids. Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS arid effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC. .....
A well-proved palliative
in the pairis of GOUT
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CTIATtM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/8 , 8/-, 5/-.
Made in England.
ħ
BRITISH-AU STRALI AN
BULL DOG BROOCH.
As worn by our Brave Soldiers,
Every Patriotic Person should
Tnese splendid Brooches made in Australia and finished in
ijold, Silver, orOxodised Meta! are sold retail at 2/6 each.
For the purpose of making these Brooches more popular
throughout the Commonwealth, we have decided to give
everyone an opportunity of obtaining Valuable Prizes for
acting as our agents. SEND NO MONEY, your name
and address will do, and by return mail we will send you
6of these Highly finished Brooches. When sold
remit us our money, and we will forward you the prize you
select from our Up-to -date Catalogue of Watches, Chains,
Clothing, Bracelets, Handbags, etc. Write To-day to the
wear one
NO
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray's English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky
Dogrs Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated 'Waters and Cordials.
HOTELKEEPERS !
Just follow the same advice of up-to=date
people in the trade who are using
Eckersley s Dispensers
. for making
Draught Aerated Waters.
h
B. BRUMBY, Atherton (N.Q.), says:—“Your machine has
done all and more than yon claim for it.”
M. A. CHAPLIN, Commercial Hotel, Tara, (Q.)“Any
hotelkeeper using your machine will quickly be con-
vinced of its utility.”
E. W. RUDDLE, Royal George Hotel, Valley, Brisbane:—
“A complete success.”
DICK CAVILL, Coronation Hotel, S. Brisbane: “No hotel-
keeper should be without it.”
E. M. WALSH, Central Hotel, Ipswich (Q.): —“The quality
of the Aerated Waters produced is unsurpassed.”
Eckersley’s Dispensers are now installed in many of
the leading houses in Australia.
Write for particulars to:—
ELLIOTT, DONALDSON & DOUGLAS, Brisbane, Queensland.
SAMSON & SON, Cliff Street, Fremantle, W.A.
ECKEFtSLBY & SONS, 25a George Street West, Sydney ; and South Melbourne,
r
JNG
IF SO,
fa*
d
/a,A
rs
(«•>>«
JAM
*M«v
d
:fed up”?
V
r>
n
D
Zhis advertisement is reproduced frorq a drawing by
a SOLDIER ARTIST at the FRONT.
features
is the Oster Bulldog Die-Stock. The
features are:—
1. Self-locking dies.
3. Self-locking guides.
3. No resetting dies after each cut.
4. No loose bushings to lose or mislay.
5. No small parts to break.
Moving the releasing lever to the left
expands the dies—then the stock lifts
off the threads. Greater speed, less
labor, cleaner-cut pipe-threading are
produced by
Made in
II Useful
Sizes
ĥ
ħ
47 distinct varieties
of die-stocks and
screwing: machines.
Australian Representative:
CHARLES WRIGHT,
Box 251 C.P.0., Melbourne, Vie.
Os ter
2] Cleveland, Ohio, U.S. A.
h
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
WE CATER
THE PETROL
NTS OF
MUNITTi
-
ĥ
No matter what your requirements
are for anything appertaining to the
machinery portion of
MOTOR-GARS,
MOTOR-BOATS,
MOTOR-BICYCLES,
or
STATIONARY MOTORS,
we can supply you.
Our Stocks comprise: GREASE
CUPS, LUBRICATORS, METAL-
LIC TUBES & SHEETS of ALL
descriptions, PETROL COCKS and
UNIONS, PRIMING CUPS, TOOLS
for the Bench, or Kit, etc., etc.
Illustrated Catalogues post free.
ħ
304 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents for the FAMOUS
SCHEBLER CARBURETTER.


The All-A.\istraliai\
Power Transmitter.
‘•mancrovite”
h
ĥ
:lti
which is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
m
&
N
BUFFALO
Canoidal Fans
deliver large volumes of air at relatively
low pressures. You can find no outfit more
suitable
For Supplying Fresh, Cool Air to
Office and Workrooms
or for exhausting Foul Air, Smoke or
Fumes.
They are made so as to discharge in any
desired direction by revolving the cast-
iron housing. ♦
Write to Agents for Bulletin 182 E-51.
Parke 8 Lacy Co. Ltd.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St., Sydney,
DICK’S BALATA BELTING.
The DICKBELT”
has .again proved its superiority and economy
by its acceptance in the following important
tenders for 1916-17: p
X.S.W. Railways.
N.SAV. Tender Board for Dock-
yard.
Victorian Railways.
Victorian State Coal Mine.
Broken Hill Proprietary Mine.
Has maximum strength, life, evenness.
Has minimum stretch and slip.
Therefore ensures economy in cost, power and
machinists’ time.
The war has not affected its price.
Sole Agents:—
JAMES HARD IE & CO,,
Sydney, Melbourne & Adelaide.
PAUL & GRAY LTD., Newcastle.
THE
LAGGING
YOU WANT.
ħ
MOULDED MAGNESIA BEND,
OPEN & CLOSED ON PIPE.
NEWALL’S
MAGNESIA
COVERINGS.
WRITE FOR SAMPLES.
J. WILDMDGE & SINCLAIR LTD.,
82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth: Wellington. N.Z.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRON FOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, F/uming,
Patent “ Nelyambo ” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work.
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
Protect Your BOILERS
— "" - ■ ■
peXio
RE.GSSTr.RED
Not a Boiler Fluid, but a Preparation containing Pure Carbon
to be applied to the Internal Surfaces of Boilers like a paint.
USED REGULARLY IN MANY OF THE LARGEST
STEAM PLANTS IN AUSTRALIA.
Descriptive Pamphlet on application to the SOLE AGENTS—
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
h
NAT SEMI-DIESEL
Oil ENGINES
MARINE or STATIONARY,
Sole Australian Agents
WARBURTON, FRANKI, Ltd.,
307-3 XI KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
en
s
All British
made, and the
most up-to-date
machine.
THE LATEST
HANDPIECE
Fitted with one long Bush for main spindle, also adjustable Lid Bush.
1 I
iiiniiiii
'eu
is
In
Improvements
the
Lister Leads.
Sole Agent,
for Australia-
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO.,
0-13 YOUNG STREET,
——SYDNEY.
Agents In all
the States.
GAFFY’S Patent Keen Blade PRUNING SHEARS
ĥ
A BOON TO
ORCHARDISTS
W/
a
«s&#
v \\
\W\
And the Best Tool
for Cutting the
Hoofs of Sheep.
The great merit of these Shears consists in both Blades having Cutting
Edges, hence a perfectly clean cut. The bark is not crushed
nor the buds injured. POST PAID.
-
8/-
ħ
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Equitable Building, SYDNEY.
