

The Genial Spirit
R. C3r. WATKINS &Z CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney - #
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Snecialtv * AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
I
d
D!
V I
LU
h-
UJ
CL
lx!
D
H
Z
o
§5
£
B
sad Office
74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDN
Opposite National Amphitheatre.
And at
Telephone: City 9325.
186 Castlereagh Street* Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
mm
IO
HOBART
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
Keep Your Home Clean and Healthy
And Free from all Insect Pests by using’
Radium Spray
Sold at all department stores. Radium Spray is
made in Australia by an Australian firm.
RADIUM CHEMICAL CO. LTD.
210 Clarence Street, Sydney.
mmm
\\VJTTgWSi
ittAMSftBACQty
m
C HU BB S
ANTI BLOWPIPE
SAFES
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
m
tJ unket
m
INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
m
BUY BRITISH GOODS!
Practical Patriotism does not countenance support of Foreign industries.
CATALOGUES ON REQUEST.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street, Sydney.
And at MELBOURNE.
m
F
■■IT
BENSDORPS
Royal
Dutch
I
SUPERIOR
N
EVERY WAY.
“ Not the same as others^
MALTHOID
ROOFING
is making good
everywhere because
it comes up to all
specifications of a
perfect Roofing.
AMIWUD
Wallboard
takes the place of
lath and plaster in
interior decoration
because it is better
in every way.
SEND SAMPLES
tmpany, Cha//I$ House, Sydney. (Ag<
verywhere.) D. S.
Aust.
'ep.
BULLOCH LABES
WHISKIES
m
GOLD LABEL
«i'.v; . : ■' \ ■ \ : "
WHITE LABEL
• EXTRA
SPECIAL
S .V. o.
m
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. 11
ROAD-MAKING
MACHINERY.
nin
TOOTH
p*st~c
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
The Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Vol. 37.—N0. 1901. J
[Thursday, July 20, 1916.
Registered at the General Post Office, t Sydney, N.S/W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


■
I I
' I v
FOR THE LONG
WINTER EVENINGS
Chambers’ The Better Man.
Comstock’s The Vindication.
Dehan’s Earth to Earth.
Maniate’s Mildew Manse.
Sutherland’s The Edge of the Empire. •
White’s Bose of Paradise.
Drake’s The Coming Back of Laurence Averil.
Lyle’s Unhappy in Thy Daring;.
All at 4/- per vol., posted 4/3.
Coolidge’s The Desert Trail.
England’s The Alibi.
At GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP’T'Y LTD., 258 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
* THE MOUTH A GATEWAY FOR DISEASE.
Scientists have proved conclusively that no
fewer than 38 different infections ' may be
traced to the human mouth as. a starting
point. The mouth thus being the gateway for
the entrance of Disease it is here that pre-
cautions are most necessary.
HUDSON’S "Eumenthol Jujubes”
Are the most powerful, safe and pleasant
Germicide and Antiseptic known. Being’
destructive to all organisms which give rise
to infectious diseases, they keep the mouth
in U sweet, healthy condition.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROAT,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
A. The Larynx or
' organ of voice.
B. The Trachea or
windpipe.
wwatm
53
O
Bro
C.
The
Tubes
lung
sectea
The lobe of one
lungs.
m
SUITED FOR OLD ANi
Sold by all Chemists. Tins, 1/6.
; F 5
The Red page
Australian Decalogues
1. Thou shalt not have more jobs than one,
lest demarcation leaves thee none.
2. No graven image shalt thou make, nor
ether icork from Unions take.
3. Thou shalt not take a name in vain,
except the Kaiser’s—then speak plain.
4- Kemember thou the Sabbath day, and
have thy liquor stowed away.
5. Thy parents honor —o car in mind —
honor whichever thou const find.
6. Thou shalt not kill—unless M.D., or
thou wouldst gain a bronze Y.C.
7. Adultery thou shalt not commit, nor seek
such cause to serve a writ.
8. Thou shalt not from each other steal,
nor call such awful crime a “ deal.”
9. False witness thou shalt never bear, and
for the winning side must swear.
10. And covet not house, land, or tree—-
unless thou art the mortgagee.
N.S.W. 11. S.
1. Thou shalt have none other gods before
Billy Hughes*.
2. Thou shalt not ivaste metal in setting
up any brazen image to George Reid,
for verily I say unto thee, all the
metal is needed for munitions.
3. Thy shalt not take the name of O’Mal-
ley tliy king in vain.
Jf. Thou shalt remember the Sabbath Day
and get in some beer beforehand.
5. Honor thy comrades and brothers the
Anzacs, that their days may be long
upon the land which Birdwood, thy
commander, now guurdest for thee.
6. Thou, shalt not kill except in the Noxious
Trades area. \
7. Thou shalt not commit adultery but it
ivill appear in Truth.
8. Thou shalt not steal, but thou shalt col-
lar Germany’s New Guinea.
9. Thou shalt not bear false witness against
any member of Parliament.
10. Thou shalt not bet with Launceston
bookies, nor shalt thou rook thy
neighbor’s missus while he is at the
war / nor his separation allowance;
nor his vote on the liquor referen-
dum, while he travels in distant
lands; nor his beer; nor his wheat;
nor anything that belongs to him.
Tasmania. Australian Cadet.
The Interminable
A Student in Arms (Melrose) is a new
sort of war book. The anonymous author
might be described as An Earnest Christian
With A Sense of Humor. His chapters are
charming essays, written after a return
from the Front, where he apparently served
both as private and officer. His aim
obviously is to interpret the private soldier’s
attitude to religion and other serious issues;
and the author is no Avowser. “At the pre-
sent moment I suppose that nearly all
employers avlio are of military age and
bodily fitness are holding commissions in
the Army. Similarly, nearly all their
employees who are eligible are in the ranks
of the Army. Yet in their new roles as
officer and private none of the old suspicion
and dislike (betvVeen employer and
employee) appears to survive. In the Army
the relations between officers and men are,
as a rule, excellent. Is it too much to hope
that when the Avar is over, and both go back
to their former positions, these good rela-
tions may in many cases survive?” Dealing
Avith what is called, in the papers, “The
Church’s Opportunity,” the author talks
horse-sense. Chaplains have not found that
the war makes men religious. The author
points out that the average man is, in
respect to his beliefs, inarticulate. He
helieA r es in things like unselfishness, genero-
sity, charity and humility, but he never
connects these qualities with Christianity.
“He thinks that Christianity consists in
believing the Bible and setting up to be
better than your neighbors. By believing
the Bible he means believing that Jonah
was swallowed by the whale. By setting
up to be better than your neighbors he
means not drinking, not swearing, and pre-
ferably not smoking, being close-fisted with
your money, avoiding the companionship of
doubtful characters, and refusing that such
have any claim upon y0u.... The chaplains
saw the inarticulateness, and assumed a
lack of any religion... .They did not grasp
that the men really had deep-seated beliefs
in goodness, and that the only reason why
they did not pray and go to communion was
that they never connected the goodness in
which they believed with the God in Whom
the chaplains said they ought to believe.”
Hence he suggests that the Church should
be mobilised so that the majority of the
younger clergy and all the ordiminds would
be set free for service in the Army. They
would surely learn something in the barrack-
room and the trenches. In fact, the Church
should do as the other professions do. It
should economise at home, largely discon-
tinue the ordinary parochial work, and give
the rest to women. “The majority of the
city churches could be temporarily shut
down, and in almost all large towns quite
a third of the churches could be closed.” In
other words, if we shut the pubs at six, why
not close the churches at the same hour?
The innings of the picturesque professional
war correspondent is over. It is the soldier
himself Avho is now writing the real history
of the war. The anonymous author of With
the Guvs (Nash, per Dymock’s Library)
signs himself F. 0.0., which is the military
designation of an Artillery Forward Obser-
vation Officer. His book tells us more about
the work of the guns than 479 military
manuals. He begins Avith a brilliant non-
technical account of the diverse functions of
a gun, a lioAvitzer and a trench-mortar, and
of the difference between shrapnel and high
explosive projectiles.
That necessary saving sense of humor that
makes even of war (or of journalism) the
finest game in the world, is the possession
of the gunners, too. The author discov-
ered that his gum boots were just two inches
above the depth of water in a particular
trench ; but one day while he was carefully
navigating that canal a large dog plunged
into the water, and the wave of his impact
overflowed his boots, with the result that
they have never been really dry since. As
the author voiced his opinion of trenches
and dogs, a gentle voice, near at hand and
unseen, demanded of him, in the catchword
of the day, “Daddy, what did you do in the
great war?”
The author gives a striking example of
the- cleverness of the gunners of the Hun
in disguising the positions of their batteries.
“A certain redoubt was located by our aero-
planes. and its position indicated to us by
the fact that it lay right in front of the
seventh of a row of trees. For many days
we used this mark, until it suddenly struck
one of our observation officers that the
trees looked somehow different. Suspicion
being thus aroused, further aeroplane recon-
naisance was undertaken, when it was
found that the third tree of the row now
marked the position of the redoubt. The
enemy, seeing that they had been ‘spotted’
by the first aeroplane, had dug up the four
trees at one end of the row and replanted
them at the other end, and must conse-
quently have watched, with a delight not
very difficult to imagine, our shells raising
a little inferno of their own a couple of hun-
dred yards away from them.”
F. 0.0. does not spare us the usual pic-
tures bf the horrors of the great game.
One account of an officer’s walk along a
captured trench, “literally paved with dead
Germans” is almost too horrible to quote.
But this criticism of the British Army’s
habit of leaving a lot of little things behind
it is worth space: “It seems Curious that
the British Army, equipped as it is with a
more copious transport than has ever before
been imagined, should invariably leave in its
wake enormous quantities of perfectly ser-
viceable stores.” A French officer said: “No
army before has ever wasted as you waste;
the food you reject would feed half the
French forces, the rifles you failed to collect
after Loos would equip many battalions of
your New Army.”
The author’s special enthusiasm is reserved
for the French artillery. Here is an expert’s
description of the incomparable soiocante-
quinze, that “frail-looking, cheaply-con-
structed affair, giving the impression of
weakness and inefficiency. Their personnel
seems utterly inadequate, their methods of
ammunition supply are rudimentary. But
a French battery will come into action in an
inconceivably short time, and will continue
in action night and day at a x'ate of fire
that is unbelievable to one who has not heard
it. Minor technical details, such as sights,
are far in advance of our own, even in the
case of some old heavy pieces, whose mirror
sight utterly shames by its convenience and
simplicity our extraordinary device for the
same purpose. And the officers, how keen
they were!”
The chapter upon the use of the telephones
by which the aiming of the guns is controlled
is a quite lucid piece of explanation.
From it we learn that “Both sides have fre-
quently obtained valuable information by
putting specially sensitive telephones as near
as possible to the opposing trenches and lis-
tening to the messages they picked up. It
is believed that the apparently miraculous
knowledge that the Germans at some parts of
the- line possessed as to the regiments opposed
to them was obtained by this method.” It
will be remembered that immediately on the
arrival of the Anzacs at the French front
they were hailed by name by their foes.
S
“The Germans are the most obedient
people on the face of the earth. They do
more than obey orders. They wait for them,
look out for them, are lost without them.”
This characteristic of doing, saying, think-
ing and even feeling what their masters
demand forms the theme of The Nemesis of
Docility, by Edmond Holmes (Constable,
4s. 6d.). The genesis of the docility of the
Hun army is to be found in the fact that
in the 18th century the peasantry of Prussia
were serfs. With that uncomplaining
material to work. on. it is not to be won-
dered at that the military chiefs so easily
made of each soldier an automaton, with ail
initiative discouraged and his mind entirely
subordinated to the will of his immediate
officer. The reason why the Hun has
reverted to close order in his massed attacks
—for in the concluding portion of the war
of 1870 the Huns Avere allowed to fight in
open, or extended, order—is that the Ger-
man soldier Avas found to be quite unreliable
when unsupported. He deliberately skulked.
The only corrective to that national defect
was a reversion to massed attacks, and the
inculcation of automatic obedience by
excessive drill and the utmost severity. The
need for personal initiative, it was held,
should never arise: in the German army
things must be so planned and provided for
that unforeseen accidents shall not occur.
And the military chiefs had a typically
Prussian belief that they could make the
army-machine work Avithoot. a creak. That
proud conviction has not proved itself in the
war, though it is’upon this conception of the
place and function of the soldier that the strat-
egy and the tactics of the Hun army hinge.
A curious parallelism is to be found in
the author’s description of the method by
Avliich Germany is governed. “The Bundes-
rat, the members of Avhich are nominated
by the various States of the German Empire,
is really a very ingenious device for secur-
ing the control of the King of Prussia and
his Government over the whole of Germany.
.... Sitting as it does in secret, the Bundes-
rat is not so much in the eye of the
people as the Reichstag, but its powers are
far wider and far more real.... Somewhere
in their palace their delegates sit together
in secret and throw the Reichstag’s resolu-
tions into the waste-paper basket. The
Bundesrat can dissolve the Reichstag, but
the Reichstag cannot dissolve the Bundes-
rat.” Does not all this suggest the N.S.W.
Government and its boss, the P.L.L.? The
P.L.L. is not so much in the eye of the
people as the Parliament, sitting as it does
in comparative secrecy; but its powers, as
have recently been apparent, are far wider
and much more real. Holman must feel
almost as mad about the P.L.L. as the leader
of the Reichstag does about the Bundesrat.
For proof that the German nation has
been brutalised by docility, the author con-
tents himself with the savagery of the Hun
army in the field and the equally notorious
criminality of the Huns at home. The atro-
cities afforded an outlet to explosive forces
which the iron discipline of the German
army rigorously suppresses; and the crimi-
nal statistics of the nation show that the
iron rule of the civilian naturally results in
crimes of a nature unknown elsewhere.
A Voice Crying in the Wilderness
Every Australian writer pays the penalty
of being Australian; but upon Randolph
Bedford, the most Australian of us all, the
penalty falls with the most sickening thud.
Here is a writer who has every attribute for
greatness and its concomitant fame and
pecuniary success. He is equipped as not
even Shakespeare was equipped, with a mar-
vellous practical knowledge of every detail of
his subject. Shakespeare knew only a
small parish of the little England of his day
—Stratford and London —those were the
frontiers of his physical continent. But
Bedford has a real continent for his explora-
tions into life—and he knows that .continent
as no man has yet known any other continent.
In the grey stuff of his brain, folded in
every convolution, is a minute and marvel-
lously exact record of thousands of square
miles". And not only does, he know that con-
tinent in the two dimensions of length and
breadth but in the three dimensions. He
knows that continent eubically, in mass, as
a statue, not merely as a painted canvas. For
his job of mining expert and professional
tamer of wild cats has not only led him over
the length and the breadth of the continent,
but has forced him to investigate its founda-
tions.
But the continent that he loves and so
brilliantly depicts happens to be merely Aus-
tralia. Shakespeare was wiser : he _ didn’t
spread himself. But you will aptly point out
that it was the continent of the human mind
that Shakespeare explored. True; but Bed-
ford has pursued, the male and female wild
cat and their progeny, in Australia and else-
where, into their most hidden psychological
recesses. Again, unfortunately, he has merely
to depict those wild cats to a continent of
Australians —and there aren’t enough Aus-
tralians to give Bedford his due reward for
his discoveries. Look at Hughes. He was
a famous man—in Australia, to Australians
—long before he left us. He was the same
man when he arrived in England ; but the
thin, because scattered, applause that he got
in Australia was multiplied a thousand times
when echoed by the packed multitudes of
London. It is merely a difference in sound-
ing-boards. This large pancake upon whose
rims we dwell is of no use as a sounding-
board. For one thing, it is too far away
from the millions whose voice alone can echo
a man’s name into history. For another, the
Australians among whom he is placed are
not much given to cheering. For a third
thing, Bedford and his fellow writers are
more interested in their work than in mutu-
ally booming each other.
In London the game is, or was, worked on
a much more expert system. There is a little
group of able writers-—few more able, and
certainly none so solidly equipped—who
most delightfully log-roll. Wells has a liter-
ary row with Shaw. Wells writes to the
papers about it —getting well paid for his
contribution. Shaw replies—also seeing that
he receives a living wage. Chesterton butts
in ; Belloc intervenes, and their friends help
the trivial controversy along until it peters
out, having attained its end, the familiaris-
ing of the names of the writers with the
great non-literary public. The group has
friends or enemies on every literary journal
in London. Abuse is just as valuable to
them as praise. It is all advertisement.
And where would these poor devils be with-
out advertisement? But sometimes they must
chuckle when they reflect that it is all free
advertisement. And when these modern
augers meet, doubtless they give each other
the traditional augers’ greeting.
In the primitive community in which Bed-
ford works and has, or usually, hasn’t, his
living,-the fact that it pays to advertise has
not yet dawned. It might be interesting to
try whether the community is ripe for a little
experiment in literary logrolling....? One
feels sure that Randolph Bedford would be
delighted to help.
Consider the record of this man who can
write and who lives in his tremendous sub-
ject. He has written several novels —the
most Australian novels in our history.
Because of their particular excellence, their
peculiar claim to the consideration of Aus-
tralians, they remain . merely Australian
novels. And there is neither money nor fame
in an author who writes exclusively Aus-
tralianly. The English novelist writes of
England—but there are millions of readers
in England: the audience is ready-made.
Here we have to wait till that audience is
created. Bedford has written innumerable
short stories, dealing expertly with all the
flashing facets of Australian civilisation.
And other Australian authors who have had
the sense to go where the big audiences are
take his expert knowledge, dilute his facts
and reach big circulations among the people
who don’t know. Bedford has written nlays
—equally aggressively Australian,; but he
would probably be the last to suggest that he
takes his own plays seriously. They seem
to have been written during the intervals
on his first night..
So here is this virile Australian force in
literature, writing short stories that are
read, liked and forgotten. For the man lias
a fecundity and a facility that is typically
Australian. It would not be true to say that
all his stories are good, though most of them
are brilliant, and all are Bedfordian. He
writes too easily: he has so much to say, and
life, could never be long enough to exhaust
all that Bedford knows of his subject—this
forlorn continent of ours. But a writer who
specialised in such a subject, and possessed
so brilliant a style, in any other country
would be a celebrity. The literary maga-
zines of the U.S.A., for instance, would
chronicle his doings, would publish his photo-
graph, would comment upon his hat, would
boom his work by the tremendous advertise-
ment of personal publicity. He would be
interviewed, chased by the publishers of best-
sellers, and invited by the Taits to embark
upon lecturing tours.
d*
Being merely an Australian writer, he
writes short stories, lie wrote one that was
published in B. 15/(»/T<>, as an editorial.
“Thinking by a Creek” is merely a scrap of
that unique, yet typically Australian, per-
sonality known as Randolph Bedford. But
in that column and a half Bedford has done
a wonderful thing: he has put the whole of
a continent into 1700 words. The spirit of
Australia breathes in. every line. A stranger
from oversea, reading tips, would not under-
stand it—for it is written in the Australian
language—but he would feel himself im-
mersed in the strangeness and the splendor
of a new and tremendous world. Indeed, in
one paragraph Bedford, with a careless
ease, has drawn his map of this continent in
a way a geographer would envy:—
Eastward there is wheat land, limestone, mallee,
Wowserville-on-the-Yarra, Riverina and the Pacific;
westward, the two Gulfs, long plains and salt lakes,
the Golden Mile and the Indian Ocean; northward,
millions of acres of wheat land and pasture, saltbush,
spinifex, the lost rivers, Mitchell and Flinders grass,
and a territory four times the size of Fiance —
France, that liberator of the world in thought and
action, whose fall would put back the clock of the
world further than if all the other combatants fell
dead to-night; southward, more wheat lands, and
limestone, and the terraced country from Murray
Bridge to Kingston and Kobe, where if petroleum is
not struck directly I shall be extremely annoyed.
(So money getting won't stay out of the programme.
Retro me Sathanan!) Further south, Tasmania and
all the frozen devils that sail the winds between
Cape Horn and Whale Head.
That is the -body of Australia, the great,
loosely-sprawled body that shall some day
spring from its lax ease and shake the
cowering world with its thunderous tread.
But Bedford has not forgotten its spirit—
that spirit now being born in the bitter
travail of the world. And it is, one thinks,
not for nothing that the soul of Australia
should find birth on that soil that gave birth
to Greece and Rome and Europe. What
guiding finger of Fate pointed to the Helles-
pont for the birthplace of the latest comer
in the congress of nations? It is too much
to ask from the tired old long arm of
coincidence. And Bedford, whom Australia
has received with tiny silence of inattention,
has Still his splendid assurance of her coming
glory. Listen!
What is the sum of all this greatness, this lonely
spaciousness? Its future is big and, in such times
events do not tarry their full term in the womb.
For Australia the future is about to be delivered,
and no child can be named until it is born. Fools,
mostly imported, tell us we have no history because
we have no tradition—tradition, the fact of the liar
and the holy writ of the charlatan! Had we this
thing called tradition we would be torn to pieces as
Europe is to-day. The oldest country in the world,
we are the youngest. Fate does not reserve such a
jewel as this for nothing- greater than accident or
caprice. Fortune did not, without aim, protect this
land by 4000 leagues of sea, until the older world
could learn that statecraft is as hollow a mockery
as priestcraft, and that in good government there is
no mystery. And good government and the peace of
the world will come only with universal republican-
ism.
&
The irony of it is that Randolph Bedford,
the spiritual father of the Aiizacs, was not in
Gallipoli as the official representative of our
Australianism. Bean does very well, as far
as the Censor will let him; he will surely
write the best official history of Anzacism.
But what letters Bedford would have written
of that landing, with what brilliant fervor
fie would have painted the spirit of Anzac!
So be goes on writing short stories, and
chasing the last wild cat to its final burrow,
carelessly living, and now and then writing
Good Australian. And the audience for
whom he is writing is taking a confoundedly
long time getting born.


xtee
’ for EVERYTHIN
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FOR
ARDATH Cabinet CIGARS
ARDATH CABINET CIGARS are justly popular, for the reason that they
are beautifully mild and aromatic, filled with a delicious blend of Selected
Tobacco, uniform in quality, and contain only a minimum of nicotine.
ARDATH CABINET CIGARS are distinctly in the first rank of medium-
priced Cigars. They are made under perfect conditions, and combine .every point
of excellence demanded by the Cigar connoisseur.
ARDATH CABINET CIGARS, No. 444 and No. 66G, can only be obtained
at the NEW PALACE EMPORIUM, and are Cigars that will be smoked with
appreciation by the most critical. We recommend these Cigars with confidence.
ARDATH CIGARS are packed in
artistically-prepared cabinets, fitted with a
spring catch, and make an ideal present for
any man. Our unique system of spot Cash
trading enables us to sell these High-grade
Cigars at prices which offer absolutely the
best value in the land.
Box of 25 50 100
No. 444 ... 8/6 16/6 32/6
no. 666 ... li/6 22/- 42/6
Postage.—Box of 25: N.S.W., fid.; other
States, Bd. extra. Box of 50: N.S.W., 9d. ;
other States, 1/2 extra.
%
KflJEi
pwimm
MTONET
Rmfimic
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST of TOBACCO, CIGARS and SMOKERS’ REQUISITES.
x ...... *
Posted Free on Request.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FOR THE SILENT
WHITE Sewing Machines
The WHITE embraces all that stands for efficiency in SEWING MACHINES.
!£®!eki2?s
25
No. 25V (shown partly open).
THE WHITE PINCH TENSION is with-
out a peer. It pinches the thread just enough
to produce a smooth, elastic stitch.
THE WHITE TENSION INDI-
CATOR shows the state of the tension at all
times. A tension can be changed or dupli-
cated in an instant.
THE WHITE TENSION RELEASER,
operating with a lifter bar, instantly removes
all tension from the thread.
THE DUST CAPS on needle and presser
bars prevent the ingress of dust; hence easier,
smoother working.
THE WHITE DROP-HEAD AUTO-
MATIC LIFT is the latest improvement in
Sewing Machines, and is a WHITE feature.
The WHITE Vibrating Shuttle Machines are
elegantly constructed, and each machine has
nickel-plated head wheel, hanging centre panel,
and drawers at each side, with beautiful
swell front-furniture, the most attractive style
yet brought out. All WHITE Machines are
fitted with ball bearings, and supplied with
a full set of the latest-style Steel Attachments.
INHERE is no better flachine made than the World=
Renowned WHITE, which combines simplicity, quality
and economy with faithful construction and elegant
finish. Write for Illustrated Price Lists,posted free on request.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
VALUE IN BOOKS
Everyman’s Library of Standard Literature.
EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY is exactly what its
name implies—a library for the professional man,
the business man, the young man, the student, and
all lovers of literature. There are over 700 titles
to select from in the EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY,
embracing the works of foremost authors in the
realms of Fiction, Poetry, History, Theology,
Travel, Biography and Essays of famous writers.
EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY is under the
general editorship of Professor Ernest Rehys,
and contains the best works that have been
written in all times and Longues, from Epictetus,
Cicero and Plutarch down to Dickens, Scott,
Ruskin and the other great Literary Lights of
the Victorian Era.
Each volume in EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY
is uniformly bound, and printed in large, clear
type on specially made paper, and many are
illustrated.
m
Sectional Bookcase, to
hold 50 vols., 21/.
Anthony Horderns’ Price:
Cloth, I/—; Full Leather, 2/-
Postage 2d. volume extra. Full list of titles post free. Send Is. 2d. for ffl
sample volume. The value cannot be surpassed.
Handsome Oak Bookcase (as illustrated) specially designed for Every-
man’s Library, made in Fumed Oak, and fitted with novel interlocking
device, to allow for extension. Top Section, 6/-; Base Unit, 6/-; Book Section
(to hold 50 vols.), 8/6.
Anthony Horderns’
FOR THE
GEM JUNIOR
Safety Razor.
w
s. y *
V- _
GE
4l
THe Man Who Uses the
GEM JUNIOR Safety Razor
MAKES SHAVING EASY.
GEM JUNIOR blades are as thin as an edge-holding piece of steel can possibly
be rolled. They can be sharpened time and time again, because they’re tempered
to receive an edge and to hold it when they get it.
THE GEM JUNIOR FRAME has a new BAR feature which carefully
spreads the skin so that the stubble is forced out far enough to give as close
a shave as can only be secured with any other razor in the world by going over
tliG face twice.
THE GEM JUNIOR SET is packed in substantial Plush-lined Box, and in
addition to the Silver-plated frame and seven blades, includes a stropping handle.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, 5/-; by Post, 5/3.
EXTRA BLADES, 2/1 per Packet of 7, Post Free.
mm
OLD BLADES Made NEW
Save your old blades. After they have passed beyond the stage
of revival by means of the ordinary strop, the Safety Blade Expert
can renew the keen edge of the hand-ground blade with the
patent power high-s?eed machine specially designed for Safety
Razors. It sharpens any Wafer Safety Razor Blade.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ PRICE-1/1 Doz., 7d. Half-doz., Post Free
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKneld Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


WINCHESTER
Cartridges
For Rifles, Revolvers or Pistols
The most accurate shooting rifle, revolver
or pistol made will do unsatisfactory work
unless the cartridges used in it are as accurate
as the arm. f For that reason it is important
when buying to get cartridges that have an
established reputation for quality. Win-
chester —the W brand of cartridges in all
calibers from .22 to .50 are unexcelled for
accuracy, penetration and uniform shooting
qualities. They cost no more than inferior
makes and are for sale everywhere. If you
want to get the most satisfactory results with
your rifle, revolver or pistol, always use
Winchester ammunition. Do not simply
ask for “some cartridges” when you buy,
but be sure to specify Winchester make
and look for the bold w on the box.
THEY SHOOT STRAIGHT AND HIT HARD
ass
i a.".
Edison Blue Amberol
Records for July
m
A wide range of subjects is given in the July Records,
and many favorite artists and selections are included.
Tosti’s “Good-Bye” (Anito Rio) will be an extremely
popular item, as also will “Toreador Song—Carmen” (T.
Chalmers and chorus), and “Asleep in the Deep” (Wm.
Meyer and male chorus).
Other very pleasing selections include “My Little Girl”
(Arthur C. Lichty and chorus) ; “Open the Gates of the
Temple” (H. Williamson) ; “There’s a little White
Church in the Valley” (Kaufman and chorus) ; and
“Somebody’s Boy” (Eliz. Spencer and chorus).
But all are really good and you cannot make a mistake
in ordering any of them. Make your choice early.
Blue Amberol Concert Records.
28214 —Good-Bye (Tosti).
28215 —Eleffie. Soprano,
Soprano, orch. arc.
Anita Rio
orch. acc.
Helen Stanley
28216 —Toreador Song—Carmen. Baritone,
orch. acc. Thomas Chalmers & Chorus
Blue Amberol Regular Records.
2099 -Victoria regia—Concert Waltz. Flute,
orch. acc. Weyert A. Moor
2700 —My Little Girl. Tenor, orch acc.
Arthur C. Lichty and Chorus
2707 — It's Tulip Time in Holland. Tenor,
orch. acc. Arthur C. Lichty and Chorus
2708 — Gladiator March. N.Y. Military Band
2709 Over the Hills to Mary. Tenor, orch.
acc. Walter Van Brunt & Male Chorus
2710 — Asleep in the Deep. Bass, orch. acc.
William Meyer and Male Chorus
•
2711 — Open the Gates of the Temple. Tenor,
orch. acc. Hardy Williamson
2712 — Dance of the Skeletons. Sodero’s Band
2713 Robert’s Globe-Trot —Fox-Trot.
Jaudas’ Society Orchestra
2714 — Climbing tip de Golden Stairs. Tenor,
orch. acc. Walter Van Brunt & Chorus
2715 — Birds and the Brook.
American Symphony Orchestra
2717—There’s a Little White Church in the
Valley. Tenor, orch. acc.
living Kaufman and Chorus
2719 —Daisies Won't Tell. Contralto and
Baritone, orch. aec.
Helen Clark and Jos. A. Phillips
23392—The Red, White and Blue. Tenor and
Chorus, orch. acc.
Walter Van Brunt & Chorus
23393—L0ve Me as You Used to Love Me.
Tenor, orch. acc. Reed Miller
23394 —Somebody’s Boy. Soprano and Chorus,
orch. aec. Elizabeth Spencer & Chorus
23395—Nothing at All. Tenor, orch. acc.
Joseph A. Phillips
23390 That AVas the End of My Dreams.
Tenor, orch. acc. Hardy Williamson
23397 -1 Like Your Town. Comic Song, orch.
acc - Glen Ellison
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD. (Wholesale Only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
The Booty - Croaker
ATP GAS SYSTEM
CHEAPER THAN
Electricity, Coal Gas, Acetylene or Kerosene.
and BETTER THAN All.
A
5- A
efi
INTER-STATE AGENTS
Buzacott & Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Dangar, Gedye & Co.,
Young St., Sydney.
J. Bartram & Son uS:
Bourke St., Melbourne
Works : 269 Toorak Rd..
Melbourne
mm
m
WAVERLEY
THE “BOON AND BLESSING” NIB
You can depend on a Waverley.
Its quality and durability make
it a world - wide favourite. It
writes so smoothly and lasts so
well that one Waverley outlasts
two or three nibs of an inferior
kind. The Reservoir Waverley
does 200 words with one dip.
6d. & 1/- PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS
AND DEALERS
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
steel. Gold * Fountain Pen Makers
Edinburgh, Glasgow & London
IE any illustration appearing _ in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
m
MODERN TOOLS
FOR THE
GARDEN and
FLOWERS.
NORCROSS” Cultivator-hoes
have revolutionised Hand
Cultivating. The sharp,
tapering Shovels literally
tear up the earth from
lin. to 6in. deep, leav-
ing ground level, loose
and untrampled. And it
is done with such ease
and speed as to make
gardening an extreme
pleasure.
They work closer to
plants without injuring
them than any other
tool.
Ask your Ironmonger
or write our Agents—
S. SCOTT-YOUNG LTD.,
1 Bond Street, Sydney
m
m
C. S. NORCROSS & SONS, Manufacturers,
Bushnell, Illinois, U.S.A.
TO THE PUBLIC and
THOSE ENLISTING.
You are doing the right thing by joining
the great European battalions fighting for
the peace of the world.
* * * * * * * * * * *
You have the chance now to write your
name in the great history of modern times
to win the V.C., the D. 5.0., to be
mentioned in Despatches.
* -;i'r * * * # *
In war, as in peace, it is the athlete, the
strong, sound man that counts. Keep
yourself strong by taking with you
CLEMENTS TONIC
It is the Medicine that means Health.
ALL CHEMISTS SELL IT.


Australia Riddled with
Deadly Kidney Disease
almost everybody complaining.
Kidney disease is most certainly on the in-
crease. Thousands and thousands of people
in the towns and villages of this country are
in terrible danger of deadly kidney disease.
This insidious disease creeps on, gradu-
ally getting a firmer and firmer grip, until
when it is too late the poor sufferer discovers
he has Bright’s Disease. Have you kidney
trouble? Do you know how to recognise
whether you are suffering from this or not?
Here are some of the symptoms of kidney
disease : Aches and pains in various parts of
the body, nasty taste in the mouth first thing
in. the morning, constipation, cloudy and bad-
colored urine, general feeling of weakness
and irritability, pufliness under the eyes—
these are all symptoms of kidney trouble.
And then people who suffer from backache,
rheumatism, gout, sciatica, gravel, stone or
pains in the bladder, muscles and joints are
all suffering these pains through weak or
diseased kidneys, for these are the sure and
certain symptoms of kidney trouble.
All these things mean that the kidneys are
weak and diseased. They need strengthening
and making healthy.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
KiHip
Kidney&BladderPills
| These Pills also act on the liver. *§
' NOT GENUINE WIIHOUTTHIS SIGNATURE (%§
chemist at once and ask him for a 2s. 9d.
box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
which are made expressly for kidney and
bladder troubles.
To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid of
the cause—the poisonous uric acid. Remem-
ber to do this a real remedy must pass
through the kidneys and the bladder and not
through the bowels, as most kidney pills do.
\\ hen you see the urine change to a muddy
bluish color a feature which distinguishes
Be Witts Kidney and Bladder Pills from all
others—you know beyond all doubt that they
have put their healing touch on the right
s P°t—the kidneys and the bladder. A won-
derfiil pill straight to the kidneys—that is
why De Witt’s Pills give such amazingly
quick relief-—every time. A permanent cure
roilows in almost every case. Look for that
blue-colored urine.
They will cure every one of the above
symptoms no matter how long or how badly
you have suffered.
m
THE GREAT COLD
PREVENTIVE.
Wilson’s
Pino-Mentho
Pastilles.
The moment you feel you have a cold
coming that same moment—act. Don’t
hesitate, or the cold may beat you.
Wilson’s Pino-Mentho Pastilles are wonder-
tuny effective in checking cold. The
moment a pastille is dissolved in the mouth
the rich pine vapors are released and thor-
oughly search out the cold. Their soothing,
healing properties are immediately felt.
Always keep a tin handy—they’ll save you
a lot of trouble. Obtainable from all reliable
Chemists and Stores, 1/3 per tin. But
make sure it’s Wilson’s Pino-Mentho.
Alex. Wilson & Co.
17a Pitt Street, Sydney.
n* ARE YOU
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do vou
want to obtain an Appliance that is not onlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
’"fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT ' SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more ?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
HEALS ANY WOUND OR SORE-
If you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won’t
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind,
no matter of how long standing, you can cure it
quickly and surely with
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price 1/6, posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist
1] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
Bounina ton’s
Jubes
For tl\e VOICE * *
THROAT fa LUNGS
The\’ reHef a^ca^eU^Sore l or^RetfS , «d ) T , h^ eS °* p>Tmingt<m’ a Irish Mos*.
Spasmodic Cough, Bronchial Trouble ere Throat, Loss of Voice, Huskiness,
(&G
sS-
<y
«*a
A PLEASANT AND EFFECTIVE COUCH PASTILLE
SUITABLE FOR BOTH ADULTS AND CHILOREN
B °NNINGT°N’S JUBES are highly recom-
mended for use by Public Speakers and
Travelling Public will also find
them ike best and most convenient Throat
Pastllle - SOLD EVERYWHERE
Price, 1/3 per tin
If not obtainable locally, send price in
stamps to
Bonnington &. Co., Ltd.
179 Harris street - - Sydney
TOBACCO KILLS!
C\
(i l
■J7t
Face to Face with Death I
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a positive cure for
the Tobacco and Cigarette Habits. It is abso-
lutely harmless, leaves no reaction or bad after-
effects, and cures permanently.
Free Package Offer.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a trial
package of this wonderful remedy, together
with our Free Booklet, Testimonials, etc.
TRIAL PACKAGE often effects a CURE.
Mr. 11. Smith, of Park Farm. Jericho, Tas-
mania, says: “l was a hard smoker for 30
years, but since takino your sample of Tobacco
Specific / have never had a smoke.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G,
29 O’Connell Street, Sydney. [3.
ftONTSERRAf
SAUCE
m
mm
m
MADE FROM THE
CELEBRATED
MONTSERRAT
LIME JUICE.
ITS PURITY
and great
DIGESTIVE
VALUE
make it the finest
Sauce procurable.
Of All Storekeepers.
Rheumatism
The case of Rheumatism or Gout
which Kruschen Salts cannot benefit
has yet to be discovered. This
famous British remedy is also
recommended by Medical Men in
cases of Lumbago, Sciatica, Eczema,
Constipation, and Liver and Kidney
Disorders.
KRUSCHEN AT THE FRONT
Since the outbreak of the War, enormous
quantities of Kruschen Salts have been ordered
by, and delivered to the British Authorities, for
the use of the British Forces overseas and in
the Base Hospitals at Home. Kruschen Salts
are prescribed by Medical Men the world over.
THE WORD KRUSCHEN
The trade mark “ Kruschen ” is a legacy-
handed down from generation to generation of
the family of Evan Griffiths Hughes, the sola
Manufacturers of Kruschen Salts, and one of
the oldest firms of Manufacturing Chemists in
the County of Lancashire. Established 1754 —
160 years ago.
Kruschen Salts
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754.
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
Per Bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers,
and stores throughout Australia,
Wholesale Distributing Agents:
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
68, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester,
England.
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Rest.
In splendor of the noontide glow
I sought my joy,
In merry rout and shallow show
That coax and cloy.
I laughed across the world with those
That shout and fling
Their hearts to whirling chance. I
The crowd for king.
I sought no rest nor dreamed of it
By night or day
Until with mockery exquisite
Joy fled away.
Among the wreckage of my dreams
I stood alone,
Nor guessed to what far woods and streams
Delight had flown.
My gardens were a wilderness,
The flowers dead ;
Thorns strewed the path my feet must
press—•
My feet that bled.
Song died upon my lips. My heart
Derided me.
Sweet hope, my comrade, drew apart,
And let me be.
And then came one I had not seen
Before, nor kissed —•
Hair glorious, of golden sheen,
Eyes amethyst.
He led me to a whispering place,
A secret grove;
His hair was soft about my face—-
I knew Lord Love.
He showed me all that I had been,
And yet might be ;
The mystery of things unseen
Shone clear to me.
And so at last, my dear, my dear,
I trembled to
Contentment in your heart, and here
Thank God for you.
VICTORIA.
DOROTHY BRUNTON.
Yellow Blossoms.
Yellow cups she sent me, hankering for bees ;
Yellow cups and scented cups on their
stalks of green,
Bringing songs of flowers, violins of trees,
And the strings of woodland things
threaded in between.
Musky little chalice, hot from summer’s kiss,
Gold leaf of the sun-ball climbing over-
head,
Egypt’s mourning color is yellow such as
this,
In such lovelv sulphurs they go sighing
for their dead.
Was it chance she picked you? Did she
think I grieved?
Merry clash of honey-bells ringing in the
bees!
Oh, you foolish giver! Who could feel
bereaved
Over any dying love, in yellows such as
these!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Revolt.
I don’t want a job or a home or a wife,
I don’t want a country or god !
I’m sick of religion, of death and of life.
And I’m blowed if it seems a bit odd !
I’m sick of the finicking rules of the road,
Of the blasted conventions and bills,
And I’d only be sane if I dumped the whole
load—•
Yes, and howled on the roofs of the hills!
Oh, the Devil made women, and devil they
are,
And the Devil made jobs to be kept;
And the Job and the Women are keeping me
far
From the road that the angels have swept:
’Twixt the Job and the Women I’m eating
my heart.
And the succulent cabbage of Youth
Is a dish for the rabbits that care not for
Art,
Nor for Poetry, Music or Truth.
While the drums of the nations have boomed
at my brain .
And the trumpets have ripped up the skies,
I have fled like a hare for the 5.80 train
With a bag and a penn’orth of lies;
While armies were locked I have fretted
for pence,
And paltered and peddled and puffed ;
In nothing I do does there seem to be sense,
So I ought to be slaughtered and stuffed.
For the Dear Little Home and the swivel-
chair Job,
And the tram that I catch in the morn,
And the double-damned hunt for the greasy
odd bob
I have nothing but hatred and scorn;
It’s a sort of a lunatic merry-go-round
Which I harnessed myself to long syne.
And I ride on the platform and run on the
ground
As I try to pretend that it’s fine.
Oh, the dear little round ! Oh, the damned
little round !
And how long will it be till I die?
Save the thud of my feet I hear nary a
sound,
Except now and then a deep sigh
And the weariful squeak of the rusty
machine
With the wooden steeds set in a row !. . ..
Oh, the sea it is blue and the hills they are
green,
So I’ll screw up my courage and Go'
N.S.W.
DANTON DE R. JONES.


jj£ :
ssr..V^*l^
‘
(•*««•' ...
*****
f# ;
, /;.. ~ > ■••
YOUR MONEY’S WORTH
tt
is in the
PERDRIAU
s i
Manufactured in Australia by
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD., all states.
k
£
John Lysaght Limited will be pleased, upon
application, to forward a free copy of the
new and enlarged edition of their “ Referee ”
to Every Property Owner and Galvanized
Iron User. This Book contains a quantity
of carefully compiled infor-
mation which will be found
both useful and interesting.
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Supplied to the
Naval and Military
Authorities in
Great Britain and
Australia.
The Jolly wells!
9 m
m
REX
iSM
m
mz
With Store so neat
In busy street,
Friend Jollywell's Trade
Is hard to heat.
A word of cheer
You’ll always hear.
Folks come to buy
From far and near.
Camp Pie — “Ilex” Cheese
He sells with ease.
These are the lines
That always please.
Row don’t delay,
Send round to-day.
“Rex” Goods are pure,
All users say.
“Cut Expenses Serve ‘Rex’ Camp Pie,”
is Mrs. Jolly well’s advice to every woman in
Australia. , (TD ~
Like all the “Rex” Ture Food Products, Rex
Camp Fie is cheaper to buy than Fresh Meat, is
quite as nourishing (if not more so), and easier to
digest, because it comes in the most readily assimi-
lated form.
“REX”
CAMP PIE
is cooked and ready to serve when it comes to you. Note the flavor and tne
firm clear jelly as it comes from the tin. Only the art of Rex Chefs could
produce such a picture of deliciousness.
Serve “Rex” Camp Pie in the House as well as the Camp.
Sold by all Grocers. Ask for a Tin, and say
“‘Rex’ * Brand, please.”
OTHER “REX” GOODS ARE:
“Hex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, ljlb. tins.
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese, in Decorated Tins and Opal Porce-
lain Jars of British Manufacture.
“Rex” Ilam Pate.
“Rex” Brand Lard, for cooking purposes, in lib. prints.
Temporarily out of Stock.
Rex” Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
Rex” Pigs’ Peet in Jelly, lib. tins.
Rex” Bunch Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
‘Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.,
Curers of “Rex” Mams and Bacon;
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products.
I
&■
E
iM
x
TV
m
No. 304 A
OSTER
MACHINES
belt <& MOTOR
driven
47 distinct die-
stocks and screw-
ing machines.
One to fit your
pipe-threading
needs.
Australian Representative»
CHARLES WRIGHT,
Box 251, G P 0., Melbourne, Vlo.
FOR ALL-ROUND
PIPE-THREADING
OSTER Pipe-Threading Machines excel because of
their wide range of usefulness concentrated m the
smallest floor V<* of any threadtag machmes.
The machine shown at the lett, ino.
;U)4A, threads 8 sizes of pipe
from 1-inch to 4-inch diameter,
and bolts all sizes from 4-inch to
Ig-inch. Special features of Oster
Machines are: Automatic die re-
lease, quick-opening dies, automatic
oil pump and simple, convenient
die-head. For clean-cut threads
and quick work use Oster Machines.
The Oster Mfg. Co.
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
ti
Dodge Brothers
MOTOR CAR
Comfort, Responsiveness and Power
Immediate Delivery Can Be Given.
You will realise the very first time you ride m this ear that
it lias all the comfort, responsiveness and power you want m a
There will be no mistaking the buoyant spring action—the
marked freedom from gear shifting-the swiftness with which
the ear gets under way-the fine balance which makes it stick
to the road—or the dogged pulling power of the silent motoi.
Tt is almost certain that you will ash yourself how is it
possible to incorporate such quality at so moderate a price.
THE MOTOR IS 24 R.A.C.-RATING.
THE WHEEL BASE IS 110 INCHES.
INSPECTION INVITED.
Dalgety & Company Limited,
Agents for New South Wales & Queensland.


The Bulletin
Begistered at the General Post Office, Sydne}', N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 37,—N0. 1001.
THURSDAY, JULY r 20, 1916.
Price 6d.
THE BAD COBDEN BOY.
Freetrade after the war will be more necessary than ever for Britain and the Empire, in view of the resumption of commercial and manufacturing superiority.
—Memorandum by Freetraders in the Lords and Commons.
“Fie, fie! Did you think you had lost your little playfellow?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co-s Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
1< or £1 6s. Gd. per annum you can have 'liie
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas .V umber, to any
»address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £ 1 10s. per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to Ihe
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
-1 The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the foim of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short 'lutes
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tun Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Hut
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for returr it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and, adapted for
mnucT reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn■ —ivill be paid for as a
suggestion onlyi The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Caw at> a.— Thomson Stationery Co.. Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., JjH Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, San Francisco;
Childs News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San
Diego, Cal.; Queen City News Co., Randolph and
Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home Neivs Agency, 7G3 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon.—lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. — Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., Sid.;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elseivhere, ioz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
JTuT^xxZleZztfL
THURSDAY, JULY 20, 1916.
AUSTRALIA.
For three hundred years, while the pulses of
men stirred to the call of high adventure,
the Great Unknown Land of the South
remained a splendid dream. Portugal caught
in the glamor of Asia, Spain mad with
religious zeal to exploit the golden treasures
of the West, still buoy.ed their souls with
wild imaginings of something beyond all
their conquests hidden away in the haze of
uncharted seas. Whether any fierce-bearded
pirate-explorer in the remoter days of the
sixteenth century got a look at Australia or
not is of little importance. Imaginative map-
makers played a long fantastic prelude, but
the curtain did not rise on the drama of Aus-
tralia until Europe had settled into modern
shape and most of the Americas had for-
gotten conquistadores and buccaneers and
taken to more honest modes of livelihood. A
strav Dutchman lifted the edge of the drop-
scene for an instant; Tasman walked round
the back and viewed the stage entrance;
Dampier pushed rudely past the footlights
and stood for a moment in the wings ; then
Cook took on the job of advance agent and
proclaimed to the world that the play was
about to begin. Europe, looking on, was
bitterly disappointed when the first scene
was revealed. The age-long dream of great
barbarian cities waiting to be plundered in
the name of religion and progress faded
utterly away and in its place was shown
a vast land, infinitely poor, but with infinite
promise of wealth, where a squalid savage
hunched. himself over a small fire and noth-
ing whatever was to be won save with good
honest sweat. Europe thought itself tricked
by the ancient wonder-tales; England wasn’t
enamored of her new possession and shud-
dered at the thought of all the toil its owner-
ship might involve; Spain and Portugal
were glad amid the ruins of their sea-
mastery that their old ships had never
wasted time in finding a place so pitifully
empty of people to exploit and articles to
steal. Yet everybody was deceived; for the
absence of those very things which seemed
desirable in eyes trained to believe piracy
the essence of overseas progress was the
strength of the new land. Its resources were
untouched ; its lands knew no false develop-
ment; it had no traditional links with any
fevered and disordered past. It was capable
of all things and had done nothing; and it
offered to strong men what strong men in
every age have most desired —a clean home
with freedom and boundless opportunity. It
was all that the best dreamers of the Great
Unknown Land had imagined, though all
their fancies about it were astray to the lull
limit of speculative lunacy.
• * *
A century of peace in such a land pro-
duced a race of men differing in many ways
from all others; and out of the race grows
a nation of hitherto unknown shape. In
these days, when the cannon’s flash annd the
gloom lights the features of the warring
peoples, there has been more nonsense writ-
ten and spoken about the Australian much
of it written and spoken in Australia —than
about most men. Biixjim —representative
product of the soil, climate and conditions
of a continent —has enjoyed a great laugh
at himself; for that strange self, starred in
the limelight of fervid oratory and hyper-
bolical press comment, is grotesque enough
to move him to pretty robust mirth. He has
been represented as some sort of young demi-
god, stalking through the brimstone of battle
with a jest on his lips and a supreme con-
tempt for man, God, death and devil; while
lie knows himself a plain, hard fighter, do-
ing a disagreeable job to the best of his
ability, and merely trying to lighten that
labor with as much good humor as liis dis-
comfort will allow. He. doesn’t pose as a
hero—except when the girl with the adoring
eyes is his audience —and he doesn’t feel or
want to feel like one. The war gave him
an outlet for his patriotism, his desire lor
adventure, or was a mere safety-valve tor
liis superabundant energy; but in no case
did the theatrical aspect of things appeal
to him, and he writhes under the fulsome
adulation of politicians who want to make
him a piece of the stage property in the
comedy of their own ambition. Biixjim has
seen wide spaces and lived in the atmosphere
of big things; and it is this that makes him
the casual person lie is. It is impossible
to impress the majesty of kaiser or king on
a man who has ridden overland two thous-
and miles and only once greeted a traveller
on the way. The biggest things to be done
in the small and crowded lives of men seem
of trifling moment to one who has talked
and thought in terms of a continent. True,
all Australians have not been in intimate
touch with the big distances; but even in
settled areas, and within a day’s ride of
the congested cities, things are on a scale
sufficiently big to create the continental
atmosphere. In a general way, the spirit
of the whole has leavened the mass of
Australians and shows in their habits of
thought and their modes of action. Bill JIM
looks tired, but has in him the vital energy
to move his whipcord sinews to the accom-
plishment of great tasks. It is fatiguing to
be forever face to face with an enormous
continent which must be mastered by toil;
it is stimulating to undertake tasks on a
grand scale where only by calling up the
last reserves of endurance victory can be
won. Billjim’s language is a reflection of
his attitude of mind. His world is a lurid
place which only strong expletives may de-
scribe; but he damns it and loves it and goes
on making the best he can of it. He is with-
out ancient prejudices; he sets no value on
authority, save the authority whose prac-
tical value is in clear evidence. His under-
lying spirit is buoyant and gay as that of his
own sunshine. He is too free to value free-
dom ; too proud to brag, yet too sincere to
avoid reference to his own outstanding
merits. In a word, lie is an expanded Briton,
of larger soul and deeper lungs, who in his
expansion has caught something of French
gaiety ; and who, feeling deeply, is yet pre-
pared to swear with every purple verb and
crimson adjective that nothing is worth
troubling about.
The political history of Australia may be
described as a century of cnaos which near
its close has begun to take shape and form
towards a new creation. The creation hour
has not yet struck, in spite of all statements
to the contrary, but there are evidences that
it cannot be long delayed. As the new con-
tinent of Australia has developed a new race
of men, it is inevitable that those men must
clothe their political nationalism in new
forms. The eternal wrangle between the ins
and outs in fourteen chambers of legislature,
backed by all the councils, boards and com-
mittees that swell the volume of talk at the
expense of the work which waits-to be done,
is not the final thing in Australian politics.
The parties in the State and Federation are
useless and for the most part meaningless.
Labor, in office, might wear any other name
and the difference would cause nobody worry.
Liberalism, out of office or in it, is of less
moment than a flat pancake trying to ape
the table manners of a balloon. Trade
unionism, bleating like far-driven mutton,
has no articulate expression save when it
comes to huckstering for an extra penny an
hour. The P.L.L. might as well be the
C.M.S. for all it can amount to in the sum of
things when another century’s perspective
has been gained. Nowhere in politics is
there a voice heard which sounds in the
smallest degree like the voice of Australia.
The continent is so far inarticulate; but it
is not likely to remain so for long. Murmurs
are already heard which are fast grouping
themselves into words and phrases—strong
phrases and emphatic words that sound like
death and doom to the bewildered politicians
who cannot understand them. The present
race of politicians will never understand
Australia, but they may understand the
plain large mandate that bids them stand out
of the way of a moving continent.
Australia, properly understood, is a task
rather than a nation; but the task is of such
a nature that it makes for a more vital nation-
hood than any this planet has yet known. In
the wide population movements which must
follow the close of the war hundreds of thou-
sands of new citizens of the Commonwealth
may follow our soldiers home. If there
were millions of them they could not per-
manently alter the underlying character of
the Australian race. That character is
shaped by the great Australian task, and it
is in the realisation of that task alone that
all our hope for the future lies. Read in
terms of man instead of geography, this is
still the Great Unknown Land of the South.
The development of its natural
has onlv begun : but the development or its
human ■resources is of far greater interest
t„ mankind. The war that has called Aus-
tralia into the battle-flame marks a new be
ginning; no man may see the end. There is
room for any amount of hope and there is
always the possibility of failure. But this
at least may be fairly said: if the giea
Australian task is to be accomplished and a
nation to be developed which covers a whole
continent, complete within itself, with a ci\ ui-
sation worthy of its place on the map and
in history, the Australian, with all his
faults, appears the most likely man foi the
job.
THE ADVANTAGE OF HAVING A
SOUR FACE.
Thebe are several things the average Aus-
tralian has not yet taken seriously. One
of them is taxation. There has been too
much borrowed cash flying around to make
the subject worth bothering about. In
the main taxation is a matter of tuppenc os,
and in an atmosphere of Boom and Bloat
2d. escapes attention. Still in this business
of taxation the Australian citizen is going
to take a peculiar interest before he is much
older. At present he merely has a suspicion
that there are some hungry white elephants
about. Even that is making a lot of poli-
ticians feel less cheerful than they did in
the spacious days of not very long ago.
They are not particularly anxious to discuss
the subject. Most of them are toiling hard to
keep it out of sight, and the devices adopted
for smothering the wretched question are a
fair indication of how desperate the struggle
is and how much more' desperate it is going
to be. Taxation in Australia is heavy and
badly adjusted. It will certainly be heavier
soon. If the mass of the people who carry
the weightiest end of the log now are handed
some more in the same reckless way as they
have been served with the existing load,
this paper confidently expects to hear of
lively happenings! Dim apprehensions on
this score are being felt in many places,
and one of the consequences is that about
every five minutes some enthusiastic indi-
vidual loudly demands that Australia shall
listen while he propounds a scheme for rais-
ing cash. Incidentally it is usually one he
suspects himself capable of dodging. Above
all others the voice of the political wowser
has been loud in the land. No howl has
been so sustained as that which insists
that Australia should meet the national
obligations by taxing beer and tobacco, the
point of it being that miscreants who absorb
beer and abandoned ruffians w T ho smoke
pipes should expiate their sins by paying
taxes for the righteous. Now there is
another howl —for the taxation of amuse-
ments. As The Bulletin is dead against
this conspiracy to allow the_ Holy Joes in
the community to escape their share of the
national burdens even at the expense of
degraded smokers and the unpatriotic crowd
■who permit themselves to be amused, it
proposes an additional tax to even tilings
up—a tax on Gloom, or, in the alternative,
a definition of amusement so elastic as to
bring Habitual Misery within its scope.
And why not? There are thousands of
people who are never so happy as when
they are thoroughly miserable or inviting
their friends to join them in a groan. Why
should they escape taxation? There may
be a reason why Stiggins should not pay
for his self-indulgence as well as the men
and women who amuse themselves weeping
over bellowdrama or breaking into wild
laughter at the Tivoli. But if there is this
paper has not heard of it. All it has heard
are frequent yells that going to a theatre
or a race meeting, or a boxing match is
Sinful and that the sinners should pay up
for the maintenance of Billjtm.
By taxation on drink and tobacco Aus-
tralia raises about £7,000,000 annually and
further sums by way of fees and income
tax levied on drink and tobacco merchants.
Towards the cost of government and the
incidental waste and splodge represented by
this fairly substantial sum the individual
who does not smoke and drink contributes
nothing. To that extent he is a passenger
enjoying the advantages of several million
pounds’ worth of citizenship on the nod.
Therefore the case for a tax on Gloom when
projects are advanced for taxing the
people’s amusements calls for the earnest
consideration of Mr. William Higgs, who
has just been urged by the N. S. Wales
Farmers and Settlers’ Association to single
out the forms of amusement popular among
a section of the community for taxation.
The quickest and least expensive means of
levying this tax as well as the tax on
relaxation would be to issue regulations
under the War Precautions Act. somewhat
on the lines of those premeditated by
Charles I. before something hit him on
the neck. These, adapted to the time, cir-
cumstances and place, could provide that
every individual in the Commonwealth —
man, woman and child —should within 14
days of receiving notice and in every case
before the Spring meeting, or the next
collision between Darcy and a Yank, or the
unfolding of the latest edition of C.
Chaplin, or the arrival of the Day of
Atonement or the next Evangelist from
Chicago, acquire a badge, to be worn on a
conspicuous part of the clothing, morning,
noon and night, such badges to be black
and white and to entitle the holder to cer-
tain privileges. The rest of the regulations
might be like this :
(1) The price of a black badge shall be £5; of a
white badge ss.
(2) Any person found at large without a badge,
or upon premises suspected of being a place within
the meaning of any decision of the Courts, shall be
summarily arrested and sentenced to seven years’
solitary confinement.
(3) Possession of a black badge shall entitle any
person to exemption from arrest for attending tea-
meetings, bazaars, tennis parties, musical evenings,
presentations to the clergy, picnics, bargain sales at
the drapers, and political conferences, and shall
absolve them from: any penalties for listening to the
neighbor’s gramophone, reading the daily papers,
going to funerals, working in the garden, visiting
friends, purchasing lemonade, or playing chess.
(4) Any woman with a black badge found looking
at fashion-plates or into shon-windows, gossiping over
the back-fence or wearing a new hat shall he arrested
and held in custody until she acquires a white badge.
(5) Any child with a black badge who plays
marbles or drives a goat or constructs a billycart
shall be whipped for a first offence and for a second
offence be sent to a reformatory.
(6) Anv male wearing a black badge who laughs
or otherwise shows outward signs of amusement shall
be presented with a white badge and ordered by the
Court to go and do it again.
(7) Possession of a white badge shall entitle any
woman, girl, bov, youth or man to play, sing, dance,
laugh, incite others to play, sing, dance or laugh, to
o-o surf-bathing, attend theatres, picture-shows and
circuses, witness exhibitions of stoush, racing,
athletics and dogfights, and otherwise behave as an
ordinary, healthy person, without interference from
the Law. ,
The merits of the ideas entertained by the
defunct Charles I. should appeal to W. <i.
Higgs because he wants cash, and to the
Farmers and Settlers’ Association because
of the opportunities they yield for getting
on to the person who seeks amusement at
the races, while preventing the escape of
the individual who finds enjoyment in
melancholy absorption of the sermon and
the bun. But whether those Gadcrinps
who object to the common herd being able
to spare either an hour or a shilling to go
to a picture show would welcome the oppor-
tunity of paying what they now escape is
another matter.
* * * *
In the interval the political party which
advocates “taxing amusements” will have
an opportunity of explaining exactly what
k is after —whether it thinks the patronage
of amusement is an offence, or an unwar-
rantable luxury, or proof of a depraved
mind, or an indication of being in possession
of ill-gotten gains, or what. And if it is
none of these things, but merely a manifes-
tation of Joy, it will be a simple matter to
explain why Joy should be taxed to “pro-
vide for wounded soldiers” and Gloom hang
on to its dollars. The argument advanced
by some of the loudest Joy-taxers that
there is something indecent in people going
to theatres and races and boxing matches
while our men are fighting is fatuous and
doesn’t touch the heart of the subject.
Women are not able to go to war. There
are thousands of men who obviously would
be no use there. Are they to sit down and
moan for the rest of their days? Are the
returned soldiers to be taxed if they dare
to wander into a picture palace or go out
to Itandwick and Flemington? Judging by
the yells of the Joy-taxer who wants amuse-
ment taxed for the contradictory reason
that it should be (1) "put down” and
(2) made to “contribute to the revenue,”
they are. The Bulletin believes that the
idea behind all this is both greedy and fool-
ish. People who provide amusement for a
community are discharging quite as useful
a social function as those who supply it
with chops or good advice or poetry. People
who seek amusement are seeking what is
natural to the human family. To tax them
because they obey a reasonable impulse is
absurd. This paper knows of no argument
against the State deriving greater revenue
from racing; but that is for reasons having
no relation to the alleged iniquity of racing.
Nor has this paper any objection to a good
round tax on the imported actor or drama
or picture film ; but approval of that is not
connected with anxiety to keep the Aus-
tralian citizen out of the theatre or, what
would have the same result, supply him
with inferior goods. There is nothing to
be said against a theatre proprietor paying
ar. income tax graduated on a sharp scale
of advance according to size. But to rail
against amusement, to howl for taxing it,
tii elevate the possession of a scowl into a
claim for exemption from sharing the
national burdens, is outside the pale of
political decency. Gloom is unhealthy.
Gloom is mean. Of all attributes it fits the
Australian least. At no time was justifica-
tion so strong for making Gloom pay up
and be decent and knock off being an
economic skulker.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
Tms jg |jy in;rii who knows ns much nhout,
the marketing of gems as anybody in Aus-
tralia, and he has no 'axe to grind: -
At the outbreak of the war the Anakie (Q.)
sapphire miners, so long dependent upon enemy
buyers, found themselves without a market for their
product. Even with the German market open, the
miners were usually pretty hard up, and, although
the Germans paid the best prices and eventually
controlled the trade, no fortunes were made on this
side. That one or two were made on the European
side is, however, reasonably certain.
Queensland, like oilier sapphire-hearing countries,
produces —(1) Iligh-price gems; (2) gems; (3)
machine stone; (4) corundum.
For the high-price gems the Australian miner is
rarely adequately paid. Except it he a very large
stone —preferably a fancy yellow of obvious bril-
liancy, which commands a very limited Australian
market —his output is sold in bulk at from £3 10s.
per oz. upwards, and not very upwards, as a rule.
When that parcel reaches Europe the high-price
gem is picked out. There is no one here to perform
that service for the miner before the gems leave
these shores. We lack the technical knowledge and
equipment. The machine stone, consisting of
sapphires suitable for industrial purposes, and for
which about ss. per ounce is paid, is also liable to
have small gems associated with it; but here again
local knowledge and equipment to detect the gems
are lacking. Corundum, according to market
requirements and size, fetches from Is. to 18s. per
ounce.
As pointed out by Tiib Bulletin several times
prior to the war, two steps are necessary in order to
secure reasonable treatment for the gem miners:
Firstly, a lapidary school must be established in
Australia; secondly, all the stone must he marketed
through one channel. The Germans began with
their schools, and finished up with the whole
European trade in their hands. London, Paris, St.
Petersburg, Geneva and even New York became their
servants for distribution. Now that it is reason-
ably safe to suppose that the Germans will be
banished from Ally trade for five years after the
war, the Queensland Government lias the chance of
its life to step in and do something for the industry.
London has proved too slow to capture the trade.
the French are making an effort to take the place
of the Germans, but cannot pay the prices; and it
locks as if the United States will presently get in
and take the business. And that is no good to
Australia. During the best year the Anakie miners
had under German domination they received abou
£50,000 for their stone. They should have een
paid double that sum, and even then the traders
would have profited handsomely.


A few years ago the Queensland miners decided
upon pooling their stone for marketing purposes.
They formed an Association, and sent the whole of
the product forward through one channel. The
prices realised were very satisfactory, and arrange-
ments were under way for obtaining the technical
brains for carrying out classification on the field.
Everything promised well, but something went
wrong with the Association accounts, and some of
the miners failed to get their cash. That ended
the Association. But it should not have been
allowed to collapse. With the miners in the mood
for co-operation, a little expenditure on the part of
the Government would have secured for them the
technical knowledge they needed, and business
acumen would have done the rest.
At the present moment French buyers are pur-
chasing Anakie stone at the rate of about £lO,OOO
per annum, which is insufficient to keep the field
in bread and butter. In addition to this it is
popularly supposed that some trade is being done
with foreign gentlemen who used to be associated
with German buyers. What this amounts to cannot
be expressed in figures. One very interesting feature
of the position is that at intervals inspired advice
comes to the miners to “hang on to their stone—it
will fetch a great price after the war.” Nothing is
plainer than that Germany has hopes of retaining
the trade, and this story is merely a German design
to prevent any one of the Allies from getting into
this business right away.
Now, why should Australia wait one minute for
England, or France, or America, or anybody else to
take up its gem trade and make the fat end of the
profits? India has its gems, and its lapidaries; the
I'nited States likewise. About the only gem Ger-
many ever produced is the Kaiser, and yet our
enemies secured the control of the European trade.
How? By sixpennorth of brains and a ton of energy
rightly applied—-which means intelligent energy. If
the Australian or Queensland Government feels that
it cannot trust itself to select the right kind of
brickmaker or baker to go and engage the required
technical brains to lay the foundation of our gem
industry, is it not possible to lay the Provisional
Advisory Council of Science and Industries (it takes
about three weeks to write the name of this con-
cern), recently appointed by the Federal Govern-
ment, on to the job? This business is plain and
simple—it is for a Government to say quickly to
one commercial man with a knowledge of the busi-
ness ami some organising capacity: “Here’s £5OOO.
Go and select one lapidary from each of these places
• —London, Paris, New York and Geneva. See
that he knows his market. Bring him out here with
his box of tricks. While on the spot get first-hand
statistics concerning each market and its peculiari-
ties. In each centre establish your selling agents.
Then come back with your lapidaries and their boxes
of tricks. Your lapidaries must be at work here
and you must bo making sales in Europe and the
I'nited States inside nine months. Get busy.” As
the Yanks say: “That’s all there is to it.” And if
we are not pretty sudden the Yankee will show us
that: it is so.
Meanwhile our Australian jewellers will continue
to shrug their shoulders' at the Australian sapphire
—-and in their ignorance will import them hand over
fist as Indian or Brazilian. Meanwhile, also, unless
somebody kicks, the Provisional Advisory Council
of Science and Industries will hold its meetings
and collect statistics and take evidence, and in the
year 1918 it will make a report; and the Anakie
miner will continue to sell his gems to some strange
gentleman, who will pay him barely enough for
bread and butter.
It is with the profits which we indolently allowed
the German to make out of our gems (amongst
other things) that he is now fighting us. Are we
going to continue in the madness? Or are we going
to do something ? That is the simple way in which
the German managed it: he did something.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
An Open Letter to the Kaiser.
Dear Bill. —You have: now your great
opportunity. If, as the world supposes, the
present war, with all its blood and death,
was mainly caused by your personal eager-
ness, you have the chance of crowning your
ambition in a way that will earn you a large
place in history. The war, owing to your
Jong preparation and the full organisation of
German resources, has been on a scale
utterly dwarfing any previous exhibition
given in the world. The horrors and heroism
accompanying it have also been of the
first magnitude. From a moral point of view
your crime and the crime of the German
nation stand out in distinctive blackness
against the piebald background of all that
went before; but from the merely histrionic
point of viewg which is the view of the his-
torian, your personality is large, interesting
and complex. Your great rival in this
respect is Napoleon, of whose genius, of
course, you have no touch, but whose ex-
ploits you have outdone in the vastness of
youi opeiations which modern science made
possible. The turning point in the great war
has arrived, and the tide is against you. If
you wish to keep in the picture and score
the limelight of the future, the time has come
when you should die. Napoleon made the
irreparable blunder of not dying at Waterloo,
or a little sooner. Consider this fact care-
tully. This letter will probably reach you
somewhere near the Western Front; and
it you are wise you will, on readin°- it
place yourself at the head of the Prussian
Guard and charge for Calais. Don’t worry
about the Crown Prince. We can hang him
any time, and nobody either now or hereafter
m 1 care. But your own reputation is
another matter. The drama is closing and
t.ie setting is right for high tragedy. Get to
lt- * ours most sincerely, George Street.
——
A Cry for Mercy.
The announcement of the German Chan-
cellor that all Teuton ideas of territorial
extension have been dropped may prove to
be one of history’s great landmarks Ger-
many set out bent on conquest, demanding
a place in the sun. in an age when wars
for _ territorial expansion except on a race
basis were supposed to have ended. It was
the proof of the German nation’s crime that
her guns were trained for this purpose and
that her millions took the field in the con-
fident hope that the wealth of conquered
territories might be exploited after the war
lo steal by force of arms the ground from
under a nation’s feet is the greatest of a
international sms. The whole world con-
demns it. Germany at the outset, realised
this clearly enough, but believed that
Krupp and organisation combined were
sufficiently strong to defy the world's
opinion. It is significant that at the first
turn of the tide, while the Teuton is still
holding fast to enormous areas of conquered
territory, the pronouncement should be
made that no territorial gains are sought.
There can be only one explanation of this.
It is the first note of German repentance—
a call not to the Allies for peace, but to
the world for mercy. The hatred of the
Germans is world-wide, and very much of
it can be traced to this single point that
they, as a nation, did deliberately set out
as robbers-under-arms. It can hardly be
doubted that in the minds of the German
leaders there is a hope remaining that if
they cannot win a straight-out victory they
can at least avert disaster and secure a
not-too-«unfavorable peace; but the load of
world-hatred of their aims and desires has
proved too heavy to carry to the finish. So
a moral victory has been won before the
physical one is achieved or even assured.
The Libellous Allegation that Anzacs are
Anxious to Be Blacklegs.
Anguished wails rent the air last week in
the vicinity of the N. S. Wales Farmers and
Settlers’ Conference, and when the Sydney
papers had rushed a battalion of reporters
and a caricaturist towards the noise they dis-
covered that it came from Joe Cook. .Joseph
was in a rage about preference to unionists
and returned soldiers and Mr. Katz and
Senator Pearce. When things were straight-
ened out a bit Dick Meagher, who decorates
the office of Lord Mayor in Sydney and im-
parts fragrance to the Labor party, came
into the picture. It was then found that the
cause of Joe’s wails was that Anzacs who
seek clerical employment from the Federal
Government have to register as members of
the Clerks’ Union, of which Mr. Katz is an
official; further, that Anzacs applying for a
job under the Sydney City Council have to be
unionists before they are invited to take their
coats off. It was not quite clear whether
Joe was more enraged about Mr. Katz or the
main point, but when Pearce was heard
from he certainly seemed far more anxious
to. discuss Katz than to talk about the real
thing, which is preference to unionists. In-
deed, the Minister clumsily fenced with what
was before him. The question was, Is pre-
ference of employment to be given to Anzacs
whether they are unionists or not? It
is a simple issue. Meagher was quite frank
about it. He explained that, so far as the
city was concerned, returned soldiers would
get preference, provided they, like other work-
men, join a union. Why can Pearce not be
equally explicit? Meagher’s attitude is the
right one. Out of every 100 trade-unionists
who went to fight the Hun exactly 100 will,
if they return, join their unions again, as
a matter of course; and they will resent
being called upon to fight in defence of their
rights as unionists against non-unionists.
Before they left they had preference of
employment in certain directions. What
reason is there to suppose that they are
anxious to go back on unionism—to say to
their fellows that they are no longer going
to be what they were before; that in Decom-
ing Anzacs they also became blacklegs? The
idea is preposterous. As for the section who
were not unionists before, where is the hard-
ship in asking them to conform with condi-
tions which they would have had to comply
with originally? Bywhomand where and when
was it ever suggested that when a man shoul-
dered a gun to fight for Australia he would
later on be given an opportunity of fighting
for the sweater and the strike-breaker? Of
course, Cook and these other people are not
concerned about men. They merely see a
chance to be horrified at the Labor unions in
the hope that Liberalism will feel its hair
standing on end. Hence The Bulletin ex-
pects to hear within a few days that some
heroic Anzac lias been discovered by the
Liberal League living in a state of destitution
at Woolloomooloo, unable to get employment
from the Federal Government as a navvy’s
assistant because he on principle declined to
borrow 6d. and get a card of union member-
ship. And then Liberalism will tell him to
go on looking for work and remain starving,
and the Herald will send to Woolloomooloo
to get more horrible details, and the whole
dreadful yarn will be another Petriana Myth
and a second instalment of the Six Hatters.
Australia Hurries Reinforcements to
Niels Nielsen.
There are about 15 mountains of technical
literature in existence relating to indus-
trial activities in the Land of Dallars and
Notes. Also there are multitudinous piles
of other sorts of literature, vast masses of
report _ issued by lI.S. Federal and State
authority, the output of various bureaus and
the findings of commissions of inquiry both
Yank and British. There is frequent mail
communication between Australia and
Yankeeland. There are in the service of
the Federal Government many trade experts.
There are in Australia scores of men having
an intimate personal knowledge of various
industries. Nevertheless the Federal Gov-
ernment last week suddenly found itself
short of facts or something; and there was
the hurried determination of strong, calm
men, with any amount of cash to get rid of,
to whistle up a commission and send it
away towards New York. There are to be
two representatives from each State, to keep
things on an even keel, one being selected
from nominees of Labor and one from the
nominees of the other clmp; also a secre-
tary and “a journalist chosen by the Gov-
ernment from three nominations made by
the A..LA.” The journalist is to “supply
news” and the rest of the outfit will supply
reports on methods of manufacture, produc-
tion, conditions of labor and so on as to
(a) iron, ( b ) timber, (c) leather, (d) tex-
tiles, (V) paper, and (/) the preparation of
foodstuffs. Thus there will be 12 commis-
sioners and a journalist. Heaven only
knows what the value to Australia will be
of these wandering emissaries supported by
a, journalist. The certain thing is that the cost
of getting the reports is going to be several
thousands of pounds. Twelve commissioners
and a journalist at so much per day plus
cost of transport, meals and chewing-gum
will eat a fair-sized piece out of the note
issue in six months. To The Bulletin the
extravagant picnic at the expense of the
taxpayer looks such an obvious “stall” that
the only thing it feels surprised at is that
the junket should be limited to America.
Why not include Japan, where modern
methods are making enormous strides? Why
not extend the trip to Canada, England and
Scotland, to Russia and France, and get
ready to pounce into Belgium to witness the
restoration?
When Babes and Sucklings Think They
Are Solomons.
Winston Churchill, in his disquisition
on “the sinister hypothesis,” cabled the
other day, writes with reference to the reve-
lations of Germany’s long, deliberate pre-
paration for war: —
Wise men with full knowledge of the facts came
to a wrong conclusion. Foolish men giving rein to
their prejudices found the right conclusion.
What actually happened was that either the
facts were misinterpreted, or they were
deliberately turned away from and blither-
ing conclusions formed on a foundation of
airy assumption. That the politicians and
diplomats were unwilling to face the facts
is the more probable. It is the habit of
the tribe. Party politicians work along the
line of least resistance, with an eye all the
time to party shibboleths and party votes
and the likelihood of landing the bacon at
next election. It was easier to construct a
fanciful picture of “amicable relations” with
Germany than to put forward the facts and
let the conclusions point to the road that
should be followed. In most cases it is
easier to lie than be truthful, to doze in a
world of ease and make-believe than to
remain awake to reality. But even so the
historian will find his hardest problem to be
a credible explanation of the amazing indif-
ference with which the Empire watched the
German building up his vast military
machine. Were the Hun’s neighbors fas-
cinated like pigeons by a snake? Or were
they just lazy or morally defective or vic-
tims of a microbe which may yet prove
fatal? Churchill complains that had any
member of the British Ministry told Britain
the truth about Germany he would not have
been believed. Does he mean that Britain
cannot stand truth? That soothing syrup
and chloroform are inseparable from the
national form of government? That the
nation insists on being doped? If he does,
and it looks like that, then organic Imperial-
ism seems to have concealed a “sinister
hypothesis” which W. Hughes will have to
explain away before he can hope to get us
to embrace it. And while he is making his
explanation, it may occur to Australians
that there are sinister hypotheses of their
own on the premises—that allegedly wise
men may be coming to wrong conclusions
or hiding facts and stampeding the com-
munity after red herrings. This paper does
not know. But it has its suspicions and
its prejudices. Mainly it has a preju-
dice against secrecy. And, according to
Churchill, prejudice is sometimes right.
In Holman’s absence the Holman Govern-
ment has done something without fuss
which Parliament has merely talked about
for a dozen years. Back in the early
’seventies the Sydney Meat Preserving Co.
started to collect a subsidy from owners of
fat stock sold in the Sydney market; in
return the co. undertook to always be on
hand to bid up when bidding was slack, and
to bid so high that it would never be able
to itself pay a dividend. It has kept that
bargain until now—Las always been in the
market to bid £lO for a beast that it knew
it wouldn’t have to pay £lO for if the animal
were knocked down to its buyer. That made
the public all the time bid against a ficti
tious bid. It is probable that in the course
of a year the buyers thus paid half a mil-
lion more than they would otherwise have
had to. Unquestionably there were advan-
tages on the other side. Further, the consumers
may possibly be no better off now that the
Government has by a simple Gazette notice
prohibited the practice, because the butchers
may combine to rook them, as they did once
before. And that would be worse than ever.
For if the consumers must be rooked let the
producers do it, and not mere middlemen. So
the Government, though it has taken one
good step, will still have to keep an eye
open.
The easy money that is represented by the
lOU which somebody else will have to
honor seems to demoralise every Australian
Labor Government inside a twelve-month.
In S. Aus., where the process has been
slowest, Crawford Vaughan now proposes
to sweeten up the farmers with an installa-
tion for handling wheat in bulk —an excel-
lent plan, probably, though there are very
good men. who doubt it, but utterly out of
place at present. The S. Australian instal-
lation for a start will cost a million; and
if this money is spent now it means that
the farmers will provide for all time at least
£15,000 a year more than they would have
to pay if the work was done in a normal
money and labor market. Now to sweeten
another lot of supporters the same Govern-
ment announces that it is going to spend
£llO,OOO or so on a sort of small harbor
at Glenelg, which is a watering-place suburb
of Adelaide. It would be a most doubtful
proposition at any time; there is certainly
no urgent call for it; and the outlay on the
superfluity at present amounts to a scandal.
4
“Cork”: N. S. Wales Marine Department
is in trouble again. After much wrangling
the Sydney Harbor ferryboats were not long
ago equipped with stacks of mostly inaccessi-
ble life-jackets as the upshot of a new Board
of Trade regulation. These were a special type
and made of cork. Now the Board has
decided (1) that the type is wrong, (2) that
it prefers kapok to cork. But in order to
give the owners a chance to get rid
of present stocks the regulation will
not come into force until December .'ll.
1917. The ferry cos., which have always
looked askance at life-jackets, are kicking,
but the only satisfaction they can get is that
the local authorities are bound by law to
follow the Board of Trade. This the cos.
deny, arguing that a certain discretion is
left to the governing bodies throughout the
Empire. Certainly it does not seem reason-
able that a rule primarily intended to apply
to the ocean-borne passenger traffic of Great
Britain should arbitrarily apply to every
creek and inlet in the Empire. For instance,
should a boat paddling along the Murray be
bound by the same rules as the mailboais
from Liverpool to Sandy Hook? Some
people seem to think so.
“Exile” (from the U.S.A.) :
In Honolulu is published a Japanese paper, Nirrr
Jui. Here is a cablegram from Tokio which
appeared in the Ji.ti on May 25: “Japan will begin
a great colonisation plan at once in the South Seas.
Heretofore the Japanese have looked longingly
toward America, but in the past few weeks the
travel to the United States has decreased, and at a
meeting of a newly-organised society yesterday in
this city [Tokio] plans were arranged for a great
colonisation of the islands of the Pacific.” The
same paper stated that the building of ships in
Japan was being carried on with feverish activity.
At Nagasaki seven steamers were being built. Japan
has been buying American steamers for her enor-
mously increased trans-Pacific trade, and the cru-
sade to capture that trade while the other nations
are busy is being actively conducted. A 12,000-ton
Jap steamer was at Honolulu while we were there,
and it had 6500 tons of goods for the U.S.A.
aboard.
4
Roumania is a State that takes no chances.
Her troops are being demobilised at the
very time when they could be employed to
win back some of the territory occupied by
people of their own race in Transylvania.
Most likely her army will move later on, but
not till it is quite safe to do so ; for Rou-
manian statesmen like to get a lot without
paying the price. Already it has been
stated that Bucharest is only waiting
until the Russian drives get a bit farther,
the Allies in the West prove that they can
retain the offensive, and the armies at
Salonika move forward and keep the Bulgar
fully occupied. Even then it might be wise
to delay things a little longer—say until the
British and French make their joint entry
into Berlin. The game has been played
cnee before. At the close of the Balkan
war, when the Bulgars were thoroughly
exhausted with the long struggle, the Rou-
manians gained a cheap success by march-
ing a big army into their rivals’ territory
and making certain demands. The blood-
shed didn’t amount to a trickle and the
demands were met. Still, a country that
acts in that way, apart from earning the
mud medal as the champion mean State, is
bound to strike trouble in the end ; and if
Russia didn’t give the Danubian kingdom
an ounce of soil at the finish of this con-
troversy it might teach the calculating
Bucharest politicians their first much-
needed lesson in manners.
More light on the Irish situation which was
the immediate cause of the Dublin shooting
begins to twinkle fitfully through the haze of
official reports and English newspaper com-
ment. Padraic Colum, poet and drama-
tist, was asked what he thought of things by
the New York Times, and put a new phase
of the trouble in this pretty convincing
fashion:—
You ask me what is back of the outbreak, and I
say that it is fear of national bankruptev and the
recurrence of the famine of 1846 and 1847. If the
volunteers are disarmed, and the people are left
without any armed defence, they believe that, if
there is any food scarcity in England, the stock and
crops will be swept from Ireland to feed the great
industrial centres of Great Britain.
So that, added to the general discontent at
the delay of Home Rule, the evident sym-
pathy of England for the rebel CARSON-ites,
and the arbitrary suppression of popular
newspapers, there was the dread, ill- or well-
founded, that British mismanagement would
land the country in a plight so awful that
the worst horrors of civil war were prefer-
able. Now Home Rule of a sort is coming.
The Bastille.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I wondkrki) at Fat’s waistcoat in the
crowd—
The round, large waistcoat of a world’s
despair;
Yet he who wore it seemed elate and
proud
And cheered for France —young France
redeemed and fair.
So strange a thing it seemed that he should
feel
A gladness in that rush on the Bastille.
What did he cheer for? Scarcely it could
he
For man triumphant in the face of
might.
No law-and-order wrought that victory.
Bight-thinking people shuddered with
affright
When the tremendous knowledge swelled
and grew
Of what the crowd —the common crowd —-
could do.
Fat’s heavy grand sire held the rule in
France.
King, priest and noble wore his badge of
power,
Till revolution, with its lightning glance,
Pierced the thick sham and, in a fresh-
ening shower
Of hot, glad tears and hitter outworn blood,
The large exploiters perished in the mud.
Fat cheers out of his slough of ignorance,
Nor marks the spirit in the show of
things.
No dream is his that earth grows one with
France,
While a new Marseillaise of hope she
sings;
No thought has he that men awake to feel
The need of storming his entrenched Bas-
tille.
Cheer we for France and all the hope of
man!
Cheer we for France and truth, forever
one!
The world completes what one strong race
began ;
The toiler seeks his heritage of sun.
Fat, though a Labor badge be his to show,
Breaks when the people—roused from
slumber —know!
N.B.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


GAELIC WHISKY
THE OLO SMUGGLER
m
<*&
rV
B
GAELIC
The Perfect Whisky
... in ...
The Perfect Bottle.
DISTILLED IN THE
HIGHLANDS of SCOTLAND.
INSURE WITH
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society Limited.
Head Office: Corner Pitt &, King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
Newman’s
auce
“Better
than Either’’
A Worcester Sauce of Fine Quality, not excelled
by the best Imported lines—costs less.
An Australian Triumph. Get a Bottle from the Grocer.
but it is Home Rule with a chain about it.
Lister is to be excluded, a nominee Upper
House is to be created, and the whole busi-
ness is to go into the melting-pot a year after
the Avar. Half a loaf may be better than no
bread ; but Ireland isn’t yet out of British
politics, and the amazing British politician
doesn’t seem in the least inclined to work for
a final settlement.
The King' of Fire Around the Hun.
At Verdun, in Northern France, in Flanders,
and from the Carpathians northward to Riga
war rages with an intensity without parallel
in history. llovv far the struggle can be carried
before something breaks from exhaus-
tion, the God of Battle only knows. The one
certain thing so far is that the toll of life
is terrible. If all that the world hears from
the Russian side be true, what is happening
there makes imagination reel. Sanguinary
battles appear to be fought every day, and
thousands of men torn prisoner from the
armies of the Hun. On the Western front
the attacking forces are slowly blasting their
way through the German position. At the
beginning of the week British troops
had burst into the second line of defence
between the Ancre and the Somme, thus
giving still greater encouragement to the
earlier hope that the enemy’s vitals may be
reached during the present effort. Already
the German line has a, picturesque dent, and
if the British troops can bounce the enemy
off the strongly-protected plateau he occu-
pies on Haig’s left, and drag their guns up
and drop shrapnel on the other side, only
some horrible mistake will rob the Allies
of a substantial win. Berlin is still
reported to be watching the happenings
east and west with a pained expression.
The public from the Rhine to the Vistula is
stated to be suffering from depression and
shortage of meat. Several generals are
said to have been retired. All tins may be
correct. But we don’t know how much any
of these things matter. They may be no finger-
post to the feelings of official Germany, and
for the present, at any rate, the rest of
Germany may count for very little. The
map is therefore the only trustworthy guide
to the campaign. When this shows the Ger-
man going astern, and not till then, will it
be beyond question that the Hun is being
licked. Meantime, certainly, we are not
entitled to get anything but encouragement
from the fact that the Hun’s mouth has been
less full of brag since he went to sea, and
the Bear leaped back, and things happened
at Verdun, and the Franco-British bombard-
ment was followed by bayonets. And it will
bo a lot less full next winter if we keep our-
selves to the task unceasingly, flinging
shells at him and springing into his dug-outs
for the rest of the summer. But it would
be supreme folly to reckon on the German
being without a punch in his kit. He will
fight a long time yet, and with courage,
endurance and skill. We must be on our
guard against the danger of under-estimating
his strength. The price of resisting him
has been fearful. The cost of defeating him
will be fearful, too. Yet it is a job that
has to be finished if the world is ever to
again know what peace means. How it is
finished depends on our individual efforts.
Died in Adelaide, at 74, W. R. Cave, wheat
buyer and shipping man. As a boy he was
with the explorer McKinlay, and was proud
of having broken in—and shod, mostly—the
horses used by McDouall Stuart when cross-
ing the continent in 1861. In late years he
did good work for the Commonwealth as a
sort of referee in the matter of buying horses
for military service.
Cann, acting-Premier of N. S. Wales,
mentions proudly that 4000 men have
enlisted from Broken Hill —where, by the
way, he is just going to have the fight of
his’ life. He says, further, that he found
a strong feeling against conscription there.
Having spent a lifetime on the water-wag-
gon, Cann naturally doesn’t know that it
isn’t fair to judge the beer by the dregs.
Probably if 5000 men went, Cann would
notice a still more bitter feeling. Naturally
the few who were left would be the bitterest
of all, being the most disinclined to go
where conscription would send them.
“The Galloping Bug” : Melbourne is still
enjoying its Battle of the Barrels.
One big spirit merchant and restaura-
teur, James Richardson, has refused,
in the best spirit of private enter-
prise, to be coerced by any combination of
Bungs and breweries. He is selling whisky
at 4d. a go, retail, and his bargain-counters
are crowded. A quaint offshoot of the main
situation is the Registered Clubs’ Associa-
tion. whose constitution proves that pro-
sperity no less than adversity makes strange
bar-fellows. Its membership includes the
Port Phillip Stevedores Club and the Mel-
bourne Club. The thought of President R.
O. Blackwood hobnobbing with Bill the
Lumper is as welcome a piece of dry humor
as a pint ever was to a parched gullet. Say
when? My oath !
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Our Miss Gibbs..
Criterion “The Boomerang
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle Playa
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOORNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Alajesty’s “To-night’s the Night
Royal “Romance’
King’s “Peg o’My Heart
Princess's Gonsalez Italian Opera Co.
j3uou Fuller Vaudeville
Tivoli Mclntosh’s \ audeville Co.
Hoyt’s Own & Olympia Hoyt’s Pictures
Glaciaritjm Ice Skating
Auditorium The Ideals of 1910
The unexpected has frequently happened
at Melbourne Princess’s since Italian opera
at popular prices came to pass. Last week
the unexpected was a new tenor who came
and scored two distinct hits, firstly
in “Mignon” and on Saturday in “The
Barber of Seville.” Balboni, the new
man, will run Capelli to a head in
popular estimation. He doesn’t pour
out rich middle notes as generously as
Capelli, but he makes sweet and tricky use
of his mezzo-voice and brings out some robust
shigh notes from the chest when occasion
demands. In singing and acting lie is
a finished artist. Also, he is a good-looker
of the McCormack type. Clothed in gorgeous
satin and fine stockings he was a person of
great importance as soon as he came saunter-
ing along to the place where a tall and terri-
ble gipsy man was about to belt little Mignon
for refusing to dance. He had all the air of
a man who rescues a maiden in distress and
“THE THIRD DEGREE ,” AT SYDNEY
ROYAL.
Captain Irwin and Detective Stuart convince
Louis Kimball that he shot Harry Sweeney
in the first act.
ultimately consents to marry her when her
gratitude becomes very pronounced. That’s
how it is with Mignon and William the
student in Ambroise Thomas’s melodious old
opera. He is fascinated awhile by the more
sophisticated charms of Felina (the actress
who sings the popular Polacca in the third
act), and he treats Mignon’s jealousy as a
joke; but after saving her from the flames of
a castle which the mad basso had set fire to,
the amiable fellow reckons that it is up to him
to marry the little girl, and he says as much
in song. Besides, Mignon has proved in the
meantime to be the long-lost daughter of the
wealthy wandering basso who has just re-
covered his reason, like John Stofel in
“Struck Oil.”
Except for the basso’s temporary loss of
memory and act of incendiarism, “Mignon”
is a comedy with pathos in the heroine’s
devotion to her William. A good, all-round
rendering of characters is necessary to make
it go brightly, and this is what it gets from
the Gonsalez Co. It was a most completely
efficient performance. Miss Visoni realised
the name-part and sang well, her topmost
note being quite out of the common order.
And her tender passages with the convincing
tenor were beautifully done. Miss Gonsalez
did well in all respects as the giddy actress;
Petrucci gave a capital character sketch of
the old beau wdio dances attendance on her;
and Cacialli, the admirable light basso, was
more admirable than usual in the knee
breeches of the wandering minstrel—perhaps
unduly neat and tidy for a temporary luna-
tic ; but that fault is on the right side. The
chorus did fairly well, and the orchestra
treated the music as a dear friend. There
was an encore for the dainty overture.
“The Barber,” on Saturday, had an advan-
tage over recollections of the Quinlan Co.’s
performance in being played by artists who
enter into the purely Italian spirit of the
opera’s artless humor. Cacialli and Petrucci
buffooned to the manner born. Scamuzzi,
whose fine, full baritone had survived the
labors of singing in “Cavalleria” and “Pag-
liaeci,” made a spry and dashing Figaro; the
Count in Balboni’s hands was a capital tenor
lover; and Miss Gonsalez had all the quali-
fications for Rosina bar a young girly ap-
pearance. Rossini's charming little comic
opera will be given again on Saturday for
the matinee.
“La Favorita” comes to Melbourne on
Saturday night for the first time in 40 years.
“Faust” is billed for Thursday and Friday
with the same cast each night. Quinlan
made a practice of changing the cast of each
opera after a first performance, but the Gon-
salez system, seemingly, is to keep always
the same people to their allotted parts.
* * $
“Australia Prepared,” the series of
“cameragraph” illustrations of what the
Commonwealth is doing towards the obli-
teration of the Hun and the more Christian
Turk, had a notable advertising agent on
the first showing at Sydney Town Hall on
Monday. His name is William Cullen, and
his other jobs are those of Lieut.-Gov. and
Chief Justice. “Those wonderful pictures!”
he exclaimed. “Surely they will inspire the
men who have not yet joined their brothers
to feel that the time of their lives has
come!” The answer to that, your Honor, is
beyond question. Nothing that lias been
shown yet to Australians will thrill their
emotions as will the historic film, long
looked for and now released for the first
time, of the Anzacs’ transports, the 40
great steamers, guarded by the bared war-
ships, heading out of Albany for that un-
known shore which was to blaze with Aus-
tralian heroism. The crowded Town Hall
on Monday night sat quietly while the record
was unfolded, not trusting itself to expres-
sion. There are many other phases of Aus-
tralia’s part in the Great Tragedy—all in-
teresting—-but to see the sailing of our first-
born is almost a duty. It is a duty.
The Australian theatregoer first met the
blustering, hypnotic New York policeman, in
“The Third Degree”—the last of the Julius
Knight revivals, and now dying in its boots
at Sydney Royal. One can trace the educa-
tion of tlie J.C.W. theatre-natron by compar-
ing that early arrival with “Kick In,” which
\yas u sampled only the other day. No glossary
was required for the first of the long series;
all the characters talked plain English and
the Yankee prison atmosphere wasn’t stifling.
But the dialogue of the last of the horrors
was stiff with thieves’ slang, and the stalls
had to look up cryptic expressions like “har-
ness bull.” Present writer, at any rate, has
had as much as he can stand of the N.Y.
policeman, and if there is any more coming
he is going to plead for a remission of the
rest of his sentence. In “The Third Degree”
Julius Knight, as the constitutional lawyer,
has a middle-aged part that fits him, and
dainty Lizette Parkes plays the self-sacrific-
ing young wife in a way that makes the sen-
timental misty-eyed. Louis Kimball ends a
creditable season cleverly as the weak young
man who drinks and is put through the tor-
ture by Detective Boyd Irwin. The speech-
less film streams back into the Royal on
Saturday.
The polite comedy, “The Boomerang,” at
Sydney Criterion, should be a boom, if only
for the chances of real comedy it affords
Myrtle Tannehill, Donald Bowles and Hale
Hamilton, who have hitherto been wasted
upon the foolishness of American farce.
The two Merry Widows will cease alter-
nating at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, on Friday
night. “Our Miss Gibbs” is due to get out
of her wheeled chair and revive memories of
the past on Saturday.
The only consolation about “Peg o’ My
Heart” leaving Sydney is that the Palace,
where, she has played so long, will have the
jolly Strollers as the next attraction. Open
Saturday with a matinee.
It is easier to watch Horace Goldin mysti-
fying the Tivoli (Sydney) than it is to sit
at home searching for an explanation of the
high cost of living. The weekly bills demand
some sort of answer, but Goldin distributes
no examination papers as to how it’s done;
you just watch him and wonder, and if your
conclusions are wrong there’s no trouble
about it. Besides the feast of deception
there is Max Selinsky, whose fiddling com-
mands respect, and Margaret Jewell, whose
singing demands earnest consideration.
Rockwell and Wood can be written off with-
out holding a special Board meeting, but
Mennetti and Sidelli would create a serious
deficiency if they fell off the balance-sheet.
Ben J. Fuller is now presenting a series
of musical burlesques at Sydney Adelphi.
“The Follies of Pleasure,” offered on Satur-
day, was an excuse for the versatile producer,
Murray ,T. Simons, to unload two of the
couple-of-hundred revues which he is alleged
to carry in a tube in his waistcoat pocket.
If these trifles lack plot they at least have
plenty of leg to stand on, and what more does
any patron of spotted musical-comeoy want,
especially when the owners of all the fatted
calves can do something on their own
account? Murray J. Simons and his sparring
partner, Lew Dunbar, make it Resurrection
Day for a number of old gags and dress them
in a more or less original manner; the
Duquesne Comedy Four are a frivolous and
harmonious quartet; and Laveen and Cross
revel in some clever absurdities as travesty
gladiators.
r.:
At Melbourne Royal the wondrous drama
of the Italian prima donna and the red-hot
Yankee parson is going quite as strong as
could be expected, considering that its senti-
mentality often runs to bathos, and its
heroine talks a terrible lot of well-chosen
language in an absurdly-foreign manner. The
trimmings go for a good deal in “Romance”
—Miss Fabian’s crinolined costumes and
early-Victorian head of hair ; the gramophone
in the prologue and epilogue; the pet
monkey; also the pink macaroni which Eily
Malyon tempts the prima donna to pick at
ven ’er poor soul is sad vith longing for de
good shep’erd ; not to mention the attractive
double-bed in the background : tin? bed that
remains only a dream to the good shepherd
who wanted to be bad for once. And the pic-
ture of the lady in the crinoline lying on the
hearthrug telling her fortune vith des
cartes, whilst poor Sydney Stirling has to
gammon to be taking her seriously! One
remembers the picture of the prima donna on
the hearthrug. It touches the limit of wild
improbability and commands a tribute of
amazement.
* * * *
“Peg o’ My Heart,” bringing an honorable
reputation from Sydney, will start business
at Melbourne King’s on Saturday. Mean-
while “Duncan McClure” is finishing his
fifth week with a gleam of financial triumph
in his eye. “Duncan’s” claim to screaming
funniness has been made good, apparently.
* * * *
“To-night’s the Night” continues to be
an excuse for a happy evening at Melbourne
Majesty’s. The piece has been shortened
since its first appearance without improving
the effect of the joke which is the cause of
mild revelry at a fancy-dress ball. Nuts;
will find small reason for rejoicing in the
capers of the alleged Lotharios, who are
evidently so bored by their canoodling that
they have the air of having performed a
painful duty when the band finally plays
them off to bed. About the only one of
them who sparkles in his frivolity is Arthur
Frith; but, then, Frith is a young deceiver
who has aequirea a fraudulent gaiety from
the bottle, and his champagne legs lead him
into situations where probably his sober
understandings might be reluctant to take
him.
The Ideals, back at Melbourne Audito-
rium, have been strengthened by the inclu-
sion of Gladys Baker, a young contralto who
makes admirable use of a large, warm voice.
Another new feature is a somewhat passd
soubrette, Dot Carey, with a festive manner
and a derisive high-kick. The party also
includes Celia Gold, Ada Smart, Wylie
Watson, .Tack Waller and F. W. Dennett,
of the old Butterflies co., and Howard Hall
and Sydney Hollister, recent additions. Also
there is Ivanoff, the musicianly Russian
“THE FOLLIES OF PLEASURE ,” AT
SYDNEY A DELPHI.
Baron Cohen ( Murray J. Simons) and the
artist model (Lilyan Mason).
who sometimes fiddles alone and sometimes
reinforces ’celloist Watson and pianist
Dennett in popular tunes. They gave a
rather rowdy performance on Saturday, an
impromptu chorus off stage contributing to
the uproar.
Chris Richards, an English comedian and
gymnast with a pair of restless legs, is


r
&
L
boord&son
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
A
Swift & Company lAd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
Mawai
ScoiaiMtisKr
de Luxe
DANIEL CRAWFORDS
RED STAR
-■<«- cc££.
A Suit for Outings.
Men who live the active out-door life require some-
thing substantial in clothes. The “No-Veste” (Regd.)
Sports Suit quoted here is an easy-fitting, warm, and
distinctive suit of Grey-Green Donesnl. The cout h*is
four patch pockets outside, half-band at waist. The
inverted pleat down centre-back runs through band to
end of skirt, giving suggestion of vent—a new idea.
Trousers have side, hip and fob pockets and permanent
turn-up.
Ready to Wear,
42|-
WE PAY
POSTAGE.
Please state chest, waist and inside-leg
measurements.
PEAPES g CO. LTD.,
Outfitters, 309-311 George Street, SYDNEY.
m
m
m
giving a lot of animation to the proceedings
at Melbourne Bijou. Chris is only a pass-
able singer, but his twinkling feet enable
him to achieve the weirdest fatuities of
eccentric dancing. Another energetic turn
is provided by the Fredo violinists, who com-
mit aggravated assault on their instruments
while indulging in various acrobatic feats.
Also new to Melbourne are two kilted
entertainers called the Caleys. Their humor
is pathetic, but their vocal efforts are calcu-
lated to make Scotland feel prouder. Dorothy
Harris, Laurence Johnstone and Harrington
Reynolds are the foremost attractions in
the rest of the programme. Reynolds has
withdrawn the sketch entitled “The Bur-
glar” and is now revealing the misery of a
slum tenant in a concentrated tragedy,
•“Capital versus Labor.”
ITALIAN GRAND OPERA , MEL-
BOURNE PRINCESS’S, “MIGNON.”
Gonsalez as Filina.
The Bad Giarno.
This week’s bill at the Melbourne Tivoli
is the same as last week’s, and the lack of
something strange and startling is having a
marked effect on the size of the audiences.
The Red Indian gentleman’s battle chant, or
dance of hate, is very good in its way. The
swish of the rooster plumes in his head-dress
is real bloodthirsty. Rut the chieftain has
previously robbed himself of personal interest
by asking the audience’s kind permission in
the tone of a Yankee drummer. Vandinoff
continues to “paint” an alleged bunch of
flowers on a revolving disc- —which is almost
as silly as throwing mud at an express train
—and Norton and Earl are putting in their
last nights.
Melbourne’s new Playhouse will be opened
again next Saturday for a benefit perform-
ance to Beatrice Day. On the 29th “The
Superior Race,” a humorous problem-play by
E. PI. Oliphant, will get its first show.
Adelaide has had a fine, murderous week.
Ned Kelly at the King’s has been having
pistol practice; Kenna played the part, and
Vene Linden was Kate. As Dartagnan,
Roland Conway at the Tivoli used’ the
rapier chiefly (Marie Dalton was Miladi),
while Allan Wilkie at the Royal employed an
axe or anything else that came handy.
“Richard III.” was mostly a personal tri-
umph for him. The mounting was hardly
lavish enough for that class of play; also
there were among the many knights and
nobles one or two who looked neither noble
nor knightly. “Twelfth Night,” which fol-
lowed, _ was more satisfactory. Wilkie’s
Malvolio is worthy of comparison with
Beerbohm Tree’s, and Miss Hunter-Watts
is a discovery. She has both charm and
style, and recalls Lillah Macarthy of 20
years ago. Cosgrove and Faulkner did full
justice to the British low-comedy drunken
scenes which the Bard grafted on to his
story (giving to the blend the almost
contemptuous sub-title “What you Will”),
and Fred Kehoe put up a remark-
able double —from the melancholy Henry
VI. to a singing jester. Meanwhile, ele-
phants strolling up North Terrace made it
clear that Wirths’ Circus was arriving. It
is a big show, with May Wirth and the
ingenious seals as the pick of it.
“ J.G.”: The Vic. Government is never
tired of handing three cheers to its Wages
Board system, but it is both dumb and deaf
when asked to use the remedy itself. For
years past the dissatisfied railway men have
been unable to get any redress for a sequence
of alleged disabilities. Now there are
loud rumblings in the service, and it will
not come as very much of a shock if there
is a row that will put the big strike of 10
years ago in the second class. Then, I
suppose, the men will be blamed.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“0.K.”: What one misses in an Italian
opera co. is the contralto voice. You get
no Clara Butt or Ada Crossley or Cisneros
or any sort of true contralto in Italy—or
France, as far as Australia knows of
French voices. The climates and the native
tongues are against the cultivation of the
deep “organ tone.” Colder weather and a
less fluent language are essentials to the
contralto—and perhaps the language is the
dominating essential. English seems to
produce contralto singers in Australia
almost as freely as in America, though
neither country turns out as large a propor-
tion of notables as foggy Britain. Ger-
many, whose tenors and sopranos are
mostly bad jokes outside their own country,
and in no case can compare with the world’s
best, is not so unfavorable to the production
of contraltos. A woman in Musgrove’s
German Co.- —Heinze by name—had a
fairly rich voice, which was somewhat more
sombre than a mezzo. And we hear German
baritones of a sort. Native Ilun gutturals
are not indeed a fatal handicap to any
strain of singing, though they put the
musical offspring at a disadvantage. But
this is a digression from the question of
the reason why a true contralto is never
heard in a purely Italian opera co.
TTALIAN GRAND OPERA, MEL-
BOURNE PRINCESS'S. “MIGNON.”
Tenor Balboni (as Guglielme
Maister ) in action.
Visoni as Mignon.
“Eryander”: Those interesting operatic
recollections (B. 6/7/T6) don’t reach back
to what was probably the best all-round
Italian combination that has ever visited
Australia. Certainly no one of the basses
mentioned was to be compared for a moment
with Enrico Dondi, afterwards on the Lon-
don operatic stage. Dondi’s enormous voice,
which came to us in the ’7o’s, was well
seconded by his imposing presence, and no
more dominating figure was ever seen on
any stage than his Arch-I)ruid in “Norma.”
His Mephistoplieles, also, was fine, his Duke
of Ferrara magnificent, and his Spara-
fucile most convincing. The trouble with
Dondi was that, when he was “on.” he
made the other performers look, and sound,
like children. Coliva, though old, was
artistically far ahead of any operatic bari-
tone we have had since, and his acting—
instance Renato in “Un Ballo” —was of an
excellence very rare. Histrionically notable,
also, was Tamburini Coy, a charming little
lady with an absolutely delightful mezzo,
managed with consummate art. Her hus-
band, Leandro Coy, had a voice second only
to that of Rosnati, who, but for a tendency
to over-emphasis and a superabundance of
adipose tissue, would have been ideal as a
dramatic tenor. Zenoni, a “great” soprano
of the older school, would have been a reve-
lation to most of the “first ladies” we have
to listen to nowadays, and the three con-
tralti —notably Almacinzia Magi—were far
above the average in voice and artistry.
“Kaniva”: Verdi’s “Un Ballo,” done
recently by the Gonsalez Opera Co., was
first produced in Melbourne at the Hay-
market by Lyster’s lot on January 29, ’6B.
The cast was Riccardo, Ugo Devoli; Renato,
G. Bertolini; Samuelo, P. De Antoni;
Tomaso, John De Haga; Page, Geraldine
Warden; Ulrica, Georgia Hodson; Adelia,
Lucy Escott. The new work was a revela-
tion and a great success. Cagli and
Pompei’s company opened with “Un Ballo”
at the old Princess’s, May 17, ’7l. The
cast has not been equalled since by any
visitors: Riccardo, Rosnati; Renato, Col-
iva; Samuelo, Dondi; Tomaso, Grandi;
Page, Miss Coy ; Ulrica, Miss Polli; Adelia,
Miss Zenoni. During a season of nearly
four months, “Un Ballo” was their chief
card. In ’77, S. Lazar’s co. gave “Un
P.a110,” with Paladini as Riccardo, and a
line lot of voices in support. A new im-
portation of Lyster’s staged the piece at
the Opera House in ’79. Rose Hersee, A.
Link, Agnes Palma, Geo. Verdi, Ugo
Angieri, and Paladini were in the cast.
Verdi’s Renato was immense. Altogether
“Un Ballo” has been well used for close on
5U years in Melbourne.
“Masetto”: The Gonsalez people, though
doing good business, have a volume or so
to learn about the way theatrical matters
are run in these parts. A local chorus was
engaged, and, considering the inadequate
rehearsals and lack of music, did reasonably
well. However, during the last week the
firm landed a shipment of male choristers
and promptly sacked the locals. But the
locals refused to take the order, and after
a long argument peace was patched up and
both portions of the chorus appeared on
Saturday night. A rumor is afloat that a
consignment of female chorus singers is
invoiced, and the Melbourne girls are won-
dering when they will be ordered to retreat.
Ibis soit of thing doesn’t make for harmony.
The Vaughan Government in South Aus.
has definitely decided on its Amusement
tax. It is to squeeze out a penny in the
shilling on all tickets, and estimates that
there will be £25,000 in the barrel, with no
cost of getting it there except a little extra
work for the stamp-duty office.
“Stargazer”: “To-night’s the Night”
brings home to me again the curiously in-
teresting fact in connection with such enter-
tainments that it is only in one department
that a good intellect is re-
garded as fatal, and that is
the literary side of the busi-
nes s. “To-night’s the
Night,” like many previous
and superior shows of the
kind, is staged with great
cleverness; when dresses
were wanted an artist of
ability was employed to
desigii them; scenery being
necessary, experts were en-
gaged with a distinct talent
for painting scenery; the
properties were provided by
specialists with real gifts in
that direction; the actors
employed are actually actors
—it is their business to act,
and they are at least good
enough at it. Then it
seemed to be necessary to
put some writing into the
dashed thing, and those con-
cerned called in a mule. I
don’t know why they engaged
a mule unless it was that
all the asses in the vicinitv
were more honorably employed.
Harrison O.” : Who, in Heaven’s name,
perpetrates the topical ditties with which
the Finn afflicts ns? In “To-night’s the
Night” is an example deserving of the worst
that anyone can say. Even Connie Ediss,
than whom there is none better equipped to
lender first-aid to the deadly-dull, cannot
make it appear other than utterly fatuous.
The pointless thing, which concerns W, M.
Hughes, has rhyme, but no reason for exist-
ence. By the time one has learnt that Aus-
tralians like to read nughes of how Britons
enthughes o’er the marvellous vugb.es of this
little man Hughes one’s apt to be plunged in
the depths of the blughes.
“Outside” : Whenever a home-grown play,
labelled “Australian,” gets itself produced
the critics with one accord protest that the
types portrayed aren’t true to nature —in
fact, are reprehensible caricatures and almost
libels. On the other hand, audiences accept
the characterisations whole-heartedly, and
are overjoyed. Are the critics wrong? Or do
Australian playgoers like to join in ridi-
cule of their countrymen? Steele Rudd had
a new piece staged in Melbourne a week or
two ago. One of the Melbourne dailies spoke
of “a permissible touch of caricature,” “the
exaggeration of certain characteristics,” etc.
In the evening sheet I found such sentences
as “exaggerated comic incidents,” “a re-
markable caricature,” and so on, though ad-
mittedly the success of the play was “instant
and equivocal.” It’s all rather puzzling.
What are the real and true characteristics of
the dwellers Outback? Will some kind native
playwright oblige with a piece showing the
selector, his family and his friends “in their
habits as they live,” and so settle the vexed
question?
“D.D.”: Talk of “Richard III.” and
Barry Sullivan’s remarkable performance
reminds me that his grandson, Lieut. Stan-
hope Sullivan, is in camp at Newcastle
(N.S.W.) preparing to play for George V.
Another grandson was in the great adventure
at Gallipoli, where he left his bones. Their
great-grandfather, the immediate progenitor
of the great tragedian, held a captain’s com-
mission under Wellington and fell at Quatre
Bras.
(Continued on page 28.)
Thdre was very nearly a constitutional
crisis in Adelaide last week. N. S. Wales
Gov. Strickland was there on a visit, and
took a fancy to drop in on the local Par-
liament —a curious idea of amusement, yet
harmless, one would suppose. But one
would suppose wrong. When Premier
Vaughan was apprised of the visit, he
hastily consulted Opposition-leader Peake.
Both turned pale and shuddered. For a
Governor to go near a Parliament, except
to open or shut it formally, is a kind of
outrage ! The quaint idea is that a Governor
is a vice-king, and that a Parliament can't
do its work conscientiously if it feels that
a king is taking notes and planning who
shall be beheaded next. However, these 16th
century ideas did not prevent Speaker
Coneybeer from inviting the visitor to sit by
him for a while, and the roof did not fail
in. When he was gone the whole situation
was discussed. Neither Coneybeer nor Clerk
Morphett could recall a similar case in all
their long experience. Of course, they said,
S.A. Governor Galway could not do such
a thing in Adelaide, nor Governor
Strickland in Sydney; but away from home
he might be regarded as incognito or off the
chain or something, and just in the dis-
tinguished-visitor class.
One humorous youth, employed as a clerk
by the Labor Council of N. S. Wales, has
been trying to make that body think: he
collared its funds (£6OO is missing), and
gave various delegates, a rattling good time,
on one occasion inviting the whole Council
to eat and be merry. It looked such easy
meat and drink, with no bill to pay; yet
now the Council discovers that, after all, it
was merely having a beano at its own
expense. Before treating him as a first
offender Judge Sclioles gave him a stinging
lecture; but it seems up to somebody to
hand him a certificate as a first-class teacher
in parables.
“D.F.”: The description of the sheep-
farmer with “thousands of acres on Tas-
man’s Peninsula” from whom the Rev. Paul
Joseph thought he had inherited a fortune,
but didn’t, fits old Jacob Burden. Jacob, a
good fellow but a queer stick, lived at Salt-
water River and did own a pretty fair mob
of sheep, but I doubt whether he ran to
much in the fortune line; farmers with a
couple of thousand sheep or so in the Speck
are not in the wool-king class. Jacob’s
children all died young, and his wife (who
made the best mead ever turned out in
Tasmania) died before he did. But a
brother, Reuben, is still living, besides hosts
of nephews and nieces and other relatives,
and I expect they came in for the pro-
perty, whatever reason he may have given
the young man in Adelaide for expecting
that there would be plenty of cash for city
temples.
Crossed the bar, David Williams, who
for 40 years represented the Union S.S. Co.
at Newcastle (N.S.W.). Though a ’long-
shoreman for half a century, his last word
decided how many ounces a vessel could
carry without denting the entrance to the
alleged harbor.
Died at Lai Lai (Vic.), Charles Knight,
whose father is alleged to have been the
first white immigrant to W.A., where he
landed in 1829. Knight himself was born
in 1832 at Sydney. But he passed over to
Vic. as a youngster and was an onlooker
when Bentley’s pub was burnt at Ballarat
during the Eureka trouble.
THE LOVE-SCENE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The noisy rabble exits from the scene ;
The lights are lowered ; and the rosy lime,
Changing to purple, gives the painted green
A tender darkness. Music’s languid rhyme
The muted strings of nature softly yield.
A fluty murmur in the rustled leaves;
A gentle sigh of sealips on the shore,
As if some siren, near its margin, grieves
A love her arms enticed, who lives no more;
In some far church a distant bell is pealed.
Earth’s orchestra, attuned thus pleasantly
To grant our love-theme soft accomp’niment,
Gives us our cue. Here, in Life’s drama, we
A little love-scene of our own present.
What else can fit the stage, the way ’tis set ?
For other times leave life’s less tender themes;
This scene is fashioned only for our love;
And here, where glinting moonshine softly gleams
And zephyrs stir the shading boughs above,
For passion’s sweet exchanges are we met 1
Come, we must play; what if we do but act,
And lines untrue within our plot are wrought ?
To-night we free ourselves from sordid fact,
And gloss our lives with rare poetic thought.
Let’s take the magic mantle of the night
To hide prosaic matters out of sight!
N.S.W.
HAMER.


n
m
a
u
THE FAMOUS
N.G. RAINPROOF OVERCOAT
For 65/-
The most practical style of overcoat, because it is as
suitable for ordinary wear as wet weather. Made of a
light-weight Tweed that is thoroughly weatherproof, and
protective from cold. Step collar, Raglan sleeves, with
storm cuffs. Vertical pockets. All men’s sizes stocked
in Grey (2 shades), Dark Green and Fawn.
WE I’AY CARRIAGE.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
Opp. G.P.O., SYDNEY.
HAZEL DAWN IN
“MY LADY INCOG.,”
Famous Players Film.
v'
;: wsni
r.'csi
Nell Carroll (Hazel Dawn) is annoyed
because the boy she loves dared to hiss her.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
now complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
He Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
PENEOLDS
WINES
EM BARRASSING GENEROSITY.
The Kaiser’s special hobby is collecting neckties,
and already he is possessor of over 18,000.
SON WILLY: “Come away, fader —somebody
will he making you, a present of it in a
minute.”
“D.” : Gov.-Gen. Ferguson and his missus
recently paid a visit to Ivalgoorlie “to gain
a knowledge of life and conditions on the
Golden Mile.” Their investigation lasted fully
3(5 hours. Of this time 15 hours or so were
devoted to sleeping, eating and curling the
official feathers. The remainder of the period
was spent in attendance at 13 functions in
various town halls where the parish jaw
wagged solemnly and much tea and bun were
consumed. In between exertions the G.-G.
made a quick run for a few miles along the
trans-Australian railway. Now when his Ex.
talks with much authority about Australia’s
great gold centre, you’ll know that we do get
something for the loads of money we spend
on cocked hats.
“0.K.”: An immediate result of the naval
battle off Jutland was a most unnecessary
letter to the London press from Winston
Churchill, congratulating the public upou the
fact that the Germans had not revealed any
“new tricks,” such as had been lt
was a childish announcement for an ex-First
Lord of the Admiralty to make, and it was
promptly contradicted by the yarns of
wounded seamen. They invariably referred
to the clouds of light grey vapor with which
the Germans concealed their manoeuvres. The
vapor was the enemy’s new cuttlefish trick —
probably the trick that Miss Hilda Freeman
heard spoken of in Berlin 20 months ago;
“Our navy has got something up its sleeve.”
Jellicoe makes several direct and indirect
allusions to it without admitting that it was
a matter of great service to the Germans.
For instance: —
The destroyers at the head of their line emitted
volumes of grey smoke and covered the capital ships
with a grey pall, under cover of which they turned
away. We lost sight of them at 7.45 p.m.
Beading between the lines of Jellicoe’s first
and last reports, one may assume that the
“low visibility” he speaks of was invented by
the Germans. It was their device to cover a
retreat. The Hun fleet started from Kiel
with the idea of playing for safety if neces-
sary, and the necessity soon arose.
* * * *
Judge Docker, aged 74, continues to make
people wonder how much longer he will in-
sist on not taking a pension. The other day
lie had before him in Sydney a man charged
with stealing vegetables. The jury said the
accused was not guilty. Thereupon his Honor
remarked that he was “unable to understand”
why the jury arrived at this conclusion,
and, turning to the accused, told him the
same thing. There are quite a lot
of. tilings that this very old man
can no longer understand. But, even so,
what right has he to make insulting remarks
about his dozen assistants in hearinj a crimi-
nal charge? Their place in our scheme of
justice is as definite, as honorable and as re-
sponsible as his own. With them and them
alone rests the interpretation of certain facts
which the Law removes from interpretation
by the Dockers of this life. For a Judge to
observe that he cannot understand why a
jury arrives at a given verdict is as improper
as a similar remark would be if it were made
by the foreman regarding the conduct of the
case by the Bench. Some day an exasper-
ated jury will answer back and an acquitted
prisoner will tell Judge Docker truths that
will probably annoy him very much. Then
there will be a scandal; and the yell in sup-
port of a motion granting him leave of
absence will be violent enough to blow his
wig off.
* * * *
Let’s hope that justices’ justice has not
overtaken two lads whose bold spirits, pro-
perly decanted, may be of value to Australia
yet. A Williamstown boatman, passing in
his launch at 2 a.m.. saw a light on the yacht
Waratah. When he hailed, the glim was
dowsed. He towed back to the pier a small
skiff which had been moored to the yacht,
and went out again with two polic men.
They found on the yacht, packed for removal,
tucker and liquor worth £lO, including a
bottle of gold-top said to have been on board
for 20 years. In the bows were two sets of
boys’ clothes. Deducing that the owners had
swum to safety, they boarded the yacht
Bona, 100 yards away, and found the in-
habitants of the togs hidden in the sail
locker, each clad in the mere singlet of a
shameless life. In the yarn that followed it
came out that on the voyage in the bitter cold
of a July morning, one lad’s strength had
failed him, and but for the pluck of his pal
he would have been drowned. The kids were
removed by the Law to a warmer place—but
less than this has won bronze medals with
inscriptions on them,
* * * *
“The Conductor”: They were hopelessly
married and having one of those murderous
whispering married rows. The other passen-
gers stared stonily ahead or went into am-
bush behind their papers and listened.
“D —n it, you’re always out!” said the brute
to his innocent and stone-deaf boots. "I
haven’t had a decent meal at hoine for weeks
while you’ve been messing about with your
committees! Think you’re winning the war
on your own? Why don’t you stay in and
mind your own house a bit?” The pretty
gadder’s eyes filled with tears as she read
the joyous soap-advertisement suspended
opposite. “Don’t be so cruel and absurd ! I
had to go out to-day to that presentation of
a travelling kitchen —you know that very
well!” And did the beast wilt? He didn’t!
He just thumped the floor of the tram with
his walking-stick and said to his insensate
boots: “By G —d. that's what you want! I’ll
buy you a travelling kitchen, and then you’ll
be able to get my meals on the wing.” Get
off here!
“L. 11. Niac”; Billjim’s mate had just
read in the Gyppv Times “that the French
had captured 300 metres from the Germans.”
Billjim brightened up. “That’ll put the
kibosh on their gas attacks, won’t it?”
ho said.
“R.K.L.”; If we don’t hand round the cake
nicely when we get home it won’t be the
fault of the War Office. It has done all it
can to teach us manners. At St. George s
Hospital, Malta, we were a miscellaneous
lot from Gallipoli—Tommies mostly, some
Australians and a few Maorilanders. One
day we were lined up for our pay (2s. a week
in' hospital; it isn't good business to stop
one). The “Tommies were passed in first
without a word. Then a sergeant-major
comes to the door and reels oil' his lesson :
INCLUDED IN THE BARGAIN.
THE HERESS: “I wish I had your talent.”
THE SUITOR: “Well, that goes with, me.”
“When the Australian and New Zealand men
come in, in turn, for their pay, they will have
their books open at the correct place. Hav-
ing received their pay they will say, “Thank
you,’ and if there is an officer at the pay-
desk they will salute.” Evidently that was
the official part of the speech ; but he had
learned the whole lesson, and didn’t know
when to stop, so he volleyed on: “Those few
colonials give more trouble than all the rest
put together.” There was dead silence for
three seconds. Then irrepressible Billjim
had his talk: “Say, old bird, you learned
that last part from Jacky Turk, didn’t you ?”
* * * *
“McK.”: Chief Justice Stout (M.L.)
recently shook an admonishing finger at a
misguided youth and told him he must
neither drink, gamble nor smoke for a pro-
bationary period of two years. It may work
out all right, but it is the sort of sentence
that should only be imposed by a G.J. who
could float invisibly after his prey. When
the lad gets over his Supreme Court fright
and lights a fag without the roof falling in
on him, he will probably decide that Stout,
C.J., is a harmless old gentleman.
“Carmine”: The Felton Bequest for the
Melbourne National Gallery, now worth
£7OOO a year, will climb to £13,000 when
certain annuities and charges fall in. I fear
that wealth in this case means waste. How-
ever, there is £25,000 unexpended—and much
contention regarding the value of what has
been got. Sidney Colvin, late Keeper of
Prints and Drawings at the British Museum,
was an important buyer, but has lately
drawn out. because the Melbourne trustees
declined his recommendation of a Gains-
borough, a great Troyon and a number of
other works. In addition to the trustees’
approval there must be that of a special
committee, including representatives of the
Felton interest. The committee is not speci-
ally artistic, but is represented in London
by Frank Gibson, of Victoria, a recognised
connoisseur. The trustees also have a
representative in London, yet even when he
and Gibson agree about a purchase the
mugwumps in Melbourne are apt to capsize
the verdict. Now they say that Gibson
won’t recommend any more, and is sitting
on the dome of St. Paul’s, wondering why
Felton bequeathed anything whatever.
“Polstan”: Apropos the grievance of the
Expeditionary Force officers over the allot-
ting of the best staff jobs to Englishmen, an
Age correspondent writes that “officers of
experience are needed for these jobs.” Of
course, they are; and we have plenty of
Australians who have had as valuable ex-
perience as the British army men who get
them. The Age correspondent states that it
would be an awful thing if many of the
Anzac errors were repeated. So it would.
But how many Australians held responsi-
ble positions on the staff at Anzac? Hardly
any. And there were none at all on the
stall: that engineered the Suvla Bay fiasco.
I suffered a lot of Anzac, was an interested
spectator during the Suvla landing, and after
that saw many other things one doesn’t even
like to remember ; and the responsible men
weren’t born in this land, where there are
so many to cry stinking fish. In my mind,
and in the minds of all the Anzacs I’ve ever
met, Australian leaders are good enough for
anything coming our way, whether they be
regimental or “stawff.” What a lot of names
one can think of whose owners are proved
THE NIGHTIE , PAST AND PRESENT
men —General White; Brlg.-Gen. “.Tacky"'
Forsyth, beloved of all good Light Horse-
men ; and strings of others! The wood-and-
water-joey jobs have been passed on to ns
long enough. It’s time we made a noise
and said such men as these are cut out for
something better.
TIDINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tim darkness gripped us, hot, intense;
The sea snored like some sleeping brute;
We stood alert, with every sense
Like some leashed hound, nerve-thrilled, acute.
About us clammy dew made wet
The thin, green leaves and sleeping flowers :
Strained eyes against the night we set;
Strained ears, like open doors, were ours.
NO sight ! save when across the black
Broad breast of night flerce lightning tore
A ragged gash, a serpent track,
And thunder answered the sea’s snore.
One sighed, and one would no more stand
At easeless rest, but drooping walked;
Then, though none spoke, one raised his hand
As if to silence tongues that talked.
We heard it! On the granite ground
It sounded nigh, and on the beach
It grew remote; upon that sound
With seeking eyes each questioned each.
Grouped close, like men of-carven stone —■
Chilled stone —we stood with rooted feet.
“lie comes! What news?” Not hoofs alone
In that tense moment swiftly beat.
Cried one: “Joy rides at such a pace —
.Toy swift of hoof, and light as air!”
Said one —eyes sunk and pallid face:
“So too, at times, rides dread Despair!”
We waited, vexed by dumb surmise,
Eyes wide, lips wide, tense faces white;
Ears served till ears gave place to eyes,
Sound likewise yielding unto sight.
He came with headlong speed and dash,
Fierce lightning lighting land and sea,
And in that red, revealing flash
He rose and shouted “Victory !”
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


special offer —
"LINWUL" SHIRT
& jt
AS its name conveys, the fabric of the
a ijfi\ WUT/” SHIRT consists of Linen
and wool; hard-wearing and soft, good-
looking and gentlemanly.
Neat stripe patterns—soft cuffs and fronts.
The Price 8 6 each
IF PURCHASED SINGLY.
Or 3 Shirts for 23 6 (or 7/10 each).
This way you save eightpence on each shirt. SEND FOR
THREE ON APPROVAL. THEY MAY BE RETURNED IF
UNSUITABLE. PLEASE STATE SIZE.
lhQJi’
Uss
m
TSfkn
PIKE BROTHERS Ltd.
Townsville.
BRISBANE,
Toowoomba.
m
Hay Street,
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION
TARIFF :
Bed and Breakfast . 6/6 each person
Board and Residence . 11/ per day
.Board and Residence 70/ per week
EXCELLENT CUISINE PERFECT SERVICE
EVERY MODERN COMFORT AND CONVENIENCE
Campbell Street
Edwards
/^anaqer.
Pitt Street
At Perth Criminal Court a few days ago
a storekeeper was found guilty of maliciously
shooting a soldier who was casually crossing
the road. The prisoner explained that he
had been suffering from d.t.’s; but that was
no good to an unrelenting Judge, who crushed
him with an order to keep the peace for two
years—the dog !
The story of a valuable medical side-line:
Here we have a hospital, in charge of Dr. Weston
Ilearne, of South Melbourne, with an advanced dress-
ing station a couple of miles away; and the staff
also runs the Divisional baths and laundry. Two
large buildings have been set aside for this latter
work. The men, dirty and verminous from the
trenches, arriving at the baths, take off their tunics
and breeches, which they turn inside out and tie up
with braces and identity discs. Then they remove
their shirts, singlets, underpants and socks, and hand
them in at a window with their towels, receiving a
ticket for each garment. At another window these
tickets are exchanged for clean things, which they
place on a form ready, and then l\ave a good hot bath
and put on the fresh underclothes. By tljis time
their tunics and breeches have been dusted with
Oxford powder and ironed, a process which the occu-
pants of the seams are said not to appreciate. The
men leave feeling refreshed and clean. The soiled
underclothes and towels which they have handed in
are soaked for 24 hours in large vats of cresol solu-
tion, and then washed and boiled. The socks are
darned, the singlets, etc., mended, and buttons sewn
on. The renovated garments are then ready for
re-issue to the next lot of bathers. In this way we
can put through 1500 men per day quite easily. We
have done nearly 1700 in a day. It keeps about 40
of our men busy in ordinary times, leaving quite
enough to carry on the ordinary work of clearing
the sick and wounded. When there is any extra
fighting the bathing automatically ceases ; the bearers
drop their tubs and pick up their stretchers, and in
a few minutes are ready for the field. Altogether it
is a very useful if not a very picturesque addition to
our functions as an ambulance. There are a good
many women employed in the laundry as well, and
when the shells drop anywhere near they all clear
out, but we carry large stocks of underclothing so
that we don’t often get held up. One woman whose
husband had been killed about Christmas time had
been left with three children, two her own and one
by a former <vife. A shell landed in front of the
house a couple of weeks ago, killing her own two
children and wounding the third. Of course, large
numbers have left the district altogether, but many
have nowhere to go, and after a few weeks or months
of semi-starvation elsewhere return to the only home
they have ever, known, too often to find it in ruins.
MAKING SURE.
FREDA: “How many times do you make a
man propose before you say 'Yes’?"
FLO: “If you have to make him propose you
had better say ‘Yes’ first time.”
THE HORRORS OF WAR.
GALLIPOLI BILL: “Terrible experiences out there? My oath we had! Why, a bloke in
Egypt sold me two bottles o’ salt water for beer!”
The reflections of “Nil,” who has grown
grey in liis surgery :
Clothes are the outward and visible sign of inward
and invisible deceit. The first fig-leaf was used
for the purpose indicated. Later on other “things”
were added—always towards the same end. (Per-
haps I should have said “for the same purpose.”)
Take hats. Very few races require hats for any
reason other than to deceive. The hat is in most
cases only a head-dress. When the Papuan goes out
upon the war-path he dons his “fighting-hat.” It
is a mass of feathers, designed to increase his
apparent stature and thus “fear the valiant.” The
same applies to most of the headgear used in savage
warfare. Incidentally these fighting hats, helmets
or what-nots have been made to subserve the purpose
of defence.
Or a woman’s “furs.” Why does this girl hang
animals’ skins all over her ? To keep herself warm ?
Hardly. The same money spent in plain woven
wool would answer the purpose far better. She does
not know why she wears furs, but I do. It is to
indicate: “See what my man has killed and brought
home for me—his woman!” Of course he’s not
her man and she’s not his woman, and in any case
he did not kill the poor beasts that wore the skins.
But no matter. She wants to deceive her sisters.
I! is an instinct.
Also padding. But I will not particularise.
These deceptions are not confined to the female
sex. Why the “top-hat” ? It increases the apparent
height. Why the padded shoulders? They indicate
extra width of chest.
Perhaps Mr. What’s-his-name was not so mad,
afeer all. Maybe it’s we who are mad with him for
suggesting that we should walk out just as (more
or less) God made us.
Melbourne lias a school, run by the Edu-
cation Department, where for two days a
week certain girl-scholars between 12 and 14
are able to add to their grammar and
geography some knowledge of home-making.
It sounds like a good scheme; but the
National Council of Women has put its
elastic-sides down firmly and refuses to
approve. The ivC.W. has passed a resolu-
tion declaring that training should only begin
with 14-year-olds; indeed, “it is a reproach
that we should allow children of 14 to be
instructed in the domestic arts.” But if
the Australian miss is to be shown how to
make both ends meet when she gets married,
she must be caught and taught before the
factory-age. Otherwise, in most cases, she
will simply go from the class-room to the
workshop and stay there until Bill takes her
home. And if she can’t make brown gravy,
deal out merciless justice to the grocer, pay
the rent and leave Is. 9d. over for Bill’s
smokes and beer, there is liable to be more
beer in the years that follow. But, then,
what does the comfortable N.C.W. really
know about beer in its relation to brown
gravy and good housekeeping on nine bob a
day ?
“Chug” : The notion of forming a Pan-
theon at Canberra, wliqro the staiues of
Australia’s noblest
may stand four-square
to all the dust-storms
that blow, is not alto-
gether novel. Out in
the Syrian desert the
ruins of Palm y r a
bleach in the desert
sun, and there the
statue business was
worked for all it was
worth. Palmyra was
a centre of caravan
trade, and as such
had some right to
exist until it issued
its challenge to im-
perial Rome and got
the wallop that left it
emp t y and forlorn.
Tourists to Damascus,
before the present war
started, sometimes
made the adventurous
journey to the old
ruins, which still stand
as about the most per-
fect of their sort in
the world. The cen
tral street consisted
of a double colonnade, about
three-quarters of a mile long,
and every column had its
statue until Aurelian’s soldiers
threw them down. Honors
must have gone pretty cheap in
the desert city; leaders of
caravans and persons who
found new markets or revived
old ones, all had their portraits
done in rock and set up to be
admired. The Canberra Pan-
theon may be graced with
statues of greater men like Kink
O’Malley, Hughes and. Chidley ;
but the result is likely to he
much the same. In days to
come the curious tourist will
trek out through the dust and
wonder why it was done, and how Australia,
with a continent to develop, had time and
cash for games of that sort.
In England the postal authorities have
accepted the responsibility of forwarding to
the fighting forces, on land or sea, any maga-
zine or journal handed over the counter at
any post office —no wrapper, address or
stamps required. It looks like a beautiful
example for Webster to follow at as early a
date as possible. The adoption of such a
plan would certainly receive an outsize wel-
come from all interested parties.
John Carmichael was arrested at Christ-
church (M.L.) on a charge of deserting his
wife, and sent to Dunedin. When he arrived
in court Mrs. Carmichael, who anxiously
awaited his coming, refused to recognise him
as her erring 50 per cent. A lady friend
who accompanied Mrs. Carmichael tried to
convince her that John was the goods all
right, but without avail. The blinking Court
then polished its glasses and asked John if
lie had deserted Mrs. Carmichael, lie re-
plied that he had. “Why, then, does she
refuse to recognise you?” moaned the Law.
“Because she is not my wife,” responded
John, and the Law leant its head on its hand
and looked dreadfully tired. But it all came
out presently. Two John Carmichaels had
simultaneously decided to bolt from a pair
of Mrs. John Carmichaels, and the police
had bagged the wrong John.
*** * *
It happened at the New Plymouth (M.L.)
Supreme Court sessions. "I want to be
excused, your Honor,” said the reluctant
juryman. "I owe a man £5, and as ho is
leaving for England to-day I want to catch
him before he gets to the boat.” For once
the conscientious objector prevailed. “You
are excused,” icily replied his Honor. “I do
not want anybody on the jury who can lie
like that.”
“Driver Phil Cell”: I’ll guarantee this
conversation between an exquisitely-groomed
Tommy ollicer and a Light Horse lad who
had omitted to give the salute: —
“lley, Austwalia!”
“ ‘Trooper,’ if you don’t mind.”
“None of your damned impertinence! What I
want to know is, Have you ever seen an officer
before ?”
“Oh, yes. And look, when you write home lo
mother and father, tell ’em that you’ve seen a
soldier.”
“Paddymelon” : The stupid snobbery of the
British army system, which still keeps our
citizen troops out of first-class carriages and
hotels in Egypt, was in full blast
when I wore a scarlet coat in Queer
Old England years ago. Privates were
so much mud, and though a non-com.
1 have been told in even second-class
pubs: “We don’t serve men in uniform in
this room.” Plenty of Britons who died at
Mons must have endured that insult. At
Barnard’s Music Ilall, Chatham, at the
“first house” (two performances nightly) the
best seats were barred to us, and Barnard,
then an alderman, proposed in the council
THE FATAL RESEMBLANCE.
“But you and she used to he like two sisters.”
“Yes —until somebody told her that she was
very like me. Then she thought it was
time to he unfriendly.”
that men in uniform should not in wet wea-
ther walk on the wretched three-feet-wide
footpaths. The motion was not carried, but
it excited no comment, and patient Atkins,
being used to such treatment, continued to
fill Barnard’s show.
SEVENTEEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I want a flaunting satin gown
To wear to parties in the town,
A gown ashine with wattle hues,
And silken hose and buckled shoes;
And filmy scarves that cling and float
To wrap about my head and throat.
I want to dance, and play, anil sing,
And wear a little silver ring.
I want to pile my hair up high,
’With two gold combs to catch it by;
To place above my ear a rose,
And powder all my neck and nose.
But I must scoui' the milk-pans now—
My life is spent in serving Cow !
Oh, shall I ever go to town
To wear that wattle satin gown !
x.s.w.
NORA McAULIFFE.


INEDIBLE.
HANS (making his lunch): “Victories iss all righd, but dey iss not to eat. Vould I schwop all tier victories for a square feed, aind’t it?"
<Mt frowt. ■ Ue fjnf done ier ?w
imd taken
qa3 Qrtew rieu in der> pinny-.
Rfegt : ©«?re iSS ve take pat?i9 "
(she* -* h *i as^ i & -I—7
CQmmunigue-. Iter i
ltewtfeoled yesterday in a Wy to
position... " j
per fleet : Tw of our Sfr cyens met ier <
•British peeT It parted de<r BrtTiaH fleet I
'been 3urvk. j


WmMm
|
pH FO*' I
|g£oST Palm's |
SOLDIERS
§£787,0 08 I
d /554201
ffflLL I IN I
Unhand, I
THE CLOSED DOOR.
Mr. Davis (secretary of the Returned Soldiers’ Association, Sydney) said that among the 600 returned men in N.S. Wales he had ample proof that
soldiers and their dependents were in a destitute condition, while often the families of dead soldiers were similarly situated. The military office was behind
with its pay to many men, and yet those men could not get help from the Patriotic Fund because they were not discharged. Neither would that fund accept
any responsibility for the dependents of those unfortunate men who had been “crimed.”


DOCTORS
RECOMMEND
CILBEY’S
PRY cm
For Kidney Complaints
and Rheumatism.
Obtainable Everywhere in Quarts 8 Pints.
TUCKER & CO., SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
WHAT MAKES
THE WHEELS GO ROU
I FWIS& wfIITTY MAKERS
EIGHT
HOU
R ART UNION AN
(Under sanction of the Attorney-Generan.
SPORTS
m
ou
MIGHT WIN THIS
SL6SO
FIRST PRIZE DIAMOND TIARA
2nd prize value £199, 3rd prize value £2OO,
and 397 other valuable prizes
Prizes Value £3,500
The First Prize last year , was won Mrs. Barnett, S.vdnev,
N.S.W., for the modest outlay of ONE
ni?T A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE TUK
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this pa; P® r o '* m list 0 f the
To any person forwarding stamped addressed ™°P e .’ n aU t()Wns> or
direct from ** DO&, Secretary, Trades Hall, Sydney.
m
m
VtW.V.V.'.V
*
©
The
“Buxton
I f you would have the right
quality, shape, weight, and
price, wear WOODROW’S
famous hat always.
Obtainable all Leading Stores.
m
m
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Australia lost a valuable public servant
when George McKay died in Melbourne on
July 14 of pneumonia. lie was chief clerk
in the N.S.W. Mines Department when lie
was picked out by his old “head,” Duncan
McLachlan, as Commonwealth Public Ser-
vice Inspector of N. S. Wales. Apparently
surprised at the discovery of bis talents
by the Federal Gqvernment, N. ft. Wales
soon lured him back as State Public Ser-
vice Commissioner, jumping him over all
his senior 'officers of a few months before.
Not to be outdone, the Federal people then
appointed hint Federal Land Tax Commis-
sioner at a salary greater than the State
could hope to offer. So the much-sought-
after official remained a Commonwealth
officer until his death at the early age of 55.
“Lee-oh” on one warrior and another: —
The Topi family, of Buapuke Island, in Foveaux
Strait (M.L.), is a well-plucked hapu. One of the
clan, Trooper Fred Topi, stopped three bullets on
Gallipoli, and he admits that they inconvenienced
him. A brother is famous on the South Maoriland
coast as a seal-hunter. He and some mates not
long since tackled the tremendous cliffs on the
western side of the Auckland Islands. In one place
they had to descend 500 ft. by ropes. Uncle Tohi to
Marama, known as “General Buffer,” was in Sydney
Harbor more than 60 years ago, and remembers the
fleet of vessels loading frantically with produce for
the big rush in
California. Tohi
we n t a-wlialing
for years in the
lopsail schooner
Postboy, and was
second mate of the
famous old barque
Cha u c e wh e n
Frank Bullen fell
iu with the raffish-
looking windjam-
mer off Stewart
Island in the early
’7 o’s. His elder
brother, “King”
Topi, was a first-
class fighting man,
and it was lie who
led t he Ngati-Manioc
against the Ngai-
Talm in the last
inter-tribal scrap
in the South Island,
the battle of Tutu-
rau, and admon-
ished the chief of
the invaders by
plunking a bullet
through his brain-
pan.
JULES
GRANT,
of the Bert
Bailey Co.
1 hissed out iu England recently, T. H-
My ring, one-time editor of Zeehan and
Dundas Herald (Tas.), and part-owner of
the famous Londonderry Mine (W.A.). lie
used to mix leader-writing and speculation,
mostly in wild cats. On giving up news-
paper work he went to England floated
the Crown silver-lead concern. When he
returned Lord Fingall came with him, and
the pair purchased the Londonderry, one of
the most curious natural swindles ever a
man sank money in. It had gold plastered
right along the first tunnel, and anyone who
wanted a share had to look for it in a
balloon. But the Plunderderry was merely
a freak surface formation, and the concern
flopped suddenly with a sickening thud. For-
tunately for the investors. Fingall and
Myring were both bloquos of the Dinkum
family, and practically all the money they
got out of the flotation was returned.
ANOTHER LAPSUS LINGUIE.
COUNTRY DOCTOR: “Been ill long? ”
DISTANT VOICE: “Off an’ on about three
weeks, Doctor."
C.D: “Where arc the pains?"
D.V: “In my side, Doctor."
C.D.: “Hem! Now.let me sec your tongue."
This generation of Australian politician
is a slow lot: —
Members of the Australian Parliament who arrived
in England yesterday reached London to-night. 1 hey
missed the banquet given bv Sir Charles Wakefield,
the Lord Mayor, but attended m their travelling
clothes later to hear the speeches.
Would George Reid have missed the
banquet?
“Wealsman” looks up some old friends:
Twenty-three years ago (Great Kangaroo, how Time
leaps!) I fell into the Sydney School of Arts Debat-
ing Club for an hour. Among the debaters that
evening were four Bills (Hughes, Higgs, Holman
and Wilks) and Norman Ewing. I think B. B.
Wise, Frank Cotton and Bill Johnson were in the
hall that night, but they were not noisy. Hughes was
then repairing umbrellas instead of Empires. Hol-
man was hovering somewhere between a joinery shop
and a newspaper w.p.b. Higgs was working at
“case" in the little Higgs and Townsend prmtery
just up the street. Wilks was (if memory serves)
boot-repairing at Balmain. Ewing was an articled
clerk. Within a few months of that night Hughes
and Wilks were in Parliament,' and Holman was as
good as in. Norman Ewing went to Westralia, got
into the State Parliament, subsequently became
Senator, resigned, went to Tasmania, and is now a
Judge. Brisbane Worker claimed Higgs as editor,
and be elomb into local prominence, thence into the
Senate, later to the Beps., and is now Treasurer of
this Commonwealth. Wilks achieved the Beps. and
made some clamor but no particular mark. 1 dis-
remember what stopped his climb; be probably
slipped on a bit of orange-peel. Holman is now
Prime Minister of the Ma State, and Hughes is
apparently Prime Minister of the Earth. Bill John-
son, who was then a scene-painter, sat for a while as
Speaker of the Beps., and sat a briefer while on a
Northern Territory log which some liar described as
an alligator. Bernard Vise is Ma’s plenipotentiary
in Foglarid, and Frank Cotton is still, one hopes,
enthusiastically flirting with some adorable fad.
Truly, anything may happen to a Bill,
fellow in Australia. Especially had
One of my own names - . alligator, like
the honor, etc. But I never sat on an aing
Brother Johnson. f
Lieut. Bill Denny, the only member of
the S. Aus. Parliament who has gone on
active service, sent from France hts be
wishes ‘‘to be conveyed by Speak
C'onevbeer. at the opening of lailiament,
to those who stayed behind.” As it happens,
ill the members of the present Ministry are
within military age. and tefora Denny left
he did not mince Ids tvords in tin .
to get some of them to follow lus example.
Augustine Bareli did
his little bit towards
dismembering t h e
Empi r e, but the
Birrells of V\ ngga
(N.S.W.) have (lone
all they could to save
it. Of the 11 boys of
the family, all of
them married but
three, nine have vol-
unteered. Five are
at the Front, and
four were thrown out
as medically unfit.
The 10th lost an arm
before the war began,
so he was out of it,
and the lltli has a
large family of small
children.
There is trouble in
Adelaide over appoint-
ing a Botanic Garden
director to succeed
I)r. Iloltze, who has
lingered on in charge
till he is 77. The
Government proposes
to give Osborn, Pro-
fessor of Botany a'
the University. £250
and a house in return
for services as scien-
tific director, appoint-
ing also a practical
man as curator at
£350, with residence.
But the Board which
controls t lie Garden
refuses to have this
dual control, argues
that “no scientific
botanist, as such, lias
given satisfaction as
a director of Botanic
Gardens in Aus-
tralia.’’ and that no
capable expert would consent to come in as
second fiddle; and it insists on advertising
for the best practical man that can be had,
to take full control. The Board, by the way,
includes Osborn’s young wife, who took as
good a degree at Manchester University
as her Professor did, and in the same sub-
ject.
Killed, in France, Major John Armstrong,
son of “Jumbo,” K.C., once the most fami-
liar Crown Prosecutor in N. S. Wales.
Jumbo 11. took a degree in Engineering at
Sydney Uni., then went to Broken Hill and
made such fine progress that he became act-
ing general manager of the big Block 10
mine. Ilis success there won for him the
job of underground manager at Great Cobar;
but he struck it in a bad time and in bad
company. Then, having no wife or other
encumbrances, he stuffed his duds and his
prayer-book into a bag (he would as soon
have been without one as the other) and
made for S’Africa, where lu 1 was doing a
bit at his profession when the call came to
join the Engineers.
Edward Chambers, known in Melbourne
for years as an earnest worker for the wel-
fare of the clerk, died on the Bth inst. at
48. He was a “paid agitator”; but the pay
was nothing to speak of. for he sacrificed
his health and the best years of his life to
the cause for which he toiled. TV hat with
struggling along on a salary which in the
early days fell badly into arrears, with pri-
vate financial disaster as a result, and over-
work and nerve-rack as his daily poVtion,
Chambers went to pieces about 18 months
ago, and his case was beyond repair. In
the last year of his active work some of the
boys got up a subscription for him, the
Clerks’ Union having become a well-estab-
lished concern. This didn’t lessen his activi-
ties, however, and the physical crash came
in due course.
Left the earth, after 70 years of it,
Goddard Jackson, lately attendant in the
M.L. Dominion Museum. Jackson landed
in Maori land 40 years ago and made a begin-
ning in the Advertiser at Thames; but he
threw that up to be captain of some Indian
rajah’s bodvguard. lie watched over the body
until he felt too old for the concern ; then
he drifted back to M.L. and guarded corpses
until closing time.
J. T. Scherk, one of Adelaide’s many good
Australians of German' descent, was 80 last
week. His father was Chancellor of the
University of Kiel, which, when young
Scherk left it, 56 years ago, was a Danish
possession, not yet filched by Bismarck. For
20 years Scherk sat in the S. Aus. Parlia-
ment for the city of Adelaide, and lie lias
been an active Councillor of the School of
Mines since it started.
Killed by a German missile in France.
Claude Benson, a Hyde (N.S.W.) lad, who
was in the stress of things for nearly two
years. One of the first to enlist in Queens-
land, he gained a sergeant’s stripes before
leaving Australia, and on arrival at Gal-
lipoli his gallantry won him the D.C.M.
As a convalescent he was on hoard the
Southland when she was torpedoed. Unjoin-
ing the lighting lines he gained commissioned
rank and was a captain at the Western
Front when he fell in with the armies ot
the dead.
“Melb” : At a recent old colonists’ meet-
in" in Melbourne Temperance Hall a Mrs.
Berry spoke. She proved to be the wife ot
a son of Graham Berry, born about 60 years'
ago, when Berry kept a little grocery shop
on the corner of Chapel-street and Toorab-
road, South Yarra. There is extant a photo-
graph he had taken of himself at the shop
door in his shirt-sleeves with his name in
bold letters over the entrance. There was a
sharp contrast between Berry’s two families,
the first one reared in his days of struggle,
the second in his prosperity, with six gaudy
years in London as Agent-General.. Long
after Berry’s grocery-time Ricciotti Gari-
baldi had a little shop in the same locality,
managed by his thrifty English wife. And
now here’s Billy Hughes, another little shop-
man who has blazed across the firmament.
Concerning E. A. Colvin, whom “J.F.11.”
met in London (B. IM/7/M6) :
Thirty years ago Colvin was Hible-puncliing at
Auburn (N.S.W.), and later ran an Anglican con-
venticle at Dulwich llill. He was then a powerful
wrestler with Satan, whose howls (Colvin's, not
Satan’s) could bo heard half a block away. His
Anglicanism in those days ran mostly on Methody
lines, and a tangle of fiery whiskers rioted above
lbs tall, angular figure as he pounded the pulpit
cushions. Later, he married a wealthy lady as his
second wife, and lias since lived in the Cold Country,
expounding the Word only as a hobby on rare occa-
sions. As to his complaint of coppers in the Kng-
isli collection-plate, it is a fact well known to
(undents of such matters that the offerings of the
congregation vary according to the price of beer.
In Australian cities tlic humble thrum is fhe most
frequent contribution to Hebe and (lie churchwarden.
In the country, where threepenny liars are unknown,
sixpence is the coin most favored for the plate.
On the fields in N.Q. and W.A., where drinks are a
bob a time, the infrequent worshippers drop nothing
less than shillings in the travelling parson’s hat.
In England, where a mug of beer costs, twopence, _a
pair of browns is the recognised fair thing for the
plate. On the facts as stated, it seems up to the
Church to start a campaign for raising all drinks to
a minimum of sixpence.
HAN STEIN.
Well-known Melbourne musical and
Synagogue figure.
Maoriland lost its oldest soldier the other
day G. S. Barker, of Hamilton. Barker
served in the Indian army from a lad, and
headed for Maoriland in 1801. With the 3rd
Militia lie scrapped through the Maori War,
and subsequently caught the first bridle-
track for the Thames gold-rush.
VALE!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hundreds of corpses have been floating in the
North Sea, near the scene of the Jutland battle.
Washing about in Hie cold salt wave, stark in the
grim North Sea,
The corpses float of the men who died when the
battle-flags flew free,
Briton and Teuton alike at rest, though tossed by
the careless wave,
Flotsam adrift from the Jutland fight when brave
men fought with brave.
What matter the flags that above them flew, the
name of their native land?
Each did the bidding of those above, and died that
their wills might stand.
They stood to their great iron-throated guns, when
the battle thunders rolled,
Offering their lives for their country’s sake, bravely
as knights of old.
God rest- their souls, for if souls there be they have
earned a sweet repose,
Briton and Teuton who passed alike where the chill,
grey sea-fog blows.
They passed like men from a world that shrieks for
the blood that its best can give—
God send us a better and wiser day when the world
wants men to live!
N.S.W.
QUIDAM.


A Really High-Grade Boot
Most Moderately Pr iced
'J'HE Moderate price of this really
High-Grade Boot marks it as
exceptional from point of value.
Not only is the quality of Leather and
Workmanship better than mig’ht be
expected at the price, but the smart
new lasts provide a complete and
satisfactory range of fittings, with
attractive style in all the varied
shapes
Style 309. “A fine-grade Black Box Calf
Lace Boot, with smart Toecap, full gol-
oshed with unbreakable Jockey Back,
welted on the Goodyear principle, is
available in three widths, Full Round,
, Medium, and Square Toe, and five
fittings. Half as well „ .
as regular sizes in stock, I / r"\
per pair ----- /
CARRIAGE IS PAID
COUNTRY ORDERS.
ON ALL
GO WING BROS. LTD.
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods
484 to 490 GEORGE STREET
3 to 17 ROYAL ARCADE
New Branch Shop at
304 George Street
Nr. Hunter Street
SYDNEY


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting: Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE, ANTIMONIAL LEAD,
LINO METAL, SPELTER, ZINC
DUST, REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of:—
SILICIOUS ORES, containing
head, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buyers of:
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
All enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
m
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE
STATE GUARANTEE.
Acts as Attorney, Agent,
Administrator,
Executor and Trustee.
'or full particulars apply Culwulla Chambers, 67 Castlercagh Street, Sydney.
T. -YV. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON U STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Maoriland Government Life In-
surance Department :
Provided Added
Claims against to In-
and Sur- Ex- Depre- surance
Dec., Revenue, renders, penses. eiation. Fund.
1903. . £463,380 £269,413 £64,723 £129,244
1904.. 480,716 266,704 60,490 153,522
1905.. 490,924 263,148 63,829 £6,953 156,994
1906.. 507,070 270,220 67,828 169,022
1907.. 526,712 304,230 66,670 155,812
1908.. 534,440 328,763 68,403 20,000 117,274
1909.. 516,566 333,990 72,120 .. 140,456
1910.. 561,151 340,028 71,534 149,589
1911.. 594,410 344,957 74,213 30,000 145,240
1912.. 590,314 378,653 82,489 129,172
1913.. 600,068 367,673 81,405 150,990
1914.. 625,764 411,903 84,650 75,458 53,753
1915.. 636,185 490,610 89,590 55,985
It is rather poor progress for an insurance
office —-from £403,350 to £036,185 in 12
years. in 1903 the renewal premiums
brought in £276.344 ; last year the total had
grown to only £340,826. That is to say, all
the new business secured in these dozen years
has added only £64.000 net to the annual
revenue. It is disappointing; and one won-
ders whether Maoriland is really any the
better olf for the establishment of the office.
This wasn’t a case in which the public had to
be protected from the rapacity of private
adventurers who were getting fat on the
profits of life-insurance. The office, by
bringing a new organisation into existence
and making two canvassers grow where
only one grew before, has added to the total
cost of the country’s insurance; and it is
doubtful whether it has done anything else.
It plainly hasn’t given people cheaper and
better insurance than it has been possible
for them to get anywhere else.
Heaven only knows what induced the Gov-
ernment to butt into one of the few busi-
nesses in which the public had got things at
cost price already—for that, of course, is
what the public has been getting from mutual
offices. The one solid justification would
have been that the existing costs were too
high, and that the State could do the work
for less. Well, so far, it hasn’t been able
to. Here are the past 10 years’ costs: —
Expenses in Proportion to Total Income.
1904.. £l2 11 8 p.c. I 1910. . £l2 14 11 p-.c.
1905.. 13 0 0 „ | 1911.. 12 9 8 „
1906.. 13 7 6 „ | 1912.. 13 19 6 „
1907.. 12 13 2 „ I 1913.. 13 11 3 „
1908.. 12 16 0 „ | 1914.. 13 10 6 „
1909. . 13 310 „ I 1915. . 14 1 8 ~
No front-rank office in Australasia shows
less favorable figures than that. And on the
basis of new business secured the figures ai*e
also only very so-so. Taking the arbitrary
formula usually adopted here (7 p.c. for
renewals, 3 p.c. for annuity and single-
premium business), then the new-business
expenses last year were equal to 22S p.c. of
the new-business premiums; and those are
figures that very plainly say either that
there is no money for life insurance in
Maoriland, or that for some reason or other
the Maorilander passes by his State office *
when he has life insurance to place.
The interest earned last year was
£250,812 ; but £20,225 of this had to be paid
away in land and income taxes. The gross
earnings are satisfactory enough—just under
5 p.c. But they are no better than they
ought to be, considering that only 13 p.c. of
the assets are in Government securities,
while no less than 62 p.c. are in mortgages
and nearly 16 p.c. in loans on policies. The
last item shows that Maoriland has got into
the bad habit of putting its insurance policy
to the worst possible use. For an insurance
policy with a monkey on it is only one degree
or so better than no policy at all.
The Maoiueand Government Accident
Insurance Department :
Carried to
Reserves for To
Cross Gross Unexpired General Total
Income. Profit. Risks. Reserves. Reserves.
3903. . £24,449 £4,758 £4510 £248 £9,785
3 904.. 24,188 5,418 978 4,440 15,203
3905.. 24,876 6,572 80 6,492 21,775
1906.. 21,929 1,604 1,604 23,379
3 907.. 22,835 4,901 4,901 28,280
1908.. 22,688 4,094 4,094 32,374
3 909.. 28,53 5 8,528 2204 6,264 40,902
3 910.. 23,907 4,764 4,764 45,666
39 11.. 23,612 6,222 6,222 51,888
1912.. 26,733 7,448 7,448 59,336
Written Off.
3913.. 26,865 7,874 377 7,497 66,833
1914.. 25,443 9,239 534 8,705 75,538
. Added to
Reserves.
1915.. 27,673 11,230 528 10,702 86,768
1 his State ofiice didn’t demand a monopoly
ol the workers compensation business like
its younger brother in Queensland lias done,
-the aigument on which it was called into
existence was unimpeachable. The State
said to the employer: “You are henceforward
liable for £5OO in the event of an employee
being killed, and for £5OO in the aggregate
tor sick-pay, etc., in the event of a non-fatal
accident. But having put you under that
obligation, we reckon it a fair thing to pro-
vide you with cost-price insurance. We
want to compel you to insure your work-
people ; but we don’t want to hand yon over,
bound, to be exploited by any combination
of insurance companies that may be formed.”
It was the proper thing for the State to do.
But it is very doubtful whether the State is
doing what it inferentially undertook to do.
Last year, it will be noted, there was a sur-
plus revenue of £11,280. The premiums
paid amounted to £23,265. There is of
course a reserve to cover unexpired risks;
and the appropriation that was last year
regarded as necessary to bring it up to the
proper strength was £528. So the true profit
for 1015 was £10,702 —out of a total pre-
mium income of £23,265. In the previous
year the office made a profit equal to 39 p.c.
of all premiums paid ; in the past year the
profit was equal to 46 p.c. of the premiums.
This isn’t cost-price insurance; and what is
the justification for such charges? Are
there risks which the office has to
provide for? What are they? If
they are in regard to unexpired risks,
then the surplus should be going into
the unexpired risks fund. The other
risk is in regard to the investments ; but as
these amount to less than £BO,OOO, apart from
debentures (apparently a public bond), the
selection of securities must have been atroci-
ously rotten if they call for the present
reserve. And it is not merely that the
insurers with this office are paying what
appears to be quite unnecessarily large pre-
miums. So long as this office charges 46
p.c. more than cost price, just so long of
course will the private offices be able to
command at least an equal rate from in-
surers ; and where citizens are compelled to
insure, that is not right.
* * • *
The Bank of North Queensland:—
Writ- Added
ten to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
~ £ £ £ £
Dec., 19.08. . 4070 5 p.c.= 2652 4500 20,144
June, 1909.. 4314 5 „ ~2658 1656 21,800
Dec., 1909. . 4641 5 „ ~2666 1975 23,775
June, 1910.. 4717 5 ~ ~2668 5000 20,824
Dec., 1910.. 4838 5 ~ ~2671 " 2167 22,991
June, 1911.. 4851 5 ~ ~2671 4000 21,171
Dec., 1911 . . 5383 6 ~ ~ 3197 - 2186 23,357
June. 1912.. 6062 6 ~ ~3214 2848 26,205
Dec., 1912.. 7601 6 „ ~4192 3409 29,614
June, 1913.. 8376 7 ~ ~5445 —■ 2931 32,545
Dec., 1913.. 8406 7 „ ~5688 2718 35,263
June, 1914.. 8479 7 ~ ~5088 2500 291 35,554
Dec., 1914.. 7496 6 ~ ~4875 2621 38)175
June, 1915.. 6462 6 ~ ~4875 1587 39,762
Dec., 1915.. 6274 6 ~ ~4875 1399 41,161
June, 1916. . *6277 6 ~ ~4875 5000 37,563
The gross profit is practically the same as it
was in the last half-year before the war —
£33.181 now as against £33,507 then—but
taxes and other charges have bounced up,
and interest paid on deposits is substantially
more. Under ordinary circumstances, of
course, more interest being paid to deposi-
tors, the gross earnings should be larger,
too; but there hasn’t been much in the
exchange business of late, and what there
has been has not been well divided. In the
circumstances the profit is satisfactory, and
there is still a comfortable margin between
it and the 6 p.c. dividend. Also the track
ahead looks distinctly better than the sec-
tion covered during the last couple of years.
These have been, generally, bad seasons in
the sugar business : and the Bank of North
Queensland is more than usually interested
in the cane-growing districts.
The figures for the past half-year show
the usual fluctuations, this being the time
when the cocky is paying out and nothing is
coming in. The following table shows this,
along with the remarkable progress of the
little concern in the last 10 years:—■
June,’o6. Dec.,’ls. June,’l6.
Denosits. . . . £366,885 £1,152,294 £1,079,048
Rills, etc. . . 53,289 75,589 70,695
Liquid assets . . 151,425 575,755 452,216
Advances . . 363,797 775,908 822,710
Premises.. .. 25,497 85,000 85,000
The position seems to be quite sound. The
liquid assets represent just on 40 p.c. of all
liabilities. The bank owes £1,140,743 alto-
gether, and £452,216 of this could be paid
with liquid assets. Against the other
£697,527 of debt there are £007,710 of assets ;
and the present accounts contain a very good
piece of evidence that these assets are kept
well written down. Apart from anything
that may be provided internally it will be
noted that £5OOO is this half-year appro-
priated from profit, and that is “to write
down cost of Sydney premises”—and these
are new premises that have certainly not yet
suffered any depreciation.
The Northern Steamship Co. (Auck-
land, M.L. ) :—-
Added to
March, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1904 ..£14,062 7 p.e..= £6,905 £7157 £-40,234
1905 . . 7,127 7 ~ „ 6,905 222 40,456
Withdrawn.
1906 .. 5,724 7 „ „ 6,905 1181 39,275
A.' .!.
1907 .. 15,628 7 „ „ S,GBI 6947 46,222
Withdrawn.
1908 .. 5,561 7 ~ ~ 8.681 3120 43,102
1909 .. 3,810 7 ~ ~ 9.515 5705 37,397
1910 .. 11,213 7 ~ „ 11,277 64 37,333
Added.
1911 .. 17,465 7 ~ ~ 11,299 0166 43,499
1912 .. 15,852 7 ~ ~ 11,299 4553 48,052
1913 .. 13,559 7 ~ „ 11,299 2260 50,312
1914 .. 12,583 7 „ „ 11,299 1284 51,596
Withdrawn.
1915 . . 9,439 7 „ „ 11,299 1860 49,730
Added.
1916 .. 15,164 7 „ „ 11,299 3865 53,601
In that table the profit includes the additions
(if any) made to the insurance and repairs
funds; and, where there were no net addi-
tions, the profit is shown less the net with-
drawals from those funds. In some years the
withdrawals have been exceptionally heavy :
hence, to a great extent, the fluctuations in
the first column. The Profit and Loss
account purports to show the fair profit after
making necessary provisions for insurance
and repairs; and taking those figures this is
the history of the past 10’ years :—-
1907 .. .. £9,057 1912 .. .. £11,027
1908 .. .. 8,787 1913 11,138
1909 .. .. 9,289 1914 .. .. 11,003
1910 . . . . 11.252 1915 . . . . 11,203
1911 .. .. 11,696 | 1916 .. .. 12,327
That looks very much better; but there is
another thing to consider —the very substan-
tial increase in capital. In 10 years this has
moved from £98.042 to £101,412, which gives
the last little table a much more sickly com-
plexion. Nor does the following comparison
brighten it up much :
1906. 1911. 1915. 1910.
Capital .. £98,642 £161,412 £161,412 £161,412
Liabilities .. 41,959 29,437 69,601 61,662
Ships, etc. . . 188.799 204,401 243,048 234,728
Premises, etc. 5,054 5,013 4,750 4,590
Other assets 14,755 30,585 38,603 42,716
Compared with five years ago it will be seen
that the liabilities are now £32,225 more,
while the ship property is said to be worth
£30,327 more and other assets £12,008 more;
total. £42,335. That means practically
£lO.OOO improvement in five years, which is
nothing to give three cheers about, consider-
ing that the dividend meanwhile has been
only 7 p.c. p.a. Of course, a lot depends on
the valuation of the steamers; more than a
fair amount may have been written off to
cover depreciation. That can’t be tested.
Nevertheless if a co. is in the habit of put-
ting away an unnecessary amount of profit
against contingencies it bulges the stocking
sooner m- later, and, as in the case of the
Union Co., the directors have to ease the
strain by distributing a bonus of. some sort.
But there is no indication whatever of any
strain here.
The Brisbane Electric Tramways
Investment Co. :
r~ ; Dividends. Re-
Dee., Profits. Pref. Ord. serves.
1906.. 24,961 5 p.c.= 17,812 2 p.c.= 7,500 16,983
1907.. 32,669 5 ~ ~17,812 4 ~ ~15,000 16,840
1908.. 39,858 5 „ ~17,812 6 ~ ~22,500 16,386
1909.. 47,977 5 „ ~17,695 8 ~ ~30,000 16;668
1910.. 77,014 5 „ ~17,656 8 ~30,000 46,026
1911.. 87,705 5 ~17,656 8 „ ~30,000 86,075
E 75,000 of reserves capitalised. . 11.075
1912. , 56,362 5 n.c.= 17,656 8 p.c.= 36,000 13',781
1913.. 92.998 5 „ ~17,656 8 „ ~36,000 5.3,123
1914. .115.251 5 „ ~17,656 8 „ ~47,649 103,069
1915.. 75.048 5 „ ~16,250 8 „ ~48,000 113,867
This is the Tramways Investment Co. The
concern which actually owns the trams is
the Tramways Co.; the Investment Co.
merely owns all but a spoonful of the
shares in the other co. Thus no imperti-
nent person can become a shareholder of
the co. which runs the tramways; he can
only become a shareholder in a co. which
has invested in tramway shares. As a
matter of fact, however, the Tramways Co.
isn’t as secretive as it might be in these
circumstances, and the Investment Co. sup-
plies material from which it is possible to
knock up this table:—
Dee., Receipts. Expenses. Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
1906. . £141,677 £82,525 £59,152 £50,000 £25,674
1907.. 159,111 88,489 70,622 57,000 39,296
1908.. 178,510 94,964 83,546 65,000 57,842
1909.. 199,263 105.082 94,181 75,000 77,023
1910.. 222,580 115,695 206,885 106,000 77,908
1911.. 253,970 129,284 124,686 110,000 92,594
1912.. 254,838 162,305 92,533 80,000 105,127
1913.. 316,244 191,936 124,308 116,000 113,435
1914.. 348,406 194,960 1,53,446 144,000 122,881
1915.. 372,303 233,761 138,542 95,000 166,423
Of the £95.000 paid out in dividends the
Investment Co. took £94,937. Its only other
income was £2OBl from interest and £32
from transfer fees. And that total income
of £97.050 has been put to this use —
Expenses in London .. .. £1,752
Expenses in Brisbane. . . . 3,800
Debenture interest . . . . 17,550
Profit as per table . . . . 75,048
Total . . . . £97,650
The debenture interest is 44 p.c. payable on
£450,000. The share capital is £3(5,000 in
5 p.c. cumulative prefs. and £OOO,OOO in
ordinaries. The dividend on the ordinaries
is paid free of income tax; the co. appar-
ently deducts the income tax from the pref.
dividend, which explains why, according to
the table, the 5 p.c. has called for less in
the past year than in its predecessors, The
ordinaries are on a splendid wicket so far
as profit-taking is concerned. There is a
total capital of £1,425,000, of which
£450,000 can call for only 44 p.c. and
£.‘>75,000 for only 5 p.c. On the other hand,
they are guaranteed these rates. But that
cumulative pref. claim isn't likely to worry
ordinaries much at this late stage of the
proceedings. What they are more inclined
to fix their eyes on is the fact that they
themselves are entitled to all the divisible
income except £89,000.
The co.’s rights run to 1921 ; and the
undertaking may then be acquired by the
public at a fair valuation, with no con-
sideration for goodwill. That is only five
years to go. But the co. still has hopes,
though they are dwindling, and the war
probably won't do them any good. Its
brightest hope a few years ago was that the
demand for tramways in rapidly-growing
suburbs would encourage the Government
to grant an extension of time, since it was
obviously unfair to expect the co. to build
new lines of which they would have the
use for only a very few yearsi But nothing
was done; and the demand for new lines
isn’t quite what it was; and now there is an
unfriendly Government in power.
The concession being brief, the market-
able value of the assets is of much import-
ance in this case. The amount invested in
the trams and property is £1,607,770; and
obviously there is room for a variation of
a good many thousands in the valuation
upon which the co. may be bought out. In
addition, the Tramways Co. has a renewals
fund of £135,000; a fund to safeguard
investments, £7500; and undivided profit,
£23,925. There may be other reserves, but
they are not disclosed. The Investment Co.
has on its own account reserves of £118,807,
without reckoning an accidents fund of
£lO,OOO.
11. McKenzie, Ltd., timber merchants,
etc. (Sydney) : —•
Dividends.
■ A
Pref. To Re- Re-
Profit. lOp.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ *£ £ £
Sept., ’09.. 6,539 Nil 6,539 33,196
Mar., ’lO.. 8,873 2000 7 p.c.= 2029 4,844 38,040
Sept., ’10..10,248 8000 14 ~ ~ 4088 —• 36.200
Mar., ’ll.. 16,437 2000 10 „ ~ 2899 11,538 47,738
Deferred Ordinary dividend.. 8117 39,621
Sept., ’11..16,857 2000 10 p.c.= 2899 11,958 51,579
Mar., ’12..12,910 2000 10 ~ „ 2899 8,011 59,590
f Deferred Ordinary div. 7176 - 52,414
Sept., ’l2 j All Shares.
1 14,409 10 p.c.= 4899 9,510 61,924
Premiums on new shares . . 252 62,176
Mar., '13.. 13,577 10 p.c.= 0500 7,077 69,253
Sept., ’l3. .11,369 Nil 11,369 80,622
Mar., ’14.. 6,594 Nil 6,594 87,216
Sept., ’14.. 7,737 Nil 7,737 94,953
Mar., ’15.. 9,026 Nil 9,026 103,979
Sept., ’15.. 4,744 Nil 4,744 108,723
Mar., ’16.. 9,044 10 p.c.= 0500* 2,544 111,267
*Declared, Sept., 1913.
The directors say that the business has “im-
proved to such an extent” that they “have
decided to pay the dividend declared in Sept.,
1913, but unpaid since then owing to the
co.’s other obligations. This dividend,” it
is added, “will be taken from the equalisation
of dividend account, which was instituted
in 1913, and the shareholders to whom it was
due at that time will not therefore be liable
to pay Federal income tax upon the amount
received by them from this source.”
The profit seems to have been fairly
enough earned in 1913; but the bank
was probably unsympathetic when it
was suggested that it should increase
the overdraft in order to pay. a dividend. The
trouble was that the co. had at that time
very much timber on hand ; and for a time,
owing partly to the co. being unable to get
its logs to market, the total ran up still
higher. Twelve months ago stocks and
advances to cutters represented £214.692.
months later they were reduced to
£167,848. No further reduction has. how-
ever, been made, and the t tal as at March
31 was £170,499.
Still, by getting in some of the debts owing
to the co., and by accumulating profit, the co.
lias been able to still further reduce its own
liabilities. These have moved as fellows :
Sept., 1910 .. £45,112 Sept.., 1913 .. £70,958
Mar., 1911 .. 32,468 Mar., 1914 .. 83,444
Sept., 1911 .. 38,768 Sept., 1914 .. 96,918
Mar., 1912 . . 46,796 Mar., 1915 . . 103,787
Sept., 1912 . . 72,276 Sept., 1915 . . 65,188
Mar., 1913 . . 55,836 Mar., 1916 . . 53,482
The capital is £130,000 ; and nominally there
are now £111,267 of reserves. But it is
hard to say what the true reserves are.
Of iLo total shown in the first table
£51,832 is at credit of a reserve for deprecia-
tion ; but that can hardly be a mere set-off
against actual wear and tear. Buildings,
plant and machinery stand now in the books
at no more than £70,415. and as they appear
to be in very fair condition they must be


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
May be appointed as
Executor and Trustee under
a Will;
Trustee under Marriage or
other Settlement;
Administrator in Intestacy;
Attorney under Power,
Agent, etc.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
America, to be posted from Canada
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great'
Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning,
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain .. 3/-
New Zealand.. 4'd.
/ 9d. (minimum
I 15/-, 20 words)
Canada
2/4
1/2
j 7d. (minimum
i 11/8, 20 words)
..2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
/ 7d. (minimum
\ 11/8,20 words)
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations may be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines)
Queen’s House, Queen St., Melbourne. Tel. 2588.
J. MiI,WARD, Manager in the Pacific,
'77 Pitt Street. SYDNEY.
Sf
i
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Tl * 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital . .£250,000
Subscribed Capital 194-,235
Paid-up Capital . 95,767
Income (Cress) 1915 .. 146,027
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED,
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney,
ALUMINOFERRIC is used by the Sydney Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards and graziers
for precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is simply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours’
time the most discolored water will be as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless.
Sole agents: William Adams & Company Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth. — Advt.
For rapid and accurate sizing of samples, the
Hoover Rapid Laboratory Sizer is unsurpassed. An
ordinary hand test over 12 different mesh screens
takes about 10 hours to complete; the Hoover Sizer
will make the same test in about half an hour. By
the use of one of these Sizers the saving in time
would, in a very .short while, cover the small initial
cost of the machine. The machine can be dressed
with any series of screens. The Austral Otis Eng.
Co.. Ltd., of Melbourne, will be pleased to furnish
particulars.— Advt. [3
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe, the most satisfactory
pressure pipe to install. Used by the foremost
mining companies in Australasia. There is no corro-
sion, no rust, and is unaffected by mineralised water.
Send for illustrated catalogue. The Australian Wood
Pipe Company Limited, 57 York Street, Sydney.
Factories: N. S. Wales, Victoria, South Australia.—
Advt.
Crushing and Concentrating.—Our works in Syd-
ney are purely a Customs work for the treatment of
all. classes of ores. Write for terms. Sydney Export
Co. Ltd., 1 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt. [4
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and ITassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
In addition to making •Wrought Iren, Steel and
Cast-Iron Pipes, Messrs, Mephan Ferguson Proprie-
tary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria' have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description.— Advt.
Eartii-handling and Road-building Machinery',
Concrete Mixers, Robey Traction Engines, National
Suction Gas Engines, modern conveying outfits, pump-
ing installations, stonecrushing plants specialised in
by Australian Machinery Co. Ltd., Charlotte Street,
Brisbane; and Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.— Advt,
ID FAS.-—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty yearn' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertliiig's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. I-I. B.
Silberberg & Co.. Ltd., 8 O'Connell Street, Sydney ;
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .£545,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 155,351 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 81,500 0 0
£782.611 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. ===========
Gen. Man. : Kdwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row,, Cannon Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
the uhion TRUSTEE CO.
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
NEW SOUTH WALES, VICTORIA & QUEENSLAND.
The only Trustee Company in Australia
empowered by Act of Parliament to operate
in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE, 48 YOUNG STREET.
Directors:
The Hon. Sir CHARLES K. MACKELLAR,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman).
11. BRADDON, Esq. JAMES KIDD, Esq.
H. W. BELL, Esq. 11. At. PITT, Esq.
E. B. S. FALKINER, Esq.
Before making a Will or Settlement of pro-
perty or appointing an Attorney write for book-
let giving the Company’s charges and setting
forth the advantages of appointing the Com-
pany, to JOHN MAIR, Manager.
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Chaliis House, Sydney
worth more as they stand than £20,000 or so.
It thus looks as though the depreciation inn<!
is in part an actual reserve, and that the
co. has a large surplus of assets in excess
of the capital, after providing for liabilities
But naturally the share-market hasn’t been
concerned so much with what the co. has
as with what it has been earning ; and si
far it hasn’t had a brilliant record in that
respect, notwithstanding that the timbei
market has been extraordinarily active dur-
ing the past few years. In the most recent
12 months the Profit and Loss account shows
that the sales have totalled £360,000; and a
net profit of £9475 on that lot, exclusive of
provision for depreciation, seems to suggest
that there is something wrong somewhere.
“Verdad”: With reference to the War
Time Profits Bill The Bulletin says
(18/7/16) that gold is in quite another
category from the industrial metals, and
that its price has not been enhanced by the
war, but that actually costs have risen, so
that a gold-mine is in a worse position now
than before the war. 1 don’t pretend to
know about the other metals, but I do know
something, about tin. The average price for
recent years is as follows: 1911, £192 6s.
lid.; 1912, £209 Bs. 7d.; 1913, £2Ol 10s.
Id.; 1914, £l5O 11s.; 1915, £163 19s. ’(Data
from London Mining Journal, January 8,
1916.) The present price is about £169, and
this is well above the average since the
beginning of the war. Are tin-mines, there-
fore, in a better position owing to the war?
Costs have in many cases appreciably risen,
especially for constructional materials
(compare the present price for a bucket-
dredge with what it was two years ago), and
the freight charges, which are a much bigger
item for tin than gold, have gone higher than
Zeps. Hence the term “war profits,” as
applied to tin-mines, is absurd. 1 include
dredging and sluicing properties. The rest
of The Bulletin argument holds equally
for new tin-mines as for new gold-mines.
Incidentally, the idea of taxing any mine in
the way suggested in the Bill is wrong. Two
years may be spent in equipping a mine and
opening it up, during which time its profits
are a minus quantity. Are these two years
to be taken to arrive at the average profits?
A mine’s assets are a diminishing quantity,
the average life of a mine is short, and the
depreciation great (its equipment is practi-
cally valueless after the mine is worked
out) ; hence a profit limited to 6 p.c. is more
likely to be a loss, even allowing for the de-
ductions permitted by the Bill. Any mine
that does not pay 15 p.c. is a poor thing. The
tax may be necessary, but that is no reason
why new mines should be penalised and old
mines left alone. Rather should it be the
contrary, if the desire is to stimulate the
industry.
Apparently the days of Boulder Perse-
verance (W.A.) ar’e numbered. In the latest
report, it is disclosed that the war has
affected costs to such an extent that the
poorest stopes have been abandoned, ore-
breaking has been largely curtailed, and
broken-ore reserves have been heavily drawn
on to keep the mill going. Except for an
occasional flash in the pan, little or no profit
can be expected until more favorable condi-
tions prevail. Ore reserves are estimated at
544.474 tons, assaying 225., and 317,480 tons
of probable ore estimated to average 215.-;
but as the cost of getting gold out of the
stone is at least as much as the gold is
worth, the co. would be just as well off if it
had no reserves at all. There is also an
estimated 50,000 .tons of 275. Od. ore in the
mine, which the management reckons can be
blocked out at relatively small cost. It is
evident that after this stuff has been taken
out nothing short of a miracle will prevent
ooa o-! n , ine lowing a loss. Last year
2. >.».•> 14 tons were treated. and the
net profit, after writing off £7943 for
development and £6059 for depreciation,
amounted to £3202. This, with £92.640
brought in, has been carried forward.
The other day Edna May Deeps cut 4ft.
of quartz in its main shaft, and Westonia
punters rushed the local telegraph office with
buying orders ; but they fell in again, as the
expected rise did not transpire. It is gener-
ally conceded that the quartz referred to is
a continuation of a reef about sft. wide
known in Edna May ground as the hanging-
wall reef, which lies north of the main reef •
and if it is this that the Deeps has struck’
then something peculiar has happened. The
fact is the faulting recently disclosed
in the south-east end of Edna May No 4
level has made such a jumble that it is diffi-
cult to forecast with any accuracy the possi-
ble behavior of any of the reefs at depth
The reefs are there all right—this has been
proved by boring. But whether the faulting
will continue at depth, or the reefs make
again behind the faulting* is a problem still
awaiting solution. The Edna reef has fooled
the experts from the outset, and it is still
fooling them.
Taking advantage of a bearish market,
some of the inside crowd sold Ednas from £8
down to £6, and bought in again from £5 10s.
to £5 ss. It would bo interesting to know
the share holdings of the Edna May direc-
tors at certain periods during the past two
months.
From Westonia : Seats on the Boards of
r.nost of the cos. here are filled by share-
brokers, and in the light of past events this
sort of thing is little better than appointing
burglars as bank directors. Some people
argue that there should be a law to prevent
brokers being on the Boards of mining cos.,
but that would be even worse, for the law
could be evaded by appointing clerks as
dummy directors. The shareholders must act
for themselves. If they are not strong-
enough, then they had better quit that com-
pany.
* * * *
The war was blamed for a lot of things at
the Golden Horseshoe meeting. It had,
according to chairman Purcell, seriously
raised costs, increased taxation, and, by tak-
ing away a large number of good miners,
prevented sufficient ore being raised to keep
the mills fully supplied. As a result, the
tonnage treated was 40,932 less than for the
previous year ; and development also showed
a big contraction. The lowest level is now at
3020 ft., where the No. 4 or Boulder lode has
been driven on with satisfactory results for
about 400 ft. At the present rate of extrac-
tion the ore reserves are estimated to be
three years ahead of the mill.
Since the half-yearly meeting, when Frank
Were and William Orr trotted out the Edna
Central as the pride of Westonia, shares
have been slammed from £0 to 30s. But this
was to be recovered when crosscuts got the
reef at 255 ft. So for a fortnight past the
£5 punter has had his eye on the face for a
sight of the lode; but it didn’t show itself
right up to the 270 ft. mark. A couple of
makes of quartz were cut, but, being without
gold, were turned down. Then word came
that a bore 22ft. ahead of the crosscut face
had also drawn a blank. The bulls took on
the look of the visitor dog that finds the
family cat out, but got as cheerful as a
happy bridegroom an hour later when news
was received that a bore no one knew any-
thing about had somewhere found 80s.
quartz. Of course, the bears squirmed ; but
the fighting remains as vigorous as ever, for
the market is too oversold to fail to make a
counter-attack. Anyway, news from the field
doesn’t counsel building much on the new
strike.
* * * *
Treasurer Higgs has allowed the marriage
of the Edna May Battler and the adjoining
Great Battler. Holders in the latter are to
get £5OOO, and on the bird-in-the-hand princi-
ple they are probably wise.
* * * *
Mount Lyell will want several things
when it gets busy with the Ilereules-Roso-
bery mines. One trifle is the Zeehan
Smelters. The big co. wants the site, and,
though the plant will probably not be
much use, it may come in handy if ever
silver-lead mining speeds up again on Zee-
han. The Government foreclosed on the
plant a while since, and as a sale to the
Gy ell people seems to offer the only earthly
chance of getting back the £20,000 lent to
the Tasmanian Smelting Go., there may be
something doing.
* * * ' #
The Tasmanian Government has collected
£14,000 from Amalgamated Zinc, Ltd., for its
first block of electric power. That’s a year’s
rent for 4000 h.p. from January 1, 1917, and
it the co. drops the scheme, which is not
likely, the Speck sticks to the £14,000. The
Bail lieu co. has an option on a further
20,000 h.p., and may call for it within two
years. If it takes the 30,000 h.p. it is to pay
£60,000 per year, which ought to leave some-
thing for the State to meet its lOU’s with..
If the State can find it the co. is later to get
20,000 more h.p. at the same price if it wants
it. The State is to provide 50 acres at Bis-
don as a site for the works,, and more if
required. For two years it charges np rent,
and after that 5 p.c. on the unimproven capi-
tal value. There is some speculation; 1 -by the
way, about how much power will be left for
anyone else if Amalgamated Zinc takes
50,000 -li.p. and the Mount Lyell Co. comes
along to exercise its option over 50.000, and
there have been a few belated veils of “No
monopoly!’’
* * * *
At close on to 90 John Cock drops a well-
worn mining mantle on his son’s shoulders
I-or 40 years the veteran hauled gold out of
the Chiltern I alley mine till the record stood
at over £1.250,000, and as a result of his
careful nursing the show still plods on, even
though it’s along- a weary way nowadays.
•John Cock also kept handy to the other allu-
\ml shows at Chiltern or Ilutherglen in
winch the late .1. A. Wallace wanted his help.
Lrussue and capable, and a rattling speaker,
he is about the last of the old generation of
deep-lead miners who knew the game they
were at and didn’t talk about it.
Old Zeb. Lane, of St. Arnaud (Vic.), who
managed the Lord Nelson for SO years,
always stood out against amalgamation with
the North next door. The fusion came
through P. P. Coak's crowd, but it wasn’t a
success, as the faulting of the reef below
1400 ft. so reduced ore values that by the
time the shoot got into the North’s ground
there was barely enough profit to keep the
pot boiling. By that time the co. had
treated over (100,000 tons for some 320,0000 z.
gold and paid, the best part of £275,000 in
divs. The last disbursement will be a bob,
and then licy for the cemetery !
* * * *
Because W. E. Wainwright said Pernatty
(S. Aus.) might expect 127,000 tons of sul-
phides and 10,000 tons of oxidised stuff, the
Board counted on a long and happy innings.
Jack Moule’s burrowing round No. 1 gradi-
ent face was outside the Wainwright survey,
and, though he knocked down the whole
house of cards, some of the faithful wanted
an expert called in to check both Wain-
wright and him. None of the topnotch
engineers hankered after the job, though,
except at a fee that would have eaten up all
the loose cash in the till. So holders have
been asked to order in the hearse. But there
may be a row before the corpse reaches the
cemetery, lor in the penultimate stage the
co. sold 13,000 reserved shares and issued
£OOOO of 10 p.c. debentures. There may be a
post-mortem, too, to find out who got the
5 p.c. commission on the bonds issue, and
£5OO for fixing the .13,000 reserve shares.
These items swelled the bill of flotation
costs to £4500, while £8583 went in plant
and £2637 in development. The Bulletin
never liked the show; nevertheless it
admits that Pernatty stands as untested as
when Wainwright made his “ore expectant”
estimate. But it would take a V.C. hero to
rescue the concern now. The Board talks of
what a big plant would do, but values cut in
and out on a low scale, and that isn’t likely
to encourage any adventurer.
* * * *
Austral Bolivia, Ltd., formed in Sydney by
the energetic people who are directing some
of the tin wealth of the Malay Peninsula to
Australia, has received astonishingly good
reports from the two men it sent across the
Andes. So far Bethune, the co.’s mining
engineer, has proved 7.039,000 cubi yds.
containing 8; lb. tin oxide (65 p.c. metallic
tin), of which 95 p.c. will, it is estimated,
be recoverable. The ground, the experts
report, is suitable for bucket dredging; there
are other lands available (one area has been
secured on option and another is being
negotiated for) ; and there are silver values
which are believed to be important, but must
be made the subject of technical inquiry
before anything definite can be said about
them.
Victoria recently ordered 100,000 tons of
coal from the South Coast mines (N.S.W.)
for railway use. It looks as though there
may be a__ revival of interest in Bellambi and
Mount Ivembla before long. The way the
wind blows may be gauged by the fact that
the South Coast produced 2,261,398 tons
last year, compared with 2,361,398 tons in
1914. A feature of this district is the
increasing output of coke, of which 305,584
tons were produced in 1915. With the
increase of smelting in Australia the demand
is bound to grow.
Goobaragandra, Tumut district (N.S.W.),
is mdking slow progress during the winter
with the building of a 10-stamper battery.
Very rich assays have been reported, but it
remains for the battery to prove the bulk
value of the reserves. The reef is undoubt-
edly patchy.
For years past one Duncan, of Black Rock
(Vic.), has been experimenting in extracting
gold from sea-water. Most people who
heard of his endeavors gave a shrug of the
shoulders or a lift of the eyebrows. Not
that technical success was doubted, but as a
commercial venture it was not believed in.
However, the patient research of the experi-
menter has been, he affirms, crowned with
success, and he claims that he can now
recover gold and show a good profit. Well,
who’s stopping him?
Southern Cross (W.A.) is kicking hard
against the Federal Treasurer’s refusal to
sanction Westralian mining flotations in
general, and a few around that rather dilapi-
dated mining centre in particular. The
Broncho is cited as a case in point. Further
development of the huge bodies of ore in this
show would, it is declared, mean a lot to
workers and traders, and substantially add
t-> the field’s gold production, but unless
Treasurer Higgs relents and allows capital
to come in it is worthless. Neither is there
any incentive for prospectors to go forth and
look for new finds. Finally, it is contended
that capital expended nothin the Common-
wealth on such ventures as the Broncho is
in no sense lost to the community. Of course,
the fact that Higgs is also tryimr to safe-
guard the investor is mostly overlooked. In
effect he says : “I’ll let you get in money to
develop the country, if prospects are decent;
but I won’t let you get in money just now to
fatten promoters and vendors.”
* * * *
The steamer Salandah discharged 2600
tons of sulphur at Wallaroo (S.A.). Sul-
phur is required for the manufacture of
sulphuric acid, which is in demand now that
Australia is paying more attention to
chemical industries, especially the manu-
facture of superphosphates. Before zinc
concentrates are treated by the electrolytic
process they are carefully roasted to get
rid of sulphur, and the fumes are with very
little trouble converted into sulphuric acid.
The electrolytic process will require an
abundance of acid. Under the old system
the Hun was quite alive to the advantage
of cheap sulphuric acid and took our zinc-
concentrates in the unroasted state. Aus-
tralia had to til] its own acid vat by a most
expensive system, for it imported pyrites
from Spain. There are pyritic deposits in
Australia, but coastal freights and the
cost of transport generally are too heavy,
and as usual there is a lot of prejudice
against local pyrites.
A mineral called lenzile is being mined in
Arizona (U.S.A.). Crystals of it are being
sold for 10 dollars each, its virtue being that
it enables the possessor to detect the vibra-
tions emanating from a wireless telegraphy
outfit. Possibly if investigations were made
with a 10-dollar sample the same mineral
might be found in Australia.
The Australian General Electric Company have
large quantities of all classes of electrical supplies
and accessories consisting of insulators, lamp sockets,
electric bells, etc., and would be pleased to fill your
orders from their immediate stocks without delay.
Write for particulars or visit their showrooms, corner
Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street, Sydney;
corner Queen and Little Collins Street, Melbourne. —
Apvt.


Under
Royal
Warrant
m
To H.M.
George V ,
CHAMPAGNE
CHAMPAGNt
'iarlcsllcidsicoc
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED JN FRANCE.
IP FOOD DISAGREES, DRINK HOT
WATER.
When food lies like lead in the stomach
and you have that uncomfortable, distended
feeling, it is because of insufficient blood
supply to the stomach, combined with acid
and food fermentation. In such cases try
the plan now followed in many hospitals
and advised by eminent specialists of taking
half a teaspoonful of bisurated magnesia in
half a glass of water as hot as you can com-
fortably drink it. The hot water draws the
blood to the stomach, and the bisurated
magnesia, as any physician or chemist can
tell you, instantly neutralises the acid and
stops the food fermentation. Try this
simple plan and you will be astonished at
the immediate feeling of relief and comfort
that always follows the restoration of the
normal process of digestion. But be sure
you ask the chemist very distinctly for
bisurated magnesia, thus avoiding confusion
with the sulphates, oxides and citrates or
bismuth and magnesia mixtures which are
often unsuitable. Soldiers at the front and
travellers who are frequently obliged to take
hasty meals poorly prepared should always
take two or three five-grain tablets of
bisurated magnesia after meals to prevent
fermentation and neutralise the acid. — Advt.
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE-
MOET ®. CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FESO (Si CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
SINCE 1679.
SINCE 1679.
HAIG » HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, July 17, 1916.
My Deak Akini, —
In the grey morning of July 14 a patient
crowd dug its heels into the sodden ground at
Moore Park. Then lifting clouds let a ray of
winter sunshine flash on the bayonets of a
long line of khaki. To the superstitious this
was a happy omen. It was France’s day
out. Consul-General Chayet and every
French resident who could get away from
shop or office slipped out to see Australians
salute the flag of Joffre, Foch and Petain.
The Strickland lady drove out in the family
chaise, and the younger .daughter’s followed
mamma in a car. Politicians and their
wives surged into a specially-protected pre-
serve. The Red Cross sent along its chief
official samples, and military nurses’ red
capes flapped like flags in the enclosed area.
Commandant Ramaciotti, V.D., ambled up
and down the lines on a serious black nag.
Then Chief Justice Cullen, on foot, did his
tour of inspection before taking the salute in
lieu of the Governor, who was not yet back
from Broken Hill. The temporary Excel-
lency, who is suspected of drilling by moon-
light, stepped out at such a brisk pace that
a subdued staff had to put its best foot
forward. After that, with the soldierly figure
of General Finn in the rear, he pinned the
D.C.M. on the tunic of Corporal Tallon, late
of Lonesome Pine. When our boys swung
into fine for the march past, the obliging
sun turned their gorgeous silken battalion
colors into shimmering folds of purple, green
and white and gold. Australian women who
gave these costly flags thrilled with pride as
they saw them in the hazy morn in Moore
Park.
Melba’s appeal for a field hospital for our
brilliant Russian allies is certain to succeed.
This public, as you have noticed, is in fine
training. It looks for a collection-box as
a cabhorse for its nosebag. But there’s a
little misunderstanding about Francois. We
are not yet finished with the National Day.
The French refused to shake cash-boxes on
a day dedicated to the memory of their
heroic dead. So Sydney is still waiting the
call to contribute to the French League of
Help.
The French concert in the Town Hall was
a scintillating climax of the National Day.
It was a brilliant affair, with a disappointed
crowd turned away after a disgusted look at
“house-full” notices. Foreign Consuls scram-
bled early into position—with Chayet mod-
estly seated on the far edge of the official
line', and Neville Mayman, as master of
ceremonies, dashing about to steer Person-
ages through the crowd. Then the Cullens,
with General Finn’s red coat in attendance,
wormed their way through the crush. Miss
Soubeiran, a proud Frencli-Leaguer, sat near
by. Mrs. J. C. Williamson got her party
intact through a long line of knees and shoe-
leather. But some of the hurdles were hard
to pass. A large lady with a jet fender on
her brow was occasionally trodden on by
late comers, but took it in such good part
that there were no back answers.
On the platform, under the tricolor decora-
tions, the Conservatorium Choir backed up
Albert Goossens in tlie “Marseillaise.” But
the Belgian singer, having just had news
of his brother’s death in action, sang like
a man stunned. The choir, dull and
cold, failed to stir the public pulse
in this usually-electric chant of freedom.
But there were some brilliant musical
fireworks. Yvonne Cliarvin at the piano
had Verbrugghen and his fiddlers to
help her shake up the echoes. Mar-
garet Jewell, a pure-voiced soprano, and
fiddler Selinsky (these two were lent by the
Tivoli) were stars of the show. And Carrie
Lanceley. in Oriental silk jape over a saucy
white glace skirt,, was another.
Like a phantom ship drifting to a dream
shore a white barque is afloat in several
Hilder pictures. But sometimes the sea is
sapphire blue; at others it is pearl and ame-
thyst under a soft evening sky; or it is the
green of shoal-water. A lazy sail, half-
furled, hangs round the foremast of this ship
o’ dreams. Miss Frank Payne, of Brisbane,
lent “The Beacon” (1915), and with it a
turquoise sea rippling against the lean white
hull.
Baldwin Spencer heads a long list of
owners who lent samples to the Society of
Artists’ Hilder show, organised by Julian
Ashton, Gruner, Lionel Lindsay and Sid Ure
Smith. The medical profession evidently
found a tonic in these exquisite fantasies.
Dr. G. C. Abbott, Dr. S. A. Smith. Dr.
Moffitt (Goulburn) and Dr. S. A. Ewing
(Melbourne) have been consistent buyers of
the late water-colorist’s work. Just now the
public can see these gems for the trouble of
climbing the Society’s corkscrew stairs.
“Morning at Dora Creek,” a product of
Ililder’s more mature genius, was bought for
£26. The insurance people value it at 50
guineas. A possible £lOOO went into poor
Iliider’s pockets for the whole lot—about
200 canvases. Their present value, as they
hang in the Ashton eyrie, is £5OOO at the
lowest estimate. There was a packed-
herring crowd at the show on opening day ;
and noses were soon buried in the Hilder
Book, which sold out at ss. a copy.
They tell me that the farewell given by
the old boys of Sydney Grammar School
to headmaster Sloman and the welcome to
old boys back from the war was a great
night. Edmund Barton, who was captain
of the school in 1563 and ’64, presided and
talked as well as he usually does. Harley
McLaughlin brought a party of the lads of
the village, and Malcolm McEachern
directed the music programme. Following
Mr. Sloman’s English way of speaking, refined
to attenuation, the direct Australian speech
of Major Harry Clayton was like the air of
the bush after the atmosphere of a boudoir.
The Major is young enough to be a sub-
lieutenant, and has done more than his bit
at Gallipoli. He is to marry Doris Buckland
very soon; so the luck that carried him
through Gallipoli sticks to him.
Herewith a pic-
ture of Ruth
Bedford, daughter
of Mr. Percival
Bedford, manager
of the Permanent
Trustee Company,
and granddaughter
of the late Chief
Justice Alfred
Stephen. I’ve told
you already of her
colloboration with
Miss Mackellar in
“Little Blue Devil”
and “Two’s Com-
pany.” But by
“Goldenlocks,” a
most delightful
book of child-life
verses, she will be
best remembered by many. Memory of
the delicious infant moralising makes the
lover of Australian literature hope she will
rove some more in that child’s garden.
Women who carelessly remarked “Let us
have tea at Farmer’s” the other afternoon
wondered what had happened to them.
Caught in the madding crowd they were
bustled into lifts and swept to an upper
chamber. When hats were adjusted and the
company recovered its equanimity, the cause
was in sight. Melba was giving a July 14
tea-party on the premises, and the voice of
Goossens melted away over the French colors.
The Women Painters’ Sketch Club is
showing its wares in the Education Palace.
Betty Solomons, a clever student, is amongst
the best exhibitors. A Sydney woman, Miss
F. A. Fuller, who has been “hung” in the
Royal Academy, shows some strong work in
a small Dutch boy’s head —a reminiscence of
wanderings in Java. Laura Booth, Mrs.
Hedley Parsons, and Miriam Phillips ex-
hibit. ' Woy Woy mosquitoes apparently
behaved like gentlemen when the Sketch
Club loaned a local cot ana took its easels
out walking. So there’s a rose-colored glow
over “Evening at Woy Woy” that makes it
look like a seraphic pink icecream melting
behind the bush. Mabel Barling couldn’t
find any tigers thereabouts, so she rounded
up a lean and pensive cow and painted its
depressions. About the boldest bit of color
on the mulberry walls is from the brush of
Miss Slade.
Professor Gilbert Murray, a brother of
the Papuan Chief, recently took a lecture
trip to Sweden. On his arrival he was met
by neutral officials who inquired affably if
he meant to say anything about the war.
The Oxford don admitted that he might.
Then Scandinavia took fright, and the Aus-
tralian was warned to stick to battles in
Greece, B.c. Even the elusive Constantine
wouldn’t mind that. But this happened
long weeks ago, before the Swedes had read
about Jutland and the Great Drives.
A Sydney man who left in the same boat
says that Rider was not Haggard in spite
of the fiendish weather. The novelist struck
a record bad trip to Maoriland. After six
days out from this port to Auckland, they
heaved into Hauraki Gulf. Rider’s troubles
then began. Every hour had been mapped
out, and the delay meant altering the whole
itinerary at the last moment. Haggard, by
the way, before he left Sydney told
us a vivid story or two of his old
friend, the late Lady Dorothy Nevill.
On one occasion, when Edward was King,
the lively youngster, then about 70, met the
novelist in London. Mutual inquiries elicited
from the former that she had just returned
from a week-end at Sandringham. “But,”
said she, “I think I must give up this
modern notion of week-ending. At Sand-
ringham, for instance, they eat poached eggs
at afternoon tea, and there’s no royal road
to my digestion. I must follow my King in
lighter diet.”
Extra accommodation for soldiers with
lung trouble is being added to Boddington,
the Wentworth Falls home under Red Cross
management. On July 14 there was a cafe
chantant at the Cairo for the fund. Already
there is a roomy main building and some
airy “huts” on the fresh-air system. A
beautiful bushy woodland is included in this
mountain haven.
Tom Higgins, eldest son of late well-
known squatter Robert, is now a sergeant in
the A.I.F. A son of his was killed in Gal-
lipoli. A younger boy, being only 15, is
not available, so father is going to see what
lie can do. What he can do is likely to be
useful. He was a famous footballer in the
days when old King’s School ran away
with premierships, and he is still not past
the prime of life. Interests in a Queensland
station will keep themselves warm till vic-
tory shakes her pennons in France.
Muriel, the blue-eyed eldest daughter of
Captain and Mrs. Arthur Tower, has given
a satisfactory answer to Norman Walker.
He is a son of the late Herbert Travers
Walker, of Dunrobin station, Queensland.
The engagement holds Muriel at home while
the young man moves to the Front.
The Mosman V.A.D.’s, with Miss Evans
as O.C. in the original Anzac Buffet —the
one where the Kangaroo doesn’t get frozen
—are likely to be homeless about the end
of July. The ancient Education Building
which they have been occupying is then to
be pulled down. On its debris will be
erected a palatial depot for Government
pumpkin experts. Win the war first? Who
mentioned such things when there are voters
to be fed and Ministerial jobs to be kept?
The Amelioration Committee, now in the
same shop, also moves on next month. Its
address will then be Challis House.
At the movies last week the Globe showed
Australian Light Horse, with General Jack
Antill in command, doing stirring deeds
With pick and shovel in the desert. There
was so much sand that agitated comforts
fund dames in the audience longed for the
garden-hose. Later an R.A.G.A. officer dashed
across the film on a big black nag and a
camel corps got the hump and sulked in the
offing.
A Queensland man, Victor Jones, 8.A.. of
Maryborough Grammar School, plucked a
Chatswood bud last week. The girl is a
daughter of the late Dr. Harricks. White
drapery festooned with Brussels lace floated
around the bridal finery. The wedding was
in the maternal nest, where bridesmaidens
Enid Harricks and Elsa Jones made a pale-
pink background.
Another Chatswood girl is going to try the
vacuum cleaner in a home of her own. She’s
Eileen Hattersley, who met G. L. Davenport
at St. James’s altar-rail on Saturday even-
ing. The choir boys chirped, and J. Cruick-
shank warbled “Love’s Coronation,” while the
wedding guests streamed into pews abloom
with lilies and palms. The graceful bride
trailed snowy garments veiled in clouds of old
lace (the more ancient the better), and said
“I will” in a mist of Honiton gossamer. The
’groom had previously handed his girl some
diamonds as a souvenir of the day. Supper
at the Carlton.
This little por-
trait is a Judith
Fletcher present-
ment of Dorothea
Mackellar, only
daughter of Dr.
Charles Mackellar.
Some few years
since the tied Page
man of that time,
when reviewing her
first book of
poems, described
them as “opal-
hearted verse,” and
considered the
writer “the most
i m port an t dis-
covery of recent
years.” A second
volume. “W itch
Maid and Other Verses.” lately published,
sustains the girl’s reputation for holding a
delicately-attuned ear to the heart of nature.
Miss Mackellar is an Australian, and her
passionate patriotism was finely sung in
“My Country.” Two novels, “The Little
Blue Devil” and “Two’s Company,” written
in collaboration with Ruth Bedford, also
stand to Miss Mackellar’s credit. She has
travelled extensively, is a notable linguist,
and at present lives on a station home in
the land whose color and warmth Mow so
vividly through her verses.
The artists are breaking info bloom along-
side the snowdrops and early freezias. The
show of J. S. Watkins’s brushwork, opened
by surgeon Maitland, is still on view in
Anthony Horderns’ gallery. In portrait
studies Watkins has never beaten his best —
the heavily-whiskered smile of Sydney’s ohl
Kretsclimann, which hangs in the Art Gal-
lery. He varies so much that it’s a far cry
from the elusive delicacy of his smaller water-
colors to the wooden effect achieved on those
yards of canvas called “The Doll.” This is
the Avorst of the big consignment on view,
with “Une Cliarmante Soiree” as runner-up.
In the latter a plump young woman is
snatching forty winks on a couch overloaded
with household drapery. Every detail except
the lady’s hairpins is catalogued. Yet Wat-
kins, when he likes, can charm.
Do you remember Ethel Pedley, who used
to be the late Miss Woolley’s partner in the
Saint Cecilia choir? The Sydney woman left
a memorial in the shape of a fairy-story.
“Dot and the Kangaroo” was too Australian
then to be a financial boom. But it’s a
steady seller of late years. Now Grace Staf-
ford means to turn it into a little play for
her pupils. Results go to the Soldiers’ Wives’
Small Loan Fund after the show on August
12. Dr. Mary Booth mothers this centre.
Sydney women who sat at the feet of Mrs.
Annie Besant when she last lectured here
were slightly shocked by the High Priestess’s
frowsy draperies. The spooky lady with the
massive brain was singularly careless about
washing-day. Pale-drab shades in alleged-
white dressing-gown styles, and a down-at-
the-heel expression about her feet, were a
bitter disappointment to the fastidious. Now
that the good lady is forbidden to throw
another log on the world’s bonfire she may
have a spring-cleaning outside the Bombay
Presidency, which she isn’t permitted to enter.
Evie Cunningham, a Manly girl, was re-
cently wed in England to Henry Delabene
Keown, of the Chinese consular service. They
began housekeeping in London.
The Boys’ Brigade had its 34tli annual
meeting the other day. Cullen, C.J., took
the armchair. There are 1700 urchins on
the Brigade list, and amongst the many ex-
members in khaki two already have their
names amongst the “killed in action.” F.
Winchcombe. M.L.C., backed up the presi-
dent’s appeal for help. Gone are the days
of the “push” battles which, when the Bri-
gade met in its old Kent-street loft, made the
adjacent Rocks a blue-metal stadium. In
tliftse far-off days, however, hostilities were
always suspended when “Mister Jersey”
(who often passed the pickles to his young
friends at Government House) appeared on
the scene. Miss Milner Stephen presides
nowadays over the women’s committee.
At last Josephine Cohan has been re-
leased and the hacking cough is still. Fred
Niblo, most devoted of husbands, had often
to carry his wife upstairs—if stairs led to
her dressing-room—after a scene in which
Josephine had exhausted herself. Once,
when the end seemed near, she fled to the
States to kiss a son at West Point. But
the voyage revived her, and she came back
to continue the life-and-death struggle and
play her parts in Cohan-Niblo specialties.
About eight years ago a daughter of Wash-
ington Soul.’s was severely burnt while glove-
cleaning near a light. ' Her parents, then in
England, were cabled for, and arrived to find
the sufferer just alive. For eight long years
there hadn’t been much change, till a sudden
recovery the other week amazed her relatives.
Now father takes his daughter, who looks as
well as she ever did, for a trip to Thursday
Island. It’s considered a minor miracle.
A tall Tasmanian girl, Mjss Radcliffe, who
went through the massage course at Sydney
’Varsity, left for the Front a while ago.
Lately she has been rubbing our soldiers in a
London hospital—till, spinning along to duty
on her bike, she collided with a milk-cart and
was picked up unconscious and carried into
the very haven for which she was bound.
A Maoriland cousin emerges from the
storm collar of her new fur coat to murmur
of the pre-nuptial reception of a recent
Southland bride, where the trousseau of
frothy transparencies and beribboned
embroideries were draped over the pictures
in dining-room and drawing-room. Such a
splendid idea! You can look at a painting
any day, but crepe-de-cliine nighties with
embroidered trains are the event of a life-
time. Is the volcanic nature of the island
or a feminine contempt of the war-economy
policy responsible?
In boots, the white-topped variety have
been piebald since the showery weather
started, and the fur-topped species get a
lank, pussy effect in murky weather. Short
skirts are so generally worn now that even
grandmothers are back to their flapper days.
Heaven send that the fad may not ascend
to kilts for plump matrons!
Still more buttons—but not for the work-
basket. This tifftie for the Kindergarten
Union. Demure young schoolmarms are
already bringing up reserves for an attack on
August 1.
Yours affectionately.
VANDORIAN.


‘CHUNDER”
TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
'• T? JJs 7-‘',y-' osSf 0 sSf
■' -i ■#*&?
ssc
c*3P
\\, vvwy
3M*
g®
; : ■:
kbs
;..%V^
§i®«
\
Wos}4M
m
mm
m
\
Sj..
®£n
t;.* *l %- %
s
\\ X ""''WSM
'i
§-Wg;.f<4 ?:
iii
1 > l
%•!!
■
mm
mm
mm
%M
mmi
;
mm
mmm
.q£s.i #
sKBJI
x-
*»
umimm
Mi /
si t f
SSir-is
V .^SsSa
*V' !
v>
Rfa
smm
Ay, \\ ■ rm
I^C*
IW,
$541
$; fe*
-X\.\%-!i
f i , v >v v% • ■ v:v
A > t*£<V XV V >JL Jt
* ?iC m
\ l‘ w ■■> -
.Ml
Cu " * v’v&it
Ml
&
ft §
as
-Vx'
I \
>u
m
x.t
iw
'■aa^s
i
l \
m&
*»,; V
Hli
>•
i
.
£-*. '<3
Ef v®o
RfliSsfltt
Pi. a\<V. %. X-, ->4 •
; ;“!■% AX ’ c;V, A. ;s£\
'myx m m ?Mh
mm
%/
Aim?Wo&
. 2 x ;
rc
<
V'Xi? * M
IX
S' a
1-m ,W^»^
8H
J
’ : ‘tsl,^
;;::V -vv : V % s••>■, > ; •?,.; .
' ■ * /
••■-i s
vz*&
mm
wpr* i-.
wx/' ta|
WMMM
mm
t \ ,\m ~ \
* mm. y/K \ \~Km'
&S&
jsS
® ■
-Srs^
SV-;:
ms -0m it
Q . Mil
:•* “■%•' /
Sf:k%^'-'fe.^xsV
; * /
"MMMy
mmm
§pBi®
/
/ /
«
:v-
-&W1
w
m
sSSj:
Sii
-
W-- V 'V® \ '\
ss ?
■
...<S?
M
[
♦'S
s*s#&
Si
?S5!
99
9
15he Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Loves to see his
Merry crew
Playing- jolly
Sailor pranks.
Down comes Bear
Upon the planks !
When he mbs his
Sleepy eyes
And sees foxie
Looking wise,
There’s a “COBRA’
Chase, you know,
Up and round and
Down below!


Chamois Leather Vests
HAVE PROVED INVALUABLE
UNDER SERVICE CONDITIONS.
Numerous letters of appreciation have reached us
testifying to their usefulness. Not only do they
afford protection from sudden climatic change!, but
are washable and practically vermin-proof.
They are specially fashioned to give double protec-
tion over the chest, and complete cover up to the
neck.
Each garment is cut and finished in Farmer's best
style, and has Wool Lining. We undertake to
despatch them to any address at the Front.
Orders booked in the
DEPARTMENT
Also supplied with extra-heavy, all-wool lining,
at the Front.
27/6
FARMER'S
Pitt, Market
and
George Streets ,
SYDNEY.
*• JS-
v.
Belle Vue Hotel
Reconstructed. BRISBANE.
Electric Lift. Perfect Sanitary Arrangements.
Ineonrvirable Position. Easterly Aspect.
Overlooking Botanical Gardens.
______ MRS. A. FTNNIGAN, Proprietress.
AZ
ns s**m
m
~*m
NoTyreTroubles
for Months!
Is the happy experience
of thousands of Motorists
who have their cars
shod with Australian-made
DUNIOP
TYRES
The great strength, fine
quality and extra care
taken in their manufacture
—in addition to the fact
that every “Dunlop” is
specially made to with-
stand hard work on our
rough roads—is the reason
these reliable tryes always
give superior service—
furthermore the first cost
of “Dunlops” is less than
the imported article—
whilst their running cost is
infinitely more economical.
Always use “Dunlops,” it pays!
• *»
OBTAINABLE ALL GARAGES.
Illustrated List on Application.
DUKLOP RUBBER CO.
{Founders of the Pneumatic Tyre Industry)
Melbourne
Brisbane
Sydney
Christchurch
Adelaide
Wellington
Perth
Launceston
i
m
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, July 17, 1916.
My Dear Yarrie, —
On Friday Mother Nature was good to
the Button girls, and sent some sunshine to
warm their noses for the glory and profit of
France. These winter festivals usually pro-
duce a crop of richly-tinted beaks. Then
the experienced head-collectors complain,
"How can the girls get men to buy if their
noses are blue?” And the girls wave use-
less powder-puffs and echo "Hon: On
Friday they came out in all sorts of queer
head-dresses, with much red, white and blue
in the short skirts. One gay vivandiere,
.15 not out, wore her skirts above her knees
and had her black tresses curled and hanging-
loose. Street corners were made impossible
for citizens in a hurry, and the Block rang
with howls and wails —the howls being con-
tributed by well-intentioned theatricals, and
the wails by lost children.
On Wednesday the Alliance Frangaise
gave an All French concert in the Masonic
Hall. The songs were French and the
playlet too, and I suppose a fair propor-
tion of the very expensive house understood
a little of the dialogue. However, the wise
managers of the show provided a transla-
tion. The Stanley dame had a big comfy
draught-proof chair, and she was _ buried
warmly in its depths and in her Chinchilla
furs. Only the soft puffs of her hair were
visible from where I roosted coldly on cane.
The poor, overworked genthelp Conaut
bravely sat through his 978th function. The
Gaud Mayor beamed in the same circle,
bought the whole tray of sweets proffered
by Marie de Bavay, aud gallantly handed
them round the well-fed crowd, while
I whistled and waved in vain. The
Hennessy dame, muffled in a cloak of
black and gold velvet scrolls, simply exuded
French culture, because she likes to and
people expect it of her as President of the
Alliance. If you haven’t the remotest idea
how to ask the gardener for the pen of
your uncle, ring her up.
Evelyn Scotney and husband Howard-White
sang for the glory of France. She wore one
of her most fetching frocks- a Dresden
Shepherdess affair of panniered blue silk
and pink roses. Mrs. Albertine Gay, draped
in the Tricolor, sang the electrifying Mar-
seillaise, and Bollard carolled tender little
French songs. Everybody chose something
from “Mignon” as a compliment to the
opera of the week.
The beautiful Rene Vanderkelen was the
hero of the playlet. Mr. and Mrs. Gay
were in the cast; also Mrs. Levey and Miss
Boisgard. Another of the players was
Jessie Masson, the Professor’s daughter,
who wrote up the social life of the Northern
Territory.
There were concerts in aid of the French
fund every night last week. The series
began with a tremendous show of fur and
diamonds on Monday night in the Town
Hall. Governor Stanley was there, I know,
for I saw the top of his head protruding out
of a huge brown-leather chair. The llen-
nessy dame wore roses of coral in her black
hair. I could see only the head decorations,
because the large chairs provided for the
first line were practically draught-proof, like
old-fashioned fireside settles. There were
radiators for their toes, too. A semi-
circle of consular people on ordinary cane
seats hedged in the first row. It looked
like a native corfoboree—-men next the fire,
gins behind. We, the ordinary audience,
were the dogs.
Mrs. Mellor, an Australian-born French-
woman, who has een in Nice, and is visiting
here, sang charmingly at one concert
of the week in a Parisian-cut pink
dress which was crushed in the travel-
ling. She held a small fan, or a twisted,
paper, in front of her when singing-—a
queer, nervous mannerism. When you Shut
your eyes and forgot the fan and the
crumpled dress, you found that the singing
was very round and sweet. Another particu-
lar success was Irma Caron, the little girl
with the large voice. She sang a delightful
bit of “Madame Butterfly” in a kimono, and
was Margherite in the final trio from
“Faust,” which closed the programme.
Goldspink was the tenor and Fred Collier
the Mephisto.
The Town Hall has never been quite so
gay as it was on the last day- of French
week, when Jenny Brenan’s pupils danced,
bands played, and heroic women more or
less disguised as French peasants marketed
various urinecessaries. Mrs. Gay did a large
trade in potato chips and French salads;
University women students, with caps awry,
sold tobacco at their kiosk ; and a couple of
Baillieux played at being villagers who were
getting married. Governor Stanley and his
dame did all their week-end shopping at the
Town Hall market, so Toorak hustled with
Collingwood in doing likewise.
The French Red Cross in Melbourne
cabled £lO,OOO to Paris on Thursday—just
a week behind the previous tidy £5OOO. And
this was before Friday put £7400 in the
bank, with more to follow.
The G.-G. couple had bad weather during
their visit to the West. They met a
southerly buster in the Bight., and Buster
liked their company so well that they never
really lost him. The potentate (some day
I’ll write “potato” by mistake) grabbed the
rail and fold the wind-blown steward or
somebody that they expect the East-West
Transcontinental to be finished in nine
months. Lady Helen had something to say
about the Red Cross at Albany, where she
was presented with two motor-ambulances
by the employees of Bell’s. The women of
Perth, Albany and the Goldfields yearned to
gaze at her frocks; but she went every-
where muffled to the eyes in furs. My
Westralian agent translated her chilly
expression thus : “Is this the glorious winter
climate the Barrens promised me!”
Genthelp Kerr Pearse. who used to do the
Westralian rounds, arrived a week in ad-
vance of his chief and billed the town.
Premier Scaddan and his wife met the vice-
regal mission at Albany, steered them
everywhere, and never left them till they
were on the gangway on the homeward roll.
The John Forrest pair were well forward
in the entertaining, and Mayor Roe, of
Perth, and his wife were never far away.
Wealthy young widow Ilackett led the
French Red Cross meeting in Perth when
Lady Helen was guest-in-chief. The Barron
dame is deeply interested in all work that
helps girls in the city, so the visitors had
to see all her hobby classes and reform
homes. Perth’s first social line sometimes
gets rather worried about Lady Barron; she
appears to think that working girls and
working women are persons of some
importance. The local society Dreadnoughts
roll at their moorings whenever they think
of it.
Cousin Adelaide’s semaphore waves its
arms :
With many Australians in France, and more in
England for final training, there is a steady drift of
officers' wives to London. Amongst the latest depar-
tures are Mrs. H. A. Powell, whose doctor-husband
has been in the thick of things since the Gallipoli
days ; and Mrs. Reg. Rudall, who married one of our
Rhodes Scholars.
Australia Day arrangements are being nailed
together, and the name of the leading Queen is duly
notified at noon each day. So far, the Queen of
Children (Miss d’Erlanger), the Queen of Transport
(Mrs. Goodman),, and the Queen of Commerce (Mi's.
Yasey) have successively led the field, and the tup-
pences for votes pour in, which is the main thing. There
will be no cheap view of the procession this year, the
Australia Day committee having got control of most
of the balconies along the route. Premier Vaughan
lias announced his intention of descending with a
firm and restraining hand on art unions unless the
prize really is a statue or something such. Now
committees everywhere are Searching feverishly for
patriots who have more pictures and statues than
they can conveniently do with. Later on they'd!
have to hunt for more patriots to buy tickets. The
very best baits are fur coats, silk stockings and
other beautiful things.
Lieutenant Alan Morey, who was badly injured in
a flying smash in England, is reported to be improv-
ing steadily, though recovery is likely to be a long
process. He was one of the Rhodes Scholars who
arrived in England just about the time war broke
out, and he enlisted .promptly.
Died at North Adelaide on Saturday, W. 11. Watts,
the only surviving soil of the late Captain John
Watts, this State’s first Postmaster-General.
There is to be a Naval, Military and Red Cross
Exhibition in October, with the Galways patronising.
Sergeant-Major J. J. Chamberlain has been fare-
welled by his fellow pressmen, and given a luminous
wristlet-watth to see what time the charge starts.
Artist Will Ashton has been elected to the hang-
ing and selecting committee of the Royal Institute of
Oil Painters. Ilis picture.that was hung on the line
at the Academy is to go to Bristol.
• The G.-G. couple put in most of Wednesday here
on their way back from Westralia. On the same day
his Ex. Strickland, of N. S. Wales, arrived from
Broken Hill. A dinner at Government House, a trip
to Port Pivie and Iron Knob, a reception, and a
jaunt to the reclaimed land near Murray Bridge,
filled in his week and improved his mind.
Lawyer Ashton, who was found dead in his office
last week, came to S.A. with his father, who was one
of the first of our Bible Christian ministers. He was
articled to the late Judge Boucaut, and for years the
firm was Fleming, Boucaut and Ashton.
This town is getting freckled with club-rooms.
The latest, devoted to the Veterans’ Corps, were
opened by the Minister of Industry oh Saturday.
The statue of explorer Sturt, by Adrian Jones, has
reached Adelaide, and will go up on the edge of
Victoria Square, handy to McDouall Stuart’s. The
Edward VII. statue, though ready, is not to be seen
in Adelaide till the war is over, the committee which
lias the matter in hand declining Co run the risk of
having it torpedoed.
London Morning Post has been throwing bouquets
at our Margaret Macplierson for her picture, “The
Window,” which is on the. line at the Academy. It
says: “For sheer beauty of painting and color there
is nothing by any other woman to equal it.”
The widow of General Bridges wants all
Australia to send a little Christmas present
to the girls who left home to. go and , 11U1S(>
Tommy Anzac. No subscription will he
too small to be welcome, so don't hesitate
and don’t delay, for the gifts will have a long
way to travel. You may send your money
contribution to Miss Glover, Trained Nurses
Club, Lonsdale-street.
Melba has temporarily deserted Melbourne
for Sydney. There is a hint that the singer
is interested in a horse or two engaged at
the next Randwiek meeting.
Willy Kelly must be turning his thoughts
to higher things than politics. lie ana
Judge Johnston escorted a .string of dames to
a recital given last week by the Russian
musicians at the Melba Hall. Lhe pio-
gramme was severely classic, but the pait.\
bore up bravely and Willy didn’t, move the
adjournment.
Gertrude Rennie is leaving the Quamby
Club, the Soldiers’ Rest Home, and various
other cares and hobbies for a few weeks,
while she goes to Brisbane for a holiday.
Old Mrs. Fred Armytage is very ill these
days. The poor lady made a pilgrimage to
Pachenstacher, the German eye-specialist,
just before the war, and while she was away
her husband, the fine old grandfather of the
Victorian clan, died. She never quite recov-
ered from the shock.
Freda Sternberg, the attractive girl who
for the past few years has pushed a facile
pen for various papers, has secured the job
of secretary to Melba, and is trying not to
look proud about it.
There’s orange-blossom news of Norah
Parker, the sprightly little sister of Mrs.
Jack Fisken. who was on the boards here for
;t spell. She has iust been altered in Eng-
land to Eaton. Her husband’s a son of
l.ord Cheylesniore, who wears that family
name.
Mrs. Charlie Ross has come over from
Sydney and is introducing her three young-
est offspring to her native State. Elder son
Clifford is Hying for his country where the
guns are. Charlie Ross struck it rich in
timber some rears back and transplanted
the family to N. S. Wales. When we were
all younger lie played with the first Mel-
bourne eleven. Mrs. Charlie used to be
Hattie Gibson, and many a par. was written
about her voice and her dimples.
East week Fan Dango Maekay gave a
big petticoated luncheon at Menzies’, and the
champagne bubbled amid pink blossoms and
pale-Hlii<‘ satin dressings. After the third
course a few of the best-fed agreed that
we were having too much war and too little
entertaining. But —well, when one of the
women got home again, it was to hear that
a son at the Front had been seriously
wounded.
Mrs. Norman Brookes, having put her
three girl babes under the wing of grandma
Emmerton. has gone to Britain by the U.S.
route to join her husband Norman in Ena
land, where he is engaged serving out Red
Cross pyjamas to Australians.
Pastoralist Robert Blackwood’s young
nephew Miles (he was a lieutenant in the
Seaforth Highlanders) has been killed in
action in France. He was the only son
of Harry Blackwood, and was the only male
Blackwood descendant from the three
squatter brothers —James, Richard and John.
On behalf of the National Council of
Women, titian-haired Maisie Maxwell is
arranging a conversazione that hopes to be
less solemn than most functions in the
Austral Salon. A feature will be several
songs composed by Clifton Boanas, a young
man with a natural gift for melody, in whom
Melba has lately taken a large interest.
Pianist St. Leger is already in camp and
khaki. He has written a patriotic song
which so far is only in manuscript. Soon
tenors and basses in all the right places will
be singing it.
Evelyn Scotney hit a. dress top-note at her
last concert with a butterfly frock. The
insect’s body was packed into her waist in
pearls and crystals, and white tulle frills
stood out sideways. The skirts were
almost knee-high. Her proud United States
husband, who throws his oe-eent at the
audience in speech and song, always
enlarges on the psychology of the items. lie
sings quite nicely, you know, but is always
“Evelyn Scotney’s husband” to the local
concerteers. Evelyn’s father and mother sat
in the front row every concert.
The Ormond Club at the Uni. Conser-
vatoriuni gave a reception to pianist Mabel
Muntz in the Melba Hall on Wednesday.
Afterwards, when tin' crumbs had been
swept up and the tea-caddy put away, the
general public was allowed to fill the hall,
and the returned wanderer gave a recital.
The performance was noticeable for what
must have been, to the Conservatoiiurn
authorities, a painful lack of German music.
A concerto by Rinsky-Karsakov was the
main feature of the programme, but there
was also a series of soul-stirrings by Aren-
sky. Debussy and Cesar Franck. The
audience seemed to be of one mind as to the
excellence of the music and its interpreta-
tion, so it is likely the pianist will
serve starved Melbourne with a few more
recitals, choosing some less wintry spot
nearer the centre of the city.
The opera of the week was dear old
“Mignon,” and the senior opera-haunters
listened reverently to the long stretches of
recitative for the sake of the musical plums
that are sprinkled through the score. The
front stalls, full of white heads and beards,
looked as if snow had fallen while the roof
was open. Old “Mignon,” you must know,
owns the songs that grandpapa quavers if
he can persuade a flapper granddaughter to
accompany him in the evenings.
Tenor Lois haunts the front of the house
every night that he is not singing. His
wife, who is often with him, has wonderful
black eyes, and is given to wearing fine
ospreys in her hair or hat. Lois himself, so
fine on the stage, is almost insignificant off
the boards. He looks shorter and (Help!)
he has a plump lower chest!
All old haunters of the Princess’s Theatre
felt sorry last week when they read that
doorkeeper Fykes had died. He was the
tall, courteous man with the long moustache
who had guarded the dress-circle door of
late, though Melbourne was used to meeting
him as the sentinel of the stalls. The icy
draughts of July gave him pneumonia and
he passed out into the night.
There is a Gilbert and Sullivan suggestion
about a patter song sung by Workman in
"To-night’s the Night.” The ditty started a
Londoner at my elbow talking about the days
when Workman was a G. and S. specialist
and travelled wholly on his voice. "Those
days are over,” said the Londoner judicially.
Workman used to be associated with Cour-
tice Pounds, who still top-notes brilliantly.
Connie Ediss, in “To-night’s the Night,”
is the most convincing she-racketer. The
respectable suburban ladies appear serenely
at breakfast in their ball dresses, and
obviously have not turned a hair, whereas
Connie comes in pale and yawning, with
her hair slightly out of plumb and her
yellow and pale-pink costume shrieking a
painful color discord. As every woman
knows, yellow and pink are not the same by
candle and in daylight. And yet we always
choose them in the special electric-lit show-
rooms of the big chiffon stores!
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


Botn 1820—
'Still going strong.
jm
at
V x %
I\V
f >
, M
A.
a
:
/2
VCI
ss>
/r
5?
&S
vy
&
%r
/
*t
iL-~
/
'
"U
l 2
S
■
y/
‘ln,
£
*7*
A*j
»K
■vr*
I
2
u;
*
I
A'O'*
J»
/
£?
«
mv
(s£*£■ j
ft.
W''
"M
ih
V
Johnnie Walker: “Well, how are you fellows from ‘"down under*?”
Anzac; “Fine! We're helping to put the Empire where you are.”
Johnnie Walker : “ Where's that ? ”
Anzac : “On top.”
/
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, SCOTLAND.


a
Sy ** Kat-ar-ah” Treatment
the Hose and Throat are
treated effectively with
Medicated Oxy&en inhaled
direct to the afflicted mem-
branes.
" fCat-ar.ah ** Treatment
has a direct influence upon
the catarrhal poisons of
the body and conquers the
disease by removing the
cause.
Are You a Victim of
CATARRH!
You know what Catarrh is, with its humiliating and discomfort-
ing symptoms.
A slight cold develops into a stubborn and protracted one, while
the discharges from the nose are most offensive and annoying.
As the inflammation extends further up into the head and the
delicate mechanism of the ear is attacked, there is a continual
buzzing and ringing in the ears, and frequently the hearing is
partially or totally lost. Headaches are almost constant, with
sometimes acute pains in the eyes, and the nose becomes so
plugged up that the patient must breathe through the mouth,
while the slimy secretions are forced back into the throat,
requiring almost continual hawking and spitting to dislodge them.
At certain stages of the disease the odor of the breath becomes
very bad, to the mortification and embarrassment of the sufferers,
and the disgust of all who come near them. Gradually the
mucous discharge finds its way into the internal organs, and a
most miserable form of Dyspepsia, or Catarrh of the Stomach, is
the inevitable consequence. The blood becomes contaminated by
catarrhal poisons and unhealthy matter, and these are
distributed through the body.
Catarrh is then a deep-seated, dangerous, constitutional or
systemic disease, and its effect upon the general health and
system is soon apparent —appetite and strength are gone, weight
is lost, despondency takes the place of confidence, and the disease
frequently settles in some vital organ or terminates in Bronchitis,
Asthma, Neuritis, or dread Consumption.
Trial Bottle ot
“Kat-ar-ah” Inhalant
FREE.
I want all who are afflicted with Catarrh to try a sample bottle of “Kat-
ar-ah ” Inhalant at my expense. It is a synthetic compound of certain
valuable medicaments, and is supremely beneficial in *ts influence on the
mucous membrane. It has a distinctly soothing, healing and aero-sanative
effect, sufficient to disintegrate and dislodge the slimy mucous accumulations.
“Kat-ar-ah” is first aid to Catarrh sufferers. Its healing effects are
simply marvellous. You can notice an improvement immediately after
beginning its use. It quickly takes up its work of killing the disease
germs, of minimising and eventually stopping the discomforting mucous
discharges in ihe nose and throat —mucous that is finding its way into
your stomach and poisoning your system.
I will supply you with a Trial Bottle of “Kat-ar-ah ” Inhalant FREE OF
CHARGE, if you will send me your full name and address, together with
3d. in stain.)B to cover cost of postage. Write address plainly, state
whether Mr., Mrs., or Miss, and be sure to mention this paper. Send
for your bottle NOW.
HERBERT HERDER, 22 Daking House, Sydney.
*9*
I
r/J »V
A tin of my very own
-r-and it’s that lovely
&
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Autumn.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f HE swallows gather in the sky
And wheel and turn on tireless wings ;
Belated bees are droning by,
A song-thrush in the garden sings ;
The last red apple from the tree
I pick —last year you picked with me!
I gaze upon the orchard trees;
The yellow leaves are falling fast,
And carried by the sighing breeze
In mimic whirlwinds scurry past;
And as about my feet they dance
I think of you in far, far France!
The soft, white morning mists arise
In wraiths about me as I walk —
Oh! Is it these which dim my eyes,
Catch in my throat when I would talk?
Is that a tear or drop of dew
Rests on my cheek at thought of you?
At midday when the sun is bright,
The air is clear, the sky is blue.
What is it then which veils my sight,
Catches my voice at thought of you?
Is it my pride, or is it fear ?.
Last Autumn you were with me here!
TASMANIA.
H. W. STEWART.
“One for Sorrer.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I DON’T ’old with superstitions. As I’m
always telling the missus, they destroy
your peace o’ mind. But she won’t ’ave
it. Though, mind you (only for the love o’
Mike don’t let it get back to ’er), when you
see some of ’em keep coming true you can’t
’elp thinking there’s something in ’em. Birds
’as always got a speshul meaning for ’er, an’
I’ve seen ’er count ’em that often an’ say:
One for sorrer,
Two for mirth,
Three’s a disappointment
Four’s a birth —
that I got into a way o’ believing it. The
other morning I spots a mina trying to
swallow a worm. Up it comes in me mind :
“One for sorrer”; but I says to meself, “The
worm’s ’aving the sorrer,’ ’an’ forgets all
about it. Still, when I’m ’ome that night I
knows there’s something np the way the
missus was fussing round me ’sif tve wasn’t
married.
“What’s wrong?” I asks. “Lost me lodge
money?”
“No, dear, o’ course not,” she says, inner-
cent as you like. Then, after a bit:
“I ’ad a letter from Peter to-day, Alfie.”
Peter’s ’er brother what’s supposed to
’ave been in Sydney for ’is ’ealth. ’E might
’ave been up along the Sydney road, but it
wasn’t much past Coburg. Leas’, that’s my
idea; but, o’ course, I might be prejudiced.
“Oh,” I says, “ ’ow much is ’e asking for?”
“ ’Ow much what.'” says the missus try-
ing to look surprised.
“Well, it wouldn’t be work.”
“Oh, you’re ’ard on Peter,” she says. “’E
knows what work is all right.”
“Yes, I s’pose ’e’s seen plenty of it done,”
I says. “What’s ’e say in ’is letter?”
“’E says ’e’ll be staying in Melbourne
for a few days, an’ could we put ’im up? ’E
inquires ’ow you’re vetting on—you know
’e’s very attached to you?” she says, soothin’.
“Well, if ’e ain’t attached to me yet, e’
soon will be. When does ’is ’igliness arrive?”
“ ’E says ’e’ll most likely be ’ere to-night.”
“Just nice time to make up me mind I’ll
’ave to put up with ’im,” I says; an’ seeing
as ’ow me staying might lead to ’ard words, I
goes round to Johnny Cameron’s for a game
o’ snooker, an’ forgets all ab.out Peter. Peter
’adn’t forgot about me, though, so when I
gets ’ome at ten o’clock ’e’s sitting back in
me easy chair, wearing me running shoes
and trying to get along with one o’ the
cigars I won at the euchre party.
“ ’Ullo, Alfred,” ’e says, flinging it, only
’alf-smqked, the fire. “Pretty cheap
cigars you smolfe. Got any cigarettes on
you?”
“Yes,” I says, “an’ I got sense with ’em.”
“Now don’t get shirty,” ’e sniggers. “I
suppose you lost a few bob to-night.”
“On the other ’and,” I says, on me dig-
nity, “I won a bit.”
“That’s good,” ’e says.
“It is. I’ll need it. When did you say
you was going back?”
“I’ve asked Peter to stav with us a fort-
night,” puts in the missus.
“A fortnight! I ’ope I enjoy myself,” I
chips in.
“Oh, yes. We’ll be a ’appy family, I’m
sure,” she says, trying to look at me an’
Peter all at once. “But you must be tired,
Peter. You better go off to bed —you know
the little room.”
“What!” I says to-’er. “You ain’t very
’ospitable. You might ’ave give Peter our
room an’ made ’im at ’ome. Good-night,
Peter!” I says. “What time do you like
your shaving water?”
Peter makes some remark, but I knocks
over a chair so’s I wouldn’t ’ear ’im, and
goes to bed.
On the way to work in the morning I sees
that mina again as large as life, an’ blowed
if ’is old dutch isn’t with ’im. “Two for
mirth,” I says, an’ feels as ’appy as larry all
day. "Peter’ll be gone,” I thinks, “or ’ave
been taken away in the amberlance or some-
thing.” So I knocks off ’alf an ’our earlier
and rushes ’ome. ’Anged if there ain’t thi’ee
jackasses laffin’ ’s if they knew what’s in
store for me. “Three’s a dissa—blast it!”
I groans, and goes in to find Peter with as
much move in ’im as the wallpaper.
For a week I puts up witn ’im. He shares
everything I ’as two of, and what there’s
only one of ’e just borrers.
We’n’sday morning I’m getting ready for
toil an’ trying not to ban?- things about an’
wake ’im so’s u.e missus’d notice it. an’ I
looks out the winder. Blow me. if there
wasn’t one —two —three—four birds on the
fence. “Four’s a birth !” —an’ then it strikes
me. ‘‘An idea !” I shouts. “I’ve give birth
to an idea!”
“If your idea’s a new way o’ rousin’ people
in the morning, Alf, it’s a great success,”
Peter'calls out.
“Sorry, Peter! But the day after to-
morrer’s Friday.”
“Well, what if’t is?” he gruuts, an’ turns
over.
“But Friday’s pay-day,” I sings out.
“Don’t get you,” ’e calls back. “P’raps
I ain’t quite awake.”
“But me an’ you’ll ’ave a night out Fri-
day,” I whispers. “An’ at my expense.” ’E
takes one spring out o’ bed into ’is trousers
and joins me in the yard, where I was chop-
ping the wood.
“Alf,” ’e says with a catch in ’is voice,
“you don’t mean it!”
“I do,” I replies. “I fee-l I ain’t treated
you right, Peter, an’ I’m going to make it
up.”
“Put it there,” ’e Says, an’ I puts the axe
in ’is ’and—which wasn’t exactly what ’e
meant, though ’e finished splitting the bit o’
wood I’d started on. For the first time we
was a ’appy family.
I begins working out me idea that day.
’Stead o’ going to toil I lines into the
recruiting depot an’ waits me turn. Pre-
sently I’m facing a feller in uniform.
“Name?” ’e says.
“Peter ’Arris,” I answers without ’esitat-
ing.
“Spell it with a ‘II’?” ’e asks, trying to
take a rise out o’ me.
“A ‘li’ or a ‘Q’,” I says; “I ain’t parti-
cular.”
“Cut that out,” ’e says; “where do you
live?”
“No permanent address, but I’m staying
with Alf Buncombe, Hughes-street, North
Melbourne.”
“Married or single?”
“Single.”
“ ’Ave you ever served in ’ls Majesty’s
Forces before?”
“Not as I remember,” I says; “but I got
pretty close to it.”
“Righto,” ’e says, after a lot more talk,
“go in there an’ strip.”
In I goes and strips. The doctor don’t
take long to run ’is rule over me an’ say
what a fine feller I am.
"It’s the likes o’ you we wants,” ’e says.
“An’ you ain’t gettin’ me,” I says.
■ “What!” ’e turns on me.
“An’ ain’t you gettin’ me?” I says.
, “That’s right, me boy,” ’e says, “that’s
right.” ’E gives me a sitifficate an’ another
feller ’ands me a notice requiring Peter
’Arris to report at the Batman-street Mili-
tary Depot the next day, which was to be
Thursday, at two o’clock. “Peter ’Arris
will be there,” I says when the feller reads
it to me, an’ out I clears.
The rest o’ the day and Thursday an’
Friday couldn’t pass quick enough, ’cause I
was looking forward to the night out with
Peter. On Friday night Peter’s making sure
I ain’t going back on me word and meets
me at the train. “Ow’s your thirst?” I
says.
“Yards of it,” ’e says.
“Good-oh!” I chuckles. “Let’s have tea
lively an’ start quaffing.”
You never seen a man willing to start
anything quicker. ’E puts the grub down
’is throat without ’ardly touching it. I’m
nearly choking as well. You see there was
“two for mirth” ’opping about the garden
as I went in.
Soon’s tea’s over we goes down to the
Bed o’ Roses an’ makes a start. Peter calls
for pints an’ I follers suit for a while, but
not for long. I seen some drinkers, but
Peter was the limit. ’E seemed to be all
’oiler. As I got a job in front o’ me I gets
down to medium shandies, an’ then on to
gin, which was only water, as I give the
barmaid word. But Peter keeps on draining
pint after pint.
“These pots!” ’e growls, wiping ’is mouth
with ’is sleeve. “I bet they ain’t full pint
measure,” an’ grabs another.
“You’d make a good down-pipe for a
well,” I says.
“Am I drinking too much?” ’e says, blow-
in’ the froth off ’is gargle.
“Not a bit,” I tells him. “I got to do the
right thing by you, Peter.”
All the same, something ’ad to be done,
so I gives the girl the tip to throw in a
nobbier o’ whisky into each pint ’e downs.
“Ah!” ’e says, after ’e swallers the first,
“this is somethin’ like, this is. I wish she'd
give us this at first.”
I was wishing it, too, for it only takes
four speshuls an’ Peter crumples up with-
out a murmur. Out I goes quick an’ lively
for a cab, ’auls ’im into it, an’ drives to the
Batman-street Military depot.
“I’ve brought somethin’ for you,” I says
to the sentry, an’ drags Peter up to the gate.
“What th’ell’s this?” ’e says, rather ’asty ;
“this ain’t the morgue.”
“This ain’t a corpse neither.” I says. “This
is a recruit I found out in Toorak. ’Ere’s
a notiee in ’is pocket says ’e’s to report ’ere
Thursday, which is yesterday.”
“Oh!” says ’e, cheerful, “ ’e’s a deserter
then. Ninety days’ quod for ’im.”
“Don’t be too ’a.rd on ’im,” I says. “Good-
night.”
When I tells the missus Peter ’ad enlisted
she goes nesirly mad.- “What did I tell you ?”
she says. “Peter’s a man!”
But I never says anything. “Never
trouble trouble till the lid’s off,” ’as always
been my motter.
Peter must of wrote to ’er a few days
after an’ tells ’er ’e’s enlisted. Either ’e
don’t know ’ow it ’appened or don’t care,
for ’e never breathes a word.
“Peter says it’s grand,” she tells me, “an’
’e writes a lovely letter about the seenery
from ’is barrack-room winder. ’E says
there’s a maggie in a cage what talks to ’im
all day long.”
“One for sorrer,” I says. “I ’ope it ain’t
for Peter.”
LIONEL C. H. SHAVE.
Morale.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Though cook and captain, priest and proctor
Through our lives may figure,
At birth we only need a doctor.
And at death a digger.
QUEENSLAND.
ZORA CROSS.


PAINTERS
Help to make
Australia Prosperous
by insisting on
MEGGSTT’S
LINSEED OIL
MATURITY and
PURITY
GUARANTEED.
Agents —■
Clarkson Ltd., Adelaide.
R. S. Exton & Co. Ltd., Brisbane.
Harrison Ramsay Pty. Ltd., Melbourne
and Adelaide.
Wm. Adams and Co., Perth.
F. W. Heritage & Co., Launceston and
Hobart.
Blair Reed & Co., Wellington, N.Z.
Full Particulars
MEGGITT LTD.,
Parramatta,
New South Wales
63
Mill
0
105
£
.rf
a?
CLV
''
<>
S
m
&
o
~~'CjH:
i
m
>•
i
(I'-rotevted.)
FARMERS
Feed Your
ITILKERS,
CALVES,
PIGS,
HORSES,
POULTRY
on one ration per dav
of
MEGCITT’S
Linseed Oil Mcftl
Foil Particulars write
MEGGITT LTD.,
Parramatta,
..New South Wales.
GGITTS
UPEDOiIMEM
*° /! AcT\tf*& >
AEGGITT II?
PARRAMATTA


Build up
after Illness
by taking
Of all Chemists,
1/3. 2/9, 4/6.
Answer's Emulsion is both healing and
strengthening. Soothing to the entire mucous
tfact-throat, lungs, stomach and intestines
—an aid to appetite and digestion and a most
nvigorating tonic and restorative, it is
invaluable for restoring proper tone to the
digestive functions and for building up health
and strength after illness or when run down
from any cause. Pleasant to the taste and
absolutely harmless, it may be taken with
certainty of benefit. It is endorsed by the
medical profession.
FREE TRIAL
BOTTLE.
Send name and address, 46. postage, and mention this paper.
Angier Chemical Co.. Ltd., 7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
THE GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
at Mßs
GOUT
& RHEUMATIC PIERS.
The famous Remedy tlaat actually re-
lieves RHEUMATISM, GOUT. LUMBAGO,
SCIATICA and MUSCUEAR RHEUMA-
TISM.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
Vll Drug Stores, 1/- and 2/6 per box.
Prout & Co.. 22!) Strand. London.
START BUSINESS YOURSELF.
We supply Fancy Goods, Post Cards, Drapery, Tobac-
conists, Stationery, Jewellery, Id., Bd. and 6d. Bazaar
Goods, Toys, Confectionery, Cutlery, etc. Sample
cases £5 upwards sent by return. Guide Catalogue,
“Success in Business,” 3d.
H. Michaels & Son,
14-15 Cromwell House, High Holborn,
.London, W.C., England. U
Martin's Pills are sold by W. H. Soul,
Pattiuson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
c°
\C
m
■fIIORRISs 1
IMPERIAL
ointnien*
m CURES 1
Obtainable ill Chemists and Stores
The CHIASTOLITE
or Luck
Stone
The Wonderful Old-World War Charm.
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM.
Found in Austradia.
Mounted as Pendants in Oct. Gold, from 10/6 each.
Mounted as Rings in 9ct. Gold, from 20/- each.
The Black Opal Store, 89 Market St M Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, Gem Merchant, Proprietor.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Te Pana”: Of tlie hidden dangers in the
coral reef the easiest to make acquaintance with is
the growing coral itself. The faintest scratch from
a “Sower stalk” or rough edge on the foot of the
wader will, within a day or two, develop into a
patch of burning flesh, livid blue in color, and with
enough pain and anguish in it to make a man wish
he were dead. When the wound does heal, which is
a gamble, the scar left behind is similar to the
marking from a severe burn. As for cures, liquid
ammonia and carbolic seem to be favorites amongst
tlie afflicted, although both are poor at the best.
Another curse to be met with is the brittle, lancet-
pointed feeler of the sea-urchin. If you brush against
this it enters the skin and breaks off. Then
there’s glory be to Peter. The natives when punc-
tured promptly wrest the crustacean from the rock
and apply its suckers to the wound. If properly
manipulated the splinter is thus withdrawn, but even
then the pain is something really interesting in the
agony department.
THE REALLY TERRIBLE ONES.
THE GUARD: “It’s darned lucky for yon
that it wasn't some of the blokes that
are staying at home that caught yer.
Y’oughter hear them talk about what
they’d do to you bloomin’ Germans.”
“Deep Fern”: Bracken fern is nearly as
useless as “Quidam” (B. 29/6/’l6) says; but sheep
will eat the young shoots, just as they will eat
young gum-shoots, if they are hungry enough. In
Maoriland they make it a practice to jamb sheep in
on the ferns soon after the herbage has been cut, so
that they will nip off the tender shoot as fast as it
comes up. The sheep survive, even if they don't
exactly fatten. Pigs will dig the fern roots up
and eat them, and don’t do badly on them. The
only other virtue bracken seems to have is that it
makes fair bedding for horses. My experience in
trying to kill the pest hasn’t been as good as
“Quidam’s.” He talks of the roots dying after three
cuttings, but I have seen it take nearer three dozen.
* * # *
“Trafalgar”: If “Yancy” (B. 22/6/T.6)
can spare time to visit W. J. Miller’s vet. hospital,
Sydney, he will see colts castrated, almost any week,
standing up in the yard, or in a box, wearing
nothing more than a twitch on the nose and a bridle.
Miller has been operating thus for some years, and
can deal with a colt in two minutes or less. Doyle,
of Randwick, also operates while' the patient is
standing, I believe.
“Fred Ellen”: As a week-end life-saver
in my spare time for some years I have proved
ammonia the best cure for bluebottle stings. But it
must be applied immediately. Wet sand is useful
only to rub the broken pieces of tentacle off the
flesh. Heard years ago that the natives had a sure
cure in the leaves of a coastal shrub, but I’ve never
been able to come across the vegetable. I’ve proved
that the abo. cure for ant stings (fern-root juice) is
useless for the bluebottle. Another thing I’ve noted
concerning the b.b.’s “bite” (as the suburbanite
terms it) is the effect it has on different parts of
the body. A sting on the forearm or hand between
the Anglers (left arm and hand only) affects the
heart and causes a swelling under the arm. On two
occasions we had to call in a doctor. From stings
round the neck or shoulders the pain goes to the
head, while stings on the inner side of the thighs
affect the small of the back.
* * * *
“Marius”: Does any Abo.-scribe know
anything about the number of tribes on Cape York
Peninsula (N.Q.) ? I will nominate their lingo for
syllabic multiplicity. For sample, try woollboora-
gaboor, calcamoondoorarra, ahlangcoongangatta, arb-
roowoonampo, gnatchoolunggaggah. The crocogator
of the Gulf is mahappathumino on the Upper Archer
River, and on the Bellenden Ker Ranges two water-
falls are named Chicaringadingadee and Gidgeegid-
geebahbah, in harmony with the sound of falling
water. I know a black woman on the Batavia whose
sweetly-sounding monniker is Leeaneena, meaning
fast walker. Another named Weetiewinna was the
velvet turtle-dove whom Anganggongjarraeoothi bar-
tered to the pearlers for tombac and flour. The scrub
hen is known by a handle which closely resembles
“Oh-my-ehum-in-the-wood,” and the iron-wood tree
sounds like “Ah-Chop-the-Bung.”
“Werrimee”: The three most shudder-
some things I know in the bush are the big yellow
centipede, the scorpion and the small stinging
grub—a black and yellow gregarious horror that
clings in clusters to the leaves of young box trees.
The scorpion seldom comes out of hiding before
dusk. In the North it often grows to a length of
six inches, and the female, like the female spider,
is larger and fiercer than the male. The beast
carries its long, armed tail curved over its back,
and generally arrives with the firewood, as do the
blue centipede and the red-striped spider. The
poison causes severe shooting pangs, much swelling
and nausea, but is not fatal to a healthy being.
A station manager at Tongowoko (nor’-west
N.S.W.) succumbed to the bite of a red-striped
spider in 1900 ; but his luck is rare. While the
scorpion strikes and stings with the finely-pointed
weapon on the end of its tail, centipedes and spiders
inflict their poisonous wounds with the curved, hori-
zontally-working, pincer-like instrument with which
the jaws are furnished.
* * * *
“Jaek’roo”: “Pick’s trouble re sheep
dying after being shorn with the old-time blade (B.
8/6/’ 16) seems to be identical with what used to
be too common in these parts (West Coast of S.A.).
The epidemic was always supposed to be caused
through the sheep eating some kind of poison-weed
after being let out of the shed in a very hungry
condition. That theory was fractured, however, when
someone happened to remark that the disease was
never met with amongst woolly jumbucks, no matter
how long they had been shut up without feed. It was
eventually decided that the waterpots, left in the
sheds, and just refilled when shearing started, while
they contained all kinds of muck, were the cause
of the mortality. At Bramfield, in the Elliston dis-
trict (S.A.), about a dozen years ago, the losses ran
into hundreds, but there have been none since the
station fixed up new waterpots for dipping and
kept them clean. When the weed-poison was blamed
the old hands reckoned that by opening a vein under
the eye and bleeding the victims freely, a cure could
generally be effected. The experience about here,
however, was that as soon as the symptoms were
noticed the meat could be regarded as a banquet
for the crows and eaglehawks.
* * * *
“Eddyson”: “The large man agin the
three, devourin’ his t’bacca wid the l’isurely rotation
iv a cow, is Masthermann,” said Flynn—“ John
Thomas Masthermann; him yiv heard iv connect wid
his thrick iv battin’ the head clane off a man wid
his fisht. There’s a tale worth tellin’ consarnin’
himself ’n’ a sthranger here be the name iv Matty
Carson. When Matty first met Masthermann the
latter was in a state iv peaceful repose, leanin’ on
the Dublin Hotel; but Matty was gone in dthrink, ’n’
eager t’ set up fer himsilf a local reputation ez a
dirty fighter; ’n’ though lie’s a thriflin’ small sinner
beside Masthermann, he takes to John Thomas. ‘l'll
have at yeh,’ sez he, ‘wid your permition, if you
please ’n’ thank you,’ he sez, ‘if ’tis for nothin’ but
that you obsthruct me view. Come on, yeh lum-
berin’ illephant ’n’ take yer batin’!’ Masthermann
is chewin’ on in meditation, ’n’ Matty skips round ’n’
hops high ’n’ hits him somewheres above the knee.
‘The muskitees is throublesome this summer,’ sez
Masthermann, ’n’ continues t’ rhuminate. ‘Will yeh
not take the blow, yeh splay-futted monsther?’ sez
Matty Carson. ‘Come on,’ he sez, ’n’ hops that high
he hits Masthermann in the watchpocket, ’n’ Masther-
mann moves oneasily. But ’tis here Teddy Quinn
makes his intervintion. ‘Get back, yeh jackass!’ sez
he. ‘Stand off,’ he sez, ‘ T I’ll hurt yeh.’ Teddy’s
a . Tom Thumb iv a man, but built fer shtability.
‘l’ll not have yeh do harum t’ me poor fri’nd Mas-
thermann,’ sez he. ‘l’ll have his hear-rt out!’ sez
AN ITEM FROM FLANDERS.
FIRST COCKNEY: “Hi! Got any lices in your trench?”
SECOND DITTO: “Wot d'yer mean! Ahr trench is clean!”
FIRST AGAIN: “Ar, stow it! I don't mean lousy lices —I mean boot lices.”
Carson. ‘l’m one for blood ’n’ slau’hter,’ sez he.
‘Whoop! ’ he sez, ‘lave me to him ’n’ y’ill be well
employed prayin’ fer the rist iv his sowl, little man.’
‘l’ll not stand by ’n’ see yeh har-rm a poor, difince-
less giant,’ sez Teddy Quinn. ‘Yill dale wid me,’ he
sez, ’n’ there’s a nate punch fer Matty Carson.
Teddy Quinn ’n’ Matty Carson fit twinty minutes, ’n’
Matty is that bate about his own woife refuse t’
take dilivery whin they tuck him home in Donovan’s
barrel’. Next mor-rnin’ Teddy Quinn is callin’ on
Carson, ’n’ Carson is black ’n’ blue, ’n’ branded, ’n’
leanin’ sullen on his own dure posht. ‘An’ how’s
yirsilf this fine mor-rnin’?’ sez Teddy. ‘Hell t’
yeh!’ sez Carson. There’s a silince while vid count
wan hunthred. ‘An,’ sez Teddy Quinn, ‘ye’re not
askin’ me t’ have a dthrinli,’ sez he. ‘I am not that
same,’ sez Matty. ‘l'll pass over yer want iv Dosh-
NONE SO DEAF.
“Good-day, dad; lovely weather we're hav-
ing.”
“I can’t hear a word you say, my boy; but
I don’t mind ’aving a drop o’ gin with
you, thanking you. all the same.”
pitality,’ sez Quinn, ‘ ’n’ jist take free t’ remind yeh
iv what’s jew t’ me in gratitude,’ he sez. ‘Grati-
tude?’ sez Matty Carson. ‘Gratitude?’ sez he, holdin’
down the left eye iv him like a great aniu egg.
‘An’ fer what am I indibted t’ you, Teddy Quinn?
’Tis unbeknownst t’ me,’ he sez ‘n’ groans tirrible
wid the pain in his ribs. ‘Fer What!’ cries Teddy.
‘Fer what, indade, ’n’ me the man saved yeh from a
bitter bad hidin’ yistherday!’”
“C.E.C.”: Re the recently-mentioned
epidemic amongst sheep after having their fur
removed with the tongs. Have had the same trouble
in several sheds in which I’ve been interested in
M.L. and am prepared to back my last year’s wool
cheque against a pint of suds that the mortality is
directly due to pigs being allowed within cooee of
the counting-out pens. Have also noticed the trouble
among lambs after they have been docked and
turned out in proximity to sties. A man who
doubted my theory was induced to place a number
of newly “tong” barbered sheep in a recently in-
habited sty. Those animals that showed any signs
ox a “nick” were dead or dying next morning with
the usual indications of blood-poisoning.
“Crosscut”: If some Abo. contributors
would come down to Southern Victoria they would
see trees. At Beech Forest, two bushmen found a
sapling uprooted. After three weeks it became too
tough for palings, so they counted their tallies —a
few over 8000 of 6ft. About half the tree only was
worked up. There are plenty as big still standing
around.
* * * *
Following the praise of whale
meat by Abo. epicures comes a good word for seal
flesh by Lieut. Stenhouse, R.N., of the Antarctic ship
Aurora. When the vessel was on her long drift
(August, 1915, to March, 1916) those on board had
seal steaks cooked in many forms, and, as far as
Stenhouse was concerned, the only way he did not
care for them was curried. To get a grill the meat
was buried in snow for three or four days to remove
its rankness, and then was boiled in salt water.
“Not bad at all,” says the seaman. The particular
value of the seal meat was that being fresh it kept
off scurvy; and that and insanity are “the bogies of
the Antarctic.”
* * * *
“Vigilans”: “J.J.D.” is quite correct in
Iris statement that rice grass grows from sft. to Bft.
high like luxuriant oats in the swamps of the Gulf
of Carpentaria. It would make excellent ensilage,
besides keeping sweet if stacked with layers of salt.
But the best wild rice to be seen in the Territory
grows at Newcastle Waters and thereabouts. The
grain is small, and is made into cakes by the niggers.
The gins collect it, crush it between stones,
damp and bake it. They say gohannas and rice cake
No. 1 pfeller tucker. Horses prove that rice is all
that by getting rolling fat on it when it is in ear,
and no horses can beat the Newcastle brand for
stamina and staying power. Up there will some day
be the rice field of Australia.
(Continued on page 26.)
THE BIRD AND THE BOMB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The wise bird sat on a blasted tiee
As the battle-plane swept by,
Dropping its smoke-bombs — one — two — three —-
Out of the peaceful sky.
The flames leapt up where each one struck,
And the wise bird blinked and said:
“A curious bird that one, old buck,
And all its feathers are shed.”
The wise bird sat on the blasted tree
As the battle-plane swept round;
It dropped a pill quite near, and he
Was shocked by the smell and sound ;
He landed flat upon his tail
And cursed like a bird gone mad:
“Whatever that damned bird eats is stale,
And the eggs it lays are bad!”
N.S.W.
KODAK.


m
MAKES ONE PINT FINEST,
COUGH AND COTD REMEDY
trademark
m
m
MISS GREEN, Sydney’s Leading Artistic Milliner,
.. . Praises ...
HEANS ESSENCE
The Great Moneysaving Remedy for
Coughs, Colds,
Croup, Catarrh,
and other Chest and
Throat Troubles.
148 Pitt Street, Sydney,
May 16, 1916.
Mr. G. W. HE AN, Chemist.
Dear Sir, —I am pleased to tell
you that I have used Hean’s
Essence for some time now, and
find it an invaluable remedy for
coughs and colds. Hean’s Cough
Diamonds are also excellent, and
so very convenient, as the little
diamond-shaped box carries easily
in one’s muff or bag, and the
lozenge is very pleasant to take.
1 always keep the remedies in the
house, and have never known them
to fail.
Wishing Hean’s Essence all the
success so excellent a medicine
deserves.
Yours faithfully,
1. GREEN.
saw m
mm
i h
m
4
m
_• *■ _4_ ju -a
MISS I\ UItEISS.
The above Utter is only one of over two thousand received in a few months from residents
in all nsrts of Australia, who are grateful for the benefit derived from the use of Heart's Essence.
Besides being such a wonderfully effective remedy, Hean’s Essence is a great money-saver. Each
hot tie produces a pint of superior-quality medicine. A pint of ordinary mixtures would cost at
least 12s. Hean’s Essence cost only 25., and is obtainable from all leading chemists and stores,
or from the manufacturer, G. W. HE AN, Chemist, 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Hean’s Cough Diamonds
Medicated with Hean’s Essence,
are made for those who prefer
a lozenge to a liquid remedy
for voice and throat. The price
is only 9d. per box.
Riding Trousers and
Breeches Reduced for
Leviathan “Square
Deal” Sale.
ORDER BY POST.
Just state Seat, Waist, and
Inside Leg Measurements.
WE PAY FREIGHT
ALL OVER AUSTRALIA
Drill Riding
Trousers.
In Khaki or Olive.
Strongly made with side
straps and loops for belt.
Usual price 7/6.
“SQUARE-
DEALED” -
6/11
Riding Breeches.
In Brown Cotton Saddle
Twist, Best English make,
with deep self strappings.
Buttoned or laced at
knees; fob, and cross
pockets, doubly stitched;
taped seams; cut full for
saddle comfort. The
material is hard wearing
and good for laundering.
Sizes 3 to 7. Usual price
13/6.
“SQUARE-
DEALEO ”
12111
m
m
m
m
m
We Guarantee Satisfaction—or
Money Back.
Riding Breeches.
In IChaki Carbieord; laced
at knee and self strapped.
Best English make. Usual
price 18/6.
“SQUARE-
DEALED”
16/9
Working Trousers—in Solid Worsted Effect Fabrics.
We recommend them to give long' and satisfactory service. Usual price 6/9
“SQUARE-DEALED ” - - - -
Also in a heavier weight and better quality. Usual price 7/6.
“SQUARE-DEALED” - - 6/9.
Leather Tweed Trousers.
5/11
In Dark Greys; the toughest of tough materials. Made with riveted buttons,
Denim pockets and non-split seat seam. Usual price 10/6.
“SQUARE. DEALED” ------
9/11
THe Leviathan
Corner Swanston and Bourke Streets, Melbourne.
A SHEARING PLANT WORTHY OF THE NAME
m
The same features that prompted this client to fit his model shed with
The COOPER NEW IMPROVED Belt-Drive Shearing Machines
■■■■■ ■■■ mu I 1
are placing them in hundreds of other sheds from Northern Queensland to Southern Tasmania. Messrs.
Rooney and Company selected The Cooper New Improved Belt Driven Machines and Air Cooled Handpieces
for their big Shearing Depot at Stamford, Queensland. The New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency
Company, one of the best-known Firms in the Commonwealth, have re-fitted their big Shearing Sheds at
Flemington Yards, Melbourne, with these Machines. So it goes throughout Australia.
The Cooper Belt Driven Machine and Air Cooled Handpiece is as far ahead of other types and models to-day
as the present motor-car or harvesting machine is ahead of those made twenty years ago.
They have many attractive features
not found in any other make. The
Overhead Gear has a smooth, quiet
belt drive. There is no slippage
or lost power as occurred in fric-
tion machines. There are no pins,
set screws or springs to work loose.
The machine is fitted with our
patented, unique, fast aud loose
pulley arrangement, which elimin-
ates both trouble and repairs and
runs for years without attention.
The Air Cooled Handpiece holds
the . World’s record for number of
sheep shorn before any replacement
of duplicates was required. It
runs cool and light, drives lfight
ahead in the heaviest wool or
hardest sheep, and is extremely
low in cost of upkeep.
If you have sheep to shear let us
send you our catalogue describing
these machines in detail, with a
complete estimate of a Plant to suit
your requirements.
r‘ t i p
wm
mm
■
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LIMITED,
134 Sussex Street, SYDNEY. 486 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.


FEED
m
m
BUTTER FAT TEST,
Won by a Pen of Meggitt Linseed
Oil Meal fed calves, which won
everything at Kingaroy Show, 1916.
These calyes, owned by Mr. H. McD. Living-
stone, Kingaroy, besides securing Ist, 2nd and
3rd in the Butter Fat Test, also secured seven
other first prizes. The skilled judge, Mr,
Holes, said they would win at Sydney.
Full particulars by writing
31EGGITT LTD., Linseed Oil Meal
3lanufacturers, PARRAMATTA,
N.S.W.
"Everything ( *•’..
but the meat." - 4
. EVERY DISH .
prepared with Bisto
tastes good, is good,
and does you good.
Get a tin to-day,
and see how Bisto
helps you to save.
m
The
Gravy
Maker.
All Grocers. In Tins. Made by Cbrebos, Ltd.
A Wonderful
Offer——
MILITARY BOOTS
The boot here illustrated is one you know well by sight—the
boot worn by members of the Expeditionary Forces. We are mak-
ing them in thousands to the order of the Government, who have
an inspector to examine and pass every pair before delivery is taken.
Some pairs, when finished, fail to pass him —not for any fault that
really affects their wear or comfort, but for such minute defects as
one boot being as little as one-eighth of an inch higher at the back
than the other; one slug being out of place; or the heel not being
sufficiently even to pass the spirit-level test.
Nothing else is wrong with the rejects.
They’re SOLID LEATHER THROUGHOUT,
are built to withstand the toughest usage, to
give the MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF COM-
FORT TO THE WEARER, and are GUAR-
ANTEED to do so.
WRITE NOW FOR A PAIR. They’re
ideal for country and other hard wear, and
for the money—l4/6, carriage paid—are
POSITIVELY THE GREATEST BOOT
VALUE EVER OFFERED.
6d. Exchange must be added to Country
Cheques.
■
HY. HARRIS,
50 McKean Street, North Fitzroy, Victoria.
14f6
Carriage
Paid.
“Ding Bat”: The Maoriland bushman
never worries much about a bad cut if there Is any
mahoe growing handy. Generally there is and the
rest is easy. Select a young branch, scrape off the
outside greenish-white bark and carefully remove
the yellow layer that lies next the true wood. Collect
a fair quantity and squeeze the juice it contains
into and around the cut and bandage up. It gives
pain at first, but is an excellent antiseptic, and
if the gash is not a yard long can generally be
relied on to heal the wound without leaving a scar.
In case other ALL. Abo.-liars don’t recognise the
tree by the Alaori name, it is sometimes called
whitiwood.
GOOD TIMBER DESTROYERS.
JIMBILL (from Gippsland): “Well, these
Germans may have done a lot of damage
to the towns, but they've put in a few
pounds’ worth of good work clearing
the bush round here.”
“Bad Australian” : When “Chalee” Mow
Ling arrived in camp with all his worldly goods
packed in a spotted cotton handkerchief and a little
lacquered box ornamented with seven devils, with
inlaid mother-of-pearl on the lid, to take charge of
the galley, vice old Jim Spronks, “shot” the day
before by our newchum boss for drunkenness and dis-
respectful language, the Pong wasn’t received with
rejoicing and garlands of roses. But he was a wise
Pong, and, taking little thought of the opinions of
the proletariat, set himself to get under the boss’s
NEVER TOO LATE, ETC.
EBENEZER: “My friend, I’ve never tasted strong drink in my life.”
BILL: “Cripes! I’d give a dollar to have me whole thirst ahead of Die!”-
wing, which he succeeded in doing as neatly aa
Chows generally do with newcliums who have a
leaning towards wowserism and Scriptural quota-
tions, AA e salted his bunk with about three
dozen irritable soldier ants, which had been kept
for an hour or two in an empty cayenne pepper
flask. AVe unloaded un over-ripe gohanna and about
half a bushel of second-hand mussel shells on to the
same couch. AA r e painted weird phosphorescent devils
on the gumtrees around the camp. As these and
similar equitable means failed to shift him, and we
were growing poorer and madder every day, we
reluctantly decided to appeal to constituted autho-
rity. Constituted authority, after the manner of
the newchum “suhveyah” of those days, lived and
grubbed apart from the boys in order to “maintain
propah discipline among those beastly kawlonials.”
So we formed ourselves into a hollow square or a
round robin or something and put the case to
Caesar. lie turned us down hard and nasty, remark-
ing that he would never be a party to the persecu-
tion of a poor, unoffending stranger whose life was
embittered by the unreasoning hatred of ignorant
bushwhackers obsessed by what their politicians were
pleased to call the AA'hite Australia policy. Then he
fired off two or three Scriptural quotations and
tackled the grilled “yellow belly” and tender young
chicken which “Chalee” had prepared for his break-
fast. A few days after this we came into camp
somewhat unexpectedly, and passing the boss’s tent,
which had the flaps up at both ends, we found
“Chalee” fast asleep in the boss’s bunk rigged out in
a suit of his “panjammers.” Then our holy Chris-
tian boss waded into that poor heathen brother until
he was the sorriest Pong in A’ic. Next day a Chow
hawker came along with his cart and removed
“Chalee’s” lacquered box and his unearned increment,
and the day following Jim Connolly, the local
trooper, served the boss with a summons to appear on
the next Monday and answer a charge of assault and
battery on the body of one Charles Mow Ling. The boss
didn’t appear in person, but several of the crowd
who were called as witnesses by Charles Alow Ling
did. Of course, being decent blokes, we told the
truth, and by the time the boss got clear he was
out about 20 quid. The Lord hasn’t delivered one
solitary Pong into his hand since.
* * * *
“Croson”: “Leo Lear” (B. 22/G/’l6) asks
how far can the kangaroo leap in one bound. I
dunno: Ask the Turk.
“Pick”: Among western wool-hawks the
“bindie-eye” ranks first of things that are forever
accursed. It is a spidery vegetable that spreads over the
shecpfolds, and sheds innumerable spiny burrs into
the jumbuck’s overcoat upon the slightest contact.
Anybody who handles sheep or wool theneeafter has
his hands, arms and legs punctured with myriads of
attenuated hair-thick prongs. Usually they are left
until festering sores spread over the invaded terri-
tory. Then vigorous rubbing with soaped flannel or
chamois leather' wrung out of hot water brings them
forth.
“T.C.”: Cristo was born somewhere in
the Levant J is a British subject, a linguist, well-
educated, and up to four months ago was drifting
round Constantinople in what pasees as the civil
service in Turkey. Then something went wrong, and
he escaped via Salonica, and eventually joined the
British forces as a sp—l mean an agent. While in
Constantinople he was one day lunching with a young
Turkish officer friend, when a couple of the latter’s
cobbers blew in; and presently—the conversation
having turned on Gallipoli—one pro-
duced, amongst other curios, a specimen
of something that had evidently lain
trodden in the sea sands since the first
morning of the British landing. It
was a small, square block of some tough,
coarse material resembling twine or flax
fibre that they had found after our evacu-
ation. It was much stained by water;
and rust marks indicated that it had
once had some metallic binding about it.
One opined that it was some form of
compressed explosive which had deterior-
ated by contact with water, and was
now harmless. But my friend Cristo pro-
pounded the saner theory that from the
way they were found,
scattered and buried near
the water’s edge, they
probably were once a line
>f ship’s-fenders around one
of the small boats which
had met with disaster from
shellfire on the beach on
the morning of that mem-
orable landing. However,
no one seemed inclined to
be convinced, and in the
end my friend Cristo
begged a fragment, which
was hacked off with much
trouble. As Cristo reached
this part of his story he
took a neatly-sawn, square
chunk of some weighty,
stringy material from his
bag and handed it to me
for an opinion. At the
same time Bill, one of
our despatch-riders, who
had joined us and taken
an interest in the discus-
sion, turned pale. I was
surprised at this, because
Bill was a hard customer
who had just finished a
tough spell in the front
line and was not usually
emotional. “ ’Strewth !” he
murmured, recovering him-
self. “Th’ sight uv a
piece uv bully-beef always turns me stum-
miek nowadays.” Recognition and the memory of
cases of army rations seen shattered on the beach at
Anzac flooded my brain. AVith a sigh of wretched
remembrance I handed the offending morsel back to
its owner. “Some day, Nick,” I said in broken tones
—“some day you may know. Till then” - and I
pushed him towards the sergeants’ mess, where the
tucker —for the time being, anyway—is at least
breakable, dissolvable and moderately digestible.
Maoriland Defence Department has to
waste time drafting 2000 men a month into the den-
tist’s corral. Incidentally, Major Pickerell, of
Christchurch Technical College, who knows a tooth
from an apology, says that the Maoris, who are doing
their bit, have the finest teeth in the world. He
attributes this to the fact that the Maori tooth is
smooth on the surface, while the tusks of white
brother have developed ridges, which hold damaging
acids.
“Barcoo”: Here’s a “red gum” stick
from a tree on the banks of what is now Lake
Nagambie (Vic.) —the water backed up by the enor-
mous Goulburn River weir. At a height of 36ft.
from the ground the girth of the stick was 36ft. ;
64ft. further up the first limb branched; from the
foot to the topmost branch was 211 ft.; the bole
when trimmed of branches and fit for the sawbench
went 97ft. 6in., and ivas as solid as granite. It
was decided to turn it into weather-boards. The
timber realised £175 165., but at present prices that
amount would be doubled.
“Silas S.” : Young Wingit, of the -Miner's
Best, rigged up a red tin weathercock on a pole
over the stable. When Wingit’s Shanghai rooster first
discovered the mechanical bird, he mounted a fence
pest, and lifted up his voice in frenzied defiance till
he fell off from sheer exhaustion. In such bad part
did the Shanghai take that tin rival that Wingit
DOMESTIC INTERLUDE.
MRS. DE S MITH: “Woman cannot be satiri-
cal any more than she can be humor-
ous.”
HER HUSBAND: “Huh! How is it that when
I proposed to you after courting you
seven years, you said, ‘Oh, Ponsonby,
this is so sudden’?”
could have no peace while the weathercock was on
duty, and it was hauled down. To start the swash-
buckler again, it was only necessary to hang out
the mechanical chicken. Wingit presumed on this
fact, and worked it for all it was worth, panning
out something like £3O in bets in the course of
one month. He arranged a new gamble based on
the crowing of his bird, trusting to a system of
signals directing young Billy Wingit to hang out or
take in the weathercock as desired. Eventually,
however, all Tween Bridges tumbled to the idea,
and Wingit’s income fell off. Now and then a pass-
ing stranger was entrapped, but the landlord had
done nothing for eight weeks when one day a big,
strange Geordie miner entered the bar, with a lank but
muscular gamecock under his arm. “Hullo! What
yeh got there?” queried Bung, “Nothin’ but a bit
iv a bir-rd,” Geordie replied. “Got anythin’ your-
self in the way of a game an?” Wingit shook his
head. “I got a rooster round the back somewhere,
but he’s just Shanghai, no fighter at all.” Geordie
ordered his beer, and thought it was a great pity.
“Where’s the vally of a cock what won’t fight?”
said he. Wingit sighed. “I’m a sport,” he said.
“I’d like to meet you, but my Shanghai couldn’t
lick a kitten. Still, if you want a flutter with me,
bird agin bird, I’ll bet you three quid my Shanghai
crows first.” The Geordie snorted aloud. “Where’s
the sense to that?” said he. Wingit was willing
to admit there was no sense in it. Geordie ripped
an oath. “I’m on,” he said. He slapped three
notes on the bar. Wingit worked his system of
signals, and covered the three pounds. “Startin’
from 10 past three,” said he, “first crow scoops
the pool.” Geordie placed his bird on the window
sill in the sun, and they sat and waited. Two
minutes passed, and then the game cock ruffled his
feathers, arched his neck, and ripped out an ear-
splitting clarion. Geordie reached for the £6, but
Wingit stopped him. “Hold hard!” said he.
“Double or quits.” Geordie was willing. This time
Wingit displayed some anxiety. Again the game
cock crowed. Wingit was amazed. He moved to
the side window. The weathercock was on his perch.
Wingit’s blood was up. “Double or quits again!”
he said. Geordie obliged him, and when the latter
left, with his gamecock under his arm, he carried
away £l2 of AVingit’s money. And, still the
Shanghai cock did not crow. Wingit could not
prove fraud against the casual Geordie, but he
believed he had reasonable grounds for doubt when,
just before nightfall, he found his rooster dead in
a hollow stump, his neck screwed twice round.
THE SONG OF BUNG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The winter rains are tramping past,
The hailstones dance upon the sill;
At home, defended from the blast,
The good men drink a harmless swill.
When July rains are at their worst
’Tis hard to raise a decent thirst,
And when the foaming floods are here
Men show a fine contempt for beer.
But when the summer spills its heat
Upon the oven-homes of brick,
Aud burning dusts dance in the street,
The clammy men and choleric
Will gather at the bolted door
Cold-blooded reason to deplore
That brooked not how the moral sense
Yields to climatic influence.
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


- i"%
’ ,- ‘M *} ,•.
> ’» safigL* ‘
a?=
a
>,.< ,
V*
fra
..MU
v il "dm,
\
i-
a
<! V-i
.*7^
•!
m\
///■t
r /
m
■'. /
sum.
i
"))
s w-
o
/ /
*3
'/
y/.«4n:» ••
y
/
=Cw>
-Li
m;j .
"V
m
/jN i
ft
mnk' W"J'i
$
m
.70
5 ■«
)#*\
imm
it
S y ■'/
l -y,// i n
Hi
y
. P>
4*"<
K.Ur^a
D
i&feS
M
0
o
a
SR
&
«
O
t
I
&
00
1 \:
W*J«T^
CHT
ALE
////
M $Mm {
HE two views herewith give some idea of our large
o o
Malt House at Mittagong. This has a capacity of
over 210,000 bushels per year. All the Malt used in the
“Light Crystal” Ale passes through this Malt House.
“ Take a Bottle HomeT
m
i


HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS
= CURE =
IS THE FINEST REMEDY IN THE WORLD FOR
COUGHS, CROUP AND COLDS.
iHOSE who have had occasion to take Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure are
astonished at its Wonderful Healing Power. Sufferers from Bron-
chitis, Cough, Croup, Pain or Soreness in the
Chest, Hoarseness, Difficulty of Breathing, Stuffiness,
Asthma, experience delightful and rapid relief. This
medicine is particularly valuable to those who are sub-
ject to Colds on the Chest, as it Strengthens the Lungs,
anti renders them less susceptible. It is most comfort-
ing in allaying Irritation in the Throat, and giving
Strength to the Voice, and for this reason is thoroughly
appreciated by Clergymen, Public Speakers and
Singers. It does not allow a Cough to become
Chronic, and in this respect is absolutely indis-
pensable in preventing a cold from developing
into Bronchitis, Asthma, Pneumonia, Pleurisy,
or Consumption. No house should be with-
out a bottle of this Wonderful Remedy, as
taken at the first indication of a Cold, a
dose or two is generally sufficient. A
always be “nipped in the
bud,” or serious illness may follow.
,/A
“ An Excellent
Preparation.”
“ Delightfully
Soothing.”
Price 2/6 and 4/6 (double size).
Sold by ail RELIABLE
CHEMISTS and STORES.
If no,t obtainable locally, send
A direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co. Ltd.
Geelong, Victoria. 1
Branch Offices at
Sydney, n.s.w.; Wellington, k.z.
K'
ft
15.
cxmcsctr-s^iTH*.
Percy Grainger was being pelted with
applause for his playing in Canada when
the last mail left there. The critics (critics
are often short of words) were labelling
him “a second Paderewski,” and the musical
females were casting up their eyes and
asking one another if it could be really true
that such an angelic being ate food and paid
laundry bills like a pork butcher.
“Kaniva” : As a greybeard I nominate as
the best-produced drama Melbourne ever saw
the ’S3 version of “The Silver King,” at
the Royal. The fine company included
Annie Mayor, Blanche Stammei's, Titlier-
adge, Day, Phillips, Garner, Redwood, Cates,
Leake, Bryan and Hoskins. I doubt whether
a better dozen could have been assembled
even in England. For grand opera I choose
Meyerbeer’s “II Profeta” (“The Prophet”),
staged sumptuously by W. S. Lyster, in ’74,
at the Opera House. The principals were
Zenoni and Coy (women), and Rosnati, Coy,
Coliva, Dondi and Susini (men). Oldtimers
went wild over it.
Masetto : For the best representation
of grand opera in Melbourne my choice is
“Tristan and Isolde” by the 1912 Quinlan
Co._ Ihe principals placed personal glorifi-
cation after artistic effect, a quality that is
wanting in most operatic visitors. One
glaring instance is the “Pagliacci” prologue,
where the last phrase (“Ring up the cur-
tam”) should lead right on to the action
or the opera. In a recent performance it won
an encore by reason of the undue prolong-
ing of the penultimate high note and a
sweeping portamento to the last one—unre-
fined, and contrary to the composer’s direc-
tions.
Leo L.”; Southern Australia will crane
its neck at a free show on Sunday, July 30.
An annular eclipse of the sun strikes the
continent just north of Carnarvon (W.A.),
and travels eastward, passing over Adelaide,
theii down through Western Victoria, across
to Tasmania, and disappears into the cold
giey ocean at Hobart. As the moon will be
more than the average distance from the
earth, the dark shadow it casts will hardly
reach this blood-stained earth, and the places
on the direct line of eclipse will thus not
see a total eclipse, with the glories of the
soiar corona and other fireworks. The sun
will appear as a bright narrow ring of light
with the dark body of the moon in the
centre. Outside this annular zone will be a
partial eclipse. On September 22, 1922 •
(book early to avoid the crush), Australia
will be entertained by a total eclipse from
Westralia to Bananaland, and the cloudless
skies of the great inland plains will roof a
record patch of the inquisitive ants we call
scientists.
“C. Ockney” : When the last mail left Eng-
land serious trouble was brewing between
vaudeville managements and mummers in con-
nection with the over-running of the British
variety stage with American turns. Strong
objection was taken by home-grown per-
formers when a larger batch than usual of
Yankee vaudevillains arrived to replace the
numerous Britishers who had “joined up”
under the Military Service law. The local
pros, consider that the places of those who
have gone or are going to do their bit at the
Front should be filled from the ranks of the
many available Britishers who are outside
the calls of military duty rather than from
those of the ’Murkan music-hall stage.
Which seems a reasonable enough proposi-
tion. If the English music-hall proprietor
isn’t patriot enough to see it in that light,
he will very shortly have only ’Murkan turns
to select from —and serve him right!
Gravelled for new plays, London mana-
gers are putting up old ones again. “Bella
Donna” has reappeared at !St. James’s, with
Mrs. Pat Campbell in her original part of
the naughty lady, played in Australia by
Irene Browne. At Stoll’s newly-acquired
Opera House there is another resurrection —
“Three Little Maids,” in which George
Huntley and the lately-deceased Maurice
Farkoa amused us a decade or so back. The
piece has been brought up to date and re-
christened “The Miller’s Daughtex-s.” The
brightest acting in the show is May Beatty’s.
She is playing Lady St. Mallory.
In “Lucia de Lammermoor” the hero,
after stabbing himself to the heart and fall-
ing to the ground, raises himself on his
elbow, and, while his life’s blood oozes from
him, warbles a glorious swan song, ending
with a cadence in which a high B flat is
triumphantly negotiated. A hardy race,
these Highlanders!
Business Robbery, etc.
“Billy Blue” : Refei'ences to old pubs re-
mind _ me that David Anderson in the
’thirties had one in lvent-street, Sydney,
known as “The Lame Dog.” At that time
there were two grogshops with the sign of
“The Fox Under the Hill,” one in Market-
street and another at Prospect. The build-
ing at Prospect is still standing, though it
is no longer a pub. “The Cat and Mutton”
stood in Kent-street, Sydney. A house much
visited by sailors in Lower George-street was
called “Keep Within the Compass,” and in
East Market-street a host named David Shep-
herd flourished “The Case Is Altered.”
“Moana”: Every second shop nowadays
is showing alleged “Coal Savers.” Some
of them are made to prolong the life of
coal, but most of them are made to
prolong the purses of the inventors. Still
a few of them have a solid basis. Quite a
long time ago someone noticed that coal
recovered from old wrecks gave out more
heat and lasted about twice as long as the
stuff that had not been in David Jones’s
locker. From that naturally followed a
solution to be sprinkled on the fuel before
use—lib. of common salt and Boz. of
common soda in one pint of boiling water.
Try it, and see what it saves you!
“Star”: That some alteration in the law
relating to trade names is required was ex-
emplified by a case in the Melbourne District
Court a few weeks ago. The plaintiff, J. J.
Miller, sued West’s Limited for the price of
some posters printed for West’s Buildings. The
defence was (1) that the old firm of West’s
Pictures Ltd. had gone into liquidation and
the new firm of West’s Limited had risen
from the ashes since the date of the con-
tract, and (2) that the building which bears
the name of “West’s” had nothing to do with
either firm, but was controlled by the Union
Theatres Ltd. Evidence was given by Miller
that he had never received any notification
of the liquidation of the old co., and it was
argued for him that these frequent mergings
of one co. into another without any outward
sign of change would be impossible to follow
except by searching every Australian Yegister
daily. P. M. Goldsmith, in awarding judg-
. ment to the defendant co. on technical
grounds, passed remarks which were hot
enough to put an extra curl in every wig
present.
* * *
“Hay” on a cocky’s curse :—•
After numerous experiments I am convinced that
pickling or bathing grain previous to sowing does
nothing to prevent smut or other fungus diseases.
I sowed wheat in strips a chain wide across a pad-
dock. Tlie first lot was pickled in a cold solution
of bluestone in the method usually adopted by
South Aus. wheat farmers. The next lot was sown
straight from the bag without any treatment. Then
a strip with wheat pickled in a hot bath of sulphate
of copper (slightly over 130° F.) was put in. Next,
some dipped in hot formalin, another helping dipped
in a cold solution of the same stuff, and lastly some
very badly smutted seed wheat. A professor of
agriculture who saw the diseased wheat sown said
it would produce nothing, yet at harvest time the
grain from it turned out to be as plump and sound
us could be wished. Of the variously pickled lots
there was not a greater percentage of smut in
any one than another, all being fair average quality.
[ continued these experiments for some years, and the
proportion of smutty wheat was never noticeably
more in the undipped crop than in the dipped.
My conclusion is that the cause of the trouble lies
in the soil and not in the seed, and that it attacks
the plant when the latter is growing.
“Byjoe” : “Everybody dies,”says “Hamer’s”
old friend, and tlie once-thriving goldmining
township of Lucknow (N.S.W.) confirms the
old pessimist’s theory. In ’97 loud with life;
to-day a few farms, a pub, a school, a store.
Gone are the poppet heads; the dumps are no
more; the tailings have disappeared, the cya-
nide process accounting for them five years
ago. In ’97 400 merry kids worried eight
teachers: now two pedagogues mind 60 quiet
children from the farms. That year, too,
armed and angry miners waited grimly for
the expected “scabs” —who thought better of
it. There was also talk of putting down a
tramline from Lucknow to Orange, but the
bubble burst, the wildcat ceased to meow.
Then manager Warnford Lock’s football team,
with its Stan Wickham, was sung by poet
Goodge, of the Orange Leader. Cricketers
George Bonnor, Percy Colqulioun and “Jupp”
Gardiner often lifted sixers into the dam. The
name "Harry Newman” is still seen on an
unused store in the only street. Lucknow
is dead until a price-fixing Government
makes gold six quid an ounce.
"Steve”; It’s wonderful how some people
economise. Last summer I took a job har-
vesting with a man who had about 2000
bags of wheat to clean and one old horse-
winnower to do it with. Four days in the
week we spent mending the machine or
riding round buying up old parts, Instead
of about two months’ work we had nearly
four, the greater part of my time being
spent crawling about with my hands full uf
hammers, spanners and screw-wrenches, and
my mouth full of copper screws, nails, chaff
and spurious language. And I got £3 per week
for it! Before we were neai’ly finished a
rain came and damaged much of the wheat.
Altogether that machine must have
accounted for about £2OO. A new one would
cost, say, £5O.
* * * *
“Coot”: Who dares to say our gi'eat
departments are wasteful? The Victorian
Railways some time ago sent an elaborate
invoice to a Melbourne firm. On it was
written the firm’s name, an account number,
the date, and the entry “To short postage on
your letter received 8/3/T6, Id.” The
other day the firm received another copy of
the invoice with a printed memorandum
attached reminding it that the account
had not been paid, and asking that it be
“included in the next cheque, or reasons
given for nonpayment.” Then the long
siege ended with the surrender of a penny
stamp.
* * * *
“Analyst”: I am beginning to wonder
how the ladies with peroxide hair are getting
oix these times. The sunny curl that Nature
didn’t color must be mighty expensive nowa-
days. One beauteous blonde I know has of
late given up the struggle and become a
freckled brunette. When last I saw this
faded lady she was very bitter about Holman
and the war.
>t *• * *
“Burnley” : My thanks to “Copabella” (B.
15/6/’l6) for elucidating some of the mys-
teries of the match-selling business. Now
perhaps he can ease my mind on another
point. Last week I stepped into a branch
shop of Melbourne’s biggest grocers and
asked for the usual packet (I smoke a lot
of matches these times). The assistant
passed over a packet of Japs. “How much?”
“Fourpence halfpenny.” “Well, I don’t
want them. There’s GO in the box, and you
get about 20 lights out of them. Haven’t
you any others?” “We’ve got a few locals at
5d.” “Why didn’t you say so at first? Hand
them over. I’ll get 59 lights out of the box
with these.” Now I think I heard “Copa-
bella” say the retailer is willing to push
Austi'alian goods, but that the avei'age cus-
tomer doesn’t want them. Why, then,
does he push the foreign stuff before lie
knows what his customer wants?
Hand oyer the apple-growing champion-
ship. Cecil Beauchamp, who when he was a
few years younger was champion sculler
and oarsman of Tasmania, picked 250 bushels
of fruit from five trees this season, one tree
producing 75 bushels, variety Rhymer, situa-
tion Langley, West Tamar. Orchardists
plant 100-120 trees to the aci - e. Young
man, when you return from the war go on
the land. But perhaps you had better kill
off a city politician or two first.
* * * *
Hobart pricked up its ears the other day
when it heard that the Naval Board was
flirting with the idea that overseas vessels
coming to Australia should call at one port
only instead of dodging round the coast and
calling in at Fremantle, Adelaide, Mel-
bourne, Sydney and perhaps Brisbane.
“That means me, of course,” it said, remem-
bering its own old dream of Hobart as the
receiving and distributing centre for Aus-
tralia, of which dream, by the way, Clyde
Black, of the Hobart Mercury, was, and
is, tlio chief inspirer, though other people
get more of the limelight. A part of the
Hobart scheme, which got the blessing of
(he Dominions Royal Commission, was
that passengers, mails and cargo should be
carried by big, fast, deep-draught vessels, of
20,000 tons or more, using the Cape route.
The war has knocked the idea on the head
for a while, but it is bound to come again.
* * * »
“Y.Z.”: Shortly after war bi’oke out, the
photographers thought that raw ruin was
staring them in the face. Men and women
impressed their longing to see how they
looked under the stress of adversity in their
anxiety to save enough gold to carry them
over the back fence when the Germans
came. Then Khaki began to put in an
appeai'ance, and the river came down in
floods. Every studio was over-run. Billy
Khaki in his new uniform, backed by his
new gild, -was determined to put himself on
l'ecord, and leave at least silver pidnts on
the sands of time. The photographers were
l-aised suddenly from threatening penury to
the pinnacle of prosperity. The charges
went up, but Billy Khaki outrivalled the
broody hen in his eagerness to sit. Every
soldier wants a photo to leave with Lucy,
possibly that the dear girl may not get
mixed re the identity of the feilow upon
whom she has bestowed the wealth of her
young love, and the money photographers find
in plates (dry and otherwise) is turning the
parsons green with envy.
THE LAST STRAW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
B. Ginn’s a freelance —one who drew
An income with his pen.
He made cartoons and joke-blocks, too,
With etchings now and then;
And since the outbreak of the war
lie’s drawn the Kaiser o'er and o'er.
Till now afflicted with the strain,
He's got the war-god on the brain.
No matter what his task was still
Upon the paper true
The lineaments of Kaiser Bill
Came weirdly peering through;
At luncheon when he cut his steak
The scraps would Wilhelm’s likeness take;
When absently he bit his bread
He shaped the same infernal head.
He’d creep between the sheets, and fall
Into a kind of doze,
Then rise, and on the whitewashed wall
In terrifying rows
He drew the Kaiser’s anguished eyes,
Shaped nose and mo. in fearful wise,
Till Kaisers round that haunted room
Stretched to the very crack of doom.
He tried to draw a cheque, and lo!
The high Imperial Hun!
I knew at length his brain must go.
Alas! the mischief’s done.
This morn a harmless soul he slew
Who offered post-cards. One or two
Had drawings strange. The legends read:
“A Puzzle —Find the Kaiser’s Head.’’
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.
OUT-OF-DOOKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The plumber whistles at his work,
The carpenter goes gay;
In new, sweet wood no sin can lurk
On any sunny day,
And tinkering a bright roof-tree •
While whistling birds flit by
Must be a happy job-de-dee
Beneath a deep blue sky.
The man who hammers like a boy,
Amidst the birds and leaves,
Is full of honest beer and joy—-
For nothing now he grieves!
'The singing carpenter, his mate,
Works well amid a mess;
They’re making (at the union rate)
A home for happiness.
N.s.w.
OVERTIME POET.
A PICNIC IN JUNE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Under the dripping trees they stand and stare
Forlornly at the steely seas of June,
Armored with overcoats against the air
That nips and stings, with Love all out of tune.
They cannot sit upon the sodden sands,
Or splash and frolic in the winter waves;
Upon wet grass they cannot play at hands;
And hereabouts there are no vacant caves.
“Hot Water” shouts the creaking summer sign
That swings and flaps before a vacant cot;
Old swingboats in a still, tarpaulined line
Imply that summer revelry is rot.
The cold tide round the grey wharf sobs and swirls,
And no boat comes with Music and with Youth ;
Only this lonely band of blokes and girls
Pervades a beach as cold and bare as Truth.
The rain-squall runs with crow's feet o'er the sea;
The wrinkled waters look as old as Sin;
The rain drips coldly from the grieving tree
And taps impatient on the billy’s tin.
And could they not for gracious Summer wait ?
Indeed, the poor kids couldn’t ! Can't you see
That. gracious Summer may arrive too late
. Once youthful lovers don the brave’s khaki?
Come wind or rain they will be glad to-day;
When next blue Summer comes they’ll not be
here;
So—-for the last —a setting dim and grey....
Was that a raindrop fell or just a tear?
N.S.W.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.


Use
• • •
Santo Portable Vacuum Cleaners
The Most Satisfactory and
Reliable Electric Vacuum
Cleaner for Alternating' or
Direct Current Circuits.
.
. •.
r :
W i
Folding clip which
forms upper hook
on which cord is
wopnd. Also used
to hang cleaner tip
when not in use.
Handle made from
nickel plated! tab-
in* - closed end.
20 feet ol Flexible
Cord readily
wound up on fold-
ing cUps when not
in use.
Lower clip which
folds up out of the-
way when not in
[ Handle separates
I here for shipping.
Nickel plated cas-
ing containing fan
mounted direct on
motor shaft.
Dust bag sii
here and is
removed
emptying
Dust bag made
from special mater-
ial- dust cannot
come through it.
More convenient
when m o u n t-e d
around handle than
when flopping be-
neath it.
Floor renovator
readily detached
here and bo3e for
other attachments
slips directly in its
place.
Smooth floor felt
polisher and rough
floor stiff brush at-
tachments are slip-
• ped into opening
of renovator.
Attached or remov-
ed in a ’‘jiffy.’’
Connector plug (or
starting and stop-
ping the motor. —
Very convenient
and more durable
than a switch.
Specially designed,
very reliable
Genera! Electric
Motor—uses less
than a cent’s worth
of current per hour.
Swivel join! which
permits the open-
ing of renovator
to lie flat regard-
less of how the
handle is turned,
to clean under low
furniture or around
chair and table
legs.
ing nozilt; will
easily go under
radiators or heavy,
low furniture.
Visit our Showroom, or write us for Information
" or Quotations regarding these Cleaners. ■
m
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE—CITY 3510 (5 lines).
BRISBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
L rJ” “TT Edward and Charlotte Streets. '
PERTH (AV.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
—Agents—
‘Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
TELEPHONE-CENTRAL 2646. 2647 ; CITY 9579.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch. Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tnllock & Co., Ltd., Launceston;
Oliver & Oliver, Ltd., MacQuarie Street, Hobart.


lllllllililllllHlilllillililll
%
W
M
%
i
%
n
A. Saunders’ Eight-Day Westminster Chiming Clock,
Silver Dial, Hand Carved, Solid Oak Case, £7/10/-
/
Sr
DERS
SAU
v:
4
A
A. Saunders’ Eight-day Clock, '• mncd .Oaa case,
Bronze Ornaments, strikes hours and half-hours, 20/-
A. Saunders’ Eight-day Swinging-ball Clock,
fine Art figure, finished in real Bronze. Height 311 inches.
£9/10/-
Smaller Figures—Height 28in., £6/10/-. 30in. £7/7'/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street (op & a^i£ ay Sydney
A. Saunders’ Eight-day White Onyx Drawing-room
Clock, Enamel Dial, strikes hours and half-hours on Cathedral-
toned Gong. Height 12 inches. £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Eight-day Clock, Polished Solid Oak
Case, strikes hours on Cathedral-toned Gong, half-hours on
. bell, 25/-
MmkJSm
mm
MILITARY
COMPASS
Especially adapted for
general all-round military
requirements.
THE RIGHT COMPASS
FOR THE SOLDIER.
For ascertaining any angle
of direction at night-time
and as a Sight Compass
for finding horizontal bear-
ings and angles during the
day.
2in. Diameter, Brass
Case, strongly constructed
with Leather Case.
45/-» Post Free.
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.
189-191 George Street, BRISBANE.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
* T#
Rent Brewery, Sydney
I
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
th rough out A ustralasia.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Merrie
England, Bd. How to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dr.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art of Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by lie Foe, 1/2, poste'd. Thurston’s Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, 1/- posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, Bd., AND ALL THE RATIONAL PItESS RE-
PRINTS (send for list). Joys of Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Gall Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler’s Science
of Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. -Sandow’s Book of
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History
of the Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 6/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British,
Sd. How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins,
!/- posted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.
B
m
I
m
m
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
embracing
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a verv
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great, work. It will be posted
to ANY address for EIGHT SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
S«“BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH,-*!
Pro]''. Fowler's Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks' Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1 /-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speak-
ing Made Easy, 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man llis Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers’ Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3.- Life
of Deeming; illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannan’s Engine
Driver’s Guidh* 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio,
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 eaei
posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes, 1/6 posted.
Women’s Secrets, 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The Waybacks, 1/2.
All these prices Post Paul.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
roniDarp mv prices with others iind save
your cash 25 Years.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY jCOUNTRY.
ORDERS' SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
1/- posted. New Tricks with Cards, 1/- Sappho,
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 post. Dr.
Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical illus-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Gor-
don's Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry,
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret His-
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers’ Letter
Writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Mor-
gan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees,
New Edition, 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
Bd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoll’s Works,
Bd., 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers
Assistant, 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5/6 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New Recita-
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and Its
Cure 1/2 posted. Webster's Large Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather bound,
mv price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas?).
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, 1/2. Moore’s Universal Assist-
ant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
II- post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music
complete), 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, bv
Paine, posted Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot, 67 8 69 Market Street, Sydney <onlyi


> '■ *
■■■
f
I I
1 s
11
m
m
~, m
V.-i*' - |«:
m
1
-• ‘ •
-: *. *
mBSm
mm
mm
::
m
• :• :
I
;
mm
■.
wm
u
HRSIS
mmm
■ I
i - §
HI
■ i
■
• - J
# ■
;
- r
v-
i ■
is
The No. 3& Folding
Kodak
is for postcard pictures
The No. 3A Folding Autographic Kodak is the most popular
Camera in the world; simple enough for the beginner; has
capabilities that meet the requirements of the expert. •
Ideal for all classes of pictures—pictures of your holidays and
week-ends; pictures of home life, travel, people and places; pictures
to send your soldier friends at the war.
Invaluable to architects, builders, contractors of all kinds, pro-
gressive men on the land, manufacturers, motorists, sportsmen,
amateur gardeners, sheep and cattle breeders, and others whose
aim is to keep a permanent record of every important or pleasing
event.
Has new Autographic back which enables you to make a note on
the film at the time of exposure.
It takes postcard pictures—s-| x inches. Price £5/10/-
Otlier Autographic Kodaks from 30/- to £l5/2/-
The No. 1 Brownie—a little cousin of the Kodak’s—
is perfecf for children. Pictures x2% inches.
Price 5/=. Others up to 50/ =
Ask for the latest Kodak Catalogue.
Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
Incorporating: Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
350-253 Queen St., Brisbane; 37 Bundle St., Adelaide; 15 Elizabeth St., Hobart;
Ruthven St., Toowoomba; Flinders St., Townsville; Denham St., Rockhampton;
346 Argent St., Broken Hill; Dixon St., Wellington, N Z.; 3 Eorne St., Auckland,
N.Z.: and 76 Stuart St.. Dunedin N.Z.
(Regd. Trade Mark)
Infants' Knitted Wear
Made from the same yarn as the world-famous washing
material, and therefore non-irritant, very durable and
does not shrink.
Its remarkable elasticity and delightful softness ensure
the child a degree of freedom and comfort unattainable
in ordinary knitted wear.
m
viyella
The garments, which are perfectly fashioned and extremely
healthful, include underwear, hosiery, frocks, nights, jackets,
bonnets, gaiters, bootees, etc.
If any Viyella garment shrinks it will be replaced.
Insist on “Viyella” when ordering and see the “Viyella” tag on
the article a guarantee of reliability.
Stocked by all high-class drapers.
•VjyeiUi;;


m
Warning Signal
Hand-operated
£l/10/-
Makes Them All
Stop! Look! Listen!
Too many cars are equipped with a weak,
little buzzer that can only be heard a
few yards away.
What, good is that ? Can it afford real pro-
tection ?
Many a serious accident has been due to
the faintness of a poor, inefficient, weak
signal.
Safety first! Use a Stewart Warning
Signal for your own protection.
Its note is clear, loud and penetrating —it
makes everyone stop, look and listen.
Just touch it with elbow, arm or hand and
it instantly commands immediate atten-
tion.
Built of the best materials by the world’s
largest motor accessory manufacturers,
Stewart Warner Speedometer Corpora-
tion.
Tens of thousands are in use. Our big pro-
duction makes possible the very low
price.
The Stewart Warning Signal can be put on
any car —yours, or your friend’s.
Order one now, and hereafter you will drive
with a greater degree of safety.
For sale by leading accessory dealers, motor-
car dealers and garages, or write to:
BENNETT & WOOD,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Exclusive Distributors.
* i
Zttewtvib
Motor-Driven Warning Signal.
£2/12/6
" No car is better than its accessories.
m
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
*C: x
V
l
m
“That Smile
— l’d know it anywhere! ”
()F ALL features your smile can be most
expressive of your personality—can have
the greatest power to attract and charm.
Teeth in fine condition, revealed by the smile,
are proof of health, care and personal refine-
ment. Neglected teeth are a severe detriment.
Brightness of eye, clearness of complexion—
general physical and mental well-being—all
are impossible without the diligent practice of
GOOD TEETHKEEPING
This means semi-annual visits to your dentists
—the night and morning use of
Orlyon's
PERFECT
Tooth Powder
Prepared for nearly half a century hy a
Doctor of Dental Surgery
Preserves teeth by cleansing them the safe Way —
thorough polishing.
A pure, velvety powder, pleasant in its action and
therefore a dentifrice that children like to use. (A very
important consideration in training your child to care
for its teeth.)
Dr. Lyon’s has enjoyed the endorsement of the dental
profession for three generations—millions of users have
benefited by it and recommended it.
Your chemist has it your leading store no aid
to your well-being is more conveniently to be had. A
tin of Dr. Lyon’s will start your Good
Teethkeeping today.
What Dr. Lyon’s does not do only your Dentist is competent to do.
Obtainable at all leading chemists and stores. Send 3d.
in stamps today for a dainty sample package of either
Dr. Lyon’s Perfect Tooth Powder or Dental Cream.
This Dainty Trial Tin, (actual size) which con-
ains a week’s supply of Dr. Lyons Perfect
Tooth Powder sent on receipt of 3d in stamps.
m
I. W. LYON & SONS, Inc.
Lower Cuba St.
Wellington, N. Z.
209 Pitt Street
Sydney, N. S. W.
mm
m
' '*|t
> K
KM
Or-
t ftt
Sfe-


Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
-J-IVOII THEATRE, SYDNEY
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Plans at Nicholson’s and Tivoli.
•ytVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NIGHTLY AT EIGHT.
LEIGHTON & KENNEDY, O'DONNELL & BLAIR,
OS-KO-MON, JACK & FORIS. FLOYD, MACK &
MABELLE, EVELYN CUNNINGHAM, VANDINOFF
& LOUIE, GRACE HANSON, NORTON & EARL,
LOOSE & STERLING.
Plan at Glen’s.
LI E R M A .7 E S T Y ’ S, S Y D N E Y.
• * Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
ROYAL COMIC OPERA SEASON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE MERRY WIDOW.
SATURDAY NEXT.
OUR MJSS GIBBS.
Plans at Paling's. Day Sales Callose’s.
QRITERION T II EA T R E, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HALE HAMILTON, MYRTLE TANNEHILL and
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S Clever Company of Comedians
in the reigning success of London and New York,
THE BOOMERANG,
A delightful Three-act Comedy.
Plans at Paling’*. Dnv Sales White Ro*e.
T HE A T R E, SYDNEY.
Commencing THURSDAY EVENING, JULY 27.
SIGNALLER TOM SKEYHILL,
THE BLIND SOLDIER-POET,
In his Illustrated, Graphic Story of The Landing at
the Dardanelles,
“WITH THE AUSTRALIANS AT
ANZAC.”
Popular Prices. Plans at Paling’s.
w.
BARRINGTON MILLER, Managing
Union Theatres Limited, presents the
Director
new
m
T RIANC.LE PLAYS at
THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MOTION PICTURE ENTER-
TAINMENT as it should be.
SESSIONS: 11.45 a.m., 2 p.m.,
4.15 p.m. EVERY DAY, and
8 p.m.
Prices: 6H. to 2'6. Box Plan at Paling’s.
on haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
II NI O N PICTURE THEATRES
w In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER .!. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
Vt . Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
|_IER MAJESTY'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
TO-NIGHT’S THE NIGHT.
A BRILLIANT NEW MUSICAL PLAY.
Plan at Allan's. Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and 1/-.
THEA T It E ROY A E, MEI.BOciiNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
ROMANCE.
The Outstanding Success of the 1915-191 G Dramatic
Season in England and America.
Prices: 6/-, 4/- and 2/-.
DRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
1 Sole Proprietors: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JULY 22.
GEO. MARLOW presents the GONSALEZ ITALIAN
OPERA CO. in
LA FA VO RITA.
IL BARBIERE DI SIVIGLIA (Matinee).
Monday (July 24), IL BARBIERE DI SIVIGLIA;
Tuesday, FAUST ; Wednesday, FAYORITA (MIGNON,
Matinee) ; Thursday and Friday, AIDA.
Popular Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/-.
ICING’S THEATRE, iIELBOURN E.
Lessees BERT BAILEY * JULIUS GRANT.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JULY 22.
JftN.TAITS NEWENH.ISH t?
PEG,
O MY
A COMEDY OF YOUTH
by *J HARTLEY MANNERS.
THE SUPREME SUCCESS OF SUCCESSES
Box Plans now open at Allan’s.
THE PLAYHOUSE
* (Prince’s Bridge, Melbourne).
The Gregan McMahon REPERTORY COMPANY in
E. H. Oliphant’s Play,
THE SUPER LOU RACE,
SATURDAY, JULY 29; WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 2;
and SATURDAY, AUGUST 5.
THREE NIGHTS ONLY. Box Plan at Glen’s.
- FAULKNER-SMITH Direction.
The auditorium,
MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. & N. TAIT present,
by arrangement with JACK WALLER,
THE IDEALS OE 1916.
FOR A SHORT FAREWELL SEASON.
Prices:' 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Plan at Allan's.
Bijou i' ne a x it e, mRu b o u r n eT
FULLER’S THEATRES & VAUDEVILLE LTD.
Governing Director .... BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
Afternoon 2.30, Evening at 8.
PHIL PERCIVAL, SOMAN & DILLON, CHRIS.
RICHARDS, MANKIN THE FROG, DOROTHY
HARRIS, JESSIE BARLEE, HARRINGTON REY-
NOLDS, LAURENCE JOHNSTONE, FREDO BOYS, &
THE TWO CALEYS.
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Matinees: 1/6, 1/- and 6d.
Amusements.
QLACIARIUM, MELBOURNE.
REAL ICE SKATING.
EVERY AFTERNOON AND
EVENING.
H
O Y T’S PICTURES, MELBOURNE
PEST AND MOST.
TW O BI G SHO W S.
HOYT’S OWN: Bourke Street, next Theatre Royal.
OLYMPIA: Prince’s Bridge.
UEENS L A N D
T O U R.
'
y
7
THE FREDERIC SITIPMAN ENTERPRISES LTD.
present
PAUL DUE AULT,
The Famous French-Canadian Tenor.
BRISBANE 11. M. THEATRE.
JULY 22, 24, 2G, 29.
GYMPIE, MARYBOROUGH, BUNDABERG,
ROCKHAMPTON, TOWNSVILLE.
CHARTERS TOWERS TO FOLLOW.
U O L
Birch & car
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Heap Office : ROTPIWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
Public Notices.
M OTICE is hereby given that HERBERT ERNEST
1N STANLEY formerly of 37 Rylett Road, Shep-
j herds Bush in the County of London, England and
! Rosemary, Brasted Chart in (lie County of Kent, Eng-
j land aforesaid and now of Yannaxvah Milong via
Young, New South Wales in the Commonwealth of
j Australia, Farmer a natural-horn British subject here-
tofore known by the name of Herbert Ernest Stam-
mwitz by a Deed Poll dated the 24th day of March
1916 duly executed and attested and enrolled in the
Central Office of the Supreme Court of Judicature on
the 16th day of -May 1916 formally and absolutely
renounced and abandoned the surname of Stamm-
witz and declared that he had assumed and adopted
and intended thenceforth upon all occasions whatso-
ever to use and subscribe the surname of Stanley
instead 'of St.ammwitz, and so as to be at all times
thereafter called known and described by the name
of Herbert Ernest Stanley exclusively.
Dated the 17th day of May, 1916.
WALTER HASKELL k CO.,
7 John Street, Bedford Row, London, Solicitors for
tlie above-named Herbert Ernest Stanley.
PATENTS. —A useful feature embodied in
Patent Law enables an inventor a i comparatively
small cost (with simple inventions ‘ ,L 4 45.), even
before he has been to the expense of working out his
invention in practice, to procure “Provisional Protec-
tion,” and thus save the priority of a term to receive
full Patent rights in the Commonwealth of Australia,
and in any or all of those 26 countries having
Patent Laws, and which are parties with the
Commonwealth to the International Convention.
During this term, which is nine months in the
Commonwealth of Australia and 12 months in the
foreign countries, the inventor has ample opportunity
to test the full question of value, to work out his
invention and demonstrate its practicability. If the
principles of his invention are seen to promise a
success he can proceed In take out full Patents; if
not. he need go to no further expense. During- the
period of provisional protection the invention may
be made, used and sold without prejudicing the right
of the inventor to obtain valid Letters Patent. Full
information on Patents furnished free on application
to A. J. CALLTNAN, Registered Patent Attorney (In-
official Examination, 1906), 281 Collins Street,
Melbourne—’Phone 5199; or 14 Oastlereagh Street,
Sydney—’Phone 8336. Direct and most reliable agents
in all countries granting Patents. —Advt.
(fjPILLdRINE
CROWS MOUSTACHES
QUICKLY !
m
Those who follow
the Military exam-
ple by growing the
Moustache, will find
their efforts greatly 1
helped by the use of
Capillarine. This
unfailing Moustache-
producer “delivers
the goods'’ in double-
quick time, and is guaranteed a
genuine preparation. You try it.
Price 10/6 Jar—Post Free.
Craig & Aitken,
654 George St.,
SYDNEY.
o^l
iQ\}°
DO
DEVIL’S PUZZLE MATCHBOX.
The Matchbox, which is different from all
other puzzle-boxes. You’ll never open it until
you read the directions. Made of Nickel-plate,
beautifully finished. Without doubt the most
ingenious Puzzle Matchbox that has ever been
made. Price, Post Free, with Instruc-
tions, 2/-
Jokes, Puzzles, Tricks,
Novelties.
Write for our New ’'ovelty
Catalog—lT’S FREE.
i.
SHOCKING
CIGARETTE
CASE.
A splendid have.
No sooner do you
open the case than
you drop it as
quickly.
Post Free, 9d.
h
. L. Hutchinson Ivtd.,
708-710 George Street, Haymarket, Sydney.
5/
&V*.
M
Work up the lather with wet
brush ( don't use fingers. )
m
'Oz,.
J, o,
New Way to Shave
Just three simple operations and your shaving is
done! No impatient calling for “hotwater”—no
“soaping-up” in a mug—no mussy “rubbing-in” with
the fingers. The rich abundant lather of
rrcrmrs
SHAVING CREAM
The
simplifies these operations. No
smarting burning after-effects.
Mennen’s contains no free caustic
or other irritant to torture or dis-
figure your face.
Mennen’s saves you time and
torture. It leaves your face soft,
cool, comfortable and refreshed.
Use it and you will realize that you
have been wrongfully blaming your
razor the secret of a good shave
is the lather.
Mennen’s Shaving Cream is
put up in airtight, sanitary tubes
with handy hexagon screw tops.
Prove its value. Try it, that is
the only way to find out what it
will do tor you.
Obtainable at all leading chemists and stores
G. MENNEN CHEMICAL CO.
Lower Cuba Street
Wellington, N. Z.
109 Pitt St., Sydney, N. S. W.
Trade Mark
Send penny stamped
envelope for free sample of
“MENNEN’S”
TALCUM FOR MEN
Legal Notices. :
f N THE SUPREME COURT OE QUEENSLAND,
1 TOWNSVILLE.
In the Will of JOIIANNA HETHERINGTON, late of
Charters Towers in the State of Queensland,
Widow, deceased.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that after the expira-
tion of fourteen days from the date of the publica-
tion hereof application will be made to this Honour-
able Court that Probate of the Will of the above-
named JOHANNA HETHERINGTON deceased may
be granted to SARAH ELIZABETH COLEMAN*, of
Charters Towers in the State of Queensland wife of
Thomas Joseph Coleman of the same place Miner the
sole Executrix named in the said Will.
Any person interested who desires to object to the
application or to be heard upon it may tile a caveat
in the Registry at any time before the grant is made.
Dated this first day of July one thousand nine
hundred and sixteen.
MARSLAND * M A RSI.A \ I),
Solicitors for the said Sarah Elizabeth Coleman,
Gill Street, Charters Towers.
Town Agents IIOBBS WILSON & RYAN, Solicitors,
Townsville.
ROBERT COSTA IN Deceased.
PURSUANT to ah Order of the Court of Chancery
of the County Palatine of Lancaster Manchester
District made in the matter of the estate of Robert
Costain deceased dated the Kith day of May 1910
Whereby it was -ordered that the Registrar should
make the following enquiry namely -
AN enquiry who was the heir at law of the testator
the above-named Robert Costain deceased at the
time of his death and ' whether "such heir is living
or dead and if dead who b.v devise descent or other-
wise is entitled to such real estate of the testator
as descended to such heir at law all persons claiming
to be any of the persons referred to in the said
enquiry are by their Solicitors on or before (lie sth
day of October 1916 to come in and prove their
claims at the Office of the Registrar of the Man-
chester District of the said Court of Chancery of the
County Palatine of Lancaster situate, at Duchy
Chambers, 4 Clarence Street, Manchester, England,
or in default thereof they will be. peremptorily
excluded from the benefit of the said Order.
Thursday the 26th day of October 1916 at 11 of
the clock in the forenoon at, the said Chambers is
appointed for the hearing and adjudicating upon the
said claims.
The said Robert Oostain was a retired Tailor
probably born at Castletown in the Isle of Man in the
year 1838. His father and mother were Robert and
Anne Costain. He died on the 3rd of July 1913 at
his residence 164 Buxton Road, Stockport, former
addresses being at Disley, and Chorlton-on-Medlock,
Manchester. So far as known he had a Sister who
was married and went to Australia ■ over 50 years
ago and probably died there.
It is not known to whom she was married or if
she had any children. It is believed there are other
relations of the said Robert Costain living in the
Isle of Man and descended from his grandfather one
of these probably being Mrs. Alice Cowan (formerly
Collister) of Douglas, Confectioner.
Any person having information relative to any of
the above persons or as to the date and circumstances
of the death of any of them is requested to com-
municate with the undersigned Solicitors.
DATED this 29th day of May 1916.
HUBERT WINSTANLEY,
Registrar.
MINOR & CO.,
Solicitors for the Petitioner
of 29 Fountain Street
Manchester, England.
Missing; Friends.
IN THE ESTATES of RICHARD and
MARY ANN BYRNES, deceased.—Mr.
Norbert Joseph Byrnes, a son of the above-
named deceased persons, is requested to com-
municate with the undersigned, giving full
particulars of his identity, and he will hear
of something to his advantage. Any person
who can furnish any information as to the
whereabouts of the said Norbert Joseph
Byrnes is also invited to communicate with
T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee, Cul-
wulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
T 7l STATE of JAMES MULHO ELAND,
'J late of Lake Ivamu Goldfield Territory
of Papua, Digger, deceased. The next-of-
kin of the above-named deceased are re-
quested to communicate with the undersigned,
and they will hear of something to their
advantage.—T. \Y. GARRETT, Public
Trustee, Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Note Your Notes with an
ONOTO
Take an Onolo Pen with you wherever you
may be stationed.
It will save you time and trouble and will
make writing under any conditions possible
and easy.
It is the pen that fills itseh and cannot
leak.
Price from all stationers, jewellers, etc.,
12/- and upwards.
m
British made and
guaranteed by its
makers.
Ask for the Special
Service Model “ O,*'
made to fit the Uni-
form pocket.
Onofo
(Seir-Filllng - •
j Safety Fountain
Pen
Booklet about-the Onoto Pen
free on application to
Thomas de i.a Rue & Co.
Ltd., 195, Bunhill Row,
London, E.C.,
the Australasian
Norman
Managing Agents,
Baker & Longhukst,
50 York Street, Sydney,


Sydm ELY. N.SW.
The Wentworth Garden, with its beautiful surroundings, is
ideal for Luncheons, Dinners, Afternoon Teas, Supper and
Wedding Parties, and all semi-outcloor functions.
Visitors to Sydney will find the Wentworth Hotel most popular,
central and up to date in all modern conveniences, including telephones
in bedrooms, communicating with the Exchange.
The Appointments, Linen and Service are superb, and compare more
than favorably with the best Hotels in the Commonwealth.
Terms on application.
Mrs. H. MACLURCAN, Manageress.
*
in
m
“Champion
“Champion
“Champion”
Columbus” Tubular Concrete Harrow, capacity 2 cubic feet wet concrete,
4 cubic feet of dirt. , „ . ..
Columbus” Steel Tubular Barrows for general work, 3 cubic feet, or 4 cubic
feet capacity.
Steel Concrete Carts, steel wheels 3ft. Gin. diameter, capacity 6 cubic feet.
Easily handled by one man. Great labor-saiers.
CAROLIN MACHINERY CO.,
Stanley Street, West Melbourne,
and
ANGEL PLACE, SYDNEY.
ADELAIDE & BRISBANE.
“Champion” Steel Stone Crushers, Road
Machines, Wheel and Drag Earth Scoops,
Steel Wiard Road Plows, Steel Reversible
Road Rollers, Concrete Mixers, etc.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Griffith, the Minister whose name was
mixed up in the petrol perfume, was restored
to full standing in the N.S.W. Cabinet this
week. Morgan, who was accused of the
alleged scheme of bribery and corruption,
was acquitted last week. But Reid, the
officer of the Works Department who intro-
duced the unspotted agent to the spotless
Minister, got the sack weeks ago. Twenty
years back, if “Constant Reader” had told
the Labor party that, when it got into
power and somebody had to be kicked, it
would choose the small under-dog for the
boot, “Constant Reader” would certainly
have been called a liar.
LOOKING FOR ANOTHER UNCLE?
Holman has gone for a short visit to Fiji.
—News item.
Instead of sending a Commission of a
dozen people to Uncle Sam to find out at
great expense how he does' things, suppose
the Commonwealth Government appoints a
Commission of three active reporters to
hurry around iu Australia some morning
and find out why Australians haven’t done
the things they can do. The reporters could
complete that job before the next session of
Parliament starts.
When Lloyd George told Australia that it
could best help the Empire by supplying
itself with home-grown goods instead of de-
pending on England for them, there arose a
horrible suspicion that he was referring to
Bishops and State Governors.
The chief significance of Von Wiegand’s
cable to New York World lies in his esti-
mate of the population of the Bowers at war.
The Hun journalist admits that it is now
“a question whether the Allies, with a popu-
lation of 670,000,000, are able to turn the
screw tight enough to crush the 115,000,000
people of the Central Empire.” First the
German scaremonger carefully omits Turkey
and Bulgaria from the Hun side of the
figures. Then he either regards India, with
its armed force of 100,000 all told, as being
worth 350 millions of possible fighters to
the Allies, or else he is leaving India out
and counting in the U.S.A., Holland and
Roumania. Either way Germany is posing
as an unfortunate Empire battling against
heavy odds. When one thinks of the time
that'the Hun talked of his “irresistible mil-
lions” of soldiers, as compared with the
“degenerates” of France and the “contempt-
ible little army” of Britain, this sudden pull-
ing of a poor mouth is most suggestive. One
of these days the broken bully will burst
into tears.
“BREAKING THE NEWS."
How characteristic that the first movement
of Hughes’s ships to be reported was the
sailing of the Vermont from London to
N’York “to load general cargo for Aus-
tralia” !
The Australian Post Office seems to be a
place for turning lambs into roaring lions.
Spence, mildest mannered of ancient- philo-
sophers, started to roar for blood soon after
he got among the Red Tape, and Webster
had no sooner been made P.M.G. than he,
too, commenced to change his habit. There
is something pathetic about this. Webster
was a kindly, inoffensive person. He tackled
his job with confident affability. Now he
is fiercely leaping through official docu-
ments and cursing the inefficiency of the
Department and the public for grumbling
about it; reviles his critics, and while fran-
tically demanding to know what everyone is
grumbling about explains that he is toiling
like a slave to remove the causes of all the
grumble. This paper feels sorry for
Webster; also it suspects that Webster
feels just as sorry for himself.
The Fattest employers of Hobart are
looking for some method of parcelling out
profits calculated to improve “the present
unhappy relations between capital and
labor,” and the Chamber of Commerce
gathered recently to listen to an address
on profit-sharing by Herbert Heaton, who
professes Economics at the Speck’s Univer-
sity. Heaton made out such a strong case
against profit-sharing and similar notions
that real quivers of ecstasy ran through the
mass of Fat assembled. The philanthropists
decided that, much as they would like to
share the spoils, such altruistic schemes
would have to be abandoned, but only with
very, very great regret. Heaton then pro-
ceeded to say that the best plan of sharing
profits was to pay a decent wage; but these
remarks glanced off his hearers’ well-covered
ribs and were greeted with rapturous silence.
“The Gink” sends an “urgent” : —•
A lot of the first war news was handed round Aus-
tralia on German-made transmitting automatic tele-
graph tape. Till the guns began the German stuff
was used almost exclusively, being fairly thin, very
tough, having extremely good “body” and standing-
punching without fraying. When the stock was
exhausted another tape was tried-out; but it was so
soft that it had to be oiled. Even then it was not
satisfactory, as it broke at the slightest jerk. Lately
another tape has come to light which is almost as
good as the enemy supply. It is, I believe, made
here in Australia. If it is, up goes my hat —though
in any ease perhaps I’d better wait till we’ve got a
tariff. There’s not much sense in cheering over the
arrival of another Australian baby if there’s a Thug
waiting just round the corner to squeeze its little
throat.
Customs Minister Tudor cordially approves
of Lloyd George’s advice to Australia to help
England by manufacturing what she now im-
ports. “We are gaining experience through
the war,” he says. “We are making chemi-
cals used in photography ; we are using more
of our own timber, and glace kid better than
the imported is being produced here.” But
isn’t Frank Tudor rather ashamed of it?
Ashamed that it should have been necessary
for a ghastly war to give the protection
which years ago might have been given by a
peaceful Act of Parliament?
Syphilis is being
given notice to quit at
last. The Federal
Ministry lias a notion
of driving it out of
Australia by subsidis-
ing the States to do
their duty. ' Some of
them are doing it
nobly already; for in-
stance, the Speck has
provided £3O0 —more
than the price of the
Ford State motor-car
—for the eradication
of the scourge. Now
some optimist has cal-
culated that an effec-
tive scheme for all
Australia can be set
going for about
£25,000 per year, and
the Federal Cabinet’s
idea is to go halves
with the various
States in the cost of
clinics and treatment.
It proposes to give the
aid only to those States
which go back to the
example set by Gov-
ernor Phillip at the
beginning of things
(B. S/O/’IO) and
make venereal diseases
compulsorily notifi-
able. This isn’t phi-
lanthropy, but cold
business on the part of
the Commonwealth. It
is reckoned that fully
10 per cent, of the
invalid pensions paid out by the Common-
wealth are due directly or indirectly to
syphilis and its kin. A reduction of even
5 per cent, in the number of invalid pensions
granted would mean a saving of nearly
£30,000 per year.
N.S.W. Opposition-leader Wade remarked
the other day that “Labor had always fal-
tered in the national duty when its party
votes were endangered.” But all of them do
that. This is a commonplace reflection of
commentators on Party Government, and
behind it lies one of the great perils of
enfranchised communities. The falterings
of British Governments this last half cen-
tury in relation to defence, Ireland and com-
merce, to take only three examples, have
been abject. The falterings of Australian
parties in regard to land, industry and taxa-
tion no less so. The older parties become,
the more timid, untrustworthy and time-
serving do they grow. It is not the Labor
party that is at fault. It is the party sys-
tem ; and we shall see no improvement until
we have Elective Ministries and a free use of
the Referendum.
At the Collingwood “tech.” £5OO has been
spent by the Yic. Government on machinery
and materials for teaching toymaking to
returned soldiers, and the learners are to
be maintained by the Federal 'Government
until they are competent. It sounds like
a good start. But if Australia is ever to
establish its toy industry as a means of
livelihood instead of as a charity, it will
be necessary to recognise the simple fact
that the unsweated Australian monkey-on-
a-stick at lAd. is unsaleable in competition
with the sweated foreign article at Id.
Most Australian toyshops are now crammed
to the ceilings with imports; so if the Fed-
eral authorities decide to Do It Now and
protect Australian manufactures, the latter
will just be coming along nicely as the im-
ported stocks are cleared.
J-he last time the cable spoke, Carranza
the Mexican had his hands well away from
Ins gun-butts and was politely assuring
I resident Wilson that liis brigands’ nest of
a country didn’t want war. Berlin Bill has
done this much good by his colossal blunder-
ing : no. nation now wants a war that it
can’t win quickly.
HIS LONG , STERN JOB.
EXPEDITIONSARY (scornfully): “Yairs. You
pay yer dam’ taxes; but wot are
yer doin’ for th ’ firin’-line? Nothin’!"
PATERFAMILIAS (nursing his fourteenth):
“Hain’t I bringin’ up th’ reserves?”
We’re all right. Commenting on German
plans to recapture the aniline-dye trade after
the war by systematic dumping, Customs
Minister Tudor said he “had no doubt Ger-
man plans would be frustrated. The Paris
Conference had decided to shut out German
goods. At any rate, the waterside workers
had decided they would not handle German
goods after the war.” That makes it
safe! But why, then, bother about Customs
officers? Or a Customs Minister?
South Aus. has decided to go in for bulk
handling of its wheat. Works-Minister Jack-
son thinks a round million should put up
elevators at the ports (Adelaide, Pirie, Lin-
coln and Wallaroo), with smaller ones in-
land. Metcalfe and Co. are to get £12,501)
(1J per cent.) for “supervision” if Parlia-
ment agrees to put the scheme through:
and, in any case apparently, the firm is to be
paid £20,000 for preparing plans- and specifi-
cations.
Even if we can’t get German glass and
gas-mantles there’s no need to worry about
making them in Australia; we can import
them from Japan. The other week-end four
cargoes of Jap goods reached Melbourne.
On Friday the Banyei Maru waddled into
port with a large cargo of cotton goods,
glassware, etc.; on Sunday came the Tango
Maru with gas-burners, gas-mantles and
patent ceilingsj and the Yahiko Maru with
boxwood. Monday brought the Otaru Maru
with a mixed cargo, and a fifth Jap cargo
steamer was expected in a day or two. All
of which shows the flourishing state of Aus-
tralian trade and the needlessness of any
talk about altering the tariff.
BAD BUSINESS.
THE C LOWS: “ Fader, der bill is very big."
THE KING: “ Ach, yes! And vot is vorse, ve
haf not der goods."
Dear Bulletin, — I beg to propose that
Les Darcy be appointed Secretary to
the Commonwealth Inspection-of-Uncle-Sam
Commission, and that Bill Corbett be the
journalist despatched to report the proceed-
ings. If Hugh D. Mclntosh doesn’t second
this, he is no friend of the workers. —Yours,
Mulga Bill.
THE ALTERED DREAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Our cannon shrieking to the tortured sky—
Engines of death we deemed no foe could tame —
Our battle eagles taught to soar and fly,
The splendid vaunt of our triumphant name:
These moved our pride until it seemed last year
The final, large world-victory was near.
No little thing we asked. The whole earth's fruits
Were not too great to meet our wide demand.
All realms should shake before our marching boots —-
The kultured leather of our Teuton land.
A world of slaves should in obedience bend
When the guns ceased and bitter war had end.
We asked for all. Nought else might fill our need.
This was the place we sought for in the sun:
A place of mastery o’er every breed
That cumbered earth, by force of battles won.
Our task was great, but never did we doubt
Our arms should put all weaker foes to rout.
We saw the new graves grow, the bread decrease,
But never were our spirits touched with fear.
We must endure; but soon our toils should cease
And triumph full of easy wealth appear.
Soon should the broken lands for mercy sue—
The world was ours by right of arms, we knew.
What doubt is this that creeps with icy chill
Into the hearts that late were strong and proud ?
The foe moves on by shattered vale and hill,
Our might before his greater might is bowed ;
And wolf-lean famine whines about the door,
The sausage fades, the nearer cannon roar.
Last year our dream was to possess the world ;
To-day perforce we modify our view.
The wings of our ambition must be furled ;
A simpler beer of hope we needs must brew.
We yield without a sigh our hymns of hate
For cold potatoes on a bloodless plate.
N.S.W.
HANS HOHENHUNGER.


rmfIOTANDS
EDWARD DYSCM
Australian Humor.
Every country in the world possesses a humor peculiar
to itself, and Australia is no exception to the rule.
There is only one place to And the true humor of Aus-
tralia, and that is in
Australian Novels by Australian Authors.
“Bookstall” Series of Shilling Books.
1'- each.
Obtainable from all Book-
stalls and Booksellers, or
from the Publishers.
I|l posted.
Write for a Complete Catalogue.
“BILL’S IDLES.”
By A. Q. STEPHENS.
The philosophy of a larrikin who has
become suburbanised.
“SCOTTY MAC, SHEARER.”
By R. S. fAlt.
A series of rollicking sketches concerning
a busli nomad.
“FACT’RY ’ANDS.” By edward dyson. “ SPATS’ FACT’RY.”
“Fact’ry ’Ands” is a masterpiece of Australian humor; illustrations by Will Dyson,
one of the world’s foremost black-and-white artists. Of “Spats’ Fact’ry” a critic
said: “There is not a dull line in it.” No better recommendation than that could
he desired for a humorous novel.
“ABORIGINALITIES.”
A collection of the gems that have
appeared in The Bulletin’s famous
column.
“ THEATRICAL CARICATURES.”
Caricatures by Harry Julius. Anecdotes
by Claude McKay. A humorous record
of the Australian Stage.
THOMAS SPENCER’S HUMOROUS BOOKS:
“ How McDougall Topped the Score, and Other Verses.”
“The Surprising Adventures of Bridget McSweeney.”
“That Droll Lady.” “The Spring Cleaning.” “Why Doherty Died.”
“The Haunted Shanty.”
“ A CURATE IN BOHEMIA.” By norman undsay.
An extremely amusing story, written and illustrated by Norman Lindsay, recounting
the extraordinary adventures that befell a curate who had become entangled in the
Bohemian life of a number of Australian art students.
The Latest Addition to Steele Rudd’s Selection Stories :
“GRANDPA’S SELECTION.” “GRANDPAS SELECTION.”
Simply a Whirlwind of Laughter.
Published by
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HIGH-GRADE STATIONARY
UPRIGHT DRILLING MACHINE
This machine differs from the ordinary type of American Pattern Upright Drilling
Machines, inasmuch as it is extra-heavily constructed throughout, and suitable for
quick, heavy drilling.
STOCK SIZE. —Drill to the centre of a 21Jin. circle. Machine complete with Back
Gear, Power Peed and Automatic Stop; also Wheel and Lever Peed.
GEARING throughout is MACHINE-CUT FROM THE SOLlD.—Complete with fast
and loose Pulleys, necessary spanners, etc.
WRITE. FOR PARTICULARS.
c
Established
1860.
Proprietary Limited
Machinery, Iron and Tool Merchants,
554-66 & 582-88 Collins St., Melbourne, VICTORIA; and at 51-65 Bathurst St., Sydney, N. S. WALES.
10-incH
from
3/-each
BRITISH-MADE
m
12-incH
from
5/-each
COLUMBIA “No. 19” SUPPLEMENT.
PINK LABEL SERIES.—I2-inch Single-sided. Price 15/-
74008
1 AIDA: “Ritorna Vincitor”
Madame Elsa Stralia, Soprano.
PURPLE LABEL SERIES.—I2-inch Single-sided.. Price 7/6.
7125
-j The Keys of Heaven .. Duet: Madame Clara Butt and Mr. Kennerley Rumford.
RED LIABEL SERIES.—IO-inch Single-sided. Price 6/
51201
-j Le Reve Passe. In French
Jean Vallier, Basso.
LIGHT BLUE LABEL SERIES.—I2-inch Double-sided. Price 6/- each.
1,1027
\ The Ride of the Valkyries, from the “Valkyries”
i Song of the Rhine Daughters, from “The Twilight of the Gods”
l Sir Henry .T. Wood and liis Orchestra.
1.1028
j Alsatian Melody (Popper) ’Cello Solo. By W. H. Squire.
( Gavotte. No. 2 (Popper)
1.1029
| The Lonely Shepherd
( Romance from Quartette (Greig)
London String- Quartet.
10-inch Double-sided. Price 4/3 each.
DI33G
FAUST: Duet Trio, “O Tliou who Rule‘t MR ht.” 11l English The English
Opera Company (Frederick Blarney, Frederick Austin, Frederick Ran a low).
MARITANA: “Turn On, Old Time” Tile English Opera Company (Edith
Clegg. Maurice D’Oisly. Frederick Ranalow).
D 1377
f- The Blind Boy
( Traumerei
’Cello Solo. By W. H. Sciuire.
DARK BLUE LABEL SERIES.—I2-inch Double-sided. Price 5/- each.
586
5 You Cart Geo. Robey, Comedian.
( He Was Right ~ ~
591
S Little Grey Home in the West, Waltz Prince’s Orchestra.
( Where My Caravan Has Rested, Waltz ..
592
f “Bric-a-Brac” Yalse
I “Tina Yalse
London Repertoire Orchestra.
m
Dinky .. .
A Telephone Reconciliation
(Overheard during the Great War).
Humorous Recital. By Cyril Maude.
Dramatic Recital. By Cyril Maude.
m
(The Stage Doorkeeper. Part 1... Humorous Recital. By Bransby Williams.
(The Stage Doorkeeper. Part 2... ~ ~ ~ »
Special “FOLLOW THE CROWD” SUPPLEMENT (Now on Sale).
12-inch Double-sided. Price 5/- each.
589
( FOLLOW THE CROWD’
( Gems. In Two Farts.
-Vocal Columbia Kevue Company.
Introducing:—Part 1: 1 Love a Piano; Until I Fell in Love With You; The
Girl on the Magazine. Part 2: Sailor Song; Blow Your Horn; That Hula-
Hula : England Every Time for Me.
580
London Revue Band.
J “FOLLOW THE CROWD”—Selections
( In Two Parts.
Introducing:—Part. 1: Blow Your Horn; That Hula-Hula; Until I Fell in
Love Wit'll You; I Love a Piano. Part 2: The Girl on the Magazine; Sailor
Song; England Every Time for Me.
10-inch Double-sided. Price 3/- each.
2646
\ That Hula-Hula
1 Until I Fell in Dove With You
Du of: Mabel
26«
S 1 Love a Piano
\ The Girl on the Magazin
Elmer Young and Chorus.
Leo and Geo. F. Murray.
Elmer Young and Chorus.
Lloyd Johnson. Baritone.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS—
SYDNEY, N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, Itawson Place. '
MELBOURNE. VlC.—Hinsdale’s Proprietary, Ltd., 269 Swanston St.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A. —H. K. Firth, Royal Arcade. ’
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—'Webley Sons and Gofton, Ltd., 2i:5 High St.
DUNEDIN, N.Z. —Hayward and Garratt, Ltd. )
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
V*v
I
i!
a*
if < r >-i
r-r' ' r
✓ "
Ku-
Q,
a
v i
PH
r\
f*
V
N
“Gentlemen” —and then?
What will come next? Suppose yourself the speaker, would you, like so many
others who do not know how to speak, stammer your way through whafc you
have to say? Would you, when much perhaps depended on it, fail through
inability to make a good speech? Or would you speak well, logically, con-
vincingly? Would you bi'ing these men to think as you think? You could
if .you possessed
The Book of Public Speaking
Its splendid special articles would tell you how —articles on
“How to Make an Effective Speech,” “The Art of Oratory,”
“After Dinner Speaking,” etc. The many hundred master-
pieces of eloquence assembled in its five handsome volumes
would inspire you. Every great speech by every great
orator on every imaginable subject is in its pages.
Possess it, and any speech is easy to prepare and
easy to deliver. Send the coupon for an illus-
trated prospectus.
STAND/ffiDPu&USHtNG G* ffi» v
100 FLINDERS ST MELBOURNE
19 Hunter Street Sydney
a,t fldeledde London
17* W
rsy vV > " N
<^°


Drowning Germany’s last straw, her mer-
chant submarine, cannot delay, let alone
avert, her rapidly approaching military sub-
mergence —is the wise view inspired by that
royal and wise spirit. King George IV. top-
notch Scotch. — Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
The finest, keenest blades ever
made for shaving — harder
blades with smoother and
more lasting edges —are those
now being sold for the
NO stropping no honing
Take a packet
you to-night.
home with
Sold everywhere, 23/6. British Made.
Write for free booklet. Agents. S.
Hoffnung & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street Sydney;
Gillette Safety Razor, Ltd.. London, Ln„.
m
raSflrrW^^p
MARK
iOwm Ttip
m
“D.F.V: Some prophets still get the icy
hand in their own country. Hughes spoke
along with Lloyd George at Conway, and a
Welsh newspaper which gives a three-column
report of Lloyd George dismisses Hughes
with'a couple of* short pars, after remarking
that he spoke at. some length.
At the last meeting of the Master Bakers’
Association in Melbourne it was suggested
that the Association compile a list of union
pickets who had endeavored to intimidate
housewives, “so that they could be marked.
Later on. it was agreed to ask the btate
Government “to make illegal the _ boycott,
so-called ‘white lists’ and other expedients cal-
culated to injiire employers.” Evidently
what is fair stoush for the man isn t the
same sort of thing for the boss, who wants
his employee to fight under Queensberry rules
while lie carries a gun and a knuckle ouster.
HAVING
TICK
LO/6R
T
it \
■
y|
«
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
For an
Ideal Shave
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Tlie big jumping meeting at Caulfield
comes five weeks later than the National fixture at
Flemington, and doubles for the Australian Hurdle
and Steeple are likely to be boiled clown to a small
number of selections. Of 53 entrants for the long-
drawn-out Hurdles the chances are that not more
than 15 will face the barrier. In a field which isn’t
too crowded the unreliable Wisconsin will have a
chance if he remains as bright as he was when he
ran only moderately at Flemington. Wisconsin can
stay 3 \ miles, and makes no trouble of jumping
when he’s in the humor, which isn't often. Anyway,
the handicapper has let him in at 9st. 71b., or 12
less than his burden in the National last year, when
he started first favorite and ran like a pig. The
Steeple, due in August 12, will probably have two
previous winners—Bullawarra and Battleship—in the
field. The trouble may be to pick anything with
undeniable pretensions to beat either of those good
old Bulletin tips at the weights. The strongest
objection to Bullawarra is his age, but it didn’t -
stop him from finishing third in the G. N. Steeple a
fortnight ago. And the only fault to be found with
Battleship’s chance is that, the horse being a very
little ’un, lOst. 111 b. will come heavy on him,
although he won quite brilliantly last year with
9st. 91b. up.
A field of 20, including several earnest
triers, went out for. the Leamington Hurdle Race at
Caulfield last Saturday, lightweight Bundong being
so freely tipped that the books offered 10 to 1 bar one.
The luck of the game! Jullundur, the Grand Nat.
hero, came early to grief, and Jack Rice repeated
his old trick of running off when he was in front.
Finally Wisconsin, who had somehow gone astray
in the Doutta Galla at Flemington a week earlier,
made full atonement by beating Becassine and Sir
Prim 'in their places. The fact that this uncertain
customer strode away from Becassine after crossing
the last hurdle indicates that the handsome runner-up
was not further advanced in condition than when
he ran in the G. N. Hurdle. A big knee is the
trouble with Becassine, and thus far he has never
been thoroughlv wound-up. All the same, it was bad
luck for him to strike a hardened old stager like
Wisconsin (with 91b. the best of the weights) in a
good galloping humor.
Bullawarra could get no nearer than third in a
two-mile steeple. He was giving more than 3st. to
each of the nags that beat him ; but probably the
distance was too short rather than the weight too
heavy. Or it may be that the old chap has lost
some of his dash.
Polygamist was spotted as a likely winner in the
near future, when he was getting beaten at last
VIR.C. meeting. The English horse beat nothing
much at Caulfield last Saturday, but he appears to
be still carrying a lot of superfluous flesh, and if
good looks were a guarantee of handsome doings
Polygamist would have a second-to-none chance of
winning a big handicap in the Spring. He runs like
a stayer. ■ .
The nag with the descriptive “imp.” in
its, specifications had another good time on Saturday.
Five winners at Caulfield fVic.) and Moorefield
(Sydney) were sired by imported horses, and three
winners were imported ready-made. One, Random
Shot, winner of the second division of the Kogarah
Stakes, was sent to these parts by Dick Wootton, and
was ridden by McLachlan, who served his apprentice-
ship to the horse-steering business under Wootton.
Dick has shipped several horses to N.S.W. from the
Cold Land, but, although Treadwell picked up an
event or two, none of them has caused MacShortodds
to give un the game in disgust. Polygamist, winner
of the Murrumbeena Handicap at Caulfield, was
despatched towards Australia last year by Wootton.
ITe fetched £145. *
Something will have to be done about
overweight at Newcastle and other northern racing
districts. There are apparently fully two jocks, in
those parts capable of going to scale at the minimum
—fist. 71b. An owner who is knocked down in
the scramble to secure the services of the mannikins
has to get someone who recasts the handicap. On
Saturday one horse at Wallsend had to carry 221 b.
over its allotted poundage, while nearly 20 others
carried from 21b. to 101 b. over what the handicapper
intended. Maoriland grappled with this difficulty by
raising the minimum to 7st.' For a number of years
the lowest weight carried in flat races on Sydney’s
unregistered courses has been-7st., and nobody has
been heard Wailing alxyit it. So few boys could go
to scale at fist. 71b. on the pony ’ courses' that an
owner had either to einolov a more meaty horseman
or scratch his nag ; for the pony people will not permit
a saddle to be decorated with niore than 51b. over-
weight. Surely the people who control racing -in
the north of N. S. Wales could adopt the "same princi-
ple and put an end to a farce that has been going on
too long.
The Maoriland gelding Zuland seems to
be a prize—in the squib class, anyhow. On
July 8 he appropriated a race at Warwick Farm
(Sydney) : on Saturday at Moorefield he did the same
thing, and the M.L. horseman Reid who was aboard
made no bones about showing up the quality of the
prads behind. When a Maoriland owner comes this
way he usually brings a jock, along so that he may
be reasonably sure of everything being dinkum. It
is a wise precaution. Zuland, a 4-year-c«ld son of
Finland, looks good enough to make some of the
Firing Handicap sprinters in Sydney move them-
selves.
* * * *
No. After the last race had been run at
Moorefield (Sydney) on Saturday, Israel did not bolt
back to the city and buy diamonds for anyone.
Israel mostly sat down and wept. For the second
Saturday in succession the public had shoved large,
eager hands into the bags and abstracted rolls of
money. Five out of seven favorites won and gave
a leg-up to the forecast made on this page a week
ago that the run of favorites which happened 12
months back may be coming again. Should this
terrible calamity really arrive more than one of the
books will wipe suburban courses off their places
of business. Some of them did it last year, and
“worked” only at Rosehill and Rand wick, where fields
are, bigger and more nags are backed by stables and
a confident public.
An ultimatum dropped by N.S.W . Trotting
Club among disqualified persons was heavily loaded.
Except that disqualified individuals were prohibited
from openly owning trotters, the ban was not re-
garded very seriously in the past. The Club now
notifies that the attendance Of a disqualified person
at a race-meeting will be sufficient reason to start
the term of disqualification over again. The move
was badly needed. It is one that ail racing bodies
might with advantage adopt if they want to really
pass out the army of .guns who are ever prepared to
take on a shifty proposition.
Queensland Turf Club recently suggested,
with the best intentions in the world, that lied
Cross ladies should have the privilege of catering at
a coming big event on terms that would yield the
lied Cross considerable profit. But the Bed Cross
ladies spurned the offer. They didn’t want to catei
for able-bodied shirkers in war-time. Yet, when
you come to think of it, they don’t seem to mmd
receiving the patronage of Percy Algernon lictsox
on Button Days and at Red Cross bazaars. *
Up at Brisbane the other day
MacSliortodds recklessly lengthened the odds to
unheard-of prices, and yelled his readiness to lay ZU
to 1 Bulimba Brew in the Fourth Division Handicap.
The animal arrived right enough, and when the tote
paid over 62 to 1 ( £3l odd for 10s.) Mac. explained
that the instrument would go bung before the next
race and bolt with the cash in a motor-car. _
\ well-known racecourse not 10 miles
from Brisbane saw £5OOO go through the tote one
recent afternoon. A sail-trough rigged up to catch
patriotic-fund contributions realised only l'lS. 9a.
Perhaps it was placed too near the grandstand.
Adelaide Express burst out the other
Saturday evening with special late news under a
flaring, headline in red ink, “705t.ii Day of the War.
The news from the Front was there, too —the results
of four races. War? Certainly ! The eternal Battle
of the Pigeons and the Hawks.
Until lately, at all events, Austria still
held its race meetings, millionaires evidently reckon-
ing that with a Bear likely to spring over the
horizon it was advisable to keep a few fast nags on-
hand. But one or two men were gathering in all the
stake-money. At the big Vienna meeting on April 15
the Hungarian owner N. von Szemere, whose colors
are well known in England, won three races in
succession. On the following day A. Dreher, the
Viennese beer king, bagged four events. So it looks
as if at the end of things the local wowser will suffer
the agony of seeing Bung getting away from the
wrath to come on something- fairly swift.
WATTS, well-known speeder and winner of
the recent 200-mile race.
A recent return shows that over
£ 2,000,000 is “invested” by Une. Sam in trotting
and pacing nags, and over £5,000,000 in stables
and training grounds. There are more than 1000
towns in which regular trotting meetings are held,
the stakes running from £4O to £2OOO per event.
Last season over 10,000 animals raced or pretended
to race, and nearly 50,000 were that never
faced a starter.
“C. Gee”: “Dink’s” par. (P>. 13/7/T6)
about the Adelaide horse which refused to lift its
stern over the last hurdle gives force to an idea that
circus riders would be handy in lepping events.
’Wav back 35 years ago Billy Trainor caused a
sensation on Capercailzie, in the Coleraine (Vic.)
Steeplechase. Trainor, in his early days, earned his
living on the sawdust, and at the time of this feat
kept a pub at Wannon Falls. Capercailzie was well
in the lead—same as “Dink’s” nag—with one fence
to negotiate. Also, Capercailzie was extremely weary.
Trainor resolved to help with one of his old circus
tricks. As the tired neddy rose at the fence Trainor
dropped off the saddle over the hindquarters, but
kept a hold of the crupper. Relieved of his burden,
the horse flew over the jump and before he could
bolt away from Trainor and leave him waving in
the atmosphere the jock, had dropped into the saddle
again. Yes, Trainor collected the prize ; and, as far
as the writer knows, is still alive somewhere in
Melbourne.
* * * *
“Trot”: Isn’t it nearly time the State
began to take an intelligent interest in the Aus-
tralian thoroughbred—for the politician to realise
that behind all this uproar about betting and the
excessive frequency of racing and all the rest of it
there is a question of great national importance?
In spite of the motor and the railway, in a country
like Australia (ho horse will have a most important
bearing on defence for a long time to come. But
the State doesn’t seem to care a hang about it.
Establishment of horse-breeding stations might he a
useful enterprise, but they would be terribly waste-
ful unless the problem was handled in the light of
ascertained fact and on some general plan. To
start State horse-breeding on a big scale and leave
the horse alone otherwise would be to merely piffle
with the thing. At the heart of this business is
the question of racing two-year-olds. Either the
practice is good or bad. Either the thing is abused
or everything is all right. No one except the men
who make money out of breeding racing stock- believes
that the thing is right. Anyhow, what is certain
is that the Federal Government should find out, and
that steps should be taken to make the Australian
racing clubs carry on accordingly. There would be
no great difficulty in this. The problem shrieks
for attention, as every year there is accumulating
evidence that the stamina of the Australian thor-
oughbred is being' undermined by the reckless treat-
ment of young stock. The tragedy of the thing is
that there is money in playing the fool this way,
and some, people get a lot out of it. There are few
countries in the world where the thoroughbred is not
an object of reasonable consideration by the State,
and Australia is one of them.
“Mujik” : The man who goes specking at
the Melbourne and Caulfield Cups is an everlasting
circumstance, and it is about as useless trying to’
convince him of his lunacy as it is to whistle a
waltz to a telegraph pole. If all went well the
chances of acquiring cash that way are as remote as
catching sharks with hairpins. And just consider
the things that are likely to happen! But it comes
off sometimes, and usually under circumstances which
yell a warning that they will never happen again
this side the River Jordan. It was over in Maoriland,
and Smith had a fiver in the world and a wild notion
that he could pick a treble—-the ,M.B. and the two
Victorian Cups. The notion seized him late at night,
after he had swallowed the hicteenth beer, and grasp-
ing his coin he went off to Ikey. The races were months
and months and months off. “Lez see,” said Smith,
gazing with portentous wisdom at the M.B. card —
and picked on Tirant d’Eau, a rat of a horse that
didn’t seem to have a million-to-one chance. “I’ll
have him for one.” Then, because he (Smith)
had been working hard at the bank, he seized on
The Grafter for Flemington. And because he was
going to get married some time or other and saw a
vague suggestiveness of matrimony in the name, he
reckoned Hymettus was the thing for Caulfield. So
he was on a thousand, and Ikey didn’t apologise for
not giving any change out of the fiver. And
Smith, who didn’t know which end of a horse
went in front, won! This is a true bill. The
painful thing about it is that when he knew
the worst he regarded it as a warning against
pursuing a misspent life, forswore beer, married, and
became an eminently respectable person with the
haggard look of a man who reads papers
on the sly.
* * * *
“St. Jimmy": A dog called Tisiphone is
entered for the Waterloo Cup (Vic.). A nag bearing
the same label was running about Melbourne a few
years ago, and of course Ikey treated it on phonetic
principles. A punter whose ears were offended by
the outrage remonstrated. “No, no,” he said, taking
a bet, “not Tissy-phone—say Tis-i-pho-ne.” “Right-
ho,” answered the odds-bawler ; “I’ll ring the owner
up to-night on the tel-e-pho-ne and ask about it.”
After the announcer at Sydney Stadium
on Saturday had reported that Buck Crouse was
12st. 21b. and Dave Smith list. 101 b., Dave leaped
forward to follow the precedent set by Darcy and
wipe Buck off the face of the earth. It was a foolish
thing to do. Crouse refused to he wiped. He hit
back hard and showed himself such a gritty and
resourceful fighter that Smith narrowly escaped being
outerl before he realised what was happening. Crouse
fought coolly and methodically, and though in point
of boxing skill the advantage was with Smith, it was
the Yank who delivered the blows which hurt. By
the end of the fifth round Smith was badly shaken,
and, though he sparkled up at times and hit back
fast and bravely enough, there was but little sting
behind his delivery, much of it being mere purpose-
less arm-waving. His left eye was bleeding so
badly at the end of the ninth collision that he had
practically lost the use of it. On the advice of
the referee he then agreed to stop, and Crouse, un-
marked and unhurt, took the verdict. It was a
good, willing contest, and might perhaps have ended
differently if Smith had confined himself to boxing
and been in condition equal to a long journey. Still,
Crouse did unexpectedly well and is certainly a much
better performer than had been suspected from the
calamitous exhibition Darcy made of him.
During the afternoon there were mis-
guided persons at the races prepared to lay 3 to 1 on
Smith, and in the evening they turned up to see
Smith win their money. Wherefore was Smith
earnestly advised during the progress of the struggle
to “Go'in” and scrap like fury. This must he one
of the great objections to being a pug. In any other
business a man goes about his job with at least
reasonable freedom from such exhortations. But in
a glove fight there are always frantic advisers at hand
gratuitously offering loud directions to one or other
of the parties. While it was as clear as day that the
worst thing Smith could do was to “Go in,” he .was
implored to keep on doing it. And the more wildly
ho threw his gloves round the more urgently was he
besought to persist. While he was desperately trying
to save himself from annihilation he heard a. bleat-
ing chorus of request to at once hit his assailant on
the chin and bring the proceedings to ail abrupt
dose. Nowhere on earth has a man to rely so-abso-
lutely on himself as in a ring with someone trying
fo knock him out of it : yet he can go nowhere with
such great certainty of being surrounded by persons
who imagine they can help him by waggling their
jaws at him.
Jimmy Hill, the Australian feather cham-
pion, got' it again from Blew Edwards at Melbourne
on Saturday. In the third round the Welshman
reached out for Jimmy’s jaw and connected, and
from then until oblivion came in the fifth the pro-
ceedings mostly consisted of James going down
and groggily climbing lip again. The argument
ended just as everyone expected, so there was no
ill-feeling and no remarks and no “800-hoo.”
Cabled that Jack Dillon had been whipped
at New York by Battling Bevinsky, being only saved
by the bell from a trip to Dreamland. This will
bring Dillon’s stock down with a thud, for the
Battler is a long way from being the best on. earth.
These men had been together before—in April, ’l4.
On that occasion Dillon won.
N T . Ashby is easily the swiftest amateur
pedaller in Bananaland just now. Bast week he
won the State three-miles championship from Gee
and Gibson in 7min. 18 3-ssec., and after a refresher
climbed on his wheel again and won the half-mile
handicap from scratch in lmin. 2 2-ssec. Ashby
had a busy day.
11. A. Parsons (Vic.) put some new motor-
cycle record figures on the slate last week b.v
whizzing over a mile in 46 2-ssee., five miles m
4min. llsec., and 10 in Bmin. 28 2-ssec. The records
were previously held by Jack Booth (Vic.), who is
now getting ready to pursue the new ones.
N.S.W. League of Wheelmen’s effort to
put a title life into its decadent pastime by resurrect-
ing' semi-amateurism has a smellful precedent behind
it. The movement was tried previously by the
League; but the alleged amateurs and bookmakers
made the arrangements so warm that the League
wisely dropped it into the water-cask to cool off.
At present, N.S.W. Cyclists’ Union looks after the
amateur aspect of wheels, and it doesn’t appear that
the Leagiue is going to get much cash from that
quarter.
* * * *
In Christchurch (M.L.) nearly every-
thing goes on wheels. A population of less-than
100,000 has 2300 motor-cars, 7300 motor-bikes and
30,000 bikes pushed per foot. Everything is deliv-
ered there on a wheel, from the afternoon-caller to
thruppence worth of buns.
The fight for the Ma State’s Rugby
League premiership is exciting. A similar situation
two years ago would have caused the youth of Syd-
ney to go without lunch in order to discuss the
matter with a free face. The situation has come
about through South Sydney beating Balmain and
Eastern Suburbs chasing Glebe all over the Agricul-
tural Ground. Eastern Suburbs and Balmain meet
next Saturday, and should Balmain go down and
South Sydney win from Annandale, South Sydney will
be premiers, and come into possession of the Hugh
D. Mclntosh Shield. The point about Saturday’s
victories was that both South Sydney and Eastern
Suburbs tackled their big jobs without the assistance
of their star players. Eastern Suburbs has no
earthly chance of winning, while Glebe can'only win
if South Sydney and Balmain fail.
One of South -Africa’s best-known ath-
letes, W. H. Flynn, was killed in action in East
Africa on March 9. He met death as a sergeant in
the 3rd South African Horse. Three years in succes-
sion he bagged the half-mile and mile champion-
ships of the Transvaal and the championships of
Natal for the same distances. r l’his was in ’l2, ’l3
and ’l4. At the last S’African Championship Meet-
ing held in 1911 he lowered the half-mile record
that had stood for over 20 years, heating J. A.
Victor in the fine time of lmin. 55 4-ssec.
* * * *
“Hemi”: I’m backing the barelegged
brown highlanders of the Urewera Country (M.L.)
for the champion long-distance 'cross-country sprint.
A witness at medicine-man Rua’s trial in Auckland
the othc-r day, describing the terror of the Maunga-
pohatu people at the shooting when the prophet was
arrested, said that some of them were so scared that
they didn’t stop running until they got to AVaimana,
40 miles away.
* * * *
•Arthur O. Lloyd, who died at Sydney last
week, might have been a great oarsman had he not
wisely chosen to put his shoulder to business instead
of pursuing sport. After sharing in a senior and
four junior successes in ’96, and senior eights in
’9B, lie dropped out and turned to toil. in later
years he looked after the purse for the Glebe (Syd-
ney) club.
* * * *
Colin Newton, the young Tasmanian who
so easily headed the batting averages, at the southern
end of the Speck this year, was first noticed in 1909,
when —he was rising 13 at the time and going to
Queen’s College—he assisted J. A. Barnett to put up a
world’s record for the first wicket, the pair hitting
up 400 against Hutchin’s school without being separ-
ated. Newton’s share of the bag was 213 n.c In
the same match he took 0 for 9. In sc. 00l
matches during the next few years-Newton, in spite
of advancing years, hit up hundred after hundred,
and finished his last year at school with a bowling
average of three. He has since then played regularly
in senior cricket, and when weighed with the bmden
of 1G years he headed the Association bowl, iug aver-
ages. An innings against N.S.W. at Hobart in 1910
gained the hearty cheers of Vic Trunaper.
Frank Clarke, M.L.C. (V-ic.)', had a good
word to say the other day for the restriction of
slaughter by sports. ’ This year, for. the first time,
shooters of ducks and quail were limited to lo birds
in one day, and the member told the* Victorian
Parliament'that it had worked well,, and lie hoped
the restriction would be kept on. Whether it was
always observed or how it was enforced no one
seemed to know. #
“C D.” : I agree with “Scear Spring” (B.
99'/6/’l6) that the solid high-velocity bullet lias
greater shattering effect than the low-velocity missile
—provided it hits something hard. But when you
get down to brass, tacks, what’s the use of these guns
to anyone, except perhaps a destroyer of vermin >.
When' a bullet hits a bone or something to cause
expansion it flies-to pieces*, spoils the meat and rums
the skin. When it doesn’t hit something hard it
keeps on going——and so does the deer or roo.


ymm
SOME DAY YOU’LL
GET A THRASHING—
Some clay you’ll be called upon to defend yourself.
Suppose, for instance, some bumptious fellow insulted you, what would
be your position?
Would you be able to fittingly avenge such an insult, or in trying to
do so would you run the risk of getting- a severe thrashing, owing to
your inability to defend yourself—to prove yourself a man ?
You never know what the future holds in store for you, so be prepared
■ —learn the art of self-defence. Start TO-DAY —not next week, but
. NOW.
I TEACH BOXING BY MAIL
—teach you how to become a skilled and scientific boxer.
Mv boxing instructions are very thorough—you’ll find
them most interesting, and be surprised at the quick
progress you will make under my personal coaching.
My lessons provide an enjoyable pastime, and are cramful
of health-giving relaxation and exercise.
Write your name and address across this advertisement
and post, it to me, and I will send you by return mail
my interesting Booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your
Home,” which tolls all about my methods, terms, etc.
Please send three penny stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
517 Belmont Buildings,
-SYDNEY.
They are an Excellent Smoke-
MY CIGARILLOS.
m
Actual Size of Cigarillos.
I should like YOU to try
them. They are small, good
cigars, of shilling Havana
quality, and are most excep-
tional value for the money.
They are mild and fine in
flavor, with a delightful
aroma.
For a short smoke —•
something between a
cigarette and a cigar—
they are ,'jrst the thing.
Made in Three Sizes, but
all ONE QUALITY.
In Tins of
20:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
2 6 2/5 2 -
In Cedar
Boxes of 50:
No. No. No.
5/6 57- 4/6
In Cedar
Boxes of
100:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
11 - 19 - 9 -
Postage Extra.
On 100 —
A 7. S', ir. 6d.
Other States Sc/.
Write tor a Copy
of my Illus-
trated Catalog.
It will interest
all Smokers.
A. M. SOLOMON,
CIGAR EXPERT,
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
STRAIGHT
FROM THE
WELL.
is
NATURE’S
BEST.
Makes All Australia
Your Pleasure Ground
m
RHODES MOTOR CYCLE CO.
109-113 BUSSELL ST
MELBOURNE.
m
This Popular Fly
Killer and Insect
Destroyer is now
obtainable.
ALL CHEMISTS and STORES,
YOUR APPEARANCE!
If you wish your appearance to be all it
should be, wear
RICNEY SHOES
and, as far as footwear is concerned, it will
leave nothing to be desired.
We illustrate a choice All Patent Enamel
Kid Bal. The design, material and work-
manship are alike “perfect.”
Also in Derby.
The famous Paris Last, Patents or Tans.
Price - - 35/-
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
m
m
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“T'ne Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE,
nmmmn
n
\
I
THE BEST FOR ALL
.Athletes
Bosisto’s
Parrot Brand
Eucalyptus Oil
Essential to
Athletic Fitness.
Australian Remedy
for Colds, Bronchitis,
Rheumatism, etc.
CAUTION— Always ask for
BOSISTO’S
PARROT BRAND
as substitutes may be
offered to you.
-jr
1
Or
*7 uqnvun
T '
j
Shirts
5'6 (Post Free)
“Veribest” Shirtings
are the Best that
money can buy. Every
Pattern is Guaranteed
to come through the
Wash Unharmed, and
to give Satisfaction in
Wear.
“Veribest” Shirts are
produced in our own
Workrooms. We are,
therefore, personally
responsible for each
garment.
“Veribest” Cutting and
Making arc in a Class
of their own.
“Veribest” Value, con-
sidering Quality and
Price, is the Highest
obtainable.
THE “LOUNGE” STYLE
LS; s SSSS*
of Ease in Wear, while the
WINTER-WEIGHT CRIMEAN SHIRTINGS
in which it is made, with their beautiful, soft Texture and Smart Stripe Effects ( m
every requirement as to Season and Style. Prices, from o/u to I*/ O.
POST YOUR ORDER— AYE GUARANTEE SATISFACTION.
Lincoln, Stuart 8 Co. Pty. Ltd.
“Specialists in Outfitting by Mail,”
244-254 Flinders Street ——-—MELBOURNE.


m
Geo. £.
Keith .
“PARIS”
model.
An all-patent leather boot, with light
welted soles, finely finished in the
typical lieith style. The popular
dressy elongated shape. Quarter- and
half-sizes. Complete range.
37/6
We Pay Postage.
Write for Catalogue.
n
For Distinctive Footwear,
135 King Street, SYDNEY.
HORROCKSES’
ORROCKS
£
rf
Hi
bi
mi
FLANNELETTES
is
Sun
Will not hurt your skin or complexion
it you use freely several times a day
ROWLAND'S
Kalydor
which cools and refreshes the FACE, HANDS
and ARMS, PREVENTS and removes
FRECKLES, TAN, SUNBURN, REDNESS
and ROUGHNESS, &c., Soothes and heals
all Irritation, Stings of Insects, &c. Produces
a beautifully Clear and Healthy Complexion,
and a SKIN as SOFT as VELVET. Bottles
2/3, 4/6, and 8/6. Of Stores, Chemists, and
Rowlands, 67, Hatton Garden, London.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
SVe Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving: Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QU EKN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68i PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
Real Hair Grower
Found at Last!
The Great American Discovery “Crystolis”
Grows Hair in 30 Days.
£2OO Reward if We Fail on Our Guarantee
Try It At Otir RisK. Post Coupon To-day.
Beautiful Hair and lots of it—lf you use Crystolis.
Here’s good news at last for men and women
whose hair is falling, who are growing bald and
grey, whose scalps are covered with dandruff that
nothing seems to keep away, and whose heads itch
like mad.
Good news even for those who imagine themselves
hopelessly and incurably bald, or who suffer from
hair or scalp trouble of any kind.
We have had granted to us the sole Australasian
rights for the great American discovery, Orystolis, the
new hair remedy that in America and Europe has
been called the most wonderful scalp discovery of
the century, having been awarded Gold Medals at the
big Paris and Brussels Expositions.
Hundreds of men and women have written us to
tell of the phenomenal results obtained by its use.
People who have been bald for years tell how they
now glory in their beautiful hair. Others who have
had dandruff all their lives say they have now a
clean, healthy seal') and that hair stopped failing
after a few applications of this wonderful new treat-
ment.
We don’t care whether you are bothered with fall-
ing hair, prematurely grey hair, matted hair, brittle
hair or stringy hair, dandruff, itchiug scalp, or any
or all forms of hair trouble, we want you to try
“ORYSTOLIS” at our risk.
mm
Improve
Your Hair
in the cheapest and best
way the Icilma way.
Unless you use Icilma Sham-
poo Sachets (for wet shampoo) you
cannot imagine what a lot of good
they really do. They regulate the
flow of natural oil and stimulate
the hair to rich glossy beauty.
Icilma Shampoo Sachets pre-
vent the hair from falling out and
actually help it to grow. Try one
the next time you wash your hair.
<m
Shampoo Sachets
(The famous British Wet Shampoo).
Price 3d. Packet.
Cf Chemists, Druggists , Stores , etc.
Icilma is pronounced Eye-Silma.
J. C. GAMBLES & CO., Sole Australian Agents,
Commerce House, Melbourne.
A.S-t).
JASON
UNDERWEAR
British made
from Australasian Wool.
Letters Copied While Writing
(in ink) by using your own Lstter-paps
with this Book. You slip your
paper into the holder and write,
and by the act of writing you .
secure a perfect letter and a
for 6/-. Special Small Octavo Book, making 200
copies, Sin. x sin., post free 3/6 ; double capacity, 4/6
Sample of the celebrated Zanetic Ink la per, which
m-oduces this result, free, if stamped-addressed
envelope sent to S. B. Zanetic. Leicester. England.
m
m
We give you a binding guarantee without any
“strings” or red-tape, that it won't cost you a cent
if we do not prove to you that “Grystolis” will do
ail we claim for it, and, what’s important, we have
plenty of money to back our guarantee. We have
deposited £2OO in our local bank as a special fund
to be forfeited if we fail to comply with this con-
tract. Cut out the coppon below, and post it to-day
to Creslo Laboratories. 2001), Malcolm Buildings,
256 a George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
FREE COUPON.
The Crcslo Laboratories, 200 D.,
Malcolm Buildings,
256 a George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
I ain a reader of The Sydney Bulletin.
Prove to me without cost how Crystolis stops
falling hair, grows new hair, banishes dandruff
and itching scalps, and restores premature grey
and faded hair to natural color. Write your
name and address plainly and
Pin this Coupon to Your Letter.
6*
0
Bovril makes other foods
nourish you. It has a
Body-building power proved
equal to from 10 to 20 times
the amount of Bovril taken.
ESTABLISHED 1874.
XtorX
W COUGHS. M
nVrhridgeV
UjungToiiiej
k FOR A
mcoios.^
Public Speakers Singers, and all who
suffer from Throat Weakness find
it safe and effective.
SOLD BY RETAIL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
STOCKED BY ALL WHOLESALE
DRUG HOUSES in AUSTRALIA.
Prepared by W. T. OW3RIDGE, LTD.
HULL, ENGLAND.
mi OKED POST-CARDS, by Harry J.
Wes ton-"WEEKI.X WOKItIES." Set
of sis, posted free. (id. Bourns News-
paper Co., 214 George Street, Sydney.
The suspicion that Australia can make a
thing or two nearly as well as the next
person was more or less confirmed at the
recent Tasmanian Exhibition. Aiken and
Sons, of Hobart, showed a rug of their make
which, on the written evidence of the owner,
who gave his name and address, had been in
use every day or, at any rate, every night,
for 25 years. He had travelled with it a
lot, and when he wasn’t travelling he used
it for an extra blanket. It still looked as
good as some new rugs.
“Port Bow” : N. S. Wales Marine Court,
refereeing lately a collision between two
Sydney ferries, held both skippers to blame.
One of them, with a record of 50 years with-
out a serious mishap, was deprived of his
“ticket” for three months. The other lost
his for two months. It may be right enough
to put the fear of God into the average Port
Jackson ferry-master ; but it may be gently
mentioned that when these two boats were
noticed to be in danger the masters had less
than three seconds in which to make up
their minds what was best to do, whereas
it took the Marine Court three solid days to
make up its mind what should have been
done. And probably, on appeal, the next
Court, after a week’s consideration, will
decide differently. It is not long since the
Judge in Marine gave a decision which the
Supreme Court quashed. But no one
dreamed of suspending his Honor’s horse-
hair for three months; nor did he have to
pay the costs that the luckless litigants
were put to by his fault of judgment.
Something new in collisions occurred in
Port Jackson on July 6, when a Yankee
lumber schooner in tow off Goat Island
butted into the Jubilee, which was giving
a line to a coal-laden hulk. The crew of
the little tug, reckoning it was all up with
their insect, made a jump for it, but the
little insect shook herself free and headed
for Miller’s Point unattended. Meanwhile
the lumber ship had broken loose from her
two tugs, and the coal-laden punt went on
an otherwise-unattended excursion into
Snail’s Bay. Nobody had shut off the
little Jubilee’s steam; so she proceeded
to give the harbor heart disease. She
raged clear of the scurrying craft until
she sighted the cause of all her trouble.
Then she put down her head and hit the
Yank good and hard. Probably she would
have proceeded to climb aboard and pull the
stranger’s masts out by the roots, but some-
body leaped at her throttle and calmed her
down. It was an exciting performance while
it lasted.
“Warre”: The plaint of “0.W.” (B.
29/6/T6) re the trouble of making deposits
in the Government Savings Bank of N. S.
Wales would be more bitter still if he had
tried to borrow something. Some time ago
I wanted an advance on a farm, and went to
the G.S.B. The manager handed me out a
“form” and a request for a fiver as inspec-
tion fee. The “form” wanted to know more
about myself and my family than I could
remember, and I jibbed at the fiver. Within
a couple of days I had stated my case to the
manager of a trading bank, given him parti-
culars of the farm, handed in the “deeds”
and got my advance. That bank paid nearly
20 per cent, divvy last year, so it can’t be
running too much risk.
“Shirker”: An overseer is wanted for the
farm at Pentridge (Vic.), but although I’ve
been out of work for months I’m not hungry
for the job. Applicants, according to the
Public Service Commissioner’s advt., must be
conversant with the management of horses,
the feeding, breeding and marketing of pigs,
the working and adjusting of farm imple-
ments, farm operations such as the sowing of
seed, preparation of the soil, harvesting and
general treatment of products, spade hus-
bandry and the management of garden pro-
ducts, the seasons of sowing, the rotation of
- crops, and the best method of utilising the
soils under the varied conditions existing on
the farm. They should also have a know-
ledge of the use of water as applied to irri-
gation, and the filtration of waste water and
sewage, and the principle of their distribu-
tion for irrigation. The officer selected will
also be called upon to control prisoners and
maintain discipline. And the salary? Actu-
ally £l5O a year minimum ; maximum. £180!
In these times, when the State is advocating
the strictest economy, I don’t think it should
be encouraged in this recklessness. That is
why I’m not going after the appointment.
“T.C.”: The much-discussed amours of
Billjim in Egypt weren’t always the sordid
affairs that the unco’ guid imagined. I was
standing on the deck of a troopship, watch-
ing—for the second time—the shores of
Pharaohland recede in the distance, and
wondering what the next chapter in our mili-
tary career would bring, when my friend
.Toe, groom to Brig.-Gen. Giddup, joined me.
“Yairs. it wasn’t a bad ole place,” he
presently remarked; “we ’ad some good times
there,” and proceeded to go into details of
a happy past. Then he handed me this
letter:—
My dear friend Jo,- —-I write you some few lines
hoping that you are in good health as it leaves me i
now. I have received your favorite letter dated
-/-/’l6, but I could not send you the answer quick
because I find only a man for me who wrote this
letter to-day. For that I beg your pardon to excuse
me very much. I am very sorry because you
have a cold, but in the same time I pray God to take
away that cold. Do not think that T forget you, but
if you examine your heart every day you will be
sure find that you are the owner of my heart.
I pray you to send me a small one of your photos to
put under my bed, and I wish that after the war
finish to go to Australia for you. If you please try
to come to Cairo very quickly because I am very
anxious to see you every time for I am spending all
my time of waiting you and I see you in my dream.
How good time it was when we were together in the
pictures. I love you more than my life; I love you
one million time, my dear friend. On receiving this
letter write me the answer. 1 love you my sweet-
heart Jo. When I am speaking with anyother else I
do not know how to speak because mv heart is busy
with Jo only. Our servant Mahmoud salutes you
very much. He wants bagsheesh from you.
I remain your sweetheart Martha.
As I handed back the letter I asked him
what the lady was like. “A bonser little
girl—a Maltese,” he answered sadly. “And
did you manage to see her again?” I said.
“No. I didn’t get the letter till three days
before we left, an’ there was no Cairo leave.
An’ in any case,” he added gloomily, “I was
mafeesh feluce [stony-broke].” Which latter
remark showed that Joe had no illusions
about such matters, yet was a good sport,
withal.


F> :> • ' * 7
T7T ™:
5 .. . > "-Si:::?*:
, •*» s O -j $ X. - »»**;
••<••;:*•.•• v : 4 > -•'/••**. y.-i t-y •:. -• :.:, # : : '
' • • ••^•••v.%%v:<v^.;:;Vvv.<v>:-:-:-:v:.;x : :;:-x*x-x-
-- --f-' : ::-:>>:>:<:
I v
n
/•';': : :7;
&
N
lltllftiili
■7M-vOs
fln
7
i
f-T-T?
m
m
mm
mum
hRH
ilitH
MpPOf
i
SIX;,
1
mm
mm
is
:A'
m
wmmm
m
ill
Ml,
mm
m
m
m
u
Imm
mam
:OSi
W&WVf&gf
w«r
«9 --'
a
aM
■MI
mmm
C iy
S ; 7 :
am
I»§#1
6.:
7
mm
1K:1!5S!
I
IM
m
mmm
•\n!
'.*»
■
m
H
jjlMi!]
H®
■
■
C IlMllil
1 1 1
i
I
■
mi®
XHsVv
Mss
SfiSftV:
mk
.
m
: : m
ds
■
LB2
■
H
s
I
il
PI
■
:
IMI
88525!
XxSL
n
§§®
i
■
fflfiS
m 2
.
HI
\ : sr-iPtiM 7 :ki
'"Il
y>x
> a
VT* »',
■
m
v
mi
m
X"K
-■
s
mm
asa
V'rW
Mil
hi
M
H
-y
Sifi
WSm
1
■
yays
lltii
OJIL
13
§mm
1=: i
XgiEgßl
xoo
mm
. .
i
■
fXffX
tVtSA
■
/aVr'
JiM
ft®
SSX
>w*
YgS
■
Hi
I :!
mm
:m
■■
SB
S 3
lii^p
.
fi S:>
V O^OLi
:•:!:: li-niS: i:: si!:®::!
IJSHS
IH
'
7 S--
WiiSmtSl
K %u
life; r s
m
,xx\ o-,a
.
■M
■
':sss:
i-j
■; v
■
il
c\V>i3
OQQ
iKats
ifciiKj
"7
1
iB
v.M
mm
l^v
.
.
I
8.5D03
«
i
m
:7
m ; 7
m
■
o
ngf
¥SSS
.
'
. . . is an instrument which satisfies the musical cravings
of those who have no piano technique. It is equipped with
eight regulating devices that enable every performer to
express the greatest musical emotions. In short, it is an
instrument of superb qualities that will appeal to all
cultivated musicians.
IT IS AUSTRALIAN MADE .
Head Office and Factories:
41=47 Trafalgar Street, Annandale, Sydney.
Showrooms: 333 George Street, Sydney; 232 King
Street, Newtown; and at Bathurst, Orange, Lis-
more, Newcastle, Goulburn, Wagga. VICTORIA
Maples, in all the Melbourne suburbs. TASMANIA
Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. S.A.
John Evans, Ltd., Adelaide. QUEENSLAND: DO-
-92 Queen Street, Brisbane; Kent Street, Mary-
borough; Flinders Street, Townsville; Rockhamp-
ton; Sydney Street, Mackay; Cairns.
I
nm
:
m


m
The Problem of
Brain Fag,
Nervous
Prostration
and Backache,
Fisher’s
Phospheriive
THE TRUE
SOLUTION.
Nurse Bell-Boyd’s story:'—“l was com-
pletely run down through overwork, and
suffered severely from Brain Fag. I had
to give up my occupation altogether. As
a nurse, of course, 1 know something of
medicine, and I tried numerous powerful
tonics but gained no relief. A sister nurse
said, ‘Never mind, you try Fisher's Phos-
pherine.’ I did. In one day I experienced
a feeling of restful repose that I had not
felt for months. In a week I felt as though
I had been taking a six weeks’ rest cure at
the mountains or the seaside. I was in per-
fect health. Fisher’s Phospherine is far and
away the most powerful nerve strengthens
and rest-giver that can be .had, no matter
what vou pay. I am convinced of that.” —
Charlotte Bell-Bovd, 324 Riley Street, Surry
Hills. Sydney. Declared to be true before
Charles Lovely, .T.P.
Five drops of Fisher’s Phospherine in a
tumblerful of of water pleases the palate
and purifies the blood.
THE GREAT NERVE AND
BRAIN FOOD.
All Chemists, 1/-; four times
the quantity, 2/6. TaKe no other
—always Fisher’s.
Chemists,
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
F.79.P.
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed !>y the lead-
ing A twists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment the Perfected New
'
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
and powerful as the old
model. ■ Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stapes of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. !nc. .45 West 34th St. New York
WESTERN MACHINERY
WHEELED SCOOPS and DRAG SCRAPERS,
PLOUGHS FOR CONTRACTORS,
WESTERN ROAD GRADERS,
ELEVATING GRADERS, RQCK CRUSHERS,
ROAD PLANER and FINISHER,
DUMP CARS, SCARIFIERS.
(Large Stocks Carried).
Catalogs and Full Information from
the Sole Agents.
E. D. MORRISON 8 CO. LTD.,
257 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
im
ft
fmm
Df B. Allen’s
WALNUT
m
m
HA
WCUBATfI
BROODY HENS for 12/6.
The “HATCHO” 15-cgg Incubator
is a perfect substitute for a Broody
Hen, will hatch every fertile egg,
simple to use, cannot get out of order.
Over 4000 sold last season.
Price 12/6 complete, carriage paid.
Egg Testers 1/2 each. Agents wanted.
11. CASTON & CO., Dept. H.,
40 Hunter Street, Sydney.
m
m
i The Bulletin
Stock Saddle
This latest saddle of ours combines many of our
COMFORT INNOVATIONS in Saddles—the
dippy pigskin seat, the rough out-naps for grip, > our
G.S.' panel with the short stuffing- and leather points,
the long girth straps and long flaps. It is fitted up as
illustrated with folded leather girth, stirrup leathers,
4-bar nickel-plated stirrups and SURCINGLK. l’ he
knee-pads are well made and strong and the right shape
for comfort. It' you prefer all smooth leather instead of
rough-out say so when ordering, and give your height
and weight.
Price £5-18-6
Freight Free
for Cash
to anv port or railway station in N.S.W. or any direct port
in the other States, New Zealand or Fiji.
KING HEAD BRIDLE, with l-cin and billet in one
piece, and one inch cheeks and rein, . 11/6, post free, for
cash. If ordered with Saddle, 10/6.
Illustrated Catalogue Post- Free,
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON LTD.
Saddlers & Harness MaKers,
393 George St. and 32 Hunter St., Sydney
How to Treat Your Hair and Complexion
A Few Simple Beauty Hints.
By Mdlle. GABY DESLYS, the well=known Parisian Actress.
YOU ask me for a few hints on the
treatment of the hair and complexion.
Well, the less “treatment” you give
the skin the better. I do not
believe much in massage, but a
little cream to the face is neces-
sary- to counteract the effects of
wind or sun. What cream
would I recommend? Well, I
advise you to use a little mer-
colised wax every night and
again in the morning, after
washing the fhce. Hub it
gently into the skin, then wipe
off any superfluous wax and
dust a little barri-agar over
the face. You will find that
this will be the only “treat-
ment” necessary and will keep
your face fresh and youthful-
looking for all your life. The mercolised
wax removes all the dead outer skin, so
that you have always a fair, fresh com-
plexion like a girl’s.
For the hair, the first and most important
Photo: Wrather X Buys.
thing is a good shampoo. Never use any-
thing inferior to wash the hair with. Get
some good stallax from your chemist and use
a teaspoonful in a cup of hot
water. Then rinse the hair
well and it will look bright and
glossy. ?
A tonic is necessary when the
hair is inclined to fall out move
than it should, and is always
good to use during the spring
and autumn. Then the hair
needs a little -what.-do you call
it?--stiinulant, and for this 1
would advise you to get a packet
of boranium and mix it with
some bay rum ; dab this into the
roots and it will not only stop
the fall, but make your hair
grow long and thick. Give your
hair a good brushing every night, and that
will be all that you need do.
Blackheads Fly Away.
Instantaneous Remedy for Blackheads, Greasy Skin and Enlarged Pores.
A practically instantaneous remedy for
blackheads, greasy skins and enlarged pores,
recently discovered, is now coming into
general use in the boudoir. It is very
simple, harmless and pleasant. Drop a
stymol tablet, obtained at the chemist’s, in
a tumblerful of hot water. After the effer-
vescence has subsided bathe the face in the
liquid, using a small sponge or soft cloth.
In a few minutes dry the face and the offen-
sive blackheads will come right off on the
towel. Also the large oily pores immedi-
ately close up efface themselves natu-
rally. The greasiness disappears and the
skin is left smooth, soft and cool. This
simple treatment is then repeated a few
times at intervals of four or five days, to
ensure the permanence of the result.
Grey Hair—Home Remedy.
An old=fashioned Recipe restores Youthful Appearance
There are plenty of reasons why grey
hair is not desirable, and plenty of reasons
why hair dyes should not be used. But, on
the other hand, there is no reason why you
should have grey hair if you do not want
it. To turn the hair back to a natural color
is really a very simple matter. One has
only to get from the chemist two ounces of
concentrate of tammalite and mix it with
three ounces of bay rum. Apply to the
hair with a small sponge for a few nights
and the greyness will gradually disappear.
This liquid is not sticky or greasy and does
not injure the hair in any way. It has been
used for generations with most satisfactory
results by those who have known the
formula.
To Kill Roots of Superfluous Hair.
The most Effective Formula ever Discovered,
Women annoyed with disfiguring growths
of superfluous hair wish to know not merely
how to temporarily remove the hair, but how
to kill the hair roots permanently. lor
this purpose pure powdered pheminol may be
applied directly to the objectionable hair
growth. The recommended treatment is
designed not only to instantly remove the
hair but also to actually kill the root's so that
the growth will not return. About an ounce
of pheminol, obtainable from the chemist,
should be sufficient.
Good News for Fat People.
Something New in Obesity Cures.
A Loudon chemist says: Ihe latest
method of reducing obesity ceitainly is fai
more pleasant and convenient than all pre-
vious methods. It consists merely in eating
clynol berries. The fat person who wants
to reduce without the usual rigid diet, exei
rise, sweating baths, etc., now puts a tew
of these little brown berries in Ins or her
pocket and .eats three or four each day.
Clynol berries not only eliminate tat trom
the body, but also correct the tendency,
which is usually constitutional, to create
fatty matter. No discomfort whatever is
caused by their action ; in fact, except for
the loss of superfluous fat and the feeling
of “fitness” so created, you would not be
aware that these little berries were doing
their work. . «
Local inquiry shows that clynol berries are
not very well known in this. country, but
the demand is increasing daily, and anj
chemist can quickly procure them if specially
requested to do so.
m
Air Cushions
For SOLDIERS
s Waterproof Cloth-
Each Seam Sewn-
All Valves Guaranteed-
Complete with Bag-
-10/6, 12/6 each
Name Stamped Free of Charge
ROTHWELL’S LTD.,
Edward Street,!
BRISBANE I
t
*/a
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘AKABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale or
any Hair Stain'on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardley on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. Ao
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Pineapple Joe: It is worth a. place, and if
you go through The Bulletin files of 20 years or so
back you’ll find it...-. The Man in the Scrub: A
fact? You’re a cool customer.... Colin Inwin:
Thanks.... J.R.C.: Thanks, too. Good luck 1. .. .
C.W.D.: Obliged; very interesting. ... Ililar : “Win”
missed by only half a point.... Miss M. (M.L.) : Try
again and elaborate it a little more.... 1 erdy: llieie
isn’t anything more distressing in this world than
the panting and puffing of a humor-machine at work.
....Wombat: Never known it to enlighten us yet.
If you know all about it, dig in E.A.M.: W r e
don’t publish novels R.P.G.: Nothing in them...
Willie: Out, vile trash !... .11. W. 5..: One might do.
.. . . G.A.G.: Without force, point or beauty....
W. J.R.:' If that’s your idea of humor, we can’t help
you. i. .. .Spiro: Held for inquest G.R.H.: The
hour at which you feed is not of national interest... .
A.E.R.: No use... . The . Sentimental Boarder: All
out of tune 11.M.8.: A good incident, but wants
better handling. Try something Australian. You
will probably succeed... .Onestep: Too rough and
bumpy. . . .A.T.M.W.: Dreary as a house-roof cat
after a week of rain....No Name: “Boys of the
Sunny South” doesn’t work. .. .W.McM.: Spoiled in
the telling. Ancient insanitary gag at the end
warned off. This isn’t a sewer vent M.A.: Can’t
get any ’sense out of that chain.... A.P.F.: Don t
know what it means. .. . A.M.: You could have said
it all in 20 lines ; but, in any case, you’re a bad
prophet. . . .C.C.: “Smith’s Troubles” are not fresh.
Tie’s been ’ at the same game for a century and
hasn’t dropped it yet. .. - Dulce Domum: You wont
get ten bob, however badly you need it, while you
make “dial” rhyme with “vile.”... .Ex-patient: No
good. . . .E.F.: “Smith” staggers and bumps too
violently. Why do you write on an acre of paper?
A.S.: If you could overcome that sunstroke
sufficiently to finish your verses and condense your
ideas you might do better. .. .W.A.G.: Not up
Triolets the best. Unfortunately you are on tl. *
track of the versifiers, not the poets. Don’t imitate,
but read the; best and let them soak in. . . . A.8.C.:
What a nightmare idea to end in domestic soup !. . . .
S.H.: “Cradle Song” has no melody; the other is
just hysterical commonplace. .. .Little Nell: Dreary
stuff D.MeD.: Poorest of a poor lot on the same
theme T.E.8.: Tribute to “Bellerive” not up to
that writer’s standard.... G.G.: Good idea; rotten
verse". ... . T'asA Don’t care how many hours you spent
over it'- if all your toil couldn’t produce anything
better than that. We refuse to let you rhyme
“paw” with “war”.... Norfolk: We don’t print
Christmas- cards, but your verses are. bad enough for
the worst of them. Anybody with a loose brain and
a willing hand could write an acre of such verse
per day; but only a man of supreme genius could
sell a line of it. . . .S.G.A.: Couldn’t you have kept
in scansion for that little journey ?... . M.Q. : Sell it
to the nearest prayer-meeting. They won’t mind the
spelling. . . .H.C.D.: Begins well, but doesn’t keep
up....A.P.: No use. Verse is paid for if published
in this column. Out out and send in with name and
address. ... S. A.lv.: Not bad, but not enough in it...
Psittizena: Here it is in all its simple beauty:—
....The Gink: You won’t score with verse until you
take a lot more pains. . . .N..T. : “The Beginning of
It” has merit, but too preachy.... H.L.: They don’t
strike ns Annek: A genuine emotion never limps
in that sore-footed way. ... J.R.: “Tip for Single
Men” goes .jumping about like an insane wowser
trying to hit gadfly humor with a burst umbrella....
Otia: Think you’re wrong. Verses a bit rough....
W.C.W.: Oh, go away and listen to an Irishman
speaking!...'.F.T.M.: Not quite. Try again. .*.
M.T!: Hold on; you give us three hours’ notice to
look over the files of 20 years 1... .Inquirer: Mutual
Life Buildings, Martin Place, Sydney.... ,T,F.: Yes,
several foreign steamship cos. are subsidised to carry
Australian mails. . . .F.L.N. (1) : Ask your local
member; (2) Reports are obtainable from the Gov-
ernment Printer; (3) That presentation and dinner
was provided chiefly from public funds. .. .
11.E.M.: (1) The Bulletin pays for stories. (2)
It wants stories as good as it prints—and better.
(3) But don’t set out with the idea that you are
writing for “financial gain.” First, find out if you
can write.... Queenslander: (1) Don’t know of an
Australian firm guilty of that conduct; (2) cannot
trace the co. .. .A.McC.: Thanks; sorry cannot
reprint \.R.: Balance-sheet reviewed B. 2/12/’ 15.
.. . . Sufra: No doubt it should be said, and a thou-
sand similar things. But the principal object of the
censorship is to prevent them being said; so unsaid
they must be—until the end of the war. . . . Dinkum :
Thank you for the hint.... Spitz: Can’t stop to
record, the fall of pars, in this column. They go
either in or out.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.R.W.: Promising. But don't hitch on behind
another man’s boat. Paddle yo.ur own —it is (lie
only way.. .• .1.M.: Learn to draw and economise in
paper. ... Mervyn It.: Low-spirited hufnor. .. .
G.L.H.: Half-hearted atrocity... .C.G.1.: Half-baked
ditto. .. .Jack R.: Their heads are too small, and
they are both unnecessary. .. .G.M.1.: Small and sour
like an early apple.
Thomas Frederick I tadon Powell Jurgens!
At 1<! years of age he stole a watch and
chain from the clothes of a lodger in a Tas-
manian boarding-house and sold the lot. to a
second-hand dealer. The father of Thomas
Frederick, etc., told the police that the family
reminder of Mafeking was beyond Ins con-
trol, and the boy (“who didn’t seem to realise
his position in* the slightest degree”) stood up
in court before two unimaginative Jaypees
of Queenstown and received a sentence of
three months’ imprisonment in Hobart Gaol,
where the ghosts and traditions of the “old
hands” still live.
To Elmhurst came a maid one day
With fair hair, blue eyes and lots to say ;
She was such a lively little cuss
That she livened up the rest of us.
While here she stayed she got so round
That to save her life she could not bound,
With Maggie dear she some clearirg done
Which to both of them was lots of fun.
When here, she wrote to The Bulletin
Which I’m glad to sav was no great sin ;
The senery too, she did adore
Which adds one to Elmhurst’s score.
To-morrow she is leaving here
But for her have no fear.
She is what they call alright
And I’m sure she’ll fly her kite.


MAXWELL “25
06^
H3XSQVOH
<4
-• ■'?
TOURING CAR
£3OO.
1916 MAXWELL High-priced-Car Features All Included for £3OO.
ELECTRIC STARTER AND ELECTRIC LIGHTS.
DEMOUNTABLE RIMS.
HIGH-TENSION MAGNETO.
“ONE-MAN” KHAKI TOP.
NEW STREAM-LINE DESIGN.
DOUBLE VENTILATING WINDSHIELD.
(Clear Vision and Rainproof).
Electric Horn.
Wider Front and Bear Seats.
Aluminium Transmission Housing.
Handsome Rounded Radiator and Hood.
Robe Rail, with Back of Front Seat Leather
Covered.
Linoleum-covered Running-boards and
Floor-boards.
Automatic Tell-tale Oil Gauge.
Heat-treated, Tested Steel Throughout.
Easy Eiding and Marvellous Flexibility.
Unusual Power on Hills and in Sand.
Ability to Hold the Eoad at High Speed.
Improved Instrument Board, with all Instru-
ments set Flush.
EVERY FEATURE AND EVERY REFINEMENT OF CARS THAT SELL AT TWICE ITS PRICE .
BOWENS LIMITED, 276-8 Castlereagh Street, iSydney.
*?**£
ft*ws
“fl#l£;
Vr^r-p-w
v : 'JJ^
»
« V?
■>. ' -*^.. J > 'HVf.V,.-; J -- ... &<
y r, .--*ji^'.;%
• , .
-
.*=4;l *
tW
M i
SB
!? -t
MW*
«■ *»sc-
' *"v ••<*: v
v»juj
-•*■
"jaki'-f;
3.
•"is.*
« **
*'■ - -*“ it, _ „-,»i«te>3»Sl
■ii
■m
Jeffery Quad pulling ‘l\ tons of pig iron through mud up to the axles.
JEFFERY QUAD
Drives, Brakes U Steers
on all Four Wheels
For Sand, Black Soil
or Steep Grades.
During 1915 the French Government
purchased 1500 Jeffery Quads.
The Quad has se!f=locking differ-
entials, which prevent slippage of
wheels and consequent loss of power.
As supplied to
WM. ARNOTT LTD.,
ROBERT REID & CO. LTD.,
AUSTRALIAN AGRICULTURAL CO.,
and others.
CATALOGUES and FULL
PARTICULARS FROM
Bowens Limited,
276-8 Castlereagh St.,
... SYDNEY.
Also Agents for Jeffrey “4” Pleasure Cars
in 3-, 5- and 7-Passenger Models.
J'ejfery Quad hauling G tons up a sandhill.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
ORMONDE . .Geared Turbine 15,000 Regd. Tons.
OIiAMA ..Triple-Screw.. 13,000
ORVIETO ..Twin-Screw .. 12.130
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA
ORONTES
OMR AH
Fitted with Wireless Telegrs _ . _
Staterooms, with bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms,
Private Bathrooms, Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Regular sailings from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
12,129
12,124
12,077
12,036
9,023
5,252
iphy. Cabins s-de-luxe;
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting)
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
‘CAIRNS
(•Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports).,
NORTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney July 22.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne July 26
Leaves Sydney July 29.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne August 2
Leaves Sydney August 5.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports)
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney July 29.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Hanking:, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700.000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY.
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G.
Hon. A. J. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Ilrisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 Oeorj>e Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE AVORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Rank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (31st December, 1915) . . £1,196,108
RESERVE FUND £75,000
HEAD OEEICE: George & King Streets. Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37ThreadneedleStreet, E.C.
DIRECTORS— Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Arthur S. Barton,
Esq.; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq. ; Herhert R.
Lysaght, Esq. ; George F. To dm an, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales A Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 200.000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091.669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; Janies Love, Esq. ;
Jus. Milne, Esq. ; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Brnnclies —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking (Jo.
of Sydney, (limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. £2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,805,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,805,000 0 0
Directors:
George ,T. Coiien, Esq. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. 11. E. Eater, M.1j.0. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dinns, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and J. J. Brenan, Esq.
General Manager: If. IT. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, -SYDNEY.
London Office: 18, Birc h i n Lane.
Directors': F. 11. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen,' Esq. Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the fetate of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of jjeui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. •• £529,988
Preference Shares.. •• •• 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up ... •• 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,118,605
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping &c
Canadian-Austraiasian Royal Mail Line to Vancouver
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE, CALLING AT
AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (Fiji) and HONOLULU (Hawaii).
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES,
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES,
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
t Twin Screw. r „
Nursery, Wireless, etc.
AROUND THE WORLD HOOKINGS. RETURNING VIA CHINA AND JAPAN, OR VIA
SUEZ CANAL OR SOUTH AFRICA.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco.
VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
STEAMERS SAIL FROM WELLINGTON (N.Z.).
*MOANA, 17th August. * MATT At, 14th September.
‘Connecting Steamers leave Sydney—loth August, 7th September.
Passengers Transfer at Wellington to the Mail Steamer immediately on arrival.
Vessels stay' 24 hours at Papeete, “The Pearl of the Pacific.’
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
“ The Paradise
i of the Pacific.”
A BENEFICIAL, SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers Trading to America
R.M.S. Niagara and R.M.S. Makura.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing Nineteen Days’ Stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach —“The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
RETURN FARES: First Class, £4B; Second Class, £33.
Winter Fiji
Lcvuka,
Suva.,
Lautoka,
Samoa Friendly Islands
Monthly Sailings from Sydney and Auckland.
Tonga.
T.S.S. ATUA (3444 tons). S.S. TALUNE (2087 tons).
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
Something' Unique in
m
Island Tours
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
Send for further particulars to
CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
BURNS, PHILP &
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£3,500,000
£2,675,000
£3,500,000
£9,675.000
The Hon. Sir Charles Iv. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Robert Lionel Eaithfull, Esq., M.D.
The lion. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C'.Ai.U., M.L.C.
The lion. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: Shepheard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq.; Alfred George Milson, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
341 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. . ITlT ,„„ ~ . „...
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, foreign places DIRECT, foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
Commonwealth
m
Battle jtetralta
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
Open
for all
General Banking: Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cablo remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
1/-
Minimum
Deposit
At all Branches, and over
nenn Agencies at Post Offices
AUUV/ in Australia and Papua.
Interest at
per annum
up to £3OO
3%
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KF.LL, Deputy Governor. June, 1916 DENISOX MILLER. Govenio
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500.000,
Fire insurances
Marine Risks . *
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool. Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
Used the
World Over
MOTOR
...CARS
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
Quickly removes SKIN ERUPTIONS,
ensuring A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable Pimples,
disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema disappear
by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLI NE
has been the remedy for
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
S-urf
Acne
Blotche3
Spots
Rosea
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin Specialists,
J. Pepper &Co., Ltd., Bedford Laboratories, London,
S.E., England, and can be obtained from any
chemists and stores throughout the world.
Quickly removes the effects ot Sunscorch.
Shipping.
THEADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS.
FOR MELBOURNE A
ADELAIDE
FORT FIKIE
And GULF FORTS
ALBANY
FIIEMANTLE.
innshipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Forts. ,
DIMBOOLA,
August 20.
ly 29 and
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
RCJPARA, July 22.
PARINGA, July 29.
MORIALTA, August 5.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Ollice.
G. S. YUIIYL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zealandia,”
“Ulimaroa,”
“Rivcrina,”
“Westralia,
“Wimmera,
“Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services, between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
•AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
via
SAMOA-HONOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
Sailings from Sydney:—
AUQ. 2, AUG. 23, SEPT. 13, OCT. 4.
\ ppIy : — OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
i United Kingdom, via Suez Canal, Cape .of Good Hope,
Torres Straits.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine. Surgeon and
Stewardess. Electric Fans.
FARE TO LONDON OR LIVERPOOL, £4B.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Svdnev and Brisbane; TURN-
BULL, MARTIN & CO., Brisbane; McILWItAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle: ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD., Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE. BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MAC'LL AY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COPE’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issueu in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —-steamer to Murwiliumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer. £6 Bs. Cd. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply :
BOOKING OFFICE. 281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ”
T.S.S. “ KANOWNA”
T.S.S. “ KYARRA”
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA”
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA”
S.S. “ WYANDRA”
10,000 tons
7000 tons
7000 tons
6500 tons
6500 tons
4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel by
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, also
•with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fiji Trade;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Daily Papers.
BURNS, PHILP S COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.


Commonwealth of Australia,
How YOU Can Help Win the War.
Every man. every woman, with money to invest, however much or little, can
help to win the War by lending it to the Country now.
It is not a favor you are asked, but a privilege, the privilege of doing vour share
m helping our men—your men —at the Front.
This reason alone must appeal more strongly than the rate of interest,
unquestionable security, and other advantages.
Employees of Australia,
Your mates are fighting your battle. Are you prepared to help finance them?
R ~,o" t h Y in P°y for a fl ° War Rond. Surely you can spare
a Jittle foi your Country from your wages.
Blly biiythem ndS f<W ’ yom ‘ self ’ for • Vl,m ' Wife, for your Children, but above all
ALL INFORMATION, FORMS, etc., at any Bank, Savings Bank or Post Office.
APPLICATIONS CLOSE Ist AUGUST.
Commonwealth Bank of Australia '
19th July, 1910.
S7OS
A
3
A Trade Mark
with a vital
meaning for
motorists.
“ For almost countless cen-
turies . the rugged re-
mains of Stonehenge have . .
. . faced all the ravages of
Nature’s elements and yet sur-
vive, almost scatheless, from
the long-fought contest with
the forces of erosion. Bearing
in mind its historical associ-
ations, age, strength and
permanence, the constant
identification of this monument
. . . as the symbol of the
strong and enduring is well
within the fitness of things.”
—The Times.
house with an honourable past and a
promising future chooses its trade
mark lightly. A case in point is the Avon
India Rubber Company’s selection of the
Stonehenge Trilith.
fl That Stonehenge chances to be situated in Wiltshire
(England), where the Avon Rubber Works have been estab-
lished since. 1885, merely explains the origin of the idea.
Ihe piime significance of the J rilith as a trade mark is that it
was chosen to symbolise the strength and endurance of Avon
lyres, and it is with n the knowledge of most motorists that
these valuable qualities are faithfully striven for and consistently
achieved. The superior “ stamina ”of Avons means, for
every man who goes down to the road on wheels —more comfort
foi more miles , less trouble and less expense.
m
m
aas
in
AGENTS -
N. J. HOWES & CO., 212 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
H. C. PANNIFEX, 26 Market Street, MELBOURNE.
m
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
S-l
Ji
M
M
tJt)
SYDNEY
N. S ,W.
Location : Conveniently situated in
Castlereagh Street—a few doors from
King Street and nearly opposite
Theatre Royal, with separate entrance
in Elizabeth Street !
I
r
lE.I
ll_e
ILI
iKt
K!
shs
ho\
L
S=n«
y
3H
The Most Modern and
Palatial Hotel in Australia!
T HE Hotel Carlton, completed at a coat exceeding £lOO,OOO,
and furnished sumptuously throughout by David Jones, Ltd.,
has, since its opening on March 30, 1916, been thronged
with crowds of delighted visitors -I
"While its exquisite appointments—its perfect cuisine and courteous
service more than commend themselves to travellers used to every
comfort the Hotel Carlton can hardly be described as being
merely the leading hotel.
It is more than that j
It is from every point of view the most desirable place in Sydney
to stay.
Every detail in the perfect attention to visitors’ wishes has been
thoroughly studied, and reflects the careful thoughtfulness of the
management, who have had a wide experience in catering for the
best class of patronage _ - ■ ■ t
One of the attractive features of the Hotel Carlton is that every
bedroom is naturally ventilated, unusually spacious, has hot and
cold water installed, and is artistically furnished.
It is absolutely fireproof, having marble staircases and concrete
floors throughout.
I lie general appointments include amongst others: Magnificent
Dining Hall (with separate accommodation for children), elegant
and comfortable lounges, reception, smoking, writing and reading-
rooms, also private rooms for weddings, dinner-parties, afternoon-'
teas, etc.
ALL LETTERS, WIRES, etc., PROMPTLY ANSWERED.
TERMS—I 4- PER DAY EACH PERSON.
CHAS. W. CUPIT,
Manager.
mm
SYDNEY
N.S.W.


WHEN “OUT OF SORTS" take
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
If fretful, feverish, constipated, bilious
or tongue coated, take this delicious
fruit laxative at once.
The vague, general discomfort of being
“out of sorts,” when the stomach turns
against food, the eye is dull and the tongue
coated and heavy, can be banished in a few
hours by a dose of California Syrup of I lgs
“Califig.” There is no need to put up
with these things until to-morrow, waiting
for bedtime to take medicine. California
Syrup of Figs—“Califig”—will begin to do
you good the moment you take it—-at any
hour —and cause no This plea-
sant-tasting, refreshing fruit laxative
cleanses the stomach, gently sweeps away all
accumulations of undigested food, and stimu-
lates the liver to assist in relieving the
bowels. By evening the tongue will be clear
again and the overflow of bile swept away ,
you will be yourself again, with a good appe-
tite and digestion. This is the medicine
which does such wonders for children ot all
ages; but it is every bit as good for grown-
up people, and there are full directions for
every age with the bottle. Take care to buy
the genuine, as there are imitations on the
market. Ask for “Califig”—California
Syrup of Figs, and look for the name suid
trade mark of the California Fig Syrup Co.
All chemists sell “Califig”—California Syrup
0 f Figs—in bottles of two sizes, 1/1 i and
1/9. t 2
She Darkened Her Grey Hair
A Society Lady Darkened Her Grey Hair
and Stimulated Its Growth hy a Simple
Home Recipe.
A well-known society lady, who darkened
her grey hair by a simple home process, made
the following statement: “Any lady or gen-
tleman can darken their grey or faded hair,
stimulate its growth and make it soft anti
glossy with this simple recipe, which they
can mix at home. To half-pint of water add
loz. of bay rum and one small box of Orlex
Compound. These ingredients can be pur-
chased at any chemist’s at very little! cost
Apply to the hair every other day until the
grey hair is darkened sufficiently, then every
two weeks This mixture relieves scalp
troubles and is excellent for dandruffand
falling hair. It does not stain the scalp,, is
not sticky or greasy and does not: Jib °J.
It will make a grey-haired person look 10 t >
20 years younger.” —Advt. l
SAVED
ENGINE BUYERS
Jarga" f^KEROSENE
rRACTORS
We have several large Tractors im-
ported with bad judgment too b g
for requirements of our trade ana
must be sold '
250, 25, and 45 B.H.P. -
rwo of last size slightly
PRACTICALLY GOOD AS NEW
AT £375 cash (or £2OO down and
£lOO each 8 and 16 months). 1
imported to-day wouid have tosell
LT NOT LESS THAN £9OO SPOT
CASH. Cheaper than same power
could be got in portable engine—
Fitted to use low grade kerosene
but give immediate start on benzin
Big bargains in other sizes
No reductions
on 8/16 B.H.P.
Tractors
IF NEEDING
POWER DON'T
MISS THIS
CHANCE
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER CO.
Tamworth—Albury— Bendigo— La
(6*)
IN
BANANA LAND
When, after 10 weeks of it, A.W.U. secre-
tary Martyn got through with the sugar case
in Brisbane Industrial Court, he adjourned
to the recruiting-office to engage in the Big
Argument. Martyn, who was a sergeant in
the Boer disturbance, has done excellent
work for the A.W.U. in Queensland, and
conducted court cases almost with the ability
of a Iv.C.
Queensland has just handed the borrowing
policy another tine testimonial. The mere
handful of people in the State have already
got £59,000,000 from Cohen, not reckoning
their share of the Commonwealth debt; now
it is estimated that to settle 21,000 soldiers
on the land, and provide them with market-
ing facilities, etc., would cost about
£20,000,000— say, £1000 a head, which it is
proposed, as usual, to borrow from poor old
J Bull. Isn’t it about time somebody asked
whether -full use is being made of the land
which has been “opened up” with the
£59,000,000 already borrowed?
Exit from Bananaland police, Senior-
Inspector J. E. Geraghty, one of the best-
known men in the service. He has not
reached the age limit, but goes out on
account of ill-health after being in uniform
for 38i years. Some big cases have come
his way, the last being the celebrated Crow’s
Nest mvstery. One settler carved up another
and burnt the body in a scrub fire. The
plugging Irish officer spent weeks putting
the district through a sieve until he struck
a piece of thumb bone and the nails from
deceased’s boots.
“W.M.A.”: Settlement in the North, not
only on sugar lands but on all lands, would
be expedited if Governments would offer
more attractive tenures The Liberals when in
power would not do so, because to get land
the party would have been driven to a burst-
ing-up tax on the estates of their best
friends. And the Labor people apparently
are going to limit their generosity in the
matter of tenure to perpetual lease. This
tenure asks the cocky to take standing scrub
or forest, clear it, grub it, bring it under
the plough, pay rent whilst lie is doing it,
and move when he has done it. Perpetual
lease may be right enough for grazing farms
or suburban allotments, and there is nothing
against it, perhaps, bar sentiment, for ready-
made farms; but the little rent concession is
not enough to induce a man with his wits
about him to put value to the extent, pos-
sibly, of £10 per acre into the landlord’s
farm, even if that landlord is the State.
After a test, the automatic water-finder
has been officially accepted by the Lands
Department. So far, of 73 sites indicated
by the expert, 53 are alleged to have yielded
a good supply of water.
Ever since Fitchett got his cheap degree,
the Methodist parson with the love of lime-
light has been hankering to be called
“Doctor” too. The other day George Rowe
and R. Stewart got the cheap-jack tag—
from the Yankee University of Syracuse.
The use of a label achieved under such
circumstances is a wrong to every man who
has really worked for the badge; so it will
be interesting to see what Rowe and Stewart
do with their “degrees.”
A Western drover, name of Shepherd,
drifted through Winton the other day with
6000 sheep which he was bringing home
again after a little ramble. This flock was
the remnant of 8000 wethers with which
Shepherd set out 17 months ago, during the
drought, and he has been keeping them on
the move ever since, except once when they
were on agistment for a short spell. The
jumbucks have been shorn twice during
their travels, and the owners, Manfred,
Davidson and Young, state that the trip
was a financial success.
MATERNAL LOVE. — THERMOMETER, 49°.
Brisbane missionary Williams tells how a
lady missionary away up in the Papuan mud
and mangrove country fell into a swamp.
They hauled her out and started sympathis-
ing. “Don’t sympathise,” she cried —‘ clean
me!” Even in the midst of cannibalism,
mud and mangroves the first thought of
lovely woman is for her personal appearance.
“Paddymelon”: I’ve just received a
pamphlet “with the compliments ot the
Queensland Government Savings Bank —a
State institution. Queensland, as you know,
was the home of the “Socialism in our time
uproar, and at last we have a Labor Gov-
ernment to see that we get it. That s the
reason, no doubt, why, though _we have the
best-equipped State printery in Australia,
this fine Socialistic Government of ours
sends the pamphlet to be “wholly set up
and printed” at a private office in Mel-
bourne. It gives point to the reply ot a
Labor Minister to a recent deputation —
“Don’t ask me to do anything that involves
employing labor!”
George Rylands, ex-M.L.A., who was
appointed Director of Lands and Forests in
the Northern Territory by his old pal
Andrew Fisher, has just been made valuator
in the Public Curator’s Department. It was
Rylands who became famous in Darwin
through being called out on strike by the
A.W.U., and ordered to do picket duty.
After that, by a sort of mutual consent, he
was relieved of his job.
The Strategist.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dame Nature decked her dainty girl
With many a cheery charm—
A plenitude of billowy breast,
A finely-moulded arm;
But Custom came, defied the dame,
And called the sight of beauty shame.
Said Nature: “Daughter, go and shine
While youth is soft and warm;
Let others note the grace divine
That fills thy rounded form.”
Said Custom: “Pen thy beauties in—
Thy loveliness is fraught with sin!”
She thought it o’er, the dainty girl,
She loved her mother best,
And yet she dared not disobey
Great Custom’s mighty hest;
She thought and thought for many a day,
Till woman’s wit devised a way ;
Devised a way to please the one
And yet console the other,
To meet the cold duenna’s wish
And yet to please the mother ;
She clothed herself, the damsel fair,
With fabrics beautiful and rare.
The charms she had she mostly veiled,
And yet with wondrous art
Suggested others just as fair
Wherein she’d little part;
And men imagined curves concealed
Were lovelier far than aught revealed ;
Imagined she who was but clay
Was framed in goddess mould;
Imagined comely Girl of Earth
Was all Celestial Gold ;
And she —inventive witch —I trow,
Was well content to have it so.
And Custom gazed approvingly
To find her hest was done;
And Nature smiled indulgently
To see what wit had won.
The dainty girl who liked the game
Enmeshed her victims just the same.
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, July 15. 1916.
My Dear Tiiargomindaii, —
Our Exes, are away inspecting the
western country. Rain blocked the vice-
regal path beyond Charleville, but by taking
a side track they were able to get to Cunna-
mulla and on to Thargomindah in time to
hear the welcomes that had for weeks been
surging in mayoral bosoms.
The presswomen of Brisbane are organ-
ising an entertainment in aid of the Resi-
dential Club for Returned Sailors and
Soldiers. The show will take place on
August 1, and we hope to rake in at least
£5O.
Mrs. John Murray, of the Wool Spinning
Guild, has offered a prize of five guineas for
the best bit of hand-spun merino. lhe
competition is under the auspices of the
Guild, and will be decided at the Agricul-
tural and Industrial Show in August.
Norman Dalrymple, who was studying
dentistry in America when war broke out,
and dropped the forceps to take up a rifle,
has been killed “somewhere in France. He
was a son of the late D. J. Dalrymple,
member for Mackay for many years, whose
sarcastic tongue was the delight of his
friends and the terror of his enemies.
The Mayoress of Brisbane (Mrs. Hether-
ington) has started a movement to provide
Christmas billies for every Queenslander on
active service. The billies will have to be
sent away earlv in October, and as at least
25,000 are needed, the start is none too
sudden.
A jolly little fete, organised by little
Marjorie Lightbody and Violet Gibson, was
held at New Farm to-day in the Gibson-
Lightbody homes, which are adjacent. The
fete was in aid of the Miners and Engineers
Comforts Funds, of which Mrs. Gibson is
the ardent hon. sec. Her husband is our
youthful and popular Professor of Engineer-
ing, who was turned down when he volun-
teered.
Professor and Mrs. J. S. Elkington, who
have been holidaying in the Far North, are
here at present, looking up their son, Dr.
Elkington, our Federal Health Officer. Last
Monday the junior Mrs. Elkington enter-
tained her visitors at a pleasant tea-party
at her sunny home at Graceville, and in-
vited the University and its wife to meet
them.
The Music Teachers’ Conference happened
this week, and disciples travelled from all
parts of the State to listen to words of
wisdom. On Thursday the University
entertained the Conference at tea, and at
night a charming concert was held in the
Technical College. A string quintet was
the star item on the programme, and it did
its work so effectively that the audience sat
unwearied listening to a 45-minute trifle by
Schumann.
Next Friday is Mascot Day, in aid of the
41st and 42nd Battalions and the Miners
and Engineers’ Comforts Funds. A ext
week the Red Cross Society is having a cut.
George Clay, of the Datly Standard
writes from Weymouth to say that Scott, of
the Courier, and Bruce MacGregor, of the
Daily Mail, were with him at “Monte
Video” camp. The three Brisbane pressmen,
who belonged to different units, were
naturally delighted at meeting, having nearly
18 months’ arrears of news to make up.
“Floradora” has been running all the
week, in aid of the Patriotic Funds, and as
each night people have been turned away
the Brisbane Amateur Operatic Society is
elated. George Webster, as Anthony
Tweedlepuneh, is the beginning, end and
middle of the show. But I must also men-
tion Mrs. Leonard Gyles, a graceful and
pleasing Lady Ilolyrood; Charley Lennon,
Abercoed; Mrs. Jordan, Dolores; and Miss
Annan, the solo dancer.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“Speedo”: The awful North still breeds
them. I was recently stuck up by two
khaki strangers who proved to be old Cook-
town pals. Their birth certificates—both
issued in the North —give them 55 and 53
years respectively. When I last cadged a
fill off them they were both grey on top, and
sported well-streaked face-marram. Now
thev are dark-haired and clean-shaved. A
Townsville barber did half the trick, and the
rest was plain—let’s call it patriotism.
A. J. Campbell, the veteran Melbourne
ornithologist who recently presented his
£6OO collection of Australian birds’ eggs to
the Melbourne Museum, has retired from
his billet in the Customs Department am},
at past 60, has gone exploring a little-known
part of Queensland. He has persuaded the
Government to lend him a surveyor, and
hopes to do something towards opening up
a new tourist and trade route through the
Hinchinbrook Channel to Cardwell, thence
past the secluded Tully Falls to Herberton
and Cairns. The proposition promises well.
“Barcoo”: Some time ago a contributor
to The Bulletin advocated the pooling of
small lots of wool, to be sold in bulk, instead
of in “star” lots, which realise much below
wool of the same class sold in a “straight”
line. This suggestion has now been adopted
by the Government, with a view to assisting
the small man who owns 1500 or less sheep,
and who, on this account, fails to secure the
services of an efficient classer. The wool
will be received, classified and placed on the
market in the most attractive manner. Ten
per cent, on each bale will cover charges —
classing, freight, handling, rebaling, dump-
ing, etc. Sixty per cent, of the present
values will be advanced pending sale, and no
commission is to be charged by the Depart-
ment. The teacher and classes of the Cen-
tral Tech. College, Brisbane, are to attend
to the classification.


v/v
&brd
THE UNIVERSAL CAR.
IT WILL PAY YOU
TO WRITE FOR
PARTICULARS TO
Australian Representatives of
The Ford Motor Co. of Canada Ltd.
Queensland—Queensland Motor Agency Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W.—Davies & Fehon Motors Ltd., 112 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Victoria—Tarrant Motors Pty. Ltd., 104-112 Russell Street, Melbourne.
S. Australia—Duncan & Fraser, Franklin Street, Adelaide.


Try This: Two
Generations Did
And never failed yet to keep the bowels
regular, the temper smooth, the liver active, the
appetite vigorous and healthy. The recipe is:
“Keep Carter’s Little
Liver Pills where you
know where to find them
and don’t wait to be
bilious. They’re
a pleasure to
take.” Children
prefer them.
Purely
vegetable.
m
Carters
MTTLE
lIVER
I PILLS.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
CHRISTIES
£P£OAUS£
Tk/O
L//JES
S
0
l# 5
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
mm
520 GEORGES T SYDNEY
Zr’/iONTERST NEWCASTLE
Rheumatism
SCIATICA, GOUT, LUMBAGO, etc.
In the majority of eases of Rheumatism,
Gout, Sciatica and similar complaints the
excruciating pain is caused by sharp-pointed
crystals of Uric Acid penetrating the delicate
and highly-sensitive nerves of the body. To
effect a cure this excess of Uric Acid must be
removed, and no treatment that does not aim
at this result will effect a cure.
Dr. Parker s Great Indian
Rheumatic Remedy
goes to the root of the trouble, and by remov-
ing the cause quickly affords relief and
eventually effects a permanent cure. Read
the following testimonial: —-
SEVERE CASE OF RHEUMATISM CURED.
Merino, Vic. — I suffered terrible pain
across the groin, around the loins and hips,
right down to the ankle. 1 could not sit up
or lie with any comfort. After taking a few
doses of your medicine I could get about. I
am most thankful to you for the benefit I
have received from your wonderful medicine.
Hoping that others will go to you for relief
and kindness. —Your gratefully',
DONALD* CAMPBELL.
Send 10/6, and medicine will be forwarded by
return, or write for sample and book (postage
3d.) to F> PARKER,
Specialist for Rheumatism,
111 Rawson Place, Railway, Sydney.
HAVE YOU A
BAD LEG
perhaps so surrounded with inflammation and
swollen that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression ?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Perhaps
your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored. The disease,
■ if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Try the great British Remedy:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which will give certain relief.
And for Poisoned Hands, House-
maid’s Knee, Carbuncles, Absces-
ses, Snake and Insect Hites, &c.
Sold in England at 1/3 & 3/- per box.
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farringdon St.,
LONDON, Eng.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store, and
stocked by all the Wholesale Houses in the
Commonwealth.
Tk Authors’ Alliance
Is prepared to consider and place MSS.
Literary work of all kinds dealt "ill l
experts who place Authors’ interests first.
Twenty years’ experience. Write for prospectus.
100 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE,
And at London and New York.
Can YOU Strop a Razor
CORRECTLY?
The
Evermore
Stropper
CAN and DOES
Ask Your Dealer to Demonstrate It.
===== Price 15/-
This Patent Stropper sharpens any make of
RAZOR or any make of SAFETY RAZOR
Blade SCIENTIFICALLY and CORRECTLY.
IF UNABLE TO PROCURE WRITE TO s
Box 1003 G.P.0., SYDNEY; or Box 14 G.P.0., AUCKLAND, N.Z.
Made in Australia)
«*
POLISH MOP
will ‘polish
that floor and furmhire
• easier and better •
ALL STORES OP POLI-SHINE MOP CO., 48 HIiNTFR STREET. SYDNEY
jg
Mothersill s
SEASICK
.REMEDY
.ClflßEfe
THE
CHARMS
OF A SEA TRIP
need no longer be marred by the
dread of mal-de-mer
r MOTHERSILL’S Sea-Sick Remedy 1
is guaranteed to prevent and cure Sea
and Train Sickness, or money refunded.
MOTHERSILL’S has received the unquali-
fied endorsement of the leading papers of
the world, and the finest testimonials
from th»3 world's greatest men, women
and institutions.
No Bad After Effects.
All Chemists, in Large & Small Boxes.
Mothersill Remedy Co., Ltd.,
for. Clarence & Market
Sts., Sydney.
Guaranteed to cure
SEA OR TRAIN SICKNESS
OR MONEY RETURNED
m
m
m
SOTOR CARRIAGES «-
COWERCIAE VEHICIES ~
Agricultural Tractors
>m DAIMLER COMPANY L ”
COVENTRY, ENCIAND,
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co., Ltd.,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to air consignments. Why not give them a trial
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development. Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, tne
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST 15UREAU, Brisbane.
Branch Office:
279 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
T. C. TROKDSOX. Director.
Headline from newspapers all over Aus-
tralia :
A FARMER’S GRIEVANCE.
He used to be known as the Man with the
Hoe, but the indefatigable politicians have
turned him into the Man with the Woe.
“Gee Whiz” : This is the queerest experi-
ence I’ve met in a job that is full of them.
A mate of mine, a S. Australian, was cut-
ting a bit of meat well behind the trenches,
when a piece of shrapnel struck the knife in
his right hand, whizzed it against a finger of
his left hand, making a gash that would be
called bad if it was done anywhere else.
The following authority was recently
handed to a M.L. school-teacher:—-
Dear Miss You rite me about whiping my
boy i hereby give you permison to beet him up eny
time to lern him lesons he is like his father you
have to lern him with a elubb pound noledge into
him i want him to git it and dont pay no atension
to what his father says i will handle him.
There seems to be no ceremony about Ma
when it's the old man’s turn for a dose of
axe-handle.
A returned soldier appeared in a South
Melbourne Court the other day, wearing a
troubled look. His wife was charging him
with cruelty, or insubordination, or some-
thing. He had three fingers on one hand,
two on the other, and four body wounds. Pie
said he had been through the thick of Gal-
lipoli. “I saw it all,” he said sadly, “and I
wanted to come home. A man never seems to
know when he’s well off.”
The Victorian State Government is sav-
ing a little money on the war. Altogether
327 officials and 307 State-school teachers
have gone into khaki, and as they have all
been given leave without pay, the State is
making an annual saving of £87,813 in
salaries. The Commission which has been
overhauling the service unkindly says that
it must have been overstaffed before, since
the absence of so many hands makes so
little difference. The Commission also
accuses the officials in many departments of
stealing the State’s time by coming in five
or 10 minutes late every day, and points out
that if they were working in the railway
shops or other dungaree places their pay
would be docked. Naturally the Commis-
sion wants to know why Percy of the Lands
is treated differently. If it went further it
might find that “the heads” had decided
that it really doesn’t matter what time
Percy arrives.
A famous ship, the auxiliary barque
Morning, went to old Jones’s locker recently,
although the locality where she was sunk
by a torpedo or a mine has not been dis-
closed. She was a vessel of 444 tons, built
at Tonsberg in 1878, and whaling was her
business until the early years of this cen-
tury. Then she sailed into notoriety by
making two trips to the Antarctic. She
was the relief ship that took provisions at
the end of 1902 to Scott's first expedition
and brought back the news that the Dis-
covery was fast in the ice and nothing
but Providence or dynamite was likely to
release her. The Terra Nova, another old
whaler, was hurried south with the Morning
at the end of 1903. The pair got the Dis-
covery clear and the three vessels reached
Lyttelton (M.L.) in March, 1904. Shortly
after that the Morning was sold to the
Hudson Bay Co. and was owned by that
concern when David added her to his vast
collection.
“T.A.R.”: There must be a good many
“presents” for instructional officers when
one well-respected major who has fought his
way up and has no nse for favoritism makes
it a practice to say something like the fol-
lowing at the opening of each school“It
is no use you getting your Parliamentary
friends busy, and it won't do you any good
if your financial friends send me along
a case of champagne. It is only going to
cost me money to send it back again. If
you should be successful in this school it
will be through your merits and not by the
extent of your friends’ cheque-books.” Looks
as if the Law might profitably spend some
time devising barbed-wire entanglements for
the officers’ schools. I for one don’t want
to fight under an officer who has floated to
a commission on a case of wine.
Joe Cook, orating to the Ma State Liberals
the other day, broke out with a new idea :
There should be no taxation except for war pur-
poses during war time.
As the immediate result of this would be,
among 7426 other things, to shut the schools,
give the policemen a holiday, suspend the
courts, liberate the gaol population, clear the
hospitals, and send seven Cocked Hats on
the wallaby, it looks as if Joe is satisfied
the time is ripe for tackling things with an
axe. Or did he merely want to show that
there was nothing inconsistent with the
fundamental principles of Liberalism in
shooting off hot air?
TRAGEDY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
J.R., died Abassia, Egypt, 7/4/'IC, aged 20 years
four months. •
And so they could not save you—poor, poor boy!
In that now-empty bed, some time last night,
Behind the screen with which they hid your pain,
You dumbly fought and lost your stiffest fight;
And, smiling down your agony and dread,
Went bravely off to join the lonely dead.
How purposeless ! How bitterly unjust!
You to whom all the world seemed gay and fair,
And ev’rything a wonder and a joy,
To lie inanimate and cold out there,-
While I, dull, tired, with my illusions gone,
And nothing much to live for, still hang on.
It is a dismal task to watch the years
Stealing the zest and grip and edge of youth;
To lose one’s old capacity to trust,
And learn that Goodness, Honor, Virtue, Truth —
All that one once believed in without guile—-
Are things to rouse suspicion or a smile.
But not to know the freedom of a man,
Nor manhood's friendships, hatreds, grief and
mirth ;
Not to have dreamed the dream that is Romance,
Nor walked the crowded places of the earth —-
To die a child, behind a convent wall,
That is the greatest tragedy of all.
N.S.W.
J. B. D.


m
If You Don’t
like this boot, we have plenty of
other styles for you to choose from.
Our assortment includes all the
very latest and correct models in
Gentlemen’s High-grade Footwear.
The illustration shows a choice
Glace Kid Derby Ral. 25/-, 28/6
In Box Calf .. 25/-, 27/6, 30/-
Tan Willow Calf 28/6
SPECIAL QUALITY, LEATHER
LINED 30/-
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
POSTAGE EXTRA.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 Georg'e Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
ilj
Ulffifl
nu
hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne*
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
The Australia Hotel
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone 7260, Telegrams—■
4 lines. Australia,
P.O. Box 1610. Sydney.
The Premier Hotel of Australasia.
Has accommodation for 300 Guests. Single
and double Bedrooms and Suites, with Bath-
room attached. Hot and Cold Water, Auto-
matic Telephones and Electric Heaters
throughout. Visitors have the preference of
the American or European Plan of rating.
Two _ special Grill-rooms are attached, in
addition to Main Dining-room, seating 500
Guests. The Winter Garden is the largest
in Australasia, and is the meeting-place of
the Elite of Sydney, who foregather for
Afternoon Teas and Supper after the Theatre.
A High-class Orchestra furnishes Music twice
a day.
Single Rooms from 16/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Double Rooms from 32/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Room and Breakfast from 11/-
per day.
Suites of Apartments as per arrangement.
J. URE SMITH, Manager'
Motor Accessories
“We have it—will get
it —or it isn’t made.”
We have the Motor Accessories you want at
prices that drive away dull care' These are
a few: FORD Electric Lighting CONVER-
SION SETS, 30/-, complete with bulbs.
WEED Anti-skid CHAINS, all sizes, from
£2/5/- set. SEMENTOL—to stop that leak-
ing radiator, 6/-. Hellensen Flash Cells, Hot
Shot Dry Batteries, all sizes. Write us for
full particulars.
Darby Auto Supplies
Co. Pty. Ltd.,
334 = 336 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
’ r \iini/itwi//it//uf>!////( //!////
Mischa Elmann
HE famous master, Luigi Kuntz, writes:—
“This wonderful instrument surpassed my expectation,
tor I never thought that so much expression, quality and
artistic phrasing could be produced by merely mechanical
means. The technical part, of course, is done with so much
perfection, as to put to despair the efforts of the most skilled
virtuoso.”
fi
Kill
imimmunmmuimin
inimiij i huh in KTiniiif >niii!|iii
NiolancNirtuoso
Se]/-Playirvg Niolirv-Piarvo
The mysterious force which lights your house and
makes it possible for you to send your voice over
a wire, will also give you music played in perfect
time and as charming in expression as any you
have ever heard in Concert or Recital.
The Violana-Yirtuoso is the Wizard that makes
this possible. Its wonderful interpretation of
Violin and Piano; its mellowness; its sweetness in
tone; its splendid technique, holds you with fascina-
tion and charm.
The Viola na-A T irtuoso is
the ideal instrument for
the home. It will give you
the best music for entertain-
ing your guests—adequate
music for whatever mood
you may be in.
Royalty was pleased ; the
greatest musicians are
astounded at its marvellous
execution ; the United States
Government has designated
it “one of the eight greatest
inventions of the decade.”
Ask your musical dealer
about it. or you can see one
of our catalogs at the nearest
American Consulate.
Mills Novelty Company,
Chicago
U.S.A.
In a “Jiffy”—
Yes! it shaves in a “jiff} 7 ” —in a quarter the usual
time. So keen is the blade, and so finely tempered is
THE. “PLUM” RAZOR
that its edge remains keen for an indefinite period.
Requires but little stropping, and one lathering of the
face is usually sufficient.
PRICE, 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established Over SO Years.
* 4
VA
The “Plum” Razor
An Old and Trusted Friend
with Hundreds of Shavers.
70|-
Tshe “RLGIN”
Military Watch
A perfect example of watch manu-
facture. Ideal for campaign use.
Strong silver case. Luminous dial.
Fully Jewelled Lever Movement.
PRICE 70/-. POST FREE.
70/-
Military Ring's
Military Watches
AT STEWART DAWSON’S
lou can always rely on the Biggest Selections and
the most Convincing Values. We specialise in Mili-
tary Gifts and Souvenirs. Send to-day for
Stewart Dawson’s Illustrated List of Military,
Camp and Service Requisites.
S.D
BATTALION COLOR RINGS.
These Smait Signet Rings show the true colors of our various
Australian Battalions, set m pure Enamel on 9ct. Gold. An
excellent idea for Keepsake Gifts to Mothers, Wives, Sweet-
hearts and Sisters of Soldiers. Also for Soldiers’ own use.
Ladies’ Sizes, 9ct. Gold
Gent.’s Sizes, 9ct. Gold
21/-
25/-
Stewart Dawson’s
Strand Corner*,
412 George Street. SYDNEY.
mll rrrn
LUUiUSi i
1?.
The
safest, surest and
purest polish you
can buy. Keeps
brass or silver musi-
cal instruments 1 ike
new. Does the work
m
Quickly
and easily. Sold
in two size cans by
ail Grocery, Hard-
ware and Drug
Stores.
I took for Photo on Con
THE INKLESS PEN
Writes with Plain Water
mm
Six Pence
Each
The nib is of ° ne d ' P ° f wa,cr " ill "' rite 200 words.,
it lasts verv much ,?," SU , UC, ' on and docs not corrode, so that
is copyable When aoi in 30 ““i ° rdiuary P tn The writin K
and can be carried in the ’ he f c " tUrns into the hold,; ‘
Pence each, 2 for Nine s'."'‘n iso, °' lcakag * S '*
cllrawF^'&rr^T
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
hooks are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
BY LORD CROMER.
POLITICAL AND LITERARY
ESSAYS. Third Series. By the
EARL OF CROMER. Bvo. 10s. (id.
net.
The greater portion of the book deals, either
directly or indirectly, with matters connected
with the all-absorbing question of the day—
the War.
THE COMMONWEALTH OF
NATIONS. Part 1. By L. CURTIS.
Royal Svo. (is. net.
The present instalment deals with the ques-
tion how and whvthe British Commonwealth came
to exist, and traces the causes which led to its
disruption in 1783 and to the establishment of:
a separate commonwealth in America.
THE EMPIRE AND THE FUTURE.
A Series of Lectures delivered at
King’s College, London. Crown Svo.
Contents : Introduction by A. D.
Steel Maitland, M.P. —Empire and
Democracy. By Sir Charles F. Lucas,
Iv.C.B.—Administration of Dependen-
cies. By H. A. L. Fisher, M.A. —-
The People and the Duties of Empire.
By A. L. Smith, M.A.—Common-
wealth and Empire. By I*. H. Kerr,
M.A.—The Duty of the Empire to the
World. By G. R. Parkin, C.M.G.
1016 ISSUE.
THE STATESMAN S YEAR BOOK.
For the Year 1916. Edited by J.
SCOTT Iv ELITE, LL.D. Assisted
by M. EPSTEIN, Ph.D. Crown Svo.
10s. 6d. net.
NEW, CHEAPER, AND FINAL
EDITION.
GREEN S SHORT HISTORY OF
THE ENGLISH PEOPLE. By
JOHN RICHARD GREEN. With
an Epilogue by Mrs. J. R. GREEN,
Continuing the History to the present
day. Crown Svo. os. net.
Apart from the important addition of the
Epilogue, which forms the special feature of
this edition, it should be noted that Messrs.
Macmillan’s are the only complete and authori-
tative editions of the “Short History,” with
all the author's latest corrections.
UNDER THREE FLAGS. With the
Red Cross in Belgium, France and
Serbia. By ST. CLAIR LIVING-
STON and INGEBORG STEEN-
IIANSEN. Crown Svo. Bs. 6d. net.
The Contemporary Review: “A book of
real interest The account of Serbia is at
least as vivid as that of Frame and Belgium,
and the book is one that is certain to be
widely read.”
ORDEAL BY BATTLE. With a
new Introduction by F. S. OLIVER.
Third Edition. Svo. 29th Thou-
sand. 6s. net.
Abridged Edition. Crown Svo.
44th Thousand. Is. net.
THE MILITARY MAP: Elements of
Modern Topography. (French
School of War.) With Diagrams and
Maps. Svo. 2s. 6d. net.
Mainly based on the topographical work of
the French Higher School of War. Inciden-
tally it treats of French military maps in
great detail and explains all terms and sym-
bols likely to be found therein.
MACMILLAN’S
EMPIRE LIBRARY
Paper Covers, 2s. 6d. per vol.
Cloth Boards, 3s. 6d. per vol.
652. THE RUDDER, By MARY S.
Watts, Author of “Nathan Burke,”
etc.
Mrs. Watts’s new novel is mainly the story
of an intelligent, well-bred young woman of
good social position who is married to a man
with plenty of money but without heart or
brains.
653. GOD’S PUPPETS By WIL-
LIAM ALLEN WHITE. Author of
“A Certain Rich Man.”
This volume contains some of the most nota-
ble short stories of a novelist who has met
with much appreciation in America.
A Complete Catalogue of Macmillan’s Empire
Library will be sent on application.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers .
MACMILLAN gCO. LTD.
MELBOURNE and LONDON.


Is Your Home Musicless?
On these cold nights, when one sits by the fireside, good music
is more than usually appreciable. It makes time pass quickly
and pleasantly. How nice to be able to bring the “Gramophone”
close up to the fireside group, instead of adjourning to a chilly
room! The
Rasters
GRAMOPHONE
enables yon to hear just what you
like —your favorite song or instru-
ment, sung or played by the world’s
greatest artistes.
We recommend the Mahogany “Mon-
arch Senior,” an instrument of
goodly size, and powerful—yet easily
portable. It is beautifully modelled
and finished in Polished Mahogany,
with cross-banded Mahogany Horn.
The triple-spring, spiral-drive Motor,
Speed Indicator, “His Master’s
Voice” Tapering Tone-arm, patent
Gooseneck and Exhibition Sound-box
put this instrument in the class of
the very best.
In Oak .... £l7/10/-
Interesting catalogue, record lists and
name of nearest accredited dealer on
request.
m
m
“ GRAMOPHONE •»
Registered Trade Mark
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
163 PITT STREET
SYDNEY
HOR LICKS
MALTED MILK,
is a pure rich milk combined
with the extract of malted gram ;
—very digestible and nutritious.
Prepared in a moment. Delicious
to the taste.
Sample will be sent on
receipt of 2d. in stamps
to Hutchinson & Co., Ltu.,
2(> Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
mm
■Vrr.s i
S&awoTra
«W.P«S
?Ksk for Horfick's
at the Soda Fountain
m
m
At Last
A dentrifice that
not only cleans but
purifies—goes to
the root of tooth
evils and elimin-
ates them.
a ox
The Oxygen Tooth Powder
The success 'of Calox lies in the Oxygen,
which there’s no holding when it is re-
leased by moisture. It penetrates every
recess, routing out all germ and decay;
better and cleaner teeth follow the use of
CALOX, THE OXYGEN TOOTH POWDER.
AH Chemists, Drapers, Fancy-
Goods Stores and Tobacconists.
Wholesale Distributors: —
GEO. WILLS & CO. LTD.
.
*w**®ass«*
-
1
•Jt
■
Loaded in London
with the popular
English powders
The lightning
speed of the game
bird is easily matched
by the even pellet distribution, velocity
and penetration of Remington-UMC
REMINGTON
Cartridges
Made in 12, 16, 20, 24, try
28, 32 (14 m/m) and 36 _
(410 or 12 m/m) gauge * HEM
Obtainable from leading dealers
everywhere catalogue 'post-
free on request.
Remington Arms-Union
Metallic Cartridge Co.
Woolworth Bldg , Ne.v York City
St* Stephens House
W estminster,
S.W.,
London
Australian Manager, D. D. BRYANT, Box 686, Melbourne.
20t Discount off
TABLE PLATE
Our experiment of a couple of years ago
of taking the wholesale catalogues of the
great English Manufacturers of Electro-Silver
and Solid-Silver Goods, and deducting 20 per
cent., or 4/- in the £, from their prices, was
of a revolutionary character, and might have
landed us in heavy loss, but
IT DID NOT,
owing to our great output, and so we are con-
tinuing the discount. It only gives a bare
commission on many lines, but commissions
count, if numerous enough.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
PLAIN FIGURES —CASH ONLY.
Very heavily plated on hard White Metal, 11-inch
Entree Dish ■ 57/6
Less 20% discount 11/6
46/-
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
m
A. N. A.
£3/10/- to £lO.
Guaranteed 15 Years.
We do not employ can-
vassers to waste your time.
Come direct to us and save
money by securing a better
machine at a lower price.
A.N.A. Sewing Machine Co ,
25 QUEEN VICTORIA MARKETS
(near Town Hall), SYDNEY.
Also at Errol Street, North Melbourne; 7 Arcade,
Adelaide; Baird’s Arcade, Perth; 39 Ceorge Street,
Launceston ; and 123 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
The ASTOUNDING POCKET CAMERA
> AVith Materials for Some Wonderful X-Ray Pictures J
This is one of the very best fun makers. It has
every appearance of a handsome little Pocket
with well-made extension bellows, &c.J
that you set up and adjust like the real
apparatus. All your friends will try to!
44 look pleasant ” while you snap-shot them.!
You open the shutter and out springs a|
serpent." To help the.fun a series!
of undeveloped X-RAY PHOTOGRAPHS willj
be sent with each Camera, so that, after startling your
friends, you can show them how very beautiful their
skeletons are. Full instructions, anyone can do it, no know-*
ledge of photography needed. Price TWO SHILLINGS, com-!
plete and carriage paid to any address. !
k The UNION Company, 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne. J
m
Watermans Ideal Fountain Pen
m
The March of Progress.
Waterman’s Ideal has always been the recognised leader in pendom.
The most costly of ingenious appliances in manufacture have
been utilised to make it supreme and keep it so. To-day there
are millions of Waterman’s Ideals in use and millions of satis-
fied users. There is absolutely no other pen to equal it.
For those who travel or lead an outdoor life, the “ Safety” type
is recommended. It can be carried upside down or in any position.
Three types Regular,
Safety, and Lever Pocket
' Sel,-Filling.
0/Stationers & Jewellers
eve’ y where.
L. G. Sloan,
O (Tomer
London, England.
Australia:
Marol i D. Dixon,
305, Cluen'e Street,
&
a
pm
in*
m
9'>m.
m
r-irTK-
-0
LAUNCHING THE H.M A S BRISBANE AT SYDNEY
SEPT 30 T -1* 1915-SISTER SHIP TO HM. AS. SYDNEY
Three Sizes—
-IVz K.p.
‘2 H.p.
3/4 ht.p.
1
SI
The EVINRDDE
:: DETACHABLE::
ROWBOAT MOTOR
is the most successful and perfect motor of
this kind on the market. Over 40,000 now
in use. Very simple and easy to operate.
Can be attached to any boat in a few
minutes —adjustable to depth and angle of
stern. Speed up to eight miles an hour.
Equipped with high-tension, built-in-the-fly-
wheel Magneto. Fitted with Automatic
Reverse and Maxim Silencer. Operated by
Petrol, and lubrication is automatic.
Of invaluable assistance on the farm for pumping water, driving separator, etc.
To transform motor into a power machine is the work of a few minutes.
Propeller is removed and a belt pulley substituted.
Descriptive Booklet sent post free on application to
H. A. GODDARD, 376 Collins Street, Melbourne; 82 Pitt Street, Sydney;
404 Queen Street, Brisbane; Cliff Street, Fremantle; Remington
Chambers (opp. G.P.0.), Auckland, N.Z.
LOCAL AGENTS REQUIRED IN ALL TOWNS WHERE NOT REPRESENTED
FEDERAL LORRIES
1
m
Known the World Over
for their reliability arid service-giving qualities. Built in a factory
with an international reputation for the care and painstaking methods
with which it has built thousands of lorries, this kind of construction
earned for the Federal the only Gold Medal awarded lorries at the
recent Panama Pacific Exposition.
Federals are made in three sixes— ton, 2 ton, ton, all con-
structed with the efficient, dependable worm drive.
FEDERAL MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY
A Company of great financial strength and stability ,
DETROIT, MICHIGAN
U.S.A.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT
18 Broadway, New York City, U.S.A
Cable Address: Lockwood, New York
Awarded the Only Gold Medal at the Panama-Pacific Exposition.
[i


Aiso Bad Rash. Caused Itching and
Burning. Used Cuticura Soap and
Ointment. Trouble Disappeared.
Bronte Kcl., Waverly, Aust.—“My little
girl had a very bad rash on the head which
fs
B
we thought was ring-
worm. The hair began
to fall out, then the rash
scattered and developed
into sores causing much
itching, burning and suf-
fering and the hair fell
out so much that she
was quite bald on the
top of her head.
“A friend asked me to try the Cuticura
Ointment which I did. After a short time
the rash completely disappeared and her
hair has grown very thick.” : (Signed) Mrs.
Nellie Gettoes, Jan. 21, 1914.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
m
Serges
With
These
Brands
are HONEST SERGES- Pure
Wool, Fast Dye and Thoroughly
Shrunk. Such Serges, in Blue or
Black, never fail to give satisfactory
wear and to keep their appearance
GENUINE
FOX SERGES
have these brands stamped once in
every yard so that discriminating
buyers may recognise them at once
Made by Fox Bros. & Co. Ltd.! Somerset, Eng. If
you cannot obtain Fox Serges locally, write to the
agents: Stogdale & Sons Pty. Ltd., Box 1802,
G.P.0., Sydney, who will tell you the nearest
storekeeper stocking it.
m
Teach Cadets
to shoot
The Ross "Cadet” Rifle is a
.22 calibre rifle, made expressly
for Cadet Organizations to the
mm
ROSS “CADET," .22 CALIBRE
specifications of the
Canadian Government.;.
It is strong and
serviceable, shoots .£2
calibre short, long, or
long rifle cartridges—
(the most inexpensive
made), and has self-
ejecting, straight-pull
action.
It is an excellent and
safe arm to use to drill
youths and teach them
how to shoot, and is
powerful enough to use
for any except larger
game.
The price £2-10,
in Canada; discounts
are quoted on orders
for quantities.
Full particulars on application.
715
Ross Rifle Co., Quebec, Canada
Information and Prices can be obtained from—
Mr. HUGH SCOTT-YOUNG,
P.O. Box 1031, Melbourne, Australia.
m
RAMEY’S MED/CATOR
For the Treatment of Catarrh, Hay
Fever, Bronchitis, Influenza,
Catarrhal Deafness, etc.
Medlcator, with complete treat*
ment, only 10/-, post free.
Write for Free Pamphlet. L
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
49b Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-
paying office in the World. . HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: —lion. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman; Hon. If. J.
Black, M.L.C. ; Hon. Jas. Burns, M.L.C.; Hon. F. E. Winchcombe. M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C.;
Samuel Hordern, Esq.
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. 11. W. APPEItLY, Secretary.
Accumulated Funds, £35,000,000. Annual Income, £4,770,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1915 .. £848,528. Total Bonuses distributed .. £20,670,000.
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. Write for prospectus
and full information without delay.
m
Basfoc/L
BOOTS are the smart wear for the season
—Dame Fashion has cast that die most
decisively—and this white poplin boot,
fashionable, short-fronted, with a trim,
military heel, will look uncommonly well with
the short white skirts of this season. Then,
better still, like all the short-fronted models
in the Bostock range, it is quite amazingly
comfortable, and will suit all types of feet. In
fact, most women will get a pleasant surprise
when they try it on, and see how nice it looks
and how delightful it feels. And it will con-
tinue to feel delightful in wear, since all
Bostock soles are specially treated so as to
extract from them those chemicals used in
tanning, which are apt to make the feet hot
and tired. So, in this boot one will 'be
dainty, cool and fresh, able to enjoy walks,
picnics and excursions in the most blazing
weather.
Bos+ock No.
P 6
m
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
A charming selection of Bostock shoe?
always on' view at all leading stoves.
832
m
m
]
Three little merry maids are we.
Winsome, gay, lighthearted, free.
Hear our bright and merry talk,
Note our light and springy walk,
Rosy cheeks and sunny curls —
We ’re the Iron ‘ deltoid ’ Qlrls 1
After taking Iron ‘Jelloids’ the blood becomes" enriched and
strengthened, the appetite is restored, vitality is renewed. Anaemia
quickly disappears, giving place to vigorous and buoyant spirits.
m
Miss J. F. Dubery, Southall, writes : —“I find your Iron ‘Jelloids ’
“a great boon, being so easy to take, and so palatable. I always take Iron
“ ‘Jelloids’ as soon as I feel a bit ‘ run-down,’ and after taking a few I feel
“ a marked change ; it is a splendid form of taking Iron.”
A fortnight's trial ( Price 1/6 ) will convince you.
For Women, No. 2. Special Tonic for Men, No. 2A. (containing Quinine).
For Children, No. 1. Sold in England at 1/1* and 2/9. per box.
Obtainable at all Chemists throughout Australia.
Wholesale: Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., cr. Clarence d? Market Sts., Sydney.
The Right Pistol for
the Boys at the Front
Ask any of the returned Anzacs wliat they think of a good
Automatic Pistol, they will all say the same as they tell us:
“It’s-absolutely the best thing to help a man out of a tight
corner.”
Full equipment, including Pistol, Holster, Special Lan-
yard and 200 cartridges, £5/16/-. This price is only for
men in uniform.
ALCOCR & PIERCE,
318 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
i H
[Honvi 01 QIVHJV 38 lON
| Do Not Show Decayed and Discolored Teeth
The ZEPTO PENCIL will keep
your teeth white and free from tartar, and-
clean and preserve them. It is pleasant toj
use and easily removes discqloration. AI
blessing to smokers. Leaves a fragrant odour I
in the mouth. Antiseptic and perfectly
harmless.' One pencil will last for years 4.
Price 1/3, post free. Obtainable only from!
The UNION Co., 299 Elizabeth Street, Melh.l
s
j
titetcs
h4«rAmM«K*t)
Or
BRIGHTEN THE HOME LIFE
FUN FOR THE EVENINGS
NUTS TO CRACK
and ORAWING-ROOm MAGIC \
A Collection of Com and Card Tricks,
Parlor Games, Practical -Puzzles, ♦ho
World’s Best Riddles, Tongue. Twisters
and Home Entertainments, with numeroutf
Illustrations too pages. Price, 1/3
posted to any address. The UNION
Co.. 399 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
The Inky Way.
This is the nasty backhander the Bruns-
wick and Coburg Leader gives its reptile
contemporary:—■
t This is the only Local Journal printed in the Dis-
trict, and having a Printing Plant of its own, and
the only one that regularly comes out on the due
date. • 7
* * * *
Aubrey Barclay has dropped the Sydney
D.T. to climb into the Sunday Times sub.’s
chair. He is another spark from the anvil
of that great moulder of Australian press-
men, Gresley Lukin- —started on the Wel-
lington Post, and later was sub-editor of
Invercargill’s principal daily. When the
mood attacked him he did fugitive verse for
The Bulletin. A few years back the
Telegraph cabled him that it would like
to have a word with him, and he joined the
colony of Maoriland Inkywayfarers who
came to Australia to learn, and remained to
thank Providence.
* * * *
Dead at Coonamble, where he had lived
for many years, John Richardson
McWilliam, aged 78. McWilliam was the
oldest pressman in Western N. S. Wales:
he had control of the Western Post,
Mudgee, before establishing the Coonamble
Times 31 years ago.
* * * *
There is one newspaper in Australia that
wouldn’t give a cent for a bushel of censors.
This is the weekly King Island News, whose
make-up does not include any war stuff.
They get a little daily budget by wireless on
King Island when conditions are good, but
everyone knows it all long before the journal
comes out.
* * * *
Wallace Nelson is quite frank about it: —
The Bulletin said the other day that I was one
of “the most gifted Radical writers and one of the
most rotten business men Queensland ever knew.” I
think the writer was far too generous to my literary
talents and not quite generous enough to my business
ability. When I became associated with the People’s
Newspaper at Rockhampton I received the not-
altogether extravagant salary of 40 shillings a week.
For this I had to perform the duties of editor, sub-
editor, canvasser, debt collector, secretary of the
company, and office boy. I wrote each week two lead-
ing articles, about a couple of columns of political
comments, another couple of columns of literary criti-
cism, another column of local matter entitled “Man
about Town,” and a good deal of other copy of a
general kind. Had they paid me for my copy by
weight I would have received a larger salary.
I frankly confess that my book-keeping, like the
peace of God, passed all understanding. My busi-
ness books baffled all the auditors of the town.
Nobody understood them, and I less than anybody
else. I called in a famous lightning calculator, who
was lecturing on mathematics to crowded audiences,
to fix them up for me, and after spending about a
week on them he left the city in disgrace. They
shattered his reputation forever. You see, I could
not run the universe and the office as well, so I
stuck to the universe and let the office rip.
But in spite even of the atrocious book-keeping the
paper prospered until the Boer War happened along.
That unhappy event shook the Empire to its founda-
tions and reduced the People’s Newspaper to its
last sixpence. I was called a pro-Boer because I
did not approve of the then Tory British Govern-
ment shedding British blood in order to enable
British men to cast off more expeditiously their
British citizenship. The multitude smashed my
windows by way of helping me to realise the bless-
ings of British liberty, and the advertisers withdrew
their advertisements to show me how they loved and
rewarded a man for exercising the priceless boon of
British free speech.
I admit that it was not good business, but I
submit it was good Radicalism; and, after all, they
gave me the billet for my Radicalism, not for my
business. I knew quite well what I was doing in
Rockhampton. Long before I went there I had com-
mitted to memory the saying of Franklin that he
who spits against the wind spits in his own face.
Had I trimmed my sails to the popular breeze I
could have succeeded. But I would have been
ashamed of my success. As it was I failed. But I
am proud of my failure.
THE RHYME-BOILERS’ UNION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(Written by day labor.)
Love, I await the Spring!
My fond heart beats for theet
My thoughts are all a-wing,
And flounder’s one-and-three.
(Interruption of inspiration for two hours in
obedience to notice from secretary of Poets’ Union
ordering strike. Trouble in Boodle’s Ode Works over
dirt-money.)
My thoughts are scattered far
Like stars that fade and faint;
I roam in every bar,
And drink to you, my saint!
(Three days’ stoppage of work here owing to dis-
pute about overtime rates of pay for elegies. Con-
ference called and trouble settled by surrender of
grasping employers. Scuffling riot at Boodle’s Ode
Works, during which rhyming machine was slightly
damaged. )
Love of my life, I sigh
(I also swear and grunt),
Whene’er I hear the cry:
“Why aren’t you at the Front?”
(Strike at Anthologies, Ltd., over employment of
two non-union poets. Trouble settled by appeal of
managing director -to better feelings of poets in war-
time and necessity of crushing the Ilun.)
Oh, not for me the crack
Of shrapnel overhead !
• The mere thought stabs my back!
I think I’ll go to bed.
(Employers scornfully reject latest demands for
increased rates of pay. Heroic-verse output stopped.
Minister for Fireworks appeals to patriotism of poets
to enable the troopships to get away properly
supplied with odes. Work resumed everywhere after
singing of the National Anthem and promise by the
Minister- that the State xvill not see the bards victim-
ised.)
BVitannia rules tjje jvayes ;
There’s little cash in that;
But we, the singing braves,
Are bent on ruling Fat.
„ w Jactomos Meries... everywhere closed
for Poefs’ Procession and framing of fresh demands.)
N.s.w.
KODAK.


GUNS and RIFLES
of Reliability and Accuracy.
m
m
The
810. “ WINCHESTER,” Single Shot, 1902 Model,
22 Cal. Rim Fire, peep or V sights, scroll
trigger guard, rubber heel plate, 21 m
weight 2flb
above Rifle, fitted with sporting ladder rear sight
Postage—l/6 N.S.W.; 2/S Inter-State.
22/6
WE STOCK ...
EVERYTHING FOR EVERY SPORT
“Goods right Prices right.”
SPORTING REPAIR WORK A SPECIALTY.
817. “ITHACA" Arms Co.’s Hammerless
D. B. B. L. Pigeon Gun,
12-gauge, top lever, dense Trogan nitro steel, 32-inch barrels, both
choke, Greener cross bolt, high, file-cut rib, pistol-grip, chambered for
2Jin. cartridges, walnut stock, tested for nitro; weight, 71b. to 711 b.
Delivered £7
We can supply the above gun in 16-gauge, at £7/10/-
m
812. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906 Model
16 shot, 20in. round barrel, plain trigger, straight grip, slide
action, for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges. ~ /
Postage—2/- N.S.W.; 3/S Inter-State. 00/-
SWEET CROP
Smoking
Mixture.
Really
Delightful.
Sample Tin
1/- post free.
m
628. BAYARD SEMI-AUTOMATIC RIFLE,
22 cal., 19in. Hound Steel Barrel, length over
all 3S|in., weight 3f lb., handles short or /£>
long cartridges,
Postage—l/6 N.S.W.; 2/S Inter-State.
GUN AND
RIFLE
REPAIRS
a Specialty
m
Stevens’ “ FA VO RITE, ”
22 Calibre Rim Fire, round steel, 22in. barrel, case-
hardened frame, solid breech block, take-down
action, open front and rear sights, weight 441 b.
We can supply the above Rifles, fitted with Beach Combination Front Sight and
Vernier Rear (as illustrated), 40/-
22WRF, 25 or 32 Rim Fire Calibres, same description as above, 2/6 each extra.
Postage—2/- N.S.W.;
3/8 Inter-State.
24-
Send for our Price
List of Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition and
all Sporting Goods.
Post Free Anywhere.
m
89. “ Winchester ” Single Shot
Rifle, 1904 model,
_ for 22 short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in.
heavy round steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight,
length of rifle over all, bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish ; weight, about 41b.
Postage— l/9 N.S.W.; 3/2 Inter-State.
2716
fficß Simmons li?
<«a
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KINCi STREET; also at NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE.
<l*
Jli
ifl
a
‘‘Upstairs, downstairs —
in every nook and crann j7;
A boon to every one of us,
a blessing most to Mammyl "
The New and
The Old
STUDY the contrasts
shown by these pictures.
Compare the old way with
the new. Which is your way?
The old way spells back-breaking
labour, loss of time and disappoint-
ing results. The new way —the
O-Cedar way —is the easy way, the
quick way, the thorough, satisfactory way.
Q(3darJfop
Polish
[Registered in principal countries]
dusts, cleans and polishes all at one time.
It collects and holds every atom of dust
-—gives hardwood floors a hard, dry,
durable lustre and brings out the beauty
of the grain of the wood. Use it every-
where; the heavy padding prevents the
marring or scratching of furniture.
When soiled, it is easily cleaned by
washing and then renewed with
O-Cedar Polish.
Just Try It—At Our, Risk
Simply deposit 4/11 with your dealer, and
take the O-Cedar Polish-Mop on trial.
Put it to every cleaning, dusting and
polishing test in your own home. We take all
risk, because we guarantee to satisfy you.
Sent prepaid by our local distributor,
upon receipt of price, if you have
any difficulty in otherwise obtaining.
Catalogues and Dealer Samples and
Prices can also be had from
GIBBS, BRIGHT 8 CO., 37 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
Sole Australian Agents.
Also at
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Fremantle.
Manufactured by
Channel! Chemical Co., Factory: Chicago, U. S. A.
Offices; London Toronto Buenos Aires
Cable Addressi ‘Ocedar’
BE GOOD
TO YOUR
COMPLEXION
USE
Nyal’s
Face
Cream
1/6 & 2/6 per jar.
FOR SALE BY
CHEMISTS ONLY
Benge r’s i s
natural food entire-
ly free from any
chemical substance
whatsoever,
is
\
It is different
from all other
foods in being
scientifically
combined with
natural diges-
tive principles.
m
m
Food
is prepared for child, invalid,
or aged person, with fresh new milk,
and in course of preparation, both
the Food and the milk are partiaMy
digested, as desired.
This unique feature enables Benger's Food
to be assimilated under almost all conddions
of illness and digestive disorder.
Benger's Food is sold in tins by Chemists, etc., everywhere.
*n interesting booklet explaining how Benger’s Food 'assists Nature
Antnteresn valjds Convalescents> post f.ee from
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER.Eng.
Branch Offices:
NFW YORK (U.S-A.l 92, William St. SYDNEY N S.W. 117. Pitt St.
NEW y » 1 & Chemical Co., Ltd., 34- St.
CaH< * Gabriel St., MONTREAL, and branches throughout CANADA.


Beautiful Lizette Parkes Praises
Df. Sheldons New Discovery
MISS LIZETTE
PARKES
(from, a photo.).
m
Miss Lizette Parkes is an Australasian
favorite. Her career is a triumph of
both beauty and brains. Her stage
career has been a singularly versatile
and brilliant one. She is now making
a big hit as tithed Willoughby in
“Under Fire.” In the following let-
ter Miss Lizette Parkes points the
way to perfect freedom from Coughs
and Colds to all sufferers from chest
complaints:—
Dear Sirs, —I am writing to tell
you what a strong advocate I am
of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery.
It is the only thing that does me
any good when I have a had cold
or cough, or when my throat feels
sore or strained. During the past
two years I have used it on numer-
ous occasions, and always with
the best results. It is an excel-
lent remedy, and I never feel safe
to start on a trip without having
a bottle of it in my bag.
With very best wishes for “New
Discovery,” I am, sincerely yours,
(Sgd.) LIZETTE PARKES.
Not “How Cheap”
but "How Good"
is the watchword of Dr. Sheldon's New Discovery. When you buy medicine you want something
J .}? effective, something- that will get to the root of the matter at once, without in any way
upsetting the system; and tins is just exactly what Dr. Sheldon's New Discovery does. It acts
directly upon the Ihroat, Chest and Lungs, and in no way upsets the Digestive Organs or in any
, puts : lie system Out of tune. Other remedies may have been considered good when v o ur
grandparents were children, and other remedies may be sold by the pint and at cheap prices,
but an up-to-date remedy for quality and effectiveness will be found in Dr. Sheldon's New
Discovery for Coughs and Colds. The price is 1/6; and this size bottle is often all that is
necessary for two or three in the family. Larger bottles, holding two and~ a half times the
quantity, are sold at 3/-; and these are the cheaper for large families.
, Remember, when you are ill, it is quality not quantity that counts.
Sheldon s New Discovery home with you to-night.
Take a bottle of Dr.
D? Sheldon’s
NewDiscover\
m
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
Baby is a
Connoisseur
Send for sample
of Mellin’s Food
and Handbook
for Mothers
“The Care of
Infants in Aus-
tralia ’’ — FREE
in his little way. He likes, and musts
have, the best.
Mellin’s Food is the proved most effi-
cacious equivalent to Mother’s Milk.
Satisfactory feeding is half the battle.
Then what a boon to the mother to
use a food which requires no tiresome
cooking or preparation.
Melliiftftod
is made in a flash needs no cooking
MESSRS. GOLLIN & CO. PROPRIETARY, Ltd., SYDNEY.
The Sydney 8 Suburban Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
Mutual Life Building 14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
I‘or all classes of Lift Maintenance, Repairs, Renewals of Lifting Ropes and other parts
for Hydraulic Material, Pipes, Valves, Tubing and High Pressure Stocks generally.
Best Workmanship and Material. Quotations supplied.
MIT
»
A
D
U
D
Y
E
S
THE
"TRENCH” PEN
WITH OBLIQUE TRENCH POINT.
SMOOTH
POINT.
o
W I LLIAH
Cn MITCH ELL'S **
oos«tMEN€ W™
INCORRODIBLE
METAL.
Gives Character to Writing.
FINE, MEDIUM and BROAD DEGREES.
m
n
Sample Boxes of 24 Assorted Patterns from all Stationers.
The Windfolk.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE windfolk are abroad to-night,
They wander, sighing, to and fro ;
And yet the moon is very bright,
And vet the land is white as snow.
What is it that she hears and sees,
Her hand upon her bosom pressed?
Is it his eyes that haunt the trees,
His voice that will not let her rest?
She stands within her rose-crowned door.
And waits with watchful, yearning eyes ;
Behind her on the moonlit floor
Her shadow, waiting also, lies.
Her touch might stir the blood to flame:
Undone falls down each heavy tress;
Her white arms are so soft, *tis" shame
That they should clasp cold emptiness.
The shadows of the branches play
Upon the pathways white as noon ;
What is it that the windfolk say
Abroad to-night beneath the moon?
To feast upon her eyes, and taste
Her curved, red month (she dreaming
thus),
A man might seek a ship in haste,
And dare the salt seas perilous.
The windfolk, ranging sea and land,
Are bearers of strange news, ’tis said ;
They leave no waste of wave unscanned,
Nor any realm unvisited.
And now they whisper each to each,
And move among the tall tree-crowns ;
And one, late come from some lone beach,
Sobs like a man that sinks and drowns.
Within her doorway, sweet and tall,
She waits —her shadow waits behind ;
She listens for a far footfall.
And all unheeded is the wind.
The windfolk whisper each to each.
For each its own strange tale would tell;
And one. late come from some lone beach,
Sighs like a man that sighs farewell.
Her yearning eyes are full of fire,
Her mouth the red of roses stains;
Her young blood, lit with sweet desire.
Goes thrilling through and through her
veins.
Is it of her the windfolk talk?
“He shall make glad her waiting eyes.
When dead men gather strength and walk.
And drowned men, hung with weeds,
arise.”
She waits, undreaming, unaware,
A soft and silent loveliness;
And on her shoulders white and bare
Undone falls down each heavy tress.
The windfolk wander through the night
With sighs and whispers to and fro ;
And yet the moon is very bright,
And yet the land is white as snow.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Our Lady-Helpless.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OF course she called herself a lady-
help—they all do. But before she
definitely committed herself to the
acceptance of the Portfolio for Washing-up,
she gave the wife verbally a list of the
things she wasn’t prepared to do for 15s. a
week and kept. So far as I recollect, they
were as follows :
No washing.
No scrubbing.
No cooking.
No sewing.
No darning.
No painting or paperhanging. (This reservation on
account of a painful experience with a former boss.)
No ironing.
No gardening.
And a. number of other specialties I have
forgotten.
YY hen my life-partner reported to me the
new lady’s reservations and limitations, I
asked dazedly what she could and would do.
‘“Oh,” said the wife, “she’s agreeable to do
the washing up and she can look after the
children and mind the house so that we can
get out together occasionally. I’m sick of
the house and the washing up. She tells
me she’s very good at arranging flowers and
can speak French perfectly.”
“Right-o! ’ I answered as cheerily as I
could, and turned to one of a .l'ournalist’s
many overtime jobs.
I was away at the office when the
domestic reinforcement arrived; but the
lady of the house took me aside on my
return home and confided that she had made
a dreadful mistake within two hours of the
initiation ceremony. “I gave her the silver
to cleai>, and when I came out she was
crying. I asked her what was wrong and
she told me that she had never been asked
to do such a thing in her life before. Fancy!
her father used to keep twenty horses!”
“What, to do the silver?”
“Don’t be silly! It’s a bother, but I’m
afraid we can’t ask her to do it any more,
unless I give her a hand. She doesn’t seem
to mind jobs so much if I give her a hand.”
? Yes » I dare say. What about the
knives ?
Oh, you 11 have to do those! You can
get up a bit earlier on Sunday mornings
for that.”
, “Very well. Oh, by the way, I won’t be
a ole to take you to the pictures to-night—l
want to work.”
V ell, you’ll have to work in the spare
room, because I told her she could use the
piano.”
“Oh, damn her!”
“It’s no use losing your temper! She’s
a ladj not a general servant—and expects
to be treated as one of the family ”
“You mean like a lodger or a visitor!
Arewe paying this woman or is she paying
us?”
“Now don’t go oil like that!' We’ve got
to make allowances and put up with her
until I can get a general. She is a ladv
and 3 eu cant expect her to go grubbing
about like a general, or live in her room and
the kitchen.”
I saw that my wife was obsessed by the
“lady” idea and that it was no good arguing
—pot just then, anyhow. “I’ll go and put
on my soft shirt,” I said, and turned to go.
But she laid a pleading hand on my arm.
“Don’t take off your collar to-night. It’s
the first meal, and I don’t want to give her
a bad impression. She asked me as soon
as she arrived whether we dressed for
dinner.”
I swallowed the ready curse, and for the
first time that evening looked hard at the
supposed commander of the household. I
discovered that she was in a sort of sub-
evening dress and had on her company
manner.
‘ right,” I said, and retired to have a
private curse and a brush-up.
The lady who had acquired us duly
appeared from the kitchen with the hot
dishes.
“This is my husband. Miss Stumer,” and
my husband” found he had to ladle stew to
a . moon-faced young schoolmarm behind
pince-nez. Her evening blouse was of much
better quality than my wife’s and she had
on seven bangles and four rings; also her
manner was one of kindly condescension
and sympathetic interest. I felt as if I
should have worn a sword and spurs and
had four Royal pages standing behind my
chair, like Billy Hughes at Windsor.
When the time came to juggle the dishes
and dirty plates I fumbled badly, and only
seemed to make myself ridiculous by trying
to cover up with labored jokes which
smacked of the scullery and made my wife
frown.
The ladies, who were far too beautifully
attired to assist, meanwhile carried on a
which seemed to be about
J f’ uuu , teet yhove sea level. A splendid
story from the duchess-help about the way
Her father _ tempestuously discharged her
groom for insolence was countered by my
vne with Reminiscence 27, which cover's
tie incident of the Duke’s buttonhole
purchase at the church bazaar. After the
nc-w employee had. patted her back hair to
make * sure that it was properly battened
down and got off. something about the
perfectly lovely captain of a gunboat, and
the house had responded with Reminiscence
j • i Home on the gunboat in ’97 ),
l tried to tell them how I once saw a Labor
I remier getting into a cab, but failed to
achieve a hearing. I stopped dead without
being noticed; in fact, I really think I
could have fallen dead without exciting anv
comment just then, the ladies being engaged
m lofty converse miles up amongst the
social peaks.
It was fine to listen to them reconnoitring
and taking social soundings. When they
had found out that each had lived in Peru
they started a mutual cross-examination on
tnese lines:—
Tif„ Y if ? : ‘,Tu° - vou know t,lc Piesnaps ?”
Vf Wifi ( A hOU L h I tf ' ,ll - v) : “No-o, I don’t!”
(brightly): “Oh, they’re awfullv nice
people.” (Score 1 to the wife.) ~
Tho t l n t 01 A u 1 for elegant eating-.)
p, „u C la< y (brightly) : “I suppose you know the
1 °r^ e *—?f er y h °dy knows the Foodies!”
ihe Wife (wearing look of pained anxiety if not
TW Jv 11 V 1 fon'tthink I know them !”
the Lady (delighted) : Really! I thought vou'd
be Sure to know them ! Bert Foodie (we all call
win TR el f’ thou . s b his name is really Michael)—
Pert married one of the Highti girls—Bertha
the little one with red hair. They’re very wealthy
awTrf; ' /J C T- 2 t 0 the + being
wlaUhypeo ople. 0 ple.) einS °" tCTmS ° f " ith
The grand old feminine game of Friends
and Acquaintances was continued later over
the washing-up tin, and they had such a
hue elegant time with it over their knitting
that I hurried away to the spare room with
my writing gear. The one consolation was
that it was keeping the wife from the
pictures and the broom-duchess from the
piano.
. ( bedtime the wife said to me very
impressively, “My dear , she’s related to
some of the Very Best People in Peru and
knows everybody who is worth knowing—
Government House people and all!”
My grumbling reply, “I can’t help that
was received with fortitude as a foolish
•sneer at reduced rank and fashion.
The ladies were away mountaineering for
three Whole days, during which the " few
i eruvians they both knew, but who were
complete stiangers. to me. were reviewed,
inspected, analysed, compared and criticised
until I felt inclined to apply for my
holidays. But I knew the wife had got
hack to sea level at last when I came home
one evening and found her with just a
plain trock on and wearing her companion-
able, everyday manner. “I'm not going to
dress up every night!” she hissed. “Bdie
can it she likes—though I don’t see why
she can t wear plain clothes till her work’s
done I m getting sick of seeing her dressed
up all day and listening to her talk about
the people she knows!”
iii-htr 1 ’ can 1 put 0,1 my Soft shirt to '
The dear, forgetful girl looked at me in
amazement. “Why, of course! I hate to
see you wearing those stiff collars at home
you know that!”
I particularly .noticed that there was no
affectation of social grandeur at dinner. The
wife, who seemed to be in a severely prac-
tical mood, extolled at length the homely
virtues of various past “girls” who it
appeared had taken the whole domestic
circus off her hands and never dodged a
single job. (A lot of it was news even to
me. Indeed, it seemed to me that the
character of several incurable shirkers was
whitewashed out of all recognition. But I
refrained from auditing the estimates.) The
duchess-help said little, but sat up very
straight kept her eyes on her plate and
rattled her golden fetters at intervals. Now
and then she would throw off a cheerless
“How very convenient!” or “Of course you
expect it from a general!” (“God heln
the poor generals!” said Ito the bread and
cut another slice.)
I wasn’t amazed when I got home next
night and found she had gone. There had
been no servile “giving notice” or anything
of that sort. During the day she had
received an urgent telegram bidding her
Gome home at once. Uncle’s corns
worse”—or something to that effect The
(Continued on next page.)


BACK
Backache is really kidney ache ; the
ache comes from the kidneys, which
lie just beneath the small of the back.
When the back is weak and lame —
when it “ crick's ” if you turn sharply,
or stoop—when it burns with a burn-
ing' ache, and keeps you awake half
the night—when you cannot bend
without a stab-like pain taking you
when it makes hard work of the least
task —when it sets the whole body,
every limb and muscle, aching —give
your kidne)as help at once in Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills. Doan’s Pills
are a special kidney and bladder
medicine; they give strength and
tone to the kidneys themselves, and
so cure the cause of backache.
Though backache is one of the
most common signs of kidney com-
plaint, there are other equally certain
symptoms, such as :
Gravel, rheumatic pains, water}’
swellings in the ankles and beneath
the eyes, urinary troubles, dizzy
spells, pains in the limbs, spots be-
fore the eyes, sallow complexion, etc.
Doan’s Pills flush out the liquid
poison that causes these symptoms,
and so protect you from the fatal
Bright’s disease and dropsy.
Every Picture
ryncih
AStory
Tens
■/,
xi
y
r
Ilia
ML
r
S 4
1
V
£r
i
/ A
"MytocK ismy weakest spot
Sydney Man’s Lasting
Cure.
BACKACHE, URINARY DISORDER AND
DROPSICAL SWELLINGS.
Mr. Jas. C. Struck, Glen Ayr, 17 Clarence Street,
Sydney, says:—“Seven years ago 1 was very ill
with a bad attack of disordered kidneys, caused,
1 think, through me doing a lot of heavy work,
which in some way must have strained these
delicate organs. I suffered excruciating agony
from backache, and was at times so bad that I
could hardly move. Everything I had to do was a
trouble, and I was miserable and depressed. To
make matters worse, my rest at night was much
disturbed, and I used to get up in the morning
feeling worn out. The kidney secretions were
thick and cloudy, and contained a red sediment,
and my ankles swelled to twice their usual size,
being very sore if I even touched them. I went
on suffering in this way for a long time, nothing I
took doing me any good, but at last I got the right
remedy, and that was Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills. After taking two bottles of these Pills I
felt much relieved, and by the time I had finished
eight bottles 1 was completely cured and felt a
different man. I am never troubled with backache
now, and my secretions are in a healthy state. I
attribute this to the good Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills did me nearly seven years ago.”
Four years later Mr. Struck says: “The cure
referred to above has proved permanent. I , need
say no more ; the facts speak for themselves.”
Be Sure You Get “DOAN’S”
LIKE MR. STRUCK HAD.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all
chemists and storekeepers at 2/9 per bottle,
or post free by Foster-McClellan Co., 7G Pitt
Street, Sydney.
m
tp
Backache
Kidney
m
m
Avife had expressed some polite regrets,
released her at once from her engagement
and sighed Avith relief Avhen lier cab turned
the corner for ever.
About a Aveek later, when I had spent
another 7s. 6d. or so on advts., dear old
Mrs. Babbler, Avho calls on everybody and
is a sort of gossip exchange, dropped in to
tell the Avife of a splendid “girl” her sister
(a hard-headed lady) had recently
employed. This marvel, it appears, had
Avorked humbly but splendidly and done
everything there was to do for 12s. 6d. a
Aveek, until called home to attend her dying-
father. Stumer, her name Avas —Agnes
Stumer.
My wife held on tight to the arms of her
chair. “Did she wear glasses and come
fiom Peru, do you knoAv?”
“That’s the girl! Has she been here?”
The Avife had nothing to say. But a
voice that seemed to be mine remarked in a
dull, lifeless way: “Yes, she spent her last
holidays with us!”
VINCENT T.
Crime in Broadcloth.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I WAS in one of those trains which
meander tediously across the Northern
heights of Sydney. The long carriage
Avas half full of dull-looking people, but
opposite me sat one Avho would haA r e
aroused attention anywhere. He Avas old,
but his fine skin and clear-cut features gave
him an odd air of distinction, and his cruel,
bird-like eyes gleamed Avith intelligence. The
train stopped and a. youngish, prosperous-
looking man got up to go out. _ As he
passed he greeted my neighbor Avith what
Avas almost an obeisance.
The old man noticed my look of interest
and smiled. “I saved that young fellow from
a very unpleasant fate,” he said.
“He seems happy enough now,” I
remarked.
“He is. Yet a year ago he Avas proposing
to drown himself. Yes, almost exactly a
year ago he stopped me in the street and
asked for ss. He wanted, he said, to enjoy
one last decent meal before casting himself
into the harbor. I pointed out that the
desire for self-destruction Avould vanish
under the influence of food, and that he
might be importuning me again within a
week. ‘l’ll give you the 55.,’ I said, ‘but
don’t destroy yourself. Come instead to
my chambers.’ I thought I could make
something of him, and my instinct proved
right. He is one of those frequent misfits
who can do almost anything but the simple
duties Avliich our ordinary social life requires
of them. He can make an excellent camera
or model a boat with a feAV simple tools; yet
at figures he is a child, and the sight of a
ledger sends him into a panic. He can sail
a skiff round North Head in a black nor’-
easter; but behind a drapery counter he is
a nervous oaf. For the purposes of my
business he is invaluable. But I forget that
you don’t know avlio or what I am.”
I admitted my ignorance.
“I call myself a Consultant Criminal,” he
said.
I no doubt shoAved my astonishment.
“Yes,” he went on, Avith a touch of defiant
pride, “I am the only member of my
profession in N. S. Wales —I might say in
the Commonwealth. Most people of note in
all the States—our great lawyers, doctors
and so on —knoAv me either personally or by
repute. Many of them have employed me.”
“What exactly do you do?” I asked. His
shining eyes, hard' yet whimsical, seemed
to be appraising me.
“I get things,” he replied vaguely; “I
manage things. I arrange for things to be
done, or not done, as the case may be.”
“Could you give me an instance?”! I
asked. Ills appearance of passing
indecision suddenly vanished.
“Yes,” he said, “I’ll tell you of a case
in which I made good use of the gentleman
whom you noticed a feAV minutes ago.
Young Halliwell, son of the senior partner
in IlalliAvell, Tryptich and Destini —you
Avill understand, of course, that the names
are fictitious—forged the signature of
Hazlitt, the big Iv.C. Hazlitt was adamant
about prosecuting. He had some old grudge
against the family, I fancy. The crime was
discovered late on a Saturday morning,
Avliich gave old Halliwell till the Monday
to fix something. He Avent to Brown and
Evans, his solicitors, and suggested that I
should be given certain instructions. Brown,
a pillar of his chapel, held up his hands in
horror, and told his clerk to take Halliwell
to Flebbert, Avho does the firm’s dirty Avork.
Halliwell and Flebbert saAV me after lunch.
Hazlitt, despite his years, Avas conducting
a notorious liaison at the time with Mrs.
Hall-Blayne, the Avife of one of his co-
directors on the Ally-Campane Company.
Halliwell wanted letters or any other
compromising matter. That night the
young man whom you saAy broke into
Hazlitt’s chambers in Phil lip-street —-an
extremely neat piece of AA r ork —-ransacked
the place, and got nothing. _ The next
morning be turned up, immaculately
clothed, at the Hall-Blaynes’ Bui'Avood place
while the family Avere at church,
represented himself to be a brother of Mrs.
Hall-Blayne just down from the North, and
—such is the criminal casualness of the
modern servant- —was given the run of the
house. In an escritoire he found a bundle
of most inflammatory letters from the
K.C. The latter, of course, climbed down
and I collected my pre-arranged fee of
£lOOO.
“The most paying jobs, though, are often
the simplest. The Pan-Australian Assur-
ance Co. sent for me in the old days Avhen
hotel licenses were worth more than they
are noAV. The co. had learned that the
Licensing Magistrate meant to turn doAvn
tAvo of its most paying public houses. The
bribing of a stipendiary magistrate may
seem a touchy matter on the face of it. My
agent, an expert at this class of work, fixed
things <3n the modest basis of £3O per
hotel. The Pan-Australian piud me £5OO
plus expenses, and considered that it had
done Avell. But I Aveary you”
“On the contrary, I am absorbed. Go
on for as long as you like.’
“I don’t look a formidable character,”
and he laughed boyishly. ‘ Yet my name
can carry terror. Jim Ballister, who held
billets in several Ministries, and who,
unlike most of our politicians, was rich,
married rather irregularly and late m life.
Shortly before the wedding old W alter
Stoll. who founded the once-dreaded
Western Watchdog, and later ran a
wilting little rag on somewhat similar lines
in one of the Ilumberland townships,
decided to feature a sort of life-story _ of
Ballister’s bi'ide-to-be. Ballister got wind
of it, and called on Stoll.
“ ‘Look here, Walter,’ he said bluntly,
‘you know me well enough to understand
that if I say I’ll do a thing I mean it. On
my oath, if you print that article, I go to
one whom we both know and arrange to
have you dealt with. I don’t care if it costs
me £5OOO. The end may come in a week,
a month, two months, but sooner or later,
as sure as Fate, you’ll be put where the
flies won’t trouble you.’ Stoll suppressed
the article, and I have heard that he never
again made any reference to Ballister in
his paper.”
“One point interests me,” I said. “What,
if you Avon’t think the question impertinent,
are your terms with your employees?”
“Half my fee where they succeed. If
they fail, nothing. If they are taken by
the police I treat them as nations do their
secret-service agents. I disoAvn them. I
have never advanced a farthing toAvards
the defence of one of my men.”
“What is your nominal business?”
“An agency which is run by a staff. I
have private chambers on the floor above,
where I see clients.”
“One last question. How do yon dare
to speak so openly to a stranger like myself?
The risk is surely tremendous,”
He smiled easily.
“My dear sir, there are strangers and
strangers. I Avouldn’t dream of talking as
I have to you to, let us say, the stout
gentleman over there in the kid boots, tail
coat and bowler hat. I am certain he
would be noisily scandalised; quite pos-
sibly he might want to give me in charge
or do something banal of that sort. I have
made a success of my life almost entirely
because I am a judge of character. You,
if I may say so, are a man of the world ;
you have the toleration of experience; it
interests me to talk to you.”
“But assume, for the sake of argument,
that you made a mistake.”
“You could not hurt me,” he said simply.
“I am a recognised institution in the
quarters that matter, and, in a rough sort
of way, a needed one. Nothing vitiates the
body politic so much as scandal in high
places, and I stop hideous scandals by the
hundred every year. Apart from the per-
sonal danger which any man incurs who
meddles in my affairs, you would find
opposed to you an army of influential people
avlio have had dealings with me, and Avho
may need my services again. You would
find the police cold, and eAudence difficult,
if not impossible, to get. Believe me, my
dear sir, I have as little reason to fear the
Law’s arm as you have.”
The train slowed down and he rose.
“I live here,” he said, holding out his
hand. “A little gardening, bowls, church-
work—and so one contrives to exist. If you
are in the neighborhood any Sunday, look
me up” ; and he handed me a card. “I can
give you a decent, lunch, and if you care
about flowers, there is a climbing Papa
Gontier which is unique in its way. Good-
bye ! Good-bye! God bless you !”
And lie was gone.
J. B. D.
The Cant of Wisdom.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f lIEY set a mummy at the royal feast
I When Egypt’s heavy purple by the
Nile
Was mighty in the broad and flowing
East,
And kings triumphant raised the stony pile,
Sky-pointing, lest the desert sand should
write
Oblivion’s utter word upon their plight.
The bowl went round. Yet in their joy
the wise
Looked ever towards that solemn, thirstless
guest,
And read within his hollow, lightless eyes
The silent ending of earth’s song and jest.
Perchance that tutored fear, ’mid lamps
ashine,
Gave a more piquant flavor to the wine.
And they were wise, and we are merely glad.
They left a pile of stones where we leave
clay ;
And the large world, blood-hot and laugliter-
. mad.
Whirls lightly on to greet another day.
They sinned sedately, bowing oft to death.
We crudely, with the hot lust in our breath.
But somewhere, to another music set,
The thin, grey ghosts of Egypt lift the bowl,
Solemn as sand and sighing long regret
For the dead vears that o’er their dreamings
roll— 7-
Dead dreams —dead purpose —Sphinx and
Pyramid—
And joy, weighed down with stone, forever
hid.
We in the pallid mist-halls of the dead
Shall lift our glasses to a happier strain.
The spirit of the laughter that is fled
Shall sit beside our table once again.
Death, whom we scorned, shall yield us this
at least,
To have some living gladness at our feast.
Split me the cant of ages to the chine!
Let the cow die with long-drawn face and
sad !
Girls laugh, the bubbles break upon the
wine; ■'
The world, my merry masters, still is mad,
And Folly, tinkling in his cap and bells,
Is more than Wisdom brooding deaths and
hells.
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


im
m
A Fair Question.
Have You Tried the
Best Practical Hethod
of Eliminating Your
Belt Losses?
WESTINGHOUSE
(MORSE)
CHAIN DRIVES
will Overcome Your
Difficulties.
Write To-day for Booklet
B.M. 310.
of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
Noju Zealand Of rice : 93-107 Featherston St., Wellington.
N. S.
m,
m
D G N’T LOOK OLD!
But restore y*ur grey and faded hairs to their natural color with
LOCKYER’A’ SULPHUR
HAIR RESTORER
1/0 SOLD EVERYWHERE. 1/6
Lockyer.’s gives health to the hair and restores the
natural color. It cleanses’ the scalp, and makes
the most perfect Hair Dressing.'.
This world-famed Hair Restorer is prepared by the great
Hair Specialists, J. Pepper & Co. Ltd., Bedford Laboratories,
London, Eng., and can be obtained direct from them by
post, or from any Chemists and Stores throughout the World.
safeguard your health
ntJ.Collis Brottfnek
CWoro^e
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colc/s, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts - short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Drarrhasa & Simple Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3 S 3 /-, 5/-.
Made in England.
FRE
As worn by our Brave Soldiers.
Every Patriotic Person should
wear one of these Brooches.
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN
BULL DOG BROOCH.
These splendid Brooches made in Australia and finished in
Gold, Silver, or Oxodised Metal are sold retail at 2/6 each.
I" or the purpose of making these Brooches more popular
throughout the Commonwealth, we have decided to give
everyone an opportunity of obtaining Valuable Prizes for
acting as our agents. SEND NO MONEY, your name
and address will do, and by return mail we will send you
6of these Highly finished Brooches. When sold
remit us our money, and we will forward you the prize you
select from our Up-to-date Catalogue of Watches, Chains,
Clothing, Bracelets, Handbags, etc. Write To-day to the
SIMPLEX NOVELTY CO., Pitt-st., Sydney.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
Murray’s English Ale, Old Orkney (OO) Whisky
Dog's Head (Guinness's) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Doy
Thea fly to the nearest Chemist and ask for
EVANS’ Pastilles.
Invaluable for throat and voice; affording instant relief. A
never failing remedy. Doctors prescribe them.
Evans Sons Lescher & Webb, Ltd., London.
m
Dinneford's
Magnesia
m
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S"
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
Look To Your Health
for it is without a doubt the most important part of a well-ordered
life. Good Health may be truly considered to be the basis of both
success and satisfaction; commercial ability as well as social qualities
are largely dependent upon the possession of this greatest of all
blessings. Now in order to enjoy good health it is essential to bear in
mind that certain conditions must prevail. The process of digestion
must be carried on with regularity and harmony; the appetite must be
good ; the bowels must be in a state of healthy activity ; the liver and
the kidneys must perform their functions with efficiency. How are
these desirable conditions to be brought about ? One simple method is
strongly recommended; namely,an occasional dose of Beecham’s Pills.
This medicinal preparation has been proved beyond contradiction to
be of great value in the prevention and cure of most of the ailments to
which the digestive organs are liable. Such symptoms as biliousness,
constipation, depression, flatulence, headache, indigestion in many
distressing forms—all speedily yield to the remedial influence of
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
Sold in boxes, labelled, price Io|d. (36 pills) 1/1-| (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
llfllil
zj,
l!!i!
Hilllt
Little Lectures
by Nurse ‘Wincarnis.’
(Lecturt No 3.)
Run-Down
When your system is under-
mined by worry or overwork
when your vitality is
lowered —* when you feel
“ any-how" when your
nerves are “ on edge ”
when the least exertion tires
you—you are in a Run-down
condition. Your system is
like a plant that is drooping
for want of water. And just
as water revives a drooping
plant — so ‘ Wincarnis ’ gives
new life and new vitality to
a ‘ run-down ’ constitution.
Because ‘ Wincarnis ’ pos-
sesses a four-fold power.
It is a Tonic, a Restorative,
a Blood-maker and a Nerve
Food —all in one. Therefore
creates new strength, new
blood, new nerve force and
new vitality. The benefit
begins from the first wine-
glassful. You can feel it
doing you good. Over 10,000
Doctors recommend ‘ Win-
carnis,’ especially to those
who are Weak, Anaemic,
‘Nervy’ or Run-down.
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
‘Wincarnis’ is made in England by
COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Wincarnis
Works, Norwich. You can buy
‘Wincarnis’ from all Chemists and
Stores selling wines, prices 4/- and
6/6, but if you experience any diffi-
culty in obtaining it, write direct
to Sole Distributing Agents, Fassett
& Johnson, 6-7 Barrack St., Sydney.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT,
In use since 1596.
Write for Book. CURES Write for Book.
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road, London, En&
Insist on “ Singleton s* —refuse all substitutes*
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Ilol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tne
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
TALKS ON BICYCLE BUYING—
No. 5.
a/r
X
A PART from the fact of a
bicycle built of B.S.A.
Fittings being really cheaper
in the end, you would not
care to be seen riding a
cheap "pattern" machine
while, most probably, your
friends are mounted on
genuine B.S.A's. The com-
parison would be far from
agreeable and not worth
undergoing for the sake of
saving a few shillings. A
B.S.A. is a machine to be
proud of and its reliability
ensures free - from - trouble
cycling.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF GENUINE
ETrTIN^
“THOROUGHLY BRITISH.”
B.SA. Handbook
free from
D. Y. RENNIE,
fßepresenting B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
k
Anthony Horderns’
Universal Bicycle.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with
EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub, Free
Wheel on both gears, Back-pedalling
and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop
Tyres. As ridden by FRANCIS
BIRTLES. £l2/10/-. Write for
Price List, post free.
Anthony Hordern 8 Sons
Only Universal Providers, Ltd.
New Palace Emporium,
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


ie All-Australian
wer Transmitter.
iMANCROVITEgI
LEATHER
LTI
which is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
Its the
Original
%
There
is only
ONE
m
0
m
Hardie’s Genuine
Used in place of Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE, ROT, HEAT, ACID 8 ANT PROOF.
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
“Courier” Buildings, Brisbane; & Melbourne
Tangrye
Portable Oil Engine.
Single Screw Bagger Cutter.
Munro
. r.-
Tangye” Suction Gas Plant
‘Clayton Traction Engine.
MM
s m
COMBINATION OF MOTIVE POWER
m
Comprising the following well-known lines:—TANG YE Lampless Oil Engines, Benzine Engines, Steam Engines, Boilers, Suction Gas Plants, Pm api, Winches, .lacks,
Chain Hoists, etc. CLAYTON & SHUTTLE WORTH Portable Steam and Traction Engines. NICHOLSON & MORROW Farm Implements. SBO ChaffcutterS.
DAEGETY <a CO. LTD.,
Miller’s Point, Sydney.
VVOLSELEY Shearing: Machines and Separators. (»A'XK Milking; Machines,
Write ns for particulars of above, also illustrated €afc&lo,yiieft—Posted Free.
THE
SHEEP SHEARING MACHINES
This year we are specialising- in one of the greatest improve-
ments to the Wolseley Handpiece ever introduced —the Long-
bearing Bush. It is devised to replace the old front and bach
bushes of the Handpiece, and ensures perfect lubrication,
coolness in running, easy adjustment of parts, correct length
of bush in relation to spindle, and economy in spare parts.
Full details mailed post free on request.
Sole Agents: DALGETY & COMPANY LTD., MILLER’S POINT, SYDNEY.
m
■J4
They operate direct from aay lamp socket
ELECT
C
Hand and Breast Drills
Heavy Duty Drills
Tool Post Grinders
Bench Grinders
u
s.
m
In every busy Engineer’s Shop you may see these tools in successful operation. THERE IS NO
INSTA.ELA.TION EXPENSE NECESSARY—they can be used in any part o/ the worKshop where
there is electric wiring, and any lamp socKet is a source of power EITHER DIRECT OR ALTERNATING.
Allow us to demonstrate them on your own work, and learn for yourself of their advantages.
:v* •
m a
m
, ....
SS&N’i?' --
gineers & Machinery Merchants,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
ALL BRITISH. LARGE STOCKS. IMMEDIATE DELIVERY.
m
m
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Equitable Building, Sydney.
