

■the Veteran of Whiskies
• 9
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent, Street, Sydney.
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’'“and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts ol New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always avadable.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
N-5-W MONT DE PIETE D &1C? IJP
Head Office:
Opposite National Amphitheatre.
And at
, SYDNEY 74.
Telephone: City 9325.
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
•217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
EIIBTAQE BENNETT, Oaneral Manager.
i
_NUL-Vv_b_Q jy
CoMMeSci*l CHAMBERS M |74 HSW MOW! 01 r.ETCQt POSIT MMVtSTWtWT CHS
'"Used in plenty
Makes forty look
like twenty
VALUABLE FOP TAN
AND SUNBURN
p Made in Australia h/
Frederick StearnsC?
SYDNEY.
WMmm
H4MS«BACQH
R 8
C HU BB S
ANTI BLOWPIPE
DOORS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSEN’S
F or INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
_
vm
OF ALL
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
GOLF
MTtm.
tiilfs
■mm
Not the same as others
MALTMOID
MALTHOID ROOFING
is “ not the same as others ” because it has qualities
which no other roofing possesses. It is weather-
proof as well as waterproof* and it is fire resistant.
Extremes of temperature do not affect it. It is easily
laid; freight on it is little; first cost is reasonable, and
it is the last cost. Let’s send samples and booklets.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO., Challis House, Sydney.
D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L-
LOCOMOTIVE, GENERAL. 8c AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERS.
RAIL-WAV ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL 8c FARM WAGGONS. IRON 8c MALLEABLE CASTINGS. , ■
granvillje:,
N.S.W.
SHREDDER DISCS.
MINING
MACHINERY
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. „
Roll Shells, Shoes
and Dies, and at!
STEEL CASTINGS.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Yol. 37.—N0. 1882.]
[Thursday, March 9, 1916.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


new fiction
Tyler’s Dusty Road.
Couperus: Later Life.
Hanshrew: Riddle of tlie Night.
Morris: When My Ship Comes In.
Sherreff: Up the Road with Sally.
Lynde: Real Man.
London: Lost Face.
Phillpotts: Old Delabole.
Niven: S.S. Glory.
Cher: Immortal Gymnasts.
All at 3/6 per vol.; posted, 8/9.
Ramsay: Miss Elizabeth Gibbs.
Lyons: Roby Lane.
Lewis: Chapel.
Parrish: Carfrae’s Comedy.
Noble: Bottle Fillers.
At GEORGE ROBERTSON S CO. PROPTY LTD.. 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
DEATH TO FLIES.
THE NEW NON=POISONOUS
POWDER,
“MUSTDIE”
The Great Insect
Destroyer.
Price
9d. per tin.
KILLS ALL INSECTS.
Pleas, Plies,
Mosquitoes, Ants,
Cockroaches, Moths.
FREE TRIAL.
Write to “Mustdie,” Dept. H.
1520. G.P.0., Sydney, and a trial
will be sent post free, or forward Ja.
stamps for a full-size tin.
ii
The Red Page
The Job
In Russia.
Stanley Washburn, the London Times
correspondent, With the''Russian armies, was
by his frie|nds not to publish liis
second 'volume of ; Field Fates from the
Russian Front,, on the ground that during
the period April-August, 1915, Russia,
almost destitute of munitions, was being
practically pushed off the map by the im-
perturbable advance of the Hun behind his
phalanx of big guns. But precisely because
Washburn still believed in the ultimate vic-
tory of the Russians, he published The Rus-
sian Campaign (Melrose, _ per Dymock's
Library). The volume begins with the fall
of ITzemysl and ends with the fall of War-
saw.
Washburn has unfortunately become accus-
tomed to the war. He has been so long in
the thick of it that, automatically, his mind
has ceased to register those vivid impressions
that gave, for instance, to Pares’ remark-
able book its marvellous realism. Wash-
burn is now merely the official war-corres-
pondent, systematically touring in his motor
the whole vast length of the Russian front.
The story of the heroic defence of the
Russians against the first of the Huns’ gas
attack is admirably told. The soldiers re-
ceived orders not to fire, but to remain in
their trenches —remain and die, if necessary
—in order to make the Huns believe that
they had been overwhelmed by the gas.
Many of them were; but the survivors took
a terrible revenge; for as the triumphant
Huns advanced to the uncannily-silent
trenches they were met with a counter-
charge that routed them. “In this trying
ordeal not a man, soldier or officer budged
from his position. To a man they remained
firm, some overcome, some dying and others
already dead.... The net results were an
absolute defeat of the Germans, with a loss
of several of their own positions, and a loss
in dead and wounded probably three times
greater than was suffered by the Russians.”
So powerful were the chlorine fumes that it
was found that many of the hospital helpers
were overcome by the fumes in the men’s
clothing. So the first thing done when the
patients reached the hospitals was to strip
off their clothes and give them a hot bath.
Even after these cases were brought to War-
saw the gas still given out. from their lungs
as they exhaled so poisoned the air that sonie
of the women nurses were affected with
severe headaches and with nausea. “The
incredible part is that out of the thousands
affected hardly 1000 died in the trenches, and
of the 1500 brought to Warsaw only 2 per-
cent. have died to date. It is probably true
that the Russian moujik soldier is the
hardiest individual in Europe; add to this
the consideration that for ten months none
of them have been touching a1c0h01.... The
victims that die quickly are spared the worst
effects, but those that linger on and finally
succumb suffer a torture which the days of
the Inquisition can hardly parallel. . . .These
men die not only of strangulation, which in
itself is a slow torture, but in their last
moments their internal organs are slowly
being eaten away by the acids which they
have taken into their stomachs. ... In this
single night’s work the Germans have built
up for themselves in the heart of every Rus-
sian moujik a personal hatred and detesta-
tion that has spread like wildfire in all parts
of the army, and has made the Russian
troops infinitely fiercer both in attack and
defence than at any other period of the
war.”
&
In Russia the effects of the gas were
noticeable 25 miles from the line, and indi-
viduals were overcome as far away as 10
miles from the positions. If the Huns utilise
poison gas on a wholesale scale, the effects
upon the peasant and his stock will be
severe. Every small body of water will
gradually be transformed into a diluted solu-
tion of hydrochloric acid. Stock and the in-
habitants of large areas of Poland will be
slowly poisoned by chloral.
Washburn is not depressed by the long
retirement of the Russian line, for he is with
the Russians. “Given four months of rest
and recuperation we shall have an entirely
new situation in the beginning of next year
(that is, now), which will present an
entirely neev problem. It will really mean
the starting of a new war with new objec-
tives and practically with a new and re-
equipped army. . . .There are many who
maintain that Russia will find it difficult to
reconquer Galicia and Poland. Probably she
will never have to do so. It is perfectly
possible that when the end comes, Germany
will still be on the territory of France, Bel-
gium and Russia. Peace will bring back in-
stantly all of these provinces without any
fighting at all. It matters not, then, whether
Germany is broken while still in the heart, of
Russia or under the walls of Berlin itself.
The task is to break the enemy, and that this
will be done eventually I think cannot be
doubted. It is the stamina, the character
and the resources of the Allies that in the
end will decide this war, and nothing is more
unwise than to judge the situation from the
study of pins moved back and forward on
the map of Europe.”
The numerous photographs add much to
the value of the book.
In South-West Africa.
With Botha in the Field, by Moore Ritchie
(Longmans, Green, per George Robertson,
Sydney), makes no pretence to being an ex-
haustive study of the campaigns against the
rebels in South Africa and against German
South-West Africa; but it is the first
account of the doings in the Union that
has reached book-form, and though, to Aus-
tralian readers, the narrative is not always
cleai', Moore Ritchie does his best by dia-
grams and maps to help us. The many
photographs, mostly taken by the author, are
interesting. Swakopmund, he says, is the
most extraordinary place he has seen.
“There is not a spot of vegetation. There is
not a genuine tree to be seen. The water has a
brackish taste.... If ever there was a work
of bluff, Swakopmund. the German town at
the mouth of the Swakop River, is that
thing. One fancies the German commer-
cial expert, looking along this ferocious and
awful spot to found a town that should
appear on the maps and be esteemed a sea-
port. The Swakop River? Very well.
Was there water there? But certainly so;
water obviously of the worst quality —yet
water. Besides, were there not always
refrigerators and condensing machinery?
Upon which Swakopmund was forced into
existence —planked down there bit by bit in
the - face of circumstance. Walk a trifle
over 1000 yards from the edge of the Atlan-
tic through Swakopmund’s deep sandy
streets and you get the key to the town. For
it ceases utterly, abruptly; from the door
of its last villa, fitted with perfect furnish-
ings from Hamburg, the bitter desolation
that is the Namib Desert stretches away
from your very feet. . . .It is a monument to
Teutonic determination. The Germans
willed this town there; fitted it out, from
bioscope theatre to church with organ and
electric organola; and they lived in it, with
the climate of perdition and all the acces-
sories of a suburb of Berlin, and called it a
seaport. It is not a seaport; in a fair gale
you can’t land a barrel of corks at the pier.
But given time and they would have built
a £2.000,000 breakwater... .Nevertheless, it
is not colonising.”
It was from this little hell that Botha
made his wonderful trek across the desert to
Windhuk. “When Botha treks he treks at
express speed.’* He had to capture and hold
every waterhole on the way. The author
speaks of this trek as a feat “that broke all
known marching records and caused two
hemispheres to talk. Striking right across
the desert, Botha’s army marched night and
day, and in five of those days covered over
40 miles per day.”
And the news of the sinking of the Lusi-
tania reached Windhuk just after its occu-
pation. “Botha’s forces had crossed a
desert through which it was the open boast
of the enemy that it was strewn with mines
and every well poisoned. Was a single de-
fenceless citizen of Windhuk the worse for
it after the occupation? Not one. . . .It was
magnificent. But I wonder if the chival-
rous Teuton would call it war!”
One of the great objectives of the cam-
paign was to secure the Windhuk wireless
station. “When you catch a glimpse of it
suddenly where it stands on the veld outside
the town, you get a thrill of £heer astonish-
ment. The thing seems monstrous here. It
is foreign to our ideas, a wireless colossus
in such a place. .. .Fancy a pretty bijou
town, red roofs, neat church, pepper trees,
sleepy people—and across the veldt, a mile
and a half away, darkening the sky with
great Vertical lines, five terrific steel lattice
pillars, nearly 400 feet high, tied by cables
with stay bolts as big as a man.... There
is no electric light in this village of Wind-
huk, or Windy Corner, yet. And there are
not enough Germans in the whole territory
to populate a good-sized town. There is also
the usual telegraphic communication to the
coast. Yet —the wireless.”
The narrative lays stress upon Botha’s
brilliant strategy. He surprised Windhuk
by his suddenness of approach and the care-
ful co-ordination of his enveloping move-
ments ; and in the last phase, where he
rounded up the remnants of the enemy,
Franke, their commander, was actually sur-
rounded before he had an inkling of that
unpleasant fact. He had no alternative but
to surrender. “Even guerrilla warfare is an
unattainable luxury when you are sur-
rounded.”
In Fkance.
Boyd Cable, whose name is familiar to
Bulletin readers, enlisted in England, and
contributed from the Front in France a
series of brilliant articles to the Corniiill
Magazine. These sketches, composed for
the most part within shell and rifle range,
are now published in book form. Between
the Lines (Smith, Elder, per Dymock’s
Library) ranks as one of the few worth-
while books that the war has produced. Boyd
Cable, like lan Hay, tells us exactly what
modern war means, though his method is
more scientific. He takes certain war-worn
phrases from official despatches, such as:
A section of advanced trench changed hands
several times, finally remaining in our hands
....to the right a violent artillery bombard-
ment has been in progress... .a mine was
successfully exploded under a section of the
enemy's trench, etc.; and he fills in the
graphic meaning of these bald and uncon-
vincing narratives.
Here, for instance, is a picture of artillery
support: “The advancing Germans reached
at last the strip of ground where the shrap-
nel hailed and lashed, reached the strip and
pushed into it—but not past it. Up to the
shrapnel zone the advance could press—
through, it could not. Under the shrapnel
nothing could live. It swept the ground in
driving gust on gust, swept and besomed it
bare of life. Here and there, in ones and
twos and little knots and groups, the Ger-
mans strove desperately to push on. They
came as far as that deadly fire-belt; and in
ones and twos and little knots and groups
they stayed there and died. Supports
hurried up and hurled themselves in. and a
spasm of fresh strength and fury lifted the
line and heaved it forward. So far the hre
of its fury brought it ; and there the hosing
shrapnel met it, swept down and washed it
away, and beat it out to the last spark and
the last man.” *
J*
And here is a snapshot of a British ad-
vance: “Scores, hundreds of men fell before
they could clear the entanglements to form
up in the open. . . .But the mass poured out,
shook itself roughly into line, and began
to run across the open. They ran toi the
most part with shoulders hunched and heads
stooped, as men would run through a hoa\
rainstorm to a near shelter. . . .As the line
swept on doggedly it thinned and shredded
into broken groups,... here and there, where
it ran into the effective sweep of a maxim,
the line simply withered and stayed still in
a string of huddled heaps amongst and on
which the bullets continued to drum and
thud Fifty yards across the battalion
assaulting was no longer a line, but a scat-
tered series of groups like beads on a broken
string; 60 yards across, and the groups had
dwindled to single men and couples, with
desperately long intervals between; ioyards,
and there were no more than odd occasional
men, with one little bunch near the centre
THE CHILDREN OF THE LUSITANIA.
“We do not want any love among the Americans,
but we do want respect. and the case of the Lusi-
tania will win it for us better than a hundred
victories on land.”
Berlin LOHALANZEIGER. May 9, 1915.
Cartoon by Louis Raemaekers.
that had by some extraordinary chance
escaped the sleet of bullets; at 80 yards a
sudden swirl of lead caught this last group
—and the line at lasf was gone, wiped out,
the open was swept clear of those dogged
runners.... Another battalion had com-
menced to climb out of the trench before
the advancing line w y as more than half-way
across. This time the casualties, although
appallingly heavy, were not so hopelessly
severe, probably because a salient of the
enemy trench to a flank had been reached by
a battalion further along, and the devastat-
ing fire of rifles and machine-guns cut off. . .
The following battalion came surging
across, losing heavily, but still bearing
weight enough to teli when at last they
poured in over the parapet. . . .The neutral
ground was w0n.... The fighting fell to a
new phase—the work of the short-arm bayo-
net and the bomb-throwers.”. . . .
And then “the weak point that so often
hampers attack” began to make itself felt.
“The bombers and ‘grenadiers’ had ex-
hausted the stock they carried: fresh sup-
plies were scanty; were brought up with
difficulty, and distributed to the most
urgently required places with still greater
difficulty. The ammunition carriers had to
cross the open of the old neutral ground, the
battered first trench, pass along communica-
tion trenches choked with dead and wounded,
or again cross the open to the second and
third line.... They had to pass through a
zone or ‘barrage’ of shrapnel built across
their path for just this special purpose of
destroying supports and supplies.”
With the same graphic touch Boyd Cable
pictures a score of other interesting opera-
tions —the making and exploding of a mine ;
the hell of being shelled all day in the
trenches; the exact method by which “artil-
lery support” is managed; the first experi-
ence of a new regiment in the front trenches ;
and the amazement of those new soldiers
when after a day that seemed to them to be
crammed with exciting fighting they learned
in the official report that there was “nothing
to report” ; the “cold-bloodedly unpleasant
work” of sappers digging a communication
trench under fire —just digging and dying
without any of the satisfaction or the glory
of a charge; the job of the ammunition
column ; and a signaller’s crowded day. It is
the Tommy’s sense of humor that saves him
from the horror of this confused and station-
ary warfare; and Boyd Cable continually
stresses this point. There is his story of the
delight of a Cockney regiment when it heard
for the first time from the German trench
the celebrated Hymn of Hate.
“The word flew down the British trench :
‘lt’s the ’ymn! They’re singin’ the ‘Ymn of
’Ate,’ and every man sat drinking the air in
eagerly. This was luck, pure gorgeous luck.
... .They had read it in the papers, and had
had it declaimed with a fine frenzy by Pri-
vate ’Enry Irving. Hadn’t they, like plenty
other regiments, longed to hear the tune, but
longed in vain? And here it was being sung
to them in full chorus by the Germans them-
selves. Oh, that was luck.
“The mouth-organist was sitting with his
mouth open and liis head turned to listen, as
if afraid to miss a single note.
“ ‘ ’Ave you got it, Snapper?’ whispered
Private Robinson anxiously at the end.
‘Will you be able to remember it?’ ”
He hadn’t got it—quite. “We might kid
em to sing it again, said Robinson hope-
tull\ its a loud ‘Encore!’ ram* e, ■
trench. rang fr °m the
‘“Was you know vat we haf singv , wlfD ,
TO ' Ce m tOnCS »*'
“ » B reat song, Hutchie,’ replied p •
vale Robinson. ‘Fine songiJEi,? l ;
Sing it again to us.’ S goot-bong!
“ ‘You haf not understand,’ said Hip r
man angrily and then suddenly a little
ther along the German trench a clear J,
rose, singing the hymn in English tL, °. r
113011 1 subsided into rapt silence, hS/S
themselves over their stupendous luck 6
“uu-k and quicker he sang, the song twid
mg upward in a rising note of passion it
checked and hung an instant on the last' lin
as a curling wave hangs poised; ancl the'
....the song broke in a crash of sweeping
sound along the line of the German trench
on that one word—-‘England!’” ne “
And back from the trenches came the reel
ment when relieved, singing that foml*
hymn to the delight of a British bilgSe
and the amazement of a French staff-officer
“And the best bit of the whole joke” the
brigadier explained, “is that this particular
regiment is English to the backbone”
&
The bitterest and most scathing indictment
of the Hun comes, significantly, from a
neutral artist. Louis Raemaekers, the Dutch
artist, has crucified the Hun on a lastine
cross of ignominy; and his war cartoons
are an answer to the
“Hymn of Hate” that
will long survive that
childish scream of
rage. I bidder and
Stoughton publish, at
the extremely modest
price of 2d.. 40 of
Raemaekers’ Cartoons,
by permission of Land
and Water, in which
these cartoons first
appeared. That maga-
zine also offers artist’s
proofs, in the original
size, at a guinea each,
and unsigned proofs'at
half a guinea. The
irony of these pictures
is appalling, and
their pathos is, at
times, almost too
awful. One of them
lias already gained world-wide fame—that
showing the evilly smiling Kaiser, on receiv-
ing the news of the execution of Nurse
Cavell, remarking : “Now you can bring me
the American protest.”
Anzac—and a Guinea
Well, it is all over—that heroic attempt to
storm the impossible. But there remains the
need of recording in poetry that glorious for-
lorn hope. And this page invites its corres-
pondents to write a sonnet that will sum up
all that Anzac means, and will mean, to Aus-
tralia and to the world. In 14 lines you
must put the soul of Anzac; and those 14
lines must be in the form of the sonnet that
for the octette utilises only two rimes, in this
order, a,b,b,a, a,b,b,a; and for the sextette
may use two or .three rimes, but the last two
lines must not rime. There are other rules
for the sonnet, but the sonneteers of Aus-
tralasia have already proved that they know
them, and those who do not can learn only
by their mistakes. Sonnets, addressed to
this page, must reach it by April 15. The
writer of the best sonnet will receive a
guinea.
o
David Low, whose volume of Caricatures
has had an excellent sale, has one interesting
hobby ; and in order to extend his valuable
collection he is this month holding an exhibi-
tion of his caricatures and cartoons at Hor-
derns’ Gallery, Sydney. His hobby —nearly
forgetting this!—is the collection of auto-
graphs on the lower right-hand corner of
cheques.
Potted Australian Sketches, the first
number of an illustrated threepenny maga-
zine, chiefly cartoons and illustrated jokes, is
a young and tender thing. Three artists,
William Farrow, Rick Elmes and Stanley
Osborn, furnish the drawings, which show no
trace of even budding genius in the posses-
sion of any of the three. Still the magazine
is khaki in outlook and topical, and it pro-
bably deserves the casual 3d. Anyhow, the
three artists must have got a lot of fun out
of the production.


a
ANTHONY HORDERNS' for EVERYTHING
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FOR
ARDATH Cabinet CIGARS
ARDATH CABINET CIGARS are justly popular, for the reason that they
are beautifully mild and aromatic, filled with a delicious blend of Selected
Tobacco, uniform in quality, and contain only a minimum of nicotine.
ARDATH CABINET CIGARS are distinctly in the first rank of medium-
priced Cigars. They are made under perfect conditions, and combine every point
of excellence demanded by the Cigar connoisseur.
ARDATH CABINET CIGARS, No. 444 and No. 066, can only be obtained
at the NEW PALACE EMPORIUM, and are Cigars that will be smoked with
appreciation by the most critical. We recommend these Cigars with confidence.
ARDATH CIGARS are packed in
artistically-prepared cabinets, fitted with a
spring catch, and make an ideal present for
any man. Our unique system of spot Cash
trading enables us to sell these High-grade
Cigars at prices which offer absolutely the
best value in the land.
Box of 25 50 100
No. 444 ... 8/6 16/6 32/6
No. 666 ... 11/6 22/- 42/6
Postage.-—Box of 25: N.S.W., 6d.; other
States, Bd. extra. Box of 50: N.S.W., 9d.;
other States, 1/2 extra.
mmn
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST of TOBACCO, CIGARS and SMOKERS’ REQUISITES,
Posted Free on Request.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FOR THE SILENT
WHITE Sewing Machines
The WHITE embraces all that stands for efficiency in SEWING MACHINES.
No. 25V (shown partly open).
THE WHITE PINCH TENSION is with-
out a peer. It pinches the thread just enough
to produce a smooth, elastic stitch.
THE WHITE TENSION INDI-
CATOR shows the state of the tension at all
times. A tension can be changed or dupli-
cated in an instant.
THE WHITE TENSION RELEASER,
operating with a lifter bar, instantly removes
' all tension from the thread.
THE DUST CAPS on needle and presser
bars prevent the ingress of dust; hence easier,
smoother working.
THE WHITE DROP-HEAD AUTO-
MATIC LIFT is the latest improvement in
Sewing Machines, and is a WHITE feature.
The white: Vibrating Shuttle Machines are
elegantly constructed, and each machine has
nickel-plated head wheel, hanging centre panel,
and drawers at each side, with beautiful
swell front-furniture, the most attractive style
yet brought out. All WHITE Machines are
fitted with ball bearings, and supplied with
a full set of the latest-style Steel Attachments.
THERE is no better Hachine made than the World-
Renowned WHITE, which combines simplicity, quality
and economy with faithful construction and elegant
finish. Write for Illustrated Price Lists, posted free on request.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FOR f
VALUE IN BOOKS
Everyman’s Library of Standard Literature.
EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY is exactly what it?
name implies—a library for the professional man,
the business man, the young man, the student, and
all lovers of literature. There are over 700 titles
to select from in the EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY,
embracing the works of foremost authors in the
realms of Fiction, Poetry, History, Theology,
Travel, Biography and Essays of famous writers.
EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY is under the
general editorship of Professor Ernest Rehys,
and contains the best works that have been
written in all times and tongues, from Epictetus,
Cicero and Plutarch down to Dickens, Scott,
Ruskin and the other great Literary Lights of
the Victorian Era.
Each volume in EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY
is uniformly bound, and printed in large, clear
type on specially made paper, and many are
illustrated.
as 88-tttt
|BO«niUvaMC
38838355
Sectional Bookcase, to
hold 50 vols., 21/.
Anthony Horderns’ Price:
Cloth, 1/-; Full Leather, 2/-
Postage 2d. volume extra. Full list of titles post free. Send Is. 2d. for a
sample volume. The value cannot he surpassed.
Handsome Oak Bookcase (as illustrated) specially designed for Every-
man’s Library, made in Fumed Oak, and fitted with novel interlocking
device,, to allow for extension. Top Section, 6/-; Base Unit, 6/-; Book Section
(to hold 50 vols.), 8/6.
Anthony Horderns’
FOR THE
GEM JUNIOR
Safety Razor.
5
((i!
S'
wr
GE
The Man Who .Uses tHe
OEM JUNIOR Safety Razor
MAKES SHAVING EASY.
GEM JUNIOR blades are as thin as an edge-holding piece of steel can possibly
be rolled. They can be sharpened time and time again, because they're tempered
to receive an edge and to hold it when they get it.
THE GEM JUNIOR FRAME has a new BAR feature which carefully
spreads the skin so that the stubble is forced out far enough to give as close
a shave as can only be secured with any other razor in the world by going over
the face twice.
THE GEM JUNIOR SET is packed in substantial Plush-lined Box. and in
addition to the Silver-plated frame and seven blades, includes a stropping handle.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, 5/-; by Post, 5/3.
EXTRA BLADES, 2/1 per Packet of 7, Post Free.
OLD BLADES Made NEW
Save your old blades. After they have passed beyond the stage
of revival by means of the ordinary strop, the Safety Blade Expert
can renew the keen edge of the hand-ground blade with the
patent power high-speed machine specially designed for Safety
Razors. It sharpens any Wafer Safety Razor Blade.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ PRICE—I/1 Doz., 7d. Half-doz., Post Free
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKneld Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


szr<aszs&&g
K IS
ia
M
[S To
If! (f
©
l£
a? tit
*9
PI is
I
%
-v-"-
x
m
sA»
22 Caliber
Rifles and Cartridges
The pleasure of shooting a
.22 caliber rifle indoors or
outdoors depends not only
on the skill of the shooter,
but upon the accuracy of
the equipment used. The
utmost care is taken in the
manufacture of Winchester
.22 caliber rifles and cart-
ridges, and for that reason
they shoot with invariable
accuracy. Winchester .22
caliber rifles are made in
various models and styles,
and Winchester .22 caliber
cartridges are loaded with
Smokeless, “Lesmok,” and
Black powder. It is there-
fore easy to suit your taste
and get the best possible
, equipment if you will select
\ the reliable w brand.
ALL DEALERS SELL THEM
Ct/ce you cr&l ij^fcrte
Then take a pick-me-
up course of VITAFER
—the great brain and
body building food. It
combines Organic Phos-
phorus—perhaps the
greatest gift of science
to the human race
with the rich protein
constituents of pure
milk.
W VP# i #
Vitafer
Poqjdiuox
For functional nerve trouble of every kind— from
temporary debility to long standing Neurasthenia.
It is common knowledge that Phosphorus is “good for the nerves,” but few people realise that in
addition, it is of enormous imporiance in a’l bodily functions. VITAFER combines Organic
Phosphorus in its three essential forms, with the entire protein of finest British milk.
In protein alone, one part of VITAFER equals six parts of meat, and moreover, the Vitafer
protein is in a form which w. ak digestive systems can easily assimilate.
N.B.—The moderate price places it within the reach of all.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists, 4 02., 8 oz., and 16 oz.
Prices, 35., 55., and 9s.
VITAFER is produced entirely by SOUTHALL
BROS. & BARCLAY, LTD., of BIRMINGHAM,
Eng-., an old established and well known English
Firm of high repute. (Founded 1820.) All the
processes of VITAFER manufacture are carried
out in their own works at TIPPERARY and
BIRMINGHAM.
BRITISH'
therefore
best >
HAVE REGARD TO YOUR
BEST INTERESTS BY APPOINTING
The Permanent Trustee C«p»,,
of New South Wales Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators, Agents, etc
AMPLE SECURITY ASSURED. TRUST ACCOUNTS ALWAYS OPEN TO INSPECTION
ESTATES AND PROPERTIES EFFICIENTLY MANAGED.
EVERY DESCRIPTION of TRUSTEE WORK UNDERTAKEN. FULL DETAILS ON APPLICAT
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Managed
See also Page 27.
NO Water Drip.
NO Cams, Valves
or Gears to get
out of order and to
repair.
NO skilled labor
necessary.
Automatic Igni-
tion.
Runs on Crude
Oil, at less than 6d.
per gallon.
Runn in g Ex-
penses less than
half of those of
Benzine Engines.
Fuel Economy
higher than that
of any other Crude
Oil Engine on the
market.
Designed for con-
tinuous hard
service.
More than 50 “Skan-
dia” now running in
Australia and t h
Islands.
Write for
Catalogues
and Prices
to-day.
State
Service
and
Horse-
power
needed.
e
PERFECTION in PESI6W, MATERIALS a.J
Marine, Stationary 8 Portable Engines,
Unequalled in SIMPLICITY,
ACCESSIBILITY
RELIABILITY.
durability
and
ECONOMY.
We
always
Stock
these
engines.
4 to 600
H.P.
NELSON & ROBERTSON,
Sole Agents for Australasia
and South Sea Islands,
11-17 Loft us Street, SYDNEY.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s. Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Pfi*e Medals.
Wor-Ua: Birmingham, England.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
TO SOLDIERS and SHOOTERS.
Revolvers and Guns at
Greatly Reduced Prices
TRADE MARK
Special REVOLVER for trench warfare, 320-calibre, throw-open, “blued, 5-
chambered, complete with pouch. PRICE, 27/6. D.8.8.L. Hammerless
GUN, W. \V. Greener wedge-fast crossbolt, 12-gauge, box spring triggers, auto-
matic patent safety snap action, pistol grip, walnut stock, engine-turned rib.
MONTH'S TRIAL. Usually £lO/10/-. REDUCED TO £7/5/-. D.8.8.L
GUN, walnut stock, pistol grip, best blued steel barrels, tested, left barrel full
choke, right modified, rebounding locks, solid strikers. W. W. Greener
patent wedge-fast crossbolt. MONTH’S TRIAL. £3/12/6. D.8.8.L GUN
—FARMER’S FRIEND —12-gauge, choke bore, pistol grip, English walnut
stock. PRICE 45/-. Orchard RIFLE, will not damage the trees, kill at
40 yards. PRICE 20/- Special line Rabbit Rifles, snipers, take 22 short
and 22 long cartridges, kill at 100 yards. FOR ONE MONTH ONLY, 12/6
each. Cartridges, 1/- 100. Write for our Illustrated Catalogue.
SMALL ARMS CO.
Importers and Indentors,
229-231 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
MISS LILY HURT.
THE MEDICINE THAT MEANS
To the Weak Man, STRENGTH.
To the Sick Woman, HEALTH.
To the Racked, Sleepless Brain,
SLEEP.
“I Would Like to
Tell every Woman
and Girl!”
A remarkably sincere letter
from a Mosman lady, Miss
Lily Hurt, of 12 Spit Road,
New South Wales, written
to all women in poor health,
especially to those who go
daily to business. _ It tells
what Clements Tonic can do
for them.
Clements Tonic will benefit
you as it did the lady who
wrote this letter.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“I hope you will publish this, as I want other people to benefit by
jour wonderful medicine as 1 have done.
“I want you to tell every girl and woman who have to go to " or
and stand all day, and who feel tired and all after their day’s worK is
done, how much better they would feel if they took Clements lonic.
“I was worn out, always tired and ill. Medical advice suggested
I must give up work at once; nothing but rest would save me, nu
could not rest, I had my work to do.
“I started to take Clements Tonic, and have felt a different person.
I m well, happy and strong, and I tell everyone how grateful I leei
Clements Tonic for giving me new life.” * Yours truly,
(Signed) LILT HLRT.
There is no question of the value of this medicine for those who toil with
ana mental energies. Journalists, law and medical students, puhlic-school teachers, c
cial men and women in all ranks of life, should use it. It strengthens the brain, gives
nerves > pureness to the blood, and keeps the human house in order. It giw ,
relief in cases of Brain-fag, Mental Unrest, Insomnia or Loss of Sleep, caused by Bra*
Constipation, Low Spirits, Indigestion, Sick Headache, Biliousness or Nervous BreaKf .
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL IT. Get it, and get healthy to-day. Take tne
step along the way that leads to. Health and Permanent Strength.


TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL.
p ,cked Free. All charges Prepaid to your
Port direct from our Factory. Highest-
grade British-made MEAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears,
Flyer or Brook’s Saddles, etc.
[latest
models
£3m lO to £ 9
Tyres and accessories half usual prices.
• nrijTC warned in each district. Write
fIU tN I 9 at once, using' sufficient postage,
for Free Art Catalogue and oiut
Special Offer on sample machine.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dept. A 282 LIVERPOOL,
Arr VT for MEAD
VAL. D. COLE, Book Arcade,
LARGE stocks on hand.
CYCLES—
Melbourne.
ALL MODELS.
“The Reliable Cure”
WILSON’S
Pino-Mentho
Throat Pastilles
For Coughs and Colds.
These famous pastilles have a wonderful
way of acting directly in the most stub-
born cases of Coughs, Colds and
Throat Troubles.
They give instant relief —are soothing, heal-
ing and pleasant to take.
Keep a tin handy and dissolve a pastille
in the mouth occasionally. They keep colds
at a safe distance.
Obtainable from all Chemists and
Stores. Price 1/- per Tin, or direct
from
Alex. Wilson Co.,
17 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
are: you
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIK CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more ?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORES.
Just wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and you’ll have the skin healed and healthy
quicker than with any other ointment on earth.
Everyone says so who has used it. Write for a
tin now. 1/6, posted 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist,
2] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane.
ixp/una SSL
Writing from Cobargo, in January, 1916,
Mr. J. McCleary says:—‘‘l did not credit
there was such a wonderful liquid on the
face of the planet that could do what
Exzerma has done for me. I had tried
everything that I saw advertised, without
the slightest improvement; but with one
bottle of Exzerma I was almost cured—
this after two years’ suffering. I was afraid
to mix with people and got as far into the
bush as I could. Now I can once more
mix with the bunch.” All Chemists and
Druggists, or from l 2
S. FIELDER, Randwick, Sydney. 5/-, 2/6
Tobacco
Rills!
MOST MEN would
cure themselves of
the Tobacco Habit if
they knew they could
do so easily and also
without causing
themselves discom-
fort. . . . It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse, tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harm-
less,'vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for good. It not destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
out restores to health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating
the system the Nicotine Poison of
I obacco.
free sample.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you, under
? e f ~< V Lo ve a Pr ee Sample, also our Book-
iet, The Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces. Write for particulars and Book to-day.
H. SINCLAIR (Eb CO..
Dept. Q,
__29jrCONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. [4.
■w
Bonninatoirs
IRJShTMOSS
For Children
Nothing is more irritating than the continual
coughing of children. Unchecked, a cold so
quickly spreads to others. To instantly re-
lieve, and quickly cure COUGHS, COLDS
or WHOOPING COUGH, give the child-
ren “ Bonnington’s Irish Moss.” Take none
but—
Beware of
Imitations
BONNINGTON’S
%
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Try
this!
Y
\
n
Y
m
Lift the outer walla of the nostrils as shown above. Then Inhale vigorously through the
nostrils. Afterwards exhale, also through the nostrils. Do both, of course , while hold ng the
nostrils wide open. The result will be nothing less than a surprising revelation of how the nasal
air-passages can be enabled to convey an increased supply of oxygen to the respiratory organs.
HAVE YOU GOT
CATARRH ?
If you have a dropping of phlegm into the throat.
If your nose is stopped up,
If crusts form in your nose,
If you are easily susceptible to colds,
If you suffer from frontal* headaches,
If you have noises in the head,
If your hearing is affected,
If you have to clear your throat and expectorate often,
if a change in the weather affects you,
If you are a victim to shortness of breath,
If you sneeze frequently,
If your sense of smell is affected,
If you have a heavy, tired feeling on awaking,
If you suffer from a husky throat,
If you are affected with any of the above symptoms,
the chances are that you are suffering from
Catarrh. It is an exceedingly dangerous com-
plaint, and is so insidious that the sufferer hardly
realises how serious is his or her condition until
matters have reached an almost chronic stage.
Catarrh often begins with a cold in the head, but it never stops there.
The simple cold becomes a protracted one, while the discharge from the
nose grows more profuse and uncomfortable.
The inflammation extends to the throat and bronchial tubes, causing
hoarseness, a tickling sensation, and an aggravating cough. The matter
that is continually dropping back into the throat finds its way into the
stomach, resulting in a distressing form of dyspepsia, nausea, and loss of
appetite and strength.
The catarrhal poisons are absorbed into the blood, and all the membranes
of the body become infected. What was supposed to be a purely local
disease has become constitutional, deep-seated, and chronic, and may
eventually result in Deafness, Bronchitis, Asthma, Neuritis, Catarrh of
the Stomach, or that dread scourge of the human race, Consumption.
A Sample Bottle of “KAT-AR-AH” INHALANT
FREE to SUFFERERS.
“Kat-ar-ah” Treatment for Catarrh is based on scientific principles,
and aims at the curing of the trouble on an entirely new and logical
basis. I know it is right by personal experience—the best Catarrh
Remedy in existence, and I am ready to prove it to you. Hundreds
acknowledge its worth. No matter how many remedies you may have
tried do not consider your case hopeless until you have tried “Kat-ar-ah ”
Treatment.
In order that you may prove the value of this Treatment to your own
satisfaction I will supply you with a trial bottle of “Kat-ar-ah ” Inhalant
FREE OF CHARGE. It will give immediate relief to the inflamed
membranes, clear the head, convey health-giving, purifying and germ-
destroying medicated air to the affected parts, and cleanse the nasal
passages of the accumulated mucous. I will also send you a copy of my
new and interesting booklet —“Catarrh —its Cause, Symptoms and
Treatment.” Be sure to mention this paper when writing, give your
full name and address, and enclose 3d. in stamps to cover cost of postage.
Send to-day. The trial bottle will be sent you by return mail._ HERBERT
HERDER, 22 Daking House, Sydney,
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Sentinel of God.
When we had but a mile to go
The lights of home shone clear ;
Below the sunset’s afterglow
They flashed a signal dear,
And save for one lone cricket’s song
The dreaming world was still.
A grey cloud rampart stretched along
The skies above the hill.
And as we watched and said no word
We saw a star appear,
And a low roll of thunder heard
Beyond the shining spear;
Along the rampart in the skies
He walked with thunder shod —•
Thus we beheld with our own eyes
The Sentinel of God.
N.S.W.
KURANUI.
Friendship.
Friendship watched for you, setting wide her
door:
Gladly your feet had sped that way before.
And yet to-night no shadow blurred the
floor —-
Only the pattern of a leaf, wind-blown.
Friendship watched for you in the dusk
alone.
The hunting moon came riding o’er the hill ;
The lesser stars sought coyer from her will
In forest pools, moss mystified, and still.
Friendship sat rigid in her grey alcove....
And never saw your pleading fingers move
About the window-latch of tardy love!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The Singing Roads.
No man can point the singing roads in any
land or town,
Yet, winding to the Vale of Song, the sing-
ing roads go down ; '
And men there are who take the road and
hearken to the strain
Which calls to every singing heart and every
gipsy brain. . , , , ,
Yet never hand can link with hand, and
never heart can teach,
The secrets of the singing roads which come
to each and each;
For every man who heeds the call must ven-
ture forth and find
The open road, the lonely road, which loiters
through the mind.
Dear comrades of the singing roads a-
dreaming down the days,
I stretch a hand which holds my heart across
the lonely ways;
Until I seem to know the songs which move
upon your lips
And feel the pulsing of your wrists upon
my finger tips!
O patient eyes that gaze and gaze, and
eager ears that strain
To catch the magic of the wind, the music
of the rain,
To find a tender symphony a trembling hand
may pen
Within a score of burning lines to melt the
minds of men !
To melt the minds of eager men who hurry
to and fro
On other roads than singing roads, and who
can never know
The bitter aching of the soul from whence
the song is wrung,
Or catch the echoing of Life in ev’ry song
that’s sung.
For unto every little song is set the living
beat, , ,
The beat of heart, the beat of pulse, the
beat of marching feet, •
And many songs ring out and out which
hold a throbbing note —
The anguish of an empty life, the sob within
the throat.
He best can sing the song of Love for whom
Love holds no part;
It is an honest song which swells from out
a yearning heart;
And he can hymn the breadth of Life to
whom Life is a name,
And panting fans a waning spark within a
wasting frame.
O baby tones and rosy heels which rest
within the palm !
He, childless, sires his babe of dreams and
shrines it in a psalm, %
And from the depth of Heart’s desire the
cry rings true and strong.
For each man takes his darling Hope and
weaves it into song.
The dreams we love, the hopes we hold,
the tone of wind and wave
Are culled upon the lonely ways and pris-
oned in a stave.
From odors of the wooded paths, the colors
of the street,
We weave the garlands that we toss about
the City’s feet.
And ever ’mid a world of words the perfect
word is sought,
That thoughtless men may learn to love the
thinker for the thought,
That men might pause awhile to hear the
music ringing strong,
And feel a tenderness towards the singer
for the song.
Adown the roads, the lonely roads, the sing-
ing men have sped—
The singers of the sweeter songs are always
right ahead. .
We catch the music of the voice, the echo
of the rhyme,
And mark the pressure of their feet upon the
dust of Time.
Yet still we quest the singing ways and
still the heart will yearn—-
Perchance the perfect song of songs is just
around the turn.
Dear comrades of the singing roads, stretch
hands to me and take
This song, an earnest of the songs the singer
longs to make.
MAORILAND.
BOYCE BOWSEN.


M
T
K
w
w
p.
ff.'#
PERDRIAU
SPECIAL
THREE
HEAVY
RIBBED
TYRES
Will Stand the Test on Australian Roads
GARAGES AND MOTORISTS
Serum your Tube Repairs to us
We give efficient service and
prompt attention.
'TVOfS*
worf/rs
->-r.
1&*
St
Qa
v
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
We also have a large stock of Tyre Sundries, including :
VALVES COMPLETE (Universal & Schrader VALVE SPARE PARTS
Full
Assortment,
TYRE LEVERS JACKS PUMPS REPAIR OUTFITS, Etc.
FULL PARTICULARS AND PRICES ON APPLICATION,
Sydney
Brisbane
Melbourne
Adelaide
Perth
RELIEF for RUPTURE
Our SPECIAL
ELASTIC TRUSS.
0 ENYER
PRICES
Single, 17/0.
Double, 22/0.
Why suffer discomfort? You can
secure relief bx wearing our ELASTIC
TRUSS, which is COOL, SAFE, STRONG
and DURABLE. It has no steel spring
to chafe the body. The merits of this
truss are attested by all who use it.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
Denyer Brothers,
281 George St., SYDNEY.
(Opposite Hunter Street)
Dinneford’s
k
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
A
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion. Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
CHEAPER THAN
Electricity, Coal-Gas, Acetylene or Kerosene.
and BETTER THAN All.
a
A
M
—-
INTER-STATE AGENTS
Buzacott & Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Dangar, Gedye & Co.,
Young St., Sydney.
J. Bartram & Son
Bourke St., Melbourne
Works: 269 Toorak Rd.,
Melbourne
TRY GRACE BROS.»
Your Easter Suit
SAC
SUIT
70
Two Pairs
of Trousers
Extra Trousers of Same Material.
With the Easter Season close at hand, every man will
want to look his best.
For the Easter Season we are making a special Tailorin
Offer of a Sac Suit (with extra Trousers of same Material), t
measure. Price, 70 At this price we claim to make a
first-class Suit—one that will give its w'earer the fullest
amount of satisfaction.
o crq
Quitted collar
and lapel.
Smooth concave
shoulder.
Collar lined and
tailored soihai ii
always huj>5 ihe neck
Concave •
shoulder •
p completed
Completed
unbreakable
front.
PaddinO in
shoulders &
frame makes
perfect
filling.
All linings
thoroughly
8 shrunk. •
Horsehair
bound 1o
preveni
fraying.
Pockei •
tacked •
to prevent
sagging .
or ripping
Tailoring Built on a Solid Foundation.
Note the above Diagram, which will give you an insight into the
inward workings or foundation upon which all our (70/- Suit and
Extra Trousers) Coats are built. Linings shrunk, horsehair quilted
and taped shoulders, and collars quilted, exactly as shown.
All Materials Thoroughly Shrunk. Result—Permanent
Unbreakable Fronts.
The
Mode)
Store
GRACE BROS.
Broadway,
SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 37.-No. 1882.
THURSDAY, MARCH 9, 1916.
Price 6d.
THE FISHERMAN AND THE GENIE.
“Have you forgotten that I set you at liberty?” asked William the Fisherman.
“No,” answered the Genie; “but that will not prevent me destroying you.”
Arabian Nights.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia lor (he White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets,' Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. Ocl. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to 'The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to'be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3OUO voids, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
ivill be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. ivhen
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it ivill be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
Suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — Tli,e .Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., •}.}! Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, comer- Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago. U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong.- —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. —lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Pavua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
I(toz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., 2id.;
JOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, ioz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, MARCH 9, 1916.
SELLING AUSTRALIA.
Philip Snowdon, M.P., talking in Lan-
cashire (Eng.), was asked by a woman
in his audience why England couldn’t get
rid once and for all of her burden
of debt by selling a dependency or two.
Snowdon said he had suggested to an Aus-
tralian that the war trouble might be fixed
up by tossing the Commonwealth to Ger-
many ; but the man from the South countered
the proposal by recommending that Austra-
lia should be left alone and England handed
over. Then the Lancashire audience gave
a loud smile and went home side-stepping
the Zeppelins.
The notion of presenting Australia, like
John the Baptist’s head, to somebody who
asked very loudly for it. is not exactly new ;
but the nation that made the purchase or
got the gift would be likely to find that it
had a vaudeville show of some vigor on its
hands. In fact, Siiakspeare’s person, who
sold the lion’s skin while the animal was
still in full possession of its whiskers and
fingernails, might be regarded as having a
first-class ticket as compared with the man
who attempted to put Australia in his over-
coat pocket. It is not that the defeat of
our troops and invasion of this continent
might be such an overwhelming task to a
nation with plenty of navy and a lot of
spare armies, but that the conquest of the
Australian and the real subjugation of Bill-
jim would be such a tangled, elusive and
altogether unsatisfactory affair that the gen-
erals would die of broken hearts chasing
armed nomads beyond Alice Springs, while
the civic governors would perish of internal
cramp trying to contort themselves into such
shapes as might enable them to see the
length and breadth of the problems of State-
craft. When the present complications in
the general management of Australia are
coiuLlercd, and the general ineffectiveness of
things is reviewed, and when we remember
that everything is now supposed to be done
with a high and worthy aim by persons who
have the sympathy and help of the public,
we may get some sort of an idea of what
government would be like when that same
public sowed the official motor-track with
tin tacks and stuck darning-needles in the
seats of the mighty. To sell Australia
would be to sell Australia’s people, and the
Australian objects to being sold by anybody
except his own selected and elected and prop-
erly-pledged auctioneer. Of course, a
nation to whom we had been handed over as
a guarantee that the olive branch would wag
its tail like a tame poodle for some genera-
tions to come might endeavor to swamp us
with immigrants of its own type and ideals;
but just there we should get in some of our
finest work. The Hans or Carl who took
off his spectacles and attempted to dig or
plough among us would find the intricacies
of the game exciting. It would soon be
discovered that agriculture could only pro-
ceed behind barbed-wire entanglements and
on the basis of a machine-gun to each cab-
bage, that a dead dingo was always in the
waterhole, and that it required an armored
train to round up the cows at milking time.
Australia may be weak in the matter of con-
structive progress; but Australia would
take to the job of destructive irritation as
chorus girls take to iced asparagus. The
sale of Australia would be the signal for a
great universal indulgence of all the sporting
instincts of the race. Everybody would go
bushranging with zest, and the Ned Kelly
of the new order would be the cheeriest
thing in brigands the world has known. One
good outlaw in the past could generally keep
30 smart policemen from putting on w T eight;
and Australia with a million bushrangers
who felt a patriotic enthusiasm over their job
might reasonably expect to keep 30 million
not-particularly-bright troopers going at full
sw T ear for an unlimited time.
What is true of Australia is true in some
degree of any nation. You can’t sell peoples
or give them away without their consent;
and, in fact, you can’t conquer them except
by extermination. The racial boundaries of
a State are fixed; and it is a question
whether a so-called conquest is ever a profit-
able investment for the conqueror. Wil-
liam I. seemed to conquer England with
his Normans; but in two centuries it was
quite clear that the Englishman had come
out winner in the long struggle. Ireland
conquered all her invaders by turning them
into Irishmen; and to-day that place
of verdant distress has for a political
leader a direct descendant .of Raymond
the Fat —the most barbarous Norman horror
that ever led a bunch of steel-clad cut-
throats. France conquered everything that
ever walked over her, including her own revo-
lutionaries. Possibly these things are
so because the people are what they
eat, and the same country will always
produce the same sort of blood and
bone and brain; but, in any case,
the buying and selling or giving and stealing
of territories is entirely played out. Eng-
land, even at the last gasp, and waiting for
the knock-out punch, would never dream
that she could sell Australia. Indeed, the
present war, whatever its immediate causes
and justification, is largely a struggle to
establish once and for all the big principle
that European soil with the people on it
can’t be handed round at the will of kings
and statesmen. But, while this is plain
enough, the soil that has no people on it
might be sold or taken; and Australia has
a lot of the raw material of agriculture lying
about without a boot-print to 50 square
miles. Big guns might destroy Sydney or
Melbourne without the slightest hope of ever
taming Billjim to the will of a conqueror;
but if the big guns were applied to the wide,
unsettled North a very small expenditure of
high explosives would tear away from the
Commonwealth the best heritage of the Aus-
tralian kid. Sooner or later we shall have
to sell the Northern Territory to pay off
our big debt to the world. It is up to us to
see to it that the sale is made to the settler
wh > is, or who is ready to become, an Aus-
tralian. If we don’t sell it to him
quickly we may yet find that the
highest bidder at the next auction is some
obscene person who makes a ribald jest of
our best ideals. The Australian can’t be
chaffered for by huxters in the European
markets; but he may be sold by his own
alleged statesmen who won’t complete a
promised line of railway even when the
hopes of a continent hang upon its unfinished
steel link.
THE STINKING FISH THAT IS
HAWKED TO THE DETRIMENT
OF THE DESERT AIR.
An agitated disciple of wood-and-water
joeyism rushed a letter through the post
office the other day to inform this paper that
Lanolin is not taken out of wool in Australia
because labor does not give full value for wages
received. That as soon as labor gives value indus-
tries will be started, and meanwhile capital can, as
a rule, be taken to where it is welcomed. To pro-
duce lanolin brains and machinery are required, and
we would almost certainly have to go out of Aus-
tralia to get them.
All of which is a very good sample of the
ignoble doctrine that the Australian worker
is a constitutional loafer, unskilled and
brainless, who reaches the highest pinnacle
of the industrial efficiency he is capable of
when shaving and butchering jumbucks,
heaving great masses of dirt and grease and
wool and meat into ships and driving capital
oif the landscape. Of course it is all the
wildest trash, and if made the basis of public
policy could lead Australia nowhere but the
scrapheap. It represents the Gospel of
Despair, which of all gospels is the most
fatal of acceptance. Yet it is sedulously
preached in Australia, and because of
demented vaporings from the top of soap
boxes, of the spineless wrigglings and the
perjuries of party politicians, the ineptitude
of Parliaments and the underground
engineering of the foreign-trade brigade it
gets a certain measure of credence from
people of the kind that are always ready to
believe anything so long as it sounds horrible
enough. Wherefore The Bulletin calls
Knibbs, the Federal Statistician, as first
witness for the defence against that part
of the indictment charging the Australian
workman with not giving a fair return for
his weekly wad.
* * * *
In the Commonwealth Year Book
Knibbs has tabulated, over a series of years,
the results of statistical investigation into
the output and cost of production in
Australian factories. Taking the whole
Commonwealth, the marrow of the proceed-
ings therein relevant to this allegation of
loafing is easily reached. The bald facts
arc these: —
1908. 1913.
Wages paid . . . . £19,884,367 £33,606,087
Light and fuel .. 2,176,876 3,240,901
Raw material used. . 60,957,626 96,407,477
Cost .. ..£83,018,869 £133,254,465
And the difference between this cost and the
value of the product represents the margin
left for profit and interest, being the added
value created in process of manufacture, and
it comes out this way:—
1908. 1913.
Value of product ..£99,529,631 £161,560,763
Cost 83,018,869 133,254,465
£16,510,762 £28,306,298
Which discloses that every pound expended
in factories on wages, fuel, light and raw
material yielded in 1908 something worth
£1 3s. llfd., and in 1913 an article worth
£J 4s. 2fd.; also that the added value given
to raw material in the process of manufac-
ture was in the first year £38,572,005, which
meant an addition of £l5O per employee
engaged, and in 1913 the same added value
was £65,153,286, or £193 per employee. The
total value of the output of factories was
£387 per employee in 1908, and £479 in
1913. There is no indication in this that
the Australian is loafing in the industrial
field, that his output is decreasing or that
capital is getting a bad deal. The evidence
points in a quite different direction, a
conclusion which receives corroboration
from Knibbs, who casually mentions the
value of land and buildings and of plant
and machinery devoted to Australian
industry, the comparison for the respective
years being
1908. 1913.
Land and buildings. . £26,657,991 £36,872,720
Plant and machinery 25,927,763 37,256,958
And if all that and the rest does not mean
that the people who are snivelling about not
getting a fair return for wages in industrial
enterprise are as a general thing lying and
otherwise imperilling their souls then
figures have no meaning, and all evidence is
a farce and the truth is concealed in any
wild statement that may be blowing round
the streets.
* * * *
It is untrue that industries are languishing
or that men are deterred from embarking
upon new industries because the Australian
workman does not give value for the wages
he gets. What is true is that taken in the
mass the Australian workman has been giv-
ing an increasing return ; that the advances
he has received in wages have been recouped
to his employer and swallowed up by rent-
mongers ; that there are hundreds of men and
hundreds of thousands of pounds ready to
embark upon new industries to-morrow if the
importing mania, encouraged by the politi-
cians, were rooted out by removal of the
conditions on which it thrives; and that
industries which are hanging on by the skin
of their teeth would get a firm grip on the
national trade if the tariff were made what
it ought to be. Australian workmen cannot
compete and should not be asked to com-
pete against the dumpings of highly indus-
trialised countries with a large home market
and a surplus of output to get rid of, nor
to struggle with the competition of workmen
who are accustomed to dining from the smell
of an oil-rag and breakfasting on memory of
the aroma. Those countries and people
have their own standards, and with these
Australia has nothing to do. The rela-
tive cheapness of labor in Australia and
Timbuctoo is not the test Australia can
afford to make the measure of her industrial
life, nor the test of whether it will pay to
squeeze the grease out of a sheep’s overcoat
or to convert iron ore into steel. The crux
of the matter is whether it is better for Aus-
tralia to pay Australian workmen to do these
jobs or send the cash or its equivalent away
to another country for the purpose of getting
other, workmen to do it, thus giving oppor-
tunities for the profitable employment of
capital and labor there instead of here. Most
Australians think it is better —that the
nation can never be anything until this
policy is in full blast. Wood-and-water
joeyism teaches that the national' destiny is
to haul raw materials to the seaboard, and
with it feed the industry of other lands.
When in 1913 Australian workmen added
t° *"h e value of material worth
£96,407,4 < it looked to people who can see
beyond the conclusion of their noses and have
some regard for the industrial and economic
history of other countries that 65 millions
had been created in’ and saved to Australia.
To the wood-and-water propagandist the inci-
dent is merely a revelation of the insanity
which refuses to recognise the beautiful
effects which might have been produced by
shovelling all that raw material into Ham-
burg, and letting the stranger do the rest.
w * * *
Nationally Australia is loafing and has
been doing it for many years—loafing
on loan money and the p.n. and the political
job instead of facing the business of earning
her own living by living on what she earns—
of creating wealth for Australians as an
alternative to pouring interest into the
pocket of Cohen. And the outward signs of
this loaf are details of imports, a ruinous
accumulation of parasitic citizens, the degra-
dation of Parliaments and the demoralisation
of political parties to a stage at which the dis-
tribution of doles and jobs and the rolling of
logs has taken the place of honest endeavor.
If Australia was living as she should
be doing to-day Australian factories would
be intercepting and utilising that lanolin
the foreigner is getting, and would be
hunting round to capture quite a lot of other
ingredients, because, like every other country,
her labor and enterprise would be her chief
source of well-being and strength.
THE PARSON AND THE WET
CANTEEN.
I he sudden howl from the army ehanlr
at Liverpool camp that the wet *
would be seven devilpower worse than!?
present thirst which drives the
Billjim to the local pub is a howl !?
nothing more. It is unsupported bv °
sort of argument and unbacked bv
pint of evidence. On the plain , acts *
soldier in the camp, who was accuse ,
have his glass of beer while engagedini,?
nary citizen work, finds that at the dl '
when he has s iven up e,er“t h Sn| T?
national cause and is prepare to
hard training as a preliminary to 2°
and possible death he is treated 'like a srh ?
boy and denied ordinary rights to which?'
soldiery of all lands have been aeon!!, th j
Instead of having his glass of
the surroundings of his daily toil he S w’a
to go and look for it beyond the camp f"
compulsion is a grievance and produces !
recklessness which leads to all kinds 1
trouble; and the dry canteen stands' con
demned by the local experience over a net;,a
of 18 months. But when there is l L P £,,
to revert to the old, sane system, which ha
worked well in other military centres in!
parsons of the camp step forwart’ 1
assert that everything would be enveloneH
in seas of alcohol if the military authorities
themselves took over the business of attend
ing to the soldiers’ thirst. And a certain
number of people believe the statemen
merely because it is said in a very load
voice. “
* * * *
To declare that the wet canteen can’t he
run cleanly and without excessive boozing is
to throw a large-sized piece of dirt at the
military authorities and the officers in
charge. It means, in effect, that the parsons
concerned don’t believe the men at the head
of things to be capable of running a canteen
as well as the men in charge of similar camps
the world over. It means that in the view
of these chaplains the officers who are
endeavoring to turn the raw Billjim
material into good soldier stuff will sit down
and let the men guzzle without restraint
when the control of the liquor supply is
entirely in their hands and can be turned
on or shut off at will. Such an opinion
isn’t particularly complimentary to the offi-
cers, and is suggestive of a good deal that
the signatories to the remarkable epistle
appearing in the Sydney daily press would
hardly dare to put in words. If the military
men in authority can’t be trusted to run a
wet canteen decently, _ to. see that it is not a
means of excessive drinking and the cause of
riot and lack of discipline, is it reasonably to
be expected that they can turn out
efficient soldiers or keep any sort of
oversight of the troops in their charge?
That an officer should have little enough
hold on men who have been driven
to look for their daily beer over a
scattered area of 200 square miles reflects
no special discredit on his military
skill; but to say that an officer cannot deal
with the liquor bar directly under his own
moustache when the keys of the place are
in his own pocket, the camp police at his
call and the power to inflict punishment
resident under his own hat, is to insult him
and declare that he does not know the rudi-
ments of his business.
■* * * *
But what sort of chaplains of fighting
forces are these who shout in the ears of
the world that they are afraid of a glass of
beer and tremble at the popping of a cork?
The soldier-parson who knows his work and
believes in the force of the religion he stands
for ought to be able to stand up against
bigger things than the lure of a tent with
a barrel in it. He must have a pretty poor
opinion of the attractiveness of his own
moral and religious teaching if he admits
that it goes flat and becomes inoperative the
moment men are brought under the ordinary
conditions wdiich obtain in daily life in the
majority of civilised countries. The stalwart
devil-wallopers of other armies had no such
fears. They did not demand that the men
under their spiritual charge should be nut in
moral strait-waistcoats and fixed in stocks
ot puritanical coercion before they could
attempt to instil into them the gospel which
they claimed to be the sovereign remedy for
all human ills. On the contrary, they got
right against the Devil on his own ground
and put up a wrestle that won the respect
of the troops and possibly of the Devil also.
On their own showing, the chaplains of
Liverpool camp are not of the old strenuous
breed ; and the question arises whether the
Commonwealth Government is w T ise in pay-
ing out good cash to warrior-gospellers who
won’t take the ordinary risks of peace, but
demand that the camp shall be arbitrarily
reformed before they take on the job of
morally reforming it. If our other military
officers were built on that plan we should
probably hear them demanding the abolition
of armaments before they consented to lead
their men to war.
The plain fact stands—and it would be
folly to ignore it—that the military chaplain
of to-day is the suburban pulpit-banger ot
yesterday. lie is raw at his job —as raw as
the latest bottle-oh recruit —and his opinion
on military matters is of no value. The views
which these raw. untrained and utterly in-
experienced religious camp-followers of ™e
Australian army hold are simply those
which they have found it advantageous to
hold among their mild and amende Sunday
flocks in the various Bethels where they
expounded the Word. Not one parson in ■>
has really thought out the drink problem,
but practically every parson of certai
denominations finds it expedient as well
profitable to rail at the curse of liquor an
apnlaud those who would ladle alcohol in
oblivion with an ineffective pitcnto •
Putting the noise made by the parsons
one side as merely the bleat of inexpenen
attempting to assert itself over reason,
gel down to the bedrock fact that the s
dier’s liquor problem has not been P r °P ■
dealt with at Liverpool. The dry canteen
has been tried and has miserably fallen.
is up to the military authorities to try
wet canteen, which from long expen
elsewhere has not produced the evils
parsons recklessly allege.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
An Enemy Consolidating the Ground
Already Won.
Lord Sydenham’s Commission on Venereal
Diseases handed the British Government a
final report on the subject last week, and
appears to have mentioned that it was time
to do something in a hurry, which is another
reminder that after the war John Bull and,
incidentally, Australia are going to have
many other problems on hand in addition to
the soldier who lost a leg and the widow’s
pension, and getting back to work. Syphilis
was getting into the national blood stream
at a fairly rapid rate during times of peace.
Since the war broke out it has been getting
there in a staggering manner. An Austra-
lian soldier, writing to The Bulletin from
one of the military hospitals devoted to
treatment of this disease, says :
Venereal disease is running riot through this coun-
try, especially London. After being cured from
wounds or sickness in one of the nursing homes an
Australian is given furlough, and after being handed
anything from £2O to £5O back pay, turned
He seldom has anywhere particular to go ; but the
tlossies’ parade-ground is never far away, and one
of them is usually brushing his arm as he puts his
notes in his pocket. Nine times out of 10 unless he
has friends to go to he reports back to hospital a
lot worse than when he went out, and is drafted off
to one of the hospitals improvised for treatment of
his trouble. Through stress of circumstances these
places are a long way from what they ought to be,
the number of patients outnumbering all anticipa-
tions. Many men sent away cured find themselves
after a week or two still bad. I knew nothing about
this plague before, and want no more experience of
it. For Heaven's sake, warn our lads, for unless they
are armed with knowledge this horror will ruin all
who escape the bayonet and shell.
Now, what is Australia going to do about
this business and everything related to it?
Dnly one State in the Commonwealth (W.A.)
shows any inclination to handle the national
menace in an effective way. • In the others
tt is either side-stepped or tinkered with.
Australia had a good supply of venereal
disease before the armies mustered. There
is much more of it now, and there will be
t 1 ‘fffge additional supply later on. Syphilis
is the chief cause of innumerable ills, of
blindness, insanity, paralysis, peritonitis and
other forms of human suffering. To disre-
P rc * its menace is as wicked as to try and
huddle it out of sight. To approach it with
(css thoroughness than plague and smallpox
is an illustration of how reckless society may
be regarding its own safety. When the war
ends Europe will probably be in a terrible
* with syphilis, and, unless Australia
ln C « S it fearlessly and without reference to
he purity ’ brigade, then we have only
swapped one enemy for another.
The Anarchical Tendency of
Law’n’order.
“Gent” rises to address the jury:—
The usual inquirer, after quoting Bernhardt,
Clattsewitz and perhaps Treitzschke, places the Hun’s
failure to civilise himself to the debit of militarism
and its alleged principles of force and terrorism.
This is wrong. The German nation is not like the
French, a nation of soldiers, but a nation of law-
yers. All the objectionable features of their methods
are due not to militarist teaching, but to the fact
that the German mind is the most perfect specimen
of the lawyer mind yet found outside Bengal. The
lawyer-mind is a growth produced by the practice
of a profession, and its peculiarities are the inevita-
ble outcome of the nature of that profession. Hav-
ing been a Gent. One for years I am qualified to
speak. The client who presents a veneer front of
the finest old oak to the public invariably exposes a
very murky cupboard for inspection by the lawyer,
and, let it be remembered, this is the only part of
human furniture that the lawyer ever sees. Every
person who calls to see a Gent. One wants to pur-
chase deviousness. From this can be excepted the
sale of advice which is often worth the 6s. Bd.
charged for it. Anything for which more is charged
is valuable only by reason of qualities other than
its apparent respectability.
If the Gent. One belongs to the talking branch of
the profession the goods on sale consist of the
suppression of the truth, the false suggestion and
the oratorical device. If he belongs to the scriven-
ing branch the client expects him to furnish docu-
ments which mean than they say, or logical
word-nets which will enmesh or hamper somebody.
No mind thus engaged all day for many days in a
week can accept the ordinary man’s views about a
fair deal. Therefore I can never understand how
the most respectable practitioner can shut his office-
door and walk straight along a footpath. It is pro-
bably accomplished by the mental application of the
saving clause.
The first distinguishing mark, then, of the lawyer-
mind is that it is not controlled by the code of the
average man. The next feature is an enormous
respect for detail, meticulous attention to which is
necessary in a profession mostly dealing with
minutice. Next is the tendency to rely on certain
strange clothes and ceremonial trappings which
early lawyers cunningly considered to have a psy-
chological effect on the unlettered public. Allied to
this is a dignified absence of humor. Next is an
almost superstitious respect for an appearance of
logical soundness however real the underlying absurd-
ity may be. With this is mixed an Asiatic venera-
tion for the literal meaning of phrases and words
without regard to their context or the obvious varia-
tions in sense produced by their setting. Lastly
there is the preference for the stratagem to the
plain course of action, due to conviction in the legal
mind that human nature is governed by no motives
but illiberal ones.
These are the exact spiritual characteristics of the
German nation, and its system is the certain result
of obsession by the lawyer mentality. The commercial
and financial trickiness of the Hun could never have
emanated from a nation of slogging militarists. In
its ingenuity, its detail, obliquity and very mistakes
of construction it is lawyer-made in essence. And
it has often been successful, too, just as the artifice
often comes off in law. Prompt action is necessary
to prevent a recurrence of present stupidity. There
should be an interdiction of legal practice in all
civilised countries. Details of punishment for sur-
reptitiously practising as a lawyer or for the inser-
tion of ambiguities in documents could be settled
later.
. —♦
To Scab or Not to Scab?
Milne, N.S.W. Assistant Commissioner for
Railways, has been worried over a placard
which appears in the railway workshops.
The printed advice runs :
Don’t scab upon the unemployed by working hard.
Slow work means more jobs—more jobs mean less
unemployed—less competition means higher wages,
less work, more pay. Slow down! Slow down!
Don’t be slaves!
The beautiful industrial theory contained in
the request explains a good many things.
It explains, first and foremost, that the
people who drew it up are strangely warped
in their view of the State and beerily mixed
as to the nature of slavery. Their attitude
is in point of fact exactly that of the slave
and opposed to every notion of the free man.
Any slave who ever breathed would have
subscribed heart and soul to the ideas ex-
pressed. Having nothing to hope for beyond
a crust to eat and little to fear beyond the
daily kick and the bi-weekly walloping, he
naturally regarded the minimum of toil as
an object worth striving for. With the free
man it is otherwise. He knows that he is
a cog in the machinery of the community;
he believes that his work counts in the sum
of things ; and beyond his mere wages as the
reward of service he toils in the fixed belief
that by doing so he acts a man’s part and
helps the nation forward. The man working
for a private employer, more out of necessity
than choice, may acquire the habits of
thought of a slave without any particular
effort; but the man getting good wages as
the direct servant of the State must be
pretty empty if he doesn’t see the
fallacy of the slowdown notion. Logic-
ally, if little work produces more jobs
and consequently more wages, no work
at all ought to produce all the jobs
necessary and all the wages wanted. The
universal strike would, on this reasoning,
be the one thing needful to plant an indus-
trial paradise by the rivers of beer under
the broad shade of eternal beef and never-
fading picture shows. Of course, Billjim
of the Railway workshops doesn’t think that
or he would put the ide* in practice at once.
What he does believe and know is that the
State is on a false financial bottom and kept
going by the aid of the pawnshop ; and that
while cash is being squandered by the State
which the State is not earning, somebody is
likely to pay his w T ages whether he works
fast or slow. The fact seems to be that the
borrow-and-splash policy of Australian
Govts, is not merely pauperising the people,
but bringing them to base and slavish habits
of thought.
“The Old Soldier”: “Rag” (B. 2/3/T6)
is quite correct when he says that the dis-
charge of the 1000 men who failed to attend
the parade on the day after the famous “riot”
in Sydney meant a clear loss of £30,000 if
they had been, on an average, a month in
camp. I have been explaining for the last
two months that, if a man had spent only a
night in camp, his discharge meant some
loss, and that it* would be infinitely better
both for the man himself and the country if
he were compelled to carry out his contract
of service. One much-needed reform is the
abolition of “officers’ schools.” It would be
far better to have all ranks trained together
as soon as they are dismissed recruits’ drill.
There 'is no school like the school of regi-
mental duty. It would be quite easy to
weed out the hopelessly-incompetent officers,
who would be, I am pretty sure, a small
minority, and those who were not incom-
petent would get to know their men better
than they can at present. It is nonsense
to pretend that the British recruit is a lamb-
like creature who gives no trouble. He
can be violently insubordinate if he detects
the least sign of weakness in those who are
set over him. My own impression, from my
experience in dealing with Australians, is
that they are not so apt to make trouble, as
the men of most European countries.
I have seen something of military mutinies,
and the point of my argument was
made clear to me at Etah, India. A nativ<
infantry regiment had made up its mind to
plunder the treasury, where there was a
great deal of money, and go off to Delhi.
One morning the men collected all their
officers’ buggies and horses, and told the
owners that there was to be no parade, but
that they might go. They went —all but
one little subaltern.- He told the regiment
that he wasn’t going, that they were his chil-
dren and he would not let them disgrace
themselves. He kept in front of them in
their disorderly march to the treasury. They
shouted at him and hustled him, but did not
hurt him, and when they came to the build-
ing, which was strong and held by an
armed guard, he called to the guard to fire
on them, even if he were killed. The guard
did not fire, but they would not open the
gate, and as an entrance could not be forced,
and the regiment knew they were not wanted
at Delhi without money, they decided to
recall their shamefaced officers, who were
not far away, and postpone the mutiny. If
the mutineers hadn’t known that little man
intimately from long association, they would
have slain him for a foolish interferer at
the start of the march. The only w y ay to
know soldiers is to live and work with them.
-♦
“Bad Australian” : Although the polyglot
press of Buenos Aires puts the question of
the land operations in the world war before
my cosmopolitan neighbors from every possi-
ble point of view, no definite conclusion can
be arrived at as to the real state of affairs,
but recent happenings off the River Plate
make it pretty plain that the British navy
has a terribly long arm. The howls and
lamentations of the local Germans over the
capture of the ITesidente Mitre by a British
warship a few days ago is about the loudest
uproar ever heard in this part of the world.
She is one of a fleet of four owned and
manned by the German crowd who sent the
Cap Trafalgar to harass British shipping in
the early days of the war. Unfortunately
for the Cap, before she had time to get busy
on unarmed ships she met the Carmania, a
British auxilary cruiser of equal weight and
armament off the coast of Brazil, and in 40
busy minutes the Carmania blew her to
glory. Since that time the Presidente Mitre
and her mates have been trading on the
south-east coast under cover of the Argen-
tine flag; but immediately after the capture
of the Mitre the others scuttled for the near-
est “ports,” where they are now hanging out
head to wind with steam up ready to get
out to sea when the first sign of heavy
weather shows. When they do get out some-
thing is likely to happen which will not be
appreciated in Berlin. The Germans have
several papers printed in Spanish and pub-
lished in Buenos Aires for the sole purpose
of influencing public opinion, and these papers
and a number of hired agitators have endeav-
ored to make the most of the co-called “in-
sult” to the Argentine flag; but this little
move cut no ice among the people who count,
and a public meeting convened by the agita-
tors was promptly squelched and the organ-
isers subjected to a severe reprimand by
“Autoridad.” Every thinking Argentine
knows that the railways and practically
every work of importance in the Republic
were built by British money directed by
British brains ; and he also knows just what
Germany has done. The humorous part of
the proceedings was provided by the German
representative in B. Aires when he entered
a most emphatic protest against the “out-
rage,” forgetting in his blind wrath that the
Argentine people were the sole custodians of
the national honor. The bottom fell out of
Herr Blutwurst’s show amidst the scoffs
of the multitude.
The Tory press persists in the same old
fraudulent foolishness of representing the
methods of party politics to be peculiar
to the Labor party only and not common
to all the warring Parliamentary sects. Says
Melbourne Argus :
When the Labor party is in power whatever is
decided upon in secret Caucus must pass in Parlia-
ment. Honest, open, public voting would frequently
defeat the measures decided upon in Caucus.
The fact that Jo Cook & Co., or Peacock
& Co. in Victoria have their little Caucus
gatherings, lobb.v understandings and other
secret compromises is not remarked by the
Argus. All anti-Labor voting seems honest
and open in Tory press eyes, no matter how
privately it may have been fixed up. A
Coalition Party is allegedly composed of
convictions, in the interests of the State,
but the harrowing scene of its sacrifice is
not revealed to the public gaze. The party
suffers in secret, like the Labor Caucuvians,
and they don’t send for an Argus inter-
viewer and say:—
Personally I disapprove of the Bill I voted for last
night, but my conscientious scruples were melted by
the warm pleadings of expediency.
They just go on vaguely talking of their
party’s cause, and the necessity for holding
the party together and presenting an un-
broken front to the other party. Every
measure of purely party origin must
have their support whether they prom-
ised it in caucus or out of caucus,
otherwise they couldn’t hope for party
nomination or the party vote at next
election. These reiterated references to
honest, open public voting in Parliament as
though it were the time-honored practice of
“Liberal” politicians are unscrupulous
appeals to Tory ignorance, bigotry and
stupidity. Every reasonable Liberal knows
that the Argus is exposing the dishonesty
of Liberal partyism when it says: “If the
dissentients in Caucus and the Opposition
voted against a given measure it would very
likely fail to pass.” Of course it would,
because the Opposition caucus party is
solidly endeavoring to turn the Government
caucus party out. But why is. the Opposi-
tion assumed to be more unanimous in its
secret convictions than the other solidly
voting party? How about the dissentients
on the Opposition side who openly and
publicly profess antipathy to the Bill they
privately approve and are loyally voting
against? Between the two sets of base
slaves of the Party-vote system there is not
the proverbial pin to choose.
»
“Chug”: I agree with your remarks (B.
2/3/T6) on the “Sobriety of Beer” as seen
in the light of the records of the world’s wild
and whirling progress down the path of
the ages ; but one effect of the gentle stimu-
lant which has made so greatly for modera-
tion appears to have been missed. When
the recent military strike occurred in the
great Mexican camp outside Vera Cruz, and
the soldiers, commandeering the trains,
rushed riotously to tear the fronts out of
the pubs of the American city, it might
have been reasonably said that the troops
were a trifle out of hand. Yet big as the
trouble was, the greater number of the
rioters reported for duty the next morning
at Larequipa camp; and the officers had
little trouble in getting them into shape
again. Now, if there had been no liquor
about, if that Mexican riot had been a cold,
dry affair, conducted on the high moral prin-
ciples of thirst alone, would those soldiers
have been in their places again next morn-
ing? Don’t you believe it. The riot would
have still been going on, and Vera Cruz
would have been under martial law and full
of treasons, stratagems and fireworks. This
gives me an idea. Beer was the medium by
which Kings in the great days gone con-
trolled their armies in the field. Discipline
scarcely existed; military methods were
crude; mutiny meant wholesale murder; but
beer was plentiful and made up for the lack
of a lot of other things. When the pent-up
rage of the troops was getting near to burst-
ing point, the King, watching the symptoms
develop, waited his time, and at the exact
moment gave the royal command, “Bring on
the beer !” There was no stint of it. Any-
body who wanted to could bathe in the
tubs. Next morning the sore heads mus-
tered and the thick tongues that had talked
mutiny were silent. The trumpet blared;
the drums beat. “March,” said the King,
and the host lurched forward with a black
eye and a chastened spirit. In civil life
beer was the only policeman ; in the military
camp it was a whole provost-marshal’s staff.
T. E. Day, now an irrigation surveyor for
South Australia, but before that Chief
Government Surveyor for the Northern
Territory, told an Adelaide interviewer that
if the money spent on the coastal district of
the N.T. had been spent on the inland
southern portion “we should have to-day a
thriving pastoral population south of Bar-
row’s Creek.” Then the' man who knows
piled it on like this: “There are splendid
pastoral areas north of the McDonnell
Ranges right through to the Davenport
Ranges, approximately 120 miles on the east
side of the telegraph line, and also on the
west side for many miles north. The great
drawback to development is the isolation.
Given railway communication even to Alice
Springs, it soon would become a thriving
pastoral district, to say nothing of the pos-
sibilities of closer settlement on the rich
flats in the ranges. Fruit and vegetables
grow splendidly at Alice Springs. Dairy
cattle do well there, and I have tasted first-
class butter. For all this country we must
look to the pastoralist, in the same way that
al 1 the settled districts of Australia have
been pioneered. The climate is good, and
white women can live there —a very neces-
sary factor in the settlement of any country
by white people. Provided with rapid means
of transportation, I am confident that the
southern part of the N.T. would become one
of the best meat-producing areas in the
world, and a far more profitable investment
than the .northern part of the Territory.”
Ail the Territory needs is a little less isola-
tion and a little more intelligent administra-
tion. As The Bulletin has said many
times before, the place can’t be proved by
dumping a few Government officials presided
over by a horse-doctor on the coastal fringe
and waiting for chance or Providence or the
Ilevil to do the rest. The present half-
hearted occi.*?)ation is remindful of the key-
less drunk who was bequeathed a fine house
and afterwards said the place was no good
because he had had such a comfortless time
on the doorstep. Until the Territorians get
inland and up on the heights, Administrator
Gilruth is not likely to be more than the
master of a white elephant stud-farm.
♦
When brought up to scratch over the order,
he was sending to America for railway cars
King O’Malley, the “rooster” in charge of
Australia’s Home Affairs, solemnly assured
a deputation of Parliamentarians that the
transcontinental line would require to be
fitted with carriages in which the public
would not be killed if the train, while fleeing
across the desert at 60 miles an hour, fell
over an embankment; also that the cars
could not be made in Australia, but could
be made if the material was available;
further, that the material could be procured
but the cars were wanted by October. It
was a vague, confused kind of yarn, and
next day Cabinet rushed to the rescue and
got the Kink out of a knot by announcing
that his plan for giving the Yankee a job
had been vetoed. If trains are going to
tumble off the Western line because of their
excessive speed O’Malley had better see
about restraining the loco, drivers. Anyhow
the anticipated calamity is not even a serious
reason for importing American rolling stock,
and the fact that steel cars made at New-
port are in use on the Melbourne suburban
lines is a moderately reasonable guarantee
of its being possible to obtain some more
made by Australian builders. All that is
required are the plans.
Erzeroum.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Here, where the carnival of blood and death
Ilad marked the track of Islam from old
time,
And peace, with raging lust and burning
breath,
Had ploughed the bloody furrows black with
crime,
The city stood, fronting the winter snow,
And flashing back the gleam of pallid suns
From her high windows, while her close-pent
woes
Shuddered and wept behind black-throated
guns.
Others had hope. The Turkish crescent
waned
Bv the blue lappings of Agean seas ;
The sword that once a red world-triumph
. stained
Was weak to breaking. Other lands had
ease;
But, set amid the mountains of his doom,
Helpless to strike and feeble to endure,
The lost Armenian crouched in Erzeroum,
An abject outcast past all aid and cure.
The waking thunders of a world in arms
Rolled through the passes, fraught with little
cheer.
The mountain air was full of wild alarms —
Europe was far and Islam’s thousands near.
The frowning white Caucasian peaks looked
down
On ragged battle lines the strife made red.
And a grim whisper crept about the town
Of Turks that slew and Cossack hosts that
fled.
The long months dragged their slow and
mirthless way
Down to the dreary winter edged with death ;
The bitter snow on hill and valley lay,
The north breathed terror in its icy breath.
The silent guns, stern-lipped, remote and
proud,
Watched o’er the fortressed heights, but,
more than these,
The vast defences of the storm and cloud
In fierce battalions swept the mountains’
knees.
Sudden the bugle shrilling in the night!
Red lightnings flare across the trampled
snow,
The keen blade gleams, and through the
ghostly fight
In flying ranks the wild, grey horsemen go.
Dost "in the whirling drifts the foemen reel,
The driving bullets edge the roaring gale;
And up the death-strewn steeps the con-
quering steel
Presses to triumph in the dawning pale.
Others had hope. The world-wide battle
swayed
To east and west. Keen woe by land and sea
Wailed for the conquering march so long
delayed,
And the drum throbbing on to victory.
There, set amid the mountains of her doom,
Closed in the iron circle of her fear,
The morning woke for ransomed Erzeroum
On broken Islam and the Cossack’s cheer !
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.


ROYAL EASTER SHOW
MOORE, PARK, SYDNEY.
This Great National Exhibition will be
HELD AS USUAL
18th to 26th APRIL, 1916.
ENTRIES CLOSE: Export Butter, March 14; Horses, March 18; Cattle,
Sheep and Pigs, March 20; Poultry, March 21; Dogs, March 23; Agricul-
ture, Fruits and Apiculture, March 24; Dairy Produce, March 24; Women’s
Industries, March 25; Miscellaneous, March 27.
PRIZE SCHEDULES and Entry Forms on Application.
Ocean House, Moore Street, Sydney. H. M. SOMER, Secretary.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/- PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
Waiting for the Noise to Stop.
After another week of furious fighting
around Verdun not much more was known
at the moment of writing than had been
announced earlier in the fray. The Hun
was still persevering with his attack, the
French continued to hold him up, confidence
was expressed that the assault would fail
to reach its objective, and a fierce scrap was
still raging for possession of Douaumont,
occupation of which was apparently vital to
either side. All the rest of the literature
on the subject has borne the imprint of
heavy censorship and has been mainly specu-
lative and prophetic, there being even such
confusion in the evidence as to make it
difficult to judge whether this battle is really
of the magnitude it at first seemed to be.
It was announced, for instance, that after
13 days’ fighting the German losses in killed,
wounded and prisoners were 100,000. If
this were correct, the battle of Verdun, car-
ried on over a front of 25 miles, had up to
that date been relatively a much less san-
guinary collision than several of last year’s
battles in Flanders alone. It is, too, diffi-
cult to reconcile these figures with the
repeated statements that the German attacks
have been lAade by heavy, massed bodies of
men and swept away by machine-gun and
high-explosive shell fire. Possibly these
losses represent the estimated wastage on
the north-eastern sector where the greatest
strain has been. If that is so, the German
was being terribly punished. But the safer
conclusion is that the outside world knows
mighty little except in a general way of
what is happening in these disturbances until
it is all over and the new situation measured
up. One encouraging feature of the pro-
ceedings was that there had been no sudden
liberation of glad flags at Berlin over the
achievements in the West, and as the Hun
has an incurable habit of decorating the
landscape with fluttering colors on the
slightest provocation, it may reasonably be
concluded that at Verdun there had been
nothing for him to enthuse about except
accumulated corpse. But he produced multi-
tudinous flags when the Atlantic raider
Moewe turned up last week at Wilhelms-
hafen, and —provided the yarn about the
mysterious craft is dinkum —it looks as if
there was this time something to say “Hoch”
about, and that the Kaiser, in distributing
ironmongery amongst the crew, was doing
a fair thing. This phantom Moewe put some
pepper into life on the ocean wave while she
was at large, and by getting back to German
waters—if she has got back and the whole
thing is not a tale —has shown that attempts
at more comprehensive excursions can be
expected later on. Meanwhile there is a
story about the German dreadnoughts mov-
ing off somewhere, of Turkey being anxious
for a separate peace, of Bulgaria getting into
a state of revolt and of Roumania being
still on the verge of joining the fight.
Later on the same intelligence will arrive in
a great hurry some more and create tre-
mendous excitement for the 74th time.
“Hamer” : An organisation with a genuine
grievance to-day is the Merchant Service
Guild, whose members are responsible for the
safety of the ships that wander round the
Australian coasts. In 1910 the Guild got an
award which vastly improved matters; but
since then there has not been any betterment
in the brass-bounder’s conditions. The
Seamen’s Union, whose award expires this
year, was amiably given an additional 255.
per month all round for its members when it
approached the shipowners with a few firm
remarks about the high cost of living and
the scarcity of men, while the stewards and
pantrymen swept up an extra 30s. per month.
The donkeyman on a steamer now gets 255.
per month more than the third officer, and a
fireman ss. per month more. Both these
toilers have a chance of earning overtime,
while the officer merely has a chance of
working overtime. The Guild, having been
unsuccessful in getting the shipowners to
treat its members as they did the members
of more pugnacious organisations, has been
prominent on the front step of the Arbitra-
tion Court, waiting for that tribunal to invite
it inside. Just as its turn seemed coming
the other day the Broken Hill men created
the trouble which caused Pearce to suggest
that, in the interests of peace and quietness,
iheir troubles should he given precedence of
all other business. So the patient Guild,
being an organisation that does not hurry
up the procession by waving the stfike blud-
geon, is still waiting in the cold, while its
members tramp the bridge and envy the
care-free cove who heaves coal into the hum-
ming fires and has no undue scruples about
raising Cain if he thinks he isn’t getting a
fair deal.
Portion of the remarks made by the Coroner
after giving his finding on the death of the
soldier Brown, who was knocked down and
kicked to death by a mob of others at the
hospital camp on Milson Island (N.S.W.) :
Some of the soldiers who have given evidence
disgrace our army, and now that this inquest is
concluded I hope they will be discharged.
Why? A more sensible course would be for
the Commonwealth to deprive soldiers in
hospital through tlieir own carelessness of
pay while they stay there. That is the
British rule, and its enforcement would
automatically stop gambling as well as
encouraging patients to get well and resume
duty. In any event the supervision in such
a place as Milson Island ought to be more
effective. It should, at least, prevent
patients murdering each other over a game
of two-up.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hkr Majesty’s “So Long, Lettv”
Criterion “Under Fire ’
Palace “Fact’ry ’Ands”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Garden The Dandies
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
The White City Various Shows
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Belle of New York”
Royal “It Pays to Advertise”
Kino’s “The Waybacks”
Princess’s “Twelfth Night”
Bijou ; Fuller Vaudeville
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s Own k Olympia Hoyt’s Pictures
Auditorium Frederic Coleman Lectures
One of the articles in the New Thought
creed is that if a New-Thougliter wants to
do anything all that is required is to affirm
her belief that she will do it, make up the
sort of mind that a New-Thougliter lias, and
she’ll succeed. Thus, in the New Thought
play, “The Victory,” produced for the first
time before an audience of New-Thoughtists
at the Little Theatre (Sydney) on Saturday,
one of the characters makes up his mind
that he will sing, and apparently he sings,
though the audience is not permitted to hear
him. It seems a pity that Julia Seton,
the author-in-chief of “The Victory,” did
not take advantage of this plank in the New-
Thought platform. For all she need have
done was to say 1,960,427 times that she
would write a play, and “The Victory”
would have been a play. As it is, the charm
works only as far as the first act: after that
it may have been New-Thought (which is.
apparently, Blue-Thought), but it appeared
to be chiefly interval interspersed with
stump-speeches and stage-miracles. There
are only four characters in the piece,
and the plot deals, as seems inevitable
in all religious plays, with the naughty
Old-Thought siren and the deceived Blue-
Thought wife. You can’t keep sex out
of Blue-Thought. The husband is a
fashionable hypnotist, and most of the
play that isn’t interval is given up to an
extremely realistic presentation of him in
the toils of a member of the oldest
profession in the world. Exhibit A
is a pair of lady’s garters with dia-
mond clasps; and the one contribution this
exhibit makes to Blue-Thought is that the
unredeemed still wear those articles of attire.
Exhibits B and G are two miracles—-the
raising of a paralytic girl and the curing of
the hero, afflicted with locomotor ataxia as
a result of too much and too seductive Old-
Thought.
* * * *
Had it not been for the excellence of the
cast. “The Victory” would have been a
defeat. Herbert Ford and Agnes Keogh as
the passionate lovers act with a realism
seldom seen on the stage. They paw and
“FACTRY “A NDS.” AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
Billy the Boy (Jack Kirby ) decides to
conquer Benno the Boshter (Maurice Lynch )
by biting his ear.
cuddle each other with great and abiding
enthusiasm. At this point the Old-Thought-
ers begin to believe in Blue-Thouglit.
In the succeeding act the hero gets the
reward prophesied by his des#rted wife. As
the locomotor ataxist, Herbert Ford is a
compelling figure of horror. Eily Malyon
makes the utmost of her inconvincing part;
and it is only her personality that saves the
miracles that took place in Sydney Domain
from appearing ludicrous. Frederick Ward,
who produces the play, admirably personates
a derelict who is reformed into a Domain
orator. The season is to continue, and
Frederick Ward, who has taken a long lease
of the Little Theatre, promises other pro-
ductions that will not be so Blue-Thoughty.
* . * * *
Eleven weeks gone and “So Long, Letty”
is still going strong at Her Majesty’s, Syd-
ney. Moral: Give a show enough powdered
legs and it will run for ever.
* * * *
The box-office of the Criterion Theatre
is still “Under Fire” from massed attacks of
the public.
Equilibrist Harry De Coe, who supplies
one of the four new turns at Sydney Tivoli,,
has been specially imported to make nervous
patrons jump. He amuses himself by build-
ing a trembling pyramid of chairs and tables
and seating himself negligently on the top
rail of the Impossible. lie implies by his
careless attitude when aloft that he has half
a mind to fall back with a sickening crash
and shatter the base of his skull; so when
he has quite finished and got back to stage
level, people with nerves wipe the cold sweat
off their foreheads and thank the Lord they
haven’t to witness it every night. Mil-
dred Grover, a robust U.S.A. comedienne
with a voice of beaten brass- takes charge of
the house for awhile and is cheerful about it.
Musette, a lady violinist, sings, fiddles and
dances at the same time, and is a bigger suc-
cess than the heavily-moustached gentleman
in green satin who used to gravely step-
dance while playing a harp. Pearl and
Irene Sans present a featherweight fashion
turn which has some faded singing in it.
AT SYDNEY TIVOLI.
Harry De Coe gives
thirsty onlookers a re-
minder of the long, dry
interval to come.
Ben Linn does the fat
man’s saraband.
Another Boucicault revival, “Arrah-na-
Pogue,” at Sydney Adelphi on Saturday
night provided Gerald E. Griffin with reason-
able excuse for exercising his dignified tenor
on some more Irish songs. The season con-
cludes next week, when the Marlow people
will succumb to the revue habit.
* * * Sfc
“Twelfth Night” on Saturday drew the
biggest crowd of the season to Melbourne
Princess’s. A lot of people who had missed
Wilkie’s admirable work in “The Merchant,”
“Othello” and “Hamlet” came to see his
Malvolio, and the crowd must have in-
cluded some of that large section of the
public which wants a “larf” even if it has
to go to Shakspeare. The dissipation
was duly provided. Malvolio makes
his first entrance preceded by four
grotesque flunkeys who seem to have
stalked out of comic-opera. Which spice of
buffoonery further commends the show to
popular taste. The comedy was born funny
in parts, the acting achieves hilarity fre-
quently, and certain items of superfluous
extravagance are thrust uoon it. The noisy
gathering in the kitchen of Olivia’s house had
most to fear from comparison with Mel-
bourne’s recollections of other companies in
the same scene. John Cosgrove as Toby
Belch, and Faulkner as Aguecheek got
through their orgie fairly well, although they
carried the tail end of it to the verge of
mere absurdity. Cosgrove soars a little less
vehemently than many another Belch, and is
not so obtrusively full of liquor all the time,
lie is best in the garden scenes, and his
management of the duel between Aguecheek
and Viola suggests the unfuddled mind in a
highly disreputable body. Faulkner, in the
grateful character of the foolish knight, is
equally conventional and convincing. There
seems to be only one sort of Aguecheek in
stage tradition, and Faulkner being thin
enough for the character, is just It. Prob-
ably Shakspeare thought of the thirsty ass as
a flabby citizen inclining already to fat, but
the painters have depicted Sir Andrew as
a human sardine with no oil about him, so
theatrical art insists on keeping him thus
ia the picture.
* * * *
Champney has only one qualification
for the unthankful • part of the clown,
and he makes it his apology. He
sings pleasantly on two occasions.* Miss
Harvey is a merry and bright little Maria in
whose diction there is no sharpness, and
whose smile bears no malice against the
man she has got her knife into. Fred
Fabian answers all requirements as Fabian,
the manservant who helps to accuse Mal-
volio of lunacy. The other characters —
the strictly sober ones—are effectively played,
with the one exception of the beauteous
Countess Olivia. Miss Sydney presents a
hard, unwinsome countess, instead of a warm-
blooded young vision ready to fall upon the
neck of the first pretty boy who makes a
pretty speech to her. Evidently she disliked
the lovesick Duke on account of his whiskers,
whereas Viola adored him for his whiskers!
Walter Hunt speaks the lines of tb
poor dear Duke with all due tenderness an.l
indiscretion. 1 red Francis is a tine
( apt. Antonio; Marcus St. .John i s ’ ano tW
honest mariner, and D. Belbridge scores
particular success as Viola’s twin-hmrtL*
Most of his success, of course, £ h,
simple fact that he and the lady muu?
indeed be easily mistaken for one another in
the dusk, with the light behind them— Di-
vided they held their tongues. But there
is one critical moment when the twins nro
fessing profound unconsciousness of the faet
that they couldn’t be mistaken for one
another in broad daylight, rejoice mutually
in the fate which has preserved both of them
from a watery grave. Belbridge puts much
feeling into his share of this strain on one's
imagination, and the present writer
never knew the reunion of Viola and
Sebastian to impress an audience as it did
last Saturday.
* * * #
Allan Wilkie is easily the most picturesque
and forcible Malvolio who has come this
way since the long-ago. No accomplished
actor, able to look the part, can go
wrong in it up to a certain point—unless
he g.oes wilfully wrong. But Wilkie adds
personal magnetism to his equipment as a
mummer, and when at last the degraded ego-
tist is brought before the Countess in the
capacity of an alleged lunatic, his mental
distress can be felt by the audience. Miss
Hunter-Watts divides the honors with Wilkie.
Her Viola is a most interesting girl-boy, a
tendency to drop her voice at the end of a
speech and to slap her leg to express boy-
ishness being her only faults. Her struggle
with natural timidity in the duel scene is
convincing. The staging is good enough and
the little orchestra deserves a word of
thanks.
** * *
A second hearing of “Gipsy Love,” at Mel-
bourne Her Majesty’s, confirms this paper’s
previous impression that the music makes
ample apologies for the futility of the narra-
tive. There are some sweet melodies in the
picturesque show, and the orchestration
generally is sufficiently good to keep the ear
from listening too closely to the trivial love
affair of Joszi and Ilona. As in the first
Melbourne production, Derek Hudson plays
the swaggering gipsy canoodler with tile
romantic ringlets and earrings of great mag-
nitude. while disclosing the feelings of his
faithless heart in a baritone of throaty
emphasis. The whole conception is some-
what suggestive of garlic and hair-oil, and
there is also the actor’s habit of hanging his
head and addressing impassioned words to
his decollete shirt-front to further spoil the
illusion of devil-may-care gallantry which is
alleged to turn Ilona’s virgin thoughts from
home and duty. Ilona, as played by Ethel
Cadman, is a melodious object of public sym-
pathy from the moment she succumbs
to the glucose message of .Toszi’s violin. But
she never lets anyone suspect that she is
revelling in the adventure. Rather she
implies the miserable enjoyment of one who
is increasingly conscious of her foolishness.
The part of Lady Babby is liberally treated
with Florence Young's amiability, the actress
also worthily doing her share in the dance
duets with Hudson and Leslie Holland. Hol-
land’s two or three hours as Dragotin have
depressing periods when his comedy descends
to sheer clowning; but John Ralston repeats
his wine song with the aforetime success, and
Reginald Roberts’s tenor lifts out the charac-
ter of the jammy Jonel. Phil Smith is too
brief a pariner for the Ingenue whom Minnie
Love makes so tall and charming. For the
purpose of exchanging endearments, Smith
must either stand on a chair or Miss Love
must submit to temporary curvature of the
spine. Minor parts are filled by Mrs. George
Lauri, Miss Addle Lennard and C. R- Ban-
tock, while Charles Albert and a damsel
whose name is not mentioned on the pro-
gramme dance “fetchingly” in the second and
third acts. Next Saturday “The Belle of
New York" will be revived for a week.
* * * *
This is another consecutive week of "It
Pays to Advertise” at Melbourne Royal,
where bluff is the soul of business and the
talk is all about soap and dollars when it
doesn’t mark the connection between dollars
and soap.
* * * *
The Waybacks have come to stay some
weeks at the King’s (Melb.), and the rival
Balmain ladies will snort across then'
troubled backyard until further notice.
** * *
The only addition to the prosperous Follies
programme at the Melbourne Tivoli is Look
and Oatman (why not Cook and Oatmeal.),
who harmonise in song and comedy together
Otherwise the Follies and the Belgian ( on-
®rt Party are the same debatable attrac-
tion as before, and the advt. varies only in
its rhythmical rhapsodies concerning ' era
Pearce, who is stated to have “eyes of ve-
vet, teeth of pearl, and legs that coo to
brains awhirl.”
* * * *
Frederic Coleman and 300 pictures are to
appear at the Auditorium (Melb.)
Saturday (11th), in a lecturial entertain-
ment entitled “With the Allies in France an
Flanders.” If will be repeated on the ms
four nights next week. Coleman is t
wily journalist who disguised himself as


HENKES’ SCHNAPPS
DIBTILLED IN HOLLAND.
An abiolutely ideal tonic. Awarded many gold medals for purity.
The "BURBERRY" Weatherproof
WARMTH WITHOUT WEIGHT—PROOF WITHOUT HEAT
For the coming rainy season—buy a “Burberry”! For the wet days and
the cold days, the days when you need a light, protective coat that
conforms with your ideas of good style—buy a “Burberry” J Its quality,
which will endure; its cut, that wins admiration; and the world-
famous “Burberry” finish will please you well.
The style quoted is in a very fine-woven Gabardine, in new tones of
Grey and subdued Green with a slight Silk-shot effect.
WE PAY POSTAGE.
Please state height and chest measurement.
PEAPES (Sl CO. LTD.,
Men's Outfitters,
309 &. 311 George Street SYDNEY
chauffeur and rushed to and from the Front
in' his own motor-car. He had a machine-
gun on his shoulder, and a majah-general by
bis side, and a camera under the back seat.
He is loaded up with facts concerning the
war as it was during the first year, and is
full of discreet silence re the war as it
might, could, would or should have been.
He took risks of sudden death as he sat in
his high-backed car, and when he wasn’t
taking a risk he took a photo. Sometimes he
took both. Moreover, he is honestly believed
to know how to turn his knowledge to lec-
turing account.
Another Melbourne show
The exhibition of the late E. Phillips Fox’s pictures
decorates the walls of the Athenieum Gallery with
the colors of Joseph’s coat. The place has not looked
so gay since Rupert Bunny exhibited his wife’s col-
lection of attitudes and teagowns. Sun-splashed
“THE WAYBACKS.” AT MELBOURNE
KING'S.
One of Dad's daugh-
ters. (The artist
apologises to all
country ladies.)
Dad's son, a fine e-T-
ample of a young
Australian. (The
artist will not be at
home to country
callers.)
nudes, ladies decorated like zebras, girls in bright
green and boys in vivid scarlet ; landscapes, sea-
scapes and figure studies, all exhilarating and in-
teresting. Fox delighted in setting himself techni-
cal problems for the sheer intrinsic joy of solving
them. Only a painter who loved art for work's sake
could handle the problems of reflected light and
direct sunlight as he does in “The Green Parasol.”
The influence of light on color was to Fox the most
absorbing of studies, and his treatment of sunlight
and flesh tints in several open-air nudes —notably
“Summer,” which was shown at the autumn Salon
of 1913, and “The Butterfly” is masterly. “The
Arbor” and “Lamplight” are pictures in which seri-
ous technical difficulties have been triumphantly
overcome, and “Tired” and “Reclining Nude” are
beauty. There are also some fine portraits, including
Marshall Hall (Fox and Hall, both recently dead, had
a great admiration for one another's art), Baldwin
Spencer and Rankin Lyle, although in the last-named
the noisy green and scarlet of the professorial robes
scarcely give the face a chance of appreciation.
* * * *
Melbourne Bijou suffered from another in-
flux of Yankee artists on Saturday. Hazel
Morris, a twangsome ragtimer, headed the
rush and showed that she was only distin-
guished from other offenders of her type by
her appalling habit of pulling her face out of
shape. Early and Laight also imparted
nasal inflections and a good deal of humor to
a beery sketch ; but the Glockers said little
in support of their nationality, their job
being to whirl vessels of water around their
heads with an industry worthy of a more
expensive liquid. The rest of the bill was
mainly Amurkan, the pick of the barrow
being Rose Lee Ivy.
The Bulletin doesn’t know what the
Heart of a Painted Woman is like, but
Hoyt’s, of Melbourne, profess to have the
latest information about it. The organ is
throbbing all this week through a five-reel
production featuring Olga Petrova, a Yankee
film actress noted for her luscious appoint-
ments and beguiling eye-play. Vivian Martin,
another Amurkan of a daintier and different
kind, is the other celebrity screened at Hoyt’s
Theatres this week. Vivian demonstrates her
powers as an actress in a story entitled “The
Arrival of Perpetua.”
t Adelaide is welcoming at the Royal
Mother Goose,” fresh from its Melbourne
imn, and the Tivoli has reopened with the
” 'llard-Johnson fight films. At the King’s
laul Stanhope’s burlesque co. is playing
Hello, Glenelg.” The male quartette sings
finely, but as to the “Buty Korus,” the man-
agement c„n’t dodge the fate of Ananias by
merely confusing the spelling. Balancing
Stevens is at this house, too, and Del Baity
with his clever bullpup. Wondergraph scores
with the old Brough play (much amplified
in the telling) “Niobe.” West’s has good
pictures of soldier-camps, and the Pav. is
turning the Nurse Cavell tragedy. The jolly
2^ en " air Ideals are looking for capital with
A Straggler from Waterloo” and other
dramatic trifles, while the Dandies (with
whom is now Roland Henry) are working
np grand-opera items.
1 raser Films have re-entered the ring and
re ” as y on “Murphy of Anzac,” which is to
ecord the immortal Simpson of Gallipoli.
- returned soldier who was succored by the
aero is seeing to the realism.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“0.K.”; One word more about George
Musgrove’s lucky venture with the “Tam-
bour Major” co., a matter of so very long
ago that no present explanation can be
readily accepted as correct in all particulars.
“Kaniva” (B. 27/1/HO) revived an ancient
allegation by envious rivals of “Muzzy” to
the effect that he practically “jumped” his
uncle Lyster’s claim to the co. whilst he was
bringing it out from England, and that
Lyster “never recovered the stock, and died
a , few before the notable production.”
“Fax” in the same issue of the B. said that
Muzzy was commissioned to engage the co.
by his uncle, whose death thrust all the
responsibility and most of the profits upon
the lucky emissary. And now Mr. Woinar-
ski —son-in-law of the late Musgrove— states
the family tradition. According to this,
the enterprising young man went to
England “on his own,” with £2OOO borrowed
from a generous friend, and a promise of
another £lOOO if required, lie engaged the
co. on the strength of this not very large
capital, and was bringing the enterprise to
Melbourne when his uncle Lyster died. Says
Mr. Woinarski, in conclusion : “The point I
want to emphasise is that not a penny of
Lyster’s money was in the successful ‘Tam-
bour Major’ venture.” Now I would be
the last person in Melbourne to side with the
scandal-mongers of whom “Kaniva” spoke,
for I know some of the allegations to be
false, but the point I want to emphasise is
that George Musgrove engaged the co. to
appear at Lyster’s theatre, so he couldn’t
have been then starting in direct opposition
to that old-established operatic manager.
My casual informant of the facts was the
late Charles Truelove, who came from Eng-
land to Melbourne on the same boat with
the co., and remained on friendly terms with
members of it for long afterwards. True-
love was an amateur musician of some mark,
and 30 years ago he gave me to understand
that the T.M. Co. had regarded Lyster’s con-
nection with Musgrove as their guarantee
that all would be well with them in the
event of the venture proving a failure. lie
also told me that the news of Lyster’s death,
received at the first Australian port the
boat touched, was a great shock. It created
some consternation. One result was that
he (Truelove) was offered a share in the
venture, but to his subsequent sorrow he
declined to chip in. After arriving in Mel-
bourne he was engaged to sort-up the great,
accumulation of operatic scores and loose
music, printed and in manuscript, which the
enthusiastic Lyster had stored at the Opera
House. This story, which exonerates the
late G.M. from any suspicion of having
played his uncle false, is quite, consistent
with the statement that “not a penny of
Lyster’s money was in the venture.” But
I guess that his managerial reputation and
interest as lessee of the Opera House had
been in the venture when G.M. undertook
it.
“Zuzzuz” : The scientific researches of the
learned “Harrison O.” (B. 24/2/’J6) inspired
me to go out and Royal Commission Flossie.
I find she is incredibly and incurably maud-
lin. She rarely extends her sympathies even
to a musical show. Blood diluted with
marital aberrations, and pseudo-religion
forms her ideal of dramatic pleasure. Her
reading, often quite considerable and due
doubtless to a vast amount of leisure, is of
the same brand. I questioned in all 23 prac-
titioners, and secured the following interest-
ing data: Favorite dramatic production in
Sydney to date—“ The Sign of the Cross”
(16) ; “The Village Priest” (4). Three
never visited the theatre, unless out of pro-
fessional politeness. All, however, liked
the “pictures”; though placing t'he
Tivoli and National before these. The
Follies were unanimously applauded. Of
reading matter the following is a resume
(three votes to each in order of preference
of writers) : Effie Adelaide Rowlands, Charles
Garvice and similar milk-and-water, mostly
feminine (15) ; Victoria Cross (10) ; Elinor
Glyn (9) ; Marie Corelli (8) ; Hall Caine
—“The Woman Thou Gavest Me,” etc. —
(7) ; American magazines (6) ; Thomas
Hardy (4) ; French translations (3). All the
ladies liked cheap prints of the “Supple-
ment” variety ; all had photographic collec-
tions of their friends; and all liked ragtime.
One can’t drop into Marlow’s Melbourne
theatre these Shakspearian times without
being forcibly reminded of the up-to-dateness
of Immortal William. The highly-respectable
Malvolio, reproving Toby Belch for his
booziness and sinfulness in general, is just
the cold-blooded moralist who would close
the pubs altogether if he lived nowadays.
Jolly Maria is the 16th century equivalent
of the woman “sport,” whose opinion of Mal-
volio is founded on the fact that he has
never wanted to hug her, although she is
such a dead-easy hug. And “Hamlet”!
Note the modern significance of the King’s
policy in sending for Rosencrantz and Guild-
enstern to discover the secret cause of his
nephew son-in-law’s queer behavior! He
puts a couple of German-Jew spies on the
job.
Arthur Shirley, of Australia, has reached
the top in the U.S.A. motion-play busi-
ness, and is now picked to play lead in a
tremendous flicker entitled “Fall of a
Nation.” Eighteen months ago he starred
in Australia in “The Shepherd of the
Southern Cross” and “The Silence of Dean
Maitland.” Then the local slump in picture
manufacture drove him to U.s., where
he was snapped up first by Kalem, then by the
Universal Co. He is one of the 2000 movie
“stars” of U.S.A. who own a motor-car. I
don’t know of any in Australia. Another Aus-
tralian, Louise Carbasse, has joined the Uni-
versal Film Co., and is appearing under her
marriage name, Louise Welch.
“First Old Man”: Harry Lauder, 1 see,
has been trying his hand as a maker of
maxims, thinking, no doubt, they will come
in useful in these economising times. “Mither
wad na waste,” says he piously, “and I
should only be disgracing her memory if I
wasted.” Whereupon he launches a half-
score platitudinous sentences at a spend-
thrift world. Some specimens: “There is
as much pleasure in reading a bankbook as
a novel.” “It is more exhilarating to feel
money in your pocket than beer in your
stomach.” “Always get good value from
tradesmen. They watch that they get good
money from you.” Very excellent advice, no
doubt; but a Yankee comedian of my
acquaintance was, I think, terser. I was
seeing him off to his native land, and as he
wrung my hand he remarked, “So long, bo.
Take plenty of water in your whisky, but
don’t take any bad money.”
“Private Boxer”: The much-expelled nig-
ger, Jack Johnson, has now been outed in
England, the authorities in that long-suffer-
ing country having ordered the black bruiser
off the premises owing to his conduct towards
the chorus-ladies in the cast of a revue in
which he and his latest wife were appearing.
So the unspeakable is moving along, mines
and torpedoes permitting, to Buenos Aires,
where he alleges he is going to fight for
£lO,OOO. During his last tour through Great
Britain he talked nothing but fight. With
colossal “hide” he elected himself a special
recruiting-officer, and from his elaborate
motor-car exhorted the gaping populace to
get out and shoulder a gun for King George,
not forgetting to mention incidentally that
great work was being done in the firing-line
by the big gun the Tommies have named after
himself. It was about time he was thrown
out on his cauliflower.
“8.J.” : Ada Rehan has passed out at New
York. She was born in Ireland, but went to
Uncle Sam’s country when a youngster,
making her first stage appearance, at 13,
in “Across the Continent,” written by her
brother-in-law, Oliver Byron. It was under
Augustin Daly that she did her best work,
playing 200 parts in N’Yark and London. As
a Shakspearian actress her delivery of blank
verse won the admiration even of Bernard
Pshaw. In fact, she must have been one of
the few first-class actresses who did not
yearn to have the “Dramatic. Opinions and
Essays” burned by the common or garden
hangman.
GREGAN McMAHON. directing a Mel-
bourne Repertory rehearsal.
“M.P.A.”: Arranging a country tour for
a dramatic organisation is a more difficult
task every year owing to the hold the mov-
ing-picture show has on the country ’alls.
The picture-man, as a rule, is unwilling to
give an outside show a look in. I am at
present advancing “On Our Selection,” and
find it mighty hard work to place the show
on one-night stands for a run of,
say, 28 towns in 2;) nights. For instance, in
one big town two local picture syndicates
combined, one having a lien on the only local
hall for three nights in the week, besides
having a monopoly of all the hoardings in
the place and the absolute services of the
billposter. At this place the billposter
demanded payment at the rate of 15s. per
hour, and cash up in advance. Yet though
the pictures in the country towns are
terrors as opposition to the average touring
show, dramatic or otherwise, they knock
nothing off “The Selection.” The fact that
the picture show charges 6d. and Is. doesn t
stop Cocky from weighing out 45., 3s. and
2s, for the thing he wants. But the difficulty
in fixing a tour nowadays indicates that the
time is not far distant when the country
tour for an organisation like Bert Bailey s
will be a thing of the past, unless it is pre-
pared to play on terms with the picture
people.
(Continued on page 26.)
Died in Sydney last week, at under ->O.
Ilarley Mackenzie, commercial lawyer and
man about town. lie had a remarkable
circle of acquaintances and diversity of inter-
ests : he was the bachelor known to every
society miss and matron, and he was. the
hard-headed director of cos. which mined
coal and ran fashionable hotels. The charm
of his manner he probably inherited from
his father, one of the best-known Sydney
doctors of the last generation.
“Old Salt” : A queer result of the war is
that the deep-water berth at Circular Quay,
Sydney, where not long ago the Bremen,
Grosser Ivurfurst, Barbarossa and other
craft of the Norddeutscher Lloyd used to
lie, is now occupied by sailing ships such as
the Chinese barque Alexa and the Yankee
schooner Winslow. It is 30 years sinee sail-
ing ships used to berth regularly at the
Quay. Then the Manly ferry started where
the old N.D.L. berth is now, and the North
Shore ferry from the opposite side. This
thoughtful arrangement was made so that all
ferry-boats might cross each other’s bows off
the P. & O. wharf. The space between the
two ferries was in those days occupied by
sailing ships—the Cutty Sark, the Brilliant,
the Yimeria and other ocean fliers which
used to come for wool. Those were the times
when the steam tram had just arrived to
fight the ’bus and when excur-
sionists to Mosman (6d. each way) often
got lost in the wild scrub of Middle Harbor.
All these relics have disappeared—and back
the windjammer comes to the Quay !
New Fellows of the Royal Society (Eng.)
are J. H. Maiden and Prof. Pollock, of Syd-
ney. Living Australians who previously
received this ribbon of the scientific world
are Profs. David, Haswell and Wilson, of
Sydney Uni.; Orme Masson, Baldwin
Spencer and J. H. Michell, Melbourne; Stir-
ling, Adelaide; ex-Sydney Profs. Liversidge
and Threlfall; ex-Melbourne Profs. Martin
and Dendy; ex-Adelaide Profs. Horace Lamb
and W. H. Bragg, and those brilliant Aus-
tralians Dr. Grafton Elliott Smith, the
anatomist; Dr. David Bruce, famous for his
African sleeping sickness investigations, and
Dr. Walter Rosenhain, the metallurgist.
Maorilanders who are F’s.R.S. are Ernest
Rutherford, Benham (Dunedin) and
Leonard Cockayne (Christchurch).
The room in which Melbourne City Council
meets has one good thing about it; its deco-
rations and furnishings are Australian made
and of Australian matm-ial. It would be
hard to beat them anywhere. The furniture,
panelling and other woodwork are of Tas-
manian blackwood, and Gippsland marble is
used in the walls. This marble, by the way,
is also used in Melbourne’s new Public
Library, and in both cases with distinguished
effect.
“The Bishop” : Many and ingenious were
the dodges at Anzac for drawing Johnny
Turk’s fire, the most successful being that
known as the “jam-tin stunt.” Bags full of
tins would be collected in hillside trenches
overlooking those of the enemy. At a signal,
accompanied by such yells as only charging
Australians are capable of, these bags would
be hurled over our parapets, whence they
would roll with a muffled clatter down the
hill. The outburst of rifle and machine-gun
fire which always followed was generally
fierce enough to give beach-parties the idea
that a genuine attack was in progress.
One day last week a strange American
steamer staggered into Sydney Heads, and
when the pilot clambered aboard and asked
Brother Jonathan whether he had a cargo of
motor-cars or comic papers, Brother ,T. casu-
ally remarked that he was bound for Adel-
aide with 4000 cases of gunpowder and 2400
cases of gasoline, but as the inflammable
liquid was spilling all over the explosiveness
he reckoned it would be safer to clean things
up in Sydney harbor than start monkeying
with the situation at sea. Whereupon the
pilot did a rapid calculation to discover how
much energy would be produced if someone
dropped a match in the right place and
hurriedly brought the vessel to anchor in
Rose Bay. On the shores of that marine in-
dentation are some of Sydney’s most exclu-
sive residential areas, and for a few days
the inhabitants were about as close to a
record display of fireworks as if they had
been living in the suburbs of Verdun.


“ORIENT”
SAC SUITS
TO MEASURE,
75/-
For business or ordinary wear, we specially
recommend our 75/- Sac Suits. All the essential
points of quality, style and workmanship are
embodied, giving the Suit that distinctive appear-
ance so much desired.
The materials are of newest and most exclusive
designs, including latest textures in English and
Scotch Tweeds, also fine Worsted Materials,.
Made to Measure for 75/-
Patterns and self-measurement form post free on
request.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
DAVID JONES LTD.,,
Opp. G.P.O. SYDNEY
&
in
DO YOU LIKE TO
DRAW
If you are
anxious to de-
velop ycur tal-
ent for Draw-
ing so that
you can make
money,
COPY THIS
SKETCH
and send it to
us for FREE
CRITICISM.
B 1 a c k-a n d-
white artists are well paid for their
sketches, and the work is extremely in-
teresting. If you have any liking for
drawing at all just copy this face and
let us see what you can do with it.
THE AUSTRALIAN SCHOOL OF SKETCHING,
Dept. B. Bond Street, Sydney.
■n
rv
DSHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegancy-
Furnished and Up-to-date H° e .
now complete in every detai , a ’
under the management of
Usher, the Comforts of a e *
Home are assured. The Cm
and Service will compare * l '
ably with any Hotel in Eng ‘ ’
America or the Continent.
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER-
Managing Directoi.
Society
A CASUALTY.
FAIR ONE: “A scrap of shrapnel to blame ?”
HERO (lamely): “ Er — no. A slip in the
tango.”
“Haka”: The police recently bagged five
men in the entrance leading to the back of
a M.L. pub and charged them with being
on licensed premises after hours. Four pleaded
guilty and were fined, but the fifth man
entered a plea of not guilty. The entrance,
which provided access to the back of the pub,
did similar duty for the public library which
adjoined, and No. 5 adroitly explained
“that he was spending the evening on the
library side.” As the police had not taken
any footprints the case was dismissed. Now
did the foolish four forget the library was
there, or was the lucky last man the only
one who knew of the library’s existence?
At the end of 1914 the barque Antiope,
after rolling over the ocean since ’Go, was
bought at Newcastle by a Maoriland coal
co., sailed to Wellington (M.L.) and theie
transformed into a hulk. Since then ships
have become valuable commodities, and
not long ago fresh masts and innards weie
thrust into the weary tub, and she is now
carrying a load of timber to Australia from
Kaipara. The venerable craft has had a
queer history. In the long ago she ran
regularly round the Horn from Sydney to
London and back again the other way. Then
she was in the South American trade. In
the Russo-Japanese war the Japs took her
as a prize and sold her to some Yanks, and
they put her on the Puget Sound timber run.
New, though old and tired, she can earn for
her owners as much as most tired racehorses
can earn for Israel.
“D.F.” : Out in the Tasmanian bush where
the mind of the mainland visitor grows moss
in a week there are dishevelled inventors
busily making airships and torpedoes and
patent cheese-toasters that are operated by
lightning. One genius lately completed a
contraption that was to be a chair in the day-
time, a bed in the evening, and a steam
plough whenever required. It worked well
for a little while as a chair-bed; then
one night when the inventor was reciting
a recruiting story, the machine suddenly
transformed itself into a bed, and the half-
strangled inventor had to be rescued from
his own Juggernaut with a pitchfork. Dur-
ing the rescue operations the thing gave off
vicious steam-plough symptoms, and had to
be quietened with water. The inventor is
now endeavoring to convert the ruins into
an aeroplane, the motive power of which
will be Christian Science.
* * * *
“Chasuble”: The Christmas Bulletin sur-
prised readers by advocating a National
Church. A large minority believe in it.
Lockington the Jesuit (the most eloquent
preacher in Melbourne) has just been declar-
ing that the Catholic Church will be the
National Australian. This talk is not
relished by Catholics at large, who don’t con-
sider themselves strong enough as yet to in-
dulge in it. Not so long ago I wrote else-
where in favor of an Australian National
Church. The principal local Catholic
newspaper slated me, and so did the
late Cardinal Moran, declaring that it
was an insidious Anglican move. How-
ever, I will persist that there is to be a
Church. For one thing we don’t want this
eternal begging-box rattling. There must
be a dignified State-paid clergy, with no
cadge. I don’t mind being the first arch-
bishop of it if my salary isn’t to be made up
with euchre parties and jumble fairs.
* * * *
“Murkah” explains:—
Of course, when I telegraphed to Bill “weather
unsuitable postpone,” the telegraph office delivered
him something about “Mother not being suitable,”
and made him think I had taken to
drink. So it is not surprising that
business houses have contracted the
habit of repeating important or tricky
words, and send their messages thus:
“Send case striped repeat striped
paint for barber’s repeat poles.” They
thus increase the chance of not order-
ing a case of whisky. Bill’s yowl
front the bush to “Meet me arriving
after to-morrow” has also been altered
to dodge the increasing casualness of
the national monopoly. Bill now
carefully adds the day of his antici-
pated coming, and urges Mary to
“Meet him to-morrow Friday.” Pre-
viously his telegram, on account of
taking numerous rests, was not deliv-
ered until Friday, and Friday was
then to-day and Saturday was to-
morrow, and an anguished Bill hung
round the station waiting for Mary,
who didn’t turn up till next day. The
absence of any noticeable mark to
indicate that a telegram has been in
the refrigerator for 24 hours or so
requires attention. Every message
should be plainly endorsed “This
telegram was lodged yesterday (or
last week), but owing to somebody’s
ineptitude is not delivered until
(here follow time and date).” This would at any
rate give a man a chance of knowing whether
Friday was to-morrow or Saturday the day before
yesterday.
* * * *
“Yarrum”: The ancient mariner who
wrote of the old Murray (B. 23/12/T5)
must have skipped several drink-stained
pages of the log. Here they are :
The Murray was built about 1857, and traded
awhile to the Murray mouth in S. Aus. After a
spell in this trade she was converted without benefit
of clergy to a sailer, and with her canvas spread
arrived off the Hokitiki (M.L.) bar during the height
of the gold rush down there in the ’6o’s. Her cargo
was foodstuffs and spirits. The bar being unwork-
able and supplies of spirits in the town very
short, cheerful instructions were sent to beach the
boat. This was accordingly done, and for a consid-
erable time the drink-ship remained high and dry. She
was eventually bought by the Anchor Company, who
A FAMILY FAILING.
Harold Eugene Kingston, 18, a bugler, was charged with stealing a gallon of rum.
ltem of recent not in Sydney.
SHADES OF THE RUN CORPS: “Come over here."
converted her back to a steamer. She then began a
steady and respectable career as a passenger boat. Any
experienced travellers of the ’7o’s and ’BO s would
have given her a first-class reference. Her yacht-
like lines, combined with a good spread of canvas,
gave, with the steam power, a good turn of speed,
and many exciting races were run by the old packet
against competitors. Not proving large enough
to carry all her admirers, her owners had her cut in
two and lengthened by 20ft. This was in 1887. But
the travellers of those ancient times advertised her
virtues so widely that the waterfront was thronged
by people with carpet-bags clamoring for passages,
and every time she put forth there were disappointed
voyagers cursing on the wharf. If marine architec-
ture had been equal to it the Murray would have
grown into a 13,000-tonner by now ; but the passen-
ger business gradually got beyond her, and in 1895
she was sold to Capt. Conty, acting for N.S.W. buyers.
History tells of a famous brass band which sailed as
the Murray’s crew. In port they were always sure
of a welcome, and on the coast it was no uncom-
mon occurrence to see rival hotelkeepers bidding for
their discord before the boat tied up.
*** . *
“W.M.”: One of the Rabaul heroes had
landed back in Sydney and set to work to
overtake his arrears of beer-drinking. At
about midnight he was forming an islet in a
torrent of muddy gutter-water. Presently
his dream was shattered by the boot of a
policeman knocking him gently in the ribs.
“What are you doing there?” asked the voice
under the helmet. The soldier sighed con-
tentedly and looked up. “It’s this way,
mate. When I was up at Rabaul they fed
me on so much tinned fish that I’ve grown
scales, and I was just going to swim up
this blanky river!”
“Hori”: A soldier who was tired of the
war cut his throat in Tauherenikau camp
(ALL.) and was carried to the hospital at
Trentham camp, 40 miles away, where he
duly died. The body was laid in a hut and
a sentry posted. In the twilight, a sergeant-
ccok, or a cook-sergeant, decided to have a
look at deceased. He found the sentry,
who had been unrelieved for about
ten hours, fast asleep. The striped cook
did not wake him but entered and knelt to
look at the corpse. Just then the sentry
awoke and, peering inside the morgue, saw
what he took to be the dead arising.
That was enough for him. He started for
home while a surprised sergeant-cook
watched him tearing through the dusk on his
way to Stewart Island.
“D.”: A wounded Anzac, writing from
Abbey Wood camp, Kent, says: “Most of our
Australian officers seem to be fine men. I
saw, however, a horrible exception—an
undersized rat, liis tunic decorated with
cheap-jack, gilded badges that were certainly
not regimental. His slouch hat, with an
unnecessary number of emu feathers, leg-
gings. spurs, etc., might have passed muster ;
but he also carried an enormous stockwhip,
instead of the riding-crop which mounted
officers use.” But teas he an Australian
officer? A few Australian detectives in
London to interview “officers” with stock-
whips and boomerangs would be well worth
wb±4e.
“Trotter” : Hardly a day passes without
the opinion of some German newspaper being
cabled. Here’s an.estimate of them:—
The Berlin Tagf.blatt: Democratic, Radical,
friend of Jews. Strongly anti-militarist before the
war, and its editor, Wolff, still goes as far that way
as he dares. Vossische Zeitung: Editor, Georg.
Proprietors, Ullstein brothers, five young men, own-
ing newspapers and periodicals. Very old paper;
dignified in peace, but furiously Anglomaniac in
war. Cologne Gazette : Semi-official, entirely under
Government’s thumb. Frankfurter Zeitung: Owned
by Simon brothers. Like the Vossische, in former
moderation and present fury. Chief financial organ.
Hamburger Nachrichten: A thorn to the Kaiser
befove the war, but driven by the sentiment of its
city to “Gott strafe England.” Harden’s Zukcnft
(future) : By many degrees smartest of all papers.
Suppressed lately. Lokal-Anzeiger, Berlin; Once
the popular halfpenny paper under Scherl, the great
journalist who founded it. He sold out to the
NOTHING IMPOSSIBLE.
HE : “Do you think you could ever learn to
love me?”
SHE : “Well, I once learned to speak German.
Krupps and that gang. North German ET ’
Purely official. No weight except as such. ,.
Government Press Bureau, under Hammann, wi
satellites Esternaux and Heilbron, has a hand on
throttle valve of absolutely every newspaper a
every correspondent for the Foreign P ress - .
Agency: Nominally private, but subsidise sen
official. From its great central wireless st: * 10 ” ,
Nauen, near Potsdam, the Government i er
flashes out gratuitous news daily to the "oi
large. The radius extends to the African coas.
PULP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Anyhow, it seems a poor exchange to take a noble
forest and turn it into the modern newspaper.
Sydney Evening News.
Prismatic in the noontide, glinting fire
When the low sun burns down the western ways,
The leafy places full of green desire
Are as a harp on which the soft wind plays.
Tiie world with all its wheels, remote and far,
Grinds out a noisy music of no tune,
While peeping through these boughs a happy star
Laughs at the capers of a cloud-chased moon.
Here comes the Sibyl Autumn, wise with dream,
And writes her yellow magic on a leaf,
An old, clear message as of lights that gleam
Far from the dusty ways of unbelief.
And here erect, unflinching through the year,
The new bud bursts its sheath, unheard, unseen,
And flaunts against the winter’s icy spear
Its full and happy rain-washed evergreen.
Come hither with the axe. These limbs must fall.
Out on the fays that dance within the shade!
Death to the mating birds that pipe and call 1
There is no progress in this arching glade.
Those tangled roots must feed the famished pen
That tells to all the market price of lard ;
This gnarled trunk must shout aloud to men
The Labor triumph in the Smellville Ward.
This silver-coated bole that lightly sways
To high winds piping under skies of blue
Must advertise the latest thing in stays
Or virtues of a freak imported shoe.
Look up ! . The branches meeting overhead
Are like the roof of some cathedral aisle—
Beat them to pulp! On them shall yet be read
The gloating record of a murder vile!
Yes, pulp the lot! Right-thinking people wait
To learn at breakfast if the time is ripe ;
To groan at spites that still beset the State
And soak their fatted intellects in tripe.
Progress is great! We bow before her shrine.
We offer incense of our toil and sweat.
A grime of inky words on pulp of pine
Replaces those green shades the birds forget.
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


FIAT
CARS for ECONOMY
and RELIABILITY.
This Graceful 4 = Seater Touring
Car completely equipped for
the road ; 5 Sankey Wheels ;
One=man Hood ; All Tools.
£575.
E\
a
■***■'"
garratts ltd
ALICK McNEIL, Gen. Manager.
173-175 Elizabeth Street,
148*150 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
THE
AL
-f\ON
m, jgam
k
r=s~i
rjMfel
r . . *77
•<:
rypyMy/
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street, Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858
Capital Paid Up, £1,498,220. Reserve Fund, £565,000.
Reserve Liability of Shareholders, £715,464.
Directors: JOHN GRICE, Esq., Chairman; EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman
H. M. STRACHAN, Esq.; J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq. Chief Manager: E. H. WREFORD.
SYDNEY OFFICE, CO PITT STREET. ‘fT/flLL™ mTcostello.
Branches in Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE: 5 Bishopsgate, E.C.
From an Australian doctor in Flanders :
\t war? Well, you wouldn’t have thought so if
vou had seen us sitting round the fire this afternoon
in our billets eating delicious kippers we had just
grilled. Later on we had a first-class dinner, punc-
tuated with whisky and topped off with coffee, liqueur,
brandy and cigars while the gramophone reeled off
“Where My Caravan Has Rested.” “What price the
horrors of war?” scoffed one of the happy circle.
And just as the laugh died away someone entered
with news of the padre who had made us roar the
previous afternoon with the tale of his capture by
Boxers and how he ransomed himself, dirt cheap, for
a fiver. “What’s that?” called the man in the
corner. The messenger turned his way and gravely
repeated his message. “He had the top of his head
blown off this afternoon while reading the burial ser-
vice over some chap.” I walked to the door and
looked out over a world of mud and ruins lit by the
flares of the unresting enemy. The crashes of his
artillery that I had temporarily forgotten seemed to
have a new note of triumph. We were at war all
right.
* * * *
The youthful warriors whose job is to
remove refuse from Melbourne city battle
streets had their little “strike” last week.
They demanded a rise of wages from 21s.
to 255. The Pickers-up Brigade marched
through town some 50 strong, and upset a
Dago fruit barrow in Queen-street. After
which they sang “Rule Britannia” and bom-
barded one another with peaches and stock-
in-trade. When the secretary of the Muni-
cipal Employees’ Union urged the army to
resume discipline, their leader, a major-
general of about 15, exclaimed: “Wif all
these motor ’ogs abowt a man cleaning the
roads takes ’is life in ’is ’ands, and it’s worf
25 bob a week.” Which suggests the advisa-
bility of meeting the cost of a rise in the
wages of the Pickers-up Union by a special
tax on the road-hogs of Melbourne.
* * * *
A royal commission on North Terrace
reserves in Adelaide has been rather unex-
pectedly justifying its existence by consider-
ing the larger question of railway extension
—which is not at all before the public at
present, but will have to be considered by
posterity. North Terrace is the mile-long
top of a natural bank. Between it and the
river is a flat, not yet much used as to the
eastern half; but if the present North
Terrace railway station is ever to leave off
being a dead-end, and puts out a feeler to
the eastern suburbs —which at present have
no railways at all —along that fiat it must
go. Just how the Botanic Gardens and park
will then be affected is worth considering by
anyone who thinks for the day-after-to-mor-
,l'ow. Also, on the “bank” already mentioned
are the old barracks, the Destitute Asylum
and Government House. The first two are,
at great expense, being transferred to far
more suitable sites outside the city, and it is
not unlikely that future Governors will be
sent to a benevolent home in the suburbs,
too. Any spaces thus left vacant are likely
FRESH AS TO-MORROW’S BREAD.
“ Yesterday's paper! Is there anything in
this house that isn’t old?”
“Yes; the receipt of your last month’s bill.”
A FLATTERER’S EXTREMES.
PERCY: “You remind me of a line from Shakspearc,”
MANICURIST: “Yes?”
PERCY: “Yes. ‘ There’s a divinity that shapes our ends.’”
to be promptly claimed for expansion by the
neighboring University, or School of Mines,
or Museum. So, before a lot more money is
spent in building, and anything like finality
is approached, a long-sighted Commission has
a chance of doing some really good work.
* * * *
“Te Babarantiko” tells a somewhat mixed
yarn :
The Captain Brown of “Masarcus” (B. 24/2/’l6)
is evidently the James Brown of the Cocos Island
treasure-hunting expedition which left ’Frisco in
July, 1903, to recover £10,000,000 or 10s. which
had been buried by pirates on the ocean speck.
Brown is supposed to have joined a treasure-hunting
schooner at Jamaica when he was 19 ; he is about 86
now. Having found the treasure,
the crew became more dissatisfied
than ever. They turned pirates
(all except Brown) and took
three “Australian and Californian
specie ships,” so adding another
£2,000,000 to the cash-till. Then
they got the burying habit again
on another island. In the process
nearly all hands were obliterated,
and the ship was fired and
beached. Brown and two others
escaped in the long boat with a
trifle of £60,000, and headed for
Australia. But only Brown came
out of the boat alive. An ordi-
nary person would have become a
shipowner or a grocer in a small
way and gradually turned the
buried treasure into gilt-edged
securities. But not Brown. He
had the burying instinct too
strongly developed, and after
sinking his fortune underground
again he went away and worked
in the mines. Finally he faded
to the U.S.A., where a lot of
long-shore pirates took his small
cash and tobacco-pouch. That
made him fall back on the
buried gold, and he floated an ex-
pedition to go and look for it,
he being guaranteed a quarter of
the returns. The expedition left
for Honolulu in the schooner Her-
man, and on arrival was held for
debt. The bo’sn had to go back
to ’Frisco to raise the wind. Then
Brown became remorseful, and re-
fused to sail for the treasure
island. He said there was a curse
on the treasure, and that the
ghosts of dead men were gloating
over it. He wouldn’t even give
the position of the island to the others and let
them risk the ghosts; so the expeditionaries
could only use unpleasant language and go home.
And now old Brown is at it again!
’Midst the horrors and excitement of war
news Melbourne has found time for a fugi-
tive interest in one of those good, old-
fashioned murders
where the motive is a
matter for speculation
and the identity of the
murderer so clueless
that you never know
whether they’ve got
the right man until
after he’s hanged. Or
so it seems at time of
writing. On the morn-
ing of February 2S a
Melbourne taxi co. was
rung up by a man or
woman or somebody,
who ordered a car to
be at Clivedon Man-
sions at eight o’clock
next morning. The
voice gave the name of
L’Estrange, but at
Clivedon Mansions’ ex-
pensive “flats” nobody
named L’Estrange
abides, nor had any-
body ordered a car.
Three hours later the
vehicle was found
rooted on the road to
Templestowe, about a
mile from the terminus
of the Kew electric
tram, and the dead
body of the chauffeur
was lying under a rug.
The corpse had four
bullets in its head and
neck. A sandbag lay
on the running board,
but apparently it had
not been used. There
had been no robbery,
and there was no evi-
dence of the person-
ality of the “fare.”
All was quiet along the Potomac.
* * * *
“It.Y.T.”: What a backward crowd these
Germans are with their poor little 17-inch
howitzers! In 1534, or thereabout, Henry
VIII. had 19-inch shells flying around South-
ampton Water. This is what Stow says
about it in his ancient chronicle :
One Peter Band, a Frenchman born, and another
alien called Peter Van Collen, a gunsmith, both the
King’s feed men, conferring together, devised and
caused to be made certain mortar pieces, being at
the mouth from 11 inches unto 19 inches wide, for
the use whereof they also caused to be made certain
hollow shot of cast-iron, to be stuffed with fire-
work or wild fire; whereof the bigger sort for the
same had screws of iron to receive a match to carry
fire kindled, that the firework might be set on fire
for to break in pieces the same hollow shot, whereof
the smallest piece hitting any man would kill or
spoil him.
“Briner” turns on the historical tap :
Limelight has been focussed on the Cocos or Keel-
ing Isles ever since the Sydney smashed the Emden.
They were discovered 300 years ago by one Keeling.
The name Cocos comes from the profitable cocoanut. No
use was made of the isles until nearly-100 years ago.
One J. C. Ross, who started as whalers’ boy, became
harpooner, and ultimately rose to possess a ship of
his own. In Java, 1825, he met Alexander Hare,
who also owned a ship. They agreed to settle on the
Cocos Islands. Ross went first with his party and settled
on Selma Island. Hare then came and made his home
on Bras Island. His party included a number of
brown women, and the presence of the ladies caused
a disagreement, Ross being a strict Presbyterian who
ultimately imported his wife and family. There are
about two dozen islands of assorted sizes, the biggest
being a strip six miles by half a mile. The Emden
rusts on Keeling. After nine years’ occupancy of
Bras, Hare was driven away to Singapore by Neh
Basir, a Malay, offspring of a couple of slaves given
to Hare by the Rajah of Banjer. After this Ross was
recognised as general ruler of the Cocos. Vessels
called there more frequently and included some of
the quasi-buccaneer sort. Ross died in 1854, suc-
ceeded by his son, J.G., who married a Malay prin-
cess. They had a family of seve i boys and two girls.
His ruling son known as Ross 111. died in 1910. At
present there is Ross IV., Governor under England,
which annexed the specks in 1857.
Charles P. Smith, at work again in
Melbourne after war-corresponding in Servia
and Turkey, has a large stock of trench tales.
One of them is about Bill and General
INSTINCT.
MISSUS: “You mustn’t call Mr. Bibbs the
boss, Sarah. Call him the master; he
isn’t the boss.”
SAIREY : “All right, mum, if you wish it.
I had an idea I was wrong.”
Birdwood. At Anzac the officers were 1
indistinguishable from the other soldiers, and
one day Birdwood came along and found
Bill cursing bitterly over the theft of his:
bully beef. The boss listened for a time’
and then passed on. “Bill, y’ goat,” said
Jim, down the trench a bit, “that was Bird-
wood.” Bill turned off his beatitudes for a
moment. “Birdwood !” he snarled. “ ’Ow
in ’ell c’d I tell ’e was Birdwood? Now,
if ’e wore feathers like any other bird would’'
—and went on cursing.
TO DORA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Just a hairpin on the floor,
With a strand of yellow hair
Twined about it—nothing more ;
But l had not seen it there !
Why, my Dora, will you use
Those frail hairpins, thin and long—
Most calamitous of clues?
Maud’s are thicker, short and strong 1
From the mirror when you left
Powder specks I flicked awajq
And arranged in manner deft
Ev’ry sign of disarray,
Looked with care the room about,
Thought that all was as before,
But our sin has found us out—•
Just a hairpin on the floor!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


vfj Ufa away Irom the <x>ar , said
j 1 1 the editor to the Bulletin
uoeeh. " us a h
uifthoot" a ry' Kat'&ens ° r
Deaths- heads.
3) 5uT reminders
Hun^
d'fe
'fins »s -Hie
artist communing
Nature anb to
Aorgs a wjar on
CEJ for <T
tAJt' to ransack tbe*
Charnel -house uohere
The SjULLEf/isJ l>ead Gags
ke|?f" 'Even here the
vOar-and tV?e Seem to
have
Here ooe Ha \le -Hie
ensued in a jroitless
his Muse
1
Ah .well, t.leet> on
P'raps in
mornin<
a
And m -tyic
stilly
Cam@
idea. !
TRiS VS tt/<? artists
jeclirt£ sore?
because His schemes
did rioTcome
«fr
* 9
lAjork
ujhiie "ff| €
1*
Hof
InlTie Morning
Editor : "Well Weve chanced
our nn.nd aboJt -tViaT carT^n,
have more war,"
TTie arTTsT ot>) >j?gct.
After all he only acting-editor*
hio
“THE BULLETIN’S” DOMESTIC TROUBLES.


THE GUESSERS.
It is becoming increasingly difficult to ascertain America’s attitude towards the belligerent nations.— Wail from Germany.
THE ADROIT PARTY: “Now, gents, pick the pea!”


Chaving
(yTICK
l eve?
For an
Ideal Shave
[ MADE IN AUSTRALIA ]
v>r
7
V \
Lightness with
Durability
distinguish these world-
renowned hats, which should
be worn by every man in
Australia, because they are
specially made to suit our
severe climatic conditions.
BOATERS
/V
-0360
LEWIS&
WhITTY:
MAKERS
a
Yi ; N©S
W-S
y : y-
"SS
!ii
"A
Martin’s Pills are sold by W. H. Soul,
I’attinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature. Martin, Chemist. Southampton.
How I Darkened My
Grey Hair.
Lady gives Simple Home Recipe That
She Used to Darken Her Grey Hair.
For years-1 tried to restore my grey ' ia
to its natural color with the prepared ‘
and stains, but none of them gave sausia •
tion and they were all expensive. I . ']
came across a simple recipe which 1 ® j
at home that gives wonderful results,
gave the recipe, which is as follows, to ■
number of my friends, and they are
delighted with it. To Toz. of water ad(
small box of Orlex Compound, loz. or ■
rum and loz. of glycerine. These lngredi
can be bought at any chemist’s at very
cost. Use every other day until the
becomes t lie required shade, then ever \
weeks. It will not only darken the » -
hair, but removes dandruff and scalp h .
and acts as a tonic to the hair. R
sticky or greasy, does not rub oft, an
not color the scalp.— Advt.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
“F.H.”: Sky-pilot Lee, of the Goulburn
Valley, speaking recently at a Merrigum
(Vic.) recruiting-meeting, declared that he
was being boycotted for his efforts to shake
up the recruiting barometer. But the boy-
cott isn’t cooling him off at all. At Merri-
gum the other night he unwound this:—
In one shire 750 men said they couldn’t go because
they were growing wheat for the soldiers. They
lied, and they know that they lied. They were not
growing wheat for soldiers, but to line their own
pockets. Farmers have cheap labor in their sons.
Merrigum, where these elevating remarks
were made, lies among the rolling western
farm-lands of the wealthy Valley. Parson
Lee advocates conscription; and conscrip-
tion certainly would, for one thing, do away
with the persecution of patriotic critics.
KNEW HIS LIMITATIONS.
CANDID FRIEND: “Well, old man, honestly
I think it’s ROTTEN.”
ARTIST: “ Indeed! What can you know
about pictures? You never painted one."
CANDID FRIEND: “True; but I know a had
egg when I meet it: and, believe me, old
man, I’ve never laid one."
Under-secretary L. 11. Sholl, retires from
S. Aus. Public Service in June after 58
years, during which time he saw a long pro-
cession of Chief Secretaries move on. When
he drops out on long leave the Chief Secre-
tary’s Department will be reformed and a
Premier’s Department created, with Jack
Sincock as secretary to the chief. Harry
Blinman, of cricketing fame, will probably
be under-secretary in Sholl’s place. Conse-
quent changes will occur amongst the staff
at Parliament House. These are already
to some extent foreshadowed by the appoint-
ment of Fred Johns (leader of the Hansard
staff’) as secretary to Royal Commissions,
and of Rodney Cockburn (deputy Hansard
leader) as Secretary of the Parliamentary
Committee on Railways.
CORRECT.
“Where does a bloke ’are ter go ter get a
job, Mister?"
“Victoria Barracks."
“Vic”: Curates and so forth are boiling
oyer the announcement that the distant Arch-
bishop of Canterbury Jias been invited to
recommend a Bishop of Ballarat. It is a
miserable and stupid act of snobbishness when
it is remembered that Bishop Green, who
retires, was trained in Melbourne’s Trinity
College, and was the first of the clerical
battle-line which was continued with Arm-
strong, of Wangaratta; Stretch, of New-
castle ; Long, of Bathurst; Sadleir, of Maori-
land ; and Stephen, of Hobart. If any bright
young fellows think of entering at Trinity,
let them pause and think hard. What sort
of Judges would we get if they were im-
ported from England? There is never any
talk of getting an Englishman for a “hard
shop.” But as soon as there’s a prospect of
some ease and good pickings, the foreigner
arrives with his carpet bag filled with holv
willingness to sacrifice himself for the moral
uplifting of the “colonials.” Bishop Long,
of Bathurst, is the man I size up for Bal-
larat.
The estate of Barr Smith, Adelaide’s
veteran merchant, squatter and philanthro-
pist, sworn for probate at a trifle over 11-
million, is the largest South Australia has
seen since the old days of the copper mag-
nates. J. H. Angas left about £750.000.
John Darling had gross assets of two
millions, but. a net estate of one. Barr
Smith’s legacies to a variety of charities total
£40,000.
Judges Murray (on moving up to the Chief
Justiceship) and Buchanan (on getting a
permanent instead of a temporary appoint-
ment as Judge) have been formally congratu-
lated by the South Australian Bar, with the
youthful Attorney-General, “Jim” Vaughan,
as spokesman. Murray, in responding, had
a kindly remembrance for old John Downer,
lately dead, who led the congratulations when
Murray was first made a Judge, and who
should —like Josiah Symon—himself have
been one if Way, Boucaut and Bundey had
not kept up a record partnerships in the
three judgeships which are all S.A. seems to
need. Nobody, however, said anything
about Vaughan’s own action in not grabbing,
as Attorney-General, the first judgeship that
became vacant. That kind of political
decency is almost expected nowadays; but
any time up to 10 years or so back it would
have caused general astonishment and a
hurried visit from the family doctor'.
A real veteran of railways was H. C.
Mais, just dead in Melbourne at 88. He
was “articled” to one of the great Brunei’s
engineers over 70 years ago, when the steel
lines were beginning to creep all over
England. In the ’so’s he was engineer to
the Sydney Railway Co., and in the ’6o’s to
the Melbourne and Suburban Co. Then the
wise principle of State ownership came in,
and he had 20 years as engineer-in-chief to
the South Australian Government. Since
that he had been, till his health broke down,
a consulting engineer in Melbourne, with a
special gift for acting as arbitrator in rail-
way disputes.
Having introduced himself to the world on
February 29, High Court Judge Duffy gets
a birthday once in four years. He was 64
last week. His colleague, Judge Powers, was
63 on March 3.
“H.”: The most distinguished of all
women journalists has just died in England.
She wrote a lot of European history; but,
as she pathetically said herself, history writ-
ten thus is “like snow falling on water.”
Emily Crawford had lived in Paris since
1853, and she was grown up when she went
there. Her husband (by Thackeray’s own
showing, the original of the journalist War-
rington in “Pendennis”) was appointed by
Charles Dickens, first editor of London
Daily News, its correspondent in Paris.
His wife helped in the work, and carried it
on alone after he died in 1885. She wrote
regularly for New York Tribune, and also
for Calcutta Englishman, Chicago and San
Francisco papers, and especially for London
Truth. Labouchere, representing the Daily
News, got to Paris in 1870, just in time to
send the Crawfords away and get shut in for
the siege himself. He gave the lady a free
hand when he started his own paper. She
wrote for the first number of Truth, in
1877, and she had an article in the journal
the week she died. For nearly half a cen-
tury, from Victor Hugo onwards, she knew
personally, or knew all about, nearly every
prominent person in Europe. She was
probably the only Briton to be twice — 1870
and 1914- —driven from Paris by the German
advance. The one good point she could see
about the present war is that it will stop
the marrying of German princelings and prin-
cesses into the English royal family.
Truth, giving Mrs. Crawford six columns of
obituary notice, admits the suggestion once
made about her: “She presumes on the privi-
lege of her sex; if she had been a man she
would have been horsewhipped a dozen
times.” But she must have been a sound
journalist; in 39 years of reckless personali-
ties she only once landed the paper in a
libel action—and that case was dismissed.
The S. Aus. Government will have a num-
ber of public-service billets to fill shortly,
chiefly on account of officers retiring at tne
age-limit. Alf Day, secretary to the Rail-
ways Commissioner, and Goodman, general
manager of the Tramways, are freely backed
for the Commissionership. For the
Police Commissionership Major Smeaton,
INLP., Sergeant-Detective Fraser and Colonel
Weir are in the running.
SAMMY LUNN. Adelaide's Poet Laureate
and most successful collector for patriotic
funds.
llonry Conthupe Mais, CE w i lA
in Melbourne last week, came'f r ™ n • lwl
in 3850 with a plant for stailinl 1 /'^ ol
eenng and foundry establishment hiSv? 81 "'
That scheme was abandoned, Sd he WDey-
acting engineer of the Sydney Railway n Dle
which had Charles (Swpcr i„?5 0111 '
tarv. In 54 he accepted an anooinr Cle '
unoer the City Commission (JohTff Ti 1
ben Elliott and F. 0. DatVaJl)”
succeeded the old Co 7.
poration; this he re
signed in ’56. Tw'
years later he removed
to Melbourne and
found employment un-
der Cornish and Brute
!? th e construction of
the Melbourne and
Mount Alexander rail-
way. Later he became
manager of the Mel-
bourne and Suburban
Railway Cremorne-
Richmond line— of
winch George Coppi n
Ttf S, R7 r (ling spiri t
in 67 he was made
Lngineer-m-Chief for
South Australia, and
in 71 became GM
of the railways. He
retired in ’BB and re-
turned to Melbourne
ns a consulting engi-
neer He pleaded
guilty to 89.
BRIGADIER
GENERAL
G. G. H. IRVING.
City Solicitor Dawson, Sydney, has filed
Ins pleas in the Court of Final Appeal. Ilis
father. Robert Dawson, came to NSW
with Governor Gipps in January, 1888, and
7 en '?• station in Argyle as a jackeroo.
in Ins father arrived and purchased a
run' in the Monaro, and young Dawson under-
took the management. The big pastoral
slump in the ’forties settled the business
when in ’47 the Government established
a Court of Petty Sessions at Cooma young
Dawson accepted the position of C.P.S. at
£lOO a year. In ’57 he was promoted to be
Police Magistrate, and retired in 1887 after
40 years’ service at the one court. This
must be nearly a record. Just-dead Sydney
Dawson was born at Cooma in ’64, educated
at Newington, articled to G. C. K. Waldron,
and when the latter died in February 1)9
succeeded him as City Solicitof.
Adelaide Botanic Gardens will shortly
have a new director, Dr. Holtze being close
up to the retiring line. W. Draper, F.L.S.
at present director of the Government Gar-
dens at Delta Barrage, Egypt, is mentioned
for the billet. Of course, nobody in Australia
has the necessary qualifications.
The sons of Canon Grime, of the
Anglican Cathedral at Newcastle (N.S.W.).
are doing their best to hold Australia’s end
up in the present war. One was in the land-
ing at Anzac, and, after losing an eye
through a splinter of Turkish shrapnel, is
now in England. A second, who is a lieu-
tenant in the Australian artillery, is in hospi-
tal in Egypt. A third holds a commission
in an English cavalry regiment, and is at
present at Bisley (Eng.), teaching Kitch-
ener’s new army some wrinkles about
machine-guns; and a fourth is in camp at
Newcastle, preparing to move on to the
interminable Front.
Chaplain Bickersteth, who lately left his
billet at Melbourne Grammar School to
enlist in England, has duly arrived in his
native land. lie took with him a singular
commission. An old pupil offered the
Grammar School £lOO for a new chapel-bell.
After searching Australia for five minutes
and finding no local article that made the
right kind of noise, the. school authorities
asked Bickersteth to buy a bell for them in
the dear old Motherland, and in the intervals
of Salisbury Plaining the earnest young
cleric is at work, ear down on the trail,
seeking the correct sound in the suitable
size and shape. The Bulletin regrets that
Bickersteth got away before it could have
a breathless word with him. Martha
Washington, who cleans the office and hangs
it out to dry, complains that if some clothes
pegs are not got from England the paper
will have to be tied on the line with flax.
Canon John Cue, of Holy Trinity
Cathedral, Wangaratta (Vic.), is about to
do his bit. Tie is packing his appliances as
an Anglican chaplain and will shortly move
on to war with an Australian force. The
rectory will be kept warm for him in his
absence.
us.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The bugle called. They went away.
They fought, they died, they won to fame.
They saw the Turkish lightnings play ;
Their hands were strong to smite and slay,
And honor loved their name.
We praised their deeds at breakfast time,
We praised them in the afternoon,
We praised them at the midnight’s chime,
We praised them- both in beer and rhyme
Beneath the sun and moon.
We called them us, and said that we
Had faced the shot and shrieking shell,
That we had wrought for all to see
Deeds that must live in history
And pubs and trams as well.
We praised us loud at break of day,
We praised us when the sun had set,
We praised us when we knelt to pray
In solemn bars where none might stay,
We praised us dry and wet.
The bugle called. The blood was raw.
We cursed the foeman’s craven heart.
Tremendous glory we foresaw,
And mentioned with elastic jaw
Our great Australian part.
The wagging of our tireless tongue
Was set to one eternal string.
We boasted as when earth was young,
When beer-soaked harpers nightly flung
Their soap-wreaths round the king.
The years went by; the ages grew;
The war was shut in history’s bag.
The world forgot what we could do,
And future epochs only knew
The Great Australian Brag.
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


Quality,
Value
and
Satisfaction
i
“Monopole”
Cigars


Overall, McCray, Ltd.
Bald Rock,
BALMAIN.
SPECIALTY
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS—Deep and Shallow—
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES
Large Stocks also on hand-Samson Windmills, Galvanised Water Pipe and Fitting
Sheep and Cattle Troughing, Pumps, Send for Catalogue.’
BUCYRUS CO. Milwaullee
Steam Shovels, Drag Line Excavators.
SOL Agents'"'WlLLlAM ADAMS ®. COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisba ne, J^®^^ —
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The North Coast Steam Navigation
Co. (N.S.W.) :
Unexplained
Addi- Written
Business tions to Off Re-
Profits. Reserves. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
Dec., £ £ £ £ £
1906.. 15,266 2500 Sp.c.= 13,750 56,630
1907.. 17,574 8 „„ 17,016 701 56,487
1908.- 15,198 5282 8 ~,, 17,500 59,467
1909.. 18,334 1858 8 ~,, 17,500 62,159
1910.. 17,903 4013 8 ~,, 17,500 --- 66.575
1911.. 20,710 S ~,, 18,629 3245 65^411
1912.. 24.762 2739 8 ~,, 23,420 69,542
1913.. 27,707 4460 9 ~,,27,000 74,715
1914.. 27,234 1953 9 ~ ~ 27,000 76,902
1915.. 25,644 2165 9 ~,, 27.000 77,711
In view of the much higher costs in the
coast service and the drought on the North-
ern rivers, the co. has done remarkably well
to have kept up the 9 p.c. rate without cut-
ting into reserves. Further, however profit-
able it has been to most shipping concerns,
the war can’t have benefited this one much ;
on the contrary, by putting up the price of
most stores it has probably cost the co.
money. With a shipping co., however, the
visible reserves are not much to go by, as a
rule: you want to know how much is struck
off profits to cover wear and tear. It can’t
be told for certain in this case; but this may
suggest something. As at Dec., 1913, the
surplus of liquid and semi-liquid assets over
liabilities w T as £81,298, and now it is
£103,245. That shows a nice accumulation
iu two years in spite of the higher dividend.
But that must not be regarded as all profit
in excess of the dividend. Possibly a bit of it
may be the proceeds of sales ; and a lot of
it may be called for presently to make good
the two years’ depreciation of steamers.
Nevertheless, giving all that in, the figures
indicate pretty clearly that, in spite of
adverse conditions, the co. has been holding
its end up very well.
The next comparison makes a 10 years’
survey:—•
„ .. , 1905. 1914. 1915.
Vffuud £159,228 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities .. .. 33,356 26,249 28,631
f t "iP s 184,730 257,223 248,979
Wharves, works, etc. .. 25,765 26,998 26,809
Cash and book debts .. 32,435 96,452 79 564
Sundry assets .. .. 7,871 35,978 64’491
There have been big changes in those 10
years—and there will probably be as big in
the next 10. Some will certainly be to the
co. s advantage. The chances are that even
the railway development on the North Coast
will do it good. The rail is bound to create
settlement; and that and a reasonable
amount of. attention to northern harbors
is all this co. wants. In any case
land settlement is likely to flourish
during the next few years. After the
current boom the cities are going to feel
sick, and whenever that happens people get
virtuous and discover that we want more
producers and fewer parasites. And that
is the beginning of all political wisdom.
The Australian Deposit and Mortgage
Bank (Melbourne), which reduced its capi-
tal from £909.979 to £198,5)35 a couple of
years or so before the table starts :
Dividends on all Shares.
/
? ref ‘ To Re- Re-
Profits, o p.c. Others. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
June, 1909. . 6796 4190 10p.c.= 1620 986 6 958
Dec., 1909. . 6277 4190 10 ~,,1620 467 7 425
June, 1910. . 7066 4190 10 ~,,1620 1256 8 681
Dec., 1910.. 5532 4190 10 ~,,1620 8 403
June, 1911.. 6678 4190 124 „„ 2025 463 8 866
Dec., 1911.. 6886 4190 124 „„ 2025 671 9 537
June, 1912. . 725 1 4190 124 „„ 2025 1036 10’573
Dec., 1912.. 8038 4190 124 „„ 2025 1823 12,396
June, 1913. . 7658 4190 124 „„ 2025 1443 13,839
Dec., 1913.. 6433 4190 15 ~,, 2430 13 652
June, 1914. . 7398 4190 15 ~,, 2430 778 14’430
Dec., 1914.. 7915 4190 15 ~,,2430 1295 15J25
June, 1915. . 7750 4190 15 ~,, 2430 1130 16 855
Dec., 1915.. 7050 4190 15 ~,,2430 430 17,285
Somewhere in the middle of Java there is
the palace of Raden Mas Somethingorother
Itab. Once Raden Mas led the writer of
these sermons into an upper room—a miser-
able little dog-box of a place in the midst
ot much garish splendor. “Every day I
come up here to think a while on how some
others live who are less fortunate than I,”
this old Javanese potentate explained. There
is an upper room at The Bulletin office
full of old records; and once a month at
least Willy Holman should go there to read
such things as this:—
Shareholders will be glad to observe the continued
growth of deposits. These with debentures and accrued
interest now amount to £1,390,281, and our own
capital is £214,863. The investment of this money
in satisfactory securities has required care, and your
directors have pursued a rigorously cautious policy.
The directors recommend the usual dividend at the
rate of 124 p.c., with a bonus of 14 p.c. Their
Policy has been to get plenty of funds in hand to
strengthen the reserves, so shareholders would, he was
sure, be satisfied with 14 p.c.
That was how the chairman of this Aus-
tralian Deposit and Mortgage Bank apolo-
gised in 1891 for paying only 14 p.c. Just
the same things w r ere said by the boomsters
of those days as one hears from the boom-
sters of to-day. But luckily there is a dif-
ference. The boomsters of to-day are not
the banks: they are—of all people in the
world! —Labor members. Not one in a
hundred of them has had any training in
finance, or knows anything of financial his-
tory. That is why they ought to be taken
up find shown first the speeches of men say-
ing just the same things as the Holmans
and Scaddans are saying to-day, and then
the report of the smash, and of the subse-
quent long squeezing-out of calls, and of
the final reconstruction, when ordinary
shares were reduced from £5 to Is. And
they ought to inquire who got the other
995. In 999 cases out of 1000 it was the
cunning speculator, the parasite. He got
the_ hard earnings of thousands of poor sub-
division buyers, and thousands of moderately
poor shareholders in mortgage cos. He is
the person who always benefits by a boom.
To-day we have the awful spectacle of the
Labor party madly pursuing a policy which
will fleece the worker and fatten the syndi-
cate and the speculator.
Certainly the writing down from £5 to Is.
was a trifle too severe; it might have been
sufficient if it had been from £5 to 3s. As
it is, a special reserve has been accumulated
out of the surpluses on sales, which reserve
is for the benefit of the ordinary and
deferred shareholders. This shows the pro-
gress : —•
Profit on Total of
Total Sales Special
Sales. Completed. Reserve.
1905-9.. .. £213,357 £36,212 £36,212
June, 1910 .. 18,569 3,493 39,705
Dec., 1910 .. 21,724 12,351 52,056
June, 1911 .. 15,386 4,036 56,092
Dee., 1911 . . 21,970 3,368 59,460
June, 1912 . . 17,369 7,107 66.567
Dec., 1912 .. 34,579 5,844 72,411
June, 1913 .. 18,498 14,063 86,474
Dec., 1913 .. 16,219 5,428 91,902
June, 1914 .. 17,771 5,471 97,373
Dec., 1914 .. 2,636 353 97,726
June, 1915 .. 6,166 3,001 100,727
Dec., 1915 . . 3,286 1,111 101,838
There is not much of the old property left
now to sell; on the other hand, the last of
the old deposits were got rid of during the
past six months. The next table shows,
among other things, how that payment has
affected the figures :
Dec.,’os. Dec.,’l4. June,’ls. Dec.,’ls.
Deposits (free) £10,829 £30,115 £24,752 £24,931
Deposits (fixed) 351,045 233,765 240,630 70,337
House properties
and land . . 299,911 49,272 46,339 43,886
Balances owing 75,471 93,442 83,927 78,574
Advances .. 106,967 246,183 242,419 215,379
Premises .. 35,000 35,000 35,000 35,000
Liquid assets.. 48,730 161,192 182,808 49,240
There is thus £95,208 of debt (deposits),
and enough assets to pay those creditors
more than four times over. Judged by the
liquid assets on hand, the trouble is to find
not money but suitable securities on which
to lend it.
* * * *
The Farmers and Dairymen’s Milk Co.
(In.S.W.) :—•
Unex-
plained
Addi- Total
_ tions Addi-
r> Trading to Re- tions to Re-
, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves, serves.
*906.. £727 10 p.c. = £142 £897 £1482 £11,291
1907 .. 440 10 „ „ 142 1277 1575 12,866
596 10 „ „ 139 856 1313 14,179
1909.. <O4 10 „ „ 140 1500 2064 16,243
1910.. 1345 10 „ „ 143 2000 3202 19,445
1911 .. 1747 10 „ „ 145 2500 4102 23,547
1912 . . 1782 10 „ „ 145 2500 4137 27,684
1913.. 2172 10 „ „ 145 2500 4527 32,211
1914.. 2318 10 „ „ 146 2750 4922 37,133
1915.. 381 Nil 381 37,514
This may show better what has been hap-
pening :—•
y . ...... 1900. 1910. 1915.
Liabilities .. .. £4lBl £10,620 £37,057
Assets:—•
Buildings and plant . . 2131 25,986 63,784
Book debts .. .. 2353 5,934 10,715
Other assets . . . . 6493 1,536 3,362
Meantime, while the business has been grow-
ing in this extraordinary manner, no capital
has come in from shareholders. In fact,
some has actually been forfeited, and the
total is now only £1462. Thus for every
£1 of share capital the eo. has over £25
of reserves. There has hitherto been some
doubt as to the real value of those reserves.
But this year’s accounts, etc., make things
a bit plainer. The directors say that “the
usual amount has been written off for depre-
ciation” ; yet the reserves have not in-
creased, which shows that they are not
merely an accumulation of amounts written
off against wear and tear. It looks as if
the main purpose of the co. is to market
the shareholders’ milk, etc., to the best ad-
vantage, direct profits from the shares being
quite a secondary matter. That being so,
the manner in which profit has been hoarded
is admirable; and in that respect the co.
is a striking example for Australian co-
operative concerns, which usually hamstring
their managements by their greed for imme-
diate and direct profits.
* * * *
Vale of Clwydd Coal and Brick Co.
late the Vale of Clwydd Coal Mining Co.
(N.S.W.) :
.. to ® e " Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves
Dec., 1908.. £2957 10 p.c. = £l5OO £1457 £4,693
June, 1909.. | 7 (* 48 » » 1500 |
I £2912 dropped out of Reserves f L 824
Dec., 1909.. 1511 10 p.c. = 1500 11 1 835
June, 1910.. 8020 10 „ „ 1500 6520 8 355
Dec., 1910.. 3505 10 „ „ 2250 1255 9,610
June, 1911.. 2558 10 „ „ 2250 308 9,918
Dec., 1911.. 2775 10 „ „ 2250 525 10,443
June, 1912.. 2658 10 „ „ 2250 408 10 851
Dec., 1912.. 3511 10 „ „ 2250 1261 12,112
June, 1913.. 6364 10 „ „ 3000 3364 15 476
Assets written up and £15,000 capitalised.
Dec., 1913.. 6429 10 p.c. = 3000 3429 18 905
June, 1914.. 6316 10 „ „ 3000 3316 22^221
Cash Bonus from special profits, £7500.
Dec., 1914.. 4414 10 p.c. = 3000 1414 23,635
June, 1915.. 3396 10 ~ „ 3000 396 24 031
Bonus, 124 „ ~ 7500 \
Dropped out of Reserves, £1747 I 14 > 784
Dec., 1915.. 2858 10 p.c. = 3000 14,642
This remarkably profitable concern paid a
half-crown bonus in October; but the present
accounts don’t mention it, and the previous
directors’ report didn’t hint that it was com-
nig. Attention might be given to this
matter when a new Companies Act is under
consideration. On the published accounts it
merely appears that £9247 has dropped out
?*. two reserve funds, no indication at all
being given of what has become of the
money. The table accounts for £7500; this
paper doesn’t know what happened to the
rest, nor does any shareholder who may be
unable to get inside information. It hasn’t
apparently gone merely in writing-down
assets: it is hard cash that has disappeared.
Here is a comparison :
Dec.,’l4. June,’ls. Dec.,’ls.
Liquid assets . . £35,041 £34,264 £22,850
Liabilities . . 3,839 3,119 1,762
Surplus. . £31,202 £31,145 £21,088
over 40 years old it is only during
the past 10 or 15 that the Vale of Clwydd
has done any good at all. Till then there
had been excessive competition, which Wil-
ton at last ended when he formed the Lith-
gow Coal Association to handle the output
of this and other Western collieries. That,
the extension of railways in the West and
the establishment of industries at Lithgow
and thereabouts gave the co. a new outlook
on life; and the very small capital with
which the poor little thing was originally
content has allowed of some fine fat bonuses.
Two or three years back the co. launched out
also as a brickmaker. But it isn’t going to
say much about that. Twelve months ago it
credited P. & L. with £BBl on brick factory
account, the next half-year £995, the past
half-year £217. It doesn’t look much on a
capital outlay of over £12,000. Perhaps it
isn’t intended to look much. Still the State
yards have thrown a bomb into a very
pleasant little family party, and in the dull
time that is coming in the building trade
this £12, 000-odd isn’t likely to earn big
money. Already there is more than one idle
brickworks between Sydney and Lithgow.
* * * *
The Shamrock Brewing and Malting
Co. (Melbourne) :
Net To Re- Re-
Nov., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1904.. £5OOB 8 p.c. = £3612 £1396 £20,360
1905.. 4628 8 „ „ 3612 1016 21,376
1906.’. 1452 6 „ ~ 2709 —• 20,119
Dec.,
1907.. 624 4 „,, 1806 —• 18,937
i 908.. 1608 4 „ „ 1806 18,739
1909.. 3904 8 „ „ 3612 292 19,031
1910.. 7293 10 „ „ 4515 2778 21,809
1911.. 6817 10 „ „ 4515 2302 24',111
Transferred from Assets Realisation
Account, £BOOO .. .. 32,111
lql2 J 7006 10 p.c. = 4515 2491 34;602
'■ [ Transferred to Capital, £33,373 .. 1,229
Transferred from Realisation
Account, £17,715 .. .. 18,944
1913.. 6219 8 p.c. = 6282 18,881
1914.. '7795 8 „ „ 6282 1513 20,394
1915.. 6689 8 „ „ 6282 407 20,801
The co. depends almost wholly on the Mel-
bourne Beer Combine, which isn’t a Combine
in the ordinary sense of the word. The
Carlton and United Breweries, Ltd., really
bought all these Melbourne cos. out, and this
Shamrock and similar concerns are now
investment cos. which couldn’t brew beer
even if they wanted to. True, this co.’s
brewery and malt house at Abbotsford were
not wanted and were accordingly not taken
over; but the rolling stock has gone and the
longer the premises remain unused the more
impossible will it be for the so-called com-
bine to break up, as ordinary combines have
a habit of doing. Still, though the old cut-
throat competition is thus gone for good,
new competition may possibly push in.
There is a little already—from the Co-opera-
tive Co. Apart from that, however, the
chances of the “combine” being hit by com-
petition are not serious, because the steady
movement against the liquor business is
likely to shoo money away from it. The
bigger trouble may come from the restraints
put upon the pubs. For the second half of
the past year the “combine,” which had got
into the habit of paying 8 p.c., pulled down
its dividend to 6 p.c. for ordinaries and 7 p.c.
tor prefs., so apparently it has been feeling
the joint effects of drought and nine o’clock
closing. And it is dead certain that we
uaven’t yet reached the end of the changes
in liquor legislation. Still, this and other cos.
m the business have one great advantage
—they have been given plenty of warning.
Luring the past year, for instance, one of
this co. s freehold pubs was closed under the
Victorian Licenses Induction law; yet there
has been no loss, except in regard to the
facilities for future trade. “The property
has been sold and the amount realised
together with the compensation awarded by
the Reduction Board, just about equals the
amount standing against the property in the
co. s books.” The co. hasn’t much left in
f f ct J ap , art fron ? the old brewery
tilb,UyU), it hasn t much in anything except
i ar T v • shares - Their value depends
almost wholly upon their earnings; that is
to say, the C. and U. B. capital is to only a
small extent represented by tangible assets.
* * * *
Ltd., formerly the Austral-
asian Motor Cab Co. (Sydney) :
Feb, 1910 L — S ‘ Divi _^f nds - Written Off. Deficit.
June, 1911.. £6457 NR £2767
•Tune, 1912.. 1585 N 3^3
May, 1913.. 1191 Nil l!
Capital written off, £27,173 . 9 qns
Profit.
May, 1914.. 918 Nil 1476 3 461
May,’ IS:: 1 %l s I:
Nov., 1915.. 399 Nil 759 3,446
con . cei 'Q showed a net profit
tor the first time in May, 1935, and then
sank back exhausted. Originally it was a
London promotion, and the early proceed
ngs were so disgraceful that somebody ought
to have gone to gaol over it. However as
usual, nobody went to gaol : all that hau
pened was that at last the wreck of the
concern was rescued and the management
was transferred to Australia. Whether it
has been very brilliantly handled since then
is a matter of opinion. Anyway the results
haven’t dazzled anybody. More than half
£27 1 I la - S been written off. and of the
£~7,100 that is nominally left £8440 i« not
ureTlhe D b f nf a, 9' th >" that you oa® ’La”!
uie by the pint, yard or pound: some of it
is goodwill and the rest of it
S m o U f the d f£S The principal asset com
£l9 °°o • n nil i -< i moto l'~ ca bs and stocks,
tl, —(,, and, besides sundry debtors, plant,
etc., there is £l5Bl of cash f,
IS f ?^r d t 0 give the sharehS Which it
of £1356, equal to Is. per share 1 S a b ‘te
a return of capital. This is fal’ , by of
that m the directors’ opinionl tra 'ght tip
money in an extension of the w^ 6 is no
ago the co. gave up the attSS? 1 Lo “
money out of putting taxi 'n to m 'ike
stands for hire; and appaUilv b fL° n - the
prospect of affluence from the e ls no
adopted of running a so-t of 5! tem tb en
stable. m otor ij very
Albury Gas Co. (Albury, N.S.W)-
Profits. Dividends lo ße- Rg.
June, 1909 .. £672 10 p c-£«7e ® erve s. serves
Dec., 1909 .. 731 10 £ |97 £ 2^
June, 1910 .. 779 10 ” o 356 3 03 )
Dec., 1910 .. 719 10 ” 'Hr <O4 3 44 j
June, 1911 .. 663 10 ’’ ” Hf 344 3785
Dec., 1911 .. 512 io ”Hf 288 4073 '
June, 1912 .. 445 10 ” ” 37?
Dec., 1912 .. 645 10 ” 375 7 ® 4280
June, 1913 .. 618 10 375 4550
Dec., 1913 .. 525 10 , 375 ?48 4793
June, 1914 .. 401 10 , ill I ®® 4943
Dec., 1914 .. 577 10 „ ” 375 ™ 4969
June, 1915 .. 527 10 „ 375 ?2f 517]
Dec., 1915 .. 736 10 „ ” J®* 5323
Some of the bloom is off” this nesmh f 684
the local municipal council is putting ool
electric light plant, and, besides th J loss of
the street-lighting contract, there is el
tition ahead. However, the council has h Pe '
very considerate about it, and hung im« r®"
until the little co. had shaken itself aimS
free from debt:—
t* i Dec.,’os. Dec ’is
Liabilities .. ..£5064 £3190
Liquid assets .. .. 126 i 2 670
Excess liabilities ..£3803 £520
Meantime, besides wearing down the liabili-
ties, the co. has put a thousand or two into
plant and main extensions, and has added
to its turnover by about 50 p.c. I n the
first table the profit includes amounts trans-
ferred to the depreciation fund; but evpn
allowing for that, there seems to have been
a very fair margin over the 10 p.c. What
the future will show depends very largely
upon the respective merits of the two man-
agements.
* * * *
The Deniliquin and Moama Railway
Co. (N.S.W.) way
Profits. Dividends. Reserve
Jun e , 1908 .. £2812 5 p.c. =£2500 £ 50,030
Dec., 1908 .. 4700 5„ „ 2500 52 4o
June, 1909 .. 1321 5„ „ 2500 51’051
Dec., 1909 . . 5431 5„ „ 2500 53^98
•Tune, 1910 . . 1797 5„ „ 25 0 0 53 279
Dec., 1910 . . 6808 5„ „ 2500 57’587
June, 1911 . . 2049 5„ „ 2500 57 136
£25,000 of reserves transferred to capital .. 32’136
V GC ’’ " 7676 5 P-C-= 3125 36,687
June, 1912 . . 2385 5„ „ 3125 35,947
Dec., 1912 .. 5066 5„ „ 3125 37,888
June, 1913 . . 2450 5„ „ 3125 37 213
Dec., 1913 . . 9101 7„ „ 4375 4L939
June, 1914 .. 3006 5„ „ 3125 41820
Dec., 1914 .. 7354 5 „ „ 3125 4c!oi9
June, 1915 .. 4587 5,, ~ 3125 47511
Dec., 1915 . . 4312 5 „ „ 31 2 5 4 8*698
This old _ CO. doesn’t give its shareholders
many thrills. Still, they got one a while
ago when they collected one new share for
every four old ones; and £12.000 has been
added to the reserves since that happened
years ago. So far as hard cash is con-
cerned, this shows the history better: —
1905. 1915.
Liquid assets .. £11,254 £14,381
Liabilities.. .. 30,917 230
Excess liabilities £19,663
Surplus assets.. £14,151
That’s £33,814 to the good in 10 years; and
the chances are that the permanent way
and rolling stock are worth close-up what
they were in 1905—perhaps a trifle more.
It is never going to be a big thing, because
tI.A country thereabouts won’t stand very
close settlement; but it will probably go on
doing steadily a bit better, on the average, as
the surplus earnings accumulate and settle-
ment progresses as far as it can.
* * * #
The Broken llill Proprietary Co.:—
Gross Divi- Gross Divi-
Profits. dends. - Profits, dends.
£ £ £ £
May, ’O6 253,473 192,000 Nov.,’lo 124,938 48,000
Nov., ’O6 345,622 240,000 May, ’ll 155,967 48,000
May, ’O7 331,125 240,000 Nov., ’ll 239,731 96,000
Nov., ’O7 153,599 288,000 May, ’l2 203,716 120,000
May, ’OB 30,389 72,000 Nov., ’l2 177,594 144,000
Nov., ’OB 34,430 Nil May, ’l3 132,037 120,000
Loss. Xov., ’l3 152,768 96,000
May, ’O9 59,029 Nil May, ’l4 1 65,2 9 2 113,728
Profits. Nov., ’l4 144,847 59,050
Nov., ’O9 55,996 Nil May, ’l5 223,312 118,101
May, TO 46,047 48,000 Nov., T 5 273,380 118,101
In each of the past two terms £15,000 has
been cut out of gross profits to provide a
sinking fund for the new steel debenture
issue. This amount is not included in the
table. But a small matter of £15,000 is
neither here nor there in the accounts of a
co. like this. Nobody knows to within a few
thousands what profit really was made. For
instance, among the assets are “Iron and
steel products on hand, £127,001,’’ and “Ore
concentrates, etc., on hand, £153,036.” That
presumably, is the estimated value of the
co.’s very large stocks in excess of the ad-
vances drawn against them. But the est,-
mated excess is largely a matter of how
somebody was feeling. Lead is quoted now
at about £33 a ton. If the man or men who
had the settling of the balance-sheet were
feeling very well, they might have reckoned
on getting £3O per ton for the stuff on which
final settlements had not been made. On the
other hand, they might have reckoned o n
getting no more than £22. That difference m
the estimate would probably make a dilig-
ence of £30,000 or £40.000 in the profits, bo
the figures for any one half-year are not oi
very much consequence.
The B. 11. Prop.’s history can be divided
into four parts. (1) Fourteen years of nen
oxidised ores, when dividends were ea s .'
though costs were appalling. (2) About
years of sulphides, during which gradua .
increasing profits were made out of the %
content. (3) Six years during which
mine ran downhill and the end hove in sign l .
in this period the co. tried to make use 0


The British Westinghouse Electric 8i Mfg. Co., Ltd.
W estirvghouse
Rateau Impulse Type
Steam Turbines
HIGH ECONOMY
SIMPLE DESIGN
STURDY CONSTRUCTION
As the largest builders of Steam Turbines in Great Britain, ( we
are in the position to give early delivery of Steam Turbines
and Turbo-Sets up to 10,000 Kilowatts.
|n£inpl)ousf
N^anclvgstcr
Send enquiries to Head Office for Australia:
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
You can’t stop an avalanche —don’t try. If your
enthusiasm doesn’t carry you away—the avalanche
will. Like “Chromol” Belting, it drives ahead and
keeps going till the goal is reached. The stiffest
drive and the most severe conditions do not stop
“Ohromol” from keeping the pulleys up to their
work. It never slips or jerks-—but grips the pulleys
and gives maximum power all the time. Used
exclusively on many of the heaviest mining drives
in the Commonwealth. Mineral tanned, durable and
pliable, it will stand every test. J. C. Ludowici &
Son, Ltd., 117 York Street, Sydney (Opp. Q. V.
Markets). Sold in Victoria by Geo. Russell Pty.,
Ltd., Flinders Street, Melbourne. Queensland : Queens-
land Machinery Co., Ltd., Brisbane. South Aus-
tralia : J. McKell, Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
West Australia: Horace Summers, Howard Street,
Perth. Broken Hill: Geo. C. Dempster, Argent
Street. — Advt.
* * «• *
ALUMINOFERRIC is used by the Sydney Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards and graziers
for precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is simply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours’
time the most discolored water will be as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless.
Sole agents: William Adams & Company Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.— Advt.
* * * *
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. 3d. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is.;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. — a saving of 2s. sd,
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow 16in. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.— Advt. [2
* * * *
Extract from The Citizen, London, 15th Septem-
ber, 1915: “Colonial Mutual Life Office. —The Society
has a very wide range of most attractive schemes for
both Life and Endowment Assurance, and if desired
a policy can be obtained covering Life Assurance,
Endowment Assurance and personal Accident and
Sickness Insurance in one contract. Intending in-
surers would do well to carefully consider the merits
of this office, which we can recommend with every
confidence, more especially as we note that the
whole of its funds are invested ‘under the British
flag,’ and that it does not, nor has it ever, trans-
acted foreign business.’’- — Advt. [8
• * * *
PIONEER WOOD PIPE TANKS for water, wine,
vinegar, acids, oil, cyanide or mine liquors are
constructed in all sizes from 500 to 100,0C0 gallons.
They are easily despatched, being carried in sections
and erected on arrival. Catalogue from The Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Contractors to Federal
and State Governments, 57 York Street, Sydney
(Head Office.) — Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting Com-
pany of Australia, Limited. —By mutual consent
Mr. Francis H. Snow has retired from the above com-
pany, and the Ore Purchase Department at Bridge St.,
Sydney, has been closed. Sellers of ore should now com-
municate direct with the Works, Port Ivembla. — Advt.
* * * »
Australian Machinery Cp., Ltd., Charlotte Street,
Brisbane, are specialists in pumping machinery, and
will submit prices with arrangement drawings and
details upon receipt of necessary data of any size or
type of plant.— Advt.
* * * *
The Australian Amicable Assurance Association
Ltd. —Premium Income Increases.—December, 1915,
over December, 1914, 289 p.c. January, 1916, over
January, 1915, 295 p.c. February, 1916, over
February, 1915, 335 p.c. The premium income for the
first three months of the present financial year was
greater than the premium income for the first seven
months of last year.—Advt.
* * * *
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia. — Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Veare Born to
iafiotuns.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
The 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Capital £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up ... ... 82,500
ACENTS WANTED.
Blanches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£545,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 155,351 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 81,500 0 0
£782.611 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. ~
Gen. Man. : Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Canncn Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
works while conserving its own limited ore
bv smelting other cos.’ products. (4) The
establishment of iron and steel works, and
the sale of the lead smelters to a co-opera-
tive concern in which it has an interest. The
total book value of plant and machinery is
£1653 lt>o. of which the iron and steel sec-
tion now represents £1,448,500. That shows
how completely the complexion of the co. has
changed during the last year or two. About
all the co. has left of its old assets (apart
from the rapidly wasting mine) is its name
and its organisation; and its organisation
has undergone many changes. John Darling
is dead and Muecke, who succeeded him as
chairman, has dropped out; H. V. McKay,
the harvester man, has brought in quite new
blood ; David Baker has come from America
to manage the steel works. G. D. Delprat
continues, of course, to be the plotter-in-
chief ; and his mana is great. Still even Del-
prat can miscalculate. “At first. ’ he says,
was expected that three open-hearth fur-
naces would be able to deal with the entire
production of pig-iron. This, however, has
proved not to be the case, and it was decided
to add another four open-hearth furnaces.”
Seven furnaces to do the work that it was
thought would be done by three! Still. Aus-
tralia simply must have iron and steel
works; and if we can’t run them success-
folly under present conditions, then we must
alter the conditions. But it is quite possi-
ble that this co. will have varying fortunes
before that fact is realised. Meantime, for
perhaps six or eight years, it is likely to get
very material help from the remnant of the
old mine. » * *
Broken Hill South Silver Mining Co. :
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
Dee 1908.. £51,016 Nil £10,693 £169,585
June' 1909.. 46,795 £40,000 10,742 165,638
Dec.’ 1909.. 47,980 40,000 100,000 73,618
June’ 1910.. 42,624 20,000 5,166 91,076
Dec’ 1910.. 72,427 60,000 5,081 98,422
June 1911.. 77,665 60,000 5,087 111,000
Dec’ 1911.. 128,134 90,000 5,301 143,833
June 1912.. 141,639 120,000 5,684 159,788
Dec 1912.. 217,776 170,000 5,809 201,755
June, 1913.. 119,936 160,000 5,698 155,993
Dec 1913.. 177,091 140.000 5,561 187,523
June, 1914.. 146,756 140,000 5,597 188,682
Dec 1914.. 95,082 Nil 6,116 277,648
June 1915.. 136,291 30,000 12,520 371,419
Dec., 1915.. 163,869 90,000 6,900 438,388
As at Dec. 31 the co. had on hand and in
suspense metals and concentrates valued at
£96,978; and in view of recent high
prices the chances are that something more
than that will be got on final settlement.
War profits have fattened the figures during
the half-year. In Britain the Government is
casting an Arctic eye on these profits, and
especially on profits made out of metals ; and
if the war lasts much longer something sud-
den may happen on both sides of the water.
This co.’s profits for the half-year are more
than twice as great as the average for the
previous seven years ; and if three people out
of four were not making more money now
than they do under normal conditions, such
a result would be regarded as simply intoler-
able. Of course the reckoning will come
by-and-bye. We are simply dipping into our
future earnings to pay these high prices. In
the days to come the Broken Hill cos.
likely to suffer with the rest. Hence the
extra profit they are making isn’t all bunce.
But if the past year’s figures are not much
to go by, a line may perhaps be got from
those of the past seven. Here they are in
the rough
Ore Treated. Divs. Paid.
June, 1909 .. 137,839 tons. £40,000
Dec., 1909 . . 167,265 „ 40,000
June, 1910 . . 132,968 „ 20,000
Dec.. 1910 .. 179,216 „ 60,000
June, 1911 .. 175,044 ~ 60,000
Dec., 1911 .. 181,790 „ 90,000
June, 1912 . . 165,532 „ 120,000
Dec., 1912 .. 180,080 „ 170,000
June, 1913 .. 151,742 „ 160,000
Dec., 1913 .. 168,957 „ 140,000
June, 1914 .. 172,330 „ 140,000
Dec., 1914 .. 112,750 „ Nil
June, 1915 .. 131,059 „ 30,000
Dec., 1915 .. 163,494 „ 90,000
2,220,066 tons. £1,160,000
That is about 10s. 6d. per ton of ore. In
addition to ore the co. has beeii getting rid
of its accumulated tailings, and there was
good profit in that until the war stopped the
export of zinc concentrate to Belgium,
where most of it was smelted; but other
things are coming along to take the place of
the old tailings dumps, so the profit made
in the past seven years may fairly be
assumed to be profit made from current ore.
And on that basis, as there are still
3,350,000 tons exposed, one can roughly
assume that there are £1,750,000 of dividends
in the mine. In addition there are more or
less liquid assets running to £001,594, or
£353,650 in excess of liabilities; also there is
an unknown quantity of ore in the mine
below the deepest point at which ore has been
opened out and measured. There are 200.000
shares in the co.; and the foregoing estima-
tion would give each of them an ultimate
value of well over £lO.
The manipulators of the copper market
have been checked to some extent by the
British Munitions Department, which has
earmarked the output from Australia —about
40,000 tons per annum—at a price equiva-
lent to £lOO for electrolytic. The arrange-
ment is to hold good while the war lasts.
* * * *
The oil-flotation process has revolutionised
low-grade copper-mining in America, where
plants to deal with millions of tons of ore
per annum—some as low as 1 p.c.-—are now
in operation, and it is likely that a similar
result will follow in Australia —practically
the home of the process. Mount Lyell has
installed an experimental plant capable of
dealing with 600 tons per week. Part of the
plant has been given a trial run, and the
official report states :—•
Satisfactory full scale trial runs were made on the
flotation plant on February 17 and 18. About 80
tons of ore, assaying 5.13 p.c. copper were treated
each day. Concentrates assayed 13.9 p.c., and tailings
0.47 p.c., the recovery being 94 p.c. The mill is
working splendidly.
The Fort Bourke and Chesney mines, which
belong to the Great Cobar Co., present excep-
tional opportunities for the use of the oil
flotation process on an extensive scale, but
in the present weak financial position of that
company it can hardly be expected that this
will be done. The salvation of the combined
mines lies in this direction. It is up to Pre-
mier Holman, representing the State as part-
owner, to get the advice of the Mines Depart-
ment experts and see that the proposed policy
of ore-extraction, which will mean the extinc-
tion of the main mine, is promptly deviated
from.
* * * *
Westralian Chamber of Mines is making
a noise about the shortage of labor at Kal-
goorlie, and says that if things do not im-
prove soon some of the mines will have to
close down. The Chamber attributes the
dearth of men to the refusal of unionists
to work with enemy subjects and the num-
ber of underground hands who have gone
to the war. It also complains that in addi-
tion to a shortage of capable miners there
is a slackness and slowing up on the part
of a number of employees, which almost
amounts to a lazy strike. Some of the
men are alleged to make a practice of
applying for work, going below, doing little
or nothing, cheerfully accepting the sack,
and next day giving an encore at another
mine. They have thus been able, by giving
all the shows a turn, to get a week or two’s
full pay without doing any work at all.
The labor shortage, the Chamber says, has
caused the aggregate output of the district
to fall 21,000 tons, the gold output £26,000,
and the wages total £6500 a month.
* * * *
From a Bulletin man :
Have just had a glimpse at the new development in
the Edna May Central. Some 160 ft. of driving east
and south and 40ft. between the two faces
has been done on a freaky, irregular shaped
body of ore with mullocky intrusions, and for widths
ranging up to 20ft. values are officially given as
17dwt., with ounce ore showing in the east end.
This is the best part of the formation, and is pro-
bably the main make of stone. As a result of this
work and the driving of crosscuts from the two
levels below to cut the downward continuation of
the shoot, and also on the strength of a bullish re-
port that the next clean-up is going to paralyse the
bears, the market valuation of the show has appreci-
ated to £ 150,000.
A look underground shows that for a long time the
mill has been mostly kept going with low-grade wash
from the 73ft. level, and before the new find was
made the mine was in rather an emaciated condi-
tion. For two years it had failed to realise the
profit its controllers predicted. Now its admirers
whoop that it is going to pay monthly divs. of Is.
They are optimists. As a result of the development
co. can at the outside count on about 15ft. of
“backs” and a further 70ft., or thereabouts, if the
shoot lives and maintains its size and value down to
the next level. This means that at the most 8000
tons will be available in the area of ground already
explored; and estimated on the official value of the
ore net profits will not exceed £20,000.
* * * *
Coolgardie (W.A.) is crowing over the fact
that good crushings are being obtained from
the ore raised and left behind by the Mel-
bourne co. which threw up the option on the
Bulla Bulling leases at Gibraltar. But the
show is only a squib, and would have broken
the back, and probably the heart, of the co.
had it stuck to it. Gibraltar is no place
for a co. to go.
* * * *
From Laverton (W.A.) : Ida H. has got
some rich ore and indefinitely prolonged its
life; Mary Mac’s bottom level is showing an
improvement; British Flag, which Peacock
and others optioned and turned down, has
got another patch of specimen stone. The
last lot yielded £2855, and that now being
taken out is expected to yield as much if not
more. Golden Spinifex’s flotation is said to
be assured. This show, as stated in a
recent par, was prospected some 10 years
ago, but after £7330 had been dug out, water
hampered operations and compelled the
owners to clear out.
Pioneer Tin, Bradshaw’s Creek (Tas.) :
Tin Won.
, * *
Drift. per Cost per
cub. yds. tons. cub. yd. cub. yd.
June, 1915 . . 308,800 136.9 0.9381 b. 4.114 d.
Dec., 1915 . . 489,000 223.95 1.0251 b. 4.010 d.
1900 to date .. 7,275,200 5681 1.7491 b. 6.274 d.
Plentiful water enabled the co. to increase
its output and reduce costs in the past half-
year. If tin remains at present price dirt
should average Is. per lb., and with costs a
shade over 4d. there should be a comfort-
able margin for dividends. Cecil Ryan does
not state whether his barges are tackling
the upper drifts. If they are, the grade of
the wash should improve during the current
term; still a tributary is needed to restore
former values. In the co.’s Argonaut pro-
perty the wash is shallow in the creek bed,
and has run at slightly under lib. The
barge is now tackling the terrace ground and
finding it a tough proposition. Yet the
w r ash is deeper and the values better than
Ryan anticipated.
* * * *
Want of power is still the bugbear of the
Cassilis, Gippsland (Yic.). Now A. A.
Summerhayes, the new manager, proposes
to utilise the headwaters of the Cobungra
by means of a cheap dam, but he wants
State help in the work. As the co.’s slimes
plant is expected to show £2OO profits
monthly, a bit of nerve is required to ask
for assistance these times. Still the chances
are that Cassilis will get what it seeks.
What then? About 5000 tons stand in the
stopes to be beaten out from the Cassilis
and the Ceresa. Reefs for 300 ft. have been
driven on an 8-inch shoot at the No. 5 level
ou the Ceresa. The grade is about 15dwt.,
so there should be profit in it. The co.’s
game is to sink deeper to get additional
backs as well as to . crosscut the country
between the Ceresa and Cassilis shoots. The
old plans showed three or four parallel
makes of quartz. Summerhayes urges that
an old-fashioned prospector be put on the
job of searching for a fresh shoot of gold in
these formations.
* * * *
An air of indebtedness is about the Row-
lett North Woolamai coal-mine (Vic.). This
show was left by Peter Mcßride when Min-
ister of Mines to bask beside his State coal
mine. Its backers have found out that a
coal seam doesn’t necessarily mean imme-
diate profits. Capital expenditure last year
cut into nearly £15,000, of which the State
contributed £4500. This loan will have to
be repaid, as well as £3989 to sundry credi-
tors and £1730 for advances against coal.
The management, however, reckons it won’t
take long to get clear, especially if the
threatened increase in the price of coal is
made. But, even so, labor difficulties,
faulted country and narrow seams will con-
tinue to trouble the co.
* * * *
The Victoria United, Ballarat, is a matter
of more than sentimental interest to the
Government. Months back, the old co. hav-
ing given up the struggle, the Minister of
Mines undertook to keep the workings from
getting flooded while a new co. was being
formed. But the shares didn’t go off, and
the old show continued to cost £4O a week
for pumping—until a few days back, when
the Minister decided to let go.
* * * *
Vegetable Creek (N.S.W.) reports that
there is ready for blocking out ground which
contains 270 tons of tin oxide. At pre-
sent price this would be worth about
£32,000; and all the metal should be won
within six months. The vendors of the mine
having been paid off, the directors anticipate
paying regular quarterly dividends.
* * * *.
The C.S.A., near Cobar (N.S.W.), sent
2440 tons of copper ore to the smelters last
year. Average assay was 14.7 p.c., worth
£ll 15s. with copper at £BO. The sale of
this ore realised £16,075. At the close of the
year the co. had £4986 in cash and £4438
owing for ore. Under present conditions a
substantial profit can be made by shipping
14 p.c. ore, but the co. can undoubtedly make
more by smelting locally, because it has a
big supply of basic fluxing material. These
considerations prompted the Board to pur-
chase a furnace. Altogether 4689 tons of
ore were raised in 12 months.
* * * *
Mount Bischoff (Tas.) has fallen from its
high estate, for, despite the high price of
tin, the past half-year did not show suffi-
cient profit to pay a dividend. Ore treated
was 60,188 tons, producing 1246 tons of
metallic tin. The North Valley flats have
been well tested and show a return equal
to 0.33 p.c. of tin. Ore reserves are esti-
mated at 1,665,000 tons, equal to 10 years’
life.
* * * *
The Bruni Island Petroleum Co. (Tas.)
is going ahead with its oil effort in spite of
Dr. Wade’s gloomy forecasts. G. R.
Andrew, who is running the show, has bought
a drilling-plant in Sydney, to be delivered
in a month’s time, and is getting a driller
from Timor. Meanwhile he is building a
«rdam and fixing up odds and ends.
* * * *
The Goobaragandra mine (Tumut,
N.S.W.) isn’t on Stinking Creek after all —
which is very right and proper, for it doesn’t
deserve to be. The reputable experts who
have reported so favorably on the
mine must be believed until the battery tells
its tale, and the shareholders, who have re-
frained from asking for money from the pub-
lic, deserve that the tale shall confirm the
experts’ opinions.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Silberberg & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney;
and 443 Bourke Street. Melbourne. —Advt.
C. 5.11.: (1) No, it is fixed; (2) can’t:
advise... .Steamship : Fixed, but cumulative.
....Gas: Sorry, can’t advise as to market
operations. Both have got dividend pi'os-
pects.. . .Fleming: No, certainly not. .. . Lis-
towel: It’s a wild gamble, with the odds
gradually lengthening.


HEERING
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. 1818.
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
WARNING TO DYSPEPTICS.
Many interesting paragraphs have recently
appeared in the press concerning the remark-
able antacid properties possessed by Bisu-
rated Magnesia, and thousands of people now
regularly take half a teaspoonful of the pre-
paration in a little water after their meals
as a safeguard against indigestion, dyspepsia,
heartburn, flatulence, etc. It appears, how-
ever, that in several instances other forms
of magnesia, bearing somewhat similar
names, have been used, often with very
unpleasant results. To guard against dan-
gerous substitution and ensure getting the
genuine product as recommended by physi-
cians, readers should ask their chemist dis-
tinctly for Bisnrated Magnesia-, and insist
on being supplied in bottles having the full
name —Bisnrated Magnesia— blown in the
glass.—A dvt.
To Sydney Visitors
“ Clifford,” Macleay Street,
Potts Point.
BOARDING HOUSE REFINED HOME
Magnificent Harbor View and Grounds.
Swimming Baths, Tennis Court.
15 MINUTES FROM
SINCE 1679. SINCE 1679.
HAIG & HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, March 6, 1916.
My Dear Arini, —
Colonel James Burns, head of the ship-
ping firm whose plaid funnels smoke in a
hundred nigger harbors, got off the Malwa
at Melbourne to have a crack with blither
Scot Munferguson about his nine months’
travels. ■ The Colonel went away via the
U.S.A., and at N’York was transferred from
a White Star liner (which wasn’t risking
the thrust of the torpedo fish just then) to
a Yankee ship with the sign of the Almighty
Dollar painted all over the sides and illumi-
nated at night by strong electrics.
In Europe he found everything different
from what it ever was before —so different
that women who had never fingered more
than seven-and-six a week in their peaceful
lives were getting a couple of pounds at
munition-making. Carrying the personal
assurance of the G.-G. that he was a re-
spectable old gentleman, he went to the War
Office and asked what about a look at the
Fronts in France and Belgium. Everything
was going swimmingly when sombeody re-
membered that civilians were for the moment
absolutely barred. Then the shipping man
recalled that he wasn’t a civilian, but a
colonel of the old Parramatta lancers. He
had only 24 hours to get the wardrobe to
tit his new-old part, but the Army and Navy
Stores managed it, and Colonel Burns
joined 1200 other officers and men and left
Folkestone on a troopship whose deck was
invisible for khaki and lifebelts—one of the
latter making a pouter pigeon of everybody
on board on account of the recent suspici-
ous behavior of a vessel of a sort which
might lay mines, said vessel, by the way,
flying one of the “neutral” flags.
The Colonel left behind him in London
two daughters, who spend most of their days
in bucking up invalided Kangaroos. He had
the good luck to meet his two boys when
the Malwa called at Egypt. Both of them
enlisted as full privates, but one of them
earned a commission at Anzac and put in a
spell as A.D.C. to that General Walker
whom Ashmead Bartlett quoted as authority
for so many things.
Charles Mackellar, M.L.C., is seriously ill
in the. big house that overlooks Rose Bay’s
mosquito fleet. He is the veteran champion
of the State child, and a citizen N. S. Wales
needs to encourage back to health.
A Sydney man, Flight-Lieutenant Cecil
Brinsmead, R.N., was killed in action a few
weeks ago. Young Brinsmead, only 22 when
the end came, used to be in the mercantile
marine. Then he soared in the Royal Navy’s
section of the aviation service.
T. G. Russell, a Christchurch (M.L.) mag-
nate, stayed here just long enough to hear
about the six o’clock beer storm. The
affluent Russell has a Governor’s screw,
without the dreadful consequences of hav-
ing to free feed several thousand people all
the year round. The M.L. man hurried on
to Hobart to meet a married daughter. She
is an anxious grass widow with a husband in
the firing-line.
Nina Edmond, eldest daughter of The
Bulletin’s late and beloved chief, steps
up to the altar on March 14. The lucky
man is Captain A. C. Moyes.
The Verbrugghen family lias made un its
mmd to settle in leafy Wahroonga. When
the pleasant Mrs. Henri has been there a
little time she’ll hear a discreet whisper that
‘ colonial” is properly only applied to an
inhabitant of Fiji or Greenland.
Medlow has been energetically conducting
a series of patriotic gatherings. The hills
give a zest to woman’s insatiable desire to
do something for the great Cause, even if
it s only to click together a lumpy-toed sock
A war-fund party to be “addressed” by
Senator Gould is the latest evidence of what
our sex will do for the Empire. Incidentally
Mrs. Vivers is getting back her roses on the
Blue Mountains.
Douglas Reid, eldest son of Australia’s
late I ie Commissioner, is practising khaki.
He hopes to experience its serious side with
the R.F.A.
David Low’s virile black-and-white show
at Anthony Horderns’ Gallery has two or
three particular specimens of his work to
encourage art burg Jars. One is a drawing
of C. J. Dennis (“The Sentimental Bloke”)
walking on a carpet of clouds. I under-
stand this is all the footing poets require on
the road to Olympus.
The rain pattered down on the weddin<>-
day of Dr. Roger Hughes and Eileen Maher*
but it didn’t damp tbe festive air of the
dressy event. The bride’s frock was
elaborately simple. A Honiton veil that
had graced the altar years ago upon
mother fell like a snowflake over a
foam of white cr§pe de chine and lace. The
’groom gave his Eileen a diamond necklet
and pendant which glittered amongst the
fluffy finery of the dainty corsage. Chief
bridesmaid Marjory Allison, of Coomoo-
Coomoo station, was frocked in peep-o’-day
pink silk, veiled in cloudy white drapery.
The Tom Hughes’s parental abode, Cran-
brook Cottage, was lent for the bridal feast.
R. L. Baker has had to run up the white
flag and declare the beauty competition
“off.” The difficulty of getting judges that
he considered equal to the occasion dis-
heartened him. One hundred and thirteen
girls who had, in four days, decided to take
their chance were disappointed.
At the Stadium on Friday evening, March
10, soldiers, are going to show us what they
can do in the way of trimming millinery.
Fanny Durack is billed to give a thrill on
the same night. The champion lady fish
will leap into a specially-built tank. This
entertainment is the preliminary to the out-
door carnival (March 11) to rally the Light
Ilorse Comforts’ Fund.
Dr. Mary Booth, one of the vice-presidents
of the Voluntary Workers’ Association,
handed round light refreshments the other
noon to the energetic women who are lending
their aid to the men at French’s Forest.
Journalist Harry Gullett comes this way
on a business trip. Since he left us he’s
acquired a wife, and a perambulator to give
Gullett junior an airing. The family
accompanies dad, who is booked for a series
of lectures on the war in Europe. First
lecture, Town Hall, March 11.
Amongst many enthusiastic Australian
war-workers who chanced to be in England
when Wilhelm got into action is Elsie
Greene. The N.S.W. woman is the eldest
daughter of late pastoralist Greene, of
landra, who made a pile in wheat. There
hasn’t been much doing for voluntary toilers
that this spirited patriot hasn’t had her
capable hands in. Just now they’re scour-
ing saucepans, or frying eggs in a canteen in
France.
Will Ogilvie’s verses, “The Australasian,”
have been reprinted on pictorial cards. The
scene that heads these stirring stanzas is
labelled Anzac.
The former Sydney D.T. chief, Dr.
Frederick Ward (now in London), is the
proud parent of a son who’s been mentioned
in despatches. Ward junior has been with
the R.A.M.C. in France. So far he’s
escaped with comparatively slight damages.
Young David, son of our only Uni. Pro-
fessor David, has also been mentioned “for
gallant and distinguished conduct in the the
field.” Dad recently rolled up his cuffs to
have a swipe at the common enemy. Young
David has been with the Cameron High-
landers in Flanders.
Governor Strickland opened the soldiers’
beautiful rest-home last week, Graythwaite.
The generous donor of this mansion for con-
valescents, veteran banker Tom Dibbs,
lurked modestly where he listened to the
volley of thanksgiving. Premier Holman
made the best attempt to thank the fine old
citizen and his wife for their magnificent
present.
The wife of Cullen, C.J., in dove grey,
formally handed over the big house to the
Government, and J. O. Fairfax said a few
words on behalf of the Red Cross. Heavy
rain came down in torrents, and voluntary
aids, squeaking like young mice, charged the
lawn to save the light refreshments which
had begun to float above moist white cloth.
Cadets, with that presence of mind which
marks the boy, hastily fortified themselves
with forage and retired under the tables.
Wary women who had seen the storm coming
and had put on their old, church-going
clothes, remained calm. The outdoor party
fled like white muslin ghosts across the
sodden garden, while the inside company
trotted round to inspect the well-equipped
wards. Mrs. Tom Dibbs, at her old sweet-
heart’s side, got a rousing cheer for her part
in the gift.
Adrian Knox, K.C., gave a brief account
of his stewardship in Egypt to Red Cross
dames on a sweltering afternoon. The pant-
ing company arrived at the Club rooms about
3 p.m., heard the foreword by Mrs. Mac-
kinnon, and slaked its thirst with copious
draughts of tea. This was paid for (very
properly) by the consumers. In an
adjacent room Australian Marguerites
at spinning-wheels kept the yarn flying
for the knitters. Mr. Knox’s turn
came on at four o’clock. His address boiled
down to the glad tidings that Australian
women have sent forward too much rather
than too little. At the finish, tall Mrs. Laid-
ley arose in some majesty to return thanks,
incidentally extinguishing a small visitor
who had taken the floor, presumably for the
same purpose. It was an impressive spec-
tacle.
The Neville Griffith brothers have put up
a good record for one family. Captain J. N.
Griffith is with the R.A.M.C. in France.
His brother Francis sustained slight dam-
ages in the Gallipoli rush. A third has
given his life in the tragic Dardanelles.
Mrs. Arthur Tower is organising a benefit
for the 13th Battalion Comforts’ Fund.
Colonel Miller, now O.C. at Liverpool, has
chosen as the date March 20. “Billy’
Miller, of the Union Theatres, has offered to
film a show at the Glaciarium, and returned
officers and men of the 13th are going to
do their little lot. Every shilling goes to
help the men in the trenches.
Some time ago a man from the North
wrote to say that Australian tinned stuff stood
the tropics without damaging its flavor. The
British War Office, in backing up this state-
ment, proved its earnestness by placing huge
orders for Australian jam, and has already
got away with something like 11,000,0001 b.
It looks as if Australian industries are going
to get the chance they have been languishing
for as a result of the war.
Wandsworth (Eng.) General Hospital has
been good Australian, both in its patients and
nurses. One of the latest Sydney women
to join the staff is Isabel Shiell.
Sister Iv. Heriot, from this continent, has
been mentioned in dispatches. She gained
this distinction in retaliation for her work
in France.
Soldier Balfe has been recently pulling
himself together after his damages at the
Front. He is a member of the Irish family
which gave the composer of “Bohemian
Girl” to the world. Part of his leave he
spent in a pilgrimage to the grave of this
famous relative. A chat with the fiery
John Redmond was another item of interest
to the Australian.
Carrie Lancely, the Gore Hill (Sydney)
soprano, has apparently revoked her in-
tended trip home. For the present she is
putting in all her spare time warbling to
the bandaged Kangaroo in England. Dad
sits on a comfortable cheque-book, so his
songbird can take war times without any of
the sleepless nights that afflict most members
of the hard-hit profession.
Women do go it when they get into farm-
ing togs. An intelligent infant writing from
a N.S.W. farm-school in the country says:
“It’s such fun to see So-and-So in a short
tunic skipping round the pigs, while Such-
and-Such [another school-marm], dressed
like a man, smokes a pipe”! The man with
the hoe fades across the landscape to-day
before the lady dominie chewing negro-head
behind the plough.
The Lady Edeline Hospital for babes is
now more accessible to visitors. A wharf at
Steele Point lands them close to the Vau-
cluse home, where once the Wentworth
family lived. At the second annual meeting
held recently the committee took stock of its
ways and means and found them satisfac-
tory. Dr. Patou conducted the proceedings
from the chair.
A brand new Feminist Club is now added
to women’s varied occupations or pastimes.
It is about six weeks old, and seems to be a
fine bouncing offspring. This week, a Miss
Simpson from U.S.A. will take the floor
and enlighten the congregation in the matter
of the Social Problem. The S.P. is an old
friend, but Uncle Sam’s daughter may have
some inside knowledge about it.
The Francis Chapmans and their only
treasure, Evelyn, are about to leave for
Maoriland. They hail from the land
bottled earthquakes though their recent abid-
ing place has been Sydney, varied by excur-
sions to Europe. In spite of the troubled
state of France, Evelyn may get back to
art study in Paris when the Huns are
whipped back to sausage headquarters. Mean-
while a souvenir of her ability, “Blue and
Gold,” decorates our National Gallery.
This time it’s the 30th Battalion Comforts
Fund. The committee has the light of
battle (for socks, etc.) in its eye. Mrs.
Clark, wife of the 0.C., is president. The
battalion got to Egypt in time to eat its
turkey on Christmas Day. Its Sydney
friends have already crammed about 60
cases with comforts which are now on the
way. Like the daughters of the horseleech
they cry, “More —give more!” To keep
them quiet a gift evening on March 16 re-
quires attention in the Oxford Hall. Tinned
tobacco and other foods are urgently re-
quired. Cash will do.
Planter Burkitt, now a lieutenant in
Liverpool camp, lately returned from the
Solomon Isles. He left his copra behind, but
didn’t forget his pretty wife. (There are a
few thoughtful husbands still.) After some
years in the shade of the cannibal palms the
lady is gluing her nose to the shopwindows.
From “Rosna,” who writes in between
Zeppelin bombs: —
The Maoriland Arthur Rhodes’s son Tahu, who is a
captain in the Grenadier Guards, was knotted to
Helen, eldest daughter of the ex-vice-royalty Plunkets,
at the Guards’ Chapel, Wellington Barracks, London.
It was a “quiet” wedding, which is to say that there
was no reception, but half the peerage was in the
church, marquises, viscounts and such being as plenti-
ful as the decorations. Crowds of wounded M.L.
soldiers, brought in Red Cross vans by khaki-clad
amazons from the M.L. hospital at Walton-on-Thames,
were early at the show, and the bridesmaids distri-
buted favors among them. Three other Plunket
girls, Eileen, Laline and Moira, and Miss Julia
Forbes, were bridesmaidens, and Plunket babes
Ettine and Kiwi (who was born in Maori-
land) trainbearers, while Captain Lloyd, of the Grena-
dier Guards, lent his moral support to the groom.
The Marquis of Anglesey, who is the richest peer in
Britain, was also handy and lent the newly-wedded
one of his stray castles or cottages or mosques for
the honey period.
Jean, daughter of the Spencer Bruntons, of Syd-
ney, has just given Hymen a job, her collaborator
being' a soldier—of course civili'in "
considered ff ood form this season h'^ 8 are **
Adrian Moreing, and he did commend a m , Captai »
Hun-chasing at Neuve Chapelle A if 6 eats °'
gave the bride away, and a Marsden A.” uncl «
her bouquet. The health-drinking was aHI
Park Hotel. S as at the Hyde
Australia-in-London gave itself a births
on January 26, engineered by the AN a u part - v
developing a perfect genius for this' sort’ < is
Tire Central Hall at Westminster was comm
for a huge corroboree, beginning at 6 I ’“"“Pjeatd
ing at any old time. There was a dine.* 1 " e " d '
and a concert downstairs, with Rnsino l upstai »
Alice Crawford, Una Bourne, Olive L mari >
various other Australasian stars from th f and
firmament performing, while supper raved a n ° n
evening and thousands of Anzacs, their he
their cousins and their toothless
foamed among boomerangs, stuffed ’roos w„ i *
long and lovely festoons of wattle By 1 ’
variety 12 Anzacs competed in a coo'-eeii .*** ° f
tion, which was judged by Westralian \ ( f"'
ton Moore, now a full-fledged brivadi«r» •
Lieut. Oliver Hogue, of Sydney Inky Wav w!"" 31,
of the 12, but was beaten by a warrior’’ wb *T'
been invalided home with asthma! Two of th ° a
competitors had been blinded at Gallipoli and*™, ,
were on crutches, but they hadn't left their'n ,
cheerfulness with the Turks. George Reid “MP
Anzac,” as the British press has christened him h n
a levde for private and public felicitations on h
return to the old game of “Yes-no.”
Justine Kong Sing, the Australian-born
artist who left Sydney a few years aeo k
still keeping her end up in London
miniatures are attracting favorable' notice
The art journals recently reproduced a couple
of Justine’s efforts, notably a portrait If
the wife of China’s Ambassador in the Pi!
Smoke. 5
The Tolish Relief Committee has a show
of goods ready for the long trek to baby
Kosciusko this week. Take the lift at h
Hamilton-street, City.
The Cremorne branch of the Red Cross
Society is preparing for a bold attack on
the poor old public. North Sydney Comedy
Club is to lead the campaign, and it has
“The Private Secretary” in rehearsal. The
performance is fixed for March 11, an un-
fortunate date because it bumps against the
big carnival at the Agricultural Grounds.
Concerning the work being done by British
women in place of men who leave their
billets to rage upon the battlefield, a re-
turned wanderer says that there are about
18 petticoats in the famous Kew Gardens.
In summer their hours are from 6 a.m. to
G p.m., with a spell-oh for meals. Gumtrees
iu pots are the favorite Kew shrines of
Australian travellers. One homesick Syd-
ney girl, who managed to get a few dried
leaves from these pampered growths, writes:
“I threw them into my boarding-house grate
and seemed to get a whiff of the dear bush-
land from their aromatic scent as they fizzled
into smoke.” The “boss” at Kew—to the
fierce indignation of the spade ladies—is an
alien enemy. But the easy-going British
Government refuses to recognise him as any-
thing other than a noted botanist. So he
still pockets £lOOO a year from the patient
taxpayers.
Brigadier-generals who recently came
under the limelight include Embarkation-
officer Lee and the Acting-State Commandant
Ramaciotti. In their cases the rank appears
to be temporary. Sapper Lee, formerly in
the Permanent Engineers, was one of the
smart officers who had to retire through
collision with the age-limit. This law ought
to be re-made with elastic sides. It passes
the limited intelligence of woman to see
tottering old Judges climbing up to 80 or so
autumns go on dealing out law, or what
passes for it, when efficient (at least before
the war) youngsters of 60 in khaki have been
officially slaughtered.
Since writing of Jack Dyer, one of the
youngest majors in uniform, another honor
lias come his way. The Sydney lad (he is
only 22) has been decorated by the French
nation with the Cross.
The war has a weird influence on feminine
fashion. A new autumn toque, armed rather
than trimmed with two great wings, pointed
like an eagle’s pinion, is in the offing. 1 '
don’t know where the offing is, but I suppose
it’s more or less adjacent.)
The silvery-haired Paul Dufault is ex-
pected in Sydney in the early days of winter,
lie throws his baggage off a ’Frisco steamer
in Auckland before Easter, but commences
his concert tour at weepy Dunedin, la"'
line Bindley, soprano; Florence Scapini, tn«
brilliant M.L. youngster with the fiddle; and
the patient Whittle at the piano, are to sup-
port the tenor. Manager Freddy Shipman
is at the helm.
Minister Arthur Griffith will (d.v.) open"
new Free Kindergarten in Chippendale eai)
in this week. This school buds under the
sign of the Golden Fleece.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


HARDY BROTHERS LTD.
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
BY APPOINTMENT,
AFTERNOON TEA CUPS
AND
After-Dinner Coffee Cups
The Company’s stock of these is
unequalled in the Commonwealth.
Prices range from £4 to £l2.
Sample of “Royal
Doulton” Tea Cup and
Saucer.
Sample of “Coalport”
Tea Cup and Saucer.
Sample of “Royal
Worcester” Coffee Cup
and Saucer.
Sample of “Crown
Derby” Coffee Cup
and Saucer.
THESE CUPS AND SAUCERS ARE
MADE UP IN SETS OF SIX, WITH
SIX SOLID SILVER SPOONS, IN A
VELVET-LINED MOROCCO CASE, AND
MAKE A BEAUTIFUL WEDDING
PRESENT OR TROPHY.
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free on Request.
13 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
116-118 Queen Street,
BRISBANE
AND AT LONDON
4
h
r<i
Si
neK
iUARANTEED
.Rustproof
Corsets
Keeping up a smart
appearance is a matter
entirely dependent on
good corseting. Your
corsets must suit your
individual style to en-
sure perfect satisfaction.
Corsets, too, because of
the strain of constant
wear, must be thoroughly
reliable both as regards
materials and workman-
ship. Careful selection
of cloth, boning, etc.,
has made Warner’s the
standard for reliability.
A guarantee goes with every pair of Warner’s
Corsets, and wearers can rely on them to
neither rust, break or tear. You can wash your
Warner Corsets without fear of spoiling them.
[3
NEW RECIPES FOR THIS WEEK.
fill
Roya
n 1
a
r
r
r -••wiiww///
Hm ■ \<
m
•fofr.e K l_Nc^>
'V? \
/V
Dt
... stzrditl
,mß
rM
A*
nestles
j| COnoinSlO ..
i !
IMW*
NESTLFS
CONDENSED
nestles
'L< c
■;Q*Wd
CURRANT LOAF
Ingredients —A ozs. butter, 2y gills Nestle’s Condensed
Milk , I/, lbs. flour, 2 eggs, 4 ozs. currants, ly ozs. candied
peel, 1 teaspoonful sugar, 1 oz. yeast.
. Method —Mix the flour, currants, and chopped candied peel
together. Put the yeast into a cup with the sugar, and stir
until it becomes a liquid. Warm the butter and milk together
in a saucepan, add the beaten and yeast. Make a hole in
the centre of the flour, pour the liquid in, and beat well with
the hand for fifteen minutes. Put into two buttered half-
quartern tins, leave in a warm place until the dough has risen
sufficiently to fill the tins, then bake in a rather hot oven
for one hour.
CURD CHEESECAKES
INGREDIENTS: pint NESTLE’S CONDENSED MILK,
3 eggs, 1 oz. flour, 4 ozs. butter, 4 ozs. currants, brandy, short
pastry, nutmeg.
METHOD: Melt the butter in a pan, stir in the flour
smoothly, then the milk, beaten eggs, and currants. Stir unti
the mixture boils and becomes very thick, then add nutmeg and
brandy to taste, and let it get cold. Roll the pastry out toabout
an eighth of an inch thick, line some patty pans with it, put a
teaspoonful of the mixture in each, and bake in a rather hot oven
for fifteen minutes. If any of the mixture is left over it should
be stored in an air-tight jar.
CARA/.IEL RICE PUDDING
Ingredients 3 ozs. rice, Yi pint Nestle’s Condensed Milk ,
rind of a lemon, oz. butter, 2 eggs. 4 ozs. brown sugar.
Method Put the rice into boiling water and let it boil for
ten minutes ; then pour off the water, add the milk and grated
lemon rind, and let it cook gently for half-an-hour. When
ready, pour into a basin to cool, then add the butter and the
beaten eggs. Meanwhile, put the sugar into a small pan with
a tablespoonful of water, and let it boil (without stirring it) until
quite brown, but not burnt, then pour into a pudding mould
or basin and spread it all over the inside. Fill the mould with
the rice mixture, cover with greased paper, and steam for an
hour, then turn out on to a hot dish, or, if liked, it may be
served cold.
RICE SHAPE
INGREDIENTS : 4 ozs. rice, 3 tablespoonfuls NESTLE’S
CONDENSED MILK, 1 oz. castor sugar, pints water, flav-
ouring to taste.
METHOD: Wash the rice and blanch it in water, then
drain and place it in a saucepan with the water and milk, and
simmer till thoroughly cooked. Allow to coot a little, then pour
into a wetted mould. Turn out when set, and serve with jam
or stewed fruit.
MERINGUES
Ingredients —/, lb. castor sugar, Nestle's Condensed Milk,
lemon or vanilla essence, whites of 4 eggs.
Method - Whisk the whites of the eggs until very stiff in-
deed, then add the sugar and lay the mixture in egg shapes
with a tablespoon on a baking tin which has previously been
rubbed with a piece of white wax. Dredge the meringues
with castor sugar, and place them at once in a cool oven.
Bake until the meringues are a pale fawn colour and feel
quite crisp, then remove the soft underneath part and lay
them back in the oven to dry. When cold, fill with flavoured
condensed milk, and press them together in twos.
APRICOT PUDDING
INGREDIENTS: 1 lb. stewed apricots, pint NESTLE’S
CONDENSED MILK, slices of bread, 2 eggs.
METHOD : Line a buttered basin or plain round pudding
mould with bread, then pQur in the hot stewed apricots, and fit
a round piece of bread on the top. Put a plate over it, lay a
weight on the top, and leave it until next day ; then turn out
and serve with custard poured over and around it. Fcr the
custard, heat the milk, pour it on to the beaten eggs, pour into
a jar placed in a pan of boiling water, and stir until it thickens.
Allow it to get cold, then use as directed.
7y
A HOUSEHOLD NECESSITY
%
v syy


'T
■ m
~
Special Value "Victor" Suits
IN PURE INDIGO BLUE SERGE
60;-
the
Suit
Carriage
Paid.
Fortunate buying enables us to quote distinctly
ante-war values in these Serge Ready-to-Wear Suits,
although prices are daily soaring higher at the
sources of supply. Also the dye is guaranteed
permanent and pure Indigo Blue.
The fabric is a rough-finish Serge,
adapted for town or country wear.
admirably
In style, fit and permanent shape-retention “Victor”
Suits approximate so closely to made-to-measure
garments that it needs an expert to tell the differ-
Coats are cut in the popular two-button style, are
slightly waisted, and have centre seam and vent •
vests have medium opening, and the smartlv-cut
trousers have side and hip pockets and cuff bottoms.
FARMER’S—S ¥DM E Y.
ai\d George Streets
PAULINE et CIE
(MILLINERY, ROBES, BLOUSES, Etc.)
announce
Iheir First Show of Millinery Models for
Autumn and Winter Wear, on and afie?
Wednesday, Ist March.
3rd Floor, Denison House, George St.
(opp. David Jones),
The Marvellous Contrivance
that makes it possible to dis-
pense with buttons, ana
eyes and press-studs in men’s and
women’s garments. One simple
movement and the garment is
opened or closed.
The World has been Wait-
ing for the Hookless
Fastener.
It saves time, trouble and tem-
per. Is fixed in a few minutes,
and is indestructible.
Ask to see it at your draper's
or tailor’s.
The Hookless Fastener Co.
Elizabeth House, (Austra,asla) ’
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melboubne, March 6, 1916.
My Dear Yarrie, —
A big, overdressed crowd flocked out to
Flemington to see the Newmarket Handicap
w r on on Saturday. It was officially listed
as the first V.R.C. autumn meeting, and as
the dressers had their autumn regalia in
the wardrobe they put it all on regardless
of the warm weather. It was pathetic. The
prize example was a Riverina squattress
who had a neck-to-knee tapestry of fox
skins and a grey-wliite woollen cap adorned
with ram’s horns.
A girl bound in khaki cloth and puttees
wore a stand-up collar of seal- and fox-fur,
which hid her face to the eyes ; and the niece
of a gorged bookmaker tottered about with a
whole wolf-skin across her shoulders. Mrs.
Clive Leonard was swathed in well-cut black
velvet. Her sister, Miss Reynolds, in black
glac6, had a sable and silk scarf round her
shoulders. Pretty little red-haired Mrs.
Roberts (she is a niece of the Darnley
countess) walked in light white cloth, with
a wild necklet of feathers. The Weedon
dame put grey feathers round her throat and
a fiery scarlet hat on her head; her dress was
navy blue, and had spreading flounces. One
of the daughters of a Warrnambool squatter
wore a silk belltopper garlanded insanely
wdth asters. Mrs. Sternberg was comfort-
able and neat in fawn gabardine, and Mrs.
Peter wore the coolest of black-and-white
tailorings, with a cute hat decorated fore and
aft with pompoms. L. Madden—the only
one of the family present—was bolstered
up tightly in black and wore a wide coster
hat laden with spreading red feathers. One
of the Fenner girls wore black. Jess Fair-
bairn sported black wings in her hat; one
of them stood 12 inches in the air, while
the other flapped furiously above her left
ear. Mrs. Alawa Buchanan balanced a rooster
on her hat and her husband was under a grey
pudding-bowl boxer. They were a brave
sight going down the lawn. Mrs. Lockwood’s
velvet coat was five yards round the waist-
hem, and her perched green hat measured
about seven inches round the ridiculous
brim. A fashionable young bride was in
something fur-trimmed and knee-high. It
was fastened straight down the. back from
neck to hem. Mrs. Pratt hovered awhile in
white and then went on to a dinner-party
with the Fred Shipmans.
Tremendous preparations are being made
for the Red Cross Carnival and Fair which
is to take place in the new military hospital
in Kooyong-road, Caulfield, on Saturday,
March 18. This hospital is said to be by
far the largest of its kind south of the line,
and the large grounds are peculiarly suited
for charitable bushranging. The usual
“opening” will be performed by the G.-G.,
encouraged by Lady Helen.
The Best dame has put on the warpaint
and is out on the trail looking for money for
the Camberwell Red Cross. She took coun-
cil with the Mayor and other intelligent
citizens, and the result is to be a three day
carnival which will begin on March 23 in
the Canterbury Gardens. Make a note of it
in your social ledger.
A man writing from Egypt tells that
Sliepheard’s Hotel at Cairo is like Menzies
before the war. Mrs. Alec Hay and
Lady Loughborough (once Sheila Chis-
holm) are the reigning beauties. The young
husband of the latter lady (he is only a
junior sub.) did a rather cute thing lately.
He was with a garrison which was holding
out against the Never Mind What. They
discovered that the telegraph wires were
being cut. He went off on his own and
wired to one in authority at Cairo: “Don’t
trouble sending reinforcements; 30,000
arriving by sea.” The horrified enemy held
off, and in the meantime the badly-needed
help had time to come up. When the
sender of the wire was identified he was
recalled to Cairo and officially cursed.' His
troubles!
Kath Osborne, Mrs. Harry Chisholm,
Mrs. Les Wills-Alien and the Pat Osbornes
are also “amongst those present” at Shep-
heard’s. Whilst dining there the other night
my private ambassador heard a croaking
voice saying his name. He turned and
found it was coming from the lips of Charles
Orr —scion of the Macleay-street (Sydney)
house. It appears he was missing in Gal-
lipoli and has temporarily lost his voice after
many hardships. Arrivals from Anzac were
often in rags. Jack AntilJ sat down to the
first decent meal he had had in months,
wearing short pants, such as runners wear,
and a very dirty old uniform jacket.
From the above you might think the army
lived at Shepheard’s. Not so. Our work
is hard and incessant, but we make for that
hotel on our weekly day off to bathe, change
and have a three-volume meal.
The vice-regal Fergusons have been on a
visit to Molesworth Green, who hangs out at
Greystanes, near Bacchus Marsh. Moles-
worth is somewhere in the senior 80’s ; but
he drove his visitors about in his favorite
drg-cart behind a fidgety pair of liigh-step-
pers. Most of the squatters round about began
on a bark-hut basis and built the palaces
when the money came ; but the fine old Greene
homestead- or abbey has lifted its battlements
above the sheep since the first.
Captain Foxton, one of the most accom-
plished and agile Genthelps introduced to
this part of the world; has thrown the shawl
aside, moth-balled his belltopper and warned
the Hun that he is about to begin.
The beautiful widow, Mrs. Roderick
Cameron (she was a Sydney girl born Linde-
man), has started off with her baby and
two maids to brave marine and. submarine
perils on board the Mongolia. But first she
“knocked” Manly by appearing with a
Buster Brown crop. All American small
children are cropped Buster-wise, with
a big ribbon bow high on the left
side of the head. But for a grown-uo
and a relict at that, and still in weeds!
Well, Manly said it was no wonder this war
was sent, my dear.
Marjorie Williamson came of age in
January, and thus drops in for an extra pot
of money. Probably this is the reason of
the family’s somewhat unexpected return to
Australia. The trio will arrive .early next
month.
The Lachlan Beatons and Miss Ruby
Adams ha*ve gone to Tasmania for a short
holiday amongst the ripening apples.
The Old Melbournians collected at the
Grammar School the other afternoon and
told one another they were getting greyer
and fatter —this in the intervals of playing
the old games they used to get excited
about. Henry Cornish was so delighted
with his performance on the cricket field
that .he bought tea for everybody in the
vicinity and a few round the corner, a very
noble performance considering that tea was
double the usual price, for the good of some
patriotic fund.
Mabel Waldock, daughter of the late
George Jenkins, the knightly. Clerk of Par-
liaments, has come back on a health-hunt-
ing visit from Ceylon, where her tea-planter
husband makes his income. She will spend
some weeks in a private hospital while he
takes his rheumatism further on to the
healing mud baths of Maoriland.
Adelaide wafts a few items :
The Y.M.C.A. has added to its long list of good
works by building a reading- and writing-room for
the men at the Mitcham camp. The opening cere-
mony was performed by the usual vice-regal trades-
man, with some additional remarks from Camp-
Commandant Stuart and Premier Vaughan.
Mrs. C. E. Hayward, whose son has been assaulting
the Hun since the kick-off, has booked her passage
by the Mongolia. A further vacancy in our tea
circle has been made by the departure of the David
Wilkies to Maoriland.
The Wallman-Oldham wedding oceured at Wood-
ville on Saturday without casualties. The bride’s
belonging are inextricably mingled with the history
of the State, the Oldhams having got here shortly
after the aboriginals. She is a granddaughter of the
Mr. Halcomb who succeeded to the clerkship of the
Legislative Council at the time of Federation, and
was Assistant-Clerk long before that.
The South-East will miss Mrs. E. T. Lea, of Robe,
who died, after over 60 years in S.A., at the end of
the week. She was a woman who would rather make
a neighbor happy than buy a new bonnet—and she
could have bought hundreds. Some of her money
came through the famous Lea .and Perrin firm, and a
good deal from her knowledge of the land and shrewd
management of her affairs. Her husband died when
she was quite young, leaving her with a son and
daughter, both of whom survive her.
Dr. J. F. Souter, who went with a transport to
Egypt about four months ago and was taken ill in
Cairo, is dead.
Lieut. M. M. Cudmore, of the R.F.A., who had the
bad luck to be wounded not long ago, has been men-
tioned in dispatches. Also, Captain James Way, who
was mentioned some time back, has got his majority
and the Military Cross. Surgeon-Captain Flecker,
who is in command of the 2nd Auxiliary Hospital at
Heliopolis, is another who has gone up a step.
The discovery of oil in the South-East is an event
that occurs as regularly as strikes in N.S.W. The
latest is a find of petroleum in a locality which is
supposed to be kept strictly secret, but is alleged
to be near Carpenter’s Rocks.
The Home for Incurables is to be enlarged by the
addition of a new wing, and I wish it was to be
rechristened as well. No refuge should bear a name
that kills hope at the entrance gates.
Adelaide musicians have given a farewell concert
to Merle Robertson, who goes to London on an Elder
Scholarship. She is 17, with fine wrists and good
power of pianoforte execution. As for the violin, she
has won two local scholarships; also, she possesses a
neat gift of composition, and uplifts a promising con-
tralto voice which may be useful as a side-line.
Allan Fairbairn, of the Newtown (Gee-
long) family, is to marry Hazel Storrer at
the local lark on March 15. They’ll be
honeymooning in Tasmania by St. Patrick’s
Day.
Solicitor Backhouse, of Melbourne, has
served Jeannie Stewart with a sentimental
wnt,_ and the case has been set down for
hearing before a minister in the near future.
After the ceremony at Holy Trinity the
invited at the Fincham-Higham wedding
goose-stepped to the Georgian room at the
Oriental for a helping of food. Bride
Muriel Higham comes from Westralia,
but her husband, Sergeant Randall Fincham,
is the son of bank-manager Fincham. Ran-
dall is presently going to Duntroon to study
for his field-marshal s certificate.
Stanley Ricketson, a bright young mem-
ber of ’Change, who got into khaki early, is
conveying hack to Australia a lieutenancy,
the D.C.M. and two wounds. Soon after
his welcome he will conduct Gwen Browne
to the altar. Sister Doris Ricketson, who
was absorbing education by the quart in
Switzerland when war upset supplies, is
visiting Uncle Sheppard in Java on her way
home.
A wedding of interest in Maoriland and
on this side happened in England towards
the end of December, when Captain Bob
Ramsey, on the staff of the First Australian
Division at Gallipoli and elder son of the
late Bob Ramsey, of Melbourne, took
to wife Mabel Alice, only-daughter of G. D.
Greenwood, a wool king of Amberley and
owner of various fleet horses.
The William Jaffrays, of Armadale, have
been having a diamond wedding. The
bridegroom is a veteran of the Customs, part
of the remnant of the old Victorian brigade
which had its good billet ready made when
it was decided to dabble with a national
tariff. For a quarter-century Mrs. William
has been a pillar of the Toorak Benevolent
Society, that amiable but somewhat short-
sighted concern which still works its homely
miracles in the Toorak “village” and the
remoter, crowded purlieus of Prahran. The
old lady is also a long-established power
behind the Government in its conduct of
the Girls’ Training Home at East Mel-
bourne. That institution is one of the few
instances of Socialism in the home upon
which Toorak looks with an approving eye,
for it yearly produces a considerable quan-
tity of 18-carat domestic help.
Belgian baritone Goossens is the proud dad
of a particularly well-dressed baby, the Aus-
tral Salon having composed the trousseau
some months ago. The Salon mostly lays
itself out to encourage Art; this time it evi-
dently thought it would encourage nature for
a change.
On Friday night the borrowed Auditorium
re-echoed the thunderous applause of re-
turned soldiers, who were out to make their
first concert a success. The vice-regalities
sat in the centre of the circle surrounded by
the best-cut khaki. Lady Helen in black had
a red bouquet on the ledge before her with
red streamers falling into space; Maggie
Stirling, on the stage, intoned impressively
in white and black lace; and Carmen Del-
prat fiddled beautifully in a cocoanut-ice
costume. A variegated chorus of soldiers’
sisters, with a girl in bright purple in the
foreground, sang “Till the Boys Come
Home,” and another chorus of Boys Who
Had Come Plome roared cheerfully and coo-
eed. Signaller Prichard brought on a small
grey mascot monkey with a tail as long as a
bill of costs to help him sing a modern adap-
tation of “Egypt.” and bugler Phillips sur-
prised and delighted the house with some
bird imitations that brought the bush right
into the crowded hall. It was a show that
had n' lie of the cold-storage atmosphere of
the ordinary concert.
Elsie Davies, a singing Victorian who
was dispatched by the concert met lr d to
Eurone for further study, is back again in
Melbourne. It is reported that she sang
successfully in various grand-opera houses
before the guns drowned all other top-notes.
An Auditorium concert is being arranged for
March 11. .
V illiam Laver, the new Ormond Professor
at the Melbourne University Conservatoiium,
has not forgotten his old friends. Staff-
appointments at the Con. for this year in-
clude Harold Cinclare Smith and Frank
Homewood, both of whom were bright stu-
dents under Laver in the remote past. Some
20 years ago Harold Smith came to Mel-
bourne for piano-study from Swansea, a
Pasmanian east-coast village, and gained his
diploma at the Conservatorium in Marshall
Hall s early days, winning the Ormond exhi-
bition during each of the three years in the
course. Pie has a graceful piano-stool man-
ner, and his fund of theoretical knowledge
should make him a useful teacher. Home-
wood is a Williamstown native, not perhaps
so brilliant as Smith, but capable of striking
sparks out of the piano in exercises which
under Harold’s manipulation, would merely
show a gentle incandescence. Bertie Zel-
nmn, who used to teach the fiddle in the late
Franklin Peterson’s time and resigned when
Marshall Hall came on deck for the last few
months of his life, is also back at the
Conservatorium.
The new prospectus of the University Con-
servatorium contains particulars of the
teaching staff for 1916. There are a few
well-known names, among them that of
Edward Goll ( special pianoforte soloist and
chief and special study teacher”), Elise
Miedermann (singing) and Louis Ilatten-
bach, of the Leipzig Conservatorium (violin-
cello). Ihe Ormond Professor (William
Laver, of Australia) is alleged in the pro-
spectus to have spoken thus in making the
annual report : “I regret to state that, owing
to the conditions prevailing, the Conserva-
torium will lose one of its most valued mem-
bers—Mr. Edward Scliarf.” As it is writ-
e{|’» c j lle shall be taken and three others
, thls case lt: lo °ks as though it was
the one taken who got left.
Ruby Gray, the Victorian pianist who is
gradually coming forward as a composer of
bright little trills for the drawing-room
\ < l lce v, was a waging student at the Univer-
sßy Conservatorium in the days when the
pit 6 ¥ a *' shall Hall was the prophet. The
oeulil „f W a aurtst aad
oculist Of Melbourne, who had more
daughters than any other doctor in h, .
was one of Ruby’s parents the Clt^
A chatty audience gatherer! ot
O’Donnell’s farewell concert in th nus
Hall on Wednesday night The , Towu
who is .going to England tul??
his bow at the Royal College of Musi? fifri
m a subdued buzz of conversation, and 2 °
eral buxom prima donnas carolled ft r
airs while the gossip swelled. There
plenty of applause, as there should he J**
the congregation is enjoying itself
concerts that people don’t like are m l 6
where you pay a lot of money to sit still , e
pretend to understand the soulful procS
Malini the Magician started t„
the Biack Art in the holy Assemblyman
Coll ms-street, on Saturday night i n ,‘j
the assistance of a violin and a’’cello •
they didn’t help him to speak up and’s
the waybacks a chance to hear his JZ
about the crowned heads lie had astonkili
Ronald Watt’s bride from Tooiak * «
mg cense with a ruffled cerise chiffon
and something sparkling in her hair 1!
Fairbairn was in white and silver, with n !!
silver round her locks. The Fiskens attend d
in full evening dress and Dr. O’Hara brought
a couple of nice colleens in ordinary wa |f
about clothes to witness the good drawing
room entertainment.
If you have been following music and the
drama as expounded in U.S.A you will
know that a light opera called “Sari” i s hav
ing -a great vogue there. Mignon Scantle-
liiiri, a tall, dark and handsome Sydney
girl, has the principal show girl’s part' with
a few lines and a love song or so. ,She is
supplied by the management with a 200-
dollar dress —a daring contraption of black
and white, with gold and orange touches
and a head-dress of black ospreys. MHmm
Sydney is her stage name. t
AN e won’t be able to get along the street
tor war-lecturers presently. Frederic Cole-
man. F.R.G.S., is the latest attempted spell-
binder, and one of his chiefest treasures is a
letter from a British major-general to the
effect that his war hordes trod on Coleman
every time they turned to face the foe
between August, 1914, to the following May.
Smith-Dorrien also takes up his pen to thank
Coleman for having given him a lift in his
car on the morning after an early battle of
the war. Mrs. Coleman and a young daugh-
ter arrived with the lecturer, who came this
way via the Cape and Hobart.
W hen the warrior comes home with his eye
in a sling lie finds various festivities await-
ing him. Hugh Mclntosh turned on the
Tivoli Follies the other day for returned
braves, and during the interval Vera Pearce,
in Red Cross uniform, wandered round the
auditorium distributing flowers and ribbons.
Thelma Raye also went a walk-about in a
crinoline arrangement of amber silk and
some rice-powder.
Authoress Katherine Susannah Pritchard
has had to reply to so many speeches of late
that she is becoming an orator. She is also
becoming one of our best-fed since she
returned from London with the prize for
“The Pioneers.” Her latest meal was pro-
vided by Premier Peacock at Parliament
House. The tragic moment was when a
foolish guest inquired if Katherine were an
Australian. lle\ was immediately thrown
under the table and fed with bones.
11. V. Mc-Kay has supplied the Defence
Department with a quarter of a million of
horseshoes made at his smithy, and is quite
willing to supply any other orders. I men-
tion this because some mere male contri-
butor to The Bulletin stated that “heavy
horseshoes are practically unobtainable in
the Commonwealth.” I know better. I
have seen at the McKay* works hundreds
of fiery shoes rushing up a perpendicular
race 20 feet toward the ceiling. They look
like hundreds of little red devils scrambling
for freshly-caught souls.
An iron-roller named Vaughan started
making horseshoes round the corner from
Princes’ Bridge. He happened on a lot of
trouble at the time with employees and, in
a huff, turned the key in the factory door
and dropped the industry. Being a rich
man lie was able to indulge his huffiness.
The cultivation of the extra military eye-
brow on the upper lip is causing some of
the young trainee officers to lose their beauty
sleep. The poor things can only raise the
sort of fluff that comes on old puddings. In
days gone by the military female-killer wore
a sort of drooping switch or scalp-lock under
his nose; but the modern fashion is to wear
something that looks as if it had come out
of an actor’s make-up box. I used to think
the war would end before the warriors would
have time to grow special whiskers for it:
but here we are, in the second year, invent-
ing new fashions and conventions for the.
crushing of the Huns. (At least I hope it
helps to crush them.)
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


Born 1820
Still going strong
r
a/
i'
's
%
A
it
&
A
Y/
&
“A
f
'W
y-
*
K
X.
<*•
o
min u
&r>:
im
%£?>
;***
/
/
/• '• 'A
i
>K>
*V< //
//
ZV'
/2W/ “ ‘Johnnie Walker,’ please, and make sure this time that the non-refillable fitment is intact.
The last time it was cut off.”
Friend : “You are very particular.”
Host: “When you have tried ‘Johnnie Walker’ from the non-refillable bottle, you will realise that
to be particular is worth while.”
It is a satisfaction for you to know positively that ‘‘Johnnie Walker" Red Label always
has been and always will be kept fully up to its guaranteed age.
Every drop of Red Label is over 10 years old before released from bond. The “non-
refillable"’ does the rest.
GUARANTEED SAME QUALITY THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK.


p
The
Re-inforced
& Invisible
Neckpiece.
The Sleeve
Lift for
Ease and
Comfort.
A BIG SAVING
IN SHIRT WEAR
Every Man nowadays wants the utmost for his
money. The value and advantages offered in our
Popular
“DOUBLE-LIFE” SHIRT
cannot be excelled in Australia. Everything is
right—the cut, fitting and materials. In addition
to the reinforced neckband, we now supply an
EXTRA PAIR OF CUFFS FREE.
You are assured absolutely double life in these Shirts,
which means that the price of
POST FREE, 5/9 TO ANY STATE,
stands for true economy. The Shirts are made in
Zephyr material, Blue, Black and Helio Stripes.
Colors guaranteed. [1
GHAS. LANE & GO.
PTY.
LTD.
ELIZABETH STREET
MELBOURNE.
& NQTCtf sC ° TCK
Whisky
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“Spraggs” : We’d had a big night; every-
one made a speech, and toasts were drunk ahead of
timetable. About 11 p.m. McPherson went round the
room and was bidding all hands “Good nieht.”,
“What 1” says Regan, “You’re not going home so
soon?” “No!” hiccups Mac; “I’m just sayin’
good nicht while I can see ye all.”
* * * *
“Ino”: Here’s the cure for a horse’s sore
shoulder. Put three-quarters of a pint of linseed or
castor oil into a quart bottle, add a quarter-pint of
turpentine (must be of the best). Mix well. Pour
in three drams of sulphuric acid and leave it un-
corked and at peace with all men for an hour. Then
put a quarter-pint of the oil used, plus a cake of
camphor cut as fine as possible and moistened with
turpentine, into a vessel. Float the vessel on boiling
water till the camphor is dissolved, and mix this
with the contents of the quart bottle. Keep closely
corked and away from burglars. Apply with a
feather as often as convenient, say three times a day.
Don’t use the same feather twice; take of the mix-
ture only what you want and put none back; and
don’t put the feather in the bottle. This treatment
will cure shoulders, no matter how long they have
been sore, girth galls, saddle galls, pole evil, fistulas,
ulcerated sores, sitfasts, corns and all kinds of
wounds on man or beast.
* * * *
“Cleveland”: Dropped into a hatter’s camp
before the drought broke out Boulia (Q.) way just
in time to learn something valuable. His gills had
a cut of boiled beef attached midway upon a 10ft.
stick. At intervals of about 20 minutes he would
get up and carefully turn the stick end for end. I
stocd it as long as I could and then he showed me
the trick. What I saw was a string of bewildered
meat-ants just finishing a crawl down the pole.
On arrival at the bottom they waved their whiskers
furiously and swore venomously, while the scouts got
busy and again located the meat. Then a frenzied
dash up the pole ensued. “Yer see,” said the
hatter, as he carefully turned the stick, “ther silly
cows don’t know whether they’re cornin’ or goin’, an’
so long as yer turns her reglar ther ants don’t get
a look in.” He paused reflectively. “’Tain’t no
good for flies, though,” he added.
* * * *
“M.C.Y.”: To my mind the finest of all
the West Australian wild flowers are those about the
Phillips River district. There, besides the kennedya,
wild mignonette, “cockatoo-claw,” “spiders,” “dog-
face,” and others equally well known, almost every
bush and tree has its blossom. The two most beauti-
ful are the hibiscus, which spreads its long, spike-
foliaged trails, massed with big, delicate, heliotrope
blossoms, all about the gullies, and the Quailup bell.
The latter grows on a single stalk from a foot to
four feet in height, carrying from three to five bells
(I have gathered seven on one stalk). It is as big
as a Canterbury-bell, and perfect in shape, with a
double row of petals, the inside ones a lettuce green
and those outside sometimes a darker green, but
usually purple or dull crimson. These dainty, deli-
cate-looking flowers keep fresh in water for weeks.
I shall never forget driving in the early spring from
Ravensthorpe to Hopetoun. For mile after mile, on
each side of the track the plain was one gorgeous
carpet of flowers, crimson, blue, white, yellow; and
so thickly massed that not a sign of a green leaf
could be seen.
THE ONLY CONCLUSION.
“'Are some flowers, my Lord?"
“No."
“Jest a little bookay fer yer lady, sir."
“No, fellow; NO!"
“Orright, mate. ’Ow wus I ter know she wus only yer sister?"
TO ERR IS HUMAN.
“I'm afraid I'm given up to the sin of vanity. I really think myself pretty .”
“ That's not a sin, my love; it's a delusion .”
“Searchlight”: Some of the giant tallow
woods at the foot of the Dome mountain, the highest
point on the Dorrigo (N.S.W.), occasionally lose
their foothold and go hurtling into the depths
below. One that had been weakened by the
scrub-fires lately toppled over, and as it was over
eight feet through there was a rush of business in
the valley. It cannoned into another vegetable of
the same variety, and took it along with it.
Together they cut a track nearly a quarter of a mile
long down the mountain-side and as straight as a
clothes-line weighted by a dead elephant.
* * * *
“Eddyson”: Waddy possessed only one
notable, and that was Perry’s black bull. It was
known to bull specialists and dairymen generally as
Prince Charming, but in and about Waddy, where
he lorded it like a kaiser, he was simply Perry’s
bull. Henry Perry, who owned the bull, also owned
land and herds at Cardigan, and an extensive milk
walk in Ballarat; but he was distinguished for
nothing but his bull, and had neither hopes nor
aspirations apart from it. He was wrapped up in
the animal, and was never so happy as when mani-
curing the brute, or polishing and staining its horns,
or putting additional lustre to its hide, which
always gleamed like black satin. You saw little of
Perry apart from the bull. If he went for a walk
he took the bull with him, as another man might
take a poodle, and the sight of Perry sauntering
through the township, gravely attended by his majes-
tic bull, its hoofs gleaming like amber, its horns
as smooth and dainty as finished ivory, its hide
speckless and shimmering, and a bunch of three rib-
bons tied to its sinuous tail, was a common one in
Waddy, yet a spectacle that never failed to interest
and delight the simple inhabitants. Perry, who had
no theme of conversation apart from the bull, would
linger and discuss Prince Charming with any person,
however lowly. He frequently led the bull into
Stubbs’s bar, and loitered for hours there, expatiat-
ing on its physical beauty and temperamental charm,
and the bull was content so long as he received an
occasional tributary pint in a tin dish. Perry’s bull
appreciated beer. On Sundays they always took
long walks together; but they did not go to church,
because bulls were not admitted. Perry’s wife died
while Perry was exhibiting Prince Charming at the
Ballarat Agricultural Show, and when Perry returned
with the triumphant bull, a first prize and a special
order of merit along with a certificate for the best-
kept bull in the show, he was genuinely sorry. “I
could easy have got home an hour earlier,” he said,
“and it would have pleased Annie to hear about
Charmin’. Now she’s gone where she’ll never know.”
And Perry wept. He insisted on leading the bull
in his wife’s funeral procession. He and the bull
were chief mourners, following directly behind the
hearse, and the bull had his horns dyed black,
and a bunch of cigpe on his tail. After that
Perry took the bull into the house. He had the
spare bedroom pitched and fitted up for Prince
Charming, and used to sit with the bull of evenings
for company, always with an old silk handkerchief in
his hand to polish any spots on the bull that seemed
comparatively dim. At this stage Perry made his
will, leavipg £4OOO to the bull to provide for his
declining years and pay a valet to attend to his
wants and see that nothing dimmed the lustre of his
skin or the perfection of his sybaritic toenails. But
Perry s bull died first and Perry was never the same
man after. He had the skin stuffed, and buried
the beef with almost royal honors in his orchard,
putting a bronze monument over the grave. For
years he devoted his leisure to polishing the remains,
and when at length he passed away he left strict
orders in his will that the stuffed ox was to be
planted over his own grave in place of a headstone.
But the cemetery authorities refused to permit a bull
to officiate as a monument within those sacred
precincts, and the last time I saw Perry’s bull he
was shored up on the verandah of a firm that
specialised in conditions powders for cows. Perry,
I have no doubt, is still turning in his grave.
WHEREABOUTS UNKNOWN.
“’ Ullo, is that the butcher? Is Mrs. ’Orkin's
brains gorn yet?"
“Moana”: Here’s a wool-producing record
that will take some beating. A Romney-Linco
hogget 15 months old, owned by a cocky namei
at Feilding (M.L.) was recently deprived of a nee
that weighed 271 b. This of course has been e
by the overcoat off a stud ram, but I fancj 1
about top weight for a hogget’s covering,
particular hogget’s dad, a five-year-old rani,
shorn at the same time and produced 261 b. o
as the result of 11 months’ growth. So evi
excess of wool runs in that family.
(Continued on page 24J
THE MYSTERY OF LAST NIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With silver sword the morning struck
The eastward fringe of night;
A sudden red showed in the ruck
Of clouds that turned in flight;
I heard a voice, in sleepy tones,
And in the dawn-light clear,
I saw the burly form of Jones
Adorned with bottled beer.
“I wonder where’s the motor-boat?—
There’s no sign of the wreck!”
Jones murmured, as he sharply smote
And broke a bottle neck.
The wavelets, full of laughter, raced
Along their sandy bed,
Jones drank his liquor, sombre faced,
“Poor Robinson!” he said.
Smiling, I recollected things
Though I was sorely grieved:
We were, through last night’s happenings,
Of Robinson bereaved.
The motor-car had madly dashed,
Ungoverned, to the sea,
And Robinson—who must be smashed—
Leapt not with Jones and me!
But Jones made noises in his throat
While thus I put the case.
Said he, “We brought the motor-boat
To get near Henry’s place.
A tempest swept us towards the sand—
I saw those waves come on!”
You leaped with me; we swam to land —
Poor Robinson is gone.
We could not on the point agree.
When we Had drunk our beer,
Both full of grief for Henry, we
Sought out a hostel near.
We tried to settle how we might
To break the news contrive
To Henry’s wife, when into sight
Came Robinson —alive !
Said Henry: “Fancy meeting you!
Why I rode here, of course!
It was a silly thing to do—-
I somehow lost the horse.”
He jeered at Jones quite bitterly,
When he assayed to show
His view of things, till Jones said he
Had been too drunk to know!
Then Robinson declared that Jones
Was just a lying hound ;
And Jones remarked, in hostile tones,
He wished he had been drowned.
I reconciled their views with wine;
But while these dreamers jar
I dread to meet some friend of mine
Who’s lost a motor-car!
(r.s.w.
HAMER.


A “Murdoch” Suit
for Autumn Wear
will reach your highest ideals of smart-
ness and distinctive dress. Just opened
up, a splendid range of new Autumn
Suitings —the latest weaves and designs
for the coming season.
Tailored in the Murdoch way. these
materials are doubly attracti\e, and
economy is emphasised by our wonder-
fully low prices.
From 55/“
Suit to Measure.
Let us make your Suit, Sir! We
guarantee to please you or refund your
money.
Call and inspect our new Autumn
Suitings— or write for patterns now.
Other Prices ... 50/-, 63;-, 70/-
Desk R.
Messrs. Murdoch's In Street
Ltd., Sydney.
Please forward patterns of your new
Autumn Suitings at the Suit-
to-Measure.
Name
Address
*
m
MURDOCHS
IN PARK
ST. LTD,,
SYDNEY
Where the GOOD Hats are.
| NELSONS
“NEW VICTORY
DISPENSER’S BAR ARM
When the question arises of quicker and more effici-
ent serving, or of effecting a. saving in operation of
plant, even where a speedier service is not desired, the
most economical and simple solution of the problem will
be found in the installation of the “NEW VICTORY”
Bar Arm.
The “NEW” Bar Arm (1916) patent features many
ingenious improvements, providing a greatly-improved
and increased service; there are absolutely no springs
and nothing complicated to get out of order; it is unques-
tionably the greatest machine of its kind on the market.
One strong reason why you should instal is that it is
bound to BRING BIGGER BUSINESS.
WHY? Because the VICTORY BAR ARM means
a simpler, more hygienic, more pleasing and brisker
method of serving drinks to your customers.
It enables the attendant to handle bigger business in a
simpler, easier manner, by cutting out unnecessary labor.
It facilitates wonderfully during rush times, changes
and many other exigencies that often occur at most
inopportune times. Saving time and labor means
saving money, a matter which should interest every soft-
drink supplier.
“It’s an ill wind that blows nobody any good.”
With the early closing of Hotels comes the return of
the wind blowing favors in the direction of the well-
organised soft-drinksman. Are you fully prepared to
deal with the possibilities? The “NEW VICTORY”
Bar Arm will put you on your feet right away.
WRITE and let us give you full particulars of this
wonderful cash-saving device. It'll cost you nothing to
find out all about it.
NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. LTD.
219 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at Turbot Buildings, Turbot Street, Brisbane. Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth.
N < :
vv
ft
i
m
Ur
n
Y
s
it
V,S
A\
The AEOLIAN-VOCALION
“THE
INSTRUMENT THAT GALLS FORTH HIDDEN BEAUTIES FROM YOUR RECORDS’
There are Many Beautiful Models
from Which to Choose, in
WE show here three from among the
wide variety of beautiful models in
which the Aeolian-Vocahon may be
obtained.
This wonderful, new instrument is not only
far in advance of other makes musically, but
architecturally as well.
Indeed, the first impression one receives
of it is an entirely unprecedented beauty of
line and finish. Even the simplest model -
that costing but £25 —charms the eye both by
its design and rare piano finish. For these
instruments have all the rich depth of color-
ing that distinguishes the finest pianofortes.
An Invitation to Our —
New Gramophone Department
We want you and your friends to see and hear this wonderful new musical instrument. A spacious
cool and beautiful department is devoted to it at Pianola Hall. Our demonstrators are salesmen
only to those who specifically wish to buy. To all others their business is simply to exend hospitality.
Your visit, therefore, will entail no obligation but will be simply a pleasurable musical experience.
Write to us to-day for illustrated Catalog B.
35/- per month WILL BUY A VOCALION.
hePianola Company
384 George St., Sydney, -
MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE and
ADELAID E


room
TYRES
Duvals Co.
13 Castlereagh St..
SYDNEY.
*75 Collins Street.
MELBOURNE.
300 Adelaide St..
BRISBANE.
CORNELL LTD.,
ADELAIDE.
A. C. McCALLUM,
PERTH.
Best in the Long Run
CURLY HAIR.
“WAVCURL” imparts Beautiful PER-
MANENT CURLS. One packet sufficient, how-
ever listless your hair. One testimonial says: “My
hair soon became a mass of wavy curls.” Result cer-
tain. Price 2/9. Special reduction for few weeks.
Send 1/6 only, for large-size 2/9 packet. The
New Wavcurl Co., 67 Cromwell House,
Fulwood Place, Holborn, London, W.C., England. [2
The BLACK OPAL STORE.
OPALS, PEARLS, SAPPHIRES.
Specialty Australian Gems
89 Market Street, near Hyde Park, Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, formerly Manager White Cliffs
Opal Mines, PROPRIETOR.
3> c
&
C°
MORRISs
IMPERIAL
Obtainable
ill Chemists and Stores
THe LUCKY gem Of the F A V'T
sP&fss&ui zuy r
and is an emblem of prosperity. 8 A t ’
tliousandwjf "others' tdfyour friends! f ° r
Sole°Agents— ALLAN harß| S'i^eo Pacll ‘
C^M^ QU^NSLANdT 0- ’
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
“Two Seas”: It’s a lamentable fact that
the average bushman hasn’t even the most rudimen-
tary knowledge of ornithology. AVas watching a
man the other day blazing away with a breech-
loader at a swarm of blue martins that hovered over
his cherry orchard. “What on earth are you shoot-
ing them for?” I inquired. He looked astonished.
Indignation was writ all over his corrugated visage.
”1 wouldn’t have a blanky cherry left if I didn’t
down ’em,” he spluttered. “There’s a nest in every
tree.”. “Ever seen any of them picking at the
cherries?” I asked. “I don’t give ’em time if I
can help it,” he retorted. Then I explained to him
that he was destroying his best friends—birds that
never touched cherries, or any other fruit, but, on
the contrary, chased away from the trees they nested
in parrots, starlings, sparrows, leather-heads and
even the deadly persistent parrakeets, who will strip
a cherry-orchard bare in a few hours. When I had
gathered up a few of the slain martins and shown
him that their crops only contained the remains of
insects the bird murderer was convinced. “Always
thought all birds ate fruit,” he remarked regretfully.
“And look at the good powder and shot I’ve wasted
on ’em.” Like the bushie who assures one that it is
impossible to poison gohannas, the chump never
thought of investigating for himself. “It’s only
what I've been told, you know,” gets on one’s nerves
in the bush. For my part, it is only the high price
of pork that prevents me testing the popular
belief that a pig cuts its own throat when it
attempts to swim—or is it fly? I’m not sure
which it is, but it's probably a delusion, anyhow.
* * * *
“Broadie”: Let me edge in my toughest’
bird. He is the musk duck, and he is so tough
that thq, only way to consume him is to powder
his carcase on a grater and use it as snuff.
* * * *
“F.H.R.”: Recently I challenged any
Abo-liars that had ever met or knew a person who
had been cured, or had himself been cured, of
snakebite by Morrisey, Fox, Davis or other so-
called sngke specialists, to speak up. I conclude
that no one has had the benefit of these “cures.”
Therefore, taking into consideration that snakes are
still going strong, I again urge Governments and
Ministers for Education in particular to see that a
proper strychnine outfit is installed in every country
school at once. With children walking through the
bush to schools situated up to 60 miles from a
doctor it is wicked that no remedy should be handy.
The Commonwealth Committee on the
Northern Territory railway extension got some
lurid details about white ants and their work up
there during its sittings in Adelaide. AVhen it
heard that they had eaten a box containing billiard
balls, and had then made a plucky start on the
balls themselves, chairman Riley remarked that S.A.
should have given that sort of information before it
got the Commonwealth to take the Territory over.
However, the following day it® was announced that
even down south the same old ant has got into
the wooden water-main on Yorke’s Peninsula, just
opposite Adelaide, though the main is full of water
and coated on the outside with hessian soaked in
bitumen and tar.
* * * *
“Milo”: A cedar tree recently sold at
Peeramon, Atherton Tableland (N.Q.), had a girth-
measurement 4ft. from the ground of 34ft. When
carved up it yielded 32,000 superficial feet of timber.
I remember a cedar tree on the Upper Richmond
(N.S.AV.) which had to be ringed to a depth that
could be conveniently bottomed with an axe before
a specially-made 14ft. saw could be used. But the
super contents were less than those of the Peera-
mon vegetable by some few thousand feet.
AN EXPERT OPINION.
“ Really, Percy, this is disgraceful. I haven't
seen you sober once this week. Why
don’t you give up whisky and take some-
thing else? For instance, cold water
and acid drops make a VERY pleasant
drink.”
KNEW THE LOT.
CITIZEN: “Well, I suppose you know Sydney pretty well by this time, eh?”
VISITOR: “Oh, yes; there’s the Shamrock an’ th’ Tradesman’s Arms an’ the Red Anchor
an' a lot more.”
“Leo Lear”: Re “Rita S.’s” par. (B.
10/2/’l6). I don’t like to disagree with a lady,
especially one who writes of our birds, their useful-
ness and beauty; but, Rita, we’ve no woodpeckers in
Australia. The birds so called are probably tree-
creepers or tree-runners. The former are more fre-
quent and are found throughout the Commonwealth.
Besides their useful qualities they are not out of
the chorus when vocal organs are being tried. The
tree-runners in contradiction to the creepers invari-
ably climb downwards after on a tree ; also
they haven’t managed to bridge Bass Strait. Both
species get their food on the outside of the bark,
whereas the woodpecker planks his bill through the
overcoat of the vegetation for the inside residents.
No doubt our ironbarks and similar steel-plated
growths discouraged the latter practice in Australia.
* * * *
“Bill Bedsox”: “Rag’s” statement in a
recent Abo. par that he has seen the fragrant
boronia growing on “desert” plains in the Golden
West is piffle. The true sweet-scented boronia is
like the date palm in one respect in that it must
have its feet in the water. I have gathered its
“sweet, brown blossoms lined with gold” in most
parts of W.A., where it is known to exist, and in
every case have wet my boots in the process.
The favorite lodgings of this particular variety of
boronia is the rushy flat which fringes the “paper-
bark” swamp of the South-West. Other varieties,
reds, yellows, striped, spotted and blotched with
white, are found on the plains, but their fragrance
is of the pole-cat order.
* * * *
“Barcoo”: There are nine species known
of the cassowary ( Cassuardiedce ) spread over the
northern fringe of the Australian coast, New Guinea
and adjacent islands. The true home of the birds is
the island of Ceram, lying west of N.G. The
species Casuarius australis, which frequents the thick
scrubby mountainous regions of York Peninsula is
peculiar to Australia and is the only species found
on the mainland. It is easily the most muscular and
highly-developed member of the family A very
large specimen would reach sft. skyward, and in a
good season, when the tropical wild fruits and
berries, which grow prolifically in the birds’ haunts
are abundant, a healthy cass. would scale well
towards 2001 b. eu
: Surprised to read “Par-
thunka’s” wail in a recent Bulletin that kangaroo-
tail tendons are “quite unprocurable in Australia at
the present time.” If he cares to send me his
addtess, together with a few tips on the preparation
of the tendons, I guarantee to suppply him with as
many as he cares to pay for, and the price I will
ask for them will be a great deal less than that he
mentioned as having to be paid for the imported
product.
“ Te Pana ”: The kava bowl that
every hut in the Pacific Islands is charset ; 01 ' DS
native patience and perseverance. The t , nStIC of
in size from a gallon capacity to the 8 lange
a hath tub. These are LJ In SfJS* 0 * .*
from a solid piece of wood, a process *2.°*
some cases years of toil. The Samoan " ■ ~k es ln
receptacles with a large number o f‘J f?. is
quite common. The value of the product • be ‘ ng
at so much per leg. The Fijian compl t n
vessel with four pediments only. After b 'i*
use for a long period the. bowls become coa ted lio
a pearly enamel deposited from the kava and
adds much to their value. a ™ hls
* * * .
I>iother Abo.” : Don’t worry about <-
do this. Get eight empty tins, four large and f S ’
small. Place the small ones inside the law ullr
the legs of the safe or table to stand inf the^put
oil in the outer tins, sufficient to make a den h
half an inch. It’s six years since I introdutd t,
to the intelligent anj, and he is still kicking fog
heels on the ramparts. B s
“Winamm” : Was going the
Bill , when we met Iffnks, travelling p er hoot t
kneiv Binks. Bill didn’t. Bill said “ComaL
lide. Bmks talked ploughs, and cursed Smith our
local blacksmith. Smith was a deluder, his pWn
a snare. It happens that Smith is Bill’s father"
Binks was proceeding to prove that Smith was In
outrage when I kicked him and blinked towards
Bill. Binks paused. He seemed to grasp the situa-
tion; then he gasped, spluttered, grabbed the whin
yelled “Git up, yeh lazy cow,” and whanged Bill's
mare one across the ribs. The mare propped for a
second, realised the indignity and bolted After
five-minutes’ whirlwind of mud-splashed profanitv
Bill pulled her up. Binks started an apology hut
Bill was adamant. “Out yeh get,” he yelled’ “i
don’t mind yeh cursin’ me ole man; but don’t you
call me horse a lazy cow.” 3
* * * *
“Brad” appears as the crow’s only friend'
A word or two in praise of that much-maligne<i
cieature, the crow. After long observation of the
inky bird I have arrived at the conclusion that he
is a friend lather than an enemy of mankind Thp
crow has a great liking for insects that “hum” in
the olfactory sense, and for this reason he scoffs a
large quantity of sundries at which other birds
would draw the line. The number of eggs ant
young poultry devoured is next-to-nothing in propor-
tion to the insects our midnight friend gets through
He also eats mice and rats when they come his way
or when he goes their way Last year, when grass-
hoppers were abundant, I shot six crows that were
in the habit of mooning round my premises and held
a. post-mortem on each. The stomachs were full of
hoppers,” while one contained also a partly-
digested mouse. It is no easy matter to poison a
crow, as he is -able to swallow a bait and discharge
it again with as much ease as an importer swallow-
ing his principles and throwing up a groundless
aspersion at an Australian manufacturer.
* * * *
“Musketoon”: The best cure for sore
shoulders on a horse is to wash the wound with cool
water, and when dry rub with some brine. This
forms a dry scale over the sore, and a mixture called
“gall-cure,” which can be got at any chemist's, if
applied to the scale will keep it soft. This cure
was given me by Bill Rogerson, of Forbes (N.S.W.),
a man through whose hands hundreds of horses pass
in a week, and a well-known authority on all their
ailments. He reckons it is pure carelessness for any
man’s horse to have sore shoulders. If bathed in
cold water as soon as the collar is removed, and
the inside of the collar also washed, there would be
no sore shoulders.
ANOTHER. PIONEER.
OFFICER : “And what are you going to do
when you get there?”
EMIGRANT : “Take up land.”
OFFICER: “Much?”
EMIGRANT : “A shovelful at a time.”
“Spreader”: I know perfectly well that
c-attle follow thunderstorms and that sheep feed
against the wind. But what beats me is, why the
jumbucks, in the northern States especially, have a
strong tendency to make south.
DESERT BOXES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bleached bones, commingling with the desert sand,
To whom did you belong?—
Some exile from a far, forgetful land?
Some outcast who went wrong?
Some fugitive who left the world behind
One black and bitter day,
Within your breast oblivion to find?....
Oh, Desert, say.
lias Piker’s pub his haven—and his Hell?
Did those piano strains,
In some sad, heart-corroding fashion, tell
Of Her across the Plains?
And when the Scarlet Girl red-lipped an air
Once sung far, far away,
Di.l he give dalliance to his last despair?....
Oh, Desert, say.
And did he trudge a-through the mulga scrub
Dike someone lost in dreams,
Ilis back toward old Piker Doolan’s pub—-
Its scailet and its schemes?
And did he circle in the next day's heat,
A speck within the grey,
W ith thirsting throat, and burning, blist’ring feet ?
Oh, Desert, say.
Was no one near? Did only winds caress
His forehead in the throes
Of death and agonies of loneliness?
Or did the quarking crows
Swoop down, and shut from his world-wearied eyes
The garish light of day,
The blue of the remote, unpitying skies?
Oh, Desert, say.
back o’ boubke.
R. J. CASSIDY.


Model 75
Electric Lights
Electric Starter
Double-Seater, £,295
Single-Seater, £290
&
$ i
V
\
S 3
A Small, Light, Economical Car.
Beauty-Comfort-Convenience Economy. You get all of these in this new Overland.
Built to meet the demand fora high-grade
light car, it has all the quality and advantages
of many cars that sell for a much higher price.
Yet it is exceedingly economical both in
purchase price and cost of upkeep.
I he motor —sturdy and highly efficient —
is of the latest and most improved en-bloc
type with a long stroke and small bore. It
is designed for economical operation.
Ihe long, low, streamline body, with
sloping bonnet, one-piece cowl, crowned
fenders and full curved back is most attractive
in appearance.
Cantilever rear springs not only accentuate
the long and low appearance but add much
to the easy riding qualities of the
car.
They are probably the easiest riding springs
ever designed.
In spite of its rugged strength and long*
wheel-base the car is light, weighin°~ only
19cwt.
Large tyres give greater mileage and
greater comfort than the smaller sizes usually
found on cars of similar specifications.
In addition to these big advantages this
Overland has electric lights and self starter;
an easy operating clutch with adjustable
pedals; larger powerful brakes, demountable
rims—everything that makes a car strictly
up-to-date.
See this beautiful car. Let us prove to
you its sterling qualities.
SPECIFICATIONS :
Long Stroke Motor, Cast En Bloc.
Electric Starter—Electric Lights.
High-tension Magneto.
Electric switches on steering column.
Right-hand steering—centre levers.
Instrument Board on Cowl Dash.
Cantilever Rear Springs.
Deep, Soft Upholstery, High Back Seats.
Wheelbase 104 inches.
Large tyres, 31 x 4, non-skid on rear.
Demountable, detachable rims—one
extra.
Rear Axle, full-floating type.
Large, powerful brakes.
Thermo-Syphon cooling.
Streamline body with concealed door
hinges.
Rain-vision Windshield, ventilating
type, built-in.
Crowned fenders.
Lustrous black finish.
Nickel and polished aluminium trim-
mings.
Electric* engine starter and generator,
with head, rear and dash lamps and
headlight dimmers, storage battery.
One-man Mohair hood with dust cover*
magnetic speedometer; electric horn;
combination rear light and license
bracket; hinged rug rail; foot rest;
tyre carrier in rear; full set of tools*
tyre repair kit; jack and pump.
COMPLETE INFORMATION ON REQUEST.
AUSTRALIA :
E. G. EAGER & SON LTD., 299 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
THE CO-OPERATIVE MOTOR SOCIETY LTD., 41 Hunter Street, Sydney.
THE KELLOW-FALKINER MOTOR CO., 206 Russell Street, Melbourne.
MURRAY AUNGER LTD., 60 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
ANDERSON & ADAMS LTD., W.A.
H. C. HEATHORN <& CO., Hobart, Tasmania.
NEW ZEALAND:
HATRICK & CO., Wellington and Wanganui.
NEW ZEALAND FARMERS’ CO-OP. ASSOCIATION, Christchurch.
Full information on request to any of the abovementioned Dealers.


Symptoms of aWeaK Bladder
A Very Common Complaint with Serious Consequences.
Thousands vSuffer in Ig'norance.
It is really remarkable how many people are suffering with bladder trouble, yet do not
know it. Numberless children are suffering with weak bladders, and their parents do not
know it, thinking all the time that the child is naughty. This is wrong. But there is an
even greater number of men and women, both old and young, who are suffering with bladder
trouble. They know there is something wrong, but what it is they cannot tell.
Just read these symptoms through, and see if any of them apply to you:—Nasty taste in
the mouth, bad complexion, scanty urine, restlessness at night, continual thirst, pains in the
groin with a burning sensation inside, inability to retain urine (bed-wetting), stone or gravel
in the bladder, too frequent desire to urinate, brick-dust or sediment in the urine, and an
irritable temper.
If you have any of these symptoms you should not neglect them, because if you do you
will find that instead of curing itself your bladder trouble will get worse. It has never been
known for a case of bladder disease to cure itself. It almost invariably develops. Slight
jfains may develop into chronic rheumatism and gout. A little darkness under the eyes may
develop into dropsical swellings. Cloudy urine may develop into gravel and gravel into stone.
Never neglect bladder trouble no matter how slight.
DANGER IN DELAY.
If you are experiencing any bladder or kidney, trouble of any kind do not wait until some
severe and dangerous urinary or kidney complaint has obtained a foothold, but act in time —
take De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, and see what they will do for you. Being anti-
septic and soothing, the effect on the delicate tissues is most grateful, and as they assist the
kidneys in passing the uric-acid poison from the system, this prolific source of bodily torture
is quickly but surely removed. When the kidneys and bladder are restored, and can pass off
this poison themselves, the trouble will, of course, disappear—the dragging pains will leave,
the joints cease aching, and the delicate organs will become soothed in their irritated and
inflamed parts. Then you really will be surprised how different all the world will seem to
you. Instead of drudgery, your household duties will become a pleasure, life will be brighter—
you will be brighter and happier, and so will those with whom you come in contact.
Many remedies claim to cure, and do, without doubt, give relief for a time, but the one remedy
which will give you quick relief, and most probably a permanent cure, is De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills, for when once cured by these wonderful little pills, our readers say they are cured for
;ver. And yet they are so gentle in action that babies may take them. They will cure you, no
5c
■sa&zr-
as
/
Oh!
Back
Witt’ s Kidney 3D, Bladder Pills
Or chemists and storekeepers everywhere, 2/9 and 5/6 per box. If you have any difficulty in getting genuine Tie Witt’s pm« with the hh.e seal on cork
—send your money to E. C. De WITT & Co., Ltd., 42-44 Pitt Street, Sydney, who will gladly supply by
“Patricia B.” : A new Poverty Point has
sprung up in Sydney. Up to a few years
ago the precincts of King and Castlereagh
streets formed the meeting-place of the “rest-
ing” performer. Subsequently many of him
sought freedom from the insistent John
Hops by securing a club room. This has
now fallen into disuse, and the out-of-work
performer has selected Pitt-street (between
Park-street and the Lyceum Pictures) as his
unhappy hunting-grounds.
“Masetto” : “Jwosp” (B. 24/2/T6) is leni-
ent to Genevieve Ward when he makes her
67. That starts her off from 1849 ; so she
must have been fully six years old when she
married the Count de Guerbel in 1855. The
opera career referred to happened between
that year and 1562, and “Jwosp” admits 11
years of teaching before the sensational ap-
pearance at Manchester in 1873. Let him
credit another 10 years to the brilliant singer
and he will be nearer the mark. ,
The literary property of the late Mrs.
Bernard Beere, who toured Australia, has
been brought to the hammer in London.
series of letters to her from Oscar Wilde
reached good prices. One written from
Dieppe just after his release from prison
was knocked down for £lO 15s. The Times
prints it in gasps:—
My Dear Good Beautiful Friend.
....I knew you would always be sweet and good
to me....for now I need sympathy, and know its
value, a kind word to me now is as lovely to me as
a flower is, and love can heal all wounds. I cannot
write much as I am nervous —. . . .1 feel as if I had
been raised from the dead, the Sun and the Sea
seem strange to me. But, Dear Bernie, although
my life looks ruined to the outer world, to me it is
not 50.... I feel that out of it all —out of the
silence, the solitary life —;the hunger, the darkness —•
the pain....the disgrace of these things....lt was
wrong of me. Worse things might have happened
to your old friend, dear, than Two Years’ hard
labor —terrible though it were... .Suffering is a
terrible fire, it either purifies or destroys. Perhaps
I may be a better fellow after it all. Do write to
me here —Monsieur Sebastian Melmoth is my name
now to the world, with love and gratitude.—Ever
yours, Oscar.
Mrs. Beere was a god-daughter of Thack-
eray. She possessed 31 of Thackeray’s
sketches, which were sold in four batches
for £250.
“Hamer” : The melodramatic public will
take almost any line which is given with
sufficient biff, but the strangest bit of “fat”
I ever met was at a suburban dramatic show
where a scratch crowd was working off
“Peeled Onions” or something similar. The
company gallantly spiced the ordinary
stewed tripe of the “bellow” with seasoning
stripped from every known drama, and the
applause from an unusually full house was
frequent and thunderous. It was the old-
man character who got the most thunder,
assisted, probably, by the fact that the
metropolitan papers were just then trying
to define the meaning of “wowser,”
and the word was extremely topical. He
was listening, heartbroken and astounded,
to the villain’s outline of his son’s aw'ful
crimes, when suddenly he bravely drew him-
self up and thundered: “No! No! By God,
sir. My son may have robbed the bank;
he may have stolen the papers; he may
have wronged all these in-no-cent women;
he may even have murdered Gray and
throttled the baby. But, by heavens, sir!
he is not a wowser!” The lady next to me
dropped her bag of peanuts and smashed
her hands wildly together. The stout, grey-
whiskered man on the other side banged his
umbrella upon the floor a dozen times, and
chuckled “Good ! Good !” And amongst the
babel of assorted noise that nearly blew the
foof off, a shrill feminine voice yelled,
“That’s one for you, you beast!” Oh, yes.
It “went big,” that play.
“O. Blin” : H. A. Vachell, mentioned in a
recent Bulletin, must be the most prolific
of present-day dramatists. In addition to
“Quinney’s,” “Searchlights,” and “The Case
of Lady Camber,” he has. completed two
others entitled “The Chief” and “Mr.
Parker.” The last-named has been acquired
for the U.S. by Cyril Maude, and “The
Chief,” which is alleged to have been written
in three nights, to take the author’s mind
off a private bereavement, is George Alexan-
der’s next offering at London St. James’s.
Considering that “Quinney’s” is repeating
its London success in the provinces, while
“Searchlights” has found a good friend in
Mrs. Pat Campbell in America, Yachell’s
income should be swelling nicely. When the
last mail left he was receiving offers for the
Dutch and Scandinavian rights of his produc-
tions.
“D.F.”: With half a dozen picture theatres
Hobart, with a population somewhere about
40,000, ought to be fully stocked for a small
place in these hard times, but still another
one to hold 2300 people has been erected.
Jt is to be called the Strand, and the owner,
E. J. Miller, has just come back from
IT.S.A. with the latest notions in seating and
other internal arrangements.
“F.N.T.”: The Janson contralto, after a
year and a half of watching her fellow-
musicians at patriotic work, has been
attempting a shrewd smack at the Musicians’
Union. She came to Australia a dozen
years ago as a grand-opera singer. The
outlook seemed promising, so she stayed
here, presently becoming established as a
singing-teacher at the University Conserva-
torium, from which safe position she is able
to regard the Union with a defiant and un-
disciplined eye. The other day, at the Jan-
son studio, a little gathering of musicians
considered the question of taking part in
charitable and patriotic entertainments; and
decided that, instead of being patriotic for
nothing, they should ask for a reduced fee in
all cases, “such fees to be a fixed sum for all
performers.” Still, the laborer is worthy of
his bit; and the consistent attitude taken up
by the organised professional-musician has
always been that a full fee for a full day s
work is a fair thing—either that or the
performance should be a free one altogether,
given as a charity. Plenty of bricklayers
have gladly given a share of “patriotic”
labor for nothing, of course, and so have
musicians; but it is simple sweating to as t
a bricklayer to work for 6s. Bd. a day, or a
singer to warble for half-fees at any sort ot
concert where the performers are _ paid.
Sweating in the cause of charity is an
ancient, disreputable business for which
manv inexcusable excuses have been made,
and there should be none of it in “patriotic
work.
“Kaniva”: Parson George Gladstone has
preached his last sermon against dancing. A
few years back he started a crusade, against
the ancient diversion at Nathalia (Vic.), and
at once became a recreation to the ungodly.
His parents, Edward (George) and Caroline
Gladstone, came out to Melbourne m 1857 to
ioin G. V. Brooke, and played for a long
period. Gladstone, an all-round, careful
actor, was the Horatio to numberless Ham-
lets. He died 16 years ago, aged 80. Mrs
Gladstone has been quartered at the Uid
Colonists’ Hbmes for 25 years, and at 8o is
a marvel of activity. Speaking about her
clerical son’s hatred of dancing, she said:
“What was he thinking about! I was the
Columbine at the Windsor Theatre, London,
in 1853.” The Leopolds, Harry, George,
Tom and Fannie, otherwise Mrs. H. Leo-
pold, came out on the same boat with the
Gladstones.
A real war play has got on to the London
boards at last. It is a thrilling one-acter
entitled “War Mates,” by Herbert le Hamel,
a private in the London Scottish. The author
fought on the Western Front and his little
drama really wafts the mouldy smell of the
trenches over the footlights. Le Hamel is
sharing the applause with a young, hitherto-
unknown actor named Sidney Vautier, who
plays the leading part. Probably, however,
the unique piece will be artistically ruined
by some hungry manager tempting its builder
to stretch it into a three-acter.
“0.K.”: The Australian Vaudeville
Artists’ Federation dreams of getting the
Commonwealth Government to bring foreign
variety artists within the scope of the Con-
tract Immigrants Act, or in other words, to
safeguard local “talent” of the commonplace
sort from the competition of imported ditto.
Minister Mahon, when appealed to on the
subject, merely said that he didn’t think
any action could be v taken at present. He
might as well have said at once that vaude-
ville artists never can, or should be, more
deserving of protection than local books,
pictures, statuary, etc. The Australian
vaudevillain is more favorably situated than
the local novelist. His work is presented
to the public on level terms with the im-
ported stuff, whereas the writer can’t get a
local publisher to produce his stuff on level
terms with the foreign works. The A.V.A.F
doesn’t dream of closing the market against
Harry Lauder or Little Tich, or any other
“star” from Europe, but it maintains that
in general, the Australian performer, if
afforded a reasonable opportunity, could give
as much satisfaction as an imported artist.
The audacity of that “if!” What lack of
opportunity did Australian Fred Bluett have
to complain of? Or Vera Pearce, or Vaude
and Verne, or Fanny Powers, or a hundred
and one others? The local vaudeville per-
former gets all the opportunity which is
denied to the local actor, who is too often
restricted to an unimportant part, whereas
the performer at the halls creates his own
part.
“C. Ockney”: “Fax” (B. 17/2/16) is
not correct when he asserts that the silly
little ballad, “My Little Grey Home in the
West,” was made in America. It happens
to be a peculiarly English product. The
words are by Eardley Wilmot (most prob-
ably a spectacled Brixton lady who writes
Christmas cards and cracker “mottoes” for
a living), and the composer is the possessor
of a fine old British name—Herman Lohr.
This gentleman was quite, one of the most
popular makers of English drawing-room
songs before the war.
“Bluebeard”: Of war plays, Lechmere-
Worrall and Harold Terry’s “The Man Who
Stayed at Home” seems to be having the
greatest vogue. It lias been done lately in
America and Australasia, and has now been
played at The Bouffes Parisiens, Paris,
under the name of “Kit,” wdth Max Dearly
in the name part. The piece has not been
altered in the main, but the German woman
spy wears a rankly awful make-up. In the
reconciliation between the hero and his girl
pyjamas and a nightgown are worn and the
curtain falls on the line, “Chaperon be
damned.”
“Quill”: A London reviewer, apparently
trembled by the fact that if a man goes to
the theatre there he sees “Pass the Mustard”
or “The Girl in a Bathing Suit” or some-
thing of the sort, while in Berlin the Hun
has choice of “Macbeth” or “Hamlet,” con-
cludes that “the reason for Shakspeare not
having become in any large sense a national
institution in England is explained by so
very little being known about him person-
ally.” What nonsense! Who knows any-
thing about tfle writer of “Oysters for Two”
or the composer of “The Rooster’s Honey-
moon?” Who wants to know 7 ? In the course
of a misspent life I have seen at least a fair
proportion of the Yank and the French and
the Scottish and all the other plays and
farces and bellows and dress and lighting
effects produced this side of the wmrld, and
I am blessed if I can remember the titles of
half a dozen, recollect a single line of dia-
logue, or write without mistake the names
of a couple of the authors. Also, I would
like to bet that, apart from “Harrison 0.”
and one or two other specialists, everyone
else is in the same joyful condition of mind.
One doesn’t want to know something about
Shakspeare in order to make a pilgrimage
to the theatre to see someone play the devil
with “The Merchant of Venice,” or be
steeped in information about Steele Rudd
before flocking to see Dad on his selection.
HER LOWEST TERMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Much shaving had his cheeks made blue,
With fire his eye was filled;
Unto the hash-house ma’am he spoke,
In tones that many simple folk
Had heard but to be thrilled:
“For actors, ma’am,’’ he cleared his throat,
“Will you your lowest terms please quote?”
The look the hash-house keeper gave,
If looks could lacerate,
On any hide would leave a scar 1
“My lowest terms for actors are” —•
Her voice was charged with hate;
And, oh! the terms she used ’twere meet
No decent person should repeat!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


®VI
F Y T.If
j &,■ .i j«l
>• « j "" -- 3 1m ~
.
% . .
11 t* •- ‘ > •
f
'
J t
**•*
\\
G.E. FLOW METERS in the POWER PLANT
The largest steam plants in the world use G.E. Flow Meters.
The smallest plants need them even more than the big ones, because the savings are greater in
proportion to the investment.
In well=managed plants the steam Flow Meter is a necessity and not a luxury. On Boilers it shows
the output in so that the Engineer can see when the Boiler is loafing, needs cleaning
or overhauling.
Losses which waste coal will be quickly shown up.
G.E. Flow Meters are also made for measuring the flow of water, air or gas.
WRITE FOR OUR DESCRIPTIVE BULLETIN.
A
9
9
0
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
BERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
— Agents —
“Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland. Christchurch, Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock and Co., Ltd., Launceston; Oliver & Oliver, Ltd., MacQuarie Street, Hobart.
IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort, and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on. the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
“’ e m mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA i 4 therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free 1 /3. Free sample posted.
dOCKE. TOMPSITT & CO.. Melbourne.
SULPHOLINE
* THE FAMOUS LOTION
Quickly removes SKIN ERUPTIONS,
ensuring A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable Pimples,
disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema disappear
by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
Siurl
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
Sulpholineis prepared by the great Skin Specialists,
c p i Ltd.,Bedford Laboratories,London,
England, an d can be obtained from any
cnenusts and stores throughout the world.
Quickly removes the effects of Sunscorch.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s.
6d. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Par-
ticulars posted on application to
The Manager.
«
99
/PERFECTION ITSELF!
The DETACHABLE OUTBOARD MOTOR.
b.
1 r
.i
See also Page 2.
Unequalled
Compression.
Cost of
Running':
3d. per hour.
B.li.P.
Guaranteed for
12 Months.
The Latest Improvements.
Patent, Self-locking Steering Device.
Propeller turns with Rudder, which
means the most effective steering possible.
High Tension (waterproof) Rever-
sible Magneto Ignition, of the very
best make.
Submersible Parts made from best bronze;
rust-proof.
Remarkable Simplicity.
Highest Efficiency.
Perfect Reliability.
Unexcelled Durability.
“The ‘Alka’ will propel you through life.”
Arrange for a demonstration, or write
to-day for Catalogue and Price to
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Sole
Australasian Agents,
11-17 Loftus Street, SYDNEY.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard =
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring ana
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68$ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
An Edison
AMBEROLA
PHONOGRAPH
in your home
will mean that you have the best,
yet most inexpensive, form of
amusement always at hand; that
you have the finest music available
to please your every taste and
mood, and to entertain your most
exacting friends.
The Amberola is beautifuly de-
signed, well finished and has a rich,
clear tone.
The Amberola X has Cabinet of
Fumed Oak finish, and is a splen-
did instrument. Price £B/10/-.
Others up to £45.
Call on your nearest Edison dealer
for particulars, or write direct to
us for descriptive printed matter. -
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only),
884-372 Kent Street, Sydney.


A. Saunders’ Lady’s Hand Bag,
Black MorQcco Leather, Leather Lined, Nickel
Frame, 20/-
A. Saunders’ Silver-
mounted Hairpin
Roller, Cut Glass Bottle,
1/6.
A. Saunders’ "Lady's
Chain Bag, in Solid
Silver, Strong Mesh. Pol-
ished Frame, £3/3/-
Silver-plated ditto, 32 /6.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Silver Hair Brush,
Hand Burnished, pure quality, extra long Bristles,
Plain Design,
20/-
A. SAUNDERS
GIFTS
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Wallet, Real Black
Morocco Leather, Silk lined, Silver Corners, Lock and
Shield, 12/6. Real Crocodile, 25/-
GIFTS
FOR
ALL
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Silver Purse, Plain Design, Hand
Burnished, Leather Lined, Centre Division and Mirror, £3,
Saunders’ Gent.’s Cigar Case, Solid
Silver, Hand Engraved, Gilt Lined, 35/-
Ditto in Silver Plate, 15/6.
A. SAUNDERS,
OPP. RAILWAY STATION, SYDNEY.
FOR
ALL
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s
Wallet, Black Morocco
Leather, Sterling Silver
Mounts and Shield, com-
plete with Calendar,
13/6.
jrm
ytm
'
I ■ '
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Hand
Jiag, Keal, Fine-grain Morocco
Pleated Front, Leather Lined, £2 ’
A. Saunders’ Scent
Pump, Cut Glass Bottle,
Solid Silver Top, 17/6.
In Nickel, 4/6.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Ebony Hand Mirror, Solid Silver
Mounts, Bevelled Glass, 25/- Brush to match, 20/-
fl
S 3
IMPROVED
Compass
Clynometer
For Taking LEVELS and ANGLES.
Reading inclinations in inches
per yard or degrees.
Invaluable to Prospector, Miner, Geologist,
Engineer anti Squatter.
Strong, Compact. Best Jacquer brass,
2-Jin. dia., Solid Leather Case,
Printed Instructions, POSTED
22/6
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd
189=191 George Street, Brisbane.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
th rough out A ustralasia.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OK NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mkrrik
England, 6d. How to Gut Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
TINK'S SILENT FRIEND, Is 6d. NED DONNELLY’S ART
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horsk, is. Ventriloquism Made East, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth. 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Ha'ndybook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales. 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer's Sure Guide), price Is: post. Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Hod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, us. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain fop. the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces. Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/8.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, IS posted. House Painting and
Papering, ’ls 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d
<s
m
m.
1
I
NOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows’ up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of voung
and old, hut about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a verv
superior guide to the action of men and women both in anil
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest setTse
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabrid-ed
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be nested te
ANY address for EIGHT SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CAROS- LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets amu How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working kor Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is Sd. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for ail Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Last, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, is: post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d!
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Like of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topper
the Score, <fc Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. W annan's Engine Driver’s Guide.
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, 6s!
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hkptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. W omen's Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want l*ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO Dill.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENE
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to tlie Stage,
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, geiiiiine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d most. l)n. Milford s Mi»-
wipe’s Handbook, 93 practical illustrations, -s «’■
Aristotle, 3/ti. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, compiet •
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions op 1
King, Is 3d. Guide to Auctioneering, 3s. od. oEcr ,
History Court op England, Is 3d post. I'® VK o ,
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, is •
alorgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to
Decrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vmt I '
Dictionary, Sd posted. Tokology, /* **l 1
Ingersoll’s Works. Sd, 3s. How to Head ll*
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Oiibvasskb Advice ro *
Wipe, 3s Od posted. Wonderful Budget ■
Book, over 300 latest song's, Is 3d P ost ''“'
Bennarp. Macpaddkn’s Works, all at os V s
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers anpSloa
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wipes Ham <
Is 3d posted. Fruits op Philosophy. Is post- H 1
Recitations and Headings, Is 3d. Nbrvousnes ;
Its Cure, Is 3d posted. Wbbsters BAR
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pajjes, 1600 illus„ #
bound, my price, 15s post paid (wny pay *
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is -y-
Mps and Electric Motors. Is ?d. Moores Ln ■
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1010 P a jj ’
bound, lOsbd posted. Tub Sbcrets op <3m ■ *
lg Dost. 300 Old-Time Songs (words and , n ,
pi,ete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Beason. '
posted. Sd. WRITE FOE CATALOGUt TO-D.AI


A £l4 Machine
With 5 Drawers
£8 10s.
15 YEARS’WRITTEN
GUARANTEE
Packed & Delivered Free
A.N.A. Sewing
Machine Co.
25 QUEEN VICTORIA MARKETS
(near Town Hall), SYDNEY.
Also at Errol Street, North Melbourne; 7 Arcade,
Adelaide; Baird’s Arcade, Perth; 39 Ceorge Street,
Launceston ; and 123 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEURALGIA AND POOR BLOOD.
There are very few eases of neuralgia
that are not caused by- a thin, run-down
condition of the blood. Almost the first
thing the doctor looks for in neuralgic
patients is the anaemic appearance.
There are two things to do for any form
of neuralgia. Apply heat to the affected
part to soothe the pain and feed thj nerves
by taking a tonic containing the elements
needed by them. Heat as afforded by hot
flannel, hot-water bags, etc., lulls the in-
flamed nerves into temporary quiet. It does
not cure. Not until the nutrition of the
nerves is restored will the inflammation sub-
side and the neuralgic state be remedied.
Never under any circumstances should drugs
to deaden the pain be used.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills furnish to the
blood the needed elements, and the blood
<ionveys them to the nerves. The only way
of getting food or medicine to the nerves is
through the blood. Remember that.
Neuralgia is a general term. It means
inflammation of a nerve. It is given differ-
ent names according to the nerve affected.
Sciatica is neuralgia of the sciatic nerve.
Applications of heat will soothe the pain in
all forms of neuralgia, and Dr. 'Williams’
Pink Pills will correct the condition that
causes it.
If you have neuralgia you can send to
your dealer at once for box of Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills. A useful booklet on
“Diseases of the Nervous System” will be
sent free to any address by the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co., Sydney.— Aovt.
HOW TO AVOID SICK HEADACHE.
Many people suffer at regular intervals
from sick headache. Generally they can tell
hours in advance when an attack is coming
on. The trouble is caused by accumulation
of poison in the digestive organs, and when
a certain point is reached this poison pro-
duces nausea, and the attack follows.
If sufferers would take a dose of Pink-
ettes, the new laxative, at intervals these
distressing attacks may be avoided. Pink-
ettes are dainty little sugar-coated ovals
that arouse no feeling of repulsion, and they
act so gently that they are the ideal laxative
to use in correcting a tendency to sick head-
ache. They have no unpleasant effect to
make them objectionable to the extra-
sensitive, siek-headache patient. Old-
fashioned, harsh purgatives will not do at all
in such cases. If you would like to try them
send for a free sample to the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co., Sydney, mentioning that you
read of them in The Bulletin. Sold
everywhere, Is. per bottle. — Advt.
>A aSter * U
((
it
GRAMOPHONE
Oak “Tasman” Model, £l5.
The stay-at-home nights are coming soon—nights when Jack
Frost will lurk outdoors. Those nights just make you long
for music—for the cheer of the fireside and the happy-go-lucky
home-concert when the world’s best artists sing to you per
medium of the “Gramophone.”
\
We are advising everyone to buy early, because there may be
a shortage.
The Tasman Model, illustrated, is a beautiful instrument, full-
toned and powerful.
You Certainly Should HEAR It!
This portable, hornless instrument
is an improved model, made of Dull
Polished Oak, with Nickel-plated
Cabinet Fittings. It has double-
spring, spiral-drive Motor; 12-inch
Turntable; Speed Indicator; and
“His Master’s Voice” tapering
Tonearm, with patent “Goose-
neck” ; “Exhibition Sound Box.
Price £l5
Accredited dealers everywhere.
Instrument catalogue, record lists and name of nearest accredited
dealers on request.
“GRAMOPHONE”
Registered Trade Mark
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
:*ri:
J*:
Restore the Voice with
EVANS
WtisepticTH ROAT
Pastilles
allaying all irritation of
the throat and clearing the
voice perfectly.
Evans Sons Lescher & Webb, Ltd., London.
THOSE WHO
APPRECIATE
length of service, as well as smart
and distinctive appearance, will
find the utmost satisfaction in
ABBEY SHOES.
We illustrate one of our latest
models —a special, high-grade
Patent Bal., with perforated
Golosh and Grey Suede Legs.
Price 40/*
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG,
A B B E Y,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
The tool with 5 big features
Is the Oster Bulldog Die-Stoek. The
features are:—
1. Self-locking dies.
2. Self-locking guides.
3. No resetting dies after each cut.
4. No Ipose bushings to lose or mislay.
5. No small parts to break.
Moving the releasing lever to the left
expands the dies —then the stock lifts
off the threads. Greater speed, less
labor, cleaner-cut pipe-threading are
produced by
Made in
11 Useful
Sizes
OSTER
TOOLS
47 distinct varieties
of die-stocks and
screwing machines.
Australian Representative:
CHARLES WRIGHT,
Box 251 C.P.0., Melbourne, Vic.
The Oster Mfg. Co.
2] Cleveland, Ohio, U.S. A.
GAILLE 1916 MODEL 5-SPEED
OUTBOARD MOTOR-
With Bosch High-tension Magneto.
The motor that you do not have to stop and
start the reverse way to go astern —you just
press the button to go astern, ahead, or
remain stationary without stopping engine.
Improved Silencer, etc., etc.
Caille Yankee Outboard Motors with
Battery and H.T. Magneto Ignition.
Caille Marine Engines, 2 to 8 h.p. in stock.
SCRIPPS 4=CYCLE ENGINES.
LATEST MODELS JUST LANDED.
All Spare Parts and Complete Boat Equipments Supplied
Sole Australasian Agents t
•' 3*
Benson Brothers Limited,
51-53 Druitt Street, SYDNEY; 60 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
Right to the Tick ?
You will save
Time Money
by carrying an
Fx"R
WATCH.
Gen t.’s Ful 1-sized,
Ope n-face Oxidised
Steel Lever Watch,
with 15 Jewels, 83/-
Fairfax# Roberts, Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 Hunter Street, Sydney.
i
/
J
Three Sizes—
-IVz K.p.
2 K.p.
3]/ 2 K.p.
TheEVINRUDE
:: DETACHABLE::
ROWBOAT MOTOR
is the most successful aud perfect motor of
this kind on the market. Over 40,000 now
in use. Very simple and easy to operate.
Can be attached to any boat in a few
minutes—adjustable to depth and angle of
stern. Speed up to eight miles an hour.
Equipped with high-tension, built-in-the-fly-
wheel Magneto. Fitted with Automatic
Reverse and Maxim Silencer. Operated by
Petrol, and lubrication is automatic.
Of invaluable assistance on the farm for pumping water, driving separator, etc.
To transform motor into a power machine is the work of a few minutes.
Propeller is removed and a belt pulley substituted.
Descriptive Booklet sent post free on application to
H. A. GODDARD, 376 Collins Street, Melbourne; 82 Pitt Street, Sydney;
404 Queen Street, Brisbane; Clift' Street, Fremantle; Remington
Chambers (opp. G.P.0.), Auckland, N.Z.
LOCAL AGENTS REQUIRED IN ALL TOWNS WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.


sw
IN
Y
D
rs
ELY
rendewSTthe Elite. SUmmer Garden ’ “ in previ ° US Beasons > is 6till the
c °°j ?, nc *, comfortable, it is ideal for Luncheons, Dinners. Afternoon
Teas, Supper and Wedding Parties and all semi open-air functions.
Visitors to Sydney will find the Wentworth Hotel most popular, central and
Z.,t t Tn?^thlL7Sn g r V “'“ Ce! ' ,nCl “ d ‘ nS “ “room,
“ d «“■<**•»»««■»
Terms on application.
Mrs. H. MACLURCAN, Manageress.
Unsoiled Originals and Perfect Permanent Pen-
copies absolutely ensured to users of Zanetic Sheets.
From Stationers or from S. B. Zanetic, Zanetic
Works, Leicester, England. ALL BRITISH, and
contains no Foreign Dye.*
Australasia supplies the
wool, England the labour and skill,
or the world’s finest Stockings and Socks
4$
99
Quality Stockings
and Socks for
Ladies, Children and
Men.
an w!Lfi" * fas^ n S t tockin S s and Socks—which are
™>, and of soft, silky finish. See the
everywhere 0 " mry pair * Drapers and 0utfitters
1 ‘In case of difficulty write to
JASON —
HOSIERY LEICESTER,
Aa 64 _
q>
POLITICAL
POINTS
A NEW WEAPON.
HE : “ You see, it was a ricochet that did it.”
SHE: “ Good gracious! What will they use
next?”
It was 25 years on March 2 since
Henry Parkes took the chair at the opening
of the Federation Convention in Sydney, at
which gathering the draft Commonwealth
Bill was adopted for submission to the State
Legislatures. Of the 45 delegates at that
Convention, only 14 are now alive.
Premier Holman’s latest excursion into
the field of what passes for “democratic legis-
lation” is represented by a Bill amending
the law of defamation to provide that pro-
ceedings may be taken in a court of sum-
mary jurisdiction against a newspaper which
calls anyone offensive names or publishes an
“insulting” drawing of the said anyone.
Apparently Holman has got tired of being
called down by the Labor press, and is going
CANUTE.
Another clause of the amendment would provide
that the publisher of a paper printing insulting
words would be liable to the same penalty as a
person who spoke insulting words in the street.
(Laughter.)
Mr. Levy: This is aimed at preventing criticism of
public men. (Hear, hear.) — Item, from debate in
N. S. Wales Assembly on Defamation Bill.
“He set his chair on the seashore and com-
manded the leaves to retire.”
Historical Note.
to put a stop to it, which, all things con-
sidered, is natural enough in him. But if
he were to give less occasion for harsh re-
marks he would be a lot happier than he
Mull be by sitting with the trigger of the
new Act cocked. This paper has doubts
whether Holman would prosecute anyone
who called him a defender of the
Labor platform, or Davy Hall in-
voke the law to silence a paper
which spoke of him as a Heaven-inspired
genius, or Dick Meagher drag an editor into
court for calling him an ornament to the
public life of the State, for by no stretch of
imagination could even a police-court beak
make himself believe that these terms were
insulting. There would be too much evi-
dence from the other side to show that when
used even at Caucus meetings they were
not looked upon as an overstatement of the
case.
“F.N.T.”: It should come as a relief to
the peaceful and law-abiding to learn that
the Australian branch of the Anarchists’
Federation is dead, or at least missing.
Some time ago, on reading in the press that
a delegate from the Federation had attended
a Sabbath meeting at the Bijou Theatre,, I
addressed a letter to the secretary of the
concern, asking him to oblige me with a copy
of the Federation’s constitution. I wrote
too late. The passing of the brotherhood
must have occurred almost at once, for my
letter was presently returned to me by the
Postal Department, after due search had
been made —no Federation, alive or dead,
could be discovered. Maybe the Federation
has gone to get its hand in by a little
grenading at the Front.
Thirty years ago, when the late W. T.
Stead was agitating for an increase in the
strength of the British Navy, General Wol-
seley wrote to him from the War Office :
What we want most is that the whole truth should
be told to the nation. We live in an age of cant and
lies and humbug, and it is difficult to make men
trust the people as they should do by telling them the
simple truth about our army and navy.
A quarter of a century later Lord Roberts
talked himself hoarse in advocating con-
scription, and the Government merely called
him an alarmist, whilst the people of "Britain
continued to think that the army didn’t mat-
ter as long as the navy was all right. The
Government never dreamed of trustfully tell-
ing the people the whole truth. The Oppo-
sition would have denounced the whole
truth as an entire lie, and maybe would have
pushed the Government out of office. No
Government is so lost to all sense of party
decency that it will take that risk.
Premier Vaughan, of S.A., and ex-
Premier Peake are keeping the grand old
party game alive during recess by 1000-word
“open letters” which are read more or less
by the public. These compositions are
quite courteously framed. “May I be
allowed to point out, with all deference, that
you have omitted to supply any evidence in
support of these statements?” Across the
floor of the House that mass of elegant
verbiage would he condensed into three
words —or possibly into one! “Flippancy”
is about the worst crime of which the
writers have, so far, accused each other.
That seems to be about all they are capable
of in the affable circumstances.
Kearsley, M.L.A., put in a word the
other day for “compensatioh for the holders
of licenses for N.S.W. railway refreshment
rooms,” which, this year, will be taken over
and riin by the Railway Department. The
refreshment rooms have hitherto been leased
to people who had the idea, apparently, that
because the tea-and-bun traders have been
allowed to run a profitable business in a
casual way, the public, after paying through
the nose individually, should shell out more
cash collectively for the privilege of dis-
turbing a good thing. It’s a brilliant idea,
but its lease of life is precarious.
“F.N.T.”: Frank Madden, Speaker of the
Vic. Legislative Assembly, has resurrected a
pet land-settlement scheme of his which he
considers suitable for soldiers. He pro-
poses to put down bores in the Heytesbury
forest, in the midst of 320-acre blocks. Each
block will provide selections for four sol-
diers, and, of each selection, 15 acres touch-
ing the bore will have a cottage built on it
and be ploughed, drained and planted with
apples. The soldier will have £1 a week
above his pension from the Government dur-
ing the first year; and for two years after-
wards, 10s. a week, “while the apple trees
are coming into bearing.” Then he is to have
30 years in which to pay his land off. The
remaining 65 acres of virgin land in each
selection, the sort that has hitherto been
considered too poor for selection, will be
converted by the soldier’s own labor into
“pasture for a horse, a few cows,” etc.
There is something wrong with the adminis-
trative equipment of a man who proposes to
put partially-disabled soldiers on land which
admittedly is of little value, expecting them
to get a living for themselves and families
from apple-trees planted three years, in the
meantime existing on 10s. a week. Of course
they might save enough money to tide them
over trouble from the £1 a week of the first
year, after paying for the horse, few cows,
etc., but it’s doubtful. Improvidence is
ingrained in some people.
HOT STUFF.
PENPUSH : “I fear that I have offended your
sister, Miss Brown. ”
MISS BROWN: “Oh?”
PENPUSH: “Yes, I sent her a copy of my
latest novel, and she sent it hack and
told me to use it as a footwarmer!”
“D.F.”: According to a resident of those
parts Private Enterprise has a good thing
going in a small way on some of the Bass
Strait islands. He alleges that the State
Government leases one island for grazing
purposes at £lO per year and that
the lessee lifts £GO per year from
the half-castes and others for the right to
collect the young of the mutton-birds that
breed, but certainly do not graze, on the
island. So the lessee gets a clear £5O per
year out of this industry and has the graz-
ing for nothing. It looks pretty poor busi-
bad 5 H° r wT-* St * te ’ but Tass y h as always
£orn t o h thto g a orleL SiVinS a ' Val, Sood tl,iDgs
"Leo Lear”: Before the trouble
any farther it is up to the Aust?a In
ment to take out patent rights S a arlla '
“Anzac,” and hold them in narae
nation. If this is not done a nS/° r the
sacred in the eyes of Australfans and f< Ar ever
landers will become the box ft f ?• aoti ‘
every quack and dead-beat from PortTk nf
to Stewart Island. Every Ansb i- l “
well remembers the sorrows
out having “Anzac handicaps” “a th ‘
boots,” “Anzac tearooms,” “Anzac
toes and “Anzac pills” blinding P v a "
on all sides. When the big settlem^” 1
conies let us try to plant the soil of a nt
with Australian flowers and trees an<nfm
its name only in our songs and tS« h ° ld
If the Minister for Names and Title?
attend to this matter he will have a
something that will raise his credit n h° ne
the ruck of hard-borrowing politicians b ° n '
THE ODDS.
THE PLUNGER: “ What price Paris?"
THE BOOKMAKER: “ Write your own ticket.”
Some moderately candid official remarks on
Sweden’s dealings with Germany were made
in the House of Commons the other day.
Nevil Primrose stated as evidence of Scan-
dinavian consignees being in collusion with
the German Government that several
Swedish ships heavily laden with grain and
oil had put themselves in the way to be “cap-
tured” by German warships. It was so easy
for any vessels not to be cap-
tured by German warships that
the proceedings in these cases
hardly admitted of a doubt. So
Nevil Primrose said that if it
occurred again, “special meas-
ures might be necessary.” But
he didn’t say what special meas-
ures he meant. Perhaps he con-
templates a prohibitive duty on
Swedish lucifer matches.
Victoria and South Australia
are arising to shatter the State-
frights bogey. They are laying
down at their joint expense a
cross-border line from Mount
Gambier (S.A.) to Portland
(V.), and the latter’s splendid
harbor will serve, as nature in-
tended it should, as the port of
much of the south-east of the
adjoining State. S.A. Premier
Crawford Vaughan has turned
the limelight on the scheme by
travelling over much as is
finished of the new linking line,
in company with the mayors of
the two border towns and the
local Parliamentary representatives of Vic.
and S.A. Meanwhile Adelaide shipping cos.
are uttering hollow groans.
Last week while-the titanic struggle at
Verdun held the attention of a waiting world
and the hour at which Sydney’s beer is to
be cut off at the meter was one of the un-
solved problems of the democracy, the
N.S.W. Assembly met for the transaction of
business after several months’ spell. And
immediately the Sergeant at Arms had waved
Richard Meagher into the Speaker’s throne
•f. C. Fitzpatrick rose to the occasion and
fiercely demanded to know whether
The Minister of Labor will cause inquiry into
the facts of the case of a woman who was fined
recently at Bondi for having sold after 6 p.m. a
pound of candles!
Fitzparrot has just been appointed Liberal
Whip in place of Moxham, dead, and his
responsibilities sit heavily upon him.
CONVERTED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I much rejoice at the loyalty to death of the sons
of Brandenburg displayed in the irresistible storm-
ing attack on the enemy’s strongest fort. God bless
Brandenburg and the entire Fatherland.
—Bill the Butcher.
I refrain from vicious drinking,
I am sparing in my food;
With a bumbled heart I’m thinking
That the war has done me good.
It is well to hate the nation
Which has wrought the world’s distress;
So I hope to win salvation
Through the Kaiser’s wickedness.
Oh, this war comes as a sermon
Breathing Christianity;
Yea, the sermon preached in German
Stirs the very soul of me.
I was not a friend of Labor
(Having neither toiled nor spun),
And I did not love my neighbor—•
Till I learned to hate the Hun.
I can love the homeless workers
Of the poorest human race;
I can trust that lazy shirkers
May be brought at last to grace.
I have turned away from evil,
And its followers I shun
Since I recognise the Devil
In the gospel of the Hun.
Now young Billjim is my brother—
He at whom I used to scoff—
I could kiss him for his mother
When I see him marching off
To the troopship, never speaking
Of a profit or reward,
From the perils he is seeking
In the service of the Lord.
When the Button-Day box rattles
On behalf of brave Billjim,
Who was game to fight my battles
At the risk of life and limb,
I review the years behind me
With an old man’s vain regret,
And my prayer is, “God remind me
If I ever should forget.”
I have craved for selfish pleasure—^
But the craving is subdued —■
And to-day my choicest treasure
Is a sense of gratitude.
I have found a Faith supernal
In the firm and fixed belief
That there is a King eternal
Who will bring the Hun to grief.
Hell and furies! Donnerwetterl
’Tis the lesson of the war
That has made me so much better
Than I ever was of yore.
From the sermon of the sabre
And the all-destroying gun
We can learn to love our neighbor
As we hate the gory Hun.
VICTORIA.
EDMUND FISHER.


Brilliant Tone.
PALING’S
Lifelong Durability.
Pianos
*1
MUM*.**
: ii*M&
■r-
~ Player pianos
FOR your own and your wife’s sake—for the sake of the musical education
of your children, for their enjoyment and for yours, don’t be satisfied unless
you have a Piano or Player Piano worthy of your home, an instrument
that will give you honest value for your money after many years. The success
of Paling’s Pianos and Player Pianos is based on thoroughness of manufacture;
the extraordinary value obtainable at a moderate price : the delightful tone
quality and the long wear and lasting satisfaction they are guaranteed to give.
CHAPPELL, SAHES, ESTEY and VICIOR PIANOS, also BEHNING,
ESTEY, CROWLEY and VICTOR PLAYER PIANOS are instruments we take
a real pleasure in selling.
IT is simply astonishing how easy it is to produce the most difficult music on
PALING’S PLAYERS. Ease of manipulation is a feature of these instruments ;
even a child can play one, the pedalling being so delightfully easy. As to
tone and durability, you can be quite sure about these qualities, as each Player
Piano is guaranteed by Paling’s. And remember, that our reputation and
experience of over 63 years is your protection against disappointment.
Come in to=day and try them over, we promise you a musical treat. If you cannot
conveniently call, please write to=night for particulars. Catalogue and prices post free. We
shall be pleased to take your present piano in exchange.
EASY TERMS IF YOU WISH.
H. PALING 8 CO. LIMITED,
W.
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at . . .
Brisbane, Newcastle, Lismore 8 Toowoomba.
,1 ■ .
*3W
LiJ
ss
*g^3»w
-a-
tv'
14
3$
El
IKSiGn
This British-made
CAMERA
stands out
as the Best Value
ever offered in
Folding Roll=Film
Cameras.
FOLDING ENSIGNS
Folding Ensigns embody all the attractive Features
oi the more expensive Roll-Film Cameras and sell
at half the price.
The “Folding Ensign” Daylight Loading Roll Film
Cameras are made on very neat lines, with just the essential move-
ments.
The Cameras are very light and compact. In finish and
appearance they are excellent. British Made.
Loading and unloading is particularly simple, and can be done
very quickly.
SPECIAL FEATURES.
Seasoned Wood Body, Ebonised Baseboard,
Morocco Leatherette Covering, Leather
Bellows, Reversible View Finder, Focussing
Scale, Infinity Catch.
“2 MB Folding Ensign,” with Achromatic
Meniscus Lens and Ensign-Junior Shutter for Roll
Films, 2lin. x 3jin £1 2 G
“3M Folding Ensign,” with Achromatic Menis-
cus Lens, for Roll Films, 31in. x 4jin £1 17 6
“3M A Folding Ensign,” with Achromatic
Meniscus Lens, for Roll Films, 3Jin. x 54in. (P.C.) £2 2 0
All the above Cameras are obtainable fitted with Rapid Rectilinear
Lenses, at slightly higher prices.
U D
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Auckland & Wellington.
Send foi a Copy
Latest Prices.
of our New Camera Price List—Latest Models.
ALL BRITISH MADE.
Jokes, Puzzles, Tricks, Novelties, Etc.
Write for our New Novelty Catalog sent free.
THE SQUIRT CAMERA SHOCKING CIGARETTE CASE.
A miniature
camera which
gives forth a
stream of water
when anyone
poses for a
photo.
Post Free, 9d.
The above two Jokes sent Post Free for 1/3.
Write for our New Selection of Six Iron Puzzles.
Post Free, with full instructions, for 2/-
i 5
i
A splendid
have. No sooner
do you open the
ease than you
drop it as
quickly.
Post Free, 9d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON Utd.,
New York Novelty Co.,
708-710 George St., Haymarket, Sydney
I? any illustration appearing in Tin?
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Kinta Valley Tin-Dredging Ltd.
FOB PUBLIC INFORMATION ONLY, ALL SHARES HAVING BEEN SUBSCRIBED.
The Treasurer of the Commonwealth has been consulted, under the Regulations of the 20th January
1910 and raises no objection to this issue. The fact that such consent has been given is ot to be taken
in any way as a guarantee of actual or probable financial stability 01 success ot the company.
KINTA VALLEY TIN-DREDGING, LIMITED, BATU GAJAII, FEDERATED MALAY STATES,
(incorporated under the Companies Acts of New South Wales.)
CAPITAL, £70,000.
Divided into 70,000 Shares of £1 each.
27 000 fully paid up shares, and £8750 cash, to tie allotted and paid to the Vendors, out of which
thev are paying £5OOO cash and 7000 shares to the owners of the lands. ~ .
43,000 Contributing Shares, payable as 2/6 per share on application, and 4/- per share on allotment,
and the balance in calls as required.
70 000 Directors:
E. I). GRAY and WM. LAMBERT (Paul and Gray, Ltd.), Sydney. WILLIAM PITTS, Rose Bay, Sydney.
Hankers:
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LTD., 273 George Street, Sydney.
Solicitor:
S. M. STEPHENS, 36 Moore Street, Sydney.
Broker:
C. B. QUINAN, Member Sydney Stock Exchange, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Secretary and Office: , .
WM. TARLETON, 107 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Auditors:
CARRUTHERS, FARR'AM and CO., 77 King Street, Sydney.
Consulting. Engineers:
F. W. PAYNE and CO., London and Dunedin (N.Z.).
THIS COMPANY has been formed' for the purpose of acquiring and working by modern bucket
dredges tin-bearing lands at Batu Gajah,' State of Perak, Federated Malay States.
SITUATION and AREA: 609 acres, with rights over 515 acres. In all 1124 acres of tin-bearing land
secured. In addition to which, application has been made for rights over the river bed of the Kinta
River and the islands between, this application being recommended by the Kinta Lands Office to the
Resident of Perak for his approval, with every probability of same being granted. The property is
situated about half a mile from the town of Batu Gajah and between the Penang-Singapore Railway and
the Tandjong Tualong Road, with the Ivintra River running right through the property.
Exhaustive reports have been furnished by Messrs. A. E. Thomas, W. Cock, C. Hollyoak, F. W. Payne
and Wm. Kellie Smith. An area of 207 acres has been bored by the Klian Ivellas, Ltd., showing values
of tin oxide, 78 acres averaging lilb., 139 acres averaging over lib., and check boring of 100 acres
bv Mr. Thomas proved average value of 1.211 b. to the cubic yard. Since then Mr. Cock has closely
bored, proving the average of such 100 acres to be 1.221 b. Thus the ground has been carefully bored
three times, and each boring has fully confirmed the previous boring and proved the ground to be highly
payable. The area of tin-mining lands acquired by the Company is (allowing for the river bed)
approximately 1180 acres, 207 acres containing 14,000,000 cubic yards, with tin oxide even at £165 per
ton equals £495,833 gross value of tin oxide to be recovered. With a dredge turning over 100,000 cubic
yards monthly, recovering lib. tin oxide of 79 per cent, metallic, at a working cost of 34d. per cubic
yard, and with tin at £165 per ton, a profit of £2149 a month is shown, or £25,788 per year, equal
to 35 per cent, per annum on a capital of £70,000.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LIHITED, Redfern, Sydney.
Whenever YOU visit Melbourne be sure
to stay at “Scott’s.” tor co >
sumptuousness and convenience no . te .
hotel can compare with it. * „ ,
attendance-’phones in all rooms, an ,
and Cold Water in Bedrooms. »>'<■
Room or “Private-Suite” Accommodation.
scons HOTEL
Collins St Melbourne
Telegrams—“ Scott’s. ” Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The “books,” as expected, viewed the New-
market as a very open race, and, having been well
fed with early investments on favorites that were no
longer in demand, the market-makers offered 10 to 1
bar one at the start. Maharajah at 7’s was the
barred one. Of the others, Amata perhaps carried
more money than anything else, small punters, as a
rule, getting only 8 to 1 for their half-sovereigns.
The least backed of the old fancies at the finish
was Traquette, who is now said to be slightly out
of gear in the wind. When the barrier went up no
prad rushed away into a commanding lead, con-
sequently the time —lmin. 15sec. —for the full jour-
ney was slower than usual. Woorak, the mad pace-
maker in so many previous sprints, behaved soberly
enough this time, but he was always one of the fore-
most. After going a furlong the leaders were
Maharajah, Eurobin, Red Signal, Burrabadeen, lown-
it and Woorak, with Tringa, La Steppe and Amata
not far behind. Three furlongs from home
Eurobin, Maharajah and Red Signal appeared to be
still a trifle ahead of the rest, but the latter (who
looked rather overdone) and Maharajah were soon
out of it. Eurobin, however, remained distinctly at
the head of affairs until the distance post was passed.
Then something seemed to happen to the handsome
gelding, for he failed as he had never failed in faster
run races. Woorak was the first to beat him. Then
came the honest Amata, running as straight as a
gun-barrel in the centre of the course, and the name
of the mare was yelled to Heaven. It seemed, too,
that lownit would catch AVoorak, but the
perky little stallion could get no nearer than third.
A length and a half, and a neck, were between the
placed horses.
It was not the Amata of a year ago, or even
the mare who won the last race of the V.R.C. Spring
meeting that did the big trick on Saturday-. Amata,
always improving, had made wonderful progress
these last two months. She is not a big one, but
she’s a true daughter of Wallace, and the children
of Wallace are slow to reach their maturity of
strength and speed. Not until she beat Woorak at
Caulfield on the Saturday previous to the Newmarket
did Amata look at all like a good thing for the
coming event. Rumors of her having “come on”
amazingly were received with suspicion. Much the
same thing had been said before she went to Rand-
wick in September to win the Epsom mile, which
proved a cakewalk for Woorak. Her owner, W. Lan-
dale, before going to England for fighting purposes,
had begged his friends to back Amata for the Epsom.
The mare’s uninitiated admirers were a little too
previous with their confidence. It was only of late
that very shrewd heads felt cocksure about the mare’s
improvement.
lownit, of course, was the wonder horse of the
Newmarket. He had run first and second in the
two previous years, and now, after doing the State
some service at the stud, the son of Grdfter ran a
good third. Sprint races are for the speediest
sprinters, no matter whether they be quite wound-up
or otherwise. lovvnit’s demeanor in the saddling-
paddock before the event suggested that in his
opinion he was at a horse-show rather than a race-
meeting. But when he got to the barrier the thoughts
of the old warhorse were on the real business.
The V.R.C. Leger race was remarkable for the
swerving of Westeourt when asked to overtake
Patrobas in the last 150 yards! Heavens, how he
swerved! Even Patrobas swerved a little, but he
was a straight goer compared with his old rival.
The time —3min. 3sec. —has only once been beaten
for the lj miles classic race at Flemington.
The Essendon Stakes (12 furlongs) was a remark-
ably fast go between Giru and Carlita, with Cyklon
putting in a great run at the finish. The time—
2min. 324 sec a see. slower than Comedy King’s
record of five years ago, the timing on which occa-
sion has been questioned. Ciru made most of the
running, Carlita taking the lead from the improved
son of Antonis when they were rounding into the
straight. Then Giru came again and fairly wore the
mare down. She had suffered from a blister in the
mouth earlier in the week, and maybe it felt some-
what sore on the bit, hut the performance
proved Giru to be a greatly improved animal. The
Essendon and Leger times being so fast the slowness
of the Newmarket is the more noticeable. Cyklon
had run in the Newmarket, by the way, before he
was stripped for the w.f.a. If they could get him as
fit as the proverbial fiddle Cyklon would be an abso-
lute topnotcher over any distance up to 12 furlongs,
or even further. But the animal that won races in
England and Germany seems to have * weak spots
about him, and has not been worked up to top
pitch.
* * * •
Horses sent across the Murray did better
than was expected at Flemington, appropriating the
stakes in three events and supplying the runner-up
in two. Wolaroi, winner of the Sires’ Produce
Stakes, is the property of a Bondi Junction meat mer-
chant, Dan Seaton. Lingle, the Brunswick Stakes win-
ner, is owned by Charlie Horan, a Kensington man. As
Horan planks down the money in solid lumps when
the provocation is sufficient, being one of Australia’s
biggest punters, the Noses must have had a Turkish
bath when the colt streaked to the front and won by
three lengths from Two Blues. Two Blues paid for
his oats on the previous Saturday when he took the
Trial Stakes at Caulfield.
* » • *
Maoriland is being exploited for horses to
race at the Associated Racing Club’s meetings round
Sydney. In the last few weeks Briseis, a mare from
the Rickety Isles, has done very well. She won, in
turn, Maiden, Encourage and Approved Handicaps
before tackling Flying events, two of which she
secured. Another Maorilander, Lady Elvsian, re-
cently won a double on the one day; and Margarita,
a 14-2 prad who distinguished herself among the
little ones by humping huge weights to the front,
beat everything in Moorefteld Flying Handicap last
Saturday. Margarita had previously tried to win
in that class of race and failed. She was greatly
fancied for the last Carrington Stakes, but she as
good as fell down paralysed.
# * * *
Another cheap nag has been doing things
in Loan Land. A few months back the owner of a
nag named Rorke’s Drift sent him down to Inverkeg-
ville with other prads to be sold by auction to
anyone with courage enough to buy. Two local men,
F. A. and V. N. Price, bought the animal for a few
pounds, and promptly won a local race with him. This
left them a lump on the credit side. The other day
Rorke’s Drift was sent up to Dunedin, entered for
the two big events, the Dunedin Cup and the Jockey
Club Handicap. He bagged both. Incidentally, the
owners got a straight-out offer of £lOOO for the
nag, but they said that it was their deaf day.
* * * *
McShortodds would have had a disastrous
time at the recent Dunedin (M.L.) meeting. On the
second day out of eight events favorites arrived home
first on six occasions. Each carried such a load of
cash that a man who had £ 1 on each of the six
achieved 4s. less from the machine than he put into
it.
* * * *
“Evens” : The Jester lias been attending a
fair number of the race meetings held lately in
Maoriland. At the Woodville meeting the Cup was
won by Tangihon, who won the M.L. Cup some three
months previously. At the Manawatu meeting at
Christmas time Tangihon was about 13th favorite
in a field of 14, seven weeks after winning the big-
gest race in the country. He ran later amongst
third raters until he got to Woodville. There
nine accepted for the big event, and Tangihon was
eighth favorite on the machine. He romped home
pa}dng a £2B dividend. During the race
Ladogeur, an alleged moral for the stake, was going
mighty well, but was outed by Roumania crossing
him. Thereafter there was nothing in the road of
Tangihon. Incidentally Roumania’s rider was fined
a fiver.
An imported trotting mare, Queen Patch,
wrecked some starting-price punters’ dreams of
profits at the Manawatu (M.L.) meeting lately. The
animal was brought up from Christchurch, and wads
of money were placed in the right hands to flop on
10 minutes before starting time. She duly won, and
the optimists were heard chuckling from Auckland to
the Bluff. But the commission had been badly
worked. When the totalisator clerks reckoned up
things they found that of 270 tickets on the race
201 were on the winner. After nipping off 12J per
cent, for war tax and 25 per cent, for the second
horse the successful financiers each got 17s. 6d. back
from their sov. Backers of the second horse got
£3 each.
* * * *
The bookmaker has been flourishing in Tas.,
in spite of the tote, for until recently he could not
be convicted unless on proof that he habitually made
a business of betting. The new Suppression of
Betting and Gaming Act has changed all this. The
first prosecutions under it came off at Launceston
the other day, when six odds merchants were told to
pay £2O and costs apiece.
* * # *
The stakes for the two Cup Weeks in
Adelaide are to remain the same as last year, the
S.A.J.C. and Adelaide R.C. together putting up about
£13,000 for the six days. Goodwood Handicap re-
mains at £7OO, City Handicap £750 and the
Adelaide and Birthday Cups will each contain £l5OO.
» * * *
F. E. Jones, a Maoriland horseman, has a
pretty good record in riding to win the Dunedin
Champagne Stakes. He had his first winning mount
on Husbandman in 1908, and since then has won the
race on Sharpshooter, Counterfeit, Brown Owl, Night-
watch, Angelina, Adjutant and Good Hope. In 10
successive years he has been on the winner seven
times, on the second horse twice and on the third
once. Bob Derritt was on top of the winner of this
race nine times between 1883 and 1906.
FRITZ HOLLAND, Middleweight.
Maoriland has said good-bye to another
old racing man—Jimmie Jeffs. Born at Kaiapoi he
lived most of his life in Dunedin, and it was in the
oatmeal city he chiefly won his reputation and
races. His best-known horses were the sprinter
Petrovna, Pipi the ’chaser and the trotter Wilkie.
In the digging days Jeffs saw some stirring times,
and ran the mail coach to Nenthorn during the big
rush there. Two years ago paralysis gripped him.
He was oul} r 63 when he boarded the chariot.
* * * *
The axe fell very lightly on the A.J.C.
(Sydney) autumn meeting prize-money. Large
reductions were foreshadowed, but only the small
events were pruned. The big events—Sydney Cup
( £5000), Sires Produce Stakes ( £3000), Don-
caster Handicap, Champagne Stakes, Autumn Stakes,
All-Aged Stakes, A.J.C. Plate, Cumberland Stakes
(each £2000) remain as in 1915. Altogether
£29,200 will be distributed in 24 events, which
compares favorably with £30,150 in 1915, and
£28,100 in 1914.
* * * *
“H. 0.”: Melbourne Argus has lately been
devoting columns to a discussion of the efficacy of
“prayers for the dead.” As an old-established pun-
ter I have never known them to do the least good.
All the prayers on earth will not make the “dead”
quick.
* * * *
Jimmy Clabby and Fritz Holland, both of
the U.S.A., collided a second time at Sydney Stadium
on Saturday and put up a vimful, scientific scrap.
When they last met James got the verdict. He got
the same thing again on Saturday, and deserved it.
Fritz was well outpointed, and two or three times in
mighty great danger of being outed. He fought a
brainy, vigorous fight, all the same. But flabby
had the greater speed and the heavier wallop, and on
Saturday was just as good as he had ever al^ e "
before. His next engagement is with Darcy —also a
return battle—and if in this Clabbv can manage to
avoid the mistake he made before of trying to fight
the youngster at close quarters he may do better
than on that painful occasion.
* * *
“Knock-out” Brown and Albert Lloyd
provided the feast of stoush at Melbourne
Stadium on Saturday night. As Browns reputa-
tion as a sleep-dispenser had started to silt up, he
went in to settle Albert early; but the latter, who
combines agility with bulk, counter-attacked with left
prods to the other fellow’s ingrowing nose, and then
either debouched or clinched. A heavy right hook in
the sixth upset Australia’s calculations and the judge
granted an injunction in the following round, with
costs against Lloyd.
* * * *
“Red” Watson settled Fred Delaney’s
optimism at Brisbane on Saturday in about one hit.
Before the first round was over Delaney’s second had
heaved the towel .in, and the referee had mentioned
to Watson that the massacre had lasted long enough.
There is afoot an agitation to bring
Griffo back to Australia. He is said to be as right
as ever in his career. How that can be surpasses
understanding. The present generation of Australian
stoush enthusiasts know him only by name, and he
would be better off left at that.
“Cleido” : That libel perpetrated by “Sar-
donyx” on present-day scrapping (B. 10/2/’l6) labels
him as one of those hoary old sinners who can see
no merit in things of to-day. “Nothing like we had
in the old days,” is their cry. What a rotten cry it
is, too. The glove-specialist of to-day is a better
man any way you take him than the old-time basher
the patriarchs of the hour prate about. Why ?
Because the science of boxing has no more deterior-
ated than the science of war, of loan-raising, of horse-
racing, or of athletics of any description. From
time to time you find horses clipping down existing
time figures and athletes establishing records in
various pastimes. The same applies to the boxer.
The evolution of in-fighting has equipped him to-day
with the means of greater offensive ability, while he
has also incomparably more scientific methods of
preparation. All this means more fighting service,
perfect physical condition, more strength and greater
powers of endurance. The rules governing the game
also provide the pug with gloves to protect his hands,
and the minute interval between rounds to recuperate
and continue the contest with a full head of steam
on. The direct result is that there is more fight
crammed into a round of three minutes to-day than
into half a dozen of those old affairs that sometimes
lasted a few seconds, and at other times were long-
drawn-out meetings which, after the first few
minutes, degenerated into a shoving match, with an
occasional trip, or stage fall to end the round. In
those long-drawn-out affrays men would go down to a
tap that wouldn’t have disturbed the billiard Cinque-
valli balanced on his chin. Present conditions are
far more exacting, and a boxer who gets through 20
rounds as they are usually fought to-day requires
great powers of endurance —that is, to the observer
who takes an ordinary size in ears.
* * ♦ *
“Sardonyx”: Numerous recent references
to Tom Sayers have reminded me that I once saw
that famous warrior strip for examination by a party
of prominent medical men. Sayers, a trifle under
five-feet-eight, weighed only 1471 b., but he was a
beautifully-built man, whose compact and powerful
upper-works were accentuated by a waist-line which
was perhaps a little too fine, and which, coupled
with an apparent lack of muscular development, gave
a misleading suggestion of delicacy to one of the
toughest and ruggedest fighters that ever entered a
ring. He showed none of the surface-ridges and
bunches usually characteristic of the athlete, but the
muscle was there, nevertheless; evenly developed in
ever\ r part, and rippling all over the man the moment
he put his hands up. Sayers was the first to demon-
strate the soundness of the newly-arisen notion that
a clever and hard-hitting middleweight was “good
enough for anything that walked on two legs.” The
knowing-ones laughed this heresy to scorn, and made
very merry at the expense of the few prominent
sports who backed Sayers to take the championship
of England from the redoubtable “Tipton Slasher,”
a 15-stone 74-incher. The Slasher himself was hugely
amused at the little man’s temerity, and said that
if he could only get one home on Sayers, there would
be “no more Tom!” In the course of the fight he
did get one home —a terrific smash that made every-
body think Sayers was killed. But Tom managed to
come up to time, and after that the big fellow never
had a chance, being hammered to helplessness and
finally knocked senseless by four successive admin-
istrations of Tom’s celebrated “auctioneer.” ’
* * * *
“Kaniva”: “Eryander” (B. 24/2/T6) is
mistaken in assigning four fights between “Bendigo”
and Caunt. He says his father was present at the
last of these encounters in ’45. This was really the
third and last meeting in the ring of these men.
The first was in 1835, when Caunt lost through hit-
ting Bendigo while the latter was on his knees. The
second affray was in ’3B. In this, during the 13th
round, Caunt squeezed the other in such a powerful
grasp against the ropes that he stood a big chance of
being killed if someone had not cut them. At the
38th term a magistrate got near the ring and lectured
the multitude in vain. In the 50th Caunt alleged
that he had been kicked while on the ground. The
scene beggared description, and the sticks of the
“Nottingham lambs” did much damage in the mix-
up about the ring. Caunt eventually won, Bendigo
dropping without a blow. The latter in old age
turned to preaching, and one day meeting an erst-
while noble patron he told him, “He was now fight-
ing Satan——and, behold, the victory shall be mine.”
“I hope so,” said his friend. “But fight him more
fairly than you did Ben Caunt, or I may change my
side.”
* * * *
What looks like the biggest athletic carni-
val Australia has seen starts to-morrow night
at the instigation of Snowy Baker in Svdney Stadium
and will be continued next day at the Agricultural
Grounds, where peds and cyclists and horses will be
given a show. Darcy and McGoorty are to swap
compliments to begin with, and old time Larry
Foley is going to show Jimmy Clabby a point or
two, and there will be high diving by Aleck Wick-
ham and Fanny Durack and much other strenuous
excitement. All the proceeds to the Light Horse
Comforts Fund.
* * * *
“Mulga”: I have seen Giffen, Gregory,
Graham, Noble, Trumper, Duff and others plav
magnificent innings in Test matches, but two
innings of Clem Hill s will do me. One, on the
Melbourne C. C. Ground, the Australians being five
or six wickets down for 40. Hill, then a mere
youth, on being joined by Trumble, whacked Richard-
son and co. all over the ground to the tune of 181.
The other at Adelaide a few years ago. Hill
although suffering from a severe attack of nausea
and influenza, batted grandly for 160, and pulled the
match out of the fire. Hartigan made a splendid
stand with Hill in this innings, obtaining a trip to
■Lng’.Uuia through it. Personally, although I always
considered Trumper a more spectacular batsman
than Hill, yet if great batsmen are taken by great
deeds in great matches, I consider Hill the greater
of the two.
* * * *
“Jimmy” Sheppard, probably tlm “elassi-
ba j STna n '] Queensland has produced, has heard the
call and enlisted. He holds the local record for the
finest series of catches ever taken bv one man in one
Against the Ma State in 1914, on Brisbane
Cricket Giound, fielding in the slips he took five
halls that were popped up off McAndrew’s bowling
It was a stylish performance. Jimmy also gained
inter-State honors at lacrosse. Brother Rav, who was
an international lacrosseur, has decided that Jimmv
wanted someone to look after him, so he, too is
shouldering a gun. ’
“Fletcher”: llow about this one? When
)5 ,rl ;±V? and A T \’ st T alia T ere P lavin * at Leeds about
la j ears ago, Darling skied one to the boundary
Irving Washington, a Yorkshire outfielder snn - nfo ,
30 or 40 yards, jumped, caught the ball and dm
about six somersaults, still clutching the leather tv
rest of the Australians knocked up 40 r or '
22?). The local sporting paper described it astif
“most sensational catch of a lifetime.” tne
* * * *
As the sailing season in Port Jackson
draws to a close followers of the sport are specific
ing whether the scratch boat Kismet will win £i nn
Winning a place in her heat and in the final on Sati.r
day Kismet brought her winnings to £B6 As it '
possible to win £l4 on a Saturday afternoon the
old boat is within striking distance of the centure
Interest lately has been centred in Ethel ri
season this boat raced as Blanche, and someone dk
gustedly disposed of her in a Is. raffle. The winner
did her up and re-baptised her and started to race
her two months ago. Since then she has won £44
* * * *
“Ringbolt”: “Spinnaker” (B. 24/2/16)
has voiced an observation 1 have often heard made
by windjamming mariners, who have also frequently
been heard to wonder why such enthusiasts as the
Sydney yachtsmen confine themselves practically to
one rig—or, at all events, to one type, the single
master. I have never seen here that most beautiful
cf all rigs, the schooner; the yawl is very scarce
and the ketch, as a yacht,' non-existent. Let nobody
judge, from the appearance of our clumsy and lub-
berly coasting-ketches, of what a ketch-yacht looks
like, with tautly-stayed masts, well-cut and well-
stretched white canvas, and smartly-rove run-
ning gear. The ketch is by far the best rig for
cruising, because her short main-boom is much
handier than the cutter’s, or even than the yawl’s
and her mizzen, unlike the yawl’s foolish little' after-
sail, is big enough to hold her well to windward
under itself and the head-sails only. .Under these
three sails, indeed, the ketch works well upon any
helm ; and, for evidence that the rig is the best for
heavy weather we need go no further than the fact
that the British, French and Dutch fishing-craft—
the world’s best sea-boats —are all ketches. 1 have
often heard surprise expressed that the lug-rig j s
never used for yachts of any considerable size. The
dipping-lugger is certainly both fast and Weatherly,
but the sail, when of large size, is a very awkward
one to handle when beating to windward, because at
every tack it has to be lowered-away and passed to
the other side of the mast—an operation requiring
great caution and careful steering in anything like
a stiff breeze.
* * * *
Frank de Beaurepaire, ex-champion
swimmer of Victoria, who had worked up to a lieu-
tenancy in the A.I.F. and turned his thoughts to
Gallipoli, acquired appendicitis last August and his
plans were upset. In September the Y.M.C.A. asked
the public for funds with which to do some sort of
work on the transports. The result was satisfac-
tory, and several young men have since been sent to
Egypt as Y.M.C.A. secretaries, starting with the
troops from various ports. Four have gone from
Melbourne and Beaurepaire was one of them.
* * * *
Motor-cycle road records come and go.
Last week Jack Booth (Vic.) startled official time-
keepers by flying over half a mile of highway in
18 4-ssec. —95 miles 1310 J yards per hour and a
world’s record.
* * * ♦
Erwin G. Baker, the Yankee motor-cyclist
who recently fractured some records in Vic-
toria, a couple of years ago whizzed from
west to east of United States (3378 miles) in
276 hours —easily the best spin over the long
stretch. Baker is a non-smoker and non-drinker
and turns the beam at 15st., which shows the
quality of the Indian to carry weight at record
speed.
* # » »
A Victorian motor-cyclist will shortly be
making an attempt to reduce J. Bolger’s 1913 Mel-
bourne-Sydney record of 23hrs. 41min. With the
up-to-date spring-framed twins now available to
speedmen, the wonder is that this record has stood on
the b4fcs so long. With decent luck and weather
conditions the 565 miles should be covered in from
18 to 19 hours.
* * *
F. E. Wells, the well-known golf player
and winner of the silver cup at Manly this year pre-
sented by Allen Taylor, M.L.C., has decided to ex-
change the putter for the rifle and the bayonet. His
is a well-known figure on the Manly and Leura links.
In his spare time he is accountant for the Newcastle
Wallsend Coal Company.
“The Master Gravedigger” forwards a few
remarks written on a second-hand coffin lid:
Apropos of the sale of two graves at Rookwood
(Sydney) The Bulletin (2/3/’l6) remarks that few
men buy themselves a burrow. Well, I have the
personal supervision of two large cemeteries and
general oversight for the trustees of many others,
and can assure you that it is a fairly common prac-
tice. Under the model code of regulations recom-
mended by the Department of Lands and adopted by
most religious bodies in N. S. Wales certificates
(transferable) are issued called “exclusive rights,
whereby any person may become the owner of a plot
9ft. x 4 ft. in any particular corner of a boneyard he
fancies. The cost of an interment is as a rule 30s. 10s.
to the clergyman, 10s. to the sexton, and 10s. to the
cemetery. Of course this fee does not carry with it
the ownership of the grave, which at the discretion
of the Trustees after a certain lapse of years may be
reopened. Before decorating it with a monument the
freehold of a grave must be secured, and this may
cosr anything from £1 to £3. It might almost e
said to be the usual practice rather than the ex-
ception for the relatives of the dear departed to take
up two or three graves alongside each other so as to
make a family party of it later on. In the rare
cases where they find they do not require the lan
the collection finds a ready sale. One does not o ten
sec desirable grave sites advertised because, as a rue,
the local undertaker is a ready buyer. y
an interment will take place in a grave yawning or
someone else, and the trustees will have to reim
burse the disappointed owner, who might otherwise
hurl the bones of the claim-jumper into the street.


Everybody Needs Exercise!
Because it is the natural stimulant for replacing the waste tissue
of the human system.
Every effort you make causes the destruction of a greater or less
quantity of tissue in proportion to the exertion involved.
This process is going on every minute of the day, and unless you
exercise judiciously the accumulation of waste tissue will debilitate
your system.
By performing a few, simple, yet scientific, exercises such as
those comprising the
Baker Course of Health Exercises
you immediately expel the destroyed or worn-out tissue and construct
new tissue to take its place.
The benefits to be gained are illustrated by the
results others are receiving:—
“I feel much stronger and better in every way
since I started your Course. I thank you most
sincerely for bringing me better health. I will
always recommend your postal course to my
friends.”—H.L.S., Warwick, Q.
You ought to write for further information and
fees, for my POSTAL COURSE OF HEALTH EXER-
CISES. .lust write your name and address across
this advertisement. I’ll know what you mean. Send
three penny stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
472 Belmont Buildings, SYDNEY.
THE
#
23EK
Ride it to work-
Ride it for fun
Write for
Catalogue “D.”
RHODES MOTORCYCLE CO., 109-111-115 Russell Street, Melbourne.
MY CIGARILLOS
—THE SMALL, GOOD CIGARS.
£ Actual Size of Cigarillos.
No smoker who has tried my
CIGARILLOS would ever
willingly be without them.
They are convenient in size
and have the same
delightful flavor and
aroma as a shilling
Havana cigar.
They are made in
three sizes, but are
all the ONE QUAL-
ITY.
In Tins of
20:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
2 3 2 - 1/9
In Cedar
Boxes of 50:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
5/3 4/9 4/3
In Cedar
Boxes of
100:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
10/- 9/- 8/-
Postage Extra.
On 100—
iV. S. W. 6d.
Other States 80.
Write for a free
copy of my
latest catalog
of tobacco,
cigars, cigar-
ettes, pipes,
etc. It will
interest all
smokers.
A. M. SOLOMON,
“CIQAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
STRAIGHT
FROM THE
WELL
Drill
is
NATURE’S
BEST.
SMOKE
TOBACCO
A 0001, Satisfying
Smokeof Delight.ul
Fragrance.
NOT MADE BY
ANY TRUST
OR COMBINE.
ALL TOBACCONISTS—
GUT and PLUG.
SMOKE
G
usmaag
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
“P RTM A X” and “BONA X”
CARTRIDGES— KYNOCH made
and loaded. Both possess excellent shoot-
ins? qualities, “PRIMAX” being the
highest-grade cartridge in a case
sold on the Australasian market, while
“BONAX” enjoys the largest sale of
any individual cartridge in the world.
A’ways specify KYNOCH Ammunition
Mhen ordering from your dealer.
British Made Throughout.
[i.
m
1
4
m
a\: "PRIM
g! kynochjz
tAAOT.
Hi
ft w.
NOYES BROS.
(Melbourne) Pty. Ltd.
(Sydney) Limited
499 Bourke Street, Melbourne,
115 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Selling Agents for
Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.
Steel Works,
Newcastle, N.tS.W.
RIGNEY SHOES OCCUPY
A HIGH PLACE
in the estimation of the man who desires
shoe excellence. They combine style, fit,
comfort and long service.
We illustrate a high-grade Fatent Kid
Golosh Bal. with Interwoven Glace Kid
Leg. Very Light Soles and Hand-sewn
Welts.
Price - 401-
Also in Tan Willow Calf 37/6
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG,
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Building's, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
Kempe and Andrews, lately principal and
vice-principal respectively of the Bush
Brotherhood, are now army chaplains, though
they were too “High” Church for the Sydney
nominators to consider. Kempe was ap-
pointed almost on his arrival in England, and
went to Gallipoli with an English division.
Andrews left Australia as a private in the
A.A.M.C., and was through the campaign
at Anzac. Invalided to England, he got his
coveted chaplaincy with a North of England
lot. It was bad luck they couldn’t have char>-
lained with Australian troops, as both knew
Billjim better than most Australian parsons,
having met him often back o’ sunset. Their
unimportant “highness” offset their valuable
experience.
Z=*ts&
.tfvj
5?
"'%<
m
C?
kv«M
oUNLOp
'-sc^
■'CS
y£k
DUNLOP
TYRES
For Hard Scry
ice
The..
Supremacy of Dumops
in respect to Quality, Strength and Wear
has gained these Australian-made Tyres
a popularity amongst Motorists that only
Satisfactory Service could build up and
maintain. THERE IS NO NEED TO
BUY IMPORTED TYRES. “Dunlops”
cost you less and run further. Compare
the Prices, illustrated list on application
Fit "Dtmlops”they ensure Economy & less trouble
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of AUST. LTD.
108 Flinders St., Melbourne
268-274 Adelaide St., Brisbane
53 Cameron St., Launceston
255 Clarence St., Sydney
67 King Street, Perth
103-105 Flinders St., Adelaide
116 Worcester St., Chiistchurch
95 Courtenay Place, Wellington


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
57
?
m
a
ft*?
S
■esa
THE growing activities of our second year’s hostilities
find Avon Tyres in increased demand for H.M. Trans-
port. Tried and proven in the fierce flame of War, as they
have been tried in every sort of civilian service, Avons emerge
as Seasoned Campaigners worthy of the highest place in the
esteem of the motoring public.
cWe are told that this is a war of attrition or exhaustion. If tyres
are tried out to the last limit of endurance we may count upon
British Avons being found among the surviving fittest. They are
running in all theatres of the War, on all sorts of motors —from
H.R.H. The Prince of Wales’ Staff limousine to the humblest
regimental runabout.
1
jn
W
Agents: N. J. HOWES 0. CO., 212 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Missing Frienils.
1> EID, LEOPOLD OIIAS., of Richmond,
Ai Victoria, entitled to money from
Mother’s Estate. £lO Reward for present
address or proof of death.
MANCHESTER,
Solicitor,
Melbourne*.
Gibbons, Leonard, last heard of at
Tarcutta, N.S.W., and GIBBONS,
CLAUDE, last heard of in South Australia.
Mother ill, and important news. Anyone
knowing the whereabouts of either of the
above please communicate with Mrs. M.
GIBBONS, Rosser Street, Cottesloe, W.A.
Legal Notices.
N THE SUPREME COURT OF WEST-
ERN AUSTRALIA. C No. 5 of 1916.
IN THE MATTER of the ESTATE of
THOMAS HOOD CHATMAN, late of
Derby in the State of Western Australia
Pastoralist deceased intestate. And in
the matter of THE ADMINISTRA-
TION ACT 1903.
BETWEEN MIRIAM CHATMAN Plaintiff
and THE ATTORNEY-GENERAL OF
WESTERN AUSTRALIA Defendant.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme
Court of Western Australia made in the
matter of the Estate of Thomas Hood Chat-
man late of Derby in,the State of Western
Australia Pastoralist deceased —intestate
and on an Originating Summons wherein
Miriam Chatman was the Plaintiff and the
Attorney-General of Western Australia was
the Defendant all persons claiming to be the
next of kin of the said Thomas Hood Chat-
man late of Derby in the said State Pastor-
alist deceased intestate who died on the 26th
day of April 1914 are by their Solicitors on
or "before the 16th day of May 1916 to come
in and prove their claim at the Judge’s
Chambers Supreme Court Perth or in default
thereof they will be peremptorily excluded
from the benefit of the said Order or any
further order the Judge may think tit and just.
The 16th day of May 1916 at 10 o’clock in
the forenoon at the said Chambers is ap-
pointed for hearing and adjudicating upon
this claim.
Dated the 18th day of February 1916.
F. A. MOSELEY, Master.
i'l.s.) Arthur Frank Abbott of 42 St. George’s
Terrace Perth Western Australia Agent for
W. Clarke llall of Broome Solicitor for the
Administratrix.
BOM)
m
mmJi
'LV:
mmv
Loaded in London
with the popular
English powders
The lightning
speed of the game
bird is easily matched
by the even pellet distribution, velocity
and penetration of Remington - UMC
REMINGTON
Cartridges
Made in 12, 16, 20, 24,
28, 32 (14 m/m) and 36
(410 or 12 m/m) gauge
TRY
THEM
Obtainable from leading dealers
everywhere catalogue post-
free on request .
Remington Arms-Union
Metallic Cartridge Co.
Woolworth Bldg., New York City
St. Stephens House
W estminster,
S.W.,
London
*
EVERYTHING IN RINGS SEND FOR OUR SPECIAL RING Cl
Choice diamonds mounted in solid iB'. t cold
r
i-.tn
w
8600
P 73
MAKERS OF rTSGS °"JfTwiirCh’^T^^StStlES DO STAY
A Great
Success!
NEW
LEVER
POCKET
SELF-FILLING
Waterman's
(Ideal)
PouiJtaSnPen
Raise lever, dip nib
in ink, lower
lever—the
pen is
filled.
Showing the little lever device
for easy filing. When closed it
lies flush with the surface of the
barrel.
This new type of the
Fountain Pen which
popularised handwriting,
is the outcome of much
thought, much experi-
ment, and vast expense
in machinery and labour,
all of which have been
amply justified by the
remarkable demand that
followed its introduction.
Many thousands of this
new type of Waterman’s
Ideal have been purchased
already. Why ? Firstly,
because there was a
distinct need for a simple,
efficient, and trustworthy
Self-Filling Fountain Pen ;
and, secondly, because the
new pen was a Waterman’s
Ideal, and, therefore, could
be relied upon implicitly.
The only difference be-
tween the Regular Water-
man’s Ideal and the New
Type is the addition of the
simple self-filling device
and a screw cap. In all
other respects the pens are
identical. Ask your sta-
tioner to show you this
splendid new self-filling
pen.
Waterman’s Ideal is made in three type
—the New Lever Pocket Self-filler, e
Regular and the Safety. Every en
guaranteed.
For ACTIVE SERVICE and Outdoor
use, we recommend the 1 Safe y
type, which can be carried an
position and will not leak.
Of Stationers
and Jewellers
the world over
L. G. SLOAN, Oic?ctt Writer,
Kingsway, London, England.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousan > som e
of Internal an<l External Bleeding Piles,
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, M°J
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr-
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Po ur ® e 0
8 Boxes £l. Postage Pl-
under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading druggists,
and Storekeepers throughout the
CHAMPION CURE of the
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab.


“Biff” for Sore,
Tired Feet
Tender Feet, Sore Feet, Swollen Feet
cured without delay. New Foot
Medicine Quickly Banishes All
Foot Ailments
AJ
/'s'.
z
To those who are troubled with sore, tender,
aching, swollen, perspiring, unpleasant smelling
feet bunions, corns or hard skin, “BIFF” will
bring quick relief and gladness to the feet. Use
“BIFF” today and banish all pain and discomfit.
By using “BIFF” once a week you will insure
your feet against all foot troubles. “BIFF” is a
scientific compound which draws out all poisonous
matter from the feet, which clog and choke pores
of the skin. One application of this unique com-
pound will render the feet sweet and antiseptic.
Its delightful results must be experienced to be
believed.
MRS. CARTER WRITES For years my feet
gave me much trouble. It was purgatory to
have to walk far, but after using one box of
“Biff” I can walk with perfect ease and com-
fort, there is nothing to compare with your
preparation for foot trouble.”
“Biff” can be obtained through all chemists and
stores ; if not in stock send direct to the manu-
facturers. Price Is. 6d. per box, or triple size box
4s (triple box contains threetimes the Is.6d. size).
The “Biff” Manufacturing Co., 114 a Pitt Street,
Sydney.
“How ‘Biff’
does help
Sore Feet.”
The Easy Way
to Polish
Furniture—
Sprinkle some
drops of . . .
t
mam
3-in-One
Oil on a wet cloth. Wipe away
grime and soil from table,
chairs, sideboard or piano.
Then polish with soft, dry
cloth. Back will come the
original lustre. Everything
will look like new!
"THREE-IN-ONE” is water-
white and fragrant. Won’t rub
n
HAINES-5
off on clothe*.
Obtainable
Everywhere.
For Free Sample
write to
REID & REID,
Australasian Agents,
Harris Street, Wellington, N.Z.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, (id. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news front Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High llol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
onf- te>oK (9tdi w-
M
e preserved
ur B. Allen's (USA}
<l.l M • I ’ l li
A b
■fp.r 4
Iwi'
r*'
'
ii
(•;
Jk
+
ns
Hi
, *
11
; ir
2
ililpiiiiii
llllililllltillllllll b
&9i
Beautify Your Home
with
1
It Cleans, Polishes and Finishes
with one simple application. Try it on your furniture or piano—you will be
surprised at the wonderful improvement. It gives Craftsman furniture that
soft, artistic polish so appropriate to the style. It entirely removes the
“cloudiness” from mahogany furniture, restoring its original gloss.
Keep your dining-room table bright and tempting—it will give an added charm
to your home. Hot dishes have no effect on tables polished with Johnson’s
Prepared Wax. It never becomes sticky or tacky in the hottest weather, or
from the heat of the body, consequently does not gather dust or show finger
prints.
Every family has dozens of uses for Johnson’s Prepared lt is just as
necessary ’round the house as soap. Keep a tin always on hand to clean and
polish your
Floors
Linoleum
Woodwork
Piano
Furniture
Leather Goods
Golf Clubs
Motor Car
Gun Stocks, etc.
It is unsurpassed for all of these purposes. Johuson’s Prepared Wax is clean
and easy to use and economical. It is conveniently put up—always ready to
use —no tools or brushes required—all you need is a cheese-cloth rag or woollen
rag.
SOLD BY MOST GOOD DEALERS.
Insist on your tradesman supplying you. He can easily secure Johnson’s
Prepared Wax and Johnson’s Wood Dye through any of our Australian
Distributors: —•
SYDNEY —Itoldsworth, Macpherson & Co. (whol.), G. L. Gee & Co., Ltd. (whol.),
Mark Fovs Ltd., F. Lassetter & Co.
MELBOURNE —H. J. Colder Propy. Ltd., Jas. Hardie & Co. (whol.), Mutual
Stores Ltd.
ADELAIDE —King & Co., Weymouth Street.
BRISBANE —Jas. Sloan & Co., R. S. Exton & Co. Ltd.
PERTH—Jas. Eastwood Ltd., Hamer & Co.
AUCKLAND (N.Z.) —Hill, Plummer & Co. Ltd.
WELLINGTON (N.Z.)—G. L. Gee & Co. Ltd.
CHRISTCHURCH (N.Z.)—G. L. Gee & Co. Ltd.
S. C. JOHNSON 8 SON, ‘‘The Wood Finishing Authorities,"
Factory : Racine, Wisconsin, U.S.A. Cable Address: Johnson, Racine.
Australasian Agent, 379 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
This Coupon >
will bring: you a generous trial
tin. Post it to-day.
S. C. Johnson & Son (Address c/o your nearest
Distributor), — AC
I enclose 6d. for a trial tin of Johnson’s Pre-
pared Wax, sufficient for polishing several pieces
of furniture, a small floor, a square of linoleum
or a motor-car. Please also send me your new
1/- Color Book Free.
Name
Address
Have You a BAD LEG
perhaps surrounded with inflammation and
swollen, that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Perhaps
your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated ; the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored. The disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Try the great British Remedy:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which you will find a certain remedy.
Also for Poisoned Hands, House-
maid Knees, Carbuncles, Absces-
ses, Snake and Insect Bites, &c.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store.
British Prices, 1/3 and 37-
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farringdon St.,
Agents— LONDON, Eng.
ELLIOTT BROS.
W. 11. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ANTHONY lIORDEBN & SONS, etc.
MODERN TOOLS
FOR THE
GARDEN and
FLOWERS.
“NORCROSS” Cultivator-hoes
have revolutionised Hand
Cultivating. The sharp,
tapering Shovels literally
tear up the earth from
lin. to 6in. deep, leav-
ing ground level, loose
and untrampled. And it
is done with such ease
and speed as to make
gardening an extreme
pleasure.
They work closer to
plants without injuring
them than any other
tool.
Ask your Ironmonger
or write our Agents—
S. SCOTT-YOUNG LTD.,
1 Bond Street, Sydney.
m
v.ri
m
S. NORCROSS & SONS, Manufacturers,
Bushnell, Illinois, U.S.A.
It was stated that last week’s attack by
the Germans on Verdun was directed by the
Crown Prince. There are 27 Crown Princes,
the multitudinous Kaiser having been a
polygamist in his youth and kept the matter
secret until the papers let the cat out of the
bag. This is the record of what has hap-
pened to the various Crown Princes with the
watery, tired smile: On August 4, 1914, one
was at the front in command of the Third
Army; on August 5. 1914, another was
nearly murdered at Berlin. A third was
carried to hospital at Aix-la-Chapelle on the
18th. There was something about a Crown
Prince being nearly murdered on the 24th, of
one committing suicide on September 4,
another dying in Brussels on the 13th. Then
in the first big attack launched west of
Metz two days later a Crown Prince was in
command, but was unfortunately blown into
pieces by shrapnel in Poland next morning.
Either a miracle of surgery was performed
or the theory of 27 holds good, because on
October 18 a Crown Prince was wounded in
the Champagne country and the Crown Prin-
cess visited the corpse on the 20th. Then a
Crown Prince’s body was picked up on a
field of battle somewhere on the 25th and
kept until November 4, when it was definitely
put into a hole in the ground. The armj’
corps of Crown Princes seemed to have been
about de.cimated by now, but a bullet passed
one out on November 4, and on the Bth a
further person of the same name went raving
mad. There was a Crown Prince in supreme
command on the Verdun-Esparges front dur-
ing the 18th; there was one wounded to
death on December 17, and after one had been
detected nursing a female on a pub balcony
and another had violently quarrelled with
his wife, he was wounded some more on
January 10. Whereupon he kept quietly
in bed until March 3, and was in
commant of the Turkish army on the 14th,
but was fired next day. and during the next
week was promoted. Since then something
has been happening to him or them every
other afternoon, and if 472 more Crown
Princes are not passed out before Christmas
the reliable daily press will be failing to do
its duty as an impartial chronicler of fact.
“Masarcus”: Cold Tea lost one of its
champions when the Eev. George Gladstone,
of Nathalia (Vic.), died. Twenty years
ago, while he was an Anglican parson at
Nathalia, his temperance sermons were so
fiery that his congregation regarded him as
OA'er the odds. Bishop Goe, on pressure,
introduced Gladstone to another parish; but
the fire-eater refused to calm his appetite for
rockets and blue flares. Dissociating him-
self from the Church of England he opened
another religious shop or arcade, which he
christened splendidly, “The Reformed Church
of England.” To the dismay of his former
employers a large section of his congregation
followed him into the new fold, and, of
course, took the collection-plate with them.
His ex-bosses, reckoning that the cancella-
tion of his license to celebrate marriages
would induce some of the lost sheep to re-
turn, then moved Heaven and earth (other-
wise Chief Sec. Alec Peacock) to extract
the license from him. But H.-an-E. Peacock
put on his reverse gear and went astern.
So Gladstone continued to rivet Bill and
Emily in the holy bonds at the usual rates.
For all his narrowness in one or two direc-
tions Gladstone was unusually openhearted,
and he gave freely of his income, which was
never large.
A remarkable coincidence is related by
Granville Fortescue, who was London Daily
Telegraph’s war correspondent in Warsaw
in the early days of the German attack. The
first air-raid by Wilhelm’s fliers was made
on a Sunday, and as the first shell crashed
into the city the clock on the District Court
chimed out “One!”
Henry Lucy, or his representative, in his
last letter to S. M. Herald, has made
another blunder about a simple matter of
fact: —•
Forty-five years ago France went to war with Ger-
many with a light heart, confident in the supremacy
of its newly-invented weapon, the needle-gun.
This is so inaccurate that the Herald really
ought to have detected and corrected it. The
needle-gun was not France’s weapon at all.
but Prussia’s, and it was not newly invented
45 years ago, because Prussia had then won
two wars with it —against Denmark and
Austria. The French army rifle of ’7l was
so much better than the Prussian weapon
that the Germans never missed a chance of
arming their infantry with it when they
could get a chance of taking any of the
chassepots, as they were called, from the
enemy. France’s trouble was that her
armies were badly trained and indifferently
handled and had only makeshift artillery.
“Suvla” : A human smudge in a bedgown
just thrust this handbill into my fist as I
was walking in old Cairo: —
THE VICTOR’S RESTAURANT.
[Royal Coat-of-Arms here.]
Abbas Street No. 5, Heliopolis.
Sir, —With great pleasure to tell you that we have
done some priparation in addition to what we had of
both cleanliness and —FAIR DINKUM TUCKER.
Try once and you will be very satisfied.
GOD SAVE THE KING.
Say it once and mean it.
By a judicial decision given in Sydney last
week hotelkeepers are to be allowed deduc-
tion from taxable income of the amount ex-
pended by them in providing counter-lunches.
The citizen who surreptitiously wolfs 15
sausage-rolls and a loaf of bread while wait-
ing at the bar for a pint can now proceed to
further execution with a heart lightened by
knowledge that he is doing Bung a good turn.
But there is something lopsided about this
business. A man who provides three meals a
day for his family is exempt to the extent of
4s. 2d. per annum of taxation'on each child,
which is perhaps sufficient to provide one
day’s parsimonious feeding for a small house-
hold. On all the rest of bis expenditure on
grub for the home he is allowed no deduction
—so it looks as if buying a cartload of pigs’-
trotters to decorate a bar and fill Percy
Deadbeat is in the eyes of the law a more
socially useful form of expenditure than
acouiring bread and butter for Young Aus-
tralia.


r
BEAUTY
ADMIRATION
A clear, spotless skin, bright eyes, and rosy
cheeks are the main points of an attractive
face. If your liver is out of order you
will not have these good points in your
complexion.
FISHERS
BEAUTY PILLS
FOR THE LIVER
Make new blood and clear the complexion
of spots and blotches. One pill occasionally
means a healthy liver, a healthy liver
means a big asset to both men and women.
Always ask for Fisher’s Liver Pills.
ALL CHEMISTS and STORES
per bottle
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.B.W.
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phonp many times as efficient
iTiKdii Lai rmme and powerful ag the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stapes of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 CiEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
WESTERN MACHINERY
WHEELED SCOOPS and DRAG SCRAPERS,
PLOUGHS FOR CONTRACTORS,
WESTERN ROAD GRADERS,
ELEVATING GRADERS, RQCK CRUSHERS,
ROAD PLANER and FINISHER,
DUMP CARS, SCARIFIERS.
(Large Stocks Carried).
Catalogs and Full Information from
the Sole Agents.
E. D. MORRISON 8 CO. LTD.,
257 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The
“ Carlton ”
2216
The Dull Calf Leg makes an effec-
tive contrast with the Patent Colt
Golosh. The rounded toe and
medium welt, combined with the
typical Macnaught finish, stamp
this as a boot of distinctive
character.
PRICE, 22/6.
Black Box Calf, 21/-
We pay postage. Please state size
required.
lit
P
For Distinctive Footwear,
135 King Street, SYDNEY.
This Week s TOILET HINTS
SELECTED RECIPES FROM HERE AND T HERE.—THINGS EVERY WOWim „
TO KNOW. WANTS
The Magnetism of Beautiful
Hair.
“Applied Arts.”
Beautiful hair adds immensely to the per-
sonal magnetism of both men and women.
Actresses and smart women are ever on the
lookout for any harmless thing that will
increase the natural beauty of their hair.
The latest method is to use pure stallax as a
shampoo, on account of the peculiarly glossy,
fluffy and wavy effect which it leaves. As
stallax has never been used much for th 5 s
purpose it comes to the chemist only in
sealed original packages, enough for twenty-
five or thirty shampoos. A teaspoonful of the
fragrant stallax granules, dissolved in a cup
of hot water, is more than sufficient for each
shampoo. It is very beneficial and stimulat-
ing to the hair, apart from its beautifying
effect.
Permanently Removing
Superfluous Hair.
“Toilet Gossip.”
How to permanently, not merely tempo-
rarily, remove a downy growth of disfiguring
superfluous hair, is what many women wish
to know. It is a pity that it is not more
generally known that pure powdered pheminol.
obtainable from the chemists, may be used
for this purpose. It is applied directly to
the objectionable hair. The recommended
treatment not only instantly removes the
hair, leaving no trace, but is designed also to
kill the roots completely.
Don’t Have Grey Hair.
A simple, old-fashioned, home-made recipe will make
the greyness disappear.
Grey hair is often a serious handicap to
both men and women while still in the prime
of life. Hair dyes are not advisable because
they are always obvious, inconvenient and
often downright injurious. Few people know
that a very simple formula, which is easily
made up at home, will turn the hair back to a
natural color in a perfectly harmless manner.
You have only to get an ounce of tammalite
concentrate from your chemist and mix it
with four ounces of bay rum to
Apply this simple and harnessVfi° V ’V his ’
few nights to the hair with a small sn™ for «
the greyness will gradually disan«s£* Be an <l
lotion is neither sticky nor 2 , Th «
been proved over and over again f^ and
S. past by those POH-effi 0 0 f r tfeT
To Have Smooth, White
Skin, Free from Blemish,
“Boudoir Gossip.”
Does your skin chap or roughen easiiv
become unduly red or blotchy i ot asdy > or
you a quick and easy way to ovArA me tell
trouble and keep your complexion fitfully
white, smooth and soft. Just fully
ordinary mercolised wax at the chemist’*
use a little before retiring as you wonia (
cold cream. The wax, through some nilu 8e
action, flecks off the rough, discolnrea lar
blemished skin. The worn-out cuticle ed or
off just like dandruff on a diseased scilp only
m almost invisible particles. Mercolised wav
simply hastens Nature’s work, which i* it
rational and proper way to attain a nerfAt
complexion, so much sought after, but very
seldom seen. The process is perfectly siS
and quite harmless.
Blackheads Fly Away.
Instantaneous remedy for blackheads, greasv skin
and large pores.
A practically instantaneous remedy fnr
blackheads, greasy skins and enlarged Dore*
recently discovered, is now coming intn
general use in the boudoir. It is very simnle
harmless and pleasant. Drop a stymol tablet
obtained at the chemist’s, in a tumbler full
of hot water. After tile effervescence has
subsided bathe the face in the liquid using a
small sponge or soft cloth. In a few minutes
dry the face and the offensive blackheads will
come right off on the towel. Also the large
oily pores immediately close up and efface
themselves naturally. The greasiness dis-
appears and the skin is left smooth, soft and
cool. This simple treatment is then repeated
a few times at intervals of four or five days tn
ensure the permanence of the result. q
Interstate Agents. —SYDNEY: Tucker & Co.;
BRISBANE : Burns, Philp & Co.; ADELAIDE:
W. P. Auld & Co. ; PERTH: Philip Coyle;
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS: Burns, Philp &
Co. ; GERALDTON: A. H. Mountain & Co. ;
HOBART: J. Ferguson & Co. ; LAUNCESTON:
J. McKenzie & Co.; ROCKHAMPTON: J. M.
Heddrick & Co.
DAIMLER
SOTOR CARRIAGES -~
(Jopperciai Yehicies ~
Agbicdotral Tractors
t.. DAIMLER COMPANY I---
COVENTRY, ENGLAND,
Lumbago
The case of Rheumatism or Gout
which Kruschen Salts cannot benefit
has yet to be discovered. This
famous British remedy is also
recommended by Medical Men in
cases of Lumbago, Sciatica, Eczema,
Constipation, and Liver and Kidney
Disorders.
KRUSCHEN AT THE FRONT
Since the outbreak of the War, enormous
quantities of Kruschen Salts have been ordered
by, and delivered to the British Authorities, for
the use of the British Forces overseas and in
the Base Hospitals at Home. Kruschen Salts
are prescribed by Medical Men the world over.
THE WORD KRUSCHEN
The trade mark “ Kruschen ” is a *6Saoy.
handed down from generation to f[ ener , i.
the family of Evan Griffiths Hughes, .
Manufacturers of Kruschen Salts, an
the oldest firms of Manufacturing Chemists m
the County of Lancashire. Established i 754
160 years ago.
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754.
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers,
and stores throughout Australia,
Wholesale Distributing Agents :
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
68, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester,
England.
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. Ao
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
M. 8.: Don’t know that Curie, but
Richard J. Curie, author of a recent study of
Joseph Conrad’s and other interesting books, could
be reached through Conrad’s publishers, Kegan Paul,
Trench, Triibner, Broadway House, 68 Carter Lane,
London, E.C Devil’s Skewer: “The Literary
Year Book of Australia” cannot be procured in Aus-
tralia, for two reasons: (1) Australia hasn’t any
literature; (2) there is no such volume published.
But “The Literary Year Book,” published by Heath,
Cranton and Ouseley, 6 Fleet-lane, Farringdon-street,
London, E.C., can be procured through any book-
seller in Australia. . . .Walter E. Perroux: There is no
need to worry about copyrighting in England until
your stuff is accepted ; and then your agent will do
the rest... .R.S.: “Mother Trims” is careless stuff.
Why don’t you trim?... .Cadonia: Blank verse that
trails a lame foot to every two or three lines has no
chance.... J.J.M.M.: Twenty-four pages of foolscap
to show that you didn’t suppress the truth. Yet
you say it is an extract from something you didn’t
publish. Oh, go away; our head aches.... The
Quince: Very dull prose with a rhyme here and
there... .H.D.A.: Too crude... .E.M.H.: Humor
forced and artificial.... Paddy: Why use clumsy
catch phrases about- red, white and blue? Verse
badly out of tune... .Private Entrance: Not quite.
“Box On” best of trio. .. .C.F.P.: “Trampin’”
doesn’t ring true. You never humped Matilda.
“Mushroom Path” just misses.... Loch London: But
why write in the dialect of New Hampshire? This
is Australia... .Broken Hill: Some lines so good
they throw into violent contrast the ones with
a surplus of deformed feet... . J.R.C.: No room for
epics... .S.S.C.: Like your typewriter, but your verse
is mud....A.5.: You have the skill; but don’t send
half-rhymed verse. “Outfaring” too slight....
.. . .L.M.: Held for inquest. .. .Exeunt: One verse:—
Au revoir! thou blood-splashed rampart of the
swarthy East,
Thou frowning, flashing, thunderous, spitting, giant
nark.
We tumble, “old grampus,’’ you’re ambitious for
our decease,
But we lean over and -fling kisses to you in the
dark.
Gallipoli, infernal Gallipoli.
Well, that varies the note, anyhow... .Kelpie: Not
up.. . .Nemo: Miserable, meaningless jingle....
G. : But why not work it like this?—
A breeze crept over the ocean;
The whiskered sun, alight,
Trod on banana trimmings
And fell and broke the night.
... .H.M.: No; your nerves and tobacco are without
interest.... Comet: Four decent lines luring us to
lunatic doggerel. .. .K.W.: “After All” best of the
trio; but misses.... The Sawdust King: When the
office murderer saw your manuscript measuring 50in.
by 12in. he put on his mask and went out. Don’t
ask us to restrain him. .. . G. 5.8.: Marching vam-
pires are only interesting to the naturalist... .A.H.:
Two stanzas deserve to get in:—■
The terror was a mongrel terrier
But he was a faithfuller brute
Than the buxom lass whom I love Sir
A faithful poor little dorg mute.
He was mute until I cot him soft
And lifted him by the scruff skin
'When I kinder guess he hollowed oft
E follered me. Tell me my sin.
.. . . G.L.: No, Saul isn’t among the prophets ; he’s in
the basket. .. .T.P.H.: Very rugged attempt. It
wasn’t Bill Shakspeare’s fault that he hadn’t a ticket
in the A.W.U.. .. . M.A.: Good verse, but hardly the
spirit of national service. Nobody wants slavery....
E. : Wish your verse were one-tenth as good as
your handwriting. .. . R.L.: A bushman doesn’t sing
like that. .. .M.8.P.: Oh, woman, in our hours of
frenzy—but there, there! Try again. .. .W.M.M.:
Might have been admired in the reign of Charles 11.
. ...C.J.G.: You take a cheerful view of creation.
One verse:—-
Autumn is the time of pleasure,
When all do as they please,
And rains begin to soak the earth
And trees let fall their leaves.
.. . . M.R.: Your thoughts may be “placed on some
literary shelf”; you certainly haven't dropped any
into the verses F. 8,: Sorry for the bishop. Sons
with all that virtue would drive any ecclesiastic to
chorus girls. .. .M.8.P.: Who told you alternate
lines didn’t need to rhyme? Veteran: No
N.R.: What you saw in your cup must have been
pretty potent to get things mixed like that....
H. : New idea that about Providence being ready
to answer the ’phone. You have no idea of verse-
making The Wreck: Poor idea badly handled.
TO ARTISTIC (AND
CORRESPONDENTS.
George M. (Brisbane): He is the puppet of the
financiers. . . .Waratah : You’re no joke-factory....
X.4.X.: No value. .. .C.F.H.: Poor drawing and a
thin idea. .. .E.T.: Too early for prophecv. .. .
G.E.K.: Nothing in drawings—very little in ideas.
. ...W.S.: He looks too much like an American
comic clergyman. Both havj a machine-made
appearance Will K.: All outed T.J.P. (Dun-
edin): Doesn’t get us Bart: Not saleable
F. : Write to the Art Director, National Gallery.
•• • -T.R.: No use. . . .H.J. (Claremont Lightship,
lorres Straits) : That advertising scheme was origin-
ated early in 1908. Letter written.
The first business of the Ma State Par-
liament was the Dentists Amendment Bill,
which proposes to wipe out the frequently
unskilful fraud who dodges the present regu-
lations enforcing proper qualifications. The
law, which could fall on the unregistered
man who called himself a dentist, or the
registered dentist who lent his name to the
unlicensed smith, was powerless to deal with
the increasing fraud who hustles the public
into showy parlors under a cloud of adver-
tisement. The new legislation is expected
to be a fatal obstacle in his career as a
jobbing tooth carpenter.
Bellerive: “A Moonlight Night at Gallipoli” fills the
bill this time :—•
The red cross lights
From the ships devine
O’er the rippling waters
Doth glitter arid shine,
While the crystal moon
From the starlit sky,
Streams down upon the
Weird mountains high,
As the sentinel on guard
The scene survey,
His thoughts are charmed
From the morrow’s fray.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
//
NC
vx V
tr \
%
# 5
7, - . '/«■
.• /
w||l 4: tn 1
’? // / //
/,
Wh
4$
77
»«
• s^'
it
\V
A ?
\->
>' .. ' / N \
£4*v*3s&;
/
jj
?'J
*5
/>.
•** 4Tv
/ y
7
/7
/
Sr/,4
r
i?
i%it j. • . f jf
w*
■7&
W/
cta
w^.A
'<*N
tev-i
f&Sj&irSfi*"
-:.
*s£■£
-M
mi
%s?.
: , j*
.m f/y / yj# m
m /mm
s&ef i /Jm a ./*/
M
~:>
yi;
’/
/ •*//<
;«#3'
AX'S
C-fevt-fe'3-
Iw
'.yC
■K\
***o2*
««w
**«£
sM&gwr
7;7
W:.
//
Tsxaj
• --'/V -• ■*' **..£•>
/• v >' 4' /, J
§ps#*\4£, •/
Hp|feS? 6va
' i *!? P'
v\ \
•i*'
af
r#
:: 7^
-fy/ f
i
si*
R 7;
St*
W
V/
«*•**&£
/
rj
✓
4^
-a
-
■a
V.
z
k- X
.v-5
VSt,
v r
Kv
X
<\X.
\
>: •“ >
iiP
(5
:•••;:
■
<?
V-?
..-A
/
11l
'V ; ‘-:S v
H
SB
£M
m;
.
V’
;SS
/"‘A
W-,
■m.
s^ ;
wt
%8H
.-.- ■
s'ys&s-:
yj?:»
>'X?2S
swi
:S5iS
x£
• ' •. ' ;, ‘
.v?:
m
m? z
A J
SKgSgg
pa
■T:XcA
r ‘:JZ
&0,
n
M
m
m
W?k
a?
t»S
s?i
/\ys
r*<.
. y-.
tc>
-f
;x-
-»**
■y
Mr
m*
vriX*
“Cobra,” Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Shows the Huns
A trick or two.
When of future
Plans they jaw,
Ears and eyes are
In the straw.
Ere to-morrow’s
Battle starts
These brave scouts
Will play their parts
And the “COBRA’
Work they’ve done
Will upset the
Plotting Hun.
o


Hanking, Public Companies, &c.
You can obtain BETTER INTER-
EST and EVERY FACILITY FOR
SAVING at the
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
The STATE Savings Institution
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
DEPOSITS RECEIVED FROM 1/-
CPWARDS.
Interest paid at 3f per cent, on balances up
to £5OO, except on accounts opened with
the late Savings Bank of N.S.W., which are
limited to £2OO.
Cultivate the habit of making regular
l deposits—no matter how small.
Th<? Repayment of all Deposits is Guaran-
teed by the Government of New South Wales.
By Order of the Commissioners.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE,
Bank of North Queensland
fi LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL. £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY.
Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, K.C.M.G.
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
Generai, Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Brancbes throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian j)ank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (31st December, 1915) .. £1,190,108
RESERVE FUND £75,000
HEAD OFFICE: G eorge&King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37ThreadneedleStreet, E.C.
DIRECTORS — Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Arthur S. Barton,
Esq.; Frank N. Yarivooi), Esq.; Herbert R.
Lysaght, Esq. ; George F. Todman, Esq.
Rranches throughout New South Wales k Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON. General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital . . . . . . 480.000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 200,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091.669 4 6
All new business since IR9S specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Running. Esq. fChairman) :
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq.;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; IV. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - lIHISDANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking (}o.
of Sydney, [imited.
Capital Paid-up.. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1,805,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,805,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. 11. E. Kater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dibrs, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and J. J. Brenan, Esq.
General Manager: H. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birch in Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. 11. S. Littleton;
N. D. Cohen, Esq. Manager: E. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 992,295
Uncalled Capital .. . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2.057,170
GRANTS DRAFTS
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Interest for
fixed periods, and
The Colonial Mutual Qife
assurance society limited
FOX
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £C,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible. . \
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., JU.P.
Shipping &c.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA E. N GL AN D
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads : . Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Regular sailings from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
(UNDER THE BRITISH FLAG)
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA,
and PAPEETE (TAHITI).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE, in connection
with all United States and Canadian
Railways.
MAITAI,
Sails from Sydney. 23rd MARCH.
To be followed by
MOANA,
from Wellington, 27th APRIL.
Connecting Steamer leaves Sydney 20th APRIL.
STEAMERS STAY 24 HOURS AT PAPEETE,
“THE PEARL OF THE PACIFIC.”
Return tickets available by various routes.
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
Particulars and pamphlets obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydne3'.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting):—
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY i
TOWNSVILLE
•CAIRNS
(•Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports)..
NORTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney March 11.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne March 15.
Leaves March 18.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne March 22.
Leaves Sydney March 25.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S. A. and W. A. ports)
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney March 18.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
via
SAMOA-HONOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
Sailings from Sydney:—
MAR. 29, APRIL 19, MAY 10, MAY 31.
Apply. -OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
m
RABAUL
%
THURSDAY ,
V
x
X+s
t N /<
CAIRNS
\ V
•
> i '
• V
RISBXNE
LOR?
ypNfy
MELBOURNE
Homday^
Bruises
to Pac/f/clsles.
to PAPUA & RABAUL
TO SOLOMON IS
TO NEW HEBRIDES
Burns Ph/lp&Cp up T 0 marshall*
Send for Pamphlet. to gilbert i?
NORFOLK II
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
Directors
£3,500.000
£2,600.000
£3,500,000
£9,600.000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Robert Lionel Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The lion. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, cj.m.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buck land. Esq.
Richard Binnic, Esq.
Auditors: Shepheard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq.; Alfred George Milson, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Bydney. London Office-29 Threadneedlo St, EC.
344 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
-T, RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development. Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
Branch Office:
279 George Street, Sydney, N.S.YV.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Commonwealth
■ HEAD OFFICE
Bank of Australia
SYDNEY
Open
for all
General Banking Business
in the
principal
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth,
United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits
Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at over
Minimum
Deposit
1
_ _ _ _
2550
Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua
Interest at » 0/
per annum
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
James KELL, Depmy Governor June, 19hi DENIS N .MILLER, Governor
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
Capital Subscribed .. .. ..£250,000
Capital Paid-up £lOO,OOO
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits.. £15,365
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
The Company acts as Executor, Joint Executor, Trus-
tee, Administrator or Attorney under Power for absen-
tees, and is the only Trustee Company empowered by
Act of Parliament to operate in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 48 Young Street.
Directors.
The Hon. Sir CHARLES K. MACKELLAR, M.L.C.
H. Y. BRADDON, Esq.
H. W. BELL, Esq.
JAMES KIDD, Esq.
R. M. PITT, Esq.
Full information as to terms, etc., obtainable on
application to JOHN HAIR, Manager.
COLORED POST-CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston —“WEEKLY WORRIES.” Set
of sis, posted free, 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street, Sydney.
I"HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
the Company s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICIIMONb, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
n^™ CCA ’, MACL EAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY. COEE’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
fl,e C °M lbl <s lat \V4 i ar^,!?? u , ed in conjunction with
the N. S. MALES and QLEENSLAND RAILWAYS
to lnciucie first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE
JflH nC to l ßvrnn ee n llea £?T Stea T er to Murwillumbah!
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers
t l k® re ,. conne ?t in |; wRh one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for S\ DNEY, or vic6-vevsa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail’ and saloon on
steamer. £6 B=. 6d. : second-class rail and =teera° e
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d. -iterate
For Guide and all particulars apply:
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST. SYDNFY
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE : 0 and , tom
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
FORT PIE IE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
OIMBOOLA, March n
April S.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
«ALT A , March 1]
A LLIN GA, March 18
RUPaRA, March 25
PARINGA, April 1
thf^Tpo^ofcanwittotl'er
on all services subject to con,lition S S w hic C h'ranT
ascertained on application at the Company? Office b '
G. S. YUIIX & CO., LTD ,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
VIA NEW ZEALAND, FIJI AND
HONOLULU.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
CANADIAN-AUSTRAT, ASIAN R M
LINE.
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway
THE “ALL-TIED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
OPERATING THE LARGEST, NEWEST Emm
AND BEST-EQUIPPED VESSELS ’ TRADINO
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN
CONTINENT. ‘
SAILINGS:
(Twin-Screw. *Triple-Screvv. Fitted with Cabins
de luxe, suites, bedstead rooms, laundry, nursery
wireless, etc.
Passengers stopping off at Suva can obtain every
comfort and convenience at the new and palatial
Grand Pacific Hotel. Coupons at specially-reduced
rates are available to passengers.
For full particulars and pamphlets applv
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “ Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUBDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Anti All Ports.
Federal & Shire Lines
STEAM TO LIVERPOOL via NEW ZEALAND.
T.S.S. “CUMBERLAND.”
15,000 Tons. CAPT. McGIBBON.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
SAILING SYDNEY about MARCH 31.
Fare to Liverpool, £4B.
Excellent accommodation for a limited number o
Saloon Passengers.
Well-lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
All passengers must produce Passports before booun o .
For full information apply to
BIRT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sidney and Brisbane,
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO. PTY. Giu.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH k CO. LTD., Adelaide. _
Calverts
lief Soap
is an excellent soap to choose
for everyday toilet use. It
is an antiseptic soap of the
highest quality, delicately
perfumed and decidedly
refreshing. A healthy soap
to use particularly in warm
climates.
(In 3-tablet boxes.)
Sold by Local Chemists and Stores.
Made byF. C. Calvert Sr 1 Co., Manchester , tn%-
" 7 * n rrji2
IF any illustration appearing w he
Bulletin takes your fancy %v . ute f "
Manager, who will quote you price
original.
c\-* a n ~ Cfvni
914 Oporae Street, Sydney.


Put all your eggs in one basket
and then watch that basket.
(Carnegie.)
Many people can do several things fairly well, but nobody can do many
things superlatively well.
This is what Michelin recognises, and it is why WC concentrate
the whole of our attention upon the manufacture of pneumatic
tyres only.
Michelin Tyres
are superlatively good tyres,
because we have put all our eggs in one basket, and do not spread our
efforts over the manufacture of various articles like If balls, rubber
shoes, rubber hose pipes, hot-water bags, etc. etc.
All the brains of our chemists and engineers are concentrated upon
one task—the task of making the Michelin Tyre the best tyre in the world.
If you are not a user of Michelin Tyres, try them!
Wc don’t fear comparisons ; we solicit them.
Michelin Tyres and Accessories can be
obtained from all the Leading Garages.
9 A. 1516
.Sr 4 -*
mt
ISraafiSiiiWa
r
1 M
IT
I.- - -V ;
-v
•-
II!
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda,, Melbourno.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria-
The Australia Hotel
BUSINESS AS USUAL.
The Management of the “Australia ’
Hotel are gratified to state that, not-
withstanding the upset caused by the
recent fire they are able to announce
“business as usual.” The service in
the Grand Dining Room, on the
Balcony, and in the Winter Garden
is being conducted in the same style
that has made the “Australia ’ Hotel
so popular with its patrons, while the
arrangements for Private Dinners and
Suppers are working with their accus-
tomed satisfaction.
Throughout the holiday season
arrangements for Afternoon Teas will,
as usual, be carried out in the. Winter
Garden, which has been running con-
tinuously throughout.
J. URE SMITH, Manager.
/
Vi
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS
Egyptian Henna before all others : it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
THE MERIT OF A “PLUM”
is best appreciated by the man who has tried all other sorts of Razors
before discovering the “Plum” masterpiece. All the science in tne
world can't make a keener blade- or one that keeps its edge so long.
SEND FOR A “PLUM” RAZOR TO-DAY.
PRICE 10/6— POST FREE.
We are practical tradesmen, and guarantee to keep the “Plum ’ in
good order for two years free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/
All the above Post Free.
This line makes a handsome present.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITHEN,
Ct s4 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
Beautiful Rings
at Stewart Dawson’s
STEWART DAWSON’S
Selection of Engagement
Rings is at once the
Largest and Most L p-to-
date in the Common-
wealth. In addition to
designs which are always
in popular demand, the
intending purchaser can
always rely on selecting
choice, exclusive settings
at “The Treasure House.’’
M 44. —18ct. Gold and
3-Diamond Cross-over
Rin?,
£5.
M“. —18ct. Gold and
Fine Diamond Ring,
Carved Setting,
£7/10/-
Larger Stones,
£lO/10/-,
£l5/10/-
and £2O.
Mil. —Diamond Half-
Hoop Ring. 18ct. Gold,
£lO.
05600. —Fine Diamond
and Platinum Ring,
£9/10/-
OUR CATALOGUE OF ENGAGEMENT RINGS, con-
taining Ring-size Card for ordering by Post is yours
for the asking. Every conceivable design illustrated.
Stewart Dawson’s
The Strand Corner,
412 George Street, Sydney
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
boohs are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
AN UNTAMED TERRITORY. The
Northern Territory of Australia. By
ELSIE R. MASSON. With Illus-
trations and Maps. Extra Crown
Svo. Gs.
Sunday Times: “Very few books of travel
which have appeared of late years have fur-
nished pleasanter or more profitable reading.
By RUDYARD KIPLING.
THE FRINGES OF THE FLEET.
16mo. Sewed, 6d. net.
EDITH WHARTON’S NEW BOOK.
FIGHTING FRANCE: From Dun-
kerque to Belfort. By Edith
WHARTON. Illustrated. Crown
Svo. ss. net.
Times: “Readers of Mrs. Wharton's novels
know hor power of insight and expression, and
this collection of studies of France in war time
has a satisfving artistic completeness There
is no lack ‘of the active side of war in this
book, for the author had a free pass to various
sections of the Front.”
ORDEAL BY BATTLE. Abridged
Edition. By F. S. OLD ER. Crown
. Svo. Is. net.
TWENTY-FOURTH THOUSAND.
ORDEAL BY BATTLE. By F. S.
OLIVER. Svo. 6s. net.
ESSAYS FOR BOYS AND GIRLS.
A First Guide towards the Study of
the War. By STEPHEN PAGET.
Illustrated. Extra crown Svo. ss. net.
Punch: “Do not be misled by the
modesty of the Preface, in which the author
says ‘This book is for boys and girls only. It
is ‘ not. It is for us all. There is no one of
us but can feel strengthened by and pro-
foundly grateful for such essays upon the war
as these.”
AN OUTLINE OF INDUSTRIAL
HISTORY. With Special Reference
to Problems of the Present Day. By
EDWARD CRESSY. Crown Svo.
3s. 6d.
“THE GRAPHIC” PICTORIAL
MAP OF THE DARDANELLES.
Every Fort, Hill and River clearly
shown, and every landing made up to
Aug. 7 carefully marked. Size 12 x
20 inches. Beautifully produced in
Color. Gd. net.
IV. & A. K. JOHNSTON’S
WAR MAP OF THE DARDA-
NELLES, showing Forts. Main
Roads and Railways. 25 x2O inches.
Colored, Unmounted, Gd. net. Cloth,
Is. 3d. net.
W. & A. K. JOHNSTON’S
AVAR MAP OF THE BALKAN
STATES. Size, 25 x 20 inches.
Colored, Unmounted, Gd. net. Cloth,
Is. 3d. net.
STORIES FROM NATURE. By J.
A. FLETCHER, with Illustrations.
Is. Gd.
Mr. Donald Macdonald writes in the Argus,
Melbourne: “It is one of the best nature books
for bovs anil girls that 1 have yet seen. Miss
Fletcher has a knowledge of nature and the love
of nature. She knows what children like, and
she has given it to them in this illustrated
book.”
MACMILLAN'S EMPIRE LIBRARY.
Paper Covers, 2/6; Cloth, 3/G per
Volume.
BY A NEW WRITER.
650 I POSE. By STELLA BENSON.
The Daily Graphic : “But even the dullest
can hardlv fail to respond to the brilliant humor
of the book. As the mature work of an
experienced author it would have been a re-
markable achievement; being the ‘first book
of a new writer’ it is an astonishing perform-
ance.”
H. G. WELLS’S
NEW NOVEL.
648 THE RESEARCH MAGNIFI-
CENT.
ALGERNON BLACKWOOD’S
NEW STORY.
649 THE EXTRA DAY.
The Standard: “Mr. Blackwood has never
written a more delightful tale of childhood than
this, never one in w’hich ho has shown as com-
pletely his power of entering into the fancies
and imaginations of children.”
A Complete Catalogm of Macmillan’s Empire
Library will be sent on application.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers .
MACMILLAN SCO.LTD.
MELBOURNE and LONDON.


r
9
The Man at the Wheel says,
BARNET
GLASS
MOTOR & MOTOR
CYCLE TYRES
Greater pace and reliability are
assured in the build of “B-G”
Motor Tyres-—finely-grained rub-
ber, strongly-woven canvas and
specially-hardened studs being the
means. Fit your car or cycle with
Barnet-Glass Tyres—“Miles better
and Australian.”
Barnet Glass Rubber Co. Ltd.,
All States 8 New Zealand.
The valor and devotion of the i re . te
Verdun gives warrant of our ul
triumph over the Beast. A triumph
spiration is that wise spirit, King
IV topnotch Scotch. —Advt.
IN BANANA LAND
The question of State-school teachers’
salaries came along with the usual annual
remarks at the recent Teachers’ Conference.
The pedagogues were so insistent in demand-
ing a rise that Director of Education Roe
found it necessary to hasten round and ex-
plain that these were parlous times finan-
cially and that everybody couldn’t get pro-
moted. Meanwhile the young male teacher
is either drifting away to war or into com-
merce, and the schoolmarms are taking their
places all over the State.
“Musketoon”: A truly naturalised Aus-
trian at Clermont has done his little bit for
his adopted country. The old chap, who
has been naturalised for about 40 years,
recently wrote to the Federal Treasury, ex-
plaining that, as he had disposed of a small
property, the proceeds of which would just
about keep him, his old-age pension money
migllt be of some assistance to the Com-
monwealth Government in prosecuting the
war. He did not even ask for the usual
44 per cent, per annum for his voluntary con-
tribution.
“Yannatherra”: These anaemic Banana-
landers? Was recently browsing in the
mulga belts on the Nebine, 70 miles from a
house-dog and 110 miles from a rail-track.
The mother-in-law of all storms was threat-
ening, and when the boss’s wife uttered her
first groan the full terror of the elements
screamed the dingo dirges down. Bill
hopped across his prad, and made 28 miles
of mulga tangle look silly. Meantime a
woman’s agony developed inside the tent.
The boss pottered about, helplessly cursing
the black horizon. The hurricane matured
just as Bill and the helpful female hove
alongside. Bill and I acted as anchors on
the weather side of the flimsy, bulging man-
sion. The rain soaked us in a refreshing
coolness; the wind subsided; and the calm-
ness of the night echoed the yelp of a juven-
ile Bananalander. Both were doing tiptop
as I lit out for a nerve tonic.
Judging by a deputation of the recently-
formed Police Union, which waited on the
Home Secretary the other day, it was about
time J. Hop organised. It brought along
a dray-load of grievances for the Minister’s
inspection, and prominent amongst them was
the complaint that most of the men are on
duty for 12 to 15 hours daily, and that tele-
phone attendants are practically on the
wire-end continuously for 48 hours, except
when they might be relieved from midnight
till five next morning. “Why don’t you com-
plain?” asked the astonished Minister.
“Because if we did we would be brought up
before the administrative head,” was the
reply. How encouraging is the sight of a
body of civil servants begging an eight-hours’
day from a Labor Government!
“E.J.8.” reflects on the invader of the
past:—
During six months I spent in that collection of
galvanised-iron humpies, Camooweal (where the ther-
mometer goes to 120 deg. in the shade and drinks
are a shilling), about 40 Chinese came in from the
wilds beyond. They came in twos and threes and
sometimes alone overland from Port Darwin, and as
a feat of human endurance the performance was re-
markable. They all had padded the hoof—none of
them had horses —through 500 miles of uninhabited
and, in parts, waterless country. Some were shod
with light sandals, but many were barefooted. How
they negotiated the long, waterless stages is a
marvel.
When they reached Camooweal these stragglers would
be arrested by the local John. He did not need to
overheat himself chasing after them, for they took
care he didn’t overlook them —after they had
delivered their loose cash into the safe-keeping
of their local brethren, who cultivated the elusive
cabbage on the muddy waterhole dignified by the
name of Lake Francis. They were kept in the
lock-up yard during the day and shoved into
a shed at night. The sergeant didn’t lie awake
through anxiety that they might escape. They
were not anxious to escape. They were in clover,
plenty of tucker, nothing to do but enjoy themselves,
having a well-earned rest after their long and
arduous journey.
Then the sergeant would write to Brisbane for
instructions, and after a few weeks —or months—he
would be directed to escort them to the border, four
miles away. When he came to the border-line he
would order them in a stern voice to go back to
Port Darwin —which they didn’t. They had had a
feed and a rest, and under the friendly shade of
night they sped eastward again.
“Itan” ; The ill-advised Brisbane tramway
strike is recalled by the death of Dave
Bowman. It was he who saved a serious
riot on the day Police-Commissioner Cahill
paraded his forces. The unionists were
already marching to the fray when Bowman
hastened along and implored them to refrain
from their head-smashing expedition. Bow-
man’s personality and the strikers’ respect
for the man alone saved bloodshed on that
occasion. Curiously Cahill was M.C. at the
State funeral accorded the dead democrat.
At Ipswich District Court the other day
the plaintiff in a civil claim alleged that his
ear had been severely chewed by the defend-
ant. His counsel after a lengthy oratorical
outbreak concerning the damaged face wing
concluded: “Gentlemen, you will observe
the nature and extent of these injuries on
the plaintiff, whose ear, gentlemen, speaks
for itself!” It isn’t so long since a Brisbane
barrister told the Full Court that.Dugong
Flat was “10 miles from Caloundra as the
fly crows.” Still another of the learned pro-
fesh told the High Court, which was sol-
emnly considering a section in a Queensland
statute drafted from an Imperial enactment,
that it should disregard the latter, “as the
tendency of Queensland legislation is to
travel far ahead of Imperial Acts, but
always in a different direction.” Where-
upon Griffith blinked, Isaacs looked pained
and Higgins became profoundly grave. It
was a solemn occasion.
IMPORTANT.
OWNER : “The mare got a nasty bump. She seems very distressed .”
JOCKEY: “How about ME! I backed her.”
John Plumper Hoolan, who contributed
much to the gaiety of the Assembly at one
time, has been travelling the inky way for
many years. The ex-politician is the owner
and editor of the Mundic Miner, a Far-
Northern print which is seen occasionally
around Georgetown, Little River and Fossil-
brook. It has periods of enforced slumber,
and has just been awakened by Hoolan after
two months’ repose. The editor thus alludes
to the awakening :
Sleep is “Nature’s sweet restorer,” and having
slept for two months I have again started to twinkle
amidst our lights in the newspaper firmament. The
start is made with a light heart, a clean sheet and
an empty cash-box. Wealth is a curse to mankind ;
even so, a small bit of the curse alighting at the
door would not be hooshed away with the office
broom.
Hoolan was a politician of real grit, and no
party pence could hold him. He would be
an acquisition in politics now.
Police-Commissioner Cahill is apparently to
enjoy a longer tenure ,of his job than was
expected. At a caucus meeting the other
day Cahill’s retention was hotly discussed,
but Premier Ryan informs an indifferent
public that as the Denham Government gave
Cahill a statutory contract of employment
to the end of 1917, “provided he is of good
behavior,” any alteration in the contract
must be approved by Parliament.
“The Nomad’s” send-off to David Bow-
man :
It was hard work that killed him ; not the hard
work of weeks or months, but the consuming of his
energies for years. He was one of the hardest
workers the Labor movement ever had, and the
beacon (hat "drew - him on was always honesty of
purpose. When a young man he pushed a bike all
over the Western Districts organising for the A.W.U.,
and was the most successful organiser the big union
ever had in the North.
His entry into politics was discouraging. In 1893
he suffered defeat as a candidate for South Brisbane.
Again in 1898 he went under in the contest for
Warrego by only 14 votes; but next poll he won the
seat. He represented the great Western constituency
until 1902, when he was again defeated. In 1904 he
was returned for Fortitude Valley, the seat he held
to the end. Bowman led the Labor party from 1907
to 1912, when ill-health forced him to reliquish the
leadership. Like most men of his characteristics he
died a comparatively poor man.
A Courier reprint brings to memory a
famous fraud of 50 years ago—Count von
Atoms. The Count, who arrived in Sydney
with splendid credentials, was lionised and
feted. Later, in Brisbane, he was enter-
tained by Geo. Harris at Newstead, at that
time the centre of fashion and squatterdom.
Then one day the Count casually borrowed
Harris’s yacht and sailed clean off the map.
r Ihe missuses of Queensland are annoyed.
They 7 have been informed by the Insurance
Commissioner that from date all employees,
casual or regular, must be insured under the
Workers’ Compensation Act, even the occa-
sional washerwoman. Not long ago a depu-
tation of housewives, who over-ran the
Treasury buildings, said that if such a law
were passed the marriageable girls would
decline to become wives. So another Labor
Government has set out to burst the
marriage tie.
Witch of the Pan!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Talk of the hags of the night
Dancing, a mystical crew,
Moulding Macbeth in their might,
Stirring a magical stew,
Over with them and their brew,
Harry them on with your ban.
Here is the sorceress true,
Here is the Witch of the Pan.
What is the name of the wight
Who would deny her her due?
Lo —she is Angel of Light
Blending all savors anew ;
Mark how the pancake she threw,
Damosels flirting the fan,
Gallants who wisely would woo —-
Here is the Witch of the Pan.
Swains who would marry aright
Rave not of optics of blue,
Yain are the pleasures of sight
’Ware how you wander and sue;
List while I give you a cue
If ye put bliss in the van.
Seek in the kitchen a clue —
There is the Witch of the Pan !
Envoi.
If ye look life through and through
Counting the joys of its plan.
Lo —she hath garnered a few,
She who is Witch of the Pan!
QUEENSLAND.
F. B.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, March 4 iqie
My Dear Tiiargomindaii,- ’ 1
Governor Goold-Adams ’had a ~
influenza this week, and in eonseque£l^ th
unable to attend the concert SaS/?
t <* B. Soldiers’ Help »
tlieless there was a good muster of «2
citizens. The profit is to be devoted mT *
chasing reading matter, games, etc 2
various military camps. ” lor the
Brisbane is threatened with three raid«
this month. To start with, to-dav “p db
berry Day.” The Girls’ Club will
truit, donated by A. J. Thynne th» the
ceeds to be laid out on Easter cheer fo/th'
men training for warfare. March Ift A
be “Shamrock Day,” in aid of tl P Wl ?
Red Cross; and March 24 will be Cluh
Day, when the Y.M.C.A. will ex trS h
utmost possible shilling from -the Li,
and (Lord bless them!) the sinful to 2
vide recreation rooms for soldiers. 1
The president of the S. B. Bowling Club
and Mrs. Archibald to-day fed a big paS
or bowlers and their wives at an At llnml
°n the green. The South Brisbane bowler
are again the premiers, and six champion
snip pennants now flutter proudly from the
club’s main t’gallant royal.
Sister McDonnell, once matron of the
( aims hospital, who is somewhere in
France, mentions in a recent letter that
K. of K. had paid a visit to her hospital and
didn t ask for the complaint book Sister
M alpole, formerly of Townsville Hospital
is in charge of a ward at the same address. ’
Mrs. Hutchings, Warwick’s new Mayoress
is one of the youngest, if not the youngest’
to attain to that eminence. She is only 2l’
Her sister, Mrs. Shilliday, was Mayoress of
Warwick two years ago.
Mr. and Airs. Ilillcoat, of Boomarra sta-
tion, have come to Brisbane for a spell
Katie and Mollie, their two daughters, sport
the khaki uniform of the Girls’ Rifle’ Club
and are two of the best shots in the team. ’
Miss Mabel Brady, one of Brisbane's
prettiest girls, and daughter of A R
Brady, Under-Sec. for Public Works, was
married in London last month to Lieut. Erie
Campbell, of the Black Watch, Bridegroom
is a son of H. E. Campbell, formerly London
manager for Burns, Philp. Lieut. Campbell
was wounded in France and invalided to
England.
Lieut. Arthur Clark, son of James Clark,
pearl king, station owner and racing man,
has married Kitty Sydney Jones, youngest
daughter of the late Sydney Jones.
The ceremony was conducted with full mili-
tary honors in Egypt.
Dr. Spencer Roberts’s old home in Too-
woomba is being converted into an auxiliary
hospital. Forty-two beds are to be put in
as a start.
The popular State Commandant, Colonel
Lee, has been promoted to the rank of
Brigadier-General. The Brigadier began
his military career as a private in the
N.S.W. I .anc-ers, when that regiment was
formed. He afterwards secured a commis-
sion, and served in S’Africa, where he was
awarded a D.S.O.
t Lieut.-Col.. Mailer was farewelled at the
United Service Club on Wednesday night.
He will take the well-worn track to the
Front very soon.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Justice Real recently announced his
opinion from the Bench that drink was best
left alone and that he never touched it.
Rechabites rejoiced immensely. Thereupon
the Judge deemed it necessary to administer
a corrective. “Although a strict teetotaller
myself,” he said a few days later, “the aver-
age teetotaller I don’t like, because he doesn't
leave people in peace. Some of them think
because they are teetotal they can do what-
ever else they please.” It is now Bung who
is quoting the Judge enthusiastically, but
nobody cares tuppence, the wrangle being
interminable and without profit.
“Ossian” adds his tribute: —
No man in Australian politics rivalled Bowman in
sincerity, candor and honesty; and his private life
was without blemish and without reproach. He was
one of the few Labor leaders that the party did not
throw over—his was not the fate of Glassey, Airey
or Kidston. Ilis success was not due to special gifts
of leadership nor to marked ability. His great
qualities were his kindness of heart, his unswerving
loyalty to his party and his unsparing efforts in
public and in private to advance the cause of Labor.
With all his colleagues Bowman enjoyed unbounded
popularity, and, with many, deep affection; whilst
with the rank and file of the masses no man, not
even Janies Blair, has been so popular an idol in
Queensland for more than a decade.
A high-power, reliable aeroplane engine
is one of the needs of the moment, and
constructors of these things have been ex-
perimenting with all kinds of mechanical
tricks during the past year. Light motors
of more than 200h.p. are badly wanted
to propel the big fighting planes that the
Allies are building, and motor-car makeis
in Fogland, France, Italy and the U.S. ha\e
been urged to turn their attention to pro
ducing new types of this kind of thing.
The result has been that several firms hav
designed a new type of 12-cylinder engin
with stationary cylinders that are both al -
and water-cooled. The big Renault firm i
Paris is turning out 30 of these new engine,
per day. and the Sunbeam Co. in t'Ogia
is specialising on a 12-cylinder, *-typ
engine (known as “a twin-six”) that weig •
complete, 10851 b. and develops 22oh;P-
is water-cooled, runs at 2000 revolutions P
minute, and can carry a load of twice
own weight. But the Rolls-Royce co. .
busy with even a more wonderful P iec
machinery. It is making a twin-six a
plane motor for John Bull that we)g“ s _
NOOlb. and develops 250h.p. This m
lii.p. for practically every 31b. of eng >
which is a staggering performance.


'
V-‘
■m
?g5
ir
*^2
•--.
m^m
%4%g'
K
OS
5?.g
53 2>
Lfr-
•sfeai
rj^srs
L"mT
"«>i,
ii'l.
•*«TTi
•Hi
•Ml
backed by 64 years of
manufacturing experience
For more than 64 years Studebaker has been one of the world’s
GREAT manufacturers —one of the world’s great MASTERS of trans-
portation problems. And in that time the name of Studebaker has come
to represent in every tongue and in every land upon the globe the high-
est achievements in manufacturing, quality, accuracy and dependability.
With 147-acre factories devoted to the building of motor-cars, and this long range of manufacturing
experience and study of vehicle-building, it is not to be wondered at that Studebaker cars have
become among the best-known cars in the British Empire, as indeed they are the world over. For
Studebaker has spared no efforts, no expense to make Studebaker cars the best that can be built.
And never has this insistence on Studebaker QUALITY been more self-evident than in the new
Studebaker models. Here the long years of experience, the pride in that name of Studebaker, the
feeling of responsibility to buyers, show in every detail of design and manufacture. Never have
their been such GREAT values at the prices. And you have a variety of models to choose from.
The four-cylinder touring car is the best value ever offered. We also have three-passenger
roadster and cabriolet models and touring cars in both four- and six-cylinder models. You are
invited to call and inspect them, or upon request we will gladly mail you illustrated
descriptive literature.
STATE IMPORTERS FOR AUSTRALASIA-
NEW SOUTH WALES (except Sydney)— CLUTTERBUCK BROS. LTD., Sydney.
VICTORIA —TURNER BROS., Swanston Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND— CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA-ARMSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Perth.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Messrs. T. J. RICHARDS &. SONS, Adelaide.
TASMANIA—W. H. GAHAGAN, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND—ADAMS LIMITED, Christchurch.
General
Distribute s
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Limited,
177 Elizabeth St.
SYDNEY.
L


Little Friends
of the Liver
They’re little but they’re good: they’re gentle
and they’re kind: they’re full of health that
leads to health and please be sure they’re
signed :
Carter’s Little Liver Pills bear the
above signature.
iRTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PILL*.
Purely
Vegetable :
famous for
two genera-
tions.
Small Pill,
Small Dose,
Small Price,
t/
The Secret
of Her
Beauty
and that of thousands of
the most admired women
all over the world
is that they always use
the famous British-made
Icilma Cream. Just a
little every day rubbed
on face, hands, neck and
arms makes the skin
delightfully soft and
smooth, protects it fiom
weather effects, and gives
it that natural bloom and
transparency which every
woman longs to possess.
It also gives relief from
insect bites and stings.
Icilma Cream is differ-
ent from any other cream,
because it (and it alone)
contains the wonderful
Icilma Natural Water.
This stimulates the skin
to natural beauty, and
makes the little oil cells
supply just the right
amount of natural oil to
keep it smooth and sup-
ple. Fragrant and non-
greasy. Use it daily and
look your best.
Cream
(Guaranteed not to grow hair).
Price 1/6 per pot.
Of Chemis's, Druggists, Stores, etc.
Icilma is pronounced -E } e-Sihna.
J. C. Gamb’es t Co., Sole Australian
Agenhs, 11 Commerce House.
Melbourne
A.C.I.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
Write for Book. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES. WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road, London, Eng,
Insist on “ Singrleton s # —refuse all substitutes.
MILITARY
BROOCHES
LATEST NOVELTY
Australia or Rising Sun,
18-carat Gold Plated, W-
Sterling Siver 3,6 ; Solid
Gold, 15/-and 21/-
Send for our Complete List of rt at
Military Badge Brooches.
Hothwell’s Ltd.
Edward Street, Brisbane.
A.W
X
™£//U
Vi
Jr
Very “ faddy ” with his food
Was Mr. well, let’s call him ‘A’
He shrank from eating, and his meals
They simply bored him in a way.
The Chef’s most wonderful creation,
M erely made him take to flight;
But ‘Jelloids, ’ happy inspirationl
Soon found for him his appetite.
After taking IRON ‘Jelloids’ the blood becomes enriched and
strengthened, the appetite is restored, vitality is renewed. Anaemia
quickly disappears, giving place to vigorous and buoyant spirits.
Mr. M. M. Hvatt, Isleworth, writes i —“ I have derived considerable
“ benefit from Iron ‘Jelloids ’ —my appetite has returned, and I am feeling
“ quite well again. They are the best and most convenient tonic to take.”
A fortnight’s trial (Price 1/6) will convince you.
For Women, No. 2. Special Tonic for Men, No. 2A. (containing Quinine).
For Children, No. 1. Sold in England at 1/H and 2/9. per box.
Obtainable at all Chemists throughout Australia.
Wholesale: Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., 82,Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ORIGINAL
AND ONLY
GENUINE
PHOSFERINE
I/-2/6-4/6
of all Chemists
Sold
rCQJ5 t -^ou» Q-
-2 Dtwj, s
UUSS^S
e> v . *sj nS ; iih
DtP°lv
/K=.'^ r 4 C sT«cg
MSS®
‘T*’’ ■
gSSS
Auslfalas'ia
J\ and The
ftriffsh
Empire f/
If served
with a sub-
stitute not
bearing the
name Ashton
& Parsons
Ltd., post the
package to 408
Collins St., Melb.,
when the genuine
article will be for-
warded and the cost
of postage refunded.
A PROVEN REMEDY
FOR
AIERVOUSNES3.
INDIGESTION,
Supplied by POYAL COMMANDS Id
the: royal family
HIM The Empress op Russia,
H.M. The King op spam ,
H. M. The Kmp op Greece,
H.M. The Queen opßoamenia,
ETc. EEc. ET&
PHOSFERIME
Ensures Vigorous
HeeJrK and gives
and ETKcj^gy.
Ibe ©ranb prior? of
Ctx ®ttxc of tlx l)Ofpital et St. 3ebn
ot Jerusalem. tu Eiifllanb.
+
LADY SLOGGETT 20th July, 19X5
Messrs. Ashton & Parsons, Ltd.,
Gentlemen,
We are requested by the Com-
missioners of the St. John Ambulance
Association at Havre and elsewhere
to supply, for use in the Base
Hospitals, 1,000 2/9 bottles of
Phosferine.
They inform us that your remedy
is in constant requisition by the
Field Hospitals, and from the reports
they receive, it is held in high
esteem as a Tonic possessing valuable
recuperative qualities.
I shall be obliged by your imme-
diate attention, as it is necessary
to get the Phosferine forwarded to
France as quickly as possible.
(Lady) Helen S. Sloggett.
P.S.—You are quite at libery —<
to use this as you think fit. 4
(4r
c*
Share the
“Ross Luck”
of Mr. J. Moorehouse, of Winnipeg,
who felled a fine Moose at 480 yards,
on Dec. 13, 1914, with his Ross .280.
The biggest of game falls before
the “Ross” .280 with its special
Sporting Cartridge with copper tube
expanding bullet, patented, and when
you carry one you know that your
quarry, if fairly hit, will surely not
get away.
The Ross .280 Rifle is sold by best
dealers everywhere.
Illustrated Catalogue sent on request.
ROSS RIFLE CO.
Quebec, Canada
815
Information and Prices can be obtained from—
Mr. HUGH SCOTT-YOUNG,
P.O. Box 1031, Melbourne, Australia.
AGENTS WANTED IN EVERY TOWNSHIP FOR
PRIVATE GREETING CHRISTMAS CARDS.
Highly profitable line for energetic
any line of business. Sample Books fre , o _
100 beautiful designs, including Patnow, ffrj{e
graphic and Multicolor, by Special Pio ■ oU
“ms isrim "itss* '•«»...
"Address: PERCY FAULKNER * &>*
Parkgate Works, Chapel Street, Biadfcrd, e =
ALTHOUGH SO
necessary,the
salt you eat at
meals costs the
least of anything
on the table. So
why not have the
best —
CEREBOS
SALT
Business, Robbery, etc.
There is a whole economic sermon in the
euphemistic tag now attached to a high
grade of imported cotton stuffs. Once they
were known as “guaranteed cloths, ” mean-
ing they were guaranteed to be fast-dyed.
Now they bear the legend in danger-red
“War Dye,” which means Dye”—per-
haps. The haughty draper who handles
them often has blue on his hands as well
as in his noble veins by the time he has
measured off a dozen at eleven and three.
Once these guaranteed-cloths were fast-fixed
with good German aniline (discovered by
an Englishman ) ; now they are war-dyed
with British Satan-knows-what. It looks as
if storekeepers will soon be offering a blood-
poisoning insurance policy with every yard
of the stuff in order to induce sales.
“Sinapsis”: There seems to be a confu-
sion of evidence in the mustard issue.
“Copabella” alleges (B. 25/11/’! 5) that
Australia cannot make mustard. “F.N.T.”
(B. 6/l/’l6) is unable to find any differ-
ence in flavor or bite between the local and
imported article, but the local grocer told
his wife the foreign stuff was best. Then
“D.S.F.” (B. 13/1/T6) tells someone to
“get a magnifying glass to work on Aus-
tralian-made mustard tin....and make sure
it doesn’t say ‘Made in England for So-and-
So,’ ” and alleged that “one good Australian
firm in Melbourne,” which mills everything
they possibly can on the spot, used to mill
mustard, but gave it up because the seed
went bad, and now imports in bulk. Pre-
sumably “the good Australian firm” is “So-
and-So,” who get their mustard manufac-
tured in England, and only tin, label and sell
it here. But “D.S.F.” takes no notice of
the two good Australian firms who have
made a of mustard milling in Mel-
bourne. The yarn about the seed going bad
on the voyage is nonsense. It is far less
likely to lose condition than manufactured
mustard in bulk. Giving full credit to
the two leading brands of English mustard,
now amalgamated in one proprietary, and
allowing that they set the standard of mus-
tard for the world, the facts are that no
other mustard, English or American, has
come so close to the standard as the success-
ful Australian brands, so close indeed that
few people can see any difference between
the Australian and British (so-called stan-
dard) article.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The vegetable John is an over-
estimated toiler; he certainly works long
hours, but he is the father of all Conserva-
tives and does not improve his methods ; con-
sequently the white market-gardener, with
up to-date appliances, can beat him easily
if he likes. The trouble is that there are
too few white gardeners. A county Cook
(N.S.W.) farmer, working 40 acres on
the eight-hour system, with the aid of
his two sons and an oil engine, is
alleged to have made a net profit
of £968 last year from vegetables; and on
the Hawkesbury, where there are about 50
irrigation plants, the Chows who used to
work the farms on shares have been beaten
out by white men. Still, the cabbage some-
how contrives to be infrequent and dear, and
the Chinaman often buys in the markets
the white-grown vegetable and sells it at
a profit. The N.S.W. G overnment is
sending to S. Australia to inquire into the
vegetable industry; but what seems to be
most required is the advertisement of the
information that market gardening does not
of necessity, mean long hours and a big
struggle against the much-boomed industry
of Cathay. If I had the time to spare I
would become a rich cabbage missionary or
agricultural bishop spreading the glad tid-
ings.
* * * *
“X.Y.” : About “The Grease Trap at the
Wrong End” (B. 24/2/’10). For many
years the writer (a chemist) has been howl-
ing at the people who allow this waste, and
the most sympathetic reply he ever received
was from a man who called him a dreamer.
Lanolin, or wool fat, forms about 84 per
cent, of the weight of greasy wool, but, as
this product is usually combined with any-
thing up to 100 per cent, of water, the
yield is considerable. The process used in
separating the lanolin from the scouring
water is partly mechanical and partly chemi-
cal, but presents no scientific difficulties.
One factor in the Australian system of
scouring would tend to make the extraction
slow and costly, and that is the vast amount
of water used. As all the scouring water
must pass through a centrifugal appliance
something like a magnified cream separator
bowl, in order to separate the grease from
the dirt, the magnitude of the job of saving
the lanolin from the scouring water,
in which it forms the very small
fraction of 1 per cent., may be appre-
ciated. In one woolscour in Western
Queensland 2,000,000 gallons of hot arte-
sian water are used daily. Of course it would
not pay to recover fat from such an ocean
of water as this; but there is a much
cheaper and more direct way of extracting
the lanolin, and that is to send the jum-
buck’s overcoat to be dry cleaned. The
greasy fleece is tumbled into a drum with
benzine for a few minutes, and the benzine
does the trick. There is in this process the
disadvantage that it is almost impossible to
get rid of the last trace of the smell of ben-
zine. The lanolin does not contain all the
grease which the wool carries, as a certain
proportion of it is combined with earthy
salts, mostly lime, and forms an insoluble
soap which cannot profitably be recovered.
Apart altogether from loss of grease in the
wool, there is a further loss of sudorate of
potash, which constitutes 15 per cent, of
the weight of greasy wool. The potash is
recovered by evaporating the scouring water.
The residue is calcined, the product ground
fine, and the potash washed out with hot
water, and upon this water being evapor-
ated the potash, worth at the present time
in London 2s. 4d. per lb., crystallises out.
One little group of woollen manufacturers in
the north of France used to recover 250,0001 b.
of this potash annually. The Australian
practice of using too much water tells against
the saving of the potash even more than it
does against the saving of the lanolin.


Wmi
m
4*
IB
*4 *
%
Sc
/
v-v
&
yy/f/fi:::/:::!//.
\
CF
l
cA
Mm3M
,Vvi
V
&
$
y
ss
&
«s
i
.\>o
#
Ms
*
>:>'■:
W®
’/.V.V/.V///.V
a
ae
///.
.v//
WsSm
.V/.v.v.v;... •.. v
w;m/m
■///.
m.
W/M/m.
:::::::
(5%
€?
<7
O
m
Cranky disposition —yellow 100k —terrible headaches —dulled
brain. All these things spell Biliousness, which is the direct result
oi a liver which fails to perform its functions in a natural way.
Before you can free yourself of that bilious condition you
must get your liver in form and nothing will accomplish this so
quickly or so thoroughly as Chamberlain’s Tablets for the
stomach and liver.
This remedy possesses properties which drive it directly
to the affected parts. Former sufferers, now well and strong,
pay eloquent tribute to the efficiency and power of
ttIAMBERLAINSTABLETS
Jor the: Stomach o Livep.
m
o
s
i
o
vs
>-v
Bft
u.
m
i
W
SK?
CAN BE FULLY
DEVELOPED
TO NORMAL.
charming ?
We want to send Free to you a Free Trial Sample of the Famous
Falliere Treatment for Attenuation & Deficient Bust Development !
s
0 SUCCESSFUL lias this wonderful treatment been that it really seems a pity that it has not been in the hands of
everv woman who suffers from thinness or immature bust development. ,
We want every woman who considers her figure to fall short of her desires to learn all about FLLSH-FOOD,
and to learn from the pens of hundreds of grateful women what it has done for them. , n ,, ,
We want to send you a free trial sample and our illustrated book on attenuation. rite for it to-day Don t heed
our praise of our own remedy, but let us introduce you to hundreds who piaise it more highly than ue do. - ake up
your mind right now to write for free book and free sample to-day. , , , , », •
} What is more pitiable than a pretty woman whose neck, arms and scraggy. chest , every chance of being really
Nothing gives charm to a woman somuch as does a full, well-rounded bosom. If you lack it, FLESH-FOOD will enable you to obtain it.
See what those who have used Flesh-Food say -
Manager, “Flesh-Food” Co. Gj mpie, Queensland, May 5, 1913.
Dear Sir.-As a nurse 1 was very interested in your Flesh-Food treatment, and was
greatly surprised at the wonderful results in my case. VI hen I first wrote to jou _
only skin and bone, and I have good cause to be thankful that I wrote ou a free
sample, for I feel certain now that I am one of the best advertisements youcould
bly have, as I am developed in every way satisiactorj to myse , an< , . r
good while to prove if it was lasting in its effect, and I am now glad to sa>that you
splendid treatment has done all you claimed it would, my 1 an *
being ample.—l am, yours gratefully, MRS. E. AVI>GROAE.
DID ALL CLAIMED FOR IT.
Manager. Falliere Co. Glebe Point ’ NS W -
Dear Sir,—l am not taking any more Flesh-Food. It has done all you claimed it
would do, and I thank God that I have found at last a treatment that has ma< e a new
woman of me. I now weigh over 10st., and my flesh is hard and firm.
I have spoken to many women of Flesh-Food and told them how it restored me to
perfect health after years of weakness and attenuation.
My husband joins me in thanking you for what your kind care has
done for me.—Yours truly, E. CROMWELL.
Put up in tablet form it is pleasant to take and palatable. It leaves no unplea-
sant after-effects, and the results are permanent and lasting, IT CAN BE TAKEN
SECRETLY. Many cases gain as much as five pounds a week, and improvements
up to as much as lOin. have been made in bust measurements. Send or call for full
particulars at once.
SEND US a 2d.
STAMP and
LET US SEND
YOU A FREE
BOOK & FREE
SAMPLE OF
‘FLESH=FOOD’
GET THEIR TESTIMONIALS.
We suggest that all lady readers who
see this article will do well to investigate
the truth of these assertions. Send two
penny stamps, and we will post you full
particulars and a FREE SAMPLE
TREATMENT.
We will send you scores of grateful
letters from delighted women and so
much evidence that you must be con-
vinced. Write to-day. If convenient
call for an interview. Lady attendant.
Advice and consultation free.
Hours: 9 to 5 daily.
(5804)
Treatment by Post.
So carefully have
we arranged our
correspondence de-
partment that a
patient at any
point, no matter
how distant, can
receive the same
careful considera-
tion as though she
were able to visit
us every week.
FAEEIERE CO., 1103 Ash Street, SYDNEY


“The Oldest Inhabitant’s” item :
Bernard Otto Holtermann, a pioneer of North
Sydney, was verbally dug up and examined at a
meeting .of the local council last week, and it was
decided to put his bones back and leave them : n
peace. Holtermann’s memory is partly preserved by
a street named after him, and a proposal to re-
christen it was rejected. A German, he
first came into history when mining at Hill End
and Hawkins Hill in the ’so’s and running a
barber’s shop as a side-line with Louis Beyers. The
partners married sisters, daughters of a Bathurst
bootmaker named Emmett. After various vicissi-
tudes Iloltermann and Beyers in ’7l opened out a
vein yielding 50oz. to the ton. Beyers sold his
share in the ground for £70,000. Holtermann hung
on, and in June of that year tore up
gold worth £12,000. Later on, he invested
his cash ’in the Lithgow estate (North Syd-
ney), which he cut up and sold and built a man-
sio , known as Holtermann’s Tower, now the Church
of England Grammar School. He was the first man
to spend coin in Australia on the development of
photography and pioneered outdoor work with the
camera. Louis',Beyers lived quietly on at Hill End,
and represented the Western goldfields in the
Assembly of 1877-80 and Mudgee in 1880-82. He
called himself the Representative of the Interior.
Holtermann was elected for St. Leonards in Decem-
ber, 1882. He died in April, 1885.
For Sale.
p oit SALE.—SIX BITCH PUPPIES, by “Fluke”
out of “Pembrook Lass” by “Uncle Sam” out of
“Kilfawn” —at Three Guineas each and freight.
Apply, W. CHEESLEY, Barnawartha.
Amusements.
Harry ltickards ’Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
JIV O U THEATRE, SYI)N E Y.
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS,
Plans at Nicholson’s and Tivolir--.
TIVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NIGHTLY AT EIGHT.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
A BIG BOOM!
TIVOLI FOLLIES
OF 1915-1916.
EVERYTHING NEW AND DOWN TO DATE.
Plan at Gl6n’s. ~ -
|_| E R MA,JES T Y ’ S, SVDNIU
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. AVILLIAMSON, LTD., present a Dashing,
Dumps-Defying Delight,
SO LONG, LETTY.
With a brilliant cast.
Plans Paling’s. Day. Sales Callose's.
QRI T-E It IO X T II EA T It E. NYDN E Y.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON'S Realistic Production of
UNDER EIRE.
A vivid dramatic story of the violation of Belgium.
Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
D A I, A C E T II E A T It E. S Y I) N E Y.
■ Sofe ( Direction CHARLES STANFORD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE AUSTRALIAN COMEDY DRAMA, IN 4 ACTS,
EACT’UY ’ANDS.
By EDWARD DYSON.
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Reserved, 4/-.
Plan at Nicholson’s.
T
H
E WHITE CITY.
Rushcutter’s Hay, Sydney.
OPEN NIGHTLY, 7.30 TO IX.
ADMISSION SIXPENCE.
T. 11. ESLICK, General Manager.
THE GARDEN THEATRE,
1 BAYSWATER ROAD, DARLINGHURST.
One (1) Minute from top William Street.
MR. EDWARD BRANSCOMBE’S
DANDIES COMPANY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
CHANGE PROGRAMME EVERY THURSDAY.
Prices 2/6 (Reserved), 2/- and 1/-.
Theatre ’Phone: William Street 512.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
The picture block theatres
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-.
GREATER J. 1). WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller. General Manager.
The Only Australian Dictionary]
■m
*
m
m
Just Published, 1915 Edition op
The World's Standard Dictionary
720 Pages, Bx 6 Inches, 1200 Illustrations,
Self-Pronouncing, colored plates and
maps, right and left thumb index for
instant reference, elegantly bound in
limp Persian seal, gilt lettered. Only
_ 8/6, post free anywhere Said by,
experts to be cheap at double this price. The special fea-
tures are—Australian Slang and Idiomatic Words and Phrases,
such as barraker, borak, bingy, bluey, brumby, bnng,
boss-cockie, bull’s-wool, chyack, cronk, derry, gum-
sucker, humpy, jackeroo, larrikin, &c., with their meanings
and probable origins; principal events in Australian
History, Gazetteer of 7400 Australian towns; Australian
flags, arms and map in colors; condensed record of the
world’s history down to the Great War and including the
Capture of the Emden by H.M.A.S. Sydney; 12,000 Synonyms,
&c.- It is a handsome and comprehensive work of reference.
If you are not. fuUv satisfied, you may return it and have
your money back The UNION Co., 29$ Elizabeth Street, Melb.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MARCH 11.
Return of the popular ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE BELLE OE NEAT YOKE
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6/-, 4a/- and 1/-.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., present the Brilliant Farce,
IT PAYS TO ADVERTISE.
Prices: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls. 6/-;
Stalls, 4/-; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
I r ING’S >IIE\TRE. M ELBOIJR NE.
Lessees BERT BAILEY & JULTUS GRANT.
Direction .PHILIP LYTTON LTD.
Representative . GEO. L. MERRIMAN.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
PHILIP LYTTON presents
THE WAYBACKS
AT HOME AND IN TOWN.
THE COMEDY THAT CATCHES EVERYBODY.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MARCH 4.
First appearance of GEORGE MARLOW'S
SHAIvSPEARIAN CO. in
TWELFTH NIGHT,
' X. "
Popular Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
Audit ori u m, ji elbourn e.
Commencing SATURDAY, MARCH 11.
ETiEDER I C COL EMAN
Til his Enthralling Lectures.
WITH THE ALLIES IN FRANCE
AND FLANDERS.
Vivid and Thrilling Stories by an Actual Eyewitness, i
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Plans at Allan’s.
Amusements.
BIJOU THEATRE, MEIBOCRNE,
FULLER’S THEATRES &-VAUDEVILLE LTD.
Governing Director .... BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
Afternoon 2.30. Evening at 8.
NELSON and NELSON, ROSE LEE IVY, LEONARD
NELSON, CHARLES and ANNA GLOCKER, EARLY
and LAIGHT, GEORGE WHEELER, HAZEL
MORRIS, POLLARD and JACKSON, GLEN ECHO,
BETTY BRUCE. ,
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Matinees: 1/6, 1/- and Cd.
|_| OVI ’S 1* I C TUBE S, MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.
TWO BIG SHO W S.
HOYT’S OWN: Bourke Street, next Theatre Royal.
OLYMPIA : Prince’s Bridge.
I K C 11 & (T A K li O U U
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Companv of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
Ray’s Hair Dye.
When Grey Hair
to show, rejuvenate
your app e a ranee
with
IV AY’S
DYE.
nannies* md In-
stantaneous.
33 different shades.
Post pattern of
hair with order.
"4/10, 7/11,10/0.
POSTED.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 ISloek Arcade, Collins Street, Melbourne.
pan
i
V
THE BEST
SMOKE
/
is
YELLOW
ASTER
TOBACCO
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out 'disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepaved for emergencies by . alivays keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEEIISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
“ Pyjama time ”
is his time for using
4Sk.
6
JcM-de
The foundation for ’
the success of Yardleys
Lau-de-Cologne was laid
down 146 years ago—in
London. To-day its
popularity is
world-wide. j
•"E HAMS
/ o THF
GuaRAHTEf
Quality
OF
Every penny that you
spend for Yardley’s
Eau-de-Cologne stays
within the Empire.
1 hat, and the excel-
lence of the perfume,
are the good reasons
why you should order
'a
CCoj
MYSTIC PICTURRS
real photographs,
WITHOUT A CAMERA,
Instantaneous, daylight or gaslight, permanent. Yon
can amuse your friends bv producing these wonder.
|ful photographs in one minute without a
camera or apparatus of any kind exceot
'the sensitised paper and developer, oi
which we will send you a packet, enough
for six pictures, for ONE SHILLING, post
free to any address Anyone can do it
no knowledge of photography needed
The UNION C 5„ 299 Elizafeth W MJ.'
!
IKVM-
Wo
ANOjRA
““"QNC
OR MBA
Uai TtD
JBB&S***!,
Medical
Opinion
is unanimous that
Horlick’s Malted
Milk contains all the
essentials of a Per-
fect Food-Drink
(Milk, Wheat and Malt). It is
easily digested, very nutritious,
and most palatable
HORLICK’S
HALTED
HILK
Write for sample, sending 2d. In
stamps, to Hutchinson & Co., 26,
Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W., or
Sharland & Co.. Ltd.. Lorne St.,Auck-
land, and Dixon St„ Wellington, N.Z.
M
&
ASK FOR
HORLICK S AT THE SODA FOUNTAIN.
r
<?
fob
QUICK RESULTS
USE
USE
(dPILLfIRINE
Rub it well into the upper hp-
CAPILLARINE will pnodtiee tb
strong growth of moustache
the military man is now wealing-
CAPILLARINE never fails.
PER JAR, 10/6—POST FREE.
CRAIG S AIT KEN,
Established over 30 years.


iMi
u
** *
&
Hi \n n l ir
VXuticur#.^
UJ
CUTICURA SOAP BATHS
Followed by a Little Ointment for
Tender Skins. Trial Free.
They afford infants and children great
comfort, permit rest and sleep and point
to speedy healment of eczemas, rashes,
itchings and chafings. Nothing better
at any price for the nursery and toilet.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
El PON!
EXPLOSIVES
ARE THE PRODUCTS OF
OVER A CENTURY’S EXPERIENCE
Explosives packed especially to com-
ply with requirements of Australia
and other foreign countries.
Our SAFETY Explosives for use in
dusty and gaseous coal mines have
passed the rigid tests of the United
States Government’s Bureau of Mines.
Thirty factories in the United States.
Plants on both the Atlantic and Pacific
Coasts assure prompt shipments.
OBTAIN MAXIMUM RESULTS
BY SPECIFYING
DUPONT EXPLOSIVES
E.l.du Pont de Nemours & Co.
WORLD’S LARGEST MAKERS
OF EXPLOSIVES
Wilmington, Delaware, U. S. A.
A US TR ALLAN A GENTS:
Henry W. Peabody & Co.. Sydney, N. S. W.
CARTRIDGES
Always
Reliable
K>id R
>. Kc "V!
QQ
3S l *!
U r\~
&
*"JS
ELEY ‘Fourlong’
A .410 bore inch
Indian Red Cartridge,
loaded with Eley (33gr.)
Smokeless Powder and
No. 6 or smaller shot.
ELEY 450
No. I Rifle
ELEY 38
Automatic
for Webley & Scott or
Colt Automatic Pistols
... i
m
(6
Hi
ELEY 410
'Universal'
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELEY BROS. L? LONDON
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-
paying office in the World. HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C. ; Hon. Jas. Burns, M.L.C.; Hon. F. E. Winehcombe, M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.O. ;
Samuel Hordern, Esq.
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. 11. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Accumulated Funds, £33,500,000. Annual Income, £4,500,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1914 .. £1,034,346 Total Bonuses distributed .. £19,808,000
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. Write for prospectus
and full information without delay.
§? §
t
s£a&,
T FI ERE is something most satisfactory about
having on the right shoes for the occa-
sion in hand. One feels comfortable,
smart, confident. And for any and every
occasion nothing could be more suitable or more
charming than patent leather,' which always
looks well and goes so beautifully with every
colour and every fabric. Indeed, this little
shoe here illustrated will add no 'small share
of smartness and tone to one's spring suit or
summer gown. And it is only one style of
many equally desirable, equally charming. For
Bostock shoes, besides being the last word in
smartness, all have a certain individuality which
sets them apart amongst ready-made shoes,
gives them the personal quality and the dis-
tinctive tone of shoes made specially to measure.
Bostoek No.
P 6377
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
Sold at all leading stores. Look for
the name “Bostoek” on the soles.
829
r&m
%
«
8
/i
Invaluable
for Field Service
or Shipboard
■N I
tip
Safety Razor
Every purchaser of a “7 o clock
Safety Razor set retail is entitled to
nominate a friend who has joined
the colours, and to this friend
a set of equal value will be sent
absolutely FREE of Charge.
Ask your dealer for full particulars.
This safety razor is by far the most convenient and satis-
factory for use in Field, Camp, Barracks, or on Shipboar .
It is self-contained, even to the strop, which is hinged in t e
case itself and cannot be mislaid or lost. With a single
touch it springs open for stropping or cleaning, and with
another touch it snaps together into accurately adjusted
shaving position. (See sketches at top right-hand corner.)
Sergeant L. J. VICCANS, Ist D.C.L.1., writes :
“ Up to the time of first using a “7 o'clock ”
Safety Razor out here shaving Was a task
to be avoided. Now it is a delight."
Price in Australia...
Price in New Zealand
12 6
13/6,
“7 O'CLOCK” STANDARD SET
Consists of heavily silver-plated stropping razor,
six finest lancet steel renewal blades in compact
blade sheath, special strop in hinged
partition as part of the case —the
whole in handsome case measuring
only 5 in. by 2 in. by If in. deep
Managing Agent for Australasia:
RALPH ABERCROMBY
380-2 George Street, Sydney.
Of all high-class dealers
throughout Australasia,
a
m
wmmm
W/M
The Inky Way.
S. M. Herald the other day reported a
ease in which a writ of prohibition was asked
for, thus:—■ *
The respondents declared that they intended to
take no further action in the matter, and the case
was adjourned generally to allow this to be done.
Evidently the old lady finds 8 o’clock closing
hard to get accustomed to.
* * * *
“Copy Boy”: Jack Blackham, who was
the Beau Brummel of Melbourne journalists
until a couple of years ago, when he gave up
his job as chief-of-staff of the Herald to
become advertising manager of the paper,
has had to retire owing to bad health. He
had not been well for some time, and a month
or two ago he came into collision with a
motor-car with unsatisfactory results.
* * * *
“Piou-Piou”: French military slang has
as many holes for the unwary as has the
dinkum language of the Australian legion-
aries for the Maltese papers. Recently an
article, bearing the pen-name “Pousse-
Cailloux,” appeared in Blackwood’s on the
subject of the French “seventy-five.” The
Age of 19/2/T6, in reproducing the article,
respectfully attributes it to “M. Pousse
Cailloux,” being apparently under the im-
pression that monsieur is a French military
expert. As a matter of fact, “Pousse-Cail-
leux” (pebble-pusher) is the French cav-
alry’s slang term for the infantry soldier —
the foot-slogger, as we would call him. But
he doesn’t mind. He even survives another
scornful epithet of the prideful cavalry—
“rampart-crab,” or, as Tommy Anzac might
render it, “funk-hole yabbie.”
* • » •
“Moana”: The most remarkable number of
London Punch that was ever hoisted out
appeared on the bookstalls of the U.S. re-
cently. In size, shape and outward appear-
ance the production was identical with any
ordinary number; but it contained 15 full-
page cartoons lifted from the far-back
Punch of 1842-70. On the cover there was
the legend: “As England sees U.S. Some
Famous and Forgotten Cartoons that the
Present Generation of Americans Should
See. Reproduced by the American Truth
Society.” The cartoons selected were
mainly those of the Yankee Civil War period,
when England was not at all in sympathy
with Uncle Sam. To each cartoon some
comment was appended in bold type and red
ink, such as “John Bull felt like thrashing
us during the Civil War.” The cartoons had
all been carefully selected to misrepresent
the Punch of to-day. The cheeky piracy
had a short life, for the London proprietors
started after the so-called “American Truth
Society,” and found it was run by disinter-
ested truth-lovers bearing names like Schlatz
and Schmoltz.
* * • •
Despite the success of “The Sentimental
Bloke,” C. J. Dennis is not as happy as he
might be at present, having been dealt one
by “crool forchune’s dirty left.” In step-
ping from a tram he fell and gave his inside
a wrench, so that he had to be operated on.
The operation turned out all right, but “Den”
has to lay up for some weeks. Incidentally,
he recently threw up his job in the Navy
Office to become private secretary to Labor
Senator Ted Russell.
* * * •
“C. 8.”: A Melbourne weekly sent its
lady writer to have a talk with Ashmead
Bartlett. When the war-correspondent saw
the result the chances are that for the
moment he almost forgot to keep his cigar-
ette alight. F’rinstance :—■
He looks very young upon this early-in-the-morn-
ing visit, when he is caught in unconventional
attire; attire that shows some inherent love of the
warmth of Oriental coloring, too, for it .is a silk
dressing-gown of rich, deep orange coloring which
reveals glimpses of pyjamas of the same shade
beneath.
Also, “He lounges in a comfortable room
before a breakfast-tray on which oranges
almost repeat the color note of his attire
and intensify the Oriental suggestion.” Ap-
parently Bartlett is always careful that his
pyjamas shall match his breakfast. And he
smokes cigarettes, paces the room nervously
and lounges (some more) for all the world as
though he had just stepped from “The Pic-
ture of Dorian Gray.” Woman scribes seem
to be on the look-out for a beauty war-
correspondent to take the place of the beauty-
actor whose immemorial futility, is being
made manifest in these exciting times.
* * * *
London Standard, which was the other
day offered for sale, but was passed in at
£lO,OOO (subsequently an attempt was made
to dispose of the goodwill, but nobody would
go more than £100), has not flourished of
late. The Standard was started as an
evening paper in 1827. Thirty years later it
changed its publishing time to the morning,
and for many years was one of London’s
leading Tory dailies. The late Marquis of
Salisbury, when Lord Robert Cecil,. pushed
a pen on its behalf, and Alfred Austin, who
was exactly fitted as Poet Laureate, was one
of its leader-writers —and a first-class one at
that. John Gorst was for a time editor, and
the paper had several capital war-correspon-
dents—G. A. Henty, the writer of boys’
yarns; John Cameron (killed at Abi Klea)
and William Maxwell, who was sent here to
do the opening of the first Commonwealth
Parliament. The Standard cherished Free-
trade as a fetich until 1904, when it was
bought by C. A. Pearson and became a bar-
racker for Tariff Reform. A few years ago
the paper was taken over Dy a proprietary
company, but of late things have not gone
well. Its three big Conservative rivals have
been the pushful Daily Mail, the old-estab-
lished Morning Post and The Times, especi-
ally since the price of the last-named was
reduced.
« * * *
“The Printer’s Devil”: Once in a Rock-
hampton office the social column collided
with the shipping. Next morning the town
sat back and sized up the damage; “A con-
versazione was held in the School of Arts
last night in honor of Archbishop Donald-
son. Amongst those present were the Hon.
and Mrs. So-and-So, etc. In addition there
were 35 in the steerage.”


We Sell only RELIABLE
SPORTING GOODS.
Our Motto: “Goods Right— Prices Right.”
A SATISFIED CUSTOMER is our host advertisement, THAT’S WHY we endeavor to always satisfy.
TENNIS REQUISITES.
2
y
prf
We specially recommend our M.S.
Haymarket Rackets and Balls as
being absolutely the best value
procurable.
RACKETS.
(Postage on one racket: N.&.W., 9d.
other States, 1/2.).
M.S. Handicap, full size
C. 8.8. Special
M.S. Champion
C. 8.8., cork handle ..
C. 8.8., Quadruple ....
M.S. Hay market
Haymarket, Special ....
Haymarket, Selected..
Haymarket, Ex. Special
Ayre’s Handicap .....
6/-
9/0
11/6
13/6
15/6
5*2/6
27/6
35/ -
37/6
14/6
Ayre’s A 1
Ayre’s Double Central..
Ayre’s Champion
Ayre’s S.N.D
Slazenger’s Renshaw ..
Slazenger’s Demon ....
Slazenger’s Whitehouse
Slazenger’s E.G.M
Slazenger’s Doherty ...
Slazenger’s Stadium ...
16/6
18/9
22/6
45/-
15/-
22/6
27/6
36/6
40/-
45/-
BALLS.
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
Each. Doz.
Grey Regulation.. -/ 6 5/6
Grey Regulation,
superior .... - /10 97-
Challenge, covered 1/- 11/-
Ayre’s Court, cov’d 1/- 11/6
Each. Doz.
Dunlop Champion 1/6 16/6
Haymarket Special 1/8 18/6
Ayre’s Champion 1/8 19/-
Slazenger’s Cham-
pion 1/8 19/-
NETS.
Steam Tarred and Waterproof, full size, 5/6, 8/6, 11/6, 13/6
Steam Tarred and Waterproof, wire head line^—
13/6, 16/6, 22/6, 27/6, 33/-
GOLF MATERIAL
Our stock of Golfing Requisites is unsurpassed, and comprises
Clubs, Balls, etc., by the world’s leading makers.
CLUBS.
Postage on one club: N.S.W., 9d
M.S. Drivers and Irons.. 5/-, 7/6
Auchterlonie Drivers and Irons 8/-
Simpson’s Drivers and Irons.. 7/6
J. Braid’s Drivers and Irons 8/-
Cann and Taylor’s Irons 7/-, 8/-
Spalding’s Irons & Drivers 5/6, 7/9
Braid Mills’ Aluminium Putters.. 10/6
Patrick Bulldog Spoons, Ladies’ favorite 10/6
other States, 1/2.)
Brassies .. 5/6, 8/6
Brassies 9/-
Brassies 8 / -
Brassies 9/-
Brassies 9/-
Brassies .. 5/6, 9/6
(Postage on
BALLS.
one doz.: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
Each. Doz.
Dunlop Standard 1/3 127-
Bobs Bramble .. 1/8 18/6
Zodiac 2/9 30/-
Zodiac, Small S.S. 2/9 307-
Zodiac, Zome... 2/9 307-
Black & White
Bramble .... 2/9 307-
Challenger Bramble 2/9 32 / 6
Challenger, Star 3/- 337-
Patent Colonel .. 3/- 33/-
Henley’s Why Not 3/- 34/-
Each. Doz.
Watson’s No. 10 3/- 347-
Silver King (Yel.
Dot) 3/- 357-
Silver King (Black
Dot) 3/- 357-
White Dimple .. 3/3 387-
Midget Dimple .. 3/3 387-
Domino Dimple 3/3 38/-
Black & White
Dimple .... 3/3 387-
Challenger King 3/3 397-
Arch Colonel .. 3/6 397-
Glory Dimple .. 4/3 487-
CADDY BAGS.
Waterproof Canvas, leather bottom and sling—
7/6, 9/-, 12/6, 14/6
Solid Hide, best quality 17/6, 21/-, 25/-
v I.
*r j
For full particulars of Tennis,
Golf and all Sporting Materials,
see our illustrated Sports List.
Post free to any address.
Mick Simmons h
HAYMARKET
•SYDNEY-
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS’ OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KING STREET; also at NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE.
We are Specialists in all kinds of
SPORTING REPAIR WORK.
fC,
<r
r
M
Mother and Child
Baby 6% months.
Fed from birth on the 'Allenbury*'
i> cods.
Are you Worried about Baby ?
HOW to feed Baby is often a great worry to
mothers who are unable to nurse their
babies themselves. Ordinary cow’s milk—
however prepared at home —is not a suitable
substitute for the mother’s milk. It is acid in
reaction, contains harmful germs and forms
dense curds in the stomach that cannot be
digested. Decide to use the ‘Allenburys’ Foods
which are the only series of Foods scientifically
adapted to the growing requirements of the
child. You will be delighted when you see
how well your baby thrives on this Method of
Infant Feeding. The ‘Allenburys’ Foods are free
from all dangerous organisms; they are portable,
being in powder form and packed in sealed tins.
The Milk Foods Nos. 1. and 2 require the addition
of hot water only to prepare them for use.
A PURE. COMPLETE AND PROGRESSIVE DIETARY.
JaUenbiirgsFffids
MILK FOOD No. 1. MILK FOOD No. 2. MALTED FOOD No. 3.
From birth to 3 months From 3 to 7 months From 7 months upwards
Unsolicited Testimony.
A Mother in South Australia writes:
Sirs,
“1 see by your circulars you have pamphlets on infants feeding and
management. Kindly send me one, it may prove very helpful now or
in the future. I have a beautiful boy fed on your foods since infancy,
we tried other foods (not knowing of yours) and they almost killed
him, he became so thin and old looking that I felt compelled to have
the doctor's advice. Directly he saw the child he said he was being
starved, he was nothing but bone ; he told me to try Allen & Hanbury’s
foods and see how they would act. I did so with a marvellous result,
in a week there was a big change, he is now eleven months old and
such a big boy— not flabby fat but proportionate. He is just starting
to walk and has eight teeth so you see his illness has not made him
backward. I feel I cannot say enough for your foods and advertise
them all I can. Trusting you will send the pamphlet I asked for,”
Yours ever grateful,
Mrs. H. Pearson.
A Doctor In New Zealand writes:
Gentlemen,
“It may interest you to know that your Infants Foods are largely
prescribed by us out here and are found to fulfil all they promise
to do. I find the No. i Food most invaluable. The young mother of
to-day seems quite unable to nurse her offspring.”
I am, faithfully yours,
Doctor H. D.
Write for tree book “ Infant Feeding and Management '*
64 pages of valuable information for every mother.
Allen &. Hanburys Ltd., 13. Market St., Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 1715.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES : 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THirsty?
Don’t be! All you need is a
wax=wrapped packet of this
delicious chewing sweet—
WRIGLEYS
SPEARMINT
It’s refreshing, soothing and
cooling. When you’re dry
and hot it hits the spot. It
helps appetite and digestion.
3d. per packet of five big bars, at
Chemists, Confectioners and Stores.
Sample packet by post for three penny stamps from
J. C. GAMBLES & CO., Commerce House, Melbourne.
Ask for free copy of “ WRIGLEY’S MOTHER GOOSE”
Book.
BE SURE IT’S
WRICLEY’S!
m
o
<3
C
Made in Australia
for Australians
by Australians
[«
Chew it after every


<rr
■*r
m
r
n
Vv
1;^
< '
\ . n:
•: •
I
•V-: • .
V.; .;..\:^s
Gin Pills
Will Help
Yon.
Women!
Read and
Note.
16
and
2/6
The World
for Women.
Women hare always had
their work to do in the
world. Now the work is
to be increased. Broader
fields are being thrown open
to the feminine portion of
the world. The men must
fight, the women must
work. So more than ever
must women look after
their health. Backs must
not be allowed to ache,
eyes must be clear and
brains fresh. Now is the
time to attend to any in-
cipient Kidney Trouble.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills
will banish the fear
of Kidney Trouble by
removing the cause. The
ache caused by a defective
filtration of the blood often
leads a woman to think
that she requires an un-
necessary operation. So
look first to your Kidneys,
and that can best be done
by judicious use of Dr.
Sheldon's Gin Pills, for
they not only take away
the cause of Backache, but
leave the organs strong and
invigorated. The woman
with a household to look
after needs keep herself
strong for her task, the
working girl must not let
her back become weakened
by too much standing, and
the brain worker must keep
her body in perfect order,
so that the handicap of
being a woman need not
affect her responsible
work.
All classes of women
find in Dr. Sheldon’s Gin
Pills a secure and safe
remedy for bodily weak-
ness and ailments which
might prevent them from
shouldering the burdens
now’ being pressed down
upon them. Dr. Sheldon's
Gin Pills are sold every-
where in air-tight, sealed-
glass containers. Small
size, 1/6; large size, hold-
ing more than twice the
quantit3 r , for 2/6.
D» Sheldon’s
plus.
BANISHES
BACKACHE, KIDNEY, BLADDER
AND URINARYTROUBLES
Th^Jollywells
S 3
/ i/ i '
In quiet dell
Camp “Jollywell”
Is not a spot
Where gloom may dwell.
With rod and gun
Both have their fun,
What appetites
From wind and sun.
“This is the life,”
Cries Jollywell's wife,
“ ‘Rex' Goods banish
Meal-cooking strife.”
Hunger is the Best Sauce
And the Best Hunger is that which comes from
exercise in the Great Out-o Moors.
Wherever you decide to pitch your tent take along with you some
tins of
“Rex” Ham Pate
then yours will be a Camp
“Jollywell” as good as the
best.
“Rex” Ham Pate is made
from the finest sugar- and
brine-cured “Rex” Hams—-
ground to a pre-masticated
form which makes it easy to
digest.
It is eooked and seasoned to
give it the lingering taste
that pleases and satisfies
hunger cravings.
X
K'^wS
\»f
l*M«
>
II
s
ro
IKT
luvii
uni
Hi
1711
IIKI
XT*.
Buy it from any Grocer.
Ask for “Rex” Brand, THERE IS NO SUBSTITUTE
o'
E
eutv
Other “REX” CANNED DELICACIES are:
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pigs’ Feet in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, 111 b. tins.
“Rex” Bunch Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese, in Decorated Tins and Opal Porce-
lain Jars of British Manufacture.
“Rex” Brand Bard, for cooking purposes, in lib. prints.
FOGGITT, JONES 8 CO. LTD.
Curers of “ Rex ” Hams and Bacon ;
Packers of “ Rex ” Pure Food Products.
Letter to an Injured Lady.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DEAR Little Lady, I admit
Your ease is hard. To think of it!
You married, being still a kid,
With life's deep meanings subtly hid
(These educators have no sense)
From your unfledged intelligence;
Then in a whirl of strange alarms
Lay sobbing in your husband's arms-
Sobbing to think that Love had been
Degraded by the Lampsacene.
But somehow, in a week or two,
Sweet resignation came to you,
With glows of joy, transcendent gleams
That promised fruitage of your dreams,
And Something (who shall guess at
Whence?)
Restored to you your innocence.
Which rose resplendent in a flame
Of joy the day that Baby came.
Then years of light and dark together;
The summer glows, the wintry weather ;
The tedious days of cark and fret
That made you almost hate him....yet
The blinding moments of such pain
As made your love seem young again.
So far—l bluntly state the case—
Your story’s blessed commonplace.
Marriage is torment more or less
To everyone, as wise folks guess.
Marriage is still (the wise ones know)
A little bit of Heaven below.
Thus man and wife are perfect friends —
If they are wisest: much depends
On that. The game is give and take
In sympathy, for Love's sweet sake.
Ah well, you know all that, and I'm
No moralist at any time.
I’m busy, anyhow ; so we
Go to your special tragedy.
After these years of varied hue,
These years in which you have been true
(I take your word for that, you see,
Without suspicion, cordially)
After these years of joy and pain,
Of little ease and constant strain,
You find (and earth’s foundations shake!)
That you are married to a rake!
They rock, the mountains huge and steep !
The fountains of the vasty deep
Are broken up! The gods are dead !
And all because of Mister Ted.
My dear, as sure as Satan lives,
You’re given to superlatives.
It’s all because (’twixt you and me)
Just now r you're mad as you can be.
Your wriggling on one venomed point
Puts all creation out of joint.
And makes you see your husband —he,
Poor chap—as your worst enemy.
Yet, at the worst, what has he done
To “wreck your life,” this faithless one?
Item: Two years ago, or three,
He flirted much with Mrs. 8.,
And now r you find that late last June
They filched two weeks of honeymoon;
That more than once in years gone by
He’s paid her bills for her —oh, fie !
Item: You learn that, once or twice,
With chorus-girls he’s Plunged in Vice,
And furnished petticoats and gloves
To quite a flock of crumpled doves.
And there the dire indictment ends. . ..
Heaven save you, lady, from your friends!
Let us admit (since you’re so moved)
Your worst suspicions fully proved.
Let us convict your roving dunce
Of tickling Rahab more than once.
Do you, for your part, elevate
These w r enches to your proper state?
Do you pretend that Mrs. B.
Could ever be your rival ? She !
You don’t. At any rate, I should
Just hate myself to think you could !
Admitted that your naughty man
Has sinned against the Moral Plan —•
Has bought a trull, with toy or gaud,
By sale direct, or through a baw’d.
There are, I straightway tell you flat,
Worse infidelities than that.
Ted’s rather mean infrequent sin
Is an affection of the skin:
He’s idle, and you are not by;
Some dainty strumpet winks an eye:
So (Lord ha’ mercy!) Mister Ted
Gets something buzzing in his head,
And (at preposterous expense)
Makes Phryne his convenience.
Immoral? Let’s admit it is.
If that will sooth your vanities.
Immoral? Let’s not be in haste—
I call it horribly bad taste.
I hear you cry: Suppose that you
Had buzzings, what would Edward do?
But you’re a sweet, wee w r oman, white
Of soul and body, exquisite.
Fastidiously clean and chaste
Because God made you so. . . .Why waste
Tour breath in vile pretence that you
Could stoop to things that men may do?
M e’ll leave—l’m still your friend, I trust —
That damned suggestion undiscussed.
Pve sinned and roystered, gulping down
The dregs and ordure of the town ;
I am no better than the rest
Of men to-day. I stand confessed.
Ive tongue (’twas better so),
But here’s a thing you have to know.
Though much bemired, the path I’ve trod,
There was one woman sent from God
To tend for me the Inward Light
That somehow keeps a fellow right
Among it all. She shines for me,
My constant star, whatever be ;
And I’ll not have you pull her down
lo mate with harlots of the town,
rou told your story yesterday,
was much I yearned to say,
And didn’t. Girl, do you know why?....
because I love you, honestly.
S° on, you, and live your life,
Tnspotted, mother, comrade, wife,
111 talk like to Mister Ted,
.' j om s tiH you love, when all is said ;
And never, sweetheart, shall there be
me word of love ’twixt you and me.
Vrl t '/• y . ou dare to drag her down,
t If her gown
is dabbled in the noisome stews
With the gross filth that lechers use—
Then, by the God that made me, Kit,
I’U hill you, though I swing for it!
On Thursday night (I’ll fix with Ted)
Dinner and show, you Poppy-Head.
N.S.W.
SELWYN RIDER.
The Good Samaritan.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ 1 RATHER JOLLY called ’im ‘ther good
■ 1 Sir Mariton’; an’ I reckon that if
Sir Mariton was anything like ’im
’e wasn’t er bad sort of a bloke, although a
bit of a trick.”
All the same, in spite of the eloquence of
Keene, the solicitor, on his behalf, the Law,
taking no notice of his virtues, had sent him
up for six months, with some hard remarks
about his many appearances. Incidentally,
on the observations made by the Court, the
shadow of prosecution for perjury lay over
“Scrooger” Simpson, who gave him a testi-
monial.
“You done yer best, o’ course,” said
Scrooger to Keene. “I suppose when a
chap does things ’e’s bound to go up some-
times. Still I was ready to tell any blanky
lie ter get ’im off, knowin’ what a fine bloke
’e ’is. Will yer friend ’ave a whisky, Mr.
Keene?”
We would, an’ we did.
“Smiler was always a rum sort a cove —•
we always called Jack Davis Smiler. He
was too good-natured fer anything. That’s
what got ’im inter trouble mostly. ’E
useter lose ’is work through it. Coming
inter toil one day ’e sees Bill Jenkins putting
up a shed in ’is place an’ stops ter word ’im.
‘What’s the lurk. Bill?’ says ’e—‘fowls or
lodgers?’ ‘The old ’un’s knocked off work
an’s gotter pension, an’s coming ter stop,’
says Bill, ‘an’ as ’e don’t like sleepin’ in
the kitching I’ve gotter put up a place of
some sort.’ ‘Going ter do it by y’rself?’
asks Smiler. ‘Gotter,’ grunts Bill. ‘Ain’t
got no dough for anybody else.’ “Want an
’and?’ says Smiler; and ’e offs with ’is coat,
an’ does most of the work, and, of course,
does in ’is job. And then, after all, the
’ealth inspector comes erlong in a week or
so, an’ won’t let the old ’un sleep there.
“You know Soldier Haynes?” asked
Scrooger, after a pause, during which the
glasses were refilled.
“Soldier Haynes?” said Keene, reflec-
tively. “Oh, yes! Stealing from the per-
son ; eight convictions; six months hard! —
I remember him.”
“ That's him,” returned Scrooger, checking
off the description with nods at each item.
“Well, when Soldier comes out ’e’s pretty
well stumped after spendin’ ’is _ gaol money
makin’ ’is thirst good ; an’ meetin’ Smiler ’e
says: ‘No more quod fer me, if I can ’elp
it,’ says ’e. ‘lf I only ’ad an ’orse an’ cart,’
’e says, ‘l’d be able ter get right down ter
work.’ Now, Smiler ain’t the sort of bloke
ter let a pal o’ ’is go short fer an ’orse-gn’-
cart, so ’e tells Soldier that ’e 11 get ’im one.
An’ ’e does: only it turns out that Smiler
—’oo owing to ’is ’abit of giving things away
never ’as anything of ’is own ter give—’as
borrered the turnout from a yard where there
didn’t seem to be anyone in charge.
“Still Soldier didn’t know that until after-
wards. But though it gave ’im a start, ’e
was quite sore with Smiler when ’e ’ad ter
part about three times what it’d ’ave cost
’im ter ’ire it so as ter square ther thing.
A reg’lar screw was old Gilligan, ’oo owned
it. After ’e’d got at Soldier like that ’e
gets at Smiler with a tale that ’e’s a pore
man an’ ’is ’arness is rooined. It wasn’t
much ter rooin, being a good bit string-’eld
tergether with pieces of leather, but Smiler
’e says, ‘I ain’t ther bloke ter let anybody
suffer fer what I done/ _’e says; ‘l’ll get you
some new ’arness.’ Which he does.
“That’s ther time Smilef went up fer
stealin’ ’arness,” he added, to Keene, who
nodded. „ , ~
“Was that why Father Jolly called him
a good Samaritan?” I asked, motioning the
barmaid to put the bottle down again, be-
cause the story of Smiler interested me.
“No; Sir Mariton don’t come in there.”
said Scrooger. “That was another time —
over a tart named Eva Kelly ’e was shook
on. .
“There was a sevenp’ny meal joint where
a lot of the blokes useter go; an’ nearly orl
of ’em was shook on Eva. She comes from
the country, or else she’d ’ave ’ad the savvy
'ter get inter a better joint, ’cos she was an
A 1 looking tart.
“She could ’ave married orl right; but
she turned every bloke down. She’d been
useter living in a dull sort er loose-box way
in the country, an’ she didn’t like ’er place
in the city. She wanted somethin’ better,
bad. But she wasn’t fer settling down an’
marrying, an’ ’aving the same thing as she’d
’ad all ’er life.
“She puts up at the Young Women s
Christian, an’ no one ’as a word to say
about the way she behaves. I reckon it was
the bloomin’ skite she ’ears erbout the gilded
ways of sin what done it. It’s ter blame
fer a lot. The gilded ways of sin!” snorted
Scrooger disgustedly. “There ain’t no gilded
ways. .
“Well, we could all see Eva gettin’ more
discontenteder and more discontenteder
every day, an’ ’ating ’er work, an’ not able
ter get away from it fer the reason that it
ain’t no recommendation in tonier places to
’ave ’ad experience in shoving round food
in a sevenpenny joint, where the people
mostly do their own stretchin’ fer things;
an’ yer c’d see the impression of the girls
as ain’t careful of their morals seemin’ ter
get on very well, an’ ’ave a good time, and
the ideas of the gilded w r ays of sin soakin’
in. An’ one day she comes out with paint
on ’er lips, where it wasn’t wanted.
“Well, Smiler, ’oo’s shook on ’er, sees it
all, and gets wild erbout it; until one day
’e waits for ’er an’ threatens to ’ammer
sense inter ’er —though ’e- ain’t that sort of
bloke really, being the sorter feller who
wouldn’t ’it anyone fer fear ’e’d ’urt ’em;
and she tells ’im : ‘What’s the use of being
virtuous, anyway,’ she says—‘it only gets a
’usband like you !’ she says.
“It was a low-down cur of a motor-car
driver done it, doing the grand on the
strength of ’is boss’s car. ’E took ’er up the
(Continued on next page.)


AGONY WITH A
BAD LEG
MM
VAN
V,.
k
"A
..j/'
mhh. jam Jin,
cured by
Zam-Buk .
ZAM-BUK CLEANSED THE WOUNDS AND CREW NFUi
HEALTHY SKIN AFTER OTHER TREATMENTS FAILED.
IT VERY mother and housewife
■L- whose life is made miserable
by the distressing pain and incon-
venience of bad legs or swollen
and discharging ankles should
follow the example of Mrs. A. James
of 11 Gowrie Street, Newtown, Sydney,
and apply Zam-Bufc, the great antiseptic
and germicidal healer, which is a proved
remedy for these complaints.
Immediately Zam-Bufc is applied to a
poisoned or suppurating surface, it sets to
worfc to cleanse the tissues, kill the poison
germs, make the wound clean and healthy, and
finally promote the growth of new, healthy skin.
“ I sustained a scratch on my left ankle,” says Mrs.
James, “ and the dye getting into the wound from
the stocking caused blood-poison to set in, my leg all
breaking out into ulcers. Inflammation spread up my
leg, and the swelling was very great, more so as I tried
to get about on it when I should have been resting. The
limb continued bad for three months, during which time I
tried several ointments, etc., but the other treatments
brought me not the slightest relief. I was, luckily,
recommended to use Zam-Buk.
THE BALM BROUGHT ME RELIEF AT THE VERY
FIRST APPLICATION—
Even In obstinate
Cases of eczema,
ulceration, blood-
poisoning, leg sores,
ulcers, ringworm and
scalp sores, Zam-Buk
penetrates to the root
of the disease, and
quickly destroys and
expels the poisonous
germs which cause
the trouble. Of all
chemists and stores,
1/6 and 3/6 per pot.
it reduced the inflammation and swelling, cleansed the wound, and
made it look much healthier. The wound now healed rapidly,
and I have had no ill-effects from the injury since.
44 Zam-Buk was also most healing in a case where the heat of the
blood bought out a skin eruption, which was most irritating, being
one of the severest forms of eczema. I used different remedies,
but Zam-Buk was then applied, and its soothing and cooling effect
was at once noticed. It finally cured the outbreak. Since then
we have used Zam-Buk for all injuries and bruises and anything
of a like nature, with always excellent results/'
EVERY
HOME
NEEDS
w
SOOTHES &
Hats capS
AND
HELMETS
of all First-class Hatters
throughout the Commonwealth.
The name TRESS stands for the height
of English fashion and quality.
Makers —Tress & Co., Ltd., London, Eng.
Wholesale Agents—Cox & Mailer,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane
and Christchurch,
tr
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
SWA
POWNTPBN.
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Bequest.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only) :
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255aGeorge St., Sydney
mountains a week-end, an’ she loses ’er job
at the sevenpenny through not being there
when she’s wanted.
“That decided ’er, I s’pose. Anyway, she
takes to the gilded path, at the worst time
of the year, an’ finds it ain’t gilded; and
seein’ the ’ole thing’s a fraud makes _ ’er
careless erbout drinkin’ when there’s drinks
erbout. So she goes to the bad so much that
Smiler meets ’er one wet night, ’ardly able
ter stand, an’ with a cough as would ’ack a
tree.
“The gilded ways of sin!” Scrooger
snorted again. “They’re not so bad fer them
as takes to them natural and knows the way
erbout; but they’re ’ell to them as goes be
the wrong directions.
“Anyway, Smiler, seeing she’s ill, gets ’er
decent lodgings and puts ’er in ’em; an’ in
the morning the doctor says she’s too ill
to be moved. It’s pleurisy, starvation, care-
less-living an’ all sorts of things.
“So Smiler parts up, an’ ’e done it cheer-
ful. Don’t arsk me ’ow ’e done it —I don’t
know! But ’e done it. An’ ’e gets ’er
jellies an’ things, an’ flowers; an’, when
she might be shifted, ’e keeps ’er where she
is, findin’ all the needful an’ cheerin’ ’er up
by kidding that when she’s better they’ll be
married, spite of everything. An’ all the
time ’e knows on the doctor’s word that
there’s only a chance of ’er gettin’ better
if she keeps cheerful; so ’e’s with ’er most
of the day an’ of course loses er lot of work.
God knows ’ow ’e managed to keep things
goin’—without bein’ caught.
“ ‘You’re a good man, Smiler,’ she says to
him; “you’re the best man I’ve ever known
—overlooking everything, like you have.
You’re a saint!’
“Smiler tells me this one day as I meets
him just as ’e’s leaving, and he adds, ‘Me!
Blime!’ And I hears him say, twice, before
lie’s too far away, ‘Blime!’ as if what she
said was sticking in ’is nut.
“Smiler don’t ’ave much religion, but he
reckoned a parson of some sort was wanted,
an’ he brings along Father Jolly—you might
know him; useter swagger erlong the pave-
ment, noddin’ an’ smilin’ at everybody, an’
one of the whitest coves ever wore a black
coat. ‘Give ’er a chance, Father,’ ’e says.
‘Fix ’er up as well as you can’; and Father
•Tolly comes erlong, sees what Smiler’s doin’
an' says he’s the good Sir Mari ton.
“Father Jolly has a ivory stick, and one
day after he misses it he corners Smiler.
‘ ’Ad ter do it, Father,’ says Smiler. ‘She
wants things, an’ I ain’t got no money.
’Ere’s the ticket.’
“Last was Fatty Thomson —the plain-
clothes —as arsks me one day where me mate
Smiler is, an’ if ’e doesn’t go to a ’ouse in
Goodwell-street —the ’ouse wTiere Eva is—
every day. Then I knew Smiler’s game was
up, an’ I waits to tell ’im and warn ’im off.
“ ‘ ’Twas bound ter come,’ says Smiler,
quite cheerful. ‘Anyway, I ’ave ter go.
Eva’s dying.’ And ’e goes.”
Scrooger went to the window.
“They arrested him?” I said.
“I went to make the d.’s wise to the case
when they came —which they did soon
after he went in. I’ll say this fer Fatty
Thomson, he waited there outside the room
till it was all over.
“An’ afterwards when they’ve taken him
away and Eva is gone, Father Jolly
comes out, an’ says: ‘Whatever ’e done.’ ’e
says. * ’e’s the good Sir Mariton,’ ’e says.”
We had a last drink.
“ ’Go d’yer think is findin’ the cash I’m
payin’ for the defence?” he asked, and
blinked his eyes in a way that suggested he
felt something besides cheerfulness.
HAMER.
Funeral Exercise.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE Awkward Squad has fallen in two-
deep and is “standing-easy,” awaiting
the arrival of the instructor. The
recruits have been going through a course of
exercises—“motions of the rifle on the
march,” “piling arms,” “sword-bayonet-
fighting” and such like Greek-to-the-l^yman.
The instructor, having received certain
routine injunctions from the apple-cheeked
officer-of-the-day on the quarter deck, salutes,
turns on his heel and marches for’ard.
Mr. William Corking (such is his tally),
C.P.O. in His Majesty’s Royal Navy, is a
gentleman of proportions whose massive
shoulders severely tax the seams of his
sleeves. His chest, which has slipped in a
southerly direction with “new navy” and
increasing years, causes undue strain to the
lower buttons of his coat. He wears a
“torpedo” beard, and with his cap cocked at
a rakish angle over his starboard eye, he
stands as a worthy representative of the
Bulldog Breed.
Several times he paces to and fro in front
of the squad with his hands clasped behind
his back, as though in deep thought. Then
he expectorates skilfully clean over the rail,
clears his throat, and, still walking, mumbles
something sounding like “Proplatease.” The
squad square themselves up painfully. Sud-
denly he turns on his heel toward the ranks
and halts abruptly. Then he slowly inflates
his lung£ and bursts out: “SQUAD!” —(in
an undertone: “Let’s-see-yer-move-as-one-
raan-n0w.”)... .“SHUN” !! A foghorn is
a poor, sickly murmur compared to that
syllable.
The party springs smartly to attention—
“ ’eads and eyes erect, ’eels together”—picks
up its dressing and numbers. This being
performed to the instructor’s satisfaction, it
pleases him to make a few criticisms.
“ ’ltch up that there belt there, No. 6,”
he says; and adds sarcastically, “ ’tain’t
meant fer a ’ip redoocer fakemajig, yer
know!” He glances along the ranks. “And
you there, No. 13,” he remarks, “stow that
there ‘Patric’ Campbell fixin’ away under
yer ’at. None of yer fancy kiss-me-Charlie
curls ’ere, yer know !”
Having passed sundry playful, perhaps
crushing, remarks, Mr. Corking continues
his even tread in front of the squad, sunk
again, apparently, in deep thought. A piece
of oily waste lies on the deck; he kicks it
deftly into the waterway, turns smartly
about —bingy distended, buttons straining
heavily—and shouts out impressively:
“FUNERAL—HEXERCISE !” Then in
the same breath: “As-yer-were.” (Pause)
“FUNEREAL HESCOURT cor-
rect mistake—carry—on.”
Mr. Corking then proceeds upon the detail
of the drill which is not devoid of a peculiar
eloquence.
“Now then,” he commences, “the requi-
sight number forming the hescourt is fell in
in two ranks at ‘the order.’ The orficer
in command of the party is selected upon
accordin’ to the rating of the diseased!!
.... Should the diseased be a hadmiral,” he
explains, “then a capting takes charge; if
a capting, then a lootenant, and so on and
so forth. If, ’owever,” adds the instructor
with a fine sense of justice and proportion,
“the diseased ’appens ter be just a wily
muckko, a midshipman or a chief petty
orficer is suffishunt I”
Mr. Corking resumes his measured beat
with hands behind his back. He glances
interestedly over the rail at a tug endeavor-
ing to manoeuvre a sailing vessel through the
dock gate. The exchange of lurid repartee
between the tug skipper and the windbag
mate produces a bland smile. He wheels
about smartly.
“HESCOURT! Now wot the ’ell are
yer movin’ off fer then, you, No. 3?....N0.
10?.... Wotsup, Fat’eads?” remarks the
instructor with some annoyance.... “That
there’s only the ‘caution’... .Asyewere.”
He starts afresh: “HESCOURT
Front rank four paces—forward....
MARCH!.— Now—then —come —along—
front—rank... .smack —it —about Let’s
see something,” he continues encouragingly.
“Front Rank... .About turn.”
Mr. Corking now “carries on” between
the ranks and proceeds as follows: “The
ranks ’avin’ been formed up facing heach-
other, the next order will be to present
arms.”
“Now then,” he says in rousing tones,
“HESCOURT PRE-SENT ARMS....
Ccme-along-there-No. 30—No. 35”—there is
some exasperation in his voice—“ Galoots!
....I’ll be callin’ of yer by name yet, an’
don’t yer forget it.”
To be called by name is a fate which
should never befall a “muckko” at drill.
“Can’t yer ‘pre-sent’ no better than that,
eh?” he asks. ...“Some of yous coves would
be more handier with a ’ammer breakin’ up
rocks, I reckons,” he adds with fine sarcasm.
After a pause more eloquent than abuse
the Instructor continues.' “Now, then,” he
says, “at the word.... ‘The-corpse-is-about-
to-come-up-the-’atchway,’ -the Hescourt will
Rest-on-yer-arms-reversed, which is like this
’ere.” Mr. Corking describes the manipula-
tion with an outer files rifle “In this
manner,” he says with emphasis. “Muzzle of
the rifle restin’ on the toe of the left futt,
right ’and placed open over the butt —like
this ’ere,” he demonstrates—“and covered
with the left ’and. That’s all about it, then
—-see?” He concludes finely with, “The ’hole
will then ’ang their ’eads upon their chests,
and, if possible, will assoom a mournful ex-
pression !”
“Now, then,” he says in even tones. “The-
corpse-is-about-to-come-up-the-’atchway
HESCOURT,” he orders in stentorian voice,
“REST- ON-YER-ARMS-REYERSED !”
and in a stage whisper—“muzzle-on-left-futt
there, No. 8....1eft ’and over right, No. 13.
WELL.”
The Instructor then marches gravely
towards one end of the squad, turns about
suddenly and placidly remarks: “Fer drill
purposes, I shall be the corpse!”
Mr. Corking passes majestically between
the ranks —a peculiarly observant corpse.
“ ’Ang yer ’ead on yer chest there, No.
12,” he says in passing... .“And No. 15
assoom a mournful expresshun, there!”
Finally, he imparts the grievous information
that “if possible the ’hole may shed a silent
tear.”
The imaginary cortege having passed
along, the Instructor lifts up his voice again.
“The corpse, mourning-party and hescourt
’avin’ landed on the jetty, causeway or pier-
’ead, the hescourt will ‘form fours,’ with the
arms at the ‘Reverse’ in this manner.”
He again illustrates how the rifle must be
carried so as to “ ’ave the muzzle pointing
down under the left arm, sling hnppermost,
guard as ’igh as the chin, right ’and carried
away to the rear so as to seize the rifle with
it be’ind the body.” He winds up gloomily
by remarking that “the ’hole will then march
off at the slow to the toon of the ‘Dead
Marchin’ Souls!’ ”
For no apparent reason, at this interesting
juncture the escort is peremptorily “stood at
ease.” Mr. Corking ceases his eloquent flow,
struts aft, and has a chinwag with the Q.M.
at the gangway. Incidentally, the “stand
easy” affords him an opportunity to duck
behind the engine-ro®m casing to inspect the
quarter-deck clock. As there is still a few
minutes to go before “pack up,” he assumes
a nonchalant air and returns to duty.
“HESCOURT!” he shouts (sotto voce. ...
smartly-together”) “ ’SHUN!”
The class springs to attention as one man.
and the Instructor continues: “The funeral
cortajay, ’avin’ arrived at the ‘graveyard, cem-
etery, or burying-ground, the party will take
up its position in two ranks on one side of
the ’ole; while the chapling carries on with
the burial routine. A few ’andfuls of gravel,
dust, or wotnot ’avin’ been chucked upon the
coffing,” concludes the Instructor hurriedly,
as time is limited, “the orficer in charge will
order—‘VOLLEYS.’ The rifles will be raised
into the air at the angle of 45 degrees,” he
adds with mathematical precision, “and at
the word of command, as a larst respec’, to
the diseased, three volleys will be fired simul-
taneous-like across the graveside Raise
ver rifles ’igh enough,” he warns the escort,
so- as - not-to-’it-the-orficer-in-the-back-of-the-
neck - with-a-plug-of-guncotton-’cos-its-unplea-
sant!”
The final instruction from Mr. Corking is
that “the ceremony ’avin’ been successfully
carried out, the ’hole will re-form fours and
march off at the quick to the joyful toon of
the band, which,” he adds airily, “is most
always ‘The Gurl I Left Be’ind Me,’ or some
such T-Tiddly-I-Ti’ refrain! The reason for
tins ere lively bust up,” he explains breezily,
being for ter ’elp ter cheer up the spirits of
the diseased pals.”
Five bells strikes on the quarter-deck.
Smoke-o!”
CATHEAD.


WESTINOHOUSE
(Morse) CHAIN DRIVES
'**Y
4/'; I, 1 - -
■ vm
i ?5
?> ,
r»
*
v;-
EM
'
, v
&»: .-* ££H»B
.
,
v .•■■
For all types of high-speed power
transmission.
Positive in Action,
Silent in Operation,
Unrivalled in Efficiency,
Because their patented feature,
The Rocker Joint,
eliminates e friction due to sliding
surfaces. Consequently you have
Full Power,
Continuous Power,
Satisfactory Power.
Full Particulars from
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
Ne v Zealand Office: 93-10 T Featherston St., Wellington,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
D O N’T LOOK OLD!
But restore your grey and faded hairs to their natural color with
LOCKYER’S SULPHUR.
HAIR RESTORER
1/6 SOLD EVERYWHERE. 1/6
Lqekyer’s gives health to the hair and restores the
natural color. It cleanses the scalp, and makes
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
This world-famed Hair Restorer is prepared by the great
Hair Specialists, J. Pepper & Co. Ltd., Bedford Laboratories,
London, Eng., and can be obtained direct from them by
post, or from anv Chemists and Stores throughout the AAorld.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Or iff in a I and Only Genuine
Conrincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMIBTS.
• Prices in
England—
1/Is. 2/9 & 4-/b. Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks *t
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
‘he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acta like a charm In
DIARRHCEA and simple DYSENTERY.
E!
As worn by our Brave Soldiers.
jEvery Patriotic Person should
wear one of these Brooches.
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN
BULL DOG BROOCH.
These splendid Brooches made in Australia and finished in
Gold, Silver, orOxodised Metal are sold retail at 2/6 each.
For the purpose of making these Brooches more popular
throughout the Commonwealth, we have decided to give
everyone an opportunity of obtaining Valuable Prizes for
acting as our agents. SEND NO MONEY, your name
and address will do, and by return mail we will send you
6of these Highly finished Brooches. When sold
remit us our money, and we will forward you the prize yon
select from our Up-to-date Catalogue of Watches, Chains,
Clothing, Bracelets, Handbags, etc. Write To-day to the
SIMPLEX NOVELTY CO., Pitt-st, Sydney.
St
Lime Juice
Brings to your lips the juice of
the lime fruit.
It is a drink that is always cooling and refreshing*
The children love it. Order a few bottles to-day.
Large supplies have been lately shipped from London.
MONTSERRAT is sold by all leading Storekeepers.
\\6
'/a
MR. HOTELKEEPER, you will make your business more profitable
by installing in your Hotel
Eckerslef's Dispensers
for the rapid and economic production of
Draught Aerated Waters.
■. -V '
These Machines are now use<| in many of the leading
Hotels throughout Australia, and we give belerW names of
a few Sydney users: —
Mr. J. B. Belfield, Belfield’s Hotel, George Street,
Mr. Paragon Hotel, Circular Quay,
Sydney.
Mr. W. B. Richardson, Railway Hot**, George
Mr. J. P. Barry, £ansdowne Hotel, George Street,
Sydney. _ _
Mrs. Messenger, Hotel, Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
Mr. A. Nonmus, British Empire Hotel, George
Street, Sydney.
Grand Pacific Hotel, Manly.
A large number of our Machines are also in use in
Suburban and Country Hotels in New South Wales .
MACHINES SUPPLIED ON TERMS.
Catalogs from
ELLIOTT, DONALDSON & DOUGLAS, Brisbane, Queensland .
SAMSON & SON, Cliff Street, Fremantle, W.A.
EGKEFISLEY & SONS, 25a George street West, Sydney ; and South Melbourne•
GIVE AND TAKE
WOTi
m \*4
Cannot!
Cleans j
ILegula
12/-e&clv
ajh.
If.
itUPC.
ationeri
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS TOR ■
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
AT any height, at any temperature, in any
climate, under any atmospheric conditions,
at any speed, up any grade, under any load,
The Famous
Schebler Carburetter
“ The Heart of the Auto=
mobile” sends a never-
failing power stream
pulsing through your
motor.
Illustrative and descriptive
leaflets and all information free.
Robert C. Swan & Co. Ltd.,
304 Pitt Street, SYDNEY, sole Averts for Australasia. [1


'lie All-Australian
>ower Transmitter.
■Hangrovitel
LEATHER
which is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
BUFFALO
Canoidal Fans
deliver large volumes of air at relatively
low pressures. You can find no outfit more
suitable
For Supplying Fresh, Cool Air to
Office and Workrooms
or for exhausting Foul Air, Smoke or
Fumes.
They are made so as to discharge in any
desired direction by revolving the cast'
iron housing.
Write to Agents for Bulletin 182 E-51.
Parke 8 Lacy Co. Ltd.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St., Sydney.
It is the Power
Your Belt
Transmits
that
Counts.
%
r
and
Specify
DICK’S
BELTING
Sole Agents—
Jas. Hardie 8 Co.
Circular Quay,
SYDNEY.
And MELBOURNE.
THE
LAGGING
YOU WANT.
MOULDED MACNESIA BEND,
OPEN & CLOSED ON PIPE.
NEWALL’S
MAGNESIA
COVERINGS.
WRITE FOR SAMPLES.
J. WILDRIDCE & SINCLAIR LTD.,
82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth; Wellington, N.Z.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Fluming,
Patent “Nelyambo " Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work .
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
BOUNDERS
No. 20 Planer
PLANES, 12in. x 4in.
Ball Bearings to all
Spindles.
Vertical and Horizontal
Adjustments to Side
Heads.
Delivery from
Sydney Stock.
le Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Mm
_
NAT
SEL
OIL ENGINES
MARINE or STATIONARY.
Sole Australian Agents
FRANKI,
307-311 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
a
a
DARGAR
MACHINE
FOR AUSTRALIA .
\nm
EVERLASTING
FOR ALL PURPOSES
FOR ALL PRESSURES
FOR ALL TEMPERATURES
FOR STEAM
FOR GAS
FOR OIL
FOR WATER.
VALVES
NO WEARING OUT.
NO PACKING.
In BRASS
SEMI-BRASS or
IRON.
PROMPT DELIVERY.
2
13
O
§gf
*MO-
-
Equitable Building:,
George Sreet, Sydney.
