

The Genial Spirit
K. G. WATKINS CO.,
Machinery Merchants. 107 Street, Sydney,
11#r . . —FOR— I
mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST,
MONT DE PIETE D fill C? L T -P
74 CASTLEREAGH
Opposite National Amphitheatre.
STREET, SYDNE
Telephone: City
74
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
5
COMMrWCUi CHAMBERS '+ /< HiWMOWT QE PttH Qt POSIT IIKVtSTMINT CTIT*
1
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
Keep Your Home Clean and Healthy
And Free from all Insect Pests by using 1
Radium Spray
Sold at all department stores. Radium Spray is
made in Australia by an Australian firm.
RADIUM CHEMICAL CO. LTD.
210 Clarence Street, Sydney.
WmsM
iiAMS&BACOH
5 h’. W
CHUBB’S
STEEL AND
CONCRETE
DOORS .
JUNKET made from these genuine
is recommended by numerous doctors
highly nutritious and invigorating
digestive organs.
Tablets
as being
for the
HA N SE NS
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
m
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 GEOROE STREET, SYDNEY
THE BEST BALL
OF ALL
BENSDORPS
Royal
Dutch
COCOA.
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY.
Red Malthoid has all
the qualities which
have made the name
Malthoid the standard
in ready roofings. To
these qualities are
added the color which
is so popular.
RED
ta
MALTHOID
The Paraffine Paint Co., Challis House, Sydney. (D. S. Evans, Aust. Manager.)
Red Malthold will not
lose color, nor blow off
in storms, nor leak,
nor do any such thing,
bnt it will give abso-
lute satisfaction. I,et
ns send samples and
booklets.
BULLOCH LABES
WHISKIES
U¥l
GOLD LABEL
F?
WHITE LABEL s.v.o.
Moulds for Making
Concrete Pipes.
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. B
STEEL TRUCK
WHEELS.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
——
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
lavender
WATER.
The Bulletin
Yol. 37.—N0. 1893. J
[Thursday, May 25, 1916.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW NOVELS (All Worth Reading',)
Chambers’ Police!! 5
De Fore>t's Molly.
Bobbie’s Mrs. O'H.
Ostrauder’s At 1.30.
Dixon's The Foolish Virgin.
Ross’s Youth Unconquerable.
London’s Little Lady of the Big House.
Brady’s Baby of the Frontier.
Drake: The Coming Back of Laurence Averil.
Benson’s David Blaize.
Dell’s Bars of Iron.
Page’s Some There Are.
All at 3/6 per volume. 3/9 posted.
At GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP’T'Y LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
The Great Antiseptic and Prophyladic.
A. —The Larynx, or
Organ of Voice.
B. —The Trachea,
or Windpipe.
*
C. —The Bronchial
Tubes of a
Dissected Lung.
D. —A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Contains no Cocaine, or other poison-
ous drug. Suited for Old and Young.
For Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and the Prevention of
Consumption.
The Lancet states: “Proved to be .is effectual
baeteriddally as is Creosote.” This report front
The Laxcet Laboratory is undoubted proot ot
the value of Eumenthol Jujubes as an Antiseptic.
Practitioner (London) states: “Useful in Ton-
silitis, Pharyngitis and similar ailments.”
Sold by Chemists in tins, price 1/6-
The Red Page
ANZAC.
(Greater than glories of the tivtor's place,
T t“ know through grim defeat how great the
prise.
To come through that ordeal that purifies
And breeds a new, a keener, stronger race:
As in some byshhuul scene that bears a trace
Of some great fire and Nature beautifies
More lavishly the aftergrowths that rise
Profusely o'er the devastated space.
Anzae, a name that speaks of bitter days,
The consummation of our hopes and fears,
Thy loss shall teach us more than victory;
And more than honors of a world-wide praise
Shall wc revere through all the coming
years,
Those sad, still jnounds that speak our fealty.
J.L.B.
The Swine
At the beginning of the war the opinion
was widely prevalent that the Huns were a
peaceful and kindly people hurled to slaughter
by their wicked rulers. A closer acquaint-
ance with the Hun in action dispelled that
charming illusion. Hence there is scarcely
any need for such an indictment as De-
generate Germany, by Henry de Halsaile
(Laurie; 25.). Of course, it is easy, by record-
ing only the worse aspects of an individual,
to depict him as a devil; but the facts that
the author adduces are too well authenti-
cated, chiefly by German writers, for any
accusation of bias tt> stand.
First of all, it is high time to dispose of
the Hun’s claim to be our cousin. It is
obvious that there is no mental relationship
between the Englishman" and the Boche.
The eousinship disappears as soon as a com-
parison of the shape of the l’espective skulls
of the two races is made. Anybody who has
been to Germany must have noted the ex-
traordinarily shaped skulls there. The Ger-
man has a brachycephalic, or short-headed,
skull; the Englishman has the radically
different long-headed skull. The British
Tommy soon noted the difference: he calls
the Huns “square-heads.” The average Hun
has no back to his head; the protuberance
of the cerebellum is noticeably absent. There
are other extraordinary skulls to be found in
Germany, the cylindrical and “sugar-loaf”
skull, and the small, round-topped skull re-
sembling in shape that of an American negro.
You can’t make a negro into an Englishman
any more than you can make a Hun into a
civilised man. The anatomical structure of
the skull prevents it.
J*
We are not interested in the author’s
awful picture of mediaeval Gei’inany: 20th
century Germany is a sufficient and conclu-
sive text for the author's sei'mon on national
degeneracy. Much that he prints is too dis-
gusting to quote; and the curious thing is
■ that this indictment of a nation is practically
delivered by German critics. Of course, it is
notorious that the Hun is a hoggish eater,
with table manners that would annoy an
American millionaire. He is just as hoggish
a drinker. Our own poets will be envious to
hear that it is quite a common feat in Ger-
many for a man to drink a litre of beer with-
out taking breath. A litre is a quart plus
half a pint. One German student achieved
fame by being able to swallow two litres
between breaths.
There are, it is said, Australian women
who profess to see no objection to the Hun
swanking down our streets. They may be
interested to learn that the average weekly
income of - German women factory employees
is 6s. a week. At the Court Theatre in
Hanover in 1914 the directors paid their
female daneex-s 10s. a mouth. At the Court
Theatre in Eisenach 15s. a month is the
emolument of the “leading lady.” The direc-
tors of such theatres take the view that
pretty girls should not need any salax-ies at
all: thei-e are other obvious ways in which
they can make a living. We have heard
much of the lack of vagrant.- and unemployed
in Berlin. That is because ’he Huns wisely
keep them out of sight. In jne year, 1913,
over a million homeless human beings were
given lodging in the discreetly-secluded Ber-
lin City Shelter.
“A German baby is a pitiful object; it is
pinioned and bound up, like a mummy, in
yards of bandages which ai’e unfolded once
(at the outside, twice) a day; it is never
bathed, but presumably sometimes washed in
some occult manner. Its head is never
touched with soap and water until it is
eight or 10 months old, wheii the thick skull-
cap of encrusted dirt which has accumulated
is removed by the application of various
unguents. Many German women have
assured the writer that the fine heads of hair
one sees in Germany are entirely owing to
this decidedly unhygienic skullcap.” But,
anyhow, it hardly matters to the mother,
since she scarcely sees her baby, brought up
by that institution of the German household,
the wet-nurse. “The demand for these wet-
nurses is so great throughout the empire that
girls of the working-class, peasants and other-
wise. are encouraged to bring illegitimate
children into the world, and thus qualify
for these well-paid posts.”
The Prussian law permits the husband to
“inflict bodily chastisement in moderation”
upon his wife. It is left to the German hus-
band, by law. to determine the length of time
his wife may suckle a child; and, of course,
all decisions with regard to the children rest
absolutely with him. In Prussia women are
forbidden to take part in political associa-
tions and public meetings. And eight-tenths
of the agricultural laborers of the Father-
land are women. “A woman and a cow yoked
will draw the plough.” In Dresden the
wotuan is yoked with a dog to small waggons.
jt
Gennany, it is well known, is the centre
of the “white slave” traffic of the world. In
fact, the export of these human wares ought
to figure importantly in German trade
statistics.
A professor at the Berlin University
estimates the number of prostitutes in
Germany as no less than 1,500,000,
Berlin has no rival in this profession in the
world. Even Dresden can afford to have 32
streets for the exclusive accommodation of
Flossie. But the quotations given by the
author from official and representative Ger-
man authorities are innocuous compared
with the facts relating to the extent of sexual
perversion in Germany. It has become im-
portant enough to be termed the national
vice. Naturally, the foremost authorities on
this nauseous subject are Germans. Accord-
ing to a Berlin observer in that "gay” city
there are 40 resorts patronised by these per-
verts. Another authority computes that
there are 1,200,000 of these noxious beasts in
Germany, Bloch says that “sexual aberra-
tion is diffused throughout all classes of the
German population. We find it among work-
men just as much as among aristocrats,
princely personalities and intellectual
heroes.” The notorious Eulenburg scandal
caused no surprise to those who knew the
upper-class German at home. Similar astound-
ing figures are given, on unimpeachable
authority, in reference to the prevalence of
venereal disease. In 1910 it was publicly
stated that 90 per cent, of the male. Berliners
had at one time or another been afflicted with
sexual disease in some form, and that one-
third of these cases was of a grave charac-
ter. A German specialist states that one in
every five German men is a syphilitic.
It is therefore not astonishing to find fur-
ther evidences of the depravity and degener-
ation of the German race in the huge number
of convictions for indecent assaults on
children, rapes, etc. Even the worst forms
of sexual crimes go lightly punished. The
“lust-murder” is a particularly Teutonic
species of crime by reason of its frequency
in Germany and its comparative absence
elsewhere. And the German papers make
special features for their readers of these
unsavory items of interest. The bookshops
make displays in their windows of books on
sexual matters. The “most vital” of modern
German poets, according to Berlin critics,
is Richard Dehmel. His poems are absolutely
unfitted for reproduction in English.
Jit
The author’s indictment may be briefly
summed :
In Ggrmanv vice in the shape of prostitu-
tion has assumed colossal proportions. Bebel
states that Germany supplies half the prosti-
tutes of the world. Unnatural vice also has
assumed the gravest dimensions. Venereal
disease in Germany has risen to very, large
figures. The daughters of peasants and work-
ing people are. often, reared for the specific
purpose of pi’ostitution, sent on the streets
when little more than children to support
their parents. Pornographic literature of
the worst kind is on sale in all the book-
sellers’ windows, and is purchasable by girls
and boys. Criminality in Gei-many has
reached unheard of figures. In 1909 over
three-quarters of a million criminal acts and
offences were dealt with in the courts. Inter-
marriage, from mercenary motives, is so
common that it has seriously affected the
mental and physical health of a large part of
the population. Also, the effect of rampant
syphilis upon the mentality of the race is to
be remembered.
Evidently Kultur oxxght to be in gaol or in
a venereal hospital.
• ——
This page really does its darnedest to
comfort the correspondents who lay their
literary worries at its pink feet; but there
are some miracles that this page hasn’t the
time to work. Here are three polite but
important requests which are passed on to
its readers: —
“8.J.5.”: I was once informed that Dracula, by
Bram Stoker, The Beetle , by Richard March, and
another book were written as the result of a wag-er—
the weirdest book being the object aimed at. My
informant could neither remember the third book nor
its author. Gould you kindly tell me if such a wager
took place, and who was the other writer, and what
was the name of his book?
“Mosquito”: Between 15 and 20 years ago I read,
I believe on the Red Page, a review of a book written
by an eminent Russian (?) medical man, a Dr.
Varesoff (?). In summing-up, the reviewer said,
perhaps in other words: “That Dr. Varesoff proves
that surgery is the only scientific part of medicine”—
the other part, being only guesswork, being left un-
said. If I remember rightly, The Bulletin - also
said, “The profession will not relish the sale of the
book,” and you hinted that they would try to
suppress the sale of it. I have never seen a copy
of it, although I made feeble inquiries at the time.
Can you dig up that book for me—the title, author
and where I may be able to obtain same ?
“P.V.W.”: I once noticed an advertisement in
your paper, for a book, on mixing “American Cock-
tails” —they are hotel drinks. Since then I have been
trying to find the address in The Bulletin, but
cannot see it. Possibly you would remember the
people advertising. I would thank you for the
address of the people. Enclosed find stamps.
A pedagogue correspondent asks us “to
bring Australian prose and poetry before the
Councils of our Universities and the Head-
masters of our public schools —State schools
are well provided for. Well, aren’t we
doing it? Haven’t we been doing it for
years? But we can't expect headmasters
or University Councils to read a page that
is chiefly devoted to Australian literature.
“I find,” says our correspondent, “that these
headmasters (mostly imported) will have
none of Australian literature. A Cantab-
Oxon. remark actually used was: ‘Oh. I
can’t bring myself to read Australian
books!’ ” But there are signs: Last year in
A Victorian Anthology for Schools, issued by
the Melb. University, there were graciously
included selections from Lawson. Cuthbert-
son and Kendall. This book was the English
Text for the Junior Public Examination for
1915.
Fiction
Casuals of the Sea, by William McFee
(Seeker, per Dymoek's Library), is an excel-
lent novel. The author knows what he is
writing about, and the variety and extent
of his knowledge is bewildering. His can-
vas is a large and crowded one, and the
figures in his foreground have three dimen-
sions. One feels, after this intimate and
detailed presentation of the whole dam’
Gooderich family that they actually existed.
Yet the book rises to no heights of literax - y
art: it is bound to be popular. Boldly,
McFee has fashioned his novel as a piece
of life, subject to all the chances and acci-
dents that affect or extinguish life.
To those frail craft upon the restless sea
Of human life, who strike the rocks
uncharted,
Who loom, sad phantoms, near us, drearily,
Storm-driven, rudderless, with timbers
started.
To those poor casuals of the way-worn earth,
I'he feckless wastage of our cunning
schemes,
he dedicates his book. It is a story of igno-
rant and muddled lives, a story unfinished,
yet of . value. Characteristically, he allows
his first hero, the eldest son of the Gooderich
family, to die in the South African war: he
cuts him off, as war has a way of cutting
people off, in a casual paragraph. Yet the
implication remains: this youth had a genius
for the soldier’s trade. All that inchoate
brilliance is wasted by a shrapnel-burst. A
less sincere author would have left him to
distinguish himself in the present war. His
younger brother then becomes the hero—and
all that this soul of immense potentialities
achieves is a voyage as a fireman to Japan
and back, marriage to a managing woman,
brief fatherhood and death. Only the sister,
who ;akes the easier way open to girls of her
class, survives. After an affair with a
man, she took other men, then tired of that
life and married one of the men whom she
had met in her professional days. She ends
respectable, happy in her motherhood and in
the successful use of a small but commer-
cially valuable talent. If there is a moral
at all, it seems to be that a girl who knows
her way about will fight her way into a good
position. But it is certain that McFee
intends no moral at all, except that of the
unnecessary inevitable waste of good human
material under the conditions of modern
civilisation.
As is the custom nowadays, McFee’s por-
trait of this commonplace family is a full-
length one. He begins at each birth and
carries us right through each life. Minnie, the
daughter who early found out what’s what,
is a fascinating and convincing portrait of a
modern type of girlhood.
“This smiling slip of a girl in her cheap,
worn dress and the crackling banknotes in
her clenched hand, was instinctively a realist.
She might give him the purple buskins of
imperial romance while she thought of him
regardless of time and condition, but, in-
stantly, when the dream condensed to fact,
when they met face to face, she could only
be reached by the cash nexus, by dinners and
theatres, by things that cost money... .That
she loved him was indisputable, but her love
was not the supreme surrender which many
would have it, the deathless clinging many
think it to be. She was Danae in her tower
of brass, and Jove himself could only enter in
the form of a shower of gold.”
Minnie’s “fall,” or, as the author prefers to
call it, her emancipation, came when Anthony
ordered a bottle of port wine. “In many
wavs Minnie measured her present life from
that port wine. It marked the end of the
prelude of her emancipation. Thereafter
she stepped deliberately into the milieu of
the. first act. And now it should be suc-
cinctly stated in her defence that her life
had been in many ways restrained and
modest. That she had been the mistress
of more than one man stands clear against
her.. She should have been faithful, I
admit, just as men should be perfect. She
failed. I suspect, for the same reason that
men fail, for the same reason that a sow’s
ears are unsuitable material for silk purses.
.. . .Even crime, if co-ordinated and run on
business lines, loses its essentially criminal
aspect—this fact has a vital bearing on the
outlook of a woman such as Minnie Goode-
rich .... Her callous independence of soul
was an inevitable product of our age. We
have cackled of the romance of business
until business is our only romance. We
have slain Poesie, and her pale phantom
stalks amid our stark realities unrecognised
and undesired. We have seen Art on the
street selling herself for money, but we have
lost the right and the impulse to rebel.”
Well, Minnie comes out of it all right,
happy, contented and respectable. Assur-
edly there is no moral.
We do not reach the sea till the conclud-
ing part of the novpl; and when we do it is
worth while. McFee knows the sailorman
and the stokehold. His description of that
voyage to Japan is as graphic and as con-
vincing as the work of Conrad, minus that
master’s unique art. There are scenes
herein that the reader cannot forget. It
is a fine tribute to the sea and the manliness
that it engenders—even in the stokehold.
Australian
Australian children should
series of nature studies of Australian the
life, entitled The World of Little fewvv
Brooks, Sydney; 3s. Gd.), by Gl dl n'
Froggatt, In language that is" lurid £t '
literary” for the average downright V 0
tralian kid the author discloses £>?'
secrets hidden beneath the whitest
heap, and the nest of the homemaker wa£
and in interesting fashion tells the stories S
the lives of the antiion, the aphis, the mos
qmto, the cicada and the many other
mon Austrahan insects. In fact, the X
we -known species not touched upon bv thi
well-informed author is the Political Insect
However, most of us know all that it k
desirable to know about him. The honk- •
U Hy illustrated. Portions of the ““
have appeared in various Sydney p„ bl i“!
&
Australian Mystic Scries, Yol. I. v 0 1-
The Secret of Happiness, by Angus P Turn
iey That ‘‘Yol 1., No 1,” looks so patheti-
cally hopeful: how often it has been the
only child in the family! However, Angu
Francis Turnley states that “the thoughts I
express were born in Australia, and are my
own.” Here is a bright Australian Turnlev
thought: “Then there was borne upon the
wind the music of the lapping of the waters
on the shores, the murmurs of the rivers on
their way to the sea, the rustling of the foli-
age of the trees, and the incense of the bloom
of the flowers; and Nature, folding the old
man to her bosom, said : ‘Come with me for
your pilgrimage is o’er, and you have
reached Futurity, where Mutualism, unbe-
dimmed and glorious, crowns her children
with diadems of never-ending Happiness.' ’’
The author of this affecting tale would be •
glad “to receive written communications
from, or arrange personal interviews with”
ail those who are in sympathy with my Mys-
tic Modernism, in order that" an ever-widen-
ing Circle of Communion may be established
for the promotion of Communal Happiness.”
His business address is 25 Tattersall’s-lane,
off Lonsdale-street, Melb. Here’s a chance
for all who love unbedimmed and glorious
Mutualism!
J*
John Watson, the modest author of The
Bible a Fable — The Creator Libelled (Toma-
lin, Harris-street, Sydney), points out that:
Truth, like the violets, never seek the sun,
Content to let old time prove that it won.
His chapter headings are somewhat striking:
“Christ and Jonah. Jonah done his three
days in the whale’s belly, but Christ, from
the Cross, went to Paradise, till time was
up.”... .“Joshua’s command to the Sun, and
the insolence of the Scotch Church to curb
the Governor’s freedom, unearth the enemy
in our midst.” Perhaps his meaning may
be made more clear by the author’s chal-
lenge : “The author challenges the Church
to prove that he has not produced prims
facie evidence that the Devil owned Adam
and Eve; that the Devil lived in the Ark;
that Moses was a plagiarist; that when
Christ died there was not a tried Christian
on earth; that if the day ever came when
any one sect should gain supreme power, that
the rack and stake would have a place in its
curriculum; that humanitarianism is the only
safety valve the world will ever know; that
the Church has never drafted a proposal hav-
ing for its object the sweeping away of unre-
stricted individualism; that it lionises the
man who, having grown fat by using
Hodge’s sweat, returns a trifle towards his
burial; that the only footsteps left on the
sands of time have been starvation, tyranny
and murder, against those who refuse to bow
to the myth called faith.” The author asks,
but unfortunately does not answer, the ques-
tion, “Why was I born?” —asks it. too. in
verse. And after more than a hundred
pages of impassioned argument, he tells the
reader:—
This is what it’s all about,
Gentle reader, mind the knout.
Cleanse this stain from off our map,
And see thy brother in a Jap.
«
Persons named Moses and others are re-
minded that the competition for the best
Ten Commandments for Australians closes
on June 17. A guinea will be given to the
law T -giver who forwards by that date to
this page the Decalogue most suited to the
moral and spiritual needs of this continent.
“Jay-Jay” confirms “Jimmie Pannikin’s
complaint of the neglect of Australian litera-
ture in our schools:—
Amongst the 60 or more books supplied to schools
as supplementary readers about half a dozen are
Australian in character. In the old School Readers,
now consigned to the scrapheap, three of the poetical
selections in the whole series were by Australians.
The number of prose selections was certainly larger,
but they were by no means happily chosen. I'’the
new order of things—the school magazines—which
have replaced the out-of-date readers, little im-
provement is seen. During the last three months
about 30 verse selections have appeared in them.
Of these one only is by an Australian writer. As
regards the prose selections, only one of the maga-
zines has had anything bearing on matters Aus-
tralian.
To this we may add that The School
Paper, issued by the Queensland Dept of
Instruction, makes a special feature ot
Anzae day in its April issues.


Anthony Horderns’for Fashion 8 Economy
No. 911.—Smart Wool Sports
Coat, inset sleeves, turn-back
cuffs, girdle of self. Cream,
Black, Navy, Saxe, Rose, Brown,
Mole or Grey ... . 25/6
No. 4474. Maternity Skirt, in Black Panama Cloth,
panel front, inverted pleat down centre back, gathered
at waist 21/-
No. 237.—Neatly-cut Skirt, in fine Coating Serge,
flared shape, scalloped at foot, in Black or Navy 23/6
No. 453. —Useful Cos-
tume Skirt, in fine Coat-
ing Serge, Umbrella shape,
with imitation scalloped
yoke and patch pockets,
Empire waist, Black or
Navy 35/6
No. BG2I. —Knitted Wool
deep turn-over Collar and revers.
Saxe, Mole, or Black
Coat,
Navy,
29 /<B
FJK
76
No. FXl6.—Useful
Knitted Coat and
Bonnet, in Grey,
Mole, Saxe, Brown,
Navy, Cream; Ito 12
years—l Bin., 11/6;
20in„ 12/6; 22in.,
13/11; 24in., 14/6;
27in., 15/6; 30in.,
16/6.
No. 9174. —Fine Serge
Coat, double box-pleated
back, Fancy Silk Buttons,
Black or Navy .. 28/6
75+
5502
No. 734.—Stylish Skirt, in Black or Navy Coating
Serge, yoke effect at back with box pleats, back and
front trimmed fancy buttons 32/6
No. 6302.—We11-cut Flared Skirt, in Coating
Serge, patch pockets, in Black Or Navy...... 27 / 6
No. 247.—Useful Skirt,
in Black and Grey Mixture
Tweed, yoke top with scal-
loped front, finished bone
buttons 14/6
No. FX2o.—Velvet-
een Frock, Brown,
Saxe, Red and Navy;
fitting child 2 to 10
years —18in., 13/6;
20in., 14/6; 22in.,
15/6; 24in., 16/6;
27in., 17/6; 30in.,
18/6.
Send for Winter Fashion Portfolio —Post Free on Request.
/23
No. 123.—“ The Latest” Knitted
Sports Coat, in good-quality wool, five-
eighth length, has inset sleeves and turn-
over Collar, patch pockets, all-round belt
at waist. In Saxe, Rose, Fawn, Mole,
Navy or Black 21/6
A9/2
B*l2
No. 8412. —Useful Skirt, in fine Serge, shaped seams
at side, has inverted pleats at foot. In Navy and
Black 18/6
No. 8912. —Smartly-cut Skirt, in Gabardine, has
shaped seams and belt, trimmed self buttons. Fawn
and Khaki shades 15/6
Similar style in extra-quality Gabardine.. 35/-, 42/-
No. 7902.—Riding Skirt,
in Fox’s Sferge, buttoned down
centre front, patch pockets,
Black or Navy .... 29/6
No. 12 0 1. —Heavy-weight
Knitted Coat, fastens close to
throat with Roll Collar; turn-back
cuff. Navy, Saxe, Mole, Cream or
Black 27/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd.
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


“New Rival”
Factory Loaded
Shotgun Cartridges
If you use a shotgun and want
cartridges that will shoot with
'r/S/
»-ivv
the most uniformity, the greatest speed
and penetration, give the best spread
of shot, and are sure-fire, use
Winchester Factory Loaded “New
Rival.” They are
sold by good dealers
everywhere, and are
m
Uj
*7
«
(/)
uA
m
o
o
m
ID
<
CO
OC.
id
B
*C&
£V
<b
x
UJ
>
X
u
Q:
7<
<a
S,
DOWER TRANSMISSION
1 = APPLIANCES. -
AVe have a large and varied assortment of High-class Modern Appliances for
Power Transmission, including the following:—
PRESSED STEEL. AVROUGHT IRON and WOOD PULLEYS (in all sizes),
BRIGHT STEEL SHAFTING, PIONEER PRESSED STEEL SHAFT
HANGERS, BELTING (LEATHER, WOVEN, COTTON AND BALATA),
PILLOAY AND PLUMMER BLOCKS, etc.
Prices and full description on application.
The STEWART Handy Worker
A most practical Combined Tool, com-
prising : A strong and powerful Vise, up
to 44 inches; width of jaw, 4 inches.
Cutting Hardie. Pipe Vise, which takes
up to 14-inch pipe. Drill Press, which
may be operated at two speeds. Sub-
stantial Anvil. Corundum Grinding
Wheel, 5 inches x 1 inch. Three speeds:
Direct, 4to 1 and 16 to 1. Weight,
boxed for delivery, 1001 b.
Price
Ask for Illustrated Booklet.
Use “ACME” Cutting Compound for
Lubricating Cutting Oils.
MS^PKerson 5 !)
Proprietary Ltd.
Machinery, Iron & Tool Merchants.
554-66 8 582-88 Collins St., Melbourne.
ESTABLISHED iB6O.
The Boot^-Croaker
Ant GAS CTSTBI
CHEAPER THAN
Electricity, Coal Gas, Acerylene or Kerosene.
and BETTER THAN All.
m
mm*
w i !v r. w
A
H
■
&*£s£:
INTER-STATE AGENTS
Buzacott & Co. Ltd„
Adelaide St., Bris. ane.
Dangar, Gedye Co.,
Young St., Syc :y.
J. Bartram & S fS;
Bourke St., Melt: ime
Works : 269 Toor; Rd..
Melbourne
»
WAVERLEY
THE “BOON AND BLESSING” NIB
You can depend on a Waverley.
Its quality and durability make
it a world - wide favourite. It
writes so smoothly and lasts so
well that one Waverley outlasts
two or three nibs of an inferior
kind. The Reservoir Waverley
does 200 words with one dip.
6d. & 1/- PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS
AND DEALERS
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
Ste L, Gold & Fountain Pen Makers
Edinburgh. Glasgow a London
If any illustration appearing in The
Bexletix takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
MODERN TOOLS
FOR THE
GARDEN and
FLOWERS.
“NORCROSS” Cultivator-hoes
have revolutionised Hand
Cultivating. The sharp,
tapering Shovels literally
tear up the earth from
lin. to 6in. deep, leav-
ing ground level, loose
and untrampled. And it
is done with such ease
and speed as to make
gardening an extreme
pleasure.
They work closer to
plants without injuring
them than any' other
took
Ask your Ironmonger
or write our Agents—
S. SCOTT-YOUNG LTD.,
1 Bond Street, Sydney
«'
3c
C. S. NORCROSS & SO.NS, Manufacturers,
Bushnell, Illinois, L'.S.A.
“I Felt Extremely Weak
and Gould Scarcely Walk.”
“I Was Laid Up in a Hospital.”
“But am now Completely Restored, and my Sleep is
Rendered Most Refreshing.” The Wonders of Clements Tonic!
THERE are many Business Men in Sydney to-day who feel the effect of the
great heat, the strenuous times caused by the War. and the worry of business
to such a degree that they are more-dead than alive when the day closes
almost too fatigued to reach home. To those men the letter published below by
a prominent city accountant appeals, for it tells in a few words how jaded nerve
strength can be restored, insomnia banished, and health regained bv the use of
this well-recognised remedy, Clements Tonic. It is the medicine that decreases
weakness and increases strength. It should be in all houses in these oppressive
days. No house is medically equipped without it. Read this letter: —
200 Victoria Street, Darlinghurst, Sydney, 11/12 ‘l5.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“After suffering and being ill in hospital for about 12
months. I met a friend of mine (a chemist), and. feeling
extremely weak and scarcely able to walk properly. I asked
him what I should take to bring some vigor into my system.
“He strongly advised Clements Tonic, and. not to he
sceptical about it, I took his advice and have since thanked
him most heartily. That was about six weeks ago. and I can
most truthfully say that the Tonic HAS CREATED WONDERS.
“My constitution is almost completely restored. From
restless nights I can now sleep soundly. * awakening in the
morning thoroughly refreshed. My appetite, which was very
jaded, has returned, and I thoroughly enjoy every meal I take.
“You can make use of what I have written, as it is a
man's duty to advise his fellow beings what benefit he derives
from a medicine that will do universal good. I reallv feel
TWENTY YEARS YOUNGER SINCE TAKING THE TONIC."
“(Signed) J. N. S. CLARKE."
If you have Insomnia you should take Clements Tonic, and Sleep LIKE A CHILD.
It is the great WEAK-NERVE Remedy in Peace or War. Its effect on the jaded
constitution is magical. It does good because it is good. All Chemists and Stores
sell it.


RHEUMATISM
Its Cause and Cure.
Rheumatism is caused by a curious,
poisonous acid in the blood. This acid, just
like tiny pieces of broken glass with rough
edges, settles in the joints and muscles and
causes that awful agonising pain of back-
ache, rheumatism and gout, gravel, and the
burning sensation of inflammation of the
bladder, etc.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills
strengthen the kidneys and drive the
poisonous pain-causing acid right out of the
system.
To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid
of the cause —the poisonous uric acid,
Remember to do this a real remedy must
pass through the kidneys and the bladder
and not through the bowels, as most kidney
pills do. When you see the urine change to
a muddy bluish color—a feature which dis-
tinguishes De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills from all others —you know beyond all
doubt that they have put their healing
touch on the right spot—the kidneys and
the bladder. A wonderful pill—straight to
the kidneys—that is why De Witt’s pills
give such amazingly quick relief —every
time. A permanent cure follows in almost
every case. Look for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2s. 9d.
box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
which are made expressly for kidney and
bladder troubles.
They will cure every one of the above
symptoms no matter how long or how badly
you have suffered.
DeWITTS
Bladder Pills
Nature’s Safest Remedy.
Protect
Your
Throat!
It’s largely a matter of
care. Don’t leave it to
chance, be on your guard
against attack.
Wilson’s “Pino-Mentho"
Pastilles
are the surest protection you can get; you
can rely on them warding off Coughs and
Colds successfully. Keep them handy.
If you are unfortunate to have a cold,
Pino-Menthos will relieve you instantly.
They have a remarkable manner of getting
right at the root of the trouble.
Pleasing to the taste. 1/- per tin, of all
Chemists and Storekeepers.
ALEX. WILSON 8 CO., 17 Pitt St., Sydney
YOUR HAIR
WILL
LOOK BETTER
I will be finer, softer, smoother, B
Scurf and Dandruff will disappear, Jg
if you take care of it by using v
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR
OIL,
which will Preserve, Nourish, and
Strengthen it, and as it penetrates to
"the roots will replace the loss of the
Natural Oil in the Hair, the want of
which causes Baldness. It is sold in a
Golden Colour for Pair Hair, of Stores,
Chemists, Hairdressers, and Rowland s,
67, Hatton-garden, London. Avoid
cheap worthless imitations under the
same or similar name which have no
Restorative Properties and do not
contain that delightful perfume
Otto of Roses—for which Rowlands
Macassar Oil has been so long famous.
For Elderly People
raw
Elderly people so often suffer from BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, and other complaints of the throat and
chest. A neglected COLD leads to more serious
troubles. Instant relief is given by “ Bonnington’s
Irish Moss,” and young and old benefit alike. Take
none but—
Beware of
Imitations
BONNINGTON’S
TOBACCO KILLS!
9
0
■J7-
)
Face to Face with Death I
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a positive cure lor
the Tobacco and Cigarette Habits. It is abso-
lutely harmless, leaves no reaction or bad after-
effects, and cures permanently.
Free Package Offer.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a trial
package of this wonderful remedy, together
with our Free Booklet, Testimonials, etc.
TRIAL PACKAGE often effects a CURE.
Mr. H. Smith, of Pari; Farm, Jericho, Tas-
mania, says: “I was a hard smoker for 30
years, hut since talcino your sample of Tobacco
Specific 1 have never had a smoke.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. Q,
29 O’Connell Street, Sydney. [3.
are: you
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to .obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price -is within the
reach of all. Can vou ask for j more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
IF any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the
original.
TJle'^'alleUxn.
214 George Street, Sydney.
Constipation
The case of Rheumatism or Gout’
which Kruschen Salts cannot benefit
has yet to be discovered. This
famous British remedy is also
recommended by Medical Men in
cases of Lumbago, Sciatica, Eczema,
Constipation, and Liver and Kidney
Disorders.
KRUSCHEN AT THE FRONT
Since the outbreak of the War, enormous
quantities of Kruschen Salts have been ordered
by, and delivered to the British Authorities, for
the use of the British Forces overseas and in
the Base Hospitals at Home. Kruschen Salts
are prescribed by Medical Men the world over.
THE WORD KRUSCHEN
The trade mark “ Kruschen ” is a legacy-
handed down from generation to generation of
the family of Evan Griffiths Hughes, the sole
Manufacturers of Kruschen Salts, and one of
the oldest firms of Manufacturing Chemists in
the County of Lancashire. Established 1754 —
160 years ago.
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754.
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers,
and stores throughout Australia,
Wholesale Distributing Agents :
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
68, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester,
England.
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Ship of Glass.
When Arthur the King sought unknown
seas
He sailed in a ship of glass;
The sharp rocks bristled, the storm winds
blew,
But the worst that the baffled waves could
do
Set the keel like harp-strings ringing;
And Arthur, stroking his golden beard,
Mused “King nor churl need be afeared
Who sails in a ship of glass.
God speed
My glorious ship of glass!”
Too few remember, yet all who list
May sail in the ship of glass ;
For the dauntless heart she is waiting now,
With sails of samite and earven prow,
And her keel of crystal ringing;
And he who would grapple with things to be
Ready and proud to his secret quay
May summon the ship of glass—
Self-crowned
May captain his ship of glass.
No ireful tempest, no black-fanged reef
Has power on the ship of glass ;
But a whimper of terror or faint mistrust
Will shiver the ship to diamond dust,
And silence the wild keel’s ringing;
And the timorous soul will sail no more
From the bounds of his own familiar shore
The king of a ship of glass—
No more
Will look on the ship of glass.
I had rather welcome the unknown seas
From the prow of the ship of glass
Than drowse by the fire in a castle hall,
And sweeter than any maid’s love-call
Is the call of the keel a-ringing.
God keep my courage high and clear
That I may venture many a year
Far, far in my ship of glass—
Ah me,
My delicate ship of glass!
VICTORIA.
ELSIE COLE.
The Wattle Path.
’Tis a little shadowed pathway leading turn
and turn,
And the path is mine to follow through the
cool arcades;
Past a wonderland of wattle, through the
pleasant fern,
And the birds are in the hollow singing ’mid
the shades.
Lightly drops the golden pollen on the nod-
ding frond;
Sways the dainty, wild clematis, twining
like a curl;
While from out the velvet shadow of the
glade beyond
Peals the sound of merry water laughing
like a girl.
Comes a whisper from the forest shyly to
mine ear:
“Tarry here and dally here through the
shining hours”;
All the fragrance on the bi’eeze is very sweet
and clear,
Stealing up from where the valley sprawls
amid the flowers.
Oh, a bright cloud, a white cloud, is like a
silver sail,
Blowing out and flowing out across the
afternoon ;
Peeping like a timid bride a-liiding in her
veil,
Dimly gleams the pallid beauty of the early
moon!
Here to drink the mead of Life beading in
the glass ;
Here to feel the Spring of Joy pulsing in the
veins!
Autumn slirs within her groves, golden
hours w T ill pass ;
Winter rides behind the hills marshalling
the rains !
Life is ours to live and love —after life we
sleep.
Love will not live on for ever, gold will
turn to grey ;
In the winter of my age I shall always keep
Warm within my waning heart this one
golden day !
MAORILAND.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
The Failure of Evangeline.
My lady’s hand is white, her face is fair,
About her falls a cloud of lustrous hair,
The dainty garments that she loves to wear
Droop round her like the mist-rain of a
fountain.
Her eyes are wells of brown and amber
light,
Her breath is subtle perfume in the night.
She moves like some soft air, sun-kissed in
flight,
That drinks the dew-sweet of a dreaming
mountain.
My lady’s voice is music that enthralls,
Like some pink oread through my life she
calls;
Hers is an aureate throat, her accent falls
As richly as the gold of all Mount
Morgan ;
Yet —such a wretch am I! —her gems of
speech,
The kind domestic lessons she would teach,
Grate on my stubborn spirit till they reach
In drear effect the vilest barrel organ.
The fault is mine. But wonder often fills
My soul when I remember ancient thrills
Of greater lovers whose remembrance spills
Like attar down the page of elder story.
Was Phryne dumb? Did Cleopatra talk?
Or did these splendid women merely walk
And breathe and bloom like lilies on the
stalk?
Wa = «ilence the immortal beauty’s glory?
N.S.W.
CURSE O' MOSES.


/ ' JV
I /
\
fi iff if
; %
// V
, Hi
-4
'-
■ ■
. 3
V-
“PERDRIAU”
s he MACINTOSH
that will enable you to enjoy the exhilarating effect of a wet day without getting
wet.
Every genuine Perdriau is fully guaranteed to keep you
dry in the heaviest downpour.
This season’s range comprises a very choice assortment of all the Latest Shades
and Materials, patterns of which will be sent post free.
The PERDRIAU “TITAN” HOT-WATER BAC
is almost indispensable in any home. For warmth in bed on a cold night, and
as a relief for sleeplessness, cold feet, rheumatic pains, etc., it has no equal.
GUAEAXTEED TWO SEASOXS.
PERDRIAU MACINTOSHES, HOT-WATER BAGS, and other Rubber Goods are OBTAIN-
ABLE THROUGH MOST STOREKEEPERS and are MANUFACTURED ENTIRELY IN
AUSTRALIA by
PERDRIAU
RUBBER
CO. LTD.
Sydney, Newcastle,
Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
Hi
Nl
"T 1
■MMHjjMMh ’
m
John Lysaght Limited will be pleased, upon
application, to forward a free copy of the
new and enlarged edition of their “ Referee ”
to Every Property Owner and Galvanized
iron User. This Book contains a quantity
of carefully compiled infor-
mation which will be found
both useful and interesting.
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Supplied to the
Naval and Military
Authorities in
Great Britain and
Australia.
The wells
7^
ouor
GROUNDS,
CN
0^
m
Tsevo politics
Is built oj trides,
A few bouquets
And mostly bricks.
In each campaign
This issue’s plain —
Both sides the other’s
Views disdain.
But Jolly well notes
All cast their votes
For “Rex” Goods Pure
And save their groats.
The Woman who is
a Veritable Walking: Manual
on ‘‘How to be ha r ppy and comfortable though food prices
are sky high,’’ : “The first thing to acquire is a
large bump of forethought."
The next thing } s to keep a couple of tins of
“REX”
Ham Pate
always handy. Then the work of lunch preparing is fun.
Anything up to 20 different ways
of making up appetising lunches
will present themselves.
You can spread the buttered bread
with the Pate, then interlay with
sliced egg, tomato, cucumber, let-
tuce leaves, olives, etc. It's fine
any way.
“REX” HAM PATE is whole-
some—made from “REX” HAM,
cooked en casserole , then minced
fine and seasoned with pure spices.
“REX” HAM PATE is sold in
handy-sized tins by Grocers
Everywhere.
s^'V
ASK FOR “REX” BRAND—VXD GET IT.
Other “Rex** Goods are:—
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese.
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, 111 b. tins.
“Rex” Camp Pie, in tins.
“Rex” Brand Lard, for cooking
purposes, in lib. prints.
Temporarily out of stock.
“Rex” Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pigs’ Feet in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Lunch Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
Fogg'itt, Jones <O. Co. Ltd.,
Curers of “ Rex” Hams and Bacon;
PacKers of "Rex” Pure Food Products.
Ho. 304 A
FOR ALL-ROUND
PIPE-THREADING
OSTER Pipe-Threading Machines excel because of
their wide range of usefulness concentrated in the
smallest floor space of any threading machines.
The machine shown at the left, No.
304 A, threads 8 sizes of pipe
from 1-inch to 4-inc-h diameter,
and bolts all sizes from 3-inch to
lf-inch. Special features of Oster
Machines are: Automatic die re-
lease, quick-opening dies, automatic
oil pump and simple, convenient
die-head. For clean-cut threads
and quick work use Oster Machines.
OSTER
MACHINES
BELT (EL MOTOR
DRIVEN
47 distinct die-
stocks and screw-
ing machines.
One to fit your
pipe-threading
need's.
Australian Representative:
CHARLES WRIGHT,
Box 251, 0 PO . Melbourne, Vie,
The Oster Mfgr. Co.
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
tl
Thorne’s is a superlatively good
spirit, and immense reserves ensure
that its perfect quality will be always
maintained.
The carefully selected, high-grade
malts from which it is distilled
give it a distinctive flavor and
delightful bouquet.
Call for Thorne’s —and look for
the ‘'black square” bottle.
THORNE’S
WHISKY
“Incomparable ’’
Old Highland Malt


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 157. No. 18
THURSDAY, MAY 25, 1916.
PItTCT? r.n.
IN THE SACRED NAME OF LIBERTY.
ANTI-CONSCRIPTIONIST: “What, not enough men! Well, get back into the trenches yourselves! We can’t interfere with the liberty of THESE people!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Mu-grave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin rent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas S umber, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Xotice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge ta the “Correspondence’ column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable ), Parag aphs,
Letters or Xewspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly eonidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions trill be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central Sews Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., lit Bastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Xanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific Xews Co., Market Street,
San Francisco j C. IT. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
Xews Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City Xews Co., San Francisco; Quaker
Xews Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; IT. E. Lenehan, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City Xews Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt.— lgnacc Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Boung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Bong Kong.
Cetlon. —IT. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —WAif/e* Bros., Samar ai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a Xews-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth. Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Xorfolk and Lord Rowe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., 21d.;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d., elsewhere, ioz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, MAY 25. 1916.
THE POLICY OF KEEPING A CAT
CONCEALED IN A SACK.
According to Hughes in one of his orations
to the universe, the future policy of J. Bull
must be determined by neither Freetrade
nor Protection : it must be decided by differ-
ent issues, because the life of the nation is
more important than fiscal dogma. Possibly
J. Bull is sufficiently chastened in spirit
to understand what Hughes is talking
about: it is conceivable that the voice may
sound to the British citizen as that of a
prophet preaching deliverance by short and
easy stages. But to The Bulletln it all
>->unds suspiciously like the old invitation
to attend a fiscal-sinking ceremony. Hughes
has never been a sound Protectionist. At
!>est he is a disillusioned Freetrader. And
disillusionment has come very late; most of
kis political life has been spent in either
bitterly opposing Protection or surrepti-
tiously resisting its full application to Aus-
tralian industry. Between the ex-Free-
trader who merely sees he was wrong and
the Protectionist with faith in his doctrine
and the courage to press on with it. there is
a wide difference. Australia has never seen
in even the later Hughes anything but a
lukewarm friend of Australian industry.
Before he left to embark on his current cam-
paign he deliberately dodged the obligation
his Government was under of recasting the
tariff which his own Treasurer admits to
be all wrong. While he is roaring np and
down Britain about the things other people
should do. the work he is paid to tackle in
Australia remains untouched, the industrial
life of the nation is a jest, and a Customs
schedule is in operation whic-h encourages
wild public and private extravagance. How
can the results of past cowardice and
neglected opportunity be corrected by con-
tinuing to evade the clear call of duty, while
casting round for fresh **issues : That
only means rolling stones up hills and dash-
ing off in pursuit of the nnfragrant herring.
* * * *
Neither Hughes nor anyone else can sub-
stitute for Freetrade and Protection any
other factors for determining a nation’s fiscal
policy. These go to the heart of all policy,
and upon them rest the whole weight of the
economic structure. Certainly it is possible
to huddle economic and industrial considera-
tions away out of sight for a time. Aus-
tralia knows this through bitter experience
with dodgers and loanmongers and revenue-
tariff fiends who masquerade as something
else. Britain knows all about it after years
spent in assisting to strengthen the economic
fabric of other countries, while her own
industrial life was being paralysed: But
the reckoning comes with a rush, and it came
long ago to Australia, though the settle-
ment of the bill was deferred by the despe-
rate and demoralising device of pawning the
Australian kid. That has not been a
national policy. It has been the betrayal of
policies and of the people. And it has been
accomplished mostly because of an intolerant
dislike to the healthy discipline of fiscal
“dogma” (otherwise economic honesty) and
a hankering after the delightful sensation
of decorating the head with vine leaves and
straggling along primrose paths hunting wild
cats and other products of the boom. To
Australian ears Hughes's verbal eruptions
about “issues” therefore mean nothing.
These yarns about something else being more
important than the issue as between home
trade and foreign trade have in various forms
pervaded Australia since the arrival of the
oldest inhabitant. The ancient Parkes
used to work them off- Reid traded on them
for years. They were weary old perjuries
long’ before the Sosh tiger appeared on the
landscape. And always Hamburg and
Chicago have profited by them.
* * * •
Whatever he may pass to J. Bull, it is
certain that hot air is not what Australia
will want to be served with by Hughes
when he gets back. Australia will want to
know whether he is a doer as well
as a valiant talker, and to find ont
whether the Australian tariff is going to be
amended so that it may be an instrument
of protection to Australian industry, instead
of one for wringing taxation out of the
community and getting a second cut at the
loan money. This tariff issue is a clear one.
It can only be decided satisfactorily by re-
nouncing the F reetrade heresies still cling-
ing to political parties. The industries of
other countries have nothing to do with
Australia. They are the concern of the
people directly interested, and it is their
business to attend to them in their own way.
Incidentally they do this with a close atten-
tion to detail. The object of an Australian
tariff must not be to penalise or interfere
with or subsidise oversea industry, but to
build up Australian industry—to rescue
from existing chaos the country’s own
trade and give direct opportunity to such
enterprise as the Australian people may pos-
sess. There are no other issues. The issue
is whether Australia shall be made a self-
contained country—whether, like other
people, Australians shall produce what they
require and in manly self-reliance live by
their own labors. Settlement of that is not
going to be helped by having an uproar
about King O'Mallet's hat or the wicked-
ness of parsons who bicycle on Sundays.
GENTLEMEN. YELLOW JACK!
Dr. Cleland. Director of the N. S. Males
Laboratory of Microbiology, has suggested
that the outbreak of dengue at Mnrwillumbah
represents a “mutant of yellow fever.*’ In
plain Billjim language this means that he
regards dengue as yellow fever with the
sting ont, just as chicken-pox may be
regarded as smallpox with the death chill
off and some slight variations. Certainly
Cleland has been jumped upon from the
scientific standpoint for suggesting it: but.
apart from this, what would be. the position
if yellow fever arrived in Australia with
its sting in good working order? It has an
excellent chance of getting here. The open-
ing of the Panama Canal places onr east
coast within 25 days of such pest holes as
Guayaquil, where yellow fever is continually
present, and direct steamers are a regular
thing whenever the slides in the Culebra Cut
permit. The Stegomyin fasciota mosquito
which does the infecting is the commonest
domestic mosquito in Northern Australian
coastal towns anywhere from Grafton round
to Perth—the well-known “tiger*' mosquito
unpleasantly familiar to all who have visited
the Australian sub-tropics in summer or
autumn. It is allowed to breed unchecked
in every house-tank and blocked roof gutter,
and in all manner of domestic water collec-
tions. over thousands of miles of Australian
coast, partly because the clerical Under-
secretaries who translate such things to the
politicians when anybody happens to think
about them do not believe in “nonsense”
about mosquitoes, and partly because Mr.
Bumble and other prominent voters don't
want the expense of tackling the job on
their own property. Queensland once
started ont with a flourish of political trum-
pets to eradicate the beast fr< m the main
centres of population with a view to keep-
ing out yellow fever and dengue: but after
the glamor wore off, and despite the protests
of the Health Commissioner, the scheme was
gradually pared down to nothing. The
last stage has now been reached by putting
the work on to the municipal councils, and
vaguely promising that “the Health Depart-
ment will see that it is done.” When a
Health Department is unable to secure
proper management of a badly-run sanitary
service whose depot is within five minutes’
walk of the Department's own office, the pros-
pects of making a success through Mr.
Bumble of such elaborately technical
work as mosquito-destruction are consider-
ably poorer than those of obtaining iced
drinks in Hades.
♦ ♦ * ♦
The yellow-fever mosquito is an excellent
sea-traveller, and. provided it escapes an
avenging hand or other sudden end. will
live for 60 days or more. Once infected by
feeding on a yellow-fever case during the
first three days of the iljness. it becomes
able to transmit infection on the thirteenth
day and remains infections for the remainder
of its life. Onr local breed only requires the
original case, and the funerals will commence.
Elaborate quarantine precautions are taken
to prevent the admission by sea of cases in
human beings, but it is obviously impossible
to hnnr over a l*‘».00O-tnn steamer for a
quarter-inch mosquito, and one mosquito
would be sufficient. Distance is no protec-
tion. France. Spain, Italy and England
have been infected more than once by mos-
quitoes from South American vessels, and
relatively severe attacks have occurred in
the three first-mentioned countries. The
disease has not remained for long there, be-
cause the European climate does not suit
the Stegomyia mosquito. But the Austra-
lian climate, from Newcastle northwards,
suits it admirably. Yellow fever is very diffi-
cult to diagnose in its earlier stages, and
Australian doctors are not familiar with it.
It is unlikely that the first cases would be
identified as yellow fever, and the first posi-
tive information which would reac-h the
Health Authorities would be accompanied
by the sure and certain knowledge that in-
fected mosquitoes were loose in unknown
numbers and uncertain places.
* * * *
Now. mosquito destruction in dealing with
yellow fever is an extremely technical nn-
dertaking. requiring large stocks of material
and a trained staff of men. The only
trained staff in Australia was disbanded by
the Queensland Government on the first
breath of war-economy. There are no stocks
of material ready. Material can be obtained
or improvised, but trained men cannot. The
mortality from yellow fever is about oO per
cent. —one in every two cases dies, and dies
in a very unpleasant way. Other countries
have a healthy fear of yellow fever, so the
trade and commerce of an infected Aus-
tralia would be subjected to severe restric-
tions until snc-h time as the outbreak was
indisputably under control. Getting it nnder
control would be a matter for the six State
Health Departments working nnder six State
Health Acts all varying widely in their
powers, without any trained mosquito 3taffs,
and governed by six State politicians,
assisted by an indefinite number of Under
Secretaries. Chief Clerks, political friend-,
newspaper editors and prominent sup-
porters, all in a violent state of funk. The
Commonwealth Quarantine Service has
various more or less indefinite powers to
make regulations and to co-operate with
States under such conditions, but the enthu-
siastic manner in which the State Health
officers seem to have gone after the scalp of
the Chief Federal Quarantine man over the
Sydney smallpox outbreak renders it very
unlikely that any co-operation would be pos-
sible in the early stages. And it is the
early stages which count most in yellow
fever outbreaks.
* * * *
Each Health Act operates only within its
own State. If a yellow fever suspect from
Queensland climbed the fence into N. S.
Wales a yard ahead of the pursuing health
officers, he conld spread his disease unchecked
until the N. S. Wales myrmidons got on his
track armed with totally different powers
under a totally different Health Act. It is
an absurd position. Yellow fever is only one
of several disease enemies, any one of which
would work incalculable harm to Australia
if it once gained a footing. We have the
past experience of the plague days, and we
have the present reminders of smallpox in
Sydney and cerebro-spinal meningitis in our
military camps. War-stress renders the
maintenance of the public health an even
more outstanding national duty than it is
in time of peace. The press teems with
bright proposals to amalgamate the State
and Federal machinery for conducting elec-
tions. for assessing income tax and land
tax. and for lighthouses and pilot services.
Why not amalgamate health services, and get
this vitally essential matter under one con-
trol? Health Departments have little or no
value to State Governments, and are always
getting them into trouble with Bumble and
Alderman Boggs and other prominent sup-
porters. They cost a considerable amount of
money which would, from the State political
point of view, be better spent in filling np
Boggs and Bumble with food and drink to
keep them sweet, or in remunerative and re-
productive public works carried ont by Nob-
ton Gbiffiths. Boggs and Bumble might
c-ry ont in pain at this new attack of the
Socialistic tiger, but they would not be heard
very far off in these noisy days. With all
health administration under one control Aus- -
tralia will have some chance of escaping the
disease dangers which now threaten her from
within and without. Even if she does not
wholly escape she will be saved from the risk
of treatment by six different doctors who
regard her ailment from six different points
of view, and who are guided in their pre-
scribing by six politicians. 18 Under-Secre-
taries. 29 Chief Clerks, S 4 potential friends
and 319 prominent supporters.
CONCERNING RELIEF EXPEDITIONS.
The need for a relief expedition to the
South Pole, to bring home the other expedi-
tion which has been mislaid in those regi.>n<.
affords proof that the element of luck in
these frosty ventures is pretty considerable,
and that luck isn't an asset which any
party can hope to realise upon in the uncer-
tain state of the Arctic weather market. The
peril makes it a serious question whether
the whole business is worth while. Even
a Geographical S-xietv president, speak-
ing to people who knew, declared that the
total scientific value of the picnicking hadn't
so far been worth a single life. Every ex-
pedition goes out in the name of science, but
the athletic feat involved is always of far
greater interest than any results which could
add to the store of useful human knowledge.
And the general flavor of it all is not greatly
improved by the fact that the story of the
party's doings is sold to newspapers before-
hand to furnish sensational headlines in
London and New York. If anybody could
suggest a use for the big southern ice-cap
its exploration might be advisable; but. as
things stand, the venture mnst be classed
with tight-rope walking and other dangerous
acrobatic performances where the public
gape is the chief reward.
* * * * -
This habit of trusting to the relief expedi-
tion is not confined to Polar explorers. In
ventures of quite another kind and entered
into in quite a different spirit, tremendous
risks are taken with an eye always to the
relief that is expected to come if things
reach their worst. With all Europe leaning
to arms and several of the biggest nation*
already in the field, Britain sent forward a
microscopic army to the aid of Belgium The
war was only a few days old, and the enor
mous strength of Germany had not yet been
fully shown; hot the small highly-trained
British force went forward to risk‘de?tm
non, with a relief expedition in its mind if
it didn't succeed in bursting through to Ber
liu. Learning nothing from experience the
war authorities sent the Anzae army to the
Dardanelles on an exactly similar plan it
was to have a try and then wait for the re-
lief expedition. It tried magnificently but
the relief didn't come, or didn't come’soon
enough and in the right way; and the Turks
had to be allowed to keep their old city a
little longer. In the Euphrates valley‘the
same plan was pursued. There the relief
actually arrived, bot found itself blocked bv
mud, guns and other inconveniences to such
an extent that it conld not avert disaster
Other relief expeditions may or may not be
fitting out for other centres of misfortune-
but the British faith in the principle still
seems unshaken, and possibly somebody will
still be relieving something when the war
lies down and dies of sheer exhaustion or
blows itself to pieces with an extra charge
of explosives.
* * * *
In some respects the settlement of Austra-
lia is still in the condition of the original
expeditionary party which came here taking
the risks and casting a backward look by the
road it had come in the fear that at any
moment it might have to call for the organi-
sation of relief. That original party never
had any sort of notion that unaided it could
hold this continent; and it is a painful fact
that there never has been a time in the
history of Australia when that view has
varied. Always the notion has been that if
danger threatened we should have to shout
for help to a bigger country beyond the sea
and trust for onr very existence to the
help arriving before it was too late.
Considering our distance from England and
the long months occupied in making English
military preparations, onr hope wasn't at
any period a very brilliant one. Some time
after the establishment of the Commonwealth
the determined efforts of those who took
Australian nationalism seriously succeeded
in getting a rudimentary fleet and army cre-
ated. A few ships were built and the elder
children were partially trained to fill their
place in a citizen army. The thing thus
accomplished fell far short of the wishes of
those who desired to see the manhood of the
continent organised for defence; but it was
a beginning and gave some sort of promise
for the future. Then the war broke out and
onr small fleet proved itself. It is now com-
mon knowledge that in the early months of
the trouble, while Germany still had some
force in the Pacific, the city of Sydney only
escaped bombardment through the fact that
Australia possessed one powerful ship.
With all onr military activity since hostili-
ties began, the outlook is still unaltered, and
we still live in the belief that if this conti-
nent were seriously endangered we must look
to Europe for support. This habit of waiting
for the relief expedition is pernicious and. if
persisted in. must in the end be fatal. With
the examples of Belgium and Servia before
ns. we know, or ought to know, .that how-
ever good the inrentions of Britain might he,
and however willing her statesmen might be
to send aid, onr position in case of attack
would be hopeless long before that aid could
arrive. This was probably the truth all
along • but former generations of Austra-
lians were —luckily perhaps—blind to it.
Now blindness is no longer a merit and has
no further excuse. In Australian ships and
rifles and railways and c-ommonsense lies our
only hope of maintaining onrselves in this
continent. If we grasp that fact we have
still a chance.
* * * *
Unfortunately the habit of depending on
the relief expedition has worked itself into
the Australian character, and until we can
work it out again our national life can never
be the strong thing it might be. Our states-
men conduct all matters as if they were ex-
perimental ; and their actions are only the
reflection of the settled—-or unsettled-
thought of the people. Nothing is done as it
it seriously mattered, or as if all the future
depended upon it. Ia a word, we have not
yet learned to think nationally. It is the idea
of the relief expedition, always present with
ns that prevents onr full development. *' hat-
ever we do. whatever mistakes we make,
there seems to be always the possibility of a
road our. the possibility that somebody "
help ns. If we run short of cash. Cohex wi
send the relief. If we shamefully neglect our
industries, we can exchange a little wool or
mntton for something made in Europe o
America. Such a habit of thought is as
dangerous as the same notions applied 0
defence. If Australia is to have a tutur •
that fntnre mnst he of her own ma iog-
There is no country in the world as ray
ably situated for producing all that a nig
and complex civilisation demands ; and t
is. therefore, no good reason why tms u
monwealth should not be self-contained
"esting on the soundest foundation on " 1 •
a nation can rest. What we want to gt .
firmly is the idea that we are a nation,
we ought to be able to go alone without - •
Let us give np the notion of the relief I
dition and exploit our own powers. ■
the only line of safety either in Tl ™
l*eace or when the imminent danger thre
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Finances of German) .
The latest dollar dictator to get *“ s . js
views cross-headed in Australian da .
the son-in-law of James Hnx. * an -
can railway magnate." This blcatec P
states that “Germany is beaten owing
the **financial strain'* which will not 1
her to struggle through “another
campaign.” Persons of the Hi , as
of thinking talk of “banknapt
they talk of bankrupt railway «>inpa _.
ignoring the fact that a nationa ?' npV
ment manufactures its own •
and a railway company doesnt. 1 # or
truth is that Germany can keep go o


j ns t as long as it can produce its own food,
war material and clothing. If it can pro-
vide itself with those things it can, so far
as material matters are concerned, go
on for ever. And, helped by its occupation
0 f foreign territory, it seems quite as well
circumstanced in this respect as any of the
Allies. Hence the talk of the failure or alleged
failure of loans may be entirely disregarded,
except insofar as it may indicate a weaken-
ing of that “will to conquer” of which we
once heard so much. People get perplexed
by - this problem simply because it is so
vast. If they will reduce the number of
people involved to a hundred, who occupy
an island, they will be better able to realise
that the lot can hold out against an enemy
so long as there is food, clothing and mili-
tary gear. lOU’s given in payment by one
to the other may rise in a pile 1000 ft. high,
but that won’t alter the facts regarding the
islanders’ powers of resistance. We have put
our faith since this war broke out in a
hundred false gods. We have been urged
by our misleaders to always consider not
o ' U r own real weaknesses, but the hypothe-
tical weaknesses of the enemy. It is time
we ceased either to be dupes of others or to
dupe ourselves. Until we face the whole
facts squarely we shall never be likely to
make our utmost effort.
♦
The Qualifications for a Government Job.
The essence of Justice Pring’s report on
what is known as the “petrol scandal” in
N. S. Wales is (1) that there is no evidence
that Griffith, the member of the Ministry
who was brought into the affair, was guilty
of corruption, but that there are some sus-
picious circumstances; (2) that Morgan,
the Government’s agent appointed by Grif-
fith, tried to work a crooked deal; (3) that
Heed, the officer of the Works Department
to whom Griffith had delegated the job of
handling the business, knew of Morgan’s
devious proceedings and didn't say anything
to Griffith about them. As Morgan has
since been arrested and there will be a fur-
ther attempt to get at the innards of things,
the matter can for the present be left to
stand where it is, with the certainty that
additional ventilation will do no harm. But
while the public is judicially holding both
its tongue and its nose, there is one phase
of the matter that is of considerable noli-
tical importance apart altogether from the
question of individual culpability. This is
the revelation of the manner in which the
State’s business is conducted. In this case
there was a presumably serious inten-
tion of embarking upon a scheme of
nationalisation involving enormous capi-
tal expenditure and expert administra-
tion. The evidence discloses that from
first to last the project was handled bv the
politicians with rather less wit and caution
than could reasonably have been expended
on the purchase of a mouse-trap. Griffith
was directed by Cabinet in 1914 to “inquire
into the establishment of a petrol monopoly”
and promptly directed Reed to do the in-
quiring, after warning him to be careful, as
charges of corruption might be one of the
fruits of his labors. Griffith knew nothing
about petrol. Reed’s ignorance of it was
profound. Morgan, who later on was
appointed by Griffith to assist Reed, but
without any arrangement regarding salary,
knew nothing about petrol either. And in
charge of these three persons, whose know-
ledge of what they were handling was fully
equal to their stock of information about
the extraction of radium from turnips, the
great scheme of nationalising the trade in
petrol drifted round like a sampan in com-
mand of a dead Chinaman. Governments
which conduct the taxpayer’s business in
this way can be relied upon to do only one
thing—make a mess. Taking the most
charitable view of the facts there is nothing
to see except incompetence and recklessness.
A suburban greengrocer who wanted to
acquire a sack of cabbages would show im-
measurably greater capacity for business.
If he didn’t and got into the Bankruptcy
Court, as he almost certainly would, the
Judge would suspend his certificate for a
year or two. Incidentally, he would then
have an excellent chance of being appointed
agent to assist the in the pur-
chase of locomotives. Griffith s agent had
proved his special qualifications twice over.
He had “failed” in Westralia as well as
in N. S. Wales.
♦
The Practical Training of the Australian
Kid.
Wails about the youth who works in a shop
and doesn’t “prosecute his studies” at a con-
tinuation school by night were heard issuing
from the Education Department in Sydney
the other day. Assorted noises concerning
the need for more technical education are
frequently detected in Melbourne. f rom
Brisbane last week the Associated Chambers
of Commerce issued a dignified demand for
“the appointment of several Royal Commis-
sions” to investigate this _ business of indus-
trial training. Considering that about l
Commissions have already investigated the
subject, that a regiment of alleged specialists
have at various times been sent around the
world, at the public expense, to investigate
some more, and that the taxpayers'are finding
the salaries for innumerable persons whose
sole claim to the money is that they know
all about the matter, this incitement from
Brisbane to get rid of more cash in several
places seems uncalled for. Anyhow, what
do these people want? There must be. a
practical side to this business of industrial
training. Unless training leads somewhere
it is obviously futile. There is, for instance,
no point in erecting an expensive institution
and paying experts to teach young Australia
how to make beer-pumps if the country allows
beer-pumps to come in free or thereabouts.
Nor is there likely to be any useful result
apart from an increase in taxation from in-
structing the youth of the country in the
production of electrical and chemical goods
if vast quantities of these things are flung out
on the wharves ready made. But in ordei
that waste may be checked and the Austra-
lian youngster given a fair deal and public
policy regarding industry and education
reconciled, something certainly requires to lie
done. Australia is going on the wrong lines
new, admittedly. Such technical training as
is given is inadequate, and yet equips the
child with a skill that is not wanted. There-
fore The Bulletin suggests that under the
War Precautions Act the existing system be
up-ended and schools established throughout
the Commonwealth where lads may receive
instruction that will fit them for the kind of
job that is waiting for them, the curriculum
to cover training in :
1. Driving carts (bread, meat, fish and rabbit) ;
conducting lorries to wharves and warehouses; de-
livering bricks, stone, timber (imp.), lemonade,
milk, pianos, vegetables, millinery, new-laid eggs
and headache powders.
2. Digging post-holes, erecting fences, pushing
wheelbarrows, manipulating hoes, rakes and spades,
wearing bowyangs, making tea in a billy, cutting
lawns and trimming a mate’s whiskers, filling in
time and a hole in the road, repairing clocks and
fowlhouses.
3. Sawing up wood, killing sheep, carrying water,
going for the mail, finding Strawberry, putting slip-
rails in position, digging a well, hiding behind the
shed, having a yarn with the cook.
4. Extracting bales, boxes, crates, bundles and
sacks from the interior of vessels, whether propelled
by steam or wind; piling the aforesaid commodities
in sheds; wheeling boxes and bales about on trucks;
filling vessels with raw meat, greasy wool, butter,
cheese and luggage; waiting for more vessels.
5. Public speaking, getting into Parliament, run-
ning a newspaper, fixing the price of wheat, negotiat-
ing with shindykits, building the national capital,
planning strategical railways, interviewing Cohen,
acting as censor, manufacturing yells and develop-
ing our great National Resources.
6. Carrying a swag, looking for a job, studying
law and the “Wanted” columns of the daily rag.
It is no use letting things slide any longer.
The nation must be organised on the basis
of public policy. No other organisation is
possible, and as public policy is dead against
Australian industry, and all for loans and
bloat and shirk and the wood-and-water joey,
why not be honest about it all and give the
kids a decent show to make goodV
The Pursuit of War Profits.
The Bill introduced by Treasurer Higgs for
the Federal taxation of war-time profits is so
elaborate a piece of machinery that it will
help poor old Costs to face the rise in the
price of groceries with a light heart. It
bristles with “standards” and “allowances”
and complicated arithmetic. There is a
profit standard, a pre-war standard and a
percentage standard; also a statutory per-
centage and provisions for variations and
modifications. It is not likely that war
profits of any considerable magnitude are
being made in Australia except in metals
and shipping and by a few individuals doing
business with the Defence Department. Yet
it is a fair thing for the Commonwealth to go
in pursuit of all such excess earnings as there
may be. The result of the present Bill,
however, will be to take a big bite out of the
profits of some concerns that have yielded
poor returns and no bite at all from others
that have wallowed in fat. And there will
be other queer results. For instance, take
the case of the Hot Air Co., which made a
pre-war profit of £7OOO. equal to 7 per cent,
on its capital, and makes now £lO,OOO. From
the excess of £3OOO there will be a deduction
of £2OO, leaving £2BOO, which lliggs and the
directors of the Hot Air Co. will cut up.
Frofit to Higgs, £l4OO. The Wild Cat Co.,
on the other hand, on a watered capital of
£140,000, made a 5 per cent, profit of £7OOO
before the war, and now makes £lO,OOO. On
this excess Higgs allows the co. 2 per cent, to
make up the statutory standard for a private
concern, which means £2BOO. This leaves a
balance of £2OO. which goes in deduction.
Profit to the Wild Cat, £3OOO. Profit to
Higgs. Od. There seems something wrong
with this, especially as the Wild Cat people
may have secured the whole of their extra
profit from the war, while the Hot Air
brotherhood may have got their lift from
producing a larger number of pumpkins or
by employing more men. Moreover, the long
list of exemptions from the Bill is calami-
tous. Why should there be any exemptions
or any deductions? The idea of exempting
Costs, for instance, is the wildest folly ; and
why the Cow Cocky and the pastoralist should
be chased and the agriculturist let go free
is a detail that Higgs has not explained.
Holman and the Labor Party.
Dear Bulletin, —Whatever the faults and
the follies of Labor League Executives and
Party Caucuses (and the Lord knows
I never made the error of venerating
them), Holman has brought all his
troubles on himself. I have known him
intimately for 25 years, and long ago found
that his ability at getting _ out of tight
corners is only equalled by his stupidity in
getting into them. Starting his political
career with an alleged belief in a Socialism
evolved by Karl Marx and his own omni-
science, he engineered the “ironclad
pledge of ’93 whereby the first Labor
party was split into fragments. Only
a few of the original crew sailed
into port the following year, _ with 14
of the “solidarities,” minus tlieir leader,
who had fallen overboard at Leich-
hardt. Holman was beaten again in ’95,
end eventually reached Parliament in ’9B.
No sooner had the old parties amalgamated
and the Labor party become the direct
Opposition than Holman asked the next
Labor Conference to entirely abolish the
pledge which he had all along passionately
advocated as the Corner Stone of Laborism.
He was turned down. He then manoeuvred
to get the “restriction of borrowing” plank
whittled down till it meant nothing. _ In
this he was successful. His one consistent
policy since has been to secure the selection
of candidates with a chance of winning, re-
gardless of whether their principles were
sound or rotten. This accounts for the char-
acter of his following. Many of them are
mere camp-followers of the Labor army.
For two years he has held out the bait of
Upper House appointments to a crowd of
anxious aspirants, while those quite out of
the running for M.L.C.-ships have been in-
cited to see visions of inspectorships under
the many new industrial laws which were
promised. These things for delegates, male
and female, and constant work for the rank-
and-file per medium of a “vigorous borrow-
ing policy,” are the means by which Hol-
man has debauched the Labor movement of
N.S.W. His courageous attitude over the
Boer war, his honeyed eloquence and per-
sonal charm of manner, his undoubted skill
and resource in emergencies, and his bound-
less though frequently misapplied energy
were assets which made it possible for him
to succeed where most men would have
failed. A generous friend with many fine
qualities it is almost impossible to dislike
Holman ; yet, with it all, he has been
the evil genius of the Labor movement by
consistently side-tracking it from its true
objective. But, though he has dazzled Labor
with his brilliance and audacity, he has never
completely won its trust, and those who
could see through the glamor to the cold,
hard facts beyond have been on the watch
for years. The Initiative Referendum and
Recall are more really live issues now than
they ever were in the past, and while the
“Industrials” of the late N. S. Wales Con-
ference were hastily organised and used
their power crudely, they have at least
shown this “smart young man” that he can-
not fool all the people all the time. When
they weed out a few of their own weaklings
and consolidate their organisation, Holman
and his colleagues will either have to run
straight or walk the plank.—l am yours,
etc., Boomerang.
The Frightfulness of Canberra.
As the Australian taxpayer is going to
have the privilege of paying the bill for
another Royal Commission, this time in con-
nection with Canberra, it looks as if some-
body ought to rise to the occasion and
agitate for the appointment of a permanent
Commission to go round overhauling every-
thing in sight. ■ The time is far away in
the distance when the average politician
handled his job efficiently and without
extravagance. Therefore a Commission
leaping about the country promiscuously,
exposing muddle and waste, would exercise
a wholesome influence by announcing the
dreadful details before they commenced to
putrify and call attention to themselves. As
things are now it is only when a smell
becomes a public nuisance that a Commis-
sion is appointed to go and see what has
happened; but as a fresh aroma breaks out
every week, reinforcements are clearly neces-
sary. The smell from Canberra had of
course reached the dignity of a stink away
back in the dark ages. The whole story of
the wretched place is a blot on the nation.
Canberra was born in a squalid intrigue
and ‘ever since it has been the centre of
waste and muddle and perjury and loaf. The
latest evidence on the subject was tendered
by Postmaster-General Webster the other
day in the House of Reps.—about a railway
put in the wrong place, and the head-
quarters of a sewer where the Town Hall
ought to be, and a power-house decorating
the address reserved for something else, and
£BOO,OOO going up the spout, and more of
the dreary old yarn about let-’er-slide. Web-
ster, incited apparently by O’Malley, for
the purpose of giving ex-Home Affairs
Archibald one in the neck —which, by the
way, he deserved, as this paper showed 12
months ago—damned the whole show -from
beginning to end and incidentally damned
O’Malley and the Government and every-
one connected with it. Therefore, as the
Ministry is in a state of hopeless confusion
regarding Canberra and cannot make up its
mind what to do or what to leave alone or
bow to run the local wheelbarrow, there is
going to be another Commission of Inquiry.
The job of building the National Capital
seems to have been mistaken by Australian
Governments as a job at _ shovelling the
national capital down a drain.
The Discovery of Snowy River.
Although the details of the expedition have
not been made public, it is to be inferred
from the attitude of the N. S. UV ales Gov-
ernment that some party of heroic adven-
turers has at last succeeded in bursting
through dense forests of prejudice and howl-
ing wildernesses of official ignorance, and
found the Snowy River. Years ago, when
a worthy Federal capital for Australia
appeared to be a thing really desired, this
paper pressed the claims of the region about
Dalgety as offering the best site for a great,
clean, permanent city which might fairly
claim to be representative of all that was
best in the Commonwealth. But, though
the recommendation of the Government’s
own Commissioner was turned down and
the Canberra swindle was perpetrated, all
the time the Snowy River has been running
on and the opportunity to use it is still
there. If the State Government would take
up its use in earnest as a part of a grand
plan of decentralisation, it might yet redeem
a lot of its past failures. The temporary
capital at Canberra can go on eating up
cash until the real capital is finally estab-
lished somewhere else; but there is no
reason why the city by the Snowy with all
the features of a great national undertak-
ing should not proceed. At present the idea
is to develop electrical power there. And
the nearer the factories are to the source
of the power the greater the economy ; and
where the factories are there will the homes
be. also. So the city planning and the erec-
tion of power plants should go side by side ;
and to link up the whole into a sane and
complete proposition the railway from the
Snowy to its natural outlet at Twofold
Bay should be immediately constructed. It
would not be a long railway nor a specially
costly one; but it might have tremendous
significance in the development of the State.
In plain fact, the Snowy River scheme, pro-
perly tackled by men with and pur-
pose, might readily save N. S. Wales from
most of the ill effects of the after the-war
slump.
• ♦
The British policy of suppressing news
likely to foment suspicion of the “loyalty”
of naturalised aliens has reached a point
where the safety of the public is clearly in-
volved. One of last week’s cables reports
an amazing case of Government persistence
in its policy of hush: —
In the House of Commons to-day Mr. H. J. Ten-
nant, Under-Secretary for War, replying to Sir A. B.
Markham, said that it was not in the public interest
to confirm or contradict the statement that telephone
and telegraph lines had been cut in a recent air
raid on an east coast town.
Sir A. B. Markham asked whether it was not in
the public interest to inform the country that alien
enemies were living in that district.
Mr. Tennant replied that comment was undesir-
able.
German residents of a Zep.-raided district
had endeavored to cut it off from communi-
cation with the defence forces, and the Gov-
ernment says, “Don’t mention any little cir-
cumstance of that sort.” Now, why?
Clearly not because the publication would
help the enemy. No! —but simply because
it might inconvenience some local aliens, by
leading to their internment.
»
The incorrigible Judge Docker distinguished
himself again during a case at the Sydney
Quarter Sessions by reproving a well-known
Sydney solicitor, who was a witness, for
putting his signature to a petition praying
for the release of a boy of 17 who had been
dealt with by Docker himself. The young-
ster was a resident of the Gordon district,
and his youth and the fact that he was an
orphan and had probably fallen under evil
influences were amongst the reasons urged
in favor of his release on license in a
petition signed by most of the leading resi-
dents of the Gordon district, including ex-
Premier C. G. Wade. Docker, having the
unfortunate solicitor before him in court
as a witness in quite another matter, took
the opportunity to give him a lecture which
practically implied that he had put his signa-
ture to “a tissue of lies.” It was a shock-
ing misuse of the judicial position—so obvi-
ously shocking that no argument need be
used on the point. Perhaps this last treat-
ment of a professional witness will do more
than the many injustices to prisoners re-
vealed by appeals from his Honor’s deci-
sions, and at length satisfy the authorities
that Docker is very old for his job and
that his years if not his services have earned
for him retirement.
Wit at appears to be a minor error on the
part of the legislators who drew' up the
N.S.W. Liquor Referendum Act might have
pretty big consequences if the six o’clock
proposal got through. It is specified that
“licensed premises” shall close at the hour
decided —not merely that the bars shall
close. “Licensed premises,” as interpreted
hitherto, include the dining-room, bedrooms,
billiard-room, stables, yard, fowl-house and
everything else connected with the hotel;
so the whole affair must go dead at the
specified time. Nobody, on the appearance
of things, will be able to get a meal, or a
bed at a country pub unless he is under
cover before the curfew rings. In the big
towns it doesn’t so much matter, because
there are other places besides hotels to eat
and sleep in ; but for the traveller on a lonely
country road the outlook is pretty cold.
“Protein”: Bracket Sydney Harbor Trust
with the Prahran Council, which decided that
Australians couldn’t make chairs. The Trust
announces that we can’t boil cow-hooves.
Lately, calling tenders for stores, it re-
quested that only Yankee machinery grease
(Bidwell’s) should apply, and that neat’s-
foot oil must bring an English dinloma. Yet
there is more of this oil made in Sydney alone
than the whole of Great Britain can produce.
Further, to drag a gallon of it from the
other ,ue of the world now costs about Is.
fid. The patriotic spirit is abroad all right
—-very much abroad —and apnarently the
only thing that will keep it at home is a
tariff wall as high as Kosciusko. Meantime,
in case he has overlooked it. I draw Hol-
man’s attention to the fact that the Harbor
Trust is more or less in his department.
The Shepherd Kings.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One of the tribes against which the Australian
troops are now fighting is supposed to be descended
from the Hyksos or Shepherd Kings—the most
ancient conquerors of Egypt.
Here where, in dim mirage, pale waters
shine,
Where all is sun-parched plain and ancient
death,
The foremost cohorts of Australia’s line
March to the testing-place with hard-held
breath.
The German guns are here, the Turks com-
mand,
But stauncher foemen hold the wastes of
sand.
These w r ho have stood in arms five thousand
years,
Stern desert warriors that no force might
bow,
Whose gleaming ranks of unaffirighted
spears
Before the Pyramids were strong as now—
These ancients of the ancients face the
guns
Of young Australia and her marching sons.
The Shepherd Kings, whose long-remem-
bered pride
Was seen in Memphis in a world so old
That savage Europe, with her strength un-
tried,
Yet crouched in caves, skin girt against the
cold,
Now bring the royal strength age cannot
tame
To face the newer battle and the flame.
And here the newest nation, whose strong
hand
Last of all peoples gripped the sword to
slay,
Is face to face upon the desert sand
With those whose thousand years is but a
day;
And Death, the first of things, must arbi-
trate
When new and old fling down the gage to
fate.
These who have seen a Pharaoh’s chariots
turn,
Who marked the rise of Nineveh and Tyre,
Who watched the fires of Alexander burn,
And Rome triumphant march to her desire,
Now, through the lightnings of the battle,
feel
They meet a foeman worthy of their steel.
N.S.W.
D.M.W.


GAELIC WHISKY
the old smuggler
Mtt
-■utowi l '
>*VS.sa»
w
6#
fw
GAELIC
The Perfect Whisky
... in ...
The Perfect Bottle.
DISTILLED IN THE
HIGHLANDS of SCOTLAND.
INSURE WITH
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society limited.
Head Office: Corner Pitt &. King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE. ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY IT. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Eiheral Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
Branch Office:
279 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
T. < . TKOEDSON, Director.
Where Armageddon Stands Now.
At the beginning there were long accounts of
Italian advances, and the hauling of guns
away up behind the clouds —of the Austrian
being prized off remote snow-clad peaks and
being smitten with an avalanche on the "’ay
down. But there was nothing very definite
about it all except that what was going on
was horribly cold and strenuous, with the
Austrian getting the worst of the deal. Last
week there was a change. The Italian found
the other chap leaping back to where he was
before, rolling up infantry and artillery and
pushing his enemy oil to a new address.
Bulh sides are claiming to view the new
si f nation with confidence, hut as all situa-
tions are contemplated with optimism nowa-
days, this means nothing. The obvious
thing is that the associated Huns are hitting
harder and that the Italian js on the defen-
sive. Around Verdun the perpetual scrap is
being continued with unabated fury, and the
accumulation of corpse has not yet con-
vinced the German that it is time to knock
off. From Mesopotamia comes news of a
Russian cavalry force having junctioned with
llm Anglo-Indian army which went to relieve
Tow ns I-I END at Ivut, but didn’t. This may
be significant; it is impossible to say yet.
The certain thing is that on this Front the
Turk has great strength, and unless the
Russian can imneril the lines of communica-
tion with Baghdad, the troops operating from
the south have a hard job ahead, even if
they can save themselves. Stories _of
isolated engagements in Flanders and minor
disturbances along the Russian lines, with
some vague whispers about the German get-
ting ready for another attack via the Baltic,
make up the rest of a record which, in the
main, merely emphasises the long-standing
conclusion- —that next week is not going to
see the end of it, and that we cannot afford
to do anything but our very best. Mean-
while our Australian lads are in the thick of
it somewhere or other, and the frequent
information that Hughes has met some of
them at the Anzac Buffet in London is the
juiceless piffle served out in place of the news
which the Australian people would have of
their army if they were not afflicted with a
Minister who thinks the place of Australians
in the scheme of things is to “do as they are
told.”
Compelling the Grocer to Sell Rubbish.
The tied-house system which is making big
headway in Australia looks like the infan-
tile prattling of the big Trust or bigger
Honorable Understanding that is to follow.
Competition may or may not be tlie life
of trade, but it is certainly under a com-
petitive system that the public gets the
fairest deal in the choice of things on which
it must spend its cash; and while a lot
can be said in favor of monopolies on the
ground of cheaper output and distribution,
the advantage thus gained mostly goes into
the pockets of the few and rarely displays
itself on the breakfast tables of the many.
Take the case of the grocery trade. The
grocer, as his name implies, was once the
Fat Man of commerce —the grosser. He
it was who handled things in enormous
hulk and stepped with a proud foot among
the lesser tradesmen who peddled their small
wares. Now the grocer is being harried be-
tween an uncomprehending public and the
too-comprehending and too-comprehensive
suppliers of the goods that fill his shelves.
One agency secures control of a dozen lines
of goods. Of these three are popular, six
in fair demand, and three are not wanted at
all. To keep his business going the grocer
must sell the three popular articles and
might be prepared to stock the six others
which are occasionally asked for; but the
agency insists that be shall stock all twelve
or obtain none at all. To prevent absolute
loss, therefore, the man behind the counter
must make the most desperate efforts to
foist upon his customers three lines that
they do not want. The system works badly
all round. The manufacturer with a single
line which he lias been endeavoring to bring
to the highest perfection, and which in open
competition would gain first place in public
esteem, has no chance against those who
in addition to ten other lines offer a sub-
stitute for his manufacture of decidedly
inferior quality. The grocer is desperately
pushing that substitute because in failing
to sell it he must suffer direct loss. The
specialist is therefore forced to dissipate his
strength and diffuse his effort by taking on
the production of a host of things which he
would have preferred not to touch, or to
combine with a number of other makers of
a single product, in order to hold liis own
against the firm with a dozen strings to its
bow. The evil of the tied-house system in
grocery business would fie bad enough if
the manufactures were all Australian, but
the imported stuff is still with us and help-
ing to further complicate matters. Some-
body ought to get after these small
attempts at monopoly with an axe. If they
are allowed to grow they will soon be big
combines with half Australia in their
pockets.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Mother Goose ’
Criterion “Madame X
Palace “Peg o My Heart
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
Wirths’ New Hippodrome “Ivultur’
MELBOrttNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “So Long, Lettv”
Royal “The Birth of a Nation
King's “The Family Cupboard”
Princess’s “The Spoilers”
Bijou Fuller Vaudeville
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s Own k Olympia Hoyt’s Pictures
Glaciauium Ice Skating
“The Family Cupboard,” now trying its
luck at Melbourne King’s, is an interesting
study in the melodrama which combines
naturalism with impossibilities and leaves
all the conflicting elements of the story to
be reconciled by the performers. It should
be a “good acting play” for a very specially
selected company, but the finest company in
the world couldn’t give it more than a sur-
face appearance of truth. The co. at the
King’s, not being the best in the world, often
reveals the weakness of situations that are
strong in opportunities for emotional acting.
Thus pathos misses the ’bus, painful signifi-
cance takes the wrong turning, and a rather
dense audience is prompted to laugh where
it should be compelled to think. The success
of “The Family Cupboard” in New York is
as accountable as its failure in Melbourne.
Written by Owen Davies, it is a more
dramatic play than “What Happened to
Mary,” but more difficult to interpret. In
the first place, it is a sermon on the old
subject of the expensive ’Murkan matron
whose husband stays away earning dollars
whilst she gads around and gets into debt,
her debts having no direct connection with
the plot. She is just a ty 7 pe of Yankee sas-
siety7 woman of 45, with a sentimental,
waster son and an angelic sassiety daughter.
Maggie Knight is obviously too old and
rotund for the job. George Bryant is suffi-
ciently realistic as the low-spirited husband
who compensates himself for the loss of
home-comforts by keeping another girl in
clover and fine underwear. He penitently
sacks the vulgar minx when his waster son
tellg mother about her, and then he devotes
all his time to a new scheme of dollar-mak-
ing, instead of looking for a new girl. Bryant
is, in fact, a pattern husband and father in
temporary disgrace. Meanwhile the waster
son, who is an unprecedented ass, picks up
the minx his old man has dropped and pro-
poses to marry her; but when the boy’s
money has gone she prefers to bolt back to
music-hall life with a rorty pal. after which
the incredible simpleton talks of suicide and
his fond parents become re-united in order
to turn him from his praiseworthy intention
The prodigal son isn’t worth any of the fuss
that’s made about him : nevertheless Guy
Hastings attracts symnathy to the character.
On the other hand. Florrie Gleeson’s picture
of the wild, disorderly minx is an awful
injustice to the author. The character is
loosely put together, but an Ethel Irving
could give a striking impersonation of it.
There are numerous pegs of human effect for
an emotional, actress to hang her art upon.
Jeff Williams is admirably 7 matter-of-fact in
a servant part; and Nellie Bramley, Clarice
Ifardwicke. Laura Roberts and Bellairs are
more satisfactory than several other people
in minor parts, two of which —the Lawrence
Winthrops—seem unnecessary interruptions.
Three stage sets are better than good enough.
When “The Family Cupboard” comes off
“Just a Girl” will come on.
In view of the forthcoming early-closing
referendum in N. S. Wales the Firm has
been well advised to put up that great beer
play. “Madame XXX,” for a short season,
commencing on Saturday, at Sydney Cri-
terion. Meantime Frank Harvey is to be
acquitted for two more nights.
Needless to say 7 “Mother Goose” still
flourishes at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, and
Priscilla, the Gold mine Goose, wins an egg-
laying championship at every performance.
•T. and N. Tait are so obviously 7 delighted
at the disappointment of the Australians
who are turned away from Sydney Palace
every evening that the right-thinking Bul-
letin hereby" refuses to mention the fact
that “Peg o’ My Heart” is still raging
there.
Another set of war movies will help to
improve the Town Hall (Sydney) on Mon-
da v night, when the “French Government
Official War Films” will be unreeled. In the
interesting collection are pictures of the
ruined village of Loos after the famous
battle thereabouts, and all the routine work
of the remarkable army of our Allies. The
photographs were taken for historical record
purposes.
The Follies have come back to Sydney
Tivoli and till up the part of the bill that
stretches from the interval in. which there
is no drink away on to shutting up time. It
takes just two dozen quick-lunch items to do
it. and the best-remembered ones are pro-
vided by Walter Weems, George Welch and
Billy Ilego, with occasional assistance from
Jack Cannot. Queen Vera Pearce, of whom
the advertisements speak so kindly, leads
the bright, trifling show with the dash of a
panto. super-boy, while Arch-Duchess
Thelma Raye scores her points in a more
subdued way. The show is very smartly
dressed and undressed, and the mounting is
gay and glittersome. The Belgian Orchestra
of three and Belgian tenor Jacques 80l give
the Folly a claim on the serious music-
drinker’s attention.
May Wirth is timed to turn her last
somersault of the season at Wirths’ Sydney
Hippodrome on Saturday night. Then after
the seals have sung the National Anthem the
circus will unostentatiously fold itself up
in 175 baggage waggons and take up a new
position of strategical advantage to the
ticket office. And then, before The Bulle-
tin can rush to press with an account of
the proceedings, the Wirths will have sub-
stituted for the lion’s roar a stupendous
“aqua-drama” called “Ivultur.” Vast
quantities of water are going to be used,
and lifebelts will be procurable on appli-
cation at the early doors.
At Sydney 7 Adelphi, Richard, Duke of
Gloucester, continues to cleave heads and
make love to Lady Anne over the corpse of
her husband. On Saturday, June 3, Allan
Wilkie will discard his Crookback’s limp
and snarl and take a turn as Jaques in “As
You Like It.”
After three hours’ patient observation of
“The Birth of a Nation” at Melbourne
Royal any observer must admit this spec-
tacular film-story, divided into two long
parts, to be “a sight for sore eyes.” True,
the eye-strain is somewhat relieved by 7 a
number of night scenes —beautiful battle-
landscape views pliotoed by a red light in
the darkness. The pictures, however, are
mostly the same old rapid change of scene
and frequent change of subject, in black and
SYDNEY TIVOLI "FOLLIES:'
Walter Weems explains: “Yes, mum. it's a
runabout—run about a mile and then stop."
white, that keep stolid citizens closely inter-
ested and give nervous pressmen the jumps.
In the middle of a silently animated dis-
cussion between two or three contending
military forces or civilian factions, the
film jerkily introduces a faraway maiden
shelling peas at her cottage door or a weep-
ing widow wringing her hands in a peace-
ful back-parlor. Pedestrians stroll along
at the rate of 10 miles an hour and horses
fly faster than the ill-wind which blow T s
nobody any good. “The Birth of a Nation”
has the same methods, in its sadness as ill
the other stories without words The Burn!
Ti.N ever saw—except, perhaps, that 'the
f, u 'ls in crinolined skirts appear to hop and
the rival American armies are terrors f .
waving flags in the face of the foe By t
way. the nice girl-ushers in front of t
house are girt with crinolines for the m!.
pose of spreading “atmospheric” effect it'
SYDNEY TIVOLI “FOLLIES."
Jack Cannot slays a bull.
is said, but they don’t assist the illusion by
hopping, (lianting that some purely imag-
inative incidents of the lengthy picture are
cleverly acted, people will, as a rule, be
most impressed by the scenes of historical
assemblies. Abraham Lincoln is a capital
ghost, and his assassination in Ford's
Theatre gives a stronger impression of
tragedy than all the conventional horrors
of a wearisome monotony of mimic warfare.
The film melodrama, which drew a crowded
house last Saturday, will be reeled oft' for
another week.
Nothing has happened to impair the
notoriety of “So Long, Letty,” since last
week and that piece of good fortune is pro-
ceeding at Her Majesty’s (Melb.) as before.
The French Fighting Front film will be
screened for the last time at Melbourne
Auditorium on Friday, and then the violin
of Selinsky will be heard in the Hall.
Six nights of “The Irishman” are bring-
ing the Griffin season to a close at Mel-
bourne Princess’s. The play is a dishevelled
scrap of fiction featuring the rude endeavors
of a villain named Blake to make life un-
pleasant for a well-favored hero. Blake is
an old-established artist in will-snatching,
homicide and other crimes, and his only
novelty is that he carts around a degraded
assistant as a sort of mascot and omits to
force unwelcome attentions on the hero’s
cherished lady. For his part, the hero
(Vivian Edwards) spends a few months of
peace and obscurity in gaol, followed by a
period of hiding in a ruin, chiefly at tin 1
instance of the awful Blake, who easily
induces the Law to sool its available police
on to the poor young man. Blake, played
by Fred Neilseu, is a strenuous miscreant,
and only pauses in his career of blackmail
and perjury to strangle a baronet and pour
his drugged accomplice into a lake. The
latter victim (.T. P. O’Neil) is a tremulous
apparition whose lugubrious snivelling gets
a large allowance of publicity in compari-
son with Ethel Buckley’s mechanical glee
and (Jerald Griffin’s songs. Miss Buckley
is mostly off stage as Molly O’Flaherty,
and Griffin is frequently missing when his
strong right arm is required to show that
an Irish minstrel is not to hi' trifled with.
Once or twice, however, he gives the villain
a push and cheeks the pleece on the trail of
Vivian Edwards; so what wid his warbling
and his love-making he has a fair even-
ing. Next Saturday George Marlow stages
“The Spoilers.” described as a “thrilling
adaptation of Ilex Beach’s masterpiece.”
Illusionist Goldin continues to hold the
stage at Melbourne Tivoli. Goldin is adroit
in giving aged and familiar mysteries the
semblance of novelties. Indeed, he achieves
his success by appreciating the fact that
most of tin* elderly tricks of the trade are
cajiable of modern valuation. Immediately
preceding Goldin is a droll yarn-spinner and
songstress, Marie Iving-Seott, hilled as
“That Country Girl,” though she sounds
as if she had graduated in the Fniversity cl
Nuts (with honors). Cardo and Noll sing
with much feeling and lyric sweetness in
the first part of the programme, and Musette
is still there prancing to the canoodly
strains of her naughty violin.
A now revue, “Something Doing,” b
this week’s feature at Melbourne Bijou. The
piece is an expensively dressed mixture of
songs, dances and topical absurdities,
wherein a number of shapely flappers are
THE CREATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
All the world is but a stage,
Life the subject of the play
That from weary first to last
With a most uneven cast
Changes with the changing day.
Weary Playwright, looking on
While the mummers strut and fling
In their sordid, cheap appeal,
Don’t You sometimes yawn and feel
Sorry 7 that You wrote the thing V
YTCTOKI A.
HARRISON O.


fjOORD&SON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
%
DT
.Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
I ONCE
TASTED
tV/'V*
DANICL
CRAWFORD’S
RED STAR
WHISKY
Fifty Years of Progress.
S/?
1
ms
&
~c
$
kv.
DM*
®
The Seal of the City of Sydney
which was used in the earliest
advertisements of Peapes—then
Peapes & Shaw.
This week we commemorate the steady growth of
The House of Peapes, from the humble enterprise of
George Peapes and William Shaw in 1866 —since
consolidated, during 50 years’ mature experience,
into a paramount position as an exclusive house for
men’s wear.
The Jubilee catalogue details the history and expan-
sion of the firm, and contains several old-time illus-
trations hearing on the early days of the business.
It is, in addition, a comprehensive and most useful
guide for the selection of distinctive apparel, and
we shall gladly forward copies upon request.
Peapes & Co. Ltd.,
MEN'S OUTFITTERS,
309 & 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
offered as compensation for all the funny
things the dialogue leaves unsaid ; and the
hard work of Fred Coyne. Fred Maguire.
Lila Airlie and others cannot prevent it
having some dull moments. In the first
section of the show the I’aulasto acrobats.
Edwards and Rarkes. patter merchants, and
the Stahr and Stahr duo are new arrivals ;
while among the old hands the Astelle
balancers remain most prominent in the
flections of the . populace.
In a quiet week at Adelaide, the most
striking show has been an Exhibition fair
for soldiers’ funds, and the brightest spot
in it a match at bowls (on an artificial
“green”) by Francis Drake and party, in
the presence of Queen Elizabeth and suite.
In pictures the most unusual thing in sight
i t a Wondergraph film of Murray Aunger,
with a small fleet of motor-cars, running
down kangaroos at 50 miles an hour in
scrub country. This film should go all over
the world. Cawthorne’s “pops” have dis-
covered a Russian conjurer and Blanche
Johnson James, the latter a Lmdon-trained
contralto, daughter of an old Adelaide favor-
ite. The Tivoli is reopening with the aged
and hobbling Uncle Tom. and the Royal
with “It Lays to Advertise.” Laveen and
Cross, Kipp and Kippy, are at the King’s.
The Phillips-Merritt pair introduce an exag-
gerated but’ recognisable Australian type;
but when they break into song they have to
“THE IRISHMAN”
AT MELBOURNE
PRINCESS’S.
J.'P. O’Neil as
Micky Whelan.
Gerald Griffin as the
singing Larry
O’Rorke.
fall back on incongruous lines about costers
and “pearlies.” Dennis ought to be called
in to write some ballads for his Bloke to set
to music.
Petrol is now used with excellent results
in turning the soldier’s most intimate enemy
out of the trenches. When the soldier can
get enough he petrolises the inside of his
vest, as well as seams and folds. So far. no
regular supplies are being handed out to the
men. They get the drips from the motor-
transports or whatever dregs they are able
to commandeer.
The law was a cheerful ass the other day
when it had to decide a claim under the
Workmen’s Compensation Act (Vie.). The
applicant, a ship’s fireman, left his job,
without permission, to go and get booze. He
returned paralytic, and celebrated the event
by falling down the hold and fracturing him-
self. Although if was his own misconduct
that had caused the injury, he was
“within the ambit of his employment” at the
time, and was therefore entitled to recover
damages. Verdict accordingly, with costs.
Justice Higgins, sitting in Federal Arbi-
tration. is wrestling with a voyage problem.
The Merchant Service Guild is asking for
an award, and the E. and A. Co. wants an
exemption. The co. is registered in London
and its vessels ply with passengers from
Sydney to Hong Kong. Japan and China.
The E. and A. people claim to be a “foreign”
company, explaining that their vessels com-
mence their voyages at Kobe and make a
round trip to Melbourne and back to Kobe.
The Guild argues that, practically, the co.
is Australian, that the vessels leave Mel-
bourne, make a round voyage to Kobe and
back to Melbourne. The co. chips back that
if it comes under the award so does the I’,
and O.—which argument would be all right
i’ the E. and A. steamers were registered
in Kobe, for then they would be going to
their home port. Higgins has confessed him-
self puzzled, and threatens to refer the
filing to the High Court.
AT POVERTY POINT.
"Masetto”: The playing of the Ver-
brugghen Quartet in Melbourne this week
leaves no doubt that no such perfect cham-
ber music has been heard in Australia since
the visit of the Mendelssohn Quintet Club
(of Boston. U.S.A.) over 30 years ago. The
perfection is. of course, the result of years
of association. Other worthy quartets may
have had as good player's ; but the Mendels-
sohn and Verbrugghen touch was lacking.
The only regrettable feature of the Ver-
brugghen concerts was the absence of most
of the violin students —the very people who
ought to have been waiting outside before
the doors opened. I was at the Goll-Ver-.
brugghen recitals six months back, and
could recognise the same faces at both sets
of concerts, but of the multitude of hoys
and girls who walk about with violins and
’cellos for company I saw’ only a few. Yet
these are those who, if they show a suspicion
of talent, want their parents or the public
to raise the wind to send them abroad for
further study, because “there’s no musical
atmosphere in Australia.” Possibly not as
much as we could wish, but quite enough for
most if they would look for it. If music
students in the past had availed themselves
of the notable opportunities of hearing the
best visiting performers when offered to
them, we should not have had the gibe
levelled at us that we are unmusical, as
proved by the financial failure of the Men-
delssohn Quintet, Wilhelmj, de Munck, the
Alva-Verne Company and Gerardy.
Genevieve Ward started her 80th year on
March 27, and received a big, encouraging
cheer from a crowded house at the St.
James's, London, where for a couple of
months she had been doing eight perform-
ances a week with Sir George Alexander
in “The Basker,” The sprightly old lady
had some difficulty in getting into her
dressing-room that night; it was (hockful
of flowers, letters and telegrams from
admirers all over the three kingdoms.
“F.R.”: There are times in Egypt when
we think we are home again. A stroll along
a Cairo street the other evening, and I was
gazing at a poster which announced that
Tom Dawson, Australia’s premier comedian,
was. appearing at a local picture-palace. In
front of the Kursal. Cairo’s leading play-
house, Violet Paget and Hugh Buckler
headed the bill. Lieutenant Hugh, who
only recently arrived from Malta after a
serious illness, was assisting at a concert
arranged for the usual war-purpose.
The cabbag s that have been thrown at
brother W. F. Brandt, serang of the Reli-
gious and Morals Committee of the Presby-
terian Assembly, in retaliation for his hair-
raising yarns about the wickedness of Syd-
ney, recall De Rougemont. Harry Rickards
was persuaded to give the man who rode on
turtles a chance at Melbourne Opera House.
The applause was the limit in howls, yelps,
whistles, dead cats and sundries. “Get off !”
yelled the gallery. Rickards was raging in
the wings. Presently there struck upon De
Rougemont’s ear a faint echo of what ’Arry
was howling into the din. “Come orf, you
! Come orf!” He came; but this
day no man knoweth what “the guv’nor”
whispered into the liar’s pink ear as he
bowed him out through the stage door.
A quaint theatrical item is vouched for by
a man who was in Vienna at Christmas.
The most popular play then running was
“Mr. Wu,” the main reason for the popu-
larity apparently being that one of the hated
English is scored off by a Chinaman.
•Lincoln Plumer and Mrs. Lincoln are
motoring about California, and have three
months’ lay-oil in Los Angeles before going
back to harness.
M. G. Fawkner, late manager of the Pav.
picture theatre in Adelaide, has been
acquitted after a week-long trial on a charge
of conspiring to defraud the Union Theatres
Co. One ticket-seller or taker after another
swore that tickets had been held back and
sold twice over, with the manager superin-
tending the plot and dividing the spoil. Fawk-
ner stoutly declared, however, that he was
not in the ring at all, and that his subor-
dinates, on being found out, must have
agreed to throw the blame on him and save
their own skins bv turning King’s evidence.
Josiah Symon put up one of his finest de-
fences, Judge Buchanan spoke of the danger
of accepting evidence from confessedly guilty
persons without corroboration on some
material point, and the jury, after retiring
for two hours, sa d Not Guilty. Fawkner
can therefore be i garded as the victim of
an unusually devilish gang of plotters.
There has been an odd sequel to the case
in which the late manager of Adelaide Pav.
was acquitted on a charge of conspiring
with the ticket-sellers to make a fraudulent
profit. Of the various employees who con-
fessed to wrong-doing only one was pro-
secuted, and against him the management
(Union Theatres Co.) did not push the
charge after the jury had said the manager
was not in the swindle. Judge Buchanan,
however, gave him 12 months ; on which the
Crown and the prosecuting co. both backed
up his petition for a pardon, and in four
days he was released.
" J.C.8.”: Listen to Pharaoh spruiking in
English :
SULTANIEN OPERA HOUSE.
SEASON 1916.
ABIAD AND HEGAZI TROOP,
Which is Under the High Patronage of H.H. The
Sultan, will act
FOUR GREAT DRAMATIC & MUSICAL COMEDIES,
Performed by both Mr. George Abiad & Sheikh Salaam
Hegazi, the most eminent actors on Egypt.
High Pathetic Chorus consisted of 30 persons.
Marvelous scenes and curious stage managing.
Prices of Tickets for each play:
General Seat, P.T. 15. Backward Seat, P.T. 10.
Gallery, P.T. 6.
But you don’t find Pharaoh in the “back-
ward scat.”
Died at New York, on this side of 50,
Maurice Farkoa, the capital light comedian
who was here, 10 or 12 years ago, with the
gaiety co. that played “Kitty Grey” and
"Three Little Maids.”
“Melb” : “Get-Rich-Quick Wallingford” is
suggested by (’barley Mathews's old char-
acter of Affable Hawk, in “The Game of
Speculation,” which he acted in Sydney and
Melbourne. The essential plots of the two
comedies are similar. “The Game” was
drawn from Balzac’s “Mereadet.” Webster,
at the Haymarket, was thinking of it when
Mathews, at the Lyceum, urged Lewes, after-
wards George Eliot’s husband, to hurry up
with a version for him. Lewes was dra-
matic critic of the Leader. Calling himself
Slingsby Lawrence, he wrote “The Game”
in a couple of days, and scored a great suc-
cess. The public insisted that the volatile
Mathews (then under the influence or the
extravagant Madame \ estris) was acting
his own self. The play was somewhat in-
debted to the experiences of Cbuzzlewit and
Tapley in the swindling American Eden.
The worst of having a long memory is that
you find old footprints all over the newest
work. I suppose all kind critics die young
before they accumulate any old comparisons
for the destruction of contemporary play-
wrights.
(Continued on page 26.)
A bust of the late General Kruger was
included in the sales at the recent Vic.
Government House exhibition of antiques.
Oom I’aul brought half-a-crown.
A respectable claim to be the oldest Aus-
tralian native comes from Mrs. Bryant, o!
Middle Park (Vic.), who celebrated her 90th
birthday on May 8. She was born at 1 arra-
matta (N.S.W.) in 1820, crossed to Victoria
in the early ’so’s, and has enough descend-
ants to do her honor.
Binghi doesn’t often take an active part
in the work of evangelising himself, but
William Kropenyeri did. lie lias just died,
aged 80, at the Point Macleay (S.A.) mis-
sion-station, where he had been since it
started. 40 years ago. His eloquence made
its mark even in shearing-sheds, and he
backed it up with special powers on the
harmonium and piano. Incidentally he was
a first-class baker. He was one of the last
of the old Kropen or Meningie tribe, who
had the country about the lakes at the
Murray mouth; but a son who is a short-
hand writer —of reputed 120-words power—
carries on the race.
In the business of watching the cash-box
the Federal Parliament shows the States a
bad example. For the current year (ending
on June 30) the Estimates have just been
passed—that is, when the bulk of the money
has been spent and the country irrevocably
committed to spending more on the same
lilies. Beginning with July the Govern-
ment will go ahead getting rid of the loan
and the revenue in the same old way, and
roll up in about nine months for authority
to do what has been already done. Giving
politicians a blank cheque has been tried in
other countries, and Australian experience
is not likely to be any different from
theirs.
Higgs’s announcement that rather than
graft the doctrines of the professed Wealth
Conscriptionists on to Federal policy he
would retire from the Government need not
be taken as an indication of pending change
in the Ministry. He will not be called upon
to make the choice, because the people who
are yelling at him have nothing to offer.
Meanwhile some of the things that J. Bull
is actually doing in the way of “conscript-
ing wealth,” without blowing off hot air
and wrangling about impracticable notions,
are worth looking at. For instance, a citizen
with an income of £6OO not derived from
personal exertion pays £lO6 income tax :
one with £2500 parts with £625. And they
pay swinging local rates and taxes as well,
and are being pleasantly informed that a
larger lump will be cut off later on.
Lancelot Harrison, appointed entomologist
to the British forces in Mesopotamia, was
born 34 years ago at Coonamble (N.S.W.).
where his father, now deceased, was doctor.
Young Harrison captured and classified most
of the beasties in the bush round Parra-
matta (N.S.W.) when he was at King's
School, and the school museum is still proud
of his collection ; but on leaving school he
went to a clerkship in Sydney Mint, where
the gold-bug was the only insect on the pre-
mises. Later, he got a chance to go to Syd-
ney Uni., where he annexed most of the
prizes in his own line, and got his B.Sc.
with honors. A research scholarship from
the Uni. sent him a couple of years ago to
Cambridge to delve more deeply into bio-
logy ; and he was there when the new
appointment was made. Harrison’s wife is
Amy, one of the literary Mack sisters —a bit
of a naturalist, too, and authoress of a dainty
“Bush Calendar.”
“Barmitwah” : Du Maurier knew what he
was talking about when he referred to the
priceless value of a drop of Jewish
blood in Little Billee’s vital fluid.
Isaac Altson, jeweller and lapidary, is
just dead in Melbourne, at the age
of 88. On leaving Iris native Russia lie
founded a big synagogue in Yorkshire, and
after coming to Australia occupied the third
seat on the Jewish Ecclesiastical Board (a
unique distinction for a layman). He had
nine children. Of these one is B. 11. Altson, a
most prosperous tobacconist. Others are
Dave, of Bourke-street, whose saddlery and
horse upholstery are known all over Aus-
tralia ; and B. Altson and Meyer Altson,
scholarship holders of Vic. National Gal-
lery, who, in their London studios, are
painting reputations for themselves in the
temple of art. Versatility’s other name is
Israel!
PA[?]EM ST OGHEIENSES.
(A Lay of Ancient Rome.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the invitation of Mr. ('. E. Liardet, a visit was
paid to the peanut farm at Frankston yesterday.
Harvesting was in full swing. About 1 A ton to the
acre will be secured, and this result is considered
very satisfactory. The plants make excellent hay,
and the nuts are larger and of better quality than
those grown in China. Under some of the plants
100 nuts were counted, but the average per plant is
about 50. —Age, 17/5/’l6.
Bring forth the lyre, Horatius, with all the speed
ye may,
The peanut farm at Frankston’s the subject of our
lay.
Though in Ausonian orchards the apple-crop may rot,
Though grain, for lack of triremes, remain upon
the spot,
Ihe plump, plebeian peanut is safe from trade’s
rebuff,
Because for home, consumption we cannot have
enough.
M hile “Sundry Shows” still flourish, while yet the
“gods” are kind,
And to their staple diet return with even mind,
We shall not need, by export, nor trading oversea,
To spread beyond the Tiber the peanut industry.
Ho, trumpets, sound a war-note! Ho, lictors, clear
the way !
The day we planted peanuts shall be our brightest
day.
We scorn the snarling baker, though bake he soon
or late ;
Our harvest to the acre is thirty hundredweight.
There’s joy wdthin the mansions, and in the shearers’
huts—-
'Neath one small vine we counted full half a hundred
nuts,
Exceeding those of China in every single way—
The peanut-stalks, moreover, make unexampled hay.
The Hun would be exultant had he so fine a feast —-
A noble entertainment alike for man and beast!
No more within the forum is tumult and affright;
Our food-suply is certain from morning unfo night;
For. “Panem et Circenses” no more the Romans
pray—
The slogan that succeeds it is “Peanuts add the
Play !”
VIC.
THOMAS BABISTON MAUALLAY KETTLEDRUM.
HOW TO TELL IT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In stage affairs I’m not u dunce,
I spot the comic man at once!
He wears weird hair upon his head ;
It is a wig, and it is red.
A cue for risibility—
The wig denoting Comedy !
I’d know if I were deaf and dumb
The funny man at last had come ;
You can’t tell always by his face,
But there’s a hall-mark of his race —
A red wig! That infallibly
Shouts: “Here, wake up—l'm Comedy!”
And so l roar the moment it
Appears—what drollery, what wit!
My laughter is infectious quite;
All those around shriek with delight!
For when a rufous wig we see,
We’ve got to laugh—it’s Comedy.
A red nose in the long ago,
Proclaimed the “comic” of the show ;
Red noses now are infra dig,
Which means they’re ousted by the wig.
That’s what unsettles you and mo -
iled hair. He, he! It’s Comedy!
VICTORIA.
P.T.


An “ORIENT”
TWO-PIECE TWEED SUIT
for 50/-
Consisting of coat and trousers only. Coat is cut with
yoke and half-belt at back, as shown in illustration ; four
roomy patch pockets, with flaps. Trousers are fitted with
belt loops and inside brace buttons ; two side pockets and
one hip pocket. Equally suitable for walking, motoring,
holiday or any sports wear, also for business and city.
Made in all men’s sizes, of both English and Scotch
Tweeds, in a large variety of patterns and colorings, 50/-
Superior Qualities, 55/-, 60/-, 63/-, 65/-
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
DAVID JONES LTD
Opp. C.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
I N
K- r
JASON
UNDERWEAR
British made
from Australasian Wool.
UNITED
HE
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000,
Fire insurances
Marine Risks ..
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “L'nited” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel r
now complete in every detail, an<,
under the management of H° s
Usher, the Comforts of a Fertec
Home are assured. The cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in Eng an »
America or the Continent. a
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
THE INTERNATIONAL LANGE AGE.
BILLJIM (at a loss for the French): “Oh,
well! 'Ere's lookin' at yer!”
“Are you good to your wife?” asked the
satirical prosecuting lawyer of defendant in
a Melbourne matrimonial case the other day.
“I am,” replied the defendant husband. Then
he added unctuously: “The kind man is
kind to his beast.”
Whenever the aching Hun sits down in
the mud that doesn’t belong to him, and
indulges in a few doubts about Gott, reli-
gious comfort of the right sort is
always at hand. The tribal witch-doctors
of Germany haven’t the slightest doubt that
justice is on their side, and, whenever occa-
sion offers, they distribute spiritual conso-
lation. Parson Zoebel, of the Lutheran
Church in Leipsic, recently boomed this :
It is the deep consciousness of our mission that
permits us to congratulate ourselves, and rest con-
tent with a heart full of gratitude, when our guns
beat down the children of Satan, and when our mar-
vellous submarines —instruments to execute the Divine
vengeance—send to the bottom of the sea thousands
of the non-elect. We must fight the wicked with
all the means in our power; their sufferings should
give us pleasure; their cries of despair should not
move German hearts. There ought to be no com-
promise with Hell, no mercy for the servants of
Satan. In other words, no pity for the English,
French and Russians, nor, indeed, for any nation that
has sold itself to the Devil.
Professor Rheinold Seeby is more snuffle-
bustrous. Says he :
We do not hate our enemies. We obey the com-
mand of God, who tells us to love them. But we
believe that in killing them, in putting them to
suffering, in burning their houses, in invading their
territories, we simply perform a work of charity ... .
Germany loves other nations, and when she punishes
them it is for their own good.
What a beautiful Censor he would make!
“Bill B.”: The Gippo makes money in
many ways out of Billjim by the Nile. He
collects old new’S sheets and sells them to
the butcher, while magazines and books in
good order are resold in the streets. Meat
left over in the mess huts is sold- to Arab
small-goods vendors, who do it up with olive
oil and sell it to the natives as rissoles. The
Arab who has been keeping late hours
carries home a parcel of these mince balls
with as much exhilaration as we felt when
we bumped home the midnight cray. Cigar-
ette butts are eagerly sought for and are
sold to some unknown fag manufacturer in
the city. Later we buy them back again in
the shape of fags done up in gaudy packets
labelled, “Australian Glory,” “Anzac.” etc.
They are half-castes (Egyptian and ordi-
nary ’bacca mixed) : for the Gippo is too
tired to even sort his fag-ends after he has
picked them up. Have an “Egyptian”?
From The Bulletin’s horse-doctor :
The Australian horse is superior to the Maori-
land article in Egypt. For one thing he is much
harder. Yet, peculiarly, the Maorilander stands the
sea and its atmospheric changes better, and generally
lands very “clean” and quite free from catarrh. In
most cases the Australian lands “stinking” ; but he
“cleans up” promptly when he is dropped down to
the hardships of the desert and Remount camp,
whereas the Maorilander takes the land conditions
badly and is difficult to treat. All round, the Aus-
tralian can give even the Arab a long start in trials
of hardship, and is far gamer in sickness than any-
thing of his species in this country, which just now
is simply littered with horses from all parts.
“One of the Lambs”: Help, or I’ll be
strangled with red tape! While on week-
end leave in Melbourne from Seymour camp
I desired to have a slight fault of vision
seen to, so went to the base hospital and
asked to see the eye-doctor. So help me
Heaven, I was informed that I would have
to returu to Seymour and get an order from
the regimental doctor. Then I could return
and be attended to. Isn’t it gorgeous!
Made to travel 120 miles and waste three
days—all at the expense' of my bleeding
country—sooner than be permitted to see
the doctor at once. He would probably have
put me through in three minutes !
“Mantalini II.”: Some of the uncensored
cables concerning Hughes’s Triumphal
March —not to mention April and Mav—
in England, give me great pleasure. They
are unintentionally funny without being
intentionally vulgar. For instance :
MR. HUGHES AMONG AUTHORS.
Mr. W. M. Hughes, Prime Minister of Australia,
spent an hour with Miss Marie Corelli, the famous
novelist, at a recent week-end. The interview took
place at her request.
Mr. Rudvard Kipling, poet and author, called on
Mr. Hughes yesterday.
Marie, “the famous novelist”! Rudyard,
“poet and author” ! Demned delicious !
“Billy T.”: Here in Melbourne they are
again making earnest appeals for funds for
the Lost Dogs’ Home, and piteous little
paragraphs invite us all to consider with
sobs the condition of the derelict dog, the
dog who has seen better days, cast upon the
streets, fatherless, motherless, and deprived
of all the comforts of a home. The high
price of butcher’s meat has resulted in an
extraordinary increase in the number of
waifs and strays, and an excessive strain on
the resources of the Lost Dogs’ Home, which
institution may have to close its doors if the
great heart of the public is not touched.
Laws against enemy trading forbid the
Home selling out to the Germans, and it
seems indecent to waste money on sore-eyed
tykes at a time when money is urgently
needed for 500 better purposes. What I say
is if dogs can’t go to the home, let the home
go to the dogs.
“The Religious Editor”: The stay-at-
home woman who works hard tidying the
house and kids and getting Dad’s dinner
has a pathetic fear of the brassy-haired bar-
maid who works almost as hard at cleaning
the bar and getting Dad’s drinks. If these
two women could only get together once in
a while and talk hats and operations, they
would find that they were sisters under
their clothes and agree that Dad was a hard
man to please—especially when drunk. But,
life being all watertight compartments, they
ADIFEERENCE OF OPINION.
HE: “No, I would not wholly condemn anybody. I think there's some good even in the
meanest of men.”
SHE: “Egotist!”
never do get together, and (to the house-
wife especially) distance lends suspicion. It
takes a poor sort of husband to play on
that suspicion ; but the right sort of noble-
man turned up in a Sydney police court
last week. He was charged with assaulting
his missus, who confided to the Bench that
he, had first bragged voluptuously of “drink-
ing with a fine fat barmaid.” In truth she
was probably a thin, dignified woman who
just tolerated his offensive presence for the
sake of the house ; but in the narration of
the loud man of 54, she became a sort of
beery sultana.
*■ * * *
“Catkin” from behind a gun :
We have just heard the result of the big Aus-
tralian loan. It’s a beauty. It cheered the chaps
up more than all the letters sent to “our good, brave
boys at the Front” by dear, well-meaning old ladies.
Nothing makes them more uncomfortable than being
slobbered over like that. But they do like, when
they dip their hands in their new socks, to find a
little note saying, “Bill, please drop me a line and
tell me if they fit.” There is nothing Bill likes
quite so much as getting letters from home; the
next-best thing in many cases is for Bill to join up
with home by writing a letter to someone there.
And the note in the sock gives Bill the correspondent
he’s often hungry for. •
* * * *
“Dalriada”: The noblest conception yet
supplied for a statue typifying Australia at
Anzac is given in a story told by Clifford
Browne, pioneer military secretary of the
Y.M.C.A. with the Australian Imperial
Force. On 12 acres of cleared land 12
entrenched Australians, cut off by the
Turks, were gasping for water. One man
volunteered to get it. Returning after a
successful journey, with five filled canteens,
he was shot down. He half sank to his
knees, leaning slightly forward, and his com-
rades imagined him about to spring to his
feet anew. Twenty Turkish rifles rang, but
the kneeling soldier did not move. And
there, as if at orisons, the riddled body
stayed, the canteens at its side, until, after
a week had passed, it bowed and fell. Surely
there will be sculptured marble to make
imperishable that story of a dauntless Aus-
tralian !
“Sequidor”: A transport was coming «„
the Canal with brand-new Australians on
board, and as it passed some of the old lad/
on shore, those on deck “coo-eed.” The Ink
on shore asked them where thev came
“Australia,” was shouted back “Oh ” , m '
plied the chaps on shore, “we’ve been coo'
eeing for you for the past 12 months'”
“Mimosa”: I thought the rooster-feathers
swank had been done away with by the
practical, get-down-to-it Australian, but
apparently I was w T rong. In the
S’African unpleasantness the emu plumes
gave a smart touch to the Queens-
land mounted infantry, I’ll admit, and
so did the black cock’s decoration to the
N. S. Wales Lancers. But anybody seems
to be able to suit his individual taste here
in Egypt. I saw two infantry officers the
other day wearing the foliage of a crateful
of fowls on their headgear. Loud “coeka-
doodle-doos” greeted them, and one Arab
howled, “Baksheesh ! Give it egg!” ho
runs the millinery branch of the Defence
Department?
THE DRESS DECREES.
HE: “And what day are you to be married?
SHE: “Oh, I don't know. My dressmaker
hasn't decided yet.”
A FEW CONFIDENTIAL REMARKS ON THE
RECEIPT OF A LEGAL DOCUMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dear one, when our flirtation first began its pleasant
course,
I little thought a breach of promise writ would be
the end ;
I innocently dreamed that you would be the harm-
less source
Of many joyous hours which I might otherwise ex-
pend
Wasting my substance in those haunts where drunk-
ards congregate.
I chose you partly as a shield against so grim a
fate.
Intentions, whether good or ill, I altogether lacked.
My notion was to wander on along love’s rose-strewn
path,
Guarding you with my strong right arm in case you
were attacked
(A very outside chance, this last, I feel compelled
to say).
And my reward ? A passing hug; an intermittent
kiss.
Such was my blameless scheme of life—and it has
come to this!
However, dear, despite my disillusionment and grief,
And all the aching anguish of a lacerated heart,
1 find in one reflection an astonishing relief—
I never wrote a line to you, from the delightful start
Of our great love, to this, its end, so harrowing to
me,
Which all the jurymen on earth would lack my leave
to see.
Nor, though pumped hard and often, did I ever,
sweet, allow
A soul to know the passion which I entertained for
you.
I did not take this cautious course because I feared
a row;
I merely, in my simple way, decided not to do
The sort of needless thing which later on might make
one mad—
A fact for which, as matters stand, I am profoundly
glad.
And so I raise my stricken brow to make this one
remark:
If, when you think of all the food I bought for you
of old,
And all the shows I took you to by daylight and by
dark,
And all the splendid lies I told, you still feel hard
and cold—
Well, sweetheart, fire ahead! Cut loose! Make all
the fuss you will.
Your chances, as I work them out, are absolutely nil.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


Navy or Brown, 17/0
White, post free, 19/0
Uhe
Coat Sweater
when working
or taking your
pleasure
55
The Coat Sweater will afford you cosy comfort. You
see it may be worn without a coat, or just as an ordinary
vest only that it has long sleeves. Pike Brothers offer
the Coat Sweater like the picture, or with collar to
button close up to the neck. Please state which you
prefer —also chest measure.
SEND FOR A COAT SWEATER ON APPROVAL. CASH WILL BE
RETURNED IF NOT SUITABLE.
PIKE BROTHERS ltd.
Toowoomba. BRISBANE. Townsville.
HOTEL SYDNEY
-Opposite Central Railway Station =====
TARIFF —Bed and Breakfast, 6/6 each person.
Board and Residence, 11/- per day.
Board and Residence, 70/- per week.
HANDSOME APPOINTMENTS, PERFECT SERVICE,
EXCELLENT CUISINE.
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
CYRIL EDWARDS, Manager.
“Billy B.“: The rabbit-trappers are
amongst the few whose Union delegates
have not yet been invited by Lady Strick-
land to afternoon tea at Government House,
but they’re on the list. And they’ll do the
mob proud. Along the South Coast of
N S. Wales some of the boys are making
£8 and £9 a week, and any trapper who
doesn’t hold out his hook for at least £5 is
looked upon as only fit to associate with the
working classes.
Bill was full up, and when she gushed,
‘‘And were you in any bayonet charges?”
lie grunted, “Two.” “How lovely!” she
fluttered ; “Oh, tell me about them.” “Well,”
says William, “one was to get me on the
boat and the other was to get me off.”
The gift of tongues is not always
profitable. A Prahran (Vic.) landlady
refused to tell Arthur Sostley, a carter,
whether one of her boarders was at home.
“Are you deaf and dumb, or a Venus, or
a n oil painting?” was his comprehensive
sally. This pearl of eloquence was quoted
in evidence against him on a charge of
trespass and insulting words; and it cost
him £7, with £3 Is. costs.
* * * *
“Mere Pounamu” : I inherited certain old
scrapbooks full of newspaper cuttings care-
fully collated by an English grandfather
who was in his prime in the ’thirties. They
had, I suppose, a certain antiquarian value,
and’ were full of repetitions of the aged and
comfortable boast that one Englishman was
worth three frog-eating Frenchmen. This
was before the flames of Verdun had lighted
up for us the French warrior of to-day.
But observe how the old brag, now adapted
by the Hun, still persists. In New York is
published for 5 cents The Fatherland,
whose object is announced as “Fair play
for Germany and Austria-Hungary.” It
sports the Stars and Stripes on its title
page, is the organ of the hyphenated
Americo-German, and is edited by George
Sylvester Viereck, whose poetry, before the
present war made him foam at the mouth,
was favorably noticed by the Red Page. In
its issue of 16/2/’l6, The Fatherland
extols that smart feat of German seaman-
ship, the capture of the Appam, in these
words: “This story, that shall live so long
as the salt spray dashes into the nostrils of
seamen, and while the ocean runs its course,
was not received with loud acclaim. The
world had awaited it. These men were
Germans Forty-two Germans against
375 Britons. It is the average odds. One
German is the peer of ten Englishmen.
There is not boast in this. Let us face the
fact.” Grandpa is dead these 20 years, and
cannot retort. But three of his grandsons
are captains of Anzacs in the French firing-
line. His reply is safe with them. Two of
them proved it in Gallipoli.
HANDICAPPED.
HIM: “Put the glasses on her — she's a per-
fect scream!"
HER: “How can I? I've come out and for-
gotten my rings."
Thirteenth”; When the snow came to the
Gallipoli we had won in a lather of sweat,
and Private Billjim put on all he possessed
in order to keep his Australian blood circu-
lating, I began to remember, for no appar-
ent reason, the pictures illustrating the reli-
gious literature I was fed on when I was
very young. After many godless years,
stern woodcut Puritans with immense Sab-
bath Bibles under their arms walked again
QUITE PROVIDENTIAL.
GIRL: “John says a bullet hit his hat hut didn't touch his head."
OLD LADY : “What a blessing he had his hat on, dear."
before the eye of recollection. And one day
I remembered, and, looking round at my
company, had to laugh. For there were the
modern Puritans, grinning widely at me out
of their woollen Balaclavas, with their
broad-brimmed felt hats giving the proper
steeple-crowned effect. But their Puritan-
ism stopped at the make-up; for the rest
they were hard-swearing Crusaders of the
very best type.
“Subaltern” : Far up on the coast of Wes-
tralia there is a lighthouse known as North-
West Cape which is 120
miles from the nearest
inland telegraph station
A few months ago a
keeper named Butler and
his family developed
ptomaine poisoning, the
worst sufferer being an
18-months-old child. Af+er
exhausting their own re-
sources the parents de-
cided to take the mite to
the nearest doctor, 250
miles away, at Carnar-
von, and in a spring cart
they reached Maud’s
Landing, a distance of
104 miles, in four days.
From there Butler re-
turned to his station, and
his wife and child left
for Carnarvon (150
miles) by motor. But
the car broke down when
they had gone only a
quarter of the distance.
After the usual delay,
they struck inland and
borrowed another car
from the owner of Boola-
thanna station. In this,
two days later, they
arrived at Carnarvon.
The doctor there recom-
mended taking the child
to Perth, and after a
wait of five days Mrs.
Butler got a passage.
Twelve days after the
start of her journey she
carried her baby into
hospital. With mothers
like that you wouldn’t
need to wonder if + he
Anzacs stormed even the gates of Gehenna.
Recently in Egypt the Maorilanders made
a list of the names of the men in their force
who were in the famous landing on April
25, 1915, and who remained on the penin-
sula continuously until the evacuation. There
were only 16 of them.
“Hamer”: Something like a Wagnerian
selection gone mad may be heard amongst
the musicians very soon. Of recent years
their Union has grown to be a very power-
ful body—so powerful that it has been able
to (1) secure agreements from very unwill-
ing employers as to working conditions, (2)
force practically all professional musicians
into its ranks, and (3) demand an entrance
fee of £5 or so from new comers. Now
breakers are sighted ahead. A prominent
official and some others have broken away
and formed an Association alleging an
objection to the highhandedness of the
Union. The Union countercharges them with
having been instigated by some of the em-
ployers, However, the bright new Ass. is
asking the Federal Arbitration Court to
cancel the mother Union’s registration on the
ground that its rules are ultra vires. The
application will be heard when the Mer-
chant Service Guild’s case is finished. The
Union, which was perfectly calm about the
loss of registration under the N.S.W. State
Industrial Act, will kick hard against the
loss of Federal registration, because its
awards have to be registered in the Federal
Court; and if the hostile Ass. pushes it
out, the full power of the united fiddlers
will be used to make a discord. In the
meantime, in order to give its members
something extra to fight for, a new “log” has
been fired at employers, the demands being
a considerable advance on existing rates.
Paying the piper is going to be a serious
problem presently.
* * * *
At the annual meeting of the Tasmanian
Synod Tryon Wilson fluttered the clerical
birds by denouncing the way they were
lavishing money on people already well-paid,
while squeezing, little by little, the clergy
who were doing the work of the diocese in
the country. If he had a million, he said, he
wouldn’t give a penny of it to the Diocesan
Council or the Church Trustees, but would
endow a number of poor country parishes
and tie the money up good and hard so that
the central authorities couldn’t burgle it.
While clergymen in the country were starv-
ing on less than £3 per week, out of which
they had to keep horses, the diocese spent
£2360 a year in “administration,” and only
£2OOO was left to help the poorer parsons.
No one contradicted all this; but the money
was allotted in the same old discreditable
way.
“D.F.” : Talk about the city taking over
the dirty and disgraceful old graveyard of
St. David’s, in the midst 'of Hobart, and
turning it into a park, has always called
forth protests from the Anglican Church
authorities who control it; and a lot has
been said about sacrilege ajid disrespect to
the departed dead. But the real nigger in
the wood-pile showed his nose at Synod the
other day, when it was stated that the
Church must keep hold of this ground be-
cause in years to come it would be worth
£30,000 or £40,000 for building allotments.
Even as it is the Church lets part of the
ground for an oil-store and timber-yard,
and there was a strong kick against a pro-
posal that the rent should all be used to
put the dangerous ground in some sort of
decent order.
The old, two-storey Black Bull at Bathurst
(N.S.W.) has gone the way of all worn-out
pubs. Built in 1837, it was for a couple of
decades the swell kiosk of “the West,’ and
for some years the home port of the Sydney-
Bathurst coach. The Bull had an inevitable
horn in the bushranging pie, and the yarn
goes that Ben Hall used one of its cellars
as a dug-out for three days, while the police
scouted for him over the neighboring land-
scape. The early licensee was the late
sport Johnny Tate, whose horses won a good
share of what lay on the right side of the
winning-post those times.
The Crown Prince is reported to have
said: “At Verdun I will build an imperish-
able monument.” He is still building it, and
so far there are only about a hundred thou-
sand dead Germans underneath.
“Bill Bowyang” : I want to put in a word
to the credit of the son of Abraham. At
Cape Ilelles the Zion Mule Corps, recruited
largely from Palestine, did most excellent
transport service. Strange it seemed when
one asked a war-cobber where he came from,
to hear him claim the Holy City as his native
place. With these Jerusalem chaps Arabic
was the easiest language for conversation.
They were very earnest in their support of
the great enterprise that brought them to
Gallipoli. Also we had Australian and
Maoriland Jews in various battalions who
would yield to none of us in the depth and
energy of their patriotism. I helped to rescue
a Sydney Jew who had a bullet wound in his
chest. He fought a most plucky battle for
his life, and finally was moved to the hospi-
tal ship, suffering gladly for the only home
and fatherland he knew.
THE CONQUERING HERO.
“I got the deuce of a start yesterday. I
heard you were going to the Front."
“Oh, wapidly! I've been given complete eon-
twol over the safety-pin department—
and the wibbons as well."
“The wearing of corsets is practically for-
bidden in Germany,” says one message ; and
“There have been meat riots in Berlin,” says
another.
THE OLD CANDLE ROW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On Anzac Day he took part in a united service in
his parish. The minister was having pictures ex-
hibited in his church, and he was striking trouble
with some of his parishioners over candles.
—Scotchbyterian parson.
The war has come with fire and steel to make the
world anew,
And endless fields are scarred with graves and wet
with bloody dew ;
Prone fighting-men cry out to God, their faces to the
sky, .
But Echo only answers them and so they faint and
die.
I buzz at home while these souls pass, or have a
cassock-fight
With holy fools who see all Hell in candles that I
light.
A shred of rag will serve me well to stir my sheepish
flock ;
A pictured ghost upon a screen will give them quite
a shock.
For oh ! they live by rote and book, and what their
fathers feared
They also fear, with threat and sneer, each in his
goatish beard.
The living world beyond our hole may shake to
devils’ tread ;
We crouch inside and mope and moan with old things
damned and dead.
x.s.w.
DEACON MULBERRY BUSH
Uncorseted and breadless see
The Berlin women stand dismayed ;
Most difficult the problem is—
How may they have their stomachs stayed ?


The Restless _sausa^e-
: " Rudolf ,\>e triusT a
- \fe a >n
fte’ac<e , .“
The German dog'-tax has resulted in-
thousands of dogs being killed and the
carcases converted into lleischmehl
(tlesh-meat), which is used in different
. disguises as human food. — News item.. *
Bagman ; X
ujanT" arf order /j-or \
Con*crl>iTon |rom your j^, r rn.'*
'Well. Tm , bJT -foe bot.s
away in Enshand ju-st” n o uO
Heir Haase, in tlie Reichstag, said
injustice had been done to Belgium, and
•she must be compensated by the restora-
tion of her independence.—Cable.
IS 'tears |rom Sorrou) ?
0. u)Wat~ a-^ooli ■bfr l .
IT6 f>lam Hfic bea«T»
From Simple «rtd^est7 or 7
The President of Police at
Germany, violently condemns the luxuri-
ous living of citizens. He cited the
.case of a woman who requested a milk-
for her lap-dog.—Cable.
Id Germany a woman has been
arrested for being over-fasbionably '
dressed.—Cable. "
üß °odleuK, rit
y 3oV.a nn
My- drcsi Coif I
V,6e ** ** **' Schmnir^:
WORRIES—BILL’S AND OURS.


THE STRUGGLE OP THE HOUR.


Chaving
(2>)tick
(L£V€R>
For an
Ideal Shave
r A
'LM
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
W
*SrJC?i
?■%
SSSSsis 5
3
0
SSW
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, yet
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS CO ROUNJJ?
ZjßCtt&
LEWIS & WftlTTy MAKERS
BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXIONS
WITHOUT ROUGE.
Ladies who dislike rouge and “make-up
-—and what lady of refinement does not.
often ask what they can do to restore tr
natural velvety bloom of childhood to tadec.
sallow, wrinkled cheeks. All such ladies,
as well as those who now have good com-
plexions and wish to preserve them, can
realise their hearts’ desire by getting tnen
chemist to prepare a lotion composed o
2oz. rose water, 1 dram tincture of Benzoin
and 2oz. flowers of oxzoin. Before using
shake thoroughly, and then apply Wlttl '
soft cloth or sponge. When dry hrus
lightly with a soft cloth or piece of chanio -
leather. If you will do this whenever you
go out you will be astonished at the abso
lutely natural and refined improvement 1 >
your appearance. This lotion is also excel)
tionally beneficial in relieving and preven
ing chapped faces and hands as well ay
redness due to exposure to weather. Anv
The Authors’ Alliance
Is prepared to consider and P lac ®
Literary work of all kinds dealt with
experts who place Authors’ interests nr •
Twenty years’ experience. Write for prospectus.
100 Flinders Btreet, MHLBOURNF,
And at London and Now York.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Hats off to Mrs. Teresa Baxter, of West
Brunswick (Vic.), mother of 20 (18 living),
of whom five are in the trenches. And as
that lot didn’t exhaust her mother-love she
reared eight of her sister-in-law’s youngsters.
EDWIN STOOKE, who represents "The
Trade” in the N.S.W. early-closing light.
Three of the six Australian State Pre-
miers are natives of South Aus., the State
in which they have just been cackling—
Crawford Vaughan, Jack Scaddan and
Edward Theodore (Acting Premier of Q.).
Theodore, in his 32nd year, is the youngest
of the bunch.
The death of St-. Clere Evelyn Liardet, at
Auckland (M.L,)* aged 82, erases the last
of that historic family-. He was the youngest
eon of the late Captain W. F, Evelyn
Liardet, the founder of Port Melbourne* St.
Clere was five years old when lie .arrived
at the Port (then So nil ridge) with his
parents in the ship William Metcalfe in
1839, The Captain dumped his goods on
the foreshore, which for long* years was
known as “Liardet’s Beach,” The Pier
Hotel was built by him in 1843, on a site
now occupied by the tramway engine-house.
He had the first mail contract and drove all
mail matter to and from early Melbourne.
And he also ran the first steamer to
Williamstown. Altogether a most enterpris-
ing man.
This is one story of the late John
Murray’s reformation. It began in a
city bar one night, long after trading
hours. There were
four men in the
dim religious light,
and Jack had been
very jovial. Sud-
denly liis eye fell
upon his own re-
flection in a strip
of mirro r. He
stared at it like a
man who sees his
own ghost. Then he
said: “My God,
boys, I have been
telling myself for
the last hour that
at any rate I
didn’t look as bad
as you do. I’m
never going to
look like that
again.” John
walked out. and
never went back.
Next day the pub-
lican had that
long mirror taken
out of his bar.
MARION,
N. S. Wales’s
most earnest
Six O’Clocker.
Oodnadatta is not an ideal place for a
honeymoon, but that is where Johii J. Wal-
dron, of Parkville (Vic.), has taken his
bride. He was married on May 10 to Mi*s
Florence Webb, a North Melbourne girl, and
soon afterwards set out on his fourth visit
to Centralia, where his job is to make sur-
veys for the External Affairs Department.
Waldron, by the way, speaks highly of the
camels which have been bred in Centralia,
and says that with their help the Common-
wealth could form a camel corps that would
astonish even Ahmed.
•Timmy Carroll, one of Maoriland’s poli-
tical delegates to England, has never before
travelled further than Sydney—lie languidly
drifted over to Australia when the Common-
wealth was christened. He has sat con-
tinuously in the M.L. House of Reps since
’B7 and has the record of having been longer
a Minister in point of unbroken service than
any other man there. Jimmy held a job as
Minister from ’92, when Ballance took him
into the Executive, until Ward went to
pieces in 1912. As a boy he fought through
the Urewera campaign and earned a medal
and a grant of cash and special men-
tion in despatches for his services with Ham-
lin’s troop against Te Kooti. He is a boy
of 60 now—a good sportsman, a very fine
speaker,, stout and lazy. His father was an
old-time whaler; his mother one of the
Ngatikahunguru.
The two oldest Anglican gaiters in Aus-
tralia. and Maoriland respectively kept their
birthdays this month. On May 17 Bishop
Langley, of Bendigo (Vic.), finished the
eightieth lap; and Bishop Nevill, of Dune-
din (M.L.), entered it four days earlier.
Nevill was bishing before Langley was or-
dained, having tried on his mitre for the
first time in 1871. in which year he was im-
ported to Dunedin from the Cold Country.
He is easily senior to any other Austral-
asian bishop, either Anglican or R.C., and
lias been Primate of Maoriland since 1904.
Langley is a comparative novice in the
bishop class, for lie lias worn the gaiters
only nine years, though he had an arch-
deacon’s spats for 12 years earlier. He was
born in Ireland, blit came to Australia as a
youth, and was a bank manager at New-
castle (N.S.W.) when the Church called to
him in the early seventies of last century.
For 25 years he looked after the collectioii-
plate at the Australian headquarters of
“Low Church” Anglicanism, Sydney’s old
St. Philip’s—which ought to be spelt “St.
Phillip’s,” for it was called after the first
Governor of the Ma State, not after the
Saint.
Fifty-six years at sea and still going
strong is the record of Captain Crane, of
the sailer William Mitchell, which blew into
Hobart from Maryport (Eng.) the other
day with 8000 tons of railway iron. Born
at Singapore he went to sea at 15* and has
been there ever since. He once commanded
the tea clipper Yangtze, which hurried
from London to Sydney in 71 days and
made some other line runs in the tea race
from China ports to London. Crane has
never been wrecked yet; but the very trip
after he left the old Yangtze she was piled
up on a rock In the China Sea.
Adelaide’s real, indisputable centenarian
has given up the tight against Time at 108.
Surgeon-Major Hinton was horn two years
before Waterloo, and was a qualified Lon-
don doctor before South Aus. was founded.
Joining the Bengal army, he was in all the
big Asiatic fights of a period ivhen Europe
was fairly peaceful—Maharajapore against
the Mahrattas, Aliwal, Sobraon and Mool-
tan against the Sikhs, many Mutiny battles,
and the Taku forts in China. When he re-
tired he brought a lot of experience and a
batch of medals to Australia. After giving
Tasmania a trial he settled near Adelaide
in 1870, and has put in nearly half a cen-
tury of peaceful enjoyment, always in splen-
did health till he broke his leg at 98. He
never smoked, took alcohol only as medi-
cine, could read without glasses till almost
the end, and set a good example by insisting
on being sent to Adelaide’s too-little-used
cremation house,
Australian Anglican bishops in conference
in Sydney: Reginald Stephen (Tas.), born
Geelong, 1860; Cecil Henry Druitt (Graf-
ton), born Hampshire, 1872; George Mer-
rick Long (Bathurst), born Carisbrook
(Vic.), 1875; George Downglass Halford
l Rockhampton) ; Lewis Bostock Radford
(Goulburn), born Mansfield (Eng.),. 1869:
Arthur Wellesley Pain ( Gippsland), Bed-
fordshire, 1841; John Douse Langley (Ben-
digo), Waterford, 1836; Gilbert White
(Willochra), Cape Colony, 1859; Thomas
Henry Armstrong (Wangaratta), Dublin,
1857; Arthur Nutter Thomas (Adelaide),
London, 1869; Charles Owen Lever Riley
(Perth), Birmingham, 1854; John C.
Wright (Sydney), Bolton, 1861; Henry
Lowtlier Clarke (Melbourne), Westmore-
land, 1850; St. Clair George Alfred Donald-
son (Brisbane), London, 1863.
“Jacky” Evans, one-time master mariner
and Premier of the Speck till _“recohstruc-
tion” squeezed him out, has been appointed
Speaker of the Tasmanian Assembly, in suc-
cession to the scholarly “John Drayman”
Woods, who is on the wrong side of the
party fence. “Jacky” had the- job for a
while some years ago, but dropned it in a
vain attempt to help the Lib. party out of
a hole and dish the Labs. As he is now
Master Warden of the Hobart Marine Board
and manager for Huddart, Parker, as well
as Speaker, he is on a pretty good wicket.
CHARLES ATKINS,
Melbourne’s lirest City Councillor, still an
enthusiastic cyclist.
Win. C. Thurgood, the daddy of all the
Melbourne caterers, lias served his last feast.
His business was started in Swanston-street.
opposite tile Fublic Library, 54 years ago.
and there it still flourishes. Arriving in
1555 by the ship Ida, Thurgood had for a
shipmate Henry Parley, the butcher who
afterwards made his name as a missioner of
the grim dry-tack school.
There’s a sailor named A. Barr of
Lyttelton (M.L.), who will take a lot o
stopping. He was chief officer on the Union
Co. s racer Maori, bur. just before he
war started he
wt’.nt to Europe to
fii’ing back his
wife and children
During the sieg,'
fie was iu Ant-
werp with his
family and as-
sisted in the de-
fence. At the end
. S°t away safely
with his responsi-
fiilities, and as
soon as he reached
I ogland he signed
nll th e Nav y.
; Sl “ce then he has
l»f*en soaring iu
the service, and
unless he has
gone one better
lately he is a
II eut.-commander
in charge 0 f a
flotilla of patrol
steamers, and
11.M.5. St. Clair
is his flagship.
HECTOR
GOLDSPINR,
Melbonrne Tenor.
There is one part of the world that has
sent its last man off to the war, anyhow,
and is only restrained from despatching the
last shilling because it hasn’t got one.
Campbell Island, 200 miles south of the
Bluff, a resort of old-time whalers, had a
population consisting of seven brothers
named Norton, and when a ketch put in
there the other day the whole community
climbed aboard and sailed off to Maoriland,
where it immediately flocked to the colors.
Retired-squatter David Stodart, formerly
of Mooramong, Skipton (Vic.), was rounded
up the other day by the Boss Musterer.
Besides engaging in the sheep-business in
the Western District, the old man had also
tried the Upper Goulburn beef-country, and
his experiences enabled him to spend his
declining years in the odor of social sanctity.
Stodart married a daughter of the late
Charles Willis, also a Western District
grass-expert, and there is a fine bunch of
Stodart sons at the Front.
There is hope for us yet. When the Inter-
State Trade Union Congress met at Hobart
the other day it appointed as its secretary
J. B. Griggs, who in his spare time is secre-
tary to the local Trades and Labor Council,
but makes the laying of bricks the serious
business of life. An hour or two later he
told the Congress that he had just got word
that a job at his trade, which has been slack
of late, was waiting for him. and he reckoned
that that was more important even than sit-
ting as secretary in “the Federal Parliament
of Labor.”
The wanderings of an Australian family:
Some years ago there was at David Jones’s m
Sydney a stylish Irish shop-walker known to most
as Jack Robinson. He had a.Scotch wife and two
pretty daughters, Madge and Nancy. Jack had pre-
viously worked in China, and both his children were
born there, but were sent south to he reared and
educated in Sydney. After Jack Robinson’s death,
Hans Meincke, who was on the staff of the German
Consulate at Sydney, married Madge Robinson. Soon
afterwards Meincke was recalled to Europe and
attached to the German Embassy in London; and
sister Nance and Mrs. Robinson, the mother, went
to London, and lived with the family at Brixton,
where Mrs. Robinson died. After this Meincke was
transferred to the German Embassy at St. Peters-
burg ; but with his eldest son he was in Berlin, con-
sulting with the Foreign Office, when the big trouble
started. Nance Robinson was then in Austria, using
certain medicinal waters for her health. Madge
Robinson, of the enemy Embassy, got two hours to
leave the Russian capital. Nance, who was a Biit-
isher and an enemy subject, was ordered to leaw
Austria within two hours. She got to England and
sheltered with some relations. Then, growing anxious
about her sister Madge, she became .- a naturalised
German subject, and went to Berlin, where she is
now living with the Meinckes. And in between rear-
ing about glorious victories, the Sisters wonder what
they really are. Born in China of an Irish fathei
and a Scotch mother, reared and educated in Sydney
one driven out of Russia because that country was a.
war with Austria and the other driven out of Austria
because that country was at war with England, an
now both sheltering in Germany —it is a tane *
indeed.
WHEN WE GO OUT TO WAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Me most all be prepared to go, irrespective of
age and station. —Melbourne paper.
I’m waiting now to go to war,
For sure the need is great;
We all know what we’re fighting for,
And now we shan’t have long to wait.
It’s better late than not at all (this has been said
before),
Though some of us are fifty-eight, and some of us
are more.
George Houston Reid, a general he,
John Forrest bv his side,
Will lead us on to victory,
And somehow soon we’ll turn the tide.
There’s King O’Malley girds his loins like fierce
Jehoshaphat,
While bold Bruce Smith sits stiff astride his charger
—think of that!
Sir Ronald Mungo—hang it all,
The name escapes me quite!—
Puts on his spurs nor fears to fall:
For war he has an appetite.
The fatted editor puts down his shears, no whit
upset
To know that he must leave his desk and seize his
bayonet.
Ten grey reporters, very tough,
Prim judges twenty-three,
With blown-out ladies' men (hot stuff!)
Will go to war along o’ me.
George Blatk will join the cavalry, and gay his
plumes will toss,
Although his horsemanship may prove distressing to
the hoss.
I’m glad that we shall go to war
To fight for King and State,
For Empire and tor Faith, and for
Matilda Jane and Tot and Kate.
Me're sixty-five to eighty-six, but loud our martial
song
Shrills out to prink the doodledoos, and now we
shan’t he long!
x.s.w.
SELWYN RIDER.


r
■r*
■ vs
• V
“AUSTRAL”
Travelling RUGS
“Austral” Rugs are the product of Vicars’ famous Marrickville Mills and have
for many years held a foremost place amongst Australian Manufactures.
Quality is the outstanding feature —quality of staple, the finest Australian
Merino Wool —quality of workmanship—the product of Australian Skill and
Craftsmanship, which creates in the finished article a quality standard seldom
equalled and certainly never-excelled.
Especially do we recommend our “Austral” Special, a
Rug
measuring'
60 x 84 inches, full
weight
with heavily-fringed ends, which is available
in 14 Patterns and colorings.
Price
501-
English-Made Rugs.
English-made Rug of medium-weight Wool and
Cotton Mixture. Size 60 x7B inches, in assorted
dark colorings, with large contrasting check over
patterns 25 -
English-made Rug. Size 60 x 78 inches, one
side plain, the other a large rug plaid pattern in
varied dark colorings 30 -
English-madc Rug. Size 60 xBO inches, full
weight, one side patterned, other plain. Colorings
are mostly dark, and designs are dark rug plaids
with lighter over check 35 -
Owing to the War.
With regret we are compelled to announce that
all lines of “Austral"’ Crossbred Wool Rugs, includ-
ing our famous “BOSKER” RUG, have sold out,
and will be unprocurable for some time to come.
On the outbreak of war the Military Authorities
not only requisitioned all reserve stocks, but, in
addition, secured the whole of the output of Vicars’
Mills, and until their requirements are satisfied
nothing may be manufactured for Civilian use.
484 to 490
George Street
to
3 to 17
Royal Arcade
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods.
New Branch Store at 304 George Street (near Hunter Street),
S Y D N EY.
%
“AUSTRAL”
Leather Goods
“ Austral" Leather Goods are made from the best, selected Australian
Hides, for the most part on English Frames and Fittings.
Excepting, however, the fittings brought from Over-seas, Australia
supplies not only the finished article but the raw material as well.
Judged from any point of view, the Australian-made equals anything
produced, and merits not only preference hut recommendation as well.
Leather Suit Cases.
So. 8219. —Suit Case, similar to illustration, but without capped corners, Solid
Leather throughout, Closed Edges, Pair Sliding Lever Locks, Lined Drill. Depth
6 inches —
20-inch, 35/-; 22-inch, 38/-; 24-inch, 41/-; 26-inch, 44/-; 28-incli, 47/-
Xo B2ll.—Suit Case (as illustrated). Solid Leather throughout, Closed Edges,
Drop Back Lid, Lever Locks, Eight Leather-capped Corners, Lined Jean,
Depth 64 inches.
20-inch, 42/-; 22-inch, 46/-; 24-inch, 50/-; 26-inch, 54/-; 28-inch. 58/-
Xo. B2ll.—Suit Case (as illustration). Solid Leather throughout, Closed Edges,
Best English Lever Sliding Locks, Eight Leather-capped Corners, extra-quality
Gun-case Handles, Depth 7 inches —
20-inch, 50/-; 22-inch, 55/-; 24-incli. 60/-; 26-inch. 65/-; 28-inch, 70/-
Hand Kit Bags.
Xo. B2ls.—Hand Kit Bag, Solid Leather throughout, best Japanned Riveted Frame,
Nickel Side Lock and End Clips, Lined Jean —
12-inch, 15/-; 14-inch, 17/6; 16-inch, 20/-; 18-inch, 22/6; 20-inch, 25/-
Xo. C 215. — Hand Kit Bag, Solid Leather throughout, best English Nickel Fittings.
The Patent Steel Frame makes this an uncollapsible Bag. Has Side Locks and
End Clips—-
12-inch, 22/6; 14-inch, 25/-; 16-inch, 27/6; 18-inch, 30/-; 20-inch, 32/6
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods.
484 to 490 GEORGE STREET; J to 17 ROYAL ARCADE.
New Branch Store at 304 George St. (near Hunter St.),
SYDNEY,


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire. -
Uonobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridge!!
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
Before Making Your Will, or Settling Your Property,
WRITE TO, OR CALL ON,
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE.
Lowest Charees. No Profits. State Guarantee. cuiwuiio chal f ’ , M “* v }“™“ gl ' str "*’
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Western \ Dank:—-
Wt To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £
Mar., 1909.. 25,238 20 p.e. = 17,500 7,738 472,507
Sept., 1909.. 27,429 20 „ ~ 17,500 9,929 482,436
Premiums on new shares . . 27,024 509.460
Mar., 1910.. 27,945 20 p.c.= 19,189 8/756 518,216
Premiums on new shares .. 12,976 531,192
Sept., 1910.. 27,206 20 p.c.= 20,000 7,206 538,398
Mar. 1911.. 29,006 20 „ ~ 20,000 9,066 547,464
Premiums on new shares .. 71,820 619,284
Sept., 1911.. 28,110 20 p.c.= 23,939 4,171 623,455
Premiums on now shares .. 18.180 641.635
Mir., 1912.. 35,349 20 p.c.= 25,000 10,349 651.984
Sepi., 1912.. 36,488 20 „ „ 25,000 11,488 603,472
Mar, 1913.. 37,404 20 „ „ 25,000 12,404 675.876
Sept., 1913.. 33,652 20 ~ ~ 25,000 8,652 684,528
Mar., 1914.. 34,907, 20 „ „ 25,000 9,907 694.435
Sept., 1914.. 29,955 20 ~ ~ 25,000 4,955 699,390
Mar., 1915.. 27.488 20 „ ~ 25,000 2,488 701,878
Sept., 1915.. 27,209 20 „ „ 25,000 2,209 704,087
Mar., 1916.. 28,753 20 „ „ 25,000 3,753 707,840
Westralia has been having a bad time; and,
though things have improved, they are still
only middling. The Northern cattle-raising
business has been wilting under a long
drought; and the industry will take a few
years to recover. The wheat harvest, though
showing a record of 16 million bushels, wms
much under early estimates; and it looks
as if Westralia has still a lot to learn about
wheat growing and where not to try to do
it. Incidentally, the experience will pro-
bably cost a good deal of money, and mort-
gagees will have to do some of the paying.
The gold industry will not flourish for ever.
The cream of the Ivalgoorlie field has been
already skimmed; and Westonias and the
like are a poor substitute. Altogether there
have been and still are fine chances of mak-
ing pretty big banking losses in Westralia ;
and no doubt the need to write down
doubtful assets has a steadying effect upon
the profits of this bank.
As disclosed, the profits are by no means
as dazzling as the dividend. The share
capital is £250,000 and the visible reserves
£707,840, together £957.840; and 6 p.c. on
that lot amounts to £57,470, whereas the
total declared profit for the past 12 months
was only £55,962. Further, the bank has
over 2\ millions of advances. That is to
say, it has invested over million of other
people’s money and guaranteed the principal
and interest. Considering the inevitable
risk there is in that, shareholders can’t say
that the bank, in earning less than 6 p.c.
for their money, is doing anything to call
for three cheers. But if there really isn’t
much in banking profits for shareholders
(and there are plenty worse figures than
those of this bank) there is a good deal in
it for the scattered public. This concern,
- for instance, carries on its operations in no
less than 60 branches, all in Westralia,
whose population isn’t much over 300,000.
And it can’t do that without heavy expense.
There have been no movements of much
consequence during the year:—
Liabilities.
Mar., ’l5. Mar., ’l6.
Notes .. .. £12,219 £11,970 Dec. £249
Bills, etc. . . 196,441 191,055 Dec. 5,386
Free deposits . . 1,177,703 1,261,921 Inc. 84,218
Fixed deposits .. 1,284,611 1,144,827 Dec. 139,784
Assets.
Advances . . 2,395,622 2,520,340 Inc. 124,718
Liquid Assets . . 1,172,350 992,772 Dec. 179,578
Premises .. 79,880 79,500 Dec. 380
Liquid assets, though cut into a bit during
the year, still represent 38 p.c. of the liabili-
ties. The latter don’t amount to £3 for every
£.l. of the shareholders’ money in the con-
cern ; so on paper the creditors’ security is
all that could be reasonably desired. Liquid
assets could pay all but £1,617.000 of the
deposits and all other debts, and there are
advances and other assets amounting
approximately to £2,600,000 wherewith to
make good that balance.
Daily Telegraph Newspaper Co. (Syd-
ney) :
Bonus to
Net Dividend. Shareholders
Dec., Profit. (12-1 p.c.). (in shares). Reserves.
1906 .. - £56,086
1907 .. £40,885 £ 16,638 £16,900 63,433
1908 .. 36,946 15,750 15,000 66,629
1909 . . 44,074 20,625 16,500 73,578
1910 .. 50,374 22,687 18.150 83,115
1911 .. 55,256 24,956 19,970 93,445
1912 .. 56,892 27,452 30,380 92,505
1913 .. 49,795 31,250 16,666 94,384
1914 .. 41,828 33,334 102,878
1915 .. 40,002 33,334 109,546
“Although,” the directors say, “the depres-
sion in business resulting from the war has
extended over the full year, it is satisfactory
to note that the net profit is sufficient to
pay the usual 12i p.c.” But has there been
any “depression in business resulting from
the war”? So far as Australian business is
concerned the war has meant the boom
conditions that spring naturally from the
lavish expenditure of many millions of bor-
rowed money. Not a factory or mill that
was previously in operation has been closed ;
on the contrary, new ones have been estab-
lished, and old ones have added new lines.
And if some of the old brands of goods have
been off the markets, new ones have been
forthcoming, and they have needed publicity,
of which this co. has got the benefit. The
investor, then, who believes that the war
has produced a depression that will pass
away when peace comes is likely to fall
into serious trouble. Peace may possibly be
immediately followed by something in the
nature of a frenzy; but after that will come
the real depression, when borrowed money
will be no longer lavishly spent; when, in-
stead, we shall consider the bill and be
brought face to face with the painful pro
cess of paying up. Certainly, business con-
cerns such as this will have some set-off
against the diminished revenue of the days
to come. They have been hit during the
past year by war prices for materials and
war freights, which in some cases they have
not been able to pass on. But the extra cost
last year was probably more than counter-
balanced by the extra revenue resulting from
the boom conditions beforementioned.
In spite of the heavy borrowing in which
both Commonwealth and State have been
engaged, this co.’s profits have shrunk
steadily since 1012. There are two visible
causes: (1) increased cost of production,
the result of wages boards’ awards, etc.;
and (2) the fact that throughout this period
a large and increasing sum of money for-
merly invested at interest has been put into
a building which has only just been com-
pleted. The new building account as at
December 31 stood at £103,383, and averaged
for the whole year about £75,000 ; and that
meant a loss of £3OOO in interest by com-
parison with, say, 1912 and 1913. The
£103,383, by the way, is exclusive of the
freehold, £28,019. The old leasehold pre-
mises stood in the books at £30,000. This
has been provided for by a sinking fund,
which has involved an annual charge of
about £1000; and the co. will now be free
from that.
Many investors unquestionably made a
great mistake about this stock, which they
valued on the basis not of the dividend but
of the dividend plus the market value of
the bonus shares which were then being
regularly distributed ; and the market value
of those bonus shares was based chiefly on
the continuance of the distribution. It was
overlooked that, owing to the issue of the
bonus shares, the dividend alone now con-
sumes more than twice as much profit as it
did 10 years ago. That there will be dis-
tributions in the future is very probable;
but they will be irregular. The present paid
capital is £266,670; and if we assume a
divisible profit of £40,000, the co. could pay
the present 12J p.c. on an additional capital
of £53,330 —equal to one share for every
present five. That is the utmost limit until
the profits which can safely be divided
exceed £40,000.
Elder’s Trustee and Executor Co.
(Adelaide) :—-
Towards
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
19X0.. £458
Mar., r Reserves.
1911.. £468 Nil £468 10
1912.. 425 Nil 425 435
1913.. 1722 Nil - 1722 2157
1914.. 2435 6 p.c. = £ 1200 1235 3392
1915.. 1883 6 „ ~.1200 683 4075
1916.. 2045 6 „,, 1200 845 4920
This is an offshoot of Elder, Smith and Co.,
Ltd., S. Australia’s old-established pastoral
finance and agency co.; and it has the
biggest pull of any concern in the Central
State. Moreover, it dates from so far back
that many of those interested in it are old
men ; and that’s no disadvantage to a trustee
co. formed under its wing. Partly no doubt
for that reason, partly on account of the
transferred executor business, the co. is
already controlling estates valued at
£1,731,954; and a 6 p.c. dividend is very
comfortably paid. Given the expert manage-
ment which the directors were wise to secure,
the co. takes very small risks. Its capital
and reserves are practically all in gilt-edged
securities, and in a couple of years they will
be bringing in enough to pay a 6 p.c. divi-
dend. The profits of the business will be a
sort of bonus on top of that. And the trustee
co. performs such excellent services to the
community that there is first-class reason to
believe that the whole tribe will go on stead-
ily expanding.
Co operative Film Exchange, Ltd., head
office in Melbourne and branches in other
States, which began with a defict of £5439,
comprising preliminary expenses £439, and
flotation loading £5OOO :
To
Feb., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
- £5439
1914.. £1504 Nil £1504 3935
1915.. 3128 9 p.c. =£93o 2198 1737
1916.. 2773 10 „ „ 1165 1608 129
This was the outside showmen’s reply to the
big combine; and the latter, knowing that
hard things were being threatened just then
against rings and combines, was probably
very glad to see a decent co-operative com-
petitor in the field. The co. started off with
a solid connection ; amongst others, the late
A. F. Russell, the born showman who
founded Hoyt’s, was a director. In the first
year the gross profit on hirings and sales ran
to £5533; in the next year to £11,448 ; in the
past year to £13,867. Exes, have, of course,
moved up, too; but there was enough left
over last year to show nearly 25 p c. on the
capital, which now stands at £11,645. At the
outset £5439 of the capital—then barely
£lO,OO0 —was represented by goodwill and
other intangible assets; but since that date
practically an equal amount of profit has
been accumulated, so that, without going
seriously into debt, the co. is able to carry
double the old stock. Total liabilities are
£3854; on the other side there is stock (at
valuation) £7330, advances (to secure films!
£4483, book debts £3839, and a few sun-
dries. Bad debts in this business, by the
way. are heavy ; this year, after writing-off
what are reckoned bad or doubtful (amount
unspecified), a further £5OO is put by to
provide for contingencies.
Wickham and Bullock Island Coal
Co. (N.S.W.), from the time the profits
from the Neath colliery allowed the co. to
pay off the accumulated div. on pref. shares:
Writ- Norni-
ten nal Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
Mar., ’l3. .£10,137 J ef 10 P =' = *i 250 } £3177 f3 ’ 969
Sept.,’l3.. 11,650 5609 j 32i 6 5)534
Mar.,’l4.. 11,448 ( f 3283 6,824
Sept.,’l4.. 8,093 Pref." - 1250 3290 10,377
Mar.,’ls.. 719 Pref. = 1250 3178 6,668
Sept.,’ls. . 12,228 { 10 p^' = ["'8922 9,224
Mar., ’l6. . 6,565 {g* 10 P-*'= } 2467 7,572
This co. has its troubles too: the Govern-
ment has prohibited the export of coal to
places beyond the Commonwealth ; and this
and the difficulty of getting freight has cut
into the output and the profits. But a coal-
mining co. has this consolation, at any rate:
what it doesn’t hew out to-day will be wait-
ing for it to-morrow. In that respect a mine
isn’t like a farm or a block of shops. The
life of these is not made longer by idleness.
The life of a mine is. The co. hasn’t any-
thing to complain of, anyway. Ten years
ago it had worked out its old mine and
had just secured land at Cessnock, where
it hoped to make a new mine. Since then,
though it has got in less than £6OOO of new
capital, it has not only opened up the new
mine—the Neath—but has worked the fol-
lowing changes in its finances :
Mar., ’O6. Sept., ’l5. Mar., 'l6.
Liabilities. . . . £7 r 658 ,£6,264 £3,065
Plant, stock, etc. . . 19,374 35,119 34,694
Liquid assets . . 589 41,820 38,694
Once bit, twice shy. The co. practically
did nothing towards writing down the book
value of the old mine while - the coal was
being worked out. In other words, though the
co.’s capital was being exhausted, it wasn’t
being repaid and written down. Now, how-
ever, as the mine is drawn on, money is
being accumulated either to buy "and
develop a new mine or to pay back the
capital if it is thought desirable to go out
of business. The capital, by the way, is
£20,000 in 12| p.c. pref. shares and £90,000
in ordinaries, all fully paid.
The Bundaberg Co-operative Insurance
Association, Ltd. (Bundaberg, Q.) :
Bonus to Premiums
Policy- on Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. holders. Shares, serves.
1911.. £604 74p.c. = £53 £267 A— £2175
1912.. 1194 10 „ ~ 84 367 £5 2923
1913.. 787,10 „ ~ 85 425 10 3210
1914.. 988 10 „ ~ 86 448 13 3677
1915.. 1706 10 „ ~ 88 823 433 4905
1916.. 1461 10 ~ „ 148 934 216 5500
Some of the figures in the last line are esti-
mates ; and there isn’t much on which to base
the guess at the bonus to policy-holders. In
the Accident department policy-holders who
are shareholders get back 40 p.c. of their
premiums, and policy-holders who are not
shareholders get back 30 p.c.; but nowhere
are we told what proportion of the total each
represents. By the way, these rebates have
to be remembered when you are told on
behalf of the new Government office that the
public has been so badly fleeced that the
State can do the job for about half the
money. As a ~matter of fact, it was much-
better to put the premiums fairly high and
make a refund of the part that was not
needed. There isn’t much experience to go on
in connection with this accident insurance ;
there was so little, in fact, a few years ago
that the English concern with which the
manager of the Queensland State office was
then connected lost £47,000 in one year at
this business —not this manager’s fault, of
course, for he was in Australia and the in-
sufficient premiums were charged in Eng-
land.
This little co., established primarily to do
the accident (employers’ liability) business
of its shareholders, now finds its chief occu-
pation gone—or, at any late, very seriously
threatened. The State office claims to be
the only concern authorised to do this spec a 1
brand of insurance, though the claim is, of
course, contested. Still “notwithstanding the
loss of’ the Accident department, the directors
are of opinion that the fire, marine and nlate-
glass business can be safely carried onA
These are, however, only small lines thus far:
last year the Accident premiums were £2256
and the total of all the others (excluding re
insurance) was only £662. If the law finallv
decides that the State office lias been given
a monopoly there thus won’t be much left
for this little co. to do. Nevertheless, if the
worst comes to the worst, it won’t have to
hold a sacrifice sale in order to pay its credi-
tors. Including provision for current risks
it owes only £1044, and in cash and good
saleable stocks (such as Union Banks and
Commonwealth Loans) it has £9llO, less the
current dividend. The actual paid capital is
only £1512 ; so for each £ paid up the share-
holders can see at least £4 10s.
The Volum Brewing Co. (Geelong
Vic.) :
Writ- To
. . ten Re- Re-
-1 routs. Dividends. Off. serves, serves,
leb., 1908 £1577 10 p.c. = £5OO £523 £554 £11,061
Aug., 1908 959 10 „ „ 500 618 10,902
Feb., 1909 841 10 ~ „ 500 140 201 11.103
Aug., 1909 833 10 „ „ 500 137 196 11.299
Feb., 1910 1663 10 „ ~ 500 632 533 11,830
Aug., 1910 885 10 „ ~ 501 125 259 12.089
Feb., 1911 1894 10 „ „ 603 1372 19 12,108
Aug., 1911 1108 10 „ „ 503 750 11 963
Feb., 1912 2347 10 „ „ 503 1800 44 12,007
Aug., 1912 1275 10 „ „ 513 1000 11,769
Feb., 1913 2541 10 ~ ~ 574 1800 107 11 936
Aug., 1913 2072 !0 „ ~ 574 700 798 12.734
Feb., 1914 2886 10 ~ „ 703 1300 883 13 617
Aug., 1914 2894 10 „ „ 719 500 1675 15 292
Feb., 1915 2887 10 „ „ 719 1550 618 15,910
Aug., 1915 1372 10 „ „ 719 700 15 863
Feb., 1916 1861 10 „ „ 793 1200 15,731
Plant and rolling stock are written down 10
and 20 p.c. p.a. resrectively; and that isn’t
included in the amounts shown above as
struck off. So it’s this way: there is
£33,680 of capital and reserves, and the co.
il<lb dbSGtS Worth ( 3.(*('o T'fli no’ tn fU i
£2(3,(344 in addition to the brewery
plant and rolling stock Anri tho* • mi ? es >
paying the current dividend. theft
of this property consists of pubs • hm , ft k
the capital is far more soundly’ renreU
than that of most brewery concerns
even with the profits smashed asftft
been during the past year, there has hi
more than enough to pay twice 1() p C ft
the co. can stand a good ueal mora ili’®
K™ 10 p.™' 11 bc cwlled *° S
Broken Hill Block 'jo, „ m * ot ,
I.airier silver-lead-zinc propositions:—
Profit. Divs. i ’ ...
Mar.,’o6 £46,804 £60,000 Mar., ’lo oA
Sept.,’o6 49,625 30,000 ’ i8 > Bj4 Hu.OUO
Mar., ’O7 61,945 55,000 „ , I > roflt.
Sept., ’o7 65,786 50,000 r’fP 4 -’ 12 36,049 10,000
Mar., ’OB 12,256 30,000 48 4 6,861 20,01)0
Sept., ’oB 22,080 5,000 V l ,'’ ~ 37,481 2u,000
Mar., 'O9 39,284 10,00( • ylar -’ 14 17 >467 30,000
Sept., 'o9 28,844 20,001 l oss
Mar.,’lo 3,422 20,00 Sept., ’l4 4,692 19 500
Sept., ’lo 15,243 15,0(0 Alar., ’l5 16 846 \,l
Mar., ’ll 28,991 10,00< Sept., ’l5 9892 Nil
Sept., ’ll 11,479 10,00 Mar., ’l6 4,’luf \il
Poor old Block 10 has lately been so much
in the habit of winding up on the wrong
side that, though, taking no account of depre-
ciation, it made a’ profit of £155 last half-
year, the directors’ report says that there
was a net loss of that amount. The sohi
written off for depreciation is £4262; so the
final result is the loss of £4107 shown above.
Block 10 is next-door to the B. H. p r0 p„
of which it was formerly part; and it was
in the B. 11. Prop, that the Broken Hill
lode, which is in the form of an inverted A',
came to the surface. Therefore, both there
and in Block 10 the owners got at once on
to rich ore ; so also they passed through it
first. On the other hand, the more remote
mines, like the South and the North, were
for years struggling propositions, whereas
now they are in the midst of affluence.
Being very near the end of its ore re-
sources Block 10 was not invited into Asso-
ciated Smelters, Ltd., the more or less co-
operative concern which recently took over
the B. 11. Prop.’s smelting works. Hence
it wasn’t able to get concentrates treated
when the war closed the European markets;
but as the smelter capacity Las now been
enlarged a conti act has been made with the
Associated Smelters, ancl both the mine and
the mill have been restarted. It is impos-
sible to say how long they can keep going—
it is wonderful how yon can potter
about in these big mines picking up scraps
of ore here and there. Twelve months ago
the reserves were said to be 229,000 tons, and
that was where they stood 12 months pre-
viously, though 38,000 tons had been beaten
out in the interval. But there isn’t much
profit in rummaging for sulphides in a
worked-out mine under ordinary market
conditions ; so Block 10 has been exploring
a property at Misima (New Guinea). Gen-
eral-manager O. B. Ward says the results
have been satisfactory:—
The shaft is now down 141 ft., and a plat is being
cut for No. 2 level. The exercising of the option
is dependent on results obtained at this level. Should
values and widths be equal to those obtained in
levels and tunnels- above, the property will be an
attractive one.
Meantime the money spent on the properties
under option is being treated as an asset:
six months ago it was £4853, and now it is
£974(3. The co. has still £52,443 of liquid
assets in excess of liabilities.
Broken Hill Junction North Silvbii
Mining Co., now the Junction North Broken
llill Mines :
Written
Profit. Dividend. Off. Reserves.
Mar., 1909. . £11,024 Nil £3,618 £6,770
SepC., 1909.. 16,821 Nil 7,589 16,002
Mar., 1910.. 20,357 Nil 7,840 28,519
SeM, 1910.. 7,620 £9,000 8,098 19,041
Mar., 1911.. 34,094 18,000 7,957 27,148
Sept.. 1911.. 37,174 18,000 12,308 34.014
Mar., 1912.. 16,391 9,000 5,281 30,124
Reserves wiped out; new co. formed.
Sept., 1912.. 36,828 Nil 22,254 14,574
Loss.
Mar., 1913.. 5,744 Nil 2,928 5,902
Profit.
Sept., 1913.. 22,114 Nil 6,338 21,678
Mar., 1914.. 6,121 Nil 3.5,8 24,221
Sept., 1914.. 7,633 Nil 3,839 28,015
Mar., 1915.. 18,120 Nil 9 - B ® a
Sept., 1915.. 7,602 Nil 2 - 2 ? 8
Deficit.
Mar., 1915.. 8,974 Nil 7,117 13,798
This co., which has fallen farther short of its
own promises than any other concern at
Broken Hill, has had a turn of luck. Its l
mine being almost exhausted, it decided
to become a treatment co., and bought a large
quantity of slimes, hoping to reduce them
by the new “selective” flotation method an
extension of the oil and acid process in
common use. Then the war intervened, and
nobody wanted that grade of concentrates
which can be produced from refractory
slimes. 8o things went on until a few
weeks ago, when the output of zinc concen-
trates until April 30, 1017. was sold to
Japan. There was also a stack of lead con-
centrates- —about 1300 tons —and these the
Associated Smelters have taken off Junction
North’s hands. The arrangement (if any
for the future is obscure: the directors sa' •
“We are arranging for the treatment oi
sale of our lead concentrate from slime,
while general-manager Palmer says in an un-
dated report: “Associated Smelters will----
take a portion of our future output as soon
as we are able to commence deliveries. Ine
quantity to be taken will gradually
as smelting capacity is added to. , u '"
the Junction North ought to be able <>
make a profit out of metals at presen
prices. What will happen when the bottom
falls out of the markets after the war this
paper doesn’t know. But it seems quite
safe, on the experiences of past -J
years, to say that the Junction North wui
be making a loss while two-thirds of the
others are still able to show a profit. I* ie


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
33 to 39 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY
and EFFICIENT
MANAGEMENT
can best be obtained by the
appointment of this Company as
Trustee, Executor or
Administrator, etc.
LOW CHARGES.
Trust Funds now under the Company’s
Control exceed £12,500,000.
BOOKLET ON APPLICATION
R. COPLAND LETIIBRIDOE, Manager.
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
America, to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Mondav morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
1/6
Gt. Britain .. 3/-
/ 9d. (minimum
\ 15/-, 20 words)
New Zealand.. 4id.
Canada .. 2/4
1/2
7d. (minimum
11/8,20 words)
..2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
U.5.A...
/ 7d. (minimum
: \ 11/8,20 words)
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations may be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street. Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St., Melbourne. Tel. 2588.
J MILWARD, Manager in the Pacific,
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
insure in
*« 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Capital £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up 82,500
ACENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE', General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
“If you would eat the kernel you must crack the
nut,” is an old proverb and a true one. When
you’ve proved it then you know. If you would
know the supreme merit of “Chromol” belting you
should use it on your power plants. This mineral-
tanned belting is used exclusively on many of the
most important drives in the largest mining plants
of the Commonwealth. It has proved itself a
durable, pliable power transmitter that resists heat
and damp and does not readily deteriorate.
“Chromol” cuts out waste power and is a profit-
earner. J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., “Pioneer
Leather Works,” 117 York Street, Sydney (opp.
Q. Y. Markets). Inter-State agents: Victoria: Geo.
Russell P’t’y Ltd., FTinders Street, Melbourne;
South Australia: J. McKell, Timpson Street, Port
Adelaide; West Australia: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth; Queensland: Queensland
Machinery Co., Ltd., Brisbane; Broken Hill: Geo.
Dempsey, Argent Street. — Advt.
* * * *
It has been demonstrated again and again that the
British-made Mazda lamp has no equal. Like good
Australian sunlight its rays are soft and pleasing,
making your home and office cheerful and inviting.
Other lamps are an extravagance. Be saving; be
patriotic. Instal the Mazda, which is a wonderful
lamp, and is British made.— Advt.
ALUMINOFERRIC is used by the Sydney Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards and graziers
for precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is simply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours’
time the most discolored water will be as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless.
Sole agents: William Adams & Company Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth. — Advt.
* * + *
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Hecla
Mining Co. that grinding is r.ot such a difficult
problem; they have installed 64 of them, and say
“The Hardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
sole representatives for them in the Commonwealth,
and will be glad to forward particulars.— Advt. [1
Extract from The Citizen, London, dated 15th Sep-
tember, 1915: “Colonial Mutual Life Office. —Whilst
each year 1 lings evidence of the flourishing condition
and unin’f rrupted development of the society, the
report for 1914 is, one may safely say, as interesting
and impcitaut as has yet been presented by the
managi :r. In all its aspects it is really ex-
cellent.”— Advt. [3
“Pioneer” Wood Stave Pipe lasts indefinitely, and
the sole condition to ensure durability is that . the
pipe shall be kept saturated. In addition Wood Pipe
is the most economical pressure pipe obtainable.
Catalogue from The Australian Wood Pipe Co. Ltd.,
57 York Street, Sydney. (Contractors to all State
Governments.) — Advt.
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
In addition to making Wrought Iron, Steel and
Cast-Iron Pipes, Messrs, Mephan Ferguson Proprie-
tary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description.— Advt.
The celebrated “Leplastrier” road-graders are most
suitable for Australian conditions. Prices range
from £25 upw T ards. Full particulars from the Aus-
tralian Machinery Co. Ltd., Charlotte Street, Bris-
bane. — Advt.
Vislok is a single, self-contained lock nut, consist-
ing of two sections hydraulically forced together.
Vislok has a solid, continuous thread throughout, and
when locked gives a regular and positive hold on the
thread of the bolt. Vislok is so constructed that the
energy of the working load and vibratory force
exerted upon it tend to increase the locking action.
Vislok can be used as an ordinary nut, and is easily
applied in confined spaces. Vislok will not injure
the bolt-thread, and is quickly locked or unlocked
with an ordinary spanner. At the present time
Vislok is proving its usefulness on the Government.
Railways and at the Cockatoo and the Naval Dock.
Yards/ Agents: B. J. Ball, Limited, Sydney and:
Brisbane; Elder, Smith and Co., Melbourne and!
Adelaide; Elder, Shenton and Co., Fremantle and!
Perth; Colin J. Shields, Launceston. — Advt.
* * * *
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.— Advt. *
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Silberberg & Co.. Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney;
and 443 Bourke Street. Melbourne. — Advt.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£545,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,351 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 81,500 0 0
£782.611 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man. : Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Gannon Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World,
financial position continues weak. There is a
snrnlus of £97,188 of “floating assets”
Sets £136,858; liabilities £39,670); but
£O6 519 represents concentrates on the
floors £86,771 slimes purchased hut not yet
treated, and £10,051 stores.
,\.t the meeting the chairman made
matters with regard to the smelting contract
‘little clearer. The co. has arranged “for
the disposal of 250 tons per week [of lead
concentrates 1 over a period of .»(> years,
commencing almost at once, and gradually
increasing to the full production of 750 tons
oer week.” Now all that the co. has to do
is to find the ore to make the concentrates.
Counting in all there is in the mine and
the slimes in the dumps, it can’t see ahead
beyond seven years.
B. H. Block 14 is a wonder. Ten years
ago it was all hut worked out: there was
just a bit of picking to he done hero and
there. It has been picking ever since, and
last half-year made a profit of £10,874. The
fact is, iii the early days they were in such
a tremendous hurry that they couldn’t be
bothered with trifles; they wanted to get
down. And when they got down they wished
they hadn’t, because the sulphides soon cut
out. The pot has been kept boiling since
by rooting out carbonates —rich, easily-
smelted ore for which there is alv-eys a
demand. What sulphides there are in the
mine have been left practically untouched,
because it didn’t look as though there was
enough to justify the erection of an expen-
sive mill. But “in view,” the directors
say, “of the satisfactory prices of metals
the'question of resuming the mining of sul-
phide ore is having close attention, and it
is hoped that an arrangement may be pos-
sible for the concentration of the ore by
some other co. on joint account.” The
Junction North is handy. The co. paid
£l5OO to prefs. and £5OOO to prefs. and ordi-
naries during the half-year, and still has a
nice little £02,997 in excess of liabilities.
The assets are very liquid ; and the liabili-
ties are only a few hundreds. The co. for
some years chased around for a new mine,
but after a disheartening experience at
Torrington (N.S.W.) seems to have given
up the hunt.
Following the lead of the old Continental
Spelter Combine the Commonwealth Govern-
ment has successfully promoted the Zinc Pro-
ducers’ Association to handle practically the
entire output of Australian zinc concen-
trates. The present idea is to smelt 40 p.o.
in Australia and 60 p.c. in England, with a
proviso that the output in excess of the
capacity of the Australian and English
works shall go to Belgian and French
smelters. But that won’t solve the pro-
blem. Costs will do that. If we go into the
world’s market with our metal we must, in
order to get the trade, be able to put the
stuff there cheaper than our competitors.
If on the other hand, we aim only at
supplying our own and the Allies’ markets,
then there must be a Customs duty to keep
the foreign metal out, or an equivalent
bounty.
The C.S.A., Cobar (N.S.W.), is raising
a few tons of 40 p.c. to 50 p.c. lead ore
from the 457 ft. level and a winze. It is also
raising fairly large quantities of first-grade
and second-grade copper ore from a zone of
secondary enrichment above the 500 ft. level.
During the fortnight the mine produced 70
tons of first-grade and 264 tons of second-
grade, and is shipping rather larger quanti-
ties than usual to smelters. Reserves have
been recently calculated at 150,000 tons of
7 p.c. ore, and compared with that the pre-
sent output is trifling.
Plucky, unlucky little Mt. David, the
most persistent gold-miner in N. S. Wales,
is at last knocked down on its knees, and is
begging the Warden to give it nine seconds’'
rest from labor conditions.
* * * *
Edna May Deeps is down 425 ft., and sink-
ing is slow—the management feeling very
carefully for the heavy burst of water which
will arrive sooner or later. A plat has been
excavated at 405 ft. from the surface, and the
management announces that a crosscut has
been extended from it for a distance of sft.
If it is intended to crosscut for the reef at
this depth the co. is entering upon a, most
interesting programme. From the history of
the bores it is apparent that there is very
slight hope of the reef being located in the
Deeps at so shallow a depth as 405 ft. Then
there is the water problem to be considered ;
and in view of Edna May’s experience it
seems certain that Deeps will be flooded out
before a ton of ore is made available for
treatment There is also the theory that it
was the Edna May hanging wall reef, or
some even less important ore body, that
the Deeps bore disclosed. The 10-head mill
is approaching completion, and no doubt the
plant is intended to deal with ore reserves
which may be discernible by the management,
but are certainly not visible to the eye of
others. Anyone who' considers the present
outlook for Deeps a pleasing one is an
optimist in a class all by himself.
A bomb has landed in the midst of the
tidna May Central management, which has
lately been all smiles because its affluent
neighbor, the Edna May, by draining its
own property, performed a similar service
for Central. Now Central is said to have
heard whisperings that its benefactor is at
work calculating the proportion of exes,
it should charge its neighbor. Several Cen-
tral barrackers have hastened round to
ascertain the legal position, but about all
they have been able to discover ,is that most
verdicts in past mine-drainage compensation
cases have been retrospective.
* * * *
Managerial explanation of Edna May Cen-
tral’s poor return for April:—■
When opened up at the 75ft. level the ore body
varied greatly in width, and for the first few feet of
driving values ranged from 17dwt. to 20dwt, per ton.
Both the south and east faces of the boomerang-
shaped ore body became poor owing to a large per-
centage of valueless kaolin characteristic of the
Central and experienced to some extent also in the
Edna May. It was impossible to separate the mul-
lock from the quartz, and everything was put through
the batterj'.
Well, in the name of honest mining, why
wasn’t this reported at the time?
* * * *
A clamor for a Royal Commission has
been raised in Perth by some of the victims
of the recent Westonia boom. There, is
grim humor in the proposal that a Commis-
sion should discover what has become of
the one-, two-, three- and four-oz. ore men-
tioned in the official despatches of the Edna
May Central, and the whereabouts of the
valuable veins of quartz alleged to have been
exposed in the Consolidated and neighboring
blocks.
For some time past the Lake View and
Star has been worked at a loss, and the result
of the first month’s run of the reorganised
treatment plant isn’t brilliant. Revenue
amounted to £15,162, but expenditure (inclu-
sive of development £930 and capital £743)
exceeded that figure by £1351. When the
mill is working at its full capacity a better
showing is predicted, but the co. is never
likely to equal its past performances as a
div. payer.
* * * *
The Augusta (W.A.) is to be sold, lock,
stock and barrel, in a week or so. Years
ago an English co., the Golden Rhine, got
some good returns from the show and then
gave it up. . Later on a local syndicate
took out some rich crushings, and believing
that it had Unearthed everything worth hav-
ing, sold out to the Angusta co. The latter
was always reporting good values, but some-
how the battery failed to keep pace with
the reports.
Black Range Pinnacles (W.A.) has got
nearly all its plant up or on the ground, and
expects to start crushing shortly. Practi-
cally the whole of the development done in
the property is at the 100 ft. level, where the
lode, which has been driven on for over
800 ft., is reckoned to have an average assay
value of 15dwt. The show is regarded
locally as a good thing.
Blair Athol colliery (Q.) made a net
profit for the half-year ended March 31 of
£3413. The output was 29,300 tons, so the
net profit per ton was about 2s. 4d.
MacDonald’s molybdenite show in N.Q.
is to be known as the Kitchener. Some 4000
tons of 3i p.c. molybdenite have been proved
in a 4Jft. lode over a length of 130 ft. In
the winze the lode is 6ft. wide, and gives 4
p.c. by assay. The flotation process with
oil is to be used to recover the molybdenite,
and the equipment is up to-date. The little
show is within a mile of the Etheridge rail-
way, so there will be no difficulty in mar-
keting the concentrates.
Gorella (Q.) resumed smelting on May
15, and every effort is to be made to buck it
up by vigorous development work. At the
Rosebud mine the 200 ft. level is to be con-
tinued to the south to pick up the shoot of
ore which at the 300 ft. level has for the
last 12ft. averaged 6 p.c. for a width of
48in. Reserves are limited, but the Rose-
bud is practically a self-fluxing proposition
producing ironstone and calcite, and with
copper at its present price lower grade ore
than usual can be made to pay.
Gympie (Q.), . crushing 9272 tons in
April, claims an average of 345. per ton.
The Scottish Gympie, though by far the
largest producer, is still very low grade,
recent extractions averaging hardly sdwt. per
ton. The North Smithfield has a large body
of crushing stuff above the 615 ft. level, and
the stone is carrying “fair gold.” No. 2 N.
Columbia Smithfield is collecting a few
specimens from a winze below the 1500 ft.
level.
Hampden Cloncurry (Q.) has been re-
porting low copper values from the Duchess
recently, so the development of a big make
of pyritic ore at the bottom level (300 ft.)
of the Trekelano is very opportune. The
south drive is in 57ft. and the last 10ft.
has been in heavy basic ore worth 8 p.c.
copper. A crosscut has still to prove the
full width of this ore body, which is showing
7ft. at the end of the drive, with no wall
disclosed on the western side. The April
smelting return was 096 tons copper, 2040 z.
gold and 59110 z. silver from 6,928 tons ore.
What looks like a big deposit of nearly
pure baryta, a mineral used in making white
“lead,” has been unearthed in the Frankford
district. (Tas.). A trial consignment of
five tons is alleged to have yielded 99 p.c.
of pure baryta, and 50 tons is now being
got out.
There’s a proposal on foot in Laun-
ceston (Tas.) to start again the Tas-
mania mine, at Beaconsfield, which closed
down last year after running since 1877.
The mine turned out over £3,000,000 worth
of gold (and incidentally paid £772,071 in
divs.) ; but while there was still plenty of
gold in it when it shut up (or so it is gener-
ally supposed) there was also a terrible lot
of water, and the cost of pumping took all
the gilt off the gingerbread. But there is an
idea that if hydro-electric power can be got
from the State scheme the cost may be
knocked down to about a quarter (some
optimistic persons talk about one-eighth) of
what it was with the steam plant; where-
fore there may be money in it still. It
depends a lot on what other demand there
may be for hydro-electric power in the
north of the Speck; a special transmission
line for the Tasmania mine isn’t likely.
* * * *
After a two years’ hunt for it Major
Dunn, a British Army officer turned pro-
spector, reckons he has found the “mother
lode” of the alluvial gold deposits in the
Lisle Valley (Tas.). It is a big dyke on
the northern slope of Mt. Arthur, from
which it is said that coarse gold can be
obtained. A Launceston syndicate has gone
into the show and proposes to spend a few
thousands in preliminary work.
* * * *
The success of a new process for convert-
ing Taranaki (M.L.) iron sand into pig
iron at a profitable price (the process is
the invention of two Melbourne men) is
said to be assured, and a plant capable of
turning out 200 tons of pig iron per week is
to be erected. The sand is mixed with coal-
dust and treated in coking ovens, and the
product is then ready for the blast furnace.
* * * *
Bradstreet, the prospector of Mount
Maroumba (Arnheim’s Land), is again mak-
ing for the wilds in Northern Queensland.
This time the lure is molybdenite. Though
a young man, “The Shadow” is already well
known, having made two trips right across
Australia and any number of shorter ones
in W.A., the Northern Territory and the
Peninsula (N.Q.).
A.W.8.: (1) This paper was never asked
to “withdraw and apologise” for what it
said about the Australian Amicable. It
wouldn’t have withdrawn one ivord if it
had been asked. > (2) If any canvasser is
obtaining people’s business on that repre-
sentation, or on the representation that
“those connected with the paper have since
tried to purchase shares and insure with
the company,” he is a rogue.
Last- year 28,314,539 tons of ore were
milled on the Rand for an approximate
return of 40 millions sterling. Working costs
mopped up £25,000,000 and shareholders
got nearly £8,000,000 of the balance. The
field now produces 40 p.c. of the world’s gold
output and 67 p.c. of the Empire’s produc-
tion. Colored labor employed totalled
211,000, and whites about 23,000. The
S’African Govt, has intimated that it wants
a bite of £500,000 in addition to usual taxes
on the industry this year. Of course, mine-
owners are grumbling, but all the satisfac-
tion they have got so far from Botha has
been a blunt request to pay up and look
pleasant.
* # * *
Plymouth Consolidated, the Californian
resurrection into which Loring and others
induced the Sons of Gwalia to put £250,000.
has issued another annual report. In all
129,500 tons were treated for an average
of 255. 7d. per ton. Three Is. divs. were
paid during the year, and another of the
same amount was declared a month ago.
Loring is acting as a sort of local director,
and may, it is whispered, sever his connec-
tion with 8., M. & Co. and remain there.
The flotation process is becoming a big
thing in U.S.A. In south-eastern Missouri
practically the whole output of 200,000 tons
of lead last year came from plants with
flotation equipments, and it is estimateu
that 17,000 tons were due to flotation alone.
The average lead recovery since flotation
processes came into vogue is 85 n.c., com-
pared with 77 p.c. before its adoption. And
it is now considered that very large sup-
plies of low-grade oxidised zinc ores can be
made payable by coating the stuff with a film
of -cofiper sulphide, done by treating it with
a dilute solution of copper sulphate, and
then capturing the zinc by flotation. This
looks like having a considerable bearing on
the future of the zinc market.
*"** * ‘ *
Philip Argali, the great mining engineer
and metallurgist of Colorado (U.S.A.), says
his biggest achievement was to introduce the
eight-hour working day into mills in his
State, in 1899, without asking his directors.
He' claims that he got better work and, in
time, a better class of workman, elevating
the workman, and lowering the costs. The
system the Australian miner has worked
under has had much to do with the fact
that he has for many years borne such a
high reputation in distant countries, which
always grab him as a man who is surpris-
ingly willing and competent to tackle any-
thing. Having had time to develop his
brains, he can use them in a manner sur-
prising to people accustomed to the unintelli-
gent products of long hours and short wages.
In no class of Workmen is initiative better
developed than in the Australian miner, and
especially the gold-miner —bad to drive and
good to lead ; quick to size up a boss who
tries to disguise his own incompetence by
nigger-driving and cheeseparing tactics;
quick to give even a disliked autocrat the
credit of being “a smart bloke at his work”
if he deserves it.


Under
Royal
Warrant
ToH.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE,
<-hampacn£
CharlesHeidsie#
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
A Good Corn
Remover.
Those who suffer from corns and hard skin
on the soles of the feet w'll find it a great
boon to apply a little Atla Resin to the corn,
which, when applied to the corn or hard skin,
and a little covering of cotton wool on the
the top to prevent it sticking to the stocking,
will remove the corn in a day or two. The
Atla Resin seems to act by getting thor-
oughly into complete contact with the corn,
and thus being able to penetrate it, and not
to act on the surface only. It is certainly
the latest cure for these troublesome and
painful structures, and, according to all re-
ports by those who have used it, one of the
best.* [2
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FESQ (Sb CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
SINCE 1679. SINCE 1679.
HAIG & HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A WOMAN'A
LETTER
Sydney, May 22, 1916.
My Dear Arini, —
The town is full of Anglican bishops. The
shepherds have come in from Outback runs
—where bishops are supposed to live in
their saddles—and from inter-State cities.
Adelaide sent Bishop Thomas —-and really
didn’t mind a bit. Bendigo’s contribution is
fine old ex-banker Langley, whose arch-
diaconal whiskers were once the joy of Syd-
ney’s Church Hill. With him is .the severe-
looking Pain of Gippsland, who also used
to expound the Word in Sydney— at St.
John’s, Darlinghurst. Riley of Perth and
Donaldson of Brisbane have been buckling
up their archgaiters under the Stricklands’
roof.
Sheila Loughborough (formerly Chis-
holm) and Mrs. Clive Dangar and her small
family, turned out of Egypt, went off to
England in the same boat as the ex-Indian
viceroy Hardinge. Bridegroom Lough-
borough accompanied his pretty Sheila, so
his valuable health is evidently not quite
restored. Clive Dangar was a major in
the Light Horse. Before the war he used
to adorn the 13th Hussars, but left the
dressy regiment when father Abby died. With
Mrs. H. Chisholm as fellow-voyagers (all
pyjama’d and buttressed with lifebelts) went
Kathie Osborne, Audrey Chirnside and Nor-
man Brookes. Most of the Australian
“Society” set have left Cairo. And “a good
job too,” says a lone Kangaroo who wants
to get on with his work.
The Sydney Needlework Guild, which dis-
tributes its goods amongst certain hospitals
and crowded tenements, paraded before the
Strickland lady at Government House dur-
ing the week. It works all the year round
by stealth, and when it is discovered it
flutters a list of presidents and vice-presi-
dents long enough to terrify any critic. The
company fell back on the refreshment-tables
after exhibiting its seams and gussets.
The modern Aide gets off lightly on these
occasions, and generally appears only at the
climax behind a plate of cakes. In former
years it was otherwise. When the then
Lady Mary Lygon ruled over the youthful
Beauchamp’s household, she was closely
attended at sewing shows by the polished
Victor Corkran, who used to blush behind
his silk hat on the intimate garments of
childhood being thrust under his aouiline
nose. Lady Rawson cut the silken thread
that bound an A.D.C. to Dorcas meetings,
and in Sydney he has been a free man ever
since.
“Jarvisfield” Antill is now Brigadier-
General, with the 3rd Light Horse to assist
him in his search for the enemy. After the
Gadlipoli gruelling the illimitable desert is
this smart soldier’s present lot. Or lately
was, No one—except the enemy—really
knows where any Light Horseman is just at
the moment.
That pluckiest of little women, Gertrude
Tait (now Lewis), had a few hurried days
of packing-up last week, and then carried
baby up the plank of the Osterley. Father,
who had been ordered off to Gallipoli before
the infant was born, has since been sent on
to France; and there is going to be a
great, exciting time during a promised fur-
lough. He is one of the big, tough men
whom the Northern Territory has sent to
the Front; she is the astonishing little
woman who became matron of the polyglot
Thursday Island Hospital when she was
hardly more than a girl, and afterwards, as
superintending nurse to the Papuan Govern-
ment, dealt single-handed with the awful
outbreak of dysentery among the natives
and others at the Lakekamu gold rush. No
white woman had ever been to the awful
place before ; I doubt whether another has
been there since.
. But if there’s a bright time ahead there
is_ a dark cloud behind Mrs. Lewis. A fort-
night ago she helped to bury Lieut. Tait, her
brother—a son of old Archdeacon Tait, for
so lopg of Parkes. The fine youngster, who
was in the Dental Corps, had the misfor-
tune to strike a camp suffering from an
epidemic of virulent tonsilitis. He con-
tracted it, and literally bled to death after
a . slight operation, in circumstances which
simply shriek for a thorough inquiry.
Genial Bobby Luckham, whose smile had
f° r 30 . years warmed The Bulletin’s
advertising department, slipped quietly into
eternity, by the long, familiar wash of
Manly seas, on Sunday morning. “Died in
his sleep” was the easy manner of his leav-
ing. There are none of his kith in Aus-
tralia, but there are two sisters in England.
And until a couple of years ago there was a
venerable father—Bobby himself was 57 —
with whom a dutiful son had a habit of
eating Christmas dinners, though it was
more than a tram-ride there and back.
Rider Haggard drops in for a day this
week on his way to Maoriland. He has
been in Westralia considering the poison-
plant how it grmvs.
At last the Tom Dibbs gift home, beauti-
ful old Graythwaite, is to get into business,
with a full house. It has been more or less
empty since it was opened with a flourish
in the summer. The V.A.D. can’t wield
the same authority as a trained Nightin-
gale. So the latter treasure is now being
searched for.
The Youngsters’ Exhibition was opened
by Governor Strickland to the accompani-
ment of an interminable list of Gnashional
Anthems. Some mercy really ought to be
shown to the old folks. They are expected
to stand to the bitter end even if they faint
away at the finish.
The Exhibition itself was admirably man-
aged. It was the genuine drama of the
Child. Many of the youngsters came from
the Free Kindergartens of crowded city
areas, and went through their “demonstra-
tions” as artlessly as if they were playing
round the home doorstep. The Alexandra
Hospital “exhibits” were attended bv Night-
ingales. The little invalids remained calm
while the public harried their guardians with
questions sacred and profane. John Mackay,
who presides at Kindergarten meetings,
shadowed the infant hair-bows every day.
The “comforter” was one of the thrills
of the pictorial section. The microbes in
attendance were quite as large as bumble
bees.
The concert in aid of the sth Artillery
Brigade and the A.M.C. comforts fund was
a surging success, in which the holders of
unreserved tickets were prepared to engage
the haughty reserved seats in mortal combat.
Elderly citizenesses pleaded for half a step
to sit on, and perched on the stairs that
climb to the Conservatorium gallery. Mrs.
Herbert Maitland, Mrs. George Lane Mul-
lins and Miss A. C. Cook organised the
show, and Gertrude Palmer arranged the
programme. Society preened its plumage,
which has rather moulted since the war, in
something like its old decolletd form.
The Conservatorium, with its sheltei-less
front patch, is a cold proposition when
sudden storms meet the crowd that pours
out after a show. The other night dam-
sels in thin slippers had to patter over
flooded paths, and stout citizens unpre-
pared for rain splashed through the open
to the distant tram.
Still another
Kindergarten lady
who has been
pushing the
Kiddies’ Exhibi-
tion—the vivaci-
ous and youthful-
looking Principal
of the Sydney Kin-
dergarten Train-
ing College—Miss
Harriet Dumolo.
Passing through
the education mill
Miss Dumolo,
after some train-
ing, went to New-
castle to direct the
Free Kindergarten
there. At that
time it was largely
financed by Mrs. Essie Jenyns Wood.
Later, the Union recognised the Syd-
ney woman’s special gifts as a teacher,
and sent her to Europe for about two years.
After picking up Froebel crumbs here and
there she took up the serious duties of
school marm in the Kindergarten College—
once the home of John Rae, who built it in
the davs when Darlinghurst was considered
“the bush.”
Sydney’s jumping-jack comedian W.
S. Percy, lives of late at West Hampstead.
Rehearsing to himself his part, and mutter-
ing unconsciously something about being a
spy, he found that the tube passengers were
concentratin? their attention on his move-
ments. Now, he says, he chooses a more
retired spot for his memorising—Hampstead
cemetery, for instance. It recalls another
story of a Colonel who left with a consider-
able knowledge of nearly everything except
soldiering. Luckily he had a first-class
adjutant, upon whose mercy he threw himself.
Before any parade the crowd used to watch
the colonel and the adjutant in deep consul-
tation. Then for the next 10 minutes the
colonel would march to and fro repeating
his lesson: “Advance in column of sub-
sections, advance in column of sub-sections,
advance in column of sub-sections. Advance
in battery column, advance in battery col-
umn, advance in battery column.” I sup-
pose they’ll give him the V.C. for it.
In St. James’s Church, Margaret Middle-
ton, daughter of G. Middleton, of Bondi,
promised to love, honor and (in moderation)
obey Lieut. Harold Le Gay Holthouse. The
petite bride, who came up to her tall sol-
dier’s shoulder, was in foam white, with
layers of tulle in excelsis, edged with silver
gauze. A tulle veil encrusted with seed
pearls fell over her dark hair. Bridesmaids
Marie Middleton and Ruth Holthouse wore
evening frocks of azure blue, garlanded with
pink posies. (No getting away from that
dash of pink!) Instead of mere hats, the
bridesmaidens put their heads into long pink
tulle veils, with a picturesque Smile of Asia
effect.
The Evening Sun (Noo Yark) gives
itself elbow room in an interview with the
Australian artist, Mrs. Montagu Marks. The
Royal Miniature Society of England-—a
haughty body which only sometimes opens
its doors to strangers —has elected Stella
Marks a member. A portrait of Marjorie
Williamson, eldest daughter of J.C., is
from her brush. By way of introducing an
Australian artist of note to its readers the
Murkan begins thus : —•
When you think of Australia, does your mind’s
eye conjure up visions of endless sheep ranches, and
innumerable black sheep, younger sons of English
families, or do you think of Art?
They really do say nice things about us in
N’York !
The news that Elsie Greene, eldest
daughter of the late George Greene, of lan-
dra, is engaged, comes through this week.
The Greenes migrated to England some
time ago, braving the rigors of the absentee
tax. Since the war Elsie has been here
and there, making soup in soldiers’ can-
teens, and flitting from England to France
on war work. Possibly that’s where she
met her fate, Colonel Kelly, who has been
fighting side by side with Papa Joffre’s gal-
lant lot.
This year the Uni. Undergrad, let himself
go in a very mild way as host at a garden
party. Afternoon tea was handed round in
the great stone sarcophagus, where the
pictures of dead-and-gone Chancellors peer
through the gloom from the walls. Gov-
ernor Strickland with his Eldest Treasure
and Aide Firth got in early, but the august
Uni. crowd was ready to welcome them. In
the evening some of the grads, let them-
selves go a bit more. Good old dad will
pay the bill as usual.
F. M. Lindley, 114 a Pitt-street, is pre-
pared to take the name and address of vol-
unteer workers for War Chest Day. The
rally is dated June 30.
The Indian summer we call winter has
hit the furrier’s business fairly hard. Only,
fairly. In spite of golden days of languor-
ous warmth, when the domestic cat basks
on the back wall, there are female Stoics
who wear fur coats and carry muffs. The
cold snap before Easter saved the fashion-
able tailor from despair. So things are not
so bad as.they. might be, in spite of the war
and the lingering summer.
Magpie plumage is promised for the
spring. It’s a thrifty device, for everyone
has something black and something white to
toss together. Only let us pray there won’t
be a revival of the pre-war craze for even-
ing wear, one half of the lady being uphol-
stered in white, while the other half turns
inkily to the astounded spectator.
Infant prodigies gathered together the
other afternoon to take their Conserva-
torium prizes, given by the brothers Grace.
The admiring crowd of friends and relatives,
to say nothing of infant sisters who took
piano solos in bad part, filled the concert
room at Broadway. A tot named Phyllis
McDonald, all violin and brown windmill
hairbows, won the gold medal in the fiddle
section. I recall the bowing of this young-
ster chiefly as the episode of a small
dimpled arm. T. J. Gibb, a boy tenor-
winner of two gold medals—piped sweetly of
“Angels ever bright and fair.” The juvenile
winner of the piano scholarship, Ada Brook,
was another pleasing circumstance. Regis-
trar Warwick handed over the trophies on
behalf of Yerbrugghen.
The Domain Soldiers’ Buffet has had its
measurements published. The news that its
counter is 45ft. long will help the by-law
which tells ladv assistants that they must
remain inside the »ervery. The Ameliora-
tion Committee having months ago chris-
tened its show the Anzac Buffet,
there’ll be switches on the green if the
Domain contingent insists on duplicating
the hard-worked name.
After a long illness, Mrs. Montagu
Rothery closed her tired eyes the other day.
The frail old gentleman who survives used
to be the chief pillar in the tabernacle of the
Society for the Protection of Animals, and
is still a battler for the preservation of wild
life in our bushlands.
Archgaiters Donaldson, after sheltering a
while under the vice-regal roof, moved on
to the Onslows’ house at Camden. In the
big dairy manor they have a room specially
set apart for bishops, where nn in . .
ever kicks off his unsanctified Vl S ‘tOl,
i ■^, sc 5 u ' t< M by Fred E. Carr, son of a \r •<.
land bank manager, Ida Phillis * a ait "
of Dubbo, and lately of feafyKMHhfir m 5 l5 ‘
the usual pilgrimage to St. Mark’s‘al?
Darling Point. White and pink hi '
decked the church The bridal finery w a ? S
foam of white tulle with a faint w u S a
pale pink in the court train Rn<m USh • of
Nora and Kitty Phillips and Grade Tin
did their duty in sky-blue silk, with in ■
evitable dash of pale. Raven millSerj Z*
the climax. Second-best man wa« tl ?
Doyle, of West Maitland. A hundred
friends and relatives munched the cake %
the Australia. e at
Miss Ellen
Desailly, whos!
picture I send you,
is the general "sec-
retary of the Kin-
dergarten Union,
which has been
the impetus behind
the recent Chil-
dren s Welfare
Exhibition in
the Town Hall.
Miss Desailly, most
tactful of women,
is the gentle breeze
that blows the
clouds away if
ever they loom up
on the committee’s
horizons. A daugh-
ter of the latp
George Desailly, who once owned Moss
giel station out west, she was a small
child when the family drove away from the
old homestead. Ruined by a drought thev
were drenched by the sudden breaking of it
as they reached the last sliprails.
Under the stimulus of sock competitions
many a woman knits her best. If the
referees are occasionally buffeted by unsuc-
cessful candidates—well, football ‘umpires
can extend their sympathy. Now, the
French Australian League of Help comes
along with its carnival. Prizes for the best
heeled and toed specimens will be adjudi-
cated for on French National Dav. Even
the lift that shoots up to the Macdonell
House eyrie is placarded with details as to
the length of leg that must meet the judge’s
eye on July 14.
Mrs. George Black—who goes to Eng-
land to see a doctor —was sped on her way
by the usual Australia tea party. Wishes
for her safe voyage and other expressions
of good-will were voiced by Mrs. Holman.
Chief Secretary Black had hoped to go too;
but clouds blew up, and he stays here to
help his friend Holman out of the troubles
that that young man is bound to fall or
wriggle into.
Mrs. Henry Solomon’s friends mourned
for her on May 10. Tireless in Good Works
in her younger days, the kind old lady leaves
a sheaf of pleasant memories behind, and
stalwart sons who have done their bit at the
Front.
Dr. Lucy Gullett and Miss Constance
Carson have gone to England after doing
war-time work in Egypt.
Director Le Souef won’t march the
animals two by two from their old ark in
Moore Park to the new one at Bradley’s
Head until the rigors of the winter are over.
The Works Department could have the
attractive place ready by July; but so many
of Le Souef’s pets have an objection to new
houses that they won’t venture into them
for months, perhaps ; and while they insist on
sleeping out the only thing to be done is to
either provide them with umbrellas or wait
till the summer is setting in. It will be
September, therefore, before the key is for-
mally turned. Meantime the population of
the monkey and bird departments in the
new premises is growing steadily. They
don’t mind new quarters.
The North Sydney Comedy Club plays
“The New Boy” for the No. 1 Pack Wire-
less Signal Troop fund in the Repertory
Theatre on May 27 and 29.
The infant citizen is at last getting his
share of public attention, a great war hav-
ing sent un his value about 50 per cent.
Two new clinics, where efforts will be made
to instruct mother in the right manner of
feeding the aforesaid citizen, will be opened
shortly. Mrs. George Black sets the Chip-
pendale house in order on May 25.
Have you noticed how early- Victorian the
1916 girl is? Instead of sandal shoes she
wears high boots, but the spats give the
white stockinged effect of the days of sylla-
bub and croquet. Small round hats, of the
pork-pie species, wide skirts and capes
flapping in the wind frock the Girl of the
Moment. But so long as she stops short
of crinolines the tramway people won’t have
to alter any by-laws.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


"CHUNDF.P” TAKES A TRIP nOJVIE.
At the War.
o
S5A<
IN
w,
c ,
4T
m?.
Cl
v.f
'
m
&
7.
6.
•••■.■•
*y
K A,
ii?'
;7r
A
iT
PS?
W
is?* 1
.dSr.tE
Sf.W,'
'7
-aft
..;- .-..V
figs
S-SSS
»i®iS
*2»'
25?
> •^y??t»‘ss i SS>
vOW
sV«
ik
si
NTvv
p
yf S*^ ;
: ' v#
is
7
?V- ;
Ss©l
ftCtflSf
■v
is
A
>
M
ifSi
• i
«—•
i#s
«***^
i
-■r
..s,
SM
>a •'■r,
f 13mw
<*!*»©
/Vv
.«!
).1i-
It
Of
A ;
i
JX'AtJ
ti
& 4
■
M
?
I /^liP-
■Wv*
KTiffl
W-
iMMu
•\s
s&g
H-*!'
'W
V
«8
7m
its*
m
msm
■ J-JtmS&V:
CSstSlm
»»> >'
•• ‘. 1
/A
M
mm
■L
.m
•^r
>M
fcllVy V V'A W
XA
TliSfr'
<>■:/.
it?'.
'|VkwS<
'O'O'’'' ..''A--
A 7// -;. ...
i s A'■■*;• }? K'V 'WV..C-^-
glgf ■?’■'
V >i%*jFTi; r.- . ...-■'•v ~
.- ._.. Vy.y x>-
-•.j.’ ©.i
v
#7
•*" y;' :> s?''' 'if' -0
WMitk
m
mmv*
A?
mz
y:?
.
r^vv
Js^tr
M
•::f>
'4--5: A
I’
A-y
#l3
t. f**4. T>J
«ks
• O r*4
Cobra,” B/ie Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Keeps the soldiers
Coiner. You
Ought to see him
Gaily swing
That big bag
Around the ring.
Ev’ry man must
Watch and jump,
Or his ankles
Get a bump.
So that each mav
J
Do his bit,
“COBRA” trains
Keeps them tit.


GIVI
THE BEST SERVICE
OST OF MOTORING
rO€ REDUCE THE UPKEEP OF
YOUR CAR WHEN “ DUNUOPS ”
ARE FITTED. THEY COST LESS
TO BUY, AND HUN FURTHER.
THEY ARE AUSTRALIAN MADE.
PLEASURES OF MOTORING.
HIGH-GRADE TYRES MEAN AX
ABSENCE OF THOSE ANNOYING
ROADSIDE TROUBLES AND
DELAYS THAT* ROB TOURING OF
HALF ITS ATTRACTIONS.
"DUNLOPS” ARE THE HIGHEST
GRADE MADE : : : : :s :!
GIVE THE BEST
Farmer’s Headwear reflects the accepted trend
in English and American styles. The values and
qualities, as always, are unmatchable.
The Quality Hat costs but little more than
the inferior kind in the first instance, but lasts
twice as long and gives good service long after
the price has been forgotten.
This stylish Felt is an example. Comes in
smart city shapes, brims 2Jin. and 2§in. wide,
bows at back or side, cut or turn-over edges.
Colors: Slate, Grey, Black, Fawn and Brown.
Price I Olf\
ax illustrated. * "*i
Others at 14/6 and 16/6.
Stetson’s, this shape, 39/6.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
FARMER'S—SYDNEY,
Pitt, Market and George Streets.
The Marvellous Contrivance
that makes it possible to dis-
pense with buttons, hooks and
eyes and press-studs in men’s and
women’s garments. One simple
movement and the garment is
opened or closed.
The World has been Wait-
ing for the Hookless
Fastener.
It saves time, trouble and tem-
per. Is fixed in a few minutes,
and is indestructible.
Ask to see it at your draper's
ot tailor’s.
The Hookless Fastener Co.
Elizabeth House, (Australasia),
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
AUSTRALASIAN MOTORISTS
'when you fit “duneops,” TOC
SUPPORT EOCAE INDUSTRY—
KEEP TOUR MONEY IN YOUR OWN
COENTRY—WITHOUT SACRIFICING
QUALITY AND SERVICE. ALWAYS
SPECIFY “dUNEOPS.” IT PAYS!
OBTAINABLE ALL GARAGES.
DUNLOP?
GIVE THE BEST SERVICE
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Alelbourne, Alay 22, 1016.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Alalvern shed a farewell tear last week on
the heroic shoulder of General AlcNicoll,
D.S.O. The shedding happened at the mia-
mia of Airs. Leon Jona and her A.AI.C.
captain. AlcNicoll’s peace-time profession
was chiefly represented bv the weighty
Adamson, of Wesley, who is nowadays equal
to any other two school principals. Alel-
bourne’s Alayoress Hennessy and Aiayor
Weller (Alalvern) and his wife each con-
tributed a parting sigh. Alajor Dunhill, of
the A.AI.C., called in for a few minutes to
see that the General's temperature was in
the right place; and a tea oblation was
poured by Airs. John Alonasli, who also has
a General husband, by Airs. Presently-Pre-
mier Hagelthorn and Mrs. Rogers Thomson,
and by Airs. Norris, hack from seeing her
Dr. commence drawing his salary at the
Rockefeller Institute.
At beautiful Hethersett, Dr. Ramsay
Alailer’s voluntary hospital at Burwood,
miracles have been worked since it was
opened a few months ago—mostly with
massage. Sergeant-major Alullens came
there from Gallipoli partially paralysed. Now
he is a recruiting-sergeant, and very forceful
on the platform. Alassage did it. The capa-
city of the hospital is 28 soldiers, and usually
there is a full houjse. It has a billiard-room,
a croquet-lawn and golf-links, and a lot of
lesser nerve-restorers. Dr. Aleares attends
daily to bestow his blessing ; nerve-specialist
Alailer gives a large share of his time; and
there is a staff of girl-volunteers under Sis-
ter Alice Rowand, who gained her best
experience among the miners and other
hard-doers at the Ovens district hospital.
Altogether, as an establishment financed
entirely out of a few private purses, Hether-
sett is the sort of enterprise which deserves
all the encouragement it gets.
Honorary Lieut.-Colonel Norman Brookes
is now “somewhere in France” with the
rest of the boys. When Red Cross affairs
in Egypt had been more or less set in
order, Normal! went to England to give a
hand in straightening up Australian Red
Cross matters there. That job attended to
he crossed the Channel and is doing the
same thing all over again. Airs. Brookes
parted with her husband in Egypt, just
before he sailed for London, and recently
came back to stay with mamma Emmerton
at South Yarra. As soon as an expected
cable arrives she is going to hop off again,
this time to the scene of action in France,
or as close as may be.
The soldier son of Commercial Bank
manager Heron has come back from Egypt
after losing an eye. He is not down-hearted
about that, but would feel more cheerful if
he could see an early chance of getting
back to the riot in some capacity. Before
Armageddon he plied a pen in Dalgety’s. But
what soldier wants a pen when the guns
are still muttering?
Louis Foulet, the youthful oil-painter who
tore back to France and a Lebel rifle when
the Huns broke in, has been wounded a
second time in the leg—very badly. Louis had
a habit of winning medals for painting and
swimming, and now he possesses also the
French Alilitary Cross. He hopes to hobble
back here when the Hogs go home.
Widow Ross-Soden’s son Gordon been
dealt a commission in the British Flying
Corps.
Alajor AValter Berry’s wife farewelled her
husband on the way to his troopship, then
took the first boat for Canada to look in
upon her relatives ere she offers herself as
an army nurse. Professionally, she was a
ministering angel in her pre-matrimonial
days.
The ninth nursing-sister to be married in
the Garrison Chapel at Abassia, Egypt,
Florence St. George Sproule, agreed on
Alarch 27 to take orders (according to the
law in such cases made and provided) from
Captain (hold your brea'th!) Walter Green
Ivor Frederick Steele Hewitt, of the 2nd
(N.S.AAh) Light Horse. She was attached
to the Ist Australian General Hospital, and
so is her uncle, Lieut. Col. W. E. Summons,
A.A.AI.C., who gave her away—discreetly.
The chapel in which the incantations were
made is part of the hospital building, so
everything was under one roof. Florence
bewitched beholders in a mess uniform of
grey silk. She is one of the clever Alel-
bourne family of which the beauteous A iva
St. George Sproule, M. 8., Ch.B. (“now,”
according to Aledical Register, “known
as Viva St. George Summons”), forms a
striking unit.
The able-footed Alelbourne young men
who advertise their absence from the war
by slithering fit the Glaciarium are now
doing so under appropriate conditions, the
color scheme of the electric lighting being
red, white and black.
Airs. Archibald Alenzies has trundled in
as her war contribution a Rolls-Royce car,
which, is to be shipped straight away to
the Front.
Arts and Crafts Aubrey Chomley and
the Fisken sisters are at the Chelsea Hos-
pital, London, teaching raffia-weaving and
knitting to wounded soldiers.
The Ben Nathans are doing a roaring
business, exhibiting their dreadfully valu-
able conservatories of orchids to the public
on Saturdays and Sundays at a shilling a
head. The cash goes to a branch of the
Patriotic League just formed at Rippon
Lea, Elsternwick, where shirt and sock toil
is done twice a week.
The A'ictoria Leaguers will pour into the
Alasonic Hall on June 7 and 8 and gaze at
Patriotic tableaux representing war car-
toons. Proceeds go to buy books and com-
forts for troopships and the Red Cross.
The responsible women in it are Joan Brett,
Aliss Austen and Airs. G. Barlow.
The “Girls AA'ho Stayed at Home,” the
pretty company of amateur pierrettes who
raised stockingsful of cash for the Red
Cross last year, are powdering up again.
They gave their first show of the season at
Canterbury last Thursday, for the benefit
of the Rest Home out that way.
Adelaide tunes up her genuine Strad :
For a couple of days the Exhibition Building
hasn’t been the Exhibition Building at all, but a
mock-turtle Elizabethan village with Plymouth Hoe
and Drake’s historical game of bowls thrown in, and
stalls that took their title and the dresses of the
saleswomen from various nursery rhymes. The
Returned Soldiers’ Association and the Cheer-Up
Society are both heavily engaged, and the profits will
be theirs. The Galway dame said the opening words
while his Ex. was at Glenelg presenting the Cheer-
Up colors to the 43rd Battalion. Amongst the
stalls at the Exhibition fair was a pocket-edition
art gallery, arranged by Mrs. W. L. Strachan, where
you. could get anything except genuine Rembrandts
for sixpence.
The Art Gallery has been showing signs of anima-
tion. There has been a rearrangement of the pic-
tures, and an attempt at arranging in the limited
space available the new 1 possessions that have been
acquired under the Way bequest. Meanwhile the
Agent-General, Will Ashton, and Percy Arnold have
successfully recommended that £9OO of the £2OOO
entrusted to them should be spent on a landscape by
H. Hughes-Stanton, A.R.A., and an animal study by
Arnesby Brown, A.R.A.
A lot of the friends he made here are mourning
for Lieut.-Colonel Patterson, who died at the Base
Hospital in Melbourne. When invalided from Gal-
lipoli, he made his home here till a few w T eeks ago,
when, with his wife and children, he moved to
Victoria.
The death is reported, from Canada, of Mrs. Allan
Baker—a South Australian, whose home had been
for some years in the Dominion. The husband is
a brother of the late Richard Chaffey Baker, first
President of the Senate.
The Red Cross Society has granted £5OOO out of
its South Australian funds for a convalescent hospital
at Woodville, and a special button day is to be
arranged on its behalf soon. Better start saving
your small change now.
Dr. Ennis and Mr. Bevan have gone in plain
clothes as the Adelaide University’s ambassadors to
the Melbourne conference that is to discuss a
Universities’ scheme for public examinations in
music.
The Frightfulness of these Six-o’clockers! The
South Aus. Caledonian Society has just indulged in
a quarterly meeting without whisky. The Thistle
can get along without much water, but !
One of our Most Select titled dames cast a billy
full of comforts into the trenches, with a written
request that the gift should be acknowledged. In
due time the acknowledgment arrived: ‘‘Thanks, old
girl, for the billy.” The impudence!
The Reaper’s swathe for Alay included
Airs. Laurence Doyle, a prominent member
of Malvern’s social congregation. The dig-
nified Laurence is alleged to have retired
from active service in an ancient 'whisky
firm with a neat fortune of £60,000, which
permitted his genial lady the luxury of con-
siderable benevolent expenditure, handled
in a manner which brought her no advertis-
ing. Julia, the only Doyle offspring, married
Gibney Roche.
The widow of the late Dr. Tom Hewlett,
and her sister-in-law, wife of Dr. Fred Hew-
lett, passed out last week within a few
hours of each other and were buried on the
same day. Dr. Tom, who earned many good
fees in his day, was noted for his charming
manner and well-groomed beard —both good
assets in his profession.
Parson Ernest Hughes, of St. Peter’s, has
always shunned the currant-bun and cold-
tea entertainment indulged in by the usual
blackcoat. He and his handsome wife
lately treated the choir boys to “So Long,
Letty.” There’s something in being a
chorister at Hughes’s church.
The Bowes Kellys’ six-foot daughter Edna,
while staying at the Australia with grannie
and auntie ABllar, tried a short cut across
the glass roof of the lounge, with terrifying
results. The loungers heard a crash over-
head, and looking up, observed a shapely
leg, booted and silk-stockinged, dangling
from the glass overhead. They surged up-
stairs shouting prescriptions for help ; but
before they had decided on anything a rescue
had been effected and Edna found that she
had escaped with a fright, a hole or two in
her stocking and a scratched leg.
The athletic Mrs. John Sanderson
threatens to become an arc-light m _ the
musical world. Bast week she entertained
the Verbrugghen Quartet in her music-room,
and the Quartet filled the quart-pot of
melody to overflowing.
The A'erbrugghen string foursome at the
Athenaeum last week drew all the best fur
coats and hair ornaments of Melbourne as
well as the musical dervishes. Both sets
of vice-regals attended fairly regularly, and
the John Maddens came along to get what
social limelight was left over. The Stanley
dame shrouds herself in a black veil when
she goes out o’ nights and spends quite five
minutes unwinding the mummy-wrap when
she gets to her seat. Lady Helen manages
to secure cloaks with a Royal Family cut
about them emphasised by a very Alexan-
drian-Mary style of hair-building and a kind
expression. Front seaters included a big
rally of Belgians led by Consul-General
Lauwers and the handsome A anderkelen.
Fresh from hospital, tenor Kirby shook his
auburn locks at the show, and somebody
remarked aloud that AA T alter isn’t dead after
all.
The Lady Northcote Orchestral Trust
Fund should shorten its title and lengthen
its artistic knowledge of platform decora-
tion. Good music deserves a good setting,
and though A'erbrugghen and his little party
tried to look as though they were unconscious
of the crude screens, green crinkled
paper, dusty palms and half-dead flowers,
they weren’t quite successful. They looked
about as if they half expected to see some
china dogs and w 7 ax flowers.
The first concert of the Verbrugghen
Quartet gathered the music-drinkers to-
gether and enabled Alelba to burst on her
native city afresh. The undistinguished look-
ing parties from both Government houses
ambled in the usual tvay down to the usual
easy-chaired reserve. Then, like a genuine
A'elasquez come to life again, Nellie glided
along looking like a Spanish queen. Right
up to her chin line she was clad in rich
night-black velvet and furs, matched per-
fectly by her jetty hair and eyes.
Unstarved Lena Kingston, having been
occupied for years in training her voice to
perform in public, has lately made several
appearances on the concert platform, with
popular approval. Papa Kingston, who for
the past century or two has been selling
umbrellas, did the fair thing by his three
girls, w r ho all showed early signs of being
able to entertain an audience. He gave
little Olive an opportunity to ripen in the
Marches! nursery; but she presently came
back to Australia and married into the
Clark family, which floated to the surface of
the financial sea during the YVestralian
bcom. Ruby, too, glowed briefly in the lime-
light as a serpentine dancer 1 ’ore throw-
ing a coil or two around Rollo Thomson and
setting up her own kitchen. Art is long
and time is fleeting, yet Lena may still get
in some good work if she keeps moving.
“Rosna’s” note from London: —
Hymen is still busy. He is just getting his
torches polished for the wedding of Patricia, daughter
of Mrs. Alexander Brown, of Melbourne, and Lieut.
James Phillips Jones, a Welsh doctor who is with
the R.A.M.C. At the tail end of March he did
his best (old Hymen, not the medico from Wales)
for Nora Somerville, grand-daughter of the late
John Charles Lloyd, one time well known in the
Liverpool Plains of the Ma State. Her benedict
is Capt. Cecil Fox, R.N., of the Powerful, who has
helped to capture four Hun torpedo boats and done
sundry other valorous things in the chilly blasts of
the North Sea. The Powerful provided the cleric
for this wedding and the Naval Air Service the next-
best man, and the wedding cake had a model of the
old Victory in sugar on the top. But the bride
didn’t wear a sou’-wester.
These are parlous times for some of the
lesser charities—kindergartens, for instance.
So Airs. Robert Hooke, who superintends the
free kindergarten department of the
AV.C.T.U., makes a desperate appeal to the
public to send along its worn-out silver
thimbles and damaged jewellery, so that the
useless articles may be boiled down and fed
to the flock at Richmond.
The false-alarm queens are running to
and fro, and standing on their dignity and
sooling on their retainers and men-at-arms.
Airs. Woolcott put in her claim for the
monarchy at the outset, and then retired
from the struggle. Whereon Irma Caron
was persuaded to come in, and for the sake
of the St. A r incent Hospital cause the little
songstress will go to the poll without a hope.
All the other “Queens” have got three
weeks’ start of her in the humiliating, banal
business.
Artist Ambrose Patterson writes from
Honolulu that he likes the place so well and
so many commissions have been projected at
him that he intends staying there for some
time, instead of going on to N’Yark as he
orminallv intended.
On a recent cold morning Melba dropped
into the \ ictorian Artists' show 5
exchanged a cheque for C. Douglas Kiohn, f
son’s statuette, "On the Beach.'- auJ ’
Artist Withers’s widow is manaplrw,
.Low „f oils by A. E.
Athenaeum this month. Newhnrv
through” the Melbourne National'Q a E
under 1 red McCubbin and Bernard Ha l
and emerged with their ideas stick!*'
thickly to him. Most of the sketches in t g
collection, and all of the best of them
landscapes. ’ ait ?
The new Repertory play-house is aim,.*
finished, and Melba has promised to be its
fairy mother-in-law. It is very cute tn
along the lines of the better French theatre.
The aforesaid mother-in-law has agreed V
sing at the opening performance on June 24
Anyway, that’s the formal opening Aetu
ally Gregan McMahon will do a preiiminarv
sprint with Pshaw’s “Alan and Superman''
a fortnight earlier.
A mild example of military swank is ti le
effort of the lately-hatched lieutenant to
avoid looking fluffy in his new uniform He
does it by bashing his headgear hard and
often, until it appears as though it had been
through a strenuous and bitter campaign
Then he puts it on again and looks the whcb
world in the face for the first time since he
climbed into his beautiful outfit.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


DEWAR
mSt
■
m. 'va
8
.. ■
■
Mr.;
I
$
■;
I
MMftMNNaMMP
a mm
/
m
yip
Copyright.
“THE PIPER”
REPRODUCED FROM THE ORIGINAL PAINTING IN THE POSSESSION OF
JOHN DEWAR & SONS. L™ scotch whisky Distillers, Perth & London


Avoid
Constipation
by taking
oVEyM
5S
Of all Chemists.
1/3, 2 9, 4/6,
One of the many good effects of Angier’s
Emulsion is its soothing, lubricating effect
in the intestines, by which it promotes
normal health}' functional activity, thus
making the use of pills and purgatives
unnecessary. Angier’s Emulsion does
much more than this. It allays irritation,
inflammation, catarrh, ulceration It
restores tone to all the functions of the
digestive organs. Angier’s Emulsion has
proved its value in constipation and in many
obocure digestive and bowel disorders.
FREE TRIAL
BOTTLE.
Send name and address, 4 d. postage, and mention this oaoer
Angier Chemical Co., Ltd., 7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
Martin’s Pills are sold by W. 11. Soul
I attinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Co sure you get the- genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
• •
11 a
Obtainable »I 1 Chemists and Stores
THE: GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
GOUT v
* RHEUMATIC FILLS.
The famous Remedv that actually re-
lieves RHEUMATISM, GOUT. LUMBAGO,
SCIATICA and MUSCULAR RHEUMA-
TISM.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores. 1/- and 2/6 per box.
Prout & Co.. 229 Strand T.ondon.^^
The BLACK OPAL STORE.
OPALS, PEARLS, SAPPHIRES.
Specialty Australian Gems
89 Market Street, near Hyde Park, Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, formerly Manager WMte
Cliffs Opal Mines, Proprietor.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
"J.G. : Does anyone know anything of the
keawe, or algaroba tree? lam recommended to grow
it in Australia. All over the Hawaiian Islands it is
said to be flourishing in places where other trees,
shrubs or glass could not exist. It is a bean, and a
forest of it is said to be capable of providing enough
tucker for countless droves of cattle and pigs, its
fruit being very rich in sugar and protein. In addi-
tion to having this fodder value I am assured it is
one of the best honey-yielding trees in the world;
one of the best for firewoods; ditto for tannin; ditto
for gum; excellent for vinegar; ditto for piles owing
to toughness and ability to resist the toredo; it
enriches the ground because it is a legume; and is an
exceedingly handsome shade and shelter tree. Now
what’s the matter with it ?
* * * *
"Pick : Here s my record in spread-
eagling. I flavored with strychnine a bear I had
skinned on a Bibbenluke sheep run, Monaro
(X.S.M.). Next day 14 eagles were spread out to
help me to the P. P. Board’s ss. per beak. The
wing stretch of one fellow went 9ft. 4in. Two
others bettered Bft., and a chicken spanned oft. 3in.
I have seen the Monaro mountain eagle attack a
sore-backed horse and a cow with a young calf, and
I once discovered two of them hovering suspiciously
near a small boy. I was the boy.
A VERY PROPER DECISION.
FIRST CONVIVIAL PARTY: "Maws worsh
enemy, ole frien', is the temperance
wowser .”
SECOND DITTO: “Have mosh utter contempt
f'r wowshers. I wouldn't buy one of
the (hie) cows a drink."
'D.I-." : One .T. T. Johnson claims to have
seen and tested the world’s record pumpkin. He
says it was exhibited years ago at a show at Camp-
bell to« n (Tas.), where the wrinkly merinos grow,
and that it turned the scale at 2601 b. After, this he
has no time for degenerate modern vegetables that
only weigh a cwt. or so.
THE PROGRESS OE UNIONISM.
TTHE MANAGER: “What, Billy—you want to leave me? Not enough pay. eh ?”
BILLY: “Not that, Boss! You see, I chop all pheller wood for Ah Chong, the cook
pheller. Ah Chong he no union pheller. Me union pheller —no plurry blackleg"
“G.L.H.”: “Stingo” (B. 20/4/’l6) is
wrong when he says that a high-velocity bullet beats
a Martini-Henry or Snider at giving the knockout.
The high-velocity bullet is the most accurate and
will hit at a far greater range, but the big bullet is
all on its own at short and medium range. I have
had one Mauser bullet into me and two through me,
and I was right again in a few weeks. I saw a man
hit behind the neck, the Mauser bullet passing through
the tongue and taking two teeth out with it. He,
too, was soon right. But if the slug had been from
a Martini there would have been a different tale to
tell. A high-velocity bullet is good if it is of the
expanding or soft-nose breed. Would not “Stingo”
sooner have a Lee-Enfield bullet go through him at
100 yards at a velocity of 2000 ft. per sec. than a
Martini-Henry at 1300 ft. per second? I know I
would.
* * * *
"North Coast" : A violent eruption in the
shire council had thrown a promising young man
into the mayoral chair, and his native town of Two
Bridges indulged in a banquet to celebrate the
triumph. -After is M orship had been well buttered,
Hairy Bin, the local butcher, rose and waved his
brimming glass in the direction of the star-guest's
beaming father. “Gennulmun,” he cried, “I ask
you—charge your glasses an' drink health of our
dear oF fren’ Joe Wirefence! Joe Wirefence, gennul-
mun, deserves well of this town—'e sired its mayor!”
* * * *
"Too”: I will guarantee hot water as the
cure for Portuguese man-of-war. Have seen washing-
blue, soda and other antidotes tried, but it was my
hot water that always did the trick.
* * * *
"Eddyson : It was at about a quarter to
eight, before the morning shift went on. that Gaire
drew our attention to the man on the fence, opposite
Mrs. Irwine s. “I noticed him sitting there last
night,” said Gaire. “Now, what's his game?” “I
dunno," Cobb replied, “but if his intentions towards
the old girl ain't honorable I’d. like to be there
when she gets at him with a fire-iron.” The man
on the fence across the road from Mrs. Irwine’s
home did not look formidable; he was small, and
thin with it. and the frayed fragments of his pants
fluttered in the wind. Mrs. Irwine was a lone, lorn
woman, Willie Irwine having mysteriously disap-
peared three years earlier. At about 11 o’clock
Gaire noted that the suspicious stranger had crossed
the road and perched himself on Mrs. Irwine's own
fence. By noon he was sitting on the grass-widow’s
side fence, his face towards the window. At three
P-m- he was on the woodheap. Towards six o’clock
the unknown was dumped on the block beside Mrs.
Irwine’s kitchen door, twirling his tattered hat be-
tween his sharp shins. And still there was no appear-
ance of Mrs. Irwine. “I don't like it,” said Gaire
“I'll just run along, and see if the old girl’s all
right.” Gaire strolled down to the house and
entered by the front door. Mrs. Irwine was sitting
m the parlor, with an air of expectancv. 4s Gaire
entered at the front the tattered man stole in at the
back, and seated himself on the form in tlje kitchen.
‘T suppose you know there's a suspicious-looking
man hanging about your house?” said Gaire. “I
do,” said Mrs. Irwine. “Would you like him
shifted?” “No, no, no. Just leave him to me.”
She went into the kitchen. The intruder arose
humbly and faced her. He retreated before her
glance into a corner by the fireplace. Mrs. Irwine
took up a broom handle and poked him in the ribs.
He soughed like a punctured balloon and went down.
She hit him nine times with the broom handle and
then broke a dinner-plate over his head. Then she
paused, and at last the man spoke. He picked a
fragment of delf out of his scalp and smiled wanlv.
“It’s good to be home, Annie,” he said. “I was
afraid I wouldn't be welcome.” Gaire went back
to the huts and reported. “Willie Irwine has come
home,” he said.
A DESERVING CASE.
"I see young Bill Smith got a medal for
distinguished service. Well, a feller that
can milk like 'im oughter get given
something."
"Oh Mali": Mick Ellis was out with four
others on the Thompson River (Q.) getting a break-
fast of yellow belly for Good Friday. It was 4 a.m.
and moonlight. Just as a dozen wild duck were fly-
ing past Mick made a cast, the line twisted round a
drake's neck and Mick landed the meat. It was the
best bit of line work performed in Bananaland since
Tom Dooley caught an emu the same way.
(Continued on page 24.)
THE SEVENTH WAVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is an article of faith with inaccurate observers
that the seventh wave of the sea is of special bulk
and volume. —Nature note.
It was a slightly peevish night.
The moon was in the sky,
But all the brightest stars in sight
Were just a hint awry.
A cloud or two with measured tread
Paced like policemen overhead.
This sort of night, as. all men know,
Disgusts you at the start,
Then sets its merry pipes to blow
And tangles up your heart
And tries your fretful wits to craze
In all sorts of delightful ways.
The moon sent Elsie down a wire
To meet my soul at eight.
The eastern wave was all afire,
The surf was out-of-date;
So cold the heavy water felt
It seemed to shiver in its pelt.
I saw her standing all alone,
Star-mazed beside the sea.
I really rather liked the tone
I n which she spoke to me;
She said the Seventh Wave had not
Until that moment reached the spot.
“Dear girl,” I said, “the Seventh Wave
Is sleeping in its bed
Deep in some silent ocean cave
With weeds about its head.
I know it well; it does not care
On such cold nights to take the air.”
She smiled a very pleasant smile,
Her laughter rippled free;
Her eyes were brown and free from guile—
The color of strong tea —
Her soft chin set in whitest fur
Strangely attracted me to her.
I said: “Although that wave may sleep,
We both are wide awake;
And here beside the shining deep
A long salt breath to take
In fine companionship is good
For people in our soulful mood.”
I took her arm. We wandered long
Upon the wrinkled sand.
Her heart appeared attuned to song
And she could understand
How mine a happy beat might miss
Each time our dreams provoked a kiss.
So things were going very well
And all the night was kind.
One star that we were watching fell
And did not seem to mind;
And one, that seemed remote and dry,
Winked at us with a heavenly eve.
“Young star,” I said, “it is not meet
That you should mock our bliss!
Go seek the moon on shining feet
And if she deigns to kiss
Your cynic mouth I do not think
I shall be rude enough to wink.”
But Elsie softly only said:
“Don’t worry over him.
His taste is bad. The life he led
On earth has made him dim.
He sees the whole bright atmosphere
In terms of ribaldry and beer.”
1 kissed her for her gentle thought
Twice on her happy lips.
She leant to me as white sails caught
By winds that blow tall ships
hen from the isles of tropic spice
They carry chocolate and rice.
Just then the star above went out,
A wind began to blow,
And little wavelets seemed to sprout
Out of the undertow.
We little thought that wicked star
Had started earthward in his car.
We wandered on a mile or two;
The time went lightly by.
The song of ocean swelled and grew,
White foam began to fly.
I said, “That Seventh Wave, my dear,
Is likely shortly to appear.”
We watched for him, but ere he came
A gentleman we saw
All clothc-d from head to foot in flame,
Whose set and angry jaw
As:ured us beyond hint of doubt
He was the star we talked about.
“I do not like him,” Elsie said,
And I must here admit
He filled me with a sort of dread,
Though I dissembled it.
“Don't worry, dear,” I said, “I know
These devils are all sparks and show.”
But fiercely down the sand he strode
And we with haste withdrew.*
The flames within his whiskers glowed,
His eyes were brimstone blue;
The rising sea began to roar
And we retreated more and more.
Along the very edge we went
Where all the sand was wet
And every roller, whitely spent,
Rushed back with cold regret.
The fiend that was a star came on
And Elsie screamed when hope seemed gone.
Before us stood that awful thing:
The deep sea rolled behind....
Then flames about us seemed to spring,
The hot smoke made us blind ;
If we retreated further yet
Our feet were certain to get wet.
Then suddenly the sea upheaved
A mighty crest of white
(This thing will scarcely be believed)
And Elsie gripped me tight—
The Seventh Wave with shout and yell
On us and on that devil fell!
It put him out. Our laughter free
Was heard-amid the splash.
Like corks upon the angry sea
Our souls were soon awash.
The waters tossed us to and fro
And drowned us in the undertow.
Beneath the wet, bone clasped in bone,
We lie where pearls lie deep
And simple fishes of no tone
Glide o’er us as we sleep.
My Elsie since we put to sea
Is really very fond of me.
But when the winds are soft and low
And all the deep is kind,
The placid weeds that round us grow
Shift like a window blind ;
And looking to the heavens afar
W e note one spot where shines no star.
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


Ward Off the Ills of
Autumn Chills by vising
The Great Money-saving Remedy
... for. . .
COUGHS, COLDS, CATARRH
and other CHEST and THROAT
TROUBLES.
ffEANS*^
COUGH
Mixture
ESSENCE
SAVES YOUR MONEY —DOES YOU GOOD-
Costs Two Shillings.
MaKes One Pint. Saves 10/-
MISS MADGE FABIAN, the charming and
talented English Actress from Drury Lane,
London, who has won the hearts of Sydney
audiences by her fine emotional interpretation
of a most difficult character in “On Trial,” at
the Criterion Theatre, Sydney, is among the
many famous people who have been pleased to'
add "their grateful testimony to the merits of
I lean’s Essence.
CRITERION THEATRE,
SYDNEY,
April 17, 1916.
MR. G. W. HEAN,
Chemist.
Dear Sir, —
Since my arrival in Australia I have
had occasion to combat a cold and in-
flamed throat, for which purpose Hean’s
Essence was recommended to me. I
am thankful to say it proved entirely
satisfactory, and I was enabled to go
through my part on the first night of
“On Trial,” at the Criterion Theatre,
without experiencing any harshness of
voice or throat distress of any kind.
\ T ours faithfully,
MADGE FABIAN.
Over 2000 letters like the above have been received from people in all walks
of life. If you desire further evidence of the value of Dean’s Essence, let it be
your own experience.
HEAN’S ESSENCE is so good for people of all ages—from babyhood to
grandparentage —that it should be kept in every home. Croup, bronchitis and
whooping-cough quickly yield to its healing influence
OBTAINABLE FOR 2s. (by post 2/3) FROM ALL LEADING CHEMISTS
AND STORES, OR FROM THE MANUFACTURER,
G. W. HEAN, Chemist, 178 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
w
MISS MADGE FABIAN.
Leviathan Underwear
Gives Long and Satisfying Service.
We can provide a correct fit in
Underwear for all men whatever
their proportions. Here are two
special lines from our big stock:—
Natural Wool and Cotton
Vests or Underpants
specially made for us. Contain only a small
percentage of Cotton —which increases wear-
ing strength and stops shrinkage. Vests or
Underpants—-
7/6 each
8/6 „
10/- „
Men’s size . .
Outsize ....
Extra Outsize
Natural Cotton and Wool
Vests or Underpants
Best English Make and Finish—in Men’s
and O.S. sizes. Vests or Underpants—
Men’s size, 4/6. Outsize, 5/- each.
We carry complete stocks
of Dr. Jaeger’s Sanitary
and t: Ewe” Brand Under-
wear. Write for separate
catalogue.
Oxford Shirts
with Soft Gauntlet or Stiff Cuffs —Coat
style—“slip on and off like a coat” —
Reinforced inlay fronts —sleeve lifts —
patent split sleeve to give correct set
to cuff. In the new shades of —
Blue, Grey and Pink Grounds, C
with neat White stripes tJjV
Order by Post. We Pay Freight.
-
ww
"WRITE. FOR NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
THE LEVIATHAN
Corner Swanston S Bourke Streets, Melbourne.
The Thoroughness of Construction which you Have come
to associate witH tHe Cooper Produd is apparent in these
COOPER Engines
• --3
r*
We do not claim they are the "finest in the world/’ "The most handsome in existence,” or sold on terms of "half when
you die and the other half when you come back.” The English language is free to all, and the above claims can be, and
are, made by many. But, we do claim that in manufacturing our "Cooper” Engines, we put into them the finest
materials and workmanship that can be procured, and sell them at a fair*price.
In constructing our “Cooper” Engines, hopper-cooled and air-cooled
cylinders, lamps and other features not suited to Australian conditions
have been omitted. They are fitted with ample Water-Cooling Tanks,
High-Grade Magneto Ignition, and every feature that will ensure long-
years of satisfactory service and economy in operation.
This honesty of construction from start to
finish has made “Cooper” Engines the most success-
ful in Australia.
Both the quality and the price are right.
The 2-d.H.P. Stationary,
is . . .
illustrated, £25
The 3-B.H.P. Portable, as illustrated,
is
£55
Our larger heavy-duty Engines, from 4 to 50
h.p. are equally as attractive in both construction
and price. If you are in need of an Engine for
any purpose, send us particulars, and let us give
vou an estimate.
A
c doper
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LIMITED,
VbX 129 Sussex Street, SYDNEY. £> 486 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.


OIL MEAL
For Fattening Cows,
Calves and Steers.
Every farmer should increase the
milking capacity of his herd and keep
his cattle in good condition by using
Meggitt Oil Meal.
Send for full particulars to
MEGGITT LTD., Oil Manufacturers,
PARRAMATTA, Sydney.
Recipe to Darken Grey Hair
This Home-made Mixture Darkens Grey
Hair and Removes Dandruff.
To a half-pint of water arid :
Ray Rum i oz .
Orlex Compound a small box
Glycerine i oz .
These are all simple ingredients that you
can buy from any chemist at very little cost,
and mix them yourself. Apply to the scalp
once a day for two weeks, then once every
other week until all the mixture is used.
A half-pint should be enough to darken the
grey hair, rid the head of dandruff and kill
the dandruff germs. It stops the hair from
falling out and relieves itching and scalp
diseases. It promotes the growth of the hair
and makes harsh hair soft and glossy.—Advt
___ [8
Belle Vue Hotel
Reconstructed. BRISBANE.
Electric Lift. Perfect Sanitary Arrangements.
Incomparable Position Easterly Aspect.
Overlooking Botanical Gardens.
MRS. A. I'INNIGAN, Proprietress. _
A Wonderful
Offer- —
The boot here illustrated is one you know well by sight—the
boot worn by members of the Expeditionary Forces. We are mak-
ing them in thousands to the order of the Government, who have
an inspector to examine and pass every pair before delivery is taken.
Some pairs, when finished, fail to pass him —not for any fault that
really affects their wear or comfort, but for such minute defects as
one boot being* as little as one-eighth of an inch higher at the back
than the other; one slug being out of place; or the heel not bein~
sufficients even to pass the spirit-level test.
Nothing else is wrong with the rejects.
They’re SOLID LEATHER THROUGHOUT,
are built to withstand the toughest usage to
give the MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF COM-
FORT TO THE WEARER, and are GUAR-
ANTEED to do so.
WRITE NOW FOR A PAIR. Thev’re
ideal for country and other hard wear, and
for the money—l4/0, . carriage paid—are
POSITIVELY THE GREATEST BOOT
VALUE EVER OFFERED.
Od. Exchange must be added to Country
Cheques.
mm
Mmmm
w
50 McKean Street, North Fitzroy, Victoria
Carriage
Paid.
“G. Mac.” : I worked for some years in a
big factory at Yarraville (Vic.) operating a bagging
and weighing machine, and saw some artists with
the needle. I and my sewer usually kept an hourly
gait of 10 tons, or 120 bags. Had a friendly go with
him once for half an hour. The machine won with
seven unsewn bags, but as the register showed 102
bags for the 30 minutes there wasn’t any disgrace
in the defeat. His best in my time was 1400 ewt.-
bags (no tags) in 8J hours, a small boy assisting
by threading his needles. This sleight of hand
artist drew 1 Old. per hour, and when a kindly Wage
Board weighed out another three ha’pence, he was,
for economy’s sake, superseded by two boys at 7 Id.
each, because, so said the foreman, the firm wouldn't
pay any sewer a whole bob.
» * * *
“Tibia”: The pigs that scarified their
throats while swimming must have been common
pigs without a telephone number or a day at home.
The prize porker has an instinctive knowledge of
deportment and swims as if she (or he) had learnt
it at a business college. Some years ago the river
that runs beside a Victorian country showground
rose rapidly and flooded out the exhibits. Some
aristocratic porkers had to swim for it, and did it
very successfully, landing without a scratch, although
each of them had a swollen throat like that of the
tenor who has been overfed on cream puffs and
praise in a thousand drawing-rooms.
* * * 4
“Murrabit”: “Te F.” (B. 20/4/TG) states
a fact when he compares whale-flesh to good quality
beef-steak. Even the flesh of any part if soaked in
vinegar and water for several hours has an excellent
flavor. On the Japanese stations the entire carcases
are most profitably disposed of for food, and in
Norway a considerable amount of whale-meat is
utilised by the butchers. It is usually salted.
“Homo” : This is, briefly, the Vic. Board
of Health’s recipe for snakebite, and I haven’t seen
anything in the Abo. chronicles that seems better
designed to thwart the undertaker :
(1) Ligature. (2) Cut out. (3) Antidote (per-
mang. potass.). (4) Warmth—hot coffee, smelling-
salts, artificial respiration.
Ligature.-—When bite is on any part of a limb
apply between heart and bite, near bite, tight enough
to stop circulation at the part.
Cutting out. —Pinch up skin at bite and cut out
pinched-up part with one clean sweep. If impractic-
able to cut out bitten part, make small incisions
across and around bite, and (unless bleeding very
freely) suck (if no antidote available).
Antidote.—Powdered permanganate of potassium
rubbed well in. Repeat at short intervals. Encourage
bleeding by rubbing limb downwards (away from
heart) and squeezing wound with fingers.
If an antidote has been applied, remove or loosen
ligature 15 minutes after cutting out. When no anti-
dote has been used, after 15 minutes loosen the liga-
ture for about five minutes and then re-apply. On no
account leave the ligature more than 45 minutes with-
SAVED THEM THE TROUBLE.
PARSON (just returned to his flock): “And
did they send old Jones away to escape
the rigors of the winter?”
PARISH WORKER : “Ah, the poor fellow
died.”
out loosening. Of course, the doctor should be called
in as early as possible. But, if you desire to refer
the case to the undertaker instead, trot the patient
about, in accordance with an old fallacy.
THE SOFT ANSWER.
SERGEANT CASSIDY : “ What's this I hear of yes talkin' trayson about the warr?”
HUN COCKY : “Nodt at dull. lot I say vos der brave Irishmans cos do all der fight-den,
an' der lazy Englishers vos do der lookin' on.”
“8.8. T.”: For the benefit of “A.G.It.” (B.
30/3/’IG), who asks about weevils, 1 have trans-
lated from “Les Ravageurs,” by J. 11. Fabre, some-
thing about the wheat weevil, which I conclude will
be his barley pest. Fabre
explains that the insect
with its pointed nose cuts
the skin of a grain and
therein deposits an egg,
which she fixes by means
of a. viscous humor. Then
she passes on to other
grains, which she treats in
the same manner, until
her store of eggs is used
up. When the eggs hatch
the iiny worm pierces into
the farinaceous portion by
an almost invisible hole.
There it makes a hog of
itself. In five or six
weeks the flour is finished,
but the husk remains, and
within it the larva becomes
the perfect insect. It
then leaves the husk and
goes on the wallaby to
explore the pile of grain,
deposit eggs and supply a
fresh population - of ravag-
ers. Fabre mentions a
remedy which seems hardly
practicable for large quan-
tities of grain. Fill large
barrels with the affected
seed, and to every ton of
cereal add about a pint of
sulphuret of carbon. Fasten
up, roll about to make sure
that the liquid penetrates
throughout, and leave for
24 hours. When the cask
is opened it will be found
that weevils, larvae, nymphs
and eggs are all destroyed.
The grain, which should
then be exposed to the air
and agitated, will not
suffer in any way and the
odor will pass almost immediately.
* * * *
Talk of old pubs, and their queer names
sets “The Oldest Inhabitant” going:—
The Baldfaced Stag was on the Parramatta-road;
The Crown and Kettle at the corner of Barrack-lane
and York-street, with a Free and Easy and The Three
Jolly Settlers out Petersham way. The Punch Bowl
was in Cambridge-street, and the Red Cow at Parra-
matta. The first bowling-green in Australia was
formed at The Woolpack, in Parramatta. The Dun
Cow was at Bathurst. The Golden Fiddle, in Wool-
Joomooloo, was kept by a well-known professional
violinist. Speed the Plough was afterwards The,
Plough Inn on Parramatta-road. The Spinning Wheel
was in what is now George-street West. The Hole in the
Wall was in the city, and the Little House Under the
Hill in Judge-street, Woolloomooloo. The Black Dog,
on the Rocks, was built by Sam Terry. Help Me
through the World had the repute of housing an
expert banknote forger, sent out as such. He is
alleged to have followed the craft here and sent the
flimsies to England. And on Brickfield Hill some
years ago was The Honest Lawyer, kept by Daniel
O’Connell.
* * *
“Spraggs” : Bill told me there was a
bonzer bees-nest in a big gum-tree, on the creek,
about five miles out. So we got a couple of axes and
walked out to chop the weed down. Bill said he’d
been watching the hive at work for a over a week, and
had noticed the bees in swarms around the hollow.
He thought it would have been the proper thing to
have brought out a 400 gal. tank. We were half a
day chopping the tree down, and, ’strewth ! the bees
were blowflies, and the hollow where thev were buz-
zing contained a very dead ’possum. Bill was
slightly put out about it.
lI.M. : Another candidate for the .
once of being bitten by a cobra has come , PWl '
He is Tom Wan less, of Sydney and b f ° r "'ar(l-
that he has been chewed over 500 * j . eXCUSe is
fully-loaded Australian snakes without making >
about it. The attraction of the cobra to is * * tuss
to d», th. Mi,
give £25,000 for an antidote. It was thb ? d to
d™' the unfortunate Fox. Wanless h£* J*
assaulted 10 times by death adders, and in IL
after an application of his antidote there ’ Case ’
a slight inflammation. as merel y
“Pick”: During 1910-11, down \f ( „„
way (N.S.W.), two Germans had a contract Jf ?
to their home Government 2,000,000 fronds of’Th'
burrawa ng plant. They were exceedingly , the
to what the stuff was intended for, a,d I vrni “
Bulletin paragraph about it, which contl f 1
note of interrogation. The fronds were bimdl ]
together anyhow, so I decided they were not '
for decorating Wilhelm’s ballroom. i
curious to know what it was all about. Will
scientist find out for me what particular biro
devilry lurks in the simple burrawang?
* * 4
“The Governess”: I was reading Tennv
son's “Ring Out, Wild Bells,” to a wilder
kiddie 1 was shepherding. It was breathlessly ho 't
and he was really interested when I explained Z
the bells were heard pealing out above the crackling
ice and whirling skaters. “Would it be hard to get
out if the ice broke and yeh fell through?” he asked
“Yes, of course, because you see the ice would close
over and I stopped when I noticed his
wandering over the parched, yellow paddocks “WW
a bonzer place to drownd kittens!” he sighed ♦
himself. ' 6 u t 0
* * *
“Had Australian” : Long-distance rides and
endurance tests—bueno 1 Away back in 1906 I was
camped at a little oasis called Toconao, i n the
Desert of Atacama, just near where the frontiers of
Bolivia, Chile and Argentina meet, when I received
a “bush wire” that I was wanted in the worst kind
of hurry at Calama, on the Antofagasta-Bolivia rail-
road, which was (and still is) 130 kilometres awav
Half an hour later, at 7.30 a.m., my rec.ado. which
is saddle and “nap” in one, was cinched on one of
my toughest saddle-mules, and I was off at a sobre
pa-io (amble), a favorite gait on the Great Table-
land, over a “road” that was mostly alkali plain and
saltpan, to San Pedro de Atacama, 37 kilometres
where I rested and fed and watered my mule before
making a bee-line for the railroad, 93 kilometres
across the most awful, barren, waterless stretch of
stone and gravel'in South America, a howling desert
of shimmering heat-waves and fantastic mirage by
day and almost Arctic cold by night. The exces-
sively cold nights are due to the altitude— 10,000 ft.
above sea level. About 3 p.m. I rested in the
shadow of the mule for 15 minutes while I ate a
handful of charqui and parched maize and took
another pull at my water-bag, but there was neither
food nor drink for the vehicle. Two hours after
sundown the temperature was down about zero, and
at 10 p.m., when I reached the railroad, I was “all
in” and as cold as a seal on an icefloe; but the
mule was as chipper as a spring chicken, and to all
appearances good for 25 or 30 kilometres more.
After stripping him and turning him loose, I had
two words with the man I had come to see, got out-
side a jorum of hot rum, and turned in all standing.
I woke about sundown next day, and from what I
A FAR-SIGHTED NEPHEW.
“You might let me have the car for an hour.
Uncle.”
“All right, my hoy, you may have it.”
“And, I say, can you let me have the price
of a couple of fines or so?”
learned later the mule had got back to Toconao
about the same time. Now I don't claim this as a
long-distance performance to skite about, but I do
claim it to be something as an endurance test, con-
sidering that it happened about the same parallel as
Rockhampton, at an altitude varjing from 7000 ft. to
10,000 ft. above sea-level, over a stony, waterless
desert, under temperatures varying from lOOdeg. down
to zero in a few hours, and that my riding weight in
full marching order was a shade under 15 stone.
But the mule is born to endure, otherwise the Lord
would never have given him over to the tender
mercies of the half-breed Indian. I forgot to men-
tion that 130 kilometres equals approx. 81 miles.
FORETHOUGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Truscott was a youngish man
He bought Bright’s farm, and straight began
The work of following the plough,
And studying the cult of cow.
'the land was cleared, there grew no gum,
But Truscott thought of planting some ;
One sapling he with proper pride
Set in his acres long and wide.
Bill watched his single redgum grow,
And saw its honeyed blossom blow.
The years slipped by. At length stood he
An old man ’neath an old, old tree.
One day as Truscott tottered round
His splendid stretch of pasture ground,
His white bull shook the firmament,
And went for Bill on murder bent.
Bill ran, but age and gouty feet
Had hobbled him ; he was not fleet,
Yet up the gum contrived to pull
One inch ahead of Prince the bull.
As Truscott sat upon a limb,
There came a curious thought to him:
Remembering he'd set that tree,
“There’s forethought, if you like!” said he.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


t-n
ui
=3^
jtL
* t m
rra
i (<trjftit iL'.'i ( IfcQ-i-
-/ tm ®§a §g R
V-
ggsi:
sdWWI
hi
&
s
I-
; f
fc Trr : ! , \ r
&&S2U*J
1
7& ,
C/3
>A.
7X,-W: , ® £s *' W«KI IOSTT: *nie,L
ass*l
-■ —— -1 t IK
JOS,I Ifetej! <ts
ZZJP 1
re
fit e
)SN\\) \ tvMJf iese.;[«:;
PQ
If
(i~ETDI JEST"J-?®£Sllj !j;
r
r :Vf'l
\ ./P
&
?C
~3
flS/SS flrf-fIaHS!
*
HUsc
5:
--»
fHnET<
\W
1
> t <L—
<
\\N
'IWIIIIU
ft
v_>-
■ii".
w.
•'. J; i
M
■■h
i'V'"'Y-.\ Eltea igr T v| r : ~
V- n . \ \=3\ EJ.HZi S2zd «~
j - i!
//ssssjfflpspe^ 11
&
m
SB-11 teETj
S lip i H
.v\-
\>7
advertisement is one of a series of twelve
1 which from time to time will appear in the Press
of Sydney. The whole series will show various steps
in brewing and the super-care which Messrs. Tooth
and Co., Ltd., give to their own particular products.
The larger illustration depicts the
Irving Street portion of the Kent
Brewery as it appears to-day; the
smaller one shows the modest
made in 1835.
SR
Z'
O
o
0
i:
K
>■4
(j)
X
H
0
c*
N* -
\T
/ME
GPL».°
r*o.
A
0


The Aged and Infirm
are sometimes more susceptible to COUGHS and COLDS on the
CHEST than the young and vigorous. When an aged person gets
a Cold, it is of the utmost importance that not only is the BEST
REMEDY taken immediately, but that the Remedy is one that
does NOT cause any Heart Depression, nor in any way weaken
an already frail constitution. In such a case, HEARNE’S Bronchitis
Cure is just THE proper Medicine to use, as it is the QUICKEST,
SAFEST and BEST —a Remedy that is just as effective with
YOUNG PEOPLE.
Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure
The Finest Remedy in the World
For Coughs, Croup,
Colds on the Chest
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION }
l<A-/nS ’sm ■>< o
PI
m
VB
"
■
3*
•fv.
Jt
f]|l'
w
J
v>
<£
ip
n
mint
m
w
n
//
\s
w
‘." vi- .V
j?nu «-:
Price 2/6 and 4/6 (double size)
From all Chemists and Stores.
If not obtainable in your
district, send direct to
V/. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Offices—
Sydney, N.S.W., Wellington, N.Z.
“Harrison O.” : “Here Come the Married
Men,” sung—or, rather, noised abroad —by
'Connie Ediss, is easily the biggest hit in “So
Long, Letty.” Why? Certainly the ditty has
a swing and Connie gets the last ounce out
of it, but I suspect the real reason is that it
tickles the vanity of the tame and bald by
encouraging them to regard themselves as
devils of fellows. “If the married men,
throughout their married lives, were as true
to their country as they are to their wives—
Heaven help the country then !” sings Connie,
and every gardening housefather roars with
laughter and glows with satisfaction at the
thought of his purely mythical wickedness.
In such matters condemnation is the sincerest
form of flattery.
“Avon” : I have just been walking through
the freezing works of Recollection & Co.
picking out the best Australian impersona-
tions of a handful of Shakspearian parts.
Here they are, and please note how well the
old-timers keep their end up: Caliban,
Rignold; Fauleonbridge, Sullivan; Hamlet,
Montgomery; Falstaff, Asche; Henry V.,
George Rignold; Lear. W. E. Sheridan;
Macbeth and Romeo, Never a Great One;
Mark Antony. Miln; Lady Macbeth, Gene-
vieve Ward ; Malvolio, Titheradge ; Bottom,
Jefferson; Othello and lago, Brooke; Rich-
ard 111.,. Sullivan; Rosalind, Nora Kerin;
Shylock, Wilkie, barring a few stupidities.
“Masetto”: How these mummers do love
one another was shown in the arrangements
for the special performance of “Julius
Caesar” at the Sliakspeare tercentenary, at
Drury Lane. The original committee, scent-
ing jealousy, handed over the cast to a sub-
committee of leading actors, and the latter
behaved just like an amateur theatrical club.
Sir Herb Tree cannily escaped to a Shaks-
peare festival in New York, and so dodged
the discussion. As a tribute to the success
that Asche has made of the bard’s plays in
the West End he was given considerable
authority, but eventually stepped out, and
at the same time selected for himself the
small part of Casca —not because he wanted
it. but because he thought no one else would.
The struggle was fiercest around the part of
Caesar, which was eventually secured by F.
R. Benson ; Bourchier was put on to play
Brutus; and Henry Ainley, who did not
press his claims, got Marc Antony.
“8.J.”; “The First Mrs. Tanqueray” is
the title of the film version of Pinero’s play.
A good deal of attention is given to the lady
whom Cayley Drummle spoke .of as "all
marble arms and black velvet,” and the
glimpses of Aubrey’s life with her are said
to make him seem a more reasonable charac-
ter than in the play—which, Heaven knows,
is needed! The film also shows Aubrey s
first meeting with Paula in a theatre.
Pinero is alleged to have bestowed his appro-
val on the affair.
“R.” : Saw a movie of the “Stingaree” series
the other day. All it proves is that America
must be hard up for film subjects when it
takes IJornung’s impossible “pommy” and
makes of him an Australian bushranger,
clean shaven, dapper as a draper, and eye-
glassed as of Piccadilly. “Stingaree” was
never Australian, and that’s why he appealed
to the English, who like the sham in notion
and are frightened of the real. Similarly
the un.Australian Captain Swift of Hadden
Chambers, who never knew Australia, pleased
them by reason of its unreality. The “Stin-
garee” picture nevertheless gives the story
some slight actuality, whereas in the book
it had none; and even this bogus thing m
such a realistic medium as the picture-show
proves that the real Australian story wil
give the world a new thrill. It will have o
be done, of course, in Australia, which P er "
mits of the finest photography on earth, ant
for the reason that it will be produced m
this despised country it will need to have
better construction and production than an
imported film —for Australian audiences a
least. The other countries of the world wu
be easier to please, because the Australian
picture will come to them from afar, and tnai
which comes from afar may lie boldly.
“Norbell” : An old friend of mine is pic-
ture-lecturing here with a flicker ot t
Eternal City. He had a hard job to hnd
any Roman guide-books that he could rea
up, so he tackled a steaka-da-oyst’ protesso
who is just back from a visit to Rome, an
tried to get a few pointers about the home
of the Pontiffs. Signor Spaghetti knew a
about it. “Sure! Do I know da ceetj
Roma? Ah! da mos’ won’ful in da wide
worl’! Da Via Sacra? Sure! I knows
eem ver’ well. Why we call eem \ia sacra.
Bekos it iss da Via Sacra ! Mos’ beaut tu .
mos’ splend’! My friend, you see tnei
more da motta-car in fivejmeenits as all o
Breesban’ in da ’ole year!”
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“S.S.” : I thought I ought to mention it.
Everywhere else Monday is Monday, but at
our boarding-house Monday’s Stewsday.
* * * *
“Snell” : These are hard times for beggars
—ordinary beggars or city solicitors, I mean.
The blind, the halt and the lame rattle their
tins to a deaf generation, and the old-estab-
lished mendicants are turned empty away.
A Collins-street doctor tells me as a positive
fact that he was interviewed recently by a
derelict with only one eye and one leg—he
had lost the others in a blasting accident
many years ago. “See here, doctor,” he said,
“I want to know what’s your very lowest
for takin’ off an arm.” “What’s the matter
with your arm?” asked the M.L). “Nothin’,
but I want to have it off. I’m gettin’ my
livin’ beggin’, and I find the people want a
of a lot for their money nowadays.”
“Dry Shave” : This in a country that pro-
duces over 20 millions’ worth of wool a
year. I went into one of Melbourne’s big-
gest rag warehouses under orders to get some
woollen undervests for the missus. They
hadn’t seen a woollen undervest for months
—had a nice line of cotton, though. I was
off them and sought pyjamas for myself.
The shopman hadn’t seen woollen pyjamas
for years, but he had a nice line of flannel-
ette (all cotton) machined up in Australia.
I was off them, too, preferring to sleep in
my dungarees until someone starts to think
about making Crimean shirting and woollen
yarn in sufficient quantities to clothe me and
"the old dutch. I got a shock, incidentally,
to learn that the rare Australian manufac-
turer is under no obligation to mark on Ins
goods whether they are wool, cotton or just
tripe. Of course this suits the dishonest
retailer splendidly.
“E.M.W.”: My experience in the matter
of Australian-made leg gloves is similar to
that of “Billjim’s Sister” (B. 27/4/’l6). As
usual for the past four years I inquired for
home-made woollen stockings at a leading
Melbourne drapery store, but was told that
the Government had commandeered the mills
and Australian stockings were off. I there-
fore bought English-made at 2s. Gd., and they
showed very thin places after one day’s wear.
However, I am now in possession of some
which are manufactured in the Common-
wealth and sold at 2s. 3d. a pair. They are
the finest quality I have ever encountered at
any price, soft, thick, well-shaped and seam-
less, extra long, and of good, durable color.
There is another quality at Is. 6d., the only
perceptible, fault of these being that they are
somewhat “prickly.”
* * * *
The Aberdeen clipper Pericles, built in
1877, and in her day equal to the best sailing
ships trading to Australia, has in her _ old
age received a charter to a South American
port at 140 s. a ton, and is looked on as a
first-class insurance risk. Still the old ves-
sel —now a Norwegian—is a mere chicken
compared with two barques built in 1760,
which appear to have been found in some
Scandinavian marine graveyard and had
their old bones greased for the raw, salt
track again.
* * * *
“Ngatik”: We repatriated about 220
Caroliners and then set out in the Pukaki
to get 200 new boys. No luck resulted until
Ponape was reached. Here the boys literally
fought with one another to sign on. They
reckoned the Japs were not giving them a
fair deal. On January 28, when 15 miles
from Kusaie, the tail-shaft carried away.
Over 300 people were aboard, and during
the 43 days of drifting, hordes of sharks
were on the lookout for us. When we were
400 miles from Rabaul a Jap steamer came
alongside and offered to tow us to that port
for £15,000; but our skipper said he didn’t
have that much on him just then. So the
engineers went on amusing themselves by
fitting a new shaft. They did not mind
working up to their necks in water, with
the sharks nosing around, but reckoned it a
bit hot when five-eighths of an inch had to
be taken off the end of the new shaft before
the propeller would fit. However, they
accomplished it by chipping with cold
chisels. There were still a couple of days’
food left when we arrived at Rabaul, and
the language of the sharks was something
impious.
* * * *
“Avon” ; Maoriland breeders of high-class
jumbucks who competed at the ’Frisco Exhi-
bition are paralysed at the way they have
been treated. Originally it was announced
that gold medals would be awarded to win-
ners, but after the M.L. wool kings had
bagged a lot of the prizes they were informed
through Unfcle Sam’s nose that the baubles
would be of bronze. The infuriated merino
monarchs promptly leapt roofward with loud
protests and Sam relented. He said that
anybody who had won a medal could have
it gilded, if he preferred it that way, at his
own expense. When the mail left restora-
tion of some speechless exhibitors was still
being tried.
“F.N.T.”: In Australia the making of
basketware, cane-chairs, brooms and brushes
has provided a permanent but rather pinched
income for the blind. It is not exclusively
a blind people’s industry, for Private Enter-
prise also makes these articles, while a
whole lot are imported. Still, the asylum-
product has a reputation for being an ex-
tremely sound article: Melbourne “blind”
millet-brooms are unapproachable; and the
hair and bristle brooms and basketware are,
value for value, ahead of the sea-borne
goods. Yet the blind worker gets a poor
wage and his goods are little known. If
Australia were to bar all American and
other imported products in these lines the
Australian housekeeper would build up a
solid business on a very sound basis —the
basks of quality for which the asylum-people
are mainly responsible—and there would be
a better wage for the blind, with no need
to pay invalid-pensions to sightless broom-
makers, while the returned soldier who has
lost his feet or a leg could have a cut in,
too. It is only a small industry at present;
yet it could be an immense one —for
the most down-at-heel house in Australia
has some sort of a broom kicking about the
premises, even if its only use is to beat the
dog with.
* * * *
A small factory is being built at Sunshine
(Vic.), where Harvester McKay flourishes,
for the manufacture of chinaware. The clay
will be brought from Bacchus Marsh, where
there is a supply pronounced to be equal to
anything our European friends are shipping
to us. Good Australians will wish the young
industry the best of luck and an uncracked
future.
“Moana” : The most astonishing ship deal
on record is that connected with the steamer
Hoyland—a vessel of only 2996 tons. Her
original cost in 1898 was £30,060 and she
was sold in 1910 for £15,000. The other day
her owners agreed to part with her for
£117,000 —nearly four times what she cost
when new 18 years ago. More remarkable
still, she was immediately grabbed on charter
for 12 months at £9300 per month! At the
end of a year, her present owners will practi-
cally have received her recent cost in the form
of hire-money, and—if the submarines miss—
will still have the ship. Lord only knows what
the old ruin won’t be worth by then. In 1930
or so the last rusted rib of her will probably
be handed over in exchange for the Atlantic.
I wish I had saved my money when young
and bought a masthead lamp or a binnacle
or something of that sort.
* * * *
Melbourne will never again ride a horse-
’bus home from work —not as a regular
thing, anyway. The East Brunswick ’bus,
the last of its kind, has gone out of
business for good, owing to the building of
an electric line, and the Melbourne Tram
and Omnibus Co. no longer lives up to its
old-fashioned name.
* * * *
“Taffy” on Martha Washington’s griev-
ance :
“Longy’s” nibful of scorn re the payment of
country school-cleaners (B. . 27/4/’l6) encourages
me to put down my broom. Three years ago the
cleaners were receiving something like 7cl. per hour
for a week of 15 or 16 hours, and out of that they
had to provide their own brooms, buckets, etc. After
much writing and many appeals to the Minister, the
rate was raised to lOd. per hour. Subsequently the
Department had a spasm of generosity and decided
to provide the cleaners with tools and utensils.
Forthwith a most wonderful and wasteful kit of
brooms, buckets, mops, rakes, dustpans, shovels,
chamois leathers, wir.dow-dusters, etc., were deposited
at each school. Only one or two of the most
useful of the collection were kept out; the rest were
shoved into any old cupboard, and the schools were
cleaned without frills as before. Now the Depart-
ment has had a reverse spasm and tacked up new
rules entailing a lot of hard and unnecessary work
while cuttting down the wage from 12s. 6d. or 13s.
4d. per week to 9s. 4d. per month. If somebody has
to pay for the Holman Government’s extravagance
it’s not going to be me. Thank Heaven, I’ve still
enough beauty left to go on the stage.
* * * *
The South Aus. wheat crop is now offi-
cially announced to be a record—34 million
bushels against the previous best (in
11K)9-10) of 25. The harvest is dazzling
when viewed against the background of last
year’s failure: average 124 bushels to the
acre, against 14 ; total 34 millions, against
34. Yet the State had on the whole rather
a dry year in 1915; but all the rain there
was came from April to September, just
when wheat needs it.
* * * *
“J.G.” : I’m laying the odds that the most-
sought-for timber in Australia for cabinet-
making and such fancy work will be wild
cherry. The tree somewhat resembles a
cypress in foliage, and it produces the
prettiest-veined and -figured wood that I
know of. It is superior even to the best
fiddle-backed blackwood. It is much lighter
in color than blackwood, and will polish up
beautifully.
“Moana”: Somebody was asking recently
whether a new sea luxury canned in U.S.A.
was clam or the giant mussel of Maoriland.
It is toheroa, a large shell-fish found in
great quantities near the Kaipara Heads
(M.L.). One Skipwitli, who has been ex-
perimentally canning it, recently rushed away
to Wilson’s country with a quantity, and was
received by epicures with howls of delight.
Toheroa is one of the daintiest seafoods ob-
tainable, and it is expected that collecting it
and exporting it to tickle foreign palates will
soon be a flourishing industry in Loan Land.
For years small quantities have been tinned
by a M.L. firm, but for a very limited market.
Those who managed to get an occasional tin,
particularly in Australia, guarded it with an
automatic mantrap until they had swallowed
the contents and chewed the label.
THE BLESSED VEGETABLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From vegetables we can obtain all the alcohol we
need. Potatoes give the best results. It would pay
to grow them, not as food, but specially for the
manufacture of alcohol. — Melbourne paper.
What gleams is not invariably gold ;
And he whose eyes are red, whose footsteps swerve,
May not have touched a drink. So censure hold
In strict reserve.
Although ’twould seem an easy thing to guess
That such a citizen was on his ear,
He might have merely eaten to excess
The spuds that cheer.
A vegetarian saint may sometimes reel,
E’en though he ne’er the sinful pint-pot drains ;
He puts a carrot in his mouth to steal
Away his brains!
Look not upon the beetroot when it’s red,
For it may prove a mocker worse than wine.
And if you would avoid a drunkard’s head,
Leeks you’ll decline!
So roysterers will set choice spuds in rows ;
In growing alcohol no time they’ll lose;
And home they’ll rush each eve, and with a hose
Water their booze!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.
HIS DISCUST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On one occasion he divested himself of his minis-
terial attire and went to a play, which absolutely
disgusted him. — A saint at an Assembly.
They said the play had most delightful thrills,
Smart turns that almost took one's breath away.
The very name upon the hoarding bills
Suggested things no play-bill ought to say—
Things so disgusting, intimate and sweet,
I felt I really had to book a seat.
The Devil, always stalking in this town,
’Twere vain to meet in frontal, bold attack ;
It wants a lot of skill to get him down,
So I arranged this thing behind his back.
It was a play—Lord, keep thy servant meek! —
In which temptation seemed to simply reek.
The theatre I bar; yet here I must
Get a look in before the season’s close.
So full it was of scenes that would disgust,
And awful sin, as I could well suppose.
I put away my black and holy coat
And went in mufti for a great, glad gloat.
The play exceeded expectations quite.
Choicely indelicate I found it all.
1 never can remember such a night;
Spell-bound I watched to the last curtain’s fall.
Oh, wicked far beyond my power to tell—
-1 left the place as one who fled from Hell!
N.B.W.
GEORGE STREET.


• B <
T-H
lj>e New Sun for the Whole World!
MAZDA Lamps
BRITISH MADE THROUGHOUT.
(With Drawn-wire Filaments).
\
If ;
IpflllllPli
J*--
.
M
: - ~rv
I
*%*>
pt
■y-:,.
«***-
*r
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE—CITY 3510 (5 lines).
BUI SHAMS (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
BERTH (AY. A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.)., Ltd., Hay Street.
— Agents —
“Mazda House,’' Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
TELEPHONE—CENTRAL 2646. 2647; CITY 9579.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
XEYV ZEALAND: The National Electrical A- Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland. Christchurch. Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock and Co., Ltd.. Launceston; Oliver & Oliver. Ltd.. MacQuarie Street, Hobart.


A. Saunders’ Lady’s Hand Bug,
Black Morocco Leather, Leather Lined, Nickel
Frame, 20/-
A. Saunders’ Silver-
mounted Hairpin
Roller, Cut Glass Bottle,
1/6.
UsSs
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Silver Hair Brush, Plain Design,
Hand Burnished, pure quality, extra long Bristles, 20/-
A. SAUNDERS
COR
ALL
A. Saunders’ Lady’s
Chain Bag, in Solid
Silver, Strong Mesh, Pol-
ished Frame, £3/3/-
Silver-plated ditto, 32 /C.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s W allet, Real Black
Morocco Leather, Silk lined, Silver Corners, Lock and
Shield, 12/6. Beal Crocodile, 25/-
r—-a
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Silver Purse, Plain Design, Hand
Burnished, Leather Lired, Centre Division and Mirror, £3.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Cigar Case, Solid
Silver, Hand Engraved, Gilt Lined, 35 / -
Ditto in Silver Plate, 15/6.
A. SAUNDERS,
OPP. RAILWAY STATION, SYDNEY.
GIFTS
FOR
ALL
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s
Wallet, Black Morocco
Leather, Sterling Silver
Mounts and Shield, com-
plete with Calendar,
13/6.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Hand
Bag, Real, Fine-grain Morocco,
Pleated Front, Leather Lined, £2.
A. Saunders’ Scent
Pump, Cut Glass Bottle,
Solid Silver Top, 17/6.
In Nickel, 4/6.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Ebony Hand Mirror, Solid Silver
Mounts, Bevelled Glass, 25/- Brush to match, 20/-
IMPROVED
Compass
Clynometer
For Taking LEVELS and ANGLES.
Reading inclinations in inches
per yard or degrees.
Invaluable to Prospector, Miner, Geologist,
Engineer ami Squatter.
Strong, Compact. Best lacquer brass, / /
2iin. dia., Solid Leather Case, /. J.I
Printed Instructions, POSTED
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.,
189=191 George Street, Brisbane.
TOOTH h CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord Beaconsfield
testified to the benefits he received trom Him-
rod’s Asthma Powder, and every post rings
similar letters to day.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by nil Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia-
BOOKS 1
OU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Merrie
England, Bd. How to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dr.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Nf.d Don-
nelly’s Art of Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston’s Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, 1'- posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle .of the Uni-
verse, Bd., AND ALL THE RATIONAL PRESS RE-
PRINTS (send for list). Joys of Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
.Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
Handybooic, 1/6. Quadrille Gall Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., IJ-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler’s Science
of Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. Sandow’s Book of
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History
of the Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain fQr the British,
Bd. How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taugiit, 1/3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins,
1/> posted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.
m
m
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates/ 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which, makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes,to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted
to ANY address for EIGHT SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH, -mg
Prop. Fowier's Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted.. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speak-
ing Made l/3 posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, If- ;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6:
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book, i/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannan's Engine
Driver's Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio.
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes.. 1/6 posted.
Women's Secrets, 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The Waybacks. 1/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want Pve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. HS?“Established 25 Years.
ONIiY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking•
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS' SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up., Illustrated Guide to the Stage
II- posted. New Tricks with Carps, 1/- ®-' pl
genuine, 1/3. Olb Bush Sonus, 1/3 post. Db
Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical nun
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Go>
don’s Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palm l
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret Hi
TORY Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers Lettei
Whiter, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. “f 0
can’s Freemasonry Exposed, hey to all Degrees
New Edition, 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary
Bd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoll s ores
Bd., 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas. c // ates - ) ; ,{|
posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife. 3/C postefi
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boil. ■
Assistant, 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/2 os tea
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, ail at 5/6 posted
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New Rec
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and js
rjrre 1/2 posted. Webster s Large Unabribgij
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leat er »
mv price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2 Dina:» lob •
Electric Motors, 1/2. Moores 1 cloth
ant and Complete Mechanic. 1016
bound, 10/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoi ano
1/- post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and inu
complete), 1/6 posted. The Armi? TO DAY
Paine, posted Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, Cheap Book Depot, 67 869 Market Street, Sydney <°nly>


'EORGE HOTEL,
•St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria-
The Australia Hotel
BUSINESS AS USUAL.
The Management of the “Australia”
Hotel are gratified to state that, not-
withstanding the upset caused by the
recent tire they are able to announce
“business as usual.” The service in
the Grand Dining Room, on the
Balcony, and in the Winter Garden
is being conducted in the same style
that has made the “Australia” Hotel
so popular with its patrons, while the
arrangements for Private Dinners and
Suppers are working with their accus-
tomed satisfaction.
Throughout the holiday season
arrangements for Afternoon Teas will,
as usual, be carried out in the Winter
Garden, which has been running con-
tinuously throughout.
J. URE SMITH, Manager.
ESTABLISHED 1874.
M FOR
W COUGHS^\
(Mridge’s
UjungMc,
k FOR £
\ COLDS . M
Public Speakers Singers, and all who
suffer from Throat Weakness find
it safe and effective.
SOLD BY RETAIL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
STOCKED BY ALL WHOLESALE
DRUG HOUSES in AUSTRALIA.
Prepared by W. T. OW3RIDGE, LTD.
HULL, ENGLAND.
gt/ t en4)tl %eiX
fox^Edn
Qoo%d
Body - building power
proved equal to from
10 to 20 times the
amount of Bovril taken.
Ray’s Hair Dye.
When Grey Hair begins
to show, rejuvenate
your ap p e arance
with
RAY’S
DYE.
Harmless and In-
stantaneous.
33 different shades.
Post patten; of
hair with order.
r 4/10, 7/11,10/9.
POSTED.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 Block Arcade. Collins Street, Melbourne.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Three Sizes—
h.p.
2 H.p.
H.p.
m
The EVINRUBE
:: DETACHABLE::
ROWBOAT MOTOR
is the most successful and perfect motor of
this kind on the market. Over 40,000 now
in use. Very simple and easy to operate.
Can be attached to any boat in a few
minutes —-adjustable to depth and angle of
stern. Speed up to eight miles an hour.
Equipped with high-tension, built-in-the-fly-
wheel Magneto. Fitted with Automatic
Reverse and Maxim Silencer. Operated by
Petrol, and lubrication is automatic.
°f iny a|«able assistance on the farm for pumping water, driving separator, etc.
iotianstorm motor into a power machine is the work of a few minutes
Propeller is removed and a belt pulley substituted. minutes.
a rmnn » esci ’iPtiY e Booklet sent post free on application to
A 4O G 4° D » «T 6 Comns Street, Melbourne; 82 Pitt Street, Sydney;
Chambers <opp G.P.007 S AucWaSdf Fremo " tle : »««i-gton
LOCAL agents required in all towns avhere not represented
H
DON’T GASH YOUR CHIN
with a Razor that is for ever getting out of order. The strong point of
IHE “PLUM” RAZOR
is that its keenly-tempered edge remains keen for an indefinite period.
And all the science in the world can’t make it keener.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep this razor in perfect order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6,
Pair in Double Case, 21 /-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- This line makes a lovely present.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
x\
VA
CRAIG & AITK.EN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
[PRETTY BUTTON-HOLE BOUQUETS
Never wither or fade. Beautifully bright and attrac-
tive. Roses,pansies, snowdrops, forget-me-nots,
with fern and rose leaves and sham-
rocks, each with a stickpiq. The
flowers are wonderfully made of
celluloid, that is weatherproof and
everlasting. Many different kinds
Larger size, Four Pence each, Four
for One Shilling; Smaller size,Three
iPenceTeach, or Five, for One Shilling, post free anywhere. 1
UNION 299 Elizabeth Melbourne.!
START BUSINESS YOURSELF.
We supply Fancy Goods, Post Cards, Drapery, Tobac-
conists, Stationery, Jewellery, Id.,* 3d. and 6d. Bazaar
Goods, Toys, Confectionery, Cutlery, etc. Sample
cases £5 upwards sent by return. Guide Catalogue,
“Success in Business,’’ 3d.
H. Michaels & Son,
14-15 Cromwell House, High Holborn,
London, W.C., England. U
Edison Blue Amberol
Records for May
A treat is in store for Edison Phonograph owners
this month, for every record listed is of a very
pleasing character.
It is hard to know which will he most popular—>
all are so good—yet we cannot but specially empha-
sise: “Men of England” (Wheeler and Chorus);
“The Grenadier” (Kirkby); “Are you the
O’Reilly?” (Billy Murray and Chorus); “There’s a
Little Spark of Love Still Burning” (W. Van Brunt
and Chorus”); “War Talk at Punkin Center”
brings the inimitable Cal. Stewart back to the
list; “Bird Imitations”—whistling—(Gorst); “King
of the Air March”—Xylophone (Daab).
Order early, through your dealer.
BLUE AMBEROL REGULAR RECORDS
2651 Andante in F. Flute, orch acc.
Weyert A. Moor
2652 Star Spangled Banner. Bari-
tone, orch. acc.
Thomas Chalmers and Chorus
2653 King of the Air March. Xylo-
phone, orch acc.
Charles Daab
2655 Are You the O’Reilly? (Blime
Me, O’Reilly, Yon Are Lookin’
Well). Tenor, orch. acc.
Billy Murray and Chorus
2656 RipilLg Waters,
Ly* Edison Concert Band
2657 War Talk at Punkiij Center.
Rural sketch. Ca£ Stewart
2658 There’s a Little Spark of Love
Still Burning. Tetjor, orch.
acc. | i
Walter Van Brant and Chorus
2663 Alabama Jubilee. Faritorie and
Tenor, orch. acc;
Arthur Collins and Byron G. Harlan
2665 Tbf Kiss (II Bacio), Waltz
Soag. Soprano, orch. acc.
Maly Carson and Chorus
2666 Shadotvland —Fox Trot. For
dancing. Jaudas’ Soeiety Orch.
2GG7 Make Tour Mind Up, Maggie
MacKenzie. Comic Scotch
Song, orch. acc. Glen Ellison
2668 Introduction to 3rd Act —
“Lohengrin.”
American Symphony Orchestra
2674 Bird Imitations. Whistling.
Charles Crawford Gorst
2675 Ever of Thee I’m Fondly Dream-
ing. Soprano and Baritone,
orch. acc.
E. Spencer & Thomas Chalmers
23382 Men of England. Baritone and
male chorus, orch acc.
Frederick J. Wheeler and Chorus
23383 The Sunshine of Your Smile.
Tenor, orch acc.
Alfred D. Shaw
23384 The Nelson-Touch. Bass and
male chorus, orch. acc.
Donald Chalmers and Chorus
23386 The Grenadier. Baritone, orch.
acc. Stanley Kirkby
23387 Some Little Girl Named Mary.
Tenor, orch. acc.
Irving Kaufman
23389 Take Me Back to Your Heart.
Tenor, orch. acc.
George W. Ballard
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
If You Wear
Abbey Shoes
once, you will wear them always—
that is, IF you appreciate length
of service anil smart anil distinctive
appearance.
We illustrate a special Golf Shoe in
choice Tan Willow Calf.
Heavy Soles 30/-
Light Soles 27/6
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
A BBE Y,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
Quickly removes SKIN ERUPTIONS,
ensuring A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable Pimples,
disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema disappear
by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
S.urf
Aone
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin Specialists,
J. Pepper &Co., Ltd., Bedford Laboratories, London,
S.E., England, and can be obtained from any
chemists and stores throughout the world.
Quickly removes the effects of Sunscorch.
DAIMLER
V- »*'-
sotor Carriages —'
fewEßim Vehicles ~
Agricoltural Tractors
tkc DAIMLER COMPANY .•»
COVENTRY, ENGLAND.
Stationary Engines
Magneto from h.p. Upwards.
PUMPING OUTFITS SUPPLIED.
CONCRETE MIXERS, ROAD
GRADERS.
ROW-BOAT MOTORS, 5 different
models.
LAKE BREEZE COOLING FANS, run
on methylated spirits.
LAMPS and LANTERNS, burn benzine
or kerosene.
LIGHTNING LETTER OPENERS, 3
models, capacity from 100 to 300
letters per minute.
LAT E S T-I MPRO V E D LETTER
SEALERS.
Agents for all lines wanted where not
represented.
ADDISON PARKER,
34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.


S Y D PS El.v. IN.SW.
The Wentworth Garden, with its beautiful surroundings, is
ideal for Luncheons, Dinners, Afternoon Teas, Supper and
Wedding Parties, and all semi-outdoor functions.
Visitors to Sydney will lind the Wentworth Hotel most popular,
central and up to date in all modern,conveniences, including telephones
in bedrooms, communicating with the Exchange.
The Appointments, Linen and Service are superb, and compare more
than favorably with the best Hotel! in the Commonwealth.
Terms on application.
Mrs. 11. MACLURCAN, Manageress.
IF BILIOUS OR CONSTIPATED TAKE
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
-><■' • • X: •
Harmless fruit laxative cleanses
stomach, liver and bowels
, without griping or
discomfort.
An acid stomach, clogged' with fermenting,
ill-digested food, means that the liver is not
doing its duty. Nature provided ripe fruit
juices to keep the liver up to its work.
California Syrup of Eigs—“Califig”—is a
deliciously fruit laxative which is
always in season. You can keep it at hand,
and it will*be an unfailing friend whenever
the tongue is coated, bowels sluggish, breath
foul, throat dry or. sore, stlimach full of
wind, and head hot and aching. You can
take a dose it is needed, as safely
as you could oaf fresh fruit. In as s ,
whiie you will feel the benefit. r lhe bo ■
will be gently relieved, and the sto
cleansed and sweetened as the nndig
food is moved on and got rid of.
will grow clean again and the head wi
cooled and cleared. There is no in l ® *
ihe beneficial effects of California > P,
Figs—“Califig.” Directions are with w
adults and children of all ages. ' no t
pleasant laxative is good for all, and c
possibly harm even the most '; n ; a
you must ask for “Califig ’-Cal foiwa
Syrup of Figs, and look for the ' ial
trade-mark of the California Fig y) ,|' n j, t
All chemists sell “CaUfig”--Califoni a
Syrilp of Figs —in bottles of two •
1/1 j and 1/9.
POLITICAL
POINTS
After the recent Trades Conference at
.Melbourne had damned compulsory military
service and announced that voluntaryism
would give equally good results, it called
loudly for an increase in the tariff “to keep
out the enemy’s goods.” But why use com-
pulsion when voluntaryism will give equally
good results? In keeping out the imported hat
why not allow our dislike of the exotic lid
to find voluntary expression? The distress-
ing fact is that, in the opinion of a demoral-
ised Labor conference, compulsion should be
applied to the protection of industry, but
not to the protection of life and liberty,
those things being of less consequence.
“The most unkindest Kut of all.”
— Shakspcarc.
Did the British Government want an out-
break in Ireland? How otherwise explain
the utter disregard of the flood of newspaper
warnings. Here’s a typical hulloa from
London Referee (12/3/T6) :
Are we squandering the staying power of the
Empire in Ireland by ignoring treason and the
growing influence of the Kaiser’s Irish secretary, Sir
Roger Casement?
Originally negligible, the Sinn Fein party is now
well organised, and is growing in County Cork at
an alarming rate. The party’s mission is not only
anti-English but pro-German.
The leaders of the movement should be imprisoned
for the term of the war, and' the nest of Sinn
Feiners near the “Seven Heads” interned. Sinn
Feiners are not playing for notoriety. Their
treason is earnest, hut they are not like the old
patriots of ’9B. Their one thought is money-
making, and their promise of untold wealth and
prosperity “when the Germans come” has caught on.
It would appear possible to find a proper
job for a firing squad on the eastern side of
the Irish Sea.
During the Leg. Council elections in
Westralia the other day one of the argu-
ments used to induce the electors to vote in
a particular direction consisted of a mass
of figures relating to the trading and busi-
ness enterprises carried on by the
State. Every line was a fraud.
There was a statement of revenue
and expenditure in each case: but
no mention was made of interest,
depreciation, renewals or sinking
fund, and bad as the figures look
without such charges they would
look fit for the morgue with them.
This sort of thing, the direct result
of party government, is flagrantly
dishonest. Either the administra-
tion can be defended with honest
figures or it cannot be. In any
case the public is entitled to a fair
statement on the subject. When
the alleged friends of public enterprise mon-
key with the facts, they immediately come
within the category of its enemies.
This paper will have doubts presently
whether Billy Kaiser hasn’t actually done
more than Billy Hughes for Australian in-
dustry. The latest development for which
the German William is responsible is hap-
pening on the Parramatta, where James
llardie and Co., hitherto known as importers
of fibro-cement slates and sheets, have
secured land for a factory wherein a sub-
sidiary co. will make goods of the same kind.
The new co.—which has got the Treasurer’s
blessing—intends .to make asbestos slates as
well. But while the German William has
thus set’ the new business going, it is out of
bis power to keep it going. That’s where the
Wales-always-best William should come in.
Unhappily in regard to Australian tariff
reform the Welsh William has never shown
any disposition to come in with enthusiasm.
The price of the bait under the voluntary
system. At its last meeting Brunswick
(Vic.) Council talked with misgiving of the
expense of the present ulan of recruiting,
but nothing was done. The only motion,
which suggested asking Pearce for a refund
of the money spent, lapsed for want of a
seconder. Still, the fact was brought out
that each recruit costs Brunswick 255. or
30s. before he even began to be a soldier.
Davies, the Commonwealth’s new Director
of Navigation, has told Tasmania to get to
work and build iron ships. He points out
that it has the Blythe iron deposit, one of
the richest in the world, along with cheap
hydro-electric power and more deep-water
facilities than it knows what to do with.
But he forgot something. It also has boom
conditions, the result of a borrowing
orgy, and a large capacity for knock-
ing off work frequently, and not do-
ing a fair thing between times. A
Director of Navigation who takes
the plus factors into account and neglecis
all minus quantities is likely to arrive at
some results more amazing than helpful.
A delegate at the recent N.S.W. Shires'
Conference put into shape a notion held
by a lot of people in a more-or-less vague
fashion, by moving that eligible single men
who don’t enlist should be barred from the
Parliamentary and Local Government fran-
chise. After "some talk the motion was with-
drawn, which was just as well, because the
idea is all wrong. It proposes to force men
by indirect means to do something which
the Law tells them directly they can please
themselves about. If voluntaryism is the
correct thing it shouldn’t be sandbagged
in the rear; if it isn’t the correct thing it
should be punched in honest, straight-for-
ward fashion on the nose.
Otto Sachse, who is asking for re-elec-
tion to the Vic. Leg. Council, is being
opposed by the persistent Frederick Daw-
born, who in 1908 very nearly pushed
George Swinburne out of Hawthorn.
In his daily appeal Sachse refers to his
“strenuous recruiting campaigns, the wel-
fare of my native land Australia, and the
best interests of our great Empire.” Daw-
born, in his brief four-line counterblast, asks
the North-Eastern Province to “vote for
Dawborn, Victorian native J_Britisher].”
Sachse is unfortunate in having a name
which isn’t Australian. Still, the other
man’s attempt to suggest that he is the bet-
ter Britisher doesn’t prove him the better
Liberal. For instance, Sachse has shown
himself a firm believer in an importing
policy, with no bigoted leanings towards
British imports. There was, c.g., that little
matter of the proposed purchase of German
pianos for Victorian State schools. What
Dawborn should do, instead of attempting
to get ahead of Sachse on the grounds of
his ancestry, is to show that he wouldn’t
support an importing policy, but would
battle for a few of the urgent reforms advo-
cated by advanced Liberalism, which he
claims to represent, in the days when Lib-
eralism stood for something.
FRIGHTFULNESS IN THE NURSERY.
THE FAMILY DOCTOR ( manipulating the
doctored dose): “Well, well, you are
a funny hoy—why this sudden dislike
for jam?”
THE FAMILY TERROR: “ 'Cos I b’lieve it’s
mined!”
State secondary education in Tasmania
doesn’t promise, as far as it has gone, to
relieve the curse of congestion or keep the
numerous middleman from getting thicker
on the ground. Of the 127 boys who left
the State High Schools last year 45 joined
the collar and cuffs brigade by taking up
“commercial pursuits,” 29 started to learn
a trade, 10 got a Government job, six went
into the military service, and only nine took
to farming.
An Adelaide magistrate has knocked a big
lmle in the new Licensing Act, which pre-
scribes six o’clock closing, by simply punch-
jng il with tlie words “for profit” in clause
]34 ll.' “cannot understand what the
legislature meant” by putting them in;
hut there they are. So the police witness
who gets whisky at a haiushop has to show
whether there really was any profit on the
deal; and the odds are he hasn’t the know-
lodge to do it. Tlie section says “sells
or supplies for profit,” and the question
seems to be whether “for profit" has to he
TOUGH.
ENRAGED DINER : “Waiter—a piece of paper—if you please."
WAITER: “A piece of paper?”
ENRAGED DINER: "Yes, sir: a piece of paper, to wrap up this steak in — I wish to take it
home and have my hoots soled.”
applied to both verbs or only to the second
one. If the Act said “sells, or supplies for-
profit,” there wouldn’t be any doubt about
it —the man would be an offender. But the
Law has a stupid aversion to commas and
other marks of punctuation ; hence this ridi-
culous muddle.
Now things will be all right! B. It.
Wise, N.S.W.’s Agent-General in London,
has, so the cable says, secured new offices,
with “two large windows facing Trafalgar
Square.” Think of it —two large windows!
In future the Ma State’s apple will have
ample space to turn the other cheek, and its
spud will be in a position to throw a glad
eye at the late Admiral Nelson. Incidentally,
the Commonwealth’s fine new building—Aus-
tralia House —will soon be looking for
tenants. But, of course, it would never do
for the “oldest State” to have the Common-
wealth as its landlord. What a farce it all
is ! And what expensive humbug!
The War Economy Championship lias been
won by the Hobart City Council, which has
decided to save £4OO a year by collecting
the garbage once a week, instead of daily.
But why once a week V Why stir up the
contentious dustbin at all while the enemy
is at the gate?
“•T.F.H.” reminds us of,an old visitor in
a corded velvet coat: —-
Billy Hughes has found out a thing or two since
he arrived here in England. Among his most humor-
ous discoveries is that he owes all to Ben Tillett.
That dreadful little posturing person tells London
Daily Chronicle that when he went to Australia in
1897 he found Andrew Fisher “secretary of a small
and struggling miners’ union at Gympie,” and Billy
“managing a waterside workers’'union at Sydney.”
Ben addressed meetings under the auspices of both,
and the burden of his speeches was the advantage
the Australian workers possessed in their democratic
system of government. “I urged them to make use
of these advantages by sending their own representa-
tives to run the legislative machine. They were apt
pupils.” So you see Ben Tillett is the Father of the
Australian Labor party and the political progenitor
of the Prime Minister and the High Commissioner.
Indeed, it isn’t certain that there wouldn’t have been
a ’orrible tragedy but for Benny’s little velvet coat.
When he arrived at Gympie he found Andy “rather
despondent,” but after Andy had listened and looked
he bucked up and “started on the line which led first
to his return to the Queensland Parliament and then
to the Commonwealth Parliament and Premiership.”
The trifling facts that in 1897 Fisher had been mem-
ber for Wide Bar- for four years and that Hughes
had been member for Lang for three years are, of
course, of no consequence whatever.
“Melb lam greatly impressed bv
item in a picture show just seen. \ Vatl
load of uniformed soldiers is on the wav t
vote at an English by-election. There k
tremendous significance in this. The soldie!
vote in England will be up to four million'
at least—and what camaraderie there will
he among them! No danger of the veteran
being neglected as the Balaclava heroes
were. Here in Australia we’ll have at least
a quarter of a million khaki votes, with all
their sisters, cousins and aunts and a host of
cronies.
Cheerful appropriation by Federal Parlia-
ment : Pay of censors and their staffs, etc..
£33.000. But why not be frank about it and
label it “Agency for Suppressing Unpleas-
ant Facts about the Administration.
£33,000” ?
Even while the war is raging there are signs
of weakening amongst the loud patriots
who declared hotly that the trading German
was rubbed off their lists for ever —and left it
at that. A few months ago the S. M.
Herald was the most enthusiastic never-
againer of them all; now, discussing
whether a citizen with £.">000 to spare should
keep it to invest in the next war loan or
use it to start a factory for the manufacture
of goods formerly obtained from Germany,
the S. M. Herald remarked: “When the
enemy is forced to his knees there will be
time enough to make us independent of him
in the matter of trade, if that he desirable.’’
If Australia doesn’t bang and bolt the door
PROPER RETRIBUTION.
"Boor Royer Casement! It’s a dhirrty death
he’ll he doyin’ in England this day!’
“Dliirrty death to yerself, O’Flannigan! If
he don’t git the offer of a sate in the
Govermint Oi’m a Dutchman!”
with, a tariff before the war ends, its
chances of doing so when peace is restored
are poorer than Buckley’s. This paper can
already hear in the distance the argument
of the local foreign-trader: “In these days
of national distress, when the burden
taxation lies heavy upon our shoulders, we
certainly cannot afford to turn down out
late enemies’ offer of cheap goods. I‘ H ’
time to make these sacrifices will be when
we have healed our wounds and prosperity
is restored.”
A NEW VERSION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Because we rallied him upon his haste
To hurry home, and leave behind the lights,
The pots of liquor it is good to taste,
And other things that gladden festive nights',
Brown, in fine scorn, this proverb at us hurled:
“The tongue a woman cradles rocks the world.”
And Brown is right, although he did not mean
To tangle up the ancient phrase like that.
When Blog-on comes to town, brim-full of spleen,
To sack his clerks, and kick the harmless oat
That on the office rug is snugly curled.
The tongue a woman cradles rocks our world.
Kings have made wars and statesmen gone astray,
Men rushed to battle glad to seek for peace,
Explorers towards new worlds have sailed away
Because of clacking tongues that would not cease.
Brown was inspired. All discord’s flags unfurled
Yell his remarks about a rocking world.
x.s.w
HAMER.


Representative
Australian
Authors.
A Selection of Novels by Australia’s Foremost Writers
. . . from . . .
The “Bookstall” Scries of Shilling Books
EDWARD DYSON’S
Humorous Books:
“Loves of Lancelot.”
“Faet’ry ’Ands.”
“Spats’ Faet’ry.”
“Tommy the Hawker.”
“Benno and Some of tlio
Push.”
“The Missing Link.”
A. G. STEPHENS:
“Bill’s Jdees.”
ARTHUR H. ADAMS:
“The Knight of the Motor
Launch.”
RANDOLPH
BEDFORD:
“Billy Pagan.”
LOUIS BECKE:
“Bully Hayes, Bucca-
neer.”
“The Adventures of Louis
Blake.”
NORMAN LINDSAY
“A Curate in Bohemia.”
STEELE RUDD’S
Selection Stories:
THOS. E. SPENCER’S
Humorous Rooks:
J. H. M. ABBOTT:
“The Sign of the Serpent.”
All One
Price:
!■ each
1/1 Posted
ROY BRIDGES:
“On His Majesty’s Ser-
vice.”
ARTHUR WRIGHT’S
Sporting Novels:
“Umler a Cloud.”
“In the Last Stride.”
“Rung In.”
“Gamblers’ Gold.”
“A Rogue’s Luck.”
“The Sport from Hollow-
log Flat.”
E. J. BRADY:
“Tom Pagdin, Pirate.”
M. FORREST:
“A Bachelor’s Wife.”
JOHN SANDES:
“Love and the Aeroplane.”
SUMNER LOCKE:
“Skeeter Farm.”
“Mum Dawson, Boss.”
“The Dawsons’ Uncle
George.”
AMBROSE PRATT:
“Wolaroi’s Cup.”
Obtainable from all BooKstalls and
BooKsellers in the Commonwealth.
Write to the Publishers for a Complete Catalogue.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. Ltd
476 George Street, Sydney.
10-incH
BRITISH-MADE
12-incH
from
3/-each
y| Records jy
5-each
PACHMANN
AT THE PI ANO
ANOTHER triumph for Columbia recording! Vladimir
de Pachmann, prince of pianists and greatest exponent
of Chopin ever known, has joined the ever-growing
number of Master Musicians who now record only for
Columbia.
Wonderful, amazing, astounding, these Pachmann Columbia
Records give a new meaning to tne reproduction of pianoforte
music. Here at last is true piano tone, impeccable in purity,
and free from that dull twang which characterised pianoforte
recording till the advent of the new Columbia, process.
COLUMBIA DOUBLE-SIDED
RECORDS
for sheer money’s worth the most extraordinary value ever
offered in Celebrity Records.
Your music-dealer will have pleasure in playing over for you
the following epoch-marking records:
PACHMANN COLUMBIA
RECORDS
12-INCH DOUBLE-SIDED, 6/- EACH.
LlOO9
I Prelude Op. 28, No. 24 in “D” minor (Chopin)
( Impromptu, Op. 29 in “A” flat (Chopin).
1,1010
f (a) Etude, Op. 25, No. 3 in “F” major: (b) Prelude.
Op. 28, No. 16, in “B” flat minor (Chopin).
I Polonaise —Cadenza (Liszt).
LIOU
(Nocturne in “E” flat. Op. 9, No. 2 (Chopin).
{ (a) Mazurka, Op. 67, No. 4,
l. (b) Prelude, Op. 28, No. 23 (Chopin),
Columbia Recording is more faithful to the original, whether the
human voice or instrumental music.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS
SYDXET, N.S.W.—Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, Haw son Place. '
MELBOURNE, VIC. —Dinsilale’s Proprietary, Ltd., 269 Swanston St.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S. A.—Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A.—II. R. Firth, Royal Arcade. >
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Webley Sons and Gofton, Ltd., 243 High St.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Hayward and Garratt, Ltd. J
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
MADE
BY
NESTLE’S
O’
m
V
ri:
l .
vf
gi
THE EVERYDAY MILK
▲
mM
‘IDEAL’ Brand MILK is Pure Milk
ABSOLUTELY PURE ALWAYS
This fact matters very much to you and yours, because
you cannot always rely upon getting purity with ordinary
dairy milk
TWO
‘IDEAL’
Brand
MILK
IS MILK OF THE HH|
HIGHEST QUALITY
n 1 . '*• -*' I
milk concentrated
till it is as thick as cream.
It is more easy to digest
than dairy milk; it has a
most delicious flavour and
is most wholesome and
nutritious
n
L
<s>
CONDENSED
ized. Not
U 0
“tPAsto in enOL
THREE
®|g|gg§l ‘IDEAL-’
Brand
MILK
■HBfiiHl is Most Useful
HBBBBH and Economical
It
■■ -'K ■ * v i.»ur-
pose for which
you need milk; whether
for baking or for use in-
stead of cream, with tea,
coffee, stewed fruit, etc.
And it saves you money
because there is never any
waste with , it.
MADE
r BY
NESTLE’S
-J
*
i
X
PEAL
MIL
MM
Swtrfj,
Nor
MADE BY NESTLES'
IN TINS,
OF ALL
GROCERS
& STORES


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMEB & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
You’ll be surprised to find how
much easier and safer it is to
shave with a Gillette. The
old-fashioned shave is nothing
but a habit. Drop it and get
the
NO STROPPINa NO HONINa
Sold everywhere, 23/6. British Made.
Write for free booklet. Agents: S.
Hoffnung & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney;
Gillette Safety Razor, Ltd., London, Eng.
Public Notices.
COMMONWEALTH PATENT No. 8711
and dated the 15tli day of May. 100<,
for an invention entitled “Improvements in
automatic guns.”
The Public of the Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia is hereby notified that any reasonable
requirements in -regard to permission, upon
royalty, for Manufacturers to employ the
said “Improvements in Automatic Guns,
in Australia, in accordance with the above
Patent, will be satisfied by the undersigned
(at reasonable cost) on application beiflg
made to the Company.
Melbourne, the 20th day of April, 1916.
ARMES AUTOMATIQUES (Society
Anonvme), the Patentee, in care of Mr. A.
O. SACHSE, C.E.. Patent Attorney, corner
of Collins and William Streets, Melbourne.
Legal Notice.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Court of Chancery
of the County Palatine of Lancaster Manchest
District made in an Action 1916 Letter A. No. i •
In the matter of the Trusts of an Indenture of Settle-
ment dated the 31st day of January 188 1 mad® , •
Henry Joseph Andrews, Heald v. Bowden. he y
an enquiry was directed to be made by the Kegisi
as to whether Thomas Corlett Andrews a son ot •
Joseph Andrews is alive or dead and if d®??.,,
he died and whether he left any and what >' ill
whether he was ever married and if so when an
whom and whether there were any children 0
said marriage and who are his legal personal P
sentatives. The said Thomas Corlett Andrews
he be dead his legal personal representative o
persons claiming to be his next of kin or to
legal personal representatives of such of me
next of kin as have since died or any of them ■
their Solicitors on or before the eleventh day ,•
1916 to come in and prove their claims bet
Registrar of the Manchester District at his C
situate at 4 Clarence Street, Manchester, r- n St , ,
in default thereof they will be peremptorily - .
from the benefit of the said Order. 1 ndav
day of July 1916 at 11 o’clock in the forenoon at t
said Chambers is the time and place appoi
the adjudication on the said claims. n
NOTE.—Thomas Corlett Andrews who w* B a d
of the said Henry Joseph Andrews fo ™ er - an ,i is
at Gatley Cheadle in the County of Chest
believed to have sailed for Australia in or . , tgrs
month of February 1908. For some ti £ O .
were addressed to him c/o Messrs. Dalge 1
Limited of Adelaide Australia w.io used j n
them to various addresses he left with tn • was
December. 1908 the said Thomas Corlett Andr ‘’V nown
at Pooncarie New South Wales. Th ? vs was
address of the said Thomas Corlett An w wjch
Cambewarra P.O. New South Males fro
address he wrote on the 14th June 190 y.
Dated this 20th day of March, 1916.
HUBERT WINSTANLEY^. strar
CROFTON, CRAVEN & CO.,
36 Brazenose Street,
Solicitors to the present trustees of the said 1
of Settlement.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Highland Band was a long time making
his pa and ma whinny with pride. The old man
was Tartan, and ma was the imported Playaway,
who once cleared out with a Newmarket Handicap.
What Tartan did is history. The disappointing off-
spring won his first race at Sydney Tattersail’s meet-
ing last Saturday, when he exhibited his tail to a
bunch of moderates. Little Foley, who piloted the
nag, took no risks, and won rather easily. That
boy is a fine jockey, who apparently doesn’t relish
flash finishes, for the same afternoon he gave Lady
Minnie no peace until she had won the Winter Stakes
by five lengths from the Maorilander Toa Tere.
Lady Minnie, a very lanky filly, had always been
going to do something big—according to her track
work. Had she been in a betting stable she would
have cost a mint of money. The young female had
been backed on many previous occasions.
Nombi’s success in Sydney Tattersall’s
Flying Handicap on Saturday was the sixth in that
nag’s career, four of them having been for his owner-
trainer, F. J. Marsden. Before Marsden got him
Nombi belonged to McDonald and Wills-Alien, but
after landing two races for the partners he contracted
the T.M.S. habit —too many seconds. It would be
safe to say that Nombi has been in that deplorable
position over a dozen times. Marsden always
trained the prad and got him for £5OO. Within a
month the brute was first past the post on two
occasions. Any punter who studied Doncaster
Handicap form must have been on Nombi on Satur-
day. In that race Nombi was a good fourth.
Apropos of seconds, it might not be out of place to
casually mention that Royal Laddie was there again
on Saturday.
* * * *
Racehorse-owner Fred Merton before leav-
ing Sydney the other day to catch fish in Queensland,
directed that Aurofodina was to be put into work
again. The old ’un —he is rising 10 —has been
doing stud duty for some time, and the first of his
yearlings appeared in the sale-ring at the recent dis-
tribution. As they did not bring loud prices there
is a suspicion that some of them may turn out
champions. Aurofodina won any number of good
races, but his name will always be associated with
one of the big tragedies of the Australian turf.
The late W. 11. Smith, than whom there was no more
honorable horseman, was riding Aurofodina in the
Rosehill Cup when he received the injuries which
killed him. His mount was running in the centre
of a packed field, when Gracedelle, a one-eyed
mare, crossed her legs and toppled over. Several
other nags hit the ground, including Aurofodina.
That accident was the cause of the introduction of
the A.J.C. rule which prohibits the running of one-
lamp nags in this State. Victoria soon followed
suit. It is only in portions of Queensland that
they are now permitted to compete.
Morven Lass (Brac-ken-Dobine) has been
a little gold-mine on Sydney pony courses lately.
In eight starts, the 14.1 champion had six wins,
with a second under a mountainous list. 31b.
Besides bulging the owner’s wallet, Morven Lass has
given Ikey a lift by upsetting red-hot favorites.
Adelaide Cup meeting was held at Vic-
toria Park, the “old course” on the city park-lands,
with a free Flat; Morphettville, the proper home of
the S.A.J.C., is still in the hands of the military.
The totalisator handled £54,000; which is much
better than last year’s £49,000; but the three years
before that were all £63,000. The Jockey Club
takes 7$ per cent, of the investments, which means
£4OOO towards the stake money ( £6300 odd). The
State Government gets a “sweetener” of £l3OO, and
90 per cent, is divided among backers of winners
and seconds. (Tickets on the second horse receive
one-fourth of the money whenever there are seven or
more starters.) The biggest dividend of the three
days was £23, but comfortable sixes and sevens
were plentiful. As already mentioned, the feature
of the w'eek was the success of imported horses.
Blague won the Goodwood (paying backers £7 65.),
Cyklon the one weight-for-age race, and St. Spasa
the Cup ( £l2 Is.). S.A.’s modest “classic” events
were won by Keily’s Ptami (two-year-old), and
Lynch’s Pretty Bobby (St. Leger) ; P.B. was also
second in the Cup. Tait, a South Australian, was
the only four-figure winner (the Cup was worth
£1200) ; then came “Rawdon” Syme, Lynch, Keily,
Goldhill, Mrs. Hawker, Mostyn Owen, Scobie, Hamil-
ton and Hawker. Harrison (4) was the only man
to ride more than two winners, Lynch (4) the only
one to train more than two, and Bobadil (Blague and
Pretty Bobby) the only sire with more than one.
The A.R.C.’s Birthday Cup meeting, with a similar
programme, follows, on the same ground, almost at
once.
* * * *
The way the totalisator works was well
illustrated in a small race at the Adelaide Cup meet-
ing. In a field of 19, only three were really backed,
others being nibbled at on the chance of a big divi-
dend. (To “make up a ticket” with sporting
friends, and hope for a huge, unknown return, is one
of the pleasures of the tote.) Scotch Peer, one of the
three fancied, dead-heated with Boulogne for second
place, Devron winning easily. Thus three dividends
had to be paid. The 55| people who backed Devron
got £23 each. Boulogne’s 19 supporters got
£ll 3s. each —for a dead-heat second!
Before La Steppe went away from Sydney
to win the Brisbane Thousand last Saturday, her
owner made no secret of his belief in her ability to
succeed. She humped' 9st. 61b. in front all the
way over the seven furlongs, and won well in lmin.
29lsec. As it is a change to see a favorite land a
big stake, La Steppe will probably be very popular
in Bananaland. Just before the last Newmarket
the mare appropriated three races, the last at Rose-
hill a week before the big Flemington dash. The
stable thought she had a capital chance and hurried
her across to Peacock’s capital, but she didn’t hurry
up in the race and had not appeared much in public
since.
* * * *
The well-bred Eighteen Carat, who had
numerous wins to his credit in three States —a
Hobart Cup the most striking of them —has come to
an ignominious end in Adelaide. He fell in a hurdle
race, and, breaking his leg, was shot.
* * * «
Maoriland’s flying machine, Desert Gold,
has finished her three-year-old career, owner Lowry
having decided to give her a spell until the spring.
This season she started in 14 races and arrived home
first every time, which sounds suspiciously like a
world’s record, and collected £B2OO. Including
her two-vear-old winnings of £3765 she has now
earned £11,965.
If Desert Gold had never been born or
had died last year, or had never been taught to
gallop, a nag named Eligible would be enjoying the
limelight as the best three-year-old in the wintry
isles. He has bagged the Trentham Gold Cup, the
M.L. St. Leger, the Auckland Plate, City Handicap
and Summer Cup, the Canterbury Fendalton Handi-
cap, and the Hawkes Bay Cup.
The Westland Racing Club (M.L.) tried
an experiment the other day and had girl clerks at
the tote-receiving windows. If this spreads punters
over yonder will be able to strike a new vein in the
search for luck, backing chestnuts at the blonde
girl’s window, and bays and blacks at the brunette’s.
* * ■* *
A couple of welshing Ikeys were im-
pounded by the police up at Bathurst (N.S.W.) the
other day, mainly because they were in danger of
being beaten on the head by a post or something;
and the local beak passed them three months, remark-
ing that “their actions might have led to bloodshed.’
Of course these guns deserved what they got and
were lucky that the Law had rescued them from
the infuriated punter. But Sydney Telegraph at
once demanded to know 1 “how far a bookmaker who
fails in his business can be held accountable for
the murderous instincts of his clients.” Then it
philosophically reflected that a man unable to pay
an ordinary debt would not be gaoled because his
creditors thirsted for his blood, and wildly asked
why the creditor of a bookmaker should be entitled
to more protection than other men? The answer to
the last question is easy. He is not. The man
who puts up his money to buy the odds from I key
is not in the position of a creditor if Ikey either
disappears over the fence or announces that he cannot
deliver the goods, nor is Ikey in the position of a
debtor. The pur.ter has been robbed. Ikey is the
robber. Talk about “ordinary debts” in such cases
is blithersome. If the Telegraph happened to want
a stimulant some evening and drifted into a pub
with demands for beer, and if Bung, after taking
the cash, remarked that there was nothing doing and
leaped out of the back door, it occurs to this paper
that the editorial yells for blood would bring all
the John Hops in the land to the scene of disaster.
JACK DAVIS (“Not Out”), Editor
Sydney Referee.
“Musketoon”: Most of the aristocrats
seem to be racing at country meetings nowadays.
At the recent Grenfell (N.S.W.) picnic there were
Queen Rice, Queen Milli, Lady Smock, Lady Ganara,
Lord Rice and Silent King, to say nothing of Sir
Sago. There were also some kings about, and they
were not silent. They belonged to the House of
Solomon and took away most of the district’s spare
cash.
Punters who drop money on the ponies
seem to have harder work getting rid of their cash
than the misguided sports who put their trust in
dogs. At the Metrop. (Sydney) coursing flutter held
last week, the favorite for the May Stakes was a
lady who was backed to win outright at five to two.
As this meant winning six consecutive courses the
odds denoted a cheerful optimism which had its reward
in the animal’s defeat in the second effort. The
noble art of puss-chasing is a thrilling business
sometimes for both puss and the punter.
* * * *
Dave Smith arrived in the ring at Syd-
ney Stadium on Saturday after a long absence, and
as his old-time opponent, Jimmy Clabby, was there, the
crowd saw a good rough disturbance and had a fierce
argument afterwards. Clabby abandoned his usual
tactics and carried the battle to close quarters as
often as he got a chance, and there he more than
held his own. Smith for half of the time at any rate
boxed with all his former speed and used his right
at times to good purpose. But as a rule his timing
was poor, with the result that when he landed on
Clabby the door was usually swinging the wrong
way. At the tenth round Smith was leading by a
fair margin. Then the Yank woke up and Smith
began to tire. At the end Scott gave Clabby his
blessing, and the back seats broke into a wild roar
of protest. The contest was one in which any
decision given by the referee would have been
challenged, though perhaps a draw would have
satisfied the majority of spectators. But Scott’s
job is not to look for majority backing; it is to
give his own unbiased judgment, and as far as
the writer of this paragraph reckoned it up Scott
did the correct thing. Weights: Smith, list. 61b.;
Clabby, lOst. 131 b.
* * # *
Harry Stone and Tommy Uren provided
the disturbance at Melbourne Stadium on Saturday
night, and science figured more than bash, to the
great disgust of the gallery, which yearns for some-
thing with a meat axe in it. But there was plenty
of action. The two pugs bobbed, pranced and smote
like cockerels looking for trouble. Uren had the
better of frequent clinches, tickling Stone’s ear
with short, strenuous rights. The Amurkan-Yid-
disher’s left, however, never ceased operations, and
two-handed quick-firing bombardments at the enemy’s
commissariat in the last few rounds turned the
scale in his favor. The referee’s decision brought
great rejoicing to Judah, and milk and honey and
shekels flowed through the land.
It hasn't grown too dark to see the goal
as far as “Joker” Hall is concerned. After a futile
shot he has, as the football reporters used to say,
notched the big point, and hopes to help in compiling
the winning score in the premiership match, Kultur
v. Civilisation. Which is to say that, after having
been once rejected by the recruiting sergeant, “Joker”
has become Private Alexander Hall, and has gone
into camp. Followers of Essendon (Vic. League)
will remember him well as a brilliant player and
subsequently as a coach for Melbourne, St. Kilda and
Williamstown. He has persuaded 14 others to
wear khaki, two of his sons are at the Front, and a
third is munition-making. A brother and two
nephews are also in the ranks.
Western Suburbs’ success in Sydney lawn
tennis premiership saves the bother of shifting the
bauble to another cupboard. It needed a fine
effort to win, and Horace Rice supplied it, wresting
the game from Sydney b"y five rubbers to three.
The season just ended in time for Moran and You-
dale (who played for Wests in the final) to pack up
their rifles for a rubber with the Hun.
Jack Healy, secretary of the Vic. Cricket
Association, who died in his office last week, was
never a great cricketer, but he was a useful club
batsman, a brilliant outfield, and a wicketkeeper of
considerable ability. On one occasion he got into
the Victorian Eleven against N. S. Wales when
Blackham was unable to play. It was as the con-
temporary and pal of the famous East Melbourne
players of the late ’7o’s and the ’Bo’s that he was
most noted. The ranks of these old stagers have
been sadly thinned of late. He survived Tommy
Horan, perhaps the closest of his old-time friends,
by r a few weeks only. Both wrote on sport for the
Australasian for many years —Horan on cricket and
Healy on football. Healy was 65.
Passed along the Sunset Trail in France
lately, Lieut. Frank Cheadle, known best in this
city as one of the prettiest side-steppers either
Union or League Rugby ever had in these parts.
Cheadle was an exceedingly light man even for a
wing three-quarter, but that handicap didn’t stop
him reaching the top. Always a member of the
Newtown Club, both as amateur and pro., Cheadle
won his way into several rep. teams. His greatest
achievement was to secure selection in the League
team which toured Britain in 1908-9. Jack Fihelly,
at present acting Minister for Justice in Banana-
land, was one of the same crowd, which had a pretty
frigid time. Cheadle went into the big game as a
non-com. in the 17th Battalion.
Lacrosse premierships are off the menu
in most Australian States. N. S. Wales has dropped
it; Victoria will hold club games, excluding military
eligibles; Queensland runs a side-show for juniors
only; South Aus. (which boasts of having 200 out of
300 in khaki) has decided to place pennant matches
on the shelf while the guns are booming.
* * * *
The rival factions in Sydney baseball are
fighting their battles over again. Despite rumors
N.S.W’. Baseball Association didn’t call in the under-
taker, but pushes off the season with 13 clubs in
two grades; while the National League goes on with
16 clubs in two grades. Thus far the League has
the big end of the stick.
W. S. Noble (secretary Balmain League
Football Club, 1915) whacks back: “The person
responsible for the paragraph (B. 11/5/T6) re the
non-enlisting of League Footballers indulges in polite
fiction. If he had been in the habit of using soap
and water when cleaning his glimmers he would
have noted the absence from Balmain of big Geo.
Cummins (now Lieutenant). He would also have
missed McMurtrie and Blinco, now at the Front.
I have taken it for granted that the man he did
miss was Kelly, late skipper. Further, those players
of the Balmain first-grade club who haven t enlisted
so far include four married men with families. There
may be others in the same boat. This only refers
to the first-grade team. If the Rugby League cared
to supply a list of names of players who have
grabbed a gun, it could produce just as many as
any other athletic body, without having to include
vice-presidents and committeemen and retired players.
Noble’s effort is worthy of the cause it is made in.
The Bulletin’s statement that there was only one
new player in the Balmain team was quite in order.
Would Noble care to say that Wall, Miller, C.
Fraser, J. Craig, Robinson, Johnston, Halloway, R.
Craig, Latta, A. Fraser, Burnicle, Baulkwell and
Schultz are new players ? In fact, the writer will
now withdraw his statement that there is one new
face and take his oath there are none! Good luck
to George Cummins, Charlie McMurtrie, Blinco and
Kelly, who have grabbed a gun ; but the fact remains
that every player who appeared for Balmain against
Glebe on the Agricultural Ground on May 6 repre-
sented the same club at one time or another last
season. Noble says that if the Rugby League “cared
to” it could supply a list of names as big as any
other athletic body. W T hy not stop cackling and
come along with a list of the players who haven’t
gone? That was what The Bulletin was talking
about. And that’s what it intends to go on talking
about.
• * * »
Stan Gregory, a sergeant in the A.1.F.,
and a nephew of Syd Gregory, has left for the Front
a second time. Severely wounded in Gallipoli, he
was sent to Lemnos, thence to London and finally to
Sydney, where his cure was completed. Now he
reckons to get some of his own back.
Cricket and football in Hobart have for
years been very sick, and after a long fight against
public indifference and natural disadvantages the
Upper Cricket Ground has given up the ghost. When
the bank got tired of the overdraft an attempt was
made to raise cash by £6 debentures alleged to
yield 5 per cent.; but as the public showed no yearn-
ing to get rich quick this way, the enthusiasts who
backed the scheme have been called upon to shed
the £2O each had guaranteed. Also the ground
has been shut. This ground, where Tasmanian
players have battled against invaders for some 30
years past, has always been regarded as a batsman’s
paradise, and several world’s records have been put
up there. In 1901 C. J. Eady hit up the handy
total of 566 for Break-o’-Day against Wellington,
and in 1908 Colin Newton (who has since repre-
sented the State against N.S.W. and Vic.) and J. A.
Barnett (last year’s Rhodes scholar) put another
world’s record on the slate by scoring 400 for no
wickets for Queen’s College. Again in 1913 F. E.
Woolley, the lengthy Kent lefthander, amassed 306
(not out) against Tas., thus beating by a brace
W. W. Armstrong’s 303 not out against Somers ■
1905. Here also C. J. Eady, for the fim g “
Australia, scored a century in each iimines rJ
inter-State match, notching 116 and 112
Victoria in 1894. * n ’ o ’ a e aiI *t
* * * *
The biggest score- ever known in first
grade club Rugby in M.L. was hoisted bv Merirail
at the opening of the season at Christchurch \v\
the disturbance with ’Varsity ended Meriwfe J*?
64 on the board and the other fellows had amaS
three- But the reason for defeat made it S
All ’\arsity players have bolted to Europe
Ex-schoolboy champion R. F. Cripps
many of the smartest Ma State sprinte-s look n
’bus-nags in the “open” 100yds. handicap at M,,
nckville (Sydney) on Saturday. From 4v ( ]r. M i
reached the tape in 10 l-ssee. ' a he
“Leo Lear” : How’s this for pulling a game
out of the furnace? A few rears ago in Dalarnie
(Q.) some of us visiting blokes were packing-
to go home. Our last two mugs had the bats an, i
wanted 15 to save an inning- defeat Thev Jnr
them and then set the other fellows 50 to' win
Taking off our coats we cleaned ’em up for 42
* * *
*
There was a real old Outback sports meet
tng on Easter Monday at Ooldea. 100 miles ahead of
the transcontinental railhead, fullv 100 people being
present. A crowd of blacks turned up from the Mnf
grave Range, but the Fowler’s Bar binehi kent
away to mend himself—he has been having a war
lately. The programme included a tug-of-war for
honor and glory, a high jump for which the first
prize was a pipe, and a camel race for 10s l nc i
dentally the animal with the hump which ran second
had been condemned to death six weeks before but
an Afghan secured a reprieve and is now seriously
thinking of nominating for the Newmarket. '
* * * ’
“Mulga”: The death of Billy Kuhnel
reminds me of an incident on Adelaide Oval in the
old high-bike days. Busst, Davis and Cowling were
grinding out a hard finish, when all three toppled
over. Kuhnel, who was a few yards behind, looked
a certain winner then; but a pup, rushing furiously
towards the debris, upended him too. I forgot who
won, but I know it wasn’t the poodle.
Wilding is not to be forgotten in Aus-
tralasian lawn tennis. Recently his parents offered
the choice of Anthony’s trophies to the Lawn Tennis
Association of Australasia for a memorial competition,
and the gift will be the groundwork of an annuai
“Wilding Perpetual Championship.” The event is
of course hung up until the war clouds roll by.
*j* * »
For some time past there has been war.
in Sydney between the person with a motor-boat and
the man with a fishing-line. Bream fishers alwavs
moor their boat fore and aft across the tide, the
favorite way being to anchor at the bow and make a
line fast ashore. In narrow channels this means
blocking up the fairway, so that all traffic must
keep in midstream instead of, as the rules require,
on the starboard side. A mooring-line is hard to
see, and when a boat-owner gets one round his
propeller his profanity is nearly as dreadful as that
which emerges from the fishing-boat. In order to
save bloodshed the Amateur Fishermen’s Association
at its last meeting decided to instruct its members
to anchor bow and stern, and do away with the
mooring line.
* * * *
“Spitzer”: I don’t know whether well-
bred dogs need training to “point,” but I am ready
to swear that a mongrel I owned learned the game
for himself. Although he never saw another dog at
work he would “set” anything that stirred. Many
a day I have sat on the fence of' a small paddock
while he worked it for quail, and not a bird was
Hushed until I had the gun at the ready. This
mongrel was equally good at retrieving, but only
from water. He would not retrieve on land. Once
I brought down five whistlers —four into water and
one on a mud island. I had to get the last one my-
self. Another thing: he always dropped the game
at the water’s edge.
N.S.W. champion cyclist G. A. Halpin
had a busy day at Sydney on Saturday. Besides
winning a heat in a mile handicap and filling second
hole in the final of the half-mile handicap (both from
scratch) he tackled Jack Parsons’s Australian mile
grass record of 2min. 13 2-ssec., which has stood
for 21 years. But he failed to do better than
2min. 37 2-ssec.
* * » *
A new record in uselessness, which looks
safe for a while, was put up in Paris recently, when
a daredevil dropped out of a balloon and fell
11,500 ft. attached merely to a parachute.


Why Don’t You Learn to
Box Scientifically?
r’s'tFCrlS, 'v™« viXy"" iruitt
to reserve ms strength, and how to side-step the wild rushes of
his wild, excited, frenzied-tempered opponent. 01
* .7? ie scientific boxer knows how to work opening's and to fool and
he"pleas r es hIS adversary > until he can Pummel him just when and where
The scientific boxer always has a big pull. And in justice to vour
own seif-respect, you should fit yourself to be able to
assert youiself in a personal encounter —especially when it is so easv
and convenient for you to learn y 11 ls so easy
I TEACH BOXING BY POST.
I bring my efficient instruction to vou in your
home—teach you every serviceable hit—all the best
moves of the world’s best boxers.
The instruction is most interesting—you’ll enjov
it very much—because Boxing is the best, as well
as t u* nrost useful, pastime.
1 his is an example of how my students relish my
postal instruction:—
“I have found your tuition to be a delightful
exercise and a pleasant pastime. I may say that
1 follow your Lessons with ease, and feel sure that
my money was well spent.—J.D.C., Mackay, Q.”
\ou re missing a fine lot of pleasure. Hadn’t
"'' ltc for f. ur th .t particulars regarding
, f’’ ,?ci ' x-3 he Sf a . re 2:1 ven in my interesting Book-
let, Scientific Boxing in Your Home.” Just write
your name and address across this advertisement and
post to me. 111 know what you mean. Send three
penny stamps for postage to
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
499 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
I AM A CAROLINA
CHERUTO
frojn HAVANA —where
the best cigars come
from. But because I
am a Cheruto —open at
both ends—I cost ever
so much less than a
finely-made Cigar. Yet
I am just as good to
smoke.
I was discovered in
Havana by Columbus—-
400 years ago—and
have since been re-dis-
covered.
You can now buy me in
silver-foil bundles of
five for 2/-
Carolina Cherutos,
5 for 2/•; 35/- per 100
Postage on 5, 2d.
100, N.SAV., 9d. ; Inter-
State, 1/2.
Write for my catalog of
Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobaccos,
Pipes, and all Smokers’
Requisites.
Actual Size,
A. M. SOLOMON,
“CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
r
r
niumriiiiiuiiiimimintitsnnimun
Make
a
Your Tour
Success
By
Using
Indian
Makes All Australia
Your Pleasure Ground
RHODES MOTOR CYCLE CO.E
109-113 RUSSELL ST
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co., Ltd.,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
When You Wearßigney Shoes
you can step out into the world with the
comforting knowledge that your feet are per-
fectly shod—that the shoes you wear are the
BEST you could procure anywhere.
We illustrate a Patent Colt Oxford Shoe, in
a very popular and high-grade “made-to-
order” style. The brogue cap affords very
reliable wear.
Price - 27/6.
Also in Tan Velour Calf, same price.
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
•‘The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
/
i
*
f?
\
♦
>
THE BEST FOR ALL
-Athletes
Bosisto’s
Parrot Brand
Eucalyptus Oil
Essential to
Athletic Fitness.
Ilif Australian Remedy
for Colds, Bronchitis,
Rheumatism, etc.
CAUTION —Always ask for
BOSISTO’S
PARROT BRAND
as substitutes may be
offered to you.
A
-sa,
zjr
d ONiaa
U-WMiaM
will keep you dry
in continuous rain.
The “Rubber-Duk” is absolutely waterproof. It
will keep you and your Saddle dust-dry even in the
fiercest tropical downpour. The “Rubber-Duk” has
been
SPECIALLY DESIGNED FOR SADDLE-USE,
and this, cor ibined with its rain-resisting capacity/
makes it an unbeatable Coat for Horsemen’s wear.
It is constructed in a Stout, Light-Brown Duck of
the Highest Grade Obtainable. The texture is
doubled throughout with a Sheet of Pure Rubber
inserted between the two thicknesses. An extra piece
extends over the chest, shoulders and hack. There
is a triple thickness where the Fronts meet when
they are buttoned, so no moisture can enter there.
The “Fan” protects the Saddle at back, and the Coat
buttons well over the Pommel in front. The Coat
is of ample length—is Australian made —and at the
price represents the limit of Value.
POST YOUR ORDER—WE PAY FREIGHT.
Lincoln,
Stuart & Co.
PTY, LTD
“ Specialists in
Outfitting by
Mail”
Melbourne
>r
S 4
mSm
m
te
-i,*-**
££
§3
SSS
1
' ■r£ZZ~i
I
.• -
V
■


The Medicine your
Grandparents used
Pills come and pills have gone for half a
century, but Carter’s Little Liver Pills
have all the time been giving health, strength
and happiness to millions.
Large pills and harsh pur-
gatives act violently on
liver and bowels ; this
old, gentle, sure con-
stipation remedy
cures without hurt-
ing. Good for
old and youngs
Purely
Vegetable.
CARTERS
lITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill -Small Dose—Smill Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
~7cb
Have You a BAD LEG
perhaps surrounded with inflammation and
swollen, that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Perhaps
your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored. The disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but du
not. Trv the great British Remedy:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which you will find a certain remedy.
Also for Poisoned Hands, House-
maid Knees, Carbuncles, Absces-
ses, Snake and Insect Bites, &c.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store.
British Prices, 1/3 and 3/-
AL3ERT & CO., Albsrt House, Farringdon St.,
Agents —- LONDON, Eng.
ELLIOTT BROS.
W. 11. SOUL P ATT IN SON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
\XTHo\Y HORDERN k SONS, etc.
Food enjoyed is
Food wore nourishing.
THRIFTY HOUSEWIVES
can make every scrap
a dainty morsel with
Bisto. Bis to makes
the best of gravy and
stews —wholesome
and delicious.
moires
the simples* fare
most appetising
All Grocers. In Tins. M ,de by Cerebos, LTD.
imwi
Serges
With
These
Bran<is
are HONEST SERGES- Pure
Wool, Fast Dye and Thoroughly
Shrunk. Such Serges, in Blue or
Black, never fail to give satisfactory
wear and to keep their appearance
GENUINE
FOX SERGES
have these brands stamped once in
every yard so that discriminating
buyers may reccgmse them at once
Made by Fox Bros &Co Ltd., Somerset, Eng. If
you cannot obtain Fox Serges locally, write to the
agents: Stosrdale & Sons Pty. Ltd., Box 1602,
G.P.0., Sydney, who will tell you the nearest
storekeeper stocking it.
A £l4 Machine
With 5 Drawers
£8 10s.
15 YEARS’WRITTEN
GUARANTEE
Packed & Delivered Free
A.N.A. Sewing
Machine Co.
2ij QUEEN VICTORIA MARKETS
(near Town Hall), SYDNEY.
Also at Errol Street, North Melbourne; 7 Arcade,
Adelaide; Baird’s Arcade, Perth; 39 Ceorge Street,
Launceston; and 123 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
/
“ARABiS” CELEBRATED EUYPTIam
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘UIABN-
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best inH
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale nf
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market Avoid in
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/. and’"a
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia
The Right Pistol for
the Boys at the Front
Ask any of the returned Anzacs what they think of a good
Automatic Pistol, they will all say the same as they tell us:
“It’s absolutely the best thing to help a man out of a tight
corner.” . '
Full equipment, including Pistol, Holster, Special Lan-
yard and 200 cartridges, £5/16/-. This price is only for
men in uniform.
ALCOCK & PIERCE,
318 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
<3*
The Royal Bank of Queensland Limited.
SIXTY=FIRST REPORT.
Adopted by the Ordinary General Meeting of the Shareholders held at the Banking
House, Queen Street, Brisbane, on Thursday, 27th April, 1916.
The Net Profit for the half-year, after deducting Rebate on Bills, Interest
on Deposits, Federal Land Tax, Federal Income Tax, providing for
Contingencies, payment of all Charges, and reducing valuation of Bank
Furniture and Fittings, amounted to .. .. •»
To which is to be added the amount carried forward from last half-year
Giving an available balance of . .
Which has been distributed as follows: —
To Dividend for the half-year at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum on
all Shares .. .. .. • • • •
„ Interest on Capital prepaid (at the rate of the dividend)
„ Income Tax
„ Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. .. .. . • • •
~ Balance carried forward .. .. .. • - • • • •
£15,359 3 0
2,318 9 11
£13,152 16 9
491 3 0
746 10 5
1,000 0 0
2,287 2 9
£17,677 12 11
£17,677 12 11
During the half-year a branch has been o; t Imbil.
Jy order of the Board,
, EDWD. D. DAY, General Manager.
AGGREGATE BALANCE-SHEET OF THE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND
LIMITED, 31st MARCH, 1916.
LIABILITIES.
Capital—-
69,999 £9 Ordinary
Shares . . . .£629,991 0 0
Less uncalled liabil-
ity of £2 10s.
per Share.. .. 174,997 10 0
Bills payable
Deposits and other liabilities
£644,937 2 11
25,021 10 5
1,630,349 1 10
£2,300,307 15 2
ASSETS.
Coin on hand and
cash at bankers . .£326,877 12 0
Short loans, London.. 78,000 0 0
Bullion .. .. 40,692 10 1
Australian notes .. 182,054 10 0
Government stock .. 87,382 0 3
£715,006 12 4
Bank premises, furniture, etc. .. 81,326 19 7
Bills discounted and all other debts
due to the bank .. .. ..1,503,974 3 3
£2,300,307 15
PROFIT AND ROSS ACCOUNT, 3lst MARCH, 1916.
Dr.
To Salaries, lent and other
expenses at head
office and 31 branches £16,881 15 11
„ Interest paid and
accrued On fixed
deposits, .rebate and
exchange paid . . 28,443 13 0
£45,325 8 11
~ Balance. . .. . . . . . . 17,677 12 11
£63,003 1 10
Bv balance brought forward .. .. £2,318 911
„ Gross profit for the half-year .. 60,681 11 11
£63,003 1 10
RESERVE FUND.
To Balance
£82,500 0 0
it
£82,500 0 0
Bv Balance invested in Government
‘ Stock £81,500 0 0
Transfer from Profit and Loss
Account 1,000 0 0
Audited and found correct
F. M. HART, F.C.P.A., /
W. H. PARKER, )
Brisbane, April 12, 1916.
Auditors.
THOS. WELSBY, Chairman.
EDWD. D. DAY, General Manager.
THE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND.
The Sixty-first Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders of the Royal Bank of Queensland Limited
was held in the Banking House, Queen Street, Brisbane, on Thursday, 27th April, 1916.
Mr. Thomas AVelsby, Chairman of Directors, presided.
The General Manager read the notice convening the meeting.
The Chairman, in moving the adoption of the Report and Balance-sheet, said: —
“I have again the pleasure of presiding over another Ordinary General Meeting of the Shareholders,
and am pleased to put before you a Balance-sheet which, though showing slightly decreased P!' ot,t *
pleased to put uamc » 0 —- ,
compared with September, of 1915, compares favorably under all known existing circumstances twin m
of- recent vears. The profit of September, 1915, gave as the half-year's work an amount of ,
17s. 7d„ as against £15,359 3s. for March, 1916, a difference of £lO6 14s. 7d. during the six montm-
lam confident no Shareholder will feel humored to cavil at this slight decrease. Head Office ana
Branches have sustained ordinary profits—the Branches themselves, as compared with more tnan
previous half-year, showing improvements in some cases. London business has declined, the reas
being obvious" and needless for one to dwell upon. Had ordinary business circumstances and times P
vailed, I have no hesitation in saying the profits for the half-year under review would have met
your hearty approval. Our capital of £545,759 10s. remains the same as that of September, .
Reserve Fund having been increased by £lOOO, making £81,500 as the total —this suin ot iIOJW mi s
been passed bv vou at the last Ordinary General Meeting. Deposits show a decrease of £29 ’ ot , • _
in hand and cash at Bankers are less by £150,749 —this reduction being on account of advances na s
been increased. Bullion is more by £ 22,825; Government Stock remaining the same. Bntisn . 1 bee n
Bills have matured, and do not now appear on our Balance-sheet. Our Total Liquid Assets pare
reduced by £153,921, being now equal to 43.2 per cent, of the total liabilities to the pumic.
premises have increased by £B5l, due to the erection of premises at Imbil and Kandanga.
discounted and all other debts due to the Bank show an increase of £110,649. Fixe( j
“The gross profits on the half-year show an appreciative increase of £2220. Interest on
Deposits, Rebate, Exchanges, represents £2328 of an increase; General Expenses, etc., including
and rents, having been slightly decreased. Advances at Head Office and at Branches have been
made, and show a marked improvement in customary banking business. . , e s 0
“I cannot pass from these figures to a conclusion without remarking on the rains an d
recentlv fallen in some parts of the State. These rains should prove beneficial to many land own
workers on the eve of the winter of the present year. , , ~.,t iolls in
“It may not be at this juncture out of place for me to mention that curtailments or ream. k>s
profits may be shown you in coming Balance-sheets, with no attachable blame to the Board or in
ordinary business. Under the general circumstances that prevailed until recently, our Comm an( j
Industrial business and profits were steadily on the increase, and would have maintained a
reasonable average had nothing arisen. Profits from recognised business transactions may, pe v
attributable to internal management of companies, combined, may I say, with judicious exe t -hfulness
bv Directors. But when profits so made from legitimate business and sources of care and ' idera .
are assailed by taxation on all and various sides, it becomes cause of thoughtful and careiu t
tion. Taxation of any kind, whenever imposed, is hard to be removed, and lam inclined to• • da y
various double land and other taxations, now in each State and in the Commonwealth, . wea ltb
make the Capitalist and the Industrial Progressive Worker consider the value of their respecu (or
and holdings, either large or small, and thereby stay the tide of commercial and industrial Deu
all engaged in such pursuits.” i carried
The adoption of the Report and Balance-sheet was seconded by Mr. Wm. McGregor,
unanimously. . .. ~ anil himself,
The Chairman announced that the only candidates for election were Mr. E. H. Maearin' • . g f, ow n
whom he declared duly elected. Messrs. Welsby and Macartney returned thanks for the e uge their
by the Shareholders in re-electing them to the Board, and gave their assurance that the>
best efforts in the interests of the Shareholders. tha onlv candidates
The Chairman also announced that Messrs. G. F. Scott and W. H. Parkei " ere t ,. ' formerly,
for the positions of Auditors; those gentlemen were duly elected at the same r |munerat This
Mr. W. 11. Parker proposed a hearty vote of thanks to the management and staff ot
was seconded by Mr. Wm. McGregor, and carried by acclamation.
Mr. E. D. Day, General Manager, responded on behalf of himself and the Staff. on jy came
The Chairman announced having received the resignation of Mr. _ Theodor UnmacK, of Share-
before the Board at its meeting this morning—too late to be dealt with at the present 1 * on _
holders, but which would, together with the appointment of a successor, receive consideration
The Chairman then declared the dividend payable.
One member of an early battalion
must have found himself in an awk-
ward fix after he got to the 1 ront.
He was a Bulgarian, and when he
left Australia his native country was
still on the fence. Nothing pleased him bet-
ter then than the idea of having a slap at
Turkey. But no word has come back as to
how he got on when Ferdinand decided to
line up on the Sultan’s side.
“Stenog”: Four lines of prayer for the
economical use of paper came from the Min-
ister to our department the other day on
114 sq. inches of paper. Four inches of
space were taken up by the heading and two
inches by the margin. The back covered
the entire surface —an aching void like the
place where the boss keeps his ideas on
economy.
The conference of superfluous State Pre-
miers in Adelaide this month is to have a
representative cackle. N. S. W ales sends
Holman and his man Friday Hall; Victoria,
Peacock and Lawson; Queensland, Acting-
Premier Theodore ; Tas., Lee and the more-
experienced Elliott Lewis ; V estralia, Scad-
dan. The home team is made up of Vaughan
and Styles. A conference on forestry, to be
held at the same time, takes to Adelaide also
the G.-G. and a lot of State Ministers for
Agriculture and Conservators of Forests.
We live in an unpoetic age. This, from a
50-year-old Government Gazette, shows
how appropriate were the official costumes
for a sub-tropical climate in ISGG: —
Tenders are invited until Monday, May 7, for the
supply of 15 (more or less) letter-carriers’ uniform
scarlet coats and black silk hats with gold bands.
After the letter-carrier had sweltered under
his black silk hat they naturally decided
that it was no climate for a white man,
whereas all that the fools had_ really dis-
covered was that it was no climate for a
black silk hat.
The Peacock Ministry evidently loves to
do good by stealth. A certain Woman s
Labor Bureau, having offices in the same
building as the Woman’s Political Associa-
tion, of which Vida Goldstein is president
and Adela Yarra Bankhurst “organiser.”
is in receipt of a useful little £45 per week
from the Victorian Government. This sum
is specifically granted for the purpose of
relieving the distress of unemployed women,
and Alexander the Great cackler is loud in
his assurance that it is so used. But there
does not appear to have been a balance-
sheet rendered since the grant was first
instituted. The most honest of women are,
no doubt, often backward in these small
formal matters; nevertheless a little illumi-
nation on the subject would do no harm and
might conceivably do a lot of good.
Particulars were given lately of the men
concerned in the pioneer Australian con-
struction of aeroplane-engines, three machines
being mentioned, with their builders and
pilots. All these Australians are now at
war jobs. John Tilly, who built the first
engine, is in Sydney, working on naval sup-
plies. J. R. Duigan, the Victorian w T ho
built and flew the completed aeroplane and
got his pilot’s certificate at Brooklands
(Eng.) before the war started, is a lieu-
tenant in the Australian Flying Corps.
Warrant-officer Aubrey Lock, of Malvern
(Vic.), who built the next engine, is attached
to the travelling workshop which is about
to leave with the newest Australian fleet of
motor-ambulances. Alec Porter, who flew
the Lock-Porter ’plane at Albury (Vic.),
is with a transport column in parts un-
known. And Colonel Harley Tarrant, out
of whose Melbourne workshops came the
third ’plane-engine, is organiser of all the
transport outfits leaving Australia.
Six months ago it was announced that
Staff-sergeant Heath, of the Australian Fly-
ing Corps in Mesopotamia, had won the
D.C.M. “for distinguished conduct and devo-
tion to duty in assisting to pole a bellum
28 miles in 12 hours in intense heat, when
proceeding to the rescue of aviators who had
been forced to descend in the enemy’s coun-
try.” Nobody could explain exactly what
Heath had done ; but late details relating to
the Kut-el-Amara business show that the
transport-boats used by General Townshend
to make his plucky river advance last May
were called heliums. So what Heath did
was 12 hours’ punting of a heavy barge up
the Tigris, in hot weather, and with a good
chance of being sniped from either bank at
any time during the trip. The medallist
was one of the “advanced” pupils at the
Point Cook flying-school when that concern
was a very small war-baby.
Private “Scotty” Fernie, who has brought
back a Distinguished Conduct Medal from
Gallipoli, helped to give the A.M.C. a busy
time for a while. Since he took the count
at Anzac he has been on the operating-table
eight times. A Turkish shell which burst
near him in the lines killed the sergeant
next him, and took away the calf of Fernie’s
left leg, besides smashing his right arm and
some of his ribs and leaving a shrapnel
bullet in his groin and steel splinters scat-
tered through his anatomy. Seventeen
wounds was the total tally. Fernie was a
coal-miner at Wallsend (N.S.W.) when, the
Kaiser broke loose, and while some of his
mates scented a chance to hit the bosses for
better wages he promptly downed tools to
strike against Bill, Abdul and co. He got
away with the first lot, and was in the original
landing at Gallipoli. For six months and
1G days Abdul failed to wing him, and mean-
time he collected his D.C.M. by outing a
sniper and bombing two Turkish parties
out of their trenches. He has not even yet
quite finished giving occupation to the doc-
tors. and is at present in the military hos-
pital at Randwick.
After the fashion of the Western U.S.A.
restaurant which always put “Frogs’ legs a
la Delmonico” on its bill of fare, though it
didn’t have a single frog-leg in the larder,
one leading Melbourne feedery usually in-
serts “snails among a lot
of ordinary dishes with names that are either
French or near it. Like the frogs’ legs, the
snails are supposed to give an air to the pro-
gramme. But the management takes good
care to print its snails in English. If it
called them escargots somebody might acci-
dentally go and order ’em.


Your Piano
grows old with you, and its life should he as long as
yours. It, in its purchase, you allow price to speak too
eloquently in emphasis of money saved, instead of quality
secured, you will be sorry “ever after.” In the choice of
a Piano never forget that it will he with you all the days
of your life, and if it becomes harsh, discordant, tinny, or
dull and lifeless, you have only yourself to blame.
Therefore hesitate to select any instrument until you have
heard and seen
I
The BEALE
Beale Pianos are not only made in Australia by your own countrymen,
but they are the result of conscientious labor and untiring and enthusiastic
activity. The technical details are as near perfection as it is possible to
get, for you will find richness and resonancy, and the triumph of a perfect
touch and glorious tone.
The Beale Piano will bring permanent pleasure, satisfaction and comfort
into your home.
We can help you. to pay for one by allowing you full value for your old
instrument, and giving you extended time to pay off the balance.
We give a Life Policy, if desired, to every purchaser, which provides that
if the hirer, with intent to purchase, should die before the completion of
payments, the Piano will become the property of the person named in
the Policy without further payment.
Call and let us talk this matter over with
you it is worth serious consideration.
Mr OCTAVIUS C. BEALE, Founder and present Controlling Director
of this business, was born at Mt. Mellick, Queen’s County, Ireland,
of an old Irish family. The directors and managers throughout the
business are all descendants of British families for many generations.
There are no Germans employed in the business, and no supplies are
obtained from Germany.
BEALE & CO., Limited
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES:
41 - 47 TRAFALGAR STREET, ANNANDALE, SYDNEY.
Showrooms: 333 George St., Sydney. 232 King St., Newtown. And at Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle,
Goulburn Wagga. VICTORIA: Maples, in all Melbourne suburbs. TASMANIA: Williams Bros., Hobart;
Maples, Launceston. S.A.: John Evans, Ltd., Adelaide, QUEENSLAND: 90-92 Qu«n St., Brisbane; Kent St.,
Maryborough; Flinders St., Townsville; Rockhampton; Sydney St., Mack ay; Cairns.


BEAUTY
ADMIRATION
A clear, spotless skin, bright eyes, and rosy
cheeks are the main points of an attractive
face. If.your liver is out of order you
will not have these good points in your
complexion.
FISHERS
BEAUTY PILLS
FOR THE LIVER
Make new blood and clear the complexion
of spots and blotches. One pill occasionally
means a healthy liver, a healthy liver
means a big asset to both men and women.
Always ask for Fisher’s Liver Pills.
ALL CHEMISTS and STORES
1 “ per bottle
337 GEORGE BTREET, SYDNEY, N.B.W. >
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mcars Ear Phone
many times as efficient
and powerful as the _old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free , or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
MearsEar Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
WESTERN MACHINERY
WHEELED SCOOPS and DRAG SCRAPERS,
PLOUGHS FOR CONTRACTORS,
WESTERN ROAD GRADERS,
ELEVATING GRADERS, RQCK CRUSHERS,
ROAD PLANER and FINISHER,
DUMP CARS, SCARIFIERS.
(Large Stocks Carried).
Catalogs and Full Information from
the Sole Agents.
E. D. MORRISON 8 CO. LTD.,
257 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
«rr
at
chfu
pres
Dr B. Allen's OJSA)
PiixiQm
WALNUT
rap
GREY
hair.
w
BROODY HENS for 12/6.
The “HATCHO” 15-egg Incubator
is a perfect substitute for a Broody
Hen, will hatch every fertile egg,
simple to use, cannot get out of order.
Over 4000 sold last season.
Price 12/6 complete, carriage paid.
Egg Testers 1/2 each. Agents wanted.
R. CASTOX & CO., Dept. H.,
40 Hunter Street, Sydney.
i The Bulletin
Stock Saddle
This latest saddle of ours combines manv of nm
COMFORT INNOVATIONS in Saddles-the
dippy pigskin seat, the rough out-flaps for grip, our
G.S. panel with the short stuffing and leather points
the long girth straps and long flaps, it is fitted up as
illustrated with folded leather girth, stirrup leathers
4-bar nickel-plated stirrups and SURCINGLE. The
knee-pads are well made and strong and the right shape
for comfort. If you prefer all smooth leather instead of
rough-out say so when ordering, and give your height
and weight.
Price £5-18-6
Freight Free
for Cash
to anv port or railway station in N.S.W. or any direct port
in the other States, New Zealand or Fiji.
RING HEAD BRIDLE, with rein and billet in one
piece, and one inch cheeks and rein, 11 /6, post free, for
cash. If ordered with Saddle, 10/6.
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON LTD.
Saddlers & Hirness Maßers,
393 George St. and 32 Hunter St, Sydney
If you want the very best
FLANNELETTE
the Old Country Produces
u, HORROCKSES'
SEE HORROCKSES’ NAME ON SELVEDGE
and decline all substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers
HIGHEST AWARDS AT ALL THE GREAT EXHIBITIONS. 1
This remedy, which positively
prevents and cures SEA
SICKNESS and
TRAIN SICKNESS,
has been tested
on the English
Channel, Irish
and Baltic Seas
by the leading
London newspapers,
who endorse its un-
failing power to prevent
SEASICK
S. C. Ry. Newhaven and
Dieppe Route, I. of Man
Steamers, Atlantic
Liners, Polytech-
nic Tours, &c.,
and has re-
ceived testi-
monials from
r Royalty, the
Nobility, Doctors,
Chemists. Army and
Naval Officers. Absa-
mal-de-mer. Used on L.B. &
lutely harmless and produces no bad after-effects.
Of all Chemists, in two sizes. Mothersill Remedy Co. Ltd., cor. Clarence & Market Streets, Sydney.
Guaranteed to Cure or Money Returned.
mm m
m
s :
fts
§Bl|§
WlvaS-S
m
sssjivS;
Si
e
Makes Windows Invisible
After you clean a window with
Bon Ami you have to poke your
finger at it to find out just where
the glass is' That is because the
wonderful Bon Ami wet-anci-dry
method cleans so perfectly. You
just rub up a little lather on the
cake with a wet cloth, apply the
lather over the glass, let it dry a
IFor all the
Finer Kinds of
Polishing &Cleaning
minute, and wipo it off with a dry
cloth. It goes on wet, dissolving
the dirt —it comes off dry, leaving
no smears.
You have no idea how clear and
brilliantyour windows and mirrors
canbe until you have cleaned them
with Bon Ami. Bon Ami is new
in this country but in America it
has a record of twenty-five years
and is used now in more homes
there than any other cleaner.
At your grocers, 6d.
“There is nothing else like it.
INSECTIBANE
This Popular Fly
Killer and Insect
Destroyer is now
obtainable.
ALL CHEMISTS and STORES.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A'o notice (.except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stampe<j.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. ho
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submittedand no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Boomerang: Thanks; but there are dozens
of Gerhog townships in the Commonwealth, and
yours presents no unusual features. .. .Mimosa: (1)
Very r glad to hear it; (2) Pity it can't be used....
0.W.: Slovenly screed.. .H.D.: They don’t drive those
cows here... .1.F. : N 0... .E.J.O'C.: Not badly writ-
ten, but not worth space.... Beragoon: Avaunt!....
J.S.L.: No good at all A.8.F.: You don’t quite
know what verse is... .Bellair: Nothing in it....
Monogram: One verse seems worth preserving:
-Do I wonder at life still remaining,
Life that the ages retain,
When I know of the life power sustaining
Constant will ever remain ?
...0.K.K.: Seems a slight sort of curse to aim even
at frogs in the trenches.. . Dingo: No point in them.. .
Neptune: Lewd attempt fails L.8.W.: Hopeless.
Bellerive: Ah, this is something like: —
.J.E.8.: “Nature’s -Call” not- up... .G.R.H.:
Nasty man....Tup Mann: Not quite... .E.A.S.: No
force, no thought, no art....J.R.: You ask us “as
a fair-minded man” if your verses are not worthy of a
place. They are, but not in print. Every line is bald com-
monplace. j . .R.S.: “Across the Gloom” wobbles pain-
fully in grammar, idea and metre... .Mick: You have
a story there; now get to work and tell it properly.
. ...R.A.C.: “Sparrow” drops weakly at the end....
N. 8.: “Strong Drink” is a very old yarn rehashed. ...
E.G.S.: No joy in it.... Alec B.: Hence, drunken
rhymer!... .Wil Gena: They have a hint of merit,
but verse and thought both weak.... St. G.A.D.: A
man who commits a thing like that deserves anything
the Kaiser can do to him... .Lettuce Hope-Nott:
Poor little thing.. ..HAV.S.: None quite up....H.J.:
Pleasing, but not much grip....L. Le Dam: One line
explains its rejection: “I’m all fuzzy. I can’t
think.”... .J.H.M.: “British Hoak” has too much
timber.... “Philiphaugh : Meaning all tangled up... .
T.C.0'8.: Nothing in it. Chief Costs: Limps....
J.F.: First attempt at “Literary Work” is awful....
Chink : Not up. .. .Bill Redsox: Clever, but small. .. .
J.H.C.S.: “Never a stave of the song you sung but
clogged with its metred trash”... .Jay: Horrible....
M.G.S.: N 0.... MAY.: No use. “England’s Way” is
the best. Perhaps. Only it isn't her way....
E.H.: Not enough force.... Viator: Not up....C.N.:
Wouldn’t call it “indifferent verse.” The stuff is
soul-destroying.. .8.M.: “Gallipolians” doesn’t work.
.... Lilac: You don’t make much of it.... Ignis:
Emotion over loss of “Julia” no more than the
average man exhibits when he hears the dinner
bell.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Askin N.: Thanks; passed on to artist to chew
over. .. .Frank G.: Capital idea ; and it hurts to have
to say we can’t use it that way.... Aueya: Wooden
and flat.... Heron: Hopeless. .. .L.F.R.: What a
valuable thing a label is! We never would have
guessed what it was.... John F.N.: You’re young
and will live it down. . . .K.G.M.G.: Don’t set up as
a stodge factory.... Ted H.: Too late—too forced—
too everything... .M..T.: Other boys of 18 have done
better. But let him learn if he wants t 0....
C.N.8.: You’ve got a long way to go; you seem to
hi only in the imitative stage just now.
“Grave-digger”: There are not many
really live citizens in Hobart, but there are
rows and rows of dead ones. In fact, it
takes 15 cemeteries to hold them all, in area
ranging from 20 acres downwards. The
two largest are still in use, but the others
are in various stages—mostly well advanced
—of dilapidation and decay. Nowadays the
various sects all go peacefully enough into
the one fold, a gravel path being fence
enough between them; but in the good old
days every religion ran its own yard. Even
the Society of Friends and the Children of
Israel each had a little pool to them-
selves. though those queer fish have always
made a very small shoal.
Maoriland’s scheme of handing different
badges to (1) discharged fighting men back
from the Front, (2) enlisted men waiting
to be called up, (3) men rejected as unfit,
and (4) men retained for special work, has
been an utter failure. Very few of the
decorations were worn, the unfit man speci-
ally refusing to brand himself as such. So
the first lot of badges have been hastily
withdrawn and have been replaced by (1)
a scarlet band indicating that the wearer
has had a go, and (2) a khaki ditto in-
forming white-feather fiends that the wearer
is willing to go. And that’s all that was
really required.
“Analyst”: A garrulous lady the other
day paid an account with a damp and filthy-
looking fl note. As I took the thing she
apologised for its condition by stating that
she had kept it under the mattress and when
her child 'ad the dip’theria “it got wet
without me knowin’ it.” I dropped the
horror into my cash-box with a shudder and
washed my hands. If we must keep our
rag money so long on the roads, isn’t there
any method of armor-plating it so that
clothed savages can't make it a passport
to the cemetery?
Of course, the Law has to do it. still
In the Casement case, hearing something
in the evidence which aroused its suspicion,
the Ass gravely brayed an inquiry whether
Britain was at war with Germany. Being
assured that it was, the Animal shook its
ears and remarked that it must have proof
of the disturbance, if any. So an official
solemnly _ produced the London Gazette of
August 5. 1914, containing the declaration
of war. The Law duly .made a note of the
evidepce, an(l all was well.
A centipede and scorpion
Beside a waterhole did meet,
AVhere the scorpion gave the warning
Of surrender or retreat;
A sharp and awful battle
Between the vipers did ensue.
To the pleasure of a little frog
Who watched the willing two ;
Beside the shinev waters
The warrior’s did war,
The scorpion was mangled
His piracy was o’er.
The little frog did leapeth
Around the vanquished one,
The centipede was a russian
And the scorpion a Hun.


Real Hair Grower
Found at Last!
The Great American Discovery “Crystolis”
Grows Hair in 30 Days.
£2OO Reward if We Fail on Our Guarantee.
Try It At Our RisK. Post Coupon To-day.
Beautiful Hair and lots of it—lf you use Oystolis.
Here’s frond news at last for men and women whose
hiir is falling, who are growing bald and gre.,
whose scalps are coverts 1 with dandruff that nothing
seems to keep away, and whose heads itch like mad
Good news even for those who imagine themselves
hopelessly ami incurably bald, or who suffer front
hair or scalp trouble of any kind.
We have had granted to us the sole Australasian
rights for the great American discovery, t'rystolis,
the new hair remedy that in America and Europe has
been called the most wonderful scalp discovery of
the century, having been awarded Gold Medals at the
big Paris and Brussels Expositions.
Hundreds of men and women have written us to
tell of the phenomenal results obtained by its use.
People who have been bald for years tell how they
now' glory in their beautiful hair. Others who have
had dandruff all their lives say they have now a
clear., healthy scalp and that hair stopped falling
after a few applications of this wonderful new treat-
ment.
We don’t care whether yon are bothered with fall-
ing hair, prematurely grey hair, matted hair, brittle
hair, or stringy hair; dandruff, itching scalp, or any
or all forms of hair trouble, we want you to try
•( UYSTOLIS” at our risk.
~* ve -' ou a binding guarantee without any
‘‘strings" or red-tape, that it won’t cost you a cent
if we do not prove to you that “Crvstolis’’ will do
all we claim for it; and, what’s important, we have
plenty of money to back our guarantee. We hav;
deposited .€2OO in our local bank as a special turn!
to be forfeited if we fail to comply with this con-
tract. Cut out the coupon below, and post it to-day
to C'reslo Laboratories, 200 Y. Malcolm Buildings
206 a George Street, Sydney, WS.W.
FREE COUPON.
The Creslo Laboratories, 200 V,
Malcolm Buildings, 2otia George Street,
Sydney, X.S.W.
1 am a reader of the Sydney Bulletin.
Prove to me without cost how Crystolis stops
falling liojr. grows new hair, dandruff
and itching scalps, wnd restores premature grey
and faded hair to natural color. Write your
name and address plainly and
Pin this Coupon to Your Letter.
Made in
8,10,12,
It, 16,
20, 24
and 28
gauge
Loaded in London with the
popular English powders
“NEW CLUB’’
Shotgun Cartridges
are low in price, high in the results
they give, and in the estimation of
shooters. These cartridges are
loaded with the popular black pow-
ders, are thoroughly waterproofed
and unexcelled for general use.
Obtainable from leading dealers every-
where —catalogue 'post-free on request .
Remington Arns-Union Metallic Cartridge Company
Woolworth Building, New York City
St. Stephens House, Westminster, S. W-, London
The “Service” Combination
Knife, Fork and Spoon.
A NEAT COMPACT GIFT FOR. THE SOLDIERS.
■- v - -
03*0 NtfWfiß'd
OPEN
CLOSED.
Indispensable when at the
Front. The three separate
articles close up into one, as
shown in the bottom illustra-
tion. Consequently they take
up next to no room in the kit.
The spoon is nickel-plated, and
the knife and fork have
polished wood handles. Strong
and well-made for lengthy
service.
PRICE ONLY 3/6
COMPLETE.
A similar Outfit, Sheffield
make, in leather case, with
strap for attaching to belt.
Price 8/6
Special List of
Suitable Presents
for Soldiers sent
Post Free.
STEWART DAWSON’S
Strand Corner, 412 GEOROE STREET, SYDNEY.
\e
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS OF
The National Bank of Australasia
LIMITED.
rhe Balance-sheet of the Bank as on 31st March last, and the Profit and Loss Account for the Ilali-
year which then terminated, are now submitted to the Shareholders.
The net profit, after deduction of all expenses, including £12,045 13 4 for Income. Land and Note
Taxes,
Amounted to .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £85,601 210
Add Balance brought forward from previot s Half-year . . . . . . . . 28,938 5 1
Leaving available
It is proposed to appropriate the profit as follows: —
Reduction of Bank Premises Account .. .. ~ .. £5,000 0 0
Dividend at the rate of 7 per cent per annum on Preference
Shares .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 10,702 6 0
Dividend at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum on Ordinary
Shares .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .'. 41.735 8 0
Transfer to Reserve Fund Account .. .. .. .. .. 28,163 8 10
And to deal with the amount brought forward from last Half-year, £28,938 5 1.
as follows:
Transfer to Reserve Fund Account .. .. .. .. .. £16,836 11 2
Carry forward .. . . .. .. .. .. .. 12,101 13 11
£114,539 7 11
£85,601 2 10
£28,938 5 1
£114,539 7 11
The two proposed transfers to the Reserve Fund, together totalling £45,000, will bring the amount
of the Fund up to £610,000.
During the Half-year Agencies were opened at Xyah Railway Station (Victoria), Point Pass and
Water vale (South Australia), and kukerin (Western Australia); and the Agency at Mt. Kokeby
(Western Australia) was elo.-ed.
Since our last Report 51 additional officers of the. Bank's staff have enlisted with the Australian
Expeditionary Forces, making the number 229 in all.
The Bank's donations to the various War Funds during the Half-year amounted to £1550, making,
with the £2200 referred to in previous report, a total of £3750 given during the vear to these
objects.
The Ordinary General Annual Meeting will be held at the Board Room, at the Bank's Head Office,
Collins Street. Melbourne, on Wednesday, 3rd May. at noon, when the Shareholders will be called upon
to elect two Directors in lieu of John Grice, Esq., and Edward Trtnchard, Esq., who retire by rotation
in accordance with the Articles of Association, and are eligible for re-election. There are no other
candidates.
The Shareholders will also he called upon to elect two Auditors for the ensuing year.
By order of the Board of Directors,
The National Bank of Australasia Limited.
Head Office: Melbourne. 19th April, 1916.
E. 11. WREFORD, Chief Manager.
BALANCE-SHEET of THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
For the Half-year ended 31st March. 1916.
(Including London Office to 26th February, 1916. and Western Australian Branches to 13th March, 1916.1
!)r. CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Proprietors’
Capital—
-30,578 preference
shares paid in
money to £lO
per share,
£ 3 0 5,7 8 0;
238,488 ordi-
na r y shares,
paid up to £5
per share,
£1,192,440 ..£1,498,220 0 0
,'o Reserve Fund
Account .. 565,000 0 0
;'o Profit and Loss
Account .. 114,539 7 11
'o notes in cir-
culation
I'o bills in cir-
culation
r o Government
Deposits—
Xot bearing in-
terest, £32,928
13/-; bearing
interest,
£797,928/2/-
T o Other De-
posits—
Xot bearing
interest.
£4, 6 9 8, 2 2 2
10/5; bearing
interest,
£2,177,759
34,689 10 0
808,438 17 0
830,856 15 0
£5,710,209/6/1 10,408,431 16 6
To interest ac-
crued and rebate
on current bills 124,122 14 0
To balances due to
other banks . . 191,398 1 11
£12,397.937
14
11
£14,575,697 2 4
To contingent liability, as per
contra, £332,470.
ASSETS.
By Coin, bullion,
Australian
rotes and cash
at hankers . .
„ Gov e minent,
municipal and
other public
stocks, deben-
tures and
funds..
~ Bills and re-
mittances in
transitu
~ Xotes and bills
of other bank*
Balances due
from other
banks
~ Duty stamps
2,964,713 10 0
377,51 S 5 0
1,359,559 0 1
9,156 9 9
91,319 1 9
5,763 19 10
~ Real estate, consisting-' of bank
premises..
„ Other real estate
.. Bills discounted and other ad-
vances, exclusive of provision
for bad and doubtful debts ..
„ Liability, in the form of a
guarantee of certain .shire and
municipal deb i tu'c* (Victoria)
sold in London, and which are
being duly provided for by sink-
ing funds, in terms of the Act
authorising their issue, £50,600 :
and liabilities of customers and
others on letters of credit and
drafts, £281,870, as per contra,
£332.470.
£4,808,390 6 5
391,216 10 7
32,187 6 9
9,343,902 IS 7
14,575,697 2 4
PROFIT AM) LOSS ACCOUNT.
To expenses at head office, 170
branches and 60 agencies .. £102,243 7 4
To Vote, Income and Land Taxes .. 12,045 13 4
To balance .. .. .. 114,539 711
£228,828 S
By balance brought forward
By gross profits, including recoveries,
less rebate on bills current, interest
paid and accrued on deposits, re-
pairs to premises, and rent
£ 28,938 5 1
109.890 3 6
a: 228,828 8 7
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
By balance last half-year' . . . . c 5 4 5.000 o o
By transfer from profit and loss . . 20)000 0 0
£565,000 0 0
I, Ernest Henry Wreford, Chief Manager of The National Bank of Australasia Limited, do solemnly
and sincerely declare:—
That the Reserve Fund, amounting to £565,000, and the Accumulated Profits, to £114,539/7/11,
are used in the business.
That the accompanying statement and balance-sheet of the Bank is, to , the best of my knowledge
and belief, true in every particular.
The names, addresses and occupations of the persons who are Directors of - the Bank at the date
hereof are: John Grice, Esq., Melbourne, gentleman; Edward Trenchard, Esq., Melbourne, stock and
station agent; Hugh Murray Strachan, Esq., Melbourne, gentleman; aiid Joseph Newman Barker, Esq.,
Melbourne, gentleman. - ' ~
And I make .this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue
of the provisions of an Act of the Parliament of Victoria rendering persons making a false declaration
punishable for wilful and corrupt perjury.
Declared at Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, this nineteenth day; of April, 1916.
Before me —D. Buzolieh, J.P. E. H. WREFORD, Chief Manager.
To the Shareholders of The National Bank of Australasia Limited.
Ladies and Gentlemen, —
We report that we have examined and audited the accounts of your Bank for the Half-vear ended
31st March, 1916, and that, in our opinion, the Balance-sheet and Accounts have been properly drawn up
and exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Bank's affairs according to the best of our
information, and the explanations given to us and as shown by the Books of the Bank.
The London Office Return to 26th February, 1916, duly audited by Messrs. Price, Waterhouse and
Company, has been submitted to us.
The assets and liabilities at the Branches are taken on the certificates of the Managers and
Accountants.
We have received every assistance from the officers of the Bank, and they have supplied us with all
the information and explanations required by us in the course of the audit.
Melbourne, 19th April, 1916.
C. H. TUCKETT, F.C.P.A, )
S. J. WAIINOCK, F.C.P.A. (
Auditors.
We, John Grice and Edward Trenchard, of Melbourne, being: Directors of The
Australasia Limited, do hereby certify that, in our opinion, the above balance-sheet
drawn up so as to exhibit a correct view of the state of the Bank’s affairs.
Dated at Melbourne, this nineteenth day of April, 1916.
National Bank
is correct,, and
JOHN GRICE
EDWARD TRENCHARD
Directors.
KING OF METAL POLISH
Made of the finest oils, contains no acid, ‘
no ammonia, nothing injurious. Gleans
and polishes. Quickest of all. Imparts
a brilliant, lasting luster to doorknobs,
brass railings and all bright metals.
Sold in two size cans by all
Grocery, Hardware and Drug Stores, j
Look for the Photo on Can J
US,
BR\U.\MVTSW\HE.
RAMEY’S MED/CATOR
For the Treatment of Catarrh, Hay
Fever, Bronchitis, Influenza,
Catarrhal Deafness, etc.
Medicator, with complete treat-
ment, only 10/-, post free.
Write for Free Pamphlet.
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
49b Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGL AN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
ORMONDE . .Geared Turbine 15,000 Regd. Tons.
OBAMA ..Triple-Screw.. 13,000
ORVIETO ..Twin-Screw.. 12.130
OSTERLEY .. 12.129
OTRANTO .. „ „ 12,124
OTWAY 12,077
ORSOVA .. „ „ .. 12,036
ORONTES . . „ „ . . 9,023
OMR AH .. 8,282
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-luxe;
Staterooms, with bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms,
Private Bathrooms, Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Regular sailings from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
l2 Martin Place, Sydney.
Hanking, Public Companies, &c.
You can obtain BETTER INTER-
EST and EVERY FACILITY FOR
SAVING at the
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
The STATE Savings Institution
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
DEPOSITS RECEIVED FROM 1 /-
UPWARDS.
Interest paid at 3J per cent, on balances up
to £5OO, except on accounts opened with
the late Savings Bank of N.S.W., which are
limited to £2OO.
Cultivate the habit of making regular
deposits—no matter how small.
The Repayment of all Deposits is Guaran-
teed by the Government of New South Wales.
By Order of the Commissioners.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE.
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700.000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY.
Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, li.C.M.G.
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (31st December, 1915) .. £1,196.108
RESERVE FUND £75,000
HEAD OFFICE: George & King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS — Mark Siieldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Arthur S. Barton,
Esq.; Frank N. Yabwood, Esq. ; Herbert R.
Ltsaght, Esq.; George F. Todman, Esq. *
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 200,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since IS9S specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq.;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, [imited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. £2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,805,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,805,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and J. J. Brenan, Esq.
General Manager: H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birch in Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq. Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of ||eui Z ea|ai) d.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. •• •• 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Pai'd-up 992,295
Uncalled Capital 500,000
Reserve Fund And Undivided Profits 2,05 < ,1< 0
CHANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all ether usual Banking business.
Shipping &c.
STEAMSHIP LINES OPERATED BY UNION S.S. CO. OF NEW ZEALAND, LTD.
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line to Vancouver
THE LARGEST,
ACCELERATED SERVICE, CALLING AT
AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (Fiji) and HONOLULU (Hawaii).
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction CANADIAN PACLriC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES,
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
Leave Auckland.
JUNE 13
JULY 11
AUG. S
t Twin Screw. * Triple Screw. Fitted with Cabins De Luxe, Suites, Bedstead Rooms, mils, uau
Nursery, Wireless, etc.
AROUND THE WORLD HOOKINGS, RETURNING VIA CHINA AND JAPAN, OR VIA
SUEZ CANAL OR SOUTH AFRICA.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco.
VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Eine.
STEAMERS SAIL FROM WELLINGTON (N.Z.).
*3lO AN A, 22nd June. *3IAITAI, 20th July.
*Connecting Steamers leave Sydney 15th June, 13th July.
Passengers Transfer at Wellington to the Mail Steamer immediately on an i\ ai.
Vessels stay 24 hours at Papeete, “The Pearl of the Pacific.
SPECIAL HOLIDAY TOURS.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
“ The Paradise
of the Pacific.”
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holidav in the Largest and Finest Steamers Trading to America-
R.JI.S. Niagara and R.M.S. Maknra.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing Nineteen Days’ Stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach —“The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY—PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
RETURN FARES: First Class, £4B; Second Class, £33.
SOUTH PACIFIC ISLANDS.
Winter Tshiil® Fiji
Levuka,
Suva,
Lautoka,
Samoa Apia, Cook Islands
Rarotonga
Monthly Sailings from Svdnev and Auckland.
T.S.S. ATUA (3444 tons). S.S. TALUNB (2087 tons).
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
Something Unique in
Island Tours
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
• and
IN FASTEST TIME
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
SAMOA -HO NOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
Sailings from Sydney:—
MAY 31, JUNE 21, JULY 12, AUG 2.
Applyr-OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
COLORED POST-CARDS, bv Harrv J.
Weston —“WEEKLY WORRIES.” * Set
of six, posted free. 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co.. 214 George Street. Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
" Ulimaroa,” "Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving '
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£3,500.000
£2,600.000
£3,500,000
£9.600.000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Robert Lionet Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, U.M.U., iI.L.C,
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: Shepheard Edgecliff Laidlev, Esq. ; Alfred George Milson, Esq.
Head Office— George St., Bydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St , E C.
344 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London'
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
T. Rt FRENCH. General Manager.
Commonwealth
3M°'Australia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY
for all General Banking Business
in the
principal
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth,
United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits.
Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at over
1 /-
Minimum
Deposit
2550
Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua
Interest at «, 3 /
per annum O ,
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor. June, 1915 DENISON MILLER, Gowevuoi
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIpcn
(LIMITED). UU *
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE i. ,„ d
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTHALIAN
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS.
FOR MELBOURNE A
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DIMBOOLA, June 2 and
June 30.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
PARINGA, May 27
MORIALTA, June 3.
RUPaRa, June 10.
on all services subject to conditions 1 tJ l Pani , ea
ascertained on application at the Company's Office. '
»• ' UnL & CO., LTD
Agents. 6 liltlDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting)-.
SYDNEY >
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACIvAY
TOWNSVILLE
‘CAIRNS
(•Transhipping for
this and’ other
Queensland ports).
north.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons)
Leaves Sydney May 27.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Mav 31
Leaves Sydney June 3.
C'OOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, June 7,
Leaves Sydney June 10.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports) J
SOUTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney June 3.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom, via Suez Canal, Cape of Good Hope,
Torres Straits.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine. Surgeon and
Stewardess. Electric Fans.
FARE TO LONDON OR LIVERPOOL, £4B.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Svdney and Brisbane; TURN-
BULL, MARTIN A CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD., Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company a magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larlv to:—
TWEED. RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBL'CCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Continuation Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail- to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up to-
date liners for SYDNEY', or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, a 6 B=. 6d. : M-cond-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £ 4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,000 tons
T.S.S. “ KANOWNA” ... 7000 tons
T. 5.5. “ KYARRA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjovment of beautiful scenery should travel
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers possess
ill up-to date arrangements for convenience and c
Fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. •
first port of call, First and Second Saloon tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies,
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the l‘iji iraiie,
particulars on application. For dates of sailing
Daily Papers.
BURNS. PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
fhe Colonial Mutual [He
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOB
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments a-u
Annuities without Mutual Liability; ■ -
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assuranc-
Head Office:
19 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOUL™
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000. z? r. 000.000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders_ exceed ’ lnri( jf eas .
Amounts paid to Policyholders exiecu r n( j e feas-
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, inaei
Premiums moderate and without
avelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably <}'. st " but
Chief Office for New South Ma ■
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYD^
Directors : chairman-
he Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M G.. M.L.C.,
he Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.r.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived * ' W
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTNIE"'•
In use since 1596
Write for Book
Write for Book. CURES . w r«|( SIGHT
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES,
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road. Lond°m
Insist ro “ Singleton s' -refuse all substitutes.


Just what every Soldier needs —
the Vest Pocket cTittegscaMtc? Kodak
s#* "i J
l s
u
Get a Kodak yourself and send him pictures of your
home life to cheer him up ; pictures he is yearning for.
Give your Soldier friend or relative
a Vest Pocket Autographic Kodak
the "‘Soldier’s’ Kodak nothing
else could please him so well. Pie
will then send you back interesting
j O
and invaluable pictures of himself
and his doings.
Get a Kodak yourself, too, and send him
snapshots to cheer him up.
The Vest Pocket Autographic Kodak is very
easy to use ; always ready; needs no focussing.
It is splendidly adapted to active service con-
ditions ; light in weight; takes up little room ;
all exposed parts are rustproof, and it is very
strong. Takes pictures 2\ x
If inches. Price 30/*.
Ask for the latest Kodak
catalogue.
Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
Incorporating BAKER & ROUSE PROP. LTD.
379 George Street, SYDNEY; “The 810ck,”284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
250-253 Queen Street, Brisbane. 37 Bundle Street, Adelaide. 45 Eliza-
beth Street, Hobart. Ruthven Street, Toowoomba. Flinders Street, Towns-
ville. Denham Street, Rockhampton. 346 Argent Street, Broken Hill.
Dixon Street, Wellington, N.Z. 3 Lome Street, Auckland, N.Z.; and 76
Stuart Street, Dunedin, N.Z.
The Vest Pocket
Autographic Kodak
g
a
(Regd. Trade Mark)
is non-irritant, durable,
economical and healthful
It both absorbs and throws off the moisture of the body, and
is superior to non-absorbent woollens, chilly linen or cotton
fabrics for keeping the skin healthy and preventing colds.
“Viyella” lias been awarded the certificate of the London Institute of
Hygiene. It is cosy and comfortable when worn next the skin and is
absolutely non-irritant.
“Viyella” is light, warm, durable, unshrinkable, beautiful and economical.
Sold by leading storekeepers and drapers. The name of the nearest retailer
handling it will be sent on request to I. and R. MORLEY, 56 Market Street,
Sydney; 250 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; or 50 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.


CHRISTIE^
SPECIALISE
rtso
L/A/ES
5
0 s
FOR
CATALOGUE
/>NO
PATTERNS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORGES 1- SYDNEY
ZC NEWCASTLE
FOR BAD COUGH USE TAR SYRUP.
HOW TO MAKE IT.
Coughs, colds, catarrh and bronchial
troubles all yield quickly to the concentrated
healing properties of pine forests as found
in ordinary bitrate of tar. The most
effective way in which to use it is to add
two ounces to a syrup made by dissolving
half a pound of sugar in half a pint of hot
water. Stir thoroughly, and pour into a
pint bottle. One or two teaspoonfuls of this
tar syrup will quickly stop tickling coughs,
and taken regularly two or three times a
day will afford relief to the most stubborn
cough, cold or case of catarrh. It is also of
great value in the treatment of throat and
bronchial trouble arising from exposure to
the damp and cold. Care should be used to
get the bitrate instead of other forms of tar,
which are not to be recommended for this
purpose.— Advt.
Letters Copied While Writing
(in ink) by using your own Letter-oaoer
with this Book. You slip your
paper into the holder and write.
t and by the act of writing- you
' secure a perfect letter and a'
perfect copy. There is no
w
sis'll of copying. 400 octavo Bin. x sin.. or 200 quarto
letters, can be copied in NSC/LCO Bock, size 10| x
B§, post free 4/6: or NSC/400 DOUBLE Capacity
for 6/-. Special Small Octavo Book, making 200
copies, Bin. x sin., post free 3/6 ; double capacity, 4/6.
Sample of the celebrated Zanetic Ink Paper, which
produces this result, free, if stamped-addressed
envelope sent to S. B. Zanetic, Leicester, England.
As a murderer caught red-handed grovels
for mercy so do the Iluns squeal for peace
to dodge the just punishment of their vil-
lainy, opines that royal spirit King <leorge
IV. topnoteli Scotch. —Advt.
(fIPILLfIRINE
CROWS MOUSTACHES
QUICKLY !
'?
Put it to the test.
CAPILLAR!XK has
never l>een known to
fail. It produces a
strong, full Mous-
tache in double-
quick time. Rub it
well into the hair-
roots for a few
weeks, and note the
wonderful improve ment.
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE.
Craig & Aitken,
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
STE^
THE BEST AND MOST
ECONOMICAL STATIONERY
IN THE WORLD
carries the KOLOIv trade mark. No office is
sending out the best British-made stationery
unless KOLOK TyPEWRITER CARBONS,
PEN AND PENCIL CARBONS and TAPE-
WRITER RIBBONS are used. The IvOLOK
ECONOMY BINDER lias no equal. Every
businessman should at once see that hi»
office uses liolok makes.
ALL STATIONERS.
Australasian Agent:—C. F. BICKFORD,
5 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
Business Notices.
PATENTS. A useful feature embodied in
Patent Law enables an inventor at comparative!'
small cost (with simple inventions £4 45.), eve
before he has been to the expense of working out •
invention in practice, to procure “Provisional 1 r 0 . p
tion,’’ and thus save the priority of a term to iece
full Patent rights in the Commonwealth of Austiair.
and in any or all of those 26 countries ha' »
Patent Laws, and which are parties with
Commonwealth to the International Convent im-
During this term, which is nine months in
Commonwealth of Australia and 12 months in ‘
foreign countries, the inventor has ample oppoi t :
to test the full question of value, to work ou •
invention and demonstrate its practicability,
principles of his invention are seen to pron ■ jf
success he can proceed to take out full L? 1 .- n „ ’the
not, he need go to no further expense. u “r S
period of provisional protection the - lnventi
lie made, used and sold without prejudicing 1 ,C U ]]
of the inventor to obtain valid Letters Pater •
information on Patents furnished tree on app .
to A. J. CALLINAN, Registered Patent Atfome (
Official Examination, 1906), 281 Colin > (
Melbourne—’Phone 5199; or 14 Castlereagh
Sydney—’Phone 8336. Direct and most rename a*
in all countries granting Patents. —Ad'T.
IN BANANA LAND
“Mulga” : The town of Condamine affords
one of the most striking examples of depopu-
lation. Half a century ago it was as busy
as any town in Queensland ; being the centre
of a thriving pastoral district, with the
main routes to Roma and St. George passing
through it. Then the traveller had four-
places to quench his thirst; now there is
only one. In this district the pear octopus
has a firm hold of some of the best land in
the Commonwealth, and where was once
life and bustle is now prickles and stagna-
tion.
C. F. .T. Holmes, who used to be one of
Archbishop Donaldson’s “bush brothers”
back of Charleville, has been figuring in
despatches. He is doing his bit as regi-
mental chaplain to the Lincolnshire Yeo-
manry. and was with them in the Mediter-
ranean on the transport Mercian when that
vessel was chased and shelled for an hour
and a quarter by a Hun submarine. Accord-
ing to the report to the Army Council, one
shell, the fuse of which was of the “time”
instead of the “percussion” variety, fell on
deck. Holmes picked it up and threw it
overboard before it could explode. The
same act. in the case of an old-fashioned
Turkish bomb-shell, won a V.C. for a naval
seaman at the bombardment of Alexandria
in 1882. Holmes came to Queensland
straight from Oxford University about ten
years ago. arid after going back to the Cold
Country in 1013 got a job as Anglican
rector near Grantham, in Lincolnshire,
where Carr Smith runs a tabernacle nowa-
days.
Dunn, M.L.C.. of Maryborough, attempted
to get the futile. Commerce Congress to con-
sider the best means of encouraging the
close settlement of Northern Australia. But
he made a tactical error and suggested that
the North should, be favored with a special
tariff; whereupon the importers and agents
promptly rejected the proposal and refused
further to discuss the advancement of their
own country. immediately afterwards the
congress unanimously passed a motion in
favor of a preferential tariff being extended
to all Allies —presumably including Japan,
where labor can be got for a few pence per
day.
“Gum-sucker”: There’s one shameless
Englishwoman living in a Northern district
who is doing her little bit to make the local
Hun feel quite at home. The lady’s husband
enlisted, and directly he had got safely out
of the way on the track to Berlin a burly
Hun neighbor showed his very ardent sym-
pathy by moving himself into her house. lie
now boldly parades in the departed hubby’s
togs. but. of course, that saves the bother of
putting them in moth-balls. This war has
taught people to put up with makeshifts,
but isn't it over the limit when we use an
import of the Ilun brand as a substitute
for a good Australian husband?
THE RIVAL'S LIQUID NOTES.
TRAGEDIAN : “What caused Ranter's downfall? Too many empty houses ?”
COMEDIAN : “No; too many counter attractions."
Tragedy has been crammed into the 26
years of Elsie Shaw, who was the other day
sentenced at Brisbane to five years for
fatally stabbing Willie Nielsen. At Six her
runaway mother took her to Brisbane; at
13 she was the associate of Chows and
negroes; and at 17 she was a registered
woynan of the slums. Incidentally she had
served sentences for stealing and vagrancy.
Then she married, but her husband deserted
her, and at 26, while living with
Nielsen, himself separated from his
wife, she plunged a knife into his
heart during a drunken brawl. At
the conclusion of the trial she learned for
the first time of the existence of her father
and brother. Judge Lukin admitted that
she never had a chance, but handed out five
years, tempered with a promise that he
would recommend her release at the end of
two years if her record was good.
The Workshop.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the workshop of the mind ply the busy
carpenters;
Many gleaming tools you find, anyone your
hand prefers.
Here a plane by wisdom made, here a saw
by Sorrow.
Sharp the teeth? Are you afraid? They
will blunt to-morrow.
Here a turning lathe of Life, twisting sure
and slow :
Crude beginnings choke its strife, but how
smooth .they grow !
Sawdust fogs the air sometimes. By the
window pane
One bright beam of fancy climbs, pricks
with gold the grain,
And the wood you thought just pine, scoured
and citrus-white.
Where the Vision lit may shine filigreed
with light!
In the workshop of the mind haunted cor-
ners lie ;
Here a burial chest to find, dowelled heavily.
With the steel pins row on row mortising
each part,
Some are red with rust to show where they
pierced a heart!
In the workshop of the mind grey dust
cloaks the floor.
Old winds stir the ragged blind (phrases
spelled before),
Litter crowds the entrance way, shreds of
shavings fly ;
Yet who knows but some rare day, on the
bench near by.
When your gipsy fancies roam in rebellious
mood,
To your chisel there may come a block of
sandalwood.
Till you carve with soul aflame forms of
Asian grace
Spicy tokens without name, or a woman’s
face.
Elephants in jungle lands, rajahs brown
and grave,
Palm leaves'/in a eunuch's hand, jewels on a
slave.
If the sawdust outward drift's, it is incense
now
That some reverent Naga lifts, hooded to the
brow....
Plain deal was your task to-day? Easily
understood
Why your chisel snapped that way....
dream iny sail dal wood!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane. May 20, 3016.
My Dear Tiiargomindaii,—
We haven't been a dull old community
this week, anyhow. In between junketing
the Chamber of Commerce Congress we have
razz led with the Presbyterian Assembly and
.the Congregational Union; and the Operatic
Players’ season of "La Fille du Tambour
Major” and a multitude of coin teas and
fetes have been minor incidents.
L. M. Bond, the present serang of the
Brisbane Chamber of Commerce, and Mrs.
Bond gave the glad hand t<> about 200 inter-
Staters and local folk on Monday at a river
trip. There was more river than trip; for
the Lucinda couldn’t move on an exception-
ally low tide, and made a playful attempt to
keep the guests anchored at the wlian for
the afternoon. Same night. Mayor and
Mavoress blethering ton. aided by their popu-
lar cluck Ena, fed the delegates at the Exhi-
bition Hall. The person responsible for the
decorations did a service to the city by
successfully hiding the ugliness of the barn.
City-organist Sampson also did excellent
woik at odd moments.
Governor Gould Adams and his lady sum-
moned the Commerce delegates and many
local citizens to an At Home on Wednes-
day night. Several topnotfch local artists
were engaged to provide music; but Mrs
Robert Bell, in a gold brocade with tricky
touches of blue, was the only songstress. F.
M. Fisher (who wore the khaki of a private
in the A.1.F.), Eric Hayne and Victor Gal-
way were other contributors.
A very swagger dinner on Finney’s para-
pets was the semi-final to the Commerce
Congress; and delegates had their final
course on a motor-trip to the strawberry
and pineapple lands around Cleveland and
Redland Bay.
Chaplain Father Barry has had two gold-
lined purses thrust upon him within a fort-
night. The padre, who departed this week
for one of the Fronts, has the distinction of
being the youngest chaplain to leave Aus-
tralia.
Died this week. Mrs. A. J. Boyd, who for
a quarter of a century had battled hard for
the Girls’ Friendly and other virtuous thh.,,
that we’re all the better for.
Tommy Wallaby undergoing repairs at
Kangaroo Point military, hospital, will soor,
be able to purchase the festive bun as ■
buffet is to be opened in the new Itecren
tion Hall. The V.A.D. will have charge of
the tea-pouring and the dish-washing.
To raise the necessary cash to eouin tb»
bullet, the V.A.I). held a coin-tea thh
afternoon at the University grounds The
organisers having managed to snare I a dv
Gcold-Adams for the shivoo, nearly all
our \ ery Best turned up and put somethin-
more than a threepenny-bit in the box t”
list whether Billjim could safely be left t°
the V.A.I). cooks, the company was cmn-
pelled to eat cakes built up bv the futm ■
poisoners.” As the casualties are unim-
portant Bill pm may be reckoned safe.
A platoon of ushers had a busy time with
the floral matter handed over to the min
cipals of the Brisbane Operatic Flams m
the conclusion of their season to-nHu
the Tivoli Theatre. Mrs. Arthur ii me/
who deserves all the nice things that have
h ?. n , s ?.y f ‘”- the manner‘in
which La I die was staged, came in for
a special load of gifts.
Wren’s “Thousand” at Albion Park a
fete at Kundah and a May Fair in connec-
tion with the Six O’cloekers’ work, were in-
cluded in tin l week-end happenings.
Yours affectionately.
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“Queenslander” : B. 18/5/16, referring to
the damages given against John Wren in' the
Goodna libel case, speaks of the Brisbane
Daily Mail articles as having caused the
trouble. So they did; but the paper which
was hit by the verdict, and which let Wren
m for the damages aforesaid, was a very
different proposition from the Daily Mail
of to-day—the present 1).M., with a new
management, with men of good Australian
standing handing out its articles, arid at
least three Bulletin bards helping to top
it off on the literary side, is a more readable
concern—and. 1 understand, a better bnsi
ness one—than at any previous period of its
history. After years of wandering in the
wilderness it looks like winning through.
“Ab Infra": The new quarters of the
Strait Hospital, referred to by “Ah
luxi ra (B. Ui/3/’lO), are perhaps a trifle
elaborate, but they are no better than the
good white men and women who tend
1 hursday Island ’s variegated sick deserve.
Previously they had to combat the dreadful
diseases of Asia under conditions which
would not be tolerated in an all-white com-
munity. Ihe living quarters were low and
cramped, and as they really formed part
of the hospital the nurse off duty was never
dissociated from her work even during her
hours of sleep. Sanitation was of a sweetly
primitive kind, the sink arrangements con-
sisting of an old gramophone trumpet and
a piece of discarded diving hose. Anything
was good enough for the angels of mercy
who ministered chiefly to discolored brother
—nothing mattered so long as dearly-beloved
Colored Brother recovered quickly and was
again at work chasing the furtive pearl-
oyster and dividends for the boss.
The Government is still doubtful whether
it has enough business ability to manage its
own butcher’s shop. The other day 3500
Ipswich unionists sent a delegation to the
Minister requesting a local branch. Hunter,
acting Chief Sec., after informing the depu-
tants that their application was about the
200th. suggested that they should establish
a co-operative concern of their own. The
wisdom or otherwise of continuing the State
business would, lie said, be ascertained this
year, and “it would be no use the Govern-
ment pursuing a policy that was doomed to
failure.” But even if the Government re-
solves that it hasn’t the capacity to run a
butcher's shop, it will no doubt still insist
that it has a perfect genius for controlling a
whole State.


FOUR CYLINDER
TOURINC CAR
''S
c\
i • M
<0
1
Sf
IV r-?
ms*3*n,-w < v
y
/ "<r>
B • V'« J »1
Why is this Studebaker car so
ECONOMICAL?
because
of the efficient manufacturing methods and the excep-
tional facilities of the" 147-acre Studebaker plants, Stude-
baker cars are ECONOMICAL in first-cost; and they are ECONOMICAL in
after-cost because they combine STRENGTH, ENDURANCE and SIMPLICITY
with LIGHTNESS OF' WEIGHT —all the way through, the Studebaker engi-
neers have made the Studebaker an ECONOMICAL car to buy, to own, to operate.
Concentration on practically one chassis for the past five years, instead of experimenting with
different types every year or two, has brought the Studebaker to a degree of perfection not
attained by other cars. Every unnecessary part has been eliminated. Weight has been carefully
balanced so that the car rides easily on its springs, while alignment is so precise that the car
drives straight as an arrow. Hence Studebaker's exceptional ECONOMY on tyres and ECONOMY
of upkeep.
And the Studebaker engine is ECONOMICAL of fuel. The carburetor is placed high, lessening
the distance the gas has to travel to the cylinders —the design of valves, manifolds, pistons, every
detail has been carefully studied—thus making a great saving in petrol and oil consumption
But the best way to judge the ECONOMY of the Studebaker is to critically examine the
car itself, to study it. Or if you will let us demonstrate it, well PROVE its economy to you.
General
Dis tributors —
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Limited,
177 Elizabeth St.
SYDNEY.
LIGHT-WEIGHT
SIX CYLINDER
TOURING CAR
An exceptionally hand-
some car of great roomi-
ness and comfort.
STATE IMPORTERS FOR AUSTRALASIA—
NEW SOUTH WALES (except Sydney) CLUTTERBUCK BROS.
LTD., Sydney.
VICTOR!A -TURNER BROS., Swanston Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND—CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA ARMSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY t
Perth.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA Messrs. T. d. RICHARDS &. SONS, Adelaide.
TASMANIA W. H. GAH AG AN, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND -ADAMS LlMlTEDChristchurch.
LIGHT-WEIGHT
FOUR CYLINDER
TOURING CAR
A clean-lined, light*
weight, speedy car for city
and country use.


A Boot Built on
Good Lines
A close reproduction
of the best made-to-
order models —neat,
straight shape giving
a narrow appearance
to the foot, without
causing discomfort.
Made of best-quality
Patent Coltskin, with
matt Kid tops. Close
welted soles. Two
fittings—wide or nar-
row 28 / 6
Same shape, Tan Wil-
low Calf .. 26/-
Fine Glacg Kid, 27/6
We Pay Postage.
For Distinctive Footicear,
135 King Street, SYDNEY.
Parfum
JUNE ROSES
The real fragrance
of English roses is for the first time
distilled into this potent Essence,
which is un approached for truth
and beauty of odour.
A complete range
> of Exquisite Momy
[Toilet products in
issued, all fragrant
with this perfect scent.
“June Roses” Perfume,7/-, 10'6, 18/6 ;
Complexion Powde r , 7/6;
Bath Salts, 4/-, 10 6 ;
Dusting Powder, 7/6;
Bath Soap, 21- large tablet.
A NEW AND TRUE
FLOWER OOOUR.
The MORNY FINE BATH & PERFUME PRODUCTS
are retailed in Sydnej 7 by:—
Civil Service Co-operative Stores of N.S.W., Ltd.,
152-154 Pitt Street; Farmer & Co., Ltd., 221-229
Pitt Street; David Jones Ltd., George Street; Las-
setters Ltd., George Street; Pattinson & Co., 427
George Street; Washington H. Soul & Co., 160 Pitt
Street; H. A. Rose & Co., 149 King Street.
Wholesale Depot for Australasia : —•
DRUGGISTS’ SUNDRIES LTD.,
Corner of Clarence & Market Streets, SYDNEY.
“Biff” Gladdens
Sore, Tired Feet
Tender Feet, Sore Feet, Swollen Feet
cured without delay. New Foot
Medicine Quickly Banishes All
Foot Ailments
“My feet
just ache
for ‘Biff’ ”
To those who are troubled with sore, tender,
aching, swollen, perspiring, unpleasant smelling
feet, bunions, corns or hard skin, “BIFF” will
bring quick relief and gladness to the feet. Use
“BIFF” today and banish all pain and discomfit.
By using “BIFF” once a week you will insure
your feet against all foot troubles. “BIFF” is a
scientific compound which draws out all poisonous
matter from the feet, which clog and choke pores
of the skin. One application of this unique com-
pound will render the feet sweet and antiseptic.
Its delightful results must be experienced to be
believed.
MRS CARTER WRITES For years my feet
gave me much trouble. It was purgatory to
have to walk far, but after using one box of
“Biff” I can walk with perfect ease and com-
fort, there is nothing to.compare with your
preparation for foot trouble.”
“Biff” can be obtained through all chemists and
stores ; if not in stock send direct to the manu-
facturers. Price Is. 6d.-per- box, ot triple size box
4s. (triple box contains three times the ls.6d.size).
The “Biff” Manufacturing Co., 114 a Pitt Street,
Sydney.
9
Ye canna do better Sandy McFay,
Than to take Iron ‘Jellolds’ number 2A.
When you’re feeling run-down
just a wee bit,
They keep you braced up
and “bonnie” and fit.
For a cheap way of making ye feel quite
content,
Ma conscience t the siller is very well
spent.
After taking IRON ‘jELLOIDS’ the blood becomes enriched and
strengthened, the appetite is restored, vitality is renewed. Anaemia
quickly disappears, giving place to vigorous and buoyant spirits.
Mr. J. Handford, Northwich, writes : —“ Iron 'Jelloids’ have done me
“ more good than anything I have taken ; they have put new life into me.”
A fortnight’s trial (Price 1/6) will convince you.
For Women, No. 2. Special Tonic for Men, No. 2A. (containing Quinine).
For Children, No. 1. Sold in England at 1/H and 2/9. per box.
Obtainable at all Chemists throughout Australia.
Wholesale: Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., cr. Clarence & Market Sts., Sydney.
How to Treat Your Hair and Complexion.
A Few Simple Beauty Hints.
By Mdlle. GABY DESLYS, the well=known Parisian Actress.
OU ask- me for a few hints on the thing is a good shampoo. Never use any-
treatment of the hair and complexion, thing inferior to wash the hair with. Get
Well, the less “treatment” you give some good stallax from your chemist and use
the skin the better. I do not
believe much in massage, but a
little cream to the face is neces-
sary to counteract the effects of
wind or sun. What cream
would I recommend? Well, I
advise you to use a little mer-
colised wax every night and
again in the morning, after
washing the face. Rub it
gently into the skin, then wipe
off any superfluous wax and
dust a little barri-agar over
the face. You will find that
this will be the only “treat-
ment” necessary and will keep
your face fresh and youthful-
■
m
Photo: Wrather lI Buys.
a teaspoonful in a cup of hot
water. Then rinse the hair
well and it will look bright and
glossy.
A tonic is necessary when the
hair is inclined to fall out more
than it should, and is always
good to use during the spring
and autumn. Then the hair
needs a little —what do you call
it? —stimulant, and for this 1
would advise you to get a packet
of boranium and mix it with
some hay rum ; dab this into the
roots and it will not only stop
the fall, but make your hair
grow long and thick. Give your
looking for all your life. The mercolised hair a good brushing every night, and ia
wax removes all the dead outer skin, so will be all that you need do.
that you have always a fair, fresh com-
plexion like a girl’s.
For the hair, the first and most important
m
Blackheads Fly Away.
Instantaneous Remedy for Blackheads, Greasy Skin and Enlarged Pores.
A practically instantaneous remedy for
blackheads, greasy skins and enlarged pores,
recently discovered, is now coming into
general use in the boudoir. It is very
simple, harmless and pleasant. Drop a
stymol tablet, obtained at the chemist’s, in
a tumblerful of hot water. After the effer-
vescence has subsided bathe the face in the
liquid, using a small sponge or soft cloth.
In a few minutes dry the face the offen-
sive blackheads will come right off on the
towel. Also the large oily pores immedi-
ately close up and efface themselves natu-
rally. The greasiness disappears and the
skin is left smooth, soft and cool. I* ll ®
simple treatment is then repeated a tew
times at intervals of four or five da\s, o
ensure the permanence of the result.
Grey Hair —Home Remedy.
An old=fashioned Recipe restores Youthful Appearance.
There are plenty of reasons why grey
hair is not desirable, and plenty of reasons
why hair dyes should not be used. But, on
the other hand, there is no reason why you
should have grey hair if you do not want
it. To turn the hair back to a natural color
is really a very simple matter. One has
only to get from the chemist two ounces of
concentrate of tammalite and mix it w
three ounces of bay rum. Apply t 0
hair with a small sponge for a tew nig
and the greyness will gradually disapp ‘ ■
This liquid is not sticky or greasy an .
not injure the hair in any way. it ha
used for generations with most satis a
results by those who have known
formula.
To Kill Roots of Superfluous Hair.
The most Effective Formula ever Discovered.
Women annoyed with disfiguring growths
of superfluous hair wish to know not merely
how to temporarily remove the hair, but how
to kill the hair roots permanently. For
this purpose pure powdered pheminol may be
applied directly to the objectionable hair
growth. The recommended treatm
designed not only to instantly re ™°
hair but also to actually kill the roo ce
the growth will not return. Abou . g);
of pheminol. obtainable from the
should he sufficient.
Good News for Fat People.
Something New in Obesity Cures.
A London chemist says: “The latest
method of reducing obesity certainly is far
more pleasant and convenient than all pre-
vious methods. It consists merely in eating
clynol berries. The fat person who wants
to reduce without the usual rigid diet, exer-
cise, sweating baths, etc., now puts a few
of these little brown berries in his or her
pocket and eats three or four each day.”
Clynol berries not only eliminate fat from
the body, but also correct the tendency,
which is usually constitutional, is
fatty matter. No _ discomfort w . for
caused by their action ; in , f ee ling
the loss of superfluous fat and be
of “fitness” so created, you wo
aware that these little berries
their work. , , v . orr ; es are
Local inquiry shows that clyno { but
not very well known in this any
the demand is increasing dm ■. • ‘ ec j a lly
chemist can quickly procure the
requested to do so.
Ths
If any illustration appearing _> n t be
Bulletin takes your fancy,
Manager, who will quote jou price
AMRANTH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The ex-Empress Eugenie celebrated her 83rd
birthday on May 4.
The gallant youth of France that went to death
That a masked fool might look Imperial,
Nigh fifty years ago it gave its breath
And changed its sunlight tor a dirty pall,
Sobbing its life out for that charlatan
Who gave dear France to rapine at Sedan.
In sunny fields of Alsace and Lorraine
The soldier of this war turns up the bones
Of sires who died in dolor and in pain
Republicans to bolster tott'ring thrones.
Spanish Eugenie still sleeps soft, eats full,
And ev’ry furrow shows a soldier’s skull.
Yet the comparison is not for naught
The people’s courage and the puppet's greed.
Though yet no regiment of kings is brought
Into the battle-front to thrill and bleed,
The people see the kings bestow them all,
As David sent Uriah out to fall.
They see through all the acid fogs of death
That peace shall never be while there are kings ;
They see that Privilege is but a breath,
That prince and duke are vain and empty things ,
Across the pain-lashed world they clear their eyes
To see the stars of the Republics rise.
VICTORIA.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Gone at 56 Hugh Duff, a familiar figure in
Sydney, and a leading real estate auctioneer
for over 30 years. He was an enthusiastic
fighter for the North Shore bridge, and any
precarious hope it ever had of being built
was in a large measure due to him.
“Bill Back”: Re Frederic Villiers’s
French generals, “the worst-dressed men m
the armies, moving about in sagging over-
alls” (B. 4/5/’IG). Leslie Maygar, one of
the bravest men on Gallipoli, an officer and
a gentle V.C., habitually did his duty in
long-distance slops, depressed headgear and
an outsize jacket having a forlornly old-
maidish expression about the collar and
skirt. But his men willingly followed to the
hobs of Hades.
W. J. Fullerton, M.L.A., has discovered
the true cause of Whitsitt and all the other
evils which afflict the Speck. It is, he told
the Anglican Synod, partly because his fel-
low-members are a godless, wicked, material-
istic set, but mostly because of the party
system. Looking at the curse from a new
point of view, Fullerton, M.L.A., says that
the main reason why Parliament lets social
and moral questions rip is that they , can’t
very well be treated as party matters, and
so nobody cares a red cent about them.
In a case heard before Justice Darling in
London last month, in which a top-line vaude-
villian named Mark Sheridan was sued by a
hook-nosed agent for commission alleged to
be owing on engagements procured, evidence
was given by the chairman of the Tivoli,
Oxford and Pavilion to the effect that Sheri-
dan had, in consequence of the war, “volun-
tarily agreed” to a reduction of his weekly
screw from £7O to £5O. The cue was
promptly taken up by Darling, the accredited
funny man of the Bench, who observed : “Per-
haps I ought to follow his example !” The
witness, as in duty bound, smiled, and then
had his own little joke. “We as directors,”
said he, “have also reduced our salaries. I
am sorry to say that the example of the direc-
tors of the Tivoli has not been followed by
the directors of the Empire.” At which,
strange to relate, there was no witticism
forthcoming from Mr. Justice Darling.
“Bill Bow y yang”: I came across an ancient
Bulletin the other day in which “Trooper
Bluegum” had a few words to say about the
songs the Anzacs sang in the Gallipoli
trenches. I noticed that Billjim when in the
firing-line preferred the melancholy ditty.
One night we had an impromptu concert at
Anzac and only one comic song was volun-
teered. All the rest were about consumptive
children, orphans, deserted maidens, the re-
turn of erring wanderers, and so on. No one
seemed to see anything at all out of place in
a burly member of an infantry unit asking
“Shall I be an angel, daddy?” or a six-foot
trooper, twiddling his hat round as he fixed
his eyes on the stars, singing “Don’t Go
Down the Mine, Daddy.” During the time
I was at Anzac I never heard a song that
could not be sung in the rector’s drawing-
room —the obscene and the salacious ditty
found no place in Private Billjim’s reper-
toire.
“Gordon G.” : Picture-show critics miss the
moral motor-’bus when they talk of the bad
effect some films have on kids from 10 to IS.
My complaint is as to the bad effect on the
average female between 14 and 41—married
ladies not excepted. Take the customary
erotic “sentimental” slush wfflich is dished
up at least once in every programme. Through
these frauds little Mrs. Queenanne and
her picture chum, Mrs. Shingleroof, nightly
compare the splendid creatures of the film
with their own unromantic rent-getters—to
the invariable detriment of the latter. The
“pernicious novelette” is a bunch of violets
alongside the film, for the reason that the
habit of picture-gazing is much more simply
acquired and retained than book-reading and
requires less brain. This suits Mrs. Queenanne
and Mrs. Shingleroof down to the ground, for,
if they are f.a.q. suburban matrons, they
“don’t get much time for reading.” and, if
they did, they would read the sort of tripe
the picture people boil down for them.
A Music Club which is threatening to
arise in Melbourne is vowed to shed a beam
of patronage upon any kind of foreign and
home-made music that deserves it, and
to roll a big drum full of lead over the other
kind; Fritz Hart, the Conservatorium’s
musical director, who is English right
through, and only got his front name by
some unfortunate mistake at the font, is pro-
claiming in 16 different keys that good old
roast-beef British music is what his soul
craves seven days a week. If this is so. he
may feel a little nervous about the projected
club, which is to float round amongst the
composers in a state of beatified neutrality.
Melba herself is to have a big say in its
doings. Quiet concert haunters who only
play things that can be pedalled or wound-
up may join by merely planking down ten-
and-six. You don’t even need to have long
hair; a fairly soulful expression will meet
the case.


LL AUSTRALIANS visitiug Loudou
should read the British Austral-
asian, lid. weekly—an illustrated payer
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices. 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tne
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
W
Little Lectures
by Nurse ‘Wincarnis.’
[Lecture No 3.)
Run-Down
When your system is under-
mined by worry or overwork
when your vitality is
lowered when you feel
“ any-how” when your
nerves are “on edge ” (
when the least exertion tires ,
you —you are in a Run-down '
condition. Your system is
like a plant that is drooping
for want of water. And just
as water revives a drooping
plant —so 4 Wincarnis ’ gives .
new life and new vitality to
a ‘ run-down ’ constitution. |
Because 4 Wincarnis ’ pos-
sesses a four-fold power.
It is a Tonic, a Restorative,
a Blood-maker and a Nerve
Food —all in one. Therefore
creates new strength, new
blood, new nerve force and
new vitality. The benefit
begins from the first wine-
glassful, You can feel it
doing you good. Over 10,000
Doctors recommend ‘ Win-
carnis,’ especially to those
who are Weak, Anaemic,
‘Nervy’ or Run-down.
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
‘Wincarnis’ is made in England by
COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Wincarnis
Works, Norwich. You can buy
‘Wincarnis’ from all Chemists and
Stores selling wines, prices 4/- and
6/6, but if you experience any diffi-
culty in obtaining it, write direct
to Sole Distributing Agents, Fassett
& Johnson, 5-7 Barrack St., Sydney.
DIAMONDS
REDUCED
ENORMOUSLY.
Four years ago we took on a
Sole Agency calling .for an
enormous output of Diamonds,
and with a view to mak-
ing the turnover we offered
them at merely a broker’s
7 Choice Diamonds,
set in platinum,
choicelv cased,
£lO/10/-
3 Fine Diamonds,
set in platinum,
choicely eased,
£l2/12/-
Choice Diamonds,
set in platinum,
choicely eased,
£l3/15/-
commission on 'the Antwerp cutter’s price. It barely paid us the first year; the second year the sales
were so great it did better ; and the third year better still; and so we are continuing the experiment
further. We only stock the best grades of Diamonds, but our prices are THE LOWEST. There is
no duty on Diamonds. We are the SOLE AGENTS for one of the largest Cutters of Antwerp and
Amsterdam.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.,
PLAIN FIGURES CASH ONLY.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
From
12/-
upward?,
ar« the only Standard 12 /»
Fountain Pent All British Made
by J a British Company with
British Capital and Labour.
Thomas de La Rut: & Co.. I, to, London.
/Vv^fV^lc>fv , Norman
t’Sr. SvhN r.v
Raster’s
§
GRAMOPHONE
RECORDS
For June Ready To-morrow, 26th inst.
Many notable new records come to us this month —further
evidence that the great “Gramophone” organisation is going as
strongly as ever, despite its part in munitions production.
03371.
7-52048.
02589.
2-3086.
03409.
John Anderson, My Jo
Melba
Aime Fanciullo Ancora.
“Thais” Titta Ruffo
He Who Treads the Magic
Path of Duty
Robert Radford
Habanera, “Carmen” (in
English)
Madame Edna Thornton
Valse Song, “Romeo and
Juliet” (in English)
Miss Nora D’Argel
Complete list, instrument catalogue and name of nearest
accredited dealer on request.
“GRAMOPHONE”
Registered Trade Mark
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
EIGHT CYLINDER
(Sixty Horse-power Seven Passenger
a
£
THIS powerful Model E Touring
car is the successor of our
pioneer eight-cylinder King,
which has been for the past year in
operation all over America and in
thirty foreign lands, there being
more eight-cylinder Kings in owners’
hands than any other “Eight” save
one.
Model E has a V-type motor, bore 3
Inches, stroke 5 inches; aluminium pis-
tons —which increase engine-power and
resist carbon; improved King Cantilever
susDension; 12 0-inch wheel base; two
auxiliary seats folding out of sight;
spiral bevel gears; vacuum gasoline sys-
tem, and electric starting and lighting.
A five-passenger Sedan body—the
utmost in closed-car luxury—can also
be supplied for this chassis.
EXPORT DEPT., KING MOTOR CAR
CO.,
50 Union Square, New York, U.S.A.
Agent for New South Wales:
John McGrath, Ltd., Sydney.
Agent for New Zealand:
Dominion Motors, Ltd., Wellington, N.Z.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
PORTRAIT of H.M. KING GEORGE
V., in Coronation Robes. Size 30
x 20 inches. Colored. Mounted on
Board, eyeletted, 3s. Unmounted, Is.
The Schoolmistress: “It is an undoubted
work of art, which would be an ornament to
any school, institute, library, or other public
building which does not already possess a good
portrait of the King.”
THE “EURASIA” GEOGRAPHICAL
TERMS CHART. Colored. Size,
50 x 40 inches. 2s. 6d. A Physical
Map of Eurasia for use in Memory
Lessons, with Geographical Terms
boldly marked on Chart and repre-
sented pictorially at foot. A new and
important accessory to Geography
teaching.
AN UNTAMED TERRITORY. The
Northern Territory of Australia. By
ELSIE R. MASSON. With Illus-
trations and Maps. Extra Crown
Bvo. 6s.
Geographical Journal : “This book, short as
it is, and dealing mostly with the personal
experiences of a visitor to the Northern Terri-
tory of Australia, is a really valuable addition
to the literature on that territory. It is so
because the writer has an excellent gift of
description, and a power of avoiding triviali-
ties.”
LEAVES FROM A FIELD NOTE-
BOOK. By J. H. MORGAN, late
Home Office Commissioner with the
British Expeditionary Force. ss.
net.
'The Evening Standard : “Very real are the
characters that come before us in these ani-
mated and poignant pages The book is full
of good things ; it is a fine piece of work.”
ABRIDGED EDITION, Is. net.
ORDEAL BY BATTLE. With a new
Introduction. By F. S. OLIVER.
The Daily Mail : “Beyond question the
most remarkable piece of political writing that
the present war has evoked. Mr. Oliver’s
introduction is a veritable masterpiece.”
ROADSIDE GLIMPSES OF THE
GREAT WAR. By ARTHUR
SWEETSER. Illustrated. Extra
Crown Bvo. ss. 6d. net.
*** A thrilling story of the author’s adventures
in the war zone. He was held prisoner by
the Germans amid the flames of Sonlis, hand-
cuffed during a 28-kilometre march to two
German prisoners, and was in Belgium at the
time of the siege of Antwerp.
MODERN EUROPE (1789-1914).
By SYDNEY HERBERT. With
Maps. Crown Bvo. 2s. 6d. net.
*** This work provides a comprehensive survey
of European history from the time of the
French Revolution to the year 1914.
AN INTRODUCTION TO THE
STUDY OF INTERNATIONAL
RELATIONS. By A. J. GRANT,
ARTHUR GREENWOOD, J. D. I.
HUGHES, P. H. KERR, and F. F.
URQUHART. Crown Bvo. 2s. net.
“THE GRAPHIC” PICTORIAL
MAP OF THE DARDANELLES.
Every Fort, Hill and River clearly
shown. Size, 12 x2O inches. Beauti-
fully produced in Color. 6d. net.
W. & A. K. JOHNSTON’S
WAR MAPS.
THE MIDDLE EAST. Illustrating
the Campaigns in MESOPOTAMIA,
PERSIA and THE CAUCASUS.
Size 35 x 23 inches. Colored Cloth,
folded, Is. 6d. net. Unmounted Sheet,
6d. net.
THE BALKAN STATES. Size 25 x
20 inches. Colored Cloth, folded,
Is. 3d. net. Unmounted Sheet, 6d.
net.
A New Story by James Lane Allen.
A CATHEDRAL SINGER. By
JAMES LANE ALLEN. Author of
“The Choir Invisible,” etc. Crown
Bvo. 2s. net.
MACMILLAN'S EMPIRE LIBRARY.
Paper Covers, 2/6; Cloth, 8/6 per
volume.
651 THE SHEPHERD OF THE
NORTH. By RICHARD AUMERLE
MAHER.
*** The hero of this book is a Roman Catholic
Bishop of singularly fine character. The story
of his work among the people of the Adirondack
country is intensely dramatic, and comes to
a thrilling climax with a forest fire, described
in a most vivid and powreful manner.
652 THE RUDDER. By MARY S.
Watts, Author of “The Rise of Jennie
Cushing,” etc.
*** Mrs. Watts’s new volume contains the
history of an intelligent, well-bred girl, who
touches life at many points. The story is
told with the charm of manner, the know-
ledge of human nature, and the humor that
are always to be found in books by this
author, and it is consequently of very great
interest.
653 GOD’S PUPPETS. By WIL-
LIAM ALLEN WHITE, Author of
“A Certain Rich Man,” etc.
#«* This volume contains some of the most
notable short stories of a novelist who has met
with much appreciation in America.
Oomplete Catalogues of Macmillan's Empire
Library, etc., will be sent on application.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN §CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE and LONDON.


Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINIOSH.
■y IVO L I THEATRE, SYI) N E Y
EVENINGS AT 8.
M \TINEES WKDNKSDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
\ MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Plans at Nicholson's and Tivoli.
yi \ OEI Tll EA I lili, M E LBO CRN E.
NIGHTLY AT EIGHT.
THE ONLY HORACE GOLDIN,
The Royal Illusionist.
Also, MENNETTI AX r D SIDKLLI, MUSETTE,
GOSWARD, HAY AND CRAWFORD, MARIE KING
SCOTT, AND CARDO AND NOLL.
Plan at Glen‘s
I 1 i; H M A J E S T Y ’ S, S Y I) N T E Y.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present their Gorgeous
Annual Pantomime Extravaganza,
MOTHER GOOSE.
A HOST OF NEW ARTISTS. A RIOT OF FUN.
P
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales, Callose’s.
AIAC E TIIKA T K E. SY 1) NEW
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J&N.TAITS NEW ENGLISH C?
PEG.
A COMEDY OF YOUTH
by J.HARUEY MANNERS.
THE SUPREME SUCCESS OfSUCCESSES
Box Plans now open at Nicholson’s.
Q RIT EItI O N T THE A T KE. SYDNEY.
J. C. WILLIAMSON Ltd. present the Brilliant
London Emotional Star Actress,
MADGE FABIAN.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of ON TRIAL.
SATURDAY NEXT. MAY 27,
For Four Nights and Wednesday Matinee,
MADGE FABIAN as MADAME X.
Plans at Pa line’s. Day Sales White Rose.
IKTII S ’ NE W HIPPODRO ME,
HAYMARIvET.
Proprietors Messrs. WIRTH BROS., LTD.
LAST THREE NIGHTS AND ONE MATINEE of
WIRTH BROS.’ emeus.
HURRY UP. HURRY UP.
Plan at Nicholson’s and Hotel Australia.
WIRTHB’ NEW HIPPODROME.
lIAYMARKET.
Proprietors Messrs. WIRTH BROS., LTD.
OPENING ON MONDAY NEXT.
GIGANTIC THRILLING AQUA DRAMA AND
SPECTACLE.
KULTUR,
Written and produced by the famous English author,
MR. LEONARD F. DURELL.
“Kultur” is not a picture. It is a portrayal of
actual events in the war by living actors.
The
HYDRAULIC SINKING RING
is used in this production, giving some thrilling and
remarkable effects.
200,000 gallons of water used nightly.
Hundreds of people and horses and streets washed
away by the floods. .
The first spectacle of its kind ever produced in
Australasia.
W. BARRINGTON MILLER, General Manager
Union Theatres Limited, presents the new
"T" RIANGLE PLAYS AT
1 THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MOTION PICTURE ENTER-
TAINMENT as it should be.
SESSIONS: 11.45 a.m., 2 p.m.,
4.15 p.m. EVERY DAY, and
8 p.m.
Prices: 6d. to 2/6. Box Plan at Paling’s.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
THE PICTURE BLOCK THEATRES
1 In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-.
GREATER .1. I). WIT.LIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD
W. Barrington Miller. General Manager.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
1 1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON. I.m.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
SO LONG, LETTY.
A WHIRLWIND OF GAIETY.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and 1
Theatre royal,, m elbou rn e
Direction .1 C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
D. W. GRIFFITHS’ MIGHTY SPECTACLE,
THE BIRTH OE A NATION
The World’s Greatest Picture Production.
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MAY 27.
GEORGE MARLOW presents lAN MACLAREN,
the eminent English actor, in Rex Beach’s Master-
piece,
THE SPOILERS.
Popular Prices: 4/-, 3/-. 2/-, 1/-
K INC.'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees BERT BAILEY k JULIUS GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
FIRST APPEARANCE OF THE BERT BAILEY CO.
in
THE FAMILY CUPBOARD
The New York Comedy Drama by Owen Davis.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Allan’s.
The Bank of Australasia
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital .. : t
Reserve Fund (used in the business of the bank)
Reserve Liability of Proprietors under the Charter . .
£2,000,000
2,780,000
2,000,000
£6,780,000
Eighty-second Annual Report of the Directors of the Rank of Australasia,
With the Accounts for the Half-year to 11th October, 1915,
Presented to the Proprietors at the Annual General Meeting, held on Thursday, 30th March, 1916.
REPORT.
The Directors submit to the Proprietors the Balance-sheet as at ilth October last, with the Profit
Account f v,„ half-vc-ar to that date. After providing for rebate on bills current, tor British and
Australasian rates and taxes, and after making provision for bad and doubtful debts and other con-
tingencies, the net profit for the half-year amounted to £201,(43 3s. sd.
To this sum mi st be added £113.353 4s. lid. brought forward from the previous half-year making
a total of £315.096 Bs. 4d„ out of which the Directors have declared a Dividend for the lialf-ieai at
the rate of 14 per cent, per annum, or £2 16s. per share, and a Bonus at the rate of 3 pci cent, pci
annum, or 12s. per share, together £3 Bs. per share, free of income tax.
The Dividend and Bonus will absorb £170,000, and the Directors have furthei appropriated
£30,000 to the Reserve Fund. There will then remain £115,096 Bs. 4d. to be carried forward to the
Idle Dividend and Bonus will be payable, in London and in Australasia, on the 31st March
The directors have to record, with much regret, the death of their esteemed colleague, the Rt. Hon.
SU The'' rotation are: Arthur Whitworth, Esq., the Rt. Hon. the Earl of Lichfield
and Sir E Montague Nelson, K.C.M.G., who, being eligible, otter themselves for re-election
The directors have filled the vacancv caused by the death of the lit. Hon. Sir Andrew R. Scoble by
the election as a director of Mr. T. R. Johnson, late Chief Commissioner for Railways and Tramways m
New South Wales, and the proprietors will be asked to approve his election.
The auditors, Messrs. Welton, Jones and Co., offer themselves for re-election.
Since the date of the last report a branch lias been opened at Albany, Western Australia.
4 Threadneedle Street, London, 20th March, 1916. A. WHITWORTH, Chairman.
PROFIT ACCOUNT FROM APRIL 12, 1915, to OCTOBER 11, 1915.
Undivided profit, April 12, 1915 .. .. •• •• •• •• •• •• £233,353
Less: Dividend and bonus, October 8, 1915
4 11
170,000 0 0
Profit for the half-year to October 11, 1915,
rebate on bills current at balance date ( £7,542 3
making provision for all bad and doubtful debts ai
contingencies
Less:
I. Charges of Management —
Australasia —-
Salaries and allowances to the staff, including
the Superintendent’s’ Department and 205
branches and agencies ,
General expenses, including rent, repairs ;
stationery, travelling, etc. ..
London —-
Salaries
General expenses ..
after deducting
£113,353 4 11
3d.), and
for other
£436,417 1/
3 7
£116,711
26,696 12
10,998 12 11
3,859 3 0
£158,265 12 2
11. Rates and Taxes-
Australasii . .
London
£33.643 17 0
42,765 4 8
£234,674 13 10
Total amount of unappropriated profit
From which deduct:
For transfer to Reserve Fund
£201,743 3 5
315,096 8 4
30,000 0 0
Leaving available for dividend
..£285,096 8 4
BALANCE-SHEET. OCTOBER 11, 1915.
LIABILITIES.
Circulation . . . . . . . . £263,038 0 o
Deposits . . . . . . . . 20,578,325 12 2
Bills payable and other liabilities,
including provision for contin-
gencies . . . . . . . . 3,241,754 710
£24,083,118 0 0
Capital . . . . £2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . 2,780,000 0 0
Profit account,
undivided
balance . . 285,096 8 4
5,065,096 8 4
£29,148,214 8 4
ASSETS.
Specie, 'bullion, Government notes
and cash balances. . .. ..£6,668,902 0 1
Loans at call and at short notice 445,000 0 0
British Government securities . . 2,020,284 3 3
India Government securities and
other investments.. .. .. 992,744 0 8
Bills receivable, advances on securi-
ties and other assets . . . . 18,993,744 10 5
Bank premises in Australia, New
Zealand and London .. .. 27,539 13 11
£29,148,214 8 4
F. H. BLOGG, Accountant. R. W. JEANS, General Manager.
We have examined the cash and securities in London and the London books, and have verified the
transfers from the several branches in the Commonwealth and New Zealand, and we beg to report that
in our opinion, the foregoing is a full and fair balance-sheet of the bank, and that it exhibits a true
and correct view of the state of the bank’s affairs as shown by the books. The investments were
valued, so far as could be ascertained, at market price or under.
London, March 15, 1910. WELTON, JONES AND CO., Auditors.
r
TV.
SQU
C'J
DEVIL’S PUZZLE MATCHBOX.
The Matchbox, which is different from all
other puzzle-boxes. You’ll never open it until
you read the directions. Made of Nickel-plate,
beautifully finished. Without doubt the most
ingenious Puzzle Matchbox that has ever been
made. Price, Post Free, with Instruc-
tions, 2/-
Jokes, Puzzles, Tricks,
Novelties.
Write for our New Novelt
Catalog—lT’S FREE.
i
SHOCKING
CIGARETTE
CASE.
A splendid have.
No sooner do you
open the case than
you drop it as
quickly.
Post Free, 9(1.
H
. L. Hutchinson Ivtd.,
708-710 George Street, Haymarket, Sydney.
m
Waterma n’s
(ldea!)
Fountain Pen
THERE he goes, with a merry heart and
a springy step, glad to “do his bit,”
confident in his fitness and prepared
to rough it with the best of ’em. But not
prepai ed to put up with the discomfort of
camp pens and “service” pencils. Oh
dear, no! he believes in a first-rate equip-
ment, so he arms himself with a
“Safety” type Waterman’s Ideal —the
perfect and ever-ready fountain pen.
Far away from home, it will be
his easy means of com-
munication with relatives and
friends left behind. What a
boon it will be to him !
Three types—
Regular, Safety, and Lever
Pocket Self-Filling.
Of Stationers ii Jewellers everywhere .
L. G. Sloan,
n donter,
London, England.
_ Australia : Harold D. Dixon,
105, Clarence St., Sydney.
Amusements.
OIJOU.THEA THE, M E L MolTinnr
D FULLER’S THEATRES & VAUDEVILLE pm
Governing Director BEN J. FULLER * '
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY* '
Afternoon 2.30. Evening at 8. ‘
FRED COYNE’S London Revue, “SOMFTHiv,,
DOING,” interpreted by FRED COYNES
QUEALEY, FRED MAGUIRE, TED STAOPnmJ
BOR STEPHENSON, GICIv WATSON, ELIA ATRUv'
NELLIE QUEALEY, PHYLLIS HILL anl othe , ’
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-, Matinees: 1/6. 1/and Gd
QLACIA R ID M, MEI.HO l R x E
REAL ICE SKATING.
EVERY AFTERNOON AND
EVENING.
V T’S P ICTUR ES7 MELISOI rx k
BEST AND MOST.
TWO BIG SHOW S.
HOYT'S OWN: Bourke Street, next Theatre lloyal.
OLYMPIA : Prince's Bridge.
BI It C H & CARR "o~L~L
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba tr
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : ROTFIWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
Business Announcements.
Use*! the
World Over
MOTOR
...CARS
BEST - ALWAYS.
fj/y/c
m
Velveteen
every yard is marked with
the letters L-O-U-l-S.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding- Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the State..
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
Some people brush their
teeth to keep them white,
some also to keep the moutll
clean, sweet and free front
destructive germs. To botli
The Oxygen Tooth Powder
appeals as nothing else can. Just
as pure air is now found to be foe
greatest of all restorers (it «m
t-iins 21 per cent, ox.'e*cnj,
Calox releases oxygen when mol ■
ened.
]t penetrates the recesses, purifies
and sweetens where
not go—but where decay P* •
havoc.
Get Calox at
IL LCKE MIS T S JR«rEf.S.»NCYOOOM
GEO. WILLS & CO. JdjL.
Wholesale
Distributors ;
IS THIS YOUR TROUBLE?
c _ “stomach • trouble ai
Some cases ot sioiublu
nothing but constipation.
tin
tion
gas forms in the stomac — rP a
abdomen has a feeling -
weight and is hard and dm t bi ug is
To correct constipation the . an d use
to stop the use of strong P< x>inkettes.
instead the mild laxatn e 1 ■ ■ j ong a s
These tiny pills may be used i re . act i n g
required without the dange
constipation. , before pu l '
If you would like totr> l gen( j to
chasing, mention I‘ IE Ll Sydney,*? 1
the Dr. Williams Medicine the
a free trial sample. Ali yT .
regular size at Is. per bottle.— Adyi.
ijfjE
If any illustration appearing lU to the
Bulletin takes your fancy, {or } t .
Manager, who will quote you p


Came to a Head. Very Itchy, Burn-
ing and Disfiguring. Used Cuti-
cura. Pimples Disappeared.
139 Inglewood Rd., Bendigo, Vic.—“ The
trouble first started on my face and fore-
n
head which were covered
with pimples that came to a
head and were very itchy and
burning day and night and
they were disfiguring my face.
I tried other soaps without
any good result.
“The trouble lasted for
about three months when I
saw the advertisement for
Cuticura Soap and Cuticura Ointment
which I tried, using according to directions,
and have used ever since with good results.
The pimples have now quite disappeared.”
(Signed) Miss May Julian, May 13, 1914.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
V /
BENGER’S
is the
most easily
digested
Food
obtainable .
It is expressly
devised to be fully
nourishing when
natural digestion
isenfeebled, whether
in child or adult.
It is prepared with fresh
new milk and forms a dainty
and delicious cream, which
fully satisfies “hunger-faint-
ness,” and soothes internal
discomfort. Benger’s is the
safe food in illness, and in
convalescence promotes
rapid recovery.
Delicate children thrive on it.
Food
For CHILDREN.
INVAUDS and the AGED
is sold by Druggists, etc., everywhere.
Benger’s Booklet—A little work of authority on
the special feeding of Children, Invalids, and the
Aired, will be sent post free on application to:
BENGER S FOOD, Ltd.,Manchester, Eng:.
Branch OJices— NEW YORK (U.S.A.) 92, William Street
SYDNEY (N.S.YV.) 117, Pitt Street
Canadian Agents— National Drug Co., Ltd., Montreal.
Teach Cadets
to shoot
The Ross “Cadet” Rifle is a
.22 calibre rifle, made expressly
for Cadet Organizations to the
ROSS "CADET," .22 CALIBRE
specifications of the
Canadian Government.
It is strong and
serviceable, shoots .22
calibre short, long, or
long rifle cartridges —
(the most inexpensive
made), and has self-
ejecting, straight-pull
action.
It is an excellent and
safe arm to use to drill
youths and teach them
how to shoot, and is
powerful enough to use
for any except larger
game.
The price is £2-10,
in Canada; discounts
are quoted on orders
for quantities.
Full particulars on application. 71S
Ross Rifle Co., Quebec, Canada
Information and Prices can be obtained from—
Mr. HUGH SCOTT-YOUNG,
P.O. Box 1031, Melbourne, Australia.
AVON
n
MARK _j
The TYRES
which increase comfort
and give longer service
at reduced cost.
BRITISH THROUGHOUT
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-
paying office in the World. HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C. ; Hon. Jas. Burns, M.L.C.; Hon. F. E. Winchcombe. M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Lsq., K.C.;
Samuel Hordern, Esq.
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Accumulated Funds, £35,000,000. Annual Income, £4,770,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1915 .. £848,628. Total Bonuses distributed .. £20,670,000.
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. Write for prospectus
and full information without delay.
BosfocJL
BOOTS .are the smart wear for the season
Mne Fashion has cast that die most
decisively—and this white poplin boot,
fashionable, short-fronted, with a trim,
military heel, will look uncommonly well with
the short white skirts of this season. Then,
better still, like all the short-fronted models
in the Bostock range, it is quite amazingly
comfortable, and will suit all types of feet. In
fact, most women will get a pleasant surprise
when they try it on, and see how nice it looks
and how delightful it feels. And it will con-
tinue to feel delightful in wear, since all
Bostock soles are specially treated so as to
extract from them those chemicals used in
tanning, which are apt to make the feet hot
and tired. So, in this boot one will be
dainty, cool and fresh, able to enjoy walks,
picnics and excursions in the most blazing
weather.
Bostoek No.
P 6
832
<s>
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostoek.”
A charming- selection of Bostoek shoes
always on view at all leading stores.
Use it Daily
and look your best
Regular users of
Icilma Cream—
the famous English
Toilet Preparation
are sweet,
dainty, attractive.
Their hands are
white and beauti-
ful—their skins are
soft and smooth
their com-
plexions are clear
and transparent.
All this because
Icilma Cream is so
different from other
toilet preparations
I II
si
AM
• /,
, .c
/ :'ly
sr
%
—and so much better. It is the only toilet
cream in the world which contains Icilma
Natural Water—this stimulates the skin and
encourages the flow of natural oils, so that
the skin is kept always soft and smooth and
of good colour. Use it daily and look your best .
Cream
Fragrant and non-greasy. Guaranteed not to grow hair.
Price 1/6 per pot.
Of Chemists, Druggists, etc. Icilma s pronounced Eye Silnia.
J. C. GAMBLES & CO.,
Sole Australian Agents, 11 Commerce House, Melbourne.
The Inky Way.
“Harrison O.”: Even while Armageddon
rages the English press lives up to its col-
lective motto: “Snoblesse oblige.” Despite
the fact that men of all classes have joined
the colors, the writers of yarns in maga-
zines and newspapers persist in making all
Tommies and N.C.O.’s mislay their aspirates
and otherwise maltreat their native
tongue, while every young officer is the
“Hon. Jimmy” or some other brand of noble
who treats with good-humored condescen-
sion the rough, uneducated but good-hearted
rank and file. The popular _ magazines,
which rely on the snobbish middle-classes
for support, are the worst offenders. They
never dream of allowing their heroes to be
anything less than a lootenant, and mostly
in the Guards at that. That’s another great
advantage of the “democratic” voluntary
system which the P.L.L. so loves; it breeds
snobs and sycophants. None of your beastly
conscription, under which a hard-working
cauliflower-grower like Joffre is liable to
become General of a whole army!
* * * *
W. T. Stead’s daughter Estelle is now
editing the English Refuse of Refuse, the
peace-time editor, brother John, having gone
to take a hand in the Big Job. A while back
Estelle made a mild reputation as a Shak-
spearian actress.
A special jury in the King’s Bench Divi-
sion of the High Court of Justice in Eng-
land has held that Frederick Grundy, Lon-
don correspondent of New York Sun, was
entitled to 12 months’ notice of dismissal,
and awarded him £9OO damages because be
was paid only a month’s salary when his
services were dispensed with in October,
1915. When Grundy entered the service of
the Sun in 1907 he was paid the moderate
wage of £4 a week, and signed an agreement
for a month’s notice; but when he gradually
advanced in salary and became chief corres-
pondent in Britain at £2O a week, he con-
tended that he was entitled to a year’s
notice, and the jury accepted this view. The
decision should interest newspaper proprie-
tors and journalists in Australia, where the
question of what notice should be given and
taken has always been a cause of difference.
It looks from the judgment as if the higher
a man climbs the longer the notice he’s
entitled to, presumably on the very fair
ground that places are few at the top and
take more looking for.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: The contributor who
wrote about South American newspapers a
month or two ago forgot to mention the
English publications. South Pacific Mail
(Valparaiso) and Standard and Herald
(Buenos Aires). The Mail is a weekly
summary of local news varied by clippings
from overseas and an occasional sensational
yarn like that of Cap’n Besley, who crossed
the Andes in midwinter after undergoing
untold hardships which only his inflexible
determination enabled him to overcome. No-
body but the Mail and the Wide World
took his yarn seriously. Of course, it should
be admitted that there were only four pubs
for the Oap’n to set his course by in 18 miles,
and it is fairly easy to miss pubs when they
are so far apart and not linked up by wire-
less. The Standard and Herald are issued
daily and are in heavy debt to Scissors and
Paste. The Standard is the oldest English
publication in South America —stolid and
highly respectable, with a strictly Dry Dog
policy and a lofty manner towards its reptile
contemporary. But the reptile has had new
blood infused into it of late, and is making
the ancient think hard. The Herald prints
a few good original articles at times, is right
down on any kind of public abuse, and has
a definite policy of which it is a fairly lucid
exponent and a vigorous defender. The
paper owes a good deal of its new reputa-
tion as a live wire to the pens of Australian
inky wayfarers.
* * * *
“T.M.W.”: Harry Ivneebone, an Austra-
lian journalist attached to the office of the
High Commissioner, is returning to Austra-
lia. He humped his capacity for work along
the Inky Way on the Westralian goldfields
for years, and I remember him as the head
and shoulders of a little syndicate of four
that battled with the old Coolgardie Miner
when Coolgardie had lost its punch and Fly
Flat was like a deserted cemetery. In those
days he was reporter, editor and stone-hand
roiled into one, and managed to look hearty
on about five hours’ sleep. When Cool-
gardie could no longer support its daily
“crib wrap” Kneebone joined Adelaide
Herald, and from there graduated to the hub
of things.
A BEACH RHAPSODY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When on the beach at ease I lie
And clothe my thoughts in modest speech
(I have a notebook near when I •
Am lying lazy on the beach),
I praise the genial gods that made such beaches
For me to 101 l on, as religion teaches.
I bite my pencil at the end
That isn’t pointed, and I think
What waste of time to strive and spend
And toil and moil and swank and swink!
(A coy, lithe girl, her costume more adorning
Than in the street, floats by. It is good morning.)
I note how playful cloudlets dance
Across the blue, and how there are
Ten million reasons quite, perchance,
Why there’s no fun in being Tsar,
When one can be, as I am at this minute,
A nobody, but happy as a linnet.
The sun is warm, and I admit
I’d love some sylph with waving fan
To cool me. That were apt and fit,
As I’m a Christian gentleman.
My neck is scorched, my brow grows moist and
moister,
My sinciput steams like a stewing oyster.
The day is fine, but work’s a curse
When guineas are so hard to get.
If I were rich, no line of verse
I’d scribble on this pad... .and yet
There are some compensations, well I know it:
Six simple Simons think I am a poet.
N.S.tV.
SELWYN RIDER.


m
834. “THE CERT” D.8.8.L. GUN. 12- or 16-gauge, top lever 30in.
steel barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks, left choke, snap
fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock; weight about <lb 07/o
Postage on one Gun, 2/9 N.S.W.; 5/2 Inter-State.
Harrington 8 Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
32-gauge top
action, solid
case hardened
locks, decar- . , , ,
bonised steel barrel, 30in. pistol grip, walnut stock, w-eig-U
about 6ilb. Gun can be taken apart, same as an ordinary
Doubie-barrei Gun. Auto-Ejcctor, 25/-; Non-Ejector, 22/6
Postage —2/6 N.S.W. ; 4/8 Inter-State.
838. WINCHESTER AUTOMATIC
REPEATING SHOT-GUN, 1911 Model, 12
gauge, Walnut stock, pistol grip, nickel-steel barrels', 28in.,
full choke, take-down system, chambered for 2fin. shells.
Magazine holds 5 cartridges, rubber butt-plate. Weight, 7flb. .£O/0/
DELIVERED^#©/©/ -
839. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating Shot Gun, 12-gauge,
similar description to 838. Delivered £B/10/-
MAYMARKET
•SY&NLY-
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot : 119 KING STREET ; also at NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE.
GUNS that give Satisfaction
The BEST HOUSE for all kinds of
GUN REPAIR WORK.
*mo/re “ SUNoI•
Tobacco. Dark or
Light. Plug or cut
2o*. pkt. iid, f 0 ;
11b. 6/6 (post free).
Send for our
Price List of
Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition,
and all Spor-
ting Goods,
Post Free
Anywhere.
818. Cashmore’s 12-gaugs D.8.8.L. Gun,
Solid bar action, 80-inch stool barrels, extension rib, loft chokp. cross bolt
D. & E. fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about
71b. Delivered
Same as above, but with 32-inch barrels. Delivered £7/15/-
-£7llOl-
©
9
828. The “ Continental” Combined Double
Barrel Shot Gun and Rifle,
30in. Siemen’s Steel Barrels, bar locks, cross bolt, the gmi barrel full
choke, 12-gauge shot, 32 Winchester Rifle calibre, weight about 7£lb.
CARRIAGE PAID.
=£7/7/-
Use Odfe
the 0-Cedar Way
(Registered in Principal Countries]
You will find the diagram easy to follow:
Wet a piece of cloth in
water —muslin or woollen
rag is the best.
Wring it dry —or until it
is just slightly more than
damp.
Pour on O-Cedar Polish
until the cloth contains as
much polish as it does
water.
Go over the Surface to
be cleaned table, side-
board, piano, etc. Varnish
absorbs O-Cedar but not
water the friction re-
moves the dirt and dust —
and the surface is cleaned.
Polish with a Dry Cloth.
Slight rubbing will quickly
produce the desired lustre
and finish. The Beauty of
the Grain is brought out —
seeming blemishes disap-
pear and the surface looks
like new.
A Hard , Dry , Lustre is
produced —not gummy or
sticky. A cambric hand-
kerchief would not be
soiled if placed on any
article polished the
O-Cedar Way.
mmm
m
r
fer
is
ffigs
'• -■ /-
*cv.i hzz*Z*Z?A
IS®
»VS
-'V x
rfV/
jm.
%'/ J.vfo
t~rrvr?.r*
fer
V-;l : . ,i
®iteJ
Ml:
.'•■•■I"
* . w , * •
; ;
I
Vi
S, ■ V
3E£
U
0-(3dar
\atS V^PoliSlL
“Cleans as it Polishes”
Go over any piece of furniture or woodwork, with your rag treated with
O-Cedar and polish with a dry cloth. See how O-Cedar cleans, dusts,
polishes and really beautifies all at one time.
O-Cedar produces a hard, dry, gloss-like lustre or polish that is
lasting. This lustre is retained if you put a few drops of O-Cedar
on your dust-cloth as you use it daily.
OBTAINABLE FROM LEADING DEALERS EVERYWHERE.
SIBBS, BRIGHT 8 CO., 37 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Manufactured by
Sole Australian Agents.
Also at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide and Fremantle.
CHANNELL CHEMICAL CO. Factory: Chicago, U. S. A.
Offices: London, Toronto, Buenos Aires
Cable Address: ‘Ocedar’
BE GOOD
TO YOUR
COMPLEXION
USE
Nyal’s
Face
Cream
1/6 & 2/6 per jar.
FOR SALE BY
CHEMISTS ONLY
tx'Wuna
CURES
eczema
Writing from Cobargo, in January, 1916,
Mr. J. McCleary says“l did not credit
there was such a wonderful liquid on tM
face of the planet that could do
Exzerma has done for me. I “ ad UVinllt
everything that 1 saw advertised, witbo
the slightest improvement; but witn
bottle of Exzerma I was almost curea
this after two years’ suffering. I was aha
to mix with people and got as far
bush as I could. Now I can once more
mix with the bunch. ’ All Chemt
Druggists , or from . ,
S. FIELDER, Randwick, Sydney. 5
HontserrAT
SAUCE
MADE FROM THE
CELEBRATED
MONTSERRAT
LIME JUlci
ITS PURITY
and great
digestivi
value
make it the fines!
Sauce procurable
Of All Storekeepers.
KM
§
&


§? TSf
MISS DOROTHY CIIMMING Praises
DR. SHELDON'S NEW DISCOVERY
Miss Dorothy Cumming is one of Australia’s youngest, fairest and most notable
Artists. This talented young lady started her career under the direct auspices
of Mr. J. C. Williamson himself, and her progress since then has delighted all her
many admirers.
I want to tell you what I think about your remedy for Coughs and
Colds —Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery. At various times I have tried many
things when troubled with a cold, and I want to say that you have the best
by far of any that I have ever come across. It has always cured me in a
remarkably short time. lam only too glad to add my testimony, and wish
you every success with it.
Yours truly,
(Signed) DOROTHY CUMMING.
Stops Coughs, Banishes Colds
Men, Women and Children all over the country use and know the worth of
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery. Are you one of them? If not, don’t delay, but
buy a bottle at once, and be ready to pounce on the first cold that makes its
appearance. Don’t forget, Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is the ever-ready friend
that should be in every household to protect you from all Winter Ills. Price 1/6
«nd 3/-
D? Sheldon’s
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
Baby is a
Connoisseur
in his little way He likes, and must
have, the best.
Mellin’s Food is the proved most effi-
cacious equivalent to Mother’s Milk.
Satisfactory feeding is half the battle.
Then what a boon to the mother to
use a food which requires no tiresome
cooking or preparation.
Send for samp!#
of Mellin’s Food
and Handbook
for Mothers
“The Care of
Infants in Aus-
tralia ” FREE
is made in a flash—needs no cooking
MESSRS. GOLLIN & CO. PROPRIETARY, Ltd., SYDNEY.
The Sydney S Suburban Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
Mutual Life Building 14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
For all classes of Rift Maintenance, Repairs, Renewals of Rifting Ropes and other parts
f or Hydraulic Material, Pipes, Valves, Tubing and High Pressure Stocks generally.
Best Workmanship and Material. Quotations supplied.
THE “TRENCH” PEN
WITH OBLIQUE TRENCH POINT.
SMOOTH
POINT.
INCORRODIBLE
METAL.
Gives Character to Writing.
FINE, MEDIUM and BROAD DEGREES.
Sample Boxes of 24 Assorted Patterns from all Stationers.
The Call of Bells.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“TiI OIL I cannot,” said the King, “for
' I 1 those bells, silver bells,
A- From valley-top to valley-top they
leap and make a chain
Whose every link is musical. What is the
old refrain?
’Tis a tune I have forgotten, yet a tune
which once I knew,
Like to the clap of merry leaves that in a
forest grew.”
And the parchment with the heavy seal fell
to the polished floor,
The jewelled pen was put away, the hand
would sign no more ;
Though the courier was waiting in the ante-
room till noon
The King was wandering forest-wards with
pollen on his shoon.
“Guard I cannot,” cried the Prince, “for
those mocking, hindering bells” ;
And he cast the buttoned foil aside and
smoothed his crisp red curls
And donned the little emerald coat that
shimmered o’er with pearls,
And fled away from priest and page and all
the flattering train
To make a cowslip girdle in a sheltered
country lane, . ,
To pluck a bunch of briar rose with thorn-
pricked fingertips,
To snare a shy jack-rabbit and to court a
goose-girl’s lips;
And the lackeys and the men-at-arms went
seeking high and low,
For the lilting bells had shown the Prince
the way he wished to go.
“Pray I cannot,” said the Queen, “for those
ribald, foolish bells” —
The Queen with her pale flower-face and
manner most devout;
And she left the velvet cushion where her
missals were spread out,
And the cross that threw a shadow on the
tesselated floor.
And she found a quiet passage and she
found an open door,
A garden with some shallow steps, a peacock
on the lawn,
A dove with rosy strutting feet, while
through the air was drawn
A folk song that a huntsman sang in a
remembered wold
Where sun on cottage tiles was warm and
unreaped fields were gold ;
While, in the chapel, filtered rays fell from
the painted arch
On her neglected missal. Loudly hymning
in the larch
She heard the happy blackbird, and the
flower-cups among
The buoyant worker-bee had thrust its
greedy pointed tongue,
The whiie her tire-maid trembled sore,
deserted shrines to see.
And a velvet cushion dented by the pressure
of a knee!
“Learn I trill not,” said the Princess, “for
the clatter of those bells
Is like a company of knights below the
battlements,
A gay cortbge, with banner that is full of
noble rents,
From distant frays victorious” ; and she
pouted and she prest
And coaxed her portly governante, and
leaned against her breast.
“Oh! Let us take the grey jennet and
through the forest ride
Below the babbling waterfall, white veiled
as any bride,
Till we find the great musician who is ring-
ing in the trees
To the nodding of the petals and the chorus
of the breeze ;
I will give you silks and sweetmeats, I will
ply you with old wine,
An you blind yourself, consenting to this
latest prank of mine!”
When the Abbe came, with jangling beads,
to hear what she had learned
He found a scented slipper and a little stool
o’erturned.
King and Queen, Prince and Princess, in
the forest met at last;
When they recognised each other royalty
was quite aghast;
Till the young Princess said, laughing, “As
for once we’re of a mind,
Let us link our hands in searching for the
bells we came to find.”
Where the lilac crocus blossoms, and the
lily droops its head,
And the purple violet crouches in the honey
of its bed,
They could hear the clear bells clashing, and
they hurried through the green,
Idle King and wilful Princess, dreamy
Prince and pious Queen.
V hen at length they found the Ringer in
leaf-sway’s shade and shine
, Tices 'i- Fool his. brass bells shaking to
entice a herd of swine!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Funk.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
PRIVATE MASTERS lay in his dugout
and shivered, the guns boomed and
rattled, and the shells shrieked over-
head. His lips moved soundlessly, and at
each succeeding bang from “Beechy Bill” he
shuddered again and pressed back closer to
sheltering, comforting Mother Earth. He
was in a blue funk ; his thoughts were going
on continuously, monotonously, “I can’t stand
it, I can’t stand it.”
His best pal had been killed that morn-
ing. and he shuddered at the mere thought
of the manner of it. “I must get out of it,”
he muttered helplessly to himself. He had
no wish to die yet; life was very sweet and
held so many possibilities. But death, and
a death like Len Pile’s, when there had sud-
denly been no Len—only shattered fragments
of flesh ! If only he could get wounded and
sent from the firing-line—wounded badly
enough to preclude any possibility of having
to return !
So far, none of his companions had
become aware of his terror. If only he could
get out before he was branded as a coward!
There was talk of a bayonet charge to-night;
that was why they were resting now. In
imagination he could hear his own shriek of
terror as an enemy’s bayonet was thrust into
his body—could feel the sickening tear of
the flesh.
Or perhaps he would never get that far.
What if he lacked the courage to go forward?
The horror of the thought appalled him.
Then he thought of a term he had heard
used scornfully, and it ran through his head
with maddening persistency: “Left hand
wounds”—the left-hand wounds of a tribe of
Indians who failed the test of courage and
injured themselves.
lie drew his rifle toward him. No ; not a
left-hand wound —a wound in the foot. Was
it easier to limp with the left or right foot,
he wondered dully. But he must not do it in
the dugout. That was bullet-proof. He
must go out where strays sometimes fell.
If he met any fellows he would tell them he
was going to see some pals further along
the trenches. Carrying his rifle on such an
errand was rather suspicious, but he hoped
they wouldn’t notice that. If they did —•
well, he would say that he hoped to pot
something on the way.
He traced out all details cunningly. The
thought of a time free from all these hellish
noises sustained him: but at intervals he
trembled so that he could scarcely hold his
rifle. Len’s pack was lying where he had
left it that morning. He hoped the fellows
would think to send some of the things it
contained to Len’s mother. Then he ven-
tured out of the dugout, and held liis head
low and crouched as he walked. He came
to a fairly-exposed position and listened. So
far as he could tell from the incessant crash-
ing overhead he was absolutely alone. He
lay down carefully ; he thought it would be
easier that way. lie held the rifle as far
from his foot as he conveniently could. It
was an awkward position, but he did not
want his foot absolutely shattered. Had he
intended it to be his left or his right foot?
Ah, yes; his left, it was easier. He pointed
the rifle carefully.... shut his eyes.... and
pulled the trigger. There was a deafening
explosion and —oblivion.
Private Masters woke up to the conscious-
ness of voices—and pain. He was being
lifted carefully on to a stretcher. “A little
higher,” the stretcher-bearer at his feet was
saying ; and with extreme gentleness he was
raised so that the injured foot was resting as
comfortably as possible.
Masters closed his eyes and groaned.
“Does it hurt much, old chap?” one of the
Ambulance boys inquired. “Take a nip of
this.”
He gratefully sipped the water and slipped
once more into insensibility, to wake again
as his bearers were resting a few brief
moments in shelter before resuming the peril-
ous journey. One of them was binding up
the arm of the other, who was laughing and
saying: “By Jove, a narrow squeak!
Quarter inch nearer, and it would have shat-
tered the bone, and you’d have had two
patients, Jerry.”
Masters shivered uncontrollably ; he could
dimly see the red staining the bandage at
his foot and the stretcher-bearer bend over
it anxiously.
“We’ll have to hurry on,” he said to his
injured mate, “if you think you can stand it.
I can’t stop this haemorrhage.”
The other boy laughed again.
“Of course, I can stand it,” he said cheer-
fully. “Come on !” And he stooped to the
handles.
But Private Masters was filled with a
great horror. To save him these two boys
were running unutterable risks, cheerfully
and contemptuously!
“Leave me,” he muttered ; “I’m not worth
it. Run the risk for some better chap”
“Cheer up, matey,” the wounded boy
laughed. Nothing seemed to damp his
spirits. “If we weren’t carrying you we
would be carrying someone else. We’re
nearly there now; and, anyway, it’s all in
the game.”
He was conscious through nearly all the
rest of the terrible journey, and his mental
suffering was indescribable; but by the time
the hospital tent was reached he had lost
himself in a sea of pain. He knew nothing
of the hurried dressing at the field hospital,
the transfer to the hospital ship, or the final
arrival at the General Hospital. He was
only dimly conscious of pain and more pain,
of faces bending pitifully over him; then a
relapse into nothingness, and once again
pain.
His foot had been amputated four days
when he once more became aware of the
world about him —a world that in his dreams
had been shadowy faces and kind voices and
gentle hands. But still he lay through the
long days and nights motionless and voice-
less. His thoughts were the dominant fac-
tors in his life, and they filled him
with such unutterable repulsion of himself
that he shrank even when a hand touched
him. He knew that he was not worth caring
for, but he realised dumbly that he could not
openly say so. He was an exceedingly docile
patient, and in spite of his silence became a
great favorite with the nurses and orderlies.
They realised that the shock and the strain
of the Front had temporarily shattered his
nerves, and they nursed him skilfully and
tenderly.
But the dumb agony in his eyes so
appealed to the orderly on night-duty—a man
who had always been renowned for his in-
tensely human sympathy, and bad before the
war written world-read books —that one
night, when the morphia had had no effect
and the patient had said “No, thank you,” to
all suggestions of remedies, he sat down by
the bed and took Masters’s hand in one of his
own firm, cool ones.
Masters had been lying thinking, dully
wondering what Lettie would say if she ever
knew how he had been wounded. Lettie had
been so proud when he enlisted, and he re-
membered the night before he left she had
said: “Jim, whatever happens to you. you
are mine ! If you come back maimed, you
(Continued on next page.)


HEALTHY KIDNEYS KEEP THE
The kidneys are the blood-filters of
the body, and when they are clogged
they keep back the liquid waste and
impurities from the blood, so that the
body fills with water. This is called
drops}*, and it is a very dangerous
disease.
Your danger begins when there are
sharp pains in the back, puffy swell-
ings beneath the eyes or in the ankles,
sick headaches, nervousness and flut-
tering heart.
Doan's Backache Kidney Pills are
a special kidney medicine —they have
one set purpose —to relieve, tone up
and strengthen the kidneys, and they
do not affect the bowels at all. This
kidney medicine —the genuine Doan's
dissolves the crystallised uric acid
which clogs the kidneys, bladder and
connecting passages, and in this wav
removes and cures the cause of dropsy,
diabetes, Bright's disease, stone,
cystitis ( inflammation of the bladder )
and urinary disorders. It is because
Doan's Backache Kidney Pills cure
the CAUSE of disease that cures are
LASTING.
BLOOD PURE
*#
£v r ery
Picture
TeHs A
Story"
*
\
(
/
iTW
Doan's Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all
chemists and storekeepers at 2 9 per bottle, or post
free hr Foster-McClellan Co.. 76 Pitt Street. Sydney.
Cured to Stay Cured.
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
FROM ST. PETERS.
Mrs. E. Wilkinson. 29 Campbell Street. St.
Peters. Sydney, says:— "For some time I suffered;
agony from lumbag --like pains across the small of
my back. These pains prevented me from bending
or getting proper rest at night, and seriously
me when attending to my household duties. Some;
times 1 was so bad I could hardly move, and if 1
tried to get about the house the pain was almost
unbearable. After trying all sorts of remedies without
success. Doan's Backache Kidney Pills were brought
tinder my notice, so I got some, and they did mo
good almost at once. After taking two bottles o
these pills I was ever so much better, and eigh
bottles completely cured me. That was twelve months
ag. . and I have been we;.' ever since. I always keep
a bottle of Doan's Backache Kidney Pills in the house;
and take a dose occasionally, and they keep me m
splendid health.” ’ *■
Four years later. Mrs. Wilkinson says: “I have
been free front backache since Doan's Backache Kidney
Pills cured me five years ago.”
FROM ROZELLE.
Mrs. Andrew McDonald. 71 Denison Street. Roaelle,
say?: —“For three years my husband suffered fro
backache, and all that time he did no work, his bac
was so crippled. He always reckoned it was _can*@|
by the kidneys. He was sometimes free of patn. bu
at other times he could scarcely get out of b •
feeling, he w mid say. as if he were gone nn
loins. Mr. P. Smith, of Catherine Street, who n
been cured by I Van's Dtickache-Kidney Pills. " ®
always .telling him to get them, and he did get wow
at last. These pills soon put him on his feet, ana
was able to go to work, and has kept at regularly Wg
since. My son also used them for severe bacfcaco
and two bottles stopped the pain."
Mrs. McDonald confirms the above: -“Fourteen
years ago 1 made the above statement, and I am no
pleased to bring it np to date by telling you that w
husband is still quite free of every symptom of fcHMg
trouble. My son's cure was also permanent, for
has never had backache since."*
Backache
Kidney
are still mine—l shall not give you up.” lie
moaned slightly and tried to withdraw his
hand from the orderly’s. But Hepworth had
had the reputation during a journalistic
career of such sympathetic understanding
that lie could win his story from the most
reserved of human beings ; and in some cases
when the story had been told he drove his
editor into a frenzy by withholding all the
principal features from publication.
So Hepworth only leaned forward and said
quietly: "Is there anything on your mind,
old chap, that it would help you to tell? You
know. I might be able to help you to
straighten things out.”
Masters shuddered and turned his head
restlessly on his pillow; then he laid his
other hand convulsively on Hepworth’s.
"Swear you won't tell." he whispered.
"Swear it! But I'm in Hell —I’m afraid to
live and afraid to die.”
"Your secret’s quite safe with me, old
man,” the orderly said gently; "I swear that
it will go no further.”
“You’ll hate me as I hate myself,” Masters
said; and for a few minutes he lay back,
watching his companion’s face intently.
’“I trust you." he said at length : “I must
have been mad with fear. I always was a
coward. I remember the first time I shot
a man" —he paused and moistened his lips.
He spoke disjointedly, but the other filled in
all the gaps.
"Len had been killed the day—this hap-
pened.” Masters went on. "It was hor-
rible —horrible!” And he shuddered again.
"I made up my mind that 1 must get out of
it before —what happened to Len happened to
me. I went out into the exposed sap—it was
supposed to be dangerous there. .. .and shot
myself... .through the foot!"
The orderly gripped his hand sympatheti-
cally.
"By Jove!" he said. "It shows what a
state your nerves must have been in to
imagine a thing like that.”
"It wasn't imagination.” Masters gasped.
"I lay down and deliberately aimed my rifle
and fired at my deft foot!”
“But it was your right foot that was
wounded." Hepworth broke in.
"The rifle must have slipped: it was diffi-
cult to keep it firm. I remember pulling the
trigger"
But the orderly spoke very quietly and
slowly, so that his words sank into the boy’s
mind.
"From the nature of your wound you could
not have done it yourself." he said. "It was
absolutely impossible."
Masters was trembling. "Is that true?”
he almost screamed. “God! Is that true?
Swear it! I have been in Hell!"
Hepworth’s fingers had slipped to his
patient’s pulse.
“Try not to get excited, old man." he said
quietly, and then continued in a whimsical
way that soothed Masters's nerves indescrib-
ably : "Unfortunately you did not speak to
me soon enough after the operation for me to
show you the proof. You came in in a
dangerous condition. The wounds were
septic, and au immediate operation was im-
perative ; but I can find out which of the
other fellows was in the theatre at the time.
We were infernally busy, going all da> and
most of the night; and I cant remembei
offhand who else was in. But if you want
more evidence I’ll look it up.
“No, thanks!” Masters said quickly. “If
I’ve been a fool, I don’t want anyone else to
know it.” He put his hand tip to his head. 1
was sure I pulled that trigger. But you ate
certain?”
“Absolutely certain that you could not have
done it yourself,” the orderly said con\ mc-
iugly. "Your nerves were evidently in a
terrible state. So you may have gone out
intending to do it. You may even have pulled
the trigger. But remember how difficult it
would be to aim a rifle from the position m
which vou must have been holding it, and m
the nervous state that you were in. The
enemy shell must have landed just about the
time you planned your little stunt. But why
didn't vou wake up sooner, old man, while
vou still had the foot as proof? I would
gladly have taken the dressing off to show
you.”
Masters was lying back with his eyes shin-
ing.
•I wish I had.” he said. “It would have
saved me the torture of the damned."
His voice was already clearer; his hand
firmer. Hepworth stood up and arranged the
bedclothes over him as tenderly as a woman
would.
"I believe you will sleep now." he said.
The orderly moved away slowly. He went
out on to the balcony and looked up at the
quiet stars.
“Poor devil!” he muttered. “He must have
been in Hell. I wonder"
He stepped back abruptly into the ward.
MYAH.
Everybody Dies.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OF all the people who derive a large
measure of happiness from the con-
sideration of melancholy matters.
Old Man Andrews is the most shining
example amongst my acquaintance. He
developed his faculty for this particular
form of enjoyment one day as he absorbed
gin and gingerbeer.
“Everybody dies.” he said, following a
sorrowful trail of thought from the mention
of the death of an old lady at the age of 90.
"The old lady was a friend of my m -ther's,
and nursed me when I was so high. My
mother died 25 years ago. and now her
friend's dead too !"
"Anyway.” I said, "she had her full share
of living, and probably she did not object
to dying, as a change."
"Yes. of course she's the exception. It’s
when people die in the flush of their health,
or when it's young children who should have
years to live, that you feel it most That's
the position I took about my daughter
To divert his mind from what seemed a
sorrowful subject I suggested another drink,
and he assented. He took the same mourn-
ful kind of liquor, and, having got it, pur-
sued the theme.
“My girl gets a lover when she’s only 16;
not a bad fellow he isn’t, either; finely set
up, and a manly, straight chap all ways.
They wanted to marry, but I put my foot
down on it. The way I looked at it v as
that if they married there’d probably be chil-
dren. and it was only bringing people into
the world to die. I told them that she
could do what she liked when she was 21
and her own mistress, if she didn’t die before
then; but from what I had seen of people
dying I wasn't going to encourage it. Every-
body dies, and what’s the good of bringing
more people into the world to do it.'
“Well, of course, I’m set on my ideas, but
they're just as set on theirs. So I forbade
the young fellow to come near the place.
“ ‘Not that I have anything against you,’
I says to him; ‘but you’ve got no more
chance than if I hated you. My daughter
isn’t going to marry you. I’m not going to
encourage this dying.’
“ ‘lt’s living we were thinking of, he
answered. But I told him how I saw things.
“Well, he didn’t come near after that; but
by-and-bye I discovered that they were meet-
ing one another on the quiet. I was angry
at that; and you know how obstinate a
man gets when he’s angry! Well, I made a
sort of prisoner of Margie.
"I noticed a sort of change come over her
in a few weeks’ time; noticed it, but did not
heed it —you know what I mean. She seemed
restless, as if she was thinking over some-
thing that was worrying her. Then one
night she comes into the room, throws her
arms round me and kisses me. saying ‘Good-
night father, darling!’ I hardly noticed the
unusualness of it until afterwards, when the
wife comes in and says she can't find Margie
anywhere in the house, and she knew some-
thing was going to happen by the way she
kissed her good-night.”
He paused, and I twisted my glass,
scarcely knowing how to express sympathy
at the tragedy I understood.
“Poor girl!” I said at last.
"Just then." he pursued, “the young fellow
rang up on the 'phone, and he says that
Margie is all right, but they're determined
to marry, and he wants to see me. but sup-
poses that, as it's so late, he'd better leave
it till morning. Of course, I wouldn’t allow
anything of that sort, so I told him to come
out straight away.
"Imagine how I felt while I waited. I
was wondering whether to knock his brains
out with a poker or use my revolver. But
when he came in he was so straightforward
that, after the first few moments. I started
poking the fire to show that that was what
I had the poker in my hand for.
"Margie, it appears, just like a silly girl,
had run away to him; and he. being a decent,
straight fellow, but- one that wanted to
marry her, had helped her find a hen-
house Where she could stay without &'
any aspersions upon herself while he 5
tackle me. lie put their scheme to m ?- h°
had not abducted the girl, or harmed her in
any way, and he had used no influence I
her. She was all right; but she did Tot
mean to return, and he did not mean to Ml
me where she was until I consented to V
marriage. ineir
‘•lt was the wife that induced me to
way; so I said I would promise mv consent
but they d have to listen to me talk first ana
they might change their minds. And T ,n
talk to them ! I pointed out that they m s„ ,1
have children that might die; and that if he
died she'd be a widow; and if she died heVl
be a widower. But it didn’t change their
minds.”
“Why, that,” I said, “is quite a bright
little^ romance—a thing with life, not death
“Wait a bit,” he warned me, sombrelv
“He was an officer on one of the inter state
boats —a risky sort of job, and he had to be
out at all times and in all weathers. They’d
been married less than a year, and he was
away on one of his trips when it hanoenefi
“lie died?” I murmured.
“No: The baby was born. It was a fine
boy. though a bit delicate; and I used to
think of what would become of his parents
who simply adored him, if anything hap-
pened to him. Dear little lad,'he was- I
remember the day he asked me which was
the oldest, me or Methuselah; because, if I
was. he meant to be as old as me some day.”
lie gave a melancholy chuckle.
“They lived in a wild sort of place down
near the shore. George’s River way; and you
know how a child has to be watched where
there are rocks hanging over deep water.
Well, another baby comes along, and—l
suppose it’s because it looks more like its
father than the first—Margie simply is more
madly attached to this one than the other,
even: consequently ooor little Reggie is
allowed to wander about by himself.
“I well remember the day. I was sitting
on the corner of the verandah. I’d just been
warning him against leaning over the water,
where he'd gone with a bent pin on some
cotton, when I heard little Reggie’s voice
call out.”
"Fell in?" I suggested.
“Not he ! Damned if he hadn’t caught a
fish on that ridiculous fishing-line, a thing
about the size of a whitebait; and he comes
up. proud, to show me. saying I can have
some, but there must be some for daddy and
mummy. Then, going into the bedroom, he
sees the baby lying awake, and gives if the
fish. As babies will, the poor little mite tried
to eat it.”
He paused again.
"It was the baby that died?” I hinted.
“Died?" he echoed. "It's fine and healthy,
and growing : got eight teeth already.”
“I thought.” I excused myself, lamely, “you
implied that there was a death"
"Oh. no I” he retorted, gravely. “What I
did say. was that they 11 all die some day.
Everybody dies I”
HAMER.


An Economical Portable Outfit
CONSISTING OP
A WESTINCHOUSE “CROSS” OIL ENGINE
* 1
MOUNTED ON A
STEEL GIRDER
UNDERCARRIAGE.
The Engine has NO
delicate Mechanism to
get out of order, and con-
sumes the MINIMUM
amount of kerosene
per B.H.P.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET
8.0.5 to-
The Westift;
louse
Brake Co. of
Queensland Agents— Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
Ne , Zealand Ur.ice: 93-102 Featherston St., Wellington.
Concord West, N.S.W.
DON’T LOOK OLD!
But restore your grey and faded hairs to their natural color with
LOCKYER’S SULPHUR
HAIR RESTORER
1/6 SOLD EVERYWHERE. 1/0
Lockyer’s gives health to the hair and restores the
natural color. It cleanses the scalp, and makes
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
This world-famed Hair Restorer is prepared by the great
Hair Specialists, J. Pepper & Co. Ltd., Bedford Laboratories,
London, Eng., and can be obtained direct from them by
post, or from anv Chemists and Stores throughout the World.
SAFEGUARD YOUR HEALTH
Q? J.Colfis Brownes
CWorodywe
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE REST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOT Hr
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simpie Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3, 8/-, 5/-.
Made in England.
As worn by our Brave Soldiers.
Every Patriotic Person should
wear one of these Brooches.
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN
BULL DOG BROOCH.
These splendid Brooches made in Australia and finished in
Gold, Silver, or Oxodised Metal are sold retail at 2/6 each.
For the purpose of making these Brooches more popular
throughout the Commonwealth, we have decided to give
everyone an opportunity of obtaining Valuable Prizes for
acting as our agents. SEND NO MONEY, your name
and address will do, and by return mail we will send you
6of these Highly finished Brooches. When sold
remit us our money, and we will forward you the prize you
select from our Up-to-date Catalogue of Watches, Chains,
Clothing, Bracelets, Handbags, etc. Write To-day to the
SIMPLEX NOVELTY CO., Pitt-st., Sydney.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
—— AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Do you feel Throaty
Then fly to the nearest Chemist and ask for
EVANS’ Pastilles .
Invaluable for throat and voice, affording instant relief. A
never failing remedy. Doctors prescribe them.
Evans Sons Lescher & Webb, Ltd., London.
Dinneford's
\ Magnesia
DINNEFORD’S
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
Look To Your Health
for it is without a doubt the most important part of a well-ordered
life. Good Health may be truly considered to be the basis of both
success and satisfaction; commercial ability as well as social qualities
are largely dependent upon the possession of this greatest of all
blessings. Now in order to enjoy good health it is essential to bear in
mind that certain conditions must prevail. The process of digestion
must be carried on with regularity and harmony; the appetite must be
good ; the bowels must be in a state of healthy activity ; the liver and
the kidneys must perform their functions with efficiency. How are
these desirable conditions to be brought about ? One simple method is
strongly recommended; namely,an occasional dose of Beecham’s Pills.
This medicinal preparation has been proved beyond contradiction to
be of great value in the prevention and cure of most of the ailments to
which the digestive organs are liable. Such symptoms as biliousness,
constipation, depression, flatulence, headache, indigestion in many
distressing forms —all speedily yield to the remedial influence of
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
Sold in boxes, labelled, price Io|d. (36 pills) I/Ii (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
HORLICKS
MALTE
MILK
r FOR ALL AGES
Horlick’s Malted Milk
is more beneficial than
tea, coffee or cocoa,
and is the best food
for invalids, dyspep-
tics, and those who
are below par. Ask
for Horlick’s at the
Soda Fountain.
amjba
t 0»««
***
Si
HEALS ANY WOUND OR SORE-
If you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won’t
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind,
no matter of how long standing, you can cure it
quickly and surelv with
WILKINSON S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price 1/6, posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist
1] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS* HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE,' VIC.
681 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the worlch
When something is wanted
to put on a burn or scaldL
to heai a cut, scratch,
or skin sore, apply
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Ointment
It soon relieves the soreness and pro-
motes a qui k cure, while for a skin
wound especially its antiseptic virtue is
important. On other occasions also
it is useful—for insect bites or stings,
fo eczema, ringworm, and skin ail-
ments generally—whenever a healing
antiseptic ointment is needed.
Local Stores and Chemists sell it.
Slade by F;C.CALVERT &Co.,Manchester,Ei«»
Economical
Motor-
Cycling
- V . .v . • /l < .
WHY go to the expense of a heayy high-powered
machine? The B.S.A. Motor Bicycle is far more
economical and has frequently demonstrated its remark-
able efficiency by holding its own against machines of
double the power. For Solo or Sidecar you will find a
B.S.A. unequalled in reliability.
RIDE A
4 y A h.p. MOTOR BICYCLE
Fitted with
B.S.A. COUNTERSHAFT THREE-SPEED GEAR.
B.S.A. Motor Bicycle List Free .
D. Y. RENNIE (Representing B.S.A Co. Ltd.),
Australian Buildings, MELBOURNE.
*
n
&SJ
Agbnts: MILLEDGE BROS. LTD., George Street, Sydney.
ANTHONY HORDERN’S UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free
Wheel on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop
Tyres. As ridden by FRANCIS BIBTJLES. £l3 10s. Write for Price Fist,
post free.
ANTHONY HORPERN & SONS LTP.,
Only Universal Providers.
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.


The All-Australian
Power Transmitter.
NGROVTr
LEATHER
SELTINti
which is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
AROMMC
SCHIEDAM
SCHNAPPS
l/f. {/•£/• (thfi
ITS
THE
Original !
There is only
One
Wolfes
Schnapps
Celebrated
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
Hardie’s Genuine
Used In place of Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE, ROT, HEAT, ACID g ANT PROOF,
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
“Courier” Buildings, Brisbane ;& Melbourne
SCHIEDAM
SCHNAPPS
ITS
the
Original !
There, is only
One
Wolfe’s
Schnapps
Reliable Machinery
for FARM 8 STATION REQUIREMENTS
Tangye Eampless Oil Engines.
Tangye Benzine Engines.
Tangye Suction Gas Plants.
Xangye Irrigation Plants and Pumps.
Tangye Steam Engines and Vertical Boilers.
Clayton & Shuttleworth Portable Steam
and Traction Engines. Thrashers. Steam
Road Rollers and Waggons.
“CLAYTON” PORTABLE STEAM ENGINE.
With Large Wheels to give
Ample Clearance.
TANGYE LAMPLESS OIL ENGINE.
Started Quickly like a Benzine Engine.
, Munro Chaffcutters and Saw Benches.
Gane Milking Machines.
Nicholson & Morrow “Union” Harvesters,
Ploughs, Drills, Cultivators, etc.
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing Machines.
DALGETYB CO. Ltd.
Sole Agents,
Miller’s Point, Sydney, and all Branches.
THE
SHEEP SHEARINC MACHINES
Repairs to Handpieces
The Wolseley Workshops are always busy—but two or
tlnee months before the wool-sheds commence harvesting
the jears growth they are taxed to their utmost limits.
Therefore it is easily realised how wise it is to send
your repair orders early.
Write for an interesting and fully descriptive leaflet on
the subject. It will be mailed you post free.
Sole Agents; DALGETY & CO. LTD., Miller’s Point, Sydney.
V-
Buffalo Exhaust Fans
Recommended for
Removal and Conveying of Shaving's from Woodworking
Plant —Elevating and Distributing Wool or Grain for the
Handling of Smoke or Fumes—Ventilating Public Buildings*
Factories, etc.
Apply for Catalogue “Practical Data on Exhaust Systems,” and, whether you are
ready to purchase or merely contemplating the installation of a Pan, submit your
conditions and requirements to us, and allow us to work upon your proposition.
PARKE (& LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers & Machinery Merchants & 60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
1 i
UV- : ; ■
sr
2SW
s m-
wm
mx
mm
m
Witrmt
jggjj:
• <;? 8. , s&m
t‘F *V i
wmmm
£
mfM \'-r-v
I*T.- ’r=i.
* , , 1 J
sr» o ? • ” 1 *J4#s
■■
* T
ijf
H
* •
' -V ; /•,:■■ '
Tgsrz!xB&
, a Wtm
Keystone 10-Ton Traction
Steam Shovel 8 Dirt Loader
75 of these Machines Sold in 1915.
You can take it over any road that will accommodate
a loaded Motor Truck. TWO TRACTION SPEEDS.
SOLE AGENTS':
N. CUTHRIDGE LTD
Equitable Building,
George St, SYDNEY
