

DEWARS The Genial Spirit
B. C3r. CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR —
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites. '
Specialty : AUC TIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in ail parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST,
o
. 9
i
a
LU
H
LU
0-
LU
O
H"
»
o
s!
' ■ • I
£
s
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. And at Telephone: City 9325.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. 29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W. 40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
159 George Street West, Sydney. 215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne. eustaoe bennett, General Manager.
w
rxgxiinmifani.
s;i
ILIIUII
Made in Australia by
fBMCKSTEARNSC?
SYDNEY.
' Used in plenty
Makes forty look
like twenty"
VALUABLE FOR TAN
AND SUNBURN
SAMS
BACQS
BC
CHUBBS
ANTI BLOWPIPE
SAFES
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
‘HANSEN’S
L
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
GOLF
BALLS
“THE SILVER KING”
THE BEST BALL
OF ALL
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
GOLF
BALLS
"That beats lath and plaster; that’s
Amiwud is the successor to lath and
plaster. It has far greater strength,
lasts longer, lends itself to artistic treat-
ment more readily, and can he handled
quickly and easily. Let us send you
Samples and Rooklets.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
Challis
THIC PARAFFINE PAINT CO.,
House, Sydney. I). S. EVANS, Atasi. Manager.
CLYDE ENGINEERING
LOCOMOTIVE, GENERAL Be AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERS.
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL * FARM WAGGONS. .RON * MALLEABLE CAST,NOS.
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
HADFIELD
Stone-Breakers
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. 11
ROAD-MAKING
MACHINERY.
TOOTH
PARTF
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
Hifl ri-oeli Pin wore
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER
The Bulletin
Yol. 37.—N0. 1886.]
[Thursday, April 6, 1916.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


“EFFICIENCY”
By-
Orison Swett Marden.
Winning Out.
Every Man a King.
The Progressive Business Man.
Getting On.
Pushing to the Front.
He Can Who Thinks He Can.
Young Man Entering Business.
The Optimistic Life.
The Exceptional Employee
Miracle of Right Thought.
Rising in the World.
Self Investment.
Dr. Marden’g books are famous the world over, and have been a help and a guide to many.
All at 4/6 per vol.; posted, 4/9.
GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROPTY LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
DEATH TO FLIES.
THE NEW NON-POISONOUS
POWDER,
“MUSTDIE”
The Great Insect
Destroyer.
Price
9d. per tin.
KILLS ALL INSECTS.
Fleas, Flies,
Mosquitoes, Ants,
Cockroaches, Moths.
m.
•i:
\ V
FREE TRIAL.
Write to “Mustdie,” Dept. H, Box
1520, G.P.0., Sydney, and a trial tin
will be sent post free, or forward id-
stamps for a full-size tin. fg
The Red Page
Poems by James Stephens
Deirdre.
Do not let any woman read this verse;
It is for men, and after them their sons
And their sons' sons.
The time conics alien our hearts sink utterly;
When wo. rfore inker, Deirdre and her tale,
And that h&r Ups are dust.
Once she did tread the earth: men took her
hand;
They looked into her eyes and said their say,
And she replied fa them.
More than d thousand years it is since she
Was beautiful: she trod the reaving grass;
She saw the clouds.
A thousand years! The grass is still the
same,
The clouds as lovely as they were that time
When Deirdre was alive.
But there has never been a woman born
Who was so beautiful, not one so beautiful
Of all the women born.
Let all men go apart and mourn together;
No man can ever love her; not a man
Can ever be her lover.
No man can bend before her: no man say —■
What could one say to her? There are no
words
That one could say to her!
Notv she is but a story that is told
Beside the fire! No man can ever be
The friend of that poor queen.
Barbarians.
I pause beside the stream and hear
The waters talking all the way;
If I had a proper car
I could tell you tvhat they say.
The lovely tree against the sky,
Which the first sun rests upon,
Has a message for my eye,
If I had a proper one.
On the heath I met a tvind,
It whispered' to me as I stood;
If I had a proper mind
I could answer, so I could.
I am deaf and dumb and blind,
No reply can I invent
When a stream, a tree, a wind
Asks am I intelligent.
The Waste Places.
As a naked man I go
Through the desert sore afraid,
Holding up my hand, although
I am as frightened as a maid.
The crouching lion there I saw
From barren rocks lift up his eye,
He jtarts the cactus with his pato,
He stares at me as I go by.
He ivould folloiv on my trace
If he knew I was afraid,
If lie knew my hardy face
Hides the terrors of a maid. ...
His burning eyes, his eyes of bale,
Through the darkness I can see;
He lashes fiercely with his tail,
He would love to spring at me.
I am the lion in his lair,
1 am the fear that frightens me,
I am the desert of despair,
And the nights of agony.
Night or day, what e'er befall,
I must walk that desert land,
Until I can dare to call
The lion out to lick my hand.
From “Songs from the Clay” (Macmil-
lan), by James Stephens.
In The Birth-time of the World, and
Other Scientific Essays, by J. Joly, Profes-
sor of Geology, Dublin, (Unwin, per Sydney
Book Club) —a collection of highly interest-
ing essays for the scientific, the author puts
fortli a theory to account for the “canals”
on Mars without the necessity of postulating
the existence of civilised beings on that
planet. .Toly points out that Mars occupies
a very hot corner in the solar system: it
lies within the range of the eccentric orbits
of the hundreds of thousands of asteroids,
varying from 10 miles to IGO miles in
diameter, which probably represent a still-
born or busted planet. Evidently Mars
has captured two of these asteroids as
moons. For Phobos is only about 36 miles
in diameter, and revolves less than 4000
miles from the surface of Mars. Deimos is
about 12,500 miles from Mars, but he is
only 10 miles through. And they revolve in
opposite directions. And both are sure to
be pulled into the planet—a fate probably
reserved for our moon later on. Joly’s
theory is that the markings on the surface
of Mars—-there can be no doubt about these
curious “canals” nor about their apparent
double character, since they have been photo-
graphed—were caused not by the Martian
engineers, but by the cavortings of cap-
tured asteroids round the planet, grazing the
surface of the planet before they make
their final plunge into it. Joly does not
suggest that the “canals” are the actual
grazes marked on the planet’s surface; the
mere passage of such satellites at, say, 70
miles above the planet’s surface would so
affect the crust of Mars as to account for
just such single or parallel lines as astrono-
mers have noticed. The, stress caused by the
passage of a satellite would start ” two
parallel cracks, and every few hours it would
be coming over the same place for hundreds
of times. The theory is an ingenious one;
no doubt* it will be promptly pulverised by
Professor Lowell.
Hilda in Kultur-land
When the war broke out it found Hilda
M. Freeman, an Australian girl, a governess
in the country house of a German nobleman.
The Baron von Klinggraeff’s estate was a
spacious one. “There are two mansions,
two villages, two churches, two forests, and
two lakes on the estate; and the Baron,
besides farming the whole of the immense
property, which extends for miles, is also a
poet, a playwright and a very delightful and
refined gentleman,” Thus wrote the author
of the delightful and interesting An Aus-
tralian Girl in Germany (The Specialty
Tress, Melb., 2s. 6d.) before the outbreak
of the war. She also noted that in the
huge house, with its 100 rooms, there was
no bathroom. The Baroness explained to
the astonished Australian girl:—
“Last year we built a bath into the sewing-
room, with a heater attached, but we only
use it about once in two or three months. It
takes so much time and trouble to prepare it.
We, ourselves, have a cold splash in a foot-
bath.”
Kultur ! Here is more of it: —
The Baroness personally supervises the
laundry operations, which take place once
every three months. German women are
very proud when they have so much linen
that they can do without washing for three
or six or even 12 months. One young lady
told me, with the greatest of pride, that her
mother only had a “washing day” once a
year.
“Think, oh think of the germs,” I cried in
horror.
“Germs ! Nonsense ! The clothes are hung
up in cupboards; there are no germs there.”
I shuddered when I thought of table, bed
and personal linen, all hanging together in
a cupboard for three months.
Another German lady was shocked to learn
that Australians sent their clothes to the
laundry once a week. “Don’t you have
enough clothes?” she asked.
Another great day is pig-killing day
Germans love pigs; when they are killed
everybody joins in the high and honorable
work of sausage-making.
“Ach! the sausages,” the Baroness ex-
plained, “we make the sausages.”
And when the Australian girl dubiously
asked if she could help, the Baroness
answered with a negative and a shrug. “The
English, they know not much about the
sausage-making.”
I cannot describe the awful rites which
were performed in the great room off the
kitchen that day, but I do know that when
I looked into the store-room a week later, I
imagined for a moment that I was looking
into a miniature Jenolan Cave. Hanging
from the roof were thick masses of red and
grey stalactites. From the floor rose glit-
tering stalagmites, and the walls all round
were decorated with strange shapes. As my
eyes grew more accustomed to the semi-
darkness I discovered that the decorations
were sausages—meat, blood, liver and brain
sausages—while the stalagmites turned out to
be tall glasses filled with liver and brain
paste.
Hilda in Kultur-land! And the raw
meats! At a dinner in a “nice” house, one
English girl had raw ham, raw sausage, raw
goose’s breast, sciuer-kraut, and a raw vege-
table salad!
And even before the war, the author notes
that:—
An Australian feels that woman is his
equal; the Englishman treats her as a
delightful ornament; but something about
the average German’s attitude towards
women makes me shudder Cleanliness
does not seem to stand among the necessities
here. The unsanitary conditions under
which they live are rather surprising when
one remembers how really clever the Ger-
mans are in scientific matters.
And, of course, this cultured household—
the Baron really liked England—was shocked
at the fact that Australian women had the
vote and indulged in mixed bathing.
Jt
Then came the war. Immediately the
author saw the Germans as they are, and
though she was well treated by the house-
hold they could not disguise, nor did they
attempt to disguise, their hatred of England.
They insisted on regarding her, despite her
shocked protests of loyalty, as an Australian,
and therefore a neutral.
Australia will break from Britain now.
She is tired of English rulership. Besides,
we have many good representatives in Aus-
tralia. They will see that she does nothing
foolish. Japan will not touch her if she de-
clares her independence.... Count P says
that there _ is a lot of inflammable material
in Australia and that we have worked upon
it to our advantage. We have many influen-
tial supporters there, and they will prevent
Australia from really doing anything worth
while. They have, quite unostentatiously,
got the reins in their hand and can pull
Australia—the people—as they like We
have been laying our plans for a long time.
Perhaps the severance (with the British
Empire) does not come at once, but gradu-
ally it will come. Then we will stand by
you and uphold you Even if she goes
against us, she can do nothing. Australia
is nothing among the nations. We look
good-naturedly at her legislative experiments,
much as we are casually amused at the antics
of a schoolboy in holiday time, but when
real things come she is a negligible quantity.
It is best for her that she goes quietly on
with her politics. It amuses her and does
no one any harm. Then when we have
finished with England, Australia’s punish-
ment will not be so severe... .You have so
often told us about your national ambition
of a White Australia. I know' how sorry
you will be to learn that England has
crushed that ambition at one blow, and has
compelled Australia to give a free entrance
to the Jap-anese.. . .She has forced the law
on Australia. Australia has novr broken
loose. She would not be forced. She stands,
now, neutral.
So the patriotic Australian girl was forced
to hear nothing but the lies of her enemies.
For, of course, the only news she got was
the news provided by the Ilun press. Even
Kitchener’s famous speech to the British
army was interpreted - as showing that
Tommy must be utterly degraded to need
such a warning, and —this is delightful—
that, while warning the soldier not to
plunder or kill in France or Belgium,
Kitchener practically told him he could do
as he pleased as soon as he reached German
soil!
And among the many interesting side-
lights on the war, the admonitions issued
to the Hun women to hate the English pris-
oners is most amusing. The German girl
would make eyes at the “dear foreigners.”
The author’s explanation is pleasantly
feminine: —
They amuse me, these good housewives, who
are so much praised for their house-wifely
virtues, these placid, docile, obedient, anti-
suffragette slaves of the master, Man. They
are now relieved (through the general
mobilisation) from the oppressive sway of
their beloved and much-feared lords and
masters. They are eager to salute the
heroes who are brave enough to face those
same lords and masters in battle....l
chuckled as I read the accounts of the rebel-
lion of the women.
Finally, orders had to be given publicly
to whip any women who were seen giving the
glad eye to the prisoners.
The German men had none of this sen-
timentality. The author quotes from a
soldier’s letter, telling of the capture of
some English soldiers.
When the English are beaten in sport
they always put out a friendly hand, “Con-
gratulations, old chap! Very glad the best
man won.” Would they do that in Avar? We
waited. They did. As the first lad came in
line with the soldiers he threw his head back
with a smile, and held out his hand. An in-
articulate cry of hate came from the sol-
dier’s lips as he beat down the hand with
his rifle-butt... .The next time this “sport-
ing” custom was repeated the soldier spat in
the Englishman’s face, pfuil Women’s
ways! We do not fight under sporting rules.
We will teach them that war is no game, but
a fight to the finish, with every means avail-
able. All is fair in war.
.To a finish ! Yes, to the complete destruc-
tion of Britain and her colonial Empire, not
only the destruction of the Empire but the
destruction of the race; for as long as the
race remains intact it will be a danger to
civilisation and to us. We must rend it
apart, drain its veins, mix its blood with
other inferior nations, so that it will no
longer retain its dominating characteristics.
The finish! Britain and her colonies,
crushed, broken, beggared. Germany, glori-
ous, triumphant, omnipotent. What a pic-
ture ! Herr Gott, Avhat a picture !”
Exactly. My oath, xphat a picture!
Thus Australian readers Avill thank Hilda
M. Freeman for her brightly-written and
authentic picture of Avhat exactly the inside
of the bulging sausage looks like.
The Bear
Russia, according to Charles Sarolea, is
destined after the war to be the dominant
influence in World Politics. And in
Europe’s Debt to Russia (Heinemann, 3s.
6d.) he has made out a good case. What
is there to defeat or destroy a .nation that
in every two years produces more babies
than the whole population of Australasia to-
day ?_ .The natural automatic increase of
Russia is a mere three million per annum.
And we must remember that the Russians
have survived a struggle for life of ruthless
severity; and have resisted the continued
pressure of hunger, war, plague, of a cruel
climate, and a more cruel Government. And
it is almost a law of Russian history that
war has ever acted as a revolutionary force
in Russian politics. This war will result in
reforms as far-reaching as the liberation of
the serfs that followed the Crimean war, and
the establishment of Parliamentary Govern-
ment that resulted from the Russo-Jap
scrimmage. But reforms are slow in
Russia—not because of the Grand Dukes,
but because of the passive resistance of 150
million peasants. The progress of Russia is
wholly conditioned by its physical features,
lhe mountains are beacons of liberty: the
plains are the homes of despotism—
and Russia is all plain. Unfortunately
for the author’s neat theory, Australia
happens to be predominantly plain and
Maonland chiefly perpendicular scenery; yet
there is nothing to choose between their par-
ticular despotisms. However, Sarolea is on
safer ground when he notes that since
Russia’s system of government has lasted
for generations there must be something in
it. adapted to the needs and in conformity
with the aspirations of its inhabitants.
Russia for ages to come will remain an
agricultural nation, one of the granaries of
the world. .And the peasantry of an agri-
cultural nation are always conservative The
Russian peasantry are also extremely reli-
gious. All physical conditions seem to neu-
tralise ami check political movements.
iNature herself seems to conspire against
political conspirators: climate, the enormous
distances, and the difficulties of communica-
Lon, the absence of roads, the search* «
cities, explained by the absence of n m m, of
class—which is itself explained bv tL d - dl< r'
five conditions of in d ? S r fl
these causes are in the way of nolhS"^ 1
batl °? To imagine that those 120 000 <S
Russian peasants thus riveted to the 2?
thus living under the pressure of povertv • ’
ignorance and isolation, should be m at nS
for revolutionary utopias, seems to mfm £
the wildest of dreams For genei-fi? Ibe
come the peasantry and the clfrgy wilT'con 0
tinue to see in the Emperor 4 , T
Chiirch their spiritual and temporal iwf
dence, a patriarchal and beneficent desno '
l i m ii l n ° ne Word ’ f >olitical Reform in >£
shall be conservative, or will be a failure ’’
A further reason for a strong centralkoH
government lies in the fact thft the man?
races that now comprise the Russian S
are irreconcilably hostile to each other, with
differences of language and religion. To a
the I!l,ssiau Ts ” -
It will come as a surprise to most readers
to learn that this enthusiastic champion ,f
the Bear believes that Russia stands f r
democracy “To outward appearance the
Russian Government is an autocracy but
that autocracy is of an essentially demoni c
nature The Russian Empire is a CI
afS i c °mmonwealth, a federation of
dO,oo° democratic republics, thousands of
which have retained the socialist and collec-
tivist organisation of the “Mir,” or village
community. . . .The Russian is a born Social-
S V? e need n ,? t fear the coming of age
of this Colossus. “The Russian Empire of
to-morrow’ will not be a centralised Tower
like Rome or Germany. It will take the
in uni ties.” federatlon of self-governing com-
But it will be necessary for us to learn
the Russian language—a language that pos-
sesses almost as creative and as original a
literature as the . Greek, and a much richer
one than the Latin, “the language of an im-
perial people which will sooner or later
dominate the political w0r1d....1n IQ'iO it-
Will be spoken by 300,000,000 people.”’ But
Slavonic is the most complex of European
languages, and the accentuation of its nouns
and the flexions and aspects of its verbs are
the despair of the bewildered student.” This
page when in Russia, found that the sim-
plest way to get the hang of Slavonic was to
read it backwards and upside-down, taking
Precaution, of course, of omitting every
ntth letter. Sarolea predicts that within
years every schoolboy will have to learn
Russian. If that is so, it seems hardly worth
while winning the war.
Sonneteers are reminded that entries for
the guinea prize for the best sonnet on
“Anzac” must reach this page by April 15.
They should also note that contributions
should be addressed to this page, and that
the form of sonnet required must not end in
a rimed couplet, and must not have more
than two rimes in the octette, in the order
a, b, b, a, a, b, b, a.
An ingenious aid to the learning of com-
pany drill has been invented by D. H.
Souter, whose, previous invention of a new
breed of cat is well known, and Rupert S.
McCoy. This is The Ansae Drill-Movement
Demonstrator (Wm. Brooks, Sydney, Is.
6d.). With the invention, which is composed
of small pieces of cardboard, every movement
of . a section, platoon, company, battalion or
brigade can be carried out in a small space.
The toy should be of value in all officers’
schools, since the chief need of the would-be
officer is something more than mere verbal
demonstration. A point of value is that in
all the. drill movements the pieces are taken
as facing, the officer commanding, the right
of a section. being on his left. This is an
idea that Lieut. Stupart, in his excellent
manual on Company Drill Simplified, might
with advantage adopt, by the simple ex-
pedient of. printing his diagrams upside
down. It is not the man in the ranks for
whom this manual is intended; and the
officer needs familiarising himself with the
appearance of his company from the front.
David Low’s published Caricatures
(Tyrell, Sydney) is handed this by London
Times : “They show Mr. David Low as a
humorous artist whose equal one hardly
knows where to find at the present moment
—for his remarkable skill in making a por-
trait both true and funny (without being
unkind), the vivacity of his attitudes and
the telling freedom of his line.”


K
lace-
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for EVERYTHING
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FOR
ARDATH Cabinet CIGARS
ARDATH CABINET CIGARS are justly popular, for the reason that they
are beautifully mild and aromatic, filled with a delicious blend of Selected
Tobacco, uniform in quality, and contain only a minimum of nicotine.
ARDATII CABINET CIGARS are distinctly in the first rank of medium-
priced Cigars. They are made under perfect conditions, and combine every point
of excellence demanded by the Cigar connoisseur.
ARDATH CABINET CIGARS, No. 444 and No. 666, can only be obtained
at the NEW PALACE EMPORIUM, and are Cigars that will be smoked with
appreciation by the most critical. We recommend these Cigars with confidence.
ARDATH CIGARS are packed in
artistically-prepared cabinets, fitted with a
spring catch, and make an ideal present for
any man. Onr unique system of spot Cash
trading enables us to sell these High-grade
Cigars at prices which offer absolutely the
best value in the land.
Box of 25 50 100
No. 444 ... ij 6 166 32/6
No. 666 ... 11/6 22/- 42/6
Postage.—Box of 25: N.S.W., 6d.; other
States, Bd. extra. Box of 50: N.S.W., 9d. ;
other States, 1/2 extra.
CABINET
UK
m* 4*
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST of TOBACCO, CIGARS and SMOKERS' REQUISITES,
Posted Free on Request.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FOR THE SILENT
WHITE Sewing Machines
The WHITE embraces all that stands for efficiency in SEWING MACHINES.
m
5
25
No. 25V (shown partly open).
THE WHITE PINCH TENSION is with-
out a peer. It pinches the thread jjust enough
to produce a smooth, elastic stitch.
THE WHITE TENSION INDI-
CATOR shows the state of the tension at all
times. A tension can be changed or dupli-
cated in an instant.
THE WHITE TENSION RELEASER,
operating with a lifter bar, instantly removes
all tension from the thread.
THE DUST CAPS on needle and presser
bars prevent the ingress of dust; hence easier,
smoother working.
THE WHITE DROP-HEAD AUTO-
MATIC LIFT is the latest improvement in
Sewing Machines, and is a WHITE feature.
The WHITE Vibrating Shuttle Machines are
elegantly constructed, and each machine has
nickel-plated head wheel, hanging centre panel,
and drawers at each side, with beautiful
swell front-furniture, the most attractive style
yet brought out. All WHITE Machines are
fitted with ball bearings, and supplied with
a full set of the latest-style Steel Attachments.
THERE is no better Hachine made than the World-
Renowned WHITE, which combines simplicity, quality
and economy with faithful construction and elegant
finish. Write for Illustrated Price Lists, posted free on request.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FOR
VALUE IN BOOKS
Everyman’s Library of Standard Literature.
EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY is exactly what its
name implies—a library for the professional man,
the business man, the young man, the student, anti
all lovers of literature. There are over 700 titles
to select from in the EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY,
embracing the works of foremost authors in the
realms of Fiction, Poetry, History, Theology,
Travel, Biography and Essays of famous writers.
EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY is under the
general editorship of Professor Ernest Rehys,
and contains the best works that have been
written in all times and tongues, from Epictetus,
Cicero and Plutarch down to Dickens, Scott,
Ruskin and the other great Literary Lights of
the Victorian Era.
Each volume in EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY
is uniformly bound, and printed in large, clear
type on specially made paper, and many are
illustrated.
riHSMSI
Sectional Bookcase, to
hold 50 v015.,21/.
Anthony Horderns’ Price:
Cloth, 11- ; Full Leather, 2/-
Postage 2d. volume extra. Full list of titles post free. Send Is. 2d. for a
sample volume. The value cannot he surpassed.
Handsome Oak Bookcase (as illustrated) specially designed for Every-
man’s Library, made in Fumed Oak, and fitted with novel interlocking
device, to allow for extension. Top Section, 6/-; Base Lnit, 6/-; Book Section
(to hold 50 vols.), 8/6.
Anthony Horderns’
FOR THE
GEM JUNIOR
Safety Razor.
*
v- .
&
GE
a «
-T
THe Man Who Uses tl\e
GEM JUNIOR Safety Razor
MAKES SHAVING EASY.
GEM JUNIOR blades are as thin as an edge-holding piece of steel can possibly
be rolled. They can be sharpened time and time again, because they're tempered
to receive an edge and to hold it when they get it.
THE GEM JUNIOR FRAME has a new BAR feature which carefully
spreads the skin so that the stubble is forced out far enough to give as close
a shave as can only be secured with any other razor in the world by going over
the face twice.
THE GEM JUNIOR SET is packed in substantial Plush-lined Box. and in
addition to the Silver-plated frame and seven blades, includes a stropping handle.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, 5/-; by Post, 5/5.
EXTRA BLADES, 2/1 per Packet of 7, Post Free.
OLD BLADES Made NEW
Save your old blades. After they have passed beyond the stage
of revival by means of the ordinary strop, the Safety Blade Expert
can renew the keen edge of the hand-ground blade with the
patent power high-speed machine specially designed for Safety
Razors. It sharpens any Wafer Safety Razor Blade.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ PRICE —1/1 Doz., Id. Half-doz., Post Free
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd.
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace JLm-porium,
BricKfield Hill t
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


ujiniuiu
HiUtiijjiiJllfli
mimi
"““ui .aiuUllluUuiuuuiJi 1
•■/'////.
m
m
m
T M
v 4
12,~16 and 20 Gauge
Right, Hammerless Repeating
Shotguns
Sportsmen differ as to whether a 12, 16 or 20 Gauge is
the best shotgun for field shooting, but the knowing
ones agree that the Winchester Model 1912 lightweight,
hammerless repeater is the one best bet in the shotgun
line. This Winchester being made in 12, 16 and 20
gauges permits an advocate of the big, medium or small
bore to indulge his fancy and be sure of getting a gun
that is true to its gauge in balance, weight and length.
All three gauges of this model are made of specially
selected materials. Nickel steel, which is twice as
strong as ordinary gun steel, is used throughout for the
l metal parts in this Winchester. This means a light-
weight gun without sacrificing safety or strength.
This gun has a cross-bolt trigger lock, a smooth,
‘quick and easy action, and a simple Take-Down
system. It loads and unloads easily and its shoot-
ing qualities are not excelled by the highest priced
double guns. There are many other pleasing and
exclusive features of this Winchester which appeal to
sportsmen that could be enumerated, but the gun itself
is the best evidence of its quality and desirability.
FOR A RFD LETTER DAY AFIELD ,
A WINCHESTER SHOTGUN ml
sViVs
■m.
y-;
Stimulates and
Restores the
Digestive Organs.
m
Vitafer
ss
*1 r >+< *•
Invigorates the
Nervous System
/BRITISH
1 therefore
\best
Mwmfmcjmrtt tf
Southall Bros. & Barclay.
tTO
BIRMINGHAM.
m
m
:<ig=
%V.
It acts like a e/iarnz!
All who desire better health, brighter
spirits, more vitality and energy, should try
a course of VITAFER. It skilfully combines
all that is required to renew the physical and
nervous energies so quickly used up in modern life.
It is the quickest restorative in all cases of mental
exhaustion, and the physical condition described as below
par.” It acts like a charm in nervous debility and in all
onditions brought about by overwork and climatic dangers.
Vitafer
is, and always has been, purely British in conception
ownership and production. VITAFER, which has been
before the medical profession and public since 1910, was
awarded the Gold Medal at the International Congress
of Medicine, London, August, 1913.
VITAFER is produced entirely by SOUTHALL
BROS. & BARCLAY, LTD., of Birmingham,
Eng., an old established and well known English
Firm of high repute. (Founded 1820.) All the
processes of VITAFER manufacture
are carried out in their own works at
TIPPERARY and BIRMINGHAM.
Sold in Tins by a!J Chemists,
4 oz., 8 oz., and 15 oz.
Prices, 35., ss. and 9s.
'Title Booty-Croaker
CHEAPER THAN
Electricity, Coal Gas, Acetylene or Kerosene
and BETTER THAN All.
*3*
R
mb
*
- y** throughout
cc
V-
INTER-STATE AGENTS
Buzacott & Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Dangar, Gedye & Co.,
Young St., Sydney.
J. Bartram & Son [JJ;
BourKe St., Melbourne
Works : 269 Toorak Rd..
Melbourne
TO SOLDIERS and SHOOTERS.
Revolvers and Guns at
Greatly Reduced Prices
TRADE MARK
Special REVOLVER for trench warfare, 320-calibre, throw-open blued 5-
chan.bered compk-te with pouch. PRICE, 27/6. D.8.8.L. Hammerless
OIN, V. Greener wedge-fast crossbolt, 12-gauge, box spring triggers auto-
t , 1 r C L patent safety snap action . P'stol grip, walnut stock, engine-turned rib
MONTH’S TRIAL. Usually £lO/10/-. REDUCED TO £7/5/- D.8.8.L
, , » walnut stock, pistol grip, best blued steel barrels, tested, left barrel full
choke, right modified, rebounding lock?, solid strikers. W W Greener
MONTH’S TRIAL. £3/12/6. D.8.8.L. GUN
1 ALMLR S FRIEND—I2-gauge, choke bore, pistol grip, English walnut
wi° C V p HItT. 40/-. Orchard RIFLE, will not damage the trees, kill at
i RICE 20/- Special line Rabbit Rifles, snipers, take 22 short
and 22 long cartridges, kill at 100 vards. FOR ONE MONTH ONLY 12/fi
each. Cartridges, 1/- 100. Write for our Illustrated Catalogue
SMALL AR MS CO.,
Importers and Indentors,
229-231 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
C.BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
p i"iae Medals.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Wor-Us : Birmingham, England,
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Two Distinguished Conduct Medallists
write to
Clements Tonic
A Journey from Gallipoli to Good Health.
CLEMENTS TONIC CURED.
(Returned Soldiers’ Series, No. 1.)
CORPORAL E. J. ROBSON,
who comes from Tannvorth,
D.C.M., No. 1088, D. Company, 4th Battalion,
says:—
CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD.,
in„ l 2 i U, , L t ( a^inß .vour Clements Tonic I have found considerable
J. i ent **l *ny health generally, but more especially to my nerves,
iu. <IUI , undermined in consequence of the strenuous times in
tul ’ if he l ng subsequently wounded. I was seven weeks in
y. , i> before I was disabled, but I did not feel the strain until
"f a ' ay from the din and roar of the firing line. Then I collapsed,
and mj recovery has been very slow until I got on to Clements Tonic.”
A Second Military Letter to
Clements Tonic.
(Returned Soldiers’ Scries, No. 2.)
Invalided Back to Australia with Nervous Breakdown and General Debility.
VoPAPPAS, D.C.M. (Distinguished Conduct Medallist),
states-— ( ompany, 13th Battalion, who hails from West End, Brisbane,
CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD.,
T was a member of the first expedition at the landing at Gaba
, p ’ ,f n , wa * ln the trenelies for over five weeks before being wounded
' y a “ omb : 1 .was operated upon at the No. 2 General Hospital. Cairo.
* ! en , baek to Australia with nervous breakdown and
general debility.
»«r: er i emen ts Tonic has done me a lot of good, and lam con-
vmeecl that after taking a few more bottles I shall soon he all right.
~ . * ™any of the hoys liave derived considerable benefit from
tnis lonic, and I shall always recommend it to others.”
™ m^ nyon ? sn ff erin g front over-study or worry caused bv arduous training or
commercial work, who caunot sleep, rest, nor eat well, should' use this medicine. In
*• acting Illness, Operations. Influenza. Typhoid. Low or Dengue Fever, or
ror Constipation, Indigestion. Nervous Breakdown or Biliousness, it is invaluable.
®end to your chemist or store for it. Get it to-day.


BE ADVISED!
DON’T RUN
RISKS!!
How many fail to regard
Colds seriously. It is one
of the commonest troubles
and at the same time most disastrous—because
most neglected.
The Safest, Surest, Speediest and
Pleasantest method of getting rid of Coughs
and colds are
Wilson’s Pino-Mentho
Pastilles
A pastille dissolved in the mouth will pro-
duce immediate relief. Obtain a tin at
once from your Chemist.
The cost is only 1/-
ALEX. WILSON 8 CO., 17 Pitt it. . Sydney
PREPAID TO YOUR PORT.
leu Days’ Trial allowed. Direct lrom
Factory. British Mfc.AU
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS .
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears, Flyer
or Brook's Saddles, etc. J
LATEST
MODELS
£3.10 to £9
Tyres and accessories at half usual prices.
Write at once, using sufficient postage
for Free Art Catalogue and special
Offer on sample machine. Agents wanted.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dept A 282 LIVE.RFCCL,
Calverts
iletSoap
is an excellent soap to choose
for everyday toilet use. It
is an antiseptic soap of the
highest quality, delicately
perfumed and decidedly
refreshing. A healthy soap
to use particularly in warm
climates.
(In 3-tablet boxes.)
Sold by Local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert &• Co., Manchester , En%.
n are you ™
RuptureO
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not onlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIK CUSHION APPLIANCE.
"ever mind if you have tried everything else.
Ihis is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
f ,? ct , THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
®l- Can you ask for more ?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, A’ie.
Tob
acco
Kills!
MOST MEN would
cure themselves of
the Tobacco Habit if
they knew they could
do so easily and also
without causing
themselves discom-
fort. ... It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse, tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
_ kidney disease.
£s? BA ?£° SPECIFIC is a harm
. ’ vegetable remedy that will make the
rir,?, t? f , ,9 C ° ’ n any form absolutely aban-
rra„iV le *°. r £ood - 11 llot destroys the
ttiedesir e, the appetite for tobacco,
. * to health the entire nervous sys-
r ’ a ?iT aic^s Mature in entirely eliminating
Tobacco SyStem the Nicotip e Poison of
free sample.
stamp and w e will post you, under
let “ a Kr «e San.pie, also our Book-
r ’»» Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces. write for particulars and Book to-day.
H. SINCLAIR (Sb CO.,
Dept. G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
[4.
a
A
/
Bonnindtorrs
IRISH e MOSS
For Elderly People
Eldeily people so often suffer from BRONCHITIS,
AST HMA, and other complaints of the throat and*
chest. A neglected COLD leads to more serious
troubles. Instant relief is given by “ Bonnington’s
Irish Moss,” and young and old benefit alike. Take
none but—
Beware of
Imitations
BONNINGTON’S
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
1.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin Likes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
If \
Rheumatism
The case of Rheumatism or Gout
which Kruschen Salts cannot benefit
has yet to be discovered. This
famous British remedy is also
recommended by Medical Men in
cases of Lumbago, Sciatica, Eczema,
Constipation, and Liver and Kidney
Disorders.
KRUSCHEN AT THE FRONT
Since the outbreak of the War, enormous
quantities of Kruschen Salts have been ordered
by, and delivered to the British Authorities, for
the use of the British Forces overseas and in
the Base Hospitals at Home. Kruschen Salts
are prescribed by Medical Men the world over.
THE WORD KRUSCHEN
The trade mark “ Kruschen ” is a legacy—
handed down from generation to generation of
the family of Evan Griffiths Hughes, the sole
Manufacturers of Kruschen Salts, and one of
the oldest firms of Manufacturing Chemists in
the County of Lancashire. Established 1754 —
160 years ago.
uschen Salt
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
21-
Per Bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers,
and stores throughout Australia,
Wholesale Distributing Agents:
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
68, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester,
England.
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
21-
Per Bottle.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Soldier.
Spring has come to the streets of a town of
my knowing,
A high-throned town by the stinging salt
breeze swept;
In hillside gardens daffodil gold is blowing,
Marking the way the slender feet of her
stepped.
All dappled the sky, for the month is chang-
ing September,
And the trees on the girdling hills are a
glory of green,
Softly the twilights lengthen—oh, well I
remember
The climbing streets that seemed on the skies
to lean !
Blue are her eyes; her hair as the storm
cloud sweeping,
Broad and serene her brow, and very fair ;
O luminous moon from behind the dark cloud
creeping,
So gleam her splendid arms through the
night of her hair!
O girl as fresh as a wind through green vines
blowing,
O little city of hills dropping sheer to the
sea,
'Tis wine to the soul the straight • blade
whitely glowing
For the girl of my heart, and the town of
my memory !
N.S.W.
JOHN EGAN.
The Home-Coming.
Where untrcd forests meet the far-spread
plain,
And high the mountains lift their crystal
spires,
Serene he dwelt in silent solitudes,
Untouched of wide desires.
Beyond his bounded fields the looping road
Trailed gleamingly into the far, blue haze —
The pathway perilous of reckless dreams
To his contentful gaze.
He knew the thraldom of the star-crowned
height,
The mystery of valleys lone and dim ;
The wonder of a springtime blossoming
Mute rapture woke in him.
Yet suddenly the cry of empire swept
The lonely spaces and the seething town,
The clear, insistent call that ruthlessly
Bears all resistance down.
He trudged the unknown highway in the
morn,
Before the mountain crests were tinged with
light,
Until along the widening roads there stole
The silver-sandalled night;
Nor saw again his mountain sentinels
Grow roseate before the red sun’s head—
Enfolded in an alien dust he lies,
Pent with the splendid dead.
But think you that his spii’it lightly rests
There, in the land of strange and unloved
things?
It was a high dawn-wind that bore it home
On swift, exultant wings.
And every tree within the wildwood swayed,
And every forest bird awoke to sing,
The high sun flared, the mountains glowed
and paled
In elate welcoming.
MAORILAND.
LILLA GROMHUILLE McKAY.
For a Solemn Musick.
We never met before, and it may be
That nevermore we’ll meet this side the
• stars.
We met this morning. It was half-past
three.
All silent and forsaken were the bars
In which we’d painted rapturous moments
red
Before the fated hour struck solemnly.
He leaned against a lamp-post, and he said
That he was fond of me.
He said his name was ’Erbert, and I
breathed
Deep in the purple night and told my
name.
About each other’s shoulders straight we
wreathed
Our friendly arms. He said it was a
shame
In this Gor’s Country of the Southern
Cross
That pubs should close just when life’s
joys begin....
This early-closing- was a serious loss.
I said it was a sin.
We sat upon the kerbstone, and we slept
Till small birds twittered forth to sip the
dew,
And through the murk coy Dawn’s sweet
blushes crept
(As poets sing) ; then Blobbs, a man I
knew,
Came up and wept because his wife was sick
Of some disease that made her much pre-
fer
To live alone. This cut him to the quick.
I sympathised with her.
I also sympathised with him. He seemed
All soppy with his woe. He wept aloud.
The sun beat hot upon his tears that
streamed,
And there we sat enveloped in a cloud
Of melancholy vapor. Life doth mock
Our best-conceived intentions: there’s the
rub !
We sat, three glooms, until at six o’clock
We fell into a pub.
N.S.W.
JOSEPHUS Q. HARRIS.


'/A
// ,/
V/.
$
0
’//
m
ii
'gti
r
IF IT RAINS! WHO CARES. ;
"* ED OILSKIN
.. .is. ..
Guaranteed to Keep You Dry in the Heaviest Downpour.
The Ideal Coat for
RIDING, DRIVING, WALKING and all occasions
which necessitate your being out in the rain.
OBTAINABLE THROUGH ALL STORES.
MADE IN TWO WEIGHTS:
The “Dugong-Watershed” The “Rainbow-Watershed’'
"If m
W6SZ//.
V
//
■H\
WI/////M//
mm\
*'////.
■
1
'W///
mmmuk
m
m
M:tde of finest Egyptian Cambric, double
throughout and proofed with W ateraiied Oil.
Specially recommended for general use.
Average* weight, 41b.
Price, Black only
32/6
Made of stout calico, double throughout and
proofed with Watershed Oil. Average weight,
61b. Intended for rough w r ear.
25/-
Price, Black or Yellow
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers~
M
/XDEZL-AIBEZ. -
BRI SB/XM El
C
MEII—BOURNE
RELIEF for RUPTURE
Our SPECIAL
ELASTIC TRUSS.
D ENYER
PRICES
Single, 17/6.
Double, 22/6,
Why suffer discomfort? You can
secure relief by wearing our ELASTIC
TRUSS, which is COOL,SAFE, STRONG
and DURABLE. It has no steel spring
to chafe the body. The merits of this
truss are attested by all who use it.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
Denyer Brothers,
281 George St., SYDNEY.
(Opposite Hunter Street)
CAR COMPANY,,
THe New 1910 Model, 4-24*
A PERFECT SPECIFICATION.
AMERICA’S FINEST PRODUCTION
AT A POPULAR PRICE.
MOTOR —Four cylinder; enclosed valves, adjustable, tappets. Cylinders—Cast en bloc,
bore 3J, stroke 4j. FRAME —Channel, pressed steel. HORSE POWER —224 R.A.C. OILING
SYSTEM —Force feed and splash system, with sight feed on dash. POWER PLANT —Unit in
construction. COOLING SYSTEM —Thermo syphon. RADIATOR —Honeycomb; special
Pullman type. CARBURETION —Schebler Model R. IGNITION —High-tension magneto.
TRANSMISSION—SeIective sliding type, ball bearing, three speeds forward, one reverse.
CLUTCH —Single steel plate drive, having two wire-woven asbestos discs, between which the
steel driving plate is located. Clutch completely housed and runs in oil, and requires no adjust-
ment. AXLES —Front, solid drop-forged 1-beam ; rear full-floating. BRAKES —Internal and
external, lOin. WHEELS—Wood; demountable rims. SPRINGS—Front, semi-elliptic; rear,
full cantilever. STEERING—I7in. wheel, worm and sector irreversible, special Pullman
make and design. BODY —Beautiful stream-line; five passenger ; standard color, putty grey, nickel
radiator, nickel fittings. DOORS —-“U” type ; concealed hinges. FENDERS —Special Pullman
type; crowned. DRlVE—Right-hand centre control, emergency brake lever forward of centre and
out of way. WHEEL BASE —114 inches. LIGHTING —Electric, 12 volt., storage battery, Apple
Co. dynamo, lOin. headlights, dimming attachment for street and city use, and electric tail
light. STARTING—Electric self-starter, Apple Co., most reliable and efficient. WIND
SHIELD —Clear and rain vision, ventilating, exclusive Pullman type, conforming to and built
integral with curved cow-1 dash. HOOD—One-man khaki hood, easy-folding, quick-acting side
curtains, carried in hood; hood fastens rigidly to wind shield. HORN —-Electric Klaxon.
SPEEDOMETER —Stewart trip and season mileage. GASOLINE TANK —Carried in cowl ;
capacity, 10 gallons. INSTRUMENT BOARD —Electric light switch; ignition switch, speed-
ometer, gasoline filler and sight-feed oiler and light on dash. REGULAR EQUIPMENT —Wind
shield, one-man top, quick-acting curtains, speedometer, electric horn, pump, jack, tyre repair
outfit and tools, tyre irons, and extra rim in the rear; weight, fully equipped, lOJcw-t. ; 4in.
tyres, “Batavia.” Genuine full-leather upholstery.
A Complete Car can be supplied in
Roadster (Single-seater) Models.
-v —
H
• x&J ■■
.1 -Li
i ~ ’ ':V
" ' ' * -
Tear off slip on this pagre and mail to any of the firms named below, and by return you
will receive “Pullman” literature.
F ULLMAM. —Tigf t-hand Drive—
French Crey Khaki Top.
PULLMAN CARS.
Without any oblivion to me please forward copy of Illustrated Pullman Car Booklet.
Name .
Address
Bulletin-.
Melbourne:
FIXLAY BROS.,
675 Elizabeth Street.
Brisbane:
J. G. O’RYAN & Co.,
IZS William Street.
Sydney:
HUGHES BROS.,
196 Elizabeth Street.
New Zealand:
J. A. REDPATH &
SON, Cashel St.,
Christchurch.
Tasmania:
DUNCAN LOANE,
The Esplanade,
West Devonport.
Adelaide:
VIVIAN LEWIS Ltd.,
Gawler Place.
Perth:
LLOYDS LTD.,
888 Hay Street,
Perth.
V
A
nt
BEST
in the
long
RON.
DUVAL & CO 13 Castlereagh Street, SYDXEY; 475 CoUinsStT^
L/U VnL, Ct MELBOURNE; 300 Adelaide Street, BRISHA-
CORNELL LTD., Adelaide.
A. C. McCALLUM, perth.
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD, hobart.


The Bulletin
Ptegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Vol. 37.-No. 1880.
THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 1916.
Price 6d.
WHERE THE PUBLIC MONEY GOES.


NOTICE TO AGENTS.
EASTER HOLIDAYS, 1916.—1 n order
to cope with the Easter traffic “The
Bulletin” for that week will he published
one day earlier, viz., 19th April.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
'ila)iager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
ar Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. ivhcn
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-dratvn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Ml Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco: C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; IF. E. Lenehan, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Mono Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon. —lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Bates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commomvealth, . Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route. 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Soz., Id.; Bloz. to 10oz., 2ld. ;
lOoz. to 120 z., Sd.; elsewhere, \oz., Id., and Id. each
additional 2oz.
ffie&'allefzai.
THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 1916.
OLD GODS FOR NEW.
Australia’s wandering Prime Minister,
raging in influenza-producing Welsh to the
people of his native land, had occasion to
mention the political gods of Britain,
and in the swelling periods of his
oratory he administered a passing but
very gentle kick to his own favorite
joss of Freetrade. The operation was
picturesque and possibly exhilarating,
but not new. Herman Melville describes
brown brother in the Marquesas Islands
stubbing his irreverent toe on an ancient
idol that had got out of repair, while ready
enough to cringe before the ugliness of the
vivid paint on the new image which had
just been set up. The British mind in its
stately political progress is uncommonly like
that of the simple islander. No man alleges
a greater reverence for ancient things than
the Englishman; and yet the gods in his
pantheon are nearly all new, with
the varnish still sticky upon them. A
huge proportion of the British Peerage,
before which J. Bull prostrates himself in
abject grovel, is less than one century old;
Party Government, with all its hallowed
associations, has less than two centuries to
its discredit; and Freetrade is such a chicken
among deities that plenty of living men can
remember its incubation. It is really to
young and giddy divinities like these that
"the Briton bows politically, while for his
really old gods—some of them solid furniture
of honest intent and great value—he has no
use except to make them targets for the hoof
of scorn. Take, for instance, the hectic
young thing Freetrade, with the mud upon
her tattered finery and a quaint kink in her
yielding knees, and compare her features
and form with those of the large, handsome,
robust old god known as the Feudal System.
The Feudal System was knocked over during
the Wars of the Roses, and every lisping
cockney has since taken a pride in jumping
on its fallen head ; but it remains in its
ruined grandeur a thing of beauty and
strength, worthier far of worship than the
poor, shoddy images set up in the later
years. British reverence is really for the
cheap, upstart deities of the commercial age ;
and a cry of “Back to the old gods !” might
be a slogan with a lot of value in modern
politics.
* * ■* *
Any good Labor man who gets close to the
Feudal System and examines it honestly
must admit that in actual operation in Eng-
land it secured to the worker a better deal
than he has yet been able to get for himself
in Australia, even with seven Parliaments
in his trousers pockets, a Wages Board at
his right hand, an Arbitration Court at his
left and strikes crackling and blazing all
round him like strings of Chinese crackers
when the New Year’s devils are doing their
annual prowl. The Feudal System before it
toppled over turned the English toiler into
the best-paid, best-fed, best-clothed and best-
housed workman in Europe. His hours were
comparatively short, his holidays numerous,
his payments frequently made by the day on
a yearly basis that counted holidays in as
working time;- but on the few occasions
when he struck work he got chased .with &.
spear or hanged to the nearest tree in a
steady and systematic fashion which was
as much a part of the System as roast fowl
for dinner or good ale for a penny a gallon.
The bricklayer and blacksmith and carpenter
never did want to strike; but once or twice
the rural workers, tired of cow and anxious
to put on a king’s crown for the excitement
of the thing, started a bit of a riot in an
unlikely way and had to pay the price for it.
England, about the time that the Black
Prince was smashing continental troops in
their thousands with a few hundreds of
picked Englishmen, was as nearly “Merrie”
England as she could reasonably be expected
to be; and the force responsible for her
merriment was the Feudal System. As like
causes, even in different countries and sepa-
rated by long distances of time, are prone
to produce like results, it seems up to a
good Australian Labor man to see if the
ancient system in its essence, if not in its
outward forms, cannot be revived in this
country in order to bring about the state of
comfort and general prosperity that ruled
then. Other methods have been tried here
and the result is not satisfactory. Bill
Smith has more wages and shorter hours,
but there is no more on his dinner-table than
there was some years ago; and on present
appearances there is likely soon to be less.
If the trick of getting enough to eat and
wear and a good place to live in can be
caught from the plan in vogue in Plan-
tagenet times, Bill Smith would be 17
different sorts of idiot if he did not adopt it.
* * * *
In main outlines the Feudal System was
simplicity itself. The king parcelled out the
people of the nation among his barons, and
each baron was responsible to the king for
the people under him in peace and war.
From the king’s point of view the support
in war w*as the main concern; from the
baron’s point the chief consideration was the
organisation in time of peace which gave
him power and dignity; from the people’s
point the king could have his victories and
the baron his power and dignity as long as
they could maintain the decencies of life.
From our own point of view, looking back
over the centuries of confusion and squalor
that have passed since the system was
broken, we are mostly concerned about the
fact that it was a national success and that
everybody—king, barons and people—got
just about what they wanted. Certainly in
re-erecting the System and making it work-
able in Australia some modification of the
machinery would be necessary. Australia
doesn’t take kindly to labels of alleged
nobility, and with good reason. The British
peerage has had too much the appearance of
a vaudeville show-bill ever since Henry
VII,, discovering that the old barons were
dead, started to bestow earldoms on pastry-
cooks and rich linendrapers. Still, a baron
was a baron once; and Bill Smith in 1360
thought so with the warm enthusiasm which
follows a bulging pay-envelope. The baron,
as a baron, is, however, no integral part of
a Feudal System. He was merely chosen
for the job he undertook because he was the
strongest thing in sight. Australia has
nothing that looks like a baron, and wants
nothing. The strongest things in sight to-
day are the Trade Unions ; and it is around
the Trade Unions that a new feudalism
suitable to the needs of this country might
be built. It is true that those Unions are
to-day largely wasting their strength : it is
equally true that the Plantagenet barons
would still more lamentably have wasted
their strength if they had not been built into
their place in the solid national structure.
A new Feudal system in which the Trade
Unions carried their share of the national
burden in return for their rife lit to supreme
rule in their own sphere might readily be
the salvation of Australia.
Getting right down to bedrock, the Feudal
System owed its success not to organisation
but to organisation of responsibility. In one
sense there is no more highly organised
country in the world than this Common-
wealth ; in another, there is no country so
near the border line of complete anarchy.
Organisations there are in plenty—parlia-
ments. municipalities, leagues, federations,
associations, unions, societies and the like,
which touch every phase and aspect of social
and political life—but there is no real
organisation of responsibility; and lack of
that is going to seriously affect the dinner-
table and the wage-sheet unless a new spirit
is infused into things. Australia is in
reality a huge workshop, and on its output
depends its prosperity ; but nobody is respon-
sible for that output. A great number of
Australia’s citizens seem to regard their
country as a big deposit of sovereigns, from
which by trickery or diplomacy they may
draw inexhaustible stores of pocket "money.
It is this view that is at the root of al l our
coming difficulties and dangers. Australia,
as a nation, can have no more than it earns;
and work on a system is absolutely necessary
to keep those earnings up to a level that will
enable the people 'as a whole to live in
decency. That there may be a great deal
wrong with the present distribution of
wealth does not really affect this question at
all. The larger the national earnings are
the more elbow-room must the nation have
to adjust those inequalities. To lower the
wealth production of the country is to play
right into the hands of those exploiters of
their neighbors who may under existing
conditions get more than their share. If
the Trades Unions of Australia will take
the responsibility of seeing that their mem-
bers do Australia’s work, there is no reason
why they should not have all the political
power they desire. The cheap sneer that
the country is governed by unionism has
little force in a land that was governed so
long by importers of cheaper shoddy.
Further, if the Unions will fall into their
place in a new industrial feudalism, there
is no reason why bigger wages and greater
general comfort should not follow the larger
national output. But unionists must first
grasp the significance of things and frankly
acknowledge in their actions that to hold
the reins of government means also to carry
the burden of responsibility.
THE COST OF THE AUSTRALIAN
ARMY AND THE MATTER OF
THE BILL.
A motion to be submitted to the pending
conference of the Ma State’s P.L.L. is of in-
terest to all Australia. It touches something
that matters. It is this: —
That the responsibilities of the public towards the
dependents of our soldiers should be pooled, and in
order to render every physically fit man available
for the Front, irrespective of whether he is married
or single, a sufficient canvass (and, if necessary, com-
pulsion) of wealth should be entered upon for the
purpose of establishing a National Fund to provide an
adequate support for all persons whose breadwinners
are fighting for the defence of our country.
There are many theoretically-desirable steps
for society to take, for all of which it is the
easiest job in the world to produce words in
justification. As a rule, the more obvious the
desirableness of doing something, the more
trite and platitudinous the words employed
about it, and the more difficult to draw up
the actual plans and specifications. Simple
examples are to be easily discovered in the
wreckage around Labor platforms. The right
of every man to work, to get a living w r age,
to escape being plundered by landlords and
the multitudinous tribe of middlemen are
cases in point. Words have been woven
around these simple propositions until the
only method of getting more words is to go
back to the beginning and unwind the old
ones. And the problems meanwhile are just
about where they w T eFe. Booze, party govern-
ment, and building the national capital have
for-a long time seemed like things that might
be handled in a workable fashion. So far, they
have mainly been handled with hot-air and
riot and confusion, because producing more
words has been easier than proceeding to do
what language had long before shown ought
to be done. Issues of national importance
relating to our soldiers can without much
difficulty be allowed to drift into similar
chaos by debating at great length the thing
that should be done, and then adjourning
without doing it or showing how the job is to
proceed. If this P.L.L. motion has anything
in it at all it must have a practical side,
and it is that by which it must be judged.
Meanwhile the things Australia is actually
doing in the way of pooling her responsibili-
ties are wmrth looking at. Precise figures are
not available, but enough is known to get
pretty close to the bull’s eye. A private in
the Australian army enlists at 6s. a day. By
the end of June about 275,000 men will be in
training or under arms—and say 200,000 of
these on the 6s. mark. That means £420.000
a week. The remainder will average over Bs.
a day, but taking this low figure they will be
drawing £210,000 weekly. This makes a
pay-roll of £630,000 a week, or £33,660,000 a
year. These are large figures. Yet to them
has to be added the cost of transport, equip-
ment, maintenance and waste. In addition,
there is a scale of pensions to live up to rang-
ing from £1 to £3 a w-eek for widows, with
additional allowances for children. There are
also pensions payable to incapacitated sol-
diers on a scale having the same features.
Australia with the assistance of the outside
moneylender is pooling over a million a week
for the war even now, and has a big pension
pool ahead that will not dry up for a long
time. No other nation engaged in the war
is doing anything like this per head. None
of them could. If they tried, they would be
bankrupt in a month. Possibly Australia
might do more. But The Bulletin doubts
it—at any rate, doubts whether it could do
much more, for the weight of the present
expenditure is going to shake Australia to
the boots.
* * * *
The Commonwealth is meeting the charges
of war partly by levying on wealth and
mainly by handing the bill on to the kid.
That the country could raise larger sums by
immediate taxation is unquestionable. That
an immense sum could also be saved and
made available by stemming the tide of dis-
graceful public and private extravagance is
not doubted by anyone—not even by those at
whose hands the opportunity lies, but who
shirk the job with utter disregard for the
nation they trick. Nor is it to be questioned
that on Australia there rests a heavy obli-
gation to do the generous thing by its
widows, orphans and stricken men. But'when
nebulous propositions are brought forward
for doing something which Australia is
nearer to actually doing than any other
nation ever dreamt of, the time comes for
measuring up what is being done, esti-
mating the needs and the dangers of the
present, and calculating the material and
machinery the nation has to work with in the
futuie and the resources at her command.
Heavy demands are being made on Australia
by this war. Heavier yet will be made, for
we have hardly commenced to pay toll. The
struggle may last a long time; the cost of it
cannot be estimated. But it is certain that
to rush around now* with rough-hewn imple-
ments of economic forfeiture would have a
disastrous effect upon the nation’s ability to
continue its participation in the fight as well
as upon its powers of recovery afterwards.
Possibly there may be a way of enabling
Austialia to say to every man of military
age : “Enlist! Relatives who depended upon
you will be fully supported, whatever hW
pens. ’ It might also be possible f or societv
to make similar provision for the families of
men who lose their lives in the callings of
peace. W hat Australia wants to hear :
that these things represent high snoUi
ideals and are theoretically admirable
—everyone knows all about that—hot
how one or the other or both can
lm done. Particulars of the cost of
it all and the method of footing the bill ar
the essential factors to any rational disons
sion, and loose observations about “seizing
wealth” are not particulars. They are noise?
In the broadest sense all wealth is the nm
perty of the nation. It is the duty of societv
to so order and direct the use of this as to
afford the widest degree of personal anH
social well-being. Incidentally it must not
weaken itself during the proceedings • for in
a war of attrition the vital problem i s net
what can be done to day, but what can he
done the day after to-morrow. If, bearin'*
that always in mind, it can be shown to the
P.L.L. that the motion concerning soldiers'
dependents is based on a working plan and
not merely on a social theory, a great service
will have been done to Australia, for war
finance is a subject on which the last word
has not yet been spoken by a long wav nor
has anything like finality been reached in
respect, to the national obligations regarding
wounded soldiers and the dependents of those
who have fallen.
AN EMPTY LAND AND THE WHY
AND THE WHEREFORE THEREOF.
Dear Bulletin, —Consider a few incidents
of quite recent happening—the Russo-
Japanese war, the seizure by Germany of
Tsing-tao, Uncle Sam’s acquisition of the
Philippines, Italy’s raid on Tripoli. Also, if
you like, India and the Transvaal, giving
whatever application to those circumstances
you may choose. And having got all this
into perspective and weighed up what is hap-
pening in Europe and wnat may happen,
bring Australia in and have a look at this
country in relation to the military and com-
mercial strategy of the world. A few years
ago Australia contemplated herself in this
connection and didn’t like the look of things.
So a system of defence was evolved after
much uproar. It does not make the imme-
diate outlook much more cheerful. Still it
represents a beginning and a start has to
be made some time. Is it unpatriotic to
suggest that one effect of it has been to till
nearly every Australian with a spurious sense
of confidence, to blind us to vital things?
1 hope not, for then I am an unpatriotic Aus-
tralian, and the good Lord knows that is the
last thing I would wish to be.
* * * *
Look round now and back over a year or
two. Is not the most striking feature of
contemporary history the same as sticks out
far and fair from the history of all times—
the world’s great lust for territory, for
“spheres of influence,” for places to grow
corn and mine gold and spread the glad tid-
ings that follow conquest or peaceful pene-
tration? The Roman eagles were carried to
the Danube and into Gaul and Iberia for the
glorification of the Empire. And Empires
and Republics and Democracies are glorified
nowadays by carrying into new places the
pianola and the silk handkerchief and the
locomotive and the patent food for little
Jim. They are just as ready to carry them
in behind a gun as ever the Roman was to
push in behind a short sword and a shield.
Germany is reaching out to-day to collar a
place from which she may grab territory
with as much (or as little) honesty as the
Italian secured Tripoli, or the American
appropriated the Philippines, or J. Bull
became proprietor of quite a lot of places.
The centuries-old disease is as firmly rooted
in modern civilisation as it was among the
buccaneers, and anyone who thinks that the
defeat of Germany will inaugurate an indefi-
nite period of rest from looting has extracted
some distorted conclusions out of historical
literature. There have been people a-plenty
with the same ambitions as the Germans.
There have been hundreds of minds besides
the Kaiser’s consumed by ideas of conquest.
They have gone down in bloody misery
sometimes. Sometimes they have flourished
and grown fat. But whether they went up
or down the business of grabbing the handy
slice of earth lying casually about, or getting
in by the side door, has gone busily forward.
Gold is not always dug from a mine. Aus-
tralia is one of the things to-day lying casu-
ally about. It is one of the waste spaces
of the earth —the greatest prize to be won
by the cosmopolitan adventurer called
Private Enterprise. whose subsidised
rapacity has been behind every territorial
grab and every war since the Assyrian came
down like a wolf on the fold. Our continent
is right in the Pacific fairway. Look at the
map. Consider the driving force of com-
mercialism and the industrial stirrings ot
South America, Asia and Africa.
Australia has her defence system. That
is not enough. What Australia has not is
the thing that matters if she is to realise
the hopes that have clustered round her nrst
century of life. And that thing is popula-
tion. Elaborate and ingenious calculations
have been made to show that Australia s
population has grown faster than that ot
the United States in that country’s baby -
hood. Such comparisons are irrelevant to
Australia’s problem, fallacious and P(°'
foundly dangerous. The position is unsatis-
factory—the Northern Territory with two
men and a dog in half a million square miles
of land, Melbourne and Sydney choked w
half the population of their respective States.
Bnnanaland a vast stretch of country b'
of echoes and priekly-pear. S. Australia an
Westralia unsettled wildernesses. In man}
places the rural population is decreasing-
Everywhere the country towns are stagna -
ing miseries. No defence system, whethei
founded on voluntaryism or conscription o
anything else, can alter the national weaK-
ness of this, for not only does absence o
people paralyse the sword arm of our nation,
but it sterilises our efforts to rid oursebe
of industrial dependence upon outsiders,
want a tariff wall and must have it; but i
we had one as high as the gallows of HaM- -
it would in large measure be futile unless
we had the people behind it to perform tn


varied tasks of modern industry. Y’et popu-
lation is the easiest thing on earth to attract
to any fertile country. Only one inducement
is necessary—land. The experience of cen-
turies proves that. The record of Australia
adds, in a way, to the proof. And Australia
has more fertile land in relation‘to popula-
tion than any other part of the world. But
Australia has made the error of repeating
the worst features of land ownership in
England. Therefore Australia has the slum,
the idle man, the nomadic worker and the
politician driven to the device of pawning
the nation’s credit in order to secure employ-
ment for his supporters at the polls. Does
any Australian seriously believe that his
country can go on along such lines and
thrive? That accumulated land values can
be allowed to mount up year after year and
become a permanent instrument for bleeding
the people and a barrier against production?
Where in Australia is the national reservoir
for drawing the material for defence and
industry? One sees in the daily papers that
the Trades Unions are keeping population
away from Australia. Liars! It is a vicious
land system and inflated values that are
keeping men avd women away, just as the
same things are turning into tragic farce
the suggestion for giving our returned
soldiers opportunities for settlement. This
has now reached the stage at which it is
announced —and by Labor men too! —that
Australian soldiers cannot get on the soil of
Australia unless by the grace and assistance
of Cohen ! —William Tentpeg.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
No Talk of Protection.
A Paris newspaper chortles over the fact
that at the Allies’ big trade conference in
that city nobody talked about Protection.
The whole attention of the statesmen was
directed towards the main business of ruin-
ing German trade. Plain, ordinary people
may ask the question as to what is the essen-
tial difference between combining to protect
ourselves against German trade and com-
bining to ruin German trade with us; but
the probabilities are that the adjustment of
the after-the-war trade relations in Europe
will be pretty nearly as tough a job as the
blockade itself, and one in which subtle dif-
ferences like this may be lost sight of. It
is quite clear that England and France
might easily combine to have practical Free-
trade one with another while they banged
the door violently against all the rest; or
even that the whole of the Allies in Europe
might enter into some such arrangement.
That it would be difficult and that it might
prove ineffective in keeping the Germans
outside the markets of the Allied countries
is also likely enough. The whole field is
full of difficulties, and it will tax the states-
men engaged on the problem to the last
limit of their ingenuity to find a road out
that will keep German industry permanently
sick and set all the Allied machinery of
commerce running with full smiles. With
Australia the case is different. There is
no decent reason why a national scheme of
adequate protection for our own industries
should not be shaped out at once. There is
no way at all in which Germany can be
permanently kept out of Australia and for-
bidden to handle a sixpennyworth of our
wealth except by means of a tariff wall
which will protect us against the unfair
competition of all countries. We have no
guarantee that any country in the world
will permanently remain blocked against
German goods. In any land where the
tariff becomes a little lax German depots
may be established; and it would be quite
impossible from month to month and year to
year to alter our relations with one State
and another, as suspicion of Teuton influ-
ence directed. Under a tariff such as we
now possess—a shabby thing designed
mainly to collect revenue in the easiest and
most unfair manner —the German planted
his foot firmly in Australia and sold ns
countless articles which we might with
greater advantage have made for ourselves.
All the yell against enemy trade on the
part of the Government which makes no
move towards tariff reform and which does
not even promise such reform in the future
may be taken as quite insincere. The
Commonwealth has the means of permanently
shutting out German trade, and while the
Federal Ministers refuse to use those means
the only possible inference is that they are
prepared to welcome the ships of Hamburg and
their shoddy cargoes the moment the procla-
mation of peace gives them a chance to do
so. Then Billjim will realise that he shed
his blood to fatten Herr Grosswaistcoat,
and other things may happen.
♦
The Great Opportunity for a Speck.
The politicians in Tasmania have got
another chance of making themselves look
like reasonable people; or they may do
nothing and advertise themselves as the most
asinine this side the river Jordan. For the
third time the electors have announced that
government, or misgovernment or whatever
it may be, on the worn-out old party lines
is no good to them. The vote cast at the
general election says as plainly as a vote
can say anything that the administration of
public affairs by machine-made barraekers
is played out in Tassy, and that it is up to
Parliament to adjust itself to newer and
saner methods. And as the vote has said
this now for the third time no justification
can exist for regarding the repeated dead-
heat or thereabouts of parties as being the
result of hasty reflection on the. needs of
the hour. Party government consists in the
main of one faction roaring “Yes” and the
other immediately bawling “No” —of organ-
ised hypocrisy, lying and logrolling. From the
Leeuwin to the Line the smell of the insti-
tution obstructs traffic in everything—except
the expenditure of public money with the
object of .sweetening particular localities.
To continue this travesty of reason any
longer in Tasmania would be to mock at the
electors. On very few questions the Island
Parliament has to handle is there room for
any collisions of alleged party principle,
which is usually the principle of calling the
other fellow a liar. There are scores of
matters of local concern in which Lib and
Lab stand on common ground. The admin-
istration of the various public departments
with tolerable efficiency is of far more im-
portance to the community than that Earle
and Lee should spend their time each strug-
ling to capsize the other. The-case for an
Elective Ministry is plain; so it is for a
Parliament in which, while there could be the
fullest field for discussion, there would be no
place for an ignoble partisan scramble to cap-
ture the machine. The Assembly elects its
Speaker, its Chairman of Committees and
its incidental committees. Why not its
Ministry—and then get on to the business in
hand after the manner of men collected
together for any other purpose than that of
government?
Curses Coming Home to Roost.
For the third time recently it has been found
necessary to appoint a Royal Commission to
inquire into charges of corruption laid
against a member of the N. S. Wales Assem-
bly. This time, as on one former occasion,
Griffith, now Minister of Education, is the
person implicated. But if half the charges
that even the dogs in the street have barked
had been made the subject of inquiry this
would be the hundred and third Commission
and not merely the third. Parliament and
the public service of N. S. Wales may be
lilywhite and incorruptible, but it is a deplor-
able fact that the community has at least
gloomy suspicions on the subject. Indeed, the
suspicions of “graft” have with very many
people ceased to be gloomy, and they regard
the whole business now with an unhealthy
cynicism. The borrowing orgy in which
the State has indulged for the past five years
is mainly responsible for this attitude.
People have seen money poured out like
dirty water; they have watched the bribing
of constituencies with squandered loan
funds; and they have noted the general
demoralisation which marks an era of borrow
and boom. They remember also the vicious
Parliamentary atmosphere which the last
Royal Commission —into the Boorabil mat-
ter —disclosed. They have seen men who but
a few years ago denounced furious borrowing
as a curse, engaged in all sorts of. man-
oeuvres to keep the curse going ; in the circum-
stances they have been entitled also to note
that in some cases politicians and (here and
there) public servants seem to have been
doing very well indeed on their modest sti-
pends. Had the rapid expenditure of these
millions upon millions of borrowed money
been controlled by a Legislature which was
not also’ cursed by party government the
dangers would at least have been reduced.
But the House is divided into two warring
factions. On the one side is a Government
backed by supporters who are almost in duty
bound to swear that everything Ministers
may do is white ; on the other is an Opposi-
tion whose duty is to say everything done by
the others is black. Between the two the
public is without guidance of any serious
value. And it will continue so while the
present ridiculous system prevails.
Progress by Gentle Violence.
The enthusiast who plunged head first from
the distinguished strangers’ gallery and fell
with a yell of “Steel hats for soldiers !” into
the sacred centre of British politics was only
following the quaint traditions of the race.
Viewed squarely, nothing pushes John Bull
out of his stride and makes him get on a pro-
gressive waddle so effectively as a little
judicious violence. Not violence sticky with
blood, but violence carried through in a re-
spectable fashion, and with due regard for
stage effect. Real violence with knives and
guns in it only makes the old gentleman
angry. It was by standing up nightly in his
place as member for Portsmouth and reso-
lutely refusing to let the business of the
House of Commons go on that Admiral Dun-
donali) brought about the reform of the navy
a century ago. It was because a crowd of
enthusiasts surrounded his house and broke
most of his windows that the great Duke of
Wellington caved in so tamely and allowed
Catholic Emancipation to become law. The-
tearing down of the Hyde Park railings by
the crowd demonstrating in favor of the Re-
form Bill was worth more than the success of
the Reform party at 50 by-elections. And
the very proudest day in British Parliamen-
tary history was that on which O. Cromwell
told the talkative House of Commons to go
away and give its tongue a rest. The fact
is that John Bull is so conventional that he
at times gets utterly sick of his own middle-
class, black-coated respectability, and feels
really thankful to anybody who will produce
some wild thing that looks as if it had broken
out of a lunatic asylum. The method seems
particularly serviceable when the blight of
party government spreads its do-nothing
taint rather more thickly than usual. Thus,
while the tariff-sinkers were paltering with
the question of Protection in the years when
the present war was being manufactured in
Germany, if somebody had caught the chief
Freetrader responsible for most of the trouble
and compelled him to eat a cargo of Hun-
made gridirons, it would have been one of
the most effective ways of advertising the
situation and getting something done. Even
at the present moment any borrowing Pre-
mier might be with advantage captured and
tied up by the left leg to the nearest pawn-
brokers’ sign. No doubt such deeds are law-
less and much to be deplored ; but the great,
dull public, suddenly shaken out of its family
pew or bumped from its place behind the
morning newspaper, generally rears itself up
and laughs its applause. Probably the true
inner reason of the success of violence in get-
ting things forward is found in the shrinking
timidity of politicians, who, carrying the rudi-
ments of a conscience which continually
pricks them to a. comparison between things
promised and things accomplished, are in
mortal fear of some of their victims breaking
loose and taking matters into their own
hands. In Australia politicians who object
to facing awkward bits of reality in the
midst of their solemn play at legislation and
government would be well advised to put
their affairs in order. When the men who
have reasoned with the German in the most
direct and simple fashion return to their jobs
as ordinary citizens, nothing is more likely
than that, as the spirit moves them, they
will stalk into the centre of things, and
taking a politician or two by the whiskers
ask them “What for?” Such unconventional
doings may be of great benefit to Australia;
but they won’t be specially pleasant for the
victims, who won’t dare to ask for a Royal
Commission, and an appeal to the Speaker
won’t be much good. With the prospect of
Australia growing very simple in its dealings
and very earnest in its views on men and
things, it is up to politicians to become agile
if they can’t be honest.
A Plea for Matrimonial Casualty Lists.
Pearce, with the job of assisting to beat the
Germans on his hands and the affairs of
the Commonwealth pigeon-holed in his
pocket, is alleged to be worried about the
enthusiastic fashion in which convalescent
Billjim is rushing into matrimony. With
England more or less emptied of men —or
at least of the sort of men the patriotic
British female has time for —the Anzac
heroes who are recovering from wounds and
sickness have walked right into the arms of
pining British beauty. The girls at Manly and
Brighton Beach are a wide world away, and
their milder, rosier and intensely adoring
cousins in Kent and Gloucester are very
near. Billjim simply can’t help himself.
It is Leap Year, the girls want to be married
and he always was an obliging chap. But
what exactly is Pearce worrying about
when he allows the dark saying to go forth
that “the matter js receiving attention, but
the Minister has not yet come to a deci-
sion”? Is it to be implied that the Com-
monwealth actually proposes to step in and
say that the heroic Billjim shall not, after
all his gallant deeds and bitter suffering,
have the wife of his choice because he only
knew her 10 minutes before he kissed her?
The plain fact stands out a mile-and-a-quar-
ter that the Defence office has no decent
right to interfere, and that even if it did
interfere Billjim would get married just
the same, only with secrecy added to his
haste. The only persons about whom
Pearce needs to be concerned are the girls
Bill left behind him. The soldier at the
Front who didn’t leave a lass to defend the
home-trenches in his absence is a rare and
unusual warrior, and a little care might be
taken to see that even the greatest heroes
don’t commit bigamy more than once in a
campaign. The British soldier who fought
at Mons and had 16 authenticated wives
scattered about the English garrison towns
was rightly regarded as about the last thing
in absent-mindedness. If Pearce would
establish the point that one wife per soldier
is all that even the doughtiest warrior may
bring home to the Commonwealth he would
have gone about to his reasonable limit as
boss of our end of the war-show. On the
other hand, the publication of the matri-
monial casualty lists is a vital matter to
Flo of Parramatta and Ruby of Colling-
wood. If the Minister for battle would see
to it that the names of those warriors who
are slain on the altar are immediately pub-
lished locally, it would get over the indig-
nant-tear part of the tragedy and enable a
lot of nice girls to settle down more
promptly to business.
♦
The Totalisator Bill, which was handed out
in the N. S. Wales Assembly last week, is
a plain atrocity. There are three clauses—
the first stating the name of the measure,
the next setting out that the machine may
be used, the last announcing that the Gov-
ernment may make regulations for the use
of the instrument. Everything that should
be in such a Bill is missing. No mention
is made of Ikey, of what clubs are to be
allowed to use the machine, the terms on
which it shall be worked, the number of
days per annum it may be employed, or any
other blessed thing. If the Bill had any
serious intention at all it is to give the
State the tote plus Ikey. Such a Bill is not
wanted by anyone, and that is the main
reason for bringing it forward. In Maori-
land the combination of Ikey and the tote
was tried twice, and the experiment was so
calamitous that it lasted only until Parlia-
ment could get together and throttle it. In
N. S. Wales the aim of those who control
the Legislature seems to be to throttle the
totalisator in advance and keep Ikey on a
good wicket.
On the eve of the Tasmanian general elec-
tion Hobart Mercury turned dog on the
party-government joss :
What a-contrast! —our men, torn with shot and
shell, bleeding in death-grips with a demoniac foe,
over there; anti ourselves, wrangling with each
other over the most pitiful pettinesses imaginable
here!
It is pleasant enough reading, naturally, for
this paper, which has been cursing the party
system ever since it cut its teeth. But the
Mercury and a whole lot of others haven’t
got the full strength of the case yet. We are
fighting now—we have to fight now —simply
because we have wrangled with each other over
the most pitiful pettinesses for 40 years
past. Throughout that period the enemy has
been going ahead with a single purpose, while
Britain no less than Australia has been beat-
ing the air and playing a pretentious game
of. makebelieve. The problems of peace are
as great as the problems of war and quite
as important; and if, as the Mercury says,
only a National Government can do full jus-
tice to the one, then a National Government
is equally necessary to deal with the other.
To say otherwise is to assert that it doesn’t
much matter what ructions go on in the
engine-room and on the bridge so long as the
lifebelts and lifeboats are the best that can
be.
The German curs have been whining again
about the public whipping of certain of their
number at Rabaul, in the first days of the
war, and in the Reichstag a question has been
asked whether “satisfaction” has been ob-
tained, and “what punishment was inflicted
on the guilty persons.” These people have
been so long in the habit of regarding the
British as a race of mild curates that they
can’t understand vigorous punitive action
when it is taken. And that is merely what
happened in this case. A most brutal out-
rage was committed on an Australian mis-
sionary, the Rev. W. H. Cox, who was work-
ing among the natives in German New
Guinea. Simply because the Germans inter-
cepted a letter addressed to him by a person
he didn’t know, asking him to acquaint the
British of the whereabouts of certain German
vessels, German officials seized him and,
in the presence of an armed guard, held
him across a barrel and flogged him,
besides subjecting hinft to other out-
rages. There was proper inquiry into
the matter; and the perpetrators of the in-
famy, having been captured armed, were
duly flogged. That is the whole history of
what is declared to be “among the greatest
horrors of the war.” The recent whine is no
less significant than the original outrage, The
latter shows the brutality of these people;
the former indicates an arrogant assumption
that what is proper punishment for a dirty
Britisher is a monstrous crime upon the !
sacred person of the cultured Deutscher.
+
Lever, the glorified English soapboiler, has,
the cable says, been giving his opinion of
the war and the peace. The strength of
Britain is, it seems, due to her open trade ;
and freedom of the seas; and “when the war
is over all bitterness must cease.” So we
mustn’t think of “anti-German restrictions.”
such things being “founded on injustice and
a disregard of the rights of others.” After
the mad dog has mauled us and chewed off
one ear and bitten our nose, we mustn’t put
a collar on him and chain him up. Instead,
if he is at all exhausted, We must bring
him a plate of bones and a grilled chicken or
two, so that he may get strength enough to
chew off our other ear and finish the inter-
rupted job on our nose. Meantime, the dog
not being yet subdued, the collar and chain
might be most usefully employed on Lever.
A by-product of the voluntary recruiting
system is the over-aged patriot who rushes
to offer his services to the Empire, fortified
with the knowledge that they will be politely
declined. The other day the Argus pub-
lished the following : —•
On Thursday evening Mr. Jewell, M.L.A. for
Brunswick, presented himself at the Brunswick Re-
cruiting Dep6t, and expressed his desire to enlist.
On examination it was found that Mr. Jewell was
just two months over the prescribed age of 45 years,
and he was informed that he could not be accepted.
Mi - . Jewell expressed dissatisfaction with this deci-
sion, and announced his intention of interviewing the
Minister for Defence (Senator Pearce). He claimed
that though he might be a trifle over the age limit,
he was in good health and condition.
The war drama has now been running for 18
months, and throughout 16 months, while the
Empire was calling for volunteers, Jewell,
M.L.A., being of fighting age and, on his own
showing, healthy and fit, disregarded the call.
Possibly he had reasons for doing so; but
why, when perfectly aware that he was over
age, should be make a jest of the thing and
then express dissatisfaction with a position
of affairs it was within his power to avoid?
Jewell, M.L.A., may not have been out to
acquire an easy reputation, but many a man
who acted this way would be accused of it.
And he doesn’t make things any better by
announcing that, having waited till it was
too late to go in by the front door, he now
proposes to see whether the Minister won’t
let him in on the side. If there hasn’t been
too much of that there has, at any rate, been
a strong suspicion of it; and a very great
deal of whatever dissatisfaction there has
been in camp and on troopships alike has
been due to a pretty general belief that there
is still far too much political and social wire-
pulling in a service which should know
neither.
■8M11... - • .11 ■ .ir.nnaan
“Copabella” : It is good to learn (B.
16/3/T6) that Adelaide is the manufacturing
point-giver to Australia. But why hasn’t
somebody besides “Cliff Street” been let
into the know ? I’ve store-kept from Croajin-
galong to the Grampians, from Wagga to Bas&
Strait, but I have never yet heard of, sold,
nor been offered anything South Australian
except one line each of olive oil and plough-
shares ; and there are Victorian brands of
both just as good and just as little known.
There are also English brands of oil and
shares asked for by every housewife and
cocky. Surely it is a reversal of business
custom for the buyer to have to pursue the
seller for goods. One cannot imagine evep a
“never-againer” vigorous enough to prowl up
and down the Lane searching for South Aus-
tralian enamelware when good Canadian,
Jap and Danish (?) are poked under his nose.
It bears out my contention that the union
label of the local manufacturer should be a
coffin-plate, with the motto: “Ask for me;
I’m too tired to push myse’f.”
Bill.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is officially announced that, owing to military
necessity, future casualty lists will not disclose either
the theatre of war or the battalion.
Perchance where vines of sunny France
Bud forth to greet the spring,
Amid the fields of old romance
Where Freedom learned to sing;
Perchance, where Brutus stood at bay,
Or Alexander rose.
He tramps through Macedon to-day,
Hard pressing on his foes.
Perchance where ancient desert sands
Look to more ancient stars,
He follows into sunset lands
Old Pharaoh’s battle-cars ;
Or where swart Barbarossa’s ships
Bore banks of Christian slaves,
His prow into the sunset dips
On bright Levantine waves.
Somewhere the lightnings cleave the night,
Somewhere the bitter smoke
Lies like a pall upon the fight,
On stroke and counterstroke ;
Somewhere his careless laugh rings clear,
Somewhere his aim is straight;
And, through the ruin, cringing fear
Marks how he stalks like Fate.
We know not where he drinks his tea
Or smokes his cigarette,
Or swaps his lies in language free
When he and Jim have met;
But, though the Censor’s pencil clear
Accounts for his eclipse,
Bill’s in the game. The ready cheer
Is on our waiting lips !
N.S.W.
MARY McC.


S6c April Triad
THE Tkiad for April, which is now on sale, is a good number. There is some
talk about the Germans that endorses the hottest antagonisms so far
expressed in Australia, and goes one better. There have been few changes
at the theatres during the past month, but the Triad’s notes on shows and music
are again keen and characteristic. Book*reviews are a feature, but there is nothing
dull or tedious in the reviewer’s style. The Triad is, on its own undertaking, a
magazine for the home, and it can be guaranteed to keep home brisk and lively.
It has no dull pages. It is not edited by its advertisers. It pursues its way
gloriously untrammelled by the ideas and opinions of other people. That is why
its readers get sometimes rather hot. They have grown up with an idea as the law
and the gospel, and that is just the sort of idea that the Triad loves to run foul of.
Not being at all content with existing things and styles, the Triad sets out (the
phrase is its own) to be somehow different. It succeeds: it succeeds, indeed,
amazingly. It is a stimulating affair, this Triad. The conventions do not worry
it at all. It says the thing it wants to say, however the Grundies shriek. Its
remarkable success in Australia is really not a thing to be surprised about. It is
quite a new thing among magazines.*
JOKES, TRICKS, PUZZLES, NOVELTIES.
Write for our New
INoveltv Catalog.
SENT FREE.
DEVIL’S PUZZLE MATCH BOX.
The Match Box which is different from all other puzzle-
boxes. You’ll never open it until you read the directions.
Made of Nickel-plate, beautifully finished. Without dou
the most ingenious Puzzle Match Box that has ever bee
made. Price, Post Free, with Instructions, 2/-
SOMETHIXG SPECIAL.
Winter is coming, and you’ll want something to help
the dreary nights away. We are offering a special box
Jokes and Puzzles, suitable for young and old, which ''
cause no end of fun and amusement. The box contains
following:—■
1 Box of Match Puzzles,
3 Different Wire Puzzles,
1 Fortune-telling Fish,
1 Five Wood Squares
Puzzle,
1 Changing Card Trick.
1 Joker’s Lighted Cigar-
ette. . , _
1 Joker’s Box of Matches,
1 Dark Question Joke.
The Box of Jokes Sent Post Free for 2/6.
H. L. HUTCHINSON Ltd.,
The Dutchman Begins to Wake Up.
Something is happening in Holland, includ-
ing severance of cable communication with
England. What the rest is seemed to
depend at the beginning of the week on a
conjectural “If.” But it was reported that
military preparations were being hurried, and
that the population was calmly waiting for
developments. Germany considered this to
be due to the Dutchman being apprehensive
of the Allies’ intention to attack his neu-
trality. But another possible explanation is
that as the German has been blowing up
Dutch steamers the Netherlander reckons
that his neutrality has already been dam-
aged by someone else. There are dozens of
reasons why Holland should not want to
become a participant in the war, but the fact
that by remaining out of it the nation’s
shipping gets torpedoed is not one of them.
Besides, if she joined the Hun she
would certainly be stripped of her
shipping and her rich oversea pos-
sessions in a day, and that looks a
very powerful extra argument why she
should not give assistance to the murderers
of her seamen. A tightening of the blockade
against Germany, through Holland, might
have the effect of moving the Hun to reach
out for possession of the Dutch seaboard, and
if the Allies—-but that is just where the
weary, confusing succession of ifs begins and
speculation gets lost in a desert of words.
The only facts available are that there has
been an important conference at Paris, that
Germany has been outraging a neutral by
destroying her ships, that there are some
military preparations (to what extent is not
mentioned) in Holland, that the blockade is
being made more real, and that the normal
attitude of the Hollander to Germany is one
of suspicion. But while there was merely a
vague scrappiness about all this there was
nothing vague about the news that the Greeks
were urging the Allies to get away from
Salonika, and that the Germans were still on
the attack near Verdun and had been on a
murdering expedition to England in several
Zeppelins. The damage caused by the surrep-
titious ruffians attached to the Kaiser’s High
Sky fleet was considerable, but the purpose
of it remains a mystery. These homicidal
activities give the German no military advan-
tage, and are even more purposely brutal
than the torpedoing of ships at sea. Per-
haps that is why they are perpetrated. One
of the Zeppelins was brought down —in some
measure, it appears, through the daring of a
Maoriland aviator —and the crew made pris-
oners. To treat baby-killers like these as
prisoners of war when they are nothing of
the kind is a pretty deadly insult to soldiers
and sailors taken in battle. Still, that is of
less importance just now than to know
whether the next thing the German is going
to get through Holland is pickled pork or a
punch.
After waiting for years for somebody who
could supply the rudiments of an idea with
regard to the utilisation of Sydney’s Queen
Victoria Markets the City Council is con-
sidering a proposal to sell the whole con-
cern, lock, stock and barrel, to a private
firm. The building has been a sieve through
which public money has run to waste;
and grave city politicians have from decade
to decade shaken their solemn heads over
it and lamented a loss that they were power-
less to prevent. The trouble was that the
place was built for markets an'd that some-
body declared many years ago that it was no
good for the purpose. The congested city grew
and the traffic roared around the base of
the pile; but the old dictum stood. It
simply couldn’t be made to pay as a market
building because someone had said so when
the condition of the city and its trade were
altogether different. Now a private firm
offers to buy it and turn it into a great
supply store, which is in effect a market.
-So the lamentable fact is made plain that
the building which, according to successive
city administrators, couldn’t be used for its
original purpose is in the view of Private
Enterprise with a waggon-load of cash
behind it suitable for just that original pur-
pose. Incidentally Parliament is being
warned not to touch the franchise of the
Sydney City Council lest it should let in
some new people who wouldn’t know how
to run the municipality on the old business
lines.
“G.C.’s” send-off: —
Compounded his last prescription, at the age of
78, R. S. D. Morgan, of Woods Point, the oldest
practising chemist in Victoria. In the palmy days
of Woods Point Morgan, who was of mixed Scotch
and French lineage, was a mining manager. His
last big venture was McCaul’s Reward, Stander’s
Creek, and he negotiated the sale of the property
from McCaul to manager Boyd for £lO,OOO. Poor
Boyd wound up broke. Morgan was also manager of
the All Nations, Matlock, when the only decent crush-
ing they had had for years was robbed from the mail-
bags at Warburton. That loot was taken to Tas-
mania to be disposed of. The dead man was highly
cultured, though mostly self-educated and a J.P.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “So Long, Letty”
Criterion “Under Fire”
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Palace “With the Fighting Forces of Europe”
Garden The Dandies
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
The White City Various Shows
Wirths’ New Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Arcadians”
Royal “Twin Beds”
King’s “A Message from Mars”
Princess’s “Dick Whittington”
Bijou Fuller Vaudeville
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s Own & Olympia Hoyt’s Pictures
The fine “Britain Prepared” films are hav-
ing a crowded extra-week at Sydney Town
Hall. Any German who wants to be made
thoroughly wretched is urged to book a seat.
* * # , *
Next time Dad and the Missus invade Syd-
ney and go to the circus they needn’t buy
peanuts for the monkeys or a bun for the
elephants, mainly because the monkeys are
not there and the Jumbo is too far away
to reach the confectionery. Nor need the
family risk breaking its neck climbing over
the seats or accumulating a cold in the head
by intercepting the draught which comes in
through the flapping canvas behind their neck
—this because the places to sit on are not
the things to walk on, and the canvas isn’t
there, and the draught that mgde the spec-
tator sneeze is not on the programme. Thirty
years or so ago the Wirth Family unwokjad
its abbreviated circus at Paddy’s Market. On
Monday Philip and George Wirth —who in
the meantime had dragged their tent all
over the world —were ready to carry on the
same business on the site of the old market,
now decorated with a £40,000 brick building
said to be a replica or first cousin or some-
thing of the Hippodrome in London.
* * * *
The new place is a theatre on a big scale,
the only essential difference being that the
arena occupies part of the stalls and the
getaway for the horses is where the conduc-
tor of the orchestra would sit if there were
no animals to trample on him. The stage
is exceptionally wide, and is used for “set”
displays in which apparatus has to be em-
ployed. In point of comfort for the specta-
tor and facilities for the performers there
is no comparison between the old and the
new; but whether all this makes a circus
any more enjoyable is a bit doubtful to The
“YOU’RE THE ONE.” AT SYDNEY
ADELPHI.
Papuan maidens , discovered by George
Marlow in the suburbs.
Bulletin, whose most cherished memory is
of the night it sneaked under a dilapidated
tent in a country town and illicitly feasted
on the spectacle of beauteous females
and muscular youths swinging on trapezes,
while the smoke from the flares curled grace-
fully through the roof. Still, there is some-
thing of compelling novelty about even a cir-
cus that has been washed and ironed and
manicured, even if the clown remains as a
curious survival of antiquity, and the pony
that walks on its hind legs and the lithe,
agile acrobat are still there to show what
can be done by sticking to it.
* * * *
And it is a really good show that is pre-
sented in this new hippodrome. Appropriately
enough, the star turn is given by an Austra-
lian girl—May Wirth, lately returned from
America and London. As a bareback rider
May is incomparable. She does things
which few men performers can accomplish
and does them, too, with a swift and easy
certainty. Other bright spots on the per-
formance are the double Risley acts by a
team of Japanese, the ludicrously amazing
achievements of half a dozen sea-lions, and
wire-walking and gymnastic exhibitions by
various dukes and marchionesses. A sea-lion
on first acquaintance seems a distinctly
unreasonable sort of animal, but the trainer
who brings this lot along appears to have
succeeded in teaching the squad to do every-
thing but have a yarn on the subject.
* * * ❖
“So Long, Letty” (over 100 nights long
now), is taking a spacious farewell of Her
Majesty’s, Sydney. But it will be all over
by April 15, when “Mother Goose” will
commence laying Easter eggs in Sydney.
* * I* *
Sydney Tivoli moves ahead under easy
steam. Peter Dawson has ceased baritoning
and gone over the side; but Ella Caspers
remains on the bridge. Cooke and Oatman,
from the U.S., have signed on for another
cruise, and the regular clatter of Hay and
Crawford’s educated heels on the quarter-
deck is being mistaken for the rattle of
machinery doing something useful. Down
in the saloon Violet Trevenyon is showing
all hands how bright an English character
comedienne can be; and the rest of the crew
are the same as joined in last week’s chantey.
s|c % ❖ Sfc
The last nights of “Under Fire,” at Syd-
ney Criterion, are announced. On April 15
something else American, entitled “On
Trial,” with an imported English actress,
Madge Fabian, will be produced.
* * * *
Those Sydney people who have not seen
the excellent production of Pinero’s cele-
brated comedy, “The Second Mrs. Tan-
queray,” are advised to hasten to the Little
Theatre.
* * * *
Allan Wilkie opens his Shakspearian sea-
son at Sydney Adelphi with “Hamlet” next
Wednesday. Meantime the matrimonial
tangles of the revue, “You’re the One,” will
continue to disturb the peace of the unoffend-
ing Papuan cannibals.
* * * *
Following upon the novel movies of the
Pope and the Vatican, which Dan Green
produced at the Palace (Sydney), came
another cino-vation when W. J. Shephard
turned on some under-sea and war
films. The latter species of flicker is
becoming as common as the wearisome
Yankee drama pictures, but Shephard’s
show had the distinction of being kine-
macolor. The submarine movies were
obtained in the West Indies by George and
Ernest Williamson from a submerged cham-
ber of their own invention. In this idea
there are a heap of possibilities, which are
still in the incubator of time; but so far as
the Williamsons’ ingenuity has gone the
results deserve general attention. A good
show this, remaining at the Pitt-street stand
until Saturday week (15th), when the Taits
come to light with the long-looked-for “Peg
o’ My Heart.”
* * z *
On Monday night, at the Garden Theatre
(Sydney), the Branseombes will hold a
“Dandies’ Patriotic Night” in aid of the Ist
Field Artillery Brigade Fund. Several
patriotic private citizens (Miss V. Davenport,
hon sec., and Mrs. C. Hart, of Darling Point,
hon. treasurer) are co-operating with the
Branseombes, who in an unobtrusive way
have done their bit wherever the Dandies
have hung out their sign.
❖ %
At Her Majesty’s (Melb.) the moderately
effective performance of “The Merry Widow”
will be good enough for these uncritical
times until Friday night. Sometimes Minnie
Love has been the sweet, yearning relict of
the Marsovian multi-millionaire, and on
those nights there was rather more “go”
in the opera than when Ethel Cadman dis-
covered Leslie Holland drunk on the couch
at the Embassy. He is a bit elderly and
too grimly tragic in his intermittent bursts
of tender passion. Danilo is a ridiculous
Prince, anyhow. Ilis views of dissipation
are restricted to dismal supper parties at an
ill-furnished little restaurant, always with
the same six uninteresting “tarts,” who
make a faint pretence of being merry at his
expense. All things considered, the Widow’s
infatuation for this third-rate roysterer is
unaccountable. Florrie Young and Roberts
sing their guilty love music almost as well
as ever, but Smith’s conception of Baron
Popoff is decidedly plebeian. None* of the
people in the bigger parts are quite so well
placed as Charles Albert and Nellie Payne,
who play Nisch and Fifi. “The Arcadians”
comes due on Saturday.
3fC 3ft £ $
“Twin Beds” is likely to keep going at
Melbourne Royal for a while, thanks to its
title and its pyjamas. The three male
characters are all seen scooting about in
night-suits in the last act, and what the situ-
ation lacks of reasonableness and humor is
made up for with loud disturbance. Even
when the joke is hard to see it is easily
heard. The roars of Hale Hamilton con-
cerning his missing garments remind one of
war news. The din of battle can’t be much
worse. So what with the roars of laughter
from some people in the audience and the
shouts of Hamilton and co. on the stage a
visit to the Royal these times is a great
change from the quietude of life in an iron-
foundry.
❖ ❖ *
This is the eleventh and last week of the
right Shakspeare season at Mel-
bourne Princess’s. From a business point of
view Romeo and Juliet” looks a successful
farewell bill, nevertheless it is the one i on t
smtc.l to Allan Wilkie and hU c°„“ '
lhey were more interesting in the five D J’
vious productions, which have certnbfi,'
ensured a warm welcome for Immortal W
ham when Marlow gives him nnoriJ, '
On Saturday classic drama moves on\ o s?d'
ney and makes way for panto. Marlow •
presenting “Dick Whittington,” with fw’
Moore as the young man who started life hv
sitting on a milestone. re
“YOU'RE THE ONE ,” AT SYDNEY
ADEEP HL
Herbert Landeck, the medicine-man of
Papua.
The AVaybaeks having dropped out of the
bill from exhaustion, Philip Lytton is stag-
ing “Robbery Under Arms” for this last
week of his season at Melbourne King’s.
Nothing save a liberal equipment of Aus-
tralian “bush” scenery can excuse a revival
of the melodrama which the late Alfred
Dam pier and Garnet AA’alch extracted from
Rolf Boldrewood’s long-winded novel when
it was new. The management furnishes the
excuse. “Robbery Under Arms” is a well-
mounted show with many scenes in it, and
the co. is not less Australian-colored than
the show. But there’s no bite in the old
thing. Its hero is a sententious person who
came to Australia with the burden of a bro-
ther’s crime upon his character, and then
proceeded to be a remorseful criminal on his
own account. His girl loves him, apparently,
because he is always wanted by the police,
and her male relatives are cattle-duffers by
choice owing to their dislike for work. The
police-force consists of a baffled bully of an
inspector, a couple of inane troopers who are
never on horseback, and a deplorable old
Chief Commissioner with blue blood in his
veins. The other people are an assortment
of bad bushrangers and wandering virgins,
one of whom wears an incredible countenance
and sounds like a shriek of pain. Also, there
is a faithful felonious aboriginal and a virtu-
ous young farmer who gets his cows by law-
ful means. A\ r hen the police have chased the
evildoers through four acts, and killed one
or two of them, it is time for the picnic to
end in peace and penitence. If The Bul-
letin has previously spoken of “Robbery
Under Arms” as a drama in which no fire-
arms are discharged it takes the present
opportunity of withdrawing the remark,
which more truthfully applied to another old
Dampierian shocker. Several guns went off
on Saturday night, and the noise seemed
indispensable to the performance.
* * * *
Herbert Stallard, who has a fine, rich
voice and a theatrical way of producing it,
played Starlight, whilst Miss Madge Hope
figured effusively as his buxom bride-elect.
Johnston AA r eir was a matter-of-fact Ben
Marston ; the AVarrigal (Arthur Sterry) did
very well; also Harry Hodson and Stewart
McGrath. A number of others were satis-
factory, or otherwise, in a feeble man-
ner. and the coach and the incidental
horseflesh came up to requirements. In fact,
the five antique starters for the Goldfields
Cup did more than their share of the enter-
tainment : their scampers across the stage
served as comic-relief items.
* * * #
On Saturday “A Message from Mars” will
supply a want at the King’s. Horace Parker
(who will be played by Gregan McMahon, as
of old) is the typical young man whose ser-
vices can never be enlisted in a good cause
until compulsion is applied, and the conver-
sion that happens to him in a dream is a
lesson for Shirkers all round.
* * * $
The much-advertised Olga Petrova is
again luring a young man to destruction in
another vampire play at Hoyt’s Theatres,
Melbourne. In this instance, however.
Olga’s wickedness is condoned as an act of
justice, inasmuch as her victim is the son
of the man who had shattered her in-no-cence
in the long ago and made her an ornament
of the demi-monde. In Hoyt’s other star
feature, “The Little Dutch Girl,” adapted
from a yarn by “Ouida,” a maiden’s unrequited
passion for a handsome artist runs the usual
course from tears to disillusionment among
some charming Amurkan scenery. The whole
story is schoolgirly in its tragedy and tears,
but the camera work is a real achievement.


HENKES’ SCHNAPPS
DISTILLED IN HOLLAND.
An absolutely ideal tonic. Awarded many gold medals for purity.
3C2SH
*1
HM
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s.
6d. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Par-
ticulars posted on application to
The Manager.
Sports Suits
Made-to-Order
by Peapes
For every Sports purpose and for every leisure
occasion, out-of doors. Ideal for the Mountains
at Easter. Making to order gives you choice of
several popular styles of back, and selection from
an excellent range of warm Scotch or Irish Tweeds,
Homespuns and Flannels.
Economic Tailoring-to-order,
55/-, 65/-, 70/-
We Pay Postage. Patterns, self-measurement form
and catalogue on request.
Peapes & Co. Ltd.
Men’s Outfitters,
3C9 and 311 George Street, Sydney.
;v.
£
m
< f - r
M&
The waning attraction of the Tivoli
Follies in Melbourne was stimulated on
Saturday by the reappearance of Peter Daw-
son and Miss Annette George. Peter’s
singing is a considerable entertainment, and
it has the extra recommendation of displac-
ing a portion of the Follies’ programme.
Unfortunately, the voice of Peter will be
heard at the Tiv. for only two more nights.
At the Auditorium (Melb.), where the
pictures of “Britain Prepared” are moving
in two senses of the word, the Taits will
introduce “The Ideals of 1916” on April 15.
Meanwhile the highly-instruetive series of
military and naval films will bring comfort
to the pessimistic. Britain’s preparedness
looks very promising in these pictures and
the local Germans will regard them with
sincere disapproval.
* * * *
The Four Gondoliers are responsible for
the latest musical act at Melbourne Bijou.
The turn is pretentiously limelit and crudely
arranged, the alleged signors and their
feminine accomplices being apparently un-
learnt in the art of grouping themselves
prettily and making their exits to pictorial
advantage. Lesso, a new juggler, follows
the track of Cinquevalli like a short-sighted
bloodhound, so to speak; while the prance
and patter specialty of Clark and Wallace
is reminiscent of many similar outbursts that
have gone before. Elsewhere the brief legs
of Decar are meeting all gymnastic demands,
and the art of painter Howe continues to be
exposed in two decorous landscapes and a
strange posy of flowers. Also a large and
talkative Yank named Stevens is triumphing
over the defects of his immensity by bal-
ancing delicately on tables, bottles and chairs.
* * * *
Waller’s Ideals, at Austral Gardens,
Adelaide, are in the final week of their sum-
mer show, and have brisked things up by
engaging Malini, the conjurer, who uses
hardly any apparatus, but has two deft hands
and a fund of good stories. The Dandies,
on the other side of North Terrace, rely on
their own tuneful and demurely funny selves.
In the “Dick Whittington” panto, at the
Tivoli, Eddie McLean strangely neglects his
chances to be funny as the Cat. but shows
all his old grim dash in the Apache caper
with Deeima. The very-bare-legged ballet is
another feature of a show whose dancing is
strong all through. Gerald Griffin, the senti-
mental Irishman, has now come in to the
Tivoli. At the King's are the Flemings
(statue-poses), Durard (banjo), Lew Hoff-
mann (hats), and Pitcher (mouth). The
competition in pictures is very keen now
that the Firm has come into that
line at the Royal. Its drama pro-
gramme is all of the “strong” sort,
Wolgast and Girl earning their daily bread
at Sydney Tivoli.
but pleasant relief comes with wild-
animal films. West’s counter with “The
Catspaw” and Wondergraph with that fine
old play “Jim the Penman” ; and both have
good pictures from the war.
Six o’clock pub-closing won in Tasmania
by almost a tw r o-to-one majority. The Cold
Tea folks put up a great vote for the early
hour, but quite forgot to return to Parlia-
ment a majority pledged to push the alleged
reform through the Upper House, even if
the aforesaid House of Dodder had to be
pushed off the earth in the process. So the
six o’clockers may have done a lot of hard
shouting for nothing.
The major got quite a reputation with
Bill and Jim for —well, call it carefulness.
Bill met Jim one day after a fairly warm
shrapnelling and conveyed the news that the
major had broke ’is arm. “ ’Ow?” demanded
Jim. “Well, we was lowerin’ ’im into ’is
dug-out, but we’d only got ’im down 15ft.
when the blanky rope broke.”
THE DANCING GIRL,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The dancers knocked the gods sky-high,
So fresh and youthful ;
Thus said the bills, none could deny
The ads. were truthful!
By kick and pirouette and bound
They earned their sal’ry,
While fulsome compliments flew round
The crowded gall’ry.
Billo from Glebe spoke up: “Wot oh 1
She’s a world-beater,
That end tart in the second row—-
I’d like ter meet ’er!”
Micko from Redfern heard and said:
“ ’Ere ! Pick another !
Or blank well shut your (censored) head—
That tart’s me mother!”
N.S.W.
BILL BILE.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“II.S.”: I know The Bulletin will be
glad, to hear that most of the incidental
music that helped Allan Wilkie’s artistic
production of “Twelfth Night” was written
by W. H. Lamble, the young Victorian
musician who presides at the piano in the
Princess’s Orchestra.
o “H.O”: Re just-dead Tom Graves (B.
23/3/T6). Although he appeared in the
Sydney production of “The Gay Gordons”
he was not the artist brought out by the
Clarke-Meynell firm to play Nat Siddons.
Melbourne saw the “Gordons” before Syd-
ney, and Nat was played by Frank Danby,
a quaint little comedian who suffered from
rotten health. Danby got through the Mel-
bourne season of the “Gordons” and ap-
peared also in “The Gay Grisette,” but
Graves had been sent for, and relieved
Danby before the piece had finished its run.
From wfflat Melbourne saw of the two men,
Graves could not touch Danby as a com-
edian. “The Gay Gordons” crowd was the
unluckiest that ever smelt powder. Danby
went back home racked with rheumatism;
two imported members of the alleged
“beauty chorus” went to law after a dress-
ing-room "squabble; a couple of others were
knocked about in a motor smash ; Nell Fin-
nis broke her ankle; Frank Lincoln broke
a blood-vessel and died; Florence Imeson
died soon after leaving Australia; now
Graves has taken his final call.
“C. 0.”: Forbes Robertson is once more
hankering after a tour in Australia. It
was his wish to visit these parts two or
three years ago, but arrangements fell
through, because, as Robertson put it, “Aus-
tralian impresarios think the classic drama
is dead and my pieces played out.” The
classic drama, however, as George Marlow
can prove, is not so dead as reported ; and
Forbes may bring his “Hamlet” along
before the year is out. He particularly
wants to boast of having appeared in all the
English-speaking countries before he retires.
Robertson is now in his 63rd year, but
is still able to demonstrate that his young
Prince of Denmark is the best within living
memory.
“Non-weeper”: How splendidly some
writers froth at the ink-bottle when they
want to praise a show! Here’s a recent
sample:—•
There must be something radically wrong with
the make-up of any person who can see “Britain
Prepared” without a thrill running up and down
the spine, and without warm tears of pride starting
all unbidden to the eyes.
I attended the first screening of the films,
and no one in my vicinity shed the scalding
tear that boils the cabbage of eloquence.
There certainly was some sniffing and fidget-
ing in the row behind, but I thought it was
a tired small boy who wanted to go home.
It must have been a press agent in the
throes.
“Harrison O.”: “Sundry Shows” (B.
30/3/T6) says Paula Tanqueray was written
for Mrs. Patrick Campbell. There is some
doubt about it. At any rate, some years ago
Olga Nethersole published a yarn—which, so
far as I know, was not contradicted —that
she it was who was originally chosen to
represent Paula. Pinero wrote the play for
John Hare, who was going to “create” Cay-
ley Drummle, w r ith Forbes Robertson as
Aubrey and Olga as his second matrimonial
misfit. Hare became afflicted with doubts
anent the piece, and was so long in arranging
for its production that Pinero took it off his
hands and offered it to George Alexander.
Alexander, it is said, was not bursting to put
on “The Second Missus,” and only decided
to try it as a stopgap when he had to find a
successor to “Liberty Hall” in a hurry. Both
Pinero and Alexander (Olga alleged) wanted
her for Paula, but Hare, with whom she was
playing, refused to release her. Then it was
that Mrs. Pat was sent for.
“J.F.H.” : “Mrs. Pretty and the Premier”
continues to receive the attentions, mostly
complimentary, of the London critics. The
Sunday Times says Adams “has a pretty
satirical wit and displays various felicitous
gifts. Ilis main characters possess the vital
spark.” The Referee hails the play as
‘ quite a charming comedy full of bright
points.” Punch, though not enthusias-
tic, says it “keeps fairly off the beaten
track,” and is a novelty in the matter of
local color and unfamiliar types. The Era :
“Mr. Adams’s play is amusing as well as
original, particularly to the stilted Brit-
isher.” The Stage : “A play that is a very
odd mixture of styles, but that attains per-
fectly its, present object, which is merely to
cause diversion.” And, among the host of
others, the Daily Chronicle says, “It is an
ideal war-comedy” ; the Daily News that it
is “amusing in a simple-minded way” ; and
the Morning Post that, “though the piece
was very favorably received, one does not feel
that one’s conceptions, whether of Australia
or of dramatic art, have been greatly
enlarged or enriched.”
Let the dimate be what it may up North
the local inhabitant manages to fill in his
time. Comes this business card from
Gympie:—•
J. Ireland.
Theatrical Agent, etc. ; wholesale and retail fish-
monger ; advertising in all its branches.
Observe the “etc.”
“TWIN BEDS,” MELBOURNE ROYAL.
Mildred Warren, as
Norah.
Myrtle Tannehill
(the wife who
liked twin beds).
“0.K.”: An English musical critic
writes:—•
With the removal of the latest modern German
music our concert-rooms have been cleared of the
shrieks and disgruntlings and extravagances of com-
posers for whom the sweet things of life seem to have
lost their charm and attraction, and who could not
distinguish between r.obilitv and noise.
That’s how critics talk since the war got
fairly going. But a man who expressed the
same feeling against such sauerkraut music
before the war was waived aside as a phili-
stine who didn’t understand the machinery
of melody or the spirit of “tone poetry.” One
of these days it may dawn upon a doped
cognoscenti that acquired taste for the least
tuneful of even Wagner’s wonderfully con-
structed operas is the sort of culture the
world would have been better without.
Nobody ever felt a warm new sympathy
for his fellow man after sitting out “the
Ring,” where Christian charity never gets
a look in and the boss heathen divinity has
a nasty facial disfigurement. The protracted
love scenes may induce a warm sympathy
for one’s fellow woman, but there’s nothing
exalting about that. Besides, it isn’t an
essential quality of amorousness in the
music, or an eloquence of words in the
libretto, that gives force to Wagner’s prin-
cipal love scene. It is the extreme length
and strength of the cuddle as ordered in
stage directions. Poor old “Faust” is a
lovely moral lesson by comparison.
“J.F.H.”: After a successful resurrection
of “Peter Pan,” Dot Boucicault has made a
first-rate start with his dramatic season at
the New Theatre (London). Llis initial
venture, “Caroline,” by Somerset Maugham,
is warmly acclaimed as a light comedy
sparkling with wit and brilliant dialogue.
Irene Vanbrugh (Mrs. Dot) has made a big
hit in the title part, and Dot has scored as
a sententious, ready-witted family doctor.
Another of Australia’s acquaintances, Lillah
McCarthy, plays an eccentric role with rich
humor.
Many references have been made to the
fine quality and large size of Farley’s voice
in its prime; but nothing has been said
about the affliction which handicapped him
by comparison with his old contemporary
and co-worker, Armes Beaumont. Beau-
mont, even in his youngish days, had the
facial disfigurement of an artificial eye with
a drooping lid to it, and his trick of slanting
his mouth when he warbled was an extra
drawback. But his ragged voice remained
sweetly tuneful when he" was well into the
sixties. Farley, on the other hand, ceased
to sing melodiously before he was quite old.
Deafness was his trouble. He lost his ear
for music, and often sang dismally flat in
consequence of his physical defect. A trained
vocalist is apt to pride himself on singing
always by note with infallible correctness,
and sneers at the untaught person who
has only his “ear” to guide him; but when
the educated pro. goes off in his hearing he
is frequently off the note, inasmuch as he
flattens it. Farley in his later operatic days
was a very deaf man, and sang accordingly.
“Two Cents”: Why this pretence that
“twin” beds are different from ordinary
single beds? Even in English-speaking coun-
tries the bad. old-fashioned double-bed is
getting into disrepute among the least stupid
people, so it comes as a surprise to hear a
supposed up-to-date American wife talking
of “Twin Beds” as though they were the
latest domestic novelty. Seems to me that
the Murkan farcical comedy must have been
written and thus titled under an advertis-
ing contract —like “It Pays to Advertise.”
Somebody presumably was trying to push a
line of single bedsteads as “Twin Beds.”
The word is registered, no doubt. Every
thing’s in a name for advertising purposes,
and what’s the matter with “Tulip Bed” —
or “Parsley Bed”?
The truth comes out by accident. During
the Tasmanian election campaign the bill-
sticker mixed up one of the Chief Secre-
tary’s election placards with a picture-show
announcement and made the notice read:
“Hon. ,T. E. Ogden will address the electors.
For Hard Cash.”
Eve Balfour, the clever girl from Christ-
church (M.L.) who has been getting ahead
in Fogland as a movie actress, has just
organised a film cannery of her own, and
the first production from the new studio
is now being shown. It is ticketed “Love.”
Which shows how satanically original
Christchurch is. Nobody ever thought of
potting that subject before.
William Hoskins, excellent actor and
splendid Shakspearian scholar, and one of
the founders of the theatrical business in
Australia, turns up in the reminiscences of
G. R. Sims. In his boyhood Sims lived close
to Sadler’s Wells Theatre, at the time when
the famous Shakspearian Co. of Samuel
Phelps was drawing all London to the vener-
abe playhouse. Hoskins was a prominent
member of the co., and in it too was a little
girl, named Rose Edouin, who later uecame
well known in Melbourne as Mrs. G. B. W.
Lewis. Sims recalls how Lloskins at 8 o’clock
in the morning used to give lessons in acting
to a young wine-office clerk—the Henry
Irving of his later famous days.
(Continued on page 39.)
“Henry Ilorsecollar” : If the United States
enter the war it will be to save stationery.
Ngamoko (M.L.) gets the recruiting
medal. It hasn’t many eligibles, but it has
sent every Jim Rill of them to fight in the
scrap the Kaiser made.
The French scientist and sailor, Captain
Du Baty, who handed over his yacht La
Curieuse to the N.S.W. Government, and
with his crew hastened away to fight for
France, has written to Senator Keating
from Salonika to remark that he is well.
This casts some doubt on the report of his
death on the Western Front last year.
Attorney-General Hall gravely informed a
questioner in N. S. Wales Leg. Assembly
that his Bill allowing public servants to
nominate for a seat in Parliament would
make room for policemen. Should a John
Hop feel that way inclined he could obtain
leave (on full pay, if due) to contest an
election. But, the Minister went on to
assure the House, a policeman who wished
to enlist would not be granted leave of
absence. Of course not. The country can’t
expect that its public servants should be
allowed time off on any old trifling excuse.
The chief difficulty about teaching the re-
cruit how to shoot straight is that there can be
only one eye behind the sights and the sweat-
ing instructor must try to find out what his
pupil has been doing by cross-examination
after the misses have been signalled. A
couple of Sydney men have got over this
difficulty by contriving a long metal box
called an aim-recorder, whereby the slight-
est movement of the rifle that is balanced on
top of it is exaggerated and followed by a
pointer on a small metal target conveniently
placed for the instructor sitting alongside.
The device means good aiming practice at any
time without burning cartridges or wasting
time getting to and from a range; but the
chief asset is that tell-tale pointer whereby
the gloating instructor can follow the jumps
and wriggles of the firearm even better than
the newchum who is gripping it. It looks
the ideal thing for a troopship or a drill-
room, and the musketry people are sizing it
up.


DAVID JONES’
GUINEA BOOTS
BLACK or TAN
—lacked ly a name that
has built up a reputation
jor quality and sound
value.
■L,
b*
Men’s Box Calf Boots, black or tan, Oxford last (as
illustration), fitted with welted soles and full round
toes. An ideal winter boot for wear in city or country.
Three different fittings in every man's size.
PRICE
21/- pr.
WE PAY CARRIAGE THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
DAVID JONES LIMITED
Opp.
G.P.O.
SYDNEY
HOW TO MAKE YOUR HAIR GROW
LONG AND BEAUTIFUL.
If you want to make your hair soft, fluffy,
thick, lustrous and luxuriant, here is a
simple five-minute daily home treatment
which is certainly worthy of a trial. Pre-
pare some hair tonic by mixing together 3oz.
Bay Itum, loz. Lavona de Composee, and
j-draehm of Menthol Crystals, adding a little
of your favorite perfume. Apply the tonic
thus made freely to the hair, rubbing it well
into the roots with the finger tips, and then
brush vigorously for a few minutes, using a
medium stiff brush. This will notlmly make
the hair bright and beautiful, but will eradi-
cate scurf and dandruff and stop the hair
falling out. In fact, within only a few days
it will be found that an entirely new growth
of soft, downy hair has been produced.
The remarkable hair-growing and beauti-
fying properties of this fine hair tonic have
so often been demonstrated that we are not
surprised to learn that leading chemists
everywhere are now supplying the completed
article, put up ready for use in convenient
sprinkler-topped bottles, under the name of
Lavona Hair Tonic, and the manufacturers
are showing their confidence in its unusual
merits by authorising any chemist to give
with each bottle a signed pex-sonal guarantee
of satisfaction or money back.— Advt.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel.
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantlj-
Purnished and Up-to-date Hotel
now complete in every detail, an .
under the management of
Usher, the Comforts of a l ei
Home are assured. The
and Service will compare
ably with any Hotel in Eng a ’
America or the Continent.
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
A man who was found by the police of a
country town in N. S. Wales sleeping the
other night in a railway carriage with £2O, a
wife and three children explained that the
local pubkeepers had refused him accommoda-
tion. Thereupon the Law proceeded to in-
spect Bung, and finding 15 unoccupied beds
adjourned the matter until a magistrate
arrived. The verdict was against the prose-
cution, and the question of testing this in
the Supreme Court is now before the Crown
Law office. The Bulletin knows nothing
about the merits of the case, but it does
know that in Maoriland a couple of weeks
ago a country publican who refused to supply
a hot meal to a party of motorists at 8
o’clock in the evening, on the ground that the
diuner-things had been washed up, was asked
PRO-WHAT?
HE (as actor goes
by): “Typical old
pro. And isn’t he
proud of it!”
SHE (alarmed): “Good
gracious! Why don’t
they intern him?”
to explain himself to the Law. When he had
finished the Law said it wanted £2 and costs,
and told him to get ready to show caiise
why his license should not be decorated with
a record of the proceedings. And when a
license has been decorated three times the
premises it applies to don’t sell any more
beer.
Applications are being invited in Y ic-
toria for the job of overseer of woollen
manufactures at Pentridge prison. Quali-
fications are: —
A o-eneral knowledge of wool, its condition from the
point of view of shrinkage, its adaptability for manu-
facture into various classes of goods ; acquaintance with
dyeing, carding, spinning and management of looms ;
ability’ to instruct in finishing tweeds and other
goods for market; ability to control prison labor, and
to conduct a woollen factory.
One Australian house pays £9OO a year,
with liberal exes., to a man who is com-
petent to buy the foreigners’ woollen goods
in English and Continental markets; but
for the mere job of manufacturing Austra-
lian goods the State reckons that a manager
shouldn’t ask more than —what do you
think? No less than £ISO per annum, ris-
ing (perhaps) to the dizzy maximum of
£240.
* * * *
Anglican parsons will find it cheaper to let
bell, book and candle lie unused for the
future. So, at any rate, said Justice Gordon
at Adelaide the other day. The Church of
the Holy Innocents, at Belair (S.A.), had
not been a happy family ; and at last the
Christians loved one another so vehemently
that Parson Bourne, one of the very holiest
of the innocents, was moved to “excommuni-
cate” Walter Gooch, a synodsman of the
parish, “for malice and disloyalty expressed
towards the bishop of the diocese and the
rector and wardens of this parish.” "VY hen
Gooch turned up at Synod a few days later
as though nothing had happened, Bourne rose
and protested, launching at him once more
his sentence of excommunication. Just here
some brother got hold of the reverend coat-
tails and pulled the. gen tie shepherd into his
seat, while explaining to him that he wasn’t
a bishop just yet, and that an excommunica-
tion explodes at the wrong end unless fired
by a party wearing gaiters. Bourne
thereupon apologised; but apologies were
no good to Gooch, and he issued a
writ for slander. Judge Gordon told
both parties that they should have had more
sense, but finally said plaintiff might collect
£5O to soothe his feelings. Still, Parson
Bourne can console himself that as a eurser
he beats the late Cardinal-Archbishop of
Reims hollow. When that famous dignitary
fired off his heaviest curse nobody was a
penny worse; whereas Bourne’s excommuni-
cation leaves himself the poorer by 50 of the
very best.
* * * *
Death got to work the other night and
prepared a gruesome finish for an unknown
solitary traveller who was found with
an arm and leg burnt off on the Boggabri-
Gunnedah track (N.S.W.). Apparently the
fire he lit for the night travelled to the tree
under which he camped. Then a burning
limb crashed down and pinned him till the
flames crept along and lifted him out of his
Gethsemane.
* * * *
“Karee” : My uncle, Admiral Noreau, some
months ago relieved a few thousand Armeni-
ans who had been heroically resisting a Turk-
ish army ten times stronger than their badly-
equipped and nearly unarmed mob, and
transported them to Egypt, where I met him
and them. Many of the men volunteered to
patrol the Canal. After relieving the Arme-
nians the Admiral desired to interview some
of their Turkish prisoners, but was met with
many apologies. It appeared that the
Armenian kiddies had guilelessly cut
the prisoners in many w r ays and pat-
terns ; w’hich only show’s how w’ell
they can copy their old oppressors
and practise the eye-for-an-eye precept. It
puts me in mind of a nigger, inva-
lided with a crippled leg from a Senegalese
regiment. He had mummified a dead Ger-
man’s face and smacked it every time his
ow r n limb gave him a twinge. And, talking of
Senegalese, my brother sends me a yarn
from the Alsace Front. A nigger from West
Africa was put in charge of a barb-wire trap
full of Boche prisoners. Seeing a few French
countryfolk going by, he sang out: “Hullo!
Coming to see the savages?”
* * * *
“Hori” : In Masterton, one of Maoriland’s
dry towns, school children have been collect-
ing empty bottles to sell in aid of a war
fund. Their first day’s haul w 7 as 1200, and
the well-meaning enthusiasts who attempt to
overcome the derrink demon by shoving it
out of sight into the family cupboard are
holding up their hands in horror. When
Masterton first went dry the Railway De-
partment detailed a truck for constant use
as an empty-bottle waggon. It w T as shunted
into various sidings and bottles from the
neighborhood were loaded into its depths.
When it made a clearance at one siding it
was hooked on to the first mixed goods that
came along and trundled to the next station.
It w r as a great comfort at night to hear it
rumbling the accumulated consignment of
beer envelopes to the breweries over the
border to be refilled and returned to the old
address.
EASILY DEFINED.
HE: “I'm looking for an occupation that will take up most of my time Jo, the rest of
my life.”
SHE: “You're looking for a wife, then.”
London Referee (which used to he demo-
cratic, but went round to the other side when
Chamberlain did) can't forgive Arthur
Adams’s Labor Premier (in “Mrs. Pretty
and the Premier,” at 11 is Majesty’s Theatre)
for being a gentleman. “An uncouth, ludi-
crous figure,” it pleads that the author surely
meant him to be, whereas Bourchier, acting
the part, shows a “needless nicety of cour-
tesy.” and “an urbane, glib, graceful and dis-
tinguished personality.” The heroine is
engaging and well-gowned—nothing at all
“that could be described as typically Aus-
tralian.” The leader of the Opposition is a
gentleman, too. Incredible ! The actor who
played the pressman went to the other ex-
treme. “The Australian reporter”—says the
London one, handsomely—“is not necessarily
a complete vulgarian. Still, his arrival was
a refreshing breeze amidst so very Bond-
streety a crow r d of Cornstalks.” Altogether
there ought to have been "a far more strongly
Australian atmosphere, . and possibly a
rougher tone.” Bourchier in particular ought
to be “a little less of Lord Haldane, and a
little more of —shall we say?—our old friend
Dick Seddon. . . .Even a good, square, stubbly
beard would have helped.” Helped, that is.
to indicate that a beastly Labor person is not
a gentleman, ’cherknow? not one of us, what?
* * * *
Recent happenings in Vic. in connection
with recruiting are, so to speak, all in the
family. Frank Clarke, M.L.C., had hardly
resigned his membership of the State recruit-
ing committee as a protest against what he
regarded as Pearce’s breach of faith in con-
nection with the pledge of 300.000 men, when
the Women’s Gnashional League got busy.
It, too, made what the Argus called “a
spirited protest,” and decided to cable to
Billy Hughes that his locum tenens had
broken Billy’s promise to Britain and her
Allies. The League president, Mrs. F. G.
Hughes, is no relative of Billy’s—oh, dear,
no ! —-despite the similarity of names.' But
she is Frank Clarke’s auntie, and her hus-
band is Brigadier-General Hughes, who
gained a C.B. at Gallipoli. It is cheerful to
see relatives sticking thus together, and
auntie presiding at a meeting which con-
giatuiates her nephew on throwing down his
recruiting job when every man is needed,
pledge or no pledge.
“Thraso” : Now if you are bent on throw-
ing something German out of the window let
me hand you the absurd old Fahrenheit ther-
mometer. The fixed points of Fahrenheit are
the congelation of sal-ammoniac at 0° and
the boiling of water at 212°. The melting
point of ice is marked 32° or zero. By the
Centigrade 0° is the melting point of ice and
100° the boiling point of water. Surely Cen-
tigrade is a much simpler standard and one
carrying much easier calculations. Even the
French Reaumur, the zero of which is 0°
and the boiling point 80°, would be preferable
to Fahrenheit. Why should 32° be zero when
it is really not zero?
INSULT TO INJURY.
THE WRONGED HUSBAND : “ Villain! what
have you to say before I send your soul
to Hell?”
THE AWFUL VILLAIN : “Only that it will be
most humiliating to he shot with an
obsolete stage gun by a fifth-rate actor.
Besides, your wife would ue inconsol-
able
NICOTINA VICTRIX.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Blow on the pipes of Pan!
In goodly measure
Through their red pulses ran
The wildwood pleasure
Of green things winnowed by the fleeting breeze,
Of shrill bird-voices in the tossing trees;
And, flashing fair,
The rose of morning on her flying knees,
Gold on her hair,
The dimpled dryad who since time began
Fled and was never caught by arm of man!
Make on the horn of Mars
A brazen blowing
That shakes the steadfast stars!
The warm blood flowing
In all their veins was with that music keen
As the new sap that made the forest green ;
And leaping high
The battle flames like outblown banners seen
Called men to die,
Chasing the phantom glory whose bright heels
Outran the stirring of war’s chariot wheels!
Smoke we the pipe of peace!
The blue wreaths, climbing
Where lust and battle cease,
Leave careless rhyming
A little happy space in which to play.
The blacker cannon reek is blown away,
The skies grow clear;
The glory all men sought for lies to-day
Beside us here.
And e’en the dryad that the satyr misses
Stoops through the smoke with bob-a-cherry kisses.
n.s.w.
PAT O’MAORI.


“1
f
*
Support the Motherland’s Industries
—and your own Country's Products
Quality Stockings and Socks
for Ladies, Children & Men
Are manufactured from pure Australasian wool —
in Leicester, England, by workpeople who have
inherited the art from generations of the world’s
best hosiery makers.
Insist on Jason Stockings and Socks—which are
all-wool, and of soft, silky finish. See the Jason
Tab on every pair. Drapers and Outfitters everywhere.
In case of difficulty write to
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, Eng,
Aa 60
IF BILIOUS OR CONSTIPATED TAKE
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF Fli
Harmless fruit laxative cleanses
stomach, liver and bowels
without griping or
discomfort.
An acid stomach, clogged with fermenting,
ill-digested food, means that the liver is not
doing its duty. Nature provided ripe fruit
juices to keep the liver up to its work.
California Syrup of Figs—“Califig”—is a
deliciously refreshing fruit laxative which is
always in season. You can keep it at hand,
and it will be an unfailing friend whenever
the tongue is coated, bowels sluggish, breath
foul, throat dry or sore, stomach full of
wind, and head hot and aching. You can
take a dose whenever it is needed, as safely
as you could eat fresh fruit. In a short
while you will feel the benefit. The bowels
will be gently relieved, and the stomach
cleansed and sweetened as the undigested
food is moved on and got rid of. The tongue
will grow clean again and the head will be
cooled and cleared. There is no mistaking
the beneficial effects of California Syrup of
Figs—“Califig.” Directions are with it for
adults ■ and children of all ages. This,
pleasant laxative is good for' all, and cannot
possibly harm even the most delicate, but
you must ask for “Califig”—California
Syrup of Figs, and look for the name and
trade-mark of the California Fig Syrup Co.
All chemists sell “Califig”—California*
Syrup of Figs—in bottles of two siz >3
1/li and 1/9. rf
Canny old Parson J. C. Kirby, who was
behind the six-o’clock bar-closing movement
in South Aus., has explained the inside work-
ing of the campaign. Three years ago he
struck the idea of a referendum. With the
Labor party in power he reckoned it couldn’t
be refused; and it was all “Heads I win,
tails you lose.” His first thought was to go
for eight o’clock, but Delahanty, a layman
who arrived in S. Aus. years ago as an insur-
ance canvasser, said, “Might as well go for
six.” So they did. The opposition. Kirby
considers, made two fatal mistakes: (1)
They stuck out for no reduction of time at
all; whereupon the six-o’cloekers said, “The
Lord has delivered the Philistines into our
hgnds.” Still, Tasmania’s experience in
agreeing on a reduction to 10 o’clock and
then seeing 6 o’clock carried nevertheless does
not bear out this idea. (2) The liquor party
talked about Wesleyan wowsers, and “the
Methodist parsons got their steam up, for
which I was most thankful. They are a
most powerful body of men.... They have
the gift of the gab, they preach in many
churches and they move among great num-
bers of people. They are indeed a great
power. They don’t always go together, else
they would govern the community. The
more the trade slanged into the Methodist
parsons and called them wowsers, the better
for us.” Kirby is a Congregationalist him-
self, and was an oldish man 30 years ago.
NOT QUITE UP TO DATE.
“I may be old-fashioned, George, but I could
no more walk down that beach in a
b[?]thing costume than I could motor into
business in my pyjamas.”
“When I want anything done,” he con-
fessed almost as far back as that, “I form
myself into a league. Then as president
or secretary of the league I write to the
papers. As J. C. Kirby I’m nobody; as
president of a league I’m plainly a person
of some consequence, and soon there is a
real league for me to be president of.”
Rita’ : A Victorian tenant cocky was sell-
ing off because of the “Yes” on his enlist-
ment-card. The auction went fairly well till
it came to five or six haystacks—about 250
tons in all. \V hen would-be purchasers of
the fodder inquired how long they could have
to remove the stacks if their bids were suc-
cessful, the landlord’s voice was heard assert-
ing that the stacks must be off the
place within 24 hours. Result, no
THE INVIDIOUS DISTINCTION.
THE PARSON V mildly : What, no room? Why there’s only one gentleman here and
two commercial travellers.”
bidding, and the hay knocked down
to the landlord at about £22 the lot,
or 2s. a ton. A lawyer is being
asked for his opinion, and the sale may not
be allowed to stand ; certainly the landlord
shouldn’t.
Francois Man rice-Carton, lecturer in
French at Melbourne University, wrote the
other day to the Vic,
Council of Public Edu-
cation to protest
against the teaching of
French in Victorian
schools by instructors of
German origin, “there
being capable English
teachers whq could do
the work.” Maurice-
Carton’s letter was
gently discussed and
then “received,” and
the Council w en t °ff to
deal with other affairs.
This body, which has
the right of granting
registration to schools,
mainly consists of Uni-
versity employees and
men in frequent asso-
ciation with University
matters. Frank Tate,
Theodore Fink and
Alexander Dee-
per, all of whom
were at the inqet-
i n g w h e n the
Frenph linguist’s
protest was con-
sidered, are also mem-
bers of the University
Council, which lately
bumped out the Univer-
sity’s German lecturer
—one von Dechend, a
German who taught
German. Yet if there
is anything in Maurice-
Carton’s allegation that
Germany are teaching
French in certain Vic-
torian schools, which
are open by grace of the
Council of Education,
the sacking of Dechend looks like straining
out a gnat and then swallowing a shoal of
elephants.
“Vin” : At Shepheard’s, the swell place in
Cairo, an Australian officer was recently
dining with some of England’s uniformed
snobs, when a sergeant of the A.I.F. strolled
up and casually said “Goo-day” to the man
from down under. “Really, Majah.” ex-
claimed one very shocked ducal bottle-oh,
“these rank-and-faile are getting too
familiah.” “All right, old chap,” answered
the smiling major. “Gentlemen, this is my
son, Sergeant
Adelaide took six o’clock closing with its
usual holy calm. On the last 11 o’clock night
all hotels doused their outside lights sharp on
the hour to show what the streets would look
like without them. A few speeches were
made at Grenfell-street corner, and a march
of protest was made to . the haw-haw
Adelaide Club —which, to the shame of the
Leg. Council, was expressly omitted in the
Act that shuts up every other pub and club
in the State. Not even the formal meeting
at which the anti-liquor party celebrated its
triumph could bring out anything more than
a mild barracking. “Don’t blame the Gov-
ernment for that!” Premier Vaughan said
when the favoritism shown to the fatted club
was thrown at him for the dozenth time. “It
was the price we had to pay for getting the
Bill through both Houses.” Then Smeaton,
M.L.A., said he believed prohibition would be
carried if a referendum were taken on that;
and the meeting went home through a mildly-
hooting crowd.
» * * *
“Thraso”; Mr. and Mrs. W. M. Hughes
have had the honor of inspecting the King’s
Stables at Buckingham Palace. This is a
quaint idea of the Agents-General, who keep
printed cards of invitation to go over the
Royal mews at Buckingham Palace and
Windsor, and hand them out to travelling
Australians. Some Australians prefer
ture galleries, others a fat Scotch and soda,
but the Agent-General always hands out a
card to see the King’s horses and hay-lofts!
# *. * *
“A Banished Englishman”: How these
serial stories ip the daily papers of Aus-
tralia remind us of friends a u d places now
far away and revive precious memories of
bygone customs! In one of them the other
morning there was this fine little touch; —
• The dawn came up greyly over Essex,, Sir Ralph
Morte-Mannery, wrapped in fuis dozing in his car,
was awakened by. the arrival of a pannikin of coffee.
As I read it I felt a gulp in the throat —an
overwhelming wave of nostalgia —and then a
feeling of pride gpil relief that Australian
men and women should thus he brought into
closer touch with the customs of the Dear
Old Land. I know Essex well. There in m.v
youth I have often seen in the hour before
dawn the cars of the old nobility standing
motionless on the landscape with their con-
tents wrapped in slumber and swathed in a
bear's overcoat. They adopted this means of
evading their creditors, mostly, but that
doesn’t matter. It was the picturesqueness
of the scene that lives in one’s mind as an
abiding memory. And when the pannikins
of coffee began to arrive rural England gained
a new significance. They arrived mostly in
coveys and perched on the steering-wheel
until the proprietor awoke and, picking them
up, set them at liberty again. Never did I
see one of them startled or cruelly treated,
though sometimes they might be overlooked
when the proprietor leaped hurriedly out to
crank up his engine and get home for break-
fast. The simple customs of Essex, where
the gentry sleep ip the open air and the pan-
nikins arrive with the sun (whether there is
any or not), are a revelation to strangers of
the source of that vitality and purposefulness
which gives the nation strength to do and
dare and muddle through, and faith to lend
Australia the cash to buy asparagus in
America and pay for seven cocked hats and
14 Houses of Parliament.
“Old ’Un”: The recent death of Knight
Aston, the actor, recalls the descent upon
Melbourne of that superb adventuress, Mrs.
Gordon Baillie. The lady was a glorious
blonde, of regal carriage and winning man-
ner, with two beautiful young children in
tow. Her alleged mission was to obtain
land from the Government on which to
place a colony of Scotch crofters who had
struck hard times in their native Orkneys
or Shetlands or somewhere. Her vogue
was instant. Tommy Bent took her case
up ; Dr. Beaney gave her his carriage ; J. S.
Butters chaperoned her everywhere; Vic.
Governor Henry Loch and his lady smiled
upon the enchantress. Her wishes were
placed before Parliament, and French Island
was selected for cession. But just at the
moment of success the bubble burst. A pro-
saic suburban milkman sued the lady for his
bill —and the show was over. She vanished,
and it was then discovered that she was the
daughter of a Scotch charwoman, and had
“done time” for fraud, forgery and other
trifles. It transpired, too, that she was the
divorced wife of Knight Aston, who didn’t,
by the way, admit to being proud of those
beautiful children. Bent cursed her to his
dying day.
The odd thing in Mrs. Gordon Baillie’3
astonishing career was her spasm of infatua-
tion for Knight Aston, whom she married
while he was playing Grenieheux in the
first London production of “Les Cloches de
Corneville.” Aston, who gravitated to bari-
tone after he came to Australia, was singing
as a tenor at that time. Grenieheux is hardly
a character to beguile a stage-struck female,
being a miserable craven after the first act.
But in that first act Knight Aston, in his
blue and white striped costume, presented
such a fine, romantic, piratical-fisherman
appearance, and threw himself about so
heroically when he sang his solo, that Mrs.
Gordon Baillie spotted him for her heart’s
desire. She did the wooing, so his cousin
said at the time. She wrote and implored
the tenor to see her, whereupon Knight
Aston cautiously thought to assure himself
that the lady was good goods before he
wasted any time on her. And she seemed
the best of goods—came to the stage door
in a carriage and pair, clad in .sealskin and
fine jewels, showed him a' tastefully-
furnished home and persuaded him to share
her lot. She managed her courtship and
marriage on tick, of course, and her disillu-
sioned husband had to fix up with her. credi-
tors as best he could. Presumably she got
herself involved in new frauds and extrava-
gances whilst she was living with him. Any-
how, Knight Aston came to Australia
and had been here for some years:
before his precious wife disturbed his
peace of mind by bursting upon the social
and political world with her astounding bluff.
“Ilameses”: Jimbil had been making the
usual inspection of the mummy of my very
ancient forefather at one of Egypt’s royal
tombs. “After life’s fitful he keeps well.”
was the unimpressionable Australian’s only
comment.
PROOF POSITIVE.
FIRST BALLERNA: “ Has Reggie any
brains?”
SECOND DITTO: “What, Reggie! Why, he’s
the sort that’d look for the stage-door of
a moving-picture show to give the star a
bouquet.”
SAVING GRACE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The British War Savings Committee demands
greater frugality in the matter of dress, especially
among well-to-do women. These latter are appealed
to to observe due economy, more particularly in the
matter of shoes and stockings.
They asked our British woman to
Be sparing in regard to dress.
She met the wish with spirit new—
Skirts were appreciably less.
In fact, so scant her garments were
She looked like a vivandiere.
They urged for greater sparing still.
She pruned her dresses at the top,
And did it with such ready will
We feared the dame would never stop.
Low-necked, high-kneed, abroad by day
She seemed an old-style coryphee.
She now is asked to emulate
The Trilby fay, and minus sock,
Or boot, or shoe, with mincing gait
Go gingerly to do her Block.
Of course she will respond, and thus
Make cold feet meritorious.
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


“AUSTRALIA FIRST!”


THE BLOSSOM OF VICTORY.
WILHELM (pulling the petals): “Dis years, negst years, zumteims, NEVAIR!”


Chaving
(2)tick
leveß)
For an
Ideal Shave
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORUS
Just wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSONS
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
anti you'll have the skin healed and health'
quicker than with any other ointment on earth
Everyone says so who has used it. Write for
tin now. 1/6, posted 1/9.
J. WILKIXSOX, Chemist,
i Street, \ alley, Brisbane.
Are You Deaf?
If so, you can be
relieved by using
WILSON'S COMMON-SENSE EAR-DRUMS
A new scientific invention, entirelv different in
construction front ail other devices. Assist
the deaf when all other devices fail, and where
medical skill has given no relief. They are
soft, comfortable and invisible; have no wire
or string attachment.
Write for Booklet. Mention this Paper.
STAR NOVELTY CO.
, 4-98, Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
[1
LEWIS&
whirry
MAKERS
a -JSLM
£
YING
tJUT
'<• :•-
>r*
sm _
©
v:
Xv.v
Buxton \^r
If you would have the right
quality, shape, weight, and
price, wear WOODROW '3
famous hat always.
n bUinatte a.I Leaoing Stores.
VICTOR!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Blood of sunrise in the heavens!
Swift, across a cheek that blenches,
Wells the life-blood of my comrade,
In the trenches.
Where the night attack reeled backward
Heaps of twisted dead are lying ;
And beside me, torn and ghastly,
Victor, dying!
Victor, sunny-haired and boyish—
How lie loved the shadowed reaches
Of the Upper Lane Cove River,
Sydney’s beaches!
He will row no more beside me,
Surf no more amidst the flying
White-capped breakers down at Manly;
lie is dying.
And, ah Eily ! Eily loved him!
She is brave and she will bear it....
But she begged me to protect him,
Made me swear it.
She will take it white and steady;
1 have never seen her crying—
I would rather watch by Victor,
Victor, dying !
Oh, for him it matters little,
For I know that, filled with laughter,
Sunny-hearted, he will enter
The Hereafter.
But for Eily life is ended
Where this broken boy is lying,
And her heart will die with Victor.
He is dying !
sissell's top, anzac.
A. I’ANSON.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Senator Blakey (Vic.) went before the
military, examiners while visiting Warragul
as a member of the A.N.A. Conference, and
offered his heart for inspection. It proved
to be sound and in the right place; but its
owner was told to stand down on account of
neuritis.
Charles Atkins, the livest of Melbourne’s
city councillors, is off to London to offer his
services to the British authorities for any
sort of war work in which a sturdy, alert man
of 57 or thereabouts can be serviceable. If
he can’t get a job in England he will go to
France, and push himself into some sort of
employment. He refuses to sit down among
the elderly optimists who do nothing beyond
convincing themselves that “we are bound
to win.”
NOTHING TO GUIDE HER.
"I’m in a fearful dilemma! My fiance has
received an anonymous letter telling him
various things about my past.”
"You had better confess to him.”
“That’s just it —he won't let me read the
letter, and I don’t know how much to
confess.”
Apparently Vic. Premier Alec Peacock has
caught the John Murray ailment. At any
rate a late colleague said of him the other
day: “Peacock is a safe man. He is always
ready to advise immediate inaction.”
Symon and Cleland, both K.C., and for-
merly partners, are the bitterest wranglers
now in the S. Aus. courts. The older man
lately had his feelings seriously hurt. “If
my learned friend takes that attitude," said
Cleland, after some emphatic contradictions
on a question of fact, "I shall treat him as
a sleeping dog. and let him lie.” Symon
seems fated to be the victim of verbal ambig-
uities. A sporting Iv.C. (now dead) once
met an indignant denial of shouting at a
witness with the pleasant words: “I with-
draw 7 . I ought to have remembered that my
learned friend never shouts.” And Symon
was not pleased even then.
Ages of Melbourne Uni. Professors:
Harry B. Allen (pathology), 62; R, J. A.
R. Berry (anatomy), 48; A. J. Ewart
(botany), 44; W. R. Boyce-Gibson (phil-
osophy), 47; T. H. Laby (physics), 36;
T. R. Lyle (natural philosophy), 56;
D. Orme Masson (chemistry), 58; W. Har-
rison-Moore (law), 48; E. J. Nanson
(maths.), 65; W. A. Osborne (physiology),
43; Henry Payne (engineering), 45; Ernest
Scott (history). 48; E. W. Skeats (geol-
ogy). 41; IV. Baldwin-Spencer (biology).
56; T. G. Tucker (classical philology), 49;
R. S. Wallace (English), 33.
“Y.Z.”: The assumption that David Mit-
chell, Melba’s old dad, was a hard Scot, with
the sense of humor of a pickled Pharaoh, is
not founded on fact. I know of one incident
that hints to the con-
trary. One of 11
people in a railway
carriage bound to
Lilydale, a locality in
which the Mitchell
was regarded as a
man of might and
magnificence, was a
dour, grey Scot.
Another passenger was
a middle-aged female
in black, whose efforts
to assume a respect-
able deportment were
marred by the fact
that she had recently
imbibed more gin than
she could support with
dignity. There was
some laughter in the
carriage, and the fe-
male unknown scented
an imputation. She
bristled. “How dare
you?” she said. "Don't
you insult me! I'm
Mrs. David Mitchell.
Tha’s who I am, Mrs.
David Mitchell!” She
threw this assertion
proudly into every
face opposite, till she
came to the dour Scot
in the corner. “I’m
Mrs. David Mitchell,”
she said. “Ar-re ye,
ma’am?” replied the
Caledonian. “I’m
verra pleased to meet
ye. I’m Mees t e r
David Mitchell.”
The late Chief Justice Way’s old home,
Montefiore. beautifully situated on the North
Adelaide hill, looking across the Oval and
the river to Adelaide, has been unexpectedly
acquired by Paul Joseph. The pushing par-
son, with a big Tasmanian legacy to back
up his views, is building a “City Temple”
on North Terrace, and has given £6OOO for
Montefiore as "a suitable home” for reli-
gious work in connection with it. It is
likely that no fate for the old place would
have been more pleasing to the evangelically-
minded Way—who was childless and a
widower.
Premier Earle (Tas.) very nearly missed
the recent election. In the Great Lake
country early in March he was standing
under a big tree when a thunderstorm came
up. He darted for better shelter: where-
upon a thunderbolt clouted the vegetable and
scattered it for a hundred yards around.
A resourceful Victorian citizen places him-
self at the disposal of the Empire this week
—Edward Simpson Hill, postmaster at Dal-
more, Gippsland. He enlisted and will go
into camp in a few days. Recently a man
employed on a threshing machine had his
foot caught and crushed to pulp and splin-
ters. Hill rang up a Dandenong doctor, who
couldn’t come, but conveyed instructions by
telephone under which Hill amputated the
mangled portion of the leg. When the real
sawbones saw the job. he said he couldn’t
have done it better himself.
Hermann B. Ritz. lecturer in French and
German at the Tasmanian Cni. and transla
tor to the local censor, held that a wise man
will pray, for a short farewell, and
often said he hoped he would drop
down dead. He had his wish the
other day, for he collapsed when
hurrying up a hill and died in a few minutes.
A Swiss by birth, he was a meenister of the
Scotch Church by ordination, but did not
like the title, though he used to edify the
faithful occasionally. He had lived on his
lecturer’s job for 16 years.
Australia’s contribution to the big fight
this week included Douglas Mawson, the
Antarctic explorer, who left via U.S.A. to
report himself for special duty at the War
Office. When he isn’t looking for the South
Pole Mawson teaches petrology at . the
Adelaide University. Presumably the War
Office has in view a scientific classification of
its fossils.
David Mitchell had a finger in many pies.
He tried wine-making for three years, buying
the St. Hubert’s vineyard at Tering, on the
edge of the fertile Yarra Flats, from Joseph
Timms. But the old man found that St.
Hubert’s wouldn’t fit in with his other activi-
ties, and Timms bought it back again. A
man of large ideas, by the way, is this
Joseph Timms. Some years ago he con-
ceived a plan for direct selling the produce
of his mixed farm, and with his sons started
an immense shop in Elizabeth-street, near
the Central Station. He dressed a beauti-
ful row of windows with poultry, pig-meat,
cream cheese and bush sausage, advertising
the goods as the produce of St. Hubert’s.
They were good goods, too, and the shop was
a hive of activity—a place in which it was
a pleasure to spend more than one could
afford on eatables one shouldn’t eat. But
the ground landlord must have proved too
great a burden, for presently Timms gave
up the pork palace and resorted to the
usual channels for placing most of his
output.
THE TRIUMPHAL MARCH.
“Ello. Bill.' Y’r ain’t enlisted, ’ave y’r?”
“No, I’m root marehin’. First I did V ten-
mile fatter with th’ Fly-in’ Foxes, an’
’ad t’ retire on ’rcount ov indigestion;
then I did 15 mile with th’ Wombats,
an’ ’ad t’r retire agen. An’ now I’m
goin ’ across t’r do ’r five-mile dash with
th’ Dingoes fr me dinner.”
Courthope, the Oxford Professor of Poetry
who recently aired his views on Australian
poets, has a son in this country—R. A.
Courthope, an M.A. of dad's University and
vice-principal of the Brotherhod of the Good
Shepherd, which musters the Anglican fioc-k
out around Canbelego (X.S.W.), Probably
it was the ecclesiastical connection which
led the Professor to place the little-known
verses of Bishop Gilbert White, of Willochra
(S.A. 1, among the most notable poetical pro-
ductions of Australia.
Passed out at Lewisham Hospital, Sydney,
last month, John Service, medico and author.
Born in Ayrshire in 1851, Service passed
through Glasgow University and emerged
armed with a license to kill; but the chief
occupation of his life was the collection of
Scottish folk-tales, which he dressed in lit-
erary form while preserving their native
colloquial Scots. The “New Oxford Dic-
tionary” and Wright’s “Dialectic Diction-
ary" have drawn largely on his work for
examples of almost obsolete words and
phrases. 111-health made a tragedy of his
later days, but a Commonwealth literary
pension helped to shift the worst boulders off
the last stage of the journey. A paternal
grand-uncle, whose portrait he presented to
X S.W. Mitchell Library, was James Dun-
lop. a bygone astronomer at Gov. Brisbane's
Parramatta (X.S.W. ) observatory when last
century was in its teens.
Lemmon, ALL.A. for AVilliamstown in the
A’ic. Assembly, has been spending the Parlia-
mentary recess in a battle with the Reaper
He now has the struggle well in hand
and has gone off to the bush, but it will
some time before he is done with the »hi
armchair for good.
REFORESTATION.
On the business paper for the coming P.L.L. Con-
ference there ate about a dozen resolutions for the
abolition of the X.S.W. Legislative Council.
——One news iterri
The long-contemplated appointments to the N.SAV.
Legislative Council are, it is understood, to be made
as soon as the session doses.— Another.
Holman: “Why, it’s becoming quite ornu-
mental!”
.T. C. Climie. who passed out at Zeehan
(Tas.) the other day, aged 88, was the
engineer-in-cliarge, nearly half a century ago.
of the Brighton-Parattah section, the tough-
est part of Tasmania’s first railway, the old
Main Line. He surveyed other railways in
the Speck, and in later years laid out vari-
ous mining works on the West Coast.
Judge Bevan, who takes the North-West-
ern circuit, is the champion long-distance
wig of X. S. Wales. Every trip to Broken
Hill and back means 2798 miles, and every
rush to Bourke 1016 miles. The track to
Brewarrina runs to 1036. including the
return. Altogether he covers something like
50,000 miles a year. But it helps to develop
the long limb of the Law.
Died a few days ago, Tat Carrig, the old-
est inhabitant of the Wimmera district
(Vic.). He was an Irishman from Galway,
and was on the borders of 80 when he fin-
ished. Sixty years ago he went to Adelaide,
stayed 16 years in South Aus.. then crossed
to Victoria, “selected’’ land at Xullan. and
helped to survey a township on a spot which
is now Minyip.
“Vic” gives the celebrity’s father a send-
off : —■
Exit David Mitchell, one of Melbourne’s notable
builders, but best known as father of Melba. Born
in’ Forfarshire, in 1829, he arrived in young Mel-
bourne in '57. A stonemason by trade, he at once
began as a building-contractor in Burnley-street,
Richmond, where he stayed to the end, except for a
brief period at Bendigo in the golden long ago. There
were 10 Mitchell children; seven are still alive.
Melba is the eldest; the other three daughters are
Mrs.' Box, Mrs. Patterson and Mrs. Lempriere.
Mother died 35 years ago. Dad built the Exhibition,
Masonic Hall, Prell's Buildings, the New Zealand
Loan Co.’s woolstores at Kensington, Scots' Church
and the vast Equitable Building. In 1899 he retired
from his contracting, and went in, among many other
things, for making cement out of stone from his Cave
Hill estate, Lilydale. Out of business hours
he was a sound musician, who played the
violin and was for long in the Scots’
Church choir. Though immensely proud of his big
daughter, few people ever heard him talk about
her. Perhaps it was because he had to listen
to so many other people talking about her. Or
maybe some lingering Scotch prejudice against opera
restrained him ; or it may have been his dour wav
of veiling his family pride in her achievements.
Every way, though, he was a good old Dad, and we’ll
see a sadder Nellie than we’ve ever before known
when she returns.


*■ ' ' ' ■ 'r-
s:
m
w
v-'
/-V*
©
255
&
&
<9
©
m
mr
tr
s
.V
X
M
1
4
ti
(AV
arc
I'A Man needs a Good
Tobacco tbese Times —
' HavelocK
Special Mixture
is tbe sort of tobacco that Keeps you
from getting flurried or down-
hearted It’s good to thinß on —to
work on —Yes, and
TO FIGHT ON.
TRY IT! and send
some to the boys
if you can’t go.
A
Special HavelocK
Smoking' Mixture
3 Strengths t Mild, Medium, Full
2-oz. Airtight Tins
™ E PIPE
OF QUALITY—
LMN
400
'yo»3>
LMN
1%
£V ery p 'P e Quara "N


Overall, McCray, Ltd.
Bald Rock,
BALMAIN.
SPECIALTY
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS—Deep and Shallow—
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES
Large Stocks also on hand—Samson Windmills, Galvanised Water Pipe and Fittings,
Sheep and Cattle Troughing, Pumps. &c. ■ Send for Catalogue.
BUCYRUS CO.
Milwaukee
Steam Shovels, Drag L,ir\e Excavators.
Sole Agents WILLIAM ADAMS CSX COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Melbourne) Brisbane» Perth*
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Mutual Ltfe and Citizens’ Assur-
ance Co., Ltd., which is the Citizens’ Life
Association with the MX.A. and the Aus-
tralian Widows’ Fund grafted on to it, and
is now generally known as the M.L.C.: —
Okdin'aky Lifr Defartmknt. Added
Written to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. OIL Knuds.
1903. . £217,062 £39,472 £29,766 £147,824
1904.. 239,820 58,450 31,894 £1,531 147,945
1905.. 255,130 64,962 33,545 20,572 136,051
1906.. 278,713 62,267 34,867 395 181,184
1907.. 299,001 83,803 24,190 12,925 178,083
(Amalgamation with M.L.A. took place at this point.)
1908.. 667,435 274,307 74,674 157,054 161,400
1909.. 692,089 321,484 58,392 1,745 310,468
(Widows’ Fund came in here.)
1910.. 941,605 481,526 84,252 2,524 373,303
1911. 534,801 95.864 5,275 411,210
1912. 593,820 100,391 2,631 401,906
1913. 595,487 92,604 15,320 423,787
1914. . 1,162,249 604,258 102,274 1,541 454,176
1915. . 1,174,039 666,113 98,695 6,986 402,245
Last year’s income was higher than that 'of
the previous term ; but the growth was much
less than usual. The office was hit two
ways. The new insurance business brought
in only £42,396, as against £63,059 in 1914;
on the other hand the death claims were
£64,792 greater, “of which,” the directors
report, “£53,061 was due to war claims.”
The war was no doubt largely responsible
also for the shrinkage in new business. ,At
the outset of the Great Trouble life cos. were
faced with an awkward problem. What
should they do when a man came in, said he
was going to the Front and asked for a
policy? Any office would be tempted to say
“Here you are, and good luck to you !” But
an insurance office has its obligations just
as much as a bank. It accepts deposits from
its policy-holders, and undertakes to pay the
principal with interest on a fixed date or at
death if that happens first. Death being
uncertain, it has struck an average ; and it
has drawn up its tables of premiums or
deposits on the basis of that average. If it
accepts men who run extra risks, then the
average is liable to be disturbed, and it will
probably be unable to later on honor its
promise to pay. Knowing this, the majority
of offices decided to charge an extra premium
on policies taken by men proceeding to the
Front. Iteally these were not life policies
so much as accident policies: they were in
exactly the same category as the policy
which many people take out prior to setting
out on a long journey in time of peace.
But the extra premium to be charged was
wholly guesswork. Some offices said 5 p.c.;
others, starting at 5 p.c., went up to 10 p.c.;
in England an extra 15 p.c. is asked; in
Canada as much as 20 p.c. This diversity of
rates is the best proof possible that this class
of business is not true life insurance at all.
The Bulletin has frequently expressed the
opinion that no life office ought to be per-
mitted to take accident business; and this
was essentially accident business. The
M.L.C. decided that it was not. justified in
accepting it. That it was prepared to do
great things in the national crisis it subse-
quently showed by heading the list of sub-
scribers to both the first and second Com-
monwealth war loans. But it decided that it
was not entitled to jeopardise the contracts
it had made with its policy-holders.
One can concur with the decision of the
M.L.C. as thoroughly sound from a business
point of view and yet not disagree with those
offices which, recognising the exceptional
circumstances, decided to issue policies to
men going to the Front. The .State fortu-
nately, though it did not grant insurance
cover to its soldiers, got over the worst of
the difficulty by undertaking to pay pen-
sions ; and that not only to those who could
afford to pay a money premium, but to those
also who had nothing to offer but their lives.
Out of the difficulties surrounding the ques-
tion one thing is clear. It is never too early
for a wage-earner to get insured. So far as
this paper knows, no first-class office in
Australia asks a policy-holder who has taken
out a policy in time of peace to pay an
extra premium when he goes to war. For-
merly insurance offices did charge 5 p.c.
extra ; but nowadays they accept the risk of
a man having to fight for his country as
part of the ordinary chances of life. One
can therefore get one's war risks taken by
the simple process of taking out a policy
beforehand.
While the M.L.C. has paid out £53,061
in claims directly due to the war, it has
received something in the way of war inter-
est. _ The average earnings of the funds were
2s. sd. p.c. more than in the preceding year,
and reached the quite unusual rate of £4
395. Id. p.c. The mean of the assurance
fund of the Ordinary Department for the
year was £8,079,671. so the interest earnings
were approximately £50,000 more than they
would have been if the previous year’s rate
had prevailed. Nor will only the past year’s
earnings be increased as a result of the war:
money will be dear for some years to come.
To counterbalance that, more or less, it is
certain that in many cases where claims
have not actually arisen the policy-holder’s
expectation of life will be shortened. On
the whole, though, it is doubtful whether
the extra earnings will not more than cover
that loss. This is another way of saying
that the war is not likely to affect this co.’s
bonuses. For .the past year these bonuses,
or additions to the policy-holders’ paid-up
insurance, amount to £247,290; or, deduct-
ing the one-fifth which the shareholders
receive in return for guaranteeing the policy
contracts and the limitation of the expense
rate, £215,454. The premiums in respect of
all policies valued amounted to £767,605,
so that the bonus averaged 28.1 p.c. of the
premiums paid—a splendid return, and proof
of the exceptionally able conduct of the
policy-holders’ business.
Industrial Life Department.
Expenses Added
(Including Written to
Dec., Income. Claims. Dividends). Off. Funds.
1904. . £201,166 £SS, 169 £89,596 £53,401
1905. . 199,426 51,095 84,039 £8577 55,715
1906.. 205,910 46,757 -75,251 849 83,053
1907.. 235,086 55,770 82,820 96,496
1908.. 217,371 98,068 84,268 1734 33.301
1909.. 227,299 74,829 98,522 4746 49,202
. 1910.. 243,286 74.108 105,330 2755 61,093
1911.. 264,235 65,606 108,077 3916 86,636
1912.. *281,597 63,186 111,978 6196 100,237
1913. . p3,365 115,794 6594 82,773
1914.. 322,017 66,240 134,643 121.134
1915.. 337,959 72,835 143,912 121,212
The Citizens’ was one of the first Australian
offices to issue Industrial policies; and,
though the field has been pretty thoroughly
worked, the M.L.C. still has an expanding
connection. No doubt the figures would
show up still better if the co. didn’t make
it a practice to try to pass on every likely-
looking Industrial policy-holder to the much
more desirable Ordinary branch. This prac-
tice of making the Industrial a feeder for
the Ordinary is partly responsible for the
latter’s low expense rate, as reflected in
the high bonuses. Now and again one hears
consequent complaints that the Industrial
branch is loaded with expenses that ought
to belong to the Ordinary branch; But
that really doesn’t affect the Industrial
policy-holders, who are offered a definite
contract. They are told exactly how much
their policy is going to be worth, and it
won’t be worth any more or any less. When
they get into the premium-paying habit they
can transfer to the Ordinary branch, and
then they have bonuses to look forward to.
The M.L.C. is a proprietary office —the
one big office built on that plan in Austral-
asia. The mutual office has no capital. It
divides all the profits among policy-holders,
and that is excellent; but it has no outside
body guaranteeing the policy-holders any-
thing. The proprietary office guarantees the
policy and all its bonus additions, but it
takes one-fifth of the profits for itself. The
share capital is £200,000, and there is a
general reserve of £lOO,OOO in addition to
the assurance fund. There is thus a small
body of people very deeply interested in see-
ing that the funds are securely invested and
that economy is practised in the manage-
ment.
Beath. Sciiiess and Felstead. Ltd.,
softgoods warehousemen (Melbourne) :
r Dividends. %
Cum. Pref. Ordi- Towards
July, Profits. 64 p.c. naries. Reserves. Deficit.
1912.. £56,187
Jan.,
1913. . £16.654 £3250 6p.c. = £2lOO £11,304 44,883
1914.. 12,444 6500 5 „,, 3500 2,444 42 439
1915. . 12.814 6500 5 „ „ 3500 2,814 39^625
1916.. 14,938 6500 6 „ „ 4200 4,238 35,387
The position is still very unsatisfactory,
inasmuch as the profits are much smaller
than those mentioned in the prospectus as
having been previously earned. A co. with
a capital of £820.000 would, it was said, be
able to pay £21,000 in dividends and provide
a good lay-by if previous results were
repeated. The actual share capital is
£220,000, with £lOO,OOO in 5 p.c. deben-
tures: and instead of £21.000 being distri-
buted the maximum so far has been £15.700.
Even then the lay-by is rather insignificant.
“War conditions” are blamed; but it is
very doubtful whether war conditions have
seii usly prejudiced soft-goods profits thus
Dr: and, anyhow, they haven’t persisted for
04 years. One is bound to accept the state-
ments made in the prospectus. What the
shareholders might reasonably ask for is a
report from their auditors explaining why
past results are not now being realised.
In addition to the £lOO.OOO of 5 p.c. doben-
tures the co. owed at the end of January
£l2(.i9S. of which £02.456 was money
raised on mortgage or by deposits. Twelve
months ago the liabilities were £134.555. In
that respect the position has improved a
trifle; but it ought to have improved more
than that, because stocks on hand and
afloat Jiave been reduced from £214.265 to
£193,474. The co. has. however, been unable
to shift much of its own debt because,
though its stocks have been reduced, it has
increased its trade credits by over £25,000
Maybe January 31 was a little early to get
in country money; still, considering the
quite unusual amount of cash which is in
circulation as a result of the spending of the
war loans, the large increase in book debts
just now requires some explanation.
.So far only two classes of shares. £lOO 000
of cumulative pref. and £70.000 of ordinary,
kave_ had a dividend. Besides these there
are ->O,OOO deferred ordinary, issued to the
vendors, and representing the goodAvill. So
far. therefore, the goodwill has been no drain
upon the business, and that makes the divi-
dend available look all the poorer. These
deferred shares are to get nothing until the
ordinaries have had S p.c.; then thev are to
come in for anything up to 8 p.c. A point
for the ordinaries to remember is that, after
they reach 8 p.c., there is thus likely to be a
considerable wait before they get any more.
* * * *
London Stores, Ltd., which bought a
men s outfitting business in Melbourne, and
started with various goodwill and other in-
tangible items representing £26,368 of the
capital:—
Towards
Reduc-
Written tion of De-
Feb., Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit, fieit.
1911.. £26,368
1912.. Bp.c.= £4200 £3093 23,275
£1666 added to goodwill items .. 24,941
1913.. 9,702 Bp.c.= 5600 £1596 2506 22,435
1914.. 11,003 8 „ „ 5600 704 4699 17,736
1915.. 15,132 9 ~ „ 6300 645 8187 9,549
1916.. 15,134 10 „ „ 7000 604 7530 2,019
That is to say, without reckoning the £7OOO-
- which the co. spent on improving the
leasehold premises, and disregarding also the
goodwill, the co. has assets to within £2019
of the paid capital. In a trifle under five
years it has, after providing for doubtful
debts, made a profit of £58,264, of which the
shareholders have had only £28,700, or less
than one-half. And yet they can’t complain
that they have done at all badly. In the
very first year they got 8 p.c.; now the
dividend has been sprung to 10 p.c., and even
that eats up less than half the net profit.
So much for the earnings; now look at the
security for the principal:—
1912. 1914. 1915. 1916.
Sundry creditors ..£7,310 £5,526 £3,062 £4,754
Goodwill items . . 29,459 24,325 24,565 23,605
Sundry debtors .. 3,257 3,230 3,499 3,620
Stock . . . . 31,237 37,250 41,500 52,885
Plant and fittings.. 5,624 6,332 5,806 5,432
Cash, etc... .. 14,728 14,086 16,513 14,805
Practically no liabilities are disclosed—only
small trade debts totalling under £5OOO. The
co. thus makes its profits without backing
anybody else’s bill. The capital is £70,000;
and the three items, stock, book debts and
cash, stand for £71.310. The only things to be
charged against that and the other assets
(plant, fittings, etc.) are the before-men-
tioned small liabilities and the half-year’s
dividend (£3500). This paper hasn’t valued
the stock, and has only the management’s
word that the shelves carry £50,609 w r orth,
with £1976 in transit; but a co. with a
brisk cash trade isn't likely to keep much
dead stuff on hand. You couldn’t put the
co/s shares among the gilt-edged securities,
of cpurSe; but you can’t find many trading
concerns earning as fine profits and able at
the same time to show as few debts and as
solid a lot of assets.
* * * *
Metiers, Ltd., manufacturers of stoves,
windmills, oil engines, etc., who paid
£29.656 for the goodwill of the business.
Iu the table this item is not regarded as an
asset: —•
Towards
Writ- Re-
Jan., Profits. Dividends. ten Off. serves. Deficit.
1911.. £27,978
1912. . £18,665 10p.c.=£11,844 £2199 £4,622 23,356
Premiums on new shares .. 3,177 20,179
1913.. 24,305 10p.c.= 14.173 3758 6,374 13,805
Premiums on new shares, £375 . . 13,430
1914.. 15,718 Nil 4995 10,723 2,707
Reserves.
1915.. 17,606 sp.c.= 8,206 5087 4,313 1.606
1916.. 22,487 6 „„ 9,848 4609 8,030 9,636
Not many cos. deserve this paper’s blessing
more than this one. It is always trying to
make something in Australia ; and it wants
to make it so good that nobody will ever
desire to buy anything else. Three years
ago the co. didn’t pay a dividend ; and that
was really due to the faith which it had in
itself and Australia. For it wasn’t content
to build on poor foundations. It bought
extensive factory sites at Sydney and
Adelaide, and built shops and showrooms in
Sydney, the whole running into over
£82.000, or just half the capital. As the
capital was pretty well employed in the
business, these vigorous excursions into real
property meant a fairly heavy debt. And it
is still fairly heavy :
Liabilities.
„ , 1913. 1915. 1916.
Overdrafts. . . . £26.689 £22,802 £17,585
Other liabilities . . 26,607 46,863 45,117
Assets.
Land and buildings 48,000 82,402 79 699
Plant •• •• 31,784 33,189 31.547
stoc k •• .. 75,384 83,987 88,244
Sundry debtors . . 36,418 35,480 33 628
Other assets .. 175 8,709 8,742
Evidently there have been some small sales
of surplus lands during the year. Doubtless
these realised a profit. Both at Alexandria
(Sydney) and Mile End (Adelaide) the co.
bought to begin with much more land than it
was likely to use. Apparently it worked on the
assumption that the erection of a big factory
would add to the value of ground in the
neighborhood, and if anvbodv deserved the
increment it was Metters, Ltd. Rut. though
the co. is likely some time or other to shake
out some reserved profits made from these
sales, for the present the locking up of so
much capital in land and in city buildings
has a bad effect on profits and dividends.
On dividends especially; for while th» co •
carries a heavy debt it has_to hang—or. at
any rate, does prudently hang—on to a
1 aige proportion of the profits in order to
provide for the natural expansion of the
business.
The most recent expansion of consequence
is the manufacture of all sorts of enamel-
ware. Three years ago the co. bought all
the shares in the Foreman Foundry and
Enamelling ( 0.. of Hobart, a concern which
had been carrying on a successful business
in a small way for many years. The manu-
facture will, however, soon be carried on on
a larger scale at the Sydney works, where
plant has been installed; and the Metters
ware having reached the market the Fore-
man Co. will cease to exist. And there is
wisdom in that. too. The Australian manu-
facturer. as a rule, loses the value of trade
names He makes a splendid article, and
lets other people put it on the market under
halt a dozen oliascs , with the result that
when a strong competitor comes on the
scene the man who was first there has no
advantage. The Metters dividend for the
year goes up 1 p.c and taking everything
into consideration the rise seems to be well
t • T f ie • Det Profit - as already
remarked, is far in excess of the total to be
paid out, and the gross profit shows i ,
stantial improvement, notwithstanding Iwl
business must have been exceptional?,! , that
in S. Australia, where the co C &^ ck
The Launceston Gas t'o. (Ta Sm * ani .,.
\ • Writ- '
Dividends and ten Tn „
Profits. Dividend Tax Off „ o44e ' ke-
June, 1909. .£1769 4 p. c =£lolo £9nh ¥l7?' serves -
Dec., 1909.. 1520 4 P „ „ 1062 200 f 8,8 42
June, 1910.. 1318 4„ , 1062 “>OO 2 ° B 9 ’ loo
Dec., 1910.. 1377 4 1050 200 9 ’ 056
June, 1911.. 1471 4 „ „ 1050 300 9,183
Dec., 1911.. 1564 4 ” " Joso fno 9,304
June, 1912.. 1496 4 „ „ 1050 5™ 344 9.618
Dec., 1912.. 1543 4 ” ” 1050 400 qq 9,764
June, 1913.. 1312 4 „ „ 1050 200 ll 9,857
Dec., 1913.. 1640 4 ~,, 1050 450 iin 9,919
June, 1914.. 1385 4„ „ io s o 200 its 10,059
Dec., 1914.. 1670 4 1050 500 non J 0
June, 1915.. 1378 4 050 250 0,314
Dec., 1786 4" ” 1050° » %
The amounts written off have not been aeon
mulated in cash ; and the position in that
respect is very little better than it was in
years ago:— 1 " as
Liabilities .. .. . # Por'V 15 '
Assets other than fixed assets 15,’722 ‘ u ’6ls
Excess liabilities ..£22,803 £2l"iis
The competition of cheaply-produced electric
current by a municipality which only 3
to pay interest and cover bare exes
the bottom of the trouble; so things are nj
likely to improve. The co.’s history C a n >
Ck>. dther g n ° W fOF the t
The Motor-’bus Services Co., Ltd ( \d P i
aide), has decided by 6848 votes to‘2^49 Z
go into liquidation. Contrary to experience
in some other cities, the public is not keen on
the bus. Adelaide and suburbs are served
by a wide-spreading -Municipal Tramwavs’
lrust, and ratepayers seem to see themself
paying extra rates if their own electric-trams
are injured by Private Enterprise compefi-
“on/ m Also suburban corporations comphiin
that buses knock the roads to pieces. The
Bus Co. replies angrily that the roads must
have been badly made; which is verv much
the Irishmans reply to a manslaughter
charge that 4 a man with a skull as thin as
that had no right to go about iu public
annyway.’ ’
Wallaroo and Moonta Co. (8.A.);
ia .a „ . Written Re-
Doc., Profits. Dividends. Off , prvp .
1903. . £62,999 2* p.c. = £B,OOO £22,469 £44,182
1904. . _ 018 24 „ „ 8,000 20,760 15 qin
I90f" ifio’fqt o-- ” ” 8,000 20,649 38 ’««
1906.. 160.122 2o „ „ 80,000 27,972 90 798
190/.. 49,835 43} „ ~ 140,000 Nil
1908.. 46,351 5 „ „ 16,000 22,5 7 8 467
1909.. 42,908 74 „ „ 24,000 7,374 ) ’
Income-tax arrears.. .. 16,332 / 3,999
1910.. 3,910 5 p.c. = 16,000
* Oll - 2 " ” ” 8,000
101 --- ? 8,438 18 „ „ 60,000 8,000 41,073
1914" ?q'qq- 17 ~" ” ” 56,000 39,239
1914.. 39,997 , 3 „ „ 24,000 55,236
1910.. 168,085 18} „ „ 60,000 163,321
I lie surplus of more or less liquid assets
over liabilities has moved this way:—
1913 .. ..£163,967
1914 .. .. 171,973
1915 .. .. 280,892
Ihe past years profit is therefore repre-
sented. not by new plant or "development.”
as it often is in mining cos.’ accounts, but
by something much more like money. True,
even in this case. £92.150 is in "stores, fuel
and forage ; but when a co. can see its way
ahead as. clearly as the old Wallaroo and
Moonta is able to, these assets are pretty
well as good as cash. And the path ahead
looks not only clear but very pleasant, partly
by reason of this:—
A contract has been entered into with the Muni-
tions Department of the British Government for the
purchase of the balance of the co.'s output for 1916
over and above certain other contracts with British
munition makers and the requirements of the Indian
mints at a fixed c.i.f. price of £lOO per ton. The
quantity has been estimated at 500 tons monthly.
For the past year the cost of production and
placing it on ocean steamers was £55 9s. Id.
Per ton. The output was 7653 tons, and the
Profit for the year £165.085, equal to about
£-1 19s. 3d. per ton. The average account
sales realisation for "Wallaroo” brand cop-
per was £7S_ 9s. Sd. Assuming that the co.
averages £95 all round for its copper this
year, there will thus be an additional £l7 a
ton profit, equal to say £127,500. or pro-
bably a hit more. This should bring the
year’s profit well up towards £300,000. The
estimated average of £95 is not likely to be
over the mark, as the sales, apart from those
made to the Munitions Department, are not
likely to exceed 1750 tons; and probably
tney won't average much less than the £lOO
either. From the £300.000 or thereabouts a
considerable deduction may, however, have
to be made on account of special war taxa-
tion. The extent of this is not known at
present. For last vear State and Federal
income taxes took £12.165.
M hat a wonderful old pair Wallaroo and
Moonta are may be judged by the fact that,
though they can now produce figures like
those ventured above, they have been in
operation so long that the directors can say
of James Harvey, who died a few months
ago: "He was connected with the amalga-
mated cos. for more than 50 years and
rendered invaluable service, first as super-
intendent of the mines and smelting works
at \\ allaroo. and afterwards as a director
and chairman of the co.”
In some respects the co. has been a tor-
toise, but generally speaking it has got to
the winning post ahead of most of its com-
petitors. A few years ago it introduced the
cementation or leaching process; and then
ic got to work with the flotation method,
which was particularly applicable to Moonta
ore. The recoveries are now so excellent
that, excluding old stuff retreated, they
average 94.5 p.c. of the copper contents.
Still, costs per ton of copper are high—


The British Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co., Ltd.
Everything Electrical
whether for the production, distribution or application of electricity
for power and lighting purposes is manufactured bv the British
Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co., Ltd. They offer the advantage
of undivided responsibility for power and lighting equipments.
Their productions include; —Steam Turbines; Turbo-Generators;
Blowers and Compressors ; Condensers; Gas, Oil and Diesel Engines;
A.C. and D.C. Generators and Motors; Electric Tramway and Railway
Equipments; Transformers and Converters; Switch and Control Gear ;
Meters and Instruments; Lamps, Fans, and all Electrical Accessories.
ifjOUSf
Manchejlei
Head Office for Australia :
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Works Trafford Park, Manchester, England. I
“A fact is like a birthmark —you may cover it
blit you can’t rub it out,” and the fact that “G'hro-
mol” Leather Belting is an unequalled power trans-
mitter should not be hidden from plant owners.
Possessing heat- and moisture-resisting qualities, it is
proof against deterioration, and it grips the pulleys
and gives maximum power at minimum cost. Many
of the largest mining plants in the Commonwealth
use “Chromol” Belting on the heaviest and most
important drives —conclusive proof of its durable,
serviceable qualities. Mineral tanned, it is longer
in fibre and more pliable. J. C. Ludowici & Son,
Ltd., “Pioneer Leather Works,” 117 York Street,
Sydney. Interstate Agents: Geo. Russell Pty. Ltd.,
Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vic. ; J. McKell, Timp-
son Street, Port Adelaide, S.A. ; Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth, W.A. ; Queensland Machinery
Co., Ltd., Brisbane, Q. ; Geo. C. Dempster, Argent
Street, Broken Hill.— Advt.
ALFMINOFERRTC is used by the Sydney Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards and graziers
for precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is simply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid” cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours’
time the most discolored water will be as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless.
Sole agents: William Adams &' Company Limited,
Brisbane and Perth.— -Advt.
For rapid and accurate sizing of samples, the
Hoover Rapid Laboratory Sizer is unsurpassed. An
ordinary hand test over 12 different mesh screens
takes*about 10 hours to complete ; the Hoover Sizer
will make the same test in about half an hour. By
the use of one of these Sizers the saving in time
would, in a very short while, cover the small initial
cost of the machine. The machine can Le dressed
with any series of screens. The Austral Otis Eng.
Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, will be pleased to furnish
particulars.— Advt. [g
Extract from Insurance Times, London, dated
September, 15: “Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society of Australia.—‘Colonial Mutual’ policies are
well worth}'' of study, especially those which combine
in a single contract Life and Endowment assurance,
together with Accident and Sickness benefits. Since
its inception, in 18i3, the Society has paid in claims
to policy-holders in its Ordinary 'branch alone a total
sum exceeding £6,500,000. It possesses assets
amounting to nearly four millions sterling. It holds
a Government testimonial (scarcely needed, we
should think) as to the soundness of its position and
the prudent and business-like character of its
methods, and in every way it is deserving of the
whole-hearted support of the insuring public
Advt. [4
PIONEER WOOD PIPE TANKS for water, wine
vinegar, acids, oil, cyanide or mine liquors are
constructed in all sizes from 500 to 190,000 gallons.
They are easily despatched, being carried in sections
and erected on arrival. Catalogue from The Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Contractors to Federal
3 st ate Governments, 57 York Street, Sydney
(Head Office.) — Advt. j j
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? Tf
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
The Australian Machinery Co. Ltd!, Charlotte
Street, Brisbane (into which is merged the Queens-
land business of Arthur Leplastrier & Co.), has deter-
mined on a progressive policy and requires a few
southern engineering firms to represent.— Advt.
The Australian Amicable Assurance Associa-
tion Limited.- This company continues to make
solid progress—accepting only gilt-edged insurances.
The premium income for the first four months of the
present financial year was considerably greater than
the income for the first 10 months of last year. The-
income for March, 1916, alone exceeded the income
■for the first four months of last year. Although
three times the business is being written, expenses
are being greatly reduced.— Advt.
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia. —Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H B
Silberberg & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney-
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
'/£ ARE BORN TO
l'£l* Bcneio^.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
Th < 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Capital £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up 82,500
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
, 263 George Street, Sydney.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £545,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,351 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 81,500 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. —— ——
Gen. Man. : Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: K. 11. Matthews.
London Office I 31 Budge Row. Canncn Street, Loncon
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
£55 Os. Id. It takes a good market to stand
that; and there isn’t much chance of largely
improving the grade at any time of special
stress, because these mines have no 20 p.c.
shoots to go to for sweetening. The high
coist is due mainly of course to the large
quantity of stuff to he handled to get a ton
of- metal: Wallaroo’s average last year was
3,03 p.c. copper and Moonta’s 3.51 p.c.. with
no silver or gold worth mentioning. Mining,
moreover, has to be carried on down to
2!H)oft., which is the present depth of Tay-
lor’s shaft. The deepest level is at 2790 ft.;
and of the year's experience at that and
neighboring points general-manager Han-
cock says with unusual cheerfulness: “The
values disclosed compare favorably with
those immediately above, and this is
gratifying in view of the fact that at most
mines deterioration occurs at less depths.”
There are only 160,000 shares in the co.
* * * *
Treasurer Higgs has. by virtue of his
powers under the War Precautions Act, put
the lid on G. 1). Meudell’s little pet, the Tas-
manian Oil Wells Co., which proposed to
bore for oil at Latrobe and Longford. lie
won’t register it. The promoters have dark
suspicions that the Tasmanian State Govern-
ment pulled the strings in order to block the
co. in the interests of its proposed purchase
of the Railton-Latrobe Shale Oil Co.’s pro-
perties and to create a local monopoly in
oil; but Tasmanian Ministers swear they
never moved a finger.
* * * *
During nine months it has gone this way
in N. S. Wales: —
Revenue .. •• £13,285,713
Expenditure (ordinary) .. 14,348,598
ditto (Public Works Fund) 420,000
ditto (loan) .. .. 7,494.825
—— 22,263,423
Excess Expenditure .. £8,977,710
While the income went up £264,289 the
expenditure on Revenue account increased
by £571,893 and the loan splash was
£989,801 greater than in the previous wild
year. That is the Holman idea of economy
in war-time.
* *• * *
“II.N.”: The Bulletin’s par. re Aus-
tralian steel (B. 30/3/T6) excites me to
difate. Dr. Stead is a renowned expert on
steel composition. He analysed Ilun high-
explosive shells (the sort we have stopped
starting to make in Australia) —pieces col-
lected from the various Fronts. He proves
that the carbon, phosphorus, sulphur, man-
ganese and silicon constituents range wildly
and are much higher than is permitted by
British specifications, and that the steels
show no evidence of “rolling”—those hair-
fine lines which are considered symptomatic
of unsoundness. Roking and nothing seri-
ously else caused the suspension of Austra-
lian high-explosive shell-production. There
would be a big proportion of rejects from
steel made to the British specifications any-
where. Indeed, the Australian steel is as
good as any. Give our smelters half the
latitude the Rhine expert gets, let him have
up to a lb. of phosphorus and 101 b. of car-
bon extra in every ton, and our lathes can
get busy. Stead’s samples—vicious splinters
and lumps—came from shells which hadn’t
damaged any of the enemy gunners who fired
them.
* * * *
•Tust as a cheerful par. appeared in a
Lithgow paper expatiating on the great
energy displayed by Dad’s Millions, Oberon
(N.S.W.), and the bright hopes that were
entertained of its leading to a mining re-
vival in the district, that fitful show had
a clean-up and naturally closed down.
Every encouragement has been given this
proposition to prove itself a mine, but its
most prominent characteristic is a cursed
shortage of gold, a slight disability which
seriously interferes with the continuity .of
its operations.
* * * *
G. H. Gordon on the Vegetable Creek
(N.S.W.) :—-
First let me say I am one of the original propri-
etors of the Creek, ami held it in partnership with
my brother, now living in England. The Company
now being clear of us, the vendors, it is in the posi-
tion that where a 3d. dividend was previously de-
clared a 6d. can now be. When the co. paid Gordon
Bros, off on February 8 the amount then owing was
£3772, and since then a 6d. dividend has been
declared, absorbing £3250, paid on March 15, and
there is no reason why the co. should not declare a
6d. div. every three months or less for some con-
siderable time to come. Lately The Bulletin said
that “had the co. gone ahead with development work
and pushed its leading drives into unexplored payable
areas, there would have been continuous blocking out,
bm; unfortunately that has not been done.” There
are on the ground three shafts always working—-
Allen’s, Skinner’s and Chandler’s —while development
work is being continuously carried on, and in doing
so a certain amount of tin is obtained from each.
Only at Chandler’s is such not being done, but only
blocking out at present, for so much tin had been
located, at some 2400 ft. from the shaft, that it has
been found impossible to further develop till another
shaft for air and wood has been put down, and this
is being done in Gordon’s shaft, situate between Skin-
ner’s and Chandler’s. Again, in addition, the co.
has a boring- plant at work endeavoring to trace the
run of the tin on towards Body’s Land. Should this
be discovered there is no saying what the future of
the mine will be.
Y YV aterhole (N.S.W.) started its second
plant a fortnight ago, and a barrowload
of plenipotentiaries, including consulting-
engineer Moline, who went up from Mel-
bourne to look at results, came back wreathed
in smiles.
**• * *
Financial results from the Edna May Cen-
tral (W.A.) for the past term suffered
because the 13,302 tons of stone from the
main reef only panned out sdwt. to the ton.
But a lot of it was surface cement, which
could be cheaply mined, so costs ran out at
17s. 2d. per ton, including ss. 7d. for develop-
ment. After writing It) p.c. off plant, the
net profits were only £522. Says the report:
“Developments give every evidence of per-
manence and increased value in depth, and
make certain a prosperous future for your
co.” Isn’t that getting a bit too far ahead
of the pick? Here is a little calculation:
lake 200 ft. in length of ore proved at 75ft.,
give the shoot a width of 15ft. and allow
for 25ft. overhead to the cement. Take
another 75ft. to the No. 2 level, and
(although the lode has only been touched
at that depth) give similar dimensions as to
length and width. Let the stone, like the
Edna May’s, average all round 20dwt., and
allow sdwt. for costs and development. On
the 20,000 tons so estimated the co. would
net 60s. per ton, or a total of £60,000, equal
to £1 per share. Should the stone average
another ounce a further £BO,OOO would be
added, and though a fine bit of prosperity
would be assured, there would still be a big
margin between the market valuation of
shares at £5 15s. and assured divs. in sight.
* * * *
Melbourne seems bent on giving Linden
(Y\.A.) a fair go. Four cos. have already
been formed to work the Devon, Olympic,
Danube and Olympic Extended, and now a
fifth, Maries Find North, formerly Yilgarn
Consols, has acquired the Big Jim. The
district is an isolated one on the eastern
fringe of the Mount Margaret field, and
although worked for many years has so far
only been tested in shallow ground. Leo-
nora, at the west end of the same field, is
also receiving attention. One show, the
Gold Blocks, has been taken and some others
are being nibbled at.
* * * *
Two notable Westralian instances of local
syndicates succeeding after outside cos. had
failed —the Light of Asia, Cue, and Bod-
dington’s, Goongarrie. An English co. had
a _2O-hd. mill and boilers (together with
bricks to build the latter) carted in from the
rail-head at a cost of £2O a ton, and then
only erected half the plant, leaving the bal-
ance to rust on the ground. Little or no
work was done, and after fooling about for
some time the co. packed up and cleared out.
A practical man on the spot then coined
money out of the stone in sight, and after
a while made way for a local syndicate.
The latter sank a new shaft, cut the reef at
250 ft., and has done well ever since. Bod-
dington’s was sold to a co. for £lO,OOO in
the early days, and although experts declared
it had the makings of a good mine, the new
owner was unable to make it pay, and finally
left in despair. The show was shut down for
some years; then a couple of prospectors
came along, found a new reef, and got over
£4OOO out of 200 tons. They then sold out
to a syndicate which has since obtained
IOOOoz. from a little over 90 tons. A co. is
now being formed to work the property.
* * * *
Five years ago Gt. Boulder’s mainstay went
west into the Golden Horseshoe, and the
management decided not to go any deeper.
The reserves then totalled 851,000 tons.
Approximately 750,000 tons have been
extracted since, and the quantity now esti-
mated to be in sight is 627,000 tons. Local
optimists reckon that at this rate the mine
will last another 10 years at least. But
they quite overlook the fact that five years
ago there was much more ground between
the working levels available for blocking out,
and that the area is getting smaller every
day. In a little while the mill will, in the
absence of miracles, start to gain rapidly
on the mine, and the end of big returns,
when it comes, is likely to be sudden. Faint
hopes are entertained that some makes of ore
cut on the western side by bores from the
Perseverance may turn up trumps, and a
crosscut is being extended from Hamilton’s
workings at the north end of the Boulder to
intersect them. The management, however,
is not confident.
* * * *
“Oof Bird”: It may surprise Melbourne
to know that there are two May Queens on
Yilgarn (W.A.) —one near Marvel Loch,
from which two working miners have ex-
tracted nearly £20,000 since 1911; the other
at Parkers Range, from which a Collins-street
co. has got nothing. The reef in the latter
show is twisted and torn by several granite
intrusions and seems to be worthless. It
was turned down twice, first by the Golden
Ridge and then by someone else, before the
present occupants got it. The existence of
two mines of the same name on one field
generally leads to confusion, and in one case
at Kalgoorlie in the early ’nineties —
brought me unexpected wealth. ' Ten prettily-
engraved 100-share certificates, left behind by
a London-bound speculator, adorned the walls
of my humpy for some months. Then some-
one started a boom in the open call, and in a
few minutes the scrip soared from nothing to
55., and on the second reading of the card a
buyer got all I had at that price and a few
more besides. A wild gamble ensued, and
about a week later it leaked out that a
development had occurred in another mine of
the same name, and that as the scrip had
not been issued the paper belonging to the
other one had been used instead. As there
were no complaints, and as the find turned
out to be a fiasco, nothing more was said
about the matter.
Pernatty directors in Adelaide got a shock
one day last week when four wires poured in
on them from the manager. “From present
indications I have no doubt but little pro-
spect of getting ore in payable quantities.
Consider work with present plant must be
discontinued almost immediately.’’ The direc-
tors were also told that the manager was
glad they were coming up to the mine> The
fact that they hadn’t proposed to do any-
thing of the sort didn’t make things any less
mysterious to the directors, who promptly
wired the manager to come on down to
Adelaide and be inspected. But the mana-
ger’s estimate of the mine is probably about
right, whatever may be the explanation of
his outburst. Wainwright, of the B. H.
South, estimated 145,000 tons of under 3
P-c. ore, and it was intended to leach it out.
Now, S. Australia has an idea that because
Wallaroo and Moonta can under very favor-
able circumstances leach out copper from
old dumps at £2O per ton, the process must
be an exceptionally inexpensive one. And it
is—when the conditions are right. But they
are right very rarely. In this the
difficulties in the way of correctly estimating
quantities were also tremendous.
The only fault that can be found with
J. H. McColl’s report on the New Golden
Fleece, Bendigo, for the last half-year is
that it leaves a lot to the imagination. With
3677 tons crushed for 7500 z. gold the marvel
is how a credit balance has been built up
during the term to £1327. But that is the
way of Bendigo: give it a little to go on
and economy does the rest. For that reason
more details ought to have been given by
the manager. have been cut along
at 620 ft. and 650 ft.; but nothing is said con-
cerning the width of the quartz, the stone
in sight or the length of the shoot going
underfoot.
Though favorable-looking stone crops out
occasionally in the Sheepshead, Bendigo, the
gold peters out before a decent crushing
can be collected. The co. has given up hust-
ling round at 650 ft„ because the 6ft. of
mineralised stone proved to be only a lure
to spend a lot of cash. Faults with nothing
on the backs wiped the 740 ft. level off the
slate, leaving only the 820 ft. country open
for prospecting. The western run of coun-
try here has been driven into; and at 140 ft.
out rising is going on above a west back in
order to follow up about a foot of quartz.
It is further evidence of the hard luck that
has stuck to this good-position mine.
Ajax Central, Ilaylesford, George
Buchanan’s pet show, has in its short life
yielded £157,000 of gold and paid £Bl,OOO in
divs. on an issued capital of £9OOO. A drift
in yields now shows that it is nearing the
day when a writing-down of values will have
to be faced, the reason being the usual falling
off below 800 ft. in all Daylesford mines on
the Ajax line. What profits were won of
late came from between Nos. 4 and 7 levels ;
and as there are still fair-sized blocks of
stone to break out of the vertical and flat
formations, there will be more than, enough
cash forthcoming to get the shaft down to
1260 f t; At that depth kindlier country may
come in than has been met in No. 1 level,
where the heap of work done only disclosed
strong leaders, “mixture,” and a foot lode
that gives a very poor * tail of gold when
sampled. The Central is the pluckiest pro-
spector on the field.
The Bruni Island Petroleum Co., which
wants to disprove oil expert Wade’s state-
ment that Bruni is as dry as a temperance
lecture, has applied for registration. The
capital is in 60,000 shares of 10s. each. The
Dixson Trust is the biggest holder.
Tin Bentong Co., whose shareholders and
capital are Australian, is awaiting a cargo
of machinery from U.S.A., delayed through
lack of freight. The plant is coming from
’Frisco to Sydney to be transhipped to the
Malay States. There is no sympathy due
to Peacock, Palfreyman and Co. It’s one
of the not-many transactions they ought to
be ashamed of, seeing the needs of Australia
and the proved good machines that Castle-
maine and Richmond have built.
When at Westonia recently Minister for
Mines Collier was tapped by Weston’s
Reward for a boring subsidy, two Mel-
bournites, W. Orr and F. Were, and Wil-
liams (of the Central) did most of the
talking, and got a promise of favorable con-
sideration from Collier, provided the State
Mining Engineer supported the request. The
co. claims to have expended £4200 of sub-
scribed capital and £l2OO in returns from
development, and now feels the need of
assistance.
A syndicate has just been formed in Wel-
lington (M.L.) to bore for coal into the
Ri mu taka Ranges, about seven miles from
Ivaitoke. Walter Carter, of the Mines Dept.,
who has had S’African and local experi-
ence, will have charge of the operations. It
will be a fine thing for Wellington if a good
seam can be dug into thus handy.
* * * *


C.<&
safflwrra
■
\
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
Actress Tells Secret.
A Well-known Actress Tells How She
Darkened Her Grey Hair and
Promoted Its Growth with a
Simple Home-made Mixture.
Miss Blanche Rose, a well-known actress,
who darkened her grey hair with a simple
preparation which she mixed at home, in a
recent interview made the following state-
ment: ‘'Any lady or gentleman can darken
ther grey hair and make it soft and glossy
with this simple recipe, which they can mix
at home. To a half-pint of water add loz.
of bay rum, a small box of Orlex Compound
and ioz. of glycerine. These ingredients can
be bought at any chemist’s at very little cost.
Apply to the hair twice a week until it be-
comes the required shade. This will make a
grey-haired person look 20 years younger. It
is also fine to promote the growth of hair,
relieves itching and scalp humors, and is
excellent for dandruff and falling hair.” [i
THE KING’S SOLDIERS.
Words and Music by Mary Fitzmaurice Gill.
“In letters of fame on the scroll of Fame
They are writing once again.
In the life blood of British soldiers
The glory of England's name.”
Direct from the Composer, 77 Strand. Sydney.
1 6 post paid.
PAULINE et CIE
(MILLINERY, ROBES. BLOUSES. Etc.)
ANNOUNCE
Their First Show of Millinery Models for
Autumn and Winter Wear, on and aue
Wednesday, Ist March.
3rd Floor, Denison House, George S .
iqpp. David Jones 1 .
SINCE 1679.
SINCE
HAIG* HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A WOMAN'A
LETTER
Sydney, April 3. 1016.
My Dear Arini. —
There is likely to be a tighter blockade
against unauthorised collectors and others
who lift handsome “expenses” out of the
patriotic hat. For one thing the Easter
Show this year will not be the happy hunt-
ing-ground it was in 1915. Secretary Somer
means to wear his eyes all round his head.
At last year's Bellow, Monty was stuck up
by an urchin with a suspicious collection-box
minus a handle. “Where do you come from,
sonny?” said the chief. “So-and-so. ’ says
the guileless kiddie. “Ah —and what are
you collecting for?” “Red Cross,” was the
pat answer. Then Somer took up a strategic
position and watched. Young hopeful dis-
appeared into an outbuilding. He reap-
peared. A stout female led him by the hand.
But there was no box on view. The secre-
tary advanced and inquired tenderly for the
lost cash. “How dare you say I had a
collection-box!” snorted the irate lady. “I
do not say so, madam. I am merely asking
where is the box your little boy took into
that building. And I must tell you, madam,
you are wearing your bustle in the wrong
place.” The lady gave up then. She
retired and the youngster returned with the
box. The loot amounted to nearly £4.
The Stricklands move into the Macquarie-
street house on April 17. Just now they’re
packing up the perambulators at the Sutton
Forest retreat.
Starchy old Dean Kite, of Hobart, is
returning to his native fog after 10 years of
Tasmanian sunshine. Sydney nearly got
him once; but the transfer broke down on
a question of millinery. It was just after
Archgaiters Wright arrived, and Carr
Smith's place at old St. James’s had to be
filled. The new high priest demanded a
promise of Kite that he wouldn’t fly High
Church feathers. But the Hobart bird
wouldn’t promise anything, so he was told
to stay in his old cage.
The War Chest matinee had to be ap-
proached in goloshes. Torrents of rain made
an unofficial billabong near the Adelphi and
kept the faint-hearted at home. Still, there
was a fairly good audience, for the big
theatre swallows a crowd without feeling
uncomfortable. That now well-known
antique. “So Long Letty.” who is beating old
Miss (Jibbes by an eyelash, had to be produced
by Dorothy Brunton to quiet a wild encore
of “Your Dear Voice Calling Me.” C. H.
Workman, in his best brown toupee, was
Dot’s partner in the popular jingle. The
Belgiau singer Lillianne Lore gave a bril-
liant, if academic, interpretation of the
“Jewel Song.” The handsome artist’s
appearance was It. A low-cut red corsage
flamed to the waist. Outside the white silk
skirt was a diaphanous black tunic laid
out in black satin bands. High red boots
were the climax. Just about as fascinating
a stage get-up as Sydney has seen for some
time. Mason Allard, hon. treasurer of the
War Chest, thanked everybody and remarked
that the Sports Fund would close when the
matinee cash-box had been emptied.
Having seen her daughter Molly safely
installed in the bejewelled halls of her hubby,
the Rajah of Pudukota, Mrs. Wolfe Fink
has come back from India’s coral strand
with her remaining daughter Ida. She is
at present at Menzies'. in Melbourne, but
is soon to pursue an elaborate house-hunt
in Sydney for suitable diggings for Mr. and
Mrs. Pudukota, who intend spending much
of their time in Australia. The Rajah has
four handsome brothers of the fashionable
tete-de-negre shade, so there is a chance
(or a danger) of four other white girls
becoming also-Ranees. The Rajah’s full
name is Sri Rajah Martanda Bhairava
Tondiman Bahadur, and he is entitled to a
salute of 11 guns, but the brothers have to
do with a lot less.
11. C. Budge, the tactful official secretary
to his State Ex., is now also secretary to
the Executive Council. The double-barrelled
office means an increase in salary. This
interesting feature of the billet —which had
an honorary expression at the first blush —
pleases all hands.
A Mrs. Pelloe is coming all the way
from Mildura to ride in the Easter Show.
Hubby minds the National Bank in the dried-
currant settlement. The sporting horse-
woman got a friend —Miss Cox —to join her
in her long ride. Their worst experience
was a 50-mile dry stage. But they kept the
feedbag always going. It’s about 20 days
in the saddle —in Mrs. Pelloe's case a side-
seater. with the old horn.
Once more the apparently invincible
Fanny Durack. She gave a wonderful exhi-
bition at the State Schools’ Swimming Car-
nival last week. The spectators were
mostly feminine, but they cheered and bar-
racked like a boys’ school at a football
match. In the great race —220 yards cham-
pionship of N. S. Wales —Fanny beat her
own record by a second. Mina Wylie, at
the heels of her great rival in the first half
of the rush, dropped behind, though still
second all the way. At the finish Fanny’s
wet mane bobbed out, and she hung
on to a water-lapped pile to watch the
arrival of the other mermaids. Hon sec.
Mrs. Spencer is one of the teachers who
lent a hand in the first State Schools’
aquatic effort here 10 years ago. She has
seen a wonderful increase in the brood of
ducklings since then.
The “Britain Prepared”' film has packed
the Town Hall till it has overflowed and
made the pavement outside untidy. In con-
sequence the season expanded like the smile
of George Portus, who watches the front of
the house. The G.-G. Fergusons came along
with a big official tail to see the show r . One for-
mer joint of this tail was, by the way, recog-
nised by some of the party. That was H.
H. Share, now a C.B. and secretary to Jel-
licoe, and formerly an immense favorite as
private sec. to our old viking Rawson. He
maintained that Australian girls were the
pick of the world’s beauty-baskets —and that
didn’t dim his social lustre. After serving
with sailor Rawson he transferred to the
Northcote staff. Now he’s in the North Sea
with the man who helps Britannia rule the
waves, and his friends pick him out in the —
no, I mustn’t tell you.
Dr. Andrew Harper, the Scotchbyterian
chief in charge of St. Andrew’s College, has
just been farewelled. He is off with his tall
missus to the other side for 12 months. I
can’t imagine the dignified Mrs. Andrew in
pyjamas. But, no doubt, when she gets “to
the troubled waters she’ll have to conform
to the new regulations made for ocean trav-
ellers. The students handed their pedagogue
a suit-case over the farewell walnuts.
The gallant Barttelot, who was here on
Lord Denman’s staff, now adds the French
war cross to his souvenirs of battle. Bart-
telot, a Major in the Guards, is one of the
long, lean athletic men who don’t carry an
ounce of superfluous flesh on their bones.
When other Aides were seeing Australia
through club windows, this big fellow used to
get leave to sample the Backblocks. He rode
<5OO miles through the Northern Territory,
and carried his swag like a bnshman. His
miraculous recovery in France, from almost
certain death in the first weeks of the war
was probably due to the perfect physical
condition he always aimed at.
For the Anzae Day collection rules are
to he rigorously enforced. Something more
than a “warning” is to be dealt out to any-
one who collects in anything but the official
manner. On Allies’ Day the poor old public
—now trained to hand out coin as soon as
a receptacle is shoved under its nose —was
taken down more than twice. The Town
Hall meeting early this week gives the
women-collectors instructions in detail.
Archbishop Clune, the R.C. chief in Perth,
has brought his silver tongue over here for
a short holiday. He used to be a teacher at
the Goulburn College; then his Order, the
Redemptorists. had need of his eloquence in
Maoriland. That’s the preaching order
which used to have one of the persuasive
Vaughans as principal in. these parts.
Jimmy Watts, the Australian singer and
dancer who has been the vogue for years on
the other side, is not unlikely to find himself
in khaki. Jimmy has a long list of
heavily-dollared engagements in U.S.A. But
the British Government, under the new com-
pulsion measure, finds it impossible to do
without the pleasure of Jamie’s company.
So he waits to do a turn for Kitchener.
Leslie Williams. Under-Secretary for Jus-
tice, takes an ordinary slop suit of khaki
this week. Though still not middle-aged he
has been a dozen years in the chair of the
Law Department and can boil his dixie with
a C.M.G. when he likes. There’s a Major
Williams in the Artillery, and the family
connection turned his thoughts to that branch
of the service. The sth Brigade Comforts
Fund loses an active treasurer and khaki
gains the finest stamp of recruit.
Mrs. Minns, writing her black-and-white
artist, gives a quaint account of how the
Cockney mind takes the Zep. At Turkish
baths in the Thames city the following con-
versation floated over the cubicle wall: "Me
an’ me ’usband an’ the childern wus at the
pictures when ther Zep. began droppin’
bombs!” Lady friend: “Yer don’t s’y!”
“Yus, an’ we run out fer ’ome —yer carn't
get a moment’s peace at the pictures with
them things! An’ who should we see a-
runnin’ down the steps o’ the ’ouse but the
lodger—’e’s I-talian —in his nightshirt an’
holdin’ up a humbrella to keep the bombs
off!” Lady friend : “G’arn, yer don’t s’y !”
“Yus! There’s one thing I notice since
them Zeps got goin’ —it makes yer careless
in orderin’ this an’ that. Me ’usband ’e
will have fried bacon an’ liver every mornin’
o’ ’is life.” “Get aw’y!” “Yus, ’e says,
wot’s the good o’ savin’ when yer may be a
goner any minit!”
Mrs. H. E. Roberts —we knew her as
the sweet-voiced Eileen Boyd—has been put-
ting her own sorrow aside to sing to our
wounded in England. Eileen married a
Welshman, Captain Roberts, who threw the
fiery Flewmllyn temperament into his war
duties. Result, a sudden call from a stroke
of paralysis. The young widow may visit
her native Australia and have a look at
mother this year. At present she mingles a
busy round of professional concert work
with her songs-for-love.
Shipping-master Tyler, of Newcastle, is
seriously ill. An uncle of the sick man was
that Sir George Tyler who was Lord Mayor
of London when the new bridge was opened.
Nessie, the russet-haired daughter of
artist Tindall, was quietly wed a while ago
to a young woolbuyer namer Lloyd. Only
near relatives saw the knot tied. The
bride, herself an artist of promise, is too
shy to face the gaping throng that haunts
the usual orange-blossoming. Hence the
pilgrimage went unheralded.
The English mail brought wrnrd of what
we are expected to do in the way of Shak-
speare Tercentenary trimmings. Whether
adult Australians, with a war on their
minds, will feel it necessary to hang the
infant neck with a Shakspeare medallion,
besides getting one apiece for themselves,
is quite another matter. The decoration
lasts from April 23 to May 3. The cash
derived from the souvenir goes into the pat-
riotic hat; and that’s the one point in its
favor.
“Catch your domestic helpers young'’ is
the motto of the backers of the new train-
ing school for the useful girl. It’s a Gov-
ernment venture. Bondi is the address of
this academy, w T hich is to be housed where
many a Bulletin yarn has been written.
Tears ago. Scarba was James Edmond’s
home. The raw immigrant damsel is to be
tamed and taught in this school, and she
certainly needs it. The question is: “Can
the Government persuade the average Eng-
lish rustic that she has anything to learn?’’
If it can, the tragedy of seeing one of these
“helps” trying to put out a gas stove with a
dipper of water will not harrow suburban
housewives.
Meantime, Mrs. Subbubs, hunting for
elusive Ermyntrude among registry offices,
finds another reason why the quarry isn’t
captured. “They’ve all married soldiers,”
she’s assured. This doesn’t seem to be a
tribulation peculiar to Sydney, either. In
Adelaide discovery has been made, so a
friend tells me, of a cottage wherein six
lately-married and now grass-widowed
Ermyntrudes are “keeping house” together.
Violet Ross-Johnson. the brainy young
woman who used to do fashion-sketching
and a bit of writing here, is settled
in Louden. She has taken the place
of Lord Courtney’s secretary, who went to
the war. The old gentleman—whose chief
recreation is literature —has contributed
voluminous articles to the more serious Brit-
ish papers. “The Working Constitution of
the United Kingdom” is one of his heavy-
weight publications.
The first concert of the new Sydney Apollo
Club (nee Liedertafel) was not a very bril-
liant success. The war has depleted its
choir, and what is left of it is cold and occa-
sionally uneven. If chorus-singing takes a
color, this recent effort in the Conserva-
torium Hall may be described as pale drab.
Conductor Arundel Orchard had better stuff
to lead when Vera Bedford’s rich voice—
with the velvet of a contralto and the upper
notes of a mezzo —floated through the build-
ing. Fire and temperament, with the care-
ful singing of a student who takes no risks,
marked this young songster’s performance.
Baritone Whitehead also shook up the ap-
plause with a dashing “Le Roi de Lahore.”
Gladstone Bell had to take an encore for
his work behind the ’cello. Governor Strick-
land stole in quietly with Aide Firth at his
heels. But the Apollos must interrupt the
business; so, after his Ex. had seated him-
self. prepared to sacrifice himself with Chris-
tian fortitude on the altar of music, they
suddenly burst into “God Save.”
With regard to the framed tapestries, taken
front Cranbrook. that now hang on the dazz-
ling. white-washed Conservatorium walls—-
why? They are matter of some consequence
in the wrong place. Too far away to be dis-
tinct visions of anything, they are a horrible
mixture of old —or comparatively old —crafts-
manship and aggressively new white paint.
Eyesores in their present position, they
ought to be promptly placed somewhere
else —in the National Gallery, if it wants
them.
A Queenslander. Barbara Blunden.
married her favorite soldier. Clive Harcourt
Burt, the other day. The groom is a lieu-
tenant in the 6th Light Horse. The Rock-
hampton girl was in snow-white plumage,
with a hat like a wisp of white cloud on her
head. Dr. Dorothy Voss, a cousin, was in
attendance. You co>i't call a junior sur-
geon at ITince Alfred Hospital a mere
bridesmaid even though she does » ~
oyster-grey frills with a lively t l 5
tomato Dr, Dorothy's twin Sc£%J
by the way, is also in the healing h 1
He’s mending the Kangaroo's
the Front. Sergeant Ilarrowell,atoo? £
Light Horse, was second-best man ' 1 th
Mrs Lindsay, a Manly patriotess h a
given two sons and two daughters to th
war The second girl— a masseuse-fo i
on the wing. The other, a trained
has been through all the strenuo,,. T*'
around the Dardanelles. Bv wav J
a bit herself, the mother is‘giving her''r
to manage the Horticultural Build’s tea it
at the Easter Show. Ifs a » h,„ £ £
lasts seven days. J ancl
Esther Mitchell, the Hunter’s Hill • ,
who plays in "The Second Mrs. Tan r , 8 '.!
had a S African tour a while ago eY
went away with a J.C.W. co. that included
Bob Greig and Beatrice Holloway Esthl,
had some quaint experiences in the 'bie-Mn.1
continent, and got a good deal of fresh";'
on horseback. <UI
Lent adds to the quiet before the country
comes rolling into town for Easter y P ,..
few parsons are earning fees at the altar
rads just now Even war-fund scrambles
have been snatching forty winks.
Something almost as cheap as the fees at
Dotheboys Hall is promised to th
students at the Dural Government nig and
poultry school. It’s for Us. Nothing unde
It; will be looked at; but the maximum aee
is not mentioned. Board, lodging, instruc
tion in the use of garden tools and farm
work and all for flo per annum 1 tv
avoid a wild rush for this haven the Govern
rnent proposes to begin with half a dozen
students. en
Brock, junior, a son of the Brock who
came a financial cropper over the Mona
Vale Club house, has been seeing Tasmania
ou a honeymoon trip. His bride is a tall
nice-looking girl who drinks cold water when
the four o’clock tea-bell rings.
“Ojo” sends me a recipe from the Andes:
Instead of eating your peanuts raw at the picture-
show and casting the husks on the floor to the confu-
sion of the management, as my Bulletin’ tells me
you’re still doing, carry the things home and paste
this South American recipe over the gas-stove. Pea-
nut soup: Take half a cup of roasted peanuts; shell,
grind and cook for 10 minutes in a little butter;
pour into any soup you like, shut your eyes and ask
yourself if you can tell the flavor from oysters. They
get this effect in South America with a much coarser
variety of peanut; but I guess the sort that maddens
the local picture showman will do as well.
About five Battalion Comforts Fund com-
mittees are going to throw in their lot at
the Easter Show. They’ll be housed in a
big teut. Mrs. Tom Ilaine’s little tribe —the
17th —are already garnering up tinned fruits
as a nest-egg for the week’s rally. Presum-
ably the distribution will have to be left to
our Bed Cross organisers in old Egypt—or
wherever our boys are. That uncertainty
and the reorganisation of the army in Egypt
is still perplexing the battalion committees.
Slapoffski earned an illuminated address
for tlie remarks he made while sorting out
the Sydney youngsters who were after the
free Conservatorium scholarships presented
by the Graces. Goaded by long hours of
discords he rose and denounced (1) parents
who get their youngsters musically forced,
(2) the suburban musical fakirs who hurry
the poor, small-fisted kids on to Beethoven
before they have a decent grip of the rudi-
ments, and (3) the unfortunate kids them-
selves for being “deformed” musicians and
wasting everybody’s time, including their
own. The competition (designed to dis-
cover talent) seems to have chiefly uncovered
a lot of dreadful teaching. Yet the final
blame for it all probably lies with the owners
of the children. When the papers are full
of ads. showing how anything and every-
thing can be taught by post in 10 minutes,
Maudie’s teacher must put up a sinful bluff
or lose a pupil to some rival who can "get
her on quick.”
This city has now got Anzac Day to argue
about. It's over-soon to break out in expen-
sive illuminations, but the City Council
means to plunge to the extent of £1000 on
the evening of April 25.
Hospital Saturday is to be a Friday this
year. Highway women are going to hold
up the city on May 12.
Have you seen the new matinee hate.
They are rather smaller than the wearers
head. A mere puff of airy crown —quite
flat —has an inch or two of bulwarks to make
it sit on the hair. A garland of tiny
flowers goes round this outwork. The whole
thing isn’t much larger than a small jam
roll.
As skirts grew shorter hats began to
climb. Some of the autumn millinery m
built up of a leaning tower of glace bows
behind. By way of squaring up matters
there’s a dreadful threat of trains in the
renovated evening frocks that will swisi
round patriotic concerts this winter.
Yours affectionately.
VANDORIAN.


HARDY BROTHERS LTD.
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
BY APPOINTMENT,
PRESENTS FOR MEN
A Large Selection of
Suitable Gifts Available at
the Company’s Showrooms.
Solid Silver Matchbox, Practically
Watertight. Holds Box of Safety
Matches. Size, 2J x lj x |
inches. A suitable present for a
Soldier.
£1 15 0
SELECTIONS FORWARDED ON
APPROVAL IF DESIRED.
FIVE PER CENT. CASH
DISCOUNT.
Crocodile Leather Covered
Flask, with Silver Cup and
Patent Screw Top, to hold
i-pint.
£3 15 0
In the Best-quality Silver-
plate,
£2 3 0
i
>
Silver Cigarette Case, with concave
back, to hold two rows of Cigarettes.
£1 15 0
13 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
116-118 Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
AND AT LONDON
\
'-.j
/in
%&yzgr-s
Before von go away for your holidays
make sure your corsets are comfortable.
If you want lightness, flexibility, perfect
fit and a correct figure, get WARNER’S.
Every pair Guaranteed.
WARNER’S Corsets will '
not rust, break or tear.
ariters
Pfi
S;7
3^ —-
t
r\
/
ss
&
!<*&
*5
£>~.
K 5
THE growing activities of our second year’s hostilities
find Avon Tyres in increased demand for H.M. Trans-
port. Tried and proven in the fierce flame of War, as they
have been tried in every sort of civilian service, Avons emerge
as Seasoned Campaigners worthy of the highest place in the
esteem of the motoring public.
<L We are told that this is a war of attrition or exhaustion. If tyres
are tried out to the last limit of endurance we may count upon
British Avons being found among the surviving fittest. They are
running in all theatres of the War, on all sorts of motors —from
H.R.H. The Prince of Wales’ Staff limousine to the humblest
regimental runabout.
1
jn
GS3
Agents: N. J. HOWES (El CO., 212 Clarence Street, Sydney.
For Sale.
Choice Rhode Island Reds
For Sale.
DALRYMPLE STRAIN COCKERELS, fit to pen.
Good utility and laying stock.
R. M. GRIFFITHS, Forest R(l., Bexley.
liusiness Notices.
Ray’s Hair Dye.
X •
When Grey Hair begins
to show, rejuvenate
your ap p e arance
with
RAY’S
DYE.
Harmless and In-
stantaneous.
33 different shades.
Post pattern of
hair with order.
4/10,7/11,10/9,
POSTED.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 11 23 Block Arcade. Collins Street. Melbourne.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
Quickly removes SKIM ERUPTIONS,
ensuring A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable Pimples,
disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema disappear
by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
stipple, comfortable.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
S.urf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
Sulpholineis prepared by the great Skin Specialists,
J.Pepper&Co., Ltd.,Bedford Laboratories,London,
S.E., England, and can be obtained from any
chemists and stores throughout the world.
Quickly removes the effects ot Sunscorch.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, tid. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tne
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.


m
si
\lO
A Soft Felt for Winter
The smartness of Farmer’s Soft
jFelts k the feature which maintains for them
jtlkeir <estm.' le popularity.
A good te-t costs but little more than the
lkiind in the first instance, but lasts twice
ais Lonas, and gives splendid service long after the
j*ri®e has been forgotten.
tsote the stylish Felt illustrated; comes in
'smart city shapes. Brims, 2] and 2§ inches
wide, bows at back or side, cut or turn-over
edges. Colors: Slate, Grey, Black, Fawn,
Brown,’
PRICES
FROM
12,6
Others at ,14/6 and 16/6; Stetson’s
tit’s shape, 39/6.
FARMER'S. SYDNEY.
PITT, MARKET £ GEORGE STREETS.
Another Idea
in Gage Hats
>4
U
M
W 3
m
y <s
X V
/
Delft and brown mixed braid collar
turban ; delft blue velvet ribbon loops
at sides. • [2
m MMUML
iwfEnss mmm
The Marvellous Contrivance
that makes it possible to ex-
pense with buttons, hooks and
eyes and press-studs in men’s and
women’s garments. One simple
movement and the garment is
opened or closed.
The World has been AA sit-
ing for the Hookless
Fastener.
It saves time, trouble and tem-
per. Is fixed in a few minutes,
and is indestructible.
Ask to see it at your draper's
or tailor’s.
The Hookless Fastener Co.
Elizabeth House, Australasia),
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, April 3, 1916.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Before they left for Sydney the G.-G. and
Lady Helen went to take a matinee gaze at
the “Britain Prepared” films. The social
battle-fleet and the second-class suburban
cruisers attended in the evening, and filled
the Auditorium from floor to roof. Sen-
ator Pearce anti Naval Minister Jensen
brought their wives. John Madden’s
white head shone like a harmony in
silver and pink, and his lady hung
a rose-embroidered fichu round the shoulders
of her low-cut black gown. Her health is
much better nowadays, and she is regaining
the handsomeness of her earlier matronhood.
During the interval John Madden was
called on to speak. Anyway, he spoke.
Mounting the stage he trod gingerly, like a
small native bear, over the vast Union Jack.
As soon as he got to the platform edge he
said it hurt him to trample on the flag and
he would not inflict himself on the house for
longer than the usual three weeks —I think
it was weeks. Thereupon he cast off his
moorings, hoisted his oratorical sail and
started on a drifting speech that lasted 20
minutes or more and included a piece about
the Bonds of Empire. Presently the crowd
began to cough and shuffle,, and it wasn’t
long before they were ignoring Demosthenes
and talking to one another in low tones.
Mrs. Demosthenes in the front row of the
middle balcony unfurled a large black fan
like a threat and plied it ominously over the
ledge. At last the impatient gallery burst
into tempestuous applause and drowned the
meandering orator, who had by this time
lost himself in the immensity of the Flag.
When he returned to his seat and obscurity
the long black fan was seen waving slowly
back and forth like the tail of an annoyed
cat.
Gordon Chirnside, who gave himself and
his car to his country when the first Expedi-
tionaries were mustering, has got the Legion
of Honor decoration, and may henceforth be
known as “Chevalier” Chirnside. He is on
General Birdwood’s staff, and the good deeds
of a staff-oflicer go not unrewarded.
While our own Surgeon-General Willie
Williams manages the mending department
on the other side, his only son, the blue-eyed
Captain Severn Williams, wrestles with seri-
ous illness alongside the Persian Gulf. A
torn heart, by the w 7 ay, is also in need of
repair in his case. But that’s another and
even more painful story.
Greenwood, the society amateur actor who
in his serious moments was secretary and
chief bandage of the St. John Ambulance
Association, is in charge of the rest-house
for convalescents from the Base Hospital.
The noble-hearted man refused to have money
spent on his quarters, and had liis rooms
furnished with monk like simplicity. But
his attempt at asceticism was soon foiled by
some admiring females who used their own
private purses and turned the would-be
Spartan’s rooms into dreams of snugness.
Everything is done in art shades of brown,
up to-date office fixtures abound, there is a
telephone in every room, and at least one
dictaphone to talk to when company is
scarce.
Dr. Vance has been moved out to the big
Caulfield Military Hospital, and Dr. Hon-
man succeeds him at the Base, where wards
are being rearranged and regrouped. The
number of men-orderlies is being increased,
while nurses are going like leaves before an
autumn wind. Thirty of them lately re-
ceived curt blue notices that they needn’t
.put on their nice new 7 uniforms. Naturally
there is much lamentation.
Dr. Ross-Soden came home on a hospital
ship last week and was sighted later in town
looking very plump and well and surrounded
hy an escort of adoring female relatives.
This business of exporting single fighting
men and getting them back as bridegrooms
should be stopped. Australian convalescent
s oldiers are marrying English girls and ask-
ing that their brides’ fares home be paid out
of”deferred Australian pay. Seven of the
traitors have done it in one week. Arise,
my pining' countrywomen!
Dr. Rupei* Downes, who galloped for Gal-
lipoli in the “ a rly days of the war, still
keeps up w 7 ith rhe hunt. The A.L.H. boys
from Anzac have been united in an Anzac
Division (mounted ’ and Lieut.-Colonel
Downes is its mediein ’■man. He is a strip-
ling from Ormond Collet and his full medi-
cal fledging v 7 as only qu ' te a I,ece pt occur-
rence. But his previous connection with
military matters helped him t 0 his rank;
and there v 7 as no disadvantage *-° him in the
fact that he is the son of a fon n ? r military
Commandant of Victoria—Maj or *Deneral
Downes, wdio flourished in the da ' y hen
the State’s Defence Forces were
cock’s-feathers and gold braid.
The Falconer MacDonalds have lost their
elder boy, the lieutenant who w r as originally
listed as “missing," but is now reported as
killed in action. 11 is mother, the elder of
the late baronet William Clarke’s daughters,
left Victoria for England soon after her
wedding.
Little Colin Campbell, who was Red Cross-
ing for months at Federal Government
House, has exchanged his expensive clothes
for the khaki of a mere private. Mrs. Colin
w’ith her infant will shelter under the
parental roof while he is away at the wars.
News drifts across the seas that Reggie
Power (co-partner of Phyllis) has been
invalided to England from the French
trenches.
Sisters Jackson and Bull returned on
leave from Egypt the other day. They both
belong to Bairnsdale district, and naturally
Bairnsdale called out its brass band and told
the trombone to snort its loudest.
Dr. Fred Bird reckons he had hard luck
(of a kind) in not getting a record at Galli-
poli. He was out after 1000 major opera-
tions from April 25 to December 15, but he
could squeeze only 970 into the period. The
average civilian surgeon would reckon 970
major operations even in 12 months beyond
his happiest dreams. To make up for Bird’s
disappointment in that direction he has the
distinction of performing operations upon
the first and last of the warriors who came
from the Anzac front.
Harold Newbigin, who married the
younger Hayward girl (Mrs. Leslie Stuart's
sister), did a lot of motor-ambulance work
last year. Association with the actual battle-
product soon impelled him to go and see
something for himself; and he is now 7 a
remount-unit lieutenant looking after horses
in Egypt. The Newbigins have for many
years been a large part of the James Pater-
son coal-and-cargo firm. The sedate Henry
Masterton —James Paterson’s nephew—and
the late Edward New 7 bigin w 7 ere running the
show at the time of the elder partner’s
death ; and since then the Newbigin share of
the profits has always been sufficient to meet
the family beffzine bill and leave a bit over
for the chauffeur’s wages.
Adelaide confesses all: —
Captain Gartrell, who was drowned while surf-
bathing at Manly (N.S.W.), leaves a widow 7 and two
children. He was at Gallipoli in charge of a com-
pany of signallers with the 3rd Light Horse, and was
invalided home v 7 ith a wounded shoulder and enteric.
Only three weeks ago he was appointed to command
a signalling division at Broadmeadows.
Part of the late Chief Justice Way’s estate was sold
at the beginning of the week —the Kadlunga estate, of
5500-odd acres, to tw 7 o of the Melrose clan for
£24,055, and Montefiore to the Rev. Paul Joseph for
£6OOO. His Reverence has plans for home mission-
work on a-scale that includes the building of a City
Temple on North Terrace, and Montefiore is to be
worked in as part of the scheme. Paul, born a
poor boy in Tasmania, inherited money. He is
married to one of old Cherub Bevan’s daughters.
Two ex-St. Peter’s boys, T. W. English and P.
Auld, who enlisted as privates in the 4th Field Ambu-
lance, have got commissions. The former was wounded
at Gallipoli, but is fit for duty again. Explorer
Douglas Maw'son is said to be going to take charge
of an engineers’ corps in Flanders. But that’s only
gossip. Lieut. E. Day, whose father v 7 as for some
time chief surveyor of the Northern Territory, has
gone back to Westralia on the way to rejoin his
battalion after four months’ sick-leave here. He is
another S. Australian who has w 7 on his commission in
the ranks.
Died at the beginning of the week, Pastor R. K.
Finlayson, elder brother of the late J. H. Finlavson,
of the Register. He v 7 as born at North Adelaide in
’39, and spent all his life in this State. The death
is also reported from England of Mrs. R. E. Hamilton,
only daughter of the late Judge Boucaut. She w 7 as
married in ’99 to her soldier, and leaves two chil-
dren.
The dispute between the Salvation Army at Mount
Gambier and its next-door neighbor as to how much
noise an anti-Devil organisation is entitled to make
in pursuance of its religious exercises is to be settled
by the said army buying its quiet-loving neighbor
out. They think it is cheaper going all the
way to the Privy Council.
Red Cross entertainments are beginning again, and
Norwood cash-boxed the proceeds of its recent flower
show for the good cause. Lady Galway was there to
open it and say the few words without which the
social engine would burst.
Another Government-purchased property is growing
grass for horses while the mandarins decide what it
is best suited for. The place is Bedford Park, and it
was originally bought by the Peake Government to
be used as an industrial and training school in connec-
tion with the Boys’ Reformatory. Then the Vaughan
Government came in and decided that it was not
suitable for that, but should be used as a mental
hospital. It seems to me an excellent place for
deep thinking, and I’m going to compound my next
despatch there.
That cheerful sportsman, W. B. Carr, is putting up
a record for the presidency of the Stock Exchange,
His election t’other day starts him on his I3th year
of office.
Major C. P. Butler, who js to go to the Front as
second-in-command of a battalion, is the eldest son
of our drought-Treasurer Dick Butler. He fought
the Boer War, and has a brother in the 9th
Light Horse. By the way, the ex-flying man, Pem-
berton Billing, who has just got into the House of
Commons, is a brother of Mrs. James Melrose, of
these parts.
The Governor, who has renounced horse-racing, is
off on another Gulf trip—to the West Coast this
time per the Governor Musgrave.
To date we have sent the Belgians £96,000 —-a
comforting fact to remember when the war news is
crueller than usual.
The Austral Salon, which nowadays
mostly consists of the widow Staughton and
a claque of earnest social endeavorers, with
the John Maddens dropping in once a year,
awoke the other day to the fact that it had
a pair of returned Australian artists to
greet with the glad, fat hand of intellectual
fellowship. An afternoon gossip was hastily
arranged ; and amid the clash of iced cakes
and the wild lapping of eighteenpenny tea,
the Salon presently set its seal upon the
victims —singer Elsie Davies and writer
Katharine Prichard. Walter Kirby hovered
about the proceedings in a politely placid
manner, pausing now and then to exchange
little Italian nothings with the prima donna.
Philippo Navaretti (Mr. Elsie Davies) sat
in a comfortable corner and conversed in
eager Turinese with the dapper Eles, Italy’s
newest Australian consul-general. Kathie
Prichard made a speech for 30 seconds in
a powerful whisper ; and there was a packed
hallful of early winter fashions—some of
them as early as March, 1014.
The household gods of the late Mrs.
Robert Smith, of Oakdene, Toorak, lnwe gone
away in the jobber’s van and the neighbors’
motor-cars. Oakdene is a large, elderly 7
dwelling in a mellow neighborhood, and its
furnishings were in keeping. The dealers
had a beautiful time. The library was really
the most interesting room. There w r as the
illustrated Family Bible, the pair of photo-
graph albums, the glass case of seashells, the
red-plush photo-screen and the green-plush
photo-screen, and the works of Rosa N.
Carey in 14 vols. —a library altogether early-
Toorakian in its simple splendor and well-
dusted hyperdomesticity.
That beautiful Australian, Franz Wal-
lach’s grass-widow, has come back to inhabit
Wyalla, the family white-elephant at Ivoo-
yong. For a time after the pompous Wal-
lach’s internment the house was let to the
Clive Leonards; then Mrs. Wallach took
heart and returned to chase the mice out of
the donjon keep. The Wyalla lady has four
brothers in the A.l.F.—Bruce, Tom, Jim and
Crawford Wilson.
The Robert Harpers have been moving
most of the time since they sold Myoora,
their expensive Toorakery, where they enter-
tained Governors at charity bazaars —“Tot”
Murray, who built a lgrge part of his pile
by “making a book,” having taken the pro-
perty off Robert’s hands. The Harpers
spent last summer partly at Macedon and
partly in motor-cars ; and then Mrs. Robert
got concussion of the knees in the Campania
railway smash, which meant more Macedon
and less motor-car. Now they have acquired
Airlie, the big, bald, George Chirnside house
at South Yarra which the weight of local
public opinion kept from being used as a
soldiers’ hospital (soldiers, like dogs, being
all very well in their right place) ; and they
propose to spend their declining years in the
odor of social sanctity which hangs forever
upon the slopes of the Domain-road Hill.
Amen.
News comes of the slightly-improved
health of one-time squatter Andrew Lough-
nan, of Beaconsfield, who so nearly crossed
the edge. Toorak will rejoice, for Mrs.
Loughnan and her silver-toned spouse were
much missed when they moved the family’s
musical camp to the country. Mrs. Andrew’s
sister —Miss Flora Mac Lean, one of Edge-
cliff’s gilded—has waived war work for the
present to strengthen the Beaconsfield
menage.
Poet Hugh McCrae came undamaged out
of the Champion slander suit; and you saw
by your newspaper that the evidence of
pretty little Mrs. Rupert Atkinson —an im-
portant witness —was “taken de bene esse."
The plain English of that is she couldn't
attend court to give it in person, so a re-
spectful group of legal gentlemen attended
her in her sickroom at Fairleigh House, and
collected her version of the trouble. No
doubt the function just meant a fetching
neglige, a pale little wistful face, and the
window 7 shades becomingly lowered. How
much better than going to law is it to make
the law 7 come to you !
Mrs. Jack Moffat, who dedicated the spare
rooms in her Brighton house to the shelter of
returned soldiers, is walking off the home-
casualty list with the help of a stick, time
having mended the leg she broke whilst pre-
paring for some patriotic show 7 .
The Union Bank will lose Gen.-manager
Charles Russell in June next. When he
turns his back on the Australian ledg-
ers he will return to his native Eng-
land, taking wife and daughter with
him. This hemisphere still seems to be
good enough for the banker’s tw 7 o brothers,
however. One of them is the retired naval
commander who sits on the I’rahran bench
and says “Thirty shillings or a month ” The
other pitched his villa in Maoriland. They
are a breezy, well-informed trio, whose Eng-
lish manners are generally described as
“irreproachable.”
“Rosna’s” Note from Britain:—
Mrs. Ernest Whitehead, better known to Melbourne
as Peggy Stone, sister of “Trvphena” Doughty, has
been inventing and patenting a bridge table. She is
staying at the Doughty acres in Lincolnshire while
hubby is away with Jellicoe. The table has trian-
gular morocco-leather pockets that let down at each
side to hold lovely woman's hanky and powderpuff
and cigarettes and diamond tiara and missing will
and all the rest of the bric-il-brac, and when not
in use you fold them up over the table, envelope
fashion, and button them in the middle, and then
everything’s tidy.
St. Margaret’s, Westminster, which is where the
House of Commons says its prayers, or ought to
has just made itself the parish church of the Anzacs'
and had a special inaugural service to tell them so!
It’s a fine old pile, leaning up against the Abbey,
and a popular place for fashionable weddings. It
may come in handy in this respect, if no other
for somebody alleges that about 600 Private Kan!
garoos, Corporal Gallipolis and Sergeant Anzacs have
been married in England already, and everything
they do is fashionable at present.
Two more threats to marry ! Lieut. W. E. Connor
son of the Jack River Connors of Gippsland, who
went to Anzac with the Light Horse and will shortly
go to France to join the North Devons, is engaged
to Lilian Goodesham, of Norfolk; and Penelope,
daughter of the late Reginald Boothby, of Adelaide
will marry Dr. Edward Harold Granger, who is a
captain with the R.A.M.C.
The Norton Grimwades, drifting into Liverpool
from Canada, found their sailor-son on the wharf.
He’s helping rule the waves on H.M.S. Guess-it, and
that tidy craft hove-to abaft the Liverpool docks an
hour or two before, just home from abetting the
evacuation of Anzac. The other son has joined the
Flighty Corps, and is at present sporting about the
clouds at Montrose. •
Dear old Collins-street is dotted with
soldiers’ rest-rooms, and down about the
fashionable Block there is lounge space for
an army. But the dames who nxed up these
places seem to have overlooked the fact that
Melbourne is a large city, and a soldier who
feels tired in a less fashionable quarter isn’t
going to totter all the way to Collins-street
for a chair to sit down on. The rest-roomers,
apparently, never considered adjacent
Bourke-street or the part of it beyond the
fashionable shopping block. It is conceded
by them that a room in the upper regions of
Bourke-street and beyond would be very
advantageous to soldiers who are not Block-
trotters. But the matrons who want to hand
tea to the returned Anzac refuse to do this
social outpost duty. When asked for reasons
they squeak, “My dear, girls couldn’t be
goirg about those streets!”
The women of the Overseas Club have
decided to endow a cot at the Base Hospital
on the time-payment system, raising the
necessary funds by small entertainments at
frequent intervals.
Edward Officer is giving a Red Cross pic-
ture show at the Athenaeum Ilall these next
few days, and Mayor Hennessy will make
the formal opening on Thursday afternoon.
The artist has hung a collection of his paint-
ings for sale. All the money that they real-
ise will go to the Red Cross Funds with-
out any deductions for expenses, so it only
remains for art lovers to do their bit.
The Melbourne Shakspearian Society
wants a kiosk in Melbourne on our Anzac
Day, and the lady members are holding
well-dressed meetings to see how it can be
managed. The highbrows have been greatly
cheered by the social and financial success
of the Shakspearian players at the Princess’s
and dear Lady Helen’s more or less Shaky
garden party. The Bard is booming.
Tenor Mansley Greer is to marry Rosalind
Roderick on April 22. The sentimental show
will be as quiet as a tenor can make it.
Lothians promise “The Art of Frederick
McCubbin” some time in May. Judg-
ing by a specimen plate the 20 repro-
ductions in color will be the most
beautiful printing work achieved iu
Australia tliusfar. An additional 25 double-
tone sepia plates and an essay and biography
make up the book. The edition is limited to
1000 copies. A good long list of subscribers
before publication is already in type, and
Lothian’s latest circular is a reminder that
further candidates for inclusion in that hon-
orable company must send along their names
within the next few weeks. Subscribers
coming later than April 1 have missed the
two-guinea ’bus. The price is now £2 12s. 6d.
And it will be three guineas when the book
comes out. Part of the scheme is the Art of
Fred McCubbin’s Publisher.
I heard it in a first-class suburban carriage
the other day. “I’m makin’ a gnat.” “A
black cat?” “No, a fur rat.” “Why, what’s
the matter with your.stror rat?” I’m told it
i>- best imported English.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


: >x-
'■ . : ~j
&MFM
.
*x
UM
\v s v V
SS
mm\
k --.
• '
A ■ '
S 3
1111!
■
- 'V •-"'
4
m
■ • /~.'-
»> <:
KX
’• -::^y
.
mis
7i
'
:
xm
iw
Jy
H
y''-%
M
/‘Vi
- \
m
-
:, ' . ?
m
W
wmv,
i
*
"• - ' : :
m
H
'
isS*
S«£
&5w
-
•■ ' " '■ ■
n
■
v -
■■>
X
,:r3T
■*>*
~ -■•
X;
f
pi
7*-».
I
V>*
<
1
if
Hr:
•.
* . :£
fmll
i
- “"■'
D. LLOYD GEORGE MP.
MAKERS OF HISTORY.
THE above reproduced portrait drawing- of The Right Hon. D. Lloyd George, M.P., is
one of a series of Twelve Present Day Men who are Makers of History. The
series, specially drawn for us by W. Jardine, have been reproduced on the finest art paper,
and retain the freshness and technique of the original drawings, and, being entirely free
from advertising, are suitable for framing. We will be pleased to forward the complete set
to any address in Australia or New Zealand on receipt of 66, in postage stamps to cover
cost of mailing, etc. Owing to a limited number of these sets, we advise you to write early to
JAMES WATSON & CO. LTD., Bromley House, Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


•o° N
K
-xi'.-
%
V j
m
.-•
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street, Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858.
Capital Paid Up, £1.498,220. Reserve Fund, £565,000.
Reserve Liability of Shareholders. £715.464.
Directors: JOHN GRICE, Esq., Chairman; EDWARD TRENCIIARD. Esq., Vice-Chairman;
H. M. STRACHAN, Esq. ; J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq. Chief Manager: E. H. WREFORD.
SYDNEY OFFICE, CO PITT STREET. TcOSTKLLO.
Branches inJVictoria. South Australia. Western Australia, New Souttr W ales.
LONDON OFFICE: 5 Bishopsgate. E.C.
Zanetic entirely eliminates the danger of unrea
able copies. By using it in Penduplieate books per
feet, permanent Pencopies are secured, with unsoi
originals. From Stationers or from S. B. Zane ic,
Zanetic Works, Leicester, England. —Advt.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites,
invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carp
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
Price 1/- per Bottle. Of all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA,
None Genuine without the Signature of Scruhb & Co. on each Bot e.
The Practical Romance of a
Thunderstorm.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AN angry cloud was spitting fire
Athwart the saddle of the sky ;
Long peals of thunder seemed to tire
The echoes as they rumbled by;
And rain, with splash'of green desire.
Had left no spot of Elsie dry.
The nearest shelter to be found
Wa s more than half a mile away,
As, seated on the simple ground,
We watched the crazy lightnings play ;
And joy. refusing to be drowned,
Remarked it was a fine display.
Although her hair like seaweed hung,
My Elsie’s lips were very red ;
Her cheerful smiles around she flung
And dimpled at the things she said ;
Her eyes were very sweet and young
And made blue flashes round her head.
And I myself was very nice,
Despite the fact that I am thin;
My laughter fell like grains of rice
Slow tinkling on a tray of tin :
For my especial Paradise
Was good, for all the lightning’s sin.
We sat upon a little hill
Where fern was long and grass was green
Trimmed round with happy cows as still
As carrots in a soup-tureen ;
And Elsie tried with pleasant skill
To act the part of Tempest Queen.
Her royal hand was round my waist —-
The slim and dapper waist I wear —
I gave her my warm lips to taste
And helped myself to half her hair ;
My form against a boulder braced,
I took of love the larger share.
For Elsie’s weight is fifteen stone.
And mine stops short at ten-stone-three.
Wherefore this maid who was my own
Completely covered most of me ;
The thunder uttered growl and groan
To see the girl upon my knee.
Dry as the towel of a saint.
Joyous as cats with milk replete,
I heard the rain without restraint
Against my dainty lady beat;
I raised no murmur of complaint,
Content to be her lowly seat.
On high the frenzied lightning flared.
Beneath it flashed her sunny smile;
Clad fancies through the storm we shared
In quite the old romantic style:
Thatched with her love I little cared
For gamp or roof of slate and tile!
The storm went by, the sun shone clear,
A drying wind began to blow ;
Cloudless as love that conquers fear
The clean-washed skies were seen to glow.
My Elsie grew as dry as dear.
From dimpled chin to shining toe.
And as we took our homeward way
My thoughts were in a happy whirl—
Oh. love had surely come to stay,
For I had found the perfect pearl!
I knew that I should dwell one day
Beneath the shelter of this girl.
Others have dreamt of mansions wide.
Of homes by Jerry built with speed ;
Such things I felt my soul deride
And chortled joyously indeed ;
For in the sweet girl at my side
W as all the rooftree I could need.
N.s.w.
PAT O'MAORI.
The Climax.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AX you im-agine anything grander!”
1/ said Singleton Sinclair, elevating,
his all-but-emptied mug of beer. Rut
it wasn’t the beer he meant. He had been
talking about the manner in which an actor
and actress whose names were strangely
unfamiliar to me had made their end.
“I was with them at that pe-ri-od,” said
Singleton, uttering a sigh as he replaced the
emptied mug on the counter. “It was a
pe-ri-od of de-pression, when even the highest
ar-tists could not get pay-able houses. The
reserved seats were empa-ty, the people who
should be in the stalls were in the gods, and
the gods, whose loud ap-proval is a de-sidera-
tum, were dead in conse-quence. Audrey
Clark, with all her emo-tion, could not move
them to tears, nor could Hor-atio Margson
rouse their en-thusiasm. Artists both—-such
ar-tists as one ne-ver sees in these days—yet
their season was a frost!
"I know it is my turn, gentlemen,” said
Singleton, in parenthesis, “but. as yet,
treasury Shall we move on?”
In spite of a stagey protest from Sinclair
Josephs called for the drinks.
“It was not this stuff with Margson,”
said Singleton, affectionately gripping the
mitg-handle. “With him it was wine—the
best, and nothing but the best. How he did
spend money !”
“Sometimes quite three-and-sixpence in a
night.” murmured Josephs.
Singleton Sinclair deliberately replaced
his beer on the bar.
“Sir! I will not derrink the beer you
have bought if in that way you in-sult the
me -ory of a greater act-or than you have
ev met!”
lie walked heavily to the bar-door,
R.U.E., and paused there to make his exit
speech; but Josephs' “Oh, only my joke!”
brought him back to his liquor.
“Such a joke is sing-ularly ill-timed in
re-gard to one of the world’s greatest
genins-es. with whom I—/—was assoc-iated !
However”
WEAR OUT THE OLD THINGS FIRST.
“Here, great Scott, my dear —your legs!”
“Oh, bother them! I've had them for twenty years, and this hat only two days .”
He made a gesture of forgiveness with the
mug that journeyed Upwards.
“They were both ex-travagant,” he con-
tinued on his original theme, “and their
fail-ure brought them face to face with
ru-in; hone-less, mis-er-able bankruptcy. It
meant the end of their splendid career, their
love-dream, their art-istic ac-hievement! Bee
how they faced it—ma-king their end as
glo-rious as their lives had been! For a
fare-well per-formance they announced
‘Romeo and Juliet’—and it drew ! Yes, sir,
at the end it drew! It was a packed house,
and the play went well; but did that cheer-
ing crowd know what real tragedy they had
been called to-gether to see?”
During an impressive pause he paid atten-
tion to his drink.
"Tliejf had planned it sup-erbly ! The last
act was altered so that Juliet awakened
while Romeo was in his death-throes, seized
him in her arms, and poisoned herself!
Romeo struggles to his feet, there is a final
embrace, and then, in each other’s arms, they
fall on the bier —dead! Curtain! The
house ate it, gentle-men, ate it! Three times
did the curtain rise: and then the strange
thing that the play ers did not rise to take
the call, but lay still, in each other’s arms,
with-out ev-en a sigh, struck someone. People
rushed on to the stage! They found that
the great artists were dead ; and in no time
the whole house, as. shocked and si-lenced,
it went into the street, knew, as if by in-
stinct. of the ger-reat trag-edy it had wit-
nessed !”
He drew a handkerchief from his pocket,
but it was not to wipe his eyes.
“Was it not a ger-rand climax?” he asked.
“Well, gentlemen?”
This last inquiry was not in regard to his
story, but our intentions; and, there being
no more beer in sight, we went outside, where
Singleton Sinclair left us, Josenlis and 1
walked on.
"I've no doubt the old beggar by this
time believes the yarn as he tells it,”
Josephs said —“he’s told it that way so often.
A lie looks more truthful than the truth if
it’s only repeated often enough. But. as it
happens, I was a boy at the time and I had
a job in connection with the show when
Margson and Clark arrived at Newcastle.
“They were pretty well on their uppers
then, mainly because they thought they were
a darn sight better artists than they really
were, and played unsuitable stuff. They
lobbed 'into Newcastle with a desperate hope
of making a rise, and the hope was about
the most blasted thing in a droughty conti-
nent by the time they’d finished.
“On account of their phenomenal success
they extended their season from time to time
—which means that they couldn’t get away.
They were an awful frost; but still, by hard
work, they managed to hang on until they
seemed to owe everybody in Newcastle money.
“The orchestra went on strike pretty
early, and they filled up from time to time
with local amateur musicians until they also
got tired and went on strike. Sometimes
there were bailiffs in the box-office, but
nobody ever got much out of that. There
were furniture people, carters, newspaper
collectors, bill-posters, boardinghouse-keepers
and all sorts of people waiting about the
stage-door day and night to get the usual
promises.
“Well, they announced the final perform-
ance when the worst came to the worst;
that is when the actors said they must have
money. ‘Romeo and Juliet’ was the bill —
fancy heaving stuff like that at Newcastle!
But somehow there was a big audience this
night. Some people came to see the last of
a long-season show, others out of sympathy,
no doubt; but most came because it was in
the wind that things were likely to be lively.
Consequence was there was a crowd down
at a quarter past seven ; and by a quarter
to eight, when he reckoned it was time
enough to begin handling the money, the usual
bailiff arrived to take charge of the ticket
oflice, and he found a whole lot of , •
already collected, lie was fenced off till
after eight, and when he got in he found only
a few bob in the box. The management hod
the rest. dU
“I had a busy time that night. Mares™
wh*> had been in the ticket-box with a con
over his eyes and an opera-cloak pulled un
around Ins chin, came dashing round after
eight o clock to make up and to square with
the orchestra, who had been refusing to «!>
in until some screw was forthcoming More
son handed her out five bob and pushed her
into the orchestra well, promising to see her
afterwards. Then about a hundred people
with hills, who ‘must see Mr. Margson’
worried me. Margson sent them out passes
and a message that he would see them dur-
ing the intervals. Then Sinclair, who was
doubling Tybalt and Capulet, refused to
make up till he got some cash.”
"What! Singleton?” I exclaimed.
"Yes, the same enthusiastic Singleton ”
said Josephs. "I don't know how Margson
squared with him ; but I do know that several
times he sent me out for beer. The first time
I came back with the bottles Margson was
running about excitedly. ‘Where’s the Nurse‘S
Where’s Miss Joynton?’ he asks. So lie
sends me down to the lady’s hotel.
"Well, Miss Joynton’s not at the hotel
of course. The landlord is as black as
thunder, and just on the point of coming
down to the theatre. Miss Joynton has left
for Sydney, telling him that he’ll have to
see Margson about the bill.
"Of course, it was a rocky performance
(and no Nurse at all), but the audience
enjoyed itself in its own rather ribald way.
So when Margson, as Romeo, in the balcony
scene, says "It is the moon,” someone in the
gods speaks up: "Bad night for flitting, old
man !” And the orchestra insisted on col-
lecting another half-crown in the second
interval.
"But that was only a circumstance to
what was happening behind. All the show,
at one time and another, was on strike, and
entrances were held up while players de-
manded cash. Most of them got a few bob
and the usual promise, though one of ’em,
who was on his last entrance and didn’t
matter much, got a punch on the nose.
"Round the stage door was where the
excitement was greatest. Half a dozen of
his creditors sitting in the theatre would
bolt out every time Margson left the stage
and dash round to see that he wasn’t leaving
for good. There were threats going about
that if cash wasn’t obtainable from Marg-
son they would get satisfaction somehow or
another. Some of them, at one time, actually
tried to smash down the stage door; but
the police came round and interfered.
"I tell you, under all the circumstances I
felt sorry for Margson, and did my best
for him. I wondered how he’d get through.
“Singleton told you how they faked the
last act; and what he says is practically
correct. They did act in that scene—the
pair of them. I didn’t think they had it in
them ! When it impressed a derisive house
it must have been good; and when they fell
together the house really did applaud.
"But on the recall. Chapman—a smooger
on the management, whoever he was with-
rushed on to the stage, shook Margson and
Miss Clark without seeming able to disturb
them, and then, stooping, picked up a bottle.
“ ‘Ladiesand gentlemen,’ he shouted; and
the people stopped on their way out. ‘Mr.
Margson and Miss Clark have taken poison!’
lie held up the bottle. ‘ls there a doctor
in the house?’
"Of course it made a big sensation. Most
of the people got away from the tragedy as
quickly as they could, but a lot stood gaping
at the stage to see what would happen next.
A doctor jifmped upon the stage, and a little
group gathered round the players, who were
still lying where thev had fallen, writhing a
little. I was sent for a cab, and I had to
make my way through a crush of creditors
at the door by shouting. ‘Look out! Marg-
son’s committed suicide!’
“When I got back people were carrying
the suicides off towards the door, and the
theatricals who had been waiting to pounce
on Margson fell back. So did the creditors
outside, a policeman assisting to make them:
and we got the pair into th» cab, which
drove off.
“In the morning the truth was known; bat
by that time Margson and Miss Clark were
well on their way to Sydney, where they
were just in time to catch the American
boat. A lot of people were sore with the
landlord of their hotel, who was the only
one that was paid and had no doubt helped
them; some declared that the police had
assisted the trick —which they may have
done to save a riot.
"But the xvorst hit was Chapman, who,
having put the fake through for them and
been in their confidence, was fobbed off with
a tale that they didn’t mean to leave for at
least a day. and got left.”
“What about Singleton?” I asked.
"Oh. him I” said Josephs. “His desenp-
tion of Margson. at that time, was a tri-
umph in dramatic denunciation.”
HAMER.


EASTER WANTS FOR MEN AT MURDOCH’S
Smart Soft Felts
in new shapes and colorings—
the very latest in style, and
well trimmed with smart bows
and bands. At Murdoch’s prices
the values are extremely attrac-
tive.
Postage
Bd. extra.
V
Murdoch’s Special
“Itala” Quality
Soft Felts.
These are nobby hats with
super-finish—smart and dressy
—in the newest shapes and
colorings— cut or stitched edge,
bow back or side, self or black
band, beautiful smooth finish.
Postage
Bd. extra.
12/11
m
>1
A
A Smart Straw
Boater
will improve your appearance
and prove a splendid invest-
ment.
Murdoch’s up-to-date styles with
high crowns and medium brims,
fitted with Bon Ton or Ivy
Sweat Leather, are unequalled
for value.
4/6
Postage
Bd. extra.
“Where the
Good Hats Are”
is a jolly good place to choose
your Easter hat. Our assort-
ment includes hats to please all
tastes. Come in if possible and
try on your size, or write Desk
R.
Stetson Velours.
Smart, dressy hats —unequalled
for quality and distinction. Our
assortment includes the very
newest shapes in popular shades.
The acme of hat manufacture,
catering for the tastes of men
who require—the BEST.
32/6
Genuine French
Velours
UP TO DATE IN SHAPE,
with smart bows and bands—-
superbly finished in every detail
—latest colorings. Hats that
add tone and distinction to a
man’s appearance.
19/6
Smart English
Velours.
very smart and dressy, in newest
shapes and wide range of colors,
excellent in quality and finish,
these hats will appeal to par-
ticular men.
25/-
Post
Free.
%
Hard Felts.
In the newest Derby styles-
pure fur, splendid quality and
fast black—neatly trimmed and
finished.
6y|| Postage
/* * Bd. extra.
Move in the Direction of
Satisfaction—Choose Early
Only Two Weeks before the Holidays Arrive.
Better finish thinking about your
Easter needs and get on with the actual
work of preparation.
If you w’ant a smart Suit that will add
attractiveness to your appearance as
well as give you splendid service—come
right along and be measured for a
55
MURDOCH
SUIT-TO-
MEASURE
Our fine range of Easter Suitings will
please your taste —without a doubt.
There are nobby Tweeds and Worsteds
in smart designs and popular shadings.
Tailored in the Murdoch way, these
suitings will reach your highest suit
ideal. Every detail of fit and finish is
guaranteed to please, or back goes your
money. We pay carriage to your door.
Other Prices are
63/-, 70 1-, 751-
You can’t afford to risk disappoint-
ment.
y
O
A
M ft
LEAVE YOUR ORDER TO-DAY.
Call and choose your fabric without delay—if you are out of town
write for patterns —hut, remember, do it now.
FILL IN COUPON AND POST BY RETURN.
Cheviot and Vicuna
Navy Blue Serges.
We have just landed a shipment of these
Serges in time for Easter trade —call and
inspect them or write for patterns. Let
us tailor you a suit from these splendid
materials.
55/-, 63/-, 70/-, 75/-
Desk R. —
Messrs. Murdoch's in Park St. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
Please forward patterns of Easter
Suitings at Suit to Measure,
also tape and self-measurement form.
Name
Address
Murdoch’s
Gabertwi st
Two-piece
Sports Suits
47)6
Ready to Wear
are serviceable knockabout suits for
Autumn days—both garments unlined
with taped seams. Coats have four
patch pockets with buttons —two inverted
pleats at back, with yoke and belt sewn
down. Trousers have cuff bottoms, and
s|de and hip pockets. These Ready-to-
Wear Suits are ideal for Holiday wear.
In smart Fawn and Olive shades —sizes
to fit every man.
CALL AND TRY ON
YOUR SIZE TO-DAY.
If unable to call, write Desk R, giving
height, chest, waist, sleeve hqd inside-leg
measurements.
A
MURDOCH S in Park St. Ltd. SYDNEY.
“Where the G—O—O—D Hats are.”


m
• H \
■0
SHIRTS THAT GIVE
FULL SATISFACTION
are the kind we specialise. Everything is introduced to
add wearing life to the garment. Our popular
“DOUBLE-LIFE” SHIRT
is winning constant approval and new customers, because
the fit and cut are right and
OUR NOTED COT-TAFFETA MATERIALS
give splendid wear and look smart always. The Neck-band is
reinforced. Our Sleeve Lift adds comfort. Made in Blue,
Black and Helio Stripes. Colors guaranteed.
Marvellous A’alue.
POST FREE 4/C TO ANY STATE.
CHAS. LANE & GO. PTY. LTD.
“ The Mail-order
House for Men.”
ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
[2.
THE
“top notch”
whisky
IV;
An Inspiring Tonic
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Pick” : For the information of “Jaques,”
who (B. 2/3/’l6) reports a horse with hoof torn
by barbed wire, and similarly for all other amateur
vets with wounded mokes to patch, let it be known
that open wounds on a horse, especially when near
the hoof, require drying up. Balsams, drawing oint-
ments and bathing spread the sore and create proud
flesh. These alleged remedies also keep the prad
leaning up against himself in the paddock instead
of earning his oats. Willow ash is the simple bush
remedy for drying up a gash, and it is efficacious
if the wound is kept clean by bandaging.
* * * *
“Nick Bottom” : The answer to “Warre’s”
question (B. 2/3/’l6) whether any fencer has tried
putting the small end of posts in the ground is
“Yes.” Dozens of fencers have tried it and the
majority have kicked themselves in consequence.
The chief arguments against putting the small end
of a post in the ground are (1) that it cannot be
rammed firmly, and (2) that all posts below the
level of the strainers will come out of the ground
when the wires are tightened.
“Yatti”: “Coolibah,” an Abo.-writer (B.
24/2/’l6), says that the two varieties of the black
cockatoo are identical in all respects save the color
of their underwear. I don’t think they are. So far
as I have noticed, yellow tails feed exclusively on
the soft, white grubs, and keep up a constant queru-
lous protest while digging out their prey. The red
tails tucker on the red-oak seed, to get which they
have to thresh the acorns. They will work away all
day without a murmur, but on rising out of the tree
they utter a dolorous wail or two. I have never
seen the red tails after grubs, nor yellow tails on the
red oaks.
* * » »
“Leo Lear”: Here’s an easy method of
exterminating dead stumps. Introduce a 2in. auger
a foot into two sides of the obstruction. Into these
cavities pour Lpint of nitric acid. Then slowly
add 4-pint sulphuric acid. When the disturbance
caused by the conjunction of the acids has subsided
you can go and sit in the shade for six weeks. Then
borrow an axe, hit the stump a welt with the head,
and it will fall to bits even unto the roots thereof.
The above quantities will serve for a stump about
3ft. in diameter.
SO DELICATE.
LADY: “Why don't you work? You look
strong enough."
NEVERSWEAT NED: “ Believe me, lady, I'm
that weak I can't raise a traybit."
“Jaques”: “F. Isher” (B. 2/3/’l6) wants
to know the best method of easing the sting of the
Portuguese men-o’-war, commonly called “Blue-
bottles.” Bag-blue (washing blue) rubbed on the
wound has never failed me yet, and I’ve been stung
half a dozen times. Wet sand and ammonia only
neutralise the sting by setting up an opposition pain.
THE STUDENTS HOUR.
BILL (after a prolonged and heated Biblical discussion): “I don't mind tellin' y' I know
more about the blanky Bible than any of yers."
JIM ( reasonably ): “Well, so yer ought to, Bill. It's the only book they gives yer to
read in quod."
“Murrabit”: “Hamer” (B. 17/2/T6)
records a mysterious fall in W.A. of downy flakes
that proved to be a result of the aeronautics of young
spiders. It is a rare but by no means a unique
occurrence. Gilbert White in his history of Sel-
borne, the only book on natural history that has
attained the distinction of being an English classic,
gives an account of this phenomenon as observed
on September 21, 1741, and also explains its cause.
“About nine an appearance very unusual began to
demand our attention—a shower of cobwebs falling
from very elevated regions, and continuing, without
any interruption,. till the close of the day. These
webs were.... perfect flakes of rags, some near an
inch broad and five or six long.” These appearances
were called gossamer, and were supposed in previous
centuries by the pious to be the down from the
wings of angels.
“Pick”: I dispute “Barcoo’s” statement
(B. 2/3/’l6) that the greatest flight of birds to be
witnessed in Australia is when the flock
pigeon is migrating through Northern Queens-
land. I have seen the pigeons in big mobs
myself, but in the early autumn along the
South Coast of N. S. Wales I have often seen
birds in countless myriads passing towards the
south. I don't know their name, but have
examined hundreds that fell out of the ranks
and drifted ashore. They resembled the
storm-petrel in size and shape, but were
somewhat shorter in the wing, and sooty
black. Whether they journey night and day
I do not know, but I have observed them in
full flight past Montague Island when dawn
threw up the shutters, and have watched
them throughout the day passing on, some-
times in o; aque clouds. Old fishermen told
me the fowl were going to Tasmania, but I
reckon if all the crowd settled the Speck
would sink beneath the South Pacific.
“Elan Dell”: Judge Murray constructed
a fine residence at Mittagong (N.S.W.) of “mud” —
not made into bricks, but built up in the manner
that concrete walls are made. It is now, I believe,
used as a boarding-house. A similar dwelling was
commenced in the same town many years ago,- but
lack of funds or something prevented its completion.
The walls were exposed to sun, rain, wind and small
boys for 20 years that I can remember and showed
remarkable durability. Another large house built in
the same way in the district was destroyed by fire, and
the walls resisted the heat just as well as stone or
brick could have done. The mud used was yellow
loam, mixed with nothing but water and coated out-
side with thin cement.
* * * *
“rick”: “J.” (B. 2/3/’10) and Lucas and
Le Souef notwithstanding, the lady native bear, or
koala, sometimes encumbers herself with a bigger
family than one. I have found them with two nip-
pers in their pocket, and have also seen the old one
sitting in a tree-fork with one baby in her arms
and another in the usual place.
“Yarraman”: Re Louis Esson’s “Swag-
gie Song.” There are about 27 verses in the
“chantey.” These things get started and grow like
a chain-prayer through various bush bards adding
verses. Here are a couple to go on with: —
I’ve a nice bit of beef and some Murphies that I
shook,
Also a lump of brownie I snavelled from the cook;
A pound in my pocket that I borrowed from a
friend—-
It comes in nice and handy, when you're camped
down the bend.
With my four little Johnnie cakes all nicely cooked,
A nice little codfish that I freshly hooked,
Little round flourbag sitting on a stump,
Little tea and sugar bags looking nice and plump.
Then it's hurrah! for the Lach-lan, away from sin
and beer.
This is the place to rest a while at the end of the
year.
So I sit by the fire and gaze around with pride
At the tall an' lorfty gumtrees down by the riverside.
With my four little Johnny-cakes, etc.
NEVER INQUIRED.
“ Doan'dt look ofer dere! Dot's de fellow
who vos alvays ask me for monish.
“ Cracious, Becrustcin! Voteffer docs he do
mit it all?"
“I doan'dt know. I neffer giff him any!"
“D.F ”: The eagle introduced by
“Yarrum” (B. 2/3/’l6) which measured 6ft. om.
from tip to tip of the wings could not hate been
fully fledged. My brother snared one some years ago
at Bream Creek (Tas.) which spread out to 9ft. in *
(Continued on page 26.)
DEAD-HORSE GATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The track that ran through Hunthaway
Runs there no more, ’tis said ;
No more the brumbies take that track
With swaying mane and head.
Their bones have mouldered into dust,
’Tis scattered far and wide;
Their story is a legend now
Along the Lachlan-side.
There spear-grass grows, and barley-grass,
And crow-foot green and high,
Hoof-trod no more nor flattened down
As in the days gone by.
Yet he who talks of bygone days,
As I so talked of late,
May chance to hear, as late I heard,
The tale of Dead-Horse Gate.
Their manes were wild ; their tails were wild ;
No mark nor brand they bore;
They roamed the rugged Lachlan-side,
A hundred head and more.
An outlaw band, a roving band,
The hollow lands they trod,
Or galloped down the stony ways
Unbroken and unshod.
Unbridled by the hand of man,
Unfettered by his chains,
They watched their fellows as they moved
Across the red-soil plains.
Beneath the wilga and the box
They sheltered through the noon,
Or clattered down the piny steeps
Beneath the winter moon.
A chestnut lord was in their lead,
A sire of noble size ;
None dared the impact of his hoofs,
The challenge in his eyes.
Lithe-limbed was he and lion-strong,
And broad of chest, and tall;
By right of power and grace, and speed
He held the herd in thrall.
By right of spirit, fierce and fine,
Their chosen chief was he;
Not man, nor dog, nor whip, nor fang
Could daunt him utterly.
An outlaw chief, an outlaw band,
Rough-hoofed and rough of hide,
They browsed and drowsed and romped and
camped
Along the Lachlan-side.
The Drought came marching o’er the plains,
The plains grew sere and parched ;
His milestones were the bleaching bones
Adown the road he marched.
He drew a smoke-shroud round the sun,
Around a haze;
He filled the west with wizard lights
And phantom water-ways.
He came and triumphed, struck and slew,
And all the stricken laud
Lay gasping, like a prostrate man,
Within his strangling hand.
And then, when all the skies were brass,
And all the days were black,
A gated-fenc-e of wire was thrown
Across the brumbies’ track.
The Drought came marching up the hills,
His stride a giant’s stride,
The herbage wilted at his breath,
The grasses crisped and died.
No dewy sweetness went before,
No wind that soothes and cools;
Ilis red tongues searched the hidden nooks,
And lapped the little pools.
The waters vanished from the creeks,
From shadowed hole and cleft;
In all the tumbled countryside
No little drop was lrft.
No more the brumbies romped and played,
But stood a herd accurst;
Thin-flanked, wild-eyed, with drooping heads,
And aching throats athirst.
Yet now and then, by night or day,
Blown-over rocks and trees,
The Lachlan waters came to them
Upon the western breeze.
And night and day, when this befell,
Though weary-hoofed and spent,.
They raised their nostrils, drinking in
The cool, sweet water-scent.
And thus it chanced that on a day
Of dust and heat and smoke,
An ancient instinct spurred their blood,
A sudden urge awoke.
Then head to tail, a trudging file,
Their nostrils red and wide,
They took the track their fathers took
Unto the riverside.
With drooping heads, and heaving flanks,
And eyes deep-sunk and red,
They took the ancient brumby-track,
The chestnut at their head.
They reached the fence at Hunthaway,
And bitter was their fate!
For no man rode along the track
To let them through the gate.
0 fateful gate at Hunthaway ;
O red, unsparing sun !
The Lachlan waters on the wind—-
They perished one by one!
Their bones have mouldered into dust,
’Tis scattered far and wide;
Their story is a legend now
Along .the Lachlan-side.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


BRITISH
MADE
THIS CAMERA is AN ASSET
For Real Value Nothing 1 Approaches it.
THE
ENSIGN POPULAR REFLEX
screwed? ?tT a covere y d with S'^SinT ‘
meaS ßeve?sin| Badf’ and the Weig:ht ’ com P let e with Lens, is under 41b. qUa ' e ’
positfon la dSi^ y 'f d LS »i and r & a Stiff * will —in any
necessity of'rejdadn/' between separate
The simplicity of the Shutter fitted to the “Ensign Popular” Reflex is very
remarkable. All speeds are obtained by revolving the Engraved Collar on the
Key Wind, through a portion, only, of a circle. The setting of the Shutter is
of a®turn for Knfe Bulb’expo™. InStantaneous ex P osures and three-quarters
The range of exposures is perfect. Here is a full list of atmroximate
l/500 S tii, V/Sth 1 /20 Bulb l/ and h Time s ° th ’ 1/10 ° th ’ 1/150th ’ 1/250th ’
spring°is C requfred n ° r reference to 3peed table is necessary and no variable tension
Each “Ensign Popular” Reflex Camera is sold complete with three metal Dark
blides of standard pattern. The Camera and Slides are British-made throughout
and can be thoroughly relied upon.
Price —fitted with Cooke-Luxor Lens f 4.5 £l2|7/6
UJ?
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Auckland & Wellington, N.Z
Our New Camera. Price List will be sent Free
on request to Any Address.
Tt-’ a P ro S re n ss ’ vp Hotelkeeper can afford to be without this excellent appliance.
Its a mighty lever to success.
I>y its use big savings can he effected on' the Aerated Water Account.
r , rni UCES THE COST OF PRODUCTION, because it eliminates manual
i\rvJD) S i PeDSer l 1S i n Soniously constructed to work in conjunction with
, JMiEK or Automatic—Carbonator, so that the whole concern is under
e entire control of the Bar Attendant. This means a substantial saving, whieh
more than pays for its cost in a short while.
In addition, it renders ABSOLUTELY SUPERIOR SERVICE.
lst ‘~mL n respect t 0 F,ow of Soda — mol 'e Rapid and Even. Remember, no springs
That means no trouble.
2nd. Quantity of Syrup can be Accurately Adjusted at Will.
Plant is installed with less trouble and maintained with less expense than
any other system.
The simplicity of design and high-grade workmanship throughout should make
this system last a business lifetime.
We can give full details that will convince you of the
that can be effected by using the Victory Dispenser,
cost nothing, and you should write for them at once.
wonderful cash savings
These particulars will
NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. LTD.,
219 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at Turbot Buildings, Turbot Street, Brisbane.
Nelson’s Victory
Dispenser’s
- Bar Arm
Gives the Biggest Lift Along
the Road to Success.
Dancing to Swelling Waves of Sound”
m
m-
>r.
m
&
, v ?
U_ V
V,"
MS
item
**
m t
y\~S^UE§
w
THE graceful, gliding pleasures of the dance—what fun, what
exercise they are! How “smart” they make one! How young
they keep one!
Ah give us a smooth floor and a Vocalion, with its swelling
tone-volume that sounds so clearly even from another room ! How
richly its voice pours forth true to the perfect dancing time. Those
tones have a new, completer, broader volume unknown until the
Vocalion came. They swell above the steps of the dancers, above the
talk and laughter of the room.
We recognize in them a new carrying quality of tone a full,
resonant strain with the lifting quality of a powerful wave of sound
with almost the inspiring quality of the orchestra itself.
Yes, it is a splendid privilege to dance to the living volume which
streams from the wonderful Vocalion “ the greater instrument of
full-resounding tone! ”
the Aeolian-Vocalion
“THE INSTRUMENT THAT GALLS FORTH HIDDEN BEAUTIES FROM YOUR RECORDS"
Vocalions are sold only at Pianola Hall from £25
easy terms of payment arranged
Write to us for illustrated catalog B.L.
hePianolaCampantL
384 George St., Sydney
Also at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and BRISBANE
FEATURES OF
THE VOCALION
The Graduola
The only satisfactory device yet invented for
artistically controlling tone volume. By the
simple pressure of your hand it enables you to
piay the music yourself if you will, and vary it
just as a musician varies in detail every per-
formance. The Aeolion-Vocal ion, where used
for dancing or at other times, will play itself,
like other instruments. When you desire, how-
ever, you can use the Graduola to shade and
color the music to your taste.
The Sound Box
Designed and constructed on new and scientific
lines, which for the first time, produce a sound-
box capable of doing full justice to the lower
richer musical tones, as well as the higher. This
gives a far greater “ body ” or carrying power to
the tone of the Aeolian-Vocalion than that
possessed by any other model.
The Symphonetic Horn
A metal composition horn of special design
and construction. Patented and exclusive with
the Aeolian-Vocalion and largely responsible for
its incomparable beauty and distinctiveness of
tone, as well as its fulness and volume.


TYRES
Duvals Co.
13 Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY.
476 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
300 Adelaide St.,
BRISBANE.
CORNELL LTD.,
ADELAIDE.
A. C. McCALLUM,
PERTH.
Best in the Long Run
CURLY HAIR.
“WAVCURL” imparts Beautiful PER-
MANENT CURLS. One packet sufficient, how-
ever' listless your hair. One testimonial says: My
hair soon became a mass of wavy curls. Result cer-
tain Price 2/9. Special reduction for few weeks.
Spnd 1/6 only for large-size 2/9 packet. The
New Wavcurl Co., 67 Cromwell House,
Fulwood Place, Holborn, London, W.C., England. [2
The BLACK OPAL STORE.
OPALS, PEARLS, SAPPHIRES.
Specialty Australian Gems
89 Market Street, near Hyde Park, Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, formerly Manager White
Cliffs Opal Mines, Proprietor.
Martin's Pills are sold by W. H. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist. Southampton.*
c°
V
„ V
tfORRISs
IMPERIAL
.EYE..
O INTMEN*
CURES
Obtainable ill Chemists and Stores
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE —
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH
360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
F S & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
E 'eAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
* * * *
“H.B. J.”: About this argument, auto-
matic pistols v. revolvers. I carried a Colt automatic
right through the Gallipoli affair, and it never
jambed with me, although it is not a small calibre —
.38. A revolver may be all right, but if there
is business to do give me the automatic.
* * * *
“Too”: In North Queensland flying-foxes
have attacked the young cocoanuts so vigorously
that next year’s crop is gone. Unless the Govern-
ment destroys the pest the sugarcane will go next.
How about the M’s.P. coming up to practise shoot-
ing? It would be useful in case they ever decided
to enlist.
* * * *
“Patricia B.”: Who knows the average
aga of the pine tree so prevalent around Sydney?
My query is the result of counting the great number
of* these vegetables that have passed in their marble
in the vicinity of Randwick and Coogee during the
past 10 years. Nearly all the dead trees are of a
corresponding height, and few, if any, have been
ringbarked.
* * * *
“McNorth”: The Island trader receives
some peculiar communications at times. Here’s one
that reached me from a Samoan mission-teacher in
Papua:—•
Dear Sir, —I write to you for to ask you for send
letter long govenor because the native here he steal
2 pig and 1 foul belong me. I very wild for them
native. I tell him spose he no bring back that 2 pig
and 1 foul he go hell by-em-by and he burn in big
fire and he [censored] -up altogether. But them
feller no listen, so me wild proper. Native belong
this place no good, all time he humbug too much.
Thats what for I ask you speak long govenor. Will
you please send to me 1 whisk because my foot is no
good and I catch sore throat long stomick, and 1 box
hook-fish and 1 hat belong finger for my wife to sow
up some clothes. I love you, my wife love you, God
love you, —yours truly friend, Ezekiel.
You please tell govenor the native steal allto-
gether prayers-book and alltogether hims-book for to
make the cigarete.
NOT QUITE SURE ABOUT THE
DETAILS.
“They tell me, Mrs. Gubkins, that your heroic
son was wounded in the campaign.”
“Maybe, sir; it was somewheres about the
stummick, I know.”
“GOT A MATCH ABOUT YOU?”
“Moana”: Enter this for the crop cham-
pionship. At Lee Creek in southern M.L., where
everything, including weeds, flourishes like the
schemes of the Archbishop, a cocky named Patrick
recently threshed out a crop of Leader oats that gave
130 bushels per acre. With oats at something like
4s. a bushel that crop should nearly satisfy even the
disgruntled cocky.
* * * *
“TJmuna” : Baby has a pretty rocky time
in some of the islands of the Pacific. In the D'Entre-
casteaux Group when a mother dies it is the custom
to bury the youngest child with her. The infant is
not killed beforehand, but literally buried alive. A
large number of children have been rescued from this
gruesome fate by the missionaries on Normanby
Island. At a village near Port Moresby half-caste
babies, of which the natives have a healthy horror,
have been known to be thrown to the pigs or into the
fire. At the Yule Island Mission Station there is
one such child with ears missing, and another shock-
ingly mutilated by burns.
* * * *
“Wandi”: Black brother appears to be
fairly unanimous in his prejudice
against caves as dwelling-places.
Though he may be foraging in a
neighborhood where big caves are
plentiful, he makes no use of them.
As a -general rule he seems to look
upon the holes as the home of the
debil-debil. Wyan Mountain, in the
Richmond River district
(N.S.W.), has many caves,
which were the reputed
home of a hairy man of
gigantic proportions and
ferocious nature. In the
same country, according
to native tradition, there
was a red snake which had
the speed of buttered light-
ning, and its pertinacity
was such that it never
relinquished a chase until
it had caught and bitten
its quarry in 57 places, in-
cluding both shin-bones.
The bunyip and the wah-
wee are old identities ; but
these are supposed to
haunt deep lagoons and
miry pools. Eurombar lagoon, on the
Dawson, is a bunyip water, and for
years was shunned by the blacks. Fossil
remains have been discovered in various
parts of the country, which testify to
the one-time existence of colossal
animals; and probably the aboriginal
traditions have been handed down ffom
times when stray members of these
monsters were in existence.
“Sandgroper”: “Boronia does
not grow on the arid plains in West-
ralia, as “Rag” said recently in the
Abo. columns, but on top of the Canning Range
I have picked it on the banks of creeks that
had been dry for 12 months. Also, there is plenty
of it on the ironstone ridges around Kalamunda
and Pickering Brook, where even the pub is dry.
“Barcoo” : Not generally known that there
are two species of emu in Australia and some adja-
cent islands. The name is derived from the Por-
tuguese emea, meaning large bird. The common
emu of the eastern portion of the continent is the
larger of the two species; the emu of the western
portion of Australia is a bird of more slender build,
is more graceful (if that be possible) and more fleet.
The female is larger than her husband, and she is
the pugilist of the family. The eggs are too strong
for eating, but they are ideal when quite fresh for
the making of rich cake. Their incubation takes
from 54 to 64 days. The common bird lays from
nine to 13 eggs, while the more graceful relative is
satisfied with five to 10 at a time.
“Kel” : All that is required to make a drip
safe is a simple wooden rectangular frame, with or
without legs, and sized according to requirements.
The frame is surmounted by a skeleton cone (four
battens will make this), and the whole is covered
with cheap hessian to facilitate the passage of air.
Shelves inside will increase the capacity. Place the
safe in the shade where a breeze, however slight, will
play on it. Above the structure suspend a kerosene-
tin with three or four Jin. holes in the bottom of
it. Through each of these draw a piece of rag a
few inches long but sufficiently thick to allow only a
drip-drip of water on to the safe. Keep your tin
filled with water—two fillings will last a day and a
half—and despite sun, heat and hot winds you will
have a delightfully cool place in which to store your
fruit, butter, milk, champagne, and reflections on
the mortgage.
* * * *
“Nick Bottom” : When all this talk about
scraps of paper is ended, will someone please inform
me at what convention the treaty existing between
the peewit and the wagtail was drafted? I presume
there is a treaty because, in nine cases out of 10,
William builds his nest close to that of the larger
bird, generally in the same tree. The reason is obvi-
ous. The peewit, recognising William’s ability as a
chin-wagger, has employed him to camp on the
premises in the capacity of watchman. No doubt the
agreement has been in existence since the first saw-
backed lizard ratted the first peewit’s nest.
“0.U.K.”: Use coeoanut-oil to alleviate
the sting of the Portuguese man-of-war. At Easter,
in the year in which Hell broke loose, Walter Leslie
(killed on Gallipoli last April), his brother Doug,
(somewhere at the Front), my brother (convalescent
in London) and myself (rejected five times) were
camping at Woody Point (Q.). On Good Friday (a
dull day wifi a strong north-easter blowing) I was
torpedoed twice by one of the Portygee von Tirpitzes ;
once across the chest and once on the leg. Paralysed
by the shock and fainting with pain I was hauled
ashore, and cocoanut oil being the only available
lotion it was applied liberally and gave immediate
relief. On reaching camp a stiff nip of Highland
cream administered the K.O. to the other poison.
* * * *
“Bill Bedsox”: I’m glad someone has
deposited the nomination of W.A. jam-wood for the
longevity stakes. When erecting sheepyards, etc., I
have used many hundreds of posts of this timber
abstracted from old lease fences erected well over 50
years ago. Few of the posts in these pioneer fences are
more than 2lin. in diameter, but they seem likely
candidates for another half-century of service. No
truthful Abo. expert can produce a tree which fur-
nishes first-class fencing sticks with less trouble than
the jam. I know many cutters who can lop off their
400 per day in fair bush—all good, straight posts
6ft. long and 3in. thick at the top.
“.T.J.D.” : Native rice grass, which grows
most luxuriantly in the swamps of the Territory
and Gulf country, is a fodder that for abundance of
yield and acceptability to stock is probably unap-
proached. It grows on the cup-like depressions
devoid of trees that are to be found anywhere out
from the high ground along the river and water-
course banks, and in the country fringing Carpen-
taria it spreads out for a distance of from 50 to 75
miles. Areas of from 1000 to 7000 acres will bear a
crop resembling nothing so much as luxuriant fields
of oats, rising from sft. to Bft. in height. Cut and
stacked as oaten hay, with the addition of a layer
of coarse salt at intervals, nothing more palatable
could go into the manger.
* * * *
“Maginnis Magee”: Whether the inland
Australian is more cruel than his coastal relative I
won’t say, but the latter has no monopoly in the
matter, as suggested by “Searchlight” (B. 24/2/’l6).
It is a common practice in the rabbit-infested dis-
tricts to keep bunny alive after capture—his limbs
broken and lacerated—for several days. Question
the gentle trapper and he will inform you that his
reason for acting thus is that he wishes to keep his
catch fresh until the carter corner along. Cruelty?
His troubles ! Trespassing once on a large Queens-
land station I came across 18,000 old ewes jatnbed
into a yard. They were being slowly starved to
death in order to save the grass and water for the.
younger and more valuable stock. Slitting a dog’s
tongue and extracting some of his teeth to
prevent him biting sheep is another not infre-
quent occurrence. These samples make “Search-
light’s” complaint about unnecessary slaughter of
scrub turkeys on the coast look sick.
* * * »
“Cleveland”: “Flinderino” (B. 2/3/16)
bumps heavily in his yarn about the drowning of
the black boy by the Jap beehe-de-mer fisherman.
The black boy was ill with malaria and unable to
dive, at which the gentle Jap. (to dispel the fever,
no doubt) submerged Binghi until he had absorbed
a considerable amount of the Pacific Ocean and
skied the sponge. The playful incident was wit-
nessed by some of the natives on the Fitzroy Island
mission station, which was then an offshoot of
Yarrabah. These natives fashioned a raft and at-
tempted to cross over to Cape Grafton, on the
mainland, but got into difficulties and were picked
up by the steamer Kuranda and taken into Cairns.
It was then that the tragedy was reported, and the
pursuit of the beche-de-mer boat began. She was
overhauled at Challenger Bay, Palm Islands, and the
body of the boy was buried there. The name of the
boat on which the little irregularity happpened was
changed from Matubu to Katapunam, which it still
carries.
“Leo Lear”: “Yarrum’s” eaglehawk (B.
2/3/’ 16) with a wing span of 6ft. sin. will have
to grow before even putting in an entry for the
stakes that go to the great Australian eagle. (For
the last time the bird is an eagle—the largest
species in the world—not a hawk.) I saw a bird on
the Glenelg (Vic.) measuring Bft. 6in. That was
an unusual size, but nowhere approaching one re-
ported from Gippsland some months ago. It was
sworn to at 10ft. 3in. from wing-tip to wing-tip.
(I don’t know who did the swearing or what sen-
tence he received.) Incidentally, the Victoria
Valley near Dunkeld is hereby entered as the metro-
polis of eagles. The sky there is never unshadowed
by some of these birds, and to see a dozen at a time
is not uncommon.
THE GUIDING PRINCIPAL OF HIS
LIFE.
WIDOW MONEYBAGS: “You take a great
interest in your club-far more than you
do on my account!"
HARDUP (with feeling) : “ Martha! Maitha!
How can yon say that? The Interes
on your account is my one thought.
“Hydros”: “Panear” mentions (B-
-2/3/’l6) six breeds of woolies that “Haka 1 n °
include in his collection recently, but neither■ o
them yarded the tough old merino and the coiry '
Does anyone know how corrydales are bred? .
stock and station agent and more than a w >
and I’m innocent.
PICKIN’ APPLES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I ain’t ’eard the “Tales of Hoffmann,” and I ain’t
’eard Melba sing,
I ain’t ’eard ’em cheerin’ Trumper to a man,
For I’m livin’ down the Iluon, an’ there’s nothin’
like the ring
Of the apples droppin’, droppin’ in the can.
When the rosy shafts o’ sunshine tip the clouds at
break o’ day,
Then I ups an’ gets the ’orses an’ the van,
An’ I starts a-pickin’ pippins, while I'm singin’
blithe an’ gay
To the apples droppin’, droppin’ ir. the can.
There’s some folks as ain’t contented with their
little bit o’ life,
There’s some folks as on all pleasures puts a ban,
But I’m ’appy as the mornin’ with me bonzer little
wife,
An’ the apples droppin’, droppin’ in the can.
TASMANIA.
STANLEY A. KILMINSTER.


/
M
X
J
T! BUSINESS MAN S
DISCRIMINATION
Coupled with a keen taste for
a eood things makes him
a devotee of
HIS
6.5.
s
e
\0
c
XtU,
V*
*
4
Os.
T u **rcO^
n°??fo& -
vA^
CIGARETTES
THE FAMOUS RED PACKING
No. 333 10 i 6"
HACH cigarette is made
J —' of the choicest tobacco,
each represents the high-
water mark of blending.
Your palate will appreciate
the delicate quality of these
cigarettes cigarettes that
are something special at the
price something different
something better than you
have ever smoked before.
Ma nufartured in perfe«!Uy Hygienic fadories by the
ARDATH TOBACCO CO. Ltd., LONDON, ENG.
Britain's Greatest Higb-class Cigarette and Tobacco Factory.


That Awful
Agonising'
BACKACH
r
Oh!
my Back
Backache means one thing and one thing only—Kidney Trouble—which is most cer-
tainly on the increase. Thousands and thousands of people in the towns and villages of this
country are m terrible danger of deadly kidney disease, if they only knew and realised it.
msidious disease creeps on, gradually getting a firmer and firmer grip, until when
it is too late the poor sufferer discovers he has Bright’s Disease. Have you kidney trouble?
Do you know how to recognise whether you are suffering from this or not?
xi l Here are some of the symptoms of kidney disease: Aches and pains in various parts of
n n nas yas e d 1! le m °uth first thing in the morning, constipation, cloudy and bad-
are all mmG ’ geneia ee d n g °f weakness and irritability, puffiness under the eyes —these
Symptoms of Kidney Trouble
_ And then people who suffer from backache, rheumatism, gout, sciatica, gravel, stone
or pams m toe bladder, muscles and joints are all suffering these pains through weak or
diseased kidneys, for these are the sure and certain symptoms of kidney trouble.
• f ! bese things mean that the kidneys are weak and diseased. They need strengthen-
ing and making healthy. J
Dlnrlrlofp n if wa l t6 i a Smgle Ur ‘ Go at oi me, and get a box of De Witt’s Kidney and
pvprv rmo are made ex P ressl y for kidney and bladder troubles. They will cure
y 0 1G aove s y m ptoms no matter how long or how badly you have suffered.
■npi«rmm,Q TT V -^ ey trouble of any kind you must positively get rid of the cause —the
, . ICI ‘ Bcmember, to do this, a real remedy must pass through the kidneys
——— ——' ( <llld lU)t through the bowels, as most kidney pills do. When you see tlie
ofhprQ^m g V° a IpUddyl 1 p Uddy l b !V is , h color —k feature which distinguishes De Witt’s Pills from all
Pip l irir, 11 lUnV ] - y0 u ndall doub t that they have put their healing touch on the right spot
T the b^ ad t r ; And the cost is 80 small. Do not put off, because weak kid-
ihit 7f r mean i Bri i ht 8 Disease in the end, and then it will be too late. Be wise in
•J m' B V m J 0U x >Uy pills be sure you S et DE WITT’S, in large, white boxes printed
without this speciaKseal & bUG W&X SGal ° n the top of tlle bottle - Refuse an y of similar name
De Witt’s
Kidney Bladder
Pills.
Of chemists and storekeepers every where, 2/9 and 5/6 per box.
—send your money to E. C. De WITT & Co.,
. a . ny (li,ricult y in getting genuine De Witt’s Pills with the blue seal on cork
Etd., 42-44 Pitt Street, Sydney, who will gladly supply by
PUNCHING IT Unit HOME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I'm punching o’er the mountains, and the road is
long and dry,
And glaring white the track extends beneath a
cloudless sky;
The hike is running like a dray, and through the
sombre bush
I know there’s many a dreary mile that I have got
to push.
There’s not a pub for many miles, and not a chance
of beer
To wash away the choking dust and bring relief
and cheer ;
But what care I for rocks and ruts, soft sand or
heavy loam ?
The road is dry and dusty, but I’m punching it for
home.
For months I’ve been an exile in a God-forgotten
spot,
Where foolish people try to make a mine of what
is not,
Where joys are scarce and food is rough, and mucT
and cold are free—•
I’ve helped to waste two thousands pounds, but what
is that to me?
If people will pour money in where never gold has
been,
And trust to cash to make a mine, they’ll keep their
purses lean;
The sharks that float the wild-cat shows observe no
honest rules,
But still they send the money round, and fleece the
gilded fools.
I’ve “snapped my time” and got away, and now I’m
homeward bound,
And little reck how little gold is in a ton of ground ;
I know the stamps will crush bright hopes and
bring eternal smash,
But let those weep who hoped to win and ante’d up
the cash.
For me I leave it all behind, with nought but heart-
felt joy,
To pad the hoof for mile on mile up from the
Duckmaloi;
So here where Bender Mountain rears his massive
bulk on high,
I plug along with happy heart, for homeward bound
am I.
I know that though the hills be steep, and though
the road be bad,
There’ll be a happy chorus at the coming home
of Dad,
And Jack will tell what wondrous things at school
have come to pass,
And how the master says that he’s a credit to his
class;
While Lance will speak of rabbits caught, and how
the pig has grown,
And, “Dad, I chopped the firewood up, and did it
on my own” ;
While Colin gives persistently his views of what
has been,
In shorthand terms that interest, though God knows
what they mean;
And as they chatter all at once, there’ll be a cheer-
ful noise
While Dad hears all the history of local woes and
joys.
I’ve money in my pocket, and I’ve money in the
bank,
The weary months of dreary toil for which I’ve got
ta thank;
The co. is very sanguine of its proposition, yet
I wouldn’t swap my savings for the gold that it will
get.
Building batteries on duffers is a thankless thing to
do,
But I’m going home financial, so for me the sky is
blue.
For the mugs who’ve done the paying I’ve got sym-
pathy galore—
Oh, a horrid shock them when the stampers
test the ore!
But for me they’ve served a purpose, and for
months I need not roam—•
The road is dry and dusty, but I’m punching it for
home!
N.S.W
QUIDAM.
Business, Bobbery, etc,
* * * *
“Dyer”: Without a doubt dyes made in
Germany are being smuggled into Switzer-
land, where they are repacked and sent to
the United States. A German union navy
blue, for which the Hun manufacturer is
glad to get a mark a pound, is landed in
the States at about a dollar a pound. Then
the Yank lets the Australian dye-buyer know
that he has a line of blue dye which he has
got hold of and might sacrifice for shipment
here at 30 dollars a kilo (2.31 b.) f.o.b
’Frisco. The agent here wants and gets
another shilling or so a pound for bringing
the deal off, and the Australian dye user
bites and buys and curses everything, includ-
ing the neutral Yank. All that pirate has to
do to lift the swag is to perjure himself by
declaring that the dye stuff isn’t of enemy
origin—a childishly simple matter. If we
can only get synthetic dyes at these prices,
why can’t we look round and see what natu-
ral. stuffs we have? I have seen abo-
riginals north of Cairns produce a brilliant
blue for body staining from a scrub creeper.
It is so good that it won’t wash away, but
has to wear off. If Binghi can do this surely
the white pfeller can go one better.
* * * *
Another effort is being made to recover
the half-million of gold that is supposed to
have gone to the bottom when the General
Grant bumped into the Auckland Islands,
down below Maoriland, on her way to Eng-
land from Melbourne half a century ago.
Sometimes the gilded legend is decorated
with a whole million and often with two
millions or more. It is an old chase and a
wet one, but fresh believers arise at inter-
vals, and so hope is kept alive. At present
a Dunedin syndicate exuding hope at every
Pore has sent the cutter Enterprise to fish
for the ancient wreck. Captain Catling is
m charge. He originally came to M.L. five
years ago on the same lay. The Enterprise
was . then digging oysters out of Foveaux
Strait, but Catling bought her out of that
job, and with two mates went south and
explored the Aucklands. What he learnt
there filled him with faith and joy, and the
present venture, backed by wealthy Scots,
shows that he managed to infect others.
* * * *
Minister Livingston, of Victoria, has the
idea that the. services of returned soldiers
might be utilised to start a cotton-reel in-
dustry, and he is inquiring in the Cold Land
as to the market. So presently we may
see reels humped half-way round the earth
to have Yankee cotton wound on them, after
which they will be returned to Australia
along with foreign needles. That is Trade !
If our North-South Transcontinental line
had been built, returned soldiers might now
grow cotton here instead of merely making
a stick to wind what foreign people grow.
“Itan”: When the cattle tick crawled
down the Queensland coast, en route from
the Northern Territory, N. S. Wales
acidly criticised the inability of the Banana-
land authorities to keep the enemy within
the quarantine boundaries. The tick
crossed the border buffer fences and began
operations in the dairy districts of the
Tweed. Then Ma’s responsible Department
got to work, and some one was heard to
say that the enemy would soon be extermi-
nated. That was some years ago, but
the tick is still living comfortably at nearly
every important centre of the Tweed and
the Richmond and encroaching towards the
Clarence and the Macleay. The curse can
be eradicated, but not while affected stock-
owners have a chance to dodge dipping their
stock regularly every two weeks. So far
there has been no outbreak of red-water
fever (due to a tick parasite) in N. S.
Wales, but it may be expected shortly, and
then there will be a great rush to lock the
horse after the stable has escaped.
* * * *
“Hori” : I met a man the other day who
told me he had been travelling certain dis-
tricts of the North Island (M.L.) for 14
years, canvassing for picture almanacs. He
represented a large provincial newspaper’s
printing works, and in his yearly rounds
had to fight no less than eight competitors
who sought to provide the grocer and the
livery-stable keeper in his district with pic-
ture almanacs at bedrock prices. He
started out in January to see his clients, and
visited every shop and office and hotel by
the end of May. The printing orders were
sent to. England in June to be executed.
The printing began in August, was com-
pleted by the end of September, and the
millions of almanacs reached the Dominion
in November in good time for distribution.
The wretched job-exporter assured me that
all his competitors sent their orders to
England to be executed. The war, he said,
had made no difference. But perhaps it
has. - Before Germany went mad it used to
do a heap of. England’s cheap printing. But
what idiocy it is to be ferrying this rubbish .
across, the world when every ship and
sovereign are needed.
* * * *
“Analyst”: I see they are putting on a
play entitled . “It Pays to Advertise.” My
oath doesn’t it —a “Twin Bed” or a patent
medicine! But the bun goes to the medi-
cine. I’ve done a bit in sorting out the
internals of more than one quack cure.
fpains of sulphate of quinine, plus
20 minims of strong commercial sulphuric
acid, plus bottle, water, cork, label and
advertising, sold at 3s. 6d. a time, enabled
a cough-mixture genius to pouch about a
million pounds profit in six years. The
maker says it’s the mixture, biit the angels
guess ’tis the advertising. Another man
1 know put up an article for cleansing pur-
poses which cost him per packet deliv-
ered to the retailer, who was to sell it for
(xl. But it was knocked out by a rival pro-
position retailed at ln actual value
the stuff of the man I know was better
worth a shilling than his rival’s was worth
a penny. One was a genuine proposition;
the other an undisguised fake. The man
I know went broke, and his swindling rival
is copying his labels an<l trade-marks as f BT
as lie dares, and scooping in additional loot
. “®-°” : 1 refuse longer to remain neutral
in the mustard controversy. “Conn hello”
alleges that the making of mustard ‘is one
or the things Australians Can’t Do-
D.S.F.” mentions that one “good AushV
lian firm in Melbourne” used to mill nlus-
tanl but gave it up because the seed had
a habit of going bad on the voyage from
Europe. The obvious way to get over this
is to use locally-grown seed. At present
the mustard is taxed 3d. lb., and the seed
2 d. lb. In the latest year for which figures
are available Australia imported of the
former £54,1(10 and of the latter £4720. I'm
a stiff duty on the raw material (while of
course, increasing the duty on the manu-
factured article) and local manufacturers
will soon see to it that our growers are
offered adequate inducement to cultivate a
crop. That good stuff can be grown in
Victoria has been proved. Thirty years
ago it was cultivated on Phillip Island
and was acknowledged to be equal to anv-
thing imported, except that grown in Nor-<
folk (Eng.) which is easily the best iJ
the world. \\ e produce a seed as good Jfl
if not better than, any gathered in
France, U.S.A. or Italy; yet we imlfe
trom all those countries —or did until tn* 4
war came to teach us sense.
* * * *
H.M.R. : This is what has happened in
one line. A well-known firm upcountry in
N. S. Wales a few years ago got in a stock
of Australian blankets. After that the
English bedclothes were dead stock. The
public would not look at them. Then the
war drum muttered; the Government com-
mandeered the Australian mills ; and now the
English shoddy is having the time of its life
at 50 per cent, advance.
* * * *
“Sampler” : Another wail from cocky will
soon be raised to Heaven. The way his
bumper crop is being handled by P.E. with
Government cash makes it almost certain.
In the first place P.E. is allowed 3Jd. a
bushel for handling—a price that caused
every shipper to smile and pat his stomach
and declare that Allah is great; also to
look with composure upon the demand of
the wharf-laborer for two shillings an hour,
although when the demand burst upon him he
pretended that black ruin stared him in the
face and gave the wharfie two weeks’ spell
During the debate there were 1000 trucks
of wheat waiting to he unloaded. None of
these trucks had covers to keep out sun or
moisture and their floors were mostly spread
with sheep manure, sometimes to a depth of
an inch ; so when the rain descended, as it
did for five days, the result was splendid.
Thousands of bags of wheat have been
shipped which are practically valueless un-
less properly treated. One bag of damaged
wheat bursting and mixing with the con-
tents of 100 bags of good wheat would spoil
the lot for gristing. Cocky is being informed
that cargoes are being sold at prices up to
70s. per quarter; but who is informing him
about deductions for bad wheat shipped?
Incidentally, how long is he going to stand
six agents in every wheat centre? And why
does he agree to P.E. getting a full penny
profit per bushel when in other years P.E.
has been content with one-eighth?


st-a-iit,
r.v:>
r
r fEWgg ** ■
• fe &X
sr«&' =
pH
IS
Sift
IP
...
* £$M
m
__i
C.E.
PUSH
BUTTON
CONTROL
Equip every electric motor in the plant with G. E. Push Button Control. .
Men without experience in handling electrical equipment now, with the aid of the
G. E. Push Button Control, operate machines efficiently and accurately.
Everything in the plant moves like clockwork, and the appearance is greatly
improved. Only the small push buttons appear on the machines, and all starters
are located in any convenient position.
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE-CITY 3510 (5 lines).
BRISBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
— Agents—
“Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
TELEPHONE—CENTRAL 2646, 2647 ; CITY 9579.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tjullock and Co., Ltd., Launceston; Oliver & Oliver, Ltd., MacQuarie Street, Hobart.
“ Pyjama time ”
is his time for using
Iv
V
S ' :
-•
1
ss
THE BEST
SMOKE
is
Vellow
ASTER
m TOBACCO j
99
The DETACHABLE OUTBOARD
MOTOR.
■ -
SSSI
M
Unequalled
Compression.
Cost of
Running-:
3d. per hour.
2 % B.H.P.
Guaranteed for
12 Months.
The Latest Improvements.
Patent, Self-locking Steering Device.
Propeller turns with Rudder, which
means the most effective steering possible.
High Tension (waterproof) Rever-
sible Magneto Ignition, of the very
best make.
Submersible Parts made from best bronze;
rust-proof.
Remarkable Simplicity.
Highest Efficiency.
Perfect Reliability.
Unexcelled Durability.
“The ‘Alka’ will propel you through life.’*
Arrange for a demonstration, or write
to-day for Catalogue and Price to
NELSON
Sole
Australasian Agents,
I ROBERTSON,
17 Loftus Street, SYDNEY.
See also Page 32.
.
a
m
ye
Can
Restore the Voice with
fliM U^’antisepticTHßOAT
EVANS Fasti lies
allaying all irritation of
the throat and clearing the
voice perfectly.
Evans Sons Lescher & Webb, Ltd., London.


A. Saunders’ Lady’s Hand Bag,
Black Morocco Leather, Leather Lined, Nickel
Frame, 20/-
A. Saunders’ Silver-
mounted Hairpin
Roller, Cut Glass Bottle,
1/6.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Silver Hair Brush, Plain Design,
Hand Burnished, pure quality, extra long Bristles, 20 /-
FOR
ALL
A. Saunders’ Lady’s
Chain Bag, in Solid
Silver, Strong Mesh, Pol-
ished Frame, £3/3/-
Silver-plated ditto, 32/6.
GIFTS
A. SAUNDERS
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Wallet, Real Black
Morocco Leather, Silk lined, Silver Corners, Lock and
Shield, 12/6. Real Crocodile, 25/-
Saunders’ Lady’s Silver Purse, Plain Design, Hand
Burnished, Leather Lined, Centre Division and Mirror, £3.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Cigar Case, Solid
Silver, Hand Engraved, Gilt Lined, 357-
Ditto in Silver Plate, 15/6.
A. SAUNDERS,
OPP. RAILWAY STATION, SYDNEY.
GIFTS
FOR
ALL
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s
Wallet, Black Morocco
Leather, Sterling Silver
Mounts and Shield, com-
plete with Calendar,
13/6.
Iptei
£
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Hand
Bag, Real, Fine-grain Morocco,
Pleated Front, Leather Lined, £2
A. Saunders’ Scent
Pump, Cut Glass Bottle,
Solid Silver Top, 17/6.
In Nickel, 4/6.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Ebony Hand Mirror, Solid Silver
Mounts, Bevelled Glass, 20/- Brush to match, 20/-
Wl
M-
IMPROVED
Compass
Clynometer
For Taking LEVELS and ANGLES.
Reading inclinations in inches
per yard or degrees.
Invaluable to Prospector, Miner, Geologist,
Engineer and Squatter.
Strong, Compact. Best lacquer brass,
24in. dia., Solid Leather Case,
Printed Instructions, POSTED
22 16
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.
189=191 George Street, Brisbane.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATUR.E AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mkrrik
England, 6d. How to Getßich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's Silent Friend, Is 6d. Nkd Donnelly's Art
ok Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrksti.k, Is. Moll
Flandkrs, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horsk, Is. Ventriloquism Madr East, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of thk
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Gamf.s,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, bv Hubert Wales, 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
38 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatcn-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain fop. tiik
British, 6d. How to Read Faces. Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/S.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowlers Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook s Guide, Is Cd
■a
m
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
embracing
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
J3v Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chronios. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS I RLE I BOM lECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacv in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter”
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense
ean afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be nosted to
ANY address for EIGHT SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
MP“ BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY', <s.c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slavp, Traffic, is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator. Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Lkttkp. Writer Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations ana portraits, is: post
is 2d. Electricity Made Simple inewj, 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook. Is 3d!
Complete Bookkeeping. 2s. Life of Deeming,'
illustrated, Is Id. How McHougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver's Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss!
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets. Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. SGT'Established 25 Tears.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA Ol MY STOCK CAN
liE GOT FROM THIS AD VT.
Write for my....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SEN!'.
How to Mark Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, 1<
posted. New Tricks with Caros, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dk. Milford s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s M-
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of tiik
King, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Covers
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is al
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Kev to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
Ingersoll s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Rf,ad Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Cukvassk s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Bong
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bknnarr Macfadden s Works, all at 5s pos e .
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and m gar-
boilers’ assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. «
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness an
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large u •
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leatne
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 ana
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. dye •
mos and Electric Motors. Is ?o. Moores Lnivers t
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, clot
bound. 10s 6d posted. The Sbcrets of Clairvoyants,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The age of Reason, by ram' ,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney
(only).


CIiUNDER” TAKES A TRIP nOME.
At the War.
'S-
W/tf,
- •
/If -J
iwm
:/' ; ' '
il BWi
nip
Pilift
*
iMi
m
&
m
K%x
r/
/S
ass.
£
i u
fill N
.
'•
■\
; -:.v >
->•
ssv
m
' i-'H-
«®§lP»
riv ~4
II
: 1 i
«s
I i
? 4
J I
■& SiSi
r.%
i Ilf is p i
y h
■/
m
tarn
<UiM
mm
iim
s ? <
'w
iSiSi
4W
Hi
»
>"<d
ss
ss?
■44
g&M
■ :?;s
m
m
m
mm
m
mm
m
mm
m
m
m
\ U!
11l
i 5! :$
mi
j:
M
«sS*
1U
fM J> s/s\ •>
"9
Cobra,” TSho, Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Loves his bath, and
Gets it too.
Bear and Dog have
Rio-cred the tin.
o o
Water ready ?
Pour it in !
Look out, Chunder !
How it streams !
There’s the field-bath
Of Ins dreams !
It’s a splendid
“COBRA” trick
Neat and handy,
Clean and quick !


i
■
ir
/
✓
M
M
-r
/
9>.
%
n
< A
n
e»de
This Non-Skid Tread
is built up high in the
center where the wear
comes. Therefore
you get all your money ,
out in actual service.
Right-angled against
skid in any direction, this
massive good measure tread
affords maximum safety as
well as multiplied mileage.
And it takes the powerful
Firestone body to sustain
the bulk and strain of the
Firestone Non-Skid Tread.
All this good measure building
ispartof theUniversalFirestone
Service for any demand.
Firestone Tubes and Acces-
sories also on hand.
DISTRIBUTORS
New South Wales West Australia
Grimley, Ltd. Anderson & Adams, Ltd.
Sydney Perth
South Australia Victoria
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd. Tarrant Motors Pty., Ltd.
Adelaide Melbourne
FIRESTONE TIRE & RUBBER CO.
“America’s Largest Exclusive Tyre and Rim Makers”
Akron. Ohio, U. S. A.—Branches and Dealers Everywhere
Factory Representative:
W. E. Ludlow, care of American Consul, Sydney
'Z-
$
&
R.vy.
e?
m
j^YNOCM
£Z
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
“P RTM A X” and “R O N \X”
CARTRIDGES— KYNOCH made
and loaded. Both possess excellent shoot-
ins qualities, “PRIMAX” being the
highest-grade cartridge in a case
sold on the Australasian market, while
“BONAX” enjoys the largest sale of
any individual cartridge in the world.
Always specify KYNOCH Ammunition
when ordering from your dealer.
British Made Throughout.
rx.
jtivj USjl) Jdg
NO Water Drip.
NO Cams, Valves
or Gears to get
out of order and to
repair.
NO skilled labor
necessary.
Automatic Igni-
tion.
Runs on Crude
. Oil, at less than 6d.
<?i per gallon.
Runn in g Ex-
penses less than
half of those of
Benzine Engines.
Fuel Economy
higher than that
of any other Crude
Oil Engine on the
market.
Designed for eon-
islands.
Write for
Catalogues
and Prices
to-day.
State
Service
and
Horse-
power
needed.
«W A
KMANSHIpk
anti WORKMANSH
Marins, Stationary 8 Portable Engines.
Unequalled in SIMPLICITY,
ACCESSIBILITY
RELIABILITY.
DURABILITY
ECONOMY.
We
always
Stock
these
engines.
4 to 600
H.P.
IT
*
St.
■M
NELSON & ROBERTSON,
11-17 Loftus Street, SYDNEY.
£.ole Agents for Australasia
and South Sea Islands.
Help f u 1
Advice to
Nursing Mothers
MANY mothers would like to feed their
own children, but are denied the privilege
of doing so, because they have not suffi-
cient nourishment for them. The “Allenburys”
scientific system of Infant Feeding has provided
for all this. When a mother is partly able to
feed her baby she may give The "Allenburys” Milk
Food No. I for alternate feeds, so alike are the
natural and prepared food in this instance, and this
food should be continued until the weaning process
has been entirely completed. The mother herself
must be well nourished and to this end may partake
freely of the “Allenburys” DIET a partially pre-
digested milk and wheaten food, which like the
Milk Food No. 1, is instantly made ready for use
by simply adding boiling water only. After
childbirth the "Allenburys” DIET is surprisingly
helpful in maintaining the strength and producing
a good flow of rich milk.
Mllenburgs Foods
The “Aibnburys” FOODS
For Infants.
Milk Food No. 1.
From
birth to 3 months.
Milk Food No. 2.
From
3 to 7 months.
Malted Food No. 3.
From 7 months upwards.
The ‘AllenhErys’ Feeder.
The Simplest and Best Feeding Bottle
on the Market. Easily cleansed by
flushing under the tap.
The “Allenburys” DIET
For Nursing Mothers.
Nourishment for General Use
lenburas
s £ o fc CLBCAL W 3
“•“*» **«*•« »*< **>**''
Ui. •44 l 3* n »f k>d.s ( Mltr MV.
is ,j . u tt , 4mt ll
DYSPEPTICS U« lUAi4P-
Hanburys Ltd., London^
For Nursing Mothers, Invalids
Dyspeptics, and the Aged
DIET is quite distinct from
the ‘Allenburys' Foods for Infants.
The Allenburys’ Rusks
(Malted)
From 10 months upwards.
Write for free book “Infant Feeding
and Management" 64 pages of valuable
information for every mother.
Allen 8 Hanburys Ltd., 13, Market St., Sydney
Established 1715.
Mother and Child
Baby 6% months,
>
i »
-A
V, ~^Y
Fed from birth on the ' Allenburya'
If any illustration appearing in Tle
Bulletin takes your Taney, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
w
s?T**3
4 TYRES %
ALL BRITISH
r>7?F5
RIBBED
are made by a
special process to
withstand the ex-
cessive strain of
tropical climates
and Colonial roads.
They have proved
consistently suc-
cessful under the
most rigorous tests,
and will appeal
strongly to motor-
ists on account of
their staunch ser-
vice and quite ex-
ceptional durability
Write for Booklets to —
GEORGE SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., Ltd.,
77-79, Cannon Street, London, England.
Stockists :
MELBOURNE :
MOLLOY & CO., 129, King Street.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
COTTON BROS., 212, Madras Street.
PC 8.—60


i
9
I
«
saga
*<r
ril
I
: ®U
t
4*
'■'• ....
lu
< ' '• _ C. "** \ ’ *.
a ten —gia - -—..^
General View of the Big: Oil Mill, showing: Packing: Shed, Press Room, Meal Store and Silo.
r\
§ . j-i
-V
:
In keeping with the general efficiency and order manifested everywhere at the milk, these offices of Meggitt Ltd., are in
their way a model. They are artistic and beautiful and suggest the quiet retirement of a home rather than a busy place
of work. But the work is done there all the same. Meggitt Ltd., pride themselves on having a highly efficient clerical
staff, carrying on their work in accordance, with up-to-date and scientific methods.
By “Scrutator. ”
P'
ERHAPS at no previous period in
the history of Australia have people
been so interested in their manu-
facturing industries. If the war
lias done nothing else it has forced upon
intelligent men the recognition of tlie truth
that a nation's industries are its life. It
is even being recognised that Germany’s
menace to the world lies as much in her
factories as in her arsenals. We can all
see now that a nation can be strong neither
in peace nor in war unless it possesses a
high degree of industrial efficiency. Aus-
tralia, in this respect, has been, it must
be confessed, a little backward. Our
bountiful pastoral lands and our rich
mines have attracted most of our capital
and our energy. We have got the gold out
of the earth, but we have imported the
machinery with which our mines
worked. We grow wool, but
import cloth. We have some of
greatest journals in the world, but we
import tlie paper on which they are
printed. Instead of being, as the war
has taught us we might be, a self-support-
ing community, we are a community
largely and even dangerously dependent
on the outside world. Australians are
feeling the danger of this as they have
never felt it before, and the desire to build
up Australian industries was never so
great as it is at present.
LOCAL PREJUDICE.—One of the rea-
sons why Australia has done so little in
the way of manufacturing in the past is
the foolish belief that had got into the
11 . , . . , . minds of the people that many things that
eoum ne done elsewhere could not be done in Australia. By some strange fatuity Australians persuaded themselves that though they excelled as stockmen and
as sportsmen, they could not excel as workmen; that though they could grow wool they could not weave cloth. And so it came about that manufacturing
enterprise was discouraged. Men did not dare to invest capital into enterprises when they knew' that their own fellow'-countrymen were more eager to buy goods
made in Britain and America, and even in Germany, to goods made in Australia.
are
we
the
~ „ A PIONEER.—Some men, however, in spite of the prevailing apathy, had the courage to try the experiment. One of these men w'as Mr. Meggitt, senior,
the founder of Meggitt Ltd., of Parramatta. He did not see wffiy he could not produce in Australia the oils that were being purchased from foreign parts.
Accordingly, about eight years ago. he entered upon this enterprise—in a very humble way. He had no difficulty in producing the oils, nor in producing them
equal to anything in the W'orld. His only difficulty was to sell it. But even that difficulty has been overcome, and, at the present moment, Meggitt Ltd. are
selling all the oil their big factory can produce.
BETTER OIL. —Of course this result has not been achieved without effort, without organisation, and without business ability. Meggitt Ltd. knew that, in
order to get a place on the market they had not only to produce oil as good as anything in England, but they had to produce" it better. And they did it.
They had one advantage over the oldest of English competitors. They were young. They were not hampered by old traditions, old plant, old methods. They
secured the best machinery that could be procured in every part of the world. They had. therefore, at the start an enormous advantage—an advantage, it may be
mentioned, which every initial industry possesses in Australia to-day. Every visitor to England must have observed that the emporiums in some of the younger
Australian cities are better than most of those in Europe. The reason is obvious. Those who start to-day have the advantage of all the experience of all the
men w'ho have gone before. They are under no necessity of putting up w'ith old machinery because of the expense of scrapping it; with old and out-of-date buildings
because of the expense of scrapping the old ones. Similarly, Meggitt Ltd. have been able to procure a plant as up to date as anything in the world, and are
thus able, at a minimum cost, to produce an article which challenges comparison and defies competition.
CONFIDENCE.—So confident, indeed, are they of the high efficiency of their plant, and of their ability to produce a first-rate article, that they have never
sought the aid of high customs imposts. It is knowrn that when a movement was recently set on foot to petition the Necessary Commodities Commission for higher
duties, that Meggitt Ltd. openly avowed that they were quite content wdth the present duties.
OIL MEAL. —One of the by-products of the oil industry is the linseed-oil meal. With regard to this article there has been, unfortunately, a lack of local
demand. The bulk of it has to be exported to Europe. In spite of the extra cost of freight from Australia to the Old Country, large quantities of oil-meal are
exported. Meggitt Ltd. are of opinion that this is a greater handicap to the Australian farmers than to themselves, and naturally they are anxious to find a local
market. The quality of the meal is unquestioned. The demand of the European farmers places that beyond dispute. In order to stimulate a local demand it is
necessary to educate the local farmer to a knowdedge of its high value. This is being done slowdy, but, we venture to say, surely. Australian farmers cannot
remain permanently blind to their own interests. The time is no doubt near wdien they will decline to give their European competitors an advantage which they
ought to keep to themselves. Those wffio have tried it, and know' its virtues, are increasing their purchases every month. They know that in the case of milkers
it increases the milk yield, and in the case of all stock its fattening qualities are phenomenal. In fact, no farmer should be without this meal. As a winter food it
may be almost described as an imperative necessity. It is pure, it is wholesome, and, considering the results it gives, it is in the highest degree economical.


Sydin e.v'. IN.SW.
The Wentworth Hotel Summer Garden, as in previous seasons, is still the
rendezvous of the Elite.
Delightfully cool and comfortable, it is ideal for Luncheons, Dinners, Afternoon
Teas, Supper and Wedding Parties and all semi open-air functions.
Visitors to Sydney will find the Wentworth Hotel most popular, central and
up to date in all modern conveniences, including telephones in bedrooms com-
municating with the Exchange.
The Appointments, Linen and Service are superb, and compare more than
favorably with the best Hotels in the Commonwealth.
Terms on application.
Mrs. H. MACXiURCAX, Manageress.
Belle Vue Hotel
Reconstructed. BRISBANE.
Electric Lift. Perfect Sanitary Arrangements.
Incomparable Position. Easterly Aspect
Overlooking Botanical Cardens.
MRS. A. FIXXIGAX, Proprietress. __
WhatourTroops Think
Iloldsworthy Camp, 7th October, 1915.
S. Fielder, Esq., Randwick. Dear Sir —On
behalf of our Company I wish to state that
we have derived great benefit from your
famous Exzerma. A great number of our
Company suffered from tore feet caused
through marching; also sunburn and chapped
ups, and were quickly cured by Exzerma.
Believe me, Yours faithfully,
Corporal Brown of the 10th, A.I.E.F.
All Chemists and Druggists, or from
S. FIELDER, Randwick, Sydney.
5/-, 2 6 [i
The EDISON
STORAGE
BATTERY
simple and practical.
There is no other storage battery so reli-
able and long-lasting; it stands alone,
and is positively unequalled.
The Edison Storage Battery is preferred
by large firms and corporations in a posi-
tion to judge independently; it is light,
durable and withstands violent concussion
and vibration.
No expert attention is required; there i=
no sulphation or kindred diseases; no
breaking of jars nor plate renewals.
Write for full information, and please
mention for what purpose you nee
batteries.
We recharge at lowest rates. Prices on
request.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Four hundred and fifty resolutions will
face the delegates who will attend the con-
ference of the N. S. Wales P.L.L. when it
starts operations on April 22, but nothing
like this number will be debated. Towards
the end the master-thoughts of the Marrick-
fern P.L.L. will be going at seven for 6d.
and the flarelights of Coalville will be
doused without a tear of regret. Holman
will have a long list of censures to face, but
they mostly deal with such matters as the
Upper House appointments. An unimport-
ant subject like the loan lunacy wrnn’t even
be mentioned, Labor having forgotten all
about its own platform.
The pestilent assertion that Conscrip-
tion for the Commonwealth would entail
“civil war” is equivalent to saying that
shirkers are a hot-blooded, valiant people
who would die fighting for the right to shirk.
The proposition is not arguable. The cold-
footed shirkers of to-day are not the fiery
revolutionaries of to-morrow. A Govern-
ment that avoids the obligation to introduce
conscription when national safety demands
it and nearly half a million volunteers have
already been accepted or refused for military
service is not afraid of civil war. It is only
afraid of losing the shirkers’ votes at next
election.
BUZZ.
Another Commission is to be appointed to discover
in what way the Northern Territory can best be
developed.—Press.
External Affairs Mahon is well repre-
sented in Australia’s army. youngest
son is with the artillery; his eldest, just
through his Med. course in Melbourne, is a
captain in the A.M.C.; his third and last
is following big brother’s steps', and, if the
war lasts, another year may see him a cap-
tain in the A.M.C. too. Incidentally, Hugh
Mahon once “did time" in Kilmainham as
an Irish “rebel” !
Ferntree Gully (Vic.) shire-council has
called on all its eligible employees to enlist
within a fortnight or take the sack. Much
the same sort of thing is being done all oyer
Australia, mostly by strictly-Liberal bodies
and Liberal-minded employers . who spend
much of their time deploring “tyranny” and
condemning “coercion,” The time approaches
when Australia will have to make conscrip-
tion the law of the land, and the sooner the
better; but the sort of decree issued bu the
Ferntree Gully councillors, though it may
bear the appearance of patriotism, is plain
tyranny, constitutes a local authority the
judge of eligibility, and lends itself to all
manner of abuses and persecutions.
At last the Westralian Government is
giving some sort of attention to its timber
areas with the view of conserving and re-
planting them. For years great forests of
magnificent woods have been wasted, the
timber combine being allowed to hew as it
liked —gutting out timber that was easily
marketable and destroying what would grow
to be good. The general belief is that the
combine’s original agreement contained a
clause stipulating for some replanting, but
the man who asks for a copy of the docu-
ment is as much encouraged as if he were
a German spy. Scaddan is now advertising
for a professional head for the department;
and one of the chief things to see to is that
he is completely independent of the people
who hold the big timber concessions.
The other night Deputy-Speaker Thrower
decided a tie of 21 votes by voting against
the motion for leave to introduce a Totalisa-
tor Bill into the N.S.W. Assembly. He ex-
plained to the reporters that he voted that
way “to enable further discussion.” Where
Thrower wanted the discussion to take place
was not explained. If he wanted it to hap-
pen in the street his vote is understandable.
But if he wanted it to take place in the
Assembly,' Heaven only knows how T he is to
get it by voting so that no Bill could be pro-
duced, and the only thing for the House to
talk about was something else.
As a device for keeping candidates on
the rack Tasmania’s proportional represen-
tation system, com-
bined with absent vot-
ing, is hard to beat.
The voting was on
March 25, but as an
average only three
candidates out of the
six to be chosen in
each of the five divi-
sions knew from the
counting of the No. 1
votes that they were
certain to be elected,
and to get any for’-
arder they had to
wait till every absent
vote came in, and that
hadn’t happened nine
days later. The main
thing certain on the
first count was that
the electors are just
about half and half
on the Liberal v.
Labor question, with
about 24 per cent,
voting for the Inde-
pendent candidates, so
there’s going to be the
same old see-saw un-
less the House has the
sense to cut out the
party business and go in for an elective Min-
istry.
isydney papers last week published a long
story instructing the young Australian
soldier what to do to become an officer. Some
wicked old advisers have made the instruc-
tions much shorter. They have simply pres-
cribed a visit to Melbourne.
The S. M. Herald started the other day
to explain the reasons for a slump in the
building trade. Apparently the old lady
believes that the less frequent job for the con-
tractor is due to the rapacity of shipowners
in demanding enormous freights on timber
and other material (75 per cent, of which
are imported, the Herald proudly remarks) ;
to enormous advances in galvanised iron ; to
paint and glass having gone up sky-high;
also to the Fair Rents Court having knocked
a couple of shillings a week off a few dismal
cottages, and to laboring men having asked
a couple of shillings higher wages. Yet
instead of calling on Private Enterprise to
rise to the occasion in the hour of national
trial and supply cheap freights and timber
and glass and paint, the agitated
Herald says that the advance in
these things is due to the war and
must be' endured, and then recklessly
calls upon the workman to reduce
what he has to sell' and thus make things'
even. All of which is merely another illus-
tration of the right-thinking person’s’ineradi-
cable habit of always calling on the toiler
to sell his skill and sweat cheaply,
while enduring with the patience of a mule
the exactions of a piratical commercial
system.
“F.11.R.” : Don’t trouble to preach economy
to us! We know how to shorten financial
sail when the clouds are rolling up. In our
little township there are 12 families, with
four more outside the boundary. These in-
clude one storekeeper and postmaster, one
C.P.S., one policeman, one mailman and one
school-teacher. The State’s weekly paysheet
would be about £2O. Any Micawber can tell
there is room for economy here; so our local
John Hop has received instructions to see
about reducing the allowance to one of the
old-ayc pensioners.
Melbourne Trades Hall Council, with a
haunting suspicion of the slump that is
coming, proposes to ask the Federal Govern-
ment if it will consider the advisability of
establishing “public industries” to provide
employment at the conclusion of the war for
returned soldiers, munition workers and
others. They will need them badly enough.
But something else is required first. As two
industrial nations in particular have no war
wastage to make up they will dump goods
in a way that will stagger a country just
starting its own industries —-unless that coun-
try protects itself by a monumental tariff.
Now, does the Trades Hall Council propose
to barrack for that?
Thank Heaven for some help at last! It
comes from Professor of Economics Bedford,
of Otago University (M.L.) :
We [Maorilanders] are making the British people
pay £5,000,000 a year more than before the war for
an equal quantity of produce, thus increasing the
cost of their war commissariat, and, on the other
hand, we are making them pay us nearly £8,000,000
to equip our soldiers. We are taking £13,000,000 a
year extra during the war.... Maoriland is the most
selfish and least patriotic part of the Empire.
Tiie Bulletin doesn’t go so far as the
Professor does in that last sentence. The
Maoriland people —the young people in par-
ticular —are as patriotic as any anywhere.
But the politicians, with their eye on the
paunchy middle-aged and elderly voters, are
all that Bedford says they are —-men truck-
ling to bowel-less money-grubbers, who talk
about their love for the dear Motherland,
and rob the poor old soul while she is strug-
gling in the ditch.
THE GREAT HUSH IN TOR RET.
INFORMUS: “Hush!”
SCRIBUS: “What is it?”
INFORMUS: “The well of truth!”
SCRIBUS: “Ah! Good!”
INFORMUS: “Hush, it’s full of censors.”
G. G. Hodgkins, deputy chief electoral-offi-
cer for Maoriland, has been over in Tasmania
studying the proportional representation
system in its native haunts. The Ricketty
Country decided to try it on the dog, using
it for the Legislative Council elections at
the end of 1917. If the officers in charge of
it survive it may then be used for the other
House. To get the 40 members of the
Council the Dominion is to be split into four
sizeable electorates, two in the North Island
and two in the South.
After all, though Tasmania thinks it has
had the Norton Griffiths Syndicate nosing
around on the premises, there wasn’t much
similarity between the animal that offered
its services to John Earle and the beast that
wore a smile on its face after it had inter-
viewed Willy Holman. The Tasmanian
syndicate proposed to find £300.000 straight
out, and no humbug about it, at five per cent,
interest; and it was to have the first refusal
of construction jobs, provided its prices were
reasonable. For acting as engineers in con-
junction with the Works Department, the
syndicate was to get 5 per cent. The Gov-
ernment said the scheme was all right, if
one or two conditions were agreed to. But
just then the Commonwealth Bank lent
£300,000 at 41 per cent, and the syndicate
was hurriedly shown to the doormat.
Stirred by a reported statement u
Hughes s m London, that “a \ f
tralians at Suva desired to see Fib f Aus "
into the Commonwealth,” one Hedstrrmf^
MLC. » f lately wep^thatlh^^uhl
WANTED IT CONFIRMED FIRST.
VERA: "Didn't you deny that ridiculous
rumor that ice were enyayed?"
CUTHBERT: “Well, if know , I didn’t like to
until ice had seen each other about it.”
mean the end of everything, as “under Aus-
tralian control the How of Indian indentured
labor would cease, and than that there could
be no greater calamity” ! Hedstrom can get
it out of his head that Australians are
anxious to take up the white man’s burden in
Fiji. But his “dreadful calamity” will
arrive all the same. Educated India so re-
sents this helotry that the Administration
has already stopped indentured labor going to
Natal, and is in known sympathy with the
request to stop it altogether.
The Bill authorising a plebiscite in N. S.
Wales on the pub-closing hour weathered an
attempt in the Leg. Council to tinker with
the principle of voting in order of prefer-
ence by giving the “plumper” vote for any
fixed hour the force of a preferential vote
for the next hour. The argument appeared
to be that it was “logical” to assume that a
man who voted straight out for say. six
o’clock, would, if that hour didn’t secure a
majority, naturally desire.to have his vote
counted as one for seven o’clock. There is
nothing logical about it. If a man votes
for Smith we don’t assume that his vote
should go to Jones if Smith doesn’t get
enough votes to elect him. lie may simply
hate Jones and prefer Brown. And a man
who votes for six o’clock and nothing but
six may prefer to leave things as they are
for the present if he can’t bring off a win
for the whole hog.
The Frankfort Zeitung has had an article
on Hughes. “His attitude,” it says, “embar-
rasses the Government, but the latter has to
treat well the Prime Minister of an impor-
tant colony which has given a strong,
though, on account of its criminal lack of
self-restraint, perfectly useless auxiliary
force.” Ah, well, we can’t all hope to have
the self-restraint of the doves that flew
through Belgium ravishing maidens, disem-
bowelling women, spitting infants on
uayonets. roasting men alive, and valiantly
driving unarmed citizens before them to serve
as a shield. It takes years and years of
Kultur to bring a nation up to that pitch of
perfection.
“8.J.”: One of these days the Auditor-
General should make a few remarks about
the Federal Public Works Committee. The
members are paid £1 10s. per sitting and
travelling expenses, with an additional 10s.
for the chairman. Although the Act lays
it down that the committee shall only in-
vestigate matters referred to it by the House
of Reps., the thirt.v-bob-a-day laborers have
lately looked into the building of an arsenal
on the Murrumbidgee, and have also taken
evidence regarding the laying-out of avenues
at Dryberra. These sittings seem to have
been largely unnecessary and wholly illegal,
and it would be a fair thing, when the time
comes, to ask questions about the fees. In
any case the system of paying by the sitting
in a case like this is liable to be a rotten one.
ANNOYED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A recent cable-heading in Melbourhe Argus
announces that Germany is “annoyed with the
Allies.” “Annoyed” is a strong term, but up to
date the Argus has withdrawn nothing.
The German swept o’er Belgian soil,
And took his toll of corn and oil;
He slew the man, in flame he sped
The cot above the widow’s head.
Though brooks ran blood, the Kaiser he
Preserved his equanimity.
The German wehrwolf ran in France —
The fiend of hideous romance
Brought for the pallid world to see
More hideous reality.
Despite the tale we had to tell
The Kaiser kept his temper well.
The Zeppelin rode upon the wind,
And left its trail of death behind
Of slaughter, fire and wrack abhorred,
And mangled babies on the sward.
Of course the Kaiser had to know ;
He wasn’t really angry, though.
But now when strife he’d gladly cease,
The Allies will not sue for peace;
His patience breaks, and we may guess
The consequential frightfulness ;
For with his own forbearance cloyed
* At length the Kaiser’s quite annoyed.
VICTOHIA.
EDDYSON.


PALING’S PIANOS
CHAPPELL
British Made Throughout.
SAMES
CHAPPELL PIANOS
(FIRST MADE IN 1812).
The
Chappell
Bijou Grand.
If you cannot conveniently
call, please write for particulars
and prices. Write to=night.
Illustrated Catalogues are posted
free to any address.
mum
ACH instrument is made of the
finest possible material, by ex-
pert British worKmen, and will
give tbe greatest satisfaction in Aus-
tralian climates. We cannot speaK too
highly of tbe beautiful tone-qruality of
these delightful pianos. They charm
all who hear them. "Why not select one
as a suitable present for your daughter?
You can buy one on very Easy
Terms if you wish, and if you have an
old piano we will taKe it as part pay-
ment at its utmost honest valuation.
We fully g'uarantee every piano#or
other musical instrument we sell.
SAMES PIANOS
(ESTABLISHED 1855).
!IH
SAMES
Sames Plano Mode! 94.
We are Sole Agents for the famous
ESTEY ORGANS, renowned for
their unsurpassable Purity of Tone
and Great Durability.
“The Estey Organ Booklet” posted free
on request,
W. H. PALING ®. CO. LTD.
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. And at BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, TOOWOOMBA, LISMORE.
Sole Agents for Chappell, Sames, Estey & Victor Pianos.
'EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria-
The Australia Hotel
BUSINESS AS USUAL.
The Management of the “Australia”
Hotel are gratified to state that, not-
withstanding the upset caused by the
recent fire they are able to announce
“business as usual.” The service in
the Grand Dining Room, on the
Balcony, and in the Winter Garden
is being conducted in the same style
that has made the “Australia” Hotel
so popular with its patrons, while the
arrangements for Private Dinners and
Suppers are working with their accus-
tomed satisfaction.
Throughout the holiday season
arrangements for Afternoon Teas will,
as usual, be carried out in the Winter
Garden, which has been running con-
tinuously throughout.
J. URE SMITH, Manager.
, I
■i
m
Missing: Friends.
rjnriE Public Trustee of New Zealand
requests information concerning the
whereabouts of DENIS DELANEY, friend
of late MICHAEL MAHER, of Rangiora,
New Zealand, Laborer.
DIAMONDS SEDUCED ENORMOUSLY
Four years ago we took on a
Sole Agency calling for an enor-
mous output of Diamonds, and
with a view to making the turn-
over we offered them at merely
a broker’s commission on the
Antwerp cutters’ cost.
It barely paid us the first year ;
the second year the sales were so
great it did better, and the third
year better still; and so we are
continuing the experiment further.
We only stock the best grades
of Diamonds, but our prices for
these are THE LOWEST.
There is no duty on Diamonds.
f> Fine Diamonds,
set in Platinum,
choicely cased,
£lO/10/-
Fine-quality
Diamonds, set in
Platinum,
choicelv cased,
£2O.
Fine-quality
Diamonds,
£l5.
We are the Sole Agents for one of the largest cutters of Antwerp and Amsterdam.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.,
PLAIN FIGURES--CASH ONLY.
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
X
\
Grown on British owned plantations
in the British West Indian Island
of Montserrat.
u Shipped in British vessels. M
Montserrat
Lrime Juice
The finest health beverage. Warranted
by a British “firm of world-wide renown.
Of All Storekeepers,
Evans Sons Leschor & Webb, Ltd. Liverpool & London.
£lOOO
WORK OF ART.
in
PRIZES
£lOO
WORK OF ART.
Value £5OO FIRST GREAT PRIZE Value £5OO
Or Twelve Months' Trip Round the World and £lOO in Cash for ONE PERSON, or Eight Months for Two..
Note. —-The Committee, having paid full value for the work of art, is prepared to find a.
purchaser for same at the advertised amount if the winner so desires, also for the Second and Thircf
Prizes.
Second : Value £lOO. Third : Value £5O. And 97 other Prizes, totalling £lOOO
EIGHT HOURS GREAT ART UNION f
GOth Year —DIAMOND JUBILEE—GOth Year. J
Proceeds in Aid of the Hospitals and Public Charities of Australia. /
Prizes will be delivered to winners free of all charges. A list of winning numbers will! be
posted to any person sending an addressed envelope to the representative, with stamp unaffixed.
Buy from your Local Agent on or before 15th April, or send Postal Note, P. 0.0. or stamps, with
Exchange added, direct to the representative, 165 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, at once for tickets,, and
secure a chance in this great Art Union, 22 for £l, 11 for 10s., or Is. each.
All direct applications must reach Melbourne before the date of drawing, 2nd May, 1916. j
LEST YOU FORGET, BUY TO-DA\ T .
M. MILLS, Representative,
165 Flinders Lane, Melb., Vic? x>ria.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc..
! PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
I LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE. MELBOURNE, VIC.
68i PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
oosperciai, Vehicles*-
Agricultural Tractors
tm€ DAIMLER COMPANY
COVENTRY, ENGLAND,
V
This effective pre-
paration has stood
the test for over 30
yea f s. It is a
genuine Moustache-
grower, and delights
every user.
not try it ?
PRICE 10/6 JAR-POST FREE.
Craig & Aitken,
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
IF any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the
original.
T/Le'^aUeiin.
214 George Street, Sydney.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE anti COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LIHITED. Redfern, Sydney.
i Ihe enthusiasm inspired among our gal-
inp l S f k L erS by the Prince of Wales reminds
one of the popularity of that other inspir-
ing spirit of royalty, King Georee IV tan
notch Scotch.— Advt. g * top
Whenever YOU visit Melbourne be sure
to stay at “Scott's.” For comfort,
sumptuousness and convenience no other
hotel can compare with it. Private-
attendance-’phones in all rooms, and Hot
and Cold Water in Bedrooms. Single
Room or “Private-Suite” Accommodation.
scons hotel
Coil ins St Melbourne
Telegrams—“ Scott’s,” Melbourne.
Magnesia
DIN NE FORD’S
iMrUnin..
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchaser!
must see the nam#
“ DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottU
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The L niversal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affectirns.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
General entries for A.J.C. (Sydney)
Autumn meeting knocked all previous records into the
dustbin —19 events (the other five are “classic’’)
enticing 1021 nominations. The war is sharpening up
owner’s appetites.
* * * *
At Rosehill on Saturday the Abundance
colt Ivandos stretched Cetigne's neck in the April
Handicap. But the performance was not quite so
impressive as it looked, first because more than one
of the others were not in an excessive hurry, and,
next, because the Derby winner was conceding Kandos
a stone and a half and carrying 111 b. over weight
for age. Kandos has been accumulating a reputation
lately, but will have to do better than this in order
to live up to it.
John “Baron” Brown, of Newcastle, let Quaimeta
make one in a field of 27 in the Maidens, and all
the others saw of her was her tail. Carrying Bst. 21b.
she ran the seven furlongs in “27,” which is only
Isec. outside the record for the course set up by
Golden Slipper six years ago. Quairneta is a chest-
nut mare by Traquair from Martineta (both imp.),
and will be burdened with 6st. 101 b. in the Doncaster,
a circumstance which is not depressing to the people
who lately backed her for the longer journey.
* * * *
Among racing men it had come to be
accepted that the place to look for the purple jacket
of Hugh Denison, the Sydney sport and tobacco man,
was where it would be smothered with the dust. He
had some successes and then raced* with cruel luck.
But Denison went off to England a few months back,
whereupon his horses were immediately filled with a
frantic anxiety to dash away from the rear, and they
actually commenced winning—nothing big, but suffici-
ently large to revive hope that the owner would
again feel the thrills imparted by Poseidon. The
latest of Denison’s nags to catch the judge’s eye is
Mafioso, who did the trick at Rosehill in a Nursery
Handicap on Saturday, and hugely delighted the
Noses. Mafioso started at 20 to 1. A few Saturdays
back another of his youngsters, Flores, had a win
on the same course after having thrown her rider and
bolted several furlongs. Other horses belonging to
this owner to win races recently are Chantry and
Bahanavar. Denison has imported many animals, in-
cluding Danum and Greyspear. About 18 months
ago the latter won a long-distance event at Rand-
wick practically unbacked. Danum was raffled for
the benefit of the fighting Billjims. He wasn’t as
good as Carbine.
* * » *
Either the steeplechasing business has gone
to pot or Bibbenluke, now rising 12, has taken a
sudden tumble to himself. Anyhow, the old battler
has developed into one of the best fencers in Aus-
tralia. Once in the hazy past he started in a Rand-
wick Plate. He was there to make the pace in the
interest of Trafalgar, and careered along as if the
event was over six furlongs instead of being a Mara-
thon. Where he was at the finish doesn't matter.
Last month Bibbenluke lepped the big Flemington
fences in front of everything with list. 111 b. aboard,
and has now been notified that he will have to carry
14 lb. more in the Easter Steeple at Onkaparinga
* * » •
Cetigne’s performance at Itosehill last
Saturday gives further color to the assumption that
he was not at his best when Patrobas beat him in
Melbourne. In Sydney Cup calculations the handi-
eapper allows Cetigne only 21b. from Patrobas, and if
the two colts meet in the Leger at Randwick the local
star will probably be favorite. Patrobas’s poor
showing in the Australian Cup last month left his
old admirers in doubt as to whether he is the
smasher that trainer Wheeler thinks him. He will
have to give Cetigne another good licking before he
looks anything like a cert, for Sydney Cup. though
on his spring form and his Wallace parentage he has
a great chance at Bst. 91b.
* * * *
J. O’Shea, Loan Land’s leading jockey, has
put up a new record by steering 48 winners alreadv
this season. No other jockey ever did as well
as that in Maoriland. B. Deeley, who held the lead
for several years, is second so far with 44 wins, and
is doing his billeo to push his nag in front of what
O Shea rides.
The howl which X.S.W. Breeders. Owners
and Trainers’ Association decided to leave on the
doorstep of the Metropolitan (Sydney) racing clubs
protesting against allowing more than 2(f starters
in any race—didn’t ruffle the Rosehill Club last Satur-
day. In four events the starters numbered 34, 27, 24
and 24—high enough over the minimum to cause
fight if the Association wanted it.
* * *
In anticipation of the happy, honest day
when N. S. Wales and Vie. shall purge the land of
them who bawl short odds, and shall turn the follies
of the punting crowd to charitable uses, a Melbourne
syndicate hath patented a wondrous tote wherein
invention betters old design and electricity doth
serve mankind anew. The difference between the
Exchange Patent Totalisator, which will soon be
installed by the Gawler (S.A.) Jockey Club, and all
previous betting machines is in the fact that it pro-
vides branches for the convenience of customers at
various parts of the racecourse. It is a decentralisa-
tion movement. Every bet registered at anv out-
lying station is immediatelv registered bv electricitv
at the head-centre, where the totals of each horse are
aggregated and the changing state of the poll is
levealed until the horses start on their journev. Then
the whole of the machinery can be automatically
c osed by the starter, judge or other official of the
club authorised to apply the switch the instant the
barrier rises. This prevents any possibility of in-
vestment on a gee that gets a flving start The
Exchange Totalisator when installed at Gawler will
give racegoers all the information thev get from the
earlier machines, plus the new facilities, plus the
safeguard against cute last-moment investors. Also
clivs. will be paid at the outlying stations where bets
are received. The expert selected by the Gawler
Jockey Club to report on the working model states
that there is no intricate mechanism to get out of
adjustment and. make punters swear. Meanwhile
\ -toria, where the invention comes from, is still
wa.iing tor the tote to be legalised, and Ikey Mo
his leather'bag * SeCti ° n ° f the in
*
r • Is if possible to drive into
Mujik (B 23/3/’l6) the fact that Trafalgar was
leally sold for £, 500 ? He considers that as each
of the Mitchell brothers owned half of the old warrior
Ins price was really £3750. Of course, the horse’s
P™* an '* on ® Mitchell handed the other
Mitchell half of that much for his half of the horse.
“MeXorth” : There was quite a flutter at
Stringer's Gully when it became known that Bishop
Ward was to arrive by the next day’s train and
would stay a few days in the township. No one,
except Jones, the clerk at the mine, seemed to know
anything about Bishop Ward, or where he bished.
Jones mentioned the matter casually. The local
parson was away, but the Faithful got busy, and
Deacon Whimper, who runs the drapery in the main
street, ceased draping two hours before closing time
in order to prepare an eloquent speech of welcome.
When the train drew in Jones met Bishop Ward on
the platform—a hefty, broad-shouldered individual
with a bent nose and a damaged ear. He wore a
noisy check suit, and had his face suspended on a
long black cigar. Brother Whimper stepped forward.
“Your Lordship,” he began, with a low bow, “as a
representative of the people of Stringer’s Gully I
am pleased beyond measure”- . Ward glared’ at
him. “What th' ” he spluttered. “Pleased
beyond measure,” continued Mr. Whimper, “to wel-
come your Lordship” Ward advanced threaten-
ingly. “ ’Ere,” he roared, “enough of that! What
d’ver mean lordin’ me? Get outer me way or I'll
shove yer face down yer throat!” Then turning to
Jones, he said, “Blimey, you are hot joints ’ere.
What about a snifter?” Bishop Ward, bookmaker
and ex-pug, had come to Stringer’s for the races.
“Bishop” was merelv his'front name.
* * * *
Frank O’Connor, who by trimming up five
successive opponents with a k.o. punch got right
into the spotlight a few months ago and has not been
haying too good a time after getting there, found
things looking no better when he collided with
Tommy Uren at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night.
This was mainly because Thomas has much the greater
skill and a wallop that arrives in a hurry. Instead
of taking the O’Connor punch he pushed a left into
O’Connor’s face and uppercut with the right—a form
of annoyance for which the smitten individual had
no immediate remedy. O’Connor stood up to it all
gamely enough, and showed considerable stamina, but
in the sixteenth passage he was done to a turn. Early
in the round he went down for nine. On getting up
Cren pasted him with such emphasis that O’Connor
collapsed from exhaustion and the towel interrupted
the count. A plucky chap, but he was out of his
class once more.
* * * *
Frenchman Ferdinand Quendreux de-
bouched towards Matt Murphy at Brisbane Stadium
on Saturday, and, leaping over the first line of
entanglements, assaulted Matt on the jaw. Then he
consolidated the position by hitting him again in the
same place from the other side. Whereupon Matt
launched a counter attack, but suffered great loss and
endeavored to dig himself in. He was, however, com-
pelled to break ground, and in the eleventh lap
stopped something with his chin and forgot to ask
what it was until afterwards.
MANAGER LEAN, MELBOURNE
STADIUM.
Fritz Maki and “Red” Watson were to
have held an un-Christian Endeavor at Melb. Stadium
on Saturday, but the Finn’s ankle turned on him.
The crimson-crested Watson was then opposed to the
lumbering Xicol Simpson, but after three whiffs of
aroma the referee called the exhibition off. Watson
was quoted at two to one on, and, as Simpson, early
in the proceedings, looked like winning on a foul, the
Children of Israel would have cleared expenses nicely
if anything of the kind had happened by mistake.
Man proposes—but the tin hat gets put on it some-
times.
* * * *
To arrive during the next day or so from
Murka, Harry Stone, who showed several Australians
a point or two in the game a couple of years ago ;
and ’‘Roughhouse” Brown, a Kanuck, who carries a
long string of scalps round with him and a weighty
Punch. So for McCoy, L'ren and Co. there should soon
be something doing. To oblige more meaty opposi-
tion C'ostiea Andrecescu is coming to shed the light
of his dial on this part of the world. This bird is
a welter. He is also a Roumanian and is understood
to be on the verge of greatness.
* * * *
“Snowy” Baker is issuing a communique
restricting the use of the towel at Stadium fixtures
to the purposes for which wipes are manufactured and
leaving it to the referee to decide whether proceed-
ings should end before a decisive clout materialises.
This may be a good move, but in operation it isn’t
going to make the job of the referee anv easier nor
win for him any more of the cheers that are handed
up with so much irregularity by the assembled fans.
The first time a referee interposes during a disturb-
ance at Sydney Stadium it would be safe to bet that
he will be charged by an exhausted pug with bein°-
a bonehead, a pirate and a nark, and that loud yells
of “Tah!” will smash the atmosphere into splinters.
Also, the first time he neglects to interpose there
will be yells of “Yah!” And there was quite enough
yowl and howl as things were.
* * *
“Sardonyx”: I agree with “Smelling
, 23 / 3 /’ l6 ) in thinking that it should lie
with the referee to say when a fighter’s chance has
vanished, but is a man bound by the throwing-in of
the towel by his seconds? In the old PR da vs
when the sponge was skied the principal was as a
rule, hopelessly done and ready to quit; but this was
not always so, and if he insisted on continuing- he
could not be declared beaten so long as he could
manage to stagger up to scratch. In such cases, how-
ever, the stconds sometimes simply hauled their man
out of the ring. I remember seeing a man so badly
punished through a dozen rounds that his seconds
tossed the sponge; but the fighter persisted in going
on, recovered all through another nine rounds, and
knocked his opponent out in the 22nd. Then there
was trouble, because the backers of the beaten man
insisted that he should have been declared the winner
when the other’s sponge went up. The matter went
to Bell’s Life for adjudication, and the decision
was that a fighter was not bound by the action of
his seconds, unless it was expressly stipulated in the
articles that he should be so bound.
* * * *
Jerry Jerome passed through his native
town on the Darling Downs the other day, bound
for the mission station at Taroom; so the last has
been seen of him in the ring. He was a great
natural fighter in his day, and professional pugs
never saw the best of him, for he was already well
up in years when the boom started. Twenty-five
years ago the abo. would have been a big thing, but
at that time he was wasting himself in scraps with
wandering strangers on the Downs. Even now there
are very few who could beat him out on the grass.
* * * *
Fanny Durack did a more than usually
strenuous kick at Sydney Domain Baths on Saturday.
There was a 440vds. race on the programme, which
was confined to girl swimmers, and, as the gathering
was in aid of returned blind soldiers, Fanny reckoned
the time was ripe for a special effort. Swimming
with astonishing power she swirled over the distance
in Gmin. 3 2-ssec., clipping 13 3-ssec. off her own
best figures and setting up a new world's record for
women.
* * * *
Fanny Durack holds 10 world’s records
for women, and could tack more on if she had time.
These are her property: 50yds., 29sec. ; 75vds.,
49 4-ssec. ; 100yds., lmin. 6sec. ; 110yds., lmin.
16 1-asec. ; 150yds., lmin. 55sec. ; 220yds., 2min.
52-ec. ; 300vds., 4min. 12sec. ; 440yds., 6min.
3 2-ssec; 880yds., 12min. 52sec. ; mile, 26min. Bsec.
The girls will have to hurry up a lot before they
can hope to lick their brothers. Late Barney Kieran
got over 440yds. in smin. 19sec. Kahanamoku pro-
pelled himself through 220yds. of wet in 2min.
29sec. ’Murkan C. M. Daniels is credited with
2min. 25 2-ssec.
* * * *
“C.”: I want to enter Edith Johnson in
the endurance swimming contest promoted bv “Lance
Private” (B. 16/3/’l6) and “Pick”’ (B. 30/3/’l6).
Of her own free will this girl hopped into the
water at Blackpool (Eng.) in Slav, 1880, and stayed
there without assistance for 31 hours. “Pick’s” 16-
year-old Quetta girl was Miss Lacey, of Mackay
(Q.), who is now Mrs. Hoare, of Hobart (Tas.), wife
of a solicitor. One of her boys is lending a hand in
the universal dust-up. Authenticated stories of her
big swim declare that she was in the water from
“sometime on Saturday afternoon until 8.10 a.m. on
the following day.”
* * * *
H. Regan, winner of the “over 40” swim-
ming championship at Sydney recently, is a gay old
waterbird. Just on 20 years ago he swam in
distance championships without success; now when
youth has shouldered a gun he bobs up with the vim
of a schoolboy and swirls through 100yds. in 17min.
14sec.
* * * *
There is a 14 year-old J. Gillan at Bris-
bane, and this is what he did in the South Brisbane
Baths between two and five o’clock the other after-
noon at the Schools swimming carnival. Inciden-
tally the bath is 33yds. Ift. long. He won a
heat in the 66yds. junior cadet race; time, 504 sec.
Won the final easily in 461 sec., but was disqualified
for touching under water. Won a heat in the
100yds. championship; time, lmin. 14sec. Won a
heat . from 14 behind in the 66yds. inter-club
handicap; time, 58sec. Heat-winners were re-
handicapped, and the lad won the final from 16
behind in 59sec. After 10 minutes’ spell he won
the final of the 100yds. championship by Ifjyds. very
easily in lmin. 131 sec. Won a heat in the 33yds.
breast-stroke championship in 31sec. Got third
place in the final. Also, in between, he competed
in a standing, running and fancy-diving contest, and
was placed third. By that time the kid reckoned he
haG had a good bathe. At this same carnival voung
Dick Cay ill was the main cause of the Toowong
School winning the 133yds. team championship ; and
he also won an under-12 championship, and was
beaten by a hair in the 50yds. immediately after the
final of the team race.
• * » .
At the Tasmanian secondary schools’
championships, held at Hobart the other dav, F
Pringle, of the Friends’ High School, fled home’first
m the 120yds. hurdle, the 220yds. and the 440vds.,
and hopped off with the high jump. According to
the timekeeper he cut out the hurdles in 16 3-ssec„
the 220yds. in 25 2-osec., and the 440yds. in
oo 2-osec., the first of which is very nippy for a
schoolboy. In none of his races was he at all pushed.
* * * *
The late Barney Reynolds was responsible
for columns of ingenious boost advts. that pervaded
Melbourne dailies when John Wren was running his
fights, cycling or pedestrian carnivals. A striking
feature of the_ publicity campaign in connection with
the Wren £5OO footrace, run at Melbourne Exhibi-
tion Grounds several years ago, was the introduction
oi a mythical “Max W'hittingham.” His advent in
the handicaps caused no end of a babble in athletic
circles, as the mysterious Max figured on scratch with
Arthur Postle. The boom was substantiated to a
certain degree with photos of W’hittingham, showing
him as a well-groomed Yankee sort of young chap
sporting a flying foot on his chest. To the “know-
ing ones” the fictitious ped’s legs sort of gave him
away, the limbs being too round and smoothly mod-
elled for a sprinter. Ordinary pot-hunting sprinters
may run in sundry shapes and sizes, but the cham-
pions are invariably built on traditional lines. WTiit-
tingham was said to be in training somewhere out of
Sydney, and regular reports were circulated about
his condition. W hen sufficient interest had been
aroused m the man of mystery he was let drop and
gradually faded out of the proceedings. Subsequent
inquiries - tailed to discover that any such ped ever
existed. He was supposed to be an offspring of
Barney Reynolds’s boostful brain. S
* * * .
W. G. George’s great mile record of 4min.
12jsec. goes overboard at last after standing 34
years. Norman S. Taber’s 4min. 12 3-ssec made at
Cambridge (U.S.A.) on July 16 last, has nT been
P assed „ and becomes the world’s best. It is
better than Georges famous effort by 3-20ths of a
second. Also the new record is an amateur one, and
as such is fully 25yds. better than anything vet done
by anyone in pursuit of a jaindish. George was 1
pro. and he did his time in a match with Cum
tnings, a great rival. George always declared tha*
his 4min. 12Jsec., wonderful as it seemed, would
be beaten; in fact, he claimed to have beaten it
himself more than once in trials. In one of these
run at the Surbiton Recreation Grounds, about an
extra 60yds. was tacked on so that if any friends of
his great rival, Cummings, happened to be about
with a watch they wouldn’t be frightened. In that
instance George is supposed to have left the mile
behind in 4min. lOJsec. ! Men who saw the record-
breaking race have stated that had the winner been
pushed at the finish he would have arrived inside
“10.”
* * * *
Westralia has put up the cricket shutters,
with North Perth shouldering the premiership. The
team lost only one match in eight. Two individual
performances stand clear at the summit of the aver-
ages. H. Shepherd (West Perth) accumulated 499
runs, an average of 71.5; and A. Christian (North
Perth) garnered 69 wickets, the average being 7.10
Christian has been a disastrous circum'tance in nine
tears of Westralian cricket. His 732 wickets have
been annexed at an average cost of a trifle over
eight runs.
* * * *
The express train used to hold the speed
record between Mellrourne and Sydney. It doesn’t
now. At 5 o’clock on a recent morning Bovd
Edkins left Melbourne G.P.O. with a mate in a
Vauxhall ear, and at 9.55 p.m. he rallied up at
the G.P.0., Sydney He had covered the 570 mile-
in 16hr. 55min., beating the train by lOmin. and
A. V. Turner’s previous motor record by 2hr. 7min
The run works out at about 33J miles an hour, but
there were times when the car was hitting up 70
Edkins stopped on the journey for refreshment and
petrol and twice to change wheels, of which the rims
had been twisted by collision with rock. With a
little luck in avoiding obstruction and inventing a
system of capturing food for himself and the engine
on the run, Edkins hopes to some day lop about" an
hour off his latest figures. The car was supported bv
Dunlop tyres.
* * * .
“T. 0.1.” : Apropos old Bill Caffvn, of the
first English XI to visit Australia (B. 30/3 16). He
remained in Sydney after his second trip, and opened
a hairdressing business in Hunter-street, presently
moving into a good position in George-street
near Elvv’s music warehouse, and about oppo-’
site the old Glasgow Arms. Here the barber-
cricketer remained until 1872 or so, when he sold
out to John Campbell, who had been in partnership
with James Graham (father of Harry, the cricketer)
in Swanston-street, Melbourne. When Campbell left
Graham, the former started a travelling waxworks
show with which he toured Tasmania. Coming to
Sydney he opened in Pitt-street, but tired of travel
and bought out Caffvn and sold out his “wax Aggers’’
to Wm. Gourlay, the Scotch comedian, who opened
a small concert hall at the rear, where Mrs. Gourlay,
Johnnie and the family gave entertainments. ' *
* * * *
The enthusiasm of the Australians and
Maorilanders in Egypt and Britain for football isn’t
a circumstance to the anxietv of the Indian soldiers
to get going in a game of hockey. Thev plav it all
in, too, with the exception of their boots, which are
left in charge of a subadar-major or someone, and
the barrackers make more noise than a bursting
Zeppelin. Billjim could run over the top of the
darkies after a piece of leather, but arm them with
crooked sticks and set them in pursuit of a small
round ball—well, it wouldn’t do for Bill to start in
the competition with any corns ireide his socks
* * * *
The billiards season will start betimes in
Melbourne. Clarke Maeonachy, the Maoriland cham-
pion, is due on the 13th (an unlucky dav for some-
body). and will commence a match with Fred Lin-
drum on the 24th. They are to play 16,000 up,
benzoline balls. Maeonachy promises' to give the
Australian champion the go of his life, and all the
Maorilanders in Melbourne will drop into Alcock’s
Parlor to see hint do it. Young Mac is described as
a singularly graceful billiardist, but he can hardlv
have a more poetic style of striking the ball than
Landrum has.
* * * *
Ilarry Moses and Percy Colquhoun were
the finalists in the single-handed bowling champion-
ship of N. S. Wales, and Colquhoun was the winner.
Two rare old sportsmen these. In his day Moses
was one of the finest of Australian batsmen. He
was not brilliant, hut his bat was as broad as a
door, and accumulated runs for Australia and
X.S.W. His highest score was 297 not out for Ma
State against Victoria. At football Colquhoun was
a dazling three-quarter in attack. He played as
wing three-quarter against the first English team
that visited Australia in ’BB. He was also one of
the most brilliant lawn-tennis players that ever held
a racket on behalf of N. S. M ales. To-day he is
the champion bowler, and in his spare time a soli-
citor and Liberal M.L.A. for Mosman.
* * *■ *
The deciding match for the championship
of the Orient, played at the recent tennis carnival
held in Manila, after Beals M'right had been outed.
was between C. J. Griffin, doubles champion of
L .S.A., and Kumagee, the Japanese rep. They had a
hard, gruelling tussle. The Jap. stood it best and
pulled out a winner.


WHY YOU WEED SPECIAL EXERCISES.
’tb&tSSts®* s-ger:
expending your energy, and thus prove harmful * *
your system ““K m n!' e vT* , stimulant iVs Possible to give
nourishino- the „', 9 V M )ther Nature s way of replacing waste tissue,
inn.i-ovim? thAS ? system, building up thews and sinews,
It is the” nleasant an I 10 "” 18 c' P all the lm P° rtan t internal organs,
health P t an<l correct wa >' of sustaining vim and vigorous
BAKER POSTAL COURSE OF PHYSICAL CULTURE
is based. Each pupil gets the exercises he or she most needs.
30 P ll Pil benefits quickly and permanently as a result.
■ ni.SE iS Cvid f nce of ' vhat n> y Course is accom-
plishing every day:—
“Since undertaking your Course, I feel twice
ne man, and I have developed wonderfully. I
have never been more pleased with anything I
have done since I went in for yom Course of
lhvsncal Culture, and I can honestly recommend
y° ur bourse to anyone seeking better health.”
—E.H.W., Northampton, W.A.
1 a .rich-blooded man, full of energy, full of
ab ! e en i°y life to its utmost. Take your
hrst step healthwards by writing for fees and fuller
detads of my instruction. Just write your name
and address across this advertisement. I’ll know
postage ° U mean ‘ Send three P enn y stamps for
i
REG. L.
(“Snowy’*)
BAKER
481 Belmont Buildings, SYDNEY.
high Hills Look Low
on the
&ndm
Write for Catalogue “D.”
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. f >tv
Ltd.
109=113 Russell St., Melbourne.
V~v
YOU’LL ENJOY MY
CIGARILLOS
They are little cigars of
shilling Havana quality.
For a short smoke —some-
thing between a cigar and
a cigarette— they are
just the thing.
Fine and mild in
flavor, and delight-
ful in aroma.
In three sizes—but
all ONE quality.
In Tins of
20:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
2 3 2 - 1/9
In Cedar
Boxes of 50:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
5/3 4/9 4/3
In Cedar
Boxes of
100:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
10/- 9/- 8 -
Postage Extra.
On 100—
N.S.W. 6d.
Other States Bd.
Write for a
Copy of my
Illustr a ted
- - Catalog—
Actual Size of Cigarillos. Post Free.
A. M. SOLOMON,
“CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The wounded.
RED CROSS CONVEYAMCES
OF THE ALLIED FORCES
are run on
SHELL'
benzine
BJO*
£3
COOL
AND
SWEET
$
a
CO
c
&
s
CUT
AND
PLUG
0
Every Man Appreciates
This Razor.
There is no pulling or dragging of the beard
with
The “PLUM” RAZOR,
but just that smooth, velvety shave that every
man appreciates.
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE.
We keep it in perfect order for two years,
free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
10/6. -
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle,
15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
NOYES BROS.
(Melbourne) Pty. Ltd.
(Sydney) Limited
499 Bourke Street, Melbourne,
115 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Selling Agents for
Broken Hill Proprietary Co. La.
Steel Works,
Newcastle, N.S.W.
Without the Extra Cost
RIGNEY SHOES mean “made-to-order”
satisfaction, without the delay and extra
cost of being measured. They are made
in all styles, shapes and sizes.
We illustrate a high-grade Patent Kid
Golosh Bal., with Interwoven Glace Kid
Peg. Very light Soles and Hand-sewn
Welts.
Price - 40-
Also in Tan Willow Calf 37/0
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE
“Paddymelon”: The prohibition of wet
canteens in our training camps is a case of
fools splashing in where angels fear to swim.
I. served for years in the Chatham division
of the Royal Marine Light Infantry. The
best beer in that town could be got at our
canteen at 2id. a quart, though outside it
was 4d.; yet the canteen made a profit and
we got divs. in kind occasionally. We were
even allowed to take beer from the
canteen for consumption in our barrack
rooms, yet a soberer lot of men it would
be impossible to find. A sergeant was
always on duty in the canteen, and a nod
from him to a man who was getting noisy
was quite sufficient. Any old marine who
served from ’77 to ’Bl in that division can
bear out my .statement.
When your Cea-
is shod with
DUNLOP
TYRES
you seldom need
your spewre wheel V
o
¥
v
5^
There's Pleasure-
in Motoring
when you can drive thousands
of miles on Australian - made
“Dunlops” without the slightest
trouble. Dunlop Quality means
to you satisfactory service at a
minimum cost. It means the
Best Tyre made at less cost than
the imported article. HAVE
‘DUNLOPS’-THEY PAY'
ILLUSTRATED LIST ON APPLICATION
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
104 FLINDERS STREET..MKI.HOURNK
CLARENCE STREET I .'SYDNEY
10.1-IDS FUNDERS STREET. ADELAIDE
2AM-274 ADELAIDE STREET. HRISHANf.


OSCILLATING PORTAL WALL BEDS
Installed as a Unit of Your Building will Enhance the Value of Your Investment.
ONE of the MANY ADVANTAGES of our PATENTED BED-
THE IN-AND-OUT-DOOR SLEEPING UTILITY.
If you wish to investigate the merits
of our Wall Beds, write to any of the
following Architects:
Messrs. J. KIRKPATRICK & SONS, S Spring
St., Sydney.
Mr. DONALD ESPLIN. 107 Pitt St., Sydney.
Mr. BIRCH AM CLAMP, O’Connell St.. Sydney.
Mr. A. FOREMAN, 64 Pitt St., Sydney.
Mr. MANSFIELD. Dunolly, Newcastle St., Rose
Bay.
Mr. E. -1. KERR. 20l George St., Sydney. .
Messrs. PEDDLE ,v THORP, S Spring st ,
Sydney.
Mr. R. A. SHAW, Challis House, Martin Place,
Sydney.
Mr. E. R. ORCHARD, 684 Pitt St., Sydney.
Mr. L. L. RAMSAY. 113 Pitt St., Sydney.
Mr. A. F. PRITCHARD. S 3 Pitt St.. Sydney.
Mr. LINDSAY THOMPSON, City Council Archi-
tect.
Messrs. WILSIIIRE A DAY, 3 Spring St.. Sydnev.
Mr. T. W. HODGSON, 14 Moore St.. Sydney.
Mr. THOS. TIDSWELL. Challis House, Svdney.
Mr. H. DENNIS, 654 Pitt St., Sydney.
Mr. COLEMAN, Sydney.
Mr. S. N. RICKARD. 14 M ore St., Sydney.
Mr. DRUMMOND, Melbourne.
Mr. PERROTT. Collins St., Melbourne.
Mr. PEEBLES, Melbourne.
Mr. M. J. DAWSON, Wellington. New Zealand.
Mr. JONES. Wellington, New Zealand.
Messrs. DAY. MANSFIELD and ORCHARD have
installed them in their own homes.
From 3 Spring Street.
H. A. Wilshire & Day, Architects.
Gentlemen, —I might state that before the
said bed was installed I had some misgiv-
ings in regard to ventilation. I am, how-
ever, now quite satisfied upon this point.
I shall have no hesitation whatever in
recommending them to my cUents.
(Signed) HARRY C. DAY.
HER EXCELLENCY. EADY HELEN
MI'XRO FERGUSON, at the Institute of
Architects Exhibition recently, was very
much impressed by the Portal all Bed
exhibit, and, in her own words, said.
••JCST THE VERY THING FOR THIS
CLIMATE.”
The ease of working them astonished her,
and she cross-examined the attendant all
about the mechanism, and could not believe
that they could be worked so easily as
they seemed, and, to satisfy herself,
insisted on trying the working herself.
She therefore, put a bed up with the
greatest ease, and was so delighted,
expressing her satisfaction that doing so
“WAS QUITE WITHIN THE POWER OF
ANY INDIVIDUAL.”
-—Vide Salon - Architectural and Engineering
Journal.
BOOKLET OF PLANS AND SPECI-
FICATION FOR INSTALLING POST
FREE ON APPLICATION.
I ige
J
k
V
*
• v '
S
L
t
OSCILLATIXG PORTAL WALL BED. EXD OX.
Simply open the French doors and let the bed doicn on verandah.
FREE
from
Dust,
Soot
and
Dampness
when
in
Recess.
£/ E 7 C 7
m
xn
=d
xntr:
■X: —', r -
ii J
say
■
You
have the
full
use of
Floor
Space
in
the
Daytime.
ISOMETRIC VIEW OF THE PA TESTED WALL BED.
shotcing ltotc the sume bed may be used <it trill either on the Verandah or in the Bedroom.
If you wish to investigate the merits
of our Wall Be<ls. write to any of the
following addresses:—
T. G. RESIDENTIAL APARTMENTS. Eliza
heth an.l Park Sts.. Sydney, i Over 100 be-
in-tailed in this struetiire. and nearly 3000
sq. it. of flc>or space saved.)
PETERKIX CHAMBERS, Elizabeth St.. Sidney.
SABI EL CHAMBERS, Hunter St.. Sydney.
GROSVEXOR HOTEL. Church Hill. Sydney.
WENTWORTH HOTEL. Church Hill, Sydney.
HOTEL SYDNEY. Pitt St. (pear Central Sta-
tion).
WARATAH HOTEL, Bay-water Rd., Darlirghur-t.
Mr-. BOECK, Mercedes, Bays water Rd., liarling-
hurst.
WALLARINGA MANSIONS, Neutral Bay.
Mr. E. W. HAGOX (Hagon Bros.), Tailors. King
St., Sydney.
Mr. AGXEW. Fresno, Brook St., Coogee.
Mrs. KIMBER. Hawarden, 108 Darlinghurrt Rd.,
City.
Mr. H. A. STEDMAX, Melrose, Margaret St.,
Manly.
Captain BARNARD, Eastern Rd., Turramurra.
Mrs. MORGAN, The Cecil, Macquarie St., Sydney.
COMMONWEALTH BANK. Home Affairs Depart-
ment, Corner Pitt & Moore Sts.
Mr. G. SAYWELL, Roma Flat.-, McMahon's
Point.
Mr. ROTH. 149 Macquarie St.. Sydney.
Miss AY. FRASER. 110 High St.. North Sydney.
Mr-. A. ABRAHAMS, Elysian, Cowper St., Rand-
wick.
Mr. NICHOLAS SUIELS, Copeland Rd.,
Beecroft.
Mr. H. PERDRIAU, Drummoyne.
Mr. BELLAMY, Silva St., Bondi.
Mrs. McC'AULL, Beecroft.
Mr. AVM CROSBY, Collins St.. Melbourne.
Mr. CL'RRIE. Shipping Agent, Melbourne.
Mr. T. PETERS, Civil Engineer, Ml. Jo- . V ictoria
St.. Ashfield.
Dr. F. GREENWOOD. Brighton, Melbourne.
NEW CARLYOX HOTEL, Melbourne.
Mr. HARRY SKINNER. Palace Theatre. Sydney.
NATIONAL BANK OF X.Z., Hastings, New
Zealand.
Mr. H. BROCKMAN. White Hart Hotel, New
Plymouth, N.Z.
Mr. PATTERSON, Estate Agent, Wentworth
Falls.
Mr. P. O'SHEA, Solicitor. Brisbane.
Mr. A. SCOTT. Edward St., Brisbane.
Mr. W. E. BLACKWELL. Gen. Manager Allen
and Sons. Townsville, Q.
Messrs. McLEOD BROS., 94 Pitt St., Sydney.
Mr. MADERS, Barney St., Drummoyne.
Mr. W. P. GIBSON, Rose and Edmund Sts.,
Chats wood.
Mr. GARYIN PARK. Ross St., Gladesville.
Mr. TOM CHESSELL. The Bungalow, Croydon
Avenue, Croydon.
Mr. W. SCHOFIELD. Dailey St.. Sydney.
Mr. D. MACK. Contractor A Builder, Melbourne.
And hundreds of others.
OUR BEDS REVOLVE IN 22in.
CAVITY WALL. (COLD ROLLED
STEEL SHAFT AND MALLEABLES
GUARANTEED TO CARRY ONE TON
WEIGHT.)
AWARDED GOLD MEDAL AT THE
RANAH A-PACIFIC EXHIBITION 1915.
6 m
iw
4
r
u
r-isr
i
■Bi
H
::
'
Six of Our Patented
Oscillating Portal Wall Beds
With Furniture on Front
-
;
SlliSl
A GENTLE PULL OF THE HANDLE
REVEALS THE DED INTACT.
We Supply the Wholesale Trade witH our Wall Beds witH or without Furniture.
Bor t fail to see our Large Exhibit at Agricultural Show.
APRIL 18th to 26th inst.
The above will be demonstrated and Agencies
arranged for in Territory not already dealt with.
AMERICAN WALL BED CO.
DENISON HOUSE,
Importers of Patented Steel
and Malleable Iron Beas.
38C George Street, near G.P.0., SYDNEY.


i
't
%
i
l
i
■
I
Between the
Wet Shampoos
use Icilma Hair Powder—
the wonderful English dry
shampoo. No wetting—
no trouble —no danger.
Just a light sprinkling of
the powder and a vigorous
brushing leaves the hair
clean, dry and attractive.
Icilma Hair Powder
is the best of all dry
shampoos—the only one
that readily brushes out.
Hair Powder
(For Dry Shampoo).
Pries 3d. Packet.
Of Chemists Stores, etc.
Icilma is pronounced Eye-Silma.
J. C. Gambles & Co., Apents,
11 Commerce House. Melbourne.
H.l
Have You a BAD LEG
perhaps surrounded With inflammation and
swollen, that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the sldn you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Perhaps
your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored. The disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Try the great British Remedv:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which you will find a certain remedy.
Also for Poisoned Hands, House-
maid Knees, Carbuncles, Absces-
ses, Snake and Insect Bites, &c.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store.
British Prices, 1/3 and 3/-
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farringdon St.,
Agents— LONDON, Eng-
ELLIOTT BROS.
W. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, etc.
emf wbk,(9m
Itc. I ' ,
Arnfui appearance pi-eserwp
. ■
m
x
•a*
sr:
/
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA ior GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘AKABIS
Egyptian Henna before all others : it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardley on genuine. Price 1/-and 2 fi.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
Keep Things
Bright with
Use it to Clean, Polish and Finish your
Floors Piano Golf Clubs
Linoleum Furniture Gun Stocks
Woodwork Leather Goods Motor Car, Etc.
IT is unsurpassed for all of these purposes. It forms
a thin, protecting film over the surface varnish —
adding years to its life. Every family has dozens
of uses for Johnson’s Prepared Wax —it is just as necessary round the house
as soap.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is clean, easy to use and economical. It is
conveniently put up—always ready for use. With it all you need is a cheese-
cloth rag.
Keep Your Linoleum
Like New
Johnson’s Prepared Wax has no
equal for polishing linoleum. It
brings out and preserves the pattern.
It imparts a beautiful, durable
finish which any housewife canf
easily keep in good condition. One 1
of its greatest advantages is its
time-saving feature—an ordinary-
size floor can be polished in less
than an hour, and may be walked
upon immediately.
jOHNSOj \Is
«»EBMrfDW«
s*? fcp -2p> g?"#' # -#
■S?'^s.«
contexts i pijrri«»T
• 4» 4fr-fe, «k>-^
'V
unr
r_<
Johnson’s Prepared Wax never becomes sticky and tacky in the hottest
climate. You will find it
Sanitary - Durable - Disinfecting
SOLD BY MOST GOOD DEALERS.
Insist on your tradesman supplying you. He can easily secure Johnson’s
Prepared Wax and Johnson’s Wood Dye through any of our Australian
Distributors: —
SYDNEY: Holdsworth, Maepherson, & Co. (Whol.) ; G. L. Gee & Co. (Whol.) ;
Jas. Sandy & Co. ; H. H. Groth & Co. ; Mark Foy’s Ltd. ; F. Lassetter & Co.
MELBOURNE: Jas. Hardie & Co. (Whol.); H. J. Corder; Mutual Stores;
Wm. & Geo. Dean; John Danks & Son.
ADELAIDE: King & Co., Weymouth Street.
BRISBANE: Jas. Sloan & Co.; R. S. Exton & Co.
PERTH: Hamer & Co. (Whol.) ; Jas. Eastwood Ltd.
LAUNCESTON: Hart & Sons Co.
HOBART: Davis & Co.
AUCKLAND : Hill & Plummer Ltd. ,
WELLINGTON (N.Z.) : G. L. Gee & Co.
S. C. JOHNSON 8 SON, “The Wood Finishing Authorities,”
Factory : Racine, Wisconsin, U.S.A. Cable Address: Johnson, Racine.
Australasian Agent, 379 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
THIS COUPON will bring you a generous trial tin. Post it to-day.
S. C. Johnson & Son (address c/o your nearest Distributor) :- AC
I enclose 6d. for a trial tin of Johnson’s Prepared Wax, sufficient for polishing several pieces
of furniture, a small floor, a square of linoleum or a motor-car. Please also send me your new 1/-
Color Book FREE.
>"
Name . ..' .'
A cllress
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd.
SELL WOOL St SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments.
• ’ :
Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
INCORPORATED 1888 BY SPECIAL ACT OF PARLIAMENT.
The Permanent Trustee Company
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LTD. 25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
TRUSTEES, ADMINISTRATORS, ATTORNEYS, AGENTS, Etc.
Trustee and Administrative Work of Every Description.
Estates and Properties Managed. Rents and Funds Collected.
Full Details on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
“McNorth” : In front of me sat four fat
gins. Above their touching shoulders and
between their dull black necks I had a rear
view of two Japanese ladies propped up by
their curious bustle-like arrangements. On
tny right were two Chinamen, one Malay, a
half-caste Papuan and a Maltese. My left was
flanked by a Binghi, two Solomon islanders, a
Lifu native and a half-caste Yankee nigger.
All around me were Cingalese, Hindoos, Man-
ilamen, Polynesians, half castes, quarter-
castes, castes so hopelessly mixed as to
become no castes at all, mere whites and
sundries. A representative gathering of the
discolored nations at a Spruce Myth recep-
tion ? Not at all. Merely the usual audience
at the Thursday Island picture show.
“0.K.” on the need for sub-editing Shak-
speare:—•
Of a dozen different productions of “As You Like
It” that I can call to mind not one has supplied the
long-felt want of a reduction in the Forest dialogues
of Rosalind and Orlando. These have patches of ex-
ceeding artificiality. Rosalind invariably greets the
young man with an inquiry as to what o’clock it is,
preparatory to telling him that time travels in divers
paces with divers persons. Then Orlando feeds her
with questions, like an interlocutor at a nigger-
minstrel show requesting Mr. Bones to disclose the
answers to his own conundrums. “Who doth Time
trot withal?” “Who ambles Time withal?” “Who
doth he gallop withal?” etc. And Rosalind always
reels off the answers as though she had got them by
heart before she invited the silly questions. I’ve
never heard a Rosalind and an Orlando who could give
even a suggestion of spontaneity to this part of the
conversation. At their next meeting in the Forest
there is some puerile talk, a line or two here and
there which never is cut by the stage-manager, but
which certainly ought to be either cut out or
strengthened, The sub-editor deals only with a few
indelicate lines; all the others are regarded, seem-
ingly, as immortals, not to be touched. A couple of
wearisomely “funny” speeches by the Jester are also
treasured as sacred items, instead of being cast into
oblivion. So much dialogue in “As You Like It”
comes up to the Shakspearian standard of longevity—
poetic maxim, proverb and philosophy which is “not
for an age but for all time”—that one marvels at the
custom of retaining dull lines written to suit only
the age when Divine William was in business. Allan
Wilkie’s production of the old comedy shows a wise
regard for the relative values of all things save three
or four bits of the stuff that is called “time-honored”
because Time has never been relieved of the burden
of it.
( Edith Cartwright, daughter of the late
Charles, has a leading part in one of the
'‘Peg o’ My Heart” shows touring England.
As a young girl she came to Australia with
the co. her father brought out under engage-
ment to Harry Rickards. Later she figured
as Edith Morley and played the heroine in
“A Marriage of Convenience”—the part
Madge Titheradge took when Lewis Waller
produced the comedy here. But it was off
the stage that the pretty young girl played
her most notable part. One Sunday she was
out riding with Rickards’s daughter Noni
when her horse unseated her and dragged
her along the road with her foot in the
stirrup-iron. That was the end of poor
Edith Morley’s theatrical career in Aus-
tralia she was much knocked about and
her face was sorely marred for a time.
When Oscar Asche revived “Taming of
the Shrew” in London lately not many mem-
bers of the old Australian cast were on the
hill. Tripp Edgar was still there, but in
another place, and Caleb Porter again
appeared as Gremio, the old suitor, whose
cake is dough. But Herbert Grimwood,
Athol Forde and many others had been
replaced.
What a lot of property the “rogue and
vagabond” mummers amass these times ! E.
S. Willard, the original Spider in “Silver
King,” who was only at the head of the
second class in the theatrical world, left
£14,681 in “unsettled” estate.
Gentle, who “retired” at a “farewell”
matinee some year or two ago, has been
dancing at London Alhambra and elsewhere
in the same old ordinary way of business.
Retirements of the Gen6e sort make it hard
for old favorites who really mean to quit
the stage and want to gild their nest-egg
with the proceeds of a bona-fide ben.
The few people who remember the incon-
gruous yet fairly impressive Williamson pro-
duction of “Everyman,” the old morality
play, will be interested to hear that Liza
Lehmann has composed a musical version
of the gloomy story. When “Everyman”
was resurrected in London 20 years ago,
women only were employed on the solemn
job, and not even the earthly names of the
performers were published. The J. C. Wil-
liamson production was theatrical and in-
congruous in so far that Julius Knight was
“starred” in the name part, whilst all the
other characters, of either sex, were filled
by girls. In Liza Lehmann’s operatic set-
ting of the play a woman sings the name
part, but the others are suitably distributed
among male and female voices, Good Deeds,
Beauty, Discretion, Knowledge, etc., being
feminines, whilst Death, Riches, Five Wits,
Strength, etc., are masculines. The experi-
ment is a failure because the style of the
morality play is genuinely antique, while
the 'music is just modern trying to sound
ancient and pious.
Francie Adler, a singing grand-daughter
of the Simonsen grand-operatrix whose mem-
ory is still green in Melbourne, cooees from
the U.S.A. After she went to Europe she
became Madame Alda, and won considerable
fame. Then there was a long silence as
to her career. Now, with New York at
her feet or thereabouts, she has given up
the fancy name and is the old Frances
Adler, in private the wife of the manager of
the Metropolitan Opera House.
The war wind, which blows banknotes in
so many directions, has wafted £15,000 to
the credit of Miss “Pat” Peel, a London
chorus girl who was airing her legs in revue
when the windfall came. Lieut. Muloch, of
the Gordon Highlanders, willed the money
to “Pat.” Apparently he got struck on her
when he was a schoolmaster at Streatham
(Erg.), and he made her his heiress before
!•• went soldiering. Anyhow, the battle of
Ncuve Chapelle was worth £15,000 to her.


Business Men
The Turning Point of your 3
Career may be To-day. 1 1
Shipments are not to hand ;
prices have fooled you;
buyers are leaving. The
, outlook is black. The man
in the top picture was dis-
tracted to desperation. His
business outlook was dismal.
So He Thought. He had wor-
ried himself to that idea. He
intended to abandon his business, which
had taken a lifetime to build up. For-
tunately he was advised to take a tonic —
Fishers Phospherine. This he did, and
the picture below shows the remarkable
improvement made. Regular treatment
restored his appetite and in-
spiration. Then followed the
vigor of health, courage, con-
fidence and success. As a
body-builder and nerve and
brain tonic Fisher's Phos-
pherine has stood the test of
40 years
Insist upon getting
this great Nerve
Tonic.
All Chemists and
Stores
1 = and 2/6 a bottle.
' 4
9
vV
y
Fisher & Co.,
CHEMISTS, F.89.P
337 George Street, SYDNEY.
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing' Aurists of the
day.—The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and ior all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co 1nc.,45 West 34th St. New York
WESTERN MACHINERY
WHEELED SCOOPS and DRAG SCRAPERS,
PLOUGHS FOR CONTRACTORS,
WESTERN ROAD GRADERS,
ELEVATING GRADERS, RQCK CRUSHERS,
ROAD PLANER and FINISHER,
DUMP CARS, SCARIFIERS.
(Large Stocks Carried
Catalogs and Full Information from
the Sole Agents.
E. D. MORRISON 8 CO. LTD.,
257 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
4^
*-
*r
*-
4T
W
Uncramped Toes.
Foot-coinfort is a certainty when
these shapely boots are worn by the
little folk. Note the dressy style.
The golosh is of reliable Patent
Leather —any color top. High-grade
genuine Welted Sole-.
Half-sizes, 7 to 94, Spring Heel 15 6
10 to 134, Ordinary Heel.... 16 6
1 to *24, Ordinary Heel 13 6
A
m
I® JO
For Distinctive Footwear,
135 King Street, SYDNEY
The
44 Little
Giant"
This Week’s TOILET HINTS
SELECTED RECIPES FROM HERE AND T HERE.—THINGS EVERY WOMAN WANTS
TO KNOW.
The Magnetism of Beautiful
Hair.
“Applied Arts.”
Beautiful hair adds immensely to the per-
sonal magnetism of both men and women.
Actresses and smart women are ever on the
lookout for harmless thing that will
increase the natural beauty of their hair.
The latest method is to use pure stallax as a
shampoo, on account of the peculiarly glossy,
fluffy and wavy effect which it leaves. As
stallax has never been used much for this
purpose it comes to the chemist only in }lb.
sealed original packages, enough for twenty-
five or thirty shampoos. A teaspoonful of the
fragrant stallax granules, dissolved in a cup
of hot water, is more than sufficient for each
shampoo. It is very beneficial and stimulat-
ing to the hair, apart from its beautifying
effect.
Permanently Removing
Superfluous Hair.
“Toilet Gossip.”
How to permanently, not merely tempo-
rarily. remove a downy growth of disfiguring
superfluous hair, is what many women wish
to know. It is a pity that it is not more
generally known that pure powdered pheminol.
obtainable from the chemists, may be used
for this purpose. It is applied directly to
the objectionable hair. The recommended
treatment not only instantly removes the
hair, leaving no trace, but is designed also to
kill the roots completely.
Don’t Have Grey Hair.
A simple, old-fashioned, home-made recipe will make
the greyness disappear.
Grey hair is often a serious handicap to
both men and women while still in the prime
of life. Hair dyes are not advisable because
they are always obvious, inconvenient and
often downright injurious. Few people know
that a very simple formula, which is easily
made up at home, will turn the hair back to a
natural color in a perfectly harmless manner.
You have only to get an ounce of tammalite
concentrate from your chemist and mix it
with four ounces of bay rum to prove this
Apply this simple and harmless lotion for »
few nights to the hair with a small sponge ami
the greyness will gradually disappear The
lotion is neither sticky nor greasv, and has
been proved over and over again for genera
tions past by those in possession of the for
mula.
To Have Smooth, White
Skin, Free from Blemish.
“Boudoir Gossjp.”
Does your skin chap or roughen ea«ilv or
become unduly red or blotchy V Let me’tell
you a quick and easy way to overcome the
trouble and keep your complexion beautifully
white, smooth and soft. Just get some
ordinary mercolised wax at the chemist's and
use a little before retiring as you would use
cold cream. The wax. through some peculiar
action, flecks off the rough, discolored or
blemished skin. The worn-out cuticle comes
off just like dandruff on a diseased scalp, only
in almost invisible particles. Mercolised wax
simply hastens Nature's work, which is the
rational and proper way to attain a perfect
complexion, so much sought after, but very
seldom seen. The process is perfectly simple
and quite harmless.
Blackheads Fly Away.
Instantaneous remedy for blackheads, greasy skin
and large pores.
A practically instantaneous remedy for
blackheads, greasy skins and enlarged pores,
recently discovered, is now coming into
general use in the boudoir. It is very simple,
harmless and pleasant. Drop a stymol tablet,
obtained at the chemist's, in a tumbler full
of hot water. After the effervescence has
subsided bathe the face in the liquid, using a
small sponge or soft cloth. In a few minutes
dry the face and the offensive blackheads will
come right off on the towel. Also the large
oily pores immediately close up and efface
themselves naturally. The greasiness dis
appears and the skin is left smooth, soft and
cool. This simple treatment is then repeated
a few times at intervals of four or five days ro
ensure the permanence of the result. !1
■
I
'V. VKC
Autoloading Shotguns
and Cartridges
are displayed by leading dealers
everywhere. Our new catalogue
explains their merits and a trial
will convince even the skeptical.
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
Woolworth Building, New York City
St. Stephens House, Westminster, S- W■, London
Ti.ree Sizes—
-1% h.p.
2
3)4
Id
TheEVINRUDE
:: DETACHABLE::
ROWBOAT MOTOR
is the most successful and perfect motor of
this kind 011 the market. Over 40,000 now
in use. Very simple and easy to operate.
Can be attached to any boat in a few
minutes —adjustable to depth and angle of
stern. Speed up to eight miles an hour.
Equipped with high-tension, built-in-the- J
wheel Magneto. Fitted with Automatic
Reverse and Maxim Silencer. Operated b.'
Petrol, and lubrication is automatic.
Of invaluable assistance on the farm for pumping water, driving separator, etc.
To transform motor into a power machine is the work of a few minutes.
Propeller is removed and a belt pulley substituted.
Descriptive Booklet sent post free on application to
H. A. GODDARD. 376 Collins Street, Melbourne; 82 Pitt Street. Sydney;
404 Queen Street. Brisbane; Cliff Street, Fremantle; Remington
, Chambers (opp. G.P.0.). Auckland, X.Z.
LOCAL AGENTS REQUIRED IN ALL TOWNS WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
Superb!
This beautiful
girl, never ou the
unknown
?o fame—is des-
tined to astonish the world.
Her figure conforms absolutely to the
standard measurements of perfection.
Height, weight, bust, arm, waist, thigh, calf anil ankle,
has posed for us exclusively, and we offer full-leng
exquisite art studies (draped and uudrajied). sI for
inches. We will send one of these matchless ait _
Five Shillings, all charges prepaid and
guaranteed. a fine gift suggestion for a man s i.e -
you receive one you will want our other exquisi e
They are not prints, but Real Photographs.
CELEBRITY ART STUDIO,
Suite 12, Montana Flats,
Cramorne Point, Sydney
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
.Vo notice ( except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Same and address must appear on the MSS. >o
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily 'submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Derwent: Thanks. Wm. Moore is hereby
killed, and P. O. Fysh is made senior survivor of the
Federal Convention! .. . J-K-: Scoundrel not to pay his
debts. All the same, we’d rather have a bright par.
from Lazarus dodging his creditors than a dull one
from Dives pursuing his debtors T. X. George:
Indicate the pars, by date and page and send claim
to the accountant....G.R.H.: “Wires” very close up.
The idea is slisrht, but it is worked out whimsically
and rather well....505: Sorry, but our job is to
supply a paper for 6d., not a legal opinion for Od
D S.: Glad to have been able to do it for a battler.
Now we wish you luck F.B.: You’re probably
right about Luther being no Cold Tea wowser. Any-
way he wrote: —-
Who loves not women, wine and song
He is a fool his whole life long.
Curlwa: You are thinking of Ada Ward Alan
D. Mickle: Red Page opinion—which is apparently
not your opinion—of “The Dark Tower appeared
28/11/T2 Bellerive: A “Fortress Tragedy” has it
this month: —
... . G.F.R.: Interesting yarn ; but your brown brother
is too much like an Oxford graduate.... E.M .: That
chorus sounds like business: —
Now, I’ve don’ned the King's UXiform,
A soldier I feel,
I will fight for the Unicorn,
With gunshot or steal.
The steal may be all right, but gunshot and ex-
plosive bullets are not allowed... .F.D.: W hy didn t
you stay? He might have opened your eyes to some
of the tender little things the Asiatic himself has
achieved in the name of God....J.R.: “Comrade
Dave" doesn’t come within seven miles of print
II.F.B.: Why does a girl always try to pose as a man
when she writes about her lover in bed ?... .W.S.:
He's a dull devil. .. .Pied Ninny: Yes, the pen’s
pretty bad; but it seems to suit the general insanity
of the thing....The Sergeant: Don’t see anything
shocking in them, nor anything else much....Ron:
Rhyming too violent. .. .M.P.: Anzae has been fare-
welled and wept over till the whole place is one
slush of tears.... G.M.: They're not poems, and we
don’t approve. ... W.A.B.: There’s novelty about your
method of verse cataloguing; pity it doesn’t extend
to the ideas. .. .E.A.S.F.: Dog yarns not bad, but
unsuitable. ...Barnaby Bright: Naughty Girls! But
how on earth did you get his shirt off over his head
while you had him hanging by the neck to a beam?
.... H.C.: One verse: —-
Oh! courage, ye mothers who lost your sons,
Earth's life is but a span,
Be comforted and thank your God
You are the mother of a Man.
We like the rumbly-wumbly sound an extra syllable
or two gives to the last line.... K.A.: M e like those
new words, “dwift" and “tosing.” The whole poem is
kalydrintum with a gsloxk.. . .A.B.D.: Xo life in
snake yarn. J.B.: Pencil screed too sloppy. And
not much of a yarn, anyhow... .J.A.B.: Rather
forced and boozy humor. Besides, Australians do
talk shop—more power to them!..: .II.A.S.: No
good. .. .M.J.R.: “Coo-ee" verses poor -tuff....
E.C.P.: Out. .. .F.M.C.: It sounds like a big drum
walloped by a bulldog-ant. .. ..J.B. (W.A.): Ycur in-
tentions are good; your verse isn't.... Bob Wilkins:
Horrible attempt.... L.H.: “Trysting Place" doesn’t
lure US....J.A.B. (Vic.): Can’t stand “Fair Venus’s
lovely ray” in this paper... .A.L.C.: Clumsy yarn of
crude domesticity rejected... .J.M.: Doesn’t get
there. .. .E.L.S.: Yes, there’s humor in that fatted
calf; but you don’t get it out. .. .C.M.L.: It doesn’t
pan out a grain to the continent... .J.C.U.: Nothing
in it.... E.C.L.: There is no rousing call in it....
J.A.T.Q.L. (or some such initials): Avaunt.... R.S.:
That spider crawl you call handwriting beats us.
Are we to understand that the postman killed her, or
what ?.... Victoria: IVell, since you want a candid
opinion, it’s worse than your own estimate of it.
Most of it means nothing; and where there is a
glimmering of sense it is commonplace.... H.W.S.:
We like “kiss" to rhyme with “miss." To make it
rhyme with “is" is a clear indication that you don't
appreciate the article. Both out.... Reedbed : Pro-
mising, if you re less than 16 years old, but not
nearly up. .. .M.F.K.: Agricultural catalogue verse of
agrarian troubles doesn’t thrill us.... Block 10:
Well, that’s poor killing! There’s hardly enough
blood to damp the linoleum; and yet blood is the
only cheerful thing in the yarn. . . .J.M.IV. : It began
like a good vigorous tale; but the love-making part
tailed off into soapsuds.... Namoi: Raw meat that
wouldn't cook tender.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Fred K.: The boat doesn't belong to them, and the
gag doesn’t belong to you. Also, you can't draw.
... .X.: No use, thanks... .Charles H.: Wooden. Drop
art and take up carpentering... .Gordon C.: Crude
beginner’s stuff. Hunt for some tuition... .W.E.R.:
Cursed by the whole staff... .K.S.: It is unfitted in
every way....C.S.: Some of the gags are older than
the drawing, and that belongs to the Stone Age....
Able: But is it worth while soinsr on?
C. C. Reade, the town-planner, has dug out
an interesting series of plans and documents
relating to the growth and history of Hobart,
which have led him to the opinion that if the
old-time designs had been followed, instead
of the place being allowed to grow anyhow.
Hobart would be the best laid-out
little city in Australasia. The most inter-
esting of the plans, worked out away back in
the early part of last century, was rescued
from a Government office, where some dear,
snuffy old official had used it for 20 years
past to put under a short leg of his table.
As the stillness of night
Did reigneth around,
Bravely struggled a prisoner
To reach the ground ;
In his effort to escape —
He swayed and bent, '
As he clung to the rope
In his perilous descent:
IVhen lights from the —
Fortress above did flare,
He realised the alarm —
In hopeless despair;
The forfeit the doomed wretch —■
Did pay with his life,
The rope was severed by
The blade of a knife;
Mangled upon the rocks —
By the verge of the sea
Lay the illfated man —
Who’d yearned to be free.


l';' 1 ' ; '• -i ' -• tihtfri
■ ■• ■ ■ . ■ -
N
sag:
SP.
<s
%
Jl
<2
V.
4
/
I
1
/-?-»■
\
C
£
><3
<7 *
i
GARS and LORRIES
s;j\i
for
’s 'S
Sunny New South Wales
i,f ;< iL
£
ft
%
iVr.iiiW'
V
«s
!f/il
•V'
:■ .4
/
£ l
m
*■
.
Why Not Support Our Allies ?
F.I.A.T. LTD. TOURIN ITALY have supplied to the British,
French and Allied Governments
10,000 MOTOR LORRIES 10,000
and Italy is sending her best Men to war against
a Common Foe.
We have received per S.S. “Barvae,” which ship is under
the control of the British Admiralty,
52 F.I.A.T. MOTOR-CARS g WAGGONS 52
See these Cars and Lorries on our
STAND No. 25
* at the Royal Agricultural Show, Sydney.
Support those countries which are
our Friends in the hour of our
Vital Need.
Also Sole Agents for the All-British
SWIFT
Motor Cars.
Stand
No .25
& if
173 and 175
Elizabeth St.,
Hyde Park,
SYDNEY
ALICK McNEIL,
Manager.
THE HOME of ALLIED
MOTOR TRACTION.
/ I
25-35 H.P. Sport Model P.I.A.T.
A FEW USERS OF
F.I.A.T. LORRIES
Tooth’s Brewery.
Nimbin Butter Factory.
.Tamberoo Butter Factory.
Toohey’s Brewery.
Schweppes Ltd.
H. Bottle. Rabbit Carrier.
Balmain Bros., Cooma.
Braidwood Freezing Works.
..
15-20 H.P. 5-Seater F.I.A.T.


Hanking. Public Companies. 4c.
You can obtain BETTER INTER-
EST and EVERY FACILITY FOR
SAYING at the
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
The STATE Savings Institution
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
DEPOSITS RECEIVED FROM t -
UPWARDS.
Interest paid at 3| per cent, on balances up
to £5OO. except on accounts opened with
the iate Savirg- Bank of X.S.W., which are
limited to £ 200.
Cultivate the habit of making regular
deposits —no matter how small.
The Repayment of all Deposits is Guaran-
teed by the Government of Xew South Wales.
Bv Order of the Commissioners.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE,
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL. £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £357.500.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY.
Hen. Sir ROBERT PIIILP. K.C.M.G.
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
1 xmdon Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Brandies throughout QUEEXSI-AND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
XFTHORISED CAPITAL .. . £2,000.000
£ 1.195.679
PUD-UP :list December, 1915) .. £1.196.1 •>»
RESERVE FUXD .. .. £75.000
HEAD OTTIC E : George A King Street*. Sydney.
FOX'DOX' OFFICE: 37 Tiireadnee<lleStreet. E.C.
DIRECTORS — Mirk S: • x, Esq., Chairman;
Gkoke J. Slt. Esq., LL.D. ; Arthur S. Bartox.
Esq.; Fraxk X. Yarwoop, Esq.; Herbert R.
Ltsaght, Esq.; George F. Todmax, Esq.
Branche* throughout Xew South Wales A Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth.
New Zealand, and all the principal towns cl the
world. C. M. C. SITAXXOy. General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated tinder the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO.OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 450.000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 200.000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit S:ock 3,091.669 4 5
.4/1 Heir business since 1&&3 specially protected.
Pikfctops—Geo. E vti. Running. Esq. (Chairman! ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.LC.: James Love. Esq.;
Jas. Milne. Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.
CixtiiL 'MiStf.rt—lT. V. RALSTON.
IIEAI> OFFICE - BRISBANE
Branches —Lon«lon. Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia. Scotland. Ireland.
America Canada. South Africa. China, the Last
The Commercial Banking go.
of Sydney, limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. £ 2.000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1.595.000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5.805,000 0 0
Directors:
Gevbc.e J. Cones. Esq. .. .. Chairman,
lion. H. E. Kate*. M.LC. .. Deputy-Chairrran.
Hor_ H M sts, M.LC.
H:n. Sir Thomas Hr M.LC. T F. K>:x. Es*q
T. A. Dtaas. Esq.. Honorary Director.
Auditors: W. L Docsr*. Esq., and J. J. Bkxax. Esq.
General Manager: H. 11. Massie.
Head Ollice: George Street. SYDNEY.
Ixmdon Office: 18 Hire liin T. ane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar. Fsq. : Hon. H. S. Littleton;
XT D. Cohen. Esq. Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches thro snout the State of New South Wiles
and iu Queensland- Agencies gbou: the world.
Bank of flew Zealand.
SYDXET BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed S:ock.. .. .. £5?9,95S
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,009
Ordinary Snares ( £l,-5->O,OOO )
Paid-up .. .. .. 992.295
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500.090
Reserve Fun i and Undivided Profits 2,057,1 > 0
GRANTS DRAFTS
A.-iratii. New Z*a-
I_: Fiji, Gitk.;
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
it Interest {or
iied periods, inj
transact* all other usual Bans, us business.
The Colonial mutual [iie
assurance society limited
roa
* Mutual Li‘> As:-3'«, Er icrwiceats ard
Atr.uities wit bon t Mntial Ealilitr; jLn
Accident, Sickness ir. i It; : ?:riii Assurance.
* Head Office: w
i 4il COLLINs r-TKEET. MELBOCKNE
Aeenniaiatee Euc 5- - 3,445.WH,*.
Amounts paid :: Policyho.irs exceed £C,00?.000.
Policies l acnillengeaile, Indefeas-
ible.
.Piauma moderate and without restriction ;s to
travellini- Liberal Dor ses ecrritablc distributed.
Ckxef Office foe New S tsh Waifs:
JS ELIZABETH STREET. SYDNEY.
Dieect es :
The Hon. C. J. Roberts. CALG.. M.LC., Chairman.
The Hot). Bruce Srr.'.ta. K.C, ILP.
Shipping &c.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGL AN D
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads: Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Regular sailings from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martis Place, Std.vet.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
(UNDER THE BRITISH FLAC)
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA,
and PAPEETE (TAHITD.
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE, in connection
with al! United States and Canadian
Railways.
Steamers sail from Wellington:—
April 27, May 25,
•MOANA. ' MAITAI.
steamer leaves Sydney:—
A April 20. May 18.
STEAMERS STAY 24 HOURS AT PAPEETE,
“THE PEARL OF THE PACIFIC.”
Return tickets available by various routes.
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraph.r.
Particulars ar.o- pamphlets obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND. LTD..
259 George Street, Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting): —
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
•CAIRNS
(‘Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports).
NORTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney April 8.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne April 12.
Leaves Sydney April 15.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne April 19.
Leaves Sydney April 22.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. andV.A. ports)
)
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tom).
Leaves Sydney April 22.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents,
Offices at all Ports.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
arid
Df FASTEST TIME
AMERIC A—C ANADA
and
GREAT BRITAIN
via
SAMOA HONOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to Sac Francisco.
29 Days to Lon-ion.
Interchangeable Tickets.
Sailings from Sydney:—
APRIL 19, MAY 10, MAY 31, JUNE 21.
Vrrly:— O CEAM C STE A MSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2252.
Something Unique in
t
Tf
Island Tours
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
Send for further partic-iiars to
BURNS, PhILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street. SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
rsh**
Directors :
£3.500 OOO
£2.600.030
£3.500,000
£9.600 OOO
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mac-Kellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C;, President.
Robert Lionel Faithtull, M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walter.
The Hon. Edmaod TV. Fosbery, Ai.L_C.
The Hon. Hcsisalti J. Burt, M.L.C.
Thomas Burtlaod. Eiq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
.4ididorr : Sbepheard K Laidier. Esq.; Alfred Ge ~ge Milson. E-q.
Head Office.—George St.. Sydney. London Office 29 Threadneedle St . EQ.
344 Branches and Agencies in the’ Australia n States, Ncvs Zealand, Fiji, Papua and Loadoa,
Agei-ts Correspor.-ie; :s throughout the wo >L
"Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout tbe World.
RTSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery. Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development. Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prosj-eetive settler au<l to the honest worker.
For Descriptive I’ainpldets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOlltlST BUREAU. Brisbane.
Branch Office:
-19 George Street. Sydney, X.S.W.
T. C. TROEDSOX. Director.
Commonwealth
I HEAD OFFICE
wk
J6ank ot Australia
Open
for all
General Banking Business
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
In the
principal
Cable remittances made to, and'drafts draw, on foreign places direct- Foreign biils
negotiate*! and coliected. Letters of credit issued to tar part of the worid.
Bwking a d Exchange Business of sverj description transacted within the Ctwimvr.wealth,
Untted Kingdom and abroad. Cttrre:.t accounts opened Interest paid on fixed deposits.
Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
3RANCHES in the chief centres ana AGENCIES at ooer
Minimum
Deposit
_ _ _ _ Post Offices
2550 in Australia
and Papua
Interest at ~
per annum O ;
up to £3OO
J \MRS ke: ..
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL tarings Bank Facilities
!*epa r J* I?I-» DKN'IS N MILLEL &
The Enion Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
Capital Subscribed .. .. .. £ ±50,000
Capital Paid-op.. .. .. ..£lOO,OOO
Reserve Fund and Undivided Prcfa.. £15,305
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
The Company acts is Executor, Joist Executor, Trus-
tee, Administrator ar Attorney under Power ior aisen-
tees? and is the only Trustee Company empjwaei by
Act of Parliament to operate in m:re than :ne State.
SYDNEY OFFICE: IS Yo.nj Street.
Directors.
Tne H r- Sir CHARLES K. MACKELLAR, M.L.C.
H. T. BRADDOX. Esq.
H. W. BELL Esq.
JAMES KIDD. Esc.
R. M. PITT. Esc. '
Ft; 11 information as to tenr_s- etc., obtainable on
application to JOHN M UR.
COLORED ruST-CAEDfc. by Hsrrv J.
Wesroc—-WEEKLY WORRIES. ' Set
of six, pusied free. 6d. BriifliN News-
paper Co., 214 George Srree.. Sydney.
I"HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company s Summers tra.e re<-.
iarly to: —
I WEED. RICHMOND, CLARENCE. BELLINGER.
NAMBL'CCA, MaCLEAY AND MANNING
Rl\ ERS; to BYRON BAY', COKE'S
HARBOR arc WOOLGOOLGA.
C®* l ——*tioe Ti-mets art :ss_=. in con j. r.c ?n uitr.
. x -. s bales an. Queensland railways.
:uc._:e firs- or sec-on::-class. ra:l to BRISBANE
-Jseace to Tweed Heads—sceam.fr to Mar SA-raa.
ran to Byron Bay. Richmond or rifcinr; i'ifui.
C'.nnectrns r .ir one of the Con. pun ; _
late . ;rs :x pYDNEY. cr rwf-rftta. . ...
ROUND TICKETS—First-class rati arc salron M
i - ea:r ' ?: '- —6 S'- 5:.: sec: r.d-class rail and 'teera'-*
on steamer. £4 ss. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE. 551 GEORGE ST„ SYDNEY
ROBERT A. BELL Lnru D ree—
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIPCO
(LIMITED). '
EXPRESS PASSESGEK SERVICE o and from
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS,
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DLMBOOLA, May 6
and June 3.
BRISBANE
MACKAV
TOWNSVILLE
And Pom North to Cairns.
™«ALTA, April 8.
ALLINGA, April 15.
KL Paßa, April 22.
PARLXGA, April 29.
Saloon Pajeage Tickets are interchangeable
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Comnan "
on a 1 serv,ees subject to conditions, which ran b
ascertained on application at the Company's Office
G. S. ITILL * CO.. LTD .
6 iiUIDGE STIIEET. SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
VIA NEW ZEALAND, FIJI AM)
HONOLULU.
ACCELERATED SERVICE
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
CAXADIAX-AUSTRALASIAN R M
LINE.
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
OPERATING THE LARGEST, NEWEST FASTFST
AND BEST-EQUIPPED VESSELS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICtv
CONTINENT.
SAILIXGS:
/Twin-Screw. 'TripleScrew. Fitted with Cabins
de Imze, suite, bedstead rooms, laundry, nursery,
wireless, etc.
Passengers steppinz off at Suva can obtain eve./
comfort ami convenience at the new ami palatial
Grand Pacific Hotel. Coupons at specially reduced
rates are available to passengers.
For full particulars and pamphlets apply
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Mar-igi: g Agents. 359 Gec-rge Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passe: ger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Llimaroa, “Wimmera,"
“Riverina," “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH A ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Iliu-tnted Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE .STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Federal & Shire Lines
STE.A-W TO LIVERPOOL via NEW ZEALAND.
T.S.S, “DORSET.”
11.000 Tens- CAPT GORDON
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
SAILING SYDNEY about APRIL 14.
sailing melbclrne about april 18.»
Fare to Liverpool, £l3.
Exreilent accommodation for a limited number of
Saloon Passengers. _
W til-lighted aid vecciiared cabins ar«: spacious decks.
All passengers mast pro iuce Passports before booking.
For full information apply to
BIRT x COMPANY LIMITED, S'irey and Brisbane.
McILWRaITH. McEACHARN k CO. PTY. LTD.,
Melbourrs* and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH k CO. LTD- Adelaide- .
DEOPLE of taste
who like good
cooking are just
those to appreciate
most highly the
daintiness and
fineness of
CEREBOS
SALT
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
AUSTBMJ • s 5
S. GREEK,
pV 1 tsfrtUS 1 - E& t-EAI SI6HT
La-heth L“
coo. Hflft


7/
77,
/
x
X
You can reduce the running expenses of
your car by using
Michelin Tyres.
Tyre bills are the heaviest item in the upkeep of a car; therefore every motorist
who wishes to economise should ask himself this question : “Ami using tyres which are
the cheapest per mile run ?
The claims for economy were never so insistent as at present ; therefore if you are
not satisfied with your tyre mileage we would urge you to try MICHELIN TYRES.
MICHELIN TYRES are manufactured in
ONE QUALITY ONLY—THE BEST.
Michelin Tyres and Accessories can be
obtained from all the Leading Garages.
ll A. 1518.
m
m
ir
\v
>
Little Lectures
by Nurse ‘ Wincarnis
(Lecture No 4.)
Weakness
Every movement of thebody
uses up a definite amount of
vitality. When you overtax
yourself, or your vitality is
undermined by illness, your
whole system becomes too
exhausted to recover its lost
vitality without assistance.
Your system is like a plant
that is drooping for want
of water. And just as
wafer revives a drooping
plant—so ‘ Wincarnis ’ gives
new life and new vitality to
a weakened constitution.
Because ‘ Wincarnis ’ pos-
sesses a four-fold power.
It is a Tonic, a Restorative,
a Blood-maker, and a Nerve
Food —all in one. Therefore
creates new strength, new
blood, new nerve force and
new vitality. The benefit
begins from the first wine-
glassful. You can feel it
doing you good. Over 10,000
Doctors recommend ‘ Win-
carnis, ’ especially to those
who are Weak, Anaemic,
‘Nervy’ or Run-down.
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
' Wincarnis ’ is made in England by
COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Wincarnis
Works, Norwich. You can buy
‘ Wincarnis ’ from all Chemists and
Stores selling wines, prices 4/-and
4/6, but if you experience any
difficulty in obtaining it, write direct
to Sole Distributing Agents Fassett
& Johnson, 5/7 Barrack St., Sydney.
the Onoto needs no filler!
«\
W Jf'X
t--
C 71
??>
/i
v'\
Ca>
A
■i,
Why didn’t you ask her
to send you an Onoto ?
™I Pen
from 12/- each
A filler is bound to get broken
at the Front. The Onoto needs
no filler; its fills itself from any
supply, and cleans the nib while
filling.
The Onoto never leaks in any position. ■
You send it out to your friend at the
Front full of ink ready for immediate use.
Manufacturers— Thomas de la Rue & Co., Ltt>.,
Buahill Row, London, E.C. Australasian Managing
Agents—Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Street, \
Sydney.
Take them home a
>A3‘ ,e '-i
5K
m
GRAMOPHONE
—they’ll be delighted
Fireside music will go well shortly —when the chilly
nights arrive. Easter is close, and when you invite
a merry house-party you’ll find the “Gramophone
a tireless entertainer that will keep things moving
with a swing.
But be sure you get a “GRAMOPHONE.” There s
none other anything like it for reproducing vocal
and instrumental music.
The “Gramophone” illustrated is the Oak “Monarch
Senior” —a popular Instrument in Polished Quar-
tered Oak, with large, colored, enamelled flower
horn.
Price
Instrument catalogue, record lists and names of
nearest accredited dealers on request.
cr>/
"gramophone"
Registered Trade Mark
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.


MALTED
MILK
**7\S UNftLlC*
T srjji
M-urt:
MALTED BARLEY—WHEAT & MILK r
Are the constituents of Horlick’s Malted Milk. These nutritive elements help nature
to build up the human frame and bring back health, strength and energy. After
a cup of Horlick’s, an increase of mental and phvsical power is at once noticeable.
There is nothing to equal Horlick’s as a Delicious Food-Drink.
GET HORLICfCS AT THE SODA FOL’S'T AIN.
ABBEY ■
SHOES
Every careful dresser appreciates
the high-grade quality and distinc;
rive appearance of ABB E l
SHOES. Their long- wearing
qualities are equally as satisfactory
as their appearance.
We illustrate one of our latest
models—A GLACE KID BAL.
with Patent Leather Toeeaps.
Price - 236
In half-sixes and quarter-fittings.
Postage Extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
A BBE Y,
313 George Street,
Between GP.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre. Sydney.
Autumn.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Within the bush I thought that it was
Spring.
Such vivid, green clothed every growing thing.
Kven the boles of old lire-blackened trees
NN ere brightened with a glory of new leaves.
The waterholes with hyacinth were blue,
Their surface steeped, it seemed, in silver
dew.
A pee wee passed with flash of speckled wing.
ithin the bush I thought it still was Spring.
But on the vineyard slopes the vines lay
bare,
A crystal chill had caught the sunlit air:
The open flats shone ruddy as new wine.
NN ith wild Natal grass dyed incarnadine.
Kith glory did the harvest hills behold.
Their maize from ochre ripened into gold.
The dusk fell early, and some curlew's croon
Wailed eerie greeting to the Autumn moon.
QUEENSLAND.
A. GORE-JONES.
IN BANANA LAND
Died at the age of 72, at Mount Garnet
Hospital, Charles Eminerson. who had spent
years in Central and North Queensland,
lie had passed through the whole gamut of
Northern and Y\ estern pioneer experiences,
and had done a lot of carting when freights
were freights. Latterly he bred horses, and
good horses, too. A paralytic stroke ended
a useful life.
Minister for Justice Fihelly has given a
lead to other Australian States in the appoint-
ment of a Public Defender. Barrister
ebb s job will be confined for the present
to giving legal aid to accused persons, but the
ultimate intention is to place his services at
the disposal of the public in civil as well as
criminal cases, the end aimed at being jus-
tice. In fact. Fihelly's idea is to establish
a Bureau of Justice, and the Public Curator
Act put through by Ryan last session
makes some provision towards that object.
Hitherto the accused or litigant without
means has had no advocate at all unless it
was the Judge; and all Judges are not built
that way. Even if they were, it isn't what
a Judge is for.
The recently-passed Public Curator Act
creates an Unclaimed Moneys Fund, and
makes it obligatory on cos. to keep a regis-
ter of unclaimed balances, to gazette a copy
of this record annually, and to permit public
inspection of the entries at any time upon
payment of a shilling. Moneys unclaimed
within one year after the Gazette notice
must be handed over to the Public Curator
for payment to the fund in question. The
official has authority to pay out the cash
to legitimate claimants, and is authorised
also to examine a co.'s accounts if he thinks
anything is wrong with the return. If the
co. fails, omits, neglects or is otherwise cul-
pable in doing what the sections sav it shall
do then it is liable to be hit up at the rate
ot £2 per day.
"Norbell : The decision of the S \.us
Supreme Court (B. R5/3/T6) that there
are limits to the Salv'anny's right to make
a noise reminds me of how a Supreme Court
Judge of Queensland put the lid on our
dramatic co. at Cairns. The hall in which
we were rehearsing "The Bad Girl's Ped-
rooll1 ’' adjoined the court. “What is that
uproar.' asked the Judge. "A triatrical
troupe praetisin next door." 1 explained a
Hop. "Ivaindly give them my compliments,
and request them to moderate their Thespian
transports." requested his very polite Honor.
A few minutes later a helmet was thrust
? Ur sta ~ e door. and a voice roared:
"Ihe Judge says you're to shut up vour
damn row! ?
Old John Memeniteh still renders his bill
to Mate (.Tovernment for discovering the
< lermont goldfield. Originally £10.000! the
account he handed to Premier Rvan the
other day was £10.000.000. For almost 30
; ears the old miner has never flagged in his
the money. He has visited
the Departments thousands of times, dnnned
every Minister, sent messages to the Federal
Dovernmenr and the King, and his onlv satis-
faction is that the interest is still piling up.
I .P. : How's this for easualness? Dur-
ing the recent drought in the sugar districts
in the North a large block of cane caught
hre. and during the conflagration one of the
~r-iiii 11 tramway bridges became ignited.
The bridge was saved by a train crew of two
that came up in the nick of time, but not
.j ne of the ? ird «-s was badlv burnt,
ihe bridge was between the train and home.
Bill, the driver, reckoned it wasn't good
enough to drive across, and George, the fire-
man, concurred. So Bill, deciding to applv
the safety first*’ principle, sent George
. the brid ?e with these instructions •
"1 11 give her enough steam to take her over
and then I'll jump off; when she's clear vou
jump aboard and stop her." Bill then set
the loco, at the one-legged bridge and
jumped. It cleared safely. Then Georae
captured the run away, applied the brakes
and waited for Bill.
“McNorth” : The strength of the hold the
C.S.R. has on Bananaland was revealed the
other day when the people of Innisfail asked
the Minister what was to be done in regard
to the Mooliba-Innisfail extension of the
Johnstone railway. The difficulty is that a
bridge must be built across the Johnstone.
and the C.S.R. Co. objects to it because it
would “impede the navigation of its vessels.”
The Minister told Innisfail that there was
nothing doing, as the erection of the bridge
would “result in heavy claims from the
C.S.R. Co.” So the Government can’t even
build a bridge across a national waterway
now without the permission of this octopus.
Of course no difficulty would be experienced
in running a railway through John Jones’s
selection, or resuming half of Bill Smith's
home paddock for a reserve. But then Jones
and Smith are merely blokes on the land:
not a powerful company with the Lord-
knows-what influence behind it.
“Itan" : Fraser Island, the largest of the
dots along the coast, is to be the scene of
an afforestation experiment. Though there
is a large patch of timber on this island,
there are bare belts which it is hoped to
clothe. Some experts doubt the success of
HE WAS SAYING UP THE BANDS.
THE DOC. : "But what made you smoke ’em all if they made you so bad?"
MAN AT DEATH'S DOOR : Oh. I teas to yet a marble clock when I'd smoked a thousand !”
the scheme, and state that the subsoil is
aga inst the growth of big trees. An interest-
ing point about the island is that it grows
a species of eucalypt unknown in anv other
part of the world. The late NY.' Bailev
named it Laurifolia hilli. The island has
yielded great supplies of timber in the
past: but now the best trees are locked up
in a gorge. Some Sydney syndicators pro-
posed to exploit this wealth a few vears ago
and were ready to spend £30.000 in ad-
equately tapping the basin, but the influence
of Maryborough millers was too powerful.
The gorge is fully oO miles long, running to
three and four miles wide, and there are in
it millions of feet of the finest hardwood in
Australia. The Ryan Government has its
eye on the spot in connection with its State
milling schemes.
The Nomad : Though it seemed obvious
that John Huxham should get the job he
had so successfully understudied, there was
the usual party scramble for the Home Sec-
retaryship. After the eliminative ballot had
run itself hot. only Huxham and John A.
lihelly. Assistant Minister for Justice, were
left in. and Huxham finally won with a bit
in hand. . The Party is not altogether a
happy family nowadays. A year or so ago
Treasurer Theodore was its idol, but he was
beaten by Mick Kirwin for the representation
of the party on the C.P.E. At the Labor
lonrahon at Rockhampton the candidature
Fihelly and Theodore—perhaps the two
strongest men in the party —for positions on
Lj? e r given the cold shoulder.
L\ en some of the Ministers don't overwhelm
others with cordiality. Hasn't the party
had enough of this sort of thing? A stronger
party than the party itself could be made
up out of those who have been either flung or
frozen our, if they were all living.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane. April 1, 1016.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
The Goold-Adams baby was christened
this week. There was no fuss about it —no
brass bands or illuminatioi# or anything.
Just a quiet family affair. Feople who rang
up Bishopsbourne begging for early-door
tickets were actually rebuffed, and so far
no one knows what burden besides Moreton
the newest Goold-Adams will have to stagger
under for the rest of his life. Isn’t this
dreadful? What do Governors think they’re
for?
Young A. T. Noyes, who succeeded in get-
ting into camp without his parents’ consent
about a year ago and was promptly hauled
out. reached his 21st year on Tuesday at
midnight. When a yawning s ldier opened
up the barracks gate on Wednesday morning
young Noyes fell inside and demanded a gun.
For the last few months he has been helping
the recruiting committee.
Before she went away Mrs. Ryan was
presented with a bangle and a brooch, each
set with a big straw-c-olored Queensland
topaz. They were the gifts of the wives of
Ministers and members. The legislators”
ladies gathered at Rowe's cafe: Mrs. Theo-
dore did the presenting, and Mrs. Huxham.
who is the best orator on the female side of
the Labor-party, made a speech. I see they
have been wondering in England whether
"Rilly Hughes is a freak, because being a
Labor Premier he doesn't wear moles and
bowyangs. There's another surprise awaiting
them when Mrs. Ryan shakes out her glad
rags in London.
Some new regulations with regard to col-
lecting for patriotic funds have just come
into force. First of all. permits must be
obtained by the central body running any
fund, and then cards, which must he pro-
duced on demand by collectors, will be issued
from the Chief Secretary's office. This will,
of course, annoy a few who have been living
on the poor Poles and the bleeding Belgians,
but it is about time the angels who work
for the funds were distinguished from the
imps who work for themselves.
On Wednesday night a benefit in aid of
Le Lroix Rouge was held at Cremorne Gar-
dens. The Dandies put on a special pro-
gramme. and at the finish a young French-
Australian, Marcelle Hennequin. sang the
Marseillaise. His Ex.. Captain and Mrs.
Losens. Commander Curtis and Major Pen-
dlebury occupied the lounge chairs in the
middle-front of the proceedings.
Ashmead Bartlett talked to full houses on
Tuesday and Thursday nights: also he visited
the camp, lunched at Government House,
went round the golf links, and found a
hurried moment to grumble at an Australian
hotels before fading over the horizon. You'n
mtk o. I hope, that he went to Government
House. You see. he's been such a good
young man since he came, and not said
anything unpleasant: so the cold shouWe
which met him was warmed up a little f™
his departure. I 01 ‘
Barrister Tom Maeleod, who did so much tn
encourage aviation in Queensland has re!
ceived a commission in the Royal Flvint
Corps, and expects to engage immediatelV in
the new sport of Zep. hunting.
Yours affectionately.
AUSTRALIA JANE.
One James O’Connor is determined to
his bit. He was turned down a? £ V en
different depots on account of mild varicose
veins. Then he went to Bundaberg e i,r
them cut out, and was round at the lol*
recruiting office as soon as he was lit lie
is in khaki now.
The complimentary farewell dinner to
Premier Ryan was easily the most eostlv
and mixed feed given in Brisbane of late
years. Anybody who felt like paving half a
guinea was welcomed; and there was a fur
ther invitation to subscribe another half-
guinea towards the presentation. After the
spread it was announced that there was
surplus of £3O, which it had been decided to
divide between the Red Cross and another
patriotic fund. Looks like donating tahle-
sc-raps.
“-Volga”: Blew into Brisbane the other
day, after a long absence. Jim Kellv. owner
of several pastoral holdings in the West and
North. Kelly, who is now 73 vears of age
has had an assorted career, having bwn
at practically all the early gold diggings ; n
N ictoria. X. S. NN ales and Maoriland. He
claims to have camped with Moran and his
namesakes in the Kilmore district, and also
with Ben Hall on the I-achlan. Indulging in
pastoral pursuits in X. S. Wales, the *'93
drought left him broke, bur his venture in
the land where the white man can’t live has
more than made good his losses. Kelly sav«
that when the North gets into its stride it
will be the most richly productive section of
the Commonwealth.
"Milo : 111 never dodge an invitation to a
Northern wedding—they're too jolly and
informal for a sociable Australian to miss.
I attended one the other dav and had the
time of my life. The bride was a buxom
widow with five splendid encumbrances, and
when she and No. 2 had been safely hitched
he took off his coat and invited his mates out
to smoke and yarn under a tree while the
missus and the parson christened the Xo. 1
family. The merry kids were yarded in one
riHim. run into the branding apartment as
required, and afterwards drafted into a third
room. From where we were we could hear
the scrambling rush of young feet and the
busy bride saying "I want this one to be
called William.” or "This one is to be Katie
Mary. NN hen the job was done we all
flocked in to a thundering good feed. There
were no foolish speeches, the new boss took
the head of his own table, and the holv man
was directed to a knife and fork half-way
down the board, which fairly buzzed with
informative conversation about cane-beetles
and the way the rats were eating the crops.


44
THE SPIRIT OLD COUNTRY
*9
t*
X
- -R.
y
* y y
- 1 -x v
/ S2k
M
m
*c
P
*
r
L
f
c
A
mi
i
,v
s
i 3
/
M
w.
k\
r.
k
#
*
**N
3}
a
X%7/>
X
X-
m
/
y.
x?
\
i
*
x x<^,
e
/-^«%(^O'\ %
Green Stripe'
W h i s ky


Healthy Liver
Healthy Life
Your liver—healthy or clogged, active or
sluggish—makes all the difference between
vigorous, cheerful life and low spirits and failure.
Banish headache, indiges
tion, biliousness and ner-
vousness and clear up
sallow, blotchy, pimply
skin with the tried
family medicine.
Carter’s
Little
Liver
Pills.
CARTERS
lITTLE
IVER
| PILLS.
Purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dose —Small Price
GENUINE must bear signature
Instant Relief
for Sore Feet
Tender Feet, Sore Feet, Swollen Feet
cured without delay. New Foot
Medicine Quickly Banishes Ail
Foot Ailments
To those who are troubled with sore, tender,
aching, swollen, perspiring, unpleasant smelling
feet, bunions, corns or hard skin, “BIFF” will
bring quick relief and gladness to the feet, use
“BIFF” today and banish all pain and discomfit.
By using “BIFF” once a week you will insure
your feet against all foot troubles. BIFF” is a
scientific compound which draws out all poisonous
matter from the feet, which clog and choke pores
of the skin. One application of this unique com-
pound will render the feet sweet and antiseptic.
Its delightful results must be experienced to be
believed. „ ,
MRS. CARTER WRITES For years my feet
gave me much trouble. It was purgatory to
have to walk far, but after using one box of
“Biff” I can walk with perfect ease and com-
fort, there is nothing to compare with your
preparation for foot trouble.”
“Biff” can be obtained through all chemists and
stores ; if not in stock send direct to the manu-
facturers. Price Is. 6d. per box, or triple size box
4s. (triple box contains three bines the Is.Fd. size).
The “Biff” Manufacturing Co., 114 a Pitt Street,
Sydney.
“My feet just
ache for ‘Biff’ ”
Hunters of Big Game
use the Ross .280 Rifle and its
Special Sporting Cartridge (Pat’d)
Every day we receive letters praising the
accuracy and low trajectory of our .280
High Velocity Rifle and the tremendous
shocking power of the Ross .280 Sporting
Ammunition with copper tube expanding
bullet —patented.
The combination is esteemed, by the hun-
dreds of expert sportsmen and guides who
use it, to afford the very best equipment
for any hunter of larger game.
m
m
9
.. -t-
-y<<s
ht>
.* \
Information ami Prices can be obtained from —
Mr. HI GH SCOTT-YOUNG,
P.O. Box 1031, Melbourne, Australia.
f You increase the
chances of a suc-
cessful trip by
having the Ross
. 2SO and its Special
Sporting
Ammunition
Catalogue on applica-
tion to
Ross Rifle Co.
Quebec, Canada
t 1115
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORUD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
J®
Latest Novelty for a Present
The Steel Lined
Pocket Book with
Two Pockets for Papers
Strongly made, Tan Leather
Covers, Steel Plate in each-will
stop a bullet Preserves docu-
ments. Ideal gift for soldiers.
Price
12/6
Postage
6d.
Extra
Send for latest list of Gifts to select from.
ROTHWELL’S LTD.,
EDWAFD STREET
BRISBANE
A £l4 Machine
With 5 Drawers
£8 10s.
15 YEARS’WRITTEN
GUARANTEE
Packed & Delivered Free
A.N.A. Sewing
Machine Co.
25 QUEEN VICTORIA MARKETS
(near Town Hall), SYDNEY.
Also at Errol Street, North Melbourne; 7 Arcade
Adelaide; Baird’s Arcade, Perth; 39 George Stree ’
Launceston; and 123 Elizabeth Street, Hobart ’
s*.
1
m
3
Three little mern T maids are we,
Winsome, gay, lighthearted, free.
Hear our bright and merry talk,
Scte our light and springy walk.
Rosy cheeks and sunny curls
We ’re the Iron ‘ Jelloid ’ Girls 1
After taking Iron ‘Jelloids’ the blood becomes enriched and
strengthened, the appetite is restored, vitality is renewed. Anaemia
quickly disappears, giving place to vigorous and buoyant spirits.
MissJ. F. Dubery, Southall , writes : —“ I find your Iron 'Jelloids ’
“a great boon, being so easy to take, and so palatable. I always take Iron
“ ‘Jelloids’ as soon as I feel a bit ‘ run-down, and after taking a few I feel
“ a marked change ; it is a splendid form of taking Iron.”
A fortnight’s trial
( Price 1/6 )
will convince yon.
For Women, No. 2. Special Tonic for Men, No. 2A. (containing Quinine).
For Children, No. 1. Sold in England at 1/H and 2/9. per box.
Obtainable at all Chemists throughout Australia.
Wholesale: Druggists' Sundries Ltd., 82, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
;i \.
o
&
A
'.a
/
Q
£
<X
' .:r#t
{**©*-&&
4
■- •
3feS
served
being
Messrs. Ashton t* Parsons Ltd, of London, would appreciate your 'cdllS Street,
with a substitute not bearing their name, you would post the package to Dastaxe
Melbourne, when the genuine article will be sent in its place, and the .
i refunded to you, I I '
MESSRS. ASHTON & PARSONS LTD. have been |
honoured by
Royal Commands
TO SUPPLY PHOSFERINE TO
tSo Royal Families of Great Britain, Russia,
Greece, Roumania, Spain and to the principal
Royalty throughout the World.
This means that PHOSFERINE is approved by
practically every Court Physician in Europe.
Vbosferme
Proven Remedy
N eur asthenia
Brain Fag
Nerve Troubles
Anaemia
Sleeplessness
Indigestion
No other Medicine h-s received such absolute proof of its
extraordinary properties in restoring Shattered Constitutions,
and in giving back the prematurely agedNe w Li.e and energy.
See what a well-known Medical Man writes :
DR. GORDON-STABLES
The famous Dr. Gordon-Stables, probably the greatest
authority on all matters relating to health writes :
"1 have the utmost faith and reliance in Messrs Ashton
& Parsons' Phosferine as a tonic in cases of Debility.
Nervous Depression, and Neurasthenia generally.
(Signed) W. GORDON-STABLES. M.D.. C.M..
Surgeon, Royal Navy.
Go Your
in Comfort
\khy noUtake advantage of the comfort
offered by Barnet Glass Rubber Heels.
The springy, resilient-rubber stops all jars
and shocks to the spine and dootnes the
pleasures of -walking. Barnet Glassßubber
Heels are made of the purest Ynajenals
obtainablejNvith a view to giving faithful
ervitt.''Jnsist on s Barnet Glass. f
service. on
E/om All Boot and Stores.
f ( » }'■
RUBBER CO. LTD-j
ALL STATES
BARNET^B
RUBBER
HEELS WM
M&de in Australia.
“Do you ever work?” a vag. was asked in
the Port Melbourne Police Court the other
day. “Yes,” was the reply, “when I can ge
nothing else to do.”
“Jase”: Rc a par. (B. 24/2/’l6) on the
attitude of Sydney telegraphists towards tie
Wheatstone The telegraphists objection
was not against the system itself, but again*
the use the Department was making ot it. it
has been shown that the Wheatstone is not
suitable for urgent business. But for ease in
handling and despatching ordinary heaiy
business there is nothing to beat it.
11. P. Gill ran the School of Design in
Adelaide for over 20 years before his complete
break-down in health. He was a -air
painter, a splendid teacher and an excellent
judge; in fact, the wide buying of pictures
in Europe 20 years ago, which the Elder
bequest made possible, and which about
doubled the size and importance of the
South Aus. Gallery, was mostly entrusted to
him. Old pupils and friends, with Grundy,
K.C.. in the lead, have handed him a purse
on his departure for England, and assured
him that his influence “has been and will
continue to be a potent factor in local art.
Russian Poland isn't Australia; but it »
worth while considering the case of the
German settlers who founded a colony near
old Novgorod 150 years ago. Their descend-
ants have never consented to learn the
Russian language, and when another Ger-
man or a “safe” neutral asks them what
nationality they think they are. they answer
“German” —or they did before the war made
it unhealthy. When the German armies were
blasting their way into Russia last year,
these fleas on the back of the patient Bear
put up flags and manifested their indecent
joy in other ways till warning growls made
them stop. If 150 years of hospitality won't
cure a German of his national bias, what
will? Not the mumbo-jumbo of “naturalisa-
tion” !
The cockv in Maoriland is getting tired
of the same old things at the Show, and re-
centlv he turned into a new competition. A
special class, among the fat cattle and
Romney Jerseys in Canterbury, was for the
mother in the district who had the largest
number of sons in khaki. The prize was col-
lected by a good citizen with five soldiers to
write to her. and the next best had four. The
mother who didn't mind bringing up five
sons to be soldiers also won in the large-
family class, walking in with 17.
“M.A.”: Sydney University annual results
just published strongly reflect the war.
Most of the graduates are women, and they
have mopped up the bulk of the prizes.
Australian 'Varsities haven't been affected
quite so badly as those of Britain,
where a freshman is looked upon as a curi-
osity ; nevertheless the old “shop ’ at
Sydney has been deserted to an hon-
orable' extent. Eight courageous B's.A.
graduated in the German language —five
women and three men. I don t know
whether they are qualifying for the British
secret service or the Intelligence section of
the Australian Defence Department. Both
can stand additional brains.
"With the advent of the transport was born
a new industry in Port Jackson. Owners of
motor-launches organised a service from
Woolloomooloo and Fort Macquarie a
trip round the transport to see the boys; bob
return.” The business became so lucrative
that those engaged in it over-reached them-
selves. Thev crowded so many passengers
aboard the little crafts that the authorities
contracted ground and lofty fidgets, and
when an old lady toppled into the water one
day, the axe was hurriedly reached for. The
new restraining regulation is framed to pre-
vent any vessel going within 100 yards of a
steamer carrying troops. This is expected
to stop a passenger from falling overboard in
the effort to throw a last keepsake to Bill
Jim, but it leaves an opening for some nice
calculations as to water distance.
One man in Vic. has had experience of the
little things that soldiers leave behind them.
When he sailed from London recently on his
return from a business visit an officer in the
A.1.F., with whom he had got acquainted,
asked him to take charge of his four-year-
old boy as far as Colombo. He said the
child's mother had died, and that, as he
himself would have to return to the Fi* nt,
he wanted to get the youngster back to his
relatives. His brother would meet the boat
at Colombo, and either take charge of the
child or make arrangements for it to go on
to Melbourne, where its grandmother lived.
The returning traveller undertook the
charge; but he got a shock when he could
find no trace of the uncle in Colombo, high
or low. He decided to go nap on the grand-
mother, paid the youngster’s fare and took
it on to Melbourne, where he drew another
blank. So he was saddled with a child he
didn’t know what to do with. He dared not
take it home, for his wife was of a jealous
temper, and not likely to swallow the true
story of the officer and the trusting traveller.
In the end he left the kid with a brother
of his own, who undertook to look after it
for the time being, and is still waiting for
someone to turn up and take it off his hands.
J. B. Osborne, once a toiler in the Metho-
dist vineyard at Warrnambool. some 15
years ago became a missionary to Papua,
with whose soul he wrestled for nine super-
heated years. Owing to a disagreement with
the authorities on a matter of leave. Osborne
decided to take off his parson’s coat, and
prescribed for himself a visit to Melbourne.
There he interviewed nine medical men and
Melbourne’s biggest retail grocer, and they
went with him into a 10,000-acre eocoanut-
and-rubber plantation at Milne Bay, near
the soap-Kitehens’ orchard. Now the con-
cern is paying its way. with prospects of
early and fat dividends. Osborne was the
originator of the scheme to protect the young
rubber-plant from the swarming rats of
Papua by growing a cincture of maize about
the crop during its babyhood ; and many a
harassed cannibal-islander has since taken
the trouble to rise up and call Osborne
blessed. Mrs. Osborne lives at Milne Bay
with her husL.nd ; but a son has given up
his overseer’s job to go to the Front.
The son of Mr. and Mrs. Scope, of
South Yarra. was christened the other day.
He is called Pierie.


S -
13
II
/
v
!p
if
r
y>-
t-SS'
m
■S'
iiLiO'iiii
S*f
&
Lr
I
+.G
I
$
iV
er
:
9-.yf
A '
4-A
*•<s
gg
BRE/ITHE!
rf
u
Shortness of breath is not always heart trouble. In nine cases
out of ten it’s the stomach, and the only safe and certain medicine
for it is that curative remedy for all digestive disorders—
Chamberlain’s Tablets for the stomach and liver.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are a pleasant tonic laxative and a
perfect remedy for shortness of breath, indigestion, biliousness,
heartburn, palpitation, and liver and bowel troubles. They are
specially good for women and children.
You may have tried this, that, or the other, but for permanent
relief and pleasurable action you will never find anything to equal
i 01AMBEBLAIN5TABLET5
Jb/- the Stomacm o' Livep.
il
fefl
II
TbiQ Wonjeo, locrcas? yo(ir BUST to Normal!
There is now no good reason why any
undeveloped or immature woman should
remain flat-chested and scraggy about the
neck, cheeks or shoulders. The lack of a
well-rounded, nicely-formed bust deprives a
woman of four-fifths of the charm that
would otherwise be hers.
Are your cheeks sunken and hollow?
Have you deep lines around your mouth
and eyes? Are your arms thin and scrawny?
And is your "chest flat, and your bosom
undeveloped? Do your shoulder-blades and
the “salt-cellars” that form at your throat
make evening dress almost a tragedy? Are
you so thin that your clothes merely hang
on you? ?
DR. FALLIERE’S
FLESH-FOOD
is a scientific, harmless Bust Developer and
Flesh Builder. Put up in Tablet form, it
is easy to use and pleasant to take, and, if
desired, may be taken secretly. It is not a
common drug, but a skilfully prepared medi-
cated food-treatment. Taken under our
directions it will work wonders for your
appearance.
In many cases bust measurements have
been increased by over 10 inches, and the
gain in actual weight —equally distributed
over the body in generally deficient cases —
has been over five pounds weekly. Some
other cases have shown an increase in weight
of even a pound a day. The average bust
desired is afiout six inches, and is readily
accomplished.
Guarantee given in every case accepted.
READ THESE LETTERS:—
Table Hill, Milton, N.S.W.
The Manager,—
Dear Sir, —I have improved so much since I
last wrote that I find I do not require further
treatment. There is no doubt the results have
been splendid in my ease, and I have filled out
quite as much as I care to. —Yours truly,
M. VLIEKTRA.
3lanager,
Dear Sir, —As a nurse, I was very interested in
your “TTesh-Food” treatment, anti was greatly
surprised at the wonderful results in my case.
When I first wrote to you I was only skin and
bone, qnd I have good cause to be thankful that
I wrote you for a free sample, for I feel certain
now that I am one of the very best advertise-
ments you could possibly have, as I am developed
in every way satisfactory to myself, and I have
waited a good while to prove if it was lasting in
its effect, and I am now glad to say that your
splendid treatment has done all yon claimed it
would, my weight and measurements being ample.
I am, yours gratefully,
Mrs. E. VVTNOKOVE.
FREE SAMPLE.
We want you to know what “Flesh-Food” is
and will gladly give you a free sample. Send
2d. stamp and let us forward you a free trial
sample and our instructive book on attenuation,
“Lovely Woman.” “Flesh-Food” is put up in
tablet form and may be taken secretly if desired.
All correspondence is confidential and private,
and all our literature is sent closely covered and
free from observation. Write at once. You
are placed under no obligation whatever to buy.
FALLIERE CO.,
1103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY.
THIN NO LONGER.
Tanuncla, S.A.
The Manager,—
Dear Sir, —I am very pleased to tell you of the
wonderful results in my ease of your splendid
treatment. I have increased in weight, and have
no further cause to worry over being thin. Since
taking “Flesh Food” my health is much better
and I enjoy my meals thoroughly.
Many thanks for your kind care and attention,
and your splendid remedy.—Yours gratefully,
Li. C. KEIL.
Wangake, N.Z.
The Manager,—
Dear Sir, —I reply to your letter, I am glad to
let you know that I do not require any further
treatment. I have certainly improved in health,
and I am quite satisfied with my figure now.
Thanking yon for your assistance.—l beg to
remain, yours sincerely,
ELSIE BOWER.
Esperance, W.A.
The Manager,—
Dear Sir, —Yours to hand. I am pleased to tell
you that the result of your “Flesh-Food” has
fully exceeded my expectations. I have put on
flesh and increased in weight so rapidly that I
discontinued taking the treatment, although I
have about a quarter of the supply left, as I was
afraid I would get too stout. I am very grateful
to you for your attention, and I cannot speak too
highly of your remedy, which I will recommend
whenever I have an opportunity.—Y r ours truly,
E. W. NELSON!
Gidginbung, via Temora.
The Manager,—
Dear Sir, —I will need no further treatment, as
it has done for me all you said it would do. I
have gained the necessary weight; also bust
measurements required, and my health is wonder-
fully improved; in fact, you would not take me
for the same person as I was before using your
remedy.—l am, yours sincerely,
(5809.) Miss M. HARTURG.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDRENS FOOD.”
The Peacock Ministry, being pushed into
amending the antediluvian Weights and
Measures Act, lias decided to go one better
and legalise the metric system. But its use
will merely be optional, so that, with a
simple system and a complicated one run-
ning side by side, things may be worse than
ever. Some ignoramuses are bellowing that
the metric system is German, which of
course it isn’t, any more than it is Jap. But
the systematic Hun made no error about
fastening to it. There’s a lot of hog-sense
>n the Hun.
More work for the Tiger:—
The report on the bulk handling of wheat, which
the imported expert has just handed the Victorian
Government, discloses little that wasn’t common
knowledge. Briefly, the compiler recommends
Peacock to bog in at once, estimating the savings
on bags at £512,000 per annum on a 60 millions
bushel crop, besides reductions in the handling
charges. Moreover, he reckons there is a lot less
waste of grain under the bulk system. The Govern-
ment is urged to own and control the system and
build some 200 elevators in the wheat-growing dis-
tricts and three terminal elevators —at Williams-
town, Geelong and Portland. The expert figures that
an installation for a 60,00'0,000-bushel harvest would
cost £1,825,098, on which the annual charges would
be £252,172 and the income £476,200. As the
profit shown there doesn’t include the savings on
bags the proposition looks sweet, and Peacock has
invited the Railway Commissioners to say what they
think of it. The bag merchants haven’t so far
been asked their opinions, but their shouts of joy
may be expected any day.
TO CORRECT CONSTIPATION.
Constipation is usually accompanied by
indigestion, either as the cause or as a
result. Iu correcting constipation it is very
important to restore the stomach, intestines
and other digestive organs to a healthful
condition.
It is here that Pinkettes, the new laxa-
tive, have an exceptional value. One of
these little pink granules taken after the
principal meal each day will promote diges-
tion and stimulate the appetite. Pinkettes
clear away waste material, prevent conges-
tion, and with a little persistence really
correct constipation.
Write to-day to the Dr. Williams’ Medi-
cine Co., Sydney, mentioning The Bulle-
tin; for a free sample of Pinkettes, or get
a full-sized Is. bottle from your chemist.
—Advt.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
• loveria'ne Director HUGH D. McINTOSIi.
■J* IVO L I THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE \)E LUXE.
\ MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Plans at Nicholson’s and Tivoli.
"piVOLI THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
NIGHTLY AT EIGHT.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
A BIG BOOM!
TIVOLI FOLLIES
OF 1915-1916.
EVERYTHING NEW AND DOWN TO DATE.
Plan at Glen's.
|-| E R M A J E S T V ’ S, S V D N E V.
LAST NIGHTS OF THE SEASON.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present a Dashing,
Duinps-Defying Delight.
SO LONG, LET IT.
With a brilliant cast.
Plans Paling’s. Day Sales Callose’s.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
LAST NIGHTS.
J. C. WILLIAMSON'S Realistic Production of
UNDER FIRE.
A vivid dramatic story of the violation of Belgium.
Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
2.30 TWICE DAILY. 2.30.
IV. J. SHEPHARD presents
TWO STUPENDOUS PICTURE PROGRAMMES
IN ONE ENTERTAINMENT.
THE GORGEOUS KINEMACOLOR,
WITH THE FIGHTING
FORCES OF EUROPE,
and the Wonderful
WILLIAMSON SUBMARINE PICTURES.
WILLIAMSON SUBMARINE PICTURES.
MARVELLOUS, EXCITING, FASCINATING.
Prices: 1/-, 2/- and 3/-. (Reserved).
Plan at Nicholson’s.
D ALACK THEATRE. SVDN E V.
1 Commencing SATURDAY, APRIL 15.
dft N.TAiTS NEW ENCLISH C°
PEC,
o’my
A COMEDY OF YOUTH
by cJ HARTLEY MANNERS.
THE SUPREME SUCCESS OFSUCCESSES
Box Plan at Nicholson’s next Monday.
Amusements.
TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS. TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS.
TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS. TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS.
\A# IRTH BROS. LTD.’S
* w GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
at *
WIRTHS’ NEW HIPPODROME,
HAYMARKET.
NIGHTLY AT S. NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday and Holidays.
Prices: Dress Circle, 5/-; Arena Stalls, 5/-; Stalls,
4/--; Back Stalls, 3/-; and Family Circle, 2/-.
Plan at Nicholson’s and Hotel Australia.
THE WHITE CITY.
* Rushcutter’s Bay, Sydney.
OPEN NIGHTLY, 7.30 TO 11.
ADMISSION SIXPENCE.
T. H. ESLICK, General Manager.
ymmwmvwm
. BARRINGTON MILLER, General Manager
Union Theatres Limited, presents the new
"I" RIAN GLE PLAY S AT
1 THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MOTION PICTURE ENTER-
TAINMENT as it should be.
SESSIONS: 11.45 a.m., 2 p.m.,
4.15 p.m. EVERY DAY, and
8 p.m.
Pi.'c-os: 6d. to 2/6. Box Plan at Paling's.
TIIE G A lt H E N T H E A T It K,
1 BAYSWATER ROAD, DARLINGHURST.
One (1) Minute from top William Street.
MR. EDWARD BRANSCOMBE’S
DAKDIKS COMPANY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
CHANGE PROGRAMME EVERY THURSDAY.
Prices 2/6 (Reserved), 2/- and 1/-.
Theatre 'Phone: William Street 512.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
THE PICTURE BLOCK THEATRE'S
1 In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL. PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-.
GREATER .1. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD
IV. Barrington Miller. General Manager.
LJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE
** Direction. J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, APRIL 8.
BRILLIANT REPRODUCTION OF
THE AUCADJANS.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and 1/-.
THEATRE ROYAL, M ELBOU RNE
• Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING.
HALE HAMILTON and MYRTLE TANNEHILL
in
T WIN BEDS.
A CARNIVAL OF LAUGHTER.
Prices: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/- ; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
p RINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, APRIL 8.
GEORGE MARLOW presents the Brilliant Extrava-
ganza,
DICK WHITTINGTON
AND HIS CAT.
Popular Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
LTING’S THEATRE, M E L B O U R N E.
Lessees BERT BAILEY & JULIUS GRANT.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, APRIL 8.
RETURN OF THE BERT BAILEY CO.
in the ,
FANTASTICAL COMEDY DRAMA
A MESSAGE FROM MAI’S.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, IPlan at Allan’s.
RUOl' T H E A T R E. M E I. B O U R \ E
° FULLER’S THEATRES A VAUDEVILLE LTD
Governing Director BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
Afternoon 2.30. Evening at 8.
CLARK AND WALLACE, PRIVATES LESSO am
ROMAYNE, FOUR GONDOLIERS. BALANCIN'C
STEVENS, HARRY HOWE, GRACIE QUAINF
GEORGE GROTTY. DECAR, LES ALDOUS TRIO
GEO. DIXON, VICTOR and COTHILDA.
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Matinees: 1/6, 1/- and 6d
H OY T ’S PICTU R E s 7 M ELBOU RNE
BEST AND MOST.
TWO BIG SHOWS.
HOYT’S OWN: Bourke Street, next Theatre Rova
OLYMPIA: Prince's Bridge.
IKCII&C A K K O L
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princ
par centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba 1
Charters Towers.
lours of Legitimate Companies managed over th
route appearing in all the Leading Theatres <
which we have the Booking Control
Representatives in Queensland for the General Fill
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANI
Useful Gifts for Soldiers
FROM
STEWART DAWSON’S
vfb'.
o
X
1
’■‘•WA-tRTE==5=-v ■ - - : !!>
THE “AUTO-STROP” SAFETY
RAZOR.
Strops itself. Complete in case, with a
genuine horse-hide strop and 12 patent
“Valet" Safety Blades. Brice. . 22/6
THE “SUVLrA” LEVER.
Specially marie for the strain and stress of rough
campaigning. It has a fine jewelled lever
movement, in a solid nickel screw case which
makes it positively dust- and damp-proof.
Regulation military strap supplied if required.
l>rice 37/6
Other Wristlet Watches, in Solid
Silver, at 40/-, 45/*, 50/-, 55/*.
65/-, 75/*
SPECIAL ILLUSTRATED LIST OF SOLDIERS’
GIFTS POST FREE.
Stewart Dawson’s
Strand Corner, 412 Gaorge Street, Sydney,
Another Pen-triumph for the
makers of Waterman’s Ideal
'•<
Riternjan’s
Weal]
FbiintairiPen
Fill 3<J in an
instant*
Simply raise
lever, dip nib
in ink, lower
lever and
the pen is
filled.
- The New
Lever Pocket
Seif- Filling
We explain here how simple it is to fill this new
type of a world-celebrated pen. But only use of the
pen itself can reveal the superb writing qualities
which have won for it instant success. Invest in this
new pen. See for yourself how much time it will save
you, with what ease it writes, how quickly it becomes
indispensable. Every Waterman’s Ideal (New Lever
Pocket Self-filler, Safety and Regular types) is
guaranteed, and there are gold nibs to suit all hands.
Of Stationers and Jewellers the world over.
L. G. Sloan, Comer, Kingsway, London, England.
CAILLE 1916 MODEL 5-SPEED
OUTBOARD MOTOR-
With Bosch High-tension Magneto.
The motor that you do not have to stop and
start the reverse way to go astern —you just
press the button to go astern, ahead, or
remain stationary without stopping engine.
Improved Silencer, etc., etc.
Caille Yankee Outboard Motors with
Battery and H.T. Magneto Ignition.
Caille Marine Engines, 2 to 8 h.p. in stock.
SCRIPPS 4=CYCLE ENGINES.
IjATEST models just landed.
All Spare Parts and Complete Iloat Equipments Supplied
Sole Australasian Agents:
Benson Brothers Limited,
51-53 Druitt Street, SYDNEY; 60 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.


TOUCHES OF ECZEMA
At Once Relieved by Cuticura
Quite Easily. Trial Free.
The Soap to cleanse and purify, the
Ointment to soothe and heal. Nothing
better than these fragrant super-creamy
emollients for all skin troubles affecting
the skin, scalp, hair and hands.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.
Sold throughout the world.
His
EXPLOSIVES
ARE THE PRODUCTS OF
OVER A CENTURY’S EXPERIENCE
Explosives packed especially to com-
ply with requirements of Australia
and other foreign countries.
Our SAFETY Explosives for use in
dusty and gaseous coal mines have
passed the rigid tests of the United
States Government’s Bureau of Mines.
Thirty factories in the United States.
Plants on both the Atlantic and Pacific
Coasts assure prompt shipments.
OBTAIN MAXIMUM RESULTS
BY SPECIFYING
DUPONT EXPLOSIVES
E.l.du Pont de Nemours & Co.
WORLD’S LARGEST MAKERS
OF EXPLOSIVES
Wilmington, Delaware, U. S. A.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
Henry W. Peabody & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
G>J
Make a Polish
Mop—this wayl
\
yi\
f
awhile. Then try this mop
on your floors. Dirt, dust
and scratches disap-
pear! Linoleum re-
newed and preserved.
Shake mop out-
doors and it is clean
again.
Buy
“3-in-one” Oil
and make a mop
to-day!
V
REID & REID,
Australasian Agents,
HARRIS STREET.
Wellington, N.Z.
Cut an ordinary
mop four inches
k from handle.
Moisten with
cold water,
pour on a lit-
tle “Three-
in-One” Oil,
and let stand
fjUtfM «l» T
10
<3
IMPORTANT
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort and good
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and w r ater are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best onus
paying office in the World. HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDiNEV.
Directors Hon. A. W. Meeks,’M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C. ; Hon. Jas. Burns, M.L.C. ; Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., iv.e. ,
Samuel Hordern, Esq.
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. H, W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Accumulated Funds, £33,500,000. Annual Income, £4,500,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1914 .. £1,034,346 Total Bonuses distributed .. £19,808,000
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. Write for piospectus
and full information without delay.
Sos/ocA
SHOES are exquisitely cool and light in the
hottest weather, yet none of your dowdy,
canvas shoes either but smart, elegant, in
the fore-front of fashion. Most Australian
women will have sighed for such shoes, and here
they are in the latest shipment of Bostocks. The
model illustrated is delightful even in picture
form. But think of it in reality, a light, grace-
ful shoe of finest moire, built in that new, short-
fronted shape so thoroughly French, and made
with a dainty Louis heel. If ever there was
an ideal shoe for smart wear in hot weather, it
is certainly this one. Then for other tastes,
there are other shoes equally charming in this
Bostock selection. The shoes are unmistakable,
and have the name Bostock stamped on the soles.
Bostock No.
P 6458
/
/
J
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
825
Do not miss the latest Bostock shim
ments now on view' at the leading stores.
to
mm
a
s==/AC.
Sergeant L. J. VICQANS, Isi D.C.L.1., writes
Price in Australia...
Up to the time of first using a“7 o’clocki" PfiC® i* l New Zealan
Safety Razor out here shaving was a task
to he avoided . iVou) if is a delight.”
12/0
13/0
Invaluable
for Field Service
or Shipboard
(
■m
Safety Razor
Every purchaser of a “7 o clock
Safety Razor set retail is entitled to
nominate a friend who has joined
the colours, and to this friend
a set of equal value will be sent
absolutely FREE of Charge.
sAsk your dealer for full particulars.
This safety razor is by far the most convenient and satis
factory for use in Field, Camp, Barracks, or on Shipboard.
It is self-contained, (even to the strop, which is hinged in the
case itself and cannot be mislaid or lost. With a single
touch it springs open for stropping or cleaning, and with
another touch it snaps together into accurately adjusted
shaving position. (See sketches at top right-hand corner.)
“ 7 O’CLOCK ” STANDARD SET
Consists of heavily silver-plated stropping razor,
six finest lancet steel renewal blades in compact
blade sheath, special strop in hinged
partition as part of the case —the
whole in handsome case measuring
only 5 in. by 2 in. by If in. deep
Managing Agent for Australasia!
RALPH ABERCROMBY
380-2 George Street, Sydney.
Of all higltrclass dealers
throughout Australasia.
THE DOUBTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He smiled with a superior air.
Of Russian victories we spoke,
But in the talk he took- no share —
It seemed he thought the war a joke.
He scoffed: “Flap doodle! Do you, pray,
Believe just what the papers say?”
“But what exactly is your doubt?”
We asked him. “Don’t .you really think
The Russians put the Turks to rout ?”
He smiled and gave a knowing wink.
“I don’t l” he answered. “What is more,
I don’t believe there is a war!”
N.S.W.
HAMER.
The Inky Way.
“Ami”: Exit Phil Gullett, younger brother
of the late Henry Gullett, and uncle of war
correspondent Harry. As a youngster Phil
had a bias for journalism, engendered by his
brother’s success on the Argus. But Henry
thought Phil’s ability did not lie that way
and Phil was set to the law, at which he did
little or nothing beyond taking a degree.
He subsequently became an Age reporter,
next did some bright work for Brodzky’s
Table Talk and then for the Barrier
Miner at Broken Hill. After many busy
years as editor of Hamilton (Vic.) Spec-
tator he accepted a Ballarat sub-editorship.
But he hadn’t been there long when the
Foreman Printer looked in and said it was
time to go to press.
* * * *
Adelaide Register and Herald have been
having a brisk scrap lately. The Labor
paper has a different cable service from the
Register and Advertiser, which were in
the old cable ring before their rival came
on the scene and was shut out from it. The
Register says it has suspected the Herald
of “borrowing” its cable news, so it faked one
afternoon an imaginary speech by Lloyd
George in the Commons and had the joy
of seeing it all in the other paper next morn-
ing—with a couple of saucy interruptions by
“A member” thrown in. To an accusation
of that kind there seem to be only three
replies open: (1) Silence; (2) “It is not
true”; (3) “It was the work of a subor-
dinate, who has been instantly dismissed.”
But the Herald discovered another: the
cable “sub” “sought to anticipate what
would be coming later, in order to save time
when the wires came to hand,” and, although
this one did not come, “in the later rush he
omitted to withdraw the report.” In short:
“Y’r Honor, I only intended to borrow the
money. I fully meant to pay it back: but
the horse I backed didn’t win.”
The Argus, forgetting its ancient dignity,
describes the Kaiser as being in the soup.
The careless paper doesn’t go into details ;
but it is understood that at least it isn’t peace
soup.
* * * »
Fred Johns, whose Australian biographies
no sub-editor can now afford to be without,
is preparing a volume of sketches of Aus-
tralian personalities for publication in Eng-
land this year. Profits are to go to War
Funds. The next Johns volume to be issued
in Australia will be purely Parliamentary.
* * * #
Charles P. Smith, of the Argus, lately war
correspondent in Turkey and Servia, having
expurgated his fine stock of trench tales to
suit the occasions, is now giving lectures in
suburban Sabbath-school halls on behalf of
the Red Cross.
“Flamer”’: The other morning a Sydney
paper headed an item : “German Admissions:
French Reach Their Lines.” That seemed a
nice, cheerful bit of news until you looked
to see what the admissions were: “Some
companies succeeded in reaching our lines.
The few unwounded men were made priso-
ners. We stopped a second attack by our
fire curtain.” Who writes the labels for
these billies of blood?
* * * *
“George D.”: We lobbed into the ten-
storey caravanserai in New Orleans, on the
mouth of the Mississippi River, at about 11
p.m., signed the register and went to bed,
and were just getting into our snores when
the door was attacked from the outside.
“Who’s there?” I yelled. “Say, it’s me, Jim
Frazee, of the Noo Orleans Pick-a-yoon.
Lemme in !” “Nothin’ to pick here, .Tim,’’ I
assured him. “Call in the mornin’.” But
Jim was not going to be fobbed off like that,
and started interviewing me at the top of his
voice through the keyhole. “Say, where was
you born?” he bellowed. “What do you think
of Amurriker? Ain’t Noo Orleans some
city? Are the niggers givin’ any trouble in
Australy? Can they hold the franchise?
How much cotton do you grow down there?
Is that your wife with you? Sure? What’s
her maiden name?” “Great Scot!” said the
missus, “we had better let him in.” So I
opened the door, and Jim arrived chew-
ing a green cigar and carrying a notebook as
big as a volume of Hansard, and perching
himself on the end of the bed carried on the
interview. I went to the order dial and
swung the indicator round to “Night
porter.” (There were 30 words on that dial
and you could get anything from a fire-
brigade to a cuspidor if you knew how to
work it.) Almost instantly a coon appeared
with a jug of iced water and three tumblers.
“No, Rastus. Ask Mr. Frazee what he’ll
take.” “Scotch high-ball,” snapped James,
“and plenty ice.” We had three each before
Jim explained that picayune was a coin
worth 6f cents, and I assume that was the
price of the New Orleans Picayune. Next
morning the paper did full justice to our
native land. Jim’s headlines were the
agates. The first caption read, “George
Comes to Town.” The next, “With His
Beautiful Wife.” Then, “They Love New
Orleans,” and “Australia will stand back of
America when trouble comes.” The intro-
ductory lines ended, “He’s richer than Rocke-
feller and Carnegie.” After breakfast we
were inundated with visitors eager to interest
me in carpet tacks, corner lots, cotton lands
and toothpicks. After that I wrote my
own interviews, and left them with the book-
ing clerk in every Yankee hotel we visited.
It saved trouble and prevented insomnia.


'3*4
■
■v
.'i •-
834. ‘ THE CERT" D.8.8.L. GUN. 12- or 16-gauge, top lever 30in.
steel barrels, extension rib. rebounding locks, left choke, snap
fore-end. pistol grip, walnut stock : weight about 71b
Postage on one Gun. 2 9 N.S.W.; 5'2 Inter-State.
37 6
Harrington S Richardson’s
5.6.6. L. Gun,
12-gauge top
action, solid
case hardened
locks. decar-
bonised steel barrel. 30in. pistol grip, walnut stock, weight
about Glib. Gun can be taken apart, same as an ordinary
Double-barrel Gun. AutO-EjCCtOr, 25/-1 Non-Ejector, 22 6
Postage—2 6 N.S.W.; 4 8 Inter-State.
838. WINCHESTER AUTO-
MATIC REPEATING SHOT-GUN. 1911 Model. 12
gauge. Walnut stock, pistol grip, nickel-steei barrels.
full choke, take-down system, chambered for 2Jin. shells.
Magazine holds 5 cartridges, rubber butt-plate. Weight. TJlb. X*Q 10 /
DELIYEREPdOO 'Of m
839. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating Shot Gun. 12-gauge
similar description to B3S. Delivered £B/10/«
Mick Simmons b
HAYMAPKET
•SYDNEY-
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot : 119 KING STREET ; also at NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE.
GUNS that give Satisfaction.
The BEST HOUSE for
GUN REPAIR WORK.
all kinds of
Smoke “SUNOL”
Tobacco. . Dark or
Light. Plug or cut.
<OZ. pkt. 11d' t 0r
Send for our
Price List of
Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition,
and all Sport-
ing Goods,
Post Free
Anywhere.
National Arms Co.’s 12- or 16-Gauge D.8.8.L. Gun.
reinforced breech, top lever, full rebounding, bar interchangeable lock* Greener
cross bolt, extension rib, left full, right modified choke, 30in. special «t*el barrel*
pistol grip, walnut stock, engraved, weight of 12-gauge about 1 '
6flb. to 71b.; of 16-gauge, 6£lb. to DELIVERED C A
We can supply this Gun in 20-gauge at 12/6 extra.
We are the Sole Agents in S.S.W. for the above Gun, which has been made t« our own
specifications, and therefore can thoroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable weapor
e
09
828. The “ Continental ” Combined Double
Barrel Shot Gun and Rifle,
30in. Siemen’s Steel Barrels, bar locks, cross bolt, the gun barrel full
choke, 12-gauge shot, 32 Winchester Rifle calibre, weight about 741 b.
CARRIAGE PAID.
£7 7j-
THIN people:
Test this Remarkable New Remedy at OUR EXPENSE.
10,000 :
2|6 Packages Offered FREE
TO READERS OF THIS PAPER.
A harmless. Scientific Home Treatment that makes Thin Men and Women Plump and Healthy.
t
&
*
ft
Vft7
NO
GG s
- C
SALT
o£s
CELLARS
I
HOLLOW/ .
cheeks -Ar
/
vast ro mouth
GffOOVES
Flat
“The above clearly shows results from a Corrse of SANA-VET A.**
AA e make this generous offer to every thin,
scraggy, emaciated person who happens to
read this advertisement. We particularly
invite those who have been sufferers for
many years from lack of flesh to accept our
offer of a FREE TRIAL PACKAGE of
SAN A-A ETA. the great English tissue-
builder. We make no absurd claims for this
remarkable preparation : we merely ask you to
give it a fair trial in your own home, and we
venture to say that you will be astonished
and delighted with the results. To give it a
fair test, get your correct weight before com-
mencing the treatment, and at the end of
seven days weigh yourself again: the results
will speak for themselves.
There are no drastic rules with this treat-
ment. you just eat what you like and when
you like: it is convenient and easy to take,
and is perfectly harmless. SAN'A-VETA is
nor a cure-all bnt a scientific preparation,
which acts directly on the digestive organs.
thereby enriching and assimilating all food
taken into the body, thus making good,
healthy flesh and filling out all hollow and
scraggy parts of the body where flesh is
wanted.
There is absolutely no reason why any thin
person should not be able to add as many
pounds to their weight as their height de-
mands (but please note that S aXA-YETA
does not make superfluous fat). The
proprietors of this unique preparatiou are so
confident of its flesh-forming possibilities
that they are prepared to give away ten
thousand free trial packages and stand by
the results. Send to-day for a full 2 6 Free-
Trial Package, and see what wonderful re-
sults can be quickly obtained. En.-lose four
stamps to cover cost ■•f p* stage, packing, etc.,
and we will send you the package by return
• f p st. securely packed and free from obser-
vation.
Address: THE SAXA-YETA CO. (Suite
IT2). IT" Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
READ THESE LETTERS OF PRAISE:
Anderton St., Islington, Dec. IS, 1915.
The Manager Sana-Yeta Co.
Dear <ir. —My wife has ber.ehre’ V v the one
month's course of Sana-Veta considerably, and I
would he obliged if you would forward roe the two
months' supply, for which please find cash enclosed
with order form.
Tours truly, A. C. R
Newtown, Sydney.
Dear Sirs. —I am writing to tell you that Sana-
V _ »_ . a idea? no ’ess than 11 poor a to my weight.
I had been eery thin for years, and nothing I took
ad me any gx»d. but I can honestly recommend
' -xir stuff to anyone in need of a fiesh builder.
Yours truly,
(Mr.) A. E. W
Kent Street, Maryborough. Dec. 7, 1915.
Dear Sir's.—l received the month's treatment of
Sana-Yeta you sent roe. which I thank you for. So
far I hare gained nine pounds in weight, which
speaks well for your flesh food. It is ror intention
to try another month of it to see what further suc-
cess I can derive. Enclosed please find postal note
for c-ost of same. Yours faithfully. J. W c o
F- f. D , Ker.: St., Maryborough. Q'kL
Prahran. Tic.. Dec. 7-15.
Dear Sirs. —I feel that I must write ami tell
you Yrr.it i wonoerr.:'. iTerenee Sana-Veta has made
in roe. I have just finished taking the two months'
r'-V-P-y. 2-. : when I weighed myself this morning I
tound that I have increased an weight bv seven
pounds. _ but apart from tbit I feel ever so well I
will write you Yrhen I finish the third month's stroplv.
Y ours faithfully, Bessie S——.'
Post tHis Coupon NOW. —
Cut out this Coupon and enclose it icith pour letter. Write pour name and
address distinetlp and fullp. Enclose four stamps to cover cost of postage, packing,
etc., and pou Kill be sent bp return post, free from observation, a 2, 6 Package of
Sana-Teta.
THE SANA-VETA CO.
Su't. 173, 178 .treat, SYDNEY. SVS.W.
TheTRIALS oFihe
GREY-HAIRED
OTOTMWfIWiJW.
S‘-S¥:SSRSSS
m
4
“ '<< S _fa
1. 2*i r T
Don t wait until you are told by your employer that you are too
old-looking to hold your position, but commence at on« and use
/. ' lar? K - c hapman s Genuine Specific. It will darken your
hair naturally and gradually, and you will look years younger."
FREE TRIAL BOTTLE
T>> business and professional life, when
1 energy and clear-headedness are the
measures of success, the business man or
woman recognises only too well that the
appearance of the first grey hairs marks the
worlds refusal to recognise him or her ant
longer as young enough.
Looked Too Old at Forty-six
Numerous instances have come under mv
notice of men and women who had held
responsible positions for years. and who at
the age of 4t> or thereabouts, because their
hair had turned grey, probably through men-
tal strain, were pushed out of their position
even though they were comparatively voung
and vigorous. Grey or white hair is not a
detinue sign of oid age. but unfortunately it
i> considered to be proof of advanced age' bv
the general public. There are hundreds of
in all parts of Australia who
are considerably over 60 and whose hair was
as white as snow, but who now look 20 vears
Spedlfc* they Genuine
No Dyes or Stains.
My Genuine Specific is not a dve or stain
and yon need nor be afraid of discoloring vour
scalp, your towel, pillow cases. linen, hands
etc. It contains no Main, paint or dve This
can be proved by pouring a little on a sheet
Paper- It is almost as clear as water
and absolutely harmless to the hair. Otlce the
hair has ,-een restored to the original color it
can be kept so with but very siight attention.
Gradual Satisfactory
Darkening.
The process is a natural, gradual one. There
is no suddenness, and the darkening i' not
patchy, as is the case when applying ordinary
None Too Aged.
None are too old and no case fails to respond
to this treatment. Of course the Quantity
required varies in individual cases: for in-
stance. a person who is only just beginning
to turn grey would not need to use much
as the person whose hair is white. In every
ease where the hair is grey, faded *r bleached,
the color can be restored regardless of age or
the cause. Xo matter how often yon have
been disappointed in the past, you are invited
to test this new discoverv ab- dutely free of
charge.
How Readers may Test this
Discovery Free of Cost.
One of the most remarkable facts In connec-
tion with the discovery of the Genuine Specific
is the announcement of Mrs. Mary K. t'f apnsan
of her desire that all who are grey-haired
should make a test of this color-res: ring pro-
duct without any cost to themselves, and in
the privacy of their own homes. Fill in the
coupon below and post without delay.
■ POST THIS
To Mrs. MARY K. CHAPMAX,
COUPON NOW.-
(Suite 56) Linden Court, SYDXEY.
I enclose three stamps for postage, etc on
•chick please send by return post.
Xame
a Sample Bottle of yo»r Genuin- ■
Address
St<:e


A Dose in Time
Saves Nine—
You will never prove this old proverb truer than
when you take a cold in hand early. A cold in
the first stages can be quickly relieved with a dose
or two of a good remedy like Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery, but a neglected cold soon becomes
obstinate and harder to treat. Get in early. Always
keep a bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery in
the house, and take a dose at the first sign of a cold.
DON’T WAIT TILL TO-MORROW!
It s little colds that grow into big colds ; the big
colds that end in Bronchitis and Pneumonia.
~ Don’t wait till to-morrow to
treat the little colds, for one
dose of Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery for Coughs and
Colds will break up a cold
if taken at the beginning.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Dis-
covery stops the cough and
cold, and prevents any seri-
ous complications. It is
unequalled for Influenza and
Bronchitis, and is invalu-
able for Croup or Whooping-
cough. for while it is most
powerful in its action yet it
can be administered to the
smallest child with the same
safety as to the full-grown
adult.
Price 1/6 and 3/-
Stops Coughs, Banishes Colds.
Women and Children all over the country use and know the worth
of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery. Are you one of them? If not, don’t
delay, but buy a bottle at once, and be ready to pounce on to the first cold
that makes its appearance. Don’t forget Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is
the ever-ready friend that should be in every household to protect you
from all Coughs and Colds.
M
m
s
vggi
d»Sheldon's s
New Discovery
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
The Jollywells
.1
Day after day
Despatches say
Enemy trenches
“ Nibbled ” away.
To keep apace
The Jollywells trace,
With map and pins,
The war's stern chase.
Army and fleet
All may greet
With gifts of “Rex” Goods
And messages neat.
For the Man
Who Works.
Whether it be with body, brain or both,
“Rex” Ham Pate is very beneficial.
It makes up into very tasty Sandwiches ; in
fact, the variety that can be obtained with
“REX”
Ham Pate
is past all finding out. Spread the bread and butter with “Rex” Ham
Pate, then interlay with Crisp Lettuce Leaves, Watercress, Eggs,
Cucumber, Tomato, etc., and the man who takes his lunch will never
grow tired of it. “Rex” Ham Pate is made from good “Rex” Ham,
ground fine and mixed with fine spices, cured and cooked to give it a
piquancy. Easily digested.
Ask your Grocer for
“Rex” Ham Pate to-day.
Other “REX” CANNED DELICACIES include:—
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, lflb. tins.
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese, in Decorated Tins and Opal Porce-
lain Jars of British Manufacture.
“Rex” Brand Lard, for cooking purposes, in lib. prints.
“Rex” Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pigs’ Feet in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Lunch Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
Temporarily out of Stock.
Foggitt, Jones (SL Co. Ltd.
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon;
PacKers of “ Rex** Pure Food Products.
The Pilgrim’s Pack.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
UP the hill at break o’ day
When the grass was dew-impearled,
Singing loud a roundelay
Went a youth to see the world.
Strong and straight and broad of back,
Six feet high was he and more ;
And within his dangling pack
Certain treasured things he bore.
On his face the glow of health,
Light of foot and strong of loin,
Fared he onward. What were wealth,
Gold to him or silver coin?
Cloudless, free of wreath or wrack,
Were his skies when day began; -
Like a jewel in his pack
Shining lay his Faith-in-Man.
At the dawn wind’s silken touch
Leapt his blood, wine-red and clear;
And his roundelay was such
That the birds hushed songs to hear.
Up the sky at early day
Climbed the sun, in very truth
Taking, too. his pilgrim w r ay,
Light and buoyant like the youth.
Lacking wealth a man may lack
r Wine and meat and bread and such ;
Yet, within the pilgrim’s pack,
Lay a gem that stood for much.
Filling all his eyes with light,
Thrilling, filling heart and mind,
Wrapped in roseleaves, precious, bright,
Lay his Love-o’-Womankind.
Shouting, glad of heart, he went
O’er the grasses, dew-impearled,
And ere morning’s hours were spent,
Something saw he of the world.
For, with golden hopes aglow,
While he danced and leapt and ran,
Came a cut-throat rogue, and 10,
Stole his shining Faith-in-Man!
Out upon that arrant knave!
Shame upon his tricks, 1 say !
For the youth grew sad and grave,
Doubting gill who chanced his way.
All his skies seemed overcast,
All the golden sunlight dim ;
Ere a-many hours had passed
Worse was yet to happen him.
Was it she who pledged her word,
Was it she, the sweet, the good—
Was it she whose kisses stirred
Such strange wonders in his blood?
Yes, ’twas she, and none but she —
She, the fair, the sweet, the kind,
Who, with red-lipped treachery
Spoiled his Love-o’-Womankind !
Masking love with such a mask—
Out upon her! Stained and soiled,
What had she to give, I ask,
Half as fair as that she spoiled?
Down the skies at eventide,
Clouds about him, stole the sun,
Reft of all his morning pride.
All his high adventure done.
Down the hill at end o’ day
Trudged the youth, his questing o’er,
Singing now no roundelay,
Hurt of heart and sick and sore.
N.S.W.
RORDERIC QUINN.
Before the Full Court.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was out between the Burke and Wills
rivers, east of Urandangie and the
Blue Speck, and west of Mount Hope
and Lady Fanny, that I picked up Jimmy
from the Wire Fence. I had a pair of horses
and a buck-board, and Wire Fence was a
footman, with tucker-bags and a meagre
swag, and a net fly-veil as valueless for its
purpose as rabbit-mesh wire netting. In that
hell of flies, that held the twenty-four hours
for biting time and were sleepless always,
my gossamer veiling, made into a bag with
a running-string around the hat-brim and
another at the neck, was not a perfect pro-
tection. The breathless air within the gos-
samer caused me often to loosen the veil-bag
and buy fresh air with the irritation of the
fly-stings. Then in the need of tobacco I cut a
hole in the gossamer to put my pipe through,
and smoke-dried myself; and whenever I
stopped smoking a dozen small, persistent
spinifex flies crawled along the pipe-stem
and then drove me frantic.
But Jimmy from the Wire Fence wore on
his head only a decently new hat which he
had made old by boring the rim for the
strings holding sections of beer cork ; form-
ing not a veil but a “fly puzzler,” which
did not puzzle the flies as much as it amused
them.
As the fore-carriage of the buggy passed
him I pulled up the horses, and. not accord-
ing to the general custom of the country,
asked him to “Climb up, mate.”
Through the dancing verticals of his
“veil” I saw a lean, humorous, brick-red
face, hairless but for a rudimentary
moustache in the red stage of yellow turning
to grey ; a face so red that it made the blue
eyes brilliant as the shell of a soldier crab,
lake the hat, his shirt, moleskins and boots
were new; but his sw T ag looked light,
although to it there hung a new billy-can,
and the tucker-bags slung over his shoulders
fore and aft were not big enough to victual
far the campaign from Burke River to
Ihe Edge. His forearms, tanned to leather
hy the sun, might belong anywhere in the
North; but his eyelids, their rims widened
and permanently blood-shotten, told you that
the everlasting winds of the Mitchell grass
plains knew him well.
“Climb up, mate,” I said.
,;No. thanks—l'm going to walk.”
, Why? When you can get a lift!”
“It’s a promise to myself, mate. I’ll
walk.”
‘All right! Will I take your swag and
drop it at the Wills?”
“No, thank yer. I promised myself I’d
walk with Matilda up. Thank yer all the
same.”
“So long, then.”
“So long.”
I wandered north and south of the track
looking at hatfuls of red oxide,which their
owners thought greater than Mount Morgan
and Mount Lyell amalgamated; but two
days later, as I drove to camp at the
Wills, I saw there was a lodger before me.
His fire was alight; he offered me hot water
and helped unharness and hobble the horses
without a word. His tucker-bag showed
corned beef and bread, and little else; and
I won him with a big red noisy onion.
And then memory kicked back and I knew
him for the man I had seen a month before
in the township buying silk handkerchiefs as
prizes for children who ran races in the
dust-heap that was the main street. There
he was brick-red, blue-eyed, red-lidded;
weary but unconquerable; with the humor-
ous _ and everlasting grin of the real Aus-
tralian ; the man nobody can laugh at
because he laughs at himself first;
an d not to be understanded of the
English. The changes were but in
his clothing; at the beginning of his
career as a spendthrift I had seen him in
a patched shirt and a pair of mole trousers
renewed with patches of gunny bag at knees
and stern;. for while his cheque had been
in the making he had been ascetic to miser
liness, as his country in drought time ; and
then embarrassed by his savings, like his
country in a good season.
“I remember you now,” I said —“Jimmy
from the Wire Fence.”
“That’s me! Did yer see me when I was
bustin’ up me cheque?” •
“At the beginning of it, yes.”
“How fur was I on the road?”
“You were giving kids silk handkerchiefs
to run races.”
“Oh, that was early ! I finish givin’ the
silk hank’chiefs"before I get noo clothes.”
“Had a bad recovery?”
“Pretty bad. The sun risin’ a foot off
yer nose ; an’ as big as the world ; an’ look-
ing right into y’r eye. You know.”
“I do, brother, I do! I have seen two
suns as red as boils on a bookmaker’s neck
staggering up hill in the sky.”
“I see three moons once meself; an’ the
plain risin’ and failin’ like the sea. But
that ain’t goin’ t’ let a man break his rule.”
“What’s your rule, Wire Fence?”
“Never to face a new track with money?
A man that’s broke works better than when
he’s got a cheque. And it ain’t fair to Aus-
tralia if y’ don’t start naked.”
“Make that good.”
“Because no man’s a real trier till he’s
stiff. When y’r broke Australia’s wide an’
there’s gold in the mount’in an’ silver in
the mine.”
“But that didn’t stop you taking a lift
from me?”
“Yes, it did ! Australia’s a damn fool
some ways. It’s all boom or all broke with
her; but y’ forgive her for it —just’s you
don’t rouse on a good mate for havin’ a
broken nose or long whiskers.”
“Why don’t you forgive yourself, then?”
“Not me! That’s why I punish meself
walkin’. . . .Y’ see, often a man’s two men.”
“Sometimes lie’s a dozen.”
i “If he’s a damn sneak he’s only one. Now,
I’m two. There’s me goes and earns the
big cheque tank-sinkin’, workin’ like ’ell.
Gunny-bag patches on the pants so’s I won’t
spend nothin’. Then off to the township,
an’ two drinks ; an’ I give away everything
except a sore head. Then the other feller of me
gets sick sufferin’ recovery an’ when you
offered me a lift, he said ‘Go on ; say thank
yer an’ get up.’ An’ I say’d to you, ‘No,
thank yer!’ An’ I said to him, ‘Y’ got me
into this trouble, y’ cryin’ cow,’ I said,
‘and y’ll suffer it through.’ And all yestiddy
an’ t’day I’d hear him groanin’ inside, an’
I said ‘Dry up, y’ cow....an’ walk.’ Just
like that I said it to him, ‘Walk, you waster,
walk !’ ”
“How long before the next one? As soon
as the other man of you has forgotten the
long track with the swag up?”
“He’ll forget that as soon’s I buy another
horse! The cow’s got no memory. But
I’m never goin’ to do it as bad again.”
“Was it very bad?”
“Rotten ! Y’ see, I made a hundred-and-
fifty-pound cheque this time; and ninety’s
me limit. After this I’ll never make more’n
fifty quid at a time.”
“Why’s that?”
“I near died this time. Another hundred
and fifty pound’d jest settle me in the bone-
yard.”
“Well, I know it’s foolish of me, but why
not spend half of it. and put the other
seventy-five in the bank?”
“Talk sense,” said Jimmy from the Wire
Fence.
* * * *
Two years later, down near Boulia, I
.topped at an alleged copper show, and a
cattleman struck the camp that night for
the express purpose of “having a pitch.” The
course of the “pitch” turned to Jimmy from
the Wire Fence; and the cattleman had a
new story of him —the story of his eviction
from the Territory which is more than four
times the size of France, and of his volun-
tary exile “round Kamilaroi or the Gulf,”
an address large enough to lose Belgium in.
“Jimmy from the Wire Fence?” said the
cattleman —“he left the Edge and went away
somewhere —Leichhardt or Lorraine or Gun-
powder Creek or Kamilaroi; p’raps the
Gulf.. He went away, anyhow—after been
workin’ round the Edge years.”
“Why did he clear out?”
“He told a mate of mine they wanted him
to make too big a cheque. Some bloke
pinched twenty-five quid off him the last
bust he had—six months ago—and the
pleece got the bloke.”
“I’ll bet Wire Fence never put the police
on to the thief.”
“Course not. But the pleece found the
notes on a spieler they got for something
else, and the publican told ’em they were
the notes he gave Wire Fence; an’ Wire
Fence said the spieler must have wanted
the money bad before he’d steal it, and he
said he wouldn’t prosecute, but they made
him. Took Wire Fence down to the trial
at the Towers, too ; and when he come back
(Continued on next page.)


Piles
A Man’s Terrible Martyrdom—Suffering Always—
Life was a Misery-Other Remedies Prove Useless.
One of the greatest living
physicians, referring to piles,
says The pain is often so
intense that the patient feels
he can neither walk nor lie,
while in some cases the loss
of blood is so great as to con-
stitute a grave danger.”
The way in which piles yield to Zam-Buk
, is nothing short of remarkable. The con-
? centrated and carefully combined ingredi-
ents of which Zam-Buk is composed take
away the inflammation; and the pain and irrita-
tion, which at times almost amounts to agony,
is relieved the moment the healing balm is
applied.
Confirmation of this statement is furnished by Mr. J.
Abood, of Albion Street, Warwick, Q., who says:—
“ Three years ago I suffered all the agony incidental to
piles. At times I would pass nearly half a cupful of blood,
and became so distressed that life was perfect misery. I
suffered all the time when either standing or lying down. I
tried all sorts of ways and means in my endeavor to rid
myself of this miserable complaint, but the many so-called
remedies I used proved fruitless. At last I thought I would
give Zam-Buk a trial, and from the very first application of
the balm I derived relief. The burning inflammation
gradually subsided and the terrible pains were subdued,
and ten days after the first applications of Zam-Buk I was
completely cured of the piles. I feel convinced I had as bad
an attack of piles as any of my acquaintances, some of whom were
troubled for years, and they were astonished at the speedy cure Zam-
Buk had effected in my case.
“ I cannot speak too highly in favor of this wonderful balm, and
will never be without a pot. It is now three years since Zam-Buk
brought me ease and comfort, in place of torture and distress, and as I
have not had the slightest symptoms of piles since, I feel quite satis-
fied the cure is permanent.”
L=
Zam-Buk Is In-
valuable for
stiff neck, cold
pains in limbs,
joints or back,
chapped
hands, chll-
blains, eczema,
barooo, piles,
cuts, bruises,
and a't injured,
diseased con-
ditions of the
skin. Price 1,6,
or 3/6 family
pot (containing:
nearly four
times 1/6), from
aI I ohemlsts
and stores.
— ——Nggroin
1111111111111111111111111111111111 l
IMHUlllllllllllllllllliP
Hats capS
AND
HELMETS
of all First-class Hatters
throughout the Commonwealth.
The name TRESS stands for the height
of English fashion and quality.
Makers—Tress & Co., Ltd., London, Eng.
Wholesale Agents—Cox & Mailer,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane
and Christchurch,
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
SWA
F©«MTf»EN
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue, Free oil Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australi n Branch (Wholesale only)
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255aGeorge St., Sydney^
he said money was a damn curse, an’ the
man who made too much was a fool. He
made another quick cheque and it near
killed him; so last one he made was on’y
seventy pound, and he quit on that and
cleared. Ole Jellybelly was narked over it,
square an’ all.”
“Jellybelly?”
“Yes —manager of Bauhinia Downs. Y’
know they made Jellybelly a J.P., so he
could take declarations about stock and
affidavits, and such like ; and Jellybelly took
himself dead serious. A row on the station,
a trouble with the shed and the cook, and
he’d have the lot up for an inquiry, holding
the Bauhinia Supreme Court under the
spreadin’ coolibah tree. Mad for inquiries
and courts he was; an’ swearin’ on the
Bible, the truth an’ nothin’ but the truth,
God strike you dead. Wire Fence made
seventy, an’ lie’s afraid of any more; an’ he
goes along to old Jellybelly to ask for his
cheque.”
“lie didn’t tell his reasons?”
“No fear! He didn’t like to say he
couldn’t trust himself alone with money and
rum; so he says he wants his cheque because
he ain’t well.”
“He’s as strong as a bull.”
“That’s what old Jellybelly said ; and he
asked Wire Fence to stop on and sink a few
more tanks. So Wire Fence, seein’ he can’t
get away on that line, says he ain’t comfort-
able —and Jellybelly went on cross-examinin’,
and in desperation Wire Fence says ‘The
duff’s no good.’ Jellybelly says he ain’t
goin’ to lose a good man over no damn flour-
spoilin’, and he says he’ll hold a court, sup-
peener the cook, and have a inquiry. That
doesn’t suit Wire Fence. He swears a bit
and then he says he doesn’t want any in-
quiry ; he wants his cheque. He’s made
up his mind to go, and Australia’s big
enough for two men, and it’s no good argu-
in’ with him. Old Jellybelly is used to
havin’ his own way, and he gets wild be-
cause he can’t get the tank-sinkin’ done, but
Wire Fence is on his rights, and Jellybelly
has to give the cheque. While lie’s making
it out Wire Fence gets his saddle-horse and
packhorse ready, and brings ’em round, and
old Jelly gives him the cheque, and Wire
Fence says ‘So long’ and mounts. And old
Jelly sings out to him: ‘l’ll never have no
time for chaps that leave me in the lurch.
Don’t you come back here any more, Wire
Fence,’ he says, ‘an’ see you’re off the run
before sundown.’
“ ‘Straight wire!’ says Wire Fence, and
rides off larfin’.
“He’s gone about eight miles, ridin’ along
an’ larfin’ to himself how he’s beat the
pubs, and needn’t kill himself this time, and
he stops about two o’clock to have crib.
While lie’s eatin’ he thinks over the size of
Bauhinia Downs. You know how big it is
—about four million acres, with the station
on the- western end of it. And Wire Fence
turns round, ridin’ back on his tracks ; larf-
in’ to himself, as he rides back west. Near
sundown he gets back to the station, and
there’s old Jellybelly lioldin’ the Bush Court,
and a inquiry over the duff. An’ Wire
Fence rides right into the Coolibah Court,
and sits on his horse and larfs.
“ ‘How dare you!’ says old Jellybelly.
‘Didn’t I tell you to get off the station at
once ?’
“ ‘ Yes,’ says Wire Fence, ‘but that’ll take
me a week. If y’ please, your Maggotsey,
can I stay in Australia t’-night?’”
“Good! And Jellybelly?”
“He exploded ; an’ they picked up twelve
basketfuls of the fragments. So Wire Fence
has got a new towri now.”
Good old Wire Fence! May he never
earn enough to kill himself.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Devara.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DEVARA was delving in the village
sago swamp when Ivukane, of the
Kuku-Kukus, crept up behind and
pinioned her arms, then slung her across his
shoulders like a pig and stalked three days
through the forest till lie came to the hills.
Up the twisted mountain trail he went,
driving Devara before him, till they reached
Biora, his village, hanging like an eyebrow
on the face of a precipice.
Heavily fortified was this handful of huts,
and a rani (commune house), with stock-
ades and loopholes for arrows and flat spaces
on rocks for its women to lean over and cast
hot fat on an enemy. One tiny track only
led to it, passing under torrents and through
manholes in the cliff. Up this track went
Ivukane, still driving Devara before him. It
being married woman custom she cut off her
hair and knocked out two front teeth ; and
soon she forgot that she had been belle of
Mauniani and valued by her parents at
fifty pounds’ worth of trade.
Na-ora, Kukane’s first wife, was a nui-
sance ; she talked too much, and had habits.
Moreover, Devara didn’t like her.
When the women came up from their
gardens Na-ora went to her mat, leaving
Devara to make the evening meal of sago
with stewed pig. This she did to her lord’s
liking, and afterwards she sang little Mau-
niani laments and danced strange little
dances of the swamp folk.
Three moons from the reiving Na-ora was
eaten by a rani alligator. A gape-mouthed
monstrosity of cane this, towards which the
victim is pushed or cajoled till he reaches its
lips. Once there, he is slain and eaten.
Should the inquisitive white-man Govern-
ment ask where So-and-so is, it can be told
“an alligator has eaten,” and no one is pun-
ished. Thus was Na-ora eaten, and Ivukane,
contrary to Papuan custom that makes of
married women a slave and a no account,
worked for Devara, and made soft music for
her on a reed-pipe that he had stolen from
old Sevani the Sorcerer.
All went well till Ivukane strode in one
red sunset with another girl slung across his
shoulders. Now, do not think harsh thoughts
of Ivukane. Could any reputable Papuan
resist stealing a sweet little girl gathering
lily foots in a lonely lagoon with only a
small brother to guard her? So Kukane
climbed the mountain with Kou-bebe, who,
like all her tribe, the Motu-Motus, had some-
thing special in brown eyes; and he, Ku-
kane, become a connoisseur, approved her,
and sent Devara again to the gardening.
About this time Ai-he-ho, Devara’s grasp-
ing old he-parent, waked to her value. Khei-
inasi, a hefty young Maivan, had proffered
fifty pounds in trade and labor for her, and
had up to the time of her reiving paid half.
All of which he now demanded back.
So Devara’s father anointed himself with
cocoanut oil and covered his body with a
coat of charcoal to tell his grief. . Then he
roamed through the village, chanting “Last
moon I helped you build a bridge. One of
these Ivuku-Ivukus has stolen my child. Come
help me to regain her—or burn down the
first village we come to.” The same being
ancient and honorable custom in Papua.
Then off the fighting men of Mauniani
set. And Rhei-masi came upon the sago
swamp where Devara delved at the psycho-
logical time. Together they conferred, long
and earnestly. And the third night of the
neAV moon, when Riori was in its gladdest
garb, wearing its bird-of-paradise plumes,
celebrating its uki-rani, when the young
men become hunters and making the. night
merry, Rhei-masi and the Mauniani men
crept up the twisted mountain trail, guided
by Devara.
Riori being come by, she fled up the steps
of her house and clad herself in eight new
grass ramies—mostly belonging to Ivou-bebe
—and adorned herself with all Kukane’s
armshells and dogs’-teeth necklaces, and
prinked a raggiana’s plumage above each
ear. Then Kukane was dragged forward
with his nose bitten off, the same being
another ancient and honorable Papuan cus-
tom, which has it that no one may be killed
and eaten unless he first be “wounded.” .So
one warrior grasps an adversary, pinioning
his arms to his sides whilst another bites
off his nose. Which makes of him lawful
meat. And Kukane’s nose being bitten off,
his (once) dear Devara sprang on to a pin-
nacle of rock and jeered at him and shrieked
and pirouetted.
Which shows you.
SIDNEY S. SEVERN.
The Cost.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHO was it brushed by the gate just
now,
As I lie here, counting the cost?
Not Frank or Hal, those lads o’ mine—
They’re dead and lost.
Some husband pftssed to some wife a-nest,
With her babes at borne and her heart at
rest.
Singing a snatch of a song of war,
I hear it now, floating away.
/ used to sing. . . ./, lying here!.. ..
If I could pray !
Did You hear, Christ? Did You laugh just
then
At the woes of war and the songs of men?
Twenty-odd years since those lads o’ mine,
My Frank and Hal, hung at this breast.
’Twas round and full—aye, that was then!
A fine, sweet jest!
The cradle’s there in the corner’s gloom
Where they drowsed and dreamed, and God
wrought my doom.
“Mother, they’re calling us now !” they said.
“You’ll bid us go—fighting for you?
The sinews in us creak and urge
To prove us true!”
I stroked each head as I wept a while ;
Then I put my mouth to a thin, white smile.
“Lads o’ mine, go, if you will!” I said ;
“To- know you both playing the man
What better thing? We could not bear
The coward’s ban.
Po speed yen. then ! I can bear the rack
Of n:y mother-pain till you both come back.”
Bright was the sun on the dear bush-land
And sweet the breeze, kissing my face.
The khaki brown, the wide-rimmed hats,
The swinging pace....
I cursed them all as I turned my head ;
And the sun was dull and the breeze was
dead.
Slowly went life in its daily round.
I did not weep, thinking it shame ;
I worked, and smiled as best I could
When neighbors came.
At night I knelt at my bedroom’s shrine.
Where the pictures hung of those lads o’
mine.
So it dragged on till the letters came..
They both were well, loving the work ;
Were here and there, and did not heed
The battle’s murk.
My hopes rose high in a surging flood ;
But it changed each night to a sea of blood !
Frank....he was wounded....but not
enough
To cause me tears ; mending, they said ;
And Hal. .. .was sick. . . .but cared for well,
And safe in bed....
Who touched my door with a ghostly knock?
Did I hear a sound like the cradle’s rock?
Came a long blank. Well, no letter now !
A darting fear scorching my brain ;
Some whispered words, a neighbor’s look,
A blank again.
I at my shrine, with a choking breath —
4-nd about the pictures a scent of death!
What were they showing? A printed sheet—
A list of names, somebody said.
Not Frank or Hal? Yes! Frank and
Ha 1....
And. .. .both. . . .were. .. .dead!
I saw them, then, with their mouths agape—
And the bloody wreck of each twisted shape !
M ho was it brushed by the gate just now,
As I lie h'ere. counting the cost?
Not Frank oh llal, those lads o’ mine—
They’re dead and lost!
Some husband leaving his wife a-nest,
\\ ith her babes at home and her heart at
rest.
N.S.W.
MALCOLM ARNOLD.


I
w 9 .am
m /
A Fair Question.
Have You Tried the
Best Practical Hethod
of Eliminating Your
Belt Losses ?
WESTINCHOUSE
(MORSE)
CHAIN DRIVES
will Overcome Your
Difficulties.
Write To-day for Booklet
B.M. 310.
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd..
eensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
.(/Zealand Offioe: 93-107 Featherston St., Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
DON’T LOOK OLD!
But restore your grey and faded hairs to their natural color with
LOCKYER-S SULPHUR
HAIR RESTORER
1/6 , SOLD EVERYWHERE. 1/6
Lockyer s gives health to the hair and restores the
natural color. It cleanses the scalp, and makes
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
This world-famed Hair Restorer is prepared by the great
Hair Specialists, J. Pepper & Co. Ltd., Bedford Laboratories
London, Lng., and can be obtained direct from them by
post, or from any Chemists and Stores throughout the World.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original anti Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
Engrland—
*/Is, 2/9 & 4/b. Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
eftect u a 11 y
cuts short all
ngn|i attacks at
S>ASMS and COLIC.
The Beet Medicine for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
’he oough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
DIAI
“ S"
tnd simple DYSENTEI
FREE!
As worn by our Brave Soldiers.
Every Patriotic Person should
wear one of these Brooches.
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN
BULL DOG BROOCH.
These splendid Brooches made in Australia and finished ir
Gold, Silver, orOxodised Metal are sold retail at 2/6 each
bor the purpose of making these Brooches more popula;
throughout the Commonwealth, we have decided to give
everyone an opportunity of obtaining Valuable Prizes foi
acting as our agents. SEND NO MONEY, your name
and address will do, and by return mail we will send yot
6of these Highly finished Brooches. When sole
remit us our money, and we will forward you the prize you
seiect .from our Up-to-date Catalogue of Watches, Chains,
Clothing, Bracelets, Handbags, etc. Write To-day to the
SIMPLEX NOVELTY CO., Pitt-st., Sydney.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS TOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (O O) Whisky
Dogs Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
MR. HOTELKEEPER, you will make your business more profitable
by installing in your Hotel
Eckersley’s Dispensers
for the rapid and economic production of
Draught Aerated Waters.
These Machines are now used in many of the leading
Hotels throughout Australia, and we give below names of
a few Sydney users:—
Mr. J. B. Belfield, Belfield’s Hotel, George Street,
Sydney.
Mr * t V - , H * Watson, Paragon Hotel, Circular Quay,
Sydney. '
Mr. W. B. Richardson, Railway Hotel, George
Street, Sydney.
Mr * ?• Bari T* Ransdowne Hotel, George Street,
Wm Sydney.
Mrs. Messenger, Hotel, Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Mr. A. Nsnmus, British Empire Hotel, George
Street, Sydney.
Grand Pacific Hotel, Manly.
A large number of our Machines are also in use in
Suburban and Country Hotels in New South Wales.
machines supplied on terms.
Catalogs from
ELLIOTT, DONALDSON & DOUGLAS, Brisbane, Queensland.
SAMSON & SON, Cliff Street, Fremantle, W.A,
ECKERSLEY & SONS, 25a George Street West, Sydney ; and South Melbourne.
YOU CANT 00 WRONG
A
-
y
IN TAKING
Beech ams Pins
with
is the Oster Bulldog: Die-Stock. The
features are:—
1. Self-locking: dies.
2. Self-locking: guides.
3. No resetting- dies after each cut.
4. No loose bushings to lose o.r mislay.
5. No small parts to break.
Made in
11 Useful
Sizes
the releasing lever to the left
expands the dies—then the stock lifts
off the threads. Greater speed, less
labor, cleaner-cut pipe-threading are
produced by
TOOLS
47 distinct varieties
of die-stocks and
screwing: machines.
Australian Representative:
CHARLES WRIGHT,
Box 251 C.P.0., Melbourne, Vic.
The Os ter IVtfg. Co.
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write *to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
A T any height, at any temperature, in any
** climate, under any atmospheric conditions,
at any speed, up any grade, under any load,
The Famous
Schebler Carburetter
“ The Heart of the Auto=
mobile” sends a never=
failing power stream
pulsing through your
motor.
Illustrative and descriptive
leaflets and all information free.
Robert C. Swan & Co. Ltd.,
304 Pitt Street, SYDNEY, Sole Agents for Australasia, [l


Tlie All-Australian
Power Transmitter.
Me
MANGROVITE?
LEATHER
LTI
which is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
BUFFALO
Canoidal Fans
deliver large volumes of air at relatively
low pressures. You can find no outfit more
suitable
For Supplying Fresh, Cool Air to
Office and Workrooms
or for exhausting Foul Air, Smoke or
Fumes.
They are made so as to discharge in any
desired direction by revolving the cast*
iron housing.
Write to Agents for Bulletin 182 E-51.
Parke § Lacy Co. Ltd.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St., Sydney.
It is the Powei
Your Belt
Transmits
that
Counts.
&
1
Be
Sure
and
Specify
DICK’S
BELTING
J, I II IIL» T*' i' 1
—-
. Soi.r Agekts—
Jas. Hardie 8 Co.
Circular Quay,
SYDNEY.
And MELBOURNE.
THE
LAGGING
YOU WANT.
MOULDED MAGNESIA. BEND,
OPEN & CLOSED ON PIPE.
NEWALL’S
MAGNESIA
COVERINGS.
WRITE FOR SAMPLES.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD.,
82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth; Wellington, N.Z.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Fluming,
Patent “ Nelyambo ” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work.
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footsoray, Victoria.
BOILER TROUBLES AND THEIR REMEDY
qpExtoß
fIPEXIOR
NOT A
BOILER
FLUID
■JJ&-
m
a
SINI9N3IIO J
IIS3N-IHI3S IVN
Sol. Ao.tr
MARINE or STATIO
Agents
NASH
WARBURTON, FRANKI, Ltd,
307-311 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
tMI
BfC
m
V
SHEARING MACHINE
DANGAR GEDVTE&C? SYDNEY sole agents FOR AUSTRALIA.
Road-making & Quarrying; Machinery
Stone Breakers
Crushing Rolls
Screening
Elevating
Conveying and
Loading Plants
Rock Drills
Quarry Bars
Explosives.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS,
350 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
