

DEWAR’S The Genial Spirit
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 iLent Street, Sydney,
—FOR— .
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant. Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
N S W-MONT DE PIETE D SI C?UP
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Am phi the «tre.
Telephone: City 9325.
West, Sydney.
And at
Nl<*wractl#» N W
17 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
ill: I
laTSLit-fJ. iMxmkz
m
'"Used in plenty
Makes forty look
like twenty"
I 1 !.'/ 1 \ 11 '' ~ s
VALUABLE FOR TAN
AND SUNBURN
► Made in Australia by'
iJ
SYDNEY.
m
m
CHUBBS
ANTI BLOWPIPE
SAFES
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors .as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs-
HA N SEN'S
J
mm
For INDIGESTION
anti DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel
PALMER CORD
MOTOR TYRES.
BUY BRITISH GOODS!
Practical Patriotism does not countenance support of Foreign Industries.
CATALOGUES ON REQUEST.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street, Sydney.
And at MELBOURNE,
SILVER KING
”
“ Not the same as others,”
Malthoid
Roofing
“Wjt the same as others
Waterproof, weather-
proof, fume-proof and
proof against ex-
tremes of tempera-
ture; what more do
you ask of a rooting
than that?
Immensely strong:, yet
light; capable of
artistic treatment j
.
easily worked. Such
is Amiwud. X.et us
send samples and
illustrated booklets.
Amiwud
Wall board
" The Idea/ Interior Finish
i,
Challis House, Sydney. (O. s. Evans, Australasian Representative.
Agents everywhere.)
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L-
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
0 LOCOMOTIVE, GENERA'.. 6c AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERS.
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL. DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAO METAL Sc FARM WAGGONS. IRON 6& MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
SHREDDER DISCS.
MACHINERY
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. „
Roll Shells, Shoes
and Dies, and all
STEEL CASTINGS.
OPALOID
HJ.OOJL
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowere.
m
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Vol. 37.—N0. 1906.]
[Thursday, August 24, 1916.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


ELECTRICAL BOORS
(Postages shown
in parentheses.)
Standard Handbook for Electrical Engineers(McGraw
Hi in Illus., 30/- (5d.).
Electric Light Fitting, by S. 0. Batstone, illus., 6/6
Transmission Line Construction, by R. A. Lundquist,
Electnc C Railway Handbook, illus., 24/- (3d.).
F. B.
Dynamo Electrical
' (5d.)-
How to Become a Successful Electrician, by Sloane,
5/6 (2d.).
Electric Toy Making, illus, by Sloane, 5/6 (2d,).
Principles of Electrical Engineering', by lTarob
Pender, 24/- (6d.).
At GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP’T’Y
SY
“THE STRAITS IMPREGNABLE,” by
SYDNEY DE LOGHE. Price 3/6.
Postage 2d. “The epic of Gallipoli....
should be kept as a memento by every
Australian.” “The plain story of the
war, told by a master of English.” “The
finest piece of writing since the war
began.” ,
“SARABANDE,” by GERTRUDE A.
BELL. Price 3/6. Postage 2d.
“THE FIRES tOE SPRING,” by EDITH
BOILEAU. Price 3/6. Postage 2d.
“OVER THE EDGE,” by Mrs. CLEMENT
PARSONS. Price 3/6. Postage 2d.
AUSTRALASIAN AUTHORS’ AGENCY,
285 Collins Street, Melbourne. __
HUDSON’S
Eumenthol Jujubes.
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC AND
|. £ PROPHYLACTIC.
aw
R
JU
3«£
yo»s
ON
SUITABLE FOR OLD AND YOUNG.
The Medical Press and Circular
says: “These Jujubes should be of spe-
cial service to Lecturers, Public Singers
and Speakers, and, indeed, to all who
are called upon to use their voices fre-
quently for prolonged periods.”
For Coughs, Colds, Sort Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza and the
Prevention of Consumption.
SUITED FOR OLD AND YOUNG.
ft
The Red Page
An Australian Decalogue
1. Thou shalt have no other goods hut mine.
2. Thou shalt make even thy graven images.
S. Thou shalt not take the name of Aus-
tralia in vain.
4. Hem ember the working day and keep it
holy.
5. Honor tliy name and thy country’s, that
thy days, etc.
6. Thou shalt not kill thine own industries.
7. Thou shalt not commit adulteration.
8. Thou shalt steel.
9. Thou shalt not bear false witness against
thy neighbor, as it should be
sary.
10. Thou shalt not covet thby neighbor’s
house, nor his goods, but up and, make
better thyself.
S.A.
APOSTLE W. M. SEA.
War and Wells
Among the casualties at the Front
appears the name of H. G. Wells. Against
the gigantic background of the war, his living
figure appears little and almost lost. The
professional prophet still keeps on prophesy-
ing ; but in these days he appears merely the
amateur. Not that he has not many highly
interesting things to say; but the world that
is in a state of flux is but mildly interested
in the man who merely tells us what he
thinks is going to happen. It is the bloke
in the firing-line who is making things
happen: lib is the only bloke who counts.
What is Coming?' (Cassell, per Dym-
ock’s Library) consists of essays in prophecy
upon such subjects as the end of the war.
the new map of Europe, the position of
post-bellum woman, and the outlook for the
Huns. As a guarantee of good faith he
advertises his “lucky shots” in prophecy, but
admits “some clean misses.” Wells’s chief
hope for a permanent world-peace is the in-
creasing destructive character of warfare;
but he hasn’t much hope about any other
means that will establish the millennium.
“No war has ever destroyed happiness so
widely. .. .It has loft scarcely a life un-
touched. and made scarcely a life happier.”
Wells believes that Germany is going to be
beaten, but not completely crushed; “she is
going to be left militarist and united with
Austria and Hungary, and unchanged in her
essential nature.. . .The war has become
essentially a war of mutual exhaustion.
This does not mean that I,foretell a ‘draw.’
We may be all white and staggering, but
Germany is, I believe, fated to go down first.
She will make the first advances towards
peace ; she will ultimately admit defeat.
But by that time every belligerent, and not
simply Germany, will be exhausted, to a
pitch of extreme reasonableness.” Well, the
man who will decide that question will be a
silent bloke named Joffre. But Wells
blithely uses his assumption of an incon-
clusive peace as a guarantee that that peace
will remain unbroken. The Allies and the
Huns will face each other over their
entrenched frontiers, each too scared to lift
the lid off Hell again.
But Wells is right in his statement that
the prophet who emerges with the most
honors from this war is Bloch: his case,
stated some 16 years ago, is that modern
war will tend to reach the stage of a dead-
lock, because of the continually defensive
efficiency of entrenched infantry. But that
deadlock is not insuperable, as Wells would
have had to admit if he had only delayed the
publishing of his book for a few months.
One important effect of the war, the in-
evitable change in the status of woman, is
discussed in a typically Wellsian manner.
“British women have been willing to go
dowdy. The mass of women are wearing the
clothes of 1914. In 1913 every girl and
woman one saw in the streets of London
had an air of doing her best to keep in the
fashion. Now they are for the most part as
carelessly dressed as a busy business man or
a clever young student might have been.
They are none the less pretty for that, and
far more beautiful. But the fashions have
floated away to absurdity. Every now and
then through the austere bustle of London
in wartime drifts a last practitioner of the
‘eternal feminine’—with the air _ of a foreign
visitor,. with the air of devotion to some
peculiar cult. She has very high-heeled
boots; she shows a leg, she has a short skirt
with a peculiar hang, due no doubt to mys-
teries about the waist; she wears a comic
hat over one brow; there is something of
Columbine about her, something of the Wat-
teau shepherdess, something of a vivandffire,
something of every age but the present age.
Her face, subject to the strange dictates of
the mode, is smooth like the back of a spoon,
with small features and little whisker-like
curls before the .cars, such as butcher-boys
used to wear . half a century ago. Even so
she dare not do this thing alone. Something
in khaki is with her, to justify her. You
are to understand that this strange rig is
for seeing him off or giving him a good time
during his leave. .. .Still, the typo will out.
“She does not pass with impunity, the
last exponent of true -feminine charm. The
vulgar, the street boy, have evolved one of
those strange sayings.... :
She's the Army Contractor's Only Daugh-
ter,
Spending it now.
Or simply, ‘Spending it now.’... .There is
likely to be something like a truce in
fashions throughout Europe for some years.”
Wells really ought to come to Sydney!
No need for him to ask the ragshops
whether the Sydney woman is spending it
now.
If an Official Prophet were required by
the world Wells has the highest qualifica-
tions for the job—his book is full of bright
things—but the demand for prophets is now
much less than for able-bodied Anzacs. We
stay-at-homes are not so much interested
in what is coming as in what happened in
the latest communique or casualty-list.
Fiction
The only fiction that is readable now is
that which, directly or indirectly, is tinged
with the war. This tremendous thing has
overwhelmed us, drowning the curious old
ante-bellum days. War has changed the
soul-stuff of mankind, impregnated it with a
seriousness, an impatience of the idyllic, and
expelled from our memories the incredible
peaceful past, making it an almost untrans-
latable script in a foreign language. An entire
generation met with a sudden death just two
years ago; between the new war-saddened
generation and the old dead one there is an
impassable barrier. It is becoming more and
more impossible to imagine ourselves back
in the legendary days when Shaw and Ches-
terton and Wells boisterously gambolled on
the smooth front lawn, when these literary
blokes really counted; when, indeed, they
were the only forces that counted ; the days
when the Suffragettes sufficed to provide the
world with excitement; when, it may still be
recalled, Sydney decided to build a Shaks-
peare Memorial Theatre; when the loss of a
mere Titanic could thrill a shuddering
world. No mind can henceforth shake itself
free from the impolite incubus of the war;
that Old Man of the Sea of blood sits
securely upon our braced shoulders. And
the proof of the permanence of this heavy
burden is, curiously enough, seen in the
efforts that the mind instinctively makes to
escape from this grey eclipsing shadow. At
our theatres we demand the flimsiest fare;
the average reader refuses to read war books,
and vainly attempts to drug her mind with
soporifics like W. J. Locke and Ethel M.
Dell. But even the most sheltered of novel
readers looks up from the most drugging
chapter hastily to scan a casualty-list. The
unwelcome guest has come to stay.
So Hugh Walpole, whose Fortitude, The
Prelude to Adventure, and The Duchess of
Wrexe served well enough that dead genera-
tion, finds it impossible to continue un-
troubled along his determined path. The
war has caught him, too. He can write about
nothing else for a public that, however un-
willingly, can think of nothing else. The
Dark Forest was, one half-remembers,
announced a 3 in preparation in the ante-
bellum days; but this Dark Forest (Seeker,
per Sydney Book Club) is surely a different
forest. For this forest is in Russia —at
least, its outward symbol is. For Walpole’s
forest is a forest of the mind.
Jt
The story is an absorbing one: it is a
piece of modern Russian literature written
by an Englishman. The tale tells of a little
group of men and women who make up a
voluntary Red Cross unit at the Russian
Front. There are two Englishmen: Dur-
ward, who tells the story, and Trenchard, a
divine English fool, a clumsy,_ inefficient
bloke, more Russian than the Russians. These
include the brilliant Russian girl who is
engaged to Trenchard; the brutal cynic, Sem-
yonov ; the placid, romantic dreamer, Nikitin;
'the fussy little fool, Audrey Yassilievitch, a
type that would rather upset Stephen
Graham, because there is nothing character-
istically Russian about him: there are lots
of him in Sydney. Walpole is interested
chiefly in the effect that war has upon the
human soul. In the dark forest there ever
lurks death, and all the characters are curi-
ous and excited about the beast and what
thejr will discover when they meet it face to
face.
The pictures of life at the Front are
painted with a compelling power. And the
reaction of the war upon the lives of this
strange collection of contrasting tempera-
ments gives the book a remarkable intimate
tone. It becomes a personal record, almost
a private diary, and yet the book is selec-
tive, a deliberate attempt at a work of art.
It has all the high seriousness and the
.beauty of a great Russian novel without
that element of elusiveness that is inherent
in the Russian soul. “If you begin specu-
lating about Russian expression you’re lost,
They express so much in their faces that
you think you know all their deepest feel-
ings. But they’re not their deep feelings
that you see. Only their quick, transient
emotions that change every moment.” Niki-
tin laughs at Trenchard, who had come to
see “romantic Russia, romantic war.” He
protests that the Russian is neither a savage
nor subtle. "We have simply a skin less
than you. We are a very young people, a
real and genuine democracy; and we care
for quite simple things, women, food, sleep,
money, quite simply and without restraint.”
J*
Walpole’s conclusion is that the effect of
war upon the human soul simply depends on
the human soul; and the effect upon any
particular soul would not be ! paralleled by
any other single~human being. He puts his
finger on a vital point when, he remarks
that “war is a hysterical business.” Upon
his graphic pictures of the shock of war
he looks back with a certain distrust. They
were true when he experienced them: they
seem exaggerated when he looks back on
them. “I believe that the experiences might
have occurred to anyone, must have occurred
to many other persons, but from the cool, safe
foundation on which now I stand it cannot
but seem exceptional, . even exaggerated.
Exaggerated, in very truth, I know that it is
not. And yet this life- —so ordered, so disci-
plined, so rational, and that life—where do
they join? I penetrated but a little way;
my friends penetrated to the very heart....
and, because I was left outside, I remain the
only possible recorder; but a recorder who
can offer only signs, moments, glimpses
through a closing door.” That seems a sound
psychology; that explains why, for instance,
a returned soldier prefers not to speak of his
deeper experiences. The reason is that he
cannot speak Af what war really meant to his
soul, b'ecause he cannot recapture that great
moment. Looking back on it, it seems quite
incredible. The two lives don’t join. The
theme of The Dark Forest is that only those
who are killed actually know —-in the moment
of meeting the beast face to face.
Here is Trenchard’s diary: “I am per-
fectly aware that when I’m out of it all,
when it’s even a day’s march behind me, I
shall regard it as frankly incredible —not the
thing itself, but the way I felt about it.
When I come out of it into the world again
I shall be overwhelmed xvith other people’s
impressions of it, people far cleverer than I.
There will be brilliant descriptions of
battles, of what it feels like to be under
fire, of marches, victories, retreats, wounds,
death —everything. I shall forget what my
own tiny piece of it was like—'and I don’t
want to forget.”
And what it is really like Walpole, affords
us unforgettable glimpses. Here is one:
“Under the sun up and down the road there
are dead and dying, Russians and Austrians
together. The Forest is both above and
below the road, and from out of it there
comes a continual screaming. There is every
note in this babel of voices, mad notes,
plaintive notes, angry notes, whimper-
ing notes. One Avounded man is very
slowly trying to drag himself across the
road, and his foot, which is nearly severed
from his leg, waggles behind him. One path
that leads from the road to the Forest is piled
with bodies and is a stream of blood. Some
of the dead are lying very quietly in the
ditch, their heads pillowed on their arms—
every now and then something that you
had thought dead stirs. And the screaming
from the Forest is incessant, so that you
simply don’t hear the shell (now very close
indeed).”
Hugh Walpole does not apologise for these
commonplaces of discovery ; for he points
out that “Some 10,000,000 human beings are,
in this war, making these discoveries for
themselves, just as I am. Who can tell what
that may mean?....War is made up, I
believe, not of shells and bullets, not of
defeats and victories. .. .not of smoke and
wounds and blood, but of a million million
past thoughts, past scenes, streets of little
country towns, lonely hills, dark sheltered val-
leys, the wide space of the sea, the crowded
traffic of New York, London, Berlin; yes, and
of smaller things than that —of little quarrels,
of dances at Christmas time, of Avalks at
night, of dressing for dinner, of meeting old
friends, of sicknesses, theatres, church ser-
vices, prostitutes, slums, cricket matches,
children, rides on a tram, baths on a hot
morning, sudden unpleasant truth from a
friend, momentary consciousness of G0d.”....
Every soldier contributes to the Avar his pri-
vate history and memories. -
The Dark Forest will be read for its
curious love-story, for its pictures of a
strange aspect of the Front, for its rather
inconclusive allegory, for its psychology of
the Russian; but most it deserves to be read
for its poignant analysis of the meaning of
war to the individual soul.
■Ft
F. Brett Young makes too obvious a use
of the Avar in The Iron Age (Seeker, per
Dymock’s Library). He introduces it
merely to extricate his hero from the usual
sentimental dilemma. Undoubtedly the war
has solved many a matrimonial trouble; and
the proportion of men whose wives, or the
lodger, have given them the opportunity to
become heroes may be larger than xye sus-
pect; but this solution of a novelist’s diffi-
culties is too easy, unless it is the logical out-
come of the plot. And in the case of The
Iron Age the recruiting office receives the
superfluous hero merely as the result of a
series of somewhat improbable accidents.
The hero elopes with the other man’s wife;
but on the train journey. their carriage is
slipped at the wrong station, along with a
carriage containing a corpse, under the
guard’s mistaken notion that the lovers were
part of the - funeral. There is no other train
to London till the next morning ; and the mis-
laid wife becomes frightened, or something—
F. Brett Young is not quite conxdncing on
this point—and clears for her brother’s
home, which, by another of the author’s
coincidences, happens to be within walking
distance.
But The Iron Age must not be judged by
this mechanical ending. The novel is finely
written and possesses an absorbing theme.
The hero hardly matters. The real hero is
the great Mawne steel-works, the pulse of
whose gigantic machinery throbs through the
whole story. The figure of Mr. Willis, the
father of the unnecessary human hero, and
the owner of these steel-works, is drawn in
the true vein of high tragedy. The gradual
break-up of this man, and the threatened ruin
of his ironworks by the sentimental foolish-
ness of his sop, are portrayed with a conyinc-
ing logic. All through there is the hint of the
coming Avar. And it is the war that surges
the gi’eat Mawne woi'ks. Staffoi’d, the in-
ventor of Titan steel, who becomes the mana-
ger of the worjks, is another individual figure.
He talks interestingly at the meeting of
dii-ectors: —-
“The old Bessemer converter was a rough-
and-ready way of making steel on a big scale,
You threw in your iron and your manganese
and your carbon and trusted to luck. And
you got steel of sorts. Good enough to build
the Forth Bridge with, but still uncertain.
Then people began to use certain rarer metals
that the electric furnace made possible in its
stupendous heat. Chromium and nickel for
armor-plating. Nickel is Krupp’s speci-
ality. Vanadium for the light strength of
motor-cars, always being rattled about.
Molybdenum, which has much the same
effect; it seems to prevent the crystallisation
of steel under vibration. Tungsten, from
which they make the high-speed cutting tools.
Titanium, which even before it was used for
steel had been found to make a tougher iron
casting. You know there are plenty of de-
posits of titaniferous ore in the world. Then
comes my steel. Titan steel we are going to
call it. Partly because there’s titanium in
it. That’s quite a harmless part of the
secret. ... .My steel is stronger than all these,
and tougher than all these, and harder and
lighter, and equally flexible and ductile, when
those qualities are wanted. It’s expensive.
I want a series of big electrical furnaces to
handle the thing on a commercial scale. The
plant’ll cost you £401100; but it will pay you
ia five years.” And when a Quaker member
of the Board asks where the enormous profits
are coming from, Stafford incautiously
answers, “Armaments.” That is enough for
the Pacifist: he withdraws his shares and
ruins the scheme. There, is no money to
got... .but the war arrives.
For its big theme, and its big handling,
and also for the commonsense manner in
which the author treats the usual “dramatic”
scenes between the hero and the wronged
husband, and between the husband and his
naughty wife: “This kind of situation gener-
ally ran to some kind of theatrical cliche:
something of the old flamboyant sort, or else
the new and strictly logical solutions of
Bernard Shaw.... in which the wronged
man had the opportunity of a life-
time to express the whimsical reflections of
an injurecf husband” —for these things the
usual novel-reader should be grateful to F.
Brett Young.
. •
Carolyn Wells, in N.Y. Bookman, neatly
rewrites “Tipperary.” This is how Rossetti
would have done it:—
That Blessed Irish Girl leaned out
From her father’s bar in Erin
Her eyes were greener than the bit
Of shamrock she was wearin’.
She had three suitors for her hand,
But little she was carin’!
The way to Tipperary’s long,
But I have got the fare;
To Piccadilly I’ve said ’By,
Farewell to Leicester Square.
I’m headed Tipperary way,
I’m off! (My heart’s right there!)
Tennyson would have rimed it thus: —
Lady Clara Vere de Vere,
Of me you shall not win renown;
I love a little Irish girl
Who lives in Tipperary town.
Where’er she he’s the place for me,
Though it’s a long, long way to go ;
Kind hearts are more than Leicester Square, -
And. simply joy than Norman’s woe.
But the final quatrain of Omar Khayyam
seems to be. the real oil:
Ah, Love, could you and I conspire and dare
To grasp this sorry.scheme of things that are,
Would we not shatter Tipperary, then
B(.’build it nearer, say, to Leicester Square?
And as Carolyn Wells has unaccountably
overlooked C. J. Dennis, it is up to us to do
our dash :—•
’Er name’s Doreen. . . .this bonzer peach I know..
You could er knocked me down wiv ’arf a brick!
And straight to Tipperary I must go.
It’s so-long Little Lon. and Ginger Mick!
She’s square, she ain’t no Piccadilly tart;
And she ’as stoushed me cruel in ther 'eart.
A long, long way?. .. .But if ’er eyes you’d seen!
’Er name’s Doreen !
—— .—o
A correspondent asks where he can pro-
cure a cloth-bound copy of the Poems of
Butters. The poems that this page recently
reviewed were all in unbound sheets; but if
the demand becomes imperious no doubt But-
ters will bring out a Collected Edition.
RE EDGAR LEE MASTERS.
With respect to the bard of Spoon River
I wish I’d half of he’s luck.
I’d nourish my brains with fish diet,
On Sundays I’d dine on roast Duck.
I can write horrors and thrillers. ,
Brimstone blue murder and snakes,
Poems that would make your blood freezeth.
Poems that would give you the shakes.
In calm’s and storm’s Ive drifted—
O’er the water’s of life’s rough stream.
To me the glitter of fortune
Is but an opium dream.
“Bellevive.”


m
m
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for EVERYTHING
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FOR
ARDATH Cabinet CIGARS
ARDATH CABINET CIGARS are justly popular, for the reason that they
are beautifully mild and aromatic, filled with a delicious blend of Selected
Tobacco, uniform in quality, and contain only a minimum of nicotine.
. DATH CABINET CIGARS are distinctly in the first rank of medium-
P I ICeC lgais ' They aie made under perfect conditions, and combine every point
of excellence demanded by the Cigar connoisseur.
at w a t^I N S T CIGARS ’ No - 444 and No. 666, can only be obtained
. " ACE EMPORIUM, and are Cigars that will be smoked with
appreciation by the most critical. We recommend these Cigars with confidence.
ARDATH CIGARS are packed in
artistically-prepared cabinets, fitted with a
spring catch, and make an ideal present for
any man. Our unique system of spot Cash
trading enables us to sell these High-grade
Cigars at prices which offer absolutely the
best value in the land.
States, Bd. extra. Box of 50: N.S.W., 9d.;
other States, 1/2 extra.
miin
>1 Util l
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST of TOBACCO, CIGARS and SMOKERS’ REQUISITES,
Posted Free on Request.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FOR THE SILENT
WHITE Sewing Machines
The WHITE embraces all that stands for efficiency in SEWING MACHINES.
No. 25V (shown partly open).
THE WHITE PINCH TENSION is with-
out a peer. It pinches the thread just enough
to produce a smooth, elastic stitch.
THE WHITE TENSION INDI-
CATOR shows the state of the tension at all
times. A tension can be changed or dupli-
cated in an instant.
THE WHITE TENSION RELEASED,
operating with a lifter bar, instantly removes
all tension from the thread.
THE DUST CAPS on needle. and presser
bars prevent the ingress of dust; hence easier,
smoother working.
THE WHITE DROP-HEAD AUTO-
MATIC LIFT is the latest improvement in
Sewing Machines, and is a WHITE feature.
The WHITE Vibrating Shuttle Machines are
elegantly constructed, and each machine has
nickel-plated head wheel, hanging centre panel,
and drawers at each side, with beautiful
swell front-furniture, the most attractive style
yet brought out. All WHITE Machines are
fitted with ball bearings, and supplied with
a full set of the latest-style Steel Attachments.
THERE is no better ttachine made than the
Renowned WHITE, which combines simplicity,
and economy with faithful construction and
finish. Write for Illustrated Price Lists, posted free on
World-
quality
elegant
request.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FOR
VALUE IN BOOKS
Everyman’s Library of Standard Literature.
EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY is exactly what its
name implies—a library for the professional man,
the business man, the young man, the student, and
all lovers of literature. There are over 700 titles
to select from in the EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY,
embracing the works of foremost authors in the
realms of Fiction, Poetry, History, Theology,
Travel, Biography and Essays of famous writers.
EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY is under the
general editorship of Professor Ernest Rehys,
and contains the best works that have been
written in all times and tongues, from Epictetus,
Cicero and Plutarch down to Dickens, Scott,
Ruskin and the other great Literary Lights of
the Victorian Era.
Each volume in EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY
is uniformly bound, and printed in largo, clear
type on specially made paper, and many are
illustrated.
m
Sectional Bookcase, to
hold 50 vols., 21/.
Anthony Horderns’ Price:
Cloth, 1 1- ; Full Leather, 2/-
Postage 2d. volume extra. Full list of titles post free. Send Is. 2d. for a
sample volume. The value cannot he surpassed.
Handsome Oak Bookcase (as illustrated) specially designed for Every-
man s Library, made in Fumed Oak. and fitted with novel interlocking
device, to allow for extension. Top Section, 6/-; Base Unit, 6/-; Book Section
(to hold 50 vols.), 8/6.
Anthony Horderns’
FOR THE
GEM JUNIOR
Safety Razor.
f-S*
%
A
GE
THe Man Who Uses the
GEM JUNIOR Safety Razor
MARES SHAVING EASY.
Slfd UN Th?v b ifn e h S ai 'v? aS Uli !\ aS an edge-holding piece of steel can possibly
be lolled, I hey can be sharpened time and time again, because they’re tempered
to receive an edge and to hold it when they get it y rem P erea
JUNIOR FRAME has a new BAR feature which carefully
spreads the skin so that the stubble is forced out far enough to give as close
tte ?al a tw“e n °° ly b ' Securad W “ h ans, °‘ her ra2OT “ tTwU bl gotog o?S
addiHnp E in G SVI UNT a S ? T is pa ? ed in substan tial Plush-lined Box, and in
addition to the Silver-plated frame and seven blades, includes a stropping handle.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, 5/-; by Post, 5/3.
EXTRA BLADES, 2/1 per Packet of 7, Post Pree.
m
OLD BLADES Made NEW
Save your old blades. After they
of revival by means of the ordinary
can renew the keen edge of the
patent power high-speed machine
Razors. It sharpens any Wafer
have passed beyond the stage
strop, the Safety Blade Expert
hand-ground, blade with the
specially designed for Safety
Safety Razor Blade.
ANTHONY HORDERNS' PRICE—I I Do*., 7d. Half-doz., Post Free
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd.
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace ILm-ooriiim,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


mm
m
m
m.
m
Wa
W////r
l1 7jmi7ininniuutli n
nmimm
PWS
MPnmnm
W
12, 16 and 20 Gauge
Right, Hammerless Repeating
Shotguns
Sportsmen differ as to whether a 12, 16 or 20 Gauge is
the best shotgun for field shooting, but the knowing
ones agree that the Winchester Model 1912 lightweight,
hammerless repeater is the one best bet in the shotgun
line. This Winchester being made in 12, 16 and 20
gauges permits an advocate of the big, medium or small
bore to indulge his fancy and be sure of getting a gun
that is true to its gauge in balance, weight and length.
All three gauges of this model are made of specially
selected materials. Nickel steel, which is twice as
strong as ordinary gun steel, is used throughout for the
metal parts in this Winchester. This means a light-
-weight gun without sacrificing safety or strength.
This gun has a cross-bolt trigger lock, a smooth,
quick and easy action, and a simple Take-Down
system. It loads and unloads easily and its shoot-
ing qualities are not excelled by the highest priced
double guns. There are many other pleasing and
exclusive features of this Winchester which appeal to
sportsmen that could be enumerated, but the gun itself
is the best evidence of its quality and desirability.
FOR A RFD FETTER DAY AFIELD,
SHOOT A WINCHESTER SHOTGUN |
\
Stimulates and
Restores the
Digestive Organs.
Vitafer
Invigorates the
Nervous System
V«»»/Kri*rf if
Southall Bros. 4 Barclay
v\
BIRMINGHAM.
British Owned
VITAFER is, and always has been, purely British in con-
ception, ownership and production. VITAFER, which has
I been before the medical profession and public since 1910,
was awarded the Gold Medal at the International Congress
of Medicine, London, August, 1913.
Vitafer
Aii-MritisKT°mcFssd|
succeeds where other Tonic Foods fail, as a restorative from nervous exhaustion,
debility, neurasthenia, etc.
AS FOOD FOR THE BODY—VITAFER increases vitality, builds
bone, nourishes tissue and increases weight without adding fat.
\ AS FOOD FOR THE BRAIN—VITAFER contains Organic
Phosphorus in the only form in which it can be perfectly utilised by the brain
and nervous system.
jj M R.C.S. iori'e\: “It may interest you to know that I have fourteen
patients taking VITAFER, and 1 cannot soeak too highly of it, I am using
it in Neuralgia. Neuritis, Debi.ity, Neurasthenia, etc., with exc»edin ly fine results.
Later. “ 1 am placing your preparation before all others, which accounts for
my having twenty-one patients now taking it.
N.B.—The moderate price places it within the reach of all.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists. 4oz, Boz, &16 oz. Prices, 3/-, 5/- o. 9/-
VITAFER is produced entirely by
SOUTHALL BROS. & BARCLAY. LTD., of BIRMINGHAM, Eng„
on old established and well known English Firm of high repute. (Founded 1820.)
All the processes of VITAFER manufacture are carried out in their own
works at TIPPERARY and BIRMINGHAM.
BRITISH
therefore
.BEST .
Ams No. WAT.
Double Seamer.
m
Make Your
Own Cans.
If you buy Tin Cans of any
description you are paying for
these machines.
WHY NOT OWN THEM?
Make your own cans and the
machines will pay for themselves.
Even the small Can Maker .or
Packer, whose output is only 5000
to 10,000 Cans per day, will save
money by using the
“AMS SYSTEM”
for making or closing Sanitary
Cans.
faw
We have machines exactly suited to your needs, whether
your output is 5000 or 100,000 Cans per day.
We will gladly send, without obligation prices and
pictures of machines adapted to your needs. Send us
samples of your cans or drawings with complete dimen-
sions, and state the quantity you make.
CORRESPONDENCE IN ALL LANGUAGES.
Address Dept. C-14
The MAX AMS
Machine Company,
Bridgeport, Conn.
Agents t
XV E HUGHES (Q, CO., Condon, E.C., England.
H. W. PEABODY <SL CO., Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed.
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
0*
\sv
EH
Works : Birminsrham, England.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
TO SOLDIERS and SHOOTERS.
Revolvers and Guns at
Greatly Reduced Prices
TRADE MARK
Snprial REVOLVER for trench warfare, 320-calibre, throw-open, blued, 5-
chambered, complete with pouch. PRICE, 27/6. D.8.8.L Hammer ess
GUN W. W. Greener wedge-fast crossbolt, 12-gauge, box spring triggers, au
matic patent safety snap action, pistol grip, walnut stock, engine-turned rib
MONTH’S TRIAL. Usually £lO/10/-. REDUCED TO £7/5/-. D-B' u
GUN, walnut stock, pistol grip, best blued steel barrels, tested, left barrel full
choke, right modified, rebounding locks, solid strikers. V. W. Greene
patent wedge-fast crossbolt. MONTH’S TRIAL. £3/12/6. ®UN
—FARMER’S FRIEND—I2-gauge, choke bore, pistol grip, English walnut
stock PRICE 45 /-. Orchard RIFLE, will not damage the trees, kill at
40 v'ards. PRICE 20/- Special line Rabbit Rifles, snipers, take 22
and‘22 lon- cartridgls, kill at 100 yards. FOR ONE MONTH ONLY 12/6
each. • Cartridges, 1/- 100. ~ Write for our Illustrated Catalogue.
SMALL ARMS CO.,
Importers and lndentors,
-231 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
TO THE PUBLIC and
THOSE ENLISTING-
You are doing the right thing by joining
the great European battalions fighting for
the peace of the world.
* * * * » * * , * * * • *
You have the chance now to write your
name in the great history of modern times—
to win the V.C., the D. 5.0., to be •
mentioned in Despatches.
***** *** ***
In war, as in peace, it is the athlete, the
strong, sound man that counts. Keep
yourself strong by taking with you
CLEMENTS TONIC
It is the Medicine that means Health.
ALL CHEMISTS SELL IT.


m
THE GREAT COLD
PREVENTIVE.
Wilson’s
Pino-Mentho
Pastilles.
The moment you feel you have a cold
coming' that same moment—act. Don’t
hesitate, or the cold may beat you.
Wilson’s Pino-Mentho Pastilles are wonder-
fully effective in checking cold. The
moment a pastille is dissolved in the mouth
the rich pine vapors are released and thor-
oughly search out the cold. Their soothing',
healing properties are immediately felt.
Always keep a tin handy—they’ll save you
a lot of trouble. Obtainable from all reliable
Chemists and Stores, 1/3 per tin. But
make sure it’s Wilson’s Pino-Mentho.
Alex. Wilson & Co.
17a Pitt Street, Sydney.
TEH DAYS’ FREE TRIAL.
Packed Free. All charges Prepaid to you*
Port direct from our Factory. Highest,
grade British-made MEAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears,
Flyer or Brook’s Saddles, etc.
m
•LATEST
MODELS
£3.10 to £9
Tyres and accessories half usual prices.
AfiFNTQ wantefl each district. Write
HUL.IIIU at once, using- sufficient postage,
for Free Art Catalogue and ou*
Special Offer on sample machine.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dept. A 282 LIVERPOOL.
n ARE- YOU _
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not onlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding opr Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind'if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel Springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE vet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT ‘ SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can vou ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt' is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
/ 349 Collins St., Melbourne. Vic.
IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Teeth.
-
Tkere are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort and good
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free, 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Tobacco
Kills!
m
MOST MEN would
cure themselves of
the Tobacco Habit if
they knew they could
do so easily and also
without causing
themselves discom-
fort. ... It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, uerypus col-;
lapse, tobacco cancer
and stomach, liyer or
kidney disease.
tobacco specific is a harm-
less, vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for good. It not destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating
from the system the Nicotine Poison of
Tobacco.
FREE SAMPLE.
Semi 2d. stamp and we will post you, under
seaied cover, a Free Sample, also our Book-
let T obacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces. Write for particulars and Book to-day.
H. SINCLAIR (Sb CO.,
Dept, a,
29 O’CONNELL STREET. SVPNEV. T 4.
u
BONN!
IRISH
COUGHS,
ORONCH»T*S,IMf
OP THE THOTi
N'SS'OK
r f
nr*
Bonnindton s
IRISH s moss
For Business Men
Keep a bottle of “ Bonnington’s Irish Moss ’’
on your office desk, or on the mantelpiece at
“ will quickly rid you of an annoying
or COLD, and relieve BRON-
CHITIS or INFLUENZA. Take none
but-
Beware of
Imitations
BONNINGTON’S
m
l
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
r-
□
: :
v.v.v: } v^y
£
•:V:
;; rypX
v#
&
Polish and
Protection
for the Finest
Finishes —
FINE finishes require proper care —whether
they are on furniture, pianos,
doors, banisters or motor cars. A thin, glass-
like coat of transparent wax rubbed to a brilliant
polish preserves and protects the original finish from
dust, grime and dampness, adding years to its life.
A Dust-Proof Polish
Oily polishes gather and hold the dust, soiling clothing,
linen and everything with which they come in con-
tact. Johnson’s Prepared Wax imparts a perfectly
hard, dry polish to which dust and dirt cannot adhere.
It never becomes sticky or tacky in the hottest
weather nor from the heat of the body—consequently
does not show finger prints.
You have dozens of uses of Johnson’s Prepared Wait.
Try it for cleaning and polishing your floors, linoleum,
woodwork, pianos, furniture, leather goods, boots, etc.
I
removes spots and stains that other cleaners won’t touch. It is
particularly good for ink spots. Unequalled for use on badly
stained floors, woodwork, furniture, motor cars—and in fact all
wood, metal and enamel surfaces. Just the thing for white
enamel of all kinds—woodwork, iron beds, etc. Johnson’s Cleaner
contains no acid"— it cannot injure the finest finish.
Use the Coupon
for trial packages of Johnson’s
Prepared Wax and Johnson’s
Cleaner— an ideal combination
for cleaning and polishing.
Address:
Motor Car Owners
You will find Johnson’s Cleaner
and Johnson’s Prepared Wax just
the thing for cleaning and polish-
ing the body, bonnet and wings
of your car. Johnson’s Clear.er
removes stains and spots like
magic. It doesn’t injure the fin-
est surface simply thoroughly
cleans and prepares it for a polish
with Johnson’s Prepared Wax.
S.C. JOHNSON & SON,
379 Kent Street
SYDNEY, N. S. W.
Write for any further in-
formation you desire.
2 S. C. Johnson & Son
| I enclose'6d. for trial tins of Johnson’s Prepared
| Wax and Johnson’s Cleaner.
| Xante
I Address
I
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Eheu!
So many things come back to me—
The wild bushland, the mountain bold,
The orchard turning into gold,
The winding road, the broken gate,
The river riding on in state,
The old grey mare, the little van,
The apples dropping in the can,
The evening fire, the quiet smoke,
The frogs’ unceasing, mournful croak,
And, worst of all, you, standing there,
The. wind’s caress about your hair,
Your tear-dimmed eyes that seemed to burn,
Your spoken words: “You won’t return” —
So many things come back to me.
N.S.W.
STANLEY A. KILMINSTER.
Doubt.
What were the dreams that you dreamed
last night
When the rain fell soft and the fire burned
low ?
You were more than fair in the sombre light,
And all for the moment I cared to know
Was that your sudden surrender filled
My heart with a joy that was almost pain,
Till the ghost of a haunting doubt was
stilled,
And peace fell soft with the falling rain.
For it seemed, till that wmnderful moment
passed,
You were wholly mine; but I ask to-day,
Though I held your beautiful body fast,
Was your swift soul soaring a world away
Pure and free as a great white bird?
Though the words you said to me plainly
show r ed
How at last your senses responsive stirred,
Was it only your beauty you bestowed?
Oh you were Sphinx-like with mystery,
And lam racked with a long surmise!
But who can tell what your thoughts may
be,
Who fathoin the depths of your shadowed
eyes!
Despair or anger, pain or delight—
Which would I feel could I only know
What were the dreams that you dreamed
last night, «
When the fain fell’soft and the fire burned
low?
VICTORIA.
NEVILLE GRACE.
The New Romance.
When first Romance had songs to sing
And magic tales to glad the throng,
Heroic manhood was the'thing
That made the burden of the song.
Though hero and brave knight have fled,
And chivalry, they sayi' is dead,
From time’s rough slaughter it escapes—
Romance still lives; in-newer shapes.
**■ As*.* 1
Though Helen, married, nfa3e a tale
That, as the world, must deathless thrive;
Though Cleopatra did not fail,
Though more than married, to survive
The dull conclusion “They were wed,”
The theme of old romance was led
Most times, at least, to this pMn thing—
A woman glad of Valor’s king. ?
But woman waked; and there upsprang
Romance shaped of a newer >kind,
That of a woman’s fancies sang;
To impulse freakish,’ now, not blind.
It made a long and complex tale
Of Did she love? or Would’she fail?
But, still, to this conclusion led—
The yarn was finished when she wed!
To-day a new Romance awakes.
The puling tale of lovers’ doubts
Seems pale and immature, and takes
A lesser place; while reason flouts
The splendid brute, who, for a prize,
Gained him the fairest lady’s sighs
And then —whatever might befall—
Held her his chattel, soul and all!
Dear, we have woo’d; our wooing stands
A sweet, first prologue of our play;
For tragedy may part our hands,
The tragedy of every day—
That sterner drama that controls
The thoughts of free and thinking souls!
Romance must help me play my part
To hold your heart, dear, hold your heart!
N.S.W.
HAMER.
Evening.
With gaudy hand' the vanquished day
Has tinged the west with saffron dye.
The ships ride gaily on the bay;
A little wisp of wind goes by.
The long light fades, serene and blind
To all the ache it leaves behind.
Each little wave that comes and goes,
Whispers the w 7 ord, “Forget,” “Forget.”
A fisher, singing as he rows,
Unheeding sets his greedy net.
And then I find my thoughtless hand
Has scratched her name noon the sand.
S.A.
GEORGE R. HAMBIDGE.
The Echo-Man,
He has filled himself with books,
With the notions of the dead;
All the conversation-brooks
? Feed his boundless watershed;
Lighter, brighter brains are clouds,
Floating ovei - , giving rain ;
He takes moisture from their shrouds
And then pumps it up again.
Decent fellow, if you like;
Still he has a cistern-drip,
And it gives a man the spike,
That d —d leakage from the lip;
He’s a barrel with a leak,
He’s a tap that never stops,
And of ev’ry word you speak
He will give you back some drops.
N.-S.W.
THE LITERARY PLUMBER.


RELIEF for RUPTURE
Our SPECIAL
ELASTIC TRUSS.
OENYER
PRICES
Single, 17/6,
Double, 22/6.
Why suffer discomfort? You can
secure relief by wearing our ELASTIC
TRUSS, which is COOL, SAFE, STRONG
and DURABLE. It has no steel spring
to chafe the body. The merits of this
truss are attested by all who use it.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
Denyer Brothers,
281 George St., SYDNEY.
(Opposite Hunter Street)
m
m
sapr.
3SS
m
ES-
m
m
| I o ' .
vammsm
|§p\
Wk\
l
m
TTIGH flying, fast-
-*■ going game ne-
cessitates a powerful
and ac-
curate
cartridge.
Try the
“ARROW” Brand
Obtainable from leading dealers every-
where catalogue post-free on request.
Remington Arms-Union
Metallic Cartridge Co.
Woolworth Bldg., New York City
St. Stephens House
Westminster, S.W.
London
Loaded in London
with the popular
English powders
Made
"in 8. 10,
12,16.20,
24 and 28 gauge
Australian Manager, D. D. BRYANT, Box 686, Melbourne.
m
m
m
The Story of the Lamp
VST
Mid Arctic Snows
Those quaint little people the Esqui-
maux have their lamps crudely carved of
soap-stone, wood, bone, or fashioned in clay
or from the skull of an animal. The lamps
of the Esquimaux serve for lighting, heating
and cooking, and many a weather-beaten
traveller owes his life to their comforting
warmth. But where one traveller found
comfort in the smoky, smelly lamp of the
Esquimaux—thousands find comfort in the
kerosene lamps and heaters of to-day.
Laurel Kerosene
The soft white light
Laurel cannot be excelled for lighting,
heating and cooking, as it is smokeless,
ordorless and colourless and burns with a
clear, flickerless light. Laurel is our new
trade mark name for the highest quality
American Kerosene ever sold in Australasia
and replaces our old brand, White Rose.
Insist on Laurel
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand
La. 4
m
m
m
s m
tm?.
SMITH’S
Four-Jet Carburetter
is the only one which gives maximum power with
maximum economy. Holds World s Record maximum
power —R.A.C. certificate—36 *6l miles to gallon 314 cwt.
car.
Fitted Standard, Crossley, Humber, Daimler,
Tillings-Stevens and Launchester, Sizaire-Berwick.
Follow Experts’ Advice.
Fit SMITH’S Carburetter.
Write full particulars to
S. SMITH SONS,
Lanchester, London, and
199 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
the great handcuff escape
Becofi*? a Famous Man of Mystery and make
a Big Income. Send One Shilling for full details
of this marvellous trick. Defy the police or
anybody to hold you with their own handcuffs.
No confederate or faked handcuffs used. It’s
easy when you know how v send free
description of Eight Amazing Mysteries that have
puzzled the entire world and made the repu-
tations of all the most celebrated magicians.
; The UNION CO.. 299 Elizabeth Street. Melbourne..
m
LIGHTNING CALCULATOR
Just what everybody wants. Errors m figures
often mean big losses. The Calculator can*
not err: a mistake is impossible./
Carry i*-inyour pocket like a Handsome /
Watch ft may save pounds the first /
time you use it. Strongly made, easily*
managed, quite simple. You can, for ,
example, multiply la an Instant
47 by 14 = 658, with the Calculator, \
Only 6/0 anywhere by registered post.
The Union Co,. 299 Elizabeth St.. Melb.
m
H
M
BEST
in the
LONG
RUN.
DUVAL & CO.
13 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY; 145 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE; 300 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
CORNELL LTD., Adelaide.
A. C. McCALLUM, perth.
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD, hobart.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 37.—N0. 1900.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 24, 1916.
6d ,
AT BAY.


Special Notice to Agents.
In consequence of the scarcity of paper, we
regret that we are compelled to discontinue
allowing for unsold copies of “THE
BUEEETIN.”
You will therefore be good enough to favor
us with an order for the minimum number
required.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(Ip Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6il. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £ 1 10s. per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, \’erse, Short 1 ales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return ail unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it ivill be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic, contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludaate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg: and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co.. Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., W Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, San Francisco;
Childs News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San
Diego, Cal.; Queen City News Co., Randolph and
Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 7 63 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn,' Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung’, Cairo, Egypt.
llon-o Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. —lK. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth. Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
lhoz., Id.: United Kingdom, All Sea Route. 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Slo.z. to 10oz., 21d.;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, joz., Id., and Id. each
additional 2oZ.
'27uTS&ZtI2dLZM J .
THURSDAY, AUGUST 24, 1916.
A MINISTER FOR BILLJIM JUNIOR.
Around the doorsteps of Fitzroy and
Woolloomooloo, about the tailings heaps of old
Australian diggings and all up and down the
band-box rows of every suburb, there grows
a lush crop which in its promise of harvest
is richer than anything the tropic North or
our best river flats can produce under hoe
or nlough. Spanish galleons never carried
anything like it; and no Arabian Nights’
wizard ever stored such stuff in his wonder
cave. Dirty or clean, shrill-voicesj or
modulated to the respectability of the front
lawn and brass knocker, it grows up 'to
manhood and womanhood at haphazard,
largely left to its own devices and shaping
its soul as the trees shape their blossoms.
Nobody can say that the result of such
shaping isn’t good; but anybody can make
a fair guess that the result might be better.
This privilege of childhood to follow its own
bent is not to be lightly interfered with by
sober elders whose faces crinkle with envy
of the sport they may no longer share; but,
without encroachment on the liberty of the
subject aged two or 12, a lot more could be
done for the Australian child than is being
done at present. Certainly, there are some
prison-houses called schools, and here and
there delightful playhouses where the kinder-
garten, which got its artificial start in
Germany and its improvements in Italy, is
brightly modified by sunny-hearted Austra-
lian women to the needs of our new land;
but, in the main, the child has less con-
sideration than several thousands of other
things of relatively less importance. Here
and there a political person talks about the
future and professes to aim at the better-
ment of the child’s condition when he grows
up; but suspicion is thrown upon the man’s
words and arguments by the knowledge that
he isn’t doing anything now and seems
oblivious of the patent fact that there is any-
thing to do. To provide for the future is
all right. No sane person would advocate
living in the present only. But the present
kid is a kid for the present only, and only
in the present is there a chance of doing
anything for him that is seriously worth
while.
* * * *
Nations have had all sorts of ideals —some
of them vapor, and some rooted and grounded
in truth. Egypt humped granite rocks for
50 qfnturies, and each block of stone put
in place it called progress. Greece floated
the webs of her white fancies out on the blue
skies of a wondering elder world, and did
some other things which have kept younger
worlds wondering ever since. Rome, with
her eye on law and order, smote with a
short two-edged sword till all men acknow-
ledged her will and had some stumbling, dim
comprehension of the idea behind the will.
Modern England fixed her national thought
on bales of trade and sang “Rule Britannia”
to the refrain of clinking gold until a great
war half revealed to her the truth that a
shop isn’t the last thing in the progress of
man. Australia has the field open to her to
do what none of the rest ever thought of
doing—to put the child in the front place
and give it the best possible time while it
is a child. No doubt as a nation we have
a lot of other things to think about and to
do, some of which we do occasionally think
about and some we dodge with steady en-
thusiasm ; but it is remarkable to what an
extent all fit and dovetail into the idea
of making the child really happy. Doing
that, and doing it properly, the result would
be an uplift all along the political line. And,
more than that, it would pay. Those earlier
years "of shouting, rollicking kidhood are the
formative years when the real men and
women are made; and if there is _ a
super-man to come along there is. nothing
more certain than that he will spring from
the race which saw to it earnestly and as
part of, its reason for existence that the
little ones had a good time.
* * * *
Let us make a start and put the new
scheme on a proper footing. We have Min-
isters for Railways, Lands, Labor and Cash.
Why not a Minister for Kids? No person
with intelligence above that of a roll-top
desk or with more imagination than a gas-
stove would dream for a moment of saying
that railways and the rest are of more im-
portance than the kid. The kid, as of
supreme importance,, has a right to have a
Minister all to himself, with a properly-
equipped Department of State, and no other
duties or business whatever except attending
to the kid’s needs. The Minister for the job
ought to be the very best man available—no
mere politician with skill to handle routine
work such as may fill the office of Treasurer
or Chief Secretary, but a man of vast sym-
pathy, big heart and tireless purpose, who
could bring imagination and devotion to his
fine task. The man who could fill with
honor such an office would become a king.
And it would be a man’s job, for women
hardly ever understand children. It might
well be the prize of all political prizes; for
the Minister who could fill the imagination
of the shouting happy infant and dominate
his fancy would hold a whole future genera-
tion of men and women in his hand. The
mere fact that there was such a post to be
filled ought to so appeal to the very best sort
of ambition that the noblest talent of the
State would be thrown into politics; and
the shabby parties and cliques and wire-
pullers might suddenly wake up to the
amazing fact that the game had become clean
and that they had no longer any part or lot
in it.
* * * *
But all this is based on the supposition
that the Ministry for Kids Would be a reality
and not a mere artificial thing dealing in a
formal and scheduled way with the supposed
improvement of the youngest citizen. Let
the educational part of the business remain
where it is, to be altered for the better from
time to time whenever the man with the
axe might get in a cut; but the job of the
Minister for Kids would be to serve the
kids, to follow out their ideas—the most
joyously rational ideas in all the world —and
minister in all possible ways to their happi-
ness and pleasure. He would be there, too,
to protect them. What are the rights of a
grown man and woman as compared with
the rights of a child! With a Minister of
his own to take his part and defend him,
many a household slipper wielded for the joy
of causing suffering, though in the name of
righteousness, would descend on other limbs.
Even at the risk of setting Department
against Department and official against
official, the Minister for Kids would follow
his own into the grim and sombre prison of
school and the person with the cane might
have to break for cover at his entrance. And,
with the right man in office and the right
staff to do his bidding, what a glad shout
would ring out on all the air, what a glory
of increased smile extend through the happy
grime of sunny days! It would be well
worth the cost —well worth the big figure
that in decency it ought to cost.
THE LAKE OF THE GREAT BEAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From; Petrograd we went down the River
Neva, between rows of great skeletons . of
battleships whose sleek .sides must be float-
ing in the water by now, past the fortress
of Kronstadt, where two Russian destroyers
out of pure devilment upset our eouilihrium
with a stern wave as big as a Pacific
comber, and so into the P>altic Sea. At
10 p.m. the sun set, a red ball, but at
midnight it was still light enough to write,
and by 3 a.m. it was-broad day again.
At Helsingfors, for the first time since
at Vladivostock we had been caught in the
cogs of the vast Russian machine, we had
to show no passport. Helsingfors is the
capital of Finland. Finland, as everybody
knows, is a gaunt, frost-ridden country up
near the polar circle, inhabited by a few
salt-rimed fishermen trembling under the
shadow of the Tsar. Its great wide squares,
gay public gardens, besprinkled with open-
air cafes; its monuments and public build-
ings glowing in the glorious sunshine of
the Baltic summer; its people, alert and
smiling, well dressed and prosperous; its
benign-looking gendarmerie, not Russians
but Finns; its busy market-place floating
picturesquely on the water; its bookstalls,
gymnasia and national theatres; its general
kemptness—all these things successfully
hide the wounds of a downtrodden people.
Nineteen women sit in the Finnish legis-
lature. Strong, independent-looking women
work with men in every branch of life.
Finland has its own army, schools, money
and Customs tariffs. The downtrodden Finn
can go about his own country without _ a
passport; the Russian cannot in his.
Although climate makes farming in Finland
very precarious, a disappointed immigration
agent of the Victorian Government, himself
a Finn, informed me between Helsingfors
and Stockholm that so inured were his
fellow-countrymen to tyranny and oppres-
sion that he had not been to obtain a
single recruit among them desirous of
sharing the unfettered freedom of the Aus-
tralian worker.
The weather is mild spring, and in
normal times half the leisured population
of Russia and Finland is scattered along
the coast among the teeming islands in
sailing boats and seaside chalets. In winter
the course we are taking is covered by
horse and sleigh. At Stockholm we enter
a canal built a hundred years ago, and the
little steamer is lifted by means of some
70 locks, stepping up as if she were mount-
ing flights of gleaming stairs until the
Baltic Sea glimmers hundreds of feet
beneath her, and she continues her voyage
along the ci’est of the hills into the heart
of Sweden, with roads, wheatfields and the
roofs of villages away below her. She
comes out at Gbteborg, in the North Sea,
235 miles distant.
For six months of the year Sweden seals
up her houses, swaddles herself in clothes
and hibernates in ice and snow and dark-
ness. Then she has two months of the
most glorious weather in the world. She
throws off her winter garments and wallows,
en famille, 'in perfect naturalness. Fine
wholesome nudity stands on a rock and
waves to passing excursionists, who, if
Swedes were wowsers, and apparently they
are not, would capsize their vessel in the
scramble to get a nearer view of the abomi-
nation. But Sweden takes no more than
passing notice. Which shows how custom
stales even the best things of life, for
Swedish women are so blest by Nature that
they can slough their winter clothes without
misgivings.
At Gbteborg the ante-bellum traveller
could book a sleeper straight through to
Berlin. Reaching the Baltic the train
quietly slid into the bowels of a magnificent
liner, and in the morning, looking through
the window of your berth, you found your-
self speeding through the ordered landscape
of Germany. Nowadays we trust the
Russians are looking after that.
A gazetteer will tell you that the Baltic
Sea is shallow, that it has no tides and that
its coasts are subsiding. It will omit to
point out, what is far more important, that
it is not really a sea at all, but a lake.
That is the tragedy of Russia. The Russian
Empire, with its eight million square miles
of territory and its 129 millions of people,
has less open coastline and fewer ports and
harbors opening on the se”a than Tasmania
with its 26 thousand square miles and its
177.000 inhabitants. The Black Sea is a
Turkish lake, the Baltic a German lake;
Vladivostock and Archangel are closed ports
for half the year. Something of the feeling
of the Russian people in their arctic isola-
tion can be appreciated if we imagine the
Great Barrier Reef completely encircling
Australia, save for a couple of passages,
the _ one held by a decadent tribe of
aborigines maintained in possession by the
jealousies of neighboring powers, the other
dominated by the filibustering navy of an
aggressive enemy.
Russia is sated with the earth but hungry
for the sea. Since the breakdown of the
Dardanelles and Mesopotamian campaigns
a growing faction in England has begun
noisily clamoring for peace with Bulgaria
the fratricide, and Turkey the slaughterer
of Armenians. It would be an easy way
to end the war, and the dogs of peace, who
prefer reflections to real bones, have eagerly
seized on it. But it would mean the
betrayal of Russia —Russia which on three
occasions has saved the Allied bacon—and
it would sow a crop of troubles for pos-
terity to _ reap. It would leave Germany
supreme in the Black Sea as well as the
Baltic, and there is more hope for the con-
tinued peace of the world in the legitimate
expansion of the Bear than in the confine-
ment of his enormous strength behind iron
bars which in the fulness of his time he
would break like rotten sticks.
FENG-SHUI.
A CONSPIRACY TO SUSPEND CITIZEN
RIGHTS.
In N. S. Wales a general election is on the
horizon, and the electors’ turn to have
a deal is coming round. But they
are not going to get hold of the pack
if some people can have their way.
The furtive suggestion that the Parliament
should devise a method of breaking its con-
tract with the electors was put into definite
form the other day, when Sydney Telegraph
suddenly rolled up its sleeves and started
rummaging for reasons why the mere tax-
paying people should be cut out of the
scheme of government. The principal one
it discovered and nailed to the mast was
this: —■
It would be lamentable to find the country plunged
into a whirling political dispute, with all the
violences of party conflict, while the war is in pro-
gress.
Next day it solemnly announced that it had
interviewed someone (name and address
omitted), who thought the paper’s opinion
was “poignantly appropriate.” It also dis-
covered that among the politicians there was
unanimity as to the desirableness of pro-
longing the life of Parliament ( i.e ., allowing
members to draw in peace and quiet the
wages they surreptitiously increased), but
“when it came to the question of whether
a truce should be declared immediately, or
after the Government had disposed of the
contentious programme it now has in hand,
the opinions differed.” About that there
seems to be something poignant as well —
the poignancy of doubt as to whether the
bacon can be saved. Heaven only knows
who pulled this wire; but as the Telegraph
is a devoted barracker for “Liberal prin-
ciples,” it seems a fair thing to conclude
that one of these principles is to incite poli-
ticians to shirk their job and throttle the
citizens. If Opposition-leader Wade con-
templates going to the country decorated
with doctrines of that sort, he must be duller
even than The Bulletin suspected.
* » * *
The allegation that it would be “lamevt-
able” to hold an election has no more point
than a charge that it would be “illegal” or
“hilarious” or “bigamous.” Why should it
be “lamentable” instead of a perfectly proper
thing? Since the war began there have been
elections for the Federal Parliament, for the
Legislatures of Bananaland, Westralia,
S. Australia and the Speck, and for the
Doddery department in Victoria. There
have been by-elections to the usual number
in every State. What has there been in these
elections more “lamentable” than could be
found in elections held prior to the war —
and to be confidently looked for in those
which shall rage afterwards? This paper
has not heard anyone explain that the Allies
were prejudiced in ' their campaign because
Maryborough had been in the throes of an
election at a critical moment, or that the
Russians had been hampered through Hobart
being riven by fierce disputation instead of
standing shoulder to shoulder united in
an inflexible determination to give three
cheers. What it does know is that the
armies of France appeared to derive such
encouragement from the prolonged row in
Westralia that they flung the Hun back at
Verdun, and that as soon as Scaddan had
been outed the Australians leaped on the
enemy at Pozieres and have been leaping at
him ever since. The whole weight of avail-
able evidence, then, is that it would be a
“lamentable” mistake not to hold elections
as frequently as possible. It gives the utmost
encouragement to our lads in the trenches
when they learn that the old folks at home
have still got a punch and are using if. To
deny them this comfort would be “lament-
able” parsimony. But it isn’t the expense
that troubles the politicians. At every elec-
tion held in Australia since peace fled from
the face of the earth the Government has
been tossed out; and that is not at all
encouraging to politicians, who, being fairly
comfortable, even if in Opposition, prefer
to leave well enough alone. The comfort of
politicians is not the main consideration,
however. What sort of scandal would it
have been if at the beginning of the war the
Buttermilk Government had announced an
intention of inflicting itself on Bananaland
until the fight was over? How" would a simi-
lar proclamation from Scaddan have been
received in Westralia? In neither case
would the dodge have been so indecent —so
base a betrayal of the public—as it would if
practised by the Parliament of N. S. Wales.
For the sins of that Parliament have been
scarlet.
*• * * * ’
The Bulletin finds it. hard to believe
that people who coquet with proposals for
disfranchising citizens “because of the
war” expect their display of alleged patriot-
ism to be taken seriously. It was never
more imperative than now that, crude
though the methods of ascertaining it may
be, the verdict of the Australian people
should be passed upon politicians in the
State and Federal arenas. There is no
war on the premises or in the back yard.
Even if there was. that would be no reason
for retaining Governments in otlice if the
people considered them a peril. France has
not hesitated to throw Governments on the
scrap-heap because of war. She has
scrapped three and will in all likelihood
do the same thing again. And there are
institutions in Australia which could go
on the heap with great profit to
the nation. By that process the country
would be released of more than one
incubus it can ill afford to carry. One-
eyed patriots and superior persons who
imagine that, by putting a gag in the
public’s mouth and engineering fuses and
truces, they can set up forms of government
more satisfactory than any that, would be
chosen by the electors, are plentiful every-
where. And their record is everywhere the
same—dismal failure. To them elections
are always “lamentable.” Parliaments are
“lamentable.” Everything is “lamentable”
—except the hole and the corner, and the
regulation, and the muzzle and the chloro-
form pad. But to those others who regard
political disputation as a sign of social
strength it would be a thousand times more
lamentable to see the people of N. S. Wales
or any part of Australia deprived of their
privilege of participating in government and
meekly assenting to the dictation of party
manipulators. For three years the electors
of N. S. Wales have watched the State
Parliament floundering deeper and deeper
into the mire. They have seen a Ministry
give an almost unparalleled exhibition of
how profligate a Ministry may be. The
sole appeal of that Government now
is to cupidity and ignorance. Its behavior
prior to the war was scandalous. Since
the war it has been hideous. And between
this disreputable institution and the people
—the latter with statutory rights by which
they can clear up the untidiness if they
want to —there comes this blithering pro-
posal to let the disgrace continue. And the
excuse for it is that there is a war on!
The fact that there is war is the best of all
reasons why the public should be heard
from, and an unanswerable reason for talc-
ing a sharp pull at an animal which long
ago kicked holes in the cash-box and bolted.
Meanwhile the cheerful thing about it all is
that there is this “Liberal” approval for
more bolt and a Liberal yearning to hitch
no its waggon in the demented procession.
Is this brand of “Liberalism” quite mad?


GOOD IRON AND OTHER THINGS.
The iron and steel industry «g.eans more
to Australia than the employment of a
certain number of men and the distribution
of a certain amount of wages; but even
from that point of view it is of such vast
importance that, having got it, we shall
surely be prepared to make some temporary
sacrifices to keep it. The Broken Hill
Proprietary Co. has just issued a report
which has a bearing on this question. So
far the company has put over two millions
into the business. Its plant and works at
Newcastle alone have cost over a million
and three quarters; and, encouraged not
only by the excellent quality of the steel but
also by the keen Australian demand for it,
plans and estimates for further large addi-
tions are in hand. Some of that million
and three-quarters has been paid to the
.foreign steel-maker for plant; but the
greater part of it has gone to Australian
workmen, and so back to the Australian
trader, and through him to other Australian
workmen. The money spent in construc-
tion, however, is a mere bagatelle compared
with the money spent in operation. The
“wages, salaries and expenses” accounts for
the three half-years of the works’ existence
have run to these totals: May, 1915,
fi11,490; November, 1915, £314,225; May,
1916, £450,446. Nor does that represent
the aggregate of the expenditure in Aus-
tralia —such money as in former times went
to the strengthening of Germany and other
foreign countries. . For incidental industries
have been established; and more will be
established. The coke business alone is of
first-rate importance. The output in the
six months was 55,405 tons; and the co.
wanted much more than that. To make
this quantity of coke something like 88,000
tons of coal were required, and that meant
more than tuppence for the coal-miner.
Fifteen years ago the whole Australian out-
put of coke did not amount to so much;
and a few years prior to that there was
practically no output at all, because Stink-
ing Fish had decided that Australian coal
wouldn’t make coke.
* * * . *
Just as the metal-smelting business has
developed the coke business, so inevitably
from the coke business will spring other
industries. Already, within the last three
months, this Broken Hill Prop. Company
has begun the manufacture of sulphate of
ammonia; and that means another aid to
intense, cultivation and closer settlement,
which is of great national importance. The
recovery of other chemical by-products, such
as . benzine and toluine, on which Germany
built so much of her vast commercial power,
will be only a matter of time, given indi-
vidual . diligence and national Protection.
And with these chemicals the way will be
made easier for the production of high
explosives, which will in process of time
cheapen. the costs of mining, and among
other things reduce our costs of steel-manu-
facture. In the making of an industrial
nation nothing succeeds like success. Build
up one industry and the other industries
that follow make the original industry
easier and more profitable. We have not
got very far yet with our coke industry.
Nevertheless what 25 years ago could not
be put out for less than 225. 6d. per ton is
now available at well under 155.; and in the
days when foreign managers persuaded Aus-
tralian smelting companies that the Aus-
tralian coke was hopeless, their costs were
loaded with English and German coke at
from. £2 17s. 6d. to £3 7s. 6d. per ton, w r ith
the inevitable result that large quantities
of silver-lead, copper and other ores which
would now add millions of pounds to the
realised wealth of Australia were discarded.
* * * *
From all of this the plain lesson is that
no manufacturing industry is so insignificant
that we can afford to disregard it. Every
newspaper reader has had thrust under his
eyes large areas of print regarding “the zinc
problem.” It was one of the two or three
matters that took Prime Minister Hughes
to England. Yet it is only within the last
dozen years that there has been any zinc
production in Australia at all. When this
young Commonwealth of ours was born
there were many million tons of zinc ore
lying in heaps in various parts of Australia.
They were “tailings”: the chaff from which
the grain—the lead and the silver—had been
winnowed. But some small chemist brewed an
oil of eucalyptus; and with that oil, mixed
with a little sulphuric acid and water, it was
found to be possible to extract the zinc from
these waste heaps. What has been done in
that way during the past dozen vears is
hardly credible. This one Broken Hill com-
pany has handled over three million tons
of waste.” But. unfortunately, because
Britain was as blind as we, and more
blamable because we were weak and she
was strong, the product was sent to Ger-
many for final treatment; which meant that
Germany had the command of the metal.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Obstruction that Must be Cleared.
The question of liquor or no-liquor, of
enough liquor or less liquor, must somehow
bo put out of polities. Recently in N S.
Wales a vote was taken on the question of
six o clock closing. The vote need not have
been taken at all, because the Military
authorities had the power to do all that
the public ballot did without expense or
turmoil; but the chief excuse for taking the
Poll was that it was necessary to come to
some finality and get the whole question out
or the road. By the six o’clock vote it was
understood that Bung was to be tied up on
condition that the anti-joy, anti-beer crowd
lay down and kept quiet until the war was
over. Bung is tied up. but the other mob
is not keeping faith. It is as noisv and
aggressive as ever, and as determined as
before that Australians shall not be allowed
to think or act on any big question while
there is a possib iity of making a racket
about its own tinpot notions of reform
Maoriland had long experience of this sort
of thing. While Cold Tea raged up and
down the land it was impossible to get the
public mind centred on questions of larger
public interest; and under cover of the dust-
storm created, Ministers were allowed to
carry out their borrowing schemes almost in
secret and to dodge and delay the passing of
vital legislation. If the people of N. S.
Wales are wise they will insist upon
drastically dealing with the situation which
has arisen and which grows more dangerous.
The backward and forward swing of liquor
and anti-liquor parties in Maoriland Shows
that no finality is to be reached by means of
the triennial Local Option vote. ' That vote
merely tends to keep a question alive which
ought to be dead and buried. Let one final
referendum, then, be taken in which the
public _ is given the opportunity of
answering yes or no to almost every con-
ceivable question that can be asked about
the sale of liquor. . Let it be distinctly laid
down that the opinions then recorded are to
be given legislative effect to for 25 years—
one whole generation. Then, whatever the
result, the field of politics will be clear and
the umbrella furled for a long spell. No
doubt even then mad enthusiasts would try
to create a further uproar; but these could
be sternly dealt with. Some mikl punish-
ment, like eating a barrowload of dirt on the
Town Hall steps, could be meted out to the
offenders. Short of some such serious
attempt to grapple with the problem,
the time will come when the people
will rise and put the disturbers of their
peace into concentration camps, there to
preach Cojd Tea and coercive moral reform
in perpetuity to the surrounding barbed wire.
Starting Compulsory Service at the
Right Spot.
There is no reason why the call for com-
pulsory service should be confined to those
who may be able to go out and take the
Turk by the beard or chase the Kaiser’s
troops off the map of France. It is the
whole country that is at war, not merely
the part of it that can handle a rifle. The
staying power and the power of recovery
after the stress and strain depend largely
upon those who stay at home. If the theory
of citizen war service is good—and nobody
has discovered any argument more subtle
than a loud yell of disapproval against it
—that war service ought to apply all round,
as well to the tasks of peace in war-time as
to the tasks of war in time of peace. Any
country that was really in earnest to go
on with its job ought to welcome a time
like this when it could legitimately get
hold of the shirker and force him into line
with his more strenuous fellows. Every
idle person in the community is, in effect,
a shirker. The people who work have not
only their own tasks but must also carry
the full weight of the loafer in the tool-bag.
A man may be 55 and 89 inches round the
brace-buttons, and still be a far worse
shirker than the young man of 25 whose
feet grow cold when he thinks of his mother
trying to struggle along on a fraction of
his military pay. A fair start might be
made by the conscription of the worst
shirkers of all—the party politicians. The
mere breathing of pre-election hot-air is not-
service rendered to the country; and it is
about all these people ever do for a living.
No doubt to take them, force rifles into
their hands and tell them to march to the
destruction of the foe would be sheer waste
of time. They wouldn’t do enough destruc-
tion in a year to be worth the waste of a
day’s time by the person who drilled them.
The compulsory sendees demanded of them
in the name of the country should be simply
attention to the work they are paid for and
for which the people elected them. We
have given these politicians a long run under
the present system and they have done
nothing. As a matter of national war
economy they should now be compelled to
do something and to do it quickly.
«
Trade Organisation.
Private Enterprise seems to be doing its
dishonest worst to ruin an Australian indus-
try of great promise. The Ross family, of
Waikerie (S.A.), know just about all there
is to be known about fruit, and one of the
boys, writing from Egypt, describes some
samples canned in Australia and received in
a gift parcel:—
Many of the tins were rusty; the apricots, which
had been split anyhow, were squashy, and were
contained in muddy-looking juice. Owing to the
presence of some absolutely green fruit, the contents
of each tin tasted sour It is quite impossible to
buy a tin of Australian fruit in Egypt, but some-
times we fird a few tins among the gifts sent from
Adelaide. The explanation [of the absence of Aus-
tralian fruit from the market] is easily discernible
m the inferiority of the Australian product.
The soldier goes on to say that all the
troops spend much of their spare cash in
buying fruit. And all of it, bar the pine-
apple, is from Canada, which sends dozens
of brands, all good and all alike
when opened. The optimistic Boss says
Australia “could capture the British trade,
and that of Egypt and India, and possibly
also that of all the allied nations.” But—
No real progress could be made until all the can-
ning factories were brought under the control of
some sort of an Association, which could enforce
the production of stuff of the desired quality, under
inspection, and adopt one label with a prominent
“Australia” as part of the design.
Without question we shall require more of
this national direction of trade in the future.
In the economic struggle which is going to
follow the war we shall find that German
trade products will be dumped upon foreign
countries with just as much method as the
Ilun armies have been flung at the Allies.
-The State and the banks have assisted to
keep the German factories going during the
war on that very condition—that the State
shall have the right to nominate the target
at which the accumulated products shall be
fired. When Germany takes foreign trade
in hand that way, it is inevitable that,
though it loses now, it will win then, unless
it is met by equal organisation.
*
The Immigrants We Pay to Get.
From England:—
Lately I travelled here third class from Australia
on the Omrali, and struck the returning “pommy” in
all his (and her) misery. The majority had been
“out” something under three years, and, of course,
had learnt all about Australia in that time. The food
was neither first-class hotel fare nor first-class bush,
but if anything specially bad was put on the board
it was immediately condemned as “Horsetralian
stuff!” Talking to what appeared to be a finer type
than the ethers, I discovered that he had been
“farming” in the south-east of South Aus. His
indictment ran thus: “A man has to farm at least
500 acres to make a living. Then the Government
don’t help to plough the land, nor assist in the
harvesting, and if they want to boom the country,
well, they should, you know.... And the price of beer
is too high.” Another had left England the pre-
vious November with her husband and family, and
the week after arriving in Sydney the male had
enlisted, for “the money was so much better than
what he could get at ’Ome.” He had made an
allotment of 4s. a day to her, and now she was re-
turning ’Ome with 28s. per week, a separation allow-
ance. and something thrown in for the children. Still
another was a returned soldier, whose only experience
of active service was gained in “the Battle of the
Wazza.” He was returning home on a pension, and
was swaggering about very proud of the fact —or
fiction—that “90 per cent, of the men who fought in
Gallipoli with the A.I.F. were British immigrants.”
This, by the way, is a popular belief on this side.
Surely we can have the figures to prove that the
vast majority were Australian-born? Out of nearly
600 in the steerage I could only pick out a dozen
who were not weeds or weaklings, and most of them
were Australian bushmen. Surely the genius who
selects these misfits and sends them out to do battle
in a country that requires the best and bravest of
the race should be told to take a long holiday. Yet
the ship’s officers assured me that the miserable team
were above the average of “returned empty” ship-
loads. I suppose we must reckon on a certain
proportion of misfits ; but my fellow-travellers were
so obviously unsuited to Australia that I can’t make
out why they were ever selected. How much spare
money have we to waste in this branch of importa-
tion ?
*
At last, it seems, the Vic. Government has
resolved to close 10. German Lutheran schools
where children of alien parentage are in-
structed in the language, faith, history and
Kultur of their forebears. Four months ago
the V'ic. Council of Education passed a reso-
lution to the effect that these hotbeds of
Germanism were undesirable things to have
in our midst. One of the professors aptly
termed them “centres of hostility.” But
somehow this resolution was afterwards
modified, whereupon Theodore Fink, who
was fully informed of the anti-British bear- .
ings of the schools, resigned from the Council
in disgust. The Government did nothing at
the time. Peacock appeared to be waiting
to hear what public opinion would say
about it. But when Hughes returned to
preach his anti-German doctrine in Mel-
bourne, the State Government at once found
cause why the cancerous educational growth
should be cut out. There never was any
excuse for permitting these enemy Kultur-
fartns to remain in operation. On the con-
trary. there always has been a good and
strong reason why the children of aDy par-
ticular brand of aliens should not be massed
together for educational purposes in remote
country districts, or, for that matter, in
crowded towns either. As it turns out,
only one brand of a’ien has wanted this
privilege; and there was evidence of grave
danger in that very fact.
« .
In Maoriland, where they nang on to the
Grand Jury system, one of these institutions,
dismayed by the number of cases of sexual
offence listed for hearing, told the Court at
Wellington (before the cases had been heard,
by the way) that a law should be passed
providing for mutilation “in extreme cases
in order to prevent a repetition of the
offence.” If crime of any kind could be
stopped, or even its repetition by indivi-
duals prevented, by barbarous practices
on the human body, the necessity for police,
judves and Grand Juries would have van-
ished long ago. All forms of violence have
been tired, and the only certain thing about
the experiments is that they were futile. Men
and women have been banged and had their
bowels torn out and been cut up into mince-
meat : have been burned and and
flayed; have had their teeth pulled, their
eyes gouged out and their ears cropped;
been starved, mutilated, kicked, punched’
flung into the sea, strangled, flogged, boiled
in oil and buried, alive. It was all done in
tae name or _ justice. The object was to
stop something. But nothing was stopped
except the carnival of horrors. It had been
iu vain. To prevent repetition of a sexual
or any other offence by a given individual
is a simple enough matter. Segregation will
do it. And a community that will not face
segregation is not likely nowadays to
employ a staff of official mutilators. Iu any
case repetition of an offence is not what
the community needs to be protected against.
It is the prevention of the first offence that
is the great social problem.
+
About dyes and other things
Some years ago Hun manufacturers offered to instal
coke ovens at several of the big-gest English collieries.
Being philanthropists, they were prepared to do the
job for nothing, and hand over the whole of the
output of coke. The only stipulation they made was
that they should get the by-products. Up to the
momentous fourth of August, 1914, coal-tar products
from these ovens were sent over to Germany and
converted into aniline dyes, which were supplied to
British manufacturers at prices no doubt sufficient to
show the exploiters a decent margin of profit. Well-
known dyes, with a reassuring English label, which
sold largely on this market for 30 years were all
brought from Germany and re-packed in the English
factory, both for home consumption and export. The
first aniline-dye factory in London was started in
Hackney Wick, N.E. ; but the Huns got control and
took the whole box of tricks across the North Sea,
and the English works became a harmless paper-
cutting factory. Now, there is no sense in strafing
Germany over these things. Germany simply did
what we weren’t prepared to do ourselves. It didn't
use force or guile. It merely used brains and organ-
isation; its people were willing to work, and did
work; and its Government collaborated with those
who were prepared to carry on an industry. This
war will leave us just where we were unless we do
something to ourselves. We can lick the Germans ;
but the worst .licking we can possibly give them
won’t put them further behind us than they were 40
years ago; and still they caught up. We shall be
beaten commercially in the future as we were in the
past unless we improve our own methods. And we
are not improving them. On the contrary we have
eased off production; and until we get rid of this go-
slow poison in our system, we haven’t a hope.
That plain, straight-going, businesslike
conveyancer, George Turner, naturally had
a healthy contempt for George Beid and all
his tricks. After Reid had voted Yes and
spoken No, and when N. S. Wales had not
answered Yes on the first Federation vote
owing to the fake majority required, Reid
proceeded to pose as the chap who could
save Federation. He had, however, to pre-
tend to wring from the other States some
concession; and he called on Turner to fix
the matter. Plain George was by now very
tired of the other George. Reid demanded
the capital for N. S. Wales. Up to that time
the capital might have been anywhere, and
the chances are that—temporarily, at any
rate —it would have been in Sydney had a
simple majority vote for the Bill- been
effective. At the conference Turner
talked of the hapnv disappearance of the old
bad feeling between Sydney and Melbourne,
and said that of course Reid’s idea was to
make sure of the capita] for Sydney, which
would cause bad feeling again. Reid
was horrified at the suggestion; nothing
was further from his mind. On the
contrary, within a year or two a
city to rival Sydney would grow up
somewhere or other on the hieh lands of N.
S. Wales. That was all Turner wanted,
lie took Reid at his word —made it impos-
sible for Sydney or any place within 100
miles of Sydney to be the capital, and (as
he was assured it really didn’t matter where
the temporary capital was, as it would only
be for a year or two) got that as a small
quid pro quo for Melbourne. This was just
on 20 years ago and the capital is still there
and likely to be there for perhaps another
20. Sydney lost even the shadow. Mel-
bourne gained the substance. George Reid
went home simulating a victory but surely
feeling that a plain, unassuming negotiator
had made a mere chopping block of him.
:~
Hughes, letting off hot air at Fremantle,
talked about the indelible mark that the
British race has carved, and which neither
time nor circumstance can obliterate. Such
stuff is strikingly like the chloroform which
has doped the nation in peace and war, and
brought it so near irreparable disaster. Of
course the British nation has left an indelible
record in history. So have the French, the
German, the Russian; so has every other
nation. Without anyone of them history would
not be what it is. Even the Koreans and the
Australian abos. contributed something to
history. And a lot of good it did them! The
vital question is not whether our marks, foot-
prints, etc., are going to be rubbed out, but
whether we are. and high-falutin’ oratory
that tends to bulldoze the race into a compla-
cent sense of comfortable security is what we
don’t want. Billions of gallons of it had been
ladled out before th? Hun broke loose, and
the results achieved by its influence should
be enough to have it eternally barred. What-
ever our forefathers .did in the past, good
luck to them! But there is a strenuous
time for us ahead; and how we are going to
face it is the burning question which should
be kept in full view.
4
“Analyst” : Re synthetic dyes and the possi-
bility of making ’em here. I have been in
Caisula’s works at Frankfurt and Riga,
Bayer’s and Read and Holliday’s, and
know a bit of the game. The cost
of plant is prohibitive for a start: it
would run to a quarter of a million
for anything like a decent output; and
though we have the skilled manual
labor at hand, we haven’t enough coal-tar
compound chemists to handle a single depart-
ment of the possible factory. One of tbe
curses of Australia in the past has been the
stupid discouragement by manufacturers and
others of the analytical and research chemist.
Germany knew better. Most firms in Aus-
tralia who employ a chemist look upon him
as a sort of expensive advertisement. They
quote him proudly in their ads. as “our ex-
pert.” but pay him a starvation screw, and
scowl down any timid suggestion he may
make in the way of experimental work, oil
the score of expense. Hence the chap who
The Sister.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Here in this quaint old ruined farm,
Away from the rack and the awful riot—
You are keeping us safe from hurt and harm,
And away from the din it is Oh so quiet,
Little Sister.
There’s a sound of the tumult singing yet
Tn my ears—the big shell’s piercing scream ;
The rifle-butts, all bloody and wet;
The bayonet charge— such a hideous dream,
Gentle Sister.
Limbs all crushed in the trench-drain slime,
The fearful blood-lust spurring us on:
To kill was a duty then—-no crime
To kill—till the human waves had gone.. .
God! 'Sister.
Then in the lee of a limber truck ,
I slept; when came a short, sharp shower
(’Twas water, God-sent, in that frightful
ruck).
I woke, to see a bee in a flower,
Dear Sister.
A bee! Then, shielded by One who died,
You came unscathed through the flying
shell—
I remember I watched you (I think I cried
When I saw you facing that awful hell),
Sweet Sister.
Then you took me, with never a flinch, away,
And I felt the soothe of your cool, soft
hand....
I know now, watching you here all day,
1 was snatched from the brink of that
Other Land,
Grey Sister.
You are pale, but your face has a glory
light—
A sweet, strong light that you cannot hide.
And I know when I think of that fearful
night,
That most of us but for you had died,
Brave Sister.
MAORILAND.
MELVILLE EARL.


The Motor=car
Makers Should
Know.
It must be apparent to everyone who uses
a motor-car that it is to the advantage of
the manufacturer to provide the best equip-
ment at the most vulnerable point. Manu-
facturers as much as style and beauty.
None can overlook the convincing endorse-
ment of GOODYEAR TYRES as rendered
by motor manufacturers—the men who
know.
The basis for this emphatic preference is
found in GOODYEAR quality and in
Goodyear features of construction. No
other tyres incorporate so many features
designed to prolong tyre life by preventing
common tyre troubles. When considering
future tyre purchases, permit your judgment
to be influenced by the past record —the
Safety, the dependability and the economy—
of Goodyear All Weather Tread Tyres.
Goodyear Tyres, Tubes , Belting , Hose, Packing , now
obtainable throughout Australia and New Zealand.
THE PARAMOUNT
Motion Picture Magazine.
PUBLISHED MONTHLY.
ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION
2/-
POST FREE.
SINGLE COPY, 2d.
Write for Specimen Copy.
PARAMOUNT MAGAZINE,
Cinema House, Druitt Street, Sydney
has the knowledge and skill has his hands
tied. But not to digress, if we can’t make
synthetic dyes here we can at least develop
and investigate some of our own vegetable
dye stuffs, so Ion? neglected, and of practical
value now that the imported synthetic dye is
about done. To mention a few: our own
tannin-bearing barks, native indigo, prickly-
pear red, and a hundred others. The thing
is to let the chemist get to work, pay him,
and so heap confusion on the chap who says
we can’t help ourselves. But it is a national
job.
There is one important job which the
repatriation committees might very well
undertake. Five times a week, as an aver-
age, The Bulletin receives some such story
as this (one of the past week’s) :
A lot of our men volunteered at the outbreak of
the war, and one of them —a clever feather-dyer—
was accepted. The boss said he was very sorry to
lose him, and offered to keep his billet for him.
But he asked the dyer to impart to his assistant
certain formulae so that the feather business could go
on as usual during his absence. This the feather-
dyer was fool enough to do. The chap who used to
dye feathers returned recently with a confidence in
his boss’s good faith and an honorable limp due to
a bit of Turkish shrapnel in his knee. But the
assistant at 355. a week had made good in his
absence, and the boss couldn’t really see his way
to displace such a deserving young man, who could
do quite as well now as the soldier ex-dyer, rated
formerly at £3 15s. Finis.
Such stories ought to be thoroughly investi-
gated. If they don’t get their old jobs these
men will have to be found others,. so that
this is a matter which comes well within the
range of the repatriation committees. Cer-
tainlv no such committee would have power
to order the boss to take his old hand back;
but the boss who knew that his behavior was
going to be inquired into and made the sub-
ject of a public report would hesitate about
doing the scurvy thing.
When Prime Minister Hughes dropped
into Sydney the other day the citizens
jambed themselves into the Town Hall; and,
after having nearly lifted the roof off with
loud and prolonged applause, they frequently
interrupted the proceedings to cheer some
more while he said it all over again.. He
told them about the spirit which animated
their forefathers and the British Empire
and the people of France and the Prussian
militarist; about the fierceness of the
struggle, the priceless heritage of freedom
and their inflexible resolution to achieve a
victorious peace. It is really a good speech,
though Time is withering it a little; but
the point of it isn’t clear. In that respect it
differs strikingly from the casualty lists.
They are being poured out, and their mean-
ing is never for a moment in doubt. Every
one of them is a shrill call to Australia to do
its utmost. That call ought to be put into
definite words by the Prime Minister. Why
does he hesitate? To save a party!
Patriotism demands a certain thing; but
patriotism must wait while Hughes finesses
in order to ascertain if he cannot avoid a
split. And Australia’s hard-pressed sons
and brothers at the Front must wait, too.
How much more must this country suffer
before it curses Party Government for the
last time?
♦
A Japanese Trade Commissioner, whose
name, if it matters, is Ukita, has been touring
Australia and Maoriland inquiring into com-
plaints as to the quality of Japanese goods.
He could do nothing less than admit that
Nippon merchants did not observe a suffici-
ently high standard of commercial morality.
The trouble is that “there is a mistaken idea
in Japan that Australia and Maoriland do
not want first-class goods,” he says. _ Natu-
rally. Any intelligent foreigner is liable to
think that the country which lacks _ the
ability to make clothes-pegs for itself is _ a
poor, inferior place, whose natives are still
in the beads and looking-glass stage.
“Public Officer” thanks Premier Holman
kindly:—
Premier Holman explaining the payment of £9OO
legal expenses run up by Minister Griffith in the
petrol inquiry said, “It was only the treatment
meted out to any public servant who was made the
subject of an unfounded charge.” Thus the case is
of value to others besides lawyers. It defines a
position that was by no means clear. Hitherto
every public servant “the subject of an unfounded
charge” has not had his expenses paid. Some men
have; some haven’t. I know one respectable old
officer who had to defend himself before a Commis-
sion. Had he been found in the wrong the State
would have been sued for thousands. The tribunal
exonerated him. Yet years passed before the Gov-
ernment would listen about his expenses, and when
it did he got only part of them. The treatment of
Griffith and the rule laid down by the Premier puts
the Service on a much better wicket.
Lord Mayor Richard Meagher, of Sydney,
crystallises history; “Two meteors have
illumined the firmament of nations —Anzac
and W. M. Hughes.” The Bulletin
always suspected that the truth would leak
out. All those other meteors were fakes
and have been taking us down.
Some of the newspapers begin to spell it
Fughes.
Hughes has been already urged by some
of the Labor people, who want to be rid of
the personal responsibility, to take a refer-
endum on Conscription. Well, if there’s
going to be a referendum The Bulletin
proposes that it shall be taken, not among
those who have stayed at home, but among
those who have gone to the Front. They
are the people who know whether Conscrip-
tion is needed or not.
Westralia’s new Attorney-General, Robin-
son, K.C., and ex-Premier Scaddan put
up a stirring fight for Canning, although
Scaddan showed traces of the wear and
tear of the five years spent in piling up a
deficit of nearly a million and a half.
Canning had never before enjoyed the privi-
lege of a Minister as its representative, and
the little K.C. made the most of his new
glory. He is not so popular that voluntary
workers will cheerfully sweat blood for him ;
hut £ s. d. and organising genius left very
little to chance. At the general election
about two years ago Robinson beat the
sitting Labor nonentity by under 200 votes.
Challenged now by the just-ejected Premier
he on Saturday scored a win by 464. And
so collapsed Happy Jack’s hopes of a disso-
lution.
The Commission sitting on the North
Terrace reserves in Adelaide has made its
first report. Unanimously it proposes that
Government House should go; that as to
the University everything but law, medicine
and music should be suburban; that the old
Military Barracks and Destitute Asylum
should go—the Public Library and Museum
to get three acres, and the rest, with the
parade-ground, to be for public recreation.
If the Commission gets its way, the Exhibi-
tion and Jubilee Oval will remain intact,
barring a slice which the School of Mines
gets for extension: the old Asylum grounds
will be thrown into the Botanic Gardens,
and the flat by the river will be safeguarded
carefully for some future carrying of the
present dead-end railway through to the
hills.
When Hughes was leaving Australia he
alluded to the I.W.W. as the “parasites of
Labor.” The other day the Townsville meat
employees struck, and their spokesman
alluded to the Prime Minister as a “parasite
who is pushing Conscription on us.” No
wonder the old friends of the Labor party
begin to have a creepy feeling.
Kangaroo Island (S.A.) is experimenting
with “enemy” wheat. One of the old island
family of Bates couldn’t bear to see a good
wheat-crop on Gallipoli go to waste last
year. When it was ripe enough to burn, it,
of course, caught fire; but the S.A. sold'er
collected a few ears to send home, and now
the Turkey wheat is up and looking well.
Archgaiters Wright, of Sydney, was 55
on Saturday.
Killed in France, Major E. W. Kirke,
a Dubbo (N.S.W.I native who pursued
Costs before he took to khaki. He left
Sydney as a lieutenant with the first Rabaul
expedition and was later on court-martial
prosecutor. After a spell in Sydney as
instructor he went to Gallipoli, where he
was “mentioned” for honors; but the
despatches got bushed, and Ivirke’s bit of
ribbon didn’t arrive soon enough for him to
wear it.
When TnE Bulletin first began to talk
about an Australian Navy its old friend
Stinking Fish, Esq., said that the thing
would be useless, anyhow, because Austra-
lians would not take to the sea. Well, for
30 vacancies pending at the Naval College
there were 335 applications. The medical
examination weeded out 100. but there are
226 still struggling to crowed in. Vic. is
strongest with 145 candidates; N.S.W. has
95, and Westralia shows out best in pro-
portion to population with 40.
“Madge”: I asked Bill how he felt when
he first was under fire. “Rotten,” he said.
“The first bullet that passed me made me
get back so quick that I give you my word
I passed it!”
“iEsculapius” waves a so long :
The heat of Mesopotamia killed Victor Horsley,
the father of modern surgical neurology. As early
as the ’eighties his work on the mystical thyroid
gland marked him as a coming leader of English
medicine. He was a splendid example of the un-
commercial doctor with ideals beyond money and
drawing-room glory. Even a 500-guinea fee
with a special train would not tempt him to leave
the laboratory when once the trephine was in his
hand. Though one of the kindest of men he was an
enthusiastic enemy of the misguided anti-vivisection
party —the guardian, in fact, of the interests of
experimental surgery. Some imprudent statements
by the anti-vivisectionists once involved Professor
Bayliss, of University College, London. The ever-
watchful Horsley jumped at this opportunity, in-
sisted on the peaceful Bayliss taking proceedings,
and the outcome was a £2OOO verdict for plaintiff.
The doctors rubbed it in by immediately founding a
scholarship in experimental research with the money.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Dancing Mistress..
Criterion “Too Many Cooks.
Royal “Duncan McClure and the Poor I arson
Palace R°>' a } Strollers
Tivoli . Mclntosh s \ audcvdle Co.
Lyceum Trianale Plays
Union Theatres Moving 1 ictures
MELimriJNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK. .
Her Majesty's “The Girl in the Train
Royal “The Land of Promise
Kino’s “Peg o’My Heart’;
Princess’s “The Follies of Pleasure
Tivoli Mclntosh s S audevule Co
With “La Gioconda” the Italian Opera
Co. at Melbourne Princess’s added another
capital performance to its list of best things.
Ponchielli’s 40 year-old work is full of
matter and sweet music: what it lacks for
the most part is distinctive originality. With
the exception of the immortal ballet music
for the Dance of the Hours, in act three,
none of the graceful airs have become hack-
neyed. A great quintet and chorus in “Gio-
conda” is as impressive as the famous sestet
in “Lucia,” or the big finale 'to the second
act of “Martha,” but there is not the same
sharp edge to its melody. One is charmed
by the good stuff in Ponchielli’s opera at
the time, not haunted afterwards by recol-
lections of particular plums in it.
* * * *
Five fat parts fall to Cappelli, Mrs. De
Revers, Miss Y'isoni, Filippini and. Cacialli.
Miss l.uss also gets a good look in as the
superfluous blind mother of the Heroine (De
Revers). At first it seemed that she and
the boss villain (Filippini) would have most
of the agony between them. She fades into
comparative insignificance, however, when
the tenor, basso and the giddy wife (Vis-
oni) get their emotions roused. The centre
of interest is always shifting during this
protracted tragedy. The plot, in fact, is a
dish of horrors seasoned with comic-opera
effects. In act two, for instance, the
choristers of both sexes are supposed to be
seamen, and they link arms and nod their
heads in unison when singing, like the crew
of H.M.S. Pinafore. This is where Cap-
pelli, a tenor nobleman disguised as a cor-
sair. makes his supreme effort in a song
concerning the ocean waves, or whatnot.
Cacialli, as the betrayed basso husband, has
several fine outbursts, never finer than when
he orders baritone Filippini not to persist
in getting the poor blind mother roasted for
witchcraft. Miss Visoni has less scope for
displaying her vocal charm than the prima
donna, whose tremolo is as trying as usual.
Dramatically all the ladies are beyond
reproof. Twelve girleens are fresh and
winsome in the Dance of the Hours, wherein
Miss Lucus figures as the Evil Spirit of
Night, and the scenery and dressing are
worthy of a show intended to run two weeks
ITALIAN GRAND OPERA AT
MELBOURNE PRINCESS’S.
Russ as Suzuki in
“Madame Butterfly .”
Russ as Ceica in
“ Gioconda .”
instead of two nights. The opera season
concludes this week with the first produc-
tion of “Les Huguenots” on Thursday and
Friday—“Ugonotti” in the spaghetti tongue.
On Saturday the theatre passes to Ben
Fuller management, and “The Follies of
Pleasure,” formerly of Sydney, will be sub-
mitted at popular prices.
Her Majesty’s Theatrical Merry-Go-Ilound
(address Pitt-street, Sydney 1 has now
paused at “The Arcadians,” who recline in
classic costumes amidst some beautiful veal
estate provided for them by scenic artist Phil
Goatcher. One can judge how Time and
actors fly by the fact that Percy Clifton is
the only remnant of the co. that hit Sydney
so hard six year's ago. And. curiously enough,
Clifton is Father Time with the conventional
scalp-lock, whiskers, hour-glass and scythe.
The other revivalists do surprisingly well
considering that it is only for a week, a.nd
that life is now one long streak of perform-
ances and rehearsals. Ethel Cadman suits
the sweet and simple part of Sombra, played
in the golden wig or a blameless life and a
starry future. Really she is the Salvation
Belle of New York gone to Heaven. Leslie
Holland is inches too tall for Peter Doody,
the underfed jockey; but he is dismal all
the way up, so it doesn’t matter. Winsome
Minnie* Love occasionally forgets she is stage-
Irish; but that’s about all one can allege
against her, unless it is that her voice has
to get on its toes to reach an occasional top-
note. Her costume color schemes are Clevel-
and her dancing deserves a vote of conh-
dence. Nellie Payne, in a neat race suit and
boxer hat, is a beautifully unreal sort ol
“THE ARCADIANS," AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY'S.
Phil Smith before and after being dipped in
the well of Truth.
racecourse laddie, and makes a dainty and
amusing substitute for a man-actor in a
trifling part. Phil Smith is the sort of Sim-
plicitas whose side-jokes even the humblest
can understand —a sort of Phil-’em-up-again
Arcadian. Side-whiskers make him a junior
John Bull studying to be a British cartoon-
ist’s model. Derek Hudson, as Paddock, is
left in his curious conical silk-hat and with-
out a song to his name. Celia Ghiloni, as
Mrs. Smith, has to endure libretto jests
about her stoutness which are not now
deserved; and Ileg Roberts, back in his un-
romantic frock-coat, resumes the years which
he dropped for “Ma Mie xvosette,” and makes
sedate love as the punter Jack Meadows.
Chorus and orchestra work is good, and the
show ladies trail some impressive gowns.
“The Dancing Mistress” on Saturday.
*!*
At Melbourne Majesty’s the Musical
Comedy Co. is devoting some farewell weeks
to short revivals of various “Girls.” The
first is “The Girl in the Train,”
along for merciful consideration last Satur-
day. The want Of quality in this newly-
padded entertainment is confessed in the
fact that no author or composer is named
on the programme. Florrie Young used to
be the actress who shared the chicken and
champagne which Mr. Van Buren’s wife
had put up in a basket for him. Nowadays
Dorothv Brunton is the guileless lady,
and as far as The Bulletin can remember
all the other people are new to the cast.
But the remembrance is very vague. Such
empty frivolities are only born to be for-
gotten.
# * *■ *
There are no voices in the co. good enough
to make the musical numbers exciting. But
the spirited performance of Miss Brunton
is something of a saving grace, although her
vivacity is not of the brand usually pro-
, vided by actresses off the stage. Marie
Eaton imparts an air of possibility and
handsomeness to the jealous wife, and Fred
Maguire is an insipid little husband in mild
distress. For the rest there are Workman,
Fisher, Frith, Connie Ediss, Sidney and
Daisy Yates, all burdened with the task of
making the best of a bad job. Plump Con-
nie’s portion is little more than one poor
song that would sound a good bit over the
fence at the Tivoli. Workman and Fisher
are allied in an act of female impersonation
for which a clever little kiddy offers an
apology. Chorus girls, dressing and scenery
will be of service in keeping this show
before a forgiving public until “The Girl
on the Film” is ready to do her dash.
Chloroformed Bill Eaglefoot still shouts
his honest opinion of his raging employer
every evening at Sydney Royal, where
“Duncan McClure and the Poor Parson”
reside. That and Bill’s dazed recovery
from the drug-sleep are two of the best
things in a cheerful show.
Sydney Tivoli orchestra plays the year
round at the foot of tottering ladders


HENKES’ SCHNAPPS
DISTILLED IN HOLLAND.
An absolutely ideal tonic. Awarded many gold medals lor purity.
“BE WELL ASSURED”
NEW SEA SONG
By EDWARD GERMAN.
“BE WELL ASSURED”
Words by RUDYARD KIPLING
(From “ The Fringes of the FJe.t ”).
OF ALL MUSIC-SELLERS.
CHAPPELL (SI CO. LTD., 167-171 Collins Street, Melbourne.
PEAPES&C? IT?
m
THE “ICY-HOT” Vacuum Bottle
Keens Liquids STEAMING HOT FOR 24 HOURS.
—or, if you put in cold liquid, it will keep it ICY COLD for
three days. This is a well-made bottle, much superior to the
various cheap makes.
It is stronger than others and better suited for the use of
travellers and motorists.
No metal touches the contents —even in the pouring.
All-Nickel Plated Pint size, 14/6
Quart size, 217-
Nickel Plated, with Morocco finish . Pint size, 25/-
We Pay Postage. Quart Size, 35/-
We stock glass refills for all sizes. Descriptive leaflet sent on
request.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.
Men’s
Outfitters,
309-311 George Street, SYDNEY.
•iiid leaning pyramids of chairs and
tables, the musicians seeming to have
gi'eat trust in the Workmen’s Com-
pensation Act, the grace of God and
the. advertised skill of the various neck-
nsking performers who come and go. And
the trust seems to be justified, for the only
people who come down with a crash are the
ones who get their laughs that way. O’Don-
nell, a tall tumbler who partners with a
humorous patter lady, is now tumbling into
the Tivoli orchestra pit and deliberately
breaking a precedent or something. Two
other newcomers are Leighton and Kennedy,
lhey use the ancient burnt-cork disguise and
half the team can dance. Selinski, the .Rus-
sian fiddler, boosts the high-art side; and
baritone Goossens, disabled by a cold last
week-end, should be carolling again now.
Other stars: Jack and Foris, Vandinoff and
Louie, Grace Hanson, Mack and Mabelle,
Ramo and Vivi, Barbara Babington and
Os-ko-mon.
Sydney Adelphi indulges in a riotous life
ot vaudeville, chiefly Daisy Jerome, this
week; and G n Monday night the Gonsalez
Grand Opera C 0.., fresh from a couple of
months of success in Melbourne, will open
with “Trovatore.” “Traviata” on Wednes-
day.
The “To Let” notice-board is up on the
fence q| the residence built at Sydney
Criterion by the Cook Family 12 days ago.
Ihe present tenants will be leaving shortly.
Billy and his auxiliary Strollers are
e . un &oing at the Palace, and
all Sydney is keeping the fund going.
Hoyt’s Sydney house—the old Colonial—
is showing this week some thrilling pictures
secured by French War Office operators
from the front Argonne trenches. A crowded
amme a^so includes a Wm. Fox feature,
“The Fool’s Revenge” ; a sensational Metro,
production, “Notorious Gallagher,” starring
Marguerite Snow and Wm. Nigh; and a
frivolous item or two.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal comes a change of
drama, on Saturday. “The Land of Pro-
mise,” by Somerset Maugham, introduces
Madge Fabian in a very star part, and the
present co. will receive some notable addi-
tions.
Peg and her brown dog and her all-
important brogue are continuing to shock
the . sensibilities of an inhuman English
family eight times a week at Melbourne
Kings. The Taits continue to look happy
on it.
The Melba matinee in aid of theatrical
funds will not happen at Melbourne
Majesty’s next Monday, as was announced
last week. It will be deferred for another
week at least. The one thing certain is
that Melba (’flu’ and other circumstances
willing) will appear in the prison scene from
“Faust.”
** * *
The Bulletin declines to be enthusiastic
over Stanley and Burns, who were added to
the Melbourne Tivoli programme on Satur-
day. The visitors are callow looking dancers
whose innocent cavortings might have been
inspired by a coffee and cake orgy at a Bap-
tist social evening. Wyonne Haybittle, late
of “To Night’s the Night,” is a new 'Tivoli
dancer who makes an attractive show in
several pretty specialties with a youth named
King. A fresh comedienne from England,
Winifred Leviere, fails to solace this paper
for the loss of Marie King-Seott and Men-
netti and Sidelli, who were to drop out at
the beginning of this week. Yet Winifred is
pleasing in comparison with some other
offenders still left on the bill —notably Clar-
ence Wilbur, the deplorable trampologist
whose tongue represents ’Murkan civilisation
in its most painful form.
On Saturday Hoyt’s gave their Melbourne
supporters a few. more spoolsful of Theda
Bara in another erotic disturbance called
“Infidelity.” Theda appears as the World,
the Flesh and the Devil to a bunch
of fat-headed adorers who eventually dis-
cover that the Devil is the conspicuous
feature of the trinity. The hussy shame-
lessly plunders her victims after trifling with
their improper affections; but in the end she
goes too far and loses her sinful life in an
attempt to resume relations with her former
husband. Next in importance to Miss Bara
on the Hoyt programme was Edward Breeze
in five reels of exciting narrative entitled
“The Spell of the Yukon.”
“New Dutch” : Kill German trade? Pooh,
easy! The Vic. Government has done it
without any stupid tariff. A public ser-
vant at Kyneton was putting on a new gas
mantle supplied by the State. “Made in
Holland,” it said. It used to be “Made in
Germany”; but that small difficulty has
been got over quite easily with a new label
and a lick of paste.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Peter”: The conspicuous feature of the
opera season just closed at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s was the remarkable efficiency of the
Gonsalez conductors. They had an arduous
job in handling a mixed Australian and
Italian chorus palpably handicapped, as re-
gards the locals, by ignorance of the lan-
guage and insufficient rehearsal. Further-
more, they were somewhat hampered by a
scratch orchestra admittedly weak in cer-
tain instruments; and they were always con-
fronted with the iabor of keeping some of the
weaker principals in time with the music.
Yet they surmounted those difficulties with a
success that was overlooked by the audiences
in their hot-headed enthusiasm for a few
favored singers. What was specially strik-
ing . about the brethren was their easy
familiarity with every work in their reper-
toire. Apparently they know every cue and
every word of the libretti, and when anybody
went wrong—as some frequently d.d —the
conductor in charge had no compunction
about informing the offender of the fact in
the loudest and angriest Italian at his com-
mand.
“Masetto”: Among the Gonsalez Onera
people I put the bass-baritone Cacialli first.
He is always up to concert pitch, and has an
easy-flowing voice free from the irritating
tremolo which disfigures the singing of half
the troupe. And do opera-liaunters realise
“THE ARCADIANS,” AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY'S.
Jockey Leslie Holland.
the amount of work he does? For the week
just finished he has apeared at six evening
shows and two matinees. At the time of
writing the co. has given 47 performances,
and Cacialli has been in 32 of them. The
absence of another good bass makes it a busy
season for him.
“Yarra Ben”: West’s old-established pic-
ture-theatre at Princes Bridge, Melbourne,
is going to open only on Saturday nights
until the weather gets warmer. It was the
first picture-house built in Melbourne and
has always given the best shows; but nowa-
days every suburb has its two or three or
more movie establishments, and business at
the old stand has dropped off. And when only
two or three are gathered together in a huge
building like West’s they feel colder than
they really are.
“Monkbarns”: Tallis, Ward and Meynell
have picked “The House that Jack Built”
for the J.C.W. panto, this year, and already
Wenman is on the job as producer. “The
House” has been done only once before in
Melbourne —away back in ’(l9, when Akhurst,
HeUald sub-editor, wiote the £lOO book, and
every line of it had local interest. The full
title of the panto, was “The House that Jack
Built, or the Loves of Jack Melbourne and
Little Victoria.” “Jack” was Johnny
Fawkner, and the House he built was Mel-
bourne. Henry Richard Harwood (real name
Jack Bigas) took the part of Jack. Victoria,
was acted by Maggie Stewart. Docy Stewart
(now Mrs. Chamboissier) was somewhere in
the cast. There are certainly half a dozen
writers in Australia cleverer than Akhurst;
but I don’t suppose the Firm has their names
and addresses. Hennings painted a magnifi-
cent panorama of Melbourne’s growth, which
delighted the audiences.
“Last Old Man”: The locally-produced
film about Adam Lindsay Gordon, with poet
Hugh McCrae in the title role, is an estim-
able and interesting production, but it isn’t
go.ng to knock the public. It would have to
be better produced to do that even if there
were enough action about it. Of course,
it’s better even now than a lot of the im-
ported stuff, but people who would stand for
inferior films if they come from U.B.A. are
mighty exacting when it’s a mere Australian
flicker.
Walter Melrose, just dead in Melbourne,
was for many years one of the foremost
comedians and eccentric dancers on the
Rickards circuit. He had a long spell as
stage-manager of the Tivoli in Adelaide in
Harry’s day.
“Stargazer”: As a silent shadow-show
smuggled in with half a dozen other events
at threepence a time, “The Story of the
Rosary” would pass if hurried. But serious
objections arise immediately it begins to
speak. On the screen the characters do not
give themselves away; though appearances
be against them, there yet remains the possi-
bility of their being sentient human beings
with intelligent motives. But on the stage
no doubt of their futility is permitted to
linger for 30 minutes. Seeing “The Story of
the Rosary” I am grateful to the pictures
if only for having silenced so many dramatic
authors.
“Kaniva”: London reports the death of
Patty Laverne, and thereby revives mem-
ories. Geo. Musgrove’s first venture was
“La Fille du Tambour Major,” produced at
the Opera House, Melbourne, on Boxing
I)ny. 1880. The piece had the long run
of 101 nights, being only taken off as Syd-
ney dates were fixed. Patty Laverne was a
lively Stella (“La Fille du Tambour”), and
used her fine soprano voice cleverly.
“ J.F.H.,” from London :
Our old friend “Dot’’ Boucicmilt does not seem
to have spotted a winner in “The Riddle.” But
whatever its ultimate fate, it has established a
record in one particular. It is a murder drama,
built on the sensational case of Mrs. Maybri.ck and
her poisoned husband. Her name in the play is
Mrs. Lytton and she is fascinating everybody at a
seaside pub. Staying there also is a famous K.C.
who suspects her, and dislikes her all the more
when he discovers that she is trying to get his
future son-in-law into her toils. He sets himself
to find out who she really is, and, with the aid of
a blackmailer, discovers that she is the notorious
Mrs. Leadbetter, who was accused of poisoning her
husband and acquitted. To bowl her out he, one
evening, before all the assembled hotel guests,
recites the story of the trial. This is where the
record comes in. For twenty minutes without a
solitary break or interruption, Dot Boucicault holds
the stage with the vivid narrative. It is believed
to be the longest single speech in a play within
living memory. Dot got through it very well on
the first night, and the prompter’s voice was only
once audible. His wife, Irene Vanbrugh, who plays
the fascinating lady, bears up until nearly the end,
when she suddenly breaks down and gives herself
away. She confesses then that she really did not
poison her drunken and intolerable husband;
although she intended to. The poison he drank had
been got for an obnoxious dog. But we’ve really
had too many of these lawyer plays, and this one
is neither well nor neatly constructed. It is the
work of Anthony Wharton and Morley Roberts.
The latter is a London barrister and a prolific
writer of stories. He knocked about Australia in
early manhood and worked for a time in the rail-
way yards at Spencer-street, Melbourne. The first
of his many books, I remember, contained a lively
account of his experiences in those regions.
“M.P.A.”: Harrie Ireland is not “get-
ting about” as has been stated. She is able
to move with the aid of splints and sticks,
but the movements are confined to the
house. The charming Harrie’s trouble is
rheumatic, and she has been a prisoner for
quite two years. Her suffering has not
robbed her of the charm that endeared her
to the public. She’s a sweet invalid.
“Peter”: Fiddler Keith Kennedy, whose
music is the one patch of cultivated sound
in the noise at Melbourne Tivoli these
nights, is a notable member of a gifted
Australian family. Dad lived for years at
Randwick, Sydney, and once or twice tried
to be the horsey suburb’s Parliamentary
rep ; * Keith is a Pupil of Sevcik,
and before the war was one of Sevcik’s
assistants in the Bohemian capital. Keith
has two younger brothers who have been
recently heard in scattered solo snatches
in the Gonsalez opera band at Melbourne
I rmcess s. The elder of these is a flautist;
the _ other is a very promising ’cellist with
a rich, royal tone and the technique of a
veteran. Quaint, by the way, that the
youngest and smallest of a musical trie
TOO MANY COOKS," AT SYONEY
ORITERION.
Uncle Ben Wilson (Maurice Dudley) counis
the cost of currying the Cook family.
should so often prefer the second largest
member of the violin family. Mischel, the
last born of the Cherniavsky three, has been
unfaltering in his affection for the same
unwieldy instrument.
(Continued on page 26.)
The Persian cat has taught its unhappy
country how to jump. When the Russians
took Ivermanshah the whole population went
out with bands to welcome the victorious
Bear. But the beaten and embittered Turk
shouted over his shoulder as he fled that they
had done exactly the same to him when he
marched in some weeks previously.
A few years ago Geoffrey Syme, of the
Age, had a fight with a burglar at Kew,
when Miss Rosa Begg came to his help and
saved the situation. Miss Begg was one of
the first Australian girls to offer her ser-
vices as a military nurse. At Abassia the
other dav she became the wife of Captain
Bertram Combes, of the Ist Australian Light
Horse.
THE ILL-FATED SOPRANO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“They’re a very unlucky lot, soprano principals in
opera.”— D. 10/Sflld.
Though plump and robust they appear to the eye,
The sopranos, poor things, are all destined to die 1
Ere the opera’s over, and down comes the curtain,
The donna called prima defunct is, for certain!
She’s shot, stabbed or poisoned, or just passes out
Through a chureh-yardy cough, or a seizure of gout;
For her number is up and the end of the piece is
A high note —then flop! and the lady deceases!
Unless she pegged out, ’mid the noise of the band,
Grand opera could never be “opera” nor “grand” ;
So few people wish that ill-luck may forsake her,
She’s shadowed all night by the “grand ’ undertaker.
At the tragedy looming she ne’er seems to quake,
She’ll trill and she'll roulade, she'll quaver and
shake;
It’s a marvel to me (it would make quite a few
sick)
How she not only'warbles, but faces, the music!
It strikes me the opera inventors in Rome,
Where squalling sopranos infested the home,
Decreed sudden death for them all, surcease bring-
ing,
As the only thing likely to stop them from singing!
N.S.W.
BILLY BILE.
THE FIDDLING GROCER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’d like to keep a grocer's shop
And fiddle all the day,
So fussy customers would hop
With rage (Too-looral-ay !) ;
Whene’er they called for pounds of tea
I’d play a merry air,
And tell them not to scowl at me,
But wait and take a chair.
My feet upon the counter propped,
My apron laid aside,
I’d fiddle for them while they hopped
And cooled their foolish pride ;
I’d scorn the money they would fling,
And all the things they’d shout,
And'very merrily I’d sing
Till it was like a rout.
The world is now a doleful place,
And trade is like the world ;
My customers with speed and grace
Would be by music whirled ;
Dead leaves before the mirth of me,
They would not get a jot
Until they threaded, fast and free,
The Grocer’s Soap Gavotte.
And when they’d learnt how man and maid
Should cheer themselves with song,
And dance by daylight unafraid,
I’d send them all along;
I would not take a penny-piece,
But wave them towards my shelves,
For my gay music would not cease
While they all helped themselves.
I would be “ruined” very soon—•
There is no doubt of that;
And every sly and smirking loon
Would sneer and tap his hat.
But I would lock my little shop,
As gay as : gay could be,
And fiddle down the l oads that drop
Deep curtsies to the sea.
N.S.W.
KODAK.


Solid Leather Suit Case
for 30/6
This Suit Case is a typical example
in value and economy of “made by
David Jones” goods, showing superi-
ority in construction and finish, also
a big saving in price by the elimina-
tion of all but the Manufacturer’s
profit.
Made of selected Cowhide, well
tanned and highly polished, light but
strong steel frame; carefully sewn,
fitted with two inside straps. Com-
fortable, secure handle, two nickelled
lever spring locks.
Lengths 20in. 22in. 24in. 20in.
Prices 30/6 33/6 36/6 39/6
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
m
DAVID JONES LTD.,0pp.«.p.0., Sydney
BISTO is a fine dry
powder which thickens,
colours and seasons
gravy, soups, stews,
meat puddings, etc. No
flour, fait or browning
is needed.
S ,STO
is
m Everything
hut the meat."
All Grocers. In Tins. Made by CERF.BOS. LTD.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
now complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
PENFOLDS
WINES
COMPENSA-
TIONS.
“Say, there's only
eleven in this
dozen oysters,
and damn small
ones at that!”
“Yessir."
“An' they don't
smell too fresh
either."
"Jest as well they're small an' one short,
isn't it, sir?"
“Spearo’s” plain pencilled tale from
h ranee. ....... ".
I’ve seen a of a lot of Kangaroo Bill s powers
of endurance in this scrap, both on Gallipoli and
here in France. But this heats all. The other night
one of our battalions raided Fritz’s front line, and
during the heated argument a chap of ours had one
of his'wings blown off. But that didn’t stop him. He
grabbed Fritz, brought him across 250 yards of no
man’s land, delivered his goods, went back and
returned the second time with a badly-damaged
cobber and the missing portion of his own wing.
“8.0.’5” tale of a hero: —-
His platoon was the dumping-ground for the out-
laws of the camp, and every Monday morning his
section rolls were full of “A’s.” During the week
his “birds” would stroll back to camp or arrive,
under escort. Most of their pay went back in fines;
but though they cursed terribly they never reformed.
When the time came for them to go off on musketry
practice the “birds” just raised Hades. Two or
three were captured in the nearest pub-town whilst
the company was still on the way to the range.
A blind asylum could have equalled their record at
the targets. A day later they were taken out for
their second and last test, and returned with long
faces —and musketry registers showing “Passed” for
all hands! That means they’ll embark with their
company when the troopship is ready. When the
young officer was asked why he did it instead of
letting them drift on to their walking-tickets he re-
plied : “What, lose those beauties 1 Why, man,
they’ll fight like Hell on the other side 1” And of
course they will 1 Especially if they’ve got that
sort of Australian to say “Come on, lads 1”
* * * *•
“B.B.”: The patriot runs in all shapes,
but there’s a sample in the Coonamble dis-
trict (N.S.W.) in a class by himself. In
the middle of 1915 a small local land-holder
answered “Here” to the recruiting call,
leased his place and sold all his stock ex-
cept 18 horses. These he took to the man-
ager of an adjacent station, offered to pay
for their keep, and was assured that they
would be all right. Some time later another
small cocky, a neighbor of the man who was
battling in the trenches, had a look at the
animals and found them so nearly starved
that when he got them to his own holding
one died and the chances of the others sur-
viving were nothing to enthuse over. The
soldier-owner writes from France: —
This goes down hard. We are all here fighting to
keep these big men with their broad acres as well
as to hold our own little bit, and you’d think the
least they’d do would be to help to guard our small
interests. Both my brothel’s are here with me.
Perhaps the explanation is that Broadacres
has himself gone to the Front. Wouldn’t
that be a dream !
* * * ♦
“Rag”: The Papuan Government agent
got instructions to engage a clerk for the
Territorial Civil Service at a com-
mencing salary of £2OO, and went to
a “Fund” office in Sydney in the
hope of procuring a returned warrior
for the job. “Ah, hm-m!” mused the clerk
appealed to. “Haven’t any returned sol-
dier suitable for the billet. But I’m about
fed up with this berth of mine, and I’ve
half a mind to take the job myself.” “Oh !
Have you?” gasped the Papuan agent.
“Well, I’ve got a whole mind to say that
you won’t.”
* * * *
“Mill”: Oh, yes, Bridget O’Grady and the
colonel’s lady are sisters under their skins—
and so are Arini and Ermyntrude. Arini’s
passion to make herself look like a pakeha
triumphs over all considerations of bodily
discomfort and corns. Let the storekeeper
at Opongawiki hang out a pair of high-
heeled satin dancing
shoes, and Arini parts
with her. last bean (if
she has one) and jambs
them full of large meaty
feet and suffers the
agonies of the damned.
Let a Sydney trader ex-
hibit a new style of boot,
and it doesn’t matter
whether the make-up had
long ago ceased to at-
tract the eye of the col-
ored buck in New Orleans
—Ermyntrude will get
those coverings if she
goes without a meal to
do it. Just now the Aus-
tralian woman, consumed
with desire to make her-
self look like a darky’s
bride, decorates the ends
of her legs with arrange-
ments that are called
boots but are really
studies in the crude.
These things simply yell
for inspection. They have
removed the' centre of
fashion’s gravity from the
head adornment to the
extremity of the skirt,
and the glad male eye no longer challenges
the feminine optic but wanders along the
footpaths and the tramsteps.
# * * *
Maryann, dozing over her novelette by
the kitchen fire, traditionally dreams of the
Handsome Earl, who arrives with a noble
Equipage and bears her away to reign as
his Bride in the beautiful Ancestral Halls.
Maryann’s aspirations run to fine houses
and lots of furniture. A different type is
Dolly. Dolly lived, at Manly (Sydney)
and loved her novelette. A while back she
went missing, and for a whole month van-
ished off the surface of things. Search was
fruitless. The newspaper advt. wailed
THE CREATION .
“ Mother! Cod must have made my face last!”
“Why, dear?”
“ Because, Mummie, if He had made my face first I would have seen Him make the rest
of me.”
frantically. Tlie local police hopped vainly
through the landscape. But at last she was
found—quite casually, of course; and natu-
rally in the most unexpected place—along-
side a busy road. She was perusing a
novelette and didn’t look a bit lost. In
fact, she seemed as blithe and care-free as
a wild bush-bird in the springtime. She
was reticent as to her Great Adventure;
but it appears she had slept by night in a
cave which she had furbished up with a
few toilet requisites; and by day she had
tripped into town or wandered unnoticed
through the bosky bush —and read her novel-
ette. Of money she had little need. What
was indispensable as well as food she found
she could beg quite easily. Dolly has a
good home; but has “no time for houses.”
An unusual type of romance-struck maid—
Dolly, aged 12.
•■-* * • •
Billjemima can be as casual as Billjim.
The other evening a Port Melbourne lumper,
noticing a girl of 18 or so leap into the
local lagoon, plunged in and brought her
ashore. He was combing the seaweed and
etceteras out of his eyes, preparatory to
taking the damsel home, when she stepped
up to a couple of men who had been un-
concernedly viewing the proceedings, and
left with them for parts unknown. She
didn’t even rebuke her rescuer for interfer-
ing.
*• * * *
“N. 8.”: A few years ago N.S.W. Educa-
tion Department “raised” the salaries of
teachers and then informed them that they
must pay rent for departmental residences.
No one would growl at that if the Dept,
didn’t charge far more than the residences
are worth. I know one teacher who pays
£42 a year for a house in the bush 12 miles
from the nearest town and for which £26
would be a big rental. Another whose sal-
ary is £216 has to pay £3O yearly for the
joy of living in a shanty that anyone except
a large Government department would
blush to ask 7s. 6d. per week for. I could
cite a dozen.cases, some better, some worse,
but all bad. And, when, at one time, a
friend of mine asked for a transfer from a
locality in which no roof was provided, his
inspector replied crisply: “I have urged the
Chief inspector to remove you at an early
date....lf I were in your place I would
procure a good, roomy tent and camp in the
playground .” This advice to a married offi-
cial with two kiddies was written from a
humpy in Sydney which cost not a penny
more than a couple of hundred thousand
pounds.
From a signaller in France: —
The population of our camp is cosmopolitan. All
the overseas troops, or “Colonials,” are very good
friends, and mix well. The Scottish are thought
much of by the Anzacs—we are all Anzacs —and they
seem to have a good opinion of us. But the English
Tommies are close friends with nobody at all.
My belt is decorated with some of the badges of
the most famous regiments and a button of the
Italian Alpine Chasseurs. But my ambition is the iron
Cross. A German officer was lying out in the open
in front of our trenches for over a week, and all of
us and our Scottish friends had eyes on the Iron
Cross he was wearing. But when, after eight days,
a charge took place, we forgot the German officer,
and so the trophy was lost.
WHY?
SNOWDROP : “Oh, George dear, I cannot
understand it! Why do you lavish this
wealth of love upon me when there are
so many girls more beautiful and
worthy than I?"
GEORGE (fed up): “Blowed if I know!”
St. Ivilda, E. Brunswick and Camberwell
are missing the ’bus these days. The Mel-
bourne Motor-’bus Co., after a hard struggle
to keep on its tired wheels, has gone into
liquidation and is calling for tenders for
the purchase of its fleet of 36 ’Duses and
two char-a-bancs. There is talk of a new
company. But it is rather weary talk; and
meanwhile the rush of business at the book-
ing-offices is a godsend to the impoverished
Vie. Railways.
WOMEN AND CHILDREN AGAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A soldier, writing from somewhere on the rim of
Greece, says that, while in a poverty-stricken village
there, a bright little fellow ran up to “one of our
chaps,” shook him by the hand and said something
to him in Greek. The soldier ends his letter with:
“Oh, but it’s good to be amongst women and
kiddies again!”
From the Great North-West and the Saltbush Plain,
from the Never Never Land,
From the dead, dry “lakes” and the lignum swamps,
from the mulga and the sand;
From the tank and the bore and the station-huts,
from the Black or the Red Soil Plains —
Wherever you’ve been it is good to be amongst
women and children again!
From the Western Hell that we know full well, or
the Hell that we do not know,
From the blinding glare of the desert there, or the
blinding glare of the snow—
Wherever" on earth with their stubborn hearts go
men and the sons of men;
Wherever you’ve been, it is good to be amongst
women and kiddies again!
It matters little what creed they hold, and little
what language they speak—•
' Though they talk in the good Australian tongue,
or they talk to you in Greek,
In English, or German or Wotuplese, the meaning
is always plain—
Wherever you’ve been, it is good to be amongst
women and kiddies again.
Wherever on land or sea you go, where strong men
grimly die;
When Death creeps up from the depths below or
Death swoops down from the sky;
From the earthly Hell that the Huns have made,
from the reek of the shattered slain,
God grant us grace, but it’s grand to be amongst
women and children again!
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


FRUIT LAXATIVE FOR MAMMA, DAD,
BABY, CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Better than calomel, oil or pills to
clean and regulate liver,
bowels and stomach.
Mother, daddy and the children can always
keep feeling fine', by taking this delicious
fruit laxative as occasion demands. Nothing
else cleanses the stomach, liver and bowels
so thoroughly without griping.
You take a little at night, and in the
morning all the foul, constipated waste, sour
bile and fermenting food delayed in the
bowels gently moves out of the system. When
you awaken all headache, indigestion, sour-
ness, foul taste, bad breath, fever and dizzi-
ness are gone; your stomach is sweet, liver
and bowels clean, and you feel grand.
California Syrup of Figs—“Califig”—is a
family laxative. Everyone from grandpa to
baby can safely take it, and no one is ever
disappointed in its pleasant action. Millions
of mothers know that it is the ideal laxative
to give cross, sick, feverish children. Ask
your chemist for a bottle of “Califig”—Cali-
fornia Syrup of Figs—which has directions
tor babies, children of all ages, and for
grown-ups plainly on the bottle. Remember,
imitations are sometimes substituted, so look
and see that your bottle bears the name of
California Fig Syrup Company. Hand back
with contempt any other fig syrup. “Califig”
—California Syrup of Figs—is sold by all
chemists in bottles of two sizes, Is. lid. and
HOTEL SYDNEY,
Opposite Railway Station,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE MODERN HOTEL AT A MODERATE TARIFF.
240 BEDROOMS—HOT AND COLD WATER IN EACH.
EXCELLENT CUISINE.
Table d’hote luncheon
& la carte luncheon, from
Table d’hote dinner
Dining-room Open to Non-residents., c
2/6
1/6
8/6
THEATRE DINNER, 6to 7.30 p.m., 3/6. Orchestral Items During Dinner.
CYRIL EDWARDS, Manager.
W hen an old-time politician arose and
wept on the floor of the House it was almost
a matter of course that his tears were bought
at the bar. But the modern Labor member
is not built that way, and when J. P. Wilson
made a “personal explanation” in the S.
Aus Council last week it was obviously from
a full heart and a burning sense of injustice.
Ills own side has been at loggerheads with
him for a long time, and when it froze him
out of the Railways Standing Committee
last year even the other side was moved to
protest. But the last straw which broke
his endurance was that Chief Secretary
styles, when .charged by him with helping
a namesake to a billet, said darkly : “If the
name had been Wilson or [say Smith] we
should have heard nothing more about it.”
, hat, saicl Wilson, was “a personal attack
by the most difficult of all weapons, innu-
endo, but at any rate it gave him a chance
to reply, whereas hitherto he had been “shot
at from behind a hedge.” He then poured
out before an embarrassed House this heart-
to-heart talk:—■
mi i lad J?® en sa * f l that lie had changed his name.
This he did not deny. He did not change it to
elude ins creditors, nor because of some crime com-
rmtted by him, but because of a terrible family
affliction. .. .He had heard that it had been said that
n Tn* and famil y ila N- S. Wales to starve,
l hat ne had led such an immoral life that his children
had thrust him out There was not an atom of
[™thin any of these statements The sad domestic
trouble was a blot on the life of a beautiful woman,
a ?t™® a f°! nan ever lived, but who, through the
degradation 3o^ down to the deepest depths of
Then Wilson produced statements from liis
sons and daughters in N. g. Wales explain-
iug eloquently that all were well provided
for when he left in 1901, and that they sym-
pathise with him and approve all his actions.
He may die at any moment, he told the Leg.
Council so, wanting it and the public to
know the truth, he provided the House with
one of the most sensational 10 minutes it
lias ever known.
SWEET SYLVIA.
STELLA: "I said ‘No' to seven men last
season."
SYLVIA.: "What were they selling , dear?"
The S. Aus. Government lias appointed a
small committee to suggest new names to
replace those of “foreign enemy origin,”
WHICH, by a recent motion in the Assembly,
w re nT° l 3 out - The Surveyor-General,
Fi- is to be assisted by Talbot, of
His own department, and Rodney Cockburn,
secretary to the Railways Standing Commit-
tee. Cockburn’s knowledge of the subiect is
extensive and peculiar; while he was on
the Register staff he published a book in
GRACIOUS.
CITY MAGNATE (to impecunious suitor for his daughter): “Look 'ere, young feller,
d’yer know 'ow I made me money?"
IMPECUNIOUS SUITOR: "Oh, yes; hut I've assured Polly that I won't permit that to stand
in the way of her happiness."
which the derivation of every known place-
name _in the State is discussed. The new
committee is to go beyond the simple job of
suggesting new labels for Kaiserstuhl and
German Landing. It is to consider whether
Sedan, though French in origin, should go
on commemorating a Prussian triumph ; also
it will _ deal with practical points such as
that raised by Stirling East and West being
close together, but some hundreds of miles
from Stix-ling North. Anew but pretentious
Adelaide suburb recently collared the title
Toorak ; and that bit of pocket-picket is also
to have attention.
* * * *
“B.Sc., Lond.”: I do hope the Common-
wealth Government_ will not allow itself to
be influenced by this vague cry for “econo-
my.” I have just received — gratis, of
course—an expensively prepared pamphlet
on Australian starfish and certain molluscs,
these being the collected results of the inves-
tigations of certain scientists into the man-
ners and customs of sundry animals
gathered by the Federal trawler Endeavor be-
fore she was lost. I admit that for cleansing
purposes the starfish is not as good as a bar
of soap, and is of even less use as a food;
but to _ persons of scientific bent it is
of considerable moment, particularly as a
means of distraction from such trivial mat-
ters as the cost of living, protection, the
war debt and so on. Besides, who knows that
some chemist may not yet succeed in distill-
ing axle-grease, otto-of-roses or even sheep’s
trotters from these echinoderms.
* * * *
If the Italians have really got the noiseless
howitzer Amsterdam credits them with, war
will presently be as quiet as a lovers’ meet-
ing and the world will only be annoyed by
the chattering of Wilson’s typewriter.
“Petifi” : What memories of glorious nights
of moon and stars and surf and ocean
breeze and—and other things will be
recalled to thousands of elderly Arthurs and
Dollies by the passing of the old Manly
ferry-steamer Brighton! Ah, but she was
a smart boat in her prime, with her roaring,
cascading paddle-wheels, and her banks of
silver foam piled high to her rails. But
the old hooker passes off “the run” at last
into private hands, to be cut down into a
hulk. The Brighton was designed by the
Port Jackson S.S. Co.’s late superintending
engineer Richmond; was launched at Clyde
in 1883, and came to Sydney under her own
steam via the Suez Canal, Colombo, Singa-
pore and Torres Straits. Coming through
the Straits she started to travel overland,
but was persuaded to take the sea for it
again, and W. B. Dailey, J. Randal Carey
and other quarter-deckers said the usual
things on the trial trip.
"Y.Z.”: A hairdresser with a large round
in the suburbs gives me a few interesting
items about the bald. One thing borne
in upon her by seven years’ house-to-house
experience is that “consumptive’s hope” is
a pale, dispirited thing compared with the
hope of the hairless. But the fact that
hurts most is her revelation about ladies.
“There is* more baldness among
women than you would dream
of. I can always sort out a fair
number, of bald dames at the
theatre or any social gathering.
It takes a practised eye to detect
them, but they’re there. A man
has the courage of his baldness
in pretty well all cases, but a
woman will starve to provide
an attractive disguise for a
barren scalp. That is why this
too common infirmity among
mere girls of 45 is not generally
recognised. One of my patrons
was married four months ago.
Her husband has never been the
same man since. The • wife
knows why, and so do I. But
nobodv else will ever guess.”
The professional workers in
the Public Service have come to
what looks like an insurmount-
able obstacle on the road to
registration under the Arbitra-
tion laws. After watching for
years the wages of less sailled
toilers rise while their own re-
mained unvaried, they formed a
union—the Australian Archi-
tects, Engineers, Surveyors and
Kindred Professions’ Associa-
tion—and it has been asking for
recognition from the Court
for months. Justice Heydon
(N.S.W.) looked at the applica-
tion with suspicion, and the
Federal Court lias decided that an
application for registration must fail,
Since there are not one hundred mem-
bers who are employees outside the public
service. As the men outside are, with few
exceptions, not employees at all, the case of
the Association seems hopeless. Which is
f'uVr a l )00r advertisement for the
Arbitration Act.
* * *
A Sea Scout movement in Melbourne was
started a year or two ago by the little local
society of Ancient Mariners. It prospered
in a small way. Parties of boys were in-
structed in the rudiments of seamanship by
one 01 other of the old sea dogs, who gave
an occasional evening to the congenial job.
In order to allay any fond parental fears
ot a watery grave for the young students, the
Mariners slipped them with a small sailing
boat_ on the Albert Park Lagoon, where no
capsized crew can drown except by lying
down But the main thing wanting to
attract more Scouts to the useful organisa-
?r°e n r S / l , club ' h,JU « e - This the Mariners
are about to provide. The property they
nfert ° ffer a bi S boatshed, with
JT\ a shpway and a six-roomed cottage on
the shore of the lake. The Mariners them-
selves are giving £IOO, and the public in
general and shipping firms in particular are
expected to supply the rest of the needful.
Lvery good Australian should be in sympathy
vvitn the Sea Scout movement —a movement
which will surely extend to other ports. The
Commonwealth needs sailors for its growing
mercantile marine, and the local boy with
leanings towards life on the ocean wave
needs all the encouragement he can get.
Councillor 1 rank Davies, of the Ancient
Mariners, is receiving subscriptions to the
Sea Scouts’ Fund at Melbourne Town Hall.
* * * #
G.”; There were alarms and excursions
amongst the headstones of Wikumete Ceme-
tery in Auckland the other day on the
arrival of an old settler’s funeral. Owing
to a mistake in the field map or something,
the trench for the deceased had been dug
m a plot which was the property of one
of the mourners, who objected strongly to
his corner section being grabbed. Another
of the mourners had arrived from the Back-
blocks well inked, and he declared that the
hitch in the ceremony was a r’flsh’n on his
dear ol’ fren’. Peeling off his coat, he
therefore offered fight to every soul on the
course except the corpse. The parson and
the undertaker put out peace feelers • but
when the funeral train of cars finally left,
the cocky was still issuing challenges
amongst the tombs. He did not appear at
the adjourned hearing next day, and the
deceased was slid into his right hit of
ground without interruption.
* * * *
The Adelaide Register digs up an inter-
esting and forgotten fragment—S. Austra-
liu owed its first Blind Institution to the
short, inglorious, bullying struggle in which
Prussia and Austria over-ran Denmark and
plundered Schleswig-Holstein. A few hun-
dred pounds were sent from S. Aus. as sick-
fund relief. In August, 1866, the local
committee had £32 balance in hand, with
the European trouble long over; so that
modest sum was banked as a nucleus for
the founding of a Blind Asylum. A few
years later, other pounds having been
scraped together, a committee secured a
small delicensed pub almost buried under
the sandhills at Brighton; and there the
first superintendent, one Hogg, beenn to
teach S. Australia to whisper on its fingers.
ALMOST A HOBBY.
"Yes, the poor fellow is an artist. He tried
to enlist and failed .”
“He doesn't seem to worry much."
“Oh no, he is quite used to being rejected."
Tlie old Grace Darling lias long since been
abandoned; and the line building which has
grown up alongside it is only one of half
a dozen or more S. Australian asylums for
the blind and deaf and dumb. There isn’t,
experts say, another country in the world
where so much has been done for these
sufferers.
BORONIA MADNESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jane Spring is here, my dear, my dear;
At least she’s on the way,
And Summer follows down the year—-
The calendar looks gay;
For ’neath the windy August leaf
September days lie snug.
Good-bye to Winter’s cold and grief!
Fill up Joy’s ready jug!
Boronia scents the busy streets;
Sweet Spring is passing by,
And while the pulse of traffic beats
I glimpse her roguish eye.
Sweet Spring is here, my dear, my dear!
And soon the locust-drums
Will hail the queen of all the year
Amid the dreaming gums.
'The herald’s voice, so faint and clear
Amongst the trees! “Sweet Spring is here!”
N.S.W.
THE LADY’S ADVANCE AGENT.


PETTICOAT GOVERNMENT.
The auglican Bishop of Bloemfontein (Dr. Arthur Chandler), in the couuse of an address at a war anniversary service in the Bloemfontein Cathedral, nrged that there
was need in the Empire for “repentance for the Incompetence of those response for Impend affair s before the war, which was the occasion of sliame and remorse."-Cable.
LANDLORD BULL: “My wife and I were thinking you might consent to make way for another tenan?"
ASQUITH: “And my wife and I are of opinion that anew tenant would be a Public Calamity."


THE SUNDOWNER OF EUROPE.
ROME monday.-General Corsl Corsi, in an artiele in the TRIBUNA, estimated thar the Austrian losses since June 4 on the Russian trout are: Prisoners, 300,000; killed and
wounded, 3000,000.-Cable.
FRANZ JOSEF (to his old friends the Russian and Italian): “Put an army in the hat, mates, and I’ll fight yer again!”


m
Chaving
<2)TICK
MADE
IN AUSTRALIA
For an
Ideal Shave
3®
£3'\f v
1 iSFWI
fifi
*0 V
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, yet
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
LEWIS &
WIjITTY
MAKERS
l. r€
SM
mm
wMS "?■ *
■• ?&hW • to
DOCTORS
RECOMMEND
(aILBEY’S
PRY <alN
For Kidney Complaints
and Rheumatism.
Obtainable Everywhere in Quarts 8 Pints.
TUCKER & CO., SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
JUSTICE HOOD (Vic.) dispensing free
hoard and lodging.
The late George Turner lived on the sim-
plest. possible terms of understanding with
his former partner, Sam Lyons, to whom he
had originally been articled. Sam, disrepu-
table Sam, was a “thieves’ lawyer” above all
things else, whereas decent George Turner
had been looking after conveyancing busi-
ness for the firm. As soon as George talked
of leaving him, Sam offered a partnership,
each of them to take the proceeds of the
particular work he attended to. Sam Lyons
got all the benefit of the police-court prac-
tice, whilst Turner pushed the less disre-
spectable lines of lawyering. It was under-
stood in the profession that the seemingly
ill-assorted pair got along happily without
any deed of partnership. When Turner first
entered Parliament his old friend Sam liked
the idea; blit when the cares of government
allowed his partner precious little time for
attending to legal business, Sam wished all
politics to the Devil. He died in an asylum
years ago, his last phase of insanity being
religious mania.
E. H. RILEY, General Manager Maoriland
Railways.
Sydney barristers killed with Australian
troops in the present war: Brigadier-Generftl
11. N. Maclaurin, at the Gallipoli landing;
Majors Macmftfiftmy (the footballer) and
Ilarkus, in the Anzac trenches; Lieut.-Col.
Norris and Majors Frank Coen (ex-Senate
candidate) and C. E. Manning, in France.
Major Charles Edye Manning, of- the
A.1.F., killed in France at 36, was the
eldest son of a one-time Judge of
N. S. Wales Supreme Court, and grand-
son of ■ that Edye Manning who ran
the first steamers to the Illawarra dis-
trict 70 years ago. Manning was an old
boy of King’s, Parramatta, and went through
Oxford without ceasing to be a good Aus-
tralian. He had been at the Bar of the Ma
State since 1904 and to his sound knowledge
of Constitutional law The Bulletin has
been frequently indebted. When Bill broke
loose, Manning got into khaki among the
first and took a hand in turning the Huns
out of New Guinea. For nine months he
was Judge-Advocate of the, captured terri-
tory, going thence to Egypt and Gallipoli.
Ermine runs in the family: a great-uncle
was twice Judge of N. S. Wales Supreme
Court, retiring once and being subsequently
reappointed with a knighthood.
George Turner served part of his articles
in a “political” office ; hence bis inclination
that way. Fie was with the late John
Edwards, the younger, who was distin-
guished as ah amateur actor and represented
Oollingwood-in the Legislative Assembly for
some years. In his day Edwards was known
as “The Collingwood Chicken”; he was a
native of Tasmania, the son of a solicitor
whose connection with Chartists and other
desperadoes led to his name being wiped off
the roll.
The Australian gets everywhere. George
Wilkins, mentioned the other day in the
cables as in charge of portion of the Steffan-
son expedition in the Arctic, was horn in
Adelaide 26 years ago. After starting and
then dropping a course of chemistry and
engineering at Adelaide School of Mines,
Wilkins managed a picture-show in North
Sydney for a while, then drifted to London
in the biograph business. When the Balkan
shindy started a few years Jater the big
Gaumont firm sent him to Bulgaria to take
battle pictures for the movies from flying
machines. Still in search of pictures, Wil-
kins next went to Trinidad, and thence to
the U.S.A., Anally joining Steffanson’s ex-
pedition as official photographer for the
Canadian Government.
Old George Downer was the last of a
remarkable quartet of brothers who took up
law in Adelaide half a century back. The
firm of “H. E. and H. F.” soon broke up,
Harold dying young, and Henry becoming an
S.M. The firm of “G. and J.” lasted till
John died last year. While John Went into
the courts and into State and Federal poli-
tics, George kept the Office going, being
probably, at one time, Adelaide’s finest Con-
veyancing lawyer. Outside the office hfe had
big pastoral interests and became a power in
financial circles, being chairman of the Bank
of Adelaide and a director of Elder .Smith
and Co. and other big. concerns. His last
years' Were filled with Wretched health
and big behefactioris. The end came at 77.
Passed out the othel. day; aged 86, Alfred
Camp Sparkes, one df the six prdspectors
who first unearthed gold at Stockyard
Creek (Vic.). For a few months they
raked in wealth at the rate of £6OO per
man per week, and had a glorious time.
With part of liis haul Alfred bought a
hotel, and did fairly well; but it took fire
one night, and from then on Fortune turned
her back on the digger. In his latter years
the old chap acted as librarian in Foster
(as Stockyard Creek is fidw called). His
two youngest sons are driving a thnfiei iii
Flanders.
Rod Quinn takes down the sliprail:—-
The death of Frank Ma.hony recalls old days iii
Paddington. At that time the Irani system had
hot yet netted the . lower portion of the suburb
within its mesh of rails, and we travelled by ’bus,
Mahony, who delighted to ride On the box-seat,
knew every driver on the road and every horse iri
the stables. Jfot a mere surface acquaintanceship,
either ; v he knew his friends from hide to heart.
And he painted them as he knew them. So cont-
pletely was he master of his art that on one
occasion I knew him to dtaw the ear, and the ear
Only, of a broken-down old screw with so much
truth and nicety that constant travellers who saw
tiie sketch had no difficulty in locating the owner
of the ear. Certainly it was an ear brimful of
Character, a desolate and whimsical ear, suggestive
•Of life's toil and weariness, dud also .of fife’s comi-
cality, Tin' long way he went in his art was but.a little
Way to the lengths fie might hake gone had his
stars proved kindlier. Even in those days the lirrii-
tations of an animal painter irked hinl, anil he
stretched a hand for the portrait-painter’s difficult
brush. Lister Lister sat for him, hut 1 don’t think
he made a success of his brother artist. He painted
me, too, and I think the scorn with which he
Viewed the result of his labors cured hint.
Fine fellow and true artist! When Ahstraiitt
lost Frank Mahony she lost one of her own—one
who was meant for her ! He was a good fighter
and a good man. Full of pride, too. “Unless I
succeed,” he said to me at our last haiid-gHp, “1
will never come back.” And he never Came hack.
HIGH FINANCE.
SHE: “But what started the row?"
HE: “Oh, she drooped into his office one
afternoon and noticed on his table a
cheque for ‘Betties'.”
The late Frank Ham, who died of pneu-
monia at a military camp in Ireland, where
he was learning how to he a British officer,
left a neat estate of £50,000-odd to lus rela-
tives. Ham was a bachelor and earned lus
criist by following iii the money-itiaking
footsteps Of his late patent, Cornelius Jdb.
Melbdhlne’s best-known estate agent. A
quiet yohng man of sober and otherwise
profitable liabitk, Frafik Ham bad a hieft
taste ih apparel and manners, and wotild
probably have ended up -with, ft "fasliidit-
able” marriage and a seat ih the Lbg-
Council had the fortunes of war permitted
his return to Australia. .
“Nemd”: Sonie-
times ode heais. Of a
widower becomilig d
priest. But it is not
often that one hears
of a nun having a
daughter a nun.
Maoriland has one
of these very rare
instances. Sister
Brigid, of Cashel,
Ireland, who was a
Cotihty Cork womafi
named Cdi'bett, died
lately; She married,
in her time, a Ml.
McCarthy, and had
two fchildreii,
McCarthy died, and
the widoW became a
hun: he! daughter
also became one, and
is now in ft Domini-
can , ebrivbnt ih
Maoriland. Hftr Soil
became a priest; and
is now head df ah
Irish monastery.
J. W. DOYLE,
President N. S.
Wales P.L.L.
In the presence bf Hughes the. nihil wild
do things, think they must say things. The
result is we get flights of eloquence like this?
of "Big Bill” Baiilipu at the Metal Exclifthge
dinner iii Melbourne
Mr. Hughes's utterances arc, flying around Hie
world like ,an eleetrib torch and. finding an echo in
all our breasts. '
Aye. and ale hot his winged words as tlffi
blows of, a sietige-liaiiiimT Reverberating in
Our biobd and leaving sand.upon the foot-
prints of tiinh?
An oltl-time Tasmaniaii politician, Gedrgii
Leatlmm. who' passed on the other day. waft
• lid speaker and.no statesman, but lie was
horn iit New Norfolk and lived there all
his 67 years, and under the bid single-elec-
tbrate system Iris per-
sonal popularity plit
him in Parliament
and kept hint there
for 16 years. Then
came the Ilare-Clafk
system aiid big elec-
torates. and he had
i:o hope when he was
obliged to appeal to
people who didn’t call
him George.
Lieut. Lewis Cor-
don Blackmote, killed
in France recently,
was a son of E. <?.
Blackmore, an old-
time rowing enthusi-
ast who. coached most
of thej. South Ans.
inter-State crews from
the beginning of the
contests up to about
10 years ago. In his
spare time the father
was Clerk of Parlia-
ments in Adelaide, and
more recently Clerk
of the Federal Houses.
You n g Blackmore
was farming ne a r
Cowra (N.S.W.) in
1914, and he beat his
ploughshare into a
sword in time to take
a hand at Gallipoli as
a sergeant, winning
his commission early
this year. A sister
is married to Gran-
ville Sharp, erstwhile
champion tennis player
and now a doctor in a
Sydney suburb.
Major Frank Coon, who was killed *in
action last month, was one of a well-known
Yass (N.S.W.) family, a Councillor of
St. John’s College and a graduate of Syd-
ney University with healthy political ambi-
tions. He was the Uni. Football Club’s
secretary for three years, hooked his rowing
“blue,” and managed the first Rugby team
to Maoriland.
MACALLISTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There was laughter in our voices, there were jests
upon the tongue,
When we took the road from Mahdi while the
summer night was young,
And low across the starry skies a disc of silver
swung.
The road that runs from Mahdi is a long and
winding road,
Hut the driver raced his throbbing car beneatli its
double load;
He had whisky for encouragement and silver for
a goad,
The road that nyis from Mahdi takes its way
through desert brown,
By filthy native villages that huddle back and
frown
At the strangers racing through them to the heart
of Cairo town.
In the vestibule at Sheplieard’s, or above the
strident; street,
On the gaily-lit piazza, men of every nation meet,
To sound the heart of Cairo and to feel her pulses
heat.
And the fevered heart of Cairo it is rotten to the
core,
Passionate and pitiless, and cunning in the lore
Of the age-old hidden vices—that are hidden there
no more.
We took the road to Mahdi when the morning hours
were young.
Except for young Macallister there were jests on
every tongue.
Rut to me the jests were empty as the idle songs
we sung.
The face of young Macallister, cureless-eyed and
kind,
When he marched aboard at Sydney was fresh before
my mind—
The face of young Macallister.... and one he left
behind.
There can’t be many left of us who ..took that
Mahdi way;
Summerhayes was bayoneted beside me where 1 lay;
Jack McColl and Kerrigan were shot at Suvla Bay.
But the face of young Macallister is most before my
mind.
I wish to God he had been shot, but fate was not
so kind
To careless young Macallister... .and one he left
behind.
somewhere.
A. I'ANSON.


PERFECTION IN THE ART OF CIGARETTE-MAKING.
OißWm goi fUa
FABRIQUE DE J>
Cigarettes,Egyptiennes
IF
FRERES
W
BoutonXßouge
pAtthidb'e *a« 6 © ,
/AaSPERO FRERES L to oam§ ClUll fiANUlfctf u®t Atf
Made the finest selected
Turkish Tobacco, under ideal
conditions in Cairo.
Maspero Freres
BOUTON ROUGE
Egyptian Cigarettes
Obtainable from all Hig'h-
class Tobacconists tbroug'hout
Australia.
001
Fabrique de
Cigarettesfgyptiennes
n:
nai
FRERES
mm.'
BoutonKßouge
fAßmoue wr O o
/AaSPERO FRERES IT® mnsiiur MAHurACTuAe
A LUXURY to the MAN of TASTE


Overall, McCray, Ltd.
Bald Rock,
BALMAIN.
SPECIALTY
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS—Deep and Shallow—
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES
Large Stocks also on hand—Samson Windmills, Galvanised
Sheep and Cattle Troughing, Pumps, &c.
Water Pipe and Fittings,
Send for Catalogue.
BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty., Ltd
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE, ANTIMONIAL LEAD,
LINO METAL, SPELTER, ZINC
DUST, REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of:
SILICIOUS ORES, containing
Lead, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buyers of:
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
All enquiries to be addressed to the. Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
BUCYRUvS CO. Milwaukee
Steam Shovels, Drag Line Excavators.
Sole Agents WILLIAM ADAMS CSX, COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street.
; HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Australian Gaslight Co. (Syd-
ney) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
June, 1910.. 18,013 15 p.c. = 62,450 378,550
Premiums on new shares . . 10 378,560
Dec., 1910.. 79,279 15 p.c. = 63,750 15,529 394,089
June, 1911.. 68,125 15 „ „ 63,750 4,375 395.464
Dec., 1911.. 79,304 15 „ „ 63,750 15,554 414,018
June, 1912.. 69,002 15 ~ „ 63,750 5,252 419,270
Deficit.
Reserves transferred to capita], £424,998 5.728
Reserves.
Dec., 1912.. 82,765 10 p.c. = 63,750 19,015 13.287
June, 1913.. 58,035 10 „ ~ 63,750 7,572
“A” k “B” “C”
Shares Shares
10 p.c. 7 p.e.
Dec., 1913.. 74,514 63,750 8778 1,986 9,558
9 p.c.
June, 1914.. 68,288 67,375 5925 1,988 11,546
7 p.c.
Dec., 1914.. 52,696 44,625 8925 10,692
6 p.c.
June, 1915.. 53,463 44,625 7650 1,188 11,880
Dec., 1915.. 55,472 44,625 7650 3,197 15,077
June, 1916.. 53,377 44,625 7650 1,102 16,179
That Gas Act which was going to save the
community from the cos.’ rapacity is a
failure. So far it hasn’t saved the com-
munity from anything at all. It hasn’t
given them cheaper gas: in fact, gas is
dearer now than it was before the Act was
passed. And it hasn’t given them better
gas. The main object of the measure
was to prevent the cos. maintaining an
unnatural selling price by pretending that
they were making less profits than actually
they were making. This pretence was
effected by writing . off absurd amounts
ostensibly to cover depreciation: actually
it meant that large additions were made to
permanent works and paid for out of
undisclosed profits. The new law was going
to stop that. Yet actually the disclosed
profits are now being kept stationary or
thereabouts by the old and simple process
of writing off variable amounts. Look at
the history of the past three terms: —
June, ’l5. Dec., ’l5. June, ’l6.
Total revenue ..£391,485 £435,036 £413,953
Working expenditure 280,420 282,925 286,588
Working profit ..£111,065 £152,111 £127,365
Less net interest . . 33,602 36,402 41,988
Less written off . . 24,000 60,237 32,000
Profit .. .. £53,463 £55,472 £53,377
The “profit” is thus kept within limits of a
couple of thousand pounds by deducting
£60,237 in one half-year and £32,000 in
another.
But note that in order to make the past
half-year’s profit less than that for the
corresponding half of 1915 it has been
necessary to write off £BOOO more. Whether
£60,000 is a proper amount to write off or
whether £30,000 is sufficient The Bulletin
doesn’t know. For a good many half-years,
when more might sometimes have been
taken, £24,000 was evidently considered
enough. If so the true profit in excess of
the dividend for the past year was a good
deal more than £4299. Further, interest
on loans —chiefly temporary loans —
amounted in the half-year to £41,988. The
co.’s Capital Account has, however, been
eased by the settlement of the resumption
claim with regard to the old works on
Darling Harbor. The temporary loans,
which stood at £724,250 six months ago,
have thereby lately been reduced, and on
June 30 were down to £570,995, notwith-
standing an expenditure of over £lOO,OOO
during the six months. The interest
charges may therefore be expected to be
lighter, and this will improve the profits.
Under the Act the co. may pay 10 p.c. on
A and B shares and 7 p.c. on C shares.
At present only 7 p.c. is being paid on A
and B and 6 p.c. on C. Under normal con-
ditions there is thus room for a much larger,
distribution of profits without a reduction
of the price of gas below the present stan-
dard of 3s. 6d. per 1000. And for that
reason there is room for a gradual—maybe
very gradual—recovery in the market value
of the stock from its present low level.
Some investors are fond of speculating
as to which shares will get the benefit of
the first additional distribution. As to tiffs
the Act apparently doesn’t direct the
directors. It only says that on “original”
capital the div. “shall not exceed” 10 p.c,
and on additional ordinary (G) capital 7 p.c.
But this may give a hint as to the directors’
feelings: C shares got 7 p.c. when A and B
got first 10 p.c., then 9 p.c., then 8 p.c. and
finally also 7 p.c.; and the C’s 7 p.c. was
not reduced to 6 p.c. until it was clear that
the directors could not pay 7 p.c. all round
without paying some of it out of reserves.
This map mean that the directors think
that C shares should not get less than 7 p.c.
when the co. can pay it. even if A and B
are not getting than 7 p.c. at the samje
time. But until gaff is reduced bel'ow Bs. 6d.
G shares can improve only 1 p.c. while A
and B may improve 3 p.c. It will be seen,
by the way, that, though A and B are
apparently equal in every respect, B’s are
quoted a few shillings higher in the market.
This seems to be due to the fact that A
shares are liable for calls on liquidation.
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Ltd. (Sydney),
station-produce salesmen, etc.: —
W ritten
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
1903 .. £6,319 Nil £6,319 £7,500
1904 .. 6,438 5 p.c. = £2,500 11,438
1905 . . 3,523 5„ „ 2,500 12,461
1906 . . 12,561 5 „ „ 2,500 7,500 15,022
1907 . . 17,033 10 „ „ 5,500 17,500 9,055
1908 . . 8,277 10 „ „ 5,500 11,832
1909 . . 13,845 19 „ „ 10,500 ' 15,177
Property written up, £lO,OOO .. .. 25,177
1910 .. 19,859 35 p.e. = 21,000 24,036
1911 . . 17,509 23i „ „ 17,500 24.045
1912 . . 14,793 16 „ „ 13,500 25,338
1913 . . 20,438 21 „ „ 19,000 26,776
1914 . . 25.315 10 „ „ 10,000 42,091
1915 . . 25,366 10 „ „ 10,000 57,457
Reserves capitalised .. £20,000 37,457
1916 .. 21,700 12J p.c. = 15,000 -—"'44,157'
I n the first year covered by the foregoing
table no dividend was paid; and that was
the end of a financial drought which began
in 1892. In that year ’92 the directors ex-
plained why, after having paid 5 p.c. for the
first six months, they could manage no more.
“General depression and great depreciation
in the value of stock” had, they said, been
accompanied by “the almost total absence of
sales of stations and freehold properties.”
But that only knocked out current commis-
sion earnings. Worse was to come. The co.
then, with a capital of only £50,000, and
no reserves worth mentioning, had no less
than £130,474 of “sundry debtors” ; and it
took 10 years to work off the bad debts in
that lot and replace the goodwill asset by
something substantial. The past history of
the co. is worth recalling now, because we are
approaching another crisis. The man who
thinks that we can have the most colossal
war ever waged without a violent finaicial
disturbance is too optimistic to be worth
arguing with. Will the same things hap-
pen again to this co. ?
In the first place, note how differently the
co. is now managed. Its worst trouble then
was that it was loaded with securities which
it had to realise under the most unfavorable
conditions. And mostly they -weren't first-
rate securities. The man who had been
able to do well hadn’t asked assistance of his
woolbroker or fat-stock agent. It was the
man with the second- or third-class property
who had got assistance. To-day, though
capital and reserves are nearly three times
as great, “sundry debtors” stand at only
£39,098. Apparently the co. has so built
up its business that it doesn’t have to risk
capital in order to earn commissions.
That’s a fine position to get into: and
w’hether it can maintain its business with-
out baiting the hook with advances is a
matter of management. Evidently the co.
has been very fortunate in that respect in
the past 20 years. But, fortunately, per- ;
haps, good managers are not immortal.
There may, no doubt, be as good fish in the
sea as ever were caught. But the other
fellow is just as likely to catch them as
you are.
The next table shows various movements :
1900. 1910. 1915. 1916.
Overdrafts .. £55,741 £17,311 £9,134 £20,162
Other liabilities ... .. 3,009 20,421 33,981 12,17 b
Advances, foreclos- .
ures, etc. .. 87,087 35,303 43,828 39,098
Freeholds, etc. .. .10,718" 104,465 126,500; 126,175
Goodwill . . . . 25,000 Nil Nil Nil
Liquid assets . . 35,244 40,218
There is not a movement there that doesn’t
put the co. in a stronger and safer position.
And that the co. is providing for all reason-
able contingencies that can be provided for
may be judged by the significant fact
that even the book value of the co.’s very
fine freehold is being written down.
* * * * ‘
Dennys, Lascelles, Ltd. (Geelong),
wool brokers and salesmen of pastoral and
agricultural products :—•
June, Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Deficit.
1912 -.— £51,765
1913 .. £9,863 7 p.c. =£10,500 52,402
1914 /. 14,470 7 „ „ 10,500 £3970 48,432
1915 . . 7,065 7 „ ~ 10,500 51,867
1916 . . 11,500 7 „ ~ 10,500 1000 50,807
It doesn’t look quite like that in the pub-
lished accounts. But there’s still a final
settlement to be made with E. 11. Lascelles,
who sold the business to the co. The veteran
guaranteed a 7 p.c. div. for five years, stipu-
lating that if he had to, make, good any de-
ficit in a -lean year he should be repaid out
of the surplus of a fat year. So far things
haven’t been up to the average. In 1914-5
he had to dip in to his pocket for £ll6l,
and thus far only £647 has been repaid.
That leaves the co. liable for £514 to be
paid out of future profits. In compiling
the table these advances have been regarded
as loans. The published accounts show a
deficit of £50,353 (goodwill and flotation
exes.)/; add the £514 which the co. will have
to ! pqji when it makes that much ill excess
of tlie‘" 7 p.c., and you have the £50,867
mentioned above.
The prospectus said that for six years
the business had made an average profit of
£13,198, without _ charging anything for
management by the partners. Since then,
after deducting all management charges,
the profits have averaged £10,725. This is
disappointing. The fact is too much was
paid for goodwill: and that means the co.
is now loaded too heavily. Under the old
Dennys-Lascelles partnership the estate of
any partner who died was to get for his
share of goodwill an amount equal to his
share of the net profits for the previous
three years. Even reckoning in the salaries
paid to the partners as profit, this would
have given no more than £40,000 as
the value of the business; but this
co. paid £50,000 —-in shares, certainly.
It was unfortunate, too, that the years
with which the prospectus dealt were
unusually prolific years in the country.
Since then the tide has turned. In the
year before the birth of the co. the firm
handled 51,728 bales of wool. In 1913-4
the co. sold 45,817 bales; in 1914-5, 40,725 ;
in 1915-6, 32,2 <4. Had it not been for the
phenomenal price ruling of late the co.’s
profits would have looked very sick indeed.
But if the w T ar has helped the co. in one
way, it has been no good to it in another:—
Owing to all the wheat being taken by the various
Governments into a “pool,” our grain business has
not been so profitable as it would have been under
ordinary conditions; still we have been able to fill
the warehouse with wheat on account of “pool”
agents.
Meantime,_ of course, nothing or nothing to
speak of is being earned in commission on
property sales.
The share capital is £150,000; and the
co. s debts are £130,885. The total is re-
presented by:—■
Goodwill £50,353
Book debts . . . . 151,148
Freeholds, etc. .. .. 75,314
Sundries (net) . . . . l’o7o
No reserves whatever have been accumu-
lated. Freeholds are still in at cost. Flota-
tion exes, have not yet been quite wiped
out. Book debts are heavy; but they are
probably, very good. Sundries include an
interest in a motor business -which has been
doing pretty well lately. The whole posi-
tion, however, is only moderately satisfac-
tory. The co. has paid no less than £50,000
m shares for the goodwill of a business
which has been built up mainly by Mr.
Lascelles and his various partners. Mr.
Lascelles, who is still general manager, has
been a partner for nearly 50 years. Of
other partners C. J. Dennys, Sydney Austin
and George Young are dead ; David Strachan
<3.nd M. Conran have retired. The co. may
have better men than any of these. That is
an important part of the shareholders’ risk.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co. (Syd-
ney) was formed about the middle of 1909.
A deficit of £7462 to begin with represented
patents and other goodwill items, plus pre-
liminary exes.:—
r> a. . , Towards De-
ri s ' Dividends. Reserves, ficit.
Dec., 1910. . £lB3O 10 p.c. = £B9B £932 £6170
Goodwill items, ill .. 6181
June, 1911.. 2447 10 p.c. = 1085 1362 4819
Goodwill items, £2B . . 4847
Dec., 1911.. 1592 10 p.c. = 1370 222 4625
June, 1912.. 3221 10 „ „ 1500 1721 2904
Goodwill items, £B6 .. 2990
Dec., 1912. . 3349 10 p.c. = 2160 1189 1801
T '% Goodwill items, £4 .. 1805
June, 1913.,, 3364 10 p.c. = 2500 864 941
Goodwill items, £43 .. 984
Dec,, 1913.. 6374 10 n.c. = 2950 3424
Goodwill items, £B6 .. 2354
June, 1914.. 6682 12ip.c.= 4108. 2574 4928
Goodwill items, £35 .. 4893
Dec., 1914.. 665 5 p.c. = 1750 3808
Goodwill items, £5 .. 3803
June, 1915.. 1875 5 p.c. = 1750 125 3928
Goodwill items, £ 25 . . 3903
June, 1916.. 4230 6 p.c. = 4200 30 3933
Note, first, that the last line deals with 12
months operations ; accounts are now made
up annually instead of twice a year. The
profit is slightly better than it was in the
preceding 12 months, when drought seriously
affected operations. The co. was born in
the nick of time, when the N. S. Wales Gov-
ernment in particular wanted to spend as
much money on labor as possible, and it
has had the benefit of the borrowing frenzy.
It has also got some advantage from the
building of the East-and-West line; and high
metal values since the war started have
given it an advantage over its chief competi-
tor* Already the co. has made and installed
oyer 000 miles of pipe-line, varying in
diameter up to 4§in.; and the .directors say-
that good contracts are in hand and pros-
pects are bright. All the same, and admit-
ting that wherever water has to be carried
in Australia the claims of the wood pipe
must in the future be very seriously con-
sidered, it seems certain that a dull time is
ahead. All branches of construction work
will be slack when the present borrowing
boom stops. It has practically stopped
already everywhere except in N. S. Wales;
andl'hfel-e it is being maintained simply and
solely because the Government entered into
a scandalous agreement with an English
syndicate to supply it with a certain amount
of work per year and pay it a certain
amount of commission.
The directors, evidently realising what is
ahead, have done a wise thing in woi*ung
down stocks and thus reducing their
own liabilities to £3312; and against
that the co. has a considerable bank
credit and a bit in the War Loan.
Two years ago it owed no less than
£33,613. - Share capital is now £70,000
in fully-paid £1 shares; and this and the
reserves are represented by property and
plant (written down 10 p.c. p.a.), £34,606;
stocks, £29,073; book debts, bank and sun-
dries, £16,017, less the liabilities mentioned
above.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. :
Gross Divi- Gross Divi-
Profits. dends. Profits;.' dends.
Nov., ’O6 346,622 240,000 May, ’ll 155,967 48,000
May, ’O7 331,125 240,000* Nov., ’ll 239,731 96,000
Nov., ’O7 153,599 288,000 May, ’l2 203,716 120,000
May, ’OB 30,389 72,000 Nov., ’l2 177,594 144,000
Nov., ’OB 34,430 Nil May, ’l3 132,037 120,000
~ Loss. Nov., ’l3 152,768 96,000
May, ’O9 59,029 Nil May, ’l4 165,292 113,728
. Profits. Nov., ’l4 144,847 59,050
kov., 09 55*996 Nil Way, ’l5 223,312 118,101
May, ’lO 46,047 48,000. Nov., .’l5 273,380 118,101
Nov,, 10 124,938 48,000 May, ’l6 271,524 118,101
The gross profit for the half-year is after
providing £15,000 for a sinking fund which
is to pay off the debenture debt on the iron
and steel works. Those works now take
nrst place in general-manager Delprat’s
re P ol jf- But they are not the branch from
which the co. is making its profit. Working
account shows a credit of £405,484 on
iron and steel account—“sales and products
on hand”—while £450,446 was spent to
earn that money. But things are expected
to improve by and bye. The general mana-
ger says:—
~ le Quality of the steel produced is everything
that can be desired, but the output is not "up to
the capacity of the plant, owing to many difficulties
originating from the starting of a new industry with
men not familiar with the work, and also throuah
non-arrival of necessary material. These difficulties
are being gradually overcome, and it is expected
that towards the end of the present half-year the
output of finished products will be nearly doubled,
lms output will naturally reduce the working costs.
The most cheerful feature of the operations
to date is that the quality has been demon-
strated. The directors say they have had
hoorays from “all the principal consumers,
including the Commonwealth and Victorian
Railways”; better still, “as to shell steel,
. the Imperial Government, to whom we
shipped a parcel of 500 tons in Februarv
last, has just purchased a further 1500
tons, and _is negotiating for some 20,000
tons of mild steel.” So the raw materials
are here, and the plant is here. And the
co. is convinced that the demand is here,
notwithstanding that already large additions
nave been, or are being, made, the g.m. says
it has Been made “abundantly clear that the
requirements of steel in Australia are#
greatly in excess of the maximum output of
the present plant,” so “plans and estimates
are now being prepared for a further dupli-
cation of the blast furnace and coke oven
plants, together with new steel furnaces, in
addition to the seven now laid down.” Even
though at the outset Australian iron and
steel may cost us a bit more, it seems now
to be fairly well admitted that we must have
the industry ; and the co. is on fairly safe
ground in assuming that it will get the
necessary Protection.
Australia was very fortunate in having a
co. with the resources of the Broken Hill
b°th in men and money, to undertake
this big job. At present its iron and steel
plant stands in the books at £1,767,700, and
the total cost has been a good deal more
than that. For there are lands and build-
xVr S oAA , in connect ion with this business,
±40.2U0; the Iron Knob tramway; the Tas-
manian limestone flux quarries; and a
quarter of a million or more used in finan-
cing the business. To provide the capital
1, issued 221,006 shares of Bs.
(£88.402) at a premium of 325. (£353,610) ;
}t raised £600.000 on 6 p.c. debentures; and
it sold its lead and zinc smelters and refinery
at Port Pirie for £300.000 and 150.000
shares in Associated Smelters, Ltd. That
makes £1,342.012. For the balance of
about three-quarters of a million it has had
to go to its accumulated profits. Even then,
to finance the whole business, it had to draw
on its credit to the extent of £439.825 as
at_ May 31. In view of the heavy out-
goings the co. has been lucky in having had
a couple of exceptionally fat years. The
gioss profits, after providing for debenture
sinking fund, in the past eighteen months


The British Westinghouse Electric Si Mfg. Co., Ltd.
Everything Electrical
whether for the production, distribution or application of electricity
tor power and lighting purposes is manufactured bv the British
\\estinghouse Electric &. Mfg Co., Ltd. They offer the advantage
ot undivided responsibility for power and lighting equipments.
Their productions include Steam Turbines; Turbo-Generators-
Blowers and Compressors; Condensers; Gas, Oil and Diesel Engines;
A.C. and D.C. Generators and Motors; Electric Tram wav and Railway
Equipments; Transformers and Converters; Switch and Control Gear;
Meters and Instruments; Lamps, Fans, and all Electrical Accessories.
rathwfamgf
Mancheatei
Head Office for Australia:
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Works Trafford Park, Manchester. England.
Type C. Form G. Circuit Breakers, especially
suitable for mine service, are an important feature
of the mining supplies stocked by the Australian
General Electric Company. These Circuit Breakers
are small, compact and of substantial construction,
and are recommended for all kinds of small, direct
current motor installations requiring only separate
breakers or small control panels. Complete informa-
tion and quotations will be immediately supplied
to anyone communicating with the above Company,
Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street, Sydney;
Queen and Little Collins Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
ALUMTNOFERRTC is used by the Svdney Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards and graziers
for precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is simply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid' cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours’
time the most discolored water will be as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless.
Sole agents: William Adams & Companv Limited,
Sydney, Brisbane and Perth.— Advt.
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. vard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. 3d. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is.;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. — a saving of 2s. sd.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow loin, x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers. —Advt. [2
* * « *
Pioneer Wood Pirr:.—Wood, if kept wet, is prac-
tically everlasting, and there is no inner exposed
metal to rust or corrode.,. It works out much
cheaper, too, than any other class of pipe, so far as
first cost, labor for laying and freight charges are
concerned. Send for illustrated catalogue. The Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co. Ltd., 57 York Street, Sydney.
Contractors to all State Governments. Factories:
Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; Footscray, Vic.; Port Adelaide,
S.A.— Advt.
* * # *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Earth-handling and Road-building Machinery,
Concrete Mixers, Robey Traction Engines, National
Suction Gas Engines, modern conveying outfits, pump-
ing installations, stonecrushing plants specialised in
by Australian Machinery Co. Ltd., Charlotte Street,
Brisbane; and Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety AVater-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty vearV practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, AVeights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Silberberg & Co.. Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney;
and 443 Bourke Street. Melbourne.— Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
The 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital . £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 95,767
Income (Cross) 1915 .. 146,027
Established 1910.
ACENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. It. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited,
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£545,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,351 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 81,500 0 0
JtlOi.Oll V
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. ■
Gen. >• ;in.: Fdwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannrn Street, Loncion
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
Jiave amounted to £768,000; and the share-
holders have had to be content with
£354,000. The balance of £414,000 has been
absorbed by the iron and steel business. As
the shareholder has been asked to forego
these profits now, it is to be hoped he won’t
be grudged them later on.
Certainly they have been mostly war pro-
fits. Though practically the same amount of
profit was made as in the previous half-year
and more than in the one before that, the
output of silver-lead-zinc ore has varied as
follows: May, 1915, 109.911 tons; Novem-
ber, 1916, 114,579 tons; May, 1916, 66,423
tons. Under normal -conditions the co.
would have done very well indeed to have
made £1 per ton; the past average has been
a good deal less than that, even with the
help, of the zinc output, and the production
of zinc concentrates was suspended during the
half-year. .On a conservative estimate, then,
war conditions are responsible for two-thirds
of the co.’s profit during the half-year—and
probably an equal amount in the preceding
half.. In part return it paid £14,437 income
tax in the previous six months, and in the
past half-year no less than £117,036 is
charged on the same account. The difference
between the two amounts has to be remem-
bered when comparing the profits for the two
terms. The highest point touched by lead in
the co.’s history prior to the war was £22
Is. 6d. (1912) ; the lowest was £9, in 1894,
though even as late as 1909 it was down to
7-oo' o ie avera ge for the past half-year was
ioL 3s. 4d., and in March alone the average
was £34 Bs. As for spelter (and this co. has
tor the present the exclusive right to supply
the small furnaces at Port Pirie), the aver-
age for the half-year was £BB 175., as against
£22 lbs. Bd. in the year to November, 1913.
But though it has been from silver, lead
and zinc that the half-year’s profits have
come, the future lies at Newcastle. Nobody
knows how much ore can be scraped up in
the old mine: less than a million tons, no
doubt, which is less than five years’ normal
supply. After that—and perhaps before then
—nearly everything will depend on (1) the
vigor with which Parliament protects the
iron and. steel industry; (2) the steady
energy with which the Australian workman
attacks his job.
On the splitting of two hairs: —
Two interesting banking- problems have been
recently answered, by the Law—one in N. S. Wales
and the other in Britain. In the British case a firm
paid an account by cheque sent through the post,
but the document did not reach the payee, and was
cashed by somebody else who secured possession. In
an action for the recovery of the amount due the
paying firm contended that, by established custom,
settlement of accounts was made by postal cheque,
and if the cheque went astray it was not the debtor’s
fault. The cheque, however, was an open one, and
the Law decided that, while, if it had been crossed,
it would have been considered a proper settlement,
sufficient precaution had not been taken to prevent
the payment going astray. The proper way to cross
cheques sent by post is now to cross them payable
to “account of payee only.” The Sydney case
tvas less doubtful. IA bank clerk wanted to transfer
his account from an ordinary commercial bank,
where a charge for keeping accounts is made, to
the Commonwealth Bank. He therefore opened an
account in the new institution by a cheque drawn
upon the old one, which dishonored it. He sued
for damages, contending that he had made out the
document for the amount standing- to his credit;
but the Law maintained the defendant bank’s plea
that on the closing of an account it had a right to
deduct the five-shilling bank charge and dishonor
the cheque owing to the account being short of the
necessary funds to that extent.
* * * *
Another small Australian fire office falls
into the maw of a big “foreigner” : contingent
upon 140,000 shares being made available, on
terms not yet definitely arrived at, the Lon-
don and Lancashire takes over the Amal-
gamated. This was established about three
years ago—Earle Hermann took a hand —
and it proposed to run on new lines: it did
no business itself, but guaranteed the liabili-
ties of separate cos. known as the Melbourne
Fire Office, the Sydney Fire Office, the Bris-
bane Fire Office and the Adelaide Fire Office,
ihe co. spent most of its capital in making
a start, and then decided that, though
further capital was necessary, it wasn’t at
present expedient to try to get any.
* * * *
The deputation which pleaded with
Treasurer Higgs to exempt the gold-mining
industry from the War-Time Profits Tax
got sympathy mostly instead of bread. Higgs
offered a crumb of comfort, certainly; but it
is doubtful whether he grasped the basic fact
that gold simply can't give a war-time profit
like lead .or zinc or copper, which have been
doubled in value by war demands and the
manipulations of cunning dealers. Every
bit of material wanted by the gold-miner costs
more, thereby bringing down the purchasing
power of the gold he produces. Employees’
representative Hicks, of Bendigo, put the
case of the tributer to whom the jump in the
cost of supplies means semi-starvation. But
he got. no more help from the thoroughly
impartial Higgs than did white-haired
McGowan, the owners’ rep. Higgs may
aspire to catch the profits of shows like the
Great Boulder; but he won’t unless D±ck
Hamilton increases his output. So while
the Boulder may thus escape, the Edna
Central will pay; not because it wins more
from gold-mining, but simply because, on
account of its youth, it wasn’t a producer
during the three years before the war.
New Boddington Syndicate (W.A.J, whose
shares are to be shortly listed on the Mel-
bourne and Adelaide Exchanges, disclosed its
financial position to shareholders at Kal-
goorlie the other day. Including £3OOO put
up by the original syndicate, the total sub-
scribed capital is £10,815. Of this, £4lOO
has been swallowed up in working exes, and
£2BSO in plant, leaving £3235 in hand. The'
co. has liabilities of aoofit £3200, the nature
of which is not disclosed- But it is stated
that £2OOO is on terms extending over 12
months, so the Board will be able to spend
about £lOOO of the funds in hand on develop-
ment before having to rely on the battery to
keep things going. No estimate has been
made of ore reserves ; but an assurance is
given shareholders that there will be no
difficulty in feeding the treatment plant
when it starts.
* * * *
Collie (W.A.) produced 142,236 tons of
coal worth £69,761 for j the half-year ended
June, against 147,237 tons valued at £66,281
for the first half of 1915. The number of
men employed is about 450, or 50-odd less
than 12 months ago. Enlistments are re-
sponsible.
* * * *
Amalgamated Westralia, which has a
brass plate in Melbourne and some gold-
bearing leases at Laverton (W.A.)', claims
to have got on to a small body of 50s. ore.
The find is reckoned to be a continuation of
one made overhead by the original owners,
and out of which 900 oz. were obtained from
500 tons.
*** • *
Wauchope has given up the Sons of
Gwalia (W.A.), and 8., M. and Co., who
control the show, are on the lookout for a
new manager. Previous managers are
all over the world. The first, George
Hall, is resting in a little Welsh graveyard;
“Hail Columbia” Hoover and Hummerston
are in London ; a fourth, Bill Loring, is in
San Francisco, building up a big business
for himself preparatory to disposing of his
interest in 8., M. and Co. Of others, Bor-
row is in America and McDermott in
Ithodesia.
Sandstone (W.A.), where the Oroya Black
Range and Melbourne Black Range lie sleep-
ing, is now popularly known as “Stone-
broke,” and is gradually fading off the land-
scape. All movable public and private
buildings have been, or are being, shifted,
and the population now consists chiefly of
goats.
* * # *
F. A. Govett, at the Lake View and Star
meeting, expressed surprise at the refusal of
Kalgoorlie miners to work with Austrians
and other alien enemy subjects. To try to
lessen our gold production by keeping the
enemy out of the mine stopes, drives and
crosscuts is simply fatuous, the old man
thinks. As certain chemicals, which are
made in Germany, can’t be now obtained, a
change in ore treatment is being tried, and
should this prove successful a saving of from
2s. to 2s. 6d. per ton is anticipated. If this
can be done, and if stores and taxation go
no higher and sufficient labor can be found
to work the plant, the co. is expected to
recover its position.
* *• * *
N. E. Giblin, who matured at the Golden
Ridge (W.A.),• takes up Dick Williams’s
Edna Central mantle. Giblin is gaunt and
slow of speech, but is reputed to own a
shrewd head. lie’ll need to do some think-
ing at the Central. Westralians like the
appointment.
* If * *
After two months’ potholing and shaft-
sinking Sons of Gwalia has taken up a 172-
acre prospecting area at Mount Lucky,
Laverton (W.A.). One hole has been sunk
40ft,, and it is proposed to deepen this to
70ft. and then open out. The reef is of fair
size, and so far has given the usual “encour-
aging prospects.”
* * # *
Cohen’s Long Tunnel, Walhalla (Vic.),
purrs over having proved “the existence of
large bodies of payable stone”; also on
swinging a battery and air-compressor up
from Stringer’s Creek. By sorting out the
official statements it looks as if the large
bodies of stone are: (1) a shoot driven
north 239 ft. from the main tunnel, and
worth sdwt. to 7dwt., as per bore sample;
(2) a patch 23ft. long to the south-west,
said to be rich stuff; (3) a shaft 93ft. deep
on Goodwin’s Reef; and (4) the cutting of
the Big Reef in two places. All this looks
a lot in print, but it only means a decent
bit of surfacing. Carpenter says “there are
prospects of a successful career.” He ought
to know best, but the ore reserves are doubt-
ful yet.
Charters Towers paid £15,657 in divs.
for the first seven months of this year; but
of that the liquidation of the Day Dawn P.C.
gave £2879. Now Mills United, which fol-
lows the old Day Dawn into the shade, dis-
tributes a sixpenny (£7500). Among the
live mines Bonnie Dundee paid £2797 and
the Papuan £2400. But the latter seems
to have shot its bolt, for the last crushing
averaged only £4 2s. 9d. per ton, as against
previous averages of between £7 and £B.
The field’s calls for the seven months ran
to only £6690, and that is not a good sign.
It shows that the old backers of the Towers
are disheartened.
* * * *
The terms of Mount Cuthbert reconstruc-
tion are published. Shareholders are to
provide another ss. a share (those who can’t
must go out), and £50,000 worth of prior
lien bonds are to be issued and to come in
ahead of the present 7 p.c. debentures. Two
ci editors, to whom £65,000 is due, have
agreed to take £20,000 cash down and a
promise of the rest in 12 months, a promise
that carries with it the popping of £25.000
of prior lien debentures as collateral. The
optimist on the Board seems to think that
once the furnace is blown in profits will flow
fast enough to wipe all debts, including the
bonds, off the slate in the year. There are
193,000 shares in the present eo. and 300.000
in the new; so the Board will have 107,000
new shares to apportion. This allows of
25 shales being offered to present holders for
every 100 shares on which they pay up ss.
per share. If all shareholders come in on
this arrangement, there will still be 23,400
shares in hand to go to debenture-holders,
who may think about converting, and 35,000
for reserve purposes. The scheme is neat,
and the brotherly allusion to the Baillieus
indicates that they had a hand in the busi-
ness. What shareholders have to do is to
wade in. Thereby they help the really
decent crowd led by Tom Power, who has
£20,000. of his own in the show, to get a
good ship off the mudbank.
* * *
Mt. Bischoff for the last six months
netted £7278 from mine and smelters, with
tin at £lB7 10s. It wasn’t much of a feat,
but it was better by £2BOO than the pre-
vious term, when tin was £27 per ton lower.
The co. with a bit of cash in hand paid
7s. 6d. to its weary, waiting crowd. Mana-
ger Millen’s sampling of the North Valley
slopes and flats are anxiously looked to to
make up for the depletion of the old brown
and white faces that made the mine the tin
show of the universe during Kayser’s long-
reign. Millen calculates ore reserves at
16,000,000 tons, of which 8,450,000 are in
the northern sector. A good deal of the
rest is porphyry dyke and contact rock,
which means solid mining and crushing.
Costs, once down to about 4s. Bd., are now
nearly Bs. As Millen never thinks twice
about scrapping out-of-date plant, he is
remodelling his mill by installing heavy
battery power and special concentrators.
When this plant starts, and provided labor
is reasonable, costs should slide down a bit,
though they can never touch the old level
when easy milling ore from the summit of
the mount alone had to be tackled.
*** * *
Some of the Ivrushka family, who used
to . own the Briseis before it was the
Briseis, have struck what they reckon a
good thing in tin near Derby (Tas.). The
lost Main Creek lead used to be hunted for
down near the level of the Ringarooma
River, but they believe they have found it
about 100 feet higher up. Anyway, they
are rooting out a nice lot of tin. ' The
Briseis people had an option over the pro-
perty . a couple of years ago, but they did
their boring lower down and got nothing to
make them excited.
**A * *
That marvellous gold discovery at Long
Plains (Tas.) is wilting already. The latest
communique from the assa'yer gives the
average of seven samples asJoz. 4dwt. 2gr„
which is good, but a great fall fi;om the 6oz.
recently talked of.
* * *
General-manager Boyd having talked it
over with his directors, B. H, Block 10 has
decided to buy the Misinta property which
it has been working on option : and having
thus got a leg-in, there’s no telling where
Block 10 will stop in New Guinea. It has
good chances,, anyway ; for Boyd seems to
have put himself on .first-rate terms with all
Papua and the neighboring islands. And
that’s not easy.
* * * *
“Exile”: The leading petroleum geolo-
gist of Los Angeles (Cal.) told me that if
there is another body of oil shale below
the stratum, now being worked at Latrobe
(Tas.) it is quite likely that petroleum
exists underneath. But if the present oil-
shale seam represents all the saturated oil
shales, then there is no chance of finding
petroleum below it. If instead of buying
the Railton Latrobe Co.’s mine for
£125,000 the Tas. Government spent that
sum in boring for oil at Railton, at Lang-
ford (in the Launceston tertiary basin) and
amongst the saline deposits in the centre
of the island, the chances are Tasmania
would own the first Australian oil-field. •
* * * *
“Exile,” from San Francisco :
Milling men will be interested to hear that H. C.
Callahan, once manager of Lake View in the
Whitaker Wright era, is “raising chickens’’ at San
Jose, in California. He would like to be back in
Australia. So would I. Callahan says the Aus-
tralian miner is the best in the world, and that
what our mining engineers don’t know about mining
isn’t worth a pinch of Kalgoorlie dust. Bill Irwin
lives here; so does Frank J. Dennis, formerly with
8., M. & Co. in W.A. W. J. Coring is working
harder than ever opening up a group of mines on
behalf of Boston and London capitalists. Another
8., M. & Co. ex-chief, Deane Mitchell, who was
born here, is making a second fortune in Siberia,
H. C. Hoover was “raised” at Los Angeles (Cal.),
and his ’Frisco friends think more of his Belgian
lelief efforts than they did of his mining and
diplomatic work in China, Burma and everywhere
else.
* * * *
Despite the passing of two half-yearly
dividends, some London supporters can’t
understand the fall in Lake View and
Oroyas (W. A.). They claim that the
market value of its best share holdings
alone justify a higher price than is now
ruling. According to the. last report these
were: Broken Hill Block 10, 5700; Burma
Corporation, 100.000; Lake View and Star,
611,599; Maikop Combine, 61,797; Nechi
Pref., 3160; Yuanmi, 169,036; Zinc (ordi-
nary), 51,100; Zinc (pref.), 20,940. The
market valuation of the lot is, or rather
was when the comparison was made, over
£120.000 in excess of the total market value
of Lake View and Oroya shares. And
there are other interests to be taken into
account, including Babilonia Gold Mines.
150.007 £1 shares; Central American Mines,
£35,000 6 p.c. debentures and 1 u „,824 ss.
shares; General Petroleum, £48,100 notes
and bonds and 2615 100-dollar shares;
Granville, £81,675 6 p.c. debentures and
31,425 £1 shares; London and Maikop Oil,
35.840 £1 shares; Nagrom Syndicate,
20,000 £1 shares; Natomas, £8590 bonds
and stock. Also there are others acquired
since the report was issued in November
last.
(“Wild Cat ” continued on page 26.)


C a I d V 1 jrcUn rlrfifc
HEERIHGd
HEERINGJS
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. 1818.
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
The Marks of Age
Quickly Disappear When You Make Use
of This Simple Home Recipe For
Darkening Grey Hair.
Grey hair is such a decided handicap to
social and business advancement that no
man or woman should hesitate to obliterate
the tell-tale marks of age by using this simple
home recipe, which can be made up at your
home with little trouble and expense.
To a half-pint of water add:
Bay Rum l° z -
Orlex Compound 1 small box.
One application daily will soon darken the
grey or faded hair to the most attractive
brown shade, and then an application every
two weeks will be sufficient. This is also
an excellent preparation for falling hair,
dandruff, itching scalp, and other hair
troubles. Any chemist can supply the
ingredients.— Advt. f 1
PAULINE et CIE
Announce their Show of
Spring and Summer
Model Millinery
On and after
Thursday, August 3.
Model Frocks, Coats &
Skirts, Blouses, etc..
On and after
Wednesday, August 16.
Denison House Chambers, 3rd Floor,
Ceorge Street, Sydney. Telephone 10167 City.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
ar.d at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use toe
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
SINCE 1679. since 1679.
HAIG 4 HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A
WOMAN’S
LETTER
Sydney, August 21, 1916.
My Dear Arini, —
The Journalists’ Institute met Billy at
Farmer’s and had lunch with him. The
great little man looks quite bucked-up. after
his trip. Lean as ever —the printers
always said there was no “fat” even in his
copy—he now seems brisk enough to be a
schoolboy.
At the tables, decorated with wattle, the
meek and lowly got a chair where they could;
the others went for the top holes. At the star
board the guest had president Tom Heney’s
specs on one side and ex-editor Ward’s whis-
kers on the other. Ethel Turner Curlewis
was a plate or two further on. The Herald
proprietors-—“ Mr. James” and two sons—
Mrs. Holman and Campbell Jones took their
oysters in the same galaxy. “Mrs. Billy,”
in a soft mouse-colored frock, with feathered
millinery to match, was on the lee side of
her William —separated by the viands he
can only look at.
Ex-editor Ward, one of the finest speakers
in Australia —he used to be the eloquent
Rev. F. W. Ward —was at his best in describ-
ing how W. M. Hughes, in amazing hiero-
glyphics, tried to steal round his blue pencil
—that was in the old “Case for Labor”
series. Editor Heney astonished the oldest
inhabitants of the Inky Way by being
almost frolicsome in his remarks.
Then came Hughes. He began nervously
with the plea that whenever ho had wished
to bo at his best he had never even been
able to put in a plea for mercy. After which,
seizing a fish fork, he waved it to punctuate
a brilliant oration. He touched on Henry
VIII. and his wives. 'Csesar, his own early
journalistic experiences, Labor, and the
necessity of carrying the war to a victori-
ous conclusion.
Conscription? Hush! You’ll wake the
baby. And you can’t imagine what a
troublesome baby Billy’s finding it.
The usual “For He’s a Jolly Good” —it
sounded like “Bellow” —went to clinking
glasses. J. D. Fitzgerald happened to clink
his next to brother-barrister Bavin. But I
don’t think they mentioned the infant either.
The luncheon service being a star event,
some of the office-bearers in the Institute
unselfishly overflowed into a verandah. They
had to. In the early days of the Institute
civil servants, “retired gentlemen” and other
persons unconnected with the press crept
in. Their fees Avere gladly accepted. So
to-day it’s a queer mixture of goats and
sheep. And the goats are apt to butt the
sheep away from the fodder.
It’s a long way to Tregoyd, Chief Justice
Cullen’s home at Mosman, where the North
Shore District Nurses’ meeting happened.
But it’s worth the trip, if only to see one
of the finest waterscapes this old world can
offer. The Harbor, North Head, Manly
that lies like a boomerang in the curve that
is Avashed by a LeAvis and Whitty blue sea
beyond—all this for nothing from the gar-
den that melts into terraces of bushland.
Inside, the Cullen lady sat in the bow-
AvindoAV seat to preside over the race be-
tween Debit and Credit. A chorus of barks
from a pet pug acclaimed that Credit had
won by half a nose. Parson Grotty urged
the decentralisation of war funds: and if he
had knoAvn he might have quoted the excel-
lent example of the Miners’ Accident Relief
Fund as a guide. Dugald Thomson threw
in a few remarks —then on to the election
of the year’s committee and the teacups.
Mrs. J. H. P. Murray and daughter Mary
went off to England for six months or so by
the Mooltan. Son Pat stayed behind, after
all. Fortified by a cable from father in
Papua, he’ll go on catching beetles in the
Riverview bush.
Concerning passports, timid travellers
avlio fear to see what the camera can do when
it likes are waiting for the end of Wilhelm
before they move off. I saw the alleged
likeness of a Avell-knoAvn Sydney woman
last week. The fearsome thing goes on her
passport. Assured by the photo man that
it’s “exactly like her,” the nice-looking
original Avas almost reduced to tears. The
queer part of some of these outrages is that
strange officials are expected to recognise
the oAvners of them. No one else Avould.
But, then, the official brain is a thing apart.
The Battle-plane party at the Carlton
Avas presided oA T er by Mrs. Keith Jopp. Mrs.
Finn softly refused the chair, as her hands
are already full of meetings and minutes.
The room Avas crowded with affluent dames
Avho have all offered their shillings to buy
the N. S. Wales women’s presentation
machine.
Manager Bryant, of the Union Bank of
Australia, has forwarded a sheaf of figures
concerning the Australian Air Squadron
Fund, of which he is hon. treasurer. One
of the air birds costs £2700. But you give
what you can. The committee does the
worrying about the price.
Again the 19th Battalion. A garden rally
at Derlwyn, Elizabeth Bay, scraped to-
gether a handsome cheque for the plum-pud-
ding fund. Molly Owen and other capable
young waitresses pounced on visitors to the
refreshment-room, with “Tea or coffee?”
before they had time to snatch a chair. A
strong force of the Knox family, Mrs.
Richard Binnie —a hefty sock-general—and
battalions of youngsters chaperoned by
mamma, stalked the goods. Mrs. Archbish
Wright looked in. And Best Suburbs in-
fants, though handicapped by very tight kid
gloves, tobogganed up and down a grassy
terrace.
Premier Holman and his lady gave a Mon-
day-afternoon spread at Parliament House
to Mrs. Billy Hughes. Mr. Billy had crept
quietly into Sydney and put up at the
Grosvenor before either friends or enemies
knew where to lie in wait for him.
Two weddings, anyhow, in the middle of
this week. Doris Buckland, from Pine
Ridge, weds Dr. Clayton, who is superinten-
dent of Prince Alfred Hospital. And Leslie
Nott will say “I will” to Glynn Shaw. Both
events will be garlanded.
Lieut. Fred Wells is engaged to Rita, a
daughter of the F. Genty household, of Edge-
mont, Campbell town.
Headmaster Ivilgour, of the old Fort-street
Boys’ School, was a joyful host at the open-
ing of the new High School at Petersham.
It’s a three-storey pile, with well-shaded
verandahs, where- the Young Idea can cool
its aching brow on warm summer noons.
Premier Holman was on the platform, with
Under-Sec. Peter Board and Scawtch In-
spector Dawson as principal joints in the
official tail. A few specks of bunting-—like
the remnants of last washing-day—were as
nothing beside the big Australian flag that
hung over the heads of those present. The
Government chief gave a blithe description
of the materials in the new academy. They
all came from State brick and other works.
I’m not sure whether the State bakery sup-
plied the loaves and the State trawler the
fishes. I expect they came, as usual, from
our old friend Cohen.
Mrs. Sherwood Kelly, who used to be
Elsie Greene, of landra, is nursing a
wounded husband in France. They’ve only
been married a little while. The wedding
occurred when Elsie’s Colonel was convales-
cing from previous damages.
To be quite frank, the chances of a
Women’s inter-State magazine look ex-
tremely blue just now. In Sydney Mrs.
David is one of the optimists. Like the
other “ops” in the council fold, she is not a
journalist. The shortage of paper, the
probable famine of advts. at payable prices
and other hurdles to be cleai’ed don’t seem to
matter. They may matter later on when
finance is fainting at a Board meeting.
Meanwhile, Mrs. Lister Watson comes over
the southern border presently to chat about
the matter. One hopes she’s a competent
general manager, editor, printer and the few
other things that will be wanted.
Remarkable little
Sumner Locke, who
will be the first
Australian girl to
have a play pro-
duced as a business
venture, made an
attempt at dramatic
authorship when
she was a very
young writer. An
amateur perform-
ance of “Summie’s
First Play” occurred
one Saturday after-
noon at Melbourne
Princess’s a few
years ago. Previ-
ously the energetic
little woman had
impressed her
friends with her talent for snappy dialogue
and story writing, and since then she has
blossomed as an authoress of clever
“shockers” in England and U.S.A. A
Yankee story published in New York,
has just made a big boom there. In
London her name has figured on the posters,
and in her native Commonwealth (Miss
Locke is Melbourne-born) she expects to
score a success with her Australian play,
which the Bert Bailey management has in
rehearsal.
Miss Kirkcaldie and Vera -Bedford are
going to sing some money into the War
Chest. In the Little Theatre on Aijgust 29.
Meanwhile, Melba has sent for Miss Kirk-
caldie, and is putting the finishing touches
on her opera numbers.
Concerning State trawlers. Two girls are
going to demonstrate that they can well and
truly make deep-sea nets. This side-show is
one of the Women’s Work in War Time
exhibition attractions. To give an air of
reality to the business, Director Stead has
lent the model of a trawler. Toy and basket
making, an industry Red Cross women are
knocking into shape for disabled soldiers,
will be another event. The Pomeranian and
Toy Dog Club will bring along its noisy
pets; and artist B. E. Minns, who is devoted
to Persian kittens, will be able to hear the
fluffy darlings me-ow in the same section.
Mrs. Langer Owen is to voice the Red
Cross efforts (feminine) at the Girls’ Realm
Exhibition. The show is to be labelled
“Women’s Work in War-time.” Grace
Burrows is organising secretary and the
door opens on September 6.
This is a camera
product of Mrs. R.
R. Mackinnon,
though why a
woman who has
two such eyes
should elect to be
cameraed looking
the other way and
with a cold shoul-
der turned on the
lens is something
no other woman
w i 11 understand.
The lady was
Eleanor Addison,
daughter of a well-
known stipendiary
magistrate of Syd-
ney—the only girl
amongst seven brothers. She married Dr.
“Bob” MacKinnon. Before the war Mrs.
MacKinnon was nearly as hard-worked
politically as she now is Red Crosswise. One
of her two sons is in some fighting line and
the other soon will be. Four of her brothers
and numerous cousins and nephews are
doing their share on the red horizon. And
goodness knows she is doing hers here!
The Burley Griffins—he’s the designer of
the Federal capital—have bought a patch of
land, and are going to build on the Watson
Bay side of the Rose Bay Convent. The
patch has the finest and most varied collec-
tion of old trees the artistic Griffin lady has
seen in our country. Someone may supply
the name of the tree-loving old identity to
whose estate this section once belonged.
The Lieutenant von Bissing (son of the
Butcher of Belgium) who has been captured
by the French was in these parts five or six
years ago. He was then about 30, good-
looking, the glassy marble of fashion and
the mould of form, an honorary member of
several tony clubs and beloved by the tennis
girl, being himself a first-rate player. The
young man disappeared suddenly after having
made social arrangements for several
months ahead—in a cloud of suspicion and
sensational surmise. Now the owners of
pearly ears that had listened rapturously to
von B.’s pretty speeches are recollecting that
there always was something about him to
suggest that a spy’s heart beat beneath his
carefully-brushed hair.
Geoffery Champion, whose death has been
mentioned, w T as the Benjamin of the family.
Father used to be the Rev. Headmaster of
the King’s School, but is now tending a
flock in the country. Another son has been
wounded at regular intervals. But he always
pulls through.
The plump and comely Mrs. Verbrugghen
gave her second Folk Song recital in the
Conservatorium on Saturday night; and if
enthusiasm counts for anything she’ll do it
again. Perfect enunciation and “tempera-
ment” are the handmaids of Mrs. Ver-
brugghen’s pretty voice. Then there’s that
priceless platform asset, a smile, which must
be akin to the beam our boy-singers ask for
w r hen they warble that present-moment
fancy, “Give Me Your Smile !” With so much
to the good, one or two thin top notes did no
great damage. At the end of a two-women’s
concert (Miss Jane Lewis was accompanist
by the subdued gleam of a shrouded electric
bulb) no one but the singer show’ed signs of
fatigue.
An informative programme for both even-
ings proved that this is not the first time, by
a long way, that some of these folk-songs
have been heard in Sydney. “The Oak and
the Ash” is familiar. So is “Shule Agra.”
“Jock o’ Hazeldean” —not sung to the bitter
end of its 17 verses—has been whistled at
every street corner since Dr. Lang brought
us his Scottish stonemasons. “The Bailiff’s
Daughter,” an old Norfolk lilt, came here
with early English settlers. But many of
the Welsh and Hebridean lays seem like
strangers to the city, though a song with
such remarks as “Hob y Deri dauno” might
easily be forgotten. An old' Scottish cradle-
song, “O Can Ye Sew Cushions?” (to-day, it’s
socks.), and an ancient lilt from Skye, “The
Seagull of the Land Under Waves,” were
two pictures of life on the stormy northern
coast. Surgeon MacCormick, Mrs. Alex.
Gordon, Mrs. Ted Antill and the musical Chal-
mers and his wife were in the audience. All
the habitues, with musical coiffures tossed
together in a fine frenzy, were in their accus-
tomed seats. John Brownlow was in charge
of the successful innovation.
According to a London gossip, Lady
Muriel Bertie has joined the nursing duch-
esses, who were—-in some instances, politely
—told to go home in the early days of the
Great Rush. It’s a long time ago, but there's
still a memory of Aide Bertie, whose callow
youth was the joy of Australian caricatur-
ists. He married Millie Cox, a daughter of
the late James Cox, M.D., of this town.
Now he’s Earl Lindsey. The only chick is
the girl who has put on a cap and apron in
a London military hospital.
News drops in that our old favorite, Kate
Rooney, will be here before Christmas.
married an English curio dealer named Kirk-
ham, who counts Kate as the gem of his
collection. Baby is being brought to see
grandma.
Another christening. The Women’s Liberal
League—founded by the late Mrs. Molyneux
Parkes —is now born again as the Women’s
Reform League. So somebody will have to
look out! The Reformers have moved, with
the Queen Victoria Club, into the red-brick
house of the Chamber of Commerce. The
Tasmanian lady, the large and affable Mrs.
Henry Dobson, was the heroine of their
latest tea-party. She’s the National Council
delegate who (before the war, of course)
told Europe how to manage its business at a
ladies’ corroboree in Rome. And between
you and me, dear, Mrs. Henry Dobson
couldn’t possiblv have managed it worse.
The breathless energy of Mrs. Boult is
these days devoted to soldiers’ relatives. The
beginning of it was the Joan of Arc matinee
on a sweltering summer day. Last week she
headed a Joan committee which gave a party
for mothers and widows of men who have
died for us.
The War Chest is to get the proceeds of
the ’Varsity fete in September. Dons, who
are usually the starch of our social life, have
become as mild as other people, and throw
the old building open to visitors for this
occasion only.
A vaudeville show for Gunner Smith and
his numerous family has been pulled
together by lively Dorothy Gordon. Smith
is the invalided British soldier who came
here with the usual expectations re milk and
honey—and then got the facts of the case.
Just now he camps in a tent at Galston,
where scrub is fortified by rocks. Perhaps
it’s going to be a goat-farm, Frank Grimley
and a pretty daughter are helping the affair.
It’s in St. James’s Hall this Friday.
Madame X is no debutante, my dear, but
she sometimes shows herself in an azure con-
fection known" as her “coming-out dress.”
The general effect so upset his State Ex.
when the lady appeared—very much ap-
peared—lately at Government House that
that unreliable chatterbox, Rumor, says he
called for volunteers to ask the revelation to
go home. He didn’t care to mention the
matter at first hand, as these political nota-
bles resent being interfered with by mere
Governors.
A Maoriland cousin stamps the snow off
her goloshes, and while her Burberry is
drying chatters of the most up-to-date ante-
bridal reception in the storm-swept South.
The bride-to-be received her girl guests in
the most ravishing of her trousseau negligees,
her pretty hair adorned with the boudoir cap
—a thing of filmy lace and pink rosebuds.
Music bursting with Australian cheers
for Billjim continues to pour in. For
instance, there’s “She Who Gives Her Son,”
words by Stephen Raffo, chords by W. B.
Hodge; “Men of the Dardanelles” —proceeds
for Red Cross —a march by Albert Shaw;
and “There’s Nothing Much the Matter
with Australia” (Hear, hear!), by R. E.
Allan and Albert Shaw.
Major Jack Westgarth has persuaded
Irene King to say yes. She’s a daughter of
the King who is one of the chieftains in
Hardie and Gorman’s. The young man has
seen service in New Guinea, and has had a
taste of Gallipoli sand. Just now he’s in
hospital with malaria or something akin.
Surgeon-Captain Weigall—a son of the
late head of Sydney Grammar —has had 12
months on the French Front. In July he
got “a breather” in London.
The suggestion of a Curio Exhibition to
help the Red Cross seems to have melted
into thin air. Yet a show of this kind in
Federal Government House in Melbourne
gathered a fat sum. If the sub-regal cot in
Maequarie-street housed a collection of
antiques—genuine and not so genuine—for
a few days, the public would plank down its
half-crowns for any of the hungry funds.
Perhaps a prayer to Lady Edeline \yould
secure the ballroom on loan.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


For LUXURY IN LIGHTWEIGHTS
Ride the
2i-h.p. 2-Stroke, 2-Speed
Junior Triumph Motor-Cycle
Price £65 cash
f.o.r. Sydney.
Terms arranged
if required.
m
SOME REASONS WHY it is the Premier Lightweight:
1. It represents the very apex of British engineering skill in Motor-Cycle
construction.
2. Its perfect Spring Fork makes.motor-cycling a pleasure.
•I. Perfectly safe, because all controls are conveniently placed on the
lianclle-bars.
4. Low centre of gravity and even distribution of weight makes it the
only safe Motor-Cycle to ride on greasy road's.
5. Lubrication is absolutely automatic, and even the most unskilled
rider can operate the machine without possibility of damaging the
engine.
6. It is the ideal Motor-Cycle for either Ladies or Gentlemen.
The latest Model JUXIOR TRIUMPH now on view at our Showrooms.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.:
BENNETT & BARKELL LTD.,
124=132 Castlereagh Street; Sydney.
Other Agencies : RUDGE MULTI, NEW HUDSON, READING STANDARD
and, A.B.C. MOTORCYCLES.
Manufacturers of B. & B. Motor-Cycles fitted with J.A.P. Engines.
HARDY BROTHERS LTD.
JEWELLERS, WATCHMAKERS, SILVERSMITHS.
A Present for a Soldier.
THE
TRENCH
Watertight MATCHBOX.
MADE IN STERLING SILVER ONLY.
PRICE 15/-
SOUND AND EFFICIENT.
ana®
ACTUAL S<Z£,
FORWARDED ON APPROVAL I
DESIRED.
The Most Serviceable and Satisfactory Matchbox Made.
13 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
116*118 Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
HARDY BROS. (SYDNEY and BRISBANE) LTD., 32 OLD BURLINGTON STREET, LONDON, W.
tyxS+'-l
oc
Safety Razor
A safety razor at a popular price
which will fulfil the requirements
of the most fastidious user.
This is the only safety razor selling at less than 225. 6d,
that can be stropped without removing the blade. In sim-
plicity and ingenuity of construction it surpasses even t! e
most expensive safety razors. With a single touch it sprirgs
open —for stropping or cleaning —and with another touch
it snaps together into accurately adjusted shaving position
as shown in the two illustrations below.
BRITISH MAKE.
Heavily silver-plated razor, complete
in handsome ca;e, with strop in hinged
partition, and 6 finest
lancet steel blades (as
illustrated)
12/6
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
Managing Agent: RALPH ABERCROMBY
Denison House,
380-2 George Street, SYDNEY.
m
A Camera such as this is a Valuable Asset,
as it can be used both for
BUSINESS and PLEASURE
It is the
THORNTON=PICKARD
IMPERIAL CAMERA
(BRITISH MADE).
SUITABLE FOR EVERY CLASS OF WORK.
Have you ever considered the value of a good photograph in
selling your goods? Think also of the pleasure of having a
camera in the home at the week-ends. The Imperial Camera
will do the work, and we will teach you how to use it.
PRICES:
Camera Complete with RR Leas, 1 Double Dark Slide, Shutter and Tripod
as illustration above—Half-plate Size (6}4 x 4^),
£ 6/51 ■
Fitted with Higher-grade Lenses at Increased Prices »
There are several other British-made Stand Cameras similar to
above, as well as a hundred models for Roll Films or Plates
fully described and illustrated in our
CATALOGUE.
Send for one now.
CP
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at
Melbourne, 'Brisbane, Adelaide, Auckland
and Wellington, N.Z.


WRISTLET
m
WATCHES
WITH LUMINOUS DIAL.
PRICE 651-
Carnage
Paid
to any
part of
Australia.
FRSO.
Just the thing for a soldier friend going to
the Front. The unsurpassed quality and
reliability of tile Regulation Military Wristlet
Watch illustrated is unquestionable. Has
Sterling Silver Case, and Hands and
Numerals of luminous composition, enabling
the wearer to see the time by night as well
as by day. The watch is enclosed, in solid
Leather Wristlet Strap with protecting cover
which fastens with Patent Clasp.
m
FARMER’S
Pitt, Market
and
George Streets,
SYDNEY.
GAGE HATS for SPRING
Mm
\ V
Tv
Buy Gaga H*t»
7
GAGE HATS
are
the Correct Expression of Good Style.
COUGHS ARE DANGEROUS.
USE TAR AND SUGAR TO GET QUICK
RELIEF.
Coughs and colds are dangerous because, if
neglected, they so frequently lead to more
serious complaints. Pneumonia, bronchitis
and lung trouble would be almost unknown
if coughs and colds were taken in hand in
time. To be sure of getting quick relief
and to prevent danger of your cough becoming
deep-seated, you should always keep on hand
a supply of iitrate of tar cough syrup, which
can easily be made at home at a small cost
by dissolving half a pound of sugar in half
a pint of hot water and then adding two
ounces of litrate of tar. Stir thoroughly,
pour into a pint bottle, and when cool it is
ready for use. One or two teaspoonfuls of
this simple, inexpensive home-made cough
syrup taken every hour or two will quickly
relieve a bad cough or cold, loosen up the
phlegm and clear out the head in the most
surprising manner. Tickling throat coughs
may be stopped by slowly dissolving in the
mouth a lump of sugar on which you have
first put 15 to 20 droDs of litrate of tar. Be
sure to ask your chemist for the iitrate of
tar, as this is the only form containing the
valuable remedial agents found in the pine,
wild cherry and guaiacol, and is also very
pleasant to the taste. — Advt.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, August 21, 1916.
My Dear Yarkik,—
The choicest jest in connection with
Priminister Hughes’s recent Town Hall
meeting, when many merry pranks were
played on the populace, was worked off on a
crowd of women. Having been advised in
the press that the south gallery • would be
reserved for her until a quarter to eight, the
woman voter began to assemble in hordes at
the Collins-street entrance as early as 5
p.m. and waited there in front of a closed
door until eight. Then the joke began to
dawn upon her, and she slowly dispersed,
enjoying, it tremendously, of course. Those
who actually did fill the south gallery were
smuggled in at the bottle-and jug entrance
underneath the front steps, where each of
them was scrutinised and passed or rejected
by brethren in attendance, waited on by an
obliging police-guard. These times one hears
a great deal about the right of free speech.
But what about the right of free hearing?
The Stanley dame took in the Arts and
Crafts exhibition of Noah’s arks in a day’s
work recently. The ark display, resulting
from an offer of a five-guinea prize, was the
work of returned soldiers; and there was
also a variety of “doll”-furniture made
from Australian woods, as well as carvings
and basket-work in cane and raffia. Much
of it was due to Government activity at the
Collingwood “Tech.,” where the battered sol-
dier has been offered facilities for learning
a new means of livelihood —a good scheme if
only the Australian public can be persuaded
to turn down the cheap imported toy now
being sold, by the ton in every suburb.
The Defence Department announced the
other day that Lieutenant J. Mirams had
returned to duty. As the officer had been
promoted to captain nearly a year ago, some
of his friends wondered whether he had
dropped back again. But it was merely
another bit of the Defence Department’s up-
to-dateness. It normally takes six months
for the local people to note promotions that
have been made where the job is actually
being done, and there have been innumerable
misunderstandings in consequence.
Mrs. Jack Gordon, whose lieut.-colonel
has been doing A.M-C. work, has tracked for
London to share his holiday. Gordon was
on Gallipoli and has since been serving in
France. Before the war he had a practice
in a northern suburb, so he was the. right
sort of seasoned worker for the Peninsula
job.
R. G. Wilson, who owns Broadmeadows
and leases that property to the military, is in
charge of a military canteen somewhere. His
mother died recently after living to the age
of 83. Before R.G. left Australia for the
war his mother had made a will bequeathing
all her money and goods to his children. But
it gave all hands a surprise when it was
found that Mrs. Wilson had made a later
will under which some of her money was
diverted to church funds, and a fair sum
handed to a church official, xnere is talk of
litigation.
Manager Henry Holden„ of the Grand
Hotel, has news of brother Arthur —a fine
Sydneysider. Arthur is recovering from
shell shock in a London hospital. He was
taken from Egypt to form one of. the body-
guard of the Prince of Wales in France
and found it a pleasant change from patrol
work in the desert. The latter job is done
by a procession, according to this soldier.
In the lead the patrol with a rifle; after
him a nigger, a camel and a log of wood.
The log of wood obliterates the tracks and
leaves enemy scouts in doubt as to whether
the procession is coming or going, or whether
it consists of one man or a hundred.
From “Rosna” in London: —
Australia owned the Strand as usual on Alexandra
Day. We’ll soon own it altogether, for South Aus.
lias now taken part of it for her Government offices
and set up house close to W.A., Bananaland, Vic.
and the Commonwealth. S.A.’s cubby-hole was the
headquarters of the Australians on Alexandra Day
and the Agent-General Youngs fed the white-clad
marauders between raids. Mrs. Hughes, Mrs. Ryan
from Queensland, Alice Crawford and hordes of Aus-
tralian girls under Margaret Baxter coaxed many
pounds from passing pockets.
About 3000 Anzacs subscribed to a party for the
good-hearted women who have been running the
Anzac Buffet for their benefit. This buffet (god-
fathered by the A.N.A.) - is also a club, with billiard,
writing and music rooms and refreshments going
day and night and nothing to pay anywhere. Men
arriving on leave from France even at 2 a.m. find
hot coffee and Australian women-folk to welcome
them. The thanksgiving party took the form of a
concert in the huge Central Hall at Westminster,
with an all-Anzae programme that ambled on from 3
to 10 p.m. and refreshments going all the time.
The public had to pay for admission, and proceeds
are to be handed to the Buffet. Warrior autographs
by the furlong bound in vellum were presented to
Mrs. Rattigan and Miss Beeman, chiefs of the Buffet,
and each of the several hundred helpers was handed
a souvenir with her name and some grateful remarks
on it.
Camperdown, bright jewel of the Western
District mutton country, has had its own
“queen-carnival” for the Red Cross. It
was a gilt-edged affair, of course, and brought
in nearly £l5OO for the fund. Dr. Julian
Desailly’s wife won the crown, with Mrs.
John Oman, of Loch Namo, a few votes
behind. The crowning operation was car-
ried out by Jimmy Manifold, M.ILR., and
every “queen” received something by which
to remember him next election time.
The Caulfield Red Cross committee
women are wailing dismally. They included
the big Caulfield Military Hospital in their
good works, and now, my dear, the present
Mayor is arranging a men-only committee
to look after things and the women are
threatened with the sack. “After the way
we’ve worked!” sob the women. “Oh,
it’s cruel!” The excuse of the men is that
the women tea-party too much.
The Hawthorn Mayoress, Mrs. Percy
Russell, made a last and telling dash to
help the Red Cross before preparing to
hand the Orb, the Rabbit Skin and the
Golden Dustbox to her successor. The dash
took the form of a concert in the Hawthorn
Town Hail, and there was a packed house
with highly-satisfactory results. Natalie
Dawson was busy at the piano, and Evelyn
Ashley and Walter Kirby sang. There was
also an amateur orchestra and an amateur
comedietta.. Weston Pett, the rich but
earnest amatuah, sang his masterpiece,
which includes 201 verses about Richard
First, the song that Ada Reeve sang with
less effect.
On Saturday a brand-new white motor-
ambulance, with a dark khaki hood, stood
outside the Prahran Town Hall for all to see.
It was a present from the local Red Cross
to the Defence Department. Pearce was
away in Sydney, but Governor Stanley came
along for the inevitable talk. Mayor
Mcllwrick and his Mayoress entertained
their ratepayers at afternoon tea, which they
absorbed whilst being smiled on by the
Stanley dame. Her Ex. looked very sweet
in a bonnety hat wreathed with roses.
The children’s charities are to be helped
by a caf6 ehantant at the Oriental Hotel
on Friday afternoon, September 1. Mrs.
Geoffrey Syme, Mrs. Merritt and Mrs.
Tallis are running the show without the
help of committees or anything of that sort,
and they have some alluring raffle prizes to
offer. There will be, besides, a J. C. William-
son entertainment with soulful additions by
Mrs. John Sanderson. Lady Stanley has
bought her five-shilling ticket and promised
to attend, so Suburbia will be there in
tramloads.
Berta Angel, daughter of the Angels of Mal-
vern, is proudlv showing her diamond soli-
taire and her soldier. The fiance is Corporal
Eric Morrisby, of Hobart.
Lieutenant Mick Hillary, of the Wireless
Squadron, acquired a IJevonshire bride last
week. She was Edwyna Hope, who was
lately a prisoner in Hogmany and arrived
here only two weeks ago, when she met
the lootenant for the first time.
Lieutenant Symons, who is in France, is
the proud father of a small girl he has never
seen. Mrs. Symons (late Bonnie Watt) is
staying with her mother in St. Kilda-road,
and sending cables describing Bab’s eyes to
her fighting dad and uncles.
Mrs. Arthur Henty is among the recent
victims of meningitis. She died after a two-
days’ illness. Lieut. Henty went to Egypt with
the remount Unit, but had returned to Aus-
tralia and was on duty at Langwarrin when
the scythe swung. Mrs. Henty had been
keeping the home together at breezy Ber-
wick, in the Mount Dandenong foothills, and
only came into the meningitis zone for an
occasional tea-party with her husband.
Mrs. William Montgomery, of East Mal-
vern, who died last week, was born
back in 1836, at Windsor (N.S.W.), the
daughter of Surgeon Du Moulin, of the
“Rum Corps,” or some such early regiment.
In 1852 she married William Montgomery, a
North of Ireland man who settled in Gipps-
land. Her husband bought Clydebank
station near Sale and The Ridge near Rose-
dale. and they had a summer place down
at the beautiful Lakes entrance. Three
years ago Gippsland had a jubilee, and
Mrs. Montgomery was one of the central
figures in the celebrations. Her sister
married William Foster, another pioneer
squatter of Gippsland. The Fosters owned
Boisdale station—a property which is now
cut up, irrigated and growing beet for
sugar.
The Madge Kelly Prize is awarded to a
nurse who comes first in a comprehensive
examination, which is open to all Vic-
torians. Madge and Mary Kelly were nurses
who became Sisters of the Alfred Hospital.
When Madge died her friends decided
that her memorial should take the form of a
yearly medal to be won in competition.
Georgina Hudspeth wears the decoration
this year. Georgina was trained at the
Bendigo Hospital, and the medal, made by
May Yale, is deepsea-blue enamel on a base
of pure gold, in the form of a pendant.
From Adelaide: —■
South Aus. sportsmen behaved well over the
foolish “Queen’’ competition, and gave Mrs. R. M.
Hawker, owner of Cykloii, 650,000 twopenny votes
—over £5OOO. Her total equalled any three others
added together. Harvests and Transports made the
early running. Then Roads and Commerce put up
a great fight for 2nd and 3rd places; but Children
(represented by Miss d'Erlanger, of Government
House) came with an unexpected late run, and left
the others standing. Sports, however, could not be
approached. Also ran: Professions, Amusements
(quietly fancied, but made no show), Industry and
Municipalities last.
Professor Baldwin Spencer gave a prize
to the Arts and Crafts for the best Austra-
lian Noah’s Ark with the native bear and
the ’roo and the rest of the family marching
two by two. Spencer has always been very
keen on Australian animals. He used
to lecture at the University about the ani-
mals which came (or went) to and from
Australia a few thousand years before the
tripper and the P. and O. were invented.
They travelled via an isthmus that Spencer
suspected rather than knew. It stretched
between Australia and the American con-
tinent, and when it sank owing to Labor
legislation the Wliat-Is-It and the Don’t-
You-Believe-It were either drowned or iso-
lated and all cheap excursions were off.
Any time Spencer likes I will sit at his feet
and listen to those old fairy-tales again.
Melba has been down with ’flu’ and has
entrenched herself against all engagements
this side of the matinee in Her Majesty’s.
The Musical Club made its first venture
out of port on the 7th inst. and encountered
bad weather from the start. Mrs. Ernest
Scott (Emily Dyason) was to have pounded
the piano in British, French and Slav, in
order to fulfil Objects 2 and 3 of the club—
“to improve the musical taste of the coun-
try” and “educate public opinion.” But
the recitalist fell ill, and had to be taken
up to Mount Macedon to recover. More-
over, Melba, the club president, was in Syd-
ney and unable to put in an evening’s work
on the Objects. Still, all was not lost, since
Mrs. Taylor Darbyshire set to work at the
last moment and scratched up Mrs.
Broinowski, Mary Campbell, Doris Madden
and Tom Minogue to light the dai'kness of
the half-dozen or so who formed the club’s
audience for the evening. The musical
enthusiast, of course, w T on’t be down-
hearted. He hopes for a bumper front row,
at least, for Fritz Hart’s lecture on the
Future of Opera, scheduled for the 25th.
Lottie Schutt, retired-pilot Schutt’s 16-st.
daughter, is presiding over a busy sewing-
circle for girls who have brothers on active
service. Fifteen years ago the Schutt lady
used to make a bold figure on the platform
at Marshall Hall’s student-concerts. After-
wards she went to the Uni. Conservatorium
and thence to fiddle-study in Germany; and
after that her talent was only put to account
in the parlor. Lottie, by the way, narrowly
escaped being born at sea on a raft. Dis-
aster overtook the boat on which her mother
was travelling to the place where most
Schutts come from. Mrs. Schutt took to a
raft with ’Tina —since married to Captain
Anthony, a well-rounded Williamstown
channel-expert—and a passing steamer res-
cued the party just in time to spoil Lottie’s
record.
Percy Grainger is booming beautifully in
New York. His latest entertainment is an
affair of four movements called “In a Nut-
shell.” After making use of all the usual
orchestral dodges, Percy ends up by hitting
two piano strings down the middle with a
thing that looks like a kettle-drum stick.
It is a novel effect and I hear that the
New Yorkers are “tickled to death” by
it. Sargent, the portrait painter, who
is something of a' musician himself, was
in at the first performance and clapped his
hands till it sounded like a Government con-
tractor smacking a large orphanage by
steam. ■ _ _ _ , i-
Percy is one of Australia’s best ads. in
Wilsonland. His programmes always in-
clude his “Australia” and “Cornstalks”
compositions, with footnotes to explain
what he thinks of “my native land.” The
demonstrative Americans are “simply going
crazy” about him, and Mrs. Grainger is
filled with pride.
Sobell, singer to the University Conser-
vatorium, had a recital last week under the
auspices of Laver, and performed artistic-
ally without any tticks —though he knows
one or two. For instance, he has some
fitting for the throat which intensifies the
voice, making small voices large and large
voices brass bands. Also he has aiven
recitals at which he has used a small child
as a sounding apparatus, making it grimace
with wrong notes and smile angelically with
true ones. There was none of this sort of
entertainment on Wednesday of last week,
when a large audience listened to real song
in the Melba Hall. Dolores sat critically in
the front stalls with Miss Vandour and the
very musical Reids.
The tenth and last week of Italian opera
lias set in. Sassiety having seriously “taken
up'’ the Italians, there was a full bare-,
shoulder house for “Gioconda,” with which
the final week started. The John
Sandersons boxed in fine raiment and elabo-
rate coiffures. Dolores was in another box
in soft dove-grey clothes, diamonds and
dimples. The Dalrymples reserved a wedge
of dress-circle for their party, and astro-
nomer Baracchi listened to his native _ lan-
guage with evident jov. Wirth of the circus
wore a huge diamond in his shirt-front and
sat in a stage box with a Gonsalez. The
Tom Hogans occupied their usual stalls
seats right against the orchestra. A pretty
little niece, visiting from her Ballarat con-
vent school, looked gorgeous in a blue velvet
cloak. The Alawa Buchanans were there,
and Mrs. Ernest Manifold displayed _ a
beautifully draped and puckered black silk
dress.
“La Gioconda” is the real old-fashioned
Italian opera, long-drawn-out and full of
sugar-sweet music. It includes many senti-
mental duets- —the kind that are still chirped
in musical country drawing-rooms on long
winter evenings. The charming Russ
obscures her good looks to take the part of
the old blind woman. The leading-lady
parts get divided up between the rival
heroines, Gioconda-Gonsalez, who leans
strongly to scarlet and black raiment and
a golden wig, and Laura Visoni, who gets
her chief dress effect with clinging black
velvet and a thick black veil. Laura even
goes to her secret meeting with Captain
Enzo in a velvet gown with a long train.
Enzo, on the contrary, wears his manly
skirts knee-high, and his red leather _ high
boots embroidered in jewels would drive a
modern flapper wild with envy. The
orchestra is reinforced for “Gioconda” and
so is the chorus. The Australian ballet is
a charming whirl of 20 of so girls who do
the beautiful Dance of the Hours. Little
white hours dance and give way to red and
blue and other tinted ones. They are all
killed off by the dagger thrusts of Night
clad in spangled blackness.
In “Boh&me” the susceptible singing
Italians played Old Harry with the action
and the pathos by giving numerous encores.
There was a fine cast and it resulted in
one of the best productions of the season.
But when all hands and the usher were
wrapped up in the sorrows of Mimi as she
wandered off, they would have to unwrap
themselves, for in response to the applause
back would come the bowing Italians,
showing white teeth in delighted grins.
Then the harrowing would be done all over
again.
Miss Gonsalez made a convincing Mimi.
She wore a stiff little frilled frock of grey
and a real grandmother’s apron made of
black satin and garlanded with roses and
forget-me-nots done in ribbon-work. Her
feet were in very low-cut black shoes over
white stockings. And a pale pink shawl
added to the quaint old get-up.
Baritone Scamuzzi wears highly-tinted
cheeks as one of the artists in “Boheme.”
His girl adorers are sadly troubled by this
make-up; one of the chief charms of the
idol is the radiant pallor of his face. It’s
a shame to put buslifire-tan over radiant
pallor.
Tenor Tino Cappelli’s wife, a large and
comfortable lady of exceeding handsomeness,
is reported to have a fine singing voice and
to be preparing for a stage appearance when
the opera people go to Sydney. When Mrs.
Cappelli’s beaming spouse escorted her to
“Carmen” they viewed the stage from left
circle, then from right circle, then from
centre circle, and finally from the manager’s
box. During their imposing and languid
stroll from one point to another, Cappelli
pointed out the beauties of the theatre with
the air of an owner and with beautiful hand-
waves, as though he were presenting the
freedom of the place to his dignified dame.
Margherita Yaldi (you may remember her
as Margaret James) has left for her Cannes
home, taking with her over £3OO and several
tons of gifts for distribution amongst French
orphans.
Prof. Rentoul, one of the chaplains-gen-
eral who recently left on an inspection tour
of Australian hospitals and camps abroad,
was badly treated by his tailor at the last
moment. Larry told a farewell gathering
of 100 Scotchbyterian parsons that Mr.
Snips had sent home everything of his mili-
tary uniform —except the trousers. “If ever
I was a fighting man,” declared the mis-
sioner, “I was one at that moment.” Y’see,
Larry isn’t even a Highlander; he’s Irish.
Apropos the Russian appeal and the pre-
liminary meeting to plan the attack, I’m
assured that Lesley Madden wasn’t' there.
And as she wasn’t there it wasn’t her voice
that was raised from the back of the hall.
A Madden voice knows its proper place.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


*
i
i
i
W|
Mi
ff|
y
W
M
w
i
m
IB
ff
I
m
ffl
Mj
m
m
ff
race
n
1
m
iti
m
M
ff
P
y
niff
MFliy
ffiyfft
Ml
w
i
tfr
Pill.


Keep Free
From Colds
by taking
To resist and repel colds, influenza, bron-
chitis, there is nothing better >han a course
of Angier’s Emulsion. Its soothing, healing
effects and its tonic invigorating influence
upon all the bodily functions make it
unequalled for the prevention of colds
and catarrhal affections. If the cold or
cough has already commenced, Angier’s
is the best means of throwing it off
and repairing the damage it has caused.
FREE TRIAL
BOTTLE.
Send name and address, 4d. postage, and mention this paper,
Angier Chemical Co., Ltd., 7, Barrack Street, Sydney.
King Geqrge IV
lu lnJ Ja WHISKY
<6
n
th e TOP NOTCH'scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Bai’coo”: The following sprint with 900
fat bullocks over a 97-mile dry stage makes cattle-
punchers raise their lids whenever it is recalled.
The bullocks were purchased by the C.Q.M.E. Co.,
Lakes Creek, and came from Tom and Bob Brothers’s
Somerville selections, Flinders River. Owing to tick
regulations the cattle had to come into the railway at
Longreach, via Olio and Muttaburra. The last
drink before the dry stage was live miles from Olio;
then 97 miles had to be negotiated to the Lands-
borough River at Tablederry. It was in November
and hot, but the drover was game and had a team
of the real Mackay stockmen. He was also lucky,
striking a full moon and a cool southerly on the
four nights that it took to get through. At sun-
down each evening the cattle were moved off, walked
all night and camped all day at a patch of timber
“made” by sun-up. On the morning of the fourth
day, within five miles from the water, the hornies took
charge, and all that the stockmen could do was to
race to the lead and steady them as much as possible.
The whole distance was got over without loss. This
the late E. R. Edkins, then manager of the noted
Mount Cornish station, who knew all there was to
know about cattle and overlanding, claimed to be
a record performance on open downs. Jack Clarke,
from Boulia, is supposed to have got over 105 miles
going in to the Adelaide market, via Hergott Springs.
But in that light-soil country there is a herbage, a
first-cousin to pig-weed, that is 75 per cent, water.
TOO SLOW.
THE DEJECTED ONE:
“No —no more of that
bloomin' sleepin’
syrup! Let's 'ave a
drop of y'r forked
lightning, just t’ shake
things up a bit.”
“Pick”: This was the big shout of my
experience. When driver McLosky, who navigated the
contractor’s engine at the time the Temora line was
being laid, and navvy Mcßain drew two thousand in
TattersaU’s they decided to celebrate by lubricating
every available throat in Temora. They started by
hiring the engine and ballast waggons to convey
every navvy, powder-monkey and bridgeman to the
beer-flow; and when all gullets had been rinsed £6O
went into the till. And, dinna forget, each of the
shouters was named Mac.
“Phoca Yitulina”: Melbourne is debating
what to do with an unassisted immigrant between
eight and ten feet long who has come ashore at Port
Melbourne. He was first marked down in the after-
noon and identified as a grey seal, just in time for
the local Herald to paragraph his arrival. Then he
flopped back into the water, which you will see
referred to on most legal documents as l.s. or locus
sigilli, meaning the place of the seal. After the
Herald had gone to press he thought it safe to
come out again, but he was at once spotted by two
young women on Beaconsfield Parade. They told
their father, who, helped by two neighbors, captured
the adventurer, bound it with ropes and interned it
in a bathing-box, whence it roused the sea-front
with its bellowings. The Law, at a loss for a suit-
able charge, rang up the Aquarium, which sent down
men next morning to add the visitor to its brethren
in captivity. But the Aquarium people discovered
it to be an elephant seal, and the last elephant seal
they housed communicated a disease to its fellows
from which many of them died. Therefore the
Aquarium decided not to take delivery, and at this
present writing the beast is showing its tusks to
interviewers and declining to make any statements
as to its future intentions.
* * * *
“The Swimmer”: lam weary of anecdotes
concerning the sagacity of dogs, and would like to
say the last word on the subject about one I possess
—a cross between a bull-terrier and a fox-terrier.
The other day he killed a cat, and was so overcome
with remorse that he dug a hole in the ground with
his paws, reverently buried the departed, and pushed
the earth over the defunct with his nose. The next
day the dog was much depressed, and let slip a
splendid opportunity of biting the butcher. Last
night I was awakened by a peculiar noise, and look-
ing out of the window—it was a bright moonlight
night—observed the dog lying on top of the cat’s
grave, moaning piteously, with the tears running
down his cheeks. He would not leave the grave, and
refused to be comforted. Up to date he has declined
food. The eat was a perfect stranger to. the dog,
but what breaks him up is the thought that the
animal may have left a widow and orphans.
* * * *
“A.S.H.” : The man who thinks that three
cuttings will kill off bracken fern is an optimistic
rooster. Three clippings merely act as pruning. The
usual thing in South Gippsland is to cut the bracken
three times per year—spring, summer and winter—
and I could show any number of farms where the
vegetables have been thus cut regularly for 20 years,
and still they grow, though, of course, they are short
and scanty. Many farmers employ a man specially
for fern cutting. It’s a monotonous job. I know
because I made my living at “bracken-snapping” for
many years. There’s no doubt about the ferns being
a good harbor for snakes. During one year when I
was a strict Rechabite I killed 165.
“Tiaki”: What is the age of the oldest
bush inhabitant known to Abos. ? Science peddlers
tell us that it takes a trifle of 4000 years for the
M.L. totara to attain the age of discretion. I have
counted the rings on a 14ft. kauri, and I calculated
that it took 10,000 years to get that far. Below this
shrub’s late residence was a swamp whose mud had
embalmed other members of the family. Some of
them were mere flappers in their giddy five hundred
and fifteens or so. Others were in their ripe old
thousands when they were hurled into the embalm-
ing pot.
THE WORLD OF FASHION.
MARY: “ You gibbit pair o' stays, Missus, makeit budgeree binjey-likeit yours.”
“M.R.McK.”: “Quidam” (B. 13/7/’l6) is
correct. The wombat is harmless in any but rabbit-
infested country, where he is an ever-present help to
bunny in overcoming wire-netting defences. Recently
he attacked a netting fence round an orchard, making
seven gaps thro’ugh which rabbits poured in dozens
nightly, greatly to the detriment of the fruit trees.
The holes were repaired daily, and each morning were
found reopened. Wombat scorned mantraps, setting
them off with great skill. Snares made of good, seven-
strand wire clothes-line, anchored to fence posts by
chains provided with swivels, were then tried. Twice
the wombat got in and out again; twice he broke the
wire and took his trophy home to the family. Finally
the enemy was found safely caught, leisurely tearing
up the land in a wide semi-circle, merely pausing in,
his operations to stare at the intruder before resuming
cultivation. It took two shots in the head to settle
the beast. Round his middle was a scar nearly two
inches wide, a memento of his previous successful
adventures with the snares. Snares must- be large
enough in the loop to secure the animal round the
middle of the body. Neck-holds are useless. Some
operators claim good results from attaching the
snare to a spring pole strong enough to suspend the
catch above ground.
* * * *
“Med”: “Maplisu,” according to his own
authority, Prof. Lawson, of Sydney Uni., is a bit
out in his statements about wheat rust (B. 3/8/’l6).
If he interviews the Prof, again he will learn that
the spores are of a very enduring nature and can
remain dormant for two or three seasons. During
such period they are capable of doing their dirty
work on the wheat, but after that length of time
they die. So if the experiment of producing no wheat
was carried out for two or three seasons (not one
only, as “Maphsu” suggests) there is no reason why
we should ever be troubled with the parasite again
—unless, of course, some of our importing fiends
had a few shiploads of foreign spores landed. In
England this cure would not be possible, because the
Barberry plant acts as a second host for the wheat
rust.
* * * *
“Ono”: One of the first tilings to strike
the visitor to the Great Barrier Reef is the way in
which nature paints the creatures that live in those
transparent waters to conform to the colors of the
things around them. In many cases this matching
is so perfect that it is well-nigh impossible to detect
a fish against his background of coral rock or sea-
weed. There is one striking exception in a small
fish about seven or eight inches long. He is marked
from snout to tail with vivid hoops of white and
scarlet, and against his sombre background of dull,
dark brown he can be seen yards away. He keeps
perfectly still and is seemingly “asking for it.”
Soon there is a swirl in the water, and a big fish
darts at the gaudy individual, but with Buckley’s
chance of getting him. The' small chap, with an
incredible burst of speed, flashes into the middle
of what is apparently a dark brown rock, but is in
reality a gigantic sea-anemone. The enemy follows'
at his best pace—and blunders into death, the
anemone closing upon him like a steel trap. He
dies and the members of this strange partnership
devour him.
“Darwin”: I confess that I was sceptical
on hearing that, for one, Randwick vet. T. G. Doyle
castrated colts, any sort, principally blood, whilst
they stood; but doubt was promptly dispelled by a
demonstration. All the colt wore was an ordinary
bridle and a nose-twitch with a boy to hold it, and
the Operation was performed very rapidly in an ordi-
nary loose box, although the operator prefers the
open. When “Beeritus” (B. 27/7/’l6) visits the city
he can doubtless arrange for ocular evidence without
indulging in anything as foolish as a “challenge” to
men who operate in the way described as part of the
day’s work and whose. percentage of losses is negli-
gible.
IN TOPHET.
QUESTIONUS : " What —going to shave?”
NICK : “Yes, I find it necessary to take my
moustache off owing to the new-comers
mistaking me for the Kaiser,”
“Pick”: lias any abo. orchardist tried
camping sheep among his trees to eradicate codlin
moth? I don’t know whether it is the trampling that
the grub objects to or the yolk from the wool rubbed
into the bark of the trees; but in three badly-infested
apple orchards under my notice the codlin left when
the sheep arrived. In each case last'year’s crop was
sound.
(Continued on page 24.)
DINKUM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The call was heard at Dingodell,
And reached the ear of Bill,
Who said, “A bloke might jes’ as well,
With our chaps ’oldin’ on like ’ell,
Bog right inter the mill.”
So Bill asked Jim, who drawled “Orright—
Let’s go an’ see this flamin’ fight!”
Out from the trenches with a yell,
Across the zone of death,
Where flowering manhood coughed and fell,
And in the midst of bursting shell,
They stood and paused for breath.
Jim coolly gazed as shrapnel tore:
“My oath, Bill, it’s a dinhum war!”
VICTORIA.
RICHARD BELLAIRS.


Chalk this on yotir
mental slate —realise
that it means economy ,
and then act promptly
55f-
is the MURDOCH
Price for a Smart
Suit-to-Measure.
We have just opened up a special shipment of the
New Season’s Suitings—new designs in smart
Tweeds—nobby and attractive.
To meet the pressing need for economy, we are
Tailoring these fabrics at the extraordinary price
of 55/- tlie Suit-to-measure—and it is extraor-
dinary when you take into account short supplies
and high freights.
Other Prices are 63/-, 70/-, 75/-
ORDER YOOR SPRING SUIT NOW.
(<S>)
Behind this offer stands the
Murdoch guarantee—
“ Money back if you’re not
satisfied.”
If you can’t call and inspect
these Suitings, there’s a
bunch of patterns waiting
for you on demand. Lest
you forget, fill in the coupon
right away.
DESK R.
Messrs. Murdoch's in Park St. Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
Please forward patterns of Spring- Suit-
ings at .... the Suit-to-measure, with tape
and Self-measurement form.
Name
Address
Murdoch’s
in Park St. Ltd.
SYDNEY,
“ Where the Good Hats are.”
Nelson’s Exclusive Iceless Interiors.
A practical, Indestructible Fountain
at a low price.
Examine it carefully and compare it
as you please with any other in the
market at the same price.
It stands alone both in quality and
price.
’
ym
* v -i
mm£-.
ste* -
gap
COLD CLOSET
I
•
" i ■IP
Built in sft., Oft., Bft., 10ft. and 12ft.
These Plants are bought by know-
ledgeable men in the Soda-Fountain
trade, in preference to any other
make.
Backed with our guarantee for five
years.
This is “guarantee of quality.”
We have outfits from £25 upwards.
Examine the thorough workmanship and construction of our Interiors —there is nothing better.
After years of hard usage they do not develop the usual cracks and defects noticeable in the
shoddily-built machines.
We aim at quality.
You as the buyer are spending the money, therefore it is of vital importaree for you to exercise
care in the purchase of your Soda Fountain.
Let us handle your requirements and you will get absolute satisfaction.
We are the right people and are selling the largest number of Soda Fountains in Australia.
Iceless Interiors are priced from £5O upwards.
ACCESSORIES. We supply Pure Fruit Juices, Glasses, Straw's, Spoons, Extracts of all
kinds.
BACK BARS . Handsome mirror fixtures with leadlights.
COUNTERS. In panelled oak with marble top, in all Sicilian marble, or as required,
WIRE FURNITURE. —We have a complete stock of this. The latest and most beautiful
adornment to your cafe.
A postcard to us will get you full particulars, with firm quotations and terms for all you
require.
Now is the time to buy, and, as we have the largest stock in Australia, we can supply your
wants immediately.
TERMS. — Our terms are so easy that the purchase can be paid for out of profits.
NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. LTD.,
219 George Street,
SYDNEY.
BRISBANE: REGINALD SMITH, C.T.A. Simple Rooms.
ADELAIDE: SILAS H. MARTIN, The “ Ritz ” Soda Fountains, 84a King William Street.
PERTH : A. B. HADDON, Hay Street.
1
.
I' -m
M
r*“
i
%
m
Mmvmmi :S§gg
1
• •P*
■mHIIH ■ s ts^H
!
■
m
%. . 1
:
■
l
s
•!
■
i L ■
:
m
±&M&
Note in Entertainment
THE
PIANOLA
PIANO
Brings Happiness into Days of Gloom.
PROPERLY enough we are a little
sensitive as to the manner in which we
take our pleasures —gaiety and extravagance
seem out of keeping when so many of our
bravest and best are giving their lives for us.
Yet gloomy faces and grim forebodings are
the height of disloyalty and are put to
shame by the cheerful demeanor of our
defenders who are ever ready to return a
thundering “NO!” to the question “Are
we downhearted?”
It is essentially a time for simple home enjoyment,
diversions that will keep the family circle in courage and
good cheer. Exactly the right note is struck by the
entertainment offered by a “Pianola” Piano.
The Pianola is world famous. It is chosen by
men of wealth and culture everywhere as the
finest instrument of its type. Its great artistic
worth is attested by practically every great
musician of the present day and generation.
The P.anola is made only by The Pianola
Company in the following models exclusively—
The Stein way, Steok, The Stroud and the mag .
nificent Weber Pianolas. Prices from £l2* 3.
Moderate monthly payments can be arrangt'jd.
Write to us for Illustrated Catalog B.L
The Pianola Company,
384 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.


Martin’s Pills are sold by W. 11. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
m
Leather Vests
For CAMP or TRENCH USE
Lined with Pure Wool.
mm* lnsect Proofed >“>
Price 1 7/6*
1 SUEDE VESTS 42/-
Sencl for descriptive list,
tVc pack for post if necessary
ROTHWELL’S LIS:
Edward Street, BRIBBANE
TkCHIASTOLITE
or Luck
Stone
The Wonderful Old-World War Charm.
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM.
Found in Austkauia.
Mounted as Pendants in Oct. Gold, from 10/6 each.
Mounted as Rings in 9ct. Gold, from 20/- each.
The Black Opal Store. 89 Market St., Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, Gem Merchant, Proprietor.
Unsoiled Originals and Perfect Permanent Pen-
copies absolutely ensured to users of Zanetic Sheets.
From Stationers or from S. B. Zanetic, Zanetic
Works, Leicester, England. ALL BRITISH, and
contains no Foreign Dye.— Advt. [1
THE
K
m &
j7=*s
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street, Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858.
Capital Paid Up, £1,498,220. Reserve Fund, £610,000.
Reserve Liability of Shareholders, £715,464.
Directors: JOHN GRICE, Esq., Chairman; EDWARD TRENCHARD, v^Chamrian ;
H. M. STRACHAN, Esq.; J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq. Chief Manager: E. 11. WREFOKD.
Sydney Office, 60 Pitt St.; and George St. City Office, 350 George St.
Manager: R. S. GREGSON. Accountant: M. V. COSTELLO.
Branches in Victoria, South Australia. Western Australia, ew ou
LONDON OFFICE: 5 Biehopssate, E-C-
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-14 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COEEINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGEE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
“Vigilans”; “Termite” in a recent
Bulletin avers that white ants never tackle a
healthy tree in the Territory. Quite wrong. The
larger termites both in Arnheim Land and the Gulf
country devour trees whether decayed or green. In
fact, they make a specialty of some young green
trees, particularly mangoes and custard apples. Most
of the trees in Darwin cocoanut plantations have been
attacked by the pests. Furthermore, they have
been known to eat and kill green shrubs and vege-
tables, especially sugar cane, of which they are
very fond. AVhite ants anywhere above the 16th
parallel are the bane of the existence of settlers.
Their destructive powers are truly devilish. In
Kimberley I left a saddle at the foot of a tree for
a week. AA r hen I went to pick it up it fell to pieces.
A pair of boots in a tent at Yam Creek were
devoured in three days, nothing remaining but the
eyes, hooks and nails, and those only because of
religious scruples. In the vicinity of Normanton
(Q.) termites build mounds quite as high as those
in Arnheim Land. I have seen them 25ft. high and
30ft. in girth. A yarn that Normantonites used to
delight in telling was about a funeral. The mourners
were conveying a coffin to the cemetery, but as two
grog shanties had to be attended en route the coffin
to save time was left amongst the anthills for
the night. In the morning the corpse and his
canister were gone. They’re still gone. I had a
box completely covered with ant bed while camped
on the Norman River, and I have seen thick blood-
wood rafters eaten hollow-. I reckon the Territory’s
great problem is the conquest of the white ant.
“Werrimee” : Pretty well every period of
Australian settlement has had its own style of fenc-
ing, the stages of development being even more
marked in this way than in the dwellings of the
settlers. The dogleg fence and the cockatoo fence
were notable pioneers, as conspicuous in our early
annals as the old bark hut. To men who had lots of
time they were cheap, for the material was cut as it
was required along the alignment, and the main work
was keeping it in repair. jThe chock l-and-log was
heavier, and entailed more labor, besides being- a
greater risk. The brush fence also made a lot of
work, and required a good deal of attention after it
was finished. The combustibility of each of these
four kinds was its main fault. The sapling fence
was known as the lazy man’s fence, or the- cocky’s
boundary. It was the cheapest, all-wood enclosure
that could be built. The squatter's fences at that
time were substantial three- and four-rail affairs, with
huge gate-posts standing 12ft. high. The yards were
built of five or six rails, and all the gateways were
capped. A big mustering yard, with the horse-yard
and small paddock, provided a 12 months’ contract
for a couple of men, who generally had the assistance
of a bullock-driver. Timber was very plentiful and
handy, and the contract was worth from £3OO to
£5OO. The big stub sheep-yards of the Far West,
built of round timber, or round timber split in
halves, most of it standing on end, cost up to £5OO
each. The common cattle boundary in later times
was the two-railed fence. There are old lines on
coastal runs, built of ironbark posts and grey gum
rails, that have stood for three-quarters of a century.
Until wire and swing gates came into general use the
two-rail structure and the sliprails were familiar
wherever one went. The two-rail was followed by the
top-rail and three wires, which in turn gave way to a
great extent to the all-wire fence. AVire makes quick
work, and it was a boon to the groat open spaces of
“IT’S AN ILL-WIND.”
Kangaroo-shooters are enlisting in large numbers.
Western news item.
MRS. BROWN ( reverently): “Good-morning,
Airs. Smith, and I hope you prayed for
the good Kaiser this morning!”
Outback. It lessened the fencer’s employment, though
' the ravages of Bunny made amends by compelling the
erection of thousands of miles of rabbit-proof net-
ting. Between these two the subdividing lightning
fence is common on far-back sheep-runs. The posts
stand about 30ft. apart, with a couple of wire stays
or “droppers” between them.
SOLVING THE “HELP" PROBLEM.
“John, y ’ must run someone in. The yard wants cleaning, and the P.M.’s coming this
week.”
“Warre”: Trouble amongst sheep at
shearing and at lambmarking is a bacterial affection
and occurs in three forms —oedema (malignant), septi-
caemia and tetanus or lockjaw, the last being most
prevalent. The microbes have their origin in old
sheds, especially where skins, etc., have been stored,
and in old yards. Dust conveys the infection most
readily. The only way to get a “holt” on the
microbe is to thoroughly wash down the shearing-
board with a strong disinfectant and, if machines
are used, to spray the walls and rafters to get rid
of dust which the vibration will bring down.
Counting-out pens should also be disinfected. Care-
ful managers disinfect yards, fences and implements
at lambmarking, and rich squatters build a new
set of yards every year. A mere cocky waits for a
wet day when there's no dust about.
“Peg Drum” : A point overlooked so far
by the smut experts is that pickled grain deteriorates
very much in its germinating power unless sown
almost at once in ground wet enough for it to strike.
Here is a way to get over that difficulty. Take ljlb.
bluestone (copper sulphate) to 10 gallons of water
and let the seed remain in the solution for about two
minutes. Drain thoroughly and then dip the seed
into limewater (21b. lime to 10 gallons
water) for about the same time. Then
dry thoroughly. This method has one big
advantage, even if it does mean double
work, in that the pickling may be done at
any time, and the grain will keep. I do
my pickling soon after harvest, when I
grade my wheat, and, so far, have had
very good results. Pickling in “butts” is
never satisfactory, as the seed is never
pickled evenly. The only way to make a
good job of it is to use one of the patent
picklers, of which there are three that are
very good on the market. Rust spores
will not reinfect properly-bluestoned
wheat, though they may if other pickle is
used. The trouble is that the average
cocky always leaves his pickling till the
last moment, and then slums the work,
rarely bothering to weigh the bluestone
or measure the water. If the crop is
clean, well and good; if not, he blames
the pickle. Bluestone is generally applied
these days, though a few years ago all
sorts of wonderful mixtures were used,
such as bluestone and salt, brine, lime-
water, formalin and one or two other “patent medi-
cines.” Another point. If bluestone is- used the
vessel in which the pickling is done must be either
wood or copper. Any old thing will do for the
others.
* * * *
“Eddyson”: “ ’Tis curious how a man’s
luck will take him all unbeknowns,” said Flynn.
“There was never a man had the luck iv Martin
Dwyer, him came to Little Galway wid the thriflin’
inheritance frim his uncle Dan, lcep’ cows in the
methrop’lis twinty year, and bought O’Connor’s
scrap iv shtony land up the hill. Poor Martin, a
dacent, good soul well acquaint wid the mendin’ iv
boots ’n’ shoes, knew nothin’ consarnin’ scientific
far-rmin’, ’n’ found thriflin’ diff’rence atween a
thrivin’ vigitable loam ’n’ a sample iv ould red
sandstone ye’d hit a copper wid. But ’tis the
instinctive sinse iv the Irish pisintry t’ have holt
iv a bit iv land, ’n’ Dwyer have satisfied his c'l-nvin .
He’s wan iv the landed gintry, ’n’ is wearin’ an
ould tall hat t’ commemorate the rise in social
status. ’Tis a few months gone, ’n’ Dwyer is begin-
nin’ t’ ax himself where’s the benefit iv it all.
Nothin’ is cornin’ in at all, ’n’ wan cow have died,
’n' wan more is took ailin’. The praties he planted
was not cornin’ up, whoile the pleasant adventure
wid a vigitable gar-rden back iv the bar-rn was
turnin’ out a source iv bitterness t’ Mrs. Dwyer.
Martin thought iv gittin’ wor-rk, but the other
gintlemin iv Little Galway was never a bit better
off than himself, ’n’ there was nothin’ doin’. Things
wint from bad to infernal wid Martin, and he got
a slmiall but nag-gin’ mortgage on his land, ’n’ ez
far into debt ez wan iv the landed gintry iv Little
Galway- was permit to. When Mrs. Dwyer died
Martin hadn’t the price iv a shrowd ’r a dthray V
shift her. He dug the grave in the cimmithry wid
his own hands ’n’ a borreyed shovel, ’n’ him ’n’
three other Irish carried Ann to her lasht rest on
a dure. ’Twas the batin’ iv Martin Dwyer. ‘l’ll
shtay t’ build her a shtone t’ comfort her,’ sez lie,
‘then will I git away, ’n’ earn the bit to ate at me
thrade.’ First Martin thought he’d carve a tomb-
stone from a gum butt, but the threes there were
gnarled, ’n’ a man could make nothin’ of them.
Then the widdy man bethought him iv the nate
white rock lyin’ in among the saplin’s over the hill,
’n’ for that he wint. ’Twas a fiat shlab very suit-
able fer a grave shtone, ’n’ ’twas Martin’s intint t’
cut a smooth square fut in the face iv it, ’n’ mar-rk
there the age, name ’n’ accomplishments iv deceased.
Martin worked one long day-, ’n’ then he changed
his mind, ’n’ was resolved t’ be a miner. Little he
knew iv minin’, mind yeh—no man less —but almost
innnejit he registered himself sole owner iv the
Monumintal Goold Mine, ’n’ in wan year he was
rich enough t’ give Ann a goold headstone did she
need it. Fer that was the butt ind iv the Emu
reef come to the surface at Little Galway, ’n’ the
poor man found he couldn’t carve it at all shootabje
’n’ decorous fer a memorial be reason iv the ondeceijit
amount iv goold shtickin in it. Nivir did inor-rtal
man have sieh eonthrary luck ez Martin Dwyer,
Isquire.”
AS GOOD FOR WOMEN AS FOR MEN.
“Madam, allow me to show you my patent
hammer for the home. Now, on this
side the head is made of the best-quality
steel for hitting the nail or tack. On
the other side we have the best rubber
for hitting one's finger or thumb!"
“Nanoon”: I saw two timber-getters
split 538 4ft. 6in. x 3in. x lOin. slabs from a bluegum
near Hampden (().). Had they not particularly
wanted slabs at the time they could have got about
600 ordinary posts (6ft. x Bin. x 3in.) out of the tree.
1 also saw 196 posts taken from a bluegum at
McGregor Greek (Q.). In neither case were explo-
sives used in the argument. Timber-getters in this
district wouldn’t think of murdering a sapling if
it couldn’t split more than “Corio’s” tally of 143
posts.
“Panhandle Pete’s” first impressions of
Salonika
There’s joy in the battle,
Just ’ear the guns rattle,
As we sling over lashin’s of lead at the foe!
It’s somethin’ to live for!
Half me life I would give for
Five rounds with ol’ Willum —a fair dinkum go.
We’ve drilled an’ we’ve waited,
Till it seemed we was fated
To nought but fatigues fer our share of the show;
But now we’re so near ’em,
You not only ’ear ’em,
You bleedin’ well feel ’em in spots where it’s low.
And this is the fightin’
Of which they’ve bin skitin’;
I savvy why some of ’em’s dodgin’ it so.
It’s mighty excitin’,
This moment of writin’,
I’ve just seen poor Si get a dinkum k.o.
But barrin’ the big ’uns
That burst up yer diggin’s
Where you’ve delved like a wombat to get well below,
It isn’t so awful
This killin’ made lawful—
And we’ll give Kaiser Willum a hard row to "hoe.
WET WORK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I had to sit this morning where
The jury and the Coroner
Were asking with regard to Jones
(Of whom was little left but bones)
Why he was in the river found,
And was he well and truly drowned.
We sat from ten o’clock to one,
And then, inquiries being done,
The Coroner was satisfied
At least that the deceased had die' 1
The deaths he added at a guess,
Was due to water in excess.
At home I told the touching tale
To Mary Jane. Her face was pale,
Her eyes were resolute. “You sat
On someone drowned, and stay like that?
AVith your rheumatics too ! Now jump
And put your dry things on, you chump.”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


. M
r
■ ■ ' .70 -js
.
-■A
'
rv
*
\
•r^
d
wbs»
The Finest Gar that Studebaker has ever built
m
THE NEW 8 SPECIAL MID-SEASON MODEL
Has been built for Performance —
to give the longest and most efficient service, np and down hills, through heavy sand and mud
over the roughest Australian roads.
Has been built for Economical Power —
to give, pound for pound, the greatest value in achievement, with the lowest cost of maintenance
—the minimum of tyre expense and repairs.
Has been built for Flexibility—
to respond to the touch of the driver with wonderful sensitiveness, making it in the truest sense
the car for easy handling —the ideal car for the woman to drive.
Has been built for Endurance —
to remain the same sweet, silent, efficient, smooth-running, sturdy power plant after years of
active service—truly called the car that purrs like a contented kitten, be it ever so old.
Has been built for Comfort and Easy Riding' —
Series 17 Model is fundamentally the same car as the 1916 Model Studebaker, but the added
refinements and comfort features give it a distinction all its own. The new divided and
adjustable front seats make it possible to dine or sleep in the car.
Has been built for Quality—
to add to the Studebaker reputation of sixty-four years for building quality vehicles in which
material and workmanship have never been sacrificed to price-cutting.
Let us send you the Studebaker Proof Book and Catalogues.
Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Ltd.
ITT Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
state importers—
Messrs. TURNER BROS.,
398 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
THE CANADA CYCLE & HOTOR AGENCY,
Creek & Adelaide Streets, BRISBANE.
Hessrs. T. J. RICHARDS & SONS,
95-99 Pulteney Street, ADELAIDE.
THE ARHSTRONG CYCLE & HOTOR AGENCY,
Hay Street, PERTH.
W. GAHAGAN, Collins Street, HOBART.
i m wm,
m


Sensational Triumph
for Famous
De Witt’s pins
Kidney & Bladder
It is indeed a triumph when suffering', pain and
weakness are finally and completely overcome.
Regarding kidney and bladder troubles, many remedies claim
to cure, and do, without doubt, give relief for a time, but the one
remedy which will give you quick relief, and most probably a per-
manent cure, is De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, for when
once cured by these wonderful little pills our readers say they are
cured for ever.
“My kidneys were weak right from childhood. As I got
older so they seemed to get worse; then rheumatism showed itself.
For over 14 years I suffered with this agonising complaint, and had
into hospital four times. Then, even worse than this, I had
rheumatic fever, when it was thought I could never recover.
Anyway I managed to pull round again, but last March (1912) I
went down again with my old complaint, and everyone once more
gave me up. We tried everything we knew of. No one could help
me. Nothing seemed to be of real use.
“While I was so ill and in such pain a small box of De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills was given to my mother. These pills
were so strongly recommended to her that she decided to give them
a fair trial. In two days, to everybody’s surprise, I was able to
move about a little. She sent and got me a larger box of De Witt’s
Pills, and I continued taking them. In six weeks I was able to go
to work. De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills had not only given
me quick relief —they had cured me. Now (July, 1912) I can lift
and easily handle half-a-hundredweight of metal, for I have been
working on a metal pot, running white metal. That is considered
one of the hardest jobs in our line.
“My name —Albert Carpenter—is well known, and if anyone
cares to refer to me at 17 Lambeth Walk, Westminster, S.W., I
shall be pleased to confirm the above statement. Knowing as I
do how invaluable these little pills are to those who suffer from
kidney and bladder complaints, in any form, I only hope that
people who are afflicted as I was will give De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills a fair ti'ial. If they do I know they will get benefit
as I did, for I have recommended De Witt’s Pills to many people —
some of them very bad cases —and I have never known them fail.”
Writing to the proprietors two years afterwards, Mr. Carpenter
says: “I feel better than ever before. I think this is the best
proof I am cured, especially after taking into consideration the
awful weather we have had lately; I have gone through it without
a cold or a twinge of pain, and am fit to work with anybody.”
This is from a man who had been racked with rheumatism in its
two worst forms —chronic and acute —for years. Just reason it
out f How was it De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills cured him,
ir
%
m
m
s
k
A. CARPENTER (from photo).
Weak and 111 for Years.
De Witt’s made me
a Strong Man.
Here is
when every other kind of treatment had utterly failed?
the reason :—• '
Rheumatism is caused by a curious poisonous acid in the
blood. This acid, just like tiny pieces of broken glass with rough
edges, settles in the joints and muscles and causes that awful, agon-
ising pain of backache, rheumatism and gout, gravel, and the
burning sensation of inflammation of the bladder, etc. In health
the kidneys pass out this poisonous acid through the bladder by
natural functions, but when weak or diseased they fail to do their
work. Hence illness and pain.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills strengthen the kidneys
and drive the poisonous, pain-causing acid right out of the system.
To cure rheumatism or any other form of kidney trouble you
must positively get rid of the cause —the poisonous uric acid.
Remember, to do this a real remedy must pass through the kidneys
and the bladder and not through the bowels, as most kidney pills
do. When you see the urine change to a muddy bluish color—a
feature which distinguishes De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills
from all others —you know beyond all doubt that they have put
their healing touch on the right spot —the kidneys and the bladder.
A wonderful pill straight to the kidneys—that is why De Witts
Pills give such amazingly quick relief—every time. A permanent
cure follows in almost every case. Book out for that blue-colored
urine. It means so much.
Kidney disease is far commoner than most people would
imagine. It is reported that at least six out of every ten people
who “go sick” do so through kidney disease. And, moreover, five
out of every ten sufferers die from this same cause. If people
onlv knew how to tell whether their kidneys are diseased or not, it
would not be so bad, thousands upon thousands of men and
women to-day are content to suffer and die in ignorance. Weak
kidneys lead to deadly Bright’s Disease in many cases.
How are you to really recognise Kidney Trouble? Here is
the way * Have you a nasty taste in the mouth the first thing in
the morning, puffiness under the eyes, general feeling of weakness
and irritability, aches and pains in vanous parts of the body? . Ilaie
vou constipation, cloudy urine, or sharp stabbing or aching pains—a
Dain “as though my back will break”? These are the sure and
certain symptoms of kidney trouble, and those who suffer from
backache rheumatism, gout, sciatica, gravel, stone, cystitis
/inflammation of the bladder), or pains in the muscles and joints,
' __ nn • 1 1 fVI VAU fclv «TOQ H Al* ( I IQO ft QPfl A TIDT7Q fAl*
are all suffering these pains through weak or diseased kidneys, for
these are positively the symptoms of kidney trouble.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills cure all 4hese symptoms
bv the only right and‘proper method. They cure by going straight
to the kidneys and removing the cause—the poisonous uric acid—
rieht out of the blood through the bladder. And when the cause is
ffone commonsense says the pain, the weakness and the misery
must disappear, as it did in Mr. Carpenter’s case.
T - z * e contains two-and-a-half times as many as the 3/3 size
T)o Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are sold by Chemists and Storekeepers everywhere, 3/3 and 6/- per box. i-a * difficulty in getting genuine De Witt’s Pills—with
Snos advantageous. TRIAL BOX FREE and plainly packed if you stamps Pjtagrtc. « supply by return,
the blue seal on the cork—send your money to E. C. De Witt & Co.. Ltd.. 41-42 Pitt Street, syoney. wuo
“Longbrow”: It must be a dozen years
since a meagre assortment of agitators, with-
out beer, sandwiches or other trimmings,
met one evening in Queen’s Walk. That
cheerful, placid, polite forlorn-hoper, Henry
Hyde Champion, took the chair; young Leon
Brodzky took the minutes; and little Tommy
Cochran took a seat in a corner and offered
neat advice. The talk was about a New
Theatre, and Brodzky was the head and
feet of the movement. He raked up most
of the boys for the meetings (there weren’t
any girls in those days), paid the hall hire
out of the scarce contributions handed in
by members when he didn’t do it out of his
own pocket, made speeches, moved resolu-
tions and acted as press-correspondent. Not
that Melbourne gave much publicity to the
movement in those days. Most of Brodzky’s
matter relating to a higher plane of stage-
work appeared in The Bulletin, while
Champion’s Booklover was the only Mel-
bourne print to pay any attention to the
thing. Brodzky’s attitude was purely intel-
lectual, and had nothing to do with a desire
to show personally how the thing should be
done. Putting his efforts beside those of the
various “dramatic schools,” he was the Art-
for-Art’s-sake pioneer whose persistence led
up to the Culture of the Repertory Theatre
Club, or indicated the way thither at least,
and the fact should receive wider recognition
than it does to-day.
“Edson”: A Melbourne Repertory author
occupies a lot of the time of his audience in
a prologue that is a brick for the critics, and
follows with a speech that is in the nature
of a further complaint. It was the author’s
first play. Where, then, was the occasion
for an anticipation of pitiless criticism?
Criticism of stage plays in Melbourne is such
that no man need fear to be smitten with
anything harder than a puff ball. Is the
Repertory concern even more sensitive than
proprietary managements? In fact, theatri-
cal criticism is in greater need of a revival
than theatrical art. We want here some
kindred association that will free criticism
from bondage and make it courageous even
if it lias to be printed in pamphlet form
without advt. of any make or shape. What
would w’e expect of the fighting man who
whined for a manacled and emasculated spar-
ring partner?
Melbourne, though musically starved, does
not rush the municipal concerts which are
given twice a month in the To.wn Hall at
sixpence and a bob a time. The average
attendance last year was 503, and the loss
on each concert about £ls.
“C. Ockney”: An instructive war-time
comparison. In the middle of June, of the
principal playhouses in Paris, only, seven
were open, and those were all staging re-
vivals and just paying exes. In London in
the middle of Jane all the West-End theatres
were open, and all were taking big nm^ey.
Comment would be superfluous. Also, it
might be offensive.
Scene from anew London revue, Half
Past Eight”:—
The Turkish Delight bath-scene represents the
cooling-off room on a ladies’ day, and should prove
specially attractive to all who have an eye to beauty
not obtrusively adorned. Indeed, as you. see the
lovely creatures reclining gracefully on their chairs,
the spectacle seems almost too good to be true; but
a careful scrutiny reveals the fact that the ladies are
really attired. All at once the room is invaded by
a number of well-meaning women of Mrs. Grundy s
school, who, shocked at the bareness of the scene,
as if were, remove their own attire with the righteous
purpose of more completely clothing the ladies of
the bath. In their zeal for the cause they rather
overdo the good work, with the result that, when
the objects of their charity are fully clad, the. in-
truders are distinctly on the raw side, as you might
say.
A London S.M. has been getting himself
into trouble by reminding the pros, of Pov-
erty Point that they were once legally
“rogues and vagabonds,” and are so, still,
technically, under an unrepealed Act ot Par-
liament. As half a dozen of these . legal
“rogues and vagabonds” have been knighted
during recent years, it is argued that it is
about time to repeal the. antiquated and un-
complimentary statute in so far as actois
and actresses are concerned.
“Deathwatch”: A “Florodora” revival is
talked of for Her Majesty’s (Syd.), but no-
body mentions “The Country Girl;. yet its
first production saw a run of 86 nights. It
witnessed weighty Claude Bantock in his
star Australian part, the Rajah of Bhong;
and its “half a dozen little girls dressed in
blue” were hailed as legitimate successors
of the Florodora sextet. Irrelevantly, an
Amurrkan prodoocer once told me how. lie
founded a fortune by touring “the original
American Florodora sextet’’ through the
Yoouited' States. He had 48 of them, and
ran eight sextets simultaneously on different
roads.
“Ancient Prompter”: In connection with
the recent affiliation of the U.S.A. Actors’
Equity Association with the American Fed-
eration of Labor, it is interesting to note
how the managers are taking the new order
of things. Most of them fall in with the de-
mands of the mummers. The big firm of
Klaw and Erlanger at once granted one oi
the most important—full pay for Christmas
and Holy Week (half salaries was the usual
thing before). Other managements expected
to come into line include Charles Frohman
and Cohan and Harris. Three other firms
are already using the new form of contract
suggested by the Federation; in fact, there
appears to be no serious opposition to the
movement, the mummers evidently holding
too strong a hand. The ever-artistic David
Belasco, though not entirely antagonistic, ex-
pressed the opinion that unionism was not a
dignified thing for actors. To which the
union mummers tersely replied that they
could put up with a little less dignity for
the sake of a decent contract.
Edwards, Dunlop and Co., Ltd. (Syd-
ney), wholesale paper merchants and sta-
tioners, have been well known to the trade
for nearly half a century; but it was not
until 12 months back that the private co.’s
articles were brought into conformity with
Stock Exchange requirements. There was
then no new issue of capital: all that was
done was to absorb reserves by the issue of
bonus shares, which were sold mostly to
clients and friends. But even with the trans-
fer of reserves to capital something very sub-
stantial remained: as at April 30, 1915,
when a balance-sheet was first issued for
public information, there was, besides the
P. and L. balance, £72,544 in various reserve
accounts, including £59,500 in a formal
fund. That indicates the character of the
business. As a rule, the private co., with
no share market to look to and no quota-
tions to keep steady, pays out profit as it is
made. Here, however, was one which still
had £59.500 of a general reserve left after it
had capitalised all that it was considered
advisable to thus deal with. Further, instead
of making a reconstruction and selling good-
will for cash or shares, the premium at which
some of the shares was sold was, it appears,
added to this reserve. Altogether, the co.
thus made a remarkable first, public appear-
ance. The truth seems to be that the second
generation who are now in control have
almost a reverence for the founders of the
business, and were prepared to do almost
anything to make sure that the dividend with
which the co. started would at least be
maintained. Hence the large reserves to
assist capital; hence also the absence of any
loading.
One likes to see such a spirit, of course;
and one can understand how the old-
fashioned founders of this business would
have writhed to think that Edwards, Dun-
lop and Co. would one year be floated on a
booming market and pay a 10 p.c. div., and
that thereafter profits would shrink until the
rate of dividend gradually fell to perhaps 2J
p.c. There have been such cases —a good
many of them in the last seven years. But
there really isn’t much encouragement to
practise the opposite virtues. Plenty of ven-
dors load their capital with water, repre-
sentinsr goodwill, and adopt other similar
tricks, simply to avoid showing a high rate
of dividend, because a low rate of dividend,
no matter how achieved, saves them from
attack. The same thing is happening in con-
nection with a Profit and Loss balance.
Really a co. is to be commended for not rid-
ding itself of every penny of its profit; from
every point of view it is desirable that there
should be a substantial balance at Profit and
Loss. But Income,Tax Departments have
developed a bad habit of penalising people
who practise this virtue, so now one rarely
finds anything in a Profit and Loss account
beyond the year’s profit.
For the year to April, 1915, Edwards,
Dunlop showed profits of £36,330, less £lOOO
voted to bonus and provident fund. The 5
p.c. div. on £86,509 pref. capital took £4325.
Ordinary capital (£254,231) got 10 p.c.=
£25,423. Total £29,748. The past year’s
profit was £40,084, less £2500 voted to bonus
and provident fund, or £37,584 net. The 5
p.e. on prefs. and 10 p.c. on ordinaries took
£29,748. Reserves now stand at: Unappro-
priated profit, 30/4/T5, £12,373; year’s
profit unappropriated, £7836; reserves,
£69,528; total reserves, £89,737. This is
exclusive of doubtful debts reserve, not now
exhibited, but standing at £7492 a year ago.
The co. owes £70,410, apparently all trade
accounts; and the assets included freeholds,
£80,598; stock, £211,301; book debts,
£181,845; and cash, investments and sun-
dries, £50,558.
* * * *
The Adelaide Steam Tug Co. (S. Aus.) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1908.. £5407 10 p.c. = £2BOO £2607 £18,275
June, 1909.. 1420 5 „„ 1400 20 18.295
Dec., 1909.. 8801 S „„, 2240 1501 19.856
June, 1910.. 3714 10 „„ 2800 914 20,770
Dec., 1910.. 1945 10 „„ 2800 19,915
June, 1911.. 3092 8 ■ ~ 2240 852 20,767
Dec., 1911.. 3299 10 „ „ 2SOO 499 21,266
June, 1912.. 1841 5 „„ 1400 441 21,707
Dec., 1912.. 4008 10 „ „ 2800 1208 22,915
June, 1913.. 3824 10 ~ ~' 2800 1024 23,939
Dec., 1913.. 6000 10 „,, 2800 3200 27,139
June, 1914.. 2848 10 „ „ 2800 48 27,187
Loss.
Dec., 1914.. 1093 5 „„ 1400 24,694
June, 1915.. 965 5 „ „ 1400 22,329
Profit. "
Dec., 1915.. 985 5 „ „ 1400 21,914
Loss.
June, 1916.. 1137 Nil 20,777
The directors of this old-established concern
put the loss down to the scarcity of shipping
plus the increased cost of labor and higher
working exes, generally. Adelaide has
suffered more even than Sydney and
Melbourne. In normal times a ship
wouldn’t mind plugging up St. Vincent’s
Gulf to pick up a few T bags of wheat and
a case and a half of apples. But time is
too precious now, and the stuff piles up
until it is really worth while for a ship to
go up and carry it away. That’s how this co.
has suffered. But it can’t complain.. It has
had a very fair innings. Look at this: —
June,’o9. Dec.,’ls. June,’l6.
Assets apart from tugs,
lighters, etc. .. ..£32,110 £30,614 £30,071
Liabilities .. .. 1,414 1,689 1,933
Surplus .. ..£30,696 £28,925 £28,138
Meantime it has bought a steam lighter
which didn’t cost much, if anything, under
£17,000. So it has earned something quite
substantial in excess of the dividend, even
if it has written most of the amount off
against depi’eciation through bumps and
barnacles.
* * * *
The Australian High Commissioner has
been informed by Lamb and Sons that the
firm is willing to establish asbestos works in
Australia if a large deposit of the mineral is
located. Low-grade asbestos is now used for
roofing, and is worth £2O per ton. But what
do they mean by a “large” deposit? There
are dozens of deposits, and they would pro-
vide a big tonnage in the aggregate: but
none known to this paper are individually
big.
* * * »
The contract by which the Mount Lyell
Co. takes over the Hercules-Rosebery pro-
perties has been finally settled, and Bowes
Kelly says the prospects of the Speck’s West
Coast were never brighter. He reckons they
will get the hydro-electric {tower they want
for the new process from Lake St. Clair,
which is 25 miles nearer than the Great
Lake and hasn’t been pre-empted. -
“THE SUPER-MEN.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
War was the drama —war and death.
Vast heroes stalked the blood-bought boards.
But some must give the champions breath,
And supers were required in hordes.
The whole world comprehended then
The meaning of an outworn phrase,
For super-men were super men—
Mere adjuncts to the battle blaze.
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


THE LIGHT OF PROGRESS. =»=
MAZDA DRAWN-WIRE LAMPS
BRITISH MADE IN RUGBY, ENGLAND.
ill!
I I
. ■>!
SaSiSvis 'K » -I
Sk,;- ~»> , ...
]
■- J' -4,
V!
’ :VV J
@PI
JfcflUOi
• • 1 »
HUH
, illl S 1 fRI
■(■IP
■wT
■:
'. vlQs>£' x
90S
jo">~y ~„*»**
M
#
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE—CITY 3510 (5 lines).
( Q .): Th e Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay street.
—Agents—
‘Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
TELEPHONE—CENTRAL 2646. 2647 ; CITY 9579.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone, 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland. Christchurch. Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock & Co., Ltd., Launceston; Messrs. Oliver & Oliver, MacQuarie Street, Hobart.


A. Saunders’ Luminous
Radium Dial Wristlet,
Watch, Solid Silver Case, Full
Jewelled Lever Movement, £3,
£3/10/- Gold Filled, £4/10/-
Solid Gold, £5/10/-,
£6/10/-, £7/10/-, £lO.
Kept in free repair one year.
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Bar Brooch,,
set Diamonds and Peridots, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Three
Bar Brooch, set Pearls and Red
or Blue Stones, 20/-
A. Saunders’
9 c t. Gold
Ring, set Beauti-
ful Cameo, 15/-
Other styles,
10/-, 12/6.
A. Saunders*
18c t. Gold
Ring, set Double-
cut Diamond,
£2/10/- Larger
Diamond, £3,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Ring, set pure,
double-cut Dia-
monds, £l5.
A. Saunders’ Solid Gold Brooch,
set Pearls or Pearls and Turquoise, 25/-
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED
CATALOG POST FREE.
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Three Bar,
Diamond Cluster Brooch, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ 15ct.
Brooch, set Diamonds and
or Sapphires, 257-
Gold
Rubies
A. Saunders’
18c t, Gold
Gipsy Setting
Diamond Ring,
£3, £4, £5, £6,
£7/10/-, £lO.
A. Saunders’
1 8c t. Gold
Diamond
Cluster Ring,
£5/10/-,
£7/10/-,
£lO.
A. Saunders’ Military
Wristlet Wat eh, Nickel or
Guwnetal' Case, Jewelled Lever
Movement, ao/-, 25/-, 30/-.
Silver, £2, £2/10/-, £3.
Solid Goldr £■!,/ 10/-. £5/10/-,
£6/10/-, £7/10/-, £lO.
All Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’
9ct. Gold Bat-
talion Color
Signet Ring,
25/-. Lady’s size,
21/-
A. Saunders’
Solid Gold
Lady’s Signet
Ring,
9ct., 15/-
15ct., 30/-
18ct., 35/-
Gent.’s 9ct.,
22/6;
15ct., 40/-
] Set., 50/-
S.
A. Saunders’ Double-case Solid
Silver Hunting Keyless Watch,
full chronometer balance, patent non-
magnetic time-spring, accurate and reli-
able, £2, £2/10/-, £3, £3/10/-,
£4, £5; Solid Gold, £7/10/-, £lO.
KeDt in free repair one year.
A. Saunders’
1 5c t. Gold
Necklace, se *
Diamonds and
Pearls or Aquama-
rines, £5/10/-
AU Diamonds,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’
1 8c t. Gold
Bing, set five
pure Double-cut
Diamonds,
£lO, £l5, £2O.
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold Dia-
mond Cluster
Ring,£l2/10/-
Smaller Diamonds,
-£lO-
A, Saunders’ 15ct. Gold and
Platinoid Brooch, set Diamonds and
Ruby, £5.
A. Saunders’ Solid Gold Patent Expand-
ing Wristlet Watch, Full Jewelled Lever Move-
ment, accurate and reliable, £7/10/- 15ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-. £l5. Other Grades, £3, £3/10/-,
£4/10/-, £5, £6.
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold and Platinoid
Brooch set Diamonds, Pearls and Aquamarine,
£6/10/-
A. Saunders’
15c t. Gold
Necklace, set
Diamonds and
Pearls, £B/10/-
A. Saunders’
9ct. Gold Claw
Set Ring, set
Garnet, 25/-
15ct., 40/-
18ct., 50/-
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Scroll
Brooch, Diamonds and Rubies or
Sapphires, £2/10/-
All Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (O pp. Railway Station)
A. Saunders’
Solid Gold
Wedd i n g
Ring,
9ct., 20/-
15ct., 25/-
18ct., 30/-
Heavier, 40/-
A. Saunders'
Solid Gold,
Wedd i n g
Ring,
' 9et.. 10/-,
Isct., 15/-
iact., 20/-,
Heavier, 30/-
A. Saunders’ special Non-mag-
netic Open-face Lever Watch,
Solid Nickel Case, dust and waterproof, pat
Solid Nickel Case, dust and waterproof,
patent adjusted balance, 20/-, 25/-,
30 /-. Guaranteed for 20 years and
kept in free repair one year.
m
MILITARY
COMPASS
Especially adapted for
general all-round military
requirements.
THE RIGHT COMPASS
FOR THE SOLDIER.
For ascertaining any angle
of direction at night-time
and as a Sight Compass
for finding horizontal bear-
ings and angles during the
day.
2in. Diameter, Brass
Case, strongly constructed
with Leather Case.
45/-, Post Free.
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.
189-191 George Street, BRISBANE.
HAVE REGARD TO YOUR
BEST INTERESTS BY APPOINTING
The Permanent Trustee Company
of New South Wales Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators, Agents, etc.
AMPLE SECURITY ASSURED. TRUST ACCOUNTS ALWAYS OPEN TO INSPECTION.
ESTATES AND PROPERTIES EFFICIENTLY MANAGED.
F VERY DESCRIPTION of TRUSTEE WORK UNDERTAKEN. FULL DETAILS ON APPLICATION.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [I
m
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
I
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from—whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough— you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over oO
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted Merrie
England. Bd. How to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dr.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art op Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll a laie
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston s Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, 1/- posted. How to Strengthen ihl
Memory, 1/1. Beli/s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, Bd., AND ALL THE RATIONAL I RESS RE-
PRINTS (send for list). Joys of Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window licket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics Workshop
H andyisook. 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Iricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/6 Miller's Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. liie
Yoke by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions WITH Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to M ike Love, 1/- post free. Fowler s Science
of Life 10/6. Australian Miners Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer s Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
4/- posted. Mysteries .of Paris, 1/6. History
of the Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce 11/- ' Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook. 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd.
Thf Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British
8d How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
unu All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing 7 and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Saveets,
and Syrups 1/2. New Tricks with Coins,
J/- potted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.
<0
H
%
■
HOME CYCLOPEPIR
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds ot youn
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy m consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inte ‘*
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in ana
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a brignt
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sen e,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced m l
covers. The new 20t.h Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabnd»ed,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It wall be_po
to ANY address for EIGHT SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
bookseller to the commonwealths
Prof. Fowier's Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks* Guide,l/6*
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc
(ions 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post Ilow to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3 P That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; post, 1/3.
CAMILLE, 1/- post. HOW TO VAMP ON PIANO l -
Piano Tuning and Repairing, l/o. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (R' lles f °£
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry l/^
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- P° st ® d ’ Ur ? owiTcar-
St ave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car
renter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
f 1 vt culator 1/-. The Doctor, cures foi all
wSKJI/* posted. Letter Wbptbr
i/q nosted. Speeches and Toasts, 1 lblic speak
ing Made Easy, 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang of
Hush rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/d.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 21->. life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses,
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannan s Engine
Driver’s Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile oi
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio
lleptameron, and many others, all at 3/d eac
posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes 1/6 posted.
Women’s Secrets, 1/- post. Gay Life in M- j
bourne, 1/- posted. The Waybacks. l/-•
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
sour Pa ca e sh my 25 Years.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking •
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS’ SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur., Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
X/- posted. New Tricks with Cards, 1/- Sappho,
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs'. 1/3 post. Dr.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical illus-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Gor-
don's Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry,
1/3 Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret His-
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers’ Letter
Writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Mor-
gan's Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees,
New Edition. 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
8d posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoll’s Works,
8d" 2 /- How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
nos’ted ’ Ciibvassf/s Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted.
Brfid and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers'
Assistant, 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Bennvrr Macfadden's Works, all at 5/6 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New Recita-
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and Its
Cure 1/2 posted. Webster's Large Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 ilius., leather bound,
niv price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas?).
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, 1/2. Moore’s Universal Assist-
ant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound 10/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
1/- post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music
nnmnletc') 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, by
Paine, posted Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot?.
67 8 69 Market Street, Sydney <onlk>


Business Announcements.
(N.Z.) wishes meet indi-
vidual or syndicate, capital one thou-
sand pounds, to take up proved valuable
dredging ground and high level ground equal
to Mount Morgan. Address at Bulletin
office. Sig. Miner.
n
r
EXPLOSIVES
ARE THE PRODUCTS OF
OVER A CENTURY’S EXPERIENCE
Explosives packed especially to com-
ply with requirements of Australia
and other foreign countries.
Our SAFETY Explosives for use in
dusty and gaseous coal mines have
passed the rigid tests of the United
States Government’s Bureau of Mines.
Thirty factories in the United States.
Plants on both the Atlantic and Pacific
Coasts assure prompt shipments.
OBTAIN MAXIMUM RESULTS
BY SPECIFYING
DUPONT EXPLOSIVES
E.l.du Pont de Nemours & Co.
WORLD’S LARGEST MAKERS
OF EXPLOSIVES
Wilmington, Delaware, U. S. A.
A US TRALIAN A GENTS:
Henry W. Peabody & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Gas Engines
For All Purposes.
HIGHEST grade. Simplest design. Easiest
operated. 1- to 4-cylinder designs. 2-
to 30-li.p. Standard and heavy duty
types. ' J
Mhen writing for catalog's, state type of
engine desired and give . details regarding
service to be rendered.
Cai 11 e Five-
Speed Rowboat
Motor, with
Starter.
-tulle Aristocrat Motor. Has Electric
Starter and Electric Lights, 4-Cycle,
4-Cylinder.
Caille 8-h.p. Unit Power Plant.
Reserving Gear on same bed as engine.
The Caille Perfection Motor Co.,
1554 Caille Street, DETROIT, MICHIGAN.
Zx%vum
Sufferers from that dread complaint,
ECZEMA, should give EXZERMA a trial.
One bottle will bring about relief. A
permanent cure wherever tried. Testi-
monials from all parts of the Commonwealth.
Alilt CHEMISTS AND DRUGGISTS,
or
5j- S. FIELDER, Randwick, Sydney. 2j j
Used the
World Over
m
m
m
MOTOR
...CARS
3HX
BROODY HENS for 12/6.
The “HATCHO” 15-egg Incubator
is a perfect substitute for a Broody
Hen, will hatch every fertile egg,
simple to use, cannot get out of order.
Over 4000 sold last season.
Price 12/6 complete, carriage paid.
Egg Testers 1/2 each. Agents wanted.
R. CASTON & CO., Dept. H.,
40 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
JIVOII THEATRE, SYDNEY
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATUR-DAYS.
VAUDEVILLE I)E LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
__ Plans at Nicholson’s and Tivoli.
TIVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NIGHTLY AT EIGHT.
DICK & DOROTHY TRIO, KEITH KENNEDY,
MARY DORR, LOUIS LONDON, STANLEY &
BURNS, WINIFRED LEVIERE, CLARENCE WIL-
BUR, CARDO & NOLL, and MARGARET JEWELL.
Plan at Glen's.
UER MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
1 1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
ROYAL COMIC OPERA SEASON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE ARCADIANS.
SATURDAY NEXT.
THE DANCING MISTRESS.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales Callose’s.
QUITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HALE HAMILTON, MYRTLE TANNEHILL and
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S Clever Company of Comedians
in Frank Craven’s Screaming Comedy,
TOO MANY COOKS.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
THEATRE RO YA L, SYDNEY.
1 EVERY EVENING AT 8.
The Directors of THE BERT BAILEY CO.
have the pleasure of presenting,
for the first time in Sydney,
DUNCAN McCLURE and THE POOR PARSON.
A Screaming'ly Funny 4-Act Australian Comedy-
Drama b.v STEELE RUDD, author of “On Our
Selection.’’ Adapted by the author from his books
of the same name.
THIS WILDLY HILARIOUS AUSTRALIAN PLAY
will make you LAUGH UNTIL YOUR SIDES ACHE.
DALACE THEATRE, S Y I) N E Y.
1 - Direction J. &N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
SYDNEY^JAMES
and his
ROYAL STROLLERS.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
w.
BARRINGTON MILLER, Managing
Union Theatres Limited, presents the
Director
new
m
X RIANGLE ELAYS AT
' THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MOTION PICTURE ENTER-
TAINMENT as it should be.
SESSIONS: 11.45 a.m., 2 p.m.,
4.15 p.m. EVERY DAY, and
3 p.m.
Triors: 6d. to 2/6. Box Plan at Paling's.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
IJNION PICTURE THEATRES
w In GEOIIGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: ,3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
Amusements.
|4 EH MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
1 1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. revive the Delightful
Musical Play,
THU GIRL IN THE TRAIN.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and 1/-.
*T* II EAT It E It OY A R MELBOURNE.
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, AUGUST 26.
ajr* w - SO “ RSET
THE LAND OE PROMISE.
Prices: 6/-, 4/- and 2/-.
DRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE
Gov. Director: BEN J. FULLER.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, AUGUST 26.
BEN J. FULLER presents his newly-imported
Musical Burlesque Co.
in
THE FOLLIES OF PLEASURE.
Popular Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
§£ ING’S Til EATKE, ME L B OUItN E.
Lessees BERT BAILEY & JULIUS GRANT.
EVERY EVENING.
J. & N. TAIT present
PUG O’ MY 11 U ART.
A Comedy of Youth, by J. HARTLEY MANNERS.
THE SUPREME SUCCESS OF SUCCESSES.
Box Plans now open at Allan's.
IK CH&CA It It O L L
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
lours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Hkan Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBA NE .
P UELER’S hotel, melbour n e
■ (adjoining Bijou Theatre).
Proprietor: BEN .1. FULLER.
One of the Largest and Most Comfortable Hotels in
Melbourne. 200 Rooms and Suites. Hot and Cold
Water in every Bedroom. Drawing, Music and
Smoking Rooms. Two Elevators. Night Porter.
First-class Table. Moderate Charges. Board
Optional.
Under, the management of CHARLIE TAYLOR and
ELLA CARRINGTON.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders'
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68* PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
m
THE BEST
£MOKE
IS
YELLOW
ASTER
* TOBACCO
■■BBLIOL:
SBIUGSL'SS
HOTEL
METRO POLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes fro m
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from Us.
6d. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Par-
ticulars posted on application to
The Manager.
Dinneford's
Magnesia
m
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
m
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
'
%
V
Mi
THOSE
WHO
APPRECIATE
length of service, as well as smart
and distinctive appearance, will find
the utmost satisfaction in
ABBEY SHOES
We illustrate one of our Latest
Models—a Special, High-grade
Patent Bah, with Perforated Golosh
and Grey Suede Legs.
Price - 40 -
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
A BBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
in
,* f *MT3. IKV^
iQi* .» HitfU
Mai t'O *■*
c"s~rr-rr
No
trouble.
In every household there
comes the sudden emergency
when a child is seedy—a
husband is home late —
a wife has to he put on a
specially light diet. That is
the moment when llorlick’s
Malted Milk comes in so
handily. It is no trouble
to make, always proves
palatable, and can be given
with impunity to sick child,
tired husband, or dyspeptic
wife unhesitatingly, as it has
all the required ingredients
(Milk, Wheat and Malt.) to
meet each case.
Ask for Horlick’s
Malted Milk at the
Soda Fountain
Write for sample, sending:
2d. in stamps, to Hutchin-
son & Go. Ltd.. 23 Jamieson
Street,' Sydney, N.S.W.; or
Sharland & Go. Ltd., Lome
Street, Auckland, & Dixoh
Street, Wellington, N.Z.'
HO RUCK'S
[THE COMBINATION SCISSORS^
SEVEN USEFUL ARTICLES IN ONE J
WELL
MADE.
HEAVILY
NICKEL-
PLATED
A CLEVER
\NOVELTy
Onlv
post free
anywhere
jl Scissors, 2 Screw-driver,]
3 'Wi*e Cutter, 4 Cigar Cutter,
5 Nail 3?.ile, 6 Three-Inch Mea-
sure, 7 Glass Cutter, will cut glass 1
as well as a diamond. The screw-1
driver is always handy and the (
wire cutter is constantly useful.,
A ueat sheath is provided for
carrying in the pocket. Length
4 1 / 2 inches, weight under
two ounces. This clever
invention is a most accep-
table gift for a lady or
gentleman.
The Union Company, 299 Elizabeth. Street, Melbourne^


l&ntwoitfi 'cXotel
SVDIM ELY. N.SW.
The Wentworth Garden, with its beautiful surroundings, is
ideal for Luncheons, Dinners, Afternoon Teas, Supper and
Wedding Parties, and all semi-outdoor functions.
Visitors to Sydney will find the Wentworth Hotel most popular,
central and up to date in all modern conveniences, including telephones
in bedrooms, communicating with the Exchange.
The Appointments, Linen and Service are superb, and compare more
than favorably with the best Hotels in the Commonwealth.
Terms on application.
Mrs. H. MACLURCAN, Manageress.
m
m
m
The Brand that guarantees
British make and best value.
U
Un derwear
To see the Jason Brand on a garment
'is to know that Australasian wool, skilled
British labour, and expert fashioning have
gone to its making.
New “Olympic" Brand.
Owing to the high prices of the yarns from which
Jason All-wool goods are made, the manufacturers
have introduced temporarily lower lines containing
a percentage of coiton— bearing the same guarantee
of P quaUty as the regular lines. Your dealer will
supply you. Sole manufacturers
Jason Underwear Co., Leicester, Eng.
Ab 67
POLITICAL
POINTS
The A T ic. Railway Department may have
no room for mere returned Australians, but
at any rate it has a job for a German ex-
soldier. It is officially stated that d Ger-
man who arrived in Australia in 1013, after
serving as a non-commissioned officer, has
had a job as draftsman since May 4, 1914,
From Direct Action, the organ of the
I.W.W.: —
Let the dead ’uns remain dead, hut the energetic
sub.-getters should redouble their efforts.
What? Nonsense! “Slow down! Give
the blowflies a chance !”
GIVE IT A NAME.
“Mr. Hughes was doubtless referring to’’
“The Prime Minister’s speech can have only one
meaning” “Mr. Hughes clearly means”
Various interpreters.
VOICE FROM THE GALLERY: “ For Gor's sake,
Billy, tell us wot you’re forkin’ about—
just to decide a bet.”
The N. S. Wales Government, which bad-
gered John Bull until that harassed old man
gave it leave to float a loan, got its answer:
a miserable one-fifth of what it asked for was
subscribed. The underwriters take the
balance —for a consideration. So the Hol-
man Government has got beyond the mere
issue of lOU’s. As the public will not take
its lOU’s, it is now paying somebody to hold
them in the hope that the public will take
them presently. All of which adds to the
expense, and makes cheap State services in
the future impossible. If this Government
had been specially hired to damn State enter-
prise it couldn’t do the job better.
Peacock’s “drive” against the German
schools has bumped into an unexpected
entanglement. Nine schools submitted;
but one raised the point that the Common-
wealth Constitution forbids interference
with religious liberty. Seemingly the con-
A TRYING TIME.
The Emperor of Austria’s health is again very
unsatisfactory —Frequent cable.
tention is that as the schools are run by
the Lutheran Church they are religious in-
stitutions. Presumably a powder factory
run by the Church would be a sacrosanct
institution, too —especially if it was opened
every morning with the singing of the Hymn
of Hate. Really there is too much of this
piffling. The Government can safely take
steps and argue about it afterwards. We
are at war just at present.
The S. Aus. Commercial Travellers didn’t,
like those of Sydney, have a friendly mayor
able to provide them with a cellar wherein
they might entertain their guests at the
annual banquet this year. Under the new
S Aus. Act, all liquor bars —except those
of its aristocratic neighbor up the Terrace,
the Adelaide Club, and its influential neigh-
bor across the Terrace, Parliament House —
close at six. Even a hotel can, on good
cause shown, get a permit for two late nights
each year; but the Act does not give that,
boon to clubs. So all hands stood up around
bare tables and sang the King’s health, or
smoked it. The idea of drinking it in soup
apparently didn’t occur to the bagmen. It
naturally wouldn’t.
A marvel hath come to light. Melbourne’s
Board of Works, which for years has sat
back quietly, eating three solid meals a day,
with plenty of sleep in between, has
put down its foot upon the “pocket-
handkerchief allotment.” In a plan
of certain land at Surrey Hills,
which is still one of Melbourne’s
rural suburbs, the allotments were
shown to have a depth of less than
70ft. The Board has decided to “put
every obstruction it can in the way
of such subdivision,” declaring that,
even if the plan should be approved
by the local council, the Board will
discourage similar subdivisions by
adopting “such methods as may be
open to it”- —a mysterious threat, yet
a welcome sign of these moving
times.
A well-intentioned but nebulous
bojdy entitled the New Industries
Committee, fathered by Martin Han-
nah, M.L.A., is going strong in Vic.,
and has talked a lot already. It is
sending round to the country towns
and stirring them up, and Geelong,
Bendigo, Sale and other places are
going to make things buzz if they can
find the money and Treasurer Higgs
will let them use it. The State Gov-
ernment lias given vague encourage-
ment and is “considering” whether it
can’t do something practical, and the com-
mittee has hopes of getting the august
Federal Council of Science and Industries
to give it some valuable advice about making
glue and gelatine and other obscure things.
The N.S.W. Arbitration Court thinks that
the issue of £30,000,000 of paper money may
have had something to do with skying the
cost of living, but isn’t sure. The Court
need not have any doubts about it. The
issue of paper money is equivalent to rami »
a loan without interest; and when loan
moneys are scattered rapidly there is alwaj
a boon. If Justice Ileydon suddenly had ms
salary doubled and he loved pork sausages
he would get pork sausages even it he had to
pay an extra twopence-ha’penny a pound
for them. When a community gets suddenly
richer by £80.000,000, it is prepared to pay
the extra twopence-ha’penny, too. And, as
a rule, a community has to pay just wnat
the seller finds that it is prepared to pay.
In the interests of Propputy the N. S.
Wales Leg. Council has thrown out a But
to give the Railways a State coal-mine.
Most of the Fatmen of this House proiess a
deep concern for the man on the land.
Apparently they think it is good for the man
on the land to pay high freights. He cer-
tainly cannot have low freights so long a |
the Railways have to buy their supplies ol
coal from companies which nay 20 per cent,
dividends. The Railways are in precisely
the same position with regard to coal as the
big smelting cos. are with regard to coke;
and you don’t catch the big smelting cos.
depending on anybody else for their coke
simplies. The Associated Smelters, the
Broken Hill Prop., Mt. Lyell—all have then-
own ovens.
The Speck’s Premier Lee gasped the other
day when his follower Hobbs assaulted Red
Tape and Cocked Hat with the following
rude question:—
Is it the intention of the Government to carry
into effect the compact made at the time when
Federation was brought about, viz., the abolition of
the office of State Governor, the reduction in the
number of members of Parliament, the sweeping
away of all frill, a general reduction in the cost of
government and the carrying on of the same as a
business proposition ?
When Lee recovered he said he didn’t know
about any compact, that it wasn’t intended
to abolish Ellison Macartney, that the num-
ber of members of the Assembly had been
reduced from 35 to 30 and ho thought that
was few enough, that he would like an ex-
plicit definition of frills, and that Ministers
agreed that they all ought to be business-
like. He didn’t, however, go into details.
Which was just as well. For instance, in
Lee’s coachbuilding shop, how businesslike
would it be to sack the bodymaker and ths
painter in order to get rid of an unsatis-
factory blacksmith ?
THE LOGICIAN.
MINE CAPTAIN: “ Young man like you look-
ing for a job! Why don’t 'ee go to the
tear?”
SLACKER: “ ’Cause I don’t want to.”
CAP'N : “What would happen if everybody
was like 'ee?”
SLACKER: “There would’n' he no war.”
Stirred by recent copious waves of elo-
quence Rich Landlord Austin is moving in
Victoria to have a time limit placed on
speeches. The trouble is that some politi-
cians are different. One can speak for hours
and still exude interesting information;
another will empty himself —and the House
—in five minutes. Still, Austin’s hint is
good, and if the Assembly would follow it
up by wiping out the inane and quite useless
Address-in-Reply the citizens would en-
deavor to suffer the loss without grief.
While the Commonwealth is rushing
people away to study efficiency and methods
of increasing production in U.S.A., McKay,
of the Harvesters, alleges that an Austra-
lian invented a liorseshoe-making machine
which would turn out •72 horseshoes per
minute and was more “efficient” than any-
thing else of its kind in the world, and that
it has been lying idle for nearly two years
because the union concerned reckoned it
would do someone out of a job. Probably
it will be moved to U.S.A.. and then Aus-
tralia will import the horseshoes and send
a Commission over to see how they are
madfe.
These anti-conscriptionists run in ali
shapes. Here is the usually level-headed
Woods, ex-Speaker of the Speck’s Parlia-
ment, arguing against compulsory service
because Australia hasn’t been invaded yet.
Heaven only knows why A oods doesn’t
object to the compulsory levying of taxes so
long as there is no actual default in paying
his Parliamentary screw.
CHEERFUL.
“If you don’t feel letter see me again next
week.”
"And — cr —if I don’t feel letter after Hat?”
“Well, keep on coming to me. If you’ve yot
to die you may as well die with me as
with anyone else.”
The starved children of Poland, perishing
under German rule, are to be seen eating
dirt. Poor consolation, no doubt; but Ail-
helm shall do it, too, presently.
What looks like a plan to bluff Dankel
out of the Federal Parliament is being made
in S. Aus. He left Germany in 1879 be-
cause he disapproved of the national policy,
got “de-naturalised’’ at once, and by general
agreement has been a good Australian ever
since. Still, since Ilomburg and others,
Australian-born, lost their Liberal seats m
S.A. Parliament because of their names,
Dankel’s has been made free with. It was
suggested that he should make way for
Coneybeer, the S.A. Speaker; but ho merely
laughs at the idea. The day after the war
started he placed himself entirely in the
hands of his party, which would not hear ot
his dropping out. In fact, at an election
the next month he was re-elected by r a big
majority; and nothing unpleasant has hap-
pened since. So the cat has to return to the
bag till the next Federal elections, at any
rate. It looks as though it may have been a
rather unpleasant Liberal cat in disguise.
Minister Tudor gave a testimonial to Aus-
tralian industries the other day. He saul
that since the war had forced the I' ederal
Government to rely more on Australian-made
goods they had been splendidly served, and
that when they had to import things they
got an inferior article at about double the
cost. But he said nothing about a tariff
to protect the industries after the war.
Melbourne ex-townclerk, John Clay-
ton, is a candidate for a vacant seat in the
City Council. Having reached an honor-
able old age Mr. Clayton lately retired with
a solatium, and liis ambition to join his
former employers does him credit. l>ut tne
threatened infusion of young blood is a
menace to society’. Such virile youths aie
prone to indulge in wild-cat schemes, dan-
gerous to precedent, property-owners and
other institutions. Clayton should postpone
his outbreak a few decades.
NO RESPONSIBILITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“Every civilised man in Europe must share the
responsibility.”- —The Kaiser.
Let me adjust my spectacles aright—
I surely read the Kaiser’s statement wrong.
Am I responsible for this wide fight,
I who for peace have prated all along?
' I have opposed all military votes,
Fought to reduce the naval estimates,
Condemned each warlike thing that walks or floats,
Believing trade the antidote of hates;
And yet this German seems to think that I
Started the clout that landed in his eye!
I did not interfere in any way.
I bought the German’s goods, if they were cheap.
Trade with his country always seemed to pay;
And how could I foresee the sudden leap
To arms that drenched unhappy lands in gore ?
But had we kept as quiet as we ought,
Maintained our commerce and an open door,
Goods made in Germany could still be bought.
I do not want to shoot and maim and strike;
The war, for me, may end what day you like.
How should responsibility be mine?
If Germans bought their guns with cash I paid,
What chance had I their purpose to divine?
I could not count the battle keels they laid.
He might have bought a load of tiger-snakes
And let the things run riot in Berlin.
I cannot see what difference it makes,
Or why my foreign purchases are sin.
I didn’t want the war. It simply came.
How should an advocate of peace take blame?
N.S.W.
STALWART COBDENITE.
HELL AND EARTH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The Bavarians arc particularly depressed, and
complain that the British offensive is hell.— Cable.
The Devil rose from the flaming Pit to look on the
fields of blood,
And he watched the man-waves meet and merge m a
frightful swirling flood ;
He heard the erics of the wounded rise and the
guns’ mad anthem swell,
And a sobbing lad whom he helped to die groaned,
“God! but it’s just like Hell!’’
The Devil sank to his roaring Pit, and a cunning
smile had he,
For bursts and billows of flame were there as far as
a fiend could see.
“God burn the gunners!-” he gaily roared, and
chuckled with new-found mirth.
“This Hell of mine is a cosy place! ’Fore God, but
it's just like Earth!”
N.S.W.
E. O'F.


PALING’S PIANOS
—Honest Pianos at the Right Price.
Paling’s Pianos are
Honest pianos because
tHey are sold at the
lowest possible prices
consistent witb good
value.
Paling’s Pianos are
tbe Best pianos in tbeir
various grades tHat can
be procured lor tbe
money.
Insped to-day. You
will be convinced.
m
If you cannot con-
veniently call at our
showrooms, we shall
be pleased to write you
fullest particulars.
Illustrated Catalogue
and printed price list
posted free on request;
please write for them
to-night.
Old pianos taken in
exchange. Easy Terms
if you wish.
W. H. PALING CO. LTD.
338 GEORGE. STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Brisbane, Toowoomba, Newcastle & Lismore.
Established 1853.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
ber Unless potentialities, still in the process of initial development. Queens-
a of ““bounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
piospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
Branch Office:
279 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
T. C. TROEDSOX. Director.
Pen
The Self-filling
Safety Fountain
CAILLEI9I6 MODEL 5-SPEED
OUTBOARD MOTOR-
With Bosch High-tension Magneto.
The motor that you do not have to stop and
start the reverse way to go astern —you just
press the button to go astern, ahead, or
remain stationary without stopping engine.
Improved Silencer, etc., etc.
Caille Yankee Outboard Motors with
Battery and H.T. Magneto Ignition.
Caille Marine Engines, 2to 8 h.p. in stock.
SCRIPPS 4=CYCLE ENGINES.
LATEST MODELS JUST LANDED.
All Spare Parts and Complete Boat Equipments Supplied
'Sole Australasian Agents:
m
Benson Brothers Limited,
5l-53 Druitt Street, SYDNEY; 60 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
EDISON BLUE AMBEROL
RECORDS FOR AUGUST
m
Some very fine pieces are included in our August List of two
Concert and eighteen Regular Records, and you t will find it
easy to choose a pleasing variety. \
We would specially draw your attention to the following:
“We’ll Never Let the Old Flag Fall” and “The Call of the
Motherland” (both by F. Wheeler and male chorus) ;
“Spring’s Awakening” (Mary Car«on) ; “Absent,” (H.
Williamson) ; “A Flower of Italy” (I. Moskowita) ; “The
Relic Hunters” (a brilliant vaudeville sketch by Billy Golden
and J. Marlowe) ; and “Which Switch is the Switch,. Miss,
for Ipswich?” (Billy Murray and chorus).
If possible call on your dealer and hear some of these new
Records.
Blue Amberol Concert Records
28217-
-Una furtiva lagrima—Elisir
Tenor, orch. acc.
d’Amore.
Karl Jorn
28218—0 Dry Those Tears. Soprano, orch. acc.
Helen Stanley
Blue Amberol Regular Records.
2723 The Relic Hunters. Negro Vaudeville
Sketch with Banjo.
Billy Golden a d James Marlowe
2728—Absent. Tenor, orch. acc.
Hardy Williamson
2/29 A Flower of Italy. Violin, orch. acc.
Isidore Moskowitz
2730 -Garden of Roses Waltz.
New York Military Band
2731 Twinkle Waltz. Xylophone, orch. acc.
Charles Daab
2735 V here the Water Lilies Grow. Tenor,
orch. acc. Royal Fish and Chorus
2736 My Hula Maid—The Passing Show of
1915. Soprano and Tenor, orch. ace.
Gladys Rice and Irving Kaufman
2737 Woodland Songsters Waltz.
American Symphony Orchestra
2738 Mother Machree. Tenor, orch. acc.
Walter Van Brunt
2740—Ah ! Could I But Once More So Love,
Dear. Tenor, orch. acc.
Emory B. Randolph
2746—We’1l Never Let the Old Flag Fall!
Baritone, orch. acc.
Frederick Wheeler and Male Chorus
The Call of the Motherland. Baritone,
orch. acc.
Frederick Wheeler and Male Chorus
23398 Spring’s Awakening. Soprano, orch.
acc< Mary Carson
23399—Sailing on the Good Ship, Sunshine.
Tenor and Male Chorus, orch. acc.
Irving Kaufman and Male Chorus
234 00 —Destiny—Waltz.
Jaudas 5 Society Orchestra
23401 You’re My Girl. Tenor, orch. acc.
Walter Van Brunt
23402—Which Switch is the Switch, Miss, for
Ipswich? Comic Song, orch. acc.
Billy Murray and Chorus
23403—The Wee Little House That You Live
In. Baritone, orch. acc. Glen Ellison
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD. (Wholesale Only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents*; RESCHS, UNITED, Redfern, Sydney.
This is war-time ! Minutes are
precious. Be up and' doing.
Waste no time. Shave your-
self. Do it quickest and
safest with the f
NO STROPPING NO HONING
BRITISH MADE.
Sold everywhere. Write for free booklet.
Agents: S. Hoffnung & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street,
Sydney. Gillette Safety Razor, Ltd., London, Eng.
KNOWN T«P
OVER
m
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
m
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites. ‘
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
Price II- per Bottle. Of all Grocers and Chemists.,
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scruhb & Co. on each Bottle.
m
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The A.J.C. had been looking for a drop of
20 per cent, in the gate during the racing season
1915-’l6, but backed a winner instead. The turn-
stiles took £83,970, an increase of £2947. But
the Club reckons the antarctic disturbance is going'
to come right enougn, and is talking about a further,
slice at the prize money. Another £lO,OOO handed
to the patriotic funds brings the A.J.C. donations to
£37,000.
***.*.
Sydney betting market was reported to
have been greatly “excited” the other day, but the
fact that backing horses anywhere than on a regis-
tered racecourse is wholly illegal was not one of
the reasons for the excitement. It was, in fact,
created by someone rushing in to support Costello
for the Epsom Handicap on terms which give Israel
a . chance of losing £20,000. The circumstance
caused Costello to shove Woorak out of the limelight,
but when everyone had recovered breath the white-
faced flier climbed back again. Whereupon the Law
took such a serious view of the proceedings that it
at once sooled a regiment of J. Hops on to an
oljscuve two-up school and closed on 50 individuals
for playing a fair gamel
* * * »
MacShortodds came into his own again
on Saturday and helped himself with both hands.
In 18 races at Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane only
three favorites shifted themselves quickly enough to
arrive where they were wanted at the critical
moment. Quotations on some of the winners: 50 to
1, 25 to 1, 20 to 1, 16 to 1, 15 to 1, and most of
the others from 7’s to 12’s. All of which means
that Ike was not reclaiming much of his stationery.
At Rosehill (Sydney) the public was gladly laying
6 to 4 on the imported nag Gadabout in a field of
10 for the mile and a quarter event. When Gad-
about failed to materialise the thud was the most
cheerful thing heard in Israel for several weeks. But
Ike had a narrow squeak at Rosehill all the same.
Randwick trainer Harry Robinson went close to
delivering a mighty punch. When Robinson’s stable
clears for action there is generally something doing.
Two of his nags won, another was beaten by a head,
and a fourth was a close third. This last was Ned
Moss’s Merrimee. Moss is also part-owner of Two
Blues, winner of the Parramatta Mile from a good
field, including the imported Clydeside. This Two
Blues >is a useful animal. He won his first metro-
politan race at Warwick Farm just before last New-
market Handicap meeting and was hurried off to
Caulfield to win again. Saturday's effort was his
first flight since that occasion, and the public shared
in the gladness.
The Malster gelding, Hopfield, one of the in-
habitants of Robinson's stable, got away with the
Autumn Handicap at Rosehill on Saturday in good
style. There was 9st. 91b. on board. Jimmy Pike
had the mount, and kicking his way to the front half
a furlong from home reached the post three-quarters
of a length ahead of “Baron” Brown's disappoint-
ment, Wallace Isinglass. Hopfield has been a valu-
able horse —better than the people behind him thought
he was. During the last few months he has won
three races. One was at Moorcfield when 25 to 1 was
on offer. After that he won at Randwick, when 20
to 1 was available. On neither occasion did the
stable invest a bean, and was much annoyed at
having been so forgetful. On Saturday it was
different. Long strings of bets were booked on Hop-
field, and he started on the mile journey with 2 to 1
the best price offered against him.
When John Brown, Newcastle coal-mine owner,
bred Wallace Isinglass he did it on scientific lines,
and patting himself on the back, exclaimed: “Here,
surely, is a Derby winner.” The animal looked like
one, and became a ridiculously short-priced winter
favorite for last A.J.C. Derby. But Cetigne was too
good for him. and how Patrobas beat both of the
Sydney youngsters in the V.R.C. Derby is history*.
Brown’s horse was served up a close second favorite
for the Auburn Mile, at Rosehill, on Saturday. After
swallowing the dust of the other seven runners
for seven furlongs he suddenly stretched out to
begin a paralysing run which brought him .close up
to the winner by the time the judge was reached.
That this nag may make up for previous downfalls
is apparently believed bv somebody, for he has been
coupled with William the Silent in the Epsom and
Metrop. double to win a fairly big pot. Bill being
the first leg.
* * * *
Orcus, full brother to famous Poseidon,
was the highest-priced yearling ever purchased in
Australia. Hugh Denison, who owned Poseidon,
bought the colt and never won a race with him.
This is introductory to the announcement that Gal-
lipoli, for whom G. S. Yuill parted with 1600
guineas as a yearling, secured his first stake by
winning a maiden handicap at Rosehill on Saturday.
Gallipoli’s chance was reckoned to be worth about
tuppence. A stable mate, Galerius, was favorite.
This horse had badly beaten Gallipoli a week earlier,
but on Saturday could get no nearer than seventh.
Gallipoli is a leggy animal, and the reason Yuill
paid so much for him was that his dam brought
Diabolo and Bobadea into the world. They were
good performers. As Gallipoli finished as gamely as
the men who landed there, he is suspected of an in-
tention to start wiping off the deficit attached to
his feed bill. Mehi King finished a head behind
Gallipoli. He will be further forward shortly.
*** . *
The Morphettville racecourse at Adelaide
is having heavy weather. For nearly a year the
military had it as a camp, forcing the S.A. Jockey
Club to hold its meetings on the Adelaide R.C.’s
t ‘nek and since the soldiers left the river Sturt has
looked in seven or eight times in as many weeks to
wash-up after them. The caretaker mostly
has «,o perch on a grandstand or a tree to avoid
being washed away, and training for the Sprihg
racing ha» to be clone elsewhere. ■
* * * ■ *
The Port Adelaide Racing Club gave much
of its annual meeting to advocating the new idea
of having racing in S.A. controlled bv a joint
Board instead of by the self-appointed Jockey Club,
which, chairman Dr. Benson declared, had just about
as much right to rule as the N.S W. "Government
has to govern South Aus. Naturally, the S.A.J.C.
desires no change, and, as the Adelaide R.C. and
Tattersall’s have loyally declined even to meet and
discuss the matter, there is nothing doing, unless the
State Government takes a hand, which Benson does
not wish. The only clubs, in fact, that have “made
a stand in the matter are the two progressive clubs
of S.A., Port Adelaide and Oswler." On a point
of detail, the Port is sore became it cannot get the
State’s Foundation Dav (December 23) allotted to
it as a race-day. Also it consider’, that the three
stipendiary stewards (one at £6OO and two at
£400), for whom it helps to pay, are unnecessary.
One at £750, to work iu with the honorary stew-
ards of the various clubs, would fill the bill, says
Dr. Benson.
* * * *
Jockey N. I). Godby, now getting well on
towards the old arm-chair, lifted half a ton or so to
victory the other day. The joyful event happened
at the Melbourne Exhibition Oval, during a carnival
in aid of the Russian war-collection, and Godby
carried the weight more or less between his knees.
It consisted of one hefty draught-horse, with which
Norman pulled off the final of the “Grand Russian
Cup.” The field was so large, cubically, that in
order to provide galloping-room the race was run
in three divisions. In the deciding earthquake Godby
won in an amble.
* * * *
“Eryander”: St. Simon blood figured
notably in the Australian H5-’l6 racing season.
Close on £240,000 was turned-in between the direct
descendants of that great horse and the progeny
of Persimmon (Comedy King, Ponander, Tressady
and the rest) and of St. Frusquin (St. Amant, St.
Alwyne and Fortunatus). Over £30,000 went to
Bobadil and Mariter, sons of .the St. Simon Bill of
Portland. St. Simon's sire, Galopin, is also well
represented through his giber descendants. The
famous Musket strain figures well with over
£200,000, chiefly through Wallace, Carbinier, Pistol,
George Frederick and nearly a score of other Car-
bine horses.
* * *' *
“Splodger”: Just-dead Reggie Pell,
Westralian handicapper and good sport, so well
known at Silverton, Broken Hill and Coolgardie in
their roaring days, had a sweet humor. Big John de
Baun had just completed his new pub on the gold-
fields. It was the last word in hotels at that period
—a big barn of eor.rugated-iron, caited from Southern
Cross at £3O to £4O a ton. The now billiard
saloon was rushed, and the games booked weeks
ahead. There was on the field a flash Yank who
knocked about with revolvers in his belt. It was
his table next, and Reg was to be his opponent.
Just before their predecessors finished Reggie sang
out, “I'll be ready in a minute,” and disappeared.
When he returned Reg’s belt bristled with revol-
vers and sheath-knives. Laying a big shooter on
the edge of the table he said: “Now I'm prepared
for the worst,” and proceeded to chalk his cue.
He was a very fine specimen of a man, and with his
broad hat, loose shirt ard belt full of ironmongery
looked as beautiful a brigand as any stage ever saw.
* * * *
“Hussar”: Stanley Wootton’s Military
Cross must go to the credit of Silk and Pigskin,
Ltd. Stanley gallops at the head of a profession
that has a longer tail than most; but it is a good
place to develop nerve. In S’Africa I had the luck
to command a squadron made up mostly of dis-
qualified jockeys. They were no saints; but when
the Boer bullets were flicking the dust their sneed
and dash were more comforting to the man in
charge than a library of Sunday-school virtues. Any
lad who has steered a racing machine through a
thundering field has learnt a lot of the stuff that
makes the good mounted soldier.
AT FLEAINGTON.
“Pick” : Have som; distance races. At
Cobargo (N.S.W.) a seven miles’ flutter for a purse
of 28 sovs. was, in 1871, run by four locally-owned
horses over the hilly country that encircles the town.
An old stoelc-horse named Moses, owned and navi-
gated by Ike Jessop, won in 22min. In 1882, at
Bombala, a dispute bet ween Police Magistrate Giles
and Cooke, of the Lands Department, led to a match
in light harness from f'oema to Bombala (56 miles).
The P.M.’s prad led rill he dropped dead at Bibben-
luke, eight miles from the winning post. In 1885
squatter Williams, gel ting wind that a hard-up man
named Thompson, frem across the Snowy River, had
a notion of applying for a section of the unselected
sheepruns in Bayli s Glen, set off at midnight
before Land Board day, to got in first. As he emerged
upon the highway lie encountered another benighted
horseman. It was Thompson. Then commenced a
mad race for Cooir. i, 58 miles away. But the squat-
ter’s thoroughbred was too good for the laborer’s
brumby, and Will’ ms secured the land while Thomp-
son was still spurring forward on the plain beyond.
* * * *
The welter championship was at stake
when Tommy ri- u and Fritz Holland commenced to
assault each ot: r at Sydney Stadium on Saturday.
Last time they met Fritz emerged triumphant with
Thomas's scalp. This time he emerged with a sore
face and his own sea In missing. It was a dreary
business. At his proper weight Holland is a very
fine boxer, but reduction to the welter limit is fair
neither to himself nor to the public. No man can
go on fightn g continuously as Holland has been
doing this last counle of years and denuding him-
self of tissue without seriously undermining his
physique. He should take a bull. Uren fought
vigorously enough all through. His next unpleasant-
ness will be with Jack Cole.
*** - *
Were Buck Crouse more of a craftsman
than an ordinary hewer of wood he would have
presented Mick King with oblivion instead of just
chipping pieces off him for 20 rounds at Melbourne
on Saturday. Michael was heavy in ballast and
evinced none of his usual restlessness. For four dr
five rounds his left was under the Yank’s nose.
After that his own nose was in the wrong place;
so was the pit of his stomach, where Crouse planted
most of what made Michael very sick of the business.
Instead of hooting tne verdict after its habit the
crowd hustled off to collect on Crouse, who started
at 6 to 4 on,
* * * *
Les Darcy and Dave Smith battled before
5000 spectators at Brisbane last week, and in the
estimation ot the Sydney books Dave had a 5 to 1
chance of putting the champion out of action. As
t matter of fact he had no chance at all, and no more
looked like a winner than he resembled a parson.
Darcy hurt him quite a lot for 11 rounds. Then
the towel appeared and after “Snowy” Baker, who
refereed, had tossed the drapery aside and inspected
Smith in his corner the disturbance Was not resumed.
* * * *
Though Darcy delivered the bombardment
with the gentleness of a curate gathering daifodils,
Smith’s face was so contused by the proceedings at
Brisbane that the scrap arranged with Art Magirl
(imp.) for this week-end at Sydney had to be
pushed forward. As Mag'irl had for weeks been
straining at the leash for something to bash at, Ire
welcomed the adjournment witli 15 uppercuts and
prayers for the healing of David. A pug robbed of
his fig.it these days is infinitely more pathetic than
one with a battered mug.
* * * *
Two dazzling boxers came together when
Jimmy Hill and Frank Thorne battled for the
featherweight championship at Brisbane on Satur-
day. 'ihey hit one another from every conceivable
angle in every conceivable direction for 20 rounds,
and at the end of the exhibition the old-timer saw
the award go to the elusive James. Asa point-
scoring boxer Hill is bewildering.
* * * *
As humorous an exhibition of bash as the
public ever paid to look upon was provided at
Hobart the other night, when Victorian Bill Walsh
joined Court Oakes in a three-act farce, alleged to
carry with it the championship of the Speck, though
the present holder, Jack Darcy, had not been con-
sulted about the matter. Walsh, after a minute or
two of shadow-sparring, started playing desperately
for time. Whenever a loving clinch was broken by
the referee he sat down while the harassed official
howled himself hoarse. At the end of the third
spasm Bill was reclining untidily in his corner, and
on the sound of the gong promptly skied the towel.
The weary spectators welcomed the drapery with
prolonged and enthusiastic boos.
* * * *
“The Nomad”: The rumpus among the
amateur boxing fiends in Bananaland looks as if it
were going to peg out. The patriotic tournament
promoted by the insurrectionists was such a success
that the other crowd felt as if the earth had opened
and swallowed their platform. In three nights
£375 worth of gore-hungry humanity crowded itself
into the Brisbane Stadium, the result being £3OO
for the Wounded Soldiers’ Fund. This is by far the
greatest profit obtained by an amateur tournament
in Brisbane, and has caused several cheers to be
given for Sunderland, the strike leader. There is
now every* likelihood of the “constitutional” push
going to bed with their boots on and dying without
telling anyone they feel ill. Meantime they are
endeavoring to fix up a coalition.
* * * *
It was a false alarm about Darcy. He
is not vet 21, and his mother ' won’t let him. So the
recruiting-sergeant won’t have a chance to congratu-
late him until October. Meantime, what about
bringing into force some law or other which prohibits
infants (like Lessie) being exhibited for purposes of
gain ?
* * * *
Sam Baxter, of Shoreditch (Eng.), dead
at 52, was known in his prime as “the Stock
Exchange Pet.” He had a most effective right,
which helped him to win many a fight; but when
the late Joe Thompson sent him to Australia in
1889 expecting him to clear the local ring, he ran
up against Jim Burg[e (“The Iron Man”). That
dented the Pet badly. Baxter blamed the heat or
the flies of Australia for his defeat, and on his
return to England he won several battles. But, as
usual, he spent as fast as he made, and in his old
age was a hanger-on of the game—a pew-opener or
something of the sort.
“Sardonyx”: Curiously erroneous are the
prevailing notions about the value of muscular
development in the boxer. A big biceps, for in-
stance, so far from conducing- to hard-hitting, is a
positive disadvantage, inasmuch as, being an over-
grown flexor, it hampers the action of the corres-
ponding extensor on the back arm—the triceps—to
which is principally due whatever blow-force comes
from the arm alone. But the chief factors in
weight of impact are the swing of the body from the
waist, and the sudden extension of the muscles of the
rear leg. Best equipped, in any case, is the boxer
who, with a generally fair muscular condition, shows
nowhere any phenomenal development. Ridges and
knots and hillocks may mean strength, but they mean
also slowness. And “slow boxer is no boxer.”
* * * »
Three well-known sports were the Denver
brothers, and they were into it when the big struggle
started. Oliver, aged 28, was in Canada and hopped
away with the 10th Western Infantry. At Ypres
the Huns collected what hadn’t been chipped off
him, but he died at Frankfort. Brother ’led, ser-
geant, kissed six little Bananalanders good-bye and
after doing his bit is reported missing. Billy, of
Sydney, the youngest of the three, landed with the
Anzacs to call on Abdul and at the conclusion of
some busy weeks was returned wounded. “The
worst of being wounded,” he says, “is that y’ have
to get out of the scrum and go on to the bank.”
* * * *
Captain St. Claire Cheape, of the King’s
Dragoon Guards, has been killed in France. He was
regarded as the best polo player living and was
chiefly responsible for the victory of the British
Team which defeated U.S.A.’s pick in New York
just before hostilities started. The Yanks thought
so highly of Cheape’s skill and dash that they offered
to “star” him in a movie drama. No Yank could
pay a man a higher compliment.
* * * *
Killed at Pozieres. David Barclay, for-
merly vice-commodore of the Tasmanian Yacht Club,
who sailed some good races in the Pandora. He
was a son of the managing director of the Com-
mercial Bank of Tasmania.
* * * *
A. A. Connor, of Geelong (Vic.), wlio
recently passed out in France, a strenuous
sport. His chief amusement was running in five-
and 10-mile cross-country championships, with an
occasional Marathon thrown in; and he was always
close to the head of the procession. He used to do
his training somewhere towards midnight, and the
rest of his time, when he wasn’t working in the
timber business, he ran a gymnastic class, went to
night school and filled, in turn, four or five differ-
ent offices in the Presbyterian Guild.
R. Fairweather, killed somewhere in
France, was one of the smartest of the Ma State’s
Soccer players. He played left-half for Granville,
and did more than one man’s share towards helping’
the Magpies gather in the State premiership.
* * * *
Kenny Watt, the googly bowler who
headed the averages for S. Tas. this year, would
probably have been dragged into an Australian
Eleven had cricket not been swamped. Watt first
came under notice in 1911, when at the age of 18
he hit up 79 not out against Vic. And since Hordern
retired there is probably no better googly bowler
in Australia. On a hard wicket, where most break
bowlers can turn the ball a couple of inches or so,
Watt goes a foot either way, and unlike most
bowlers of his type, who find a length only about
once a month, he is consistently on the job. Last
season’s figures: 3 for 25, 3 for 35, 4 for 78, 5 for
75, 8 for 63, 6 for 51, 5 for 31, 8 for 43, 6 for 49,
2 for 11 and 5 for 114. In 1914, in the final for
the premiership, he gave his club a sensational vic-
tory, after defeat had looked absolutely certain, by
taking five wickets with five successive balls. But
Watt’s greatest all-round performance came last
season, when he hit up 210 not out and did the
hat trick in the same match.
* * * *
Killed in action —Jim Landberg, infantry-
man, who in the days of the cycle-racing boom
was known all over Australia. In 1906 he appro-
priated the A.N.A. Five Hundred, mainly because
he was a good solid plugger. James hailed from
Gamperdown (Vic.), and in 42 years had as much
fun as most men.
The Vic. Motor-cycle Club will not, after
all, rob Jack Booth of his motor-cycle records.
Although there was a possibility of the figures being
disregarded the Club pushed the technical objections
aside, and certificates have been issued in confirmation
of John’s furious whirls —half-mile, 18 4-ssec; one
mile, 37 3-ssec.; five miles, 3min. 25sec; 10 miles,
7min. 48sec. Now for the next.
* * * *
Sydney Grammar School made no mistake
about winning the Great Public Schools’ Rugby
premiership this season. A draw with St. Joseph’s
was the only halt in the school’s victorious march.
In the last two matches Church of England Grammar
was overwhelmed by 44 to nil, and King's by 26—0.
During the season the premiers piled up 121 points
to 3 —the latter representing the solitary occasion on
which the winner’s line was crossed. With the pre-
miership goes the right to a line on the Union
Shield, established in memory of good old Jim
Macmanamy.
* * * if
For the first time since it joined the Vic.
Football League Richmond got into the “final four,”
though, as only four teams were competing, there was
a certain obviosity about the achievement. Still
Richmond put up such a scuffle in Saturday’s match
against Carlton that, had they only kicked reason-
ably straight, they might have got ahead of the
leaders. As it was, Carlton finished up only three
points to the good—7s to 72. A few more specta-
tors than the week before watched the play and con-
tributed £225, less.. exes., to various funds, a sur-
prising thing, being the almost complete absence of
women. They were probably making socks and other
garments for the boys who played two years ago,
many of whom, alas, will play this game no more.
* * *
The footballers are not begging anybody’s
pardon in Maoriland. At Wellington the other day
an unmarried man of military age had the temerity to
take part in a game of Rugby. As such a breach of
the real game was against the rules of the Rugby
Union the committee promptly demanded “an expla-
nation as to why the man was allowed to play.”
That’s talking business.
* * * *
“B.B.”: Came across this explanation in
an ancient and pious book recently. A Roman
merchant who sold himself to the Devil was ordered
by that old friend of mine to make a six-sided cube
and to mark each side successively—one point on one
face to insult the Almighty, two points on the second
to insult the Almighty and the Blessed Virgin,
three points the Trinity, four the Evangelists, five
the Five Wounds and six the six days of Creation.
Since then the invention of Old Henry has been
indefatigable in the game of man’s ruin. It’s a
picturesque if iniquitous yarn.
*• * * *
A fisherman at Bondi (Sydney) the other
day, out for “jewies” and the like, made a haul.
It consisted of one (1) porpoise, one (1) small
shark, one (1) porcupine fish, the sweepings of a
trawler, one (1) big albatross, one (1) King Charles
spaniel with collar but no name on it, and sundries.
The lot was wrapped up in an lift, tiger-shark,
which was landed on the line after over an hour’s
work—-as good a bit of fishing as Sydney-roeks
anglers have talked about for many a day.
Of the ex-“tanks” who have been through
the State Inebriate Retreat at Lara (Vic.),
94 have enlisted, or over 12 per cent, of the
755 patients who have been at the place
from its opening in 1907 till the end of 1915.


■
;
■
I I
WHY DON’T YOU HAVE
PERFECT HEALTH ?
Nature intended you to be strong-, healthy and vigorous.
If you neglect to exercise both your seen and unseen muscles—if
you fail to strengthen your lungs, digestive organs, etc.,
you must expect to pay the penalty, and have indifferent
health. It cannot be otherwise.
But if you wish to enjoy perfect health—to become fit,
strong and well developed, as nature intended you to be,
then you- must have correct and sufficient , exercise.
My Postal Course of Health
and Strength Culture
will be the means of giving you renewed health and
Yo » fl ,» d .J?y exercises both beneficial and
enjoyable pastime, and will look forward to the time when
>n? u k? ve to do them. You will find the benefits very rapid
Ihe deep-breathing exercises included in mv Course wili
build up your chest, broaden your shoulders, strengthen vour
lungs, and make you breathe in a natural way.
The exercises you receive will be those most suited* to your
individual physique—just as the particulars you furnish
tell me you require. •
My booklet, entitled “Health and Strength from. Self-Culture,”
tells all about my methods, fees. etc. I should like to send
you a copy. Just write your name and address across this
advertisement and post it to me. I will know what you
mean. Send three penny stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
528 Belmont Buildings.
SYDNEY.
A
■
bhmSßm
My Club Royal
“Cabinets.”
These cigars were selected, on account of
their very high quality, for the largest
banquet ever held in Australia —tendered to
the Prime Minister, Mr. W. M. Hughes, on
August 22, as a welcome home after his
memorable trip to England.
They are made from the finest Havana Leaf,
and are fine flavored and mild. Their aroma
is most delicious.
I should like YOU' to try them. Why not
send to-day for a sample packet ?
IN HANDSOME CEDAR CABINETS OF 50,
20/-
Postage on 50: N.S.W., 9d. Inter-State, 1/2.
Sample packet of 5, post free, 2/6.
Write for my illustrated Catalog. It will
interest all smokers.
A. M. SOLOMON,
CIGAR EXPERT,
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
STRAIGHT
FROM THE
WELL
is
NATURE’S
BEST.
Gifts for
Friends in Camp.
We have made a special feature of gifts for
our_ soldier boys, and at present "hold an
unrivalled stock from which to seledt some
practical but pleasant memento for vour
soldier friend before he goes off to the Front.
Note these values:—
Soldiers’ Money Belts, with
pockets, from 3/6
Soldiers’ Wristlet Watches from
12/6
Wristlet Watches, with luminous
dials, special value .... 22/6
Knife, Pork and Spoon, in leather
case 4/.
Soldier’s Metal Shaving Mirror, in
leather case, pocket size 2/6
Tobacco Pouches from ... 1/6
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 QEORCiE STREET, SYDNEY.,
Established over 30 Years.
71
s 1
' /
u
Jffs as Sasy to
Jour as to Jean
the Map if you
drive an
<ofidim
Catalogs with Pleasure.
MELBOURNE : Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. Pty. Ltd.,
109-113 Russell Street.
SYDNEY : Milledge Bros. Ltd.
156 Castlereagh Street.
BRISBANE : Canada Cycle & Motor Agency Ltd..
Adelaide and Creek Streets,
ADELAIDE :
Eyes & Crowle Ltd.,
75-79 Pirle Street.
LAUNCESTON :
John King & Sons Ltd.,
Charles Street.
PERTH :
Armstrong Cycle and
Motor Agency, Hay St.
NO-LVd
7732
mmmd.
issf^
B
British-Made
Crushing,
Grinding,
Mining and
Cement
Machinery,
Bail Mills,
Tube Mills,
etc.
Write for Particulars and Quotations.
NOYES BROS.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., 499 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
THE RIGNEY REPUTATION
for leadership in high-grade footwear for
men, in regard to quality, appearance and
originality of design, is fully sustained in
every pair of Rigney Shoes.
We illustrate a choice, All-Patent Enamel
Kid Bah The design, material and work-
manship are alike “perfect.” Also in Derby.
The famous Paris Last. Patents or Tans.
Price - 37/6
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
m
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men's Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,"
317 George Street arid. 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE
RELIABILITY
DUNLOP TYRES
“R e \' abU :L e a \i»av»
* .V\a v ~ •.«■ owt*
“ D« n V? p o S n Y\e\d \ ®i s and
v,e ' l h \s on'V ?u -gtteng.*
isi
W "“rv*
css,.
9* of * 1
° ut Its ’
contest points
scored strenuous ,
in * d
a\\ W f .... i
run use _ _ taade
AuS tta\»n
This j s * y*
are r un w here
s*ss*
3re
%,}.?<«■• %?lo„
Rrr—-^5 e fa
w' op:
#A
on
-5
*?. fes£ "» *«*
TAi
and 9 ° a/fl
** issue J ° every *°»*
D OM L Qp and , ila ; c °vei
’°Pu/araL Ty REs
nf ,Ss Ue
? , ° n Sst M n f re Si
_ f ° day. Mof ori st;
«" a d,,,, uv «
t yreV s * h
M n t r f. *
w to-day. '" Jl °fisti
B **t.\ C“ *««* tA e
“<>,4
°«40 Ss
)II NIo p *
- Al '““^nZi Co -
“Adelaide”: Talking about Australia mak-
ing its own cups and saucers (B. 6/7/TO),
what is it that is needed, precisely? About
10 years ago Kangaroo Island (S.A.) pro-
duced samples of white clay, which various
alleged experts hailed as equal to anything
used in English potteries. An enthusiastic
co. was formed in Adelaide, mostly by solid
business-men.- The subsequent proceedings
went in this form. (1) “Everything is
lovely.” (2) Calls. (3) “We shall have to
wait a bit.” (4) Calls. (5) “There doesn’t
seem to be much demand for china-clay; but
our firebricks are unbeatable, and this side-
line will pull us through.” (6) More calls.
(7) Liquidation. ■- And meanwhile and ever
since an average of half a million’s worth
of china and earthenware came in everv year
on a 20 and 25 p.c. tariff.


‘CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
; f / it?#?* /4oSr
* j
xn
■;' •.••'
it#
v \
rs
4E£ S
VN
V / X
">>
''lp*'
&
f *T \v
&
V^J5#S%
%n
to
<r
$ . t
V
SSi
y’.««.*
<|
Stw&iS
«*»_ kl zp, m'Mjftr? H .
1
*
* Vu i.jl
i i ;
V -
'X
JSg
i
' "J 1
3%
<g?ja ;. P
1&5
sy
ZZKPZW'/AA y
m
F*s
: v 1
jgW
t
\
Q
V:
f^ 7
J.-& :
••/ ..V’ , .':'' S V'' l
:' •'■ V././ --• •;' -'
; : ;-'
s' „y ../
n .
_./ .Xs' <•*' r 1 ..»*'
?VC>V y '■■'*..
-' 'ffi -'m. .t' s X
H
- :
X
/
V ,
si
y...
f/ ///A\
l
{>\
/£
■
wCo'
V ' : V t..
SS
/
s ■
;-?j>
%Sk
wi
m
H
'/A/
• .. .. •
Me |
SKraE
■
1
iff
P's
fii
i
S'
u : <
mi
. .
/ ,
/ / / /' < j/t
////A/.
V ///,■£*
Pp
J-v
y
Stef* 8
y./5
,r->
.s-y;#y
.y
■Kk
[s%f!
W.f
y
KJ
y ',r ~• >?.*. y.r <; <»•
••■* / c . //r A'SJ
■// ■/f.&y&ss ■ j
1 y. v: r £*£'£"•# y' u s*-rt* t
-* 1 j'
y
fevt
K^r,
#<
>fl#r
.&M
m
**'•/£(
uftfr/
Evy
»
/
X'
*«4
as
"S
y'A
y ,- v y'
Sr,-#
tety
Sr
V.; •
/S?
f
s
>mmi
/
■M
Lr
■ I
i>*k*
m
i
;
m
??5l
n
m
m:
SSffi
X
y
Za
/.s
* J *
y./
X./
14
w
y
I » C>:
M
»
lifef
Ws¥(/A
€6
Cobra,” Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Fop,
Works a brisk
Machine-gun too;
Down the guarded
Roads they tear,
j 7
With the calm
And steady Bear
Shooting horsemen
From his car.
‘ ‘ Bang-bang-bang! ”
No jolt or jar
E’er disturbs his
Deadly aim.
Maxim plays the
“COBRA” game.


DISTINCTIVE!
Extrtpligkt in weight, and
modelled oil the dignified English
lines, it has style and charactet
quite its Own:
Ail Patent Leathei’ .: :; 82/6
Tan WillOjv Calf ... . : 80/-
WE PAY POSTAGE.
Pbr Distinctive Pootibear,
135 King Street, SYDNEY.
XA
V V ■
□ r B. Allen’s
S: tPF.R
PACKET
e
Rheumatism
SCIATICA, GOUT, LUMBAGO, etc.
In the majority of cases of Rheumatism,
Gout, Sciatica and similar complaints the
excruciating pain is caused by sharp-pointed
crystals of Uric Acid penetrating- the delicate
and highly-sensitive nerves of the body. To
effect a cure this excess of Uric Acid must be
removed, and no treatment that does not aim
at this result will effect a cure.
Dr. Parker’s Great Indian
Rheumatic Remedy
goes to the root of the trouble, and by remov-
ing- the cause quickly affords relief and
eventually effects a permanent cure. Read
the following testimonial: —•
SEVERE CASE OF RHEUMATISM CURED.
Merino, Vie. — -I suffered terrible pain
across the groin, around the loins and hips,
right down to the ankle. I could not sit up
or lie with any comfort. After taking a few
doses of your medicine I could get about. J
am most thankful to you for the benefit. 1
have received from your wonderful medicine.
Hoping that others will go to you for relief
and kindness. —Your gratefully,
DONALD CAMPBELL.
FREE
Write to-day for FREE
SAMPLE and valuable
Book (postage 3d.) to
F. PARKER,
111 Daking House, Rawson Place, Sydney.
Motorists’ Supplies
Your troubles will be lighter if you refer the
little arguments you have with your car to
us. We have every up-to-date accessory and
fitment, and are able to give you prompt and
efficient service in everything you need; from
the Petrol Tank to the Exhaust; from the
Hood Top to the Tyre. When in any diffi-
culty with your car, or needing accessories
of any kind,” write to us—you’ll be delighted
at the promptitude of our reply and the
efficient service we will render. Rely upon
us giving you a square deal at all times.
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty. Ltd.
334-336 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
FIFvT 15-20 H,R
\
m
"N
UNEQUALLED FOR ANY SERVICE^
models 7 de E lJxe, Price Complete, £750
GARRATTS, LTD.,
ALIOK Me NEIL, General Manager.
173-175 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
148-150 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
How to Treat Your Hair and Complexion
A Few Simple Beauty Hints.
By Mdlle. QABY DESLYS, the well-known Parisian Actress.
YOU ask me for a few hints on the
treatment of the hair and complexion.
Well, the less “treatment” you give
thing is a good shampoo. Never use any-
thing inferior to wash the hair with. Get
some good stallax from your chemist and use
the skin the bet Lei'. 1 do not
believe much in massage, blit a
little cream to the face is neces-
sary to counteract the effects of
wind or sun. What cream
would I recommend? Well, I
advise you to use a little mer-
colised wax every night and
again in the morning, after
washing the face. Rub _it
gently into the skin, then wipe
off any superfluous wax and
dust a little barri-agar over
the face. You will find that
this will be the only "treat-
ment” necessary and will keep
your face fresh and youthful-
Photo: Wrather & Buys.
a teaspoonful in a cup of hot
water. Then rinse the hair
well and it will look bright and
glossy.
A tonic is necessary when the
hair is inclined to fall out more
than it should, and is always
good to use during the spring
and autumn. Then the hair
needs a little —what do you call
it? —stimulant, and for this 1
would advise you to get a packet
of boranium and mix it with
some bay rum ; dab this into the
roots and it will not only stop
ihe fall, but make your hair
grow long and thick. Give your
looking for all your life. The mereolised
wax removes all the dead outer skin, so
that you have always a fair, fresh eom-
p!exion like a girl’s.
For the hair, the first and most important
hair a good brushing every night, and that
will be all that you need do.
WA
Blackheads Fly Awa3'.
Instantaneous Remedy for Blackheads, Greasy Skin and Enlarged Pores.
A practically instantaneous remedy for
blackheads, greasy skins and enlarged pores,
recently discovered, is now coming into
general use in the boudoir. It is very
simple, harmless and pleasant. Drop a
stymol tablet, obtained at the chemist’s, in
a tumblerful of hot water. After the effer-
vescence has subsided bathe the face in the
liquid, using a small sponge or soft cloth.
lii a few minutes dry the face and the offen-
sive blackheads will come right off on the
towel. Also the large oily pores immedi-
ately close up and efface themselves natu-
rally. The greasiness disappears and the
skin is left smooth, soft and cool. This
simple treatment is then repeated a few
times at intervals of four or five days, to
ensure the permanence of the result.
Grey Hair—Home Remedy.
An old-fashioned Recipe restates Youthful Appearance.
There are plenty of reasons why grey
hair is not desirable, and plenty of reasons
why hair dyes should not be used. But, on
the other hand, there is no reason why you
should have grey hair if you do not want
it. To turn the hair back to a natural color
is really a very simple matter. One has
only to get from the chemist two ounces of
concentrate of tammalite and mix it Tjptli
three ounces of bay rum. Apply to the
hair with a small sponge for a few nights
and the greyness will gradually disappear.
This liquid is not sticky or greasy and does
not injure the hair in any way. It lias been
used for generations with most satisfactory
results by those who have known the
formula.
To Kill Roots of Superfluous Hair.
The most Effective Formula ever Discovered.
Women annoyed with disfiguring growths
of superfluous hair wish to know not merely
how to temporarily remove the hair, but how
to kill the hair roots permanently. For
this purpose pure powdered pheminol may be
applied directly to the objectionable hair
growth. The recommended treatment is
designed not only to instantly remove the
hair but also to actually kill the roots so that
the growth will not return. About an ounce
of pkeminol, obtainable from the chemist,
should be sufficient.
Good News for Fat People.
Something New in Obesity Cures.
A London chemist says: “The latest
method of reducing obesity certainly is far
more pleasant and convenient than all pre-
vious methods. It consists merely in eating
clynol berries. The fat person who wants
to reduce without the usual rigid diet, exer-
cise, sweating baths, etc., now puts a few
of these little brown berries in his or her
pocket and eats three or four each day.
Clynol berries not only eliminate fat from
the body, but also correct the tendenej.
which is usually constitutional, to create
fatty matter. No discomfort whatever is
caused by their action; in fact, except for
the loss of superfluous fat and the feeling
of ‘‘fitness” so created, you would not be
aware that these little berries were doing
their work.
Local inquiry shows that clynol berries are
not very well known in this country, but
the demand is increasing daily, and any
chemist can quickly procure them if specially
requested to do so.
EIGHT
-HOUR ART UNION AND
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
SPORTS.
m
ou
MIGHT WIN THIS
3.650
FIRST PRIZE DIAMOND TIARA
2nd prize value £303, 3rd prize value £lBO,
and 397 other valuable prizes
Prizes Value £3,500
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. Barnett, Sydney,
N.S.W., for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLIIm.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1916.
Results of Drawing will be advertised m this paper on November 9.
To anv person forwarding stamped, addressed envelope a list of the
results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all towns, o
direct from JOHN \V. 'DOYLE, Secretaiy, Trades Hall, Sidney.
m
m
m
'the New York Globe says Americans
(“too proud to fight”) are specially inter-
ested in the Anfcacs, because “the Australians
are so like Americans.” Well, perhaps they
had . better ask Johnny Turk his opinion.
Killed in the Falkland fight, John Esmond
a son of that good-looking Thomas Grattan
Esmond who came to Australia in 1889
With Deasy and John Dillon hunting money
for the Irish National cause. The young-
ster, who, like his father, drove a good pen,
Was a descendant of famous Henry Grattan,
of the old Irish Parliament.
The speck is thinking of saving daylight,
as it can’t save milch else. A Bill is now
on hand to do this by putting back the clock
an hour on the last Sunday in October and
putting it forward again on the last Sunday
in March. Of course the thing could be
done by people getting up an hour earlier;
but it seems they won’t do that until they
have first pulled their own legs.
Hobart and Lahnceston are still snarling,
and the Northern League has decided to
have a secretary who Will get a whole £75
a year if the funds allow. The Hobart
people are now forming a league to keep
the capital where it is, and are busy turning
the tables on Launceston by trying to show
the North-West Coast towns that their real
enemy is Launceston and not Hobart, and
that they ought to battle to get the mails
in by way of Burnie. So Launceston, instead
of becoming the capital, may have to fight to
keep eVeii What it has got.
“Victoria Camp” resurrects a battered
hat:—•
The late Charlie MacDowali was iiot the first to
introduce the tall hat to Coolgardie (B. 27/7/’l6)<
I was one of a small syndicate that subscribed five
bob to bribe old Jack Woods, local bellman and
sheep tailer, to bash in No. 1 belltopper the first dav-
it was on view, This was in ’94, and, I think, before
MatDdwall ever saw Coolgal'die. The hat owner
had arrived the day before in a coach that had cap-
sized in the dark between tSullabuiling and Cool-
gardie. The Warden’s wife, who was also a passen-
ger, was in distress tryiig to recover her baby
from the wreckage, when Mr. Top Hat was reported
to have insisted on a search being first made for his
umbrella. We owed him one for this, and the bell-
topper parade was the glorious opportunity to pay.
Jack Woods torpedoed it during the afternoon
in Bayley-street outside John Lfe Baun's hotel in the
presence of many delighted spectators.
“O, Blin’*: Tommy Trenton, mentioned
by “Jbe Sunday” (B. 13/7./T6), died some
years ago. He wftS U feature of “Chummy”
Fleming’s meetings in the days when
“Chummy” and others kept the Sabbath
unholy on the south bank of the river.
Trenton was a rough and uneducated
ancient, but his appalling bulls and serio-
comic phraseology gave a sort of renown
to liis brief and frothy reign as an orator.
With all bis crudity, however, he was a
good-hearted old party. It was currently
reported that on his death he left to a long-
established tenant the two or three cottages
lie had acquired by relentless personal
economy during his lifetime.
“Kinso” : Apparently to get among ideally
civilised people one should go as far away
from civilisation as possible. At Lord Howe
Island the erection of a gaol was at. first
bitterly opposed, but after the materials bad
been returned once to N. S. Wales they were
put together in the recreation ground, where
the building has been used ever since as a
store for the accessories of sport. At Nor-
folk Island, still further out in the waste of
waters, there are no social distinctions.
People there mingle together, form friend-
ships or stand aloof, solely because of indi-
vidual tastes and distastes, and what a man
is counts, not what he has or does. No one
would dream in Norfolk Island of consider-
ing a doctor of higher social standing than,
say, a boat-builder or a fisherman, and their
relative popularity would depend simply on
their personalities. It is good to he able to
say that anyone who has been long on the
Island considers that the “social conditions”
observed in other places are unnecessary and
oppressive.
A Maorilander’s progress report from.
France: —
Nothing new in my trench except wet. weather,
water, mud, bullets, shells, rats, frogs, snipers,
spring flowers, swallows, bombs, mosquitoes, mice,
whiz-bangs, frankfurters, fleas, fear of death, shrap-
nel, biscuits, sandbags, splinters, more rats, marma-
lade, machine guns, stretchers, stew, funk, frightful-
ness, fun, gas, grenades, strafing, more rats, picks,
shovels, bayonets, noise, loss of sleep, slips, slides,
tin hats, louder noise, more mud, more rats, 'nother
loud noise. So long!
That’s what the official communiques mean
when they report that “it has been a day
without incident.”
Glebe (N.S.W.) Council has discovered a
new industry, and is at once taking steps to
interfere with Private Enterprise in the usual
Socialistic way. Two sanitary inspectors
the other day worked methodically down a
Glebe street visiting premises, and wherever
they found fowls were kept they condemned
the arrangements and ordered the tenants to
get rid of the poultry. A day or so later a
vociferous dealer drove slowly down the
street from door to door offering to buy
fowls; and the parties who had been ordered
to part with their Leghorns promptly made a
deal at pretty well any price offered. As
it turns out that the “inspectors” were bogus
there is reason to think that the dealer’s
visit was more than a coincidence; and now
a lot of sore-headed Glebe poultry-raisers are
bombarding the Council with demands that
the sanitary inspectors shall in future wear
the distinguishing rabbit-skin and dog-chain,
and not the Mayor, as hitherto.
We are not allowed to hear much about
our own sea-lions in these days, but now and
then we get a hint that they are nosing
round where there’s work to do. On April
. 7, by resolution, the Legislative Council of
St. Lucia (West Indies) mentioned one of
them:—•
This Council desires to place on record the in-
debtedness and thanks of' the colony to H.M.A.S.
Melbourne for her skilled salvage of the coastal
steamer Taft' from a had position ashore at the
Canaries at a period of the war when it. would have
been extremely difficult to replace her, and much
inconvenience in consequence would have been ex-
perienced.
For our part, we're glad to have been able to
oblige.


Beauty Pills
t M-li V
m
Good Health and Beauty
go Hand in Hand
Beauty is the outward sign of good health. Good
health is the bodily necessity for beauty.
Not only those who possess classical features are
beautiful Some women have possessed a feature,
mouth nose or eyes, that was not perfect, and
yet were considered beautiful. Why? Because
they were healthy looking, their skin was clear,
their eyes were bright and their brain was active.
Fishers
Beauty Pills
For the Liver
attain this result by removing impurities from the
blood, promoting the flow of bile, cleansing the
tongue, relieving constipation and headache.
For men who eat and drink too much, they are
unequalled. Always ask for Fishers Liver Pills.
All chemists and stores, 1/- per bottle
Homoeopathic and Dispensing Ohemists
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurist's of the
day. The Latest
Scientific Hearing- Instru-
ment- the Perfected New
1
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to .suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and -particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
MearsEar Phone Co. 1nc.,45 West 34th St. New York
CHRISTIE^
SPECIALISE
TWO
LINES
$
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE
/»N0
PATTERNS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
131
tm
fl
i
520 GEORGES T SYDNEY
ZC /WAITER NEWCASTLE
WESTERN MACHINERY
WHEELED SCOOPS and DRAG SCRAPERS,
PLOUGHS FOR CONTRACTORS,
WESTERN ROAD GRADERS,
ELEVATING GRADERS, RQCK CRUSHERS,
ROAD PLANER and FINISHER,
DUMP CARS, SCARIFIERS.
(Large Stocks Carried).
Catalogs and Full Information from
the Sole Agents.
E. D. MORRISON g CO. LTD.,
257 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Belle Vue Hotel
Reconstructed. BRISBANE.
Electric Lift. Perfect Sanitary Arrangements.
Incomparable Position. Easterly Aspect.
Overlooking Botanical Gardens.
MRS. A. FINNIGAN, Proprietress.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus
ying office in the World. HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDAEi.
is:— Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; lion. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman; Hon. R. J.
:k, M.L.C. ; Hon. Jas. Burns, M.L.C. ; Hon. F. E. Winchcombe. M.L.C.; Adrian lvnox, Lsq., iv.o.,
payi
Directors
Black
Samuel Hordern, Esq. ,
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. 11. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Accumulated Funds, £35,000,000. Annual Income, £4,770,000,
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1915 .. £848,528. Total Bonuses distributed ... . £20,670,00 .
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. Write for prospectus
and full information'without'delay. ‘ .
#^TC
THERE is something most satisfactory about
having on the right shoes for the occa-
sion in hand. One feels comfortable,
smart, confident. And for any and every,
occasion nothing could be more suitable or more
charming than patent leather, which always
looks well and goes so beautifully with every
colour and every fabric. Indeed, this little
shoe here illustrated will add no small share
of smartness and tone to one’s spring , suit or
summer gown. And it is only one style of
many equally desirable, equally charming. For
Bostock shoes, besides being the last word in
smartness, all have a certain individuality which
sets ■ them apart amongst ready-made shoes,
gives them the personal quality and the dis-
tinctive tone of shoes made specially to measure. (
Bostock No.
P 6377
I
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
Sold at all leading”; stores. T.'dok
the name “Bostock” on the sc
529
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
A BRILLIANT POLISH “
Be careful what polish you use on your Patent Leather Boots and Shoes.
BOSTOCR’S SHOE DRESSING
for Patent Leather, is unsurpassed. It not onlv gives a brilliant polish, but
preserves the leather. p as te in tins. Otl. Creams, 6(1. and 1/-.
Sold Everywhere. BOSTOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES LTD., SYDNEY
m
m
m
Three little merry maids are we,
Winsome, gay, lighthearted, free.
Hear our bright and merry talk,
Note our light and springy walk,
Rosy cheeks and sunny curls
We’re the Iron ‘ Jelloid ’ Girlsl
After taking Iron ‘Jelloids’ the blood becomes enriched and
strengthened, the appetite is restored, vitality is renewed. Anaemia
quickly disappears, giving place to vigorous and buoyant spirits.
m
Miss J. F. Dubery, Southall, writes '“ I find your Iron 'J eeloids ’
“a great boon, being so easy to take, and so palatable. I always take Iron
“ ‘Jelloids’ as soon as I feel a bit ‘ run-down,’ and after taking a few I feel
“ a marked change ; it is a splendid form of'taking Iron.”
A fortnight’s trial ( Price 1/6 ) will convince you.
For Women, No. 2. Special Tonic for Men, No. 2A. (containing Quinine).
For Children, No. 1. Sold in England at 1/U and 2/9. per box.
Obtainable at all Chemists throughout Australia.
"Wholesale: Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., cr. Clarence <f- Market Sts.. Sgdncg.
300 CAMDIE POWER
cosra owe wmo orowrpewwpwftww
SAFETY FIRST!
SUNSHINE Safety Lamps
300
Candle-power Costs one-third of one
penny per hour. For lighting Homes,
Stores, Halls, Churches, Barnyards, Dairies,
Stables and Streets.
No wick, No chimney, No smoke, No dirt. No odor,
No worry. Storm, Rain, Snow, Wind and Sleet Proof.
Simple, Safe, Self-contained. Portable, Reliable, Economi-
cal and Efficient. A child of 12 can operate it with
ease and satisfaction. Write for particulars or call and
inspect.
HALL&TT BROS., importers, 14cWynyardLane, Sydney j?Z£l%°
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A’o notice (.except of a hostile character ) will he
taken of communicationtm insufficiently stamped.
Same and address must appear on the MSS. A'o
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
•One of the Majority: This paper is so
much in favor of reducing the consumption of
liquor, and especially bad liquor, that it wants to
shut frowsy drinking dens not at 6 o’clock p.m.
but at 6 o’clock a.m. ; and it wants to put the
control of the trade in the hands of men who won’t
be personally interested in pushing it. That,
briefly, is its liquor policy. But it also has a
contempt for the crowd which is using the war as
a dishonest subterfuge. .. . J. 8.: Interesting; but
impossible at present.... Myoatli: Recollect the
rhyme; that’s a11....5ub: The author is still alive;
but he has not written anything of any consequence
for years.... Ohairvaux: The Red Page has the sub-
ject in hand. .. . J.A.P.: Sorry, not nearly up....
L.1.L.: What’s it all about ?.... .Tav Bee: The feeble
witticisms of the bar next d00r... .E.W.J.W.: Your
reading of history is an insult to France. The
Frankish conquerors were German and the true
birth of the nation occurred at the Revolution that
wiped their descendants 0ut.... Rustler: Fantastic,
but not realistic enough.... Gustave G.: “Reaper”
not up....M.8.: Poor little limping verse with no
vigor. .. .'Q.O.: Stirring yarn, but doesn’t convince.
... .M.P.: They’re getting too loose. .. . A.G..T.: Not
up.... Robbie: You have feeling and perhaps imagi-
nation. But learn to write cleanly and know where
your sentences begin and end. .. . V.F.K.: For
Heaven’s sake- don’t write at all, or write about
something... .M.R.: “Tin Town” too slight. With
hard work you might” win through. .. .11.A.5.: But
you don’t really say anything... .E.M.E.J.W.: It’s
vivid stuff. Last time we met a real live Otago
station the tigers came out of the jungle at the
back into the turnip crop and the rabbiters on the
flat were shelling the homestead with a 16-inch
trench mortar... .W.T.J.: The verse is quite cor-
rect ; but its meaning is frequently obscure and it
has no more interest than a perfect paling fence....
5.8.: A little worse and it might have been
printed Yancy: Verse doesn’t carry it....Cal-
bconga: Doesn’t convince. .. .H.S.: Oh, no, not
that. The lady-love’s description always skips from
waist to ankles....A Kingaroy Rifleman: Have read
worse; but the theme js commonplace and verse
rather bumpy... .Thos. L.: Nothing in them... .
W.M.: A cheerful ditty to bump like a bag of
brimstone on the tail of an honest “curlew”....
A.E.M. That’s a bad rhyme—-“peace” as if it were
“peas”... .B.B.: It lifts and sags like a stranded
porpoise J.A.8.: “Bill’s Cobber” might make a
yarn if re-written and condensed; but if you won’t
take the trouble to do it you can be sure nobody
else will.. . .Hisnibs: It finishes gaily:— ,
But quick as lightnin’—it was dirt —-
The Hun he spots me shootin’ ;
He fires and pots me—how it hurt !-
Where father put his boot in.
G.V.: Sorry, but the fact that a man called
two girls “Tim” doesn’t make us want to “scream”
any more than if he called one Dot and Carrie the
other... .Lottie D.: Fear you’re a fake, Lottie....
D.D.: V erses not up; but they show some promise.
Q. Dee: You waste words and still don’t state
your case W.M.: Too little force G.R.H.: A
few clumsy Latin scraps tacked to a few lame Eng-
lish words fill us with malice. .. ..J.D.: We’ll begin
to dislike Kitchener presently if we get any more
wooden wails about him Private .Tonkin • The
person who rhymes “soldier” with “boulder” is
warned off A.F.R.: Poor attempt New Farm:
Ditto... .E.R.: Another, though not quite so poor. ~ .
J.R.: There’s a wild humor in it, but lacks skill in
the telling.... Gerald S.: Has points; but not quite
enough of them F.0.P.: This paper hasn’t been
in existence 50 years; but clumsy jesting and bad
verse make it feel very old John Darlinghurst:
Not enough in it Lizard: Too stiff in the joints.
J.H.: Interested to hear there are obstacles;
thought they might be wheelbarrows .R.C.N.:
Commonplace verse which has the effect of
dull prose....p. Tease: Verse too rough.... B.B.:
What do you mean by “He is her only so eager to
join in the fray”?....Helen Burke: Accepted. Send
address Derby C.: Would have said “Pleased
to meet you to the old lady if you had forwarded
her birth certificate with the introduction H.F.
(Q.) : Don’t know the name of the firm that buys
herbs by the ton D.M.L.: Thanks; but why did
you write on both sides of the paper ?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.G.: Joke gone in the knees; drawing unexciting.
....Flop: You haven’t the artistic punch C.C.C.:
A mere flick of humor. Style too finicky. .. .Rob L:
It’s a crude trifle E.S.McG.: You’ve a long way
to go yet, but there’s no reason why you shouldn’t
pick up your swag and try the track Sid P.:
Looks like a dull woodcut. .. .Alpha: No meaning in
it W. 5.8.: Drawing very stiff, and the gag
creaks. ...S.C.H.: Flat and dreary.
A personal note from the Stoush depart-
ment .
During a recent trip to Longwarry (Gippsland)
in advocacy of six o'clock closing for pubs, Anglican
parson Frank. Lynch, of Williamstown, made a fur-
ther attempt to pluck laurels for his embellishment.
Lynch is a shepherd who once punched a nose at a
recruiting meeting, believing that the owner dis-
agreed with his remarks. At Longwarry, according
to a local correspondent, Lynch said of certain
members of the audience that “if the police were
not present he would kick them out with the toe
of his boot.” A husky young man asked the holy
terror to stop such threats, and trouble followed
when John Hop, by request of the chairman (another
Anglican parson), started to put the interjector out.
The inflammatory Lynch then got down from the
platform, mounted a form in the hall and bellowed
for “a Britisher to give the constable assistance”—
whereupon somebody cruelly suggested that Lynch
himself should be that Britisher. As the advice
wasn’t taken, though the struggle continued for
some time, it seems reasonable that Lynch should
bo advised by headquarters to confine his platform-
work to mothers’ meetings.
“G.”: The champion slave to duty resides
in Maoriland. After wandering for several
days in the King Country bush, he brought
up at a bush-whacker’s camp. The axemen,
knowing that a heavy meal of meat on an
empty stomach would end the exhausted
visitor, shot a bush pigeon and gave it to
him in small, luscious morsels. Much
refreshed, the Law got back to Te Ivuiti —
and laid an information against the bush-
fellers for shooting pigeons oht of season !


it
fir.. ■' \%> 1
■
iM
...
I
m
r
X
-
\
flfiK
is;
\I
rA
s#
M
Kg SH
Ip^-
r \ ■
“That Smile
— l’d know it anywhere! ”
ALL features your smile can be most
expressive of your personality—can have
the greatest power to attract and charm.
Teeth in fine condition, revealed by the smile,
are proof of health, care and personal refine-
ment. Neglected teeth are a severe detriment.
Brightness of eye, clearness of complexion—
general physical and mental well-being—all
are impossible without the diligent practice of
GOOD TEETHKEEPING
This means semi-annual visits to your dentists
—the night and morning use of
Orlyon's
Tooth Powder
Prepared for nearly half a century by a
Doctor of Dental Surgery
Preserves teeth by cleansing them the safe way —
thorough polishing.
A pure, velvety powder, pleasant in its action and
therefore a dentifrice that children like to use. (A very
important consideration in training your child to care
for its teeth.)
Dr. Lyon’s has enjoyed the endorsement of the dental
profession for three generations —millions of users have
benefited by it and recommended it.
Your chemist has it your leading store no aid
to your well-being is more conveniently to be had. A
tm of Dr. Lyon’s will start your Good
Teethkeeping today.
WhatDr.Lyo n’s does not do only your Dentist is competent to do.
Obtainable at all leading chemists and stores. Send 3d.
in stamps today for a dainty sample package of either
Dr. Lyon's Perfect Tooth Powder or Dental Cream.
This Dainty Trial Tin, (actual size) which con-
ains a week’s supply of Dr. Lyons Perfect
Tooth Powder sent on receipt of 3d in stamps.
WOT
I. W. LYON & SONS, Inc.
Lower Cuba St.
Wellington, N.Z.
209 Pitt Street
Sydney, N.S.W.
SSK
4mm
m
RWVW*‘*
NEW DESIGNS IN
Diamond
Jewellery
at Stewart Dawson’s
LARGEST SELECTIONS. MOST CON-
VINCING VALUES. SEE CATALOGUE.
We are fortunate in possessing such a
splendid selection of Diamond Jewellery
—fortunate because Diamonds are being
held back from the markets of the world
on account of the war and the scarcity
of gold. Diamonds are being increasingly
sought after, and prudence dictates their
purchase now, especially when values like
these are available.
Ks3.—Pine Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold and
Platinum, £5/10/-
K47.—lBct. Gold and
Platinum Ring, very
choicely set Diamonds,
£l7/10/-
K 3 6. —Handsomely-set
Diamond Ring, 18ct.
Gold and Platinum,
£6/10/-
K 42. —Five Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold and
Platinum, £B/10/-
D9994.—Pearl and Diamond Brooch,
Gold and Platinum, £6/10/-
15ct.
D99l6.—The New
Circle Brooch, Diamond
Setting’, £4/4/-
C 6453. —Circle Brooch,
set Tourmaline and
I’earls, 15ct. Gold,
STEWART DAWSON’S,
412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
<?•
#
c:iA::riA
[PERFECTION in DESIGN. MATERIALS and WORKMANSHIPI
*
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
m
m
i-
The 6RANDIA in RABAUL
CAPT. J. M. RONDAHL’S Fast Schooner “BUKA.”
45 Tons D.W.; Speed 10 knots ;
25=h.p. SKANDIA Engine.
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Loftus Street,
SYDNEY.
The SEPTEMBER
m
cc
GRAMOPHONE
RECORDS
»
ON SALE FRIDAY, AUGUST 25
Miss Ada Reeve, world-loved comedi-
enne, makes a superb d6but among
“Gramophone” artistes this month.
Don’t miss her first great success :
(■ Father’s Little Man
iSDsSiS. | Foolish Questions
IT’S A 10-INCH DOUBLE-
SIDED RECORD, 3/6.
Other notable new records include:
4-2579. Because
(John McCormack)
3987. When Love is Kind
(Alma Gluck)
4-2612. The Little Whi t e
Town (Eisdell)
7-32006. Serenade de Don
Juan (Caruso)
Many other Operatic, Vocal and
Revue Hits —all new ones.
Ask your dealer for the latest lists
or write to us—
m
Miss Ada Reeve.
“ GRAMOPHONE ’•
Registered Trade Mark.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO.
163 PITT STREET
LTD.
SYDNEY
m
IE any illustration appearing in Tiie
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabin* s-de-luxe ;
Staterooms, with bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms,
Private Bathrooms, Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Regular sailings from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd,,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting)
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
‘CAIRNS
(‘Transhipping for
this and otli e r
Queensland ports).
NORTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney August 26.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne August SO.
Leaves Sydney Sept. 2.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Sept. 6.
Leaves Sydney Sept. 9.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A.andW.A.ports)
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000
Leaves Sydney
Tons).
Sept. 2.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents
Offices at all Ports.
Hanking. Public Companies, &c.
THE)
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Diukctoks: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY.
lion. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, Iv.C.M.G.
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head OtTice: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE
Australian gank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (30th June, 1916) . . £1,197,393
RESERVE FUND .. .. .. £85,000
HEAD OFFICE : George & King Streets, Svdnev.
LONDON OFFICE: 37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
DIR ECiOßS— Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Frank N. Yarwood,
Esq. ; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq. ; George F.
Todman, Esq. ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
World. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO.OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 212,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
Ml new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo, Edwd. Bunning, Esq, (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. IT. Hart, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. BALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East
The Commercial Banking |)o.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . .. 1,875,000 0 0
Reserve Capital . . . . 2,000,000 0 0
£5,875,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. IT. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. ,F- Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: J. J. Brenan, Esq.; and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; lion. H. S. Littleton;
N. D. Cohen, Esq. Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches; throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the .World.
Bank of |)eio Zealand
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. . . .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . .. 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,118,005
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia. New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line to Vancouver
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE, CALLING AT
AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (Fiji) and HONOLULU (Hawaii).
/’V/; “ALL-EED" ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
KAILWAI, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES,
* NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
tln in Screw. * Triple Screw. Fitted with Cabins De Luxe, Suites, Bedstead Rooms, Lifts, Laundry,
Nursery, Wireless, etc.
AROUND THE WORLD BOOKINGS, RETURNING VIA CHINA AND JAPAN, OR VIA
SUEZ CANAL OR SOUTH AFRICA.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco.
VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
STEAMERS SAIL FROM WELLINGTON (N.Z.).
*MAITAI, 14th September. *MOANA, 12th October.
‘Connecting Steamers leave Sydney— 7th September, sth October.
Passengers Transfer at Wellington to the Mail Steamer immediately on arrival.
Vessels stay 24 hours at Papeete, “The Pearl of the Pacific.”
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
' A BENEFICIAL, SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
The Paradise
of the Pacific.”
An I'nriraiied Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers Trading to America
B-M.S. Niagara and R.M.S. Makura.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing Nineteen Days’ Stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY—PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
Winter T°«*to
m
Levuka,
Suva.,
Lautoka,
Samoa Apia, Friendly Islands
Tonga
Monthly Sailings from Sydney and Auckland.
T.S.S. ATITA (3444 tons). S.S. TALUNE (2087 tons).
GRAND PACIFIC HOTEL at Suva now open.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
Something Unique in
Island Tours
mm
m
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
■’end for further particular.'; to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund •
Reserve Liability
m
£3,500,000
£2,675.000
£3,500,000
£9.675.000
Directors:
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MucKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Robert Lionel Faithfull, Eso.., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Eosbery, U.M.U., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: Shephearf! Edgecliff Laidley, Esq.; Alfred George Milson, Esq.
Head Officer-George St., Bydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St, E.C.
341 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.'
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable, throughout the World
■T. RTTSSELL FRENCH. General Manager. '
iJl]t»tttlOlUUlOJ)
m
JBanMißtralta
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
fSr e a "«i
General Banking Business
P iT n SS*»
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
Minimum
Deposit
At all Branches, and over
2600 A S enc ' es at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest at
per annum
up to £3OO
3%
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor. June, 1916 DENISON MILLER. Governor
COMPARE THE ADVANTAGES
offered by the
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales
-r-The STATE Savings Institution
(Head Office: 11 Moore Street, Sydney)
and
DEPOSIT YOUR SAVINGS IN THIS BANK.
Deposits RECEIVED from 1/- upwards.
Recounts may be opened in the depositor’s OWN NAME, or IN TRUST for,
or JOINTLY with, other persons.
; -»* ; -
Interest allowed at 3|% per annum on every complete £ up to £5OO, except on accounts opened
in the late Savings Bank of N.S.W., which are limited to £2OO.
The repayment of all deposits is guaianteed by the Government of New South Wales.
. - By order of the Commissioners. ' J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DIMBOOLA, Friday,
Aug. 25 and Sept. 22.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
PARINGA, August 26.
RUPaRA, Sept. 2.
MORIALTA, Sept. 9.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUrLL & CO., LTD.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Hud dart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,"
“lllimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of .Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
AMERIC A—c ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
via
SAMOA-HONOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
Sailings from Sydney:—
SEPT, 13, OCT. 4, OCT. 25, NOV. 15.
\ppIy:— OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
14 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom, via Suez Canal, Cape of Good Hope,
Torres Straits.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine. Surgeon and
Stewardess. Electric Fans.
FARE TO LONDON OR LIVERPOOL, £4B.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane ; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACTIAIIN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne' and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD., Hobart.
™|“HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to
WEED. RICHMOND. CLARENCE. BELLINGER,
NAMIHtCA. MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVER'S; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Comouuuion Tickets are issued m conjunction with
• tie N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
.0 include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
hence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Munvillumbah,
ail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
here connecting with one of the Company's up to-
iate liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
earner. •: fi s-. fid. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
’■oo KING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
Quickly removes SKIN ERUPTIONS,
ensuring A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
Yhe slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable Pimples,
disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema disappear
by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
S-urf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rojea
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin Specialists,
J. Pepper &Co., Ltd., Bedford Laboratories, London,
S.E., England, and can be obtained from any
chemists and stores throughout the world.
Quickly removal the effects of Sunacorch,


<£M' *
ry> r /(
-iiii /
/ / N£/ \v<: < / '* i r^*/ < .> /4/< , v ‘»i;,&i.
&
£
f (1
V#
IfW*
>//
jj.
;;7Kw.
«
elln^>?^x-
li « !
ejjif,
nSi
«JN '4^
fe y '
\
w iif' _
!
ffe
v
xV
if ■ t
X 1
;. f 'lt'S
K ) V
y 'i*
v_.
sf
li
ZsgS'- .-
l 1
r-
Jra v-,,ri 'J' O'!' ,7i<6i/>T,
; /Vs^#?Ar&i
u
;; y Mi
*o*
U
ta»
v.
LL THE WORLD knows^
“ “ and aclm'res what Austra'ia is doing in the
War, and pairiotic Australia will appreciate what Michelin
has done and is doing.
MICHELIN
MICIIELIN
MICHELIN
MICHELIN
has given £40,000 to further the work of French Military
Aviation, and is manufacturing 100 Aeroplanes, which he is
giving to the French Government, representing an approximate
cost of £ 100,000.
also proposed the establishment of the “Flying Service
Fund ” for the benefit of British Aviators and their dependants,
giving £l,OOO to start the fund—also gave £BOO to the Prince
of Wales’ Fund—and has given to date £120,000 to the
dependants of his employees who are fighting for the Allies,
is manufacturing shells, and bombs for aeroplanes, etc., and is
also helping by his large supplies of tyres to the British, French,
Belgian and Italian Armie®
has established and maintains a hospital of 320 beds for the
wounded, costing to date £3o,ooo—has paid shareholders in
War Loan—and has made advances to his staff who have, to
sth December, subscribed £202,012 in War Loan and £5,520
to Fund for parcels for the Troops. Many other things could
be added to this list,.
Yes, we are all doing our utmost in the common cause. Hie Allies are
united in Arms, let us be united in Business.
We, therefore, ask for your support, and, apart from .other reasons, the
quality of MICHELIN TYRES assures it.
MICHELIN—THE BESTj
Therefore the Most Economical.
MICHELIN TYRES
can be obtained at all the leading garages.
*
iSlSMiSfiißilsiilil
m\
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne^
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
The Australia Hotel
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone 7260, Telegrams—
-4 lines. Australia,
P.O. Box 1610. Sydney.
The Premier Hotel of Australasia.
Has accommodation for 300 Guests. Single
and double Bedrooms and Suites, with Bath-
room attached. Hot and Cold Water, Auto-
matic Telephones and Electric - Heaters
throughout. Visitors have the preference of
the American or European Plan of rating.
Two special Grill-rooms are attached, in
addition to Main Dining-room, seating 600
Guests. The Winter Garden is the. largest
in Australasia, and is the meeting-place of
the Elite of Sydney, who foregather for
Afternoon Teas and Supper after the Theatre.
A High-class Orchestra furnishes Music twice
a day.
Single Rooms from 16/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Double Rooms from 32/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Room and Breakfast from 11/-
per day.
Suites of Apartments as per arrangement.
J. URE SMTTH, Manager.
m
A. N. A.
£3 10/- to £lO.
Guaranteed 15 Years.
We do not employ can-
vassers to waste your time.
Come direct to us and save
money by securing a better
machine at a lower price.
A.N. A. Sewing Machine Co.
25 QUEEN VICTORIA MARKETS
(near Town Hall), SYDNEY.
Also at Errol Street, North Melbourne; 7 Arcade,
Adelaide; Baird’s Arcade, Perth; 39 George Street,
Launceston; and 123 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
Three Sizes—
IIAl l A H.p.
2 h.p.
3 Yt H.p.
m
TheEVINRUDE
:: DETACHABLE::
ROWBOAT MOTOR
is the most successful and perfect motor of
this kind on the market. Over 40.000 now
in use. Very simple and easy to operate.
Can be attached to any boat in a few
minutes —adjustable to depth and angle of
stern. Speed up to eight miles an hour.
Equipped with high-tension, built-in-the-fly-
wheel Magneto. Fitted with Automatic
Reverse and Maxim Silencer. Operated by
Petrol, and lubrication is automatic.
Of invaluable assistance on the farm for pumping water, driving separator, etc.
To transform motor into a power machine is the work of a few minutes.
Propeller is removed and a belt pulley substituted.
Descriptive Booklet sent post free on application to -r
H. A. GODDARD, 376 Collins Street, Melbourne; 82 Pitt Street, Sydney;
404 Queen Street. Brisbane; Cliff Street, Fremantle; Remington
Chambers (onn. G.P.0.), Auckland, N.Z.
LOCAL AGENTS REQUIRED IN ALL TOWNS WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
At the Street Corner
two men were comparing notes on the all-important
subject of Razors. One declared that, after trying
every Razor on the market, he “struck”
THR “PLUM” RAZOR
at Craig & Aitken’s. “I have given up experimenting
since,” said he. “The ‘Plum’ is good enough for me.”
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double'Case, 217-
Single Rator, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
All the above Post Free. Send for'Oiir Illustrated Price List.
CRAfC & AITKEN
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established Over 30 Years.
It’s a Masterpiece—
The “Plum” Razor
Si
-t(')
a» «, .'nf (.<
'.• * ( A
SSSU
-.““ .?>» \v..
M * r ii jg a ’
\A case for
Wine arms *
Run-down
When your system is under
mined by worry or over
work when your vitality
is lowered when you feel
“ any how ” when your
nerves are “on edge ’
when the least exertion tires
you—you are in a Run-down
condition. Your system is
like a plant that is drooping
for want of water. And just
as water revives'a drooping
plant—so ‘ Wincarms gives
new life and new vitality to
a “run-down ” constitution.
Because ‘ Wincarnis ’ pos-
sesses a four-fold power
It is a Tonic, a Restorative,
a Blood-maker.and a Nerve
Food—all in one Therefore
creates new strength, new
blood, new nerve force and
new vitality The benefit
begins from the first wine-
glassful You can feel it
doing you good. You can
teel your whole system being
surcharged with new vitality
and new life That is why
over to.ooo Doctors recom-
mend • Wincarnis.
Don't continue to suffer
needlessly Get well the
‘Wincarnis’ way—the quick,
sure, and safe way to obtain
the new health you need.
Begin to get
well TO-DAY.
' Wincarnis ’ is made in Eng-
land by COLEMAN & CO.,
Ltd., Wincirnis Works, Nor-
wich. You can buy ‘ Wincar-
nis' from all Chemists and
Stores selling wines, prices 4/-
and 6/6, but if you experience
any difficulty in obtaining it,
write direct to Foie Distribut-
ing Agents, Fa-sett&Johnson,
5/7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woj
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
DAIMLER
m
m
sotor Carriages •
COi«PERmVEHiaES~
Agricultural Tractors
the DAIMLER COMPANY w
COVENTRY, ENGLAND.
METAL POLISH
Cleans more brass signs, zino signs,
brass railings, door knobs and door
plates than - all other polishes com-
bined, because it is the quickest and
safest to use. Sold by all Grocery,
Hardware and Drug. Stores.
Look for Photo on Can cr
m
mm
“ARAbiS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY Hair.
A Lady writes: “i like the Celebrated ‘AIIABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest 1 have ever used.”
“Arabia” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardley on genuine. Price 1/-and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.


Before attempting to mount the prancing
and fiery conscription steed depicted in
Low’s cartoon (B. 17/8/’l6) Billy should
seek courage and inspiration from that wise
spirit King George IY. topnotcli Scotch.
—Advt.
For Sale.
CT UGAR-LAND, 40 Tons of Sugar per Acre, 950
acres freehold, near the Island Metropolis, for
sale on account of owner's old age. Has frontage for
shipping, lOOin. rainfall, is exceptionally fertile,
yielding by estimate of experts 40 tons of Sugar per
acre per annum and 3 crops of Maize. Has water-
power facilities and abundant cheap labor, is free
from any Government dictates, free from import and
export duties, taxes on income, land and water taxes,
etc., etc., and amnle recourses for very cheap sup-
plies of stores, and a universal market for produce.
ADAMS & CO., 121 Pitt Street, Sydney.
m
!ii j * tiiHiii. mmmmi
SSS
§
r —l
an
ii MuTn
w
la Queensland Maple
VISITORS to Brisbane almost invariably express
delight at the beauty of our Queensland Timbers,
of our Maple, and Silky Oak, and Beanwood.
Many of them take away some piece of furniture, in one
of these woods, from our large stock. The prices are
reasonable. This beautiful Suite in Maple costs £2B.
Perhaps you would like a copy of our Catalogue?
Jo&m Hicks & Company Ltd.,
GEORQE AND ANN STREETS, BRISBANE.
IN BANANA LAND
Peter Airey, Home Secretary and
Treasurer in Kidston Ministries a decade
ago, is Bananaland’s most energetic con-
scriptionist. With pen and tongue he has
been smashing the arguments against
national organisation, and in spare moments
has been looking after the minutes of the
Universal Service League.
Adela Pankhurst is roaming around
Bananaland orating on the horrors of con-
scription. These ladies make a mistake:
it is Germany that needs to be spoken to on
that subject. With Germany a conscrip-
tionist country, we took the advice of the
Crankhursts and refrained from universal
military training ourselves; and the rav-
ished maidens of Belgium were the first-
fruits. ■ Are ravished maidens of no con-
sequence to the Adela Spankhursts?”
“Yannatherra”: The late Paddy Hanran,
of Townsville, was the son of a non-com. in
the old “Rum Corps,” who subsequently
became a commission agent at Parramatta.
Paddy took things easy until his twentieth
anniversary; then he rolled the rug for the
Turon Rush. In the next few months he
was on the Macquarie, Louise Creek and
Dirt Hole Creek. Later he pushed over to
Forest Creek, Bendigo and Ballarat. Half
rations palling, he next tried Maoriland, and
on Gabriel’s Gully he got on to full tucker
again. A couple of sharks eventually
jumped his show, and Paddy came to Towns-
ville. He was soon behind the counter of
his own general store, in two years was
the chief trader in the settlement, and in
five was pushed into public life. His wife
died about four years back, and poor old
Paddy never looked up again. Always a
white man, he couldn’t hear the call of
trouble without * responding, and he mixed
so much philanthropy with his sugar that
he was badly imposed upon. But he went
out without an enemy in the world.
Senator Ferricks attempted to excite the
indignation of a Brisbane anti-conscription
audience the other day by asking: "vVliy
should the widow of a colonel get a bigger
pension than the widow of a private?” A
rude interjector fired back: “Why should
you eet £6UO a year while I only get £2UO?”
The Senator hurriedly passed on to the next
subject.
Maryborough has just received its deadli-
est insult in 65 years. Hitherto the town
has been recognised as a kind of provincial
capital. A few days ago, however, it was
deprived of its police-magistrate and in-
formed that henceforth it would have to
seek justice at Gympie. Perfidious Bris-
bane, by whom these things are done, may
prepare to listen to mutterings of a North-
ern revolution at any time now-
The energetic J. M. Hunter, Minister for
Lands, has been spying out decent areas to
throw open to returned soldiers. He calcu-
lates now that he can make available
8,000,000 acres along the east coast, which
will accommodate 50,000 families. The
famed Stanthorpe country is to provide
NO HAIR APPARENT.
LITTLE MARY: “Oh, the naughty stories! They said your wife had presented you with
a little heir."
15,000 acres, while Callide Valley, Northern
Burnett and Injune Creek offer a round
million each.
Two politicians named Finlayson and
Ferric-ks took the Brisbane Lyceum the
other night and cursed conscription until
they were speechless. Since then a score of
hostile critics have dressed them down in
the Brisbane press. But the hardest blow
came from the man who runs the theatre.
When he found out what he had really let
the place for (they had, of course, lied to
him about it), he sent the cheque on to the
Red Cross and went and washed his hands.
Norman Gibbins, killed in jFrance the
other day, had climbed from private to cap-
tain before the Last Post sounded. An old
Brisbane Grammar boy, he held a commis-
sion in a Queensland militia regiment, but
joined the A.I.F. as private when the trouble
started. He left for the Front as corporal,
got his sergeant’s stripes in Egypt, and men-
tion in despatches at the Gallipoli landing
brought him a second lieutenant’s commis-
sion. After stopping one at Lonesome Pine
he came back again as first lieutenant, and
at the evacuation became temporary cap-
tain, a rank which was confirmed in France.
His father, William Gibbins, was an old-
time surveyor in the North.
The Politician’s Soul.
(BEING A JEST OF THE GREAT HUMORIST.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
There was once a Politician
Who possessed a sort of Soul:
(It was such a little Soul!)
And at last in time the Devil came
And said: “Son, lo
Here is a mess of Pottage, of fine fat 1 ot-
tage!
Give me thy Soul, thy little Soul,
And feed thy belly full on this fat and
goodly Pottage!”
And the Politician smelt o’ the Pottage,
The good and savory Pottage,
And gat him out his microscope
And gazed in wonder on his spirit speck
(Which to the naked eye was clean in-
visible ),
And to himself he murmured :
“What is there in this Thing
That I should hug it lovingly for aye
And spurn this fragrant Dish of sweetest
savor?”
Wherefore the Politician and the Pottage
became at once incorporate,
And when the Devil fled
The Soul that was went with him.
The Trump of Judgment woke the dead;
The dry bones rose in the Valley of
Jehoshaphat
And the Accuser’s cry rang out:
“O Lord, this fellow here did sell liis Soul,
His high immortal Soul,
For just a vulgar dish of common Pottage.
Shall we not hale him forth and cast him
down
To Tophet’s deep straightway?”
Rang.out the Voice All Merciful: “Not so!
’Tis true the carle did vend his spirit part
Against a paltry dish that pleased his nos-
trils ;
But, on the whole, metliinks ’twas not un-
soundly
And not unshrewdly done. What was that
Soul
(The Atom tremulous that he did vend)
In value as compared with one good meal
Of blended meat and lentils? Spurn him
not!
The man had wit; and, when he sold the
sparklet
For just a morsel sweet to line his maw,
He showed himself a genuine judge of
values.”
So when the Politician left the Presence
They simply drave him idly into /Ether
And bade him merely roam a million days
And find in space, without a microscope,
The Tiny Thing he’d sold.
QUEENSLAND.
P. AIREY.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, August 19, 1916.
My Dear Tiiargomindaii,—
This has been Show week. It was a good
show, too, particularly in view of the drought
of a few months back. The recuperative
powers of Bananaland had a wonderful ad-
vertisement, for districts which were but
lately parched sent along gay blossoms for
the district exhibit section. Nevertheless,
it was Western N. S. Wales that won the
blue ribbon.
The G.-G. and his wife did the honors at
the official opening on Wednesday. Cheery
remarks about cows and kindred subjects fell
from the G.-G.’s lips, and were listened to
with reverence by Strawberry’s worshiopers.
On Thursday afternoon a horde of Red
Cross workers were tea-ed and caked at Gov-
ernment House. Lady Helen, in violet
taffeta and a toque of violet and cerise
orchids, and Lady Goold Adams, in pale
green and white furs, discoursed Red Cross
and its needs between the rattle of the cups
and saucers.
Thursday was crow'ded. Lady Helen and
our own chieftainess went to the Mutual Ser-
vice Club for morning tea, and made com-
plimentary remarks about the lessons in
cooking and ironing which are given there.
The Randall Art Gallery was visited later;
here the Mayor and Mayoress of S. Brisbane
(Alderman and Mrs. Hilton) met them and
the billy was boiled.
Premier Tom Ryan and his popular wife
came home on Thursday night, and were met
by all the Ministers and their wives and
dozens of other folk. A large party jour-
neyed up to Ipswich, and brought the travel-
lers triumphantly home in a special train.
Mrs. Ryan looks younger and Tom about 2st.
heavier.
Our own Governor returned home on
Wednesday night, still somewhat shaky from
the effects of his bad chill.
Mrs. Ryan put in some good work while
she was away. She saw the new depot for
the Queensland Red Cross, and is satisfied
that the goods are being well distributed.
She also feels sure that our soldier boys are
receiving splendid treatment in the hospi-
tals. She brought back some facts concern-
ing the Bloomsbury Foundling Home which
may be of use, and she can tell us all about
the Anzae Buffet, and the hospital where
blind soldiers are trained to earn a living at
any one of many jobs.
On Friday afternoon Mrs. Ryan was the
guest of honor at a reception given at Par-
liament House by the wives of State Minis-
ters. She wore mole taffeta, with touches
of golden yellow, a little hat in which the
same colors were repeated, and white fox
furs. A bounuet of sweet peas and an address
in the form of a letter, welcoming her home,
were passed over by jirs. Theodore. By-the-
bye, this Ministry can boast more good-look-
in" wives (collectively, of course) than any
other within the memory of the oldest in-
habitant.
“Allies’ City” is doing good business, and
the Patriotic Fund begins to have a full
feeling again. The Mayor opened the show
on Monday night, and Japanese, Servian,
French and Australian ma .dens harried the
onlooker into buying all the unnecessaries of
life. The G.-G. gave his blessing on Friday.
To-night a fancy-dress ball in aid of the fund
was held at the Centennial Hall.
Julius Knight has been playing to packed
houses all week. And I can hardly get my
breath for remembering that I’ve a ticket
in a raffle for a pair of socks he (says he)
knitted himself. Proceeds in aid of the
ixeturned Soldiers’ Residential Club.
On Friday afternoon Lady Helen officially
opened the Red Cross recreation room in
connection with the 13th A.G.H. at Enog-
gera. It is a fine building and will help
many a convalescent to get his punch back.
The G.-G.’s wife mentioned that she had
received a cable asking that more tinned
fruit and vegetables should be sent to
Egypt. The comforts from Australia were
said to be of “the greatest benefit after the
recent fighting at Romani.”
The Residential Club for Returned Sol-
diers and Sailors got two healthy boosts this
week. One was a fancy-dress ball, organised
by the Brisbane Girls’ Club, and the other
a shivoo at the Stadium on Friday after-
stars gave exhibitions of sparring, enlisting,
etc.
A play written by editor A. Buchanan,
of the Daily Mail, will shortly be pro-
duced in aid of the funds of the Residential
Club. At least two Bulletin contributors
—“Norbell” and “O. C. Cabot” —are to be
in the cast
Arrived this week from the Solomons, to
enlist, Langton Burley, a member of a well-
known Brisbane family. He is the sixtieth
man to enlist from that mosquito-bitten
speck of the Empire, and the white popula-
tion has contributed to patriotic funds at
the rate of £l6 per head.
John Connolly, of Gayndah, star exhibit in
the White Australia competition, wall reach
the century early next month. An army of
children, grandchildren and friends intend
flocking to Gayndah to celebrate the event,
and the population of the little town, which,
by the*way, is one of the oldest in the State,
threatens to be inflated far beyond the
capacity of its two pubs. If old John can
be induced to leave his beloved Tom Moore
and his exercise at the woodlieap, he will
be given a rousing time.
Ex-M.L.A. Herbertson lost his son, Cap-
tain It. Herbertson, in France about the
middle of July. Young Herbertson, who
used to. be with the Mt. Morgan Co., rose
from private to the rank of captain—a pro-
motion that surprised no one who knew him
for a fine, capable young fellow. He arrived
early at Gallipoli and got through that hell
scathless; and then his luck failed.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“P.F.” : The Justice Department is busy in-
quiring into the conduct of a Northern P.M.
who, it is alleged, accepted a present of two
pineapples from a Chow litigant. The Chinese
believe that justice goes with the heaviest
bribe. What staggers them is the idea that
it should ever go anywhere else. So far it isn’t
clear whether the Department is apnoyed
with the magistrate for accepting the fruit
or with the Chow for reckoning that Queens-
land justice costs so much.


These are four of the Big Maturing Tanks responsible for the
Purity of Meggitt’s Linseed Oil. Each Tank holds 60,000 Gallons.
1
S* •' T
S'
i
■* li t'j \ iVV-V v \ \{.\
’ 1 \V;» •!•'* >V\ V,
‘■'MVii’l 1, i
■
Mi’. w.l
n\
r
jjT»T|'iiij!»;jrjVfj r n ?jTm
'
N! HI
ii'.'nw
'Mi iVii
li l/tvll I It
v!! JVw
TTriTtu;;:!^
i!!J nm fill
SnMifcniii
Mi!
•i.
, 1 -i|i ih. v.| j
ll . llil i 'iji
. i .i
i-iS'i!
!l
ill!
1!'
hi
wrn
.1 1
!!!. !!! • 4 • | I
1 jiii ill
III I 1
! i ! 1 i !
I I
m
i. 4.4
i !
V • •
• w«as».v<ss»
(IjHIM Ilk
HjjjjjS
: •!i.iii.i frlli
-tv** *w- >w-vx —s-~-
CV-Vi
& s
I
W\\\\\\
\
l V
V !
'.\v
V\*‘
\ s
W\\
i
r
O
7T
PAINTERS
Help to make Australia
Prosperous by insisting on
MEGGITTS
LINSEED OIL
Maturity and Purity Guaranteed.
For full particulars write Agents: Clarkson Ltd., Adelaide; P. S. Exton & Co. Ltd., Brisbane; Harrison Ramsay Pty. Ltd., Melbourne
Wm. Adams & Co., Perth; F. W. heritage & Co., Launceston and Hobart; Blair Reed & Co., Wellington, N.Z.; or
HEGGITT LTD., Linseed Oil flanufacturers, Parramatta, N.S.W.


Little Friends
of the Liver
They’re little but they’re good: they’re gentle
and they’re kind: they’re full of health that
leads to health and please be sure they’re
signed: —
Carter’s Little Liver Pills bear the
above signature.
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS*
Purely
Vegetable :
famous for
two genera-
tions.
Small Pill,
Small Dose,
Small Pries.
Allan 8 Stark Ltd
BRISBANE.
mmmm
«m
The
20/-
Military Hat
with Emu Plume
and Chin Strap
or a Military
Cap, similar to
that worn by
the Expedition-
ary Forces.
4/6.
“The Dardanelles” is a Military Suit
made of the best quality Khaki Gaber-
dine. The make and finish is excellent.
The Tunic buttons to neck, and has
four military pockets with V-shaped
flaps to button ovei. The shaped
Breeches button at knee, and are lined
with Ferguson’s Silesia. Putties to
match. All sizes 4 to 10.
Your Machine’s
Best Friend —
3-in-one Oil
Use this pure, clear, sweet-smelling
Oil and your Sewing Machine will
work easier and last longer.
** Three -in - One ” reaches
every friction part, works out dirt,
and promotes smooth running.
Keeps rust away.
Splendid for polish-
ing the wooden case.
Neither gums nor
gathers dust. Free
from grease
and acid.
Stocked by most
Stores in Bot-
tles and
Handy
Oil Can.
Si>mple Bottle I
FREE from |
Reid & Reid,
Australasian
Agents,
HARRIS ST.
Wellington, N.Z. i
M MNES-2
£5O Reward
Volker Mantles are British made by
a Bntrsh Company. There are no
German Directors, Shareholders,
or German connections whatev r.
The Comp my offer £5O regard for
information enabling them to take
legal proceedings against ny
person or persons circulating
statements to the contrary.
VOLHER
GAS
MANTLES
As British as a British Battleship
: Volker Lighting Corpora ion, Ltd.,
Wandsworth, London, England.
Rrpresen tativejor Australia ;
C. Falk, 26-30, Clarence Street, Sydney.
;i4W
ms
r kb
as
.••:•’•••.*•.! • ?•? A V £&V *
5S
O
*
SfWjP^
MESSRS. ASHTON & PARSONS LTD. have been f
honoured by
Royal Commands
TO SUPPLY PHOSFERINE 10
the Royal Families of Great Britain, Russia,
Greece, Roumania, Spain and to the principal
Royalty throughout the World.
This means that PHOSFERINE is approved by
practically every Court Physician in Europe.
Phos/erine
Proven Remedy
FOR
Neurasthenia
Brain Fag
Nerve Troubles
Anaemia
Sleeplessness
Indigestion
No other Medicine h->s received such absolu'e proof of its
extraordinary properties in restoring Shattered Constitutions,
and in giving back the prematurely aged New Life aad Energy.
See what a well-known Medical Man writes :
DR. GORDON-STABLES
The famous Dr. Gordon-Stables, probably the greatest
authority on all matters relating to health writes:
'"1 have the utmost faith and reliance in Messrs. Ashton
& Parsons’ Phosferine as a tonic in cases of Debility,
Nervous Depression, and Neurasthenia generally.
(Signed) W. GORDON-STABLES. M.D., C.M..
eon. Royal Navy.
Messrs. Ashton |ft Parsons Ltd, of London, would appreciate your courtesy if, being served
with a substitute not bearing their name, you would post the package to_ 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne, when the genuine article will be sent in jits place, and the jcost of postage
i refunded to you. | J A
m
m
mm
RUBBER
meelsßß
M&aXin Australian
wa
Why ni
Go Your
in
,Jce advantage of the comfort
offered by Bamet Glass Rubber Heels ?
The springy, resilient-rubber stops all jars
and shocks to the spine and double? the
pleasures of walking. Barnet Glas|Rybber
Heels are' made of the purest fnaterials
a view to giving faithful
;ervice.on ** u
rom All Boot and General Stores.
RUBBER CO. LTD.
ALL STATES
N.Z.
m
“IMPROVED STEER CHAMPION” GRADER
For Road and Firebreak Making. Irrigation
and Bore-water Drains.
“Champion Columbus” Wheel Scoop, with shafts.
Champion” Steel Roller.
CarolinMachineryCo.,
St inley Sti*eet, West Melbourne,
and
ANGEL PLACE, SYDNEY.
ADE’A'DE & BR'SBMNE.
HAVE YOU A
BAD LEG
perhaps so surrounded with inflammation and
swollen that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Perhaps
your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored. The disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Try the great British Remedy:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which will give certain relief.
Anti for Poisoned Hands, House-
maid’s Knee, Carbuncles, Absces-
ses, Snake and Insect Bites, &c.
Sold in England at 1/3 & 3/- per box.
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farringdon St.,
LONDON, Eng.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store, and
stocked by all the Wholesale Houses in the
Commonwealth.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries,
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
CURES W rite for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210 Lambeth Road, London, Enfc
Insist on “Sineleton s' —refuse all substitutes.-
The Lake Breeze Motor
m
m
Cooling Fan
Runs on Methy-
lated Spirits.
A remarkable inven-
tion. Fuel costs less
than one halfpenny
per hour. Practical,
proved, simple, sub-
stantial, handsome,
quiet. Superb mechan-
ical construction. Runs
anywhere without elec-
tricity and is portable.
Send for circular. Order
early.
ADDISON PARKER,
34. Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“Oict”: The swagman is developing busi-
ness ways. For instance, I lately spent
my spare and other time conveying an
extremely, painful molar among my haunts.
A perfect looking swagman came round sell-
ing pills. He had several sorts, and one
was a dead sure thing on toothache. .1 paid
a shilling for a sample, despite the fact that
there seemed to be six different-looking kinds
of pills in the bottle. With considerable
alacrity and his newly-acquired wealth he
evaporated round the corner, and I
engulfed four of the remedies and sat down
on the woodheap to await things. Soon
events commenced happening violently, and
I started in pursuit of the commercial vaga-
bond whenever I could spare the time. I
visited 11 houses in my efforts to capture
that swagman, and at nine learnt that my
dental expert had begged for "‘Just three or
four pills, mum, as I’m out of sorts,” etc.
’Twas then . I surmised that the various
sizes and colors of the cures I had pur-
chased were due to their different sources.
But the law is in motion. Our policeman
frets for that pedlar’s license and I hope-
fully await his capture.
* * * ... #
“Agricola”: I am moved more to anger
than to sorrow while contemplating the
debris from a pound of walnuts supplied by
our grocer and guaranteed by him to be “best
imported.” The iniquities concealed within
their shells included unappetising grubs,
mould, decay and an occasional shrivelled
kernel. Why don’t some of our patriots,
who love imported vegetables, plant walnuts
instead of pinus insignis and elm? The nut
would remind them of ’Ome just as well,
the trees would be equally beautiful and give
better shade, and the harvest is good busi-
ness. Walnuts grow splendidly in such
widely different soils and climates in N. S.
Wales as Blayney, Bombala, Tumbarumba,
Adelong and Howlong (near Albury). How-
long has a hot climate and onlv a 20-inch
rainfall, but the trees I saw there beat all the
rest for size, and the crop was gathered in
many chaff-bags. Filberts grow to perfection
in Gippsland, where some people used the
bushes for hedges before the rabbit knocked.
They should do well in Monaro (N.S.W.).
The demand for nuts is good, but it is
checked by the price and quality of the
imported article.
* * * *
The Huon (Tas.) people w r ho dry apples
got a shock the other day in the shape of
an order for 100 tons of dried vegetables,
wanted by the Government of India “as a
sample.” They scratched their heads trying
to think what a real order would be like
from people who want 100 tons as a sample,
and then got busy evaporating potatoes and
turnips.
*'* * *
An experiment in profit sharing is being
made bv the employees of the Melbourne
Gas Go. Of 2000 workpeoole 1100 belong
to a Share Purchase Association and pay
into it anything they can afford from 6d.
per week up. The resulting funds are used
in buying shares in the co.. and so far
£7700 has been put into the business. The
memVeT-s 0 f the Association get 5 per cent,
on their money, and any surplus goes to
buy more shares. The employees reckon
that if they keep on long enough they will
be the co. themselves, but there’s a good way
to go yet. And just at present they have
switched off, and are nutting their surplus
cash into Australia, Unlimited, by way of
the War Loan.
* * * *
“X.Y.”: All true Australians will regret
that the ironbark, the king of the eucalyptus
family, is threatened with early destruction
throughout the N.S.W. North Coast area.
For some time it has been remarked that
the trees were not thriving, and bee
farmers complained that they had ceased
to bear their honey-laden blossoms. The
Forestry Department, becoming alarmed, has
had the matter investigated by the Govern-
ment Entomologist, and his report is sad
reading. It states that the trouble is caused
by an insect pest, and that there is no
remedy. The only glimmer of hope is that
the many parasites which infest the larvae
may increase with the enormous increase of
the insects, and become a factor in keeping
down the pest.
* * * *
“Norbell” : When I went for my lunch
the other day my friend Constantine seemed
despondent. “Ah!” he said bitterly, “you
know’a not at all -da treelcs dey play at
a-me! You see da dawg?” He pointed to
a wretched-looking mongrel tied up at the
door. “Ah ! So ! Well, to-day a men ’e ees
come. So dam’ polite ’e ees! He aska me
can ’e tie up da dawg w’ile ’e ’ava da
launch? I say, ‘Mos’ certain.’ An’ ’e go in
an’ ’e eata da four-an’-seeks launch. Then
’e say, ‘Accusa me, can I taka da dawg da
few scrap?’ An’ I say to eem, ‘For-a sure.’
An’ ’e taka da plate da scrap ou’side, pas’
da cash regist’, an’ ’e feeda da dawg at da
door. Den, queek, lika da shot, he walka
off! An’ ’e leef da mong’ on my ’an’s. ’E
no maka da pay for da four-an’-seeks launch.
But, my fren’, you wait a w’ile for eem!
When I see eem I say somethink!”
THE ECONOMY CAMPAIGN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
His name is Mclntosh, ye ken,
And he’s a man of mighty girth.
He had a suit of broadcloth when
His years were twenty here on earth.
The way he's lately put on fat
Has something been to marvel at.
Of late I’ve seen him at the back
With dumbbells swinging to and fro,
Or trotting on a measured track,
And watched the perspiration flow.
At eight and forty ’tis not wise
So willingly to exercise.
I spoke a warning word to him.
He put his skipping-rope aside.
“Eh, mon,” he i said, i‘j‘fi fltnun be slim” —•
He swung th<j clubs,; #qd (paused and sighed—
“Ye mind me braidelqth. troosers, John?
Eh, weed, I canna get them on /”
victoria.
SNELL.


;
A
\ X . <!
lb
M\S-'
r* \
o" C\ \J >
i>
"zr
fUI
r~
Jct 11
__ /
vN
N:
a
7
rf
y
tT".
t 1
L
,j>v
<?r>
&
BSP
J=3
2
og
gics:
rTJ
*■*l
s»g
R
55?
rt
'^=3
Q
cn
oO
a
d,^3e
c
w
SP
rs
*9
c/5
21
fc/ 3
>
Phf‘
6iw«ffr £h/»mberl/»n
«CoPVI7iC«TCD)
“ You’ll get it-it’s in the air!
Be as careful as you may, you are sure to have a
cold before the winter is over. You can’t miss
it—it’s in the air. But why wait until a cold
is on you and your throat and lungs sore and
inflamed. Prepare to-day, get a bottle of
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.
Do you know that of all the minor ailments colds are the most
dangerous? It is not the cold itself that you need fear, but the
serious, ailments it so often leads to. For that reason every cold
should be got rid of as quickly as possible. For this there is nothing
better than Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. It will loosen the
relieve the lungs, aid expectoration and enable your system to throw
off the cold.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is good for any member of the
family. It cures coughs of all kinds. It is composed of things which
soothe and heal without harming the most delicate tissues of the
throat. It acts ss easily and safely on the young as on the old.
Mothers need not hesitate to give it to even the youngest child, for it
is perfectly safe. Chamberlain's Cough Remedy is an ideal remedy
for coughs, colds, croup, whooping cough and bronchitis.
There is a long list of people in your community who will tell
you that they keep Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy always on hand,
that they never allow’ a cold to get a firm hold in their home. They
have found that one or two doses taken at the first symptoms will
ward off the severest cold. There are people who took this remedy
in childhood, now giving it to their grandchildren and with the
same uniform success. What better recommendation could any
medicine have than this?”
All retailers are authorised to sell Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy under a guarantee ; if it does not
do all that we claim we will refund the price paid.
JfeoJOx -
Q
m
m
WHY NOT GET RID AND STAY RID
FOR ALL TIME OF YOUR TIRING.
DEBILITATING AND NOT BEAUTIFUL
XCESS FAT?
EXCESS fat injures your health, impedes
your movements, and makes you the
butt of your unfeeling normal-weight
friends. People who are excessively
fat never feel well and vigorous like nor-
mal folk. People who have been fat and
are now reduced to normal think other fat
people ridiculous. Excess fat also impedes
the heart action, rendering its functions
difficult, and interferes with the breathing.
Not alone does excess fat injure your
health and endanger your existence; it
absolutely destroys your figure and makes
you a ludicrous sight. Why do you stay
fat?
“TI-SARKIN
positively removes excess fat and will restore your spoiled figure to
decent and pleasing proportions; it is always a sure and lasting
cure for obesity and corpulency. A few doses improves your
breathing wonderfully, and the course of treatment will cure you.
It is the only successful and, at the same time, harmless fat-reducer
that has ever been discovered. Its efficacy has been undeniably
demonstrated in thousands of successfully-treated cases. It is
totally and absolutely non-poisonous, and can in no wise work any
injury to the general health, even though it often reduces excess
of weight by as much as a pound a day. On the contrary,
improved conditions in the general health become noticeable in less
than a week after its use is begun.
EET ITS PROVE ITS EFFICACY TO YOU.
Wat worth Co. Girilambone, N.S.W.
Hear Sirs,—l am quite satisfied with your wonderful treatment. It has
made a new woman of me. I have lost weight wonderfully, and my breathing
is all right now. Since taking the Ti-Sarkin I can do my work without a
bit of trouble. I will never lose an opportunity to praise and tell everybody
that needs Ti-Sarkin about your marvellous treatment.—Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) Mrs. JOHNSON.
“TI-SARKIN”
DOES NOT FAIL!
LET US PROVE IT
Manager Watworth Co. Cuprona, Tas.
Dear Sir, —In replying to your kind inquiry
as to the permanency of my reduction from
the use of “Ti-Sarkin,” I am pleased to tell you
that the results are more satisfactory than I
ever anticipated they could possibly be. “Ti-
Sarkin” has produced a wonderful improve-
ment in my health and condition. When I
began its use I weighed 13 stone 31b., and I
began to lose weight after the first few doses,
and continued rapidly until I was quite satis-
fied that I was thin enough, having lost a
stone a month. Before taking “Ti-Sarkin” my
work was always a burden, but since my re-
duction it is just the reverse, and now I am
able to take great pleasure and interest in all
about me. My friends all marvel at my rapid
loss of weight and vast improvement in my
general health. They say they can scarcely
believe their eyes, and they as well as myself
feel very well pleased, and your methods
gained many warm advocates from the success
in my case.
I hope that many faltering women whose
excess weight is a burden to them will be
convinced by my experience, and my earnest
advice to all my fat friends is to have a course
of “Ti-Sarkin.” Now I eat heartily and enjoy
my food, and find no cause whatever for com-
plaint.
You are at liberty to make whatever use you
may choose of this letter.—Yours sincerely,
(58 0.3 ) (Signed) Mrs. A. CARR.
READ THIS LETTER.
Manager Watworth Co. Sandgate, Q’ld.
Dear Sir, —When I wrote yon in July last
my niecs was rapidly improving under your
treatment. She was then over 15 stone in
weight, but has since been reduced to truly
genteel proportions, and is now a very pleas-
ing figure. She continued her usual diet while
under treatment, and was in no way incon-
venienced, and I am truly grateful to you for
the result, for, before the treatment, she was
absolutely devoid of any semblance of a figure,
a burden to herself and friends, and unhappy
generally. She has reduced considerably over
three stone, and her health has improved to a
splendid extent. —Yours respectfully,
M. CRAMB.
FREE SAMPLE
It does not matter how far away you live,
we can treat you and reduce you successfully
by post. We want you to see what hundreds
say of “Ti-Sarkin” after using it. We want
you to know all about it.
Send 2d. Stamp for Free Trial. If you
cannot call, send a 2d. stamp and let us send
you .a free simple and a very interesting
booklet on the subject of obesity. We will
post same to you in plain package, and free
from observation. IF YOU CAN CALL, we
will weigh you privately and supply all par-
ticulars. LADY ATTENDANT and private
rooms for interviews. Write or call to-day.
Hours: 9 to 5 daily. Saturdays till 12.
WATWORTH GO.,
1903 Ash Street, SYDNEY.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN’S FOOD."
A:.*?-r?:Vr ::V{ v! »:*:
V, «v« i
|:Vi;^? : p.
'/'•’:v*vV*i*J
'*#*•• Vjv.'V*
**•» *• •v
A Trade Mark
with a vital
meaning for
motorists.
" For almost countless cen-
turies .... the rugged re-
mains of Stonehenge have . .
. .faced all the ravages of
Nature's elements and yet sur-
vive, almost scatheless, from
the long-fought contest with
the forces of erosion. Bearing
in mind its historical associ-
ations, ■ age, strength and
permanence, the constant
identification of this monument
... as the symbol of . the
Strong and enduring is well
within the fitness of things."
—The Times.
O house with an honourable past and a
promising future chooses its trade
mark lightly. A case in point is the Avon
India Rubber Company’s selection of the
Stonehenge Trilith.
Cl That Stonehenge chances to be situated in Wiltshire
(England), where the Avon Rubber Works have been estab-
lished since 1885, merely explains the origin of the idea.
The prime significance of the Trilith as a trade mark is that it
was chosen to symbolise the strength and endurance of Avon
Tyres, and it is with'n the knowledge of most motorists that
these valuable qualities are faithfully striven for and consistently
achieved. The superior “ stamina ”of Avons means, for
every man who goes down to the road on wheels —more comfort
for more miles , less trouble and less expense.
8 1
m
m
XI
man
AGENTS
N. J. HOWES & CO., 212 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
H. C. PANNIFEX, 26 Market Street, MELBOURNE.
Diamonds
Reduced
Enormously!
Four years ago we took on a Sole
Agency calling for an enormous out-
put of Diamonds, and, with a view
to making the turnover, we offered
them at merely a broker’s commis-
Fine Diamonds,
set in’Platinum,
choicely cased,
£B/8/-
Fine Diamonds,
set in Platinum,
choicely cased,
£lB/18/-
Fine Diamonds,
set in Platinum,
choicely cased,
£lO/10/-
sion on the cutter’s cost.
It barely paid us the first year; the second year, the sales were so great, it did better; and
the third year better still; and so we are continuing the experiment further.
We only stock the best grades of Diamonds, but our prices for these are THE LOWEST.
There is no duty on Diamonds.
We are the Sole Agents for one of the largest cutters of Amsterdam.
FAIRFAX $ ROBERTS Ltd.
PLAIN FIGURES CASH ONLY.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
Soldiers in
Europe like it
They have written home
repeatedly for this great
Chewing Sweet
WRiGLEYSi
SPEARMINT
Send some to your soldier boy.
It quenches thirst, steadies
the nerves, soothes, refreshes,
benefits.
A delicious aid to teeth,
throat, appetite and digestion.
3d. per packet of 5 big bars at Chemists,
Confectioners and Stores ; or
address J. C. Gambles & Co.,
Commerce House,
Melbourne.
THr
Made in
Australia
for Australians
by Australians,
Be
Sure it’s
Wrigley’s
Chew it after every meal
[5
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co., Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
0
111
a
'
.
Can
Restore the Voice with
EVANS
antisepticTH ROAT
testifies
allaying all irritation of
the throat and clearing the
voice perfectly.
Evans Sons Lescher & Webb, Ltd., London.
00
DEVIL'S PUZZLE MATCHBOX.
The Matchbox, which is different from all
other puzzle-boxes, you’ll never open it until
vou read the directions. Made of Nickel-plate,
beautifully finished. Without doubt the most
ingenious Puzzle Matchbox that has ever been
made. Price, Post Free, with Instruc-
tions, 2/-
Jokes, Puzzles, Tricks,
Novelties
Write ior our New ' ovelty
Catalog— lT’S FREE.
00
SHOCKING
CIGARETTE
CASE.
A splendid have.
No sooner do you
open the case than
you drop it as
quickly.
Post Free, 9d.
H
. L. Hutchinson Ltd.
708-710 George Street, Haymarket, Sydney.


CLEAR YOUR SKIN
By Daily Use of Cuticura Soap
and Ointment. Trial Free.
You may rely on these fragrant super-
creamy emollients to care for your skin,
scalp, hair and hands. Nothing better.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S. W.
Sold throughout the v'Vld.
m
m
Share the
“Ross Luck*’
of Mr. J. Moorehouse, of Winnipeg,
who felled a fine Moose at 480 yards,
on Dec. 13, 1914, with his Ross .280.
The biggest of game falls before
the 4 1 Ross’* ,280 with its special
Sporting Cartridge with copper tube
expanding bullet, patented, and when
you carry one you know that your
quarry, if fairly hit, will surely not
get away.
The Ross .280 Rifle is sold by best
dealers everywhere.
Illustrated Catalogue sent on request.
ROSS RIFLE CO.
Quebec, Canada
815
Information and Prices can be obtained from—
Mr. HUGH SCOTT-YOUNG,
P.O. Box 1031, Melbourne, Australia.
m
m
Vv
When you
want a quick
Shampoo
and have not the time or wish
to wash your hair, just sprinkle
a little of the wonderfully
cleansing Icilma Hair Powder
over it—leave for a few min-
utes —then b - sh out again.
Icilma Hair Powder cleanses
and brightens the hair, removes
all grease and dust, and leaves
it beautifully fresh and glossy.
No wetting—no trouble —
no danger. The only dry
shampoo that readily brushes
out, British made.
o
Hair Powder
(For Dry Shampoo).
Price 3d. Packet.
Of Chemists, Druggis's, Stores, etc.
Icilma is pronounccct Eye-Silma,
1. C. Gambles & Co., Apents,
IT Commerce House, Melbourne.
A H. 7.
CURLY HAIR.
“WAVCURL” imparts Beautiful PER-
MANENT CURLS. One packet sufficient, how-
ever listless your hair. One testimonial says: “My
hair soon became a mass of wavy curls.’’ Result cer-
tain. Price 2/9. Special reduction for few weeks.
Send 1/6 only for large-size 2/9 packet. The
New Wavcurl Co., 67 Cromwell House,
Fulwood Place, Holborn. London, W.C., England. [2
$
0
F .A™ *
K
mi
10
2
9
v
BIG BEN N
8
lei
m
A Bully Room Mate
There’s something
chummy about Big
Ben, something that
makes you think of
him as a pal.
It may be his big,
kindly face, it may be
his deep, hearty voice,
it may be his reliability.
It’s most likely all these
and one thing more, the
fact that he’s doing his
level best for you in
every way he can.
He stays awake all night to
see you out on time in the
morning. He’s ticking off the
seconds for you all day long so
as to be right and ready for you
in the evening. He is a bully
room mate.
Big Ben stands seven inches
tall, well built, handsome,
punctual.
He has a big, easily read dial —a
cheerful, deep toned voice—large, com-
fortable winding keys—a light running
movement with watch-like escapement
—an alarm that calls steadily for five
minutes or intermittently for ten.
Big Ben undergoes a hundred inspec-
tions in the making and six rigid timing
tests before leaving the factory of the
Western Clock Co., La Salle, 111.,
U.S.A., Makers of Westclox. At all
clock dealers, price 12/6; postage 1/-
extra.
f:
LT
si.
V
w
ifgfff
I
ill Inn*
Si
Nerve
The man who has learned how and
when to take risks, banks on his
superior nerve to pull him through.
And if by daily habit and by simple
precautions he has kept his body fit
and vigorous always, you may be sure
his nerve will not fai 1 him in any crisis.
Such men succeed where others dare
not even try to succeed.
| HE habit of taking
* a half teaspoon-
ful of Kruschen Salts
tumbler of hot
in a
water every morning
before rising clears the
head, invigorates and
cleanses the system
and promotes daily good health. You sleep
better —and rise refreshed ; you eat better —and
assimilate all the nourishment that food can give ;
you work better —and enjoy your work. You
can tax your energies to the uttermost and take
pleasure in the effort if only you keep your body fit
while your brain works. The Kruschen habit makes you fit and
k ee P s you fit good health becomes an unconscious habit of life.
2/-
per bottle.
2/-
per bottle.
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS.
ch ® m,P j?’ f?fL stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents:-
Sole Proprietors, K. O^MCtenJ^lxD^fi^DeamgatTAreade'.^UnoiieaM^nghindl
The Inky Way.
Galley slaves: Sub-editors.
* * * #
“Copy Boy”: Having submitted to the
N. S. Wales branch of the A.J.A. his appli-
cation for the job of reporter to accompany
the Industrial Commission to the U.S.A.,
Randolph Bedford tacitly agreed to accept
the decision of the selection committee; yet
because the decision was not in his favor he
how r ls in print. Bedford mistakes the nature
of the job if he thinks that what are re-
quired are glowing descriptions of the alleged
glories of the Woodrow Wilson preserve and
the reporter’s personal views on matters in-
quired into by the commission. The very
qualities that Randolph puts forward as his
merits serve to emphasize his unfitness for
the job. We know that for a certain class
of descriptive work he is unsurpassed
in _ this country; but for the work here re-
quired I would, from my personal acquaint-
ance with the men selected by the Victorian
committee, place any one of them above
the more distinguished author. Bedford re-
marks that the job was “cut and dried for a
Melbourne reporter weeks ago.” As one in
a particularly good position to pick up
current gossip anent such matters, I would
admire to know who that reporter is. There
are three men left in the semi-final selec-
tion—two from Vic. and one from N. S.
Wales. —and no pressman of my acquaint-
ance is game to offer two to one on any
candidate.
* * * *
“Full Point”: The war has brought about
changes in some of the Maoriland papers.
Cable and sub-editors may be seen in the
courts fighting their apprenticeship battles
over again. Dignified, elderly men mix with
bare-faced “court-rakers,” and seem to enjoy
the experience. The girl-reporter has also
taken a seat at the desk, but so far she
hasn’t had to decide what to do when all
persons other than those of the press are re-
quested to leave the court. I want to be
handy when that invitation turns up.
* * ‘ # *
The Tasmanian Mail (Hobart) has found
it out. In the paper’s expert notes on the
latest war developments it says:—
Of course, there is no love lost between the
British and the Germans.
Well, we’ll go this far—there seems to have
been a tiff.
In a Melbourne “Lady’s Letter” the other
day “Gloriana” advised her readers about
the important step in life: —
Never marry an artist. They are nervous and
irritable. Never marry an author or a poet; they
are, as a rule, so absorbed in visions that a flesh-
and-blood woman has small chance of happiness with
them. Hardly ever marry a tenor.
But that’s just like these women—they
won’t be definite. What tve want to know
is how often is it a fair thing to marry a
tenor.
* * * *
“J.F.H.” (London) : You’ve had us beaten
again. On June 14 the evening papers
received this cable from Wellington (M.L.) :
The War Regulations Bill provides for the stop-
page of shouting, but does not provide for early-
closing.
The sub-editors could not make it out, but
one or two of them tried to knock a little
poor hum«r out of it. The Star says:—
Our sub-editor on early duty was completely at
sea with this message. Being innocent of colonial
slang he decided that whether Maoriland shouted or
not did not concern his readers, so the message went
the way of a lot of other copy.
Later in the day Reuter’s London office sent
out this explanatory correction: —
In Wellington telegram sent you this morning
please read “provides for the stoppage of treating.”
Then all was peace once more.
* * * *
In Hobart the price-raising example of
the Mercury and Post has been followed
by the Critic, which has put up its price
to 2d. The Critic is a weekly, principally
devoted to reminiscences of early Hobart—
especially early Hobart pubs. On Satur-
days it adds a couple of galleys of turf
results and then thinks it’s a sporting paper.
* * * *
The Literary , Digest (New York)
mentions that “no Geiftan comic papers
have arrived for several weeks.” Well, if
you haven’t any sausage left maybe ’it’s
some comfort to keep the wrapper in
memory of happier times.
* * * *
Inky Way quarrels used to be conducted
with a very dignified tone in the old Van
Diemen’s Land days. In the Colonial
Times of October 5, 1827, Andrew Bent,
the “father of the Tasmanian press,” had
occasion to note some editorial remarks in
a contemporary :—.
In the Tasmanian of last week appears an article
occupying nearly a whole page, filled with naught
but the most wretched and vulgar abuse vented per-
sonally on us 1 But even were we in possession of
that talent for Billingsgate with which the editor of
iif+ Q a mlSerab i e ?'? olog / for , a P a P er is so abundantly
gifted, we should not condescend to use it in reply
to an article from such a quarter. The lion is not
moved to anger by the yelpings of a puppy nor the
brayings of an ass, by the chattering of a monkey
nor the croaking of a raven.
In a previous number Andrew gave T C
Macdougall, the editor of the Tasmanian
this honest and handsome testimonial: ’
fi J or , “ihty we thought we were tolerably quali-
ned; but the Tasmanian beats us hollow there.
THE USUAL CONCLUSION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Ah, sweetest of the sunlit sprites
With golden glory crowned,
With eyes on which a rapture lights,
With graces-lapped around,
I love thee, and my rhymes will flow
In limpid floods to tell thee so.
I have not loved before, my sweet;
I cannot love again.
About thy wondrous little feet
The blossoms of my pain
I strew, and fondly weave for thee
A crimson robe of poesy.
My milk-white love, be ever kind!
Could hand so small and fair
Strike here a faithful spirit blind?
Accept the gifts I bear.
If not accepted do not burn.
Stamped wrapper herewith. Please return.
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


GET A GUN
and Go Out for a Shoot.
There’s plenty of sport to be had this season, and it
will do you good to get out for a few hours’ hunting.
m
We Repair GUNS,
RIFLES & REVOLVERS
817. “Ithaca” Arms Co.’s Hammerless D.8.8.1i. Pigeon
Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, dense Trogan nitro steel, 32-incli barrels,
both c-boke, Greener cross-bolt, high file-cut rib, pistol-grip, ch&mbered for "J
2fin. cartridges, walnut stock, tested for nitfo; weight, 71b. to Delivered ~«
We can supply the above gun in 16-gauge Deliveiied, £7/10/-
832. "The Cert” D.8.8.L. Gun, 12- or 16-gauge, top lever, 30in.
extension rib, rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip,
walnut stock; weight, about 71b
Postage on one Gun —2/9 N.S.W. ; 5/2 Inter-State.
steel barrels,
45/-
Harrington and
Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun, 12-
gauge, top action,
solid case-hardened locks, decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. pistol grip,
walnut stock; weight, about 6ilb. Gun can be taken apart, same as
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun.
m
bi-Non-Ejector, 22/0; 82-Auto-Ejector, 25 ; -
Postage—2/6 N.S.W. :
4/8 Inter-State.
Smoke SUNOL Tobacco.
HIGHEST GRADE VIRGINIAN.
Sample 2oz. Packet, lid., Post Free.
m
837. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun,
1911 Model, 12-gauge, walnut stock, pistol grip, nickel-
Ktppi barrels. 2XJn.. full choke, take-down system, chambered for
2iin. shells. Magazine holds 5
rubber butt-nlate. Weight. 7Jlb.
cartridges.
Delivered .
£B'lo/.
838. Remiijigton Browning Automatic Repeating Shot Gun, 12-gauge, similar
description to 838 Delivered, £B/10/-
PCS
Bl 1. Isaac Hollis & Sons’ “The Reliable” D.8.8.1j. Gun,
12-gauge, top lever, bar action, 30in. real twist or steel barrels,
Greener cross-bolt, botb choke, rebounding locks, snap fore-end,
chambered-for 2|in. cartridges; guaranteed for all Smokeless Powders;
half-pistol grip, walnut stock; weight, from 7Jlb. to 7£lb. Delivered
£.7/10
JBI2, Same Gun, with 32in. barrels Delivered, £7/15/'
Send for our new edition Firearms and Sporting Catalogue. Post Free.
m
itl
m
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KINO STREET ; also at NEWCASTLE & BRISBANE.
Are You Deaf?
If so, you can be
relieved by using
WILSON’S COMMON-SENSE EAR-DRUMS
A new scientific invention, entirely different in
construction from all other devices. Assist
the deaf when all other devices fail, and where
medical skill has given no relief. They are
soft, comfortable and invisible; have no wire
or string attachment.
Write for Booklet. Mention this Paper.
STAR NOVELTY CO., 498, Elizabeth St., Melbourne. ll j
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND
Just wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSONS
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and you'll have the skin healed and healthy
quicker than with any other ointment on earth
Everyone says so who has used it. Write for n
tin now. 1/6, posted 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist,
Wickham Street. Valid-
Certain-teed
the Roofing
IDEAL
THOROUGHNESS of method and especially developed processes make Certain-teed
the roofing ideal. Finished with a hard, protecting surface of mineral asphal ,
it possesses the same appearance and durability as the surface of an asphalt-topped roa .
Certain-teed is used the world over. Prominent architects everywhere specify
Certain- teed— Because:
Suddenly changing temperatures do not affect it ki the least.
It will not buckle, blister, creep, nor crack, and it cannot dry out.
It is impervious to the destroying action of vapors, acids, smoke
and gas-laden atmosphere.
Your distributor carries a full local stock. He will fill orders promptly. Secure samples and prices from him.
GENERAL ROOFING MFG. COMPANY
Manufacturers of world-known Certain-teed products!
Reinforced Flat Roofing Roll Roofing Damp Course Building Paper
Insulating Paper Paints Wall Board
EXPORT OFFICES:
New York and San Francisco. U. S. A*
Cable Address: 'Genrococo*
FACTORIES:
York, Pennsylvania; Marseilles and
E. St. Louia, U. S. A,
Australian Offica; Perpatual Trustee Building, Hunter Street, Sydney.
Full local Btocke carried toy John Dank* & *?"****' '
Pitt Street. Sydney, N.3.W. | Bourko Street, Melbourne, Vic.
(Illllllllllllllllllllill
? 7S
Mother and child
Baby S% months.
/Cl*
Tv 3
jy*.
Fed from birth on the 9 Allenburys
i’ cods. «•
Are you Worried about Baby ?
HOW to feed Baby is often a great worry to
mothers who are unable to nurse their
babies themselves. Ordinary cow’s milk—
however prepared at home is not a suitable
substitute for the mother’s milk. It is acid in
reaction, contains harmful germs and forms
dense curds in the stomach that cannot be
digested. Decide to use the ‘Allenburys’ Foods
which are the only series of Foods scientifically
adapted\ to the growing requirements of the
child. You will be delighted when you see
how well your baby thrives on this Method of
Infant Feeding. The ‘Allenburys’ Foods are free
from all dangerous organisms; they are portable,
being in powder form and packed in sealed tins.
The Milk Foods Nos. 1. and 2 require the addition
of hot water only to prepare them for use.
A PURE, COMPLETE AND PROGRESSIVE DIETARY.
iSltenburgsFfflds
MILK FOOD No. 1.
From birth to 3 months
MILK FOOD No. 2. MALTED FOOD No. 3.
From 3 to 7 months From 7 months upwards
Unsolicited Testimony.
A Mother in South Australia writes:
Sirs, ,
“1 see by your circulars ybu have pamphlets on infants feeding ana
management. Kindly send me one, it may prove very helpful now or
in the future. I have a beautiful boy fed on your foods since infancy,
we tried other foods (not knowing of yours) and they almost killed
him, he became so thin and old looking that I felt compelled to have
the doctor's advice. Directly he saw the child he said he was being
starved, he was nothing but hone; he told me to try Allen & Hanbury s
foods and see how they would act. I did so with a marvellous result,
in a week there was a big change, he is now eleven months old and
such a big boy—not flabby fat but proportionate. He is just starting
to walk and has eight teeth so you see his illness has not made him
backward. I feel I cannot say enough for your foods and advertise
them all I can. Trusting you will send the pamphlet I asked for,”
Yours ever grateful,
Mrs. H. Pearson.
A Doc'or In New Zealand writes:
Gentlemen,
<‘lt may interest you to know that your Infants Foods are largely
prescribed by us out here and are found to fulfil all they promise
to do. I find the No. i Food most invaluable. The young mother of
to-day seems quite unable to nurse her offspring.”
I am, faithfully yours,
Doctor H. D.
fegy Write for free book “Infant Feeding and Management ’*
64 pages of valuable information for every mother .
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., 13, Market St., Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 1715.
l
x
X
r
X
i
t
X
X
x
i
x
x
x
7>
&
a
$
TYRES
X
x
ALL
BRITISH
X
x
x
x
r
I
a
TYRES
RIBBED
THREE
are made by a
special process to
withstand the ex-
cessive strain of
tropical climates
and Colonial roads.
They have proved
consistently suc-
cessful under the
most rigorous tests,
and will appeal
strongly to motor-
ists on account of
their staunch ser-
vice and quite ex-
ceptional durability
Write for Booklets to —
GEORGE SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., Ltd.,
77-79, Cannon Street, London, England.
Stockists
MELBOURNE *
MOLLOY & CO., 129, Kintf Street.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
COTTON BROS., 212, Madras Street.
p.c.b.— 6o
mm
if any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


Another of our Gallant Heroes Praises
REXONA
PRIVATE
S. R. SIMPSON,
(from a photo.)
m
>9 x / I
%..y y /
Private Stanley Roy Simpson, No. 736, of
the famous First Battalion, was in the origi-
nal landing at Gallipoli, and went right
through the six-months’ campaign, leaving
the Peninsula within a few days of the evacu-
ation. In the First Brigade—composed of
the Ist, 2nd, 3rd and 4th Battalions—he
fought in the Lone Pine charge. He saw the
great eight-hour armistice on the 25th May.
This battle-scarred Anzac says some valued
vvords about Rexona: —
I’d like to add my
testimony as to the
value of Rexona
Ointment. A sol-
dier pal of mine
cured himself of
painful hemorrhoids
solely by its aid, and
I have, by degrees,
come to believe in
it as the most cura-
tive ointment to he
had in the world. I
have found it par-
ticularly effective as
a healing agent in
skin sores and
wounds. Heaven
knows I’ve seen
enough of them to
last me a lifetime,
and I know what I
am talking about. I can recommend Rexona Ointment heartily for (1)
hemorrhoids, because I have seen its work; and (2) for cuts and sores
that have become unhealthy through a worker’s carelessness.
I remain, yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) S. R. SIMPSON.
The above is only one of the many letters we have received in praise of Rexona,
the Rapid Healer, from our boys at the Front. They all use Rexona, and find it)
unequalled as a soothing and rapid healing Ointment tor the terrible wounds and
skin sores which they so often suffer from.
Rexona is first at the Front and first at home. The ever-ready friend of all.
Sold only in triangular pots at 1/6, or large pots, holding nearly four times the
quantity, at 3/-.
0
o
o
THE RAPID HEALER
The Boys at the Front All
Appreciate “Rex” GoodsSss
When the first troops from Australia landed in Egypt, each man was
handed an Emergency Ration. This Ration was a tin of “Rex” Products
—to be exact, it was a tin of Pork Sausages. To-day those “doing their,
bit” at home are packing Xmas Boxes for the Boys now in France and
on Active Service Abroad, and each box should include some of the
popular and well-known “Rex” Products,
iWfo
llllri#
S '
L»rF
“Hex”
Luncheon Cheese
an Emergency Ration which will make
Army Biscuits more enjoyable, packed in
solderless tins containing five ounces of the
most perfect Ration,
and
“Rex” Ham Pate
“Rex” Veal and
Tongue Pate,
the flavorsome “Rex” Products that will
add spice to the daily Trench Menus.
Appetising and satisfying to a superlative
degree and contains good, solid nutriment.
The three delicacies arrive in tip-top condi-
tion—-will keep their goodness better than
anything else which may be sent.
STITStI
Si S'
tn
You can procure these “Rex” Goods from all Grocers, and the
“Rex” ensures their excellence.
Be sure you get “Rex” Brand—ask also for
“Rex” Pork and Beans, Gib. tins.
“Rex” Camp Pie, in tins.
“Rex” Brand Lard, for cooking purposes, in lib. prints.
name
Temporarily out of Stock.
“Rex” Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pigs’ Feet in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Lunch Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
a
£
E
X
BR«»
Try them in your oAvn home—or send a tin or two to
the “boys” in camp here.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon;
Packers of “Rsx” Pure Food Products.
Musicale.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
friHE clamor of a joyous bay a-brimming
to high-water mark,
And sloping banks of yellow clay, and
daylight dying into dark,
And a gull’s wing, and the beach swing, and
flakes of flying scud,
A heart that beats to open sea and thrills
with gipsy blood,
And happy ears which hold the note the
hard nor’-easter croons —
The flute’s within the ti-tree boughs, the
organ ’mid the dunes!
’Tis hey the happy soul of him when eve is
grey' and cold
Who" takes a score of tender thoughts and
weaves the cloth of gold !
Seaward o’er foam and furrow the drifting
rain-bank stoops!
Landward, the first far windows shine, the
houses dream in groups!
Better to march within the swinging ranks
of stalwart things
Than' shuffle down the paths of trade or
through the courts of kings,
To cast the city from the feet and follow
where they lead,
And chant the Litany of Strength and hold
it as a creed —
To feel the spray upon the face and sand
beneath the feet,
And bare the strong heart of the world and
match it beat for beat.
Oh, the land’s rim and the wave’s hymn
beyond the outer bars!
The shoulder of the granite cliff hunched up
against the stars!
’Tis cast from off the limbs the gyves a puny
hand would forge,
And stride to meet the ocean wind which
gallops down the gorge—
Strong wind which finds the welling tear
and dries it on the face,
And takes the mean and narrow phrase and
hurls it into space!
Better to cast the spurious word within the
rushing wind
Than use it ’mid the world of men to twist
the simple mind!
Whipt trees and shrilling grasses, the drone
of shoring wave,
Mingled and blent together in one har-
monious stave;
High tapestry of wonder-sound upraised
against the ear,
Fretted by lift and fall of sea and pierced
by atmosphere;
Trailing through muttering caverns or
ledges blenched with rain,
Till echo in the great sea caves outflings it
once again!
Bich music of the open wrnrld which wakes
the chord that rings
LTpon the harp which is my heart when
Ocean sweeps the strings !
Brave distances of starlit sand which merge
into the night,
To poise the head and lift the eye and
charm the tired sight
Forth from the focus of the page, the bond-
age of the scroll,
To scan the broader screed of Life and read
the Open Soul —
The Open Soul of wider things which mock
the narrow span
Of paltry creeds that hedge the narrow path-
ways trod by man.
And I have heard the shout of planets
flaming in the w r est,
Singing the glory-song of Space—of God
made manifest.
I know the Hound of Ocean who sends each
hunting-whelp
To bay the stalwart headland or quest amid
kelp—•
White- whelps which bide upon the tide in
eager, whimpering packs
To chase the wallowing trawler home and
snarl upon her tracks ;
To lope across the green and hunt the heavy
coaster-boat,
And flesh the fang, and, whining, hang about
her iron throat,
Whelps of the Ocean Mother which leave
the s fields of sea
And lafe my land with cool white tongues
and fawn around my knee.
I love the sail, the opal sail, pale as a hom-
ing dove,
Mysterious as the delicate phrase which
haunts the ears of love!
I am betrothed to tender words and every
minor tune
Which trembles at the twilight time upon
the mouth of June ;
To the gull’s cry and the wind’s cry, wild as
the wail of Grief,
And the drowned wave in the dim cave
beside the sobbing reef;
To the sweet voice and the broad chords
-which dwell in breeze and brine,
For the sea’s joy and the sea’s sorrow and
the sea’s songs are mine.
MAORILAND.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
Vindicated.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
MRS. SINCLAIR awoke with a start
and was horrified to find that
although the light of dawn was
just beginning to filter through the wide-
open window Mr. Sinclair had not yet
arrived home. They had been married 14
months, and this was the first time he had
ever dared to stay away all night. He had
occasionally arrived home at such an hour
that it was only by strict partiality on the
part of the judge that he could be said to
have arrived during the night; but, at least,
he had arrived before she had awakened.
The present was a new departure that
must be sternly discouraged. She turned
over oh her right side and set to work to
think out *how she should suppress the
iniquitous practice, when the thought
flashed suddenly through her mind that he
might have been injured. For a moment
she lay stunned and helpless, and then as
her vitality resumed its sway she bumped
heavily out of bed, thrust her feet into
slippers, threw a wrapper round her, and
hurried downstairs to the telephone, where
she rang up every hospital in the city.
Most of them were polite and made in-
quiries in the casualty wards while she
waited, and duly reported that no such
gentleman had been admitted. The excep-
tion was an irascible voice, the owner of
which seemed to take matters very lightly
and advised her to try the morgue.
That gloomy establishment seemed to be
asleep. After interminable delay an angry
male voice roared:
“Halloa, halloa, halloa —hellloooo-o-o ?
“I want to know if my husband is there
-—he hasn’t been home all night,” burst in
Mrs. Sinclair, desperately.
“Halloa, halloa! This is the morgue.
We haven’t anybody here at all. No”
“But, look here, are you sure he’s not
there —he hasn’t been home all night.”
“Well, there’s no one here at all—ring up
the Water or the Central. That’s where
he’ll be.”
Mrs. Sinclair waded through the tele-
phone guide and the Central was communi-
cated with. Frightful delays worried her
till she felt her hair turning grey. She
was switched from one officer to the other
till she felt like a football after a hard game
of Rugby. She was asked sixteen times to
give an exact description of her husband,
and it was only when a person who said
he was a “copper” commenced to cross-
question her as to her husband’s appear-
ance, personal peculiarities and private
marks, so to speak, that she realised how
little she knew of her beloved Robert. She
was not sure whether his hair was dark
brown or light black. She knew that it
was darker than her own. The constable
sighed. She didn’t think he was going bald.
She was absolutely certain he had no tattoo
marks on him. Then, triumphantly, she
remembered he had an ingrowing toenail
on the big toe of his right foot. What did
they want all these details for? Surely
they could ask the people who were staying
there if one of them was Mr. Sinclair.
“Good lord, madam, this isn’t the Hotel
Australia!” gasped the staggered officer.
“When gentlemen come here they always
give wrong names, get bail, and pay a
solicitor to plead guilty and pay the fine.
But your husband may have been too drunk
when he was brought in, so I’ll just investi-
gate.”
Half an hour later the bell went, and
Mrs. Sinclair, who was by this time sipping
a cup of coffee and had added stockings to
her toilet, grasped the receiver eagerly. The
polite officer said there was a man named
Sinclair; he had an ingrowing toenail, Jbut
it was on the left foot, and the officer rather
thought from the stout manner in which he
denied being the lady’s husband that it
must be he, and that he was anxious she
should not see him in the state he was in.
He seemed to have been thrown out of some
drinking den, and judging by the state of
his clothes he had been thrown hard. Would
she come down and arrange bail?
She didn’t know how to go about it, but
she put on her best black tailor-made cos-
tume and a rakish toque, called a cab, and
proceeded to the Central as fast as the
traffic constables would allow. The officer
to whom she introduced herself seemed
somewhat taken aback at her appearance.
He was humility itself —gave her his own
chair and sent a constable to bring
“Sinclair” in. The constable was a dread-
ful time, and voices, one of which she
was sure was her husband’s, seemed
to argue in the passage, but at last, after
nearly twenty minutes’ wait, the door flew
open and “Sinclair” was hauled into the
room. He was a wretchedly undersized
individual dressed, in a paget coat several
miles too long for" him, trousers that were
covered with holes, and mud hung round his
legs. His boots grinned horribly. And to
make matters worse he grinned at Mrs.
Sinclair boldly and unashamed, as if he
were a hidden joke.
The officer was leaving the room to allow
them to talk quietly, when Mrs. Sinclair
burst out wrathfully:
“That , object is not my husband. Evi-.
dently he is not here.”
Then she swept out, and hurrying down
to her cab told herself that if Robert had
got into that sort of place and company,
•well, he must just get out of it as he got
into it, by himself. Then she drove home,
* * * *
About an hour later she heard her hus-
band’s voice calling: “Bring me another
cup of coffee, Jane; and where the devil’s
the whisky gone?—l’ll die if I don’t have a
hair of the dog.”
What else he would have said was cut
short by the appearance of his wife, who
hurled herself upon him with a shriek of
joy. She was beginning to have just a little
qualm of fear about how Robert would take
her efforts to assure herself that he was
uninjured. So she was so genuinely glad
to see him, and so thoroughly scared that
he would ask her where she had been, that
she stopped his mouth with kisses. Then
she drew back and looked at him.
She noticed that his clothes were
slightly damp and altogether out of shape.
He was aromatic with the odor of cloves.
She gasped.
Robert started to talk in-a quick, boister-
ous manner that she had not noticed before.
He never said a word about where she had
been —he seemed too full of anxiety to talk
about himself. He flopped heavily on to the
sofa as Jane entered with a tray bearing a
cup of coffee and a decanter of whisky.
Carefully pouring the whisky into the black
coffee, and stirring it with the wrong end of
the spoon, he began:
“Suppose you wondered what had become
of me, dear? Well, you were near being
left a widow. It happened like this. Went
out with some johnnies to see a motor-boat
that I thought would just do for you and me
to jaunt round the harbor with on Sundays.
The other johnnies had to go out to some-
thing or other, and I stayed to have a trial
in the boat.”
“But. my dear, cou’d you manage it?”
“Manage it! Certainly I could. First
of all I ran across to Watson’s Bay, and
(Continued on next page.)


RINGWORM
SCALP SORES
AND KINDRED “CATCHING” SKIN
TROUBLES.
TREAT Ringworm, Eczema,
Scalp Sores and Money
Scab with Zam-Buk
immediately the first
itching spot or pimple appears.
As Zam-Buk’s splendid record proves,
even most obstinate cases that have
defied prolonged medical treatment
yield to this great disease-dispelling balm.
Zam-Buk first brings soothing and speedy
relief to the raw, itchy skin surface, and
.then, by penetrating to the root of the trouble, ;it kills
the disease parasites and causes the disfiguring patches
to die away. Mothers say that occasional shampoos
with Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap are splendid for warding
off disease and keeping a child’s skin and scalp in a
sweet, healthy state. Beware of aggravating the trouble
by the use of coarse, impure ointments and imitations.
Times out of number, when Doctors said the X-Rays were
the only remedy, Zam-Buk has been tried with the most
successful and happiest results.
m
Schoolgirl’s Scalp Trouble Cured.
IS§ R. IvELLY, 91 Thomas Street, Ultimo, Sydney, says:—“When about
13 years of age I suffered long and painful disfigurement from a severe
outbreak of scalp eczema. The disease first appeared in the form of a
small swelling, which itched intensely. The fiery irritation made sleep impossible,
for I used to lie awake at night rubbing and scratching away at my itchy skin.
“Eventually the eczema spread all over my head and developed to such a
shocking extent that I had to leave school. Whilst at home I was carefully
treated with all kinds of remedies, but six months elapsed before the disease was
got underhand.
“Upon hearing good reports about Zam-Buk it was decided to try the
treatment. When I saw the great improvement that Zam-Buk effected, and how
it was gradually causing the disease to die away, I eagerly continued the treat-
ment. This perseverance was splendidly rewarded when Zam-Buk finally cleared
away the last traces of my terrible disfigurement.”
Zam-Buk is invaluable for Cuts, Bruises, Burns, Scalds, Abrasions, Boils, Eczema,
Pimples, Sores, Scali> Diseases-, Poisoned Wounds, Bad Legs, Ulcers, Abscesses,
Ringworm, Teething Sores, Barber’s Rash, Stiffness, Itch, Face Sores, Sore Dips, and
injured and diseased conditions of the skin. Zam-Buk is obtainable from all Chemists
and Stores at 1/6 per pot, and 3/6 family size (containing nearly four times the 1/6
pot), or from C. E. FULFOKD DTD., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
m
1/6 and
3/6 per pot.
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
SWA
POWNTPEN.
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only):
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255aGeorge St., Sydney
m
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic-
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
m
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
then round and into Manly, where I had a
whisky and soda. Then I came out past
Fail-light and made for the Bomborah.
Standing down on the bit of beach by the
Bomborah I saw a lady waving a handker-
chief and evidently anxious to attract my
attention. I stood in close and asked her
what was up. She said she was in a position
of some difficulty. It was necessary that she
should be in town by 5.30; would I be so
good as to put her on the boat that had just
left Manly for the city? Well, my dear,
what could I do?”
“I think she was a very forward creature
—l’m sure I would not have the hardihood
to force myself in that way,” said Mrs.
Sinclair, haughtily.
“I know, I know, my dear. I thought
that at the time. But as she had the bad
manners to do it, what could I do? I
thought it might be a case of catching a
train to see some sick relative.. A dying
mother, perhaps, my dear. One never knows,
you know, my love.
“Well, I got her on board, and stood after
the Manly boat. But we never had a hope
of catching it. Then she said her sick
mother was at Rose Bay, and if I would
just run her across to the jetty there, she’d
pray for us both for ever. So I ran her
over.
“When I got to the jetty it was just get-
ting dusk. I started back with a rush,
because I hadn’t a lamp. The darkness
came down like the curtain of a theatre.
I saw a boat put out from behind Rose Bay
jetty and come after me, but I thought
nothing of it. Just as I was getting well
across the fairway he overtook me . and
slashed at me with a boathook, and yelled,
‘What yer doing,out with my wife?’
“I got out my own. boathook, and gave
him ‘what for.’ He was jabbed all over in
no time, and knocked down into the bottom
of his boat, Then he showed what a cur
he was. He found out that he couldn’t give
me a hiding, and he drew off, just keeping
out of reach. By this time it was quite
dark, and we could hardly see one another.
I don’t think his boat, had a name on it;
anyway I couldn’t find it. There were no
steamers in sight, and' the cowardly brute
drove his boat right at me. I brought mine
round, and dodged him, but his engine was
stronger than mine,- and he swung round
like a flash, and his prow caught me .amid-
ships”
“Oh, Robert, are you hurt?” shrieked
Mrs. Sinclair, rushing over to him and
putting her arms round his neck.
“No, no, my love! It was the boat’s ’mid-
ships, not mine.”
“Yes, dear: but I wish you wouldn’t go
taking strange women home in boats.”
“I’ll never do it again, I swear!” said
Robert enthusiastically. “Once bit, twice
shy. Well, over we went, splash”
“I hope he’s drowned. How did you get
out? And is he dead, dear?”
“No, no, he’s not even wet. He didn’t
go over.”
“I’m sure you said ‘we,’ dearest?”
Sinclair took a tight grip of himself, and
then a long pull at the coffee-royal.
“The boat that I was in was capsized,
smashed in two, and I was thrown into the
water. I managed to grab a lifebelt that
floated by, and the wretch cruised round
trying to find me. But I managed to dodge
him, and got to land, where I had to walk
all the way home; which explains why I am
so late and so feverish. Now I’m going to
have a bath and to bed.”
“My dear, don’t you think you have had
bath enough?”
Mr. Sinclair shuddered, and commenced
to take off his clothes as he climbed the
stairs. She heard him splashing about in
the bath, and when she saw him next he
was fast asleep and snoring loudly.
* * * *
He was very fond of persimmons and
cream, and Mrs. Sinclair went out and
bought some for his lunch. As she passed
through the gate she saw the man who had
been shown her at the police station hang-
ing about the corner. When he saw her
he shuffled off; and she thought no more
about it as she climbed into the tram.
Coming home she looked out of the tram
as it passed the gate. Down the path came
the same disreputable object, his long coat-
tails almost hanging on the ground. He
came through the gate, looked up and down,
and seemed to make a mental calculation as
to which was the nearer—the pub next the
bank, or the one on the corner. Then he
shuffled towards the one next to the bank,
and disappeared through the swinging doors
into the place marked “Public Bar.”
When she got inside, her husband was
bustling round. He seemed uneasy at her
sudden return. He had not expected her so
soon or he would have come to meet her.
She looked at him coldly. He flushed pain-
fully. They ate their lunch in silence, and
he had the persimmons without cream. He
went to the office after lunch, and did not
return till very late at night, when he hic-
euped, and fell into bed.
He was drunk—distinctly drunk —but all
the same he had next morning a clear recol-
lection of his wife arising stealthily, lighting
a candle, and examining his feet. He remem-
bered he had tried to hide his left foot, but
it had been seized and dragged into the
damning light. Then he rather thought
there had been an ejaculation of “Beast!”
and a blizzard of tears. He wandered
downstairs to the dining-room, wondering
where his wife was. Jane brought in his
breakfast, and said Mrs. Sinclair had gone
for a walk and would not be back till about
10. He was due at the office at 10. but
he hung round waiting to see if his wife
would return. Somebody touched him on
the elbow. He turned.
Just at that moment his wife came round
the corner and was astonished to see her
husband vigorously kicking the disreputable
object in the long coat-tails.
. Then she realised that she had misjudged
him. Had he not been innocent he would
never have dared to kick the object. She
rushed up and dragged him away before the
police came, and when she got inside the
fence she threw herself into his arms and
sobbed.
Five minutes later Sinclair took a cab
for the office, and his chest stuck out in front
magnificently.
C. A. JEFFRIES.
Together.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
HE cough followed me out through the
hall door and into the morning sun-
shine —the rending, hacking cough of
the woman in the room next to mine. The
woman with the painted lips, whose bella-
donnaed eyes burned tragically beneath eye-
lids that seemed weary with the weight of
sorrows. I looked back at the tall, gaunt
house where so many of us slept and ate,
and wondered if I too was irretrievably
caught in the tentacles of the boarding-
house octopus. Would my life become as
drained of color as the lives of these un-
wanted ones who spent their days in shop
or office, and their evenings in ill-lighted,
shabby “single” rooms?
The heavily-built old man stood at the
corner, peering, as always, anxiously along
the road. He had light blue eyes set in a
weather-beaten face, and his knotted fingers
moved restlessly about the knob of his stick.
Every morning he stood in the same spot,
sometimes lifting a puzzled gaze to a passer-
by, but reverting almost instantly to his
keen searching of the road. This morning
he called to me in a quavering, husky whis-
per: “You didn’t see a little girl along the
road, did you? A pretty little girl with
long curls —blue eyes she has, too.” I
shook my head. “I must just wait then,”
he said with an infinite patience. “ They
don’t want me to wait, but s’pose she got
lost altogether just because I wasn’t here?”
His old eyes searched mine anxiously. I
nodded assent. “P’raps they mightn’t let
me wait long ; so tell her to hurry if you
meet her.” Then as I fnoved away: “This is
her photo,” drawing out a faded, old-
fashioned “cabinet” of a child of seven or
eight with long curls.
“What a lovely little girl!” I exclaimed.
“Little girl!” He seized on the words.
“Yes, just a little girl who’s lost the way.”
While I hesitated to leave him a worried-
looking woman in a bag apron hurried from
one of the side streets.
“Oh, Mr. Wells, wot a start you’ve give
me !” she cried reproachfully. “Not even to
wait for a bite o’ brekfus. Now, come
along ’ome an’ ’ave a mouthful, an’ I’ll send
Jimsie to keep a watch out for you.”
With a last long look down the road, he
turned to do her bidding, the woman loiter-
ing back to whisper to me: “It’s his
daughter, Miss. She went gay years ago,
an’ it broke ’im up. Then he ’ad a sickness,
an’ it touched ’is brain, an’ ’e just lives
over an’ over again the morning when she
was a little kid an’ got lorst, an’ after ’e
’ad looked for ’er ’e just stood an’ waited
on this ’ere corner, an’ at dusk the pore
little kid came along sobbin’ ’er little ’eart
out.”
The woman brushed her eyes with her
bag apron.
“It’s a ’ard world for some, Miss. An’
the rest of us ’ave a lot to be glad about.”
She hurried after her charge and I ran
for my tram, my heart aflame with revolt.
As the tram swept the curve the trees in
the park, swelling with bud in the Spring
sunshine, flashed into view. Happy trees!
Every year they bloom again, but most of
us just wither in the bud and know no
summer.
All day the memory of the woman with
the cough and the old man with his heart-
breaking vigil stayed with me. And on the
way home I was moved by an impulse to
buy some violets for my neighbor in that
gaunt, grim house where so many of us
ate and slept.
As I walked through the gathering dusk
I could see the figure of my old man still
keeping watch. A red-headed youngster,
probably Jimsie, came up and caught him
not unkindly by the arm. The old man
lingered a moment, and then stepped into
the road as the car, almost noiseless on
its luxurious tyres, swept the curve. The
old man lurched sideways and struck the
kerbstone. He spoke once quite clearly:
“My little Rose, little girl, you’ve found
your way—back—all tired - out —an’—
frightened Now we’ll go—’ome—
together!”
That was the end. The onlookers went
their ways as the ambulance moved the
lifeless body.
. Shaken and dazed I found myself knock-
ing at my neighbor’s door. No answer
came, so I went in, meaning to leave the
violets on her table. She was lying fully
dressed on the bed. “Miss Weston!” I
called softly. _ There was no reply. I
turned on the light quickly, and drew closer,
fehe had been dead about fifteen minutes.
On_ the table were a blood-stained hand-
kerchief and . a faded, old-fashioned cabinet
photograph of a lovely little girl of seven
or eight, with long curls.
JOHN EGAN.
Cootamundra Wattle in
Melbourne.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
LAST night the haggard day went down
With horrid mouthings on its lips
Of gulfing seas that gape to drown
Worn men and broken ships.
And all night long a little wind
Groped round and round about the eaves,
As one that seeketh and is blind,
And grieves, and grieves, and grieves.
This morn, adown a city lane
(Oh, lady of the misty plumes),
Glad witch-gold flashes through the rain—
The Cootamundra blooms.
* * * *
Lift, priestess of sweet faiths, and far
O’er Christless earth’s hell-hiving swarm,
Thy pity like a patient star —
A star behind the storm.
Though poor maimed manhood’s wreckage
roll
With battle’s backwash at our feet,
And strumpets, void of woman’s soul,
Sell kisses in the street:
Though love be loss and life be pain,
Twin ghosts of passion-purple glooms,
Dead hopes lie rotting in the rain,
Yet—Cootßmundra blooms.
VICTORIA,
MARIE E. J. PITT.


■ :
Mi
•-v'.
m
>
v :
■
A Fair Question.
Have You Tried the
Best Practical Hethod
of Eliminating Your
Belt Losses?
WESTINGHODSE
(MORSE)
CHAIN DRIVES
will Overcome Your
Difficulties.
Write To-day for Booklet
B.M. 310.
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
Ns vZealand Office: 93-107 Featherston St., Wellington.
HilaWO ißvl mimmWx n
m
DON’T LOOK OLD!
But restore your grey and faded hairs to their natural color with
LOCKYER’S SULPHUR
HAIR RESTORER
1/6 SOLD EVERYWHERE. 1/6
Loekyer’s gives health to the hair and restores the
natural color. Jt cleanses the scalp, and makes
the most peifect Hair Dressing.
This world-famed Hair Restorer is prepared by the great
Hair Specialists, J. Pepper & Co. Ltd., Bedford Laboratories,
London, Ting., and can be obtained dirSct from them by
post, or- from any Chemists and Stores throughout the World".
safeguard you* health
OTJ.Coflfe Broke's
CWorodyM
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Co/c/s, Asthma,
and in the Cou ß h of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery .
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/S, 2/; 5/:
Made in England.
TOO HE YS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
——— AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky
Dogs Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
PROFITS IN SOFT DRINKS.
Vendor Should Get All the Profits.
mm
Eckersley’s No. 68 Combined Carbonator and
Filter, with Filling: Eaclc (1916 Model).
NOTE:
■We manufacture Glass Washers,
Filters, Bier-raising Machines
and all Accessories for the Trade.
Quadruple Your
Profits
by making your own
Aerated Water Supplies
with
Eckersley’s
Machines
Soda
Fountains.
Manufactured Solely in Australia by
ECKERSLEY § SONS, 25a George Street, Sydney,
And Corner HAIG S CLARENDON STREETS, S. MELBOURNE.
Agents:
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, Currie Street, Adelaide, S. Australia.
ELLIOTT, DONALDSON & DOUGLAS, Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
JOHN RIGg & SON, Dixon Street, Wellington, N.Z.
LIONEL SAMSON & SONS, Cliff Street, Fremantle, W.A.
TO-NIGHTS THE NIGHT
FOR
m
S/a
wm,
ft
*§
i
a
a
vV
1
m
; : 38
7
x
4
V.
'
Beechams
THEY KEEP ME FIT AND WELL.
The tool with 5 big features
is the Oster Bulldog Die-Stock. The
features are:—
1. Self-locking dies.
2. Self-locking guides.
3. No resetting dies after each cut. *
4. No loose bushings to lose or mislay.
5. No small parts to break.
Moving the releasing lever to the left
expands the dies—then the stock lifts
off the threads. Greater speed, less
labor, cleaner-cut pipe-threading are
produced by
Made in
11 Useful
Sizes
m
m
z
If any illustration appearing in 'xiie
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
AT any height, at any temperature, in any
climate, under any atmospheric conditions,
at any speed, up any grade, under any load,
m
The Famous
Schebler Carburetter
“The Heart of the Auto=
mobile” sends a never-
failing power stream
pulsing through your
motor.
Illustrative and descriptive
leaflets and all information free.
Robert C. swan
304 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
Co. Ltd.,
Sole Agents for Australasia. [1


The All-Australian
Power Transmitter.
ngrovite
LEATHER
LTI
which is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
* '&5- ■
Engineers’ Everyday Wants —
Stop Valves, Gate Valves,
Check Valves, Safety Valves,
Steam Cocks, All Iron Cocks,
Cylinder Cocks, Injectors,
Gauges, Mountings, Lubricators,
etc.
Large Stocks on hand in Best Makes.
Write for Price List.
PARKE $ LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
DICK’S BALATA BELTING.
The “DICKBELT”
has again proved its superiority and economy
by its acceptance in the following important
tenders for 1916-17:
N.S.W. Railways.
N.S.W. Tender Board for Dock-
yard.
Victorian Railways.
Victorian State Coal Mine.
Broken Hill Proprietary Mine.
Has maximum strength, life; evenness.
Has minimum stretch and slip.
Therefore ensures economy in eost, power and
machinists’ time.
Sole Agents:—.
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Sydney, Melbourne & Adelaide.
PAUL & GIiAY LTD., Newcastle.
THE
LAGGING
YOU WANT.
m
MOULDED MAGNESIA BEND,
OPEN & CLOSED ON PIPE.
NEWALt’S
MAGNESIA
COVERINGS.
WRITE FOR SAMPLES.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD.,
82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne. Brisbane, Perth ; Wellington, N.Z,
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Flaming,
Patent “Ne I yam bo ” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Flaming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work.
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footsoray, Victoria.
mm
m
TiStandard Reducing Valve
for Steam, Water or Air.
SIMPLE
RELIABLE.
STOCKED IN ALL SIZES by
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
ELECTRIC LIGHT
COUNTRY HOUSES and HOMES.
We are Specialists in this work and carry
Large Stocks of Plants and Batteries.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, Ltd.
309 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
IS
LATEST
THE
en
s
All British
made, and the
most up-to-date
machine.
Fitted with one long Bush for main spindle, also adjustable Lid Bush.
lIIHIJ
' ■
In
Improvements
the
Lister Leads.
Sole Agents
for* Australia—
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO.,
9-13 YOUNG STREET,
SYDNEY.
-
Agents In mil
the States.
The Fastest RocK Drill in the World is the
HYDROMAX !
This sounds a large order, but read the following Test
EASTPOOL ROOK DRILL. CONTEST, December 7, 8 and 10, 1914.
Total boring time for the three shifts, including all changes..
Total depth for the three shifts ..
Average boring time per shift
Average depth per shift
“Hydromax.”
131 hours.
220 ft. 4in.
41 hours.
73ft. sin.
Next Best Drill.
13§ hours.
118 ft. Bin.
4\ hours.
39ft. 6in.
The advantage in favor of the “HYDROMAX” Hammer Drill is therefore 85*6%
ENQUIRE INTO THIS AT ONCE FROM
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Equitable Building, SYDNEY.
