

the Veteran of Whiskies
< crq
Machinery Merchants,
and Contractors’ Plant,
v ; AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc.
107 Kent
Street, Sydney,
Engineers
Sales conducted in all
—FOB—
‘ and
rawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
New and Second-hand Plants always avadable.
of New South Wales.
A
0 „ all Classes or SECURITY.
bills discounted.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
Opposite National Amphitheatre.
„ Telephone: City 9325.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
issi
EKRlfii
♦eeajlUlU
utffllPS lIImOWTOEPIET
s
HOMT DE PfETC fir POSIT MWYESTME WT
rnwMEBCiH CHAMBERS
HOBART.
Hadley's
Orient Hotel
Keep Your Home Clean and Healthy
And Free from all Insect Pests by using
Radium Spray
Sold at all department stores. Eadium Spray is
made in Australia by an Australian firm.
RADIUM CHEMICAL CO. LTD.
210 Clarence Street, Sydney.
>\
bacK«
I must have
HUTTON 51
KncApplcßrand
•4
t
ANTI BLOWPIPE
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
Junket,
laggHaflß
For INDIGESTION
and dyspepsia
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
“THE SILVER KING”
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BEST BALL
OF ALL
I
Royal
Dutch
COCOA.
SUPERIOR
IN
EVERY WAY.
Roofs
White
■
“Not the same as others”-they're waterproof
and weatherproof and proof against extremes
of temperature. Also they're line to looK at.
Better let us send you Samples and BooKlets.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO.,
Manufacturers of Amiwud,
Challis House, Sydney.
D. S. EVANS,
Australasian Representative.
BULLOCH LADES
V/HISWES
BL
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
S ; V. Q.
Moulds for Making
Concrete Pipes.
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. ia
STEEL TRUCK
WHEELS.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Vo], 37.— N0. 1881.]
[Thursday, March 2, 1916.
, „ * new Svdnev NSW., Australia, for Transm.ssion by Post as a Newspaper.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney,


NEW FICTION
Tyler’s Dusty, Road.
Couperus: Later Life.
Hanshrew: Riddle of the Night.
Morris: When My Ship Comes In.
Sherreff: Up the Road with Sally.
Lynde: Real Man.
London: Lost Pace.
Phillpotts: Old Delabole.
Niven : S.S. Glory.
Cher: Immortal
Ramsay: Miss Elizabeth Gibbs.
Lyons: Roby Lane.
Lewis: Chapel.
Parrish: Garfrae’s Comedy.
Noble: Bottle Fillers.
All at. 3/6 per vol.; posted, 3/9.
At GEORGE ROBERTSON & GO. PROPTY LTD., Zii PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
NOT A e LEMAN POWDER.
MUSTDIE
NON POtlklAiOUS POWDCR.
THECiF.EfIT
‘‘MUSTDIE’’
Certain Death to All Insects.
Pull directions with each Tin.
Burn it —that’s one way.
Sprinkle with the “MUSTDIE” Blower
• —that’s the other way.
But even a small quantity dusted
on the pillow at bedtime will effect-
ually keep away Mosquitoes.
The “MUSTDIE” Blower is recommended to
be used, for it is not only economical, but tn
powder is distributed more effectively, and we
want you to get the best results out of ever)
ounce of the powder.
Sold everywhere. Chemists, Grocers, Store-
keepers, 9d. per Tin.
FREE TRlAL.—Write to “Mustdie,” Dept. J*j
Box 1520, G.P.0., Sydney, and sample tin win
be sent post free ; or forward 9d. in stamps mr
a full-size tin. ~
INSECT DESTROYER.
! Flies.
Fleas.
Bugs.
Mosquitoes.
* 9°
The Red Page
Australian
It is National Efficiency that will not onl.v
win this war but preserve the Empire.
• series of lectures upon this highly-importan
■subject was delivered by R. F. Irvine, Pro
lessor of. Sydney University
Meredith Nckinson, of the same University
and Professors W. Ilarrison Moore and W
A. Osborne, of Melbourne University, a'
Melbourne, at the invitation of F. Hagel
thorn, Minister for Public Works, Vic
These lectures are now printed under the
title, National Efficiency. R. F. Irvine ex
plains the misconceptions of the public o
the subject. “The average business man
thinks National Efficiency is identical witl
more business, higher profits, and a laboi
force that works according to his standards
and refrains from striking and making things
otherwise uncomfortable.... The working
man, knowing what is commonly in the mine
of the employer, scents danger in any talk o]
efficiency. It seems to suggest merely a
new device for over-driving, speeding up anc
getting unpaid work out of human muscle. .. .
When any or all of these are masquerading
as the ‘General Public,’ National Efficiency
is discovered to be a thing in which all gov-
ernment services are woefully lacking.” R
F. Irvine’s definition is: “The most efficient
adaptation of means to procure the highest
welfare and civilisation of a people and to
ensure its survival against internal diseases
and the attacks of other nations.”
In Australia there is a natural distrust of
monopolies and little comprehension of the
fact that combination makes possible a highei
grade of organisation. Irvine believes in
Trade Unionism as a vital factor in our evo-
lution. “To organised labor we are indebted
for a far nobler conception of what the
economic aims of a society should be.” But
he is compelled to admit that organised labor
has so far confined itself to purely protective
action. It has aimed to secure a better dis-
tribution of wealth; but it has done little,
except indirectly, to secure an ampler pro-
duction of wealth. But it is a basic truth
that neither the employer nor the employee
can work efficiently without some stimulus
in the shape of reward.
R. F. Irvine’s opinion of the business man
and the civil servant is scathing. “Business
men here are, I believe, as conservative as
civil servants. Although they travel a good
deal, my impression is that too often they
carry with them exceedingly self-satisfied, un-
trained and unobservant minds....ln cities
like Melbourne and Sydney, where the price of
electricity is very low and the cost of petrol
very high, the introduction of electric traction
is demonstrably still more economical than
it has proved to be in America and Europe.
Yet our business men still hold off without
being able to give an adequate reason. The
electric handling of heavy goods on wharves,
in stores, factories* and on railway stations
is now becoming universal abroad, but we
still persist with the laboriously slow and
very expensive hand-barrow. In this respect
privately-conducted industries are no more
adventurous than public enterprises... .1 am
amused when I hear city men talking of the
need of applying ‘business principles’ in pub-
lic administration, and in the operation of
public enterprises. In nine cases out of ten
they are speaking in complete ignorance of
the conditions under which the civil servant
has necessarily to work.... Also, I know that
among ‘down-town’ business men there is a
large annual crop of failures. It has,
indeed, been calculated that about 90 per
cent, of the new enterprises started every
year fail owing mainly to bad management.”
As for the civil servant, Irvine finds that
he adopts a hostile attitude to the public,
and regards liis business as an end in itself
and not as a rendering of the best possible
service to the public. “When he gets down
to this stage of limited vision he becomes a
singularly inventive creature. He has a
wonderful knack of manufacturing little bits
of useless procedure, of check and counter-
check. and so, like a coral insect, of building
up huge official ramparts which impede busi-
ness and lead tb over-staffing and needless
expenditure.” This curious insect has an
excessive regard for precedent and routine
experience. He comes to think that his par-
ticular knowledge and experience is of
supreme importance. So he gradually begins
and continues to do obsolete things in an
obsolete way. “The system is such that he
loses or fails to acquire that spirit of adven-
turousness without which progress is im-
possible. .. .Wisdom to him is too often
measured by the number of years he has sat
in some official chaiy. When such a man
reaches a position of responsibility he is
careful to tone down originality in those
below him. He is suspicious of ability, and
frowns upon initiative and ambition.”
Irvine illustrates by our Sydney tram-
system. From an electrical and engineering
point of view it is highly efficient, but it
fails to provide a convenient and comfort-
able service. The cars are so high that a
step-ladder is needed to get into them. They
are so constructed that passengers are con-
tinually disturbed by the entrance and
departure of other passengers and by an
obsolete and cumbersome method of fare
collection. Their construction is responsible
for a maximum of noise, dust and draught.
But the management is not wholly to blame.
We are, because we possess so low a standard
of comfort that we put up with our trams.
The remedy suggested by this alert Pro-
fessor of Economics is the establishment in
each State (why not Federal?) of a Bureau
of National Efficiency and a General Staff
acting in conjunction with it. Germany is
completely organised ; we are not. Irvine’s
Bureau is not a public library—which he
characterises as a mausoleum of dead know-
ledge, but a department for collecting know-
ledge of all devices for improving
equipment, organisation and methods of
other countries, all the thinking in this and
other countries, ana not merely classifying
them but publishing them, in the press and
in the Cabinet.
For the General Staff, Irvine confesses
that what is wanted is a brand of men that
this community has hitherto had no machi-
nery for producing: the trained and ex-
perienced efficiency expert, who will not
regard businesses and industries merely as
profit-making mechanisms, but as a co-opera-
tion of forces to increase welfare. They
must be free from “the diseases of official-
ism.”
The other essays treat this difficult sub-
ject with almost equal interest from other
points of view. The little book is cordially
recommended to those most in need of it:
the business man, the civil servant, the
trades-unionist and the politician.
li. E. Boote, who is “Touchstone” and
also editor of The Worker, collects his
weekly feature, A Fool’s Talk, in yolume
form (The Worker Trustees, Sydney, 3s.
6d.). The book is charmingly produced, and
the illustrations by C. A. Emery contribute
much to its appearance. “Touchstone” dedi-
cates his book “to the fools of the world,’ 4
but not in the hope of getting a large circu-
lation ; for the author is probably the only
fool in the world who would admit his fool-
ishness. His idea is that the only way to
get a truth accepted by the world —or at any
rate the least personally inconvenient way
—is to tell the truth in the guise of a joke.
Boote reveals himself here as a clear thinker,
with a neat literary touch and considerable
originality of thought; but the book suffers
because, while the contributions to his paper
were individually sufficiently interesting,
here they must be taken in bulk, and the
reader gets tired of too much attempted bril-
liance, and wearied by the repetition of cer-
tain overstressed ideas. And that of this
war as solely a capitalists’ war is one of
them.
J*
“In the world of turfdom the name of
Christie Kenny was one to conjure with. It
caused the hearts of backers to beat with
elation when they saw it hoisted alongside
the number of the horse that they had
backed. At sight of it bookmakers shortened
the odds, and cursed this too popular rider,
whose mount everyone wanted to back.”
That is how Under a Cloud begins. And it
ends with a telegram: “Batlow first Tatt.’s
Cup. Good win. My name is clear. Leav-
ing here to-night for home and Elva.
Darcy.” What more could the inhabitants
of “the world of turfdom” want than this,
the seventh Australian racing story by
Arthur Wright, and the 19.746,392,387 th
shilling volume, or thereabouts, issued bv
the N.S.W. Bookstall. Sydney?
Startling war news comes to band from
Althea, whose information is now given to
the world by Motor Id. Ivroemer in his
work. Why this World Crisis? (W. K.
Thomas, Adelaide Register, S.A.). When
the war broke but the writer formed an
occult class of four members; and through
Althea, a medium, the class received a flood
of light upon all the aspects of the great
crisis. The class, it is encouraging to, note,
has now a membership of eight. It appears
that there is war in Heaven, and that the
whole solar system is affected. The spirit-
ual ruler of this world needed reinforce-
ments, and appealed to the God of Venus.
Chapter Three is entitled, “Glimpses of the
Planet Mars—Tremendous Volcanic Emo-
tions Observed.” Full descriptions are
given of the inhabitants of all the other
planets; and each planet is apparently en-
gaged in warfare rather like our own. In,
Mercury people are not born: there are no
children there. And they are able to visit
the earth. Another chapter describes the
mobilisation of the solar system; and in
another we learn —as we somehow sus-
pected—that the Jupitarians do not approve
of a White Australia. Of course, the writer
fully believes the absurd fake about the
Angels of Mons, but fails to offer any
proofs. He believes that the alleged angels
were inhabitants of the planet of Uranus.
But these were only the advance guard. A
still more glorious army is preparing to
descend and take a hand in the solution of
the world’s difficulties —the Ruler of this
world with his angels, supported by legions
from the sun. Also there are going tp be tidal
waves. ‘T felt the water rise and rise and rise,
and then it seemed as if it gave one big
‘woof,’ and it seemed that half a continent
was submerged.” One-half of the tidal wave
broke over Holland and the other over
Egypt. Now, did the wave say “Woof 1” or
“Spoof?”
At last we have an Australian poet to
sing the war. The Sony Story of the Great
War, by J. B. Fulton, Casino, N.S.W., price
6d., or. if taken in quantity, 4d., has now
reached its fourth edition, completing 8000
copies. This poem was written before break-
fast on February 5, 1015—surely a date that
will become historical! The author admits
that he has had assistance from various
people in perfecting the proofs, and so
modest is he that he “allowed the man in
the street to decide which of two words
should be used.” However, “there is no com-
pulsion to sing all the piece through. The
first part may be read, recited or sung, but
the choruses should be sung by the com-
pany.” And our national war-poet is “not
out for money”; all he wishes is to help the
Empire along.
Liege’s long-defended fortresses,
And Antwerp’s chain of forts ;
With well-trained gun and mortar piece
Are giving no reports.
In case this should be ambiguous the poet
adds a footnote: “I mean that the forts were
silenced or taken.” It is a pity that other
classical poets have not been equally elucida-
tive.
The cruel German legions all
The Vosges valleys past;
And aged men are learning now
Of war the deadly blast....
Oh, Treitzschke, war-mad Treitzschkel
You cause the mothers’ tears;
At Jesus pure Beatitudes
The crack-brained Nietzsche sneers....
And all, remember, written before break-
fast!
Health and Longevity, with an account of
the work of the Sydney Child Studv Associa-
tion (Epworth, 238 pastlereagli-street, Syd-
ney; ~s.), is something more than a report
upon this valuable voluntary organisation
devoted to the prevention and remedying of
the ailments of children, though a sane State
would surely include this work in its depart-
ment of education. A number of useful
articles dealing with the value of various
foods, and two directories, one of dairvmen
supplying what the book calls “Child Study”
milk, and the other of bakers supplying
“Child Study” bread, give the book a per-
manent value to the home.
The IT orld's Eleventh Hour oegins .with
this, in blood-stained ink :—■
TO HA X K I N D—W AR i\ IMG.
“If the European War brings in a Confed-
eracy, of the Nations, then know that the end
of the Age L- at hand. Parallel with its
inauguration look for a great church scheme
to Christianise mankind... .Testimonies:
authentic history, wonderful Bible predic-
tions, recent , wonderful astronomical discov-
eries, mathematics, etc.—an irrefutable, con-
centrated force expressed in convincing, logi-
cal English easily understood. Accept not
the _ statements herein and you must fight
against the stars in their courses, refute his-
tory and chronology, disprove mathematics,
throw overboard all reason and intense pro-
bability. No man can do it.-. . .Examine late
English and French newspapers for signs
of this coming supreme delusion and death-
trap.. ..The last lap has now been entered.
iSo place for human foresight and sagacity.
It’s high time to take notice. This booklet
is....put forth as a gold-mine of saving
knowledge. Trained in business and verse
with science generally the writer is critical
analytical, comparing; is against blind, fana-
faith, but appeals to reason with facts
stripped of all superfluity and vain imagin-
ings. In it you’ll find boiled down consider-
able study and research after a careful exam-
ination of leading views and deductions, an
analysis and comparison of reasonings and
objections, and the elimination and
of all that is grossly imaginative and heter-
ogeneous. One who is watching.”
One Who Is Watching is Arthur
Chmo (12-14 O Connell-street, Sydney; 7d.).
Eondon Athenaeum, the most solid and
severe of English weekly journals of literary
ci iticism, will henceforth appear as a
monthly.
Mary Gaunt, author of The Uncounted
Cost, and Alone in West Africa, furnishes an
interesting “scrap of autobiography” to her
new collection of stories, Australian and
overseas, entitled The Ends of the Earth
(Laurie). “In collecting together this book,”
she says, “I seem to be going step by step once
again through my own life.” And it has
been an interesting life. She was a baby of
six when the wanderings of her parents took
her to Gippsland, where she first remembered
seeing the Australian aboriginal, and heard
tales from her father, then a goldfields
warden, of the early days. From these tales
later she constructed several of the stories
in this volume. The little band of children
as they drew up scattered literally to the
ends of the earth; and from one of the
brothers she got the materials for one of her
stories. Her brother “corrected it for me
and did the seamanship.” From him, too, she
got the incident upon which she founded her
story, “When the Colt Jammed”—the Colt
being a revolver. “And then, to my amuse-
ment, the Colt people wrote to me to say that
the Colt never jammed. It was impossible,
and if I would visit their warehouse they
would demonstrate why. They evidently
thought I was interested in munitions —I
who did not know one end of a gun from
another, and shouldn’t have recognised a
Colt if I had met it.” On her marriage the
author went to live at Warrnambool, and
there “made the acquaintance of the gentle-
man who ran an illicit still.” And then she
was widowed, and found herself in London
earning a living by her pen. “I found nothing
inspiring in the London streets, so of neces-
sity I fell back upon the incidents of my
youth for material; and as I succeeded, and
money allowed, I wandered farther afield.”
So, one tale reminds her of “a weird night I
spent alone on Anum Mountain, and the
long trek by night from Ho to Palime in the
heart of that Togoland we have just taken
from the Germans.” Another memory is that
of drifting down the canal outside the walls
of Peking,,with two companions. “Together
we three worked out the story, lunching in a
grassy graveyard, the people, courteous and
unwashed, who hoped to occupy that grave-
yard in the future sitting round us in a
ring waiting patiently for our scraps.” Then
she went further inland, where no one but a
missionary would go, and “met the man who
told me the incident of the old gun in the
gateway and the armed men hanging threat-
eningly over the city walls.” And north she
went, and saw “lying in the mouth of the
great Amur River the sealing schooners that
my brother had told me of when, years
before, together we wrote” another story.
With such a preface any book of stories
should inveigle the reader. Mary Gaunt’s
stories are good stories, though she is not a
Kipling; and, had she not so generously
given her secrets away, the reader would
have wondered how a woman could have
written stories so essentially masculine.
Russian Literature
Another of the tremendous novels r
*dor Dostoevsky, The Insulted and
has appeared in English translation hE** *’
maim, per Dymock’s Library) Tt l Ueine -
Dostoevsky’s faults and
time the novelist appears in person
how he has any chance of writing g i*
w th so many exciting even! '
whole of his (time, it is difficult tn ; • e
The Picture Dostoevsky leaves is tfiW «
man rushing from one melodramatic scene
another, taking the burden of every SVa
and injured character on his shouldeSS3
contriving to be present at almost every con
versation that takes place. And these Z
versations are of stupendous length • and S
the characters seem to have nothing X
do but to discuss, with a profound psvdiol
ogy, themselves and everybody else ‘ '
The list of characters is long and varied
and the plot is hard to summarise within
reasonable limits. A simple youth, unstV n
ft 11 * yet with the pure heart’
Dostoevsky’s belief, covers a multitude
puerilities, falls in love with a pure amt
splendid girl. She goes to live with £
because she loves him, not because he
promised to marry her. He is the son of .
super-scoundrel, a. clever and depraved
prince. This personage schemes to part the
lovers, since he wants his foolish son to
marry an heiress. Incidentally, he ruins the
girl’s father. Meantime the novelist rescues
an epileptic child from a woman of notorious
character; and the mystery of the identity
ot this strange mite is curiously mixed un
with the plot. But there are a hundred other
sub-plots, all handled with a masterly crafts-
manship. But it is not in the dramatic con-
trasts so prodigally provided that the in-
terest of the novel lies. It is in the extra-
ordinarily acute analysis of strange charac-
ters, in the novelist’s love for the despised
and rejected of men, and in his vivid descrip-
tions of every side of Russian life, that
Dostoevsky proves himself a genius. All that
need be said is that if you like Dostoevskv
you will like The Insulted and Injured—
though not so much as you will like The
Brothers Karamazov.
J*
Mimi’s Marriage, by V. Mikoulitch (Un-
win), is the first example of the light
Russian novel to be translated. It is the
slightest of stories, merely the account of a
foolish, empty-headed but pretty young girl
—her engagement, her jilting, her marriage
of convenience to an ugly old General, her
meeting with the usual handsome young
lover, the inevitable consequences, and her
return to the boredom of her unsuspecting
husband. But the picture is more than a
sketch, though it is painted with the lightest
of strokes. The author has a talent for
genial satire. The mind, or what passes for
the mind, of the useless but charming Mimi
is brilliantly analysed ; and the portraits of
the other characters are drawn with a light
but incisive sureness. The love affair and
its “correct” ending are delightful comedy.
The reader unacquainted ivith Russian liter-
ature would do well to begin with Mimi.
■■■ m
Of C. J. Dennis’s The Songs of a Senti-
mental Bloke, three editions, aggregating
over 12,000 copies, were sold within three
months of publication. As this is certainly
an Australian, if not a world, record for
poetry, it may be expressed in a more strik-
ing way. Counting in Sundays and holidays
the bookseller’s average day is seven hours.
As Dennis sells at least 133 copies a day.
that works out, roughly, as the sale of -0
copies every hour the bookshops are open.
So a copy of The Songs of a Sentimental
Bloke is being bought, somewhere in Aus-
tralasia, every three minutes!
“Few authors know how many markets
there are for a book or play,” remarks an
English literary agent, in his li‘Ue persua-
sive pamphlet. The manager mentions the
case of “a certain novel .of universal inter-
est" managed by his linn. Already he has
sold 26 separate rights in the book, and he
is still discovering other markets for it. _ The
list is interesting: American serial rights,
English serial rights, Australian serial
rigir*. the corresponding book rights in these
countries, and a heap of European book
rights, including the Continental rights in
the English language. Russian rights
(though there is no cvnyri/ht in Russia, and
the sale amounted y to £5). dramatic
rights in six count.: - world-film rights,
second serial right- Great Britain, six-
penny and sever ./ lights in Great
Britain, and 50c >» r.ghts in America.


w a
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS
Similar in construction to the ordinary U-Bar Lever Harrow, with the addition
of the Guards that protect the ends of the tooth bars.
This Harrow is superior to all others for use in orchards, vineyards or trashy
ground. The ends of the tooth bars being protected, prevents injury from colliding
with trees or shrubs, and avoids the accumulation of trash that would foul the
ordinary Harrow.
By throwing the levers forward the teeth are thrown back for transporting, or
to clear the Harrow of trash.
Made in two sections of 25 or 30 teeth to the Section. The teeth are 8 inches
long by \ inch square.
2 Sections of 25 teeth each, with bars as shown, weight 2031 b., width Bft.,
complete . . . • . . . . . . .. . . . . 80/-
2 Sections of 30 teeth each, with bars as shown, weight 2311 b., width 10ft.,
complete . . .j .j__ .. .. .. .. 90/-
Canton Guard Lever Harrows
THE STAR DISC HARROW
THE STAR DISC
HARROW contains all
the features of any im-
portance in a disc har-
row, and includes besides
many advantages and
conveniences for the
cheap and successful use
of such an implement.
The seat is so arranged
that it can be adjusted
for a light or heavy
driver, and all excess of
weight taken off the
horses’ necks. A two-
wheeled fore truck takes
the place of the pole, do-
ing away with all friction
on the horses and enab-
ling the operator to turn
his team in their own
length.
m
Light 2-Horse, sft. wide, 10 discs, 16in. size of discs, 3021 b. net weight. .. £8
2- or 3-Horse, 6ft. wide, 12 discs, 16in. size of discs, 3691 b. net weight (No. Tx
1065) •• £B/15/-
411 Star Harrows have two levers. Cleaners included.
WIARD PATENT PLOUGHS
N o. 02, Pony Plough, will plough Sin. to oin. deep, Gin. to Sin. wide ; Wood Beam,
weight 401 b.. with wheel, 27/-. Extra Shares, 9(1.
JNo. 100, Two-Horse Steel Beam Plough, as illustrated, fitted with ordinary
Colonial Coulter, and with Iron Handles ; will plough Gin. to Oin. deep, lOin.
\r .1° wide; weight, 1061 b., 80/-. Extra Shares, 1/9.
2l. One-Horse Swivel Plough, Wood Beam, will plough 4in. to Tin. deep,
to lOin. wide; weight, 771 b., 55/-. Extra Shares, 1/6.
Canton Scotch Clipper Plough, lOin. Steel 1 < an. a>r tw
with one Steel Share, 87/6. Extra Steel Shares, !)/6
two Horses, weight
Send for Price List of Agricultural
Implements and Tools of Trade,
Post Free on request.
V
THE CANTON DISC PLOUGH has been universally successful for general
use everywhere (in hard, soft, dry, wet, old or new soil).
The Discs are 20in. in diameter, and the Single Disc will turn furrows
from 3 to 12 inches, and the gang ploughs have adjustments of equal dimensions
between each Disc. The Discs have dust-proof boxes, and are set at the proper
angle to revolve freely when in contact with the soil. The soil is turned completely
over and is thoroughly pulverised. Can be adjusted to cut 10 or 12 inches.
1- weight G72lb. .. .. .. Price, £l5/2/6
2- weight 7SOlb. .. .. .. Price, £l9/7/6
3- Furrow, weight 9001 b. .. .. .. Price, £22/5/-
26in. Spare Discs, 24/- each.
CANTON No. 4
DISC PLOUGH.
- m m
No. Tx 1056. — New Model One-Horse Plough, iron handles, low set, like the
famous Scotch ploughs (No. Tx 1056) .. .. .. .. ..50/-
We specially recommend this Cultivator, as, with the attachments, it can be
used for cultivating almost any crop.
With Attachments, weight 901 b., 88/6. Extra Tines, If, 24 inches, 6d. each.
Sweeps, 10in., 1/2; 12in., 1/4; 14in., 1/6 each.
Hilling Board Attachments, 10/6 pair.
Extension Pieces, to make into 7-Tine Cultivator, 7/6 pair.
Empire All Steel
Cultivator
IRON PLOUGHS.
No. 0. — One-Horse Iron Plough, as illustrated, with one extra share and spanner ;
weight 1161 b.; will do Tin. to Sin. depth and width.. .. .. £4/5/-
Two-Horse Iron Plough, similar to No. 0, but much stronger . . £6
The Little Beauty Iron Pony Plough, weight 821 b.; will do Tin. to Sin. depth
and width . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Cartridges
For ' Rifles, Revolvers or Pistols
The most accurate shooting rifle, revolver
or pistol made will do unsatisfactory work
unless the cartridges used in it are as accurate
as the arm. For that reason it is important
when buying to get cartridges that have an
established reputation for quality. Win-
chester —the W brand of cartridges in all
calibers from .22 to .50 are unexcelled for
accuracy, penetration and uniform shooting
qualities. They cost no more than inferior
makes and are for sale everywhere. If you
want to get the most satisfactory results with
your rifle, revolver or pistol, always use
Winchester ammunition. Do not simply
ask for “some cartridges” when you buy,
but be sure to specify Winchester make
and look for the bold W on the box.
THEY SHOOT STRAIGHT AND HIT HARD
n
W*
Fortify yourself
with Bovril
IT MUST BE BOVRIL
BRITISH TO THE BACKBONE.
I,
T.
Columbus’
good liver
did it.
But for his buoyant optimism
(active liver) he would have
stopped before he started.
To-day human nature and the human
system are precisely what they were in
his day. They have not changed in
the least. All the active, persevering
optimists, the people who lead and
achieve, have good livers and take
good care of them.
And all the doubting, disapproving,
gloomy, pessimistic people are those
whose livers are weakened and over-
burdened ; and whose blood therefore
is loaded with wastes and toxins
affecting their thoughts and impulses.
People who for years have perse-
cuted and weakened their liver with
drastic pills or draughts are reluctant to
believe that kindness can doit any good.
Yet kindness is the whole secret of
Cockle’s Pilis. By making its task
easier they give the weakened and
injured liver a chance to regain its
normal strength and activity. .Result:
Emancipation from the gloom-poisons,
from lassitude and half-health.
You cannot send anyone else to
make this discovery for you. You
must make it yourself. A New World
of finer pleasure-in-living awaits your
discovery when you have encompassed
the tiny Globes called
Cockle’s Pills
Sold by all Chemists, in boxes, price 1/- and 2/6.
JAMES COCKLE & CO., 4 Great Ormond St., London, Eng.
Information for the Housewife.
CLARK’S
BOILERS,
CAST-IRON
SAUCEPANS
KETTLES, Etc.,
will boil QUICKER or as QUICK as the lightest Enamelled Ware, and win 1
a lifetime instead of months. las ®
They have lids that will not rust. Handles that will not slip in the hand
Please note the
Hygienic Shape
and the Patent,
Rivetless Handle
of the Cover, also
the Fluted Handle.
4
NOIIQ3S
CLARK’S
are the Original
Patentees of Porce-
lain Enamel.
CLARK’S HOLLOW-WARE IS THE BEST
Australasian Agent: A. J. CHAMBERLIN, Melbourne.
BROOKS 810 Light Road Saddle. Also Bio L for Ladies.
“I could sit on it all day without a trace of saddle-soreness.”
That is how a rider writes of a BROOKS Saddle that he had used for just
over sixteen years. Can you say that of your saddle? If not, find the
BROOKS saddle that is meant for you.
BROOKS
OF ALL
DEALERS.
T
i•.
T
[Ask your Stationer for aSampleof 1
MAKER
TO
William Mitchell’s
THE
IKING
3 WILLIAM
■o MITCHELL’S
CD 1?I CLASS SHOULDER
N°9. First Class Shoulder Pen
the Original Quality ByThe ORIGINAL MAKER.
6°
B
0
X
E
s
PENS TO SUIT ALL WRITERS
ASK YOUR STATIONER FOR A SAMPLE BOX OF 24 ASSORTED PATTERNS.
When you get CLEMENTS TONIC
you get Good Health too.
THE SOLDIERS’ TONIC.
A TESTIMONY TO A GREAT REMEDY.
A representative member of the cream of Australia’s manhood, Sergeant C-
Smith. 20th Battalion, A.1.F., New South Wales, who in his professional
capacity was associated editorially with one of the leading weekly Sydney
journals, and who has for years been considered one of the most able of
Machine Gun Experts. He has an intimate knowledge of the famous Victorian-
invented “Caldwell” Gun. being its Australian Press Agent and also the
inventor s friend. He writes of Clements Tonic, the Great Remedy for shat-
tered nerves, as follows :
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
Liverpool Camp, N.S.W., 20/10/’l5.
“When I say that Clements Tonic has helped swell recruiting
figures, I am only giving credit where credit is due.
‘‘ Vm . on ft the ‘cream of the nation’s manhood’ which is answering
the Empire’s call to-day is the usual percentage of nerve-strained men
irom the city offices, who would certainly have failed to pass the
medical test had it not been for the wonderful restorative qualities ot
your medicine.
“From my own personal experience, and from the experience of my
comrades in arms, I can sincerely testify to the fact that Clements Tonic
has often helped to make good soldiers of apparently bad material ant
better soldiers of good material.
“Its world-wide repute as a blood medicine, as a nerve-restorer
ami as an appetite producer is founded on the solid foundation or
results.
“(Signed) SERGEANT C. SMITH,
“20th Battalion, A.1.F.”
THE “NERVES AS STRONG AS STEEL” MEDICINE.
IT IS AS VALUABLE FOR THE RETURNED SOLDIER AS FOR
THE RECRUIT GOING TO THE FRONT.
IT MAKES ONE HEALTHY.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL IT. _
CLEMENTS TONIC does Good because it is Good.


A Great REMEDY for
BLADDER TROUBLE.
Drinking water that is of bad quality or
too soft often causes bladder trouble. Every
sufferer tortured with the agonising burning
pains of bladder inflammation (cystitis)
should try a harmless remedy which gives
relief in ninety-nine cases out of every bun-
dled in a way that can only be described as
miraculous. . . , ,
This torture and pain is caused through
germs in the bladder. De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills contain a very strong,
yet marvellously soothing antiseptic, which
pE WITT’S
Kidney&BladderPiUs
| These Pills also act on the liven 5
k NOT GENUINE WITHOUTTHIS SIGNATURE N
penetrates the diseased tissues, attacks and
destroys the germs, makes the urine after a
time bright and clean, bringing a wonderful,
quick sense of relief and ease.
If you are troubled with rheumatism,
gout, gravel, backache, tired feeling, dropsy,
Bright’s disease, constipation, cloudy urine,
inflammation of the bladder, or other
symptoms of urinary trouble you should
give this wonderful remedy a trial imme-
diately, because it brings quick relief, almost
every time —guaranteed—and a sure cure
follows in most cases.
To cure rheumatism or auy other form
of kidney trouble you must positively get
rid of the cause —the poisonous uric acid.
Bcmember to do this a real remedy must
pass through the kidneys and the bladder
and not through the bowels, as most kidney
pills do. When you see the urine change
to a muddy bluish color —a feature which
distinguishes De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills from all others —you know beyond all
doubt that they have put their healing touch
on the right spot—the kidneys and the
bladder. A wonderful pill—straight to the
kidneys—that is why I)e Witt’s Pills give
such amazingly quick relief—every time.
A permanent cure follows in almost every
case. Look for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2s. 9d.
box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
which are made expressly for kidney and
bladder troubles.
DeWITTS
Kidney § Bladder Pills
Purify the Blood.
“The Reliable Cure
WILSON’S
Pino-Mentho
Throat Pastilles
For Coughs and Colds.
These famous pastilles have a wonderful
way of acting directly in the most stub-
Wn cases of Coughs, Colds and
Throat Troubles.
They give instant relief—are soothing, heal-
ing and pleasant to take. •
. a tin handy and dissolve a pastille
in the mouth occasionallv. They keep colds
at a safe distance.
Obtainable from all Chemists and
stores. Price 1/- per Tin, or direct
from
Alex. Wilson (& Co.,
17 Pitt Street. SYDNEY.
naanidny
u nox
Have; you grown tired of wearing useless
cumbersome spring fusses? Do you
rm mT, o i i ain an that is not onlv
mn°nmn LE T 0 but one THAT
hold a rupture under all
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
i send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
Ned IR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
ver nund if you have tried everything else,
in f l S ?,?J T llethin " ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
YPT tmISIL BEST Rupture APPLIANCE
with RENTED. It does away altogether
nmll-ft lng s i e el springs and chafing leather
whi , stra P s ’ The pad is made of soft rubber,
hich exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
wW °U h , e CORRECT SPOT. To show
we think of the Appliance,
in WE give a free trial
rpaeh 6 "If lns ?? nce> The price is within the
PFRFFCt , a ,.'or, Can ■ VOU ask for more?
Fltn\r K So,? ASE ’ COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
DFipmnTTi?^ for men ’ worne n and children.
ESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
« 4■) Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
lEALS any wound or sore
knft 0U . h t V J a , n obstinate sore, a wound that won’t
no u or a eru Ption of any kind,
quickly and surV°wUh StandinS ’ y ° U “
WILKINSONS
bCLECTRIC OINTMENT.
n posted 1 19- J WILKINSON, Chemist
J Wiekham Street, Valley, Brisbane
JnNINGTON
CAKRACW
xZT
IRISH M
>«u
ilipcicm.fOLK
CtOQOt ftO
For Baby
Every child is prone to ailments of the chest
and lungs, COUGHS, COLDS, WHOOPING
COUGH, etc. The wise mother will at once
fly to “ Bonnington’s Irish Moss,’’ the safest and
most RELIABLE household remedy. The
SAFEST for baby is—
Avoid all
Imitations.
BONNINGTON’S
TOBACCO KILLS!
Face to Face with Death !
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a positive cure for
the Tobacco and Cigarette Habits. It is abso-
lutely harmless, leaves no reaction or bad after-
effects, and cures permanently.
Free Package Offer.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a trial
package of this wonderful remedy, together
with our Free Booklet, Testimonials, etc.
TRIAL PACKAGE often effects a CURE.
Mr. H. Smith, of Park Farm, Jericho, Tas-
mania, says: “I teas a hard smoker for SO
years, but since takin i your sample of Tobacco
Specific I have never had a smoke.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. Q,
29 O’Connell Street, Sydney. [3.
BE GOOD
TO YOUR
COMPLEXION
USE
Nyal’s
Face
Cream
1/6 & 2/6 per jar.
FOR SALE BY
CHEMISTS ONLY
as
The Helping Hand
To-day, some poor, suffering soul has been
turned away from St. Vincent’s Hospital
turned away in anguish and despair because
your helping hand was not outstretched in
time. “There is no room!” was the only
answer that could be given to that poor
soul’s appeal. Can you withhold the
Helping. Hand any longer?
A million shillings are needed to provide
150 more beds. Let one shilling at least
come from you. Hand it in to any local
collector and receive a coupon in exchange.
Twenty shillings or coupons entitle you to a
ticket in a draw for an Engaved Solid
Gold Plaque, value One Hundred and
Fifty Pounds sterling, and the entry of
your name as a member of
The Million Shilling League
Tickets for the Plaque will be issued from
the central office.
St. Vincent’s Hospital, Melbourne
appeal for a Million Shillings.
(Issued, on behalf of St. Vincent’s Hospital by Gordon <sr= Gotch Pty. Ltd.)
The Hon. Treas. of the Fund are Arthur S. Baillieu and Edward Fitz Gerald, to whom all
moneys may be paid or sent, at the Central Office, Collins House (4th Floor), Collins St., Melb.
Nothing contributes more
to secure happy temper in
a child than correct feeding.
Get the diet right, and baby is as happy as
the day is long.
Mellin’s Food is adapted for use with the
youngest babe, is light, easily digested, safe.
Besides, “Mellin’s” is a no-worry food-- hot
water and fresh cow’s milk, and it’s ready.
As important as
baby's Food is
baby’s Feeder.
Mellin's Feeding
Bottle stands
unique; hygienic,
efficient, easily
cleaned.
Mellin's
Food
A Sample of Mellin’s Food, with Handbook for Mothers,
“The Care of Infants in Australia,” sent Free. Write to-day:
MESSRS. GOLLIN & CO. PROPRIETARY, LD, SYDNEY.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Beach Thoughts.
Friend, strong friend, you were there with
me,
That grey day on the sounding beach ;
” hat was the message the great sea gave,
What did the moving waters teach?
Low clouds hung in the heavens above,
Massed and sullen, and dull and grey;
Little by little the tide stole out—
Friend, was it Hope that ebbed that day':
Sinoke-drifts moved on the distant verge,
Seabirds hovered above the wave ;
How could the mind take golden thought,
How could the heart in that hour be brave?
Spindrift, born of the breaking seas,
Wraith-like drifted across the sands;
No child, girdled with foam, cast back
Gold, wet tresses with hasty hands.
Ebbed the tide, on the lone sea-beach,
Inch by inch till the black night fell;
Dull, grey hearts and a dull, grey s^a —
Friend, O friend, they were mated well.
Tides have risen, and tides have ebbed
Since that hour of the leaden scene;
Many tracks on the sands washed out
Tell the tale of the days between.
Friend, strong friend, we are side by side,
This gold day on the shining beach ;
What is the message the great sea bears,
What do the moving waters teach?
All is azure, and gold, and pearl—
Wave sounds beating like triumph-drums ;
Little by little the tide moves in—
Friend, it is Hope that hither comes.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Edge of the Sea.
Were we forty? Both of us,
Were we seventeen?
How the little wavelets fuss
And the rollers green
Rise like some pellucid hills
In a flow that never stills.
Were we old and sad, alas!
Were we gods, and young?
How the wind among the grass
Mocks with golden tongue
Shivering blades on creamy sands
In between our clasping hands!
Were we married? Honor bound?
Were we free to woo?
How the waves’ tumultuous sound
To a paean grew,
Rivalling the rapturous breeze
Choiring in the clasping trees!
Little crabs along the sand
Wrote with scurrying feet
Something gods can understand,
Subtle, warm and sweet.
Here and there the sand was stirred
By a trident-footed bird —
Bachelor piper of the beach,
Or the wooing gulls:
Llere a fish flashed out of reach —■
Boat with silver sculls;
While the sea wrote on the shore
Notes of an orchestral score.
Never there again for me!
Something blots across the scroll,
That is made of wind and sea
And the harping of a soul.
What has fallen from my hand—
Love and youth.... or only sand ?
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Regret.
When darkness cloaks the feet of Time
Then I wide-eyed, devoid of sleep,
Will listen to the ghostly rhyme
That drums my ears since one did creep
To me from Life’s cruel battle field—
My brother, sorely bruised that day—
Bowed low his head, and soft appealed,
And I, alas! I turned away.
Could we recall the chances lost,
The heedless, callous things we did,
That laid remembrance under frost —
Oh me, what pain from life we’d rid!
Each hour there pleads to deafened ears,
To eyes that look yet do not see,
A brother’s wound, a sister’s tears —
Ah, seize the opportunity!
N.S.W.
J. B.
The Saving Sense.
The dull-faced gaoler looked at me and
grinned.
His eyes said this : “Come in. my fool, and
stay,
While the slow years
Painfully pass you like a weary wind,
And I will rot your soul the prison way
With shameful tears.”
He placed about me shapes obscenely
wrought,
Faces like masks grotesquely eaten deep
By venal crime.
Cold, dying minds exhaled putrescent thought
That battened on the clinging things that
creep
In prison slime.
But in the safe discreetness of my cell
Ever an imp of laughter sat to kill
The day’s disgust;
His gift o’ nights a bright dream caravel
Of tossing sails the free wind loved to fill
With starry dust.
Star dust of mirth! And now that lam
free,
Sane and untouched by all that loathsome
net
Of prison snares,
Not unto any priest-taught deity
But to the laughter god I pay my debt
Of wrinkled prayers.
MAORILAND.
EX-GENT.


//.-
//
m
I
m
W-
WATERSHED— OILSKINS 1
Guaranteed to Keep You Dry in the Heaviest Downpour,
The Ideal Coat for
RIDING, DRIVING, WALKING and all occasions
which necessitate your being out in the rain.
OBTAINABLE THROUGH ALL STORES.
MADE IN TWO WEIGHTS:
The “Dugong-Watershed
Made of finest Egyptian Cambric, double
throughout and proofed with Watershed Oil.
Specially recommended for general use.
Average weight, 41b.
Price, Black only
32/6
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers —
The “Rainbow-Watershed"
Made of stout calico, double throughout and
proofed with Watershed Oil. Average
weight, 61b. Intended for rough wear.
25/-
Price, Black or Yellow
4d
/XDEZL-AIOEZ. * f=ELF?TM
BRI SBANE
i ie:i bourne
Md
m
A//
/
// !■
m
*
=sitr
m
John Lysaght Limited will be pleased, upon
application, to forward a free copy of the
new and enlarged edition of their “ Referee ”
to Every Property Owner and Galvanized
iron User. This Book contains a quantity
of carefully compiled infor-
mation which will be found
both useful and in teresting.
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Supplied to the
Naval and Military
Authorities in
Great Britain and
Australia.
Cable Address:
“ADORWHOOP.”
Telephone:
CITY 7633.
G.P.O. Box 2563.
Australasian Repre-
sentatives for
WM. E. PECK 8 CO.,
NEW YORK.
AMERICAN MERCHANDISE
IN WAR TIME.
Established 1886.
Ayers 8 James Pty. Ltd.,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne:
122-128 Flinders St.
Adelaide:
97 Grenfell Street.
Brisbane:
Adelaide Street.
Perth: Queen Street.
Auckland:
Fort Street.
Sole Agents for over 200 of America’s leading Manufacturers.
We solicit correspondence and Indent orders from strictly WHOLE-
SALE Firms of standing throughout Australasia respecting all classes
of AMERICAN Goods.
Our well-known 30 years’ experience and general facilities in hand-
ling and shipping American goods enable us to offer our patrons excep-
tional service and minimum of trouble during these troublous War
times, and all enquiries will have our immediate attention.
The Jollvwells
tzsmi
/////
The season's here
To sportsmen dear,
For quail and duck
In swamps appear.
The Jollywells go
And prove they know
How game is hogged,
A brace or so.
Keen their delight
And appetite
When “Rex” Cheese
Is brought to light.
[ ‘REX” Cheese is “Going Great Guns.”
Jollywells everywhere affirm, it’s a Bird —that’s their sporty way of
saying “REX” Cheese is a bang-up good thing to eat.
Just say to your Grocer
“Rex”
Luncheon
Cheese
-.ra
iß'fo
sir
rooo( >59
DOt'
S^itJfSlpHE.
;-*-'Wavn-
'Tl'®
r>
ssa
and he’ll shoot across the counter a dinky little tin or jar which, when
opened, is bound to make a score with you.
The charge is little enough, but the Cheese is a rare treat.
“REX” Cheese possesses a uniform and piquant
flavor, and all the valuable properties of perfectly-
matured, Full-Cream Cheese.
Get a tin to-day. Eat it any time—a little at each meal is good for the
digestion.
GC
E
PRMI»
Other “REX” CANNED DELICACIES are:
“Rex” Ham Pate.
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, ljlb. tins.
“Rex” Pigs’ Feet in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Punch Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Brand Fard, for cooking purposes, in lib. prints.
FOGGITT, JONES S CO., LTD.
Curers of “ Rex ” Hams and Bacon ;
Packers of “ Rex ” Pure Food Products.
■ -J
m
1
m
«< i>
GREENOCK DtSTILLEKY
igp**
Lie*.Hoist.b*L* fin Lo*«oc*.f
JSti uoiJi;
THORNES WHISKY
Incomparable"


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 37.—1881.
THURSDAY, MARCH 2, 1916.
Pmce Go.
GENERAL FREETRADE GOES MARCHING ON.
A ballot taken by the Manchester Chamber of Commerce resulted: For Freetrade, 988; against, 527. — Cable.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the AVhite Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, .of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosraan, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George .Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
. (In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every iveek for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding tivo columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Tiie Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted , for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
11. C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., H 1 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A.— Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. \V. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego.,
Cal.; Bay City Neivs Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; IF. E. Lenehan, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago. U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
IJoung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. —lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe Islands,
10oz., icl.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bioz. to ldoz., 2id.;
10oz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, l/oz., Icl., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, MARCH 2, 1916.
THE DECORATIVE JOB AND THE
MAN WHO COUNTS.
Armageddon has its hilarious aspects, any-
how, and .John Bull in sorting himself out
and seeing how many of him there is for
achieving the victories of peace and war and
disposing of himself in khaki and munition
factories is finding humorous interludes at
unexpected places. John has , two main
considerations in view—one to raise an
adequate army and the other not to cripple
any essential industry by draining away
therefrom the labor that keeps it moving.
To achieve the first he lately adopted a
diluted form of compulsion; to ensure the
second he provided numerous loopholes
through which escape from service might be
perpetrated. Exemption is allowed in the
case of unmarried citizens who, between the
ages of 18 and 41 years, are
1. Wanted in national employment.
2. The support of other persons.
S. Possessed of “conscientious objections,” such as
Quakers.
To make the first ground of exemption
clearer many industries have been specified
by proclamation, being in the main those
callings from which the output forms the
backbone of the national exports. Also local
tribunals have been established all over the
country to settle claims for exemption, and
it is from these bodies that weird and in-
structive gleams are thrown on the situa-
tion. All sorts of fantastic claims to escape
the ranks defending the nation are being
advanced. There was a yarn the other day
about a footman who adds to the dignity of
the Lord Mayor of London ; the heart-break-
ing case of a man employed by a missionary
society in “packing Bibles”; and the woes
of a butcher who was threatened with the
loss of an indispensable assistant. But
behind the comedy, of the footman, and the
man with Bibles, and the butcher —all in
its way emblematic of the people and typical
of the times —there are points of deadly
seriousness.
Who is the indispensable man when a
lunatic is trying to haul a machine-gun
through the front gate and his mate is in the
clouds dropping explosives on the perambu-
lator? The comfortable conceptions of every-
day life are turned upside down the
moment the riot starts and a transmutation
of values takes place which brings things
down pretty close to bedrock. Shams are
stripped of disguise, and society, if it didn’t
see the truth before, discovers in short
order how heavily it has been cumbered with
the dead weight of accumulated foolishness
- —how vast a superstructure of futility and
injustice it has reared on the foundation of
national life —how inverted all the standards
of service and reward and usefulness may
become when civic worth finds expression in
one form .only, that of the dollar. Modern
society is a complex thing, mainly because
it has loaded up with exploiters and idlers
and interest- and rent-mongers and multi-
farious commercial brigands; because it
decorates Lord Mayors with rabbit-skin,
adorns them with flunkeys and makes a joss
of the tall hat; because it gives its greatest
rewards and material comforts to successful
landsharks, and food adulterators and mono-
polists and Siiylocks ; because the parasite
prospers and its host grows thin. And on
the big parasite another parasite fastens;
on it a third, and so on after the manner
of the parable concerning fleas that are in-
finitum. Therefore is the world full of
social inequalities, and success at the game
of grab is the test of personal worth and
social value, until somethitig happens and
a colony of rats are smoked out after great
labor and uproar. Whereupon other rats
get busy on the cheese, and the hunted
animals bolt to a fresh lot of holes
and start business at a new address.
Such, too, is the confusion in stan-
dards of judgment and estimation that
the more definitely parasitic men or
women may he, .the more strenuously they
push their claims to be recognised as the salt
of the earth —to be regarded as privileged
to browse in peace and plenty and be exempt
from the obligations, trials and services of
the common herd. The old regime of France
degenerated into a state of mind from which
it was only divorced by losing its head.
Royalty was and still is in some places
convinced of its divinity. The British House
of Lords fought like a regiment against even
the nominal restriction recently placed upon
the. parasite House. The Lords claimed to be
indispensable on the ground, chiefly, that
they had condescended to be horn and had
inherited shooting-boxes and piles of cash.
* * * *
The Indispensable men to every nation are
the men who can fight and produce.
Cut these assets out and the nation
collapses. Cut the others out and the
nation would still he virile, having
all the elements essential to future wealth
and strength. It would gain something in
grace, too,, by pruning away the dead
wood. This is as true in times of peace
as when the enemy arrives to find out how
many indispensable men there are on the
premises; and it is the nation which has
allowed its public policy to lose sight of the
fundamental test of social worth and to
stimulate the growth of parasiticism and
fuinkeydom that finds itself with the greatest
volume of trouble on hand when the trial
begins. Australia would probably not have
any footmen applying for relief from service
if the call came, nor anyone packing up
Bibles to consider, nor a butcher at 17s. 6d.
a week to laugh over, on the ground that
he was indispensable. That is because
there has not been time to get them aboard.
But they are in the offing. The con-
tinent shelters an altogether excessive
number of individuals whose activities could
he dispensed with on sight to the great
advantage to the nation’s strength and pro-
ducing power; people who evolve nothing
hut the high cost of living—indispensable
adjuncts, in their way, to a system of intro-
ducing railways from shindykits and acquir-
ing telephones with a p.n.—but absolutely
parasitical if Australia lived on what she
produces and man got the value of his toil.
THE TREASON OF CONGESTED
BRICKS.
Patriotism, which is sometimes another
nnme for the right to plunder and sometimes
a passion of such an exalted sort that it
smashes across the world’s trail with the
force of high-explosive bombs or flames up
into a light so brilliant that it dazzles the
eyes of men for centuries after the flash is
gone, has an economic basis, and gets its
force and power from commonplace condi-
tions. Like any other factor it is bound by
the law of cause and effect, and can no more
be made to order at the blast of a trumpet
than prosperity can be made to spring into
existence at the snap of a statesman’s jaw.
To expect patriotism of a slave is absurd;
to expect it of a multi-millionaire is equally
futile. The would-be millionaire may run to
patriotism of the brigand sort; but it is only
the. free man who, standing on his own
native soil, and laying a rugged hand on a
hairy chest, declaring that it is good to be
alive, that we can look to for the
genuine article. The adventurer, to
whom life is a great confidence trick
and the world a thing to be taken
down, may. feel an impulse which to the noil-
critical mind looks like-enough patriotism;
but his feeling' for any country and his
loyalty even to a desperate cause is no more
than enthusiasm for the team he plays with.
The real patriotism is a deeper sentiment
with one root around a grave and. another
touching a baby’s cradle and a thousand
smaller rootlets fingering all the wholesome
and fair and honest things of life. In a
word, patriotism is an impulse that springs
from the home, and where there are no homes
there can he no patriotism.
* * * *
The miracle of old republican Rome is ex-
plained in this, the only possible, way. A
few brigands of different tribes and "races
established themselves in a Latin village. To
hold that village itself against the force of
the big and greedy surrounding nations
looked too elevated a job for the first cut-
throats who built their huts on the Palatine ;
but within seven centuries imperial Rome
had its grip upon all the world it could find.
Not only was this the case, but the huge,
early. Roman patriotic impulse was of such
magnitude that, when it smashed itself on the
rocks of bad statesmanship and luxury and
booze and admixture of Asiatic and nigger
blood and Christianity, the corrupt and tan-
gled and generally degenerate Empire tot-
tered for fully 400 years before it flopped to
extinction; and even then its influence re-
mained, with some faint echo of its old
power, right down to the days of our grand-
fathers. The key of the whole Roman posi-
tion was the citizen’s home. In those first
days by the Tiber every brigand stood. for
his own show and made his life-conditions
the best possible. Then the community of
brigands rose to the point of recognising the
rights of each individual cut-throat to live a
clean, wholesome life, and get the best for
those dependent on him. The result was
that Rome, and not the individual hut on the
hillside, became home to the citizen; and
when the Etruscan overlord or any other
person who counted his strength by the mul-
titude of his spears made a dead set at the
rising city, lie was met by such a fury of
patriotic resistance that he went away nurs-
ing his sore pride and wondering what sort
of kerosene those Romans drank to enable
them to put up a scrap like that. And the
real explanation was that the child in the
Roman cot was cleaner and better fed than
the Etruscan youngster, and that the Roman
meant to keep him so. Out of such patriotic
struggles against odds grew discipline, mili-
tary system and world-conquering possi-
bilities.
* * * *
If patriotism- -the genuine article that
might do for a continent what the spirit of
Rome did for a single city—is to he fostered
in Australia it must have its foundations in
a good, honest regard for home. Without
any sort of disparagement of a single Aus-
tralian now at the Front, or getting ready to
go there, it must be admitted that our men
have rushed into the tumult from a variety
of motives, and that to lump them all under
the general title of patriotism is to misuse
terms. Some heard the call because khaki
was the passport to the road of high adven-
ture. Many rushed the recruiting offices
because, with the story of enemy crimes fresh
in their ears, they felt it was their duty to see
that the weak and helpless had decent pro-
tection —may they strike a good blow and
return in honor to those who understand
their motives. Others —and they not in the
majority—faced the shells sternly and grimly
because they saw in the European conflagra-
tion a menace to home and all that home
meant. What it did mean is not so much
the point. One saw himself as a subject of
a far-reaching empire; another as a citizen
of a great Commonwealth yet to be. The
true note struck was that home was worth
toiling and dying for; and the home idea,
traced to its source, narrows to the actual
dwelling.
* * * *
Australian patriotism is dependent upon
Australian homes; and the reason it does
not burn with more flame is clearly to be
found in the fact that so big a proportion of
the population is homeless. You cannot
make a home out of bricks alone. The man
who merely rents a house does not neces-
sarily possess a home. In congested
areas of Sydney, where the decencies of life
are lost amid the corruption and foulness of
closely-packed hovels, it is unreasonable to
expect patriotism. What is there in the
grimy, airless confines of four miserable
walls, where a bedraggled woman herds a
swarm of squalid children, that a man should
be called to die for? Through the misery of
his home-coming he views State and Com-
monwealth and Empire, and who can blame
him if he despises the great causes which
thrill the souls of other men who feel that"
they have something to defend? Sydney City
Council, The Bulletin observes, is keen on
the erection of workmen’s dwellings—bar-
racks mostly—in the spots where the worst
of the slums have been abolished. Alderman
} LRNON struck the right gong when, speak-
ing for the worker, he demanded that the
homes should be erected on the fine park
lands rather than in the close and sordid
places proposed.. Sydney needs the parks,
needs the breathing spaces that are as lungs
to the city; but the needs of her workers are
urgent that the nation may be benefited. The
party of congestion forces certain classes of
workers to remain near the places of their
toil, yet gives them no opportunity to make
homes. The real remedy is to be found in
decentralisation, the opening of neglected
ports, and the creation of new and more
wholesome cities ; hut while the whole force
of the Sydney congestionists is exerted to
prevent the development of such a policy ,it
devolves upon those congestionists to show
how the workers can live as white men
should live without going beyond the bloated
city’s bounds. It works back to the clear
point that the overgrown city in denying
proper homes, to citizens of the Common-
wealth, and in thereby pinching the true
spirit of patriotism among those citizens,
is itself about as serious an enemy as we
could be called upon to fight.
LIGHT BREAKS UPON THE DARK-
NESS.
Dear Bulletin,—At the time of its pas-
sage eveiy student of sociology who was not
temporarily immersed in consideration of
the pending disturbance between Messrs.
Darcy and McGoorty realised that through
the War Precautions Act Australia had
stepped a long way further than she knew.
Of course the Act made the Referenda argu-
ments merely humorous, and luckily for
himself and for the democracy Prime Min-
ister Hughes detected this in time to per-
form the most difficult of all political feats
—that of diverting humor into a channel
where it becomes transformed into great
seriousness until soaked into the sands of for-'
getfulness. Hughes, who is naturally familiar
with the history surrounding the Xominides
period, was likely to see that the new Act
woukl probably become in the hands of Aus-
tralian statesmen as. effective an instrument
as a measure of similar import promulgated
fiL a'i™ the lounger and used by
him and his successors for a period of ove?
two hundred years, during which the people
ot Salomines rose to their greatest heights
of material prosperity, comfort, freedom and
wl i -h fnn a ina v n( '. ipation fl 'om the heresies
mantel f S 6d ; heir noighbors 111 an inky
mantel of ignorance and superstition
Xominides was the first of the earl, aX
era tic democrats to realise that
an intimate relation between nriv n f o " as
duct and public order, and though hi, T*'
was at first only designed to "Sure
every inhabitant was in his or hei dL 'f
at sundown—grave disorder havinS s le
caused by men and women not heimr een
larly at their registered addresses—lt gU '
soon found that the law could h~e W \ s
advantage extended, and in time it " Uh
applied to all national activities and hok-f
»■>?, eventually became the sole
authority, superseding those citizen gather
ings at which local ordnances were annm, i
for promoting good government d
lating civic life. Historians have -if'
been struck by this singular example S
primitive democracy finding its highest li e
ot expression in acceptance of and
to the proclamations of a leader
position gradually moved from one 3
dependence on popular votes to that t
unchallenged authority to issue orders and
enforce them A distinguished writer puts
the results of modern research very fairly
There was nothing of the tyrant about Xounm*.
lie was always amenable to reason, esneciallv , v, ’
he saw that anything he might order was not 1 kelv
to be popular, or on those frequent occasions 7 y
whatever he did was likely t 0 Q cause a dWLn n",
opinion He was in truth a man of the very fir j
ideals, but he saw, and truly, that he k«» 8
than the populace what to do and, moreovj co U U
do it. The populace could do nothing, and
case, was generally wrong. So he legislated
Salomines by proclamation and Salomines ac cJ“
him as a Giver of Law by consent. When theTw
crisis arose about the marriage bonds he acted with
ruthless decision declaring that all men who d d
not take unto themselves wives should cease to be
beneficiaries under the wills of their mothers-in kw
and carried Ins reform into law, despite podS
clamor and a ruling by the Courts that the deck™
tion was opposed to the maintenance of public order'
In a masterly address to the people he nro<W,i
statistics to show that the nation was being irnnw
erished by reckless testamentary bequests of worn™
to men who were unknown to them, and ingeniously
argued that this was an interference with rights if
relatives and friends and likely to cause serious dis
orders Subsequently the village councils rescinded
their hostile motions, and the Court declared its
judgments ultra vires. The immediate result was
that the Councils and Courts became obsolete and
Salomines emerged from a period of thraldom to
hasty resolutions arrived at round village pumps.
This is a very striking illustration of what
may be accomplished by a democracy just
as the. Australian War Precautions Act
exemplifies the unbroken traditions of
Demos and proves how firmly rooted in the
human mind are the irrefutable principles
preserved in stress and strain through cen-
turies of time. Australia is beginning to
see now that this Act may be the medium
of great national redemption from the errors
of the past—may be expanded to embrace
the- future in its beneficent operations.
Obviously there is no reason why it should
lapse with cessation of the war. There are
going to be other wars—some day, some-
where. Australia may be interested in them.
Australia must be ready, and it would be a
monstrous betrayal of the public if anything
were allowed to occur that would interfere
with the prosecution of those wars, witli
enlistment or with public order, or would
permit any possible enemy to learn what we
were doing.
* * *
The War Precautions Act must be
made permanent. The signs of the
times cannot be disregarded. The price
of living is already causing unrest. Wharf-
lumpers have stopped earning Is. 9d. an
hour because a 21b. loaf costs 4d. Other
influential citizens have threatened to strike
because chops are two a shilling and a
roast of beef is £2. 17s. 6d. Suppose that
the army goes on strike and invades Mel-
bourne, looting bakers and butchers’ shops
and passing legs of mutton out to the popu-
lace. Under the War Precautions Act all
the meat-shops and bakeries can be closed
and order restored by not permitting them
to open their doors more than six inches
for half an hour every morning and giving
the army the sack. We are safe enough for
the present. The danger is that after this
war is over and before the next one begins
the State Governments might allow the
butcher to stay wide open all day, and thus
provoke people to rush into his emporium
and tear pieces of steak from under the
cleaver. All the State Government could
do in such a case as that would be to hit
the butcher’s assailant over the head with a
baton, which would clearly be an interference
with enlistment, as the person thus
woodened out might he prevented from
volunteering. Moreover, the censorship is in
danger of falling down dead if there is no
Act in force when the war is over and the
Administration harassed with criticism in
respect to its plans for prosecuting war and
buying horses, and its policy of acquiring
asperin and tentpoles be the subject of
disorderly criticism in the newspapers. In
addition to which, remarks may be made
about appointments and bungles and general
messing and trifling, all of which would
plunge the country into strife when the
duty of everyone is to do as he is told (vide
Hughes) and refrain from saying anything
that would interfere with everyone devoting
his energies to prosecution of the struggle
before him.
* * * *
But above every other consideration of
expediency there is this, that by a vva
Precautions Act this country can be nia
a nation instead of six nations and anot
one inside —that by this short _ cut
Commonwealth can achieve sovereign pove •
and the States be given the knock. In a
matters relating to defence the Comm
wealth has absolute power. Therefore
the broad, general ground that Australia -
preparing for defence the Act can witi
violation to the Constitution be made P
of an enduring public policy. If it does
late the Constitution the Constitution
talnly cannot violate the Act. Keeping
in view the hour of redemption ca
heard solemnly striking and a serl
shattering events being prepared,
the war stops let Hughes and „ .
declare by proclamation that the ®ta, lt j ona l
liaments are hereby closed, U’ing a in
menace in view of the preparations
have to be made for managing a . en
ance which the Executive has g
advised is going to burst out. Also
ordered that no one shall work m ° ' ore
six hours a day making munitions, n
than fourteen hours at farming o


nnfficture of butter, chee .e and other
“ i lets of Strawberry; that all imports
prcdncrs Bhall be confiscated; that
Ihr nubs shall open only from midnight until
,• n m and that no one shall consume liquor
the premises unless accompanied by a
!!nlice constable and a registered medical
petitioner; that Ikey Mo is hereby
el eved from further attendance at the races
iriH the Starting-price depot; that wherever
military training is. in force all trains
running within the disturbed area shall
■ease to run and all business be suspended
within a radius of 30 miles pending a further
Proclamation that the commanding-officer
has the situation well in hand ; that nothing
shall be printed, published, circulated or
stuck up on a wall except by express per-
mission of the Government; that the truce
.hall continue as long as Parliament remains
ia recess and shall not be resumed when it
assembles to pass appropriations for the
ensuing five years. The way would thus be
open to a higher and wider conception of
public duty and to the real meaning of
democracy, which after all is merely the
orderly acceptance of what the democracy
authorises shall be perpetrated. Conscrip-
tion of men for military service is an obvious
necessity. Conscription of wealth is a
phrase calling for definition. But can any
democrat who supports one or both of these
fail to see the expediency of having as a
preliminary to democratic progress a full
and ample measure for the conscription of
nublic opinion and private habits? —Yours,
William Sthaigiitjacket.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Digging Dug-outs for Monkeys.
1 rom The Bulletin’s chained Zoologist;—
It is pleasing to report that, despite the war, one
of our great natural primary industries is beiro-
developed at full speed in Sydney. Hundreds of able-
bodied workmen are employed, at able-bodied wages,
m preparing a great acreage of otherwise waste land
for occupation. This vast stretch of country has
long lain in a state of nature, covered with bush,
within a mile or so from the General Post Office. As
a site for dwellings it is superb. It will make an
ideal working-mart’s suburb. It provides a splendid
view in all directions over the harbor, and it has
hitherto been reached by a ferryboat within 20
minutes from the Quay. But the roughness of the land,
and, possibly, the absence of a wayside pub, have
hitheito retarded settlement. Now, however, that the
land is being put to its full use, the need of better
communication has been patriotically recognised by
the State. A new tramway is being built through
the heart of the bush, and a new wharf is being
constructed within a few hundred yards of the present
wharf. The land is being energetically cleared for
occupation, and care is being taken to lay out the
estate in an artistic manner, by planting avenues of
native trees and constructing elaborate gardens,
stately ponds and broad and sweeping pathways. The
steepness of the land has necessitated tremendous
work in making properly-graded roadways ; but, con-
sidering the patriotic purpose for which the estate
is designed, no expenditure can be grudged for the
huge embankments, the costly fibro-cement flights of
steps, and the generous lavishness of the whole
scheme. In a few months’ time the inhabitants of
this area will feel the benefit of this splendid scheme
of closer settlement, though it is hardly likely that
any public expression will be made by the new
settlers because they will be chiefly monkeys.
Already some of the new inhabitants are installed
in the new Zoo; and, judging from their demeanor,
they are quite satisfied with the provision made for
their aesthetic sense and their physical comfort. There
is no doubt that if the inhabitants of the estate
could express their gratitude at the polling-box, the
Labor Government, which conceived the scheme,
would receive a considerable accession to its
strength; and it may be necessary in the near
future for Premier Holman to consider the advisa-
bility of giving the baboon, the elephant and the
wombat a vote, and making the iguana a J.P. or a
Lord Mayor. Certainly the elephant would welcome
a vote. He is housed in a palace which, with the
laudable desire of preventing him from feeling home-
sick, has been constructed in an Indian style of archi-
tecture. Many a navvy now constructing roads for
the elephant to stroll along, and many a worker who
built Jumbo his nobly-proportioned private bathing-
place, would be satisfied to become the tenant of such
a desirable residence; but, fortunately for that
worker, the City Council and the State have built
working-men’s homes elsewhere. These are not so
elaborate, nor have they the charming site on which
the elephant is housed, and it is quite possible that
the worker may have to pay more in tram-fares than
the elephant needs for his ferry-trip; but then an
elephant is an elephant.
Considered from a financial standpoint the ener-
getic development of the estate conclusively dis-
proves the assertion, made by evil-minded beings,
that we are not exercising the public economies
required by the British Government in these perilous
times of war. The lavish expenditure, the huge
bodies of men employed, the speeding-up of the work
so that the canary will cease his complaints about
the stuffiness of his present residence, or the llama
will stop spitting with disgust upon Randwick, all
afford a proud advertisement of our financial stabil-
ity. The State shows that it can prosecute the war
and encourage enlisting, and at the same time see
to the aesthetic ideals of the jaguar and the happi-
ness of the baboon. Consider the value of the adver-
tisement to the world and the consternation of the
Kaiser when it is learned that the same people that
produced the Anzacs can build roomy dugouts for
the monkey, construct palatial headquarters for the
elephant and dig front-line trenches for the platypus.
For what becomes of Kultur if a nation lacks a
Zoo? It is true that on the only occasion the writer
ever visited the old Zoo, the only persons he saw
there were his own and other similarly-misguided
children, who took a painful interest in the home-life
of the gorilla, a bodyguard of nursemaids with
babies too young to take an intelligent interest in
the anatomy of the anteater or even to understand
why the green monkey got its name, and a number
of Lascars who seemed to be the only persons who
were really enjoying themselves. The stranger looked
in vain for the crowd that? dotes upon the details of
the Tasmanian devil, pores over the profundity of the
camel and finds sermons in snakes. Still, if anyone
asked the Lascars and the nursemaids what the use
of a Zoo was, they would unanimously reply that it
Filled a Great Public Need.
N. S. Wales, in its noble ambition to possess the
finest menagerie in the world, gives but one more
proof of its high, ideals of civilisation. No expense
must be spared to complete the new monkey-suburb
at the earliest possible moment. The British Empire
needs every penny to preserve its entity from destruc-
tion ; and in diverting into menagerie-construction
the money that otherwise might go into the manu-
facture of munitions the State is merely showing its
wisdom. All our energies and all our cash—doubt-
less, for such a patriotic cause, Norton Griffiths
might be induced to oblige again, on the usual com-
mission—must be devoted henceforth to the para-
mount necessity of settling every available monkey on
the land.
There may be carpers who are not enthusiastic
about native bears, and are not even partial to
platvpi, who feel that this care for ill-smelling
fauna is being overdone at this crisis. Perhaps they
are right. There are times when The Bulletin
almost comes to the conclusion that all Zoos should
be closed by the Minister for Defence at 6 a.m.
- -•
The Horrors of Peace.
One of the best surviving English war
authorities insists that when the truth be-
comes known the world will be amazed to
learn with how few troops the enemy is
holding the Western Front. The Germans,
in a word, are putting up an immense bluff
with armor-plate and machine guns, and
this war on which so many honest Britishers
and others are depending for a living, may
collapse any day. It is a terrifying prospect
for any person who hates a perfect but job-
less peace. The world has forgotten how to
pay its way and learnt how to exist like a
gambler and a spendthrift since the con-
fused days before the declaration of war.
While the England of 1914 was still won-
dering if the diplomatic tower of cards was
really about to fall, one of the foremost
English financial sages upended himself on
the housetops and prophesied as follows:
If we are entangled, great financial houses, great
merchants and manufacturers will go down like nine-
pins. Capital will perish, mills will close, shops will
become empty, advertisement orders will cease, and
wages will fall.
lie forgot or ignored the fact that England
had a long stocking and almost limitless
credit. But the misery and ruin he foretold
is only held over for the time when the Vul-
ture of Peace will spread its wings and
throw the shadow of unemployment. Battle,
Murder and Sudden Death are paying wages
that are in many cases two and three times
as much as English workers ever got out
of Peace and Goodwill. When the armies
disintegrate and come home to look for
peaceful work it wall be like a second Crea-
tion—Chaos trying to evolve into Order.
The outlook for the future is made greyer
by the suspicion that Britain hasn’t had half
a chance to recoup its losses by going out to
grasp a firm hold on the deserted world-
markets of beleaguered Germany. The big
job of getting a firm hold on Germany’s
windpipe at the BTont is using up all the
power and time; meanwhile trade has to
hobble along as best it can. War is and
must be the world’s only trade for the
present; and it is so very profitable for the
people who are not actually being shot at
that they are beginning to dread the horrors
of peace.
♦
The Sobriety of Beer.
When Charles the Second came back
from obscurity and exile to be merry
in his own peculiar fashion at White-
hall, it is recorded that all England got
drunk in his honor. Early closing wasn’t
in fashion even among the Puritans; and
the beer foamed furiously in a mighty wave
from Dover to the Tweed, where it dashed
itself to a loyal finish against the whisky
wave which had rolled down from Cape
Wrath: With slight fluctuations the drunk
then started went on seething and eddying
for more than a century, and that century
was the soberest time in English history. No
historian has hung bouquets round the fact,
but, paradoxical as it seems, the remark-
able phenomenon will stand investigation.
The tendencies of nations to go on periodical
jamborees and tear the moral machinery out
of civilisation or constitutions or churches
has often been remarked upon; but few have
taken the trouble to note that these are
always dry sprees, and that in times of great
and boisterous beershed the political horizon
is generally of a soft opal tone, merging into
delicate shades of wattle yellow and jaca-
randa blue. When Constantine hauled
down the eagle and set up the cross in its
stead, on the ground that the bird was out
of date and that a peaceful emblem was more
effective in securing a proper slaughter of
the enemy, the Church from east to west
went on a tremendous burst that shook the
Empire to its last gladiator. The East
drank Arianism —the mildest-looking theolo-
gical liquid in the world ; the West consumed
great draughts of the brew of Athanasius
—a mixed sort of punch composed mostly of
words and curses. Nobody in the whole
ruthless rage and tangle, during which hair
and whiskers were flying all over the Medi-
terranean, is known to have consumed a
single pint of beer; and yet the drunk was
of such magnitude that it took the world
centuries to recover from it and more cen-
turies to get the roar of bursting bishops
out of its ears. Similarly, in the time of
the Tudors, the grand English theological
drunk which cavorted round Parliament and
Cathedral, and frothed in the Six Articles
and the Thirty-nine Articles and the fires
of Smithfield and promiscuous hangings all
over the kingdom was a dry spree in the
most literal sense. Yet aproned bishops
and fuddled kings went on a howling burst
at the mention of a word, and danced and
prayed and wept and fought and argued as
if each were in the habit of consuming a
stable-bucket of rum before breakfast. More-
over, they changed their theological liquors
frequently, and each new tipple seemed to
set the reeling, rocking, raving commotion
going at higher speed. Martyrs died —some
of them, if our best historians of the period
have got a right grip of the facts, from no
particular principle, but simply because
they’d see themselves damned before they’d
drink out of the other fellow’s glass. So
they saw and heard themselves damned and
the orgies went on. The French Revolution
was a dry spree, except for the blood that
made the roadways sticky. The ho\vling
madness of the Crusades was equally free
from suspicion of liquor. The roaring burst
of alleged patriotism, in the midst of which
C. J. Chssar was knifed, was conducted on
water alone. Through the whole Middle
Ages the fighting drunk roared like a bull
and challenged the police to arrest him ; and
yet liquor had no part in the riot. In fact,
from first to last the pub vied with the mon-
astery as the place of quiet, and the booziest
person who clung to its mug-ringed bar was
a gentle, sober proposition compared with
the raving baron who went by cased in the
trimmings of the garden roller, and eager to
break anything, from the Ten Command-
ments to the jaw of the handiest king. The
Spanish Inquisition was dry; Luther and
John Calvin were as unsoused as the
N.S.W. Alliance; the Turks and Moors were
beerless. Yet around all these the jamboree
hiccoughed and staggered and refused to go
home till morning and asserted that it wasn’t
drunk until the non-alcoholic Saturnalia
affected whole nations and empires. View-
ing the history of this remarkable world
through the calm spectacles of history, beer
looks about the soberest agent it ever em-
ployed. The facts of the case appear to be
that when somewhat civilised man has to
bottle up too long his own distended soul he
is apt to go unhealthily mad and rage round
like several tick-bitten bulls. Beer appears
to supply the safety valve. In a quiet,
unenthusiastic way the common, moderately
sober drunk gets rid from time to time of the
accumulating insanity in his system and keeps
a steady grin turned to the world. If Aus-
tralia is out to try experiments in 100 per
cent, sobriety the overwhelming national
drunk will take place to scheduled time.
Already the anti-drink person looks a good
deal less sober than the average citizen who
buries his whiskers in alcoholic foam. Of
course, it may be interesting to shut down
the safety-valve and let the madness accumu-
late. The revolution which follows may
be picturesque and of fine historical interest;
but, if we value the quiet life, it is as well
to. give a little scientific attention to the
mollifying sobriety of beer as it affects the
national tendency to burst at intervals.
♦
A cloud of Yankee doctors is now hanging
over Maoriland. Apparently the news got
abroad that there was a serious shortage of
medical men in M.L., so a wide-awake U.S.A.
doctor-mill started to write Notes to Premier
Massey about a consignment of its students
to man the brass plates of the men who
have gone to fight. The latest news was
that Massey had reached hurriedly for an
axe. Of course, there is a shortage of medi-
cal men, chiefly because of the system that
allowed medical students, many of whom
were in their final year, to drop their studies
and dash off to the Front. Many of them
were killed at Gallipoli, and Maoriland is
now wondering what it is going to do when it
feels ill. But whatever happens, it has decided
that it isn’t going to recognise qualifications
guaranteed by institutions that it isn’t sure
about. In the circumstances, this is a
wise decision; but it doesn’t overcome the
original difficulty. In countries where
conscription operates the indispensable
specialist isn’t allowed to hurry away
to the wrong job and leave the nation
short-handed. The specialist, like the sol-
dier, is placed where he can be of most use.
But, of course, Australasia, as a free nation,
must be very careful about conscription.
It is far too orderly and systematic.
♦
Compare the reasonable, business-like ex-
hortations of Matiiews, M.H.R., at a Foots-
cray (Melb.) recruiting meeting, with the
optimistic soapsuds of a John Madden who
predicted in May last that the Germans
would be hopelessly beaten within two or
three months. Said Mathews
He did not believe the Allies were “bound to
win.” If he had been told two years ago that he
would ever have advocated recruiting he would have
vailed his informant a liar ; but he had made a
mistake in his original conception of the state of
affairs, and he was manly enough to admit it.
Where optimism of the Madden sort merely
serves to blunt the edge of Endeavor’s axe,
the pessimism of the man who denies that
we are bound to win serves as the grindstone
on which the axe is sharpened. It is to
resolute pessimism, not to swaggering confi-
dence, that victory will come in this war.
The doubts which have lately put new life
into Britain will be the death of Germany
in due course.
+
If the annual conference of the Vic. P.E.C.,
which meets in Melbourne at Easter, means
real business it had better begin sitting at
once, there being enough proposals on the
notice paper to 'provide platforms for a
dozen parties. For example, the Clerks’
Union wants membership of the P.L.C. re-
stricted to hand and brain wage-earners,
which would shut out men like Hughes or
the late Jack Arthur ; while various
branches and unions want Parliament called
together immediately, to pass a fresh lot of
Referendum Bills. But the really impres-
sive list of amendments sought comes from
Geelong, which wants, among other trifles,
to “make interest, rent and profit on wealth
illegal; prices boards for everything; the
automatic nationalisation of all real and per-
sonal property immediately upon the outbreak
of war; the financing of the present war by
means of a land tax instead of borrowing;
the immediate confiscation of all war profits
(these can be discerned by the X rays in
any fat man’s pocket) ; the annual handing
over to an organising fund of £25 per head
by Federal and £lO by State members; the
legalisation of a six-hour system.’’ Geelong
evidently doesn’t intend to stay at the tail
of the procession any longer, and proposes
to hitch itself to the Millennium by way of
a preliminary canter.
- ♦ •
From a man who has been round the pad-
docks and listened to the arguments :■ —-
Cockydom in the Northern Vie. wheat-growing
acreages is in a bad way through the lack of hard
cash. This seems all wrong to the men on the
strippers, who estimate that the best harvest known
in the history of the district has been bagged and
sent to the seaboard. A host of sub-agents have had
the handling of the wheat, and if there is not a nice
muddle in the matter of tallies and qualities before
the final adjustments are made I am a poor prophet.
The average wheat lumper has more brawn than
brain, and how he managed to keep tally in the
rush of getting the loads trucked and away to the
ship’s side is a mystery in more ways than
one. Perhaps he is relying on the weigh-
bridge records. The quality of the grain delivered
was far from being f.a.q. (fair average quality) at
the beginning of the season, when the pinched, early
wheat started to come in, stripped in many in-
stances too soon because of the grower’s eagerness to
handle some coin. Then again there were heavy
summer showers that accounted for consignments of
wet wheat being sent away, only to be held up, and
rehandled to the sub-agents’ debit—all of which
means delay in the receipt of the longed-for wheat
certificates. Meanwhile Cockydom is practically
bankrupt, and the traders who (by the interest-6 d
grace of the wholesalers) have waited like Job on a
tombstone for over two seasons, are sitting crouched
over their ledgers and correspondence files wondering
how much longer the siege is going to last. To fur-
ther add to the joy, Cocky objects to paying
interest on his long overdue scores because be earned
nothing during the recent drought year. Promissory
notes which fell due early in February have
been dishonored by the banks, and writs are being
flourished at the end of every paddock. It is only
fair to add that the farmer in many cases is eager
to meet his liability ; there are others who will only
meet it in the Hereafter.
Every day it becomes plainer that the
anti-enemy trade sentiment wants crystallisa-
tion in a tariff that will prevent a lapse
When the war is over. At the annual meet-
ing of the Australian Association of British
Manufacturers someone moved that mem-
bers should pledge themselves not to accept
the representative of any enemy firm for at
least 10 years after the war; whereupon
another member arose and suggested that
such a pledge “would press very hard on
agents the bulk of whose income was gained
by dealing with German, and Austrian
goods.” Finally the motion was shelved by
a decision that it should be “printed and
circulated.” Now, if that is the sort of
thing that happens when war is in full
blast, what is likely to happen when the war
is over?
To Ulysses Abroad.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With what fresh eyes you’ll see the hills of
home;
You who have tramped the world and known
its worth,
And seen the glory and horror of the earth
From where the sun gilds minaret and
dome
In alien lands,
To where the wreck of ancient Hellas
stands
And the snug fields that gave our fathers
birth.
What links will bind your own land to your
heart! .
You who have proved how dauntless man
can be,
And steeped our name in springs of poetry,
So that we live by you who played your
part
Where Sari Bair
Flings peak and bastion out in upper air,
And Anzae cliffs rise rugged from the sea.
Yet well we know that far on foreign soil
Your dreams take rbot in all you left
behind :
Here Summer lingers and the lazy wdnd
Comes loitering down the land to take its
spoil
Of ripened fruit,
Where by the Murray’s banks the grass-
blades shoot
Through gold-brown earth with mellowing
apples lined.
The Western plains are waking from the
drought,
Ihe grass runs green along the Barwon side,
And down the watered ways the drovers
ride
Behind their crawling mobs from further
out.
Stately and slow
Across the blacksoil flats the drovers go
” here swollen creeks come rolling down in
pride.
uof- Pacific rollers break in foam,
White beaches dream beneath a merc’ful
sun,
from York to Leeuwin when the day is
done
The lights shine out from all the ports of
home,
, r And further back
\vu s^arr Y camp-fires gleam on every track
"here from unfurrowed earth raw wealth
is spun.
l'ar north monsoonal clouds are dark with
rain
Jhew Darwin dozes in its haze of heat,
‘ nd down the coast the black-winged cohorts
meet
in mimic war that floods the fields of cane.
m,. The leap of birth
\ u . s every pulse and tissue of the earth,
na beast and bird proclaim that life is
sweet.
Some day the din of shouting hosts will
cease,
‘ ° me day the desperate struggle wdll be
won,
And laying down once more the sword and
V , glm
011 11 c °me back gladly to the ways of
peace;
, ®ut what new word,
i m essage that our ears have never
heard,
1 1 you bring -with you when your w T ork is
done?
Sn<L!nu^-i s sm °thered with parochial hate,
< thrift with borrowed gold, glutted
with hes,
Lovnn 1D a^er dust and all that dies.
y ' “lit not to Her, the perfect State
When n -i Others planned
Thpv i , nl d m g new' homes in a virgin land,
y ooked above and saw the Cross arise.
tL 0l !i IS to teac h us that the dream w r as
. good,
• more sacre d by the blood you’ve
Bkf\£ rom - their far-off graves our holy dead
arisa an d don our nationhood,
Havp f -r aa t you who roam
New o-i? 1 , • m agic in the name of home,
® ,r - in the land where you were bred.
'ICTORIA.
VANCE PALMER.


GAELIC WHISKY
the old smuggler
Qo»
M
on
etfulabla
Otitic:
GAELIC
The Perfect Whisky
• • . in ...
The Perfect Bottle.
DISTILLED IN THE
HIGHLANDS of SCOTLAND.
OrmeKEJGW I^ 11 ”
The Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
THe Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
INSURANCES EFFECTED FOR
Fire Personal, Accident, Hailstone, Live Stock,
ir Workmen’s Compensation, Plate Glass, etc., at Lowest Rates.
Pitt and King Streets, Sydney. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager^
ROYAL EASTER SHOW
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY.
This Great National Exhibition will be
HELD AS USUAL
18th to 26th APRIL, 1916.
Ocean
ENTRIES CLOSE: Export Butter,
Mieep and Pigs, March 20; Poultry
ture, Fruits and Apiculture, March 5
Industries, March 25; Miscellaneous
BRIZE SCHEDULES and Entry I
March 14; Horses, March
March 21; Dogs, March 1
21; Dairy Produce, 31arch 2
March 27.
orms on Application.
18; Cattle,
12; Agricul-
-4; Women’s
House, Moore Street, Sydney.
11. M. SOMER, Secretary.
Gehenna Breaks Ont at the Old Address.
Ever since the Western armies disappeared
into the earth after the battle of the Marne
sections of them that were over beyond Ver-
dun, which is opposite Metz, have been nib-
bling at one another, for thereabouts is a
hinge on which swing the dispositions of
either side north and south. Possession of
Verdun was an advantage to France; to
collar it would be an advantage to the Ger-
man. And at the beginning of last week the
Hun threw himself at Verdun in large num-
bers and a violent hurry. At time of writing
he was continuing to hurl himself forward in
the same direction. Vague, contradictory
whispers about how things w y ere going were
all that drifted back from the conflict, the
only certainties being that a stupendous
battle was in progress, that the losses on both
sides had been great, that the German was
making a certain advance, and that the
French were shortening their line. The
comments by various newspapers and experts
cabled from London were, as usual,
more or less pointless and occasionally
mere drivel. However, we’re getting accus-
tomed to drivel. An example was the obser-
vation that a German seizure of Verdun
would be of no consequence. Obviously, if
this were so Joffre would not be arguing the
matter so strenuously, nor would the German
be making so tremendous an onslaught. Pend-
ing reliable information about the position,
the main thing sticking out of the gloom is
the warning afforded by this attack against
acceptance of the comforting yarns about the
enemy being somewhere near the end of his
tether. The war is going to be decided acre it
started, and if the campaign of last summer
revealed that the enemy line was hard to
break, the battles of Verdun and recent
happenings around Ypres show that the
enemy is still prepared to attack with a
heavy punch. It may be that his latest
effort is one of despair, or signalises an in-
tention to put everything to the hazard of
victory. The evidence of this is a
long way from being conclusive. What
has happened and is still happening
can more safely be taken as another indica-
tion of what has been clear all along—that
what the Allies need most is every man that
can be mustered, and what can give them
the least assistance is guesswork about the
other fellow. In the interval of waiting for
the result of the battle at Verdun
two big steamers have been lost close to
Dover; the interchange of Notes has reached
a stage in which ink and paper and speeches
and general remarks are mixed in one huge,
incomprehensible mass; and the Turk is
tightening up his belt and ‘wondering what
is going to be his next trouble.
“Marama” : It is just about time some of
the “authorities” woke up to the fact that
good Commonwealth gold is quietly sneaking
away to the Dutch possessions in the East.
Each vessel that steams away to the North
carries a cargo of sovereigns hidden about
the clothes of various persons, most of them
Australians, acting as agents for the wily
Chinese barterers of Singapore and Batavia.
Couldn’t the Customs people cease worrying
about old ladies’ kimonos, and apply a search-
light to the pockets of these low-down pil-
ferers of our greatest asset?
Thomas Edwin Brown, an orchardist of
St. Ives (Sydney), who silently moved off
to Yankeeland the other day, had a crowded
year or two of life and law not long ago.
In 1913, after Brown had been involved in
innumerable petty legal squabbles, a police
sergeant and constable went to his place
armed with a warrant of arrest. “All right,”
said Brown, and went inside to get his coat,
the Hops following. But Brown, in addi-
tion to his coat, got a revolver, and when
he had ended his preparations the
sergeant was shot dead and Brown was
charged with murder. At the first trial the
jury disagreed. At the next Brown was found
guilty and sentenced to death —whereupon he
appealed to the High Court, which quashed
the proceedings and ordered a new trial.
This took place before Cullen, C.J., and
accused was acquitted, mainly because of
doubt whether the shooting was accidental
or deliberate. As he left the dock he was
arrested on a charge of lunacy, and more
long-drawn-out hearings and arguments and
appeals supervened, the final stage being that
Brown was held to be a victim of paranoia,
which took the form of a fixed delusion that
a vast conspiracy existed to prevent him
proceeding at common law to recover 2h\.
or something. Thereupon after about two
years’ wrangling with statutes and specialists
and police Brown faded off the landscape
with a vast accumulation of documents. He
is about 50. of dark and sombre mien, and
looks as if he had signed a pledge in early
youth never to laugh again. Tp hear Brown
giving evidence on his own behalf was to
get a fairly useful lesson in the elasticity
of the word “paranoia.” He appeared abso-
lutely normal, which seems, after all, to be
one of the unfailing signs of the paranoic.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “So Long, Letty”
Criterion “Under Fire”
Palace “Fact’ry ’Ands”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Garden The Dandies
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
The White City Various Shows
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Gipsy Love”
Royal “It Pays to Advertise”
King’s “The Waybacks”
Princess's “Twelfth Night”
Bijou Fuller Vaudeville
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s Own & Olympia Hoyt’s Pictures
Athenaeum Signaller Tom Skeyhill
New Assembly Hall Malini the Magician
Among the “Fact’ry ’Ands” at the Palace
(Sydney) two of the men deserve approval—
Gilbert Emery as “Feathers,” whose picture
of the inevitable cynical attitude produced by
a life-long association with the girls of the
factory, is admirably natural and consistent;
“ FACTRY 'ANDS," AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
Fuzzy Ellis (Colville Dunn) tries to quell
the strike at Spats' Factory.
aud Frank Shepherd, who looks so like an
habitual drunkard that he is apt to incur the
suspicion of having been filled up before he
appeared. H. Macdonna, cast to represent
Billy the Boy, a printer’s devil, has unfortu-
nately outgrown his short trousers, but he
cannot recapture the youth that he so pains-
takingly tries to suggest. Maurice Lynch, as
Benno, is another characterisation that
just fails to measure up with the author’s
intentions, but his work is conscientious. It
is not, perhaps. Colville Dunn’s fault that
he lets the apt characterisation of Fuzzy
Ellis, in the first act, go all to pieces after
he is persuaded to sing the soiat of song that
I uzzy wouldn’t have sung even on his honey-
moon, and it is to be hoped that the author
can prove an alibi as to the existence of that
song in his ’script. • The alleged hero,
Ronald Macleod, is the most casual hero this
paper has seen for seven years. The way
lie toys with a scales, when alleged to be
weighing parcels, is equalled only by his
debonair treatment of the heroine and the
extreme politeness of his love-making. Among
the paste-flingers, Fanny Erris, as Sarah, is
a little too obvious in her flirtations, but pic-
torially is worth flirting with. Mabel Lyne
as Cilly, effectively caricatures a part that
is already sufficiently caricatured by the
author; and Ella Carrington as Martha, in-
fuses much energy and considerable quanti-
ties of voice into her robustious part. As
for the weepful heroine, depicted by Gwen
Dorise. this lady must have strayed from the
fiercest him made in America. Possibly this
is due to the suddenness with which she is
flashed upon the screen and the equal sudden-
ness with which she is switched off. She
has never really time to get in a good weep
before the hero lifts his hat and gently urges
her oft the film. Chas. Villiers bobs in and
out with the same gusty abruptness as the
detective, though he smokes his
careful emphasis. The stavinp- a dl Wlt ' l
for some charming effects. The nGy
duced by Charles Stanford, who is to he PFO '
gra tula ted on his pluck in givffil ACon-
tralian Drama a show. g the A " s '
"FACTRY 'ANDS,” AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
Feathers (Gilbert Emery) discovers "the
girt with the white fox fur" (Mabel Lyne)
for the detecative.
Metaphysicians and devotees to New
Thought will have an opportunity to dis-
cover what New Thought looks like on the
stage at the Little Theatre on March 2
when Frederick Ward is to produce “The
Victory,” by .Julia Seton, M.D., of N’York
where the New Thought conies from. The
dramatist, who is now in Australia on a
lecturing tour, is the founder and principle
lecturer of the Church of the New Civilisa-
tion. “The Victory” is a play with a re-
ligious purpose, and is said to "stand in the
same relation to the New Thought faith
as “The Sign of the Cross” and “The Passing
of the Third Floor Back” does to the estab-
lished Church: but the producer holds out
no _ hope that there are any hungry lions
in it. The scene has been localised in Aus-
tralia. and one of the acts represents an
open-air meeting in the Domain. Herbert
Ford, Eily Malyon and Agnes Keogh will
appear in the production. This play ought
to settle the questions whether the New
Thought is only the Old Thought with an
Amurrican accent and whether the New
Model Civilisation is a self-starter.
* * * sfc
In Dion Boucicault’s old favorite, “The
Shaugliraun,” revived at Sydney Adelphi on
Saturday, Gerald E. Griffin shows to better
advantage than in “Mavourneen,” though his
songs are still his main asset. “Arrah-na-
I’ogue” will be the next production, and in a
fortnight the season will be interrupted by
the Marlow revue, “You’re the One.”
* * * *
“So Long, Letty” is now aged 10 weeks
at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, and going like a
panto.
* s!s 5!: *
No new comets at Sydney Tivoli this week,
but the old ones haven’t faded, and the bill
shines with Pearl Ladd, Villiers Arnold.
Mrs. Slapoffski and Jacques Pintel. who
throw forth music like a high-grade mill. The
strong man continues to break iron with
befitting solemnity, while Barton and Ashley
make fun.
** * *
The beautifying of Branscombe’s Garden
Theatre, which is over the shoulder of Wil-
liam-street. Sydney, has become an obsession
with the management, and as much atten-
tion is paid to the appearance of the open-
air place of entertainment as to the prepara-
tion of the evening programme. The versa-
tile Green Dandies, with quick changes of
specialties are holding their end of the busi-
ness well.
** * *
During the week one of the biggest of the
series of carnivals which has been conducted
at the White City (Sydney) this season drew
an unusual crowd even for a White City
carnival night. The costume competition sys-
tems are the magnet of the big draw.
* * * *
Allan Wilkie’s interesting Hamlet will
muse, meditate and make things hum at
Melb. Princess’s until Friday night, when
the devastated Court of Denmark will
disappear from view and the Ghost will lapse
into silence as before. The performance,
which was good on the first night, has im-
proved in sundry details during its two
weeks’ run. The aforesaid Ghost, for in-
stance, was a trifle “fluffy” in his lines when
he first opened his misty jaws, and the voice
of the prompter could be heard in the gloom
telling the hesitating spook what next to say.
But now he is a practised public speaker
“FACT’RY ’ANDS."
They are a weird collection in that factory
of Spats’,
And Dyson says they’re Sydney girls, to
which we answer “Rats!”
Such girls may wield the paste-brush in a
village down in Vic.,
But Sydney fact’ry ’ands possess that price-
less thing called “chick.”
Some ladies paste the pages in the building
where we write ;
And they are smart in their attire and pleas-
ing to the sight.
In Dyson’s eyes the girls are but a target
for his wit;
Of sympathy and kindliness he shows them
not a bit.
Yet in that mob of foolish freaks there
surely must have been
One simple, sweet and loving girl like Den-
nis’s “Doreen” !
They are a weird assortment in that factory
of Spats’,
With costumes that are awful and an out-
size in their hats.
You’ll see them at the Palace, as they bicker
and they flirt.
And sling repartee at the boss, who likes a
bit of skirt.
You’ll see them on the ferry-boat and see
them out on strike;
But never will you notice one that you will
really like.
For Sarah is a smooger with a very fickle
heart,
Though Cilly wears “real poodle,” still you
couldn’t call her smart;
And in this wild menagerie no lady can be
seen
That looks at all like Dennis’s delectable
“Doreen.”
The men that earn a living in that factory
of Spats’
Are really much more life-like than that mob
of female cats.
There’s “Feathers” who is cynical and to
the ladies rude;
We’ve tried to be like him, and so approve
his attitude.
And Benno is the sort of bloke that we all
recognise:
A Don Juan in his own mind, a fool in
women’s eyes.
Billy the Boy, the printer’s devil; yes, we
know that chap ;
For in our office we have always one of him
on tap.
But “Fuzzy” seems to fade away from what
he might have been ;
And so we miss a simple tart like Dennis’s
“Doreen.”
FIRST NIGHT OF “ FACT'RY ’ANDS.”
Edward Dyson watches his “ Fact’ry ’Ands”
at work in the Sydney Palace Theatre.
No plot is really needed in this factory of
Spats’;
The audience is happy with the chatter of
the cats.
But suddenly across the fun there sounds a
pistol shot.
A melodrama murder-case is sandwiched in
the plot.
The hero shields the heroine —at intervals he
wooes her,
The rude detective smokes cigars and hur-
riedly pursues her.
But what this melodrama has to do in such a
play _
Is what this simple critic bloke is unprepared
to say.
There is no need for hero, ’tec, or weepful
herbine:
What’s needed most, it seems to us, is Den-
nis’s “Doreen.”
For Dyson’s wit and humor in this factory of
Spats’
This critic thanks him humbly, and he offers
his congrats.
But pistol shots, detectives and the heroine’s
disgrace
In this neat chronicle of tarts are rather out
of place.
They interrupt the fish-hook joke—of course
he put in that—
And they beguile the audience from poor
Cilly’s noble hat.
But still the trouble with this farce is that
the author seeks
To captivate the audience with a painful lot
of freaks.
And our advice is merely this, to shoot that
heroine,
And introduce some simple maid like Dennis’s
“Doreen.”


f
I
POORD^SON
FINEST DRY GIN
8l OLD TOM
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney,
ONCE
TASTED
DANICL '
CRAWFORD'S
RED STAR_AwHISKY
DT
j
ITT/W
KHAKI RIDING BREECHES
EXTRA STRONG BEST INDIAN MAKE
The great advantage of Indian workmanship in Riding Garments
is that the seams are put in by hand. These breeches have
strapped knees with lace holes, belt loops and cross pockets. They
are reinforced in all parts subject to wear and saddle strain, and
are cut to fit with the utmost comfort.
Ready-to-wear KHAKI CORD 25/-
Ready-to-wear KHAKI DRILL 17/6
We Pay Postage.
Immediate ordering is advisable. Materials are steadily advancing
in price.
JTease state waist, inside-leg and bare-calf measurements.
*'ew Catalogue on request.
PEAPES CO. LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 George Street SYDNEY
and he doth his tale unfold without a wrinkle
j n j t The bill for Saturday is “Twelfth
Night,” the least unfamiliar to modern Mel-
bourne of all Shakspeare’s comedies. This
revival will be the fourth —not to mention
Alexander Watson’s recital —within 14 years.
Wilkie is expected to beat the local record
as Malvolio, and Miss Hunter Watts has
every qualification for making Viola a nice
sentimental lamb in boy’s clothing. There
is not much of the mere bloke about Viola’s
costume, anyhow. She usually looks like a
glorified Pirate of Penzance at a fancy-dress
ball. .....
sj:
“It Pays to Advertise” is still mak-
ing good at the Royal. Two more
weeks are talked of, so there's time
for any enterprising manufacturer of toilet
fat to get a “Number 13 Skin Soap. Unlucky
for Pimples,” fairly on the market ere the
Yankee comedy has ceased to wash. For
five nights recently Beatrice Holloway
figured as typewriter to the King of
Soap, but Myrtle Tanneliill is now back in
that dollar-making job. A lovely easy job
is the typewriter’s—all dollars and kisses.
The thought of it would drive the most
flapperlike girl into business.
Hi * * *
The panto, has already passed away from
Her Majesty’s (Melbourne), and the Royal
Comics are about to resume operations at
the Williamson house. On Saturday they
revive “Gipsy Love” for just a week only.
After which comes “The Belle of New
York.”
The war-lecture season at Melbourne
Auditorium will be closed for another week.
Ashmead Bartlett has gone, leaving behind
him the impression of one who talked not
unwisely but too much, who was full of
matter but sadly lacking in the lecturer’s
art of personal appeal to his audience,
whose manner was dry and distant where it
should have been juicy and familiar, and
who was most casually fluent when he should
have been slowly emphatic. Bartlett has
the matter, but no idea of how to deliver it.
lie passes consignments from his know-
ledge-box as though he were unloading
bricks. The next war witness to give evi-
dence at the Audi, will be Fred Coleman,
lie talks of how he was “With the Allies in
France and Flanders,” and shows 300 pic-
tures of the Great. Mysteripus, Western
Front. Coleman starts on March 11.
“HAMLET,” AT MELBOURNE
PRINCESS'S.
Ophelia’s Dad.
Hamlet (Allan
Wilkie).
“The Waybacks” continue to be a matter
for laughter at Melbourne King’s. Dad
payback remains in charge of the proceed-
ings, giving advice or chiding his unruly
family in a voice that sounds like “interrup-
tion” at a public meeting. The broken
comedy is most humorous when it is satiri-
cal, as in Dad’s deputation to the Minister
of Public Works, or the controversy between
the two Balmain ladies over their back
fences; and weakest when the junior charac-
ters are pushing one another about. Most
of these small people are scant of human in-
terest and are otherwise unworthy of sym-
pathy or attention. As for the frequent in-
terloper that wears a monocle and a tartan
hatband and expresses his dense ignorance
of agriculture in some pitiable japes, he is
an apology for a human being.
All of which being said the fact re-
mains that the King’s was crowded on the
second Saturday night of “The Waybacks.”
Ihe audience seemed to think, moreover,
that the show was pretty much what the
highly-colored posters had led it to expect.
t
Saturday’s muster at Melbourne Bijou in-
cluded George Wheeler, an eccentric musi-
cian whose most arresting item is the perpe-
tratlon of popular tunes on dead marines.
Alphonso and King, two fresh programmers,
show themselves to be well informed on the
subject of trick-biking; but in the matter of
cross-gagging Desmond and Dalton are
hawkers of ancient history. Rose Lee Ivy,
clever and enlivening in songs, has come to
the help of the old brigade. Lending some
support is Leonard Nelson, the retailer of
machine-made melodies.
** * *
Ihe Follies, plus the Belgian Concert
aud two or three other items, are jus-
tifying their incidental flags and fixings at
the Melbourne Tivoli. Business is brisk
and the programme is the same disordered
onslaught of songs and trivialities as before,
home _of the trivialities break through the
first, lines of inanity at salient points, but a
hollies performance has one great advan-
tage over an ordered sequence of “turns.”
There are no encore numbers in it and no
pauses. Nobody reappears before a cheer-
less front-cloth to say “Ladies and gentle-
men, with your kind permission I will
now give you a bit more of myself.” when
nearly everybody in the audience wishes the
performer was dead.
“HAMLET” AT MELBOURNE
PRINCESS’S.
The King.
Grave Digger the
Second.
Signaller Tom Skeyhill’s honest yarn of
the Australians at Anzac is to be repeated
at the Athenaeum Hall. Thomas will be there
again next Saturday and subsequent nights.
Malini, professor of magic, threatens to be
amazing for a week at the New Assembly
Hall, Collins-street (Melb.), commencing
next Saturday (4th). lie practises his
black art without apparatus.
This all-for-the-Empire-business may be
very well in theory when the importer
has a penny flag in his hand, but in practice
—well, during 1914 the Australian importer
introduced 42 million pounds of tea to this
country, as against 45 millions in 1915. Of
the 1914 importation, about nine millions
came from China and Java (non-British)
and 33 millions from British territory. But
in 1915 the tally was : China and Java, 12
millions; British territory, 33 millions again.
So in the year when there was the loudest
howl for the protection and extension of
British trade, importations from British
lands remained stationary while the foreign
product was favored to the extent of three
million pounds over the 1914 purchases.
There is a remedy, but it has nothing to do
with waving penny flags and talking in a
large, inflated, splendid, insincere way of
Australia's duty to the Empire.
A guarded word from behind the wheat-
stacks :—-
The cockies in the rich districts beyond Bendigo
were expected to contribute thousands of bags of
wheat to the Sick and Wounded Soldiers’ Fund; but
so far only a score or so of bags have been for-
warded from the sky-high stacks. Those cockies
who have been moved by a generous impulse are
the smaller men. The big growers have given little
in the shape of kin, much less in harvest-trove. As
an example to them, some struggling settlers on
Nestdown Estate, further north, have sent along
their 16 bags (over a ton) without a murmur. But
these are the glorious exceptions.
Tassy’s Marine Board had before it the
other day a proposal to abolish the signal
station at Mount Nelson on the ground that
ships carry wireless nowadays, and that,
anyway, vessels are reported from other
places before they are spotted from Mount
Nelson. As the abolition of the station would
have been a break with ancient history the
proposal was dropped. Governor Macquarie
planted the look-out on Mount Nelson when
he reached Hobart in 1811, naming it after
the Lady Nelson, the craft which carried
him from Sydney. Ever since there has been
a signalman with an eye cocked for vessels
coming into the Derwent. On a clear day
a ship’s flags can be made out 18 miles
away, and if a vessel is a well-known trader
they know all about her through the tele-
scope when she is 28 miles off or thereabouts.
AT POVERTY POINT.
C. J. Z. Woinarski writes :
Contributors to The Bulletin concerning the late
Geo. Musgrove cast an unwarrantable slur on his
memory in reference to the “Tambour Major” company
and its profits. It has been suggested that Musgrove
acted shabbily or worse to his uncle, W. S. Lyster,
in appropriating its profits. Not a penny of Lyster’s
money was in that venture. The money which
brought out the co. from England was furnished to
Geo. Musgrove by an Englishman named Ayers in
these circumstances. G.M. was returning from Maori-
land in May, 1880, with manager Lyster’s English
opera co., and on board the ship was Ayers (who
was a very wealthy man). He and Musgrove
became very friendly, and when George mentioned
certain plans he had as to his future and his lack
of capital Ayers generously offered £2OOO, with
the promise of another £lOOO if necessary, as a
loan. On arriving at Melbourne Musgrove
went straight to England and engaged the “Tambour
Major” co. with the money. Previous to his departure
it was arranged by Ayers that only if the venture
made good was the money to be returned, but if
it failed the lot was to be accepted as an absolute
gift by him to Musgrove. Lyster died before his
nephew returned to Melbourne from England. The
point I want to emphasise is that not a penny of
Lyster’s money was in the successful “Tambour
Major” venture.
“Pin” : Re late George Musgrove. There
are _ old heads that remember “Muzzy” in
1861-70 as a law clerk to old Win. Atten-
borough, erstwhile of Collins-street. The
office where “Muzzy” then ate his sand-
wiches when not writing blisters adjoined
the old Criterion pub, on the site of the
present Commercial Bank. It was from
Attenborough’s that G.M. went to Uncle
Lyster at the old Opera House to help keep
up the business end of things. By the way,
Melbourne’s recent reminder of the once-
important George has set me moralising on
the way of all worlds —theatrical or other-
wise. A picture of his funeral was filmed
at one of the movies. The coffin was showm
being carried out from a small cottage, or
villa, thence to a two-horse hearse. Two
black coaches suffice for the mourners, and
the rest of the “cortege” consists of two
motor-cars and a hansom cab. Fifteen years
ago the funeral of poor “Muzzy” would have
made an imposing show on the film screen.
This picture looked like a satire.
Evie Green, who played lead in the London
production of “The Country Girl” and popu-
larised “My Little Grey Home in the West,”
is now a widow. Her husband was comman-
der of HALS. Arethusa, lost the other day
by striking a mine off the British coast.
R. G. Ivnowdes, of music-hall fame, has a
few things to say about Australia in bis
book of reminiscences, “A Modern Colum-
bus.” “Nearly everyone likes the Australians,
for they are a most hospitable people, with
kindly feelings for all peoples in all parts.”
Knowles claims to have brought down the
house at Sydney Palace by asking, on his
first appearance, “If the man is in the house
who dug the harbor, will he please stand
up?” The “howl of delight” which greeted
this brilliant effort “came, I imagine, on
account of everyone over-praising Port
Jackson to such an extent that they
were pleased wdien someone came along
with courage enough to guy a little
on so serious a subject.” George Reid
is a favorite subject wdth Knowles, whose
stories never lose anything in the telling.
George, it seems, “established his reputation
in a single night.” Someone in “a great
throng” threw an egg which smashed on his
shirt-front; on which he solemnly thanked
God that “the Great Auk is dead.” On the
other hand, a joke of dubious taste, which
Reid generally gets the credit of, is told here
as having been scored against him. “You
ought to be dead,” said the man ; and Reid
obligingly replied: “Suppose I were dead,
what would happen then?” Whereupon
somebody snapped that the fat would be m
the fire. Knowles says he was in the audience
when that happened ! “There was no speech ;
I heard nothing of Reid—neither logic, ora-
tory, wit, humor, eloquence nor repartee.
Reid laughingly quitted, and so did the audi-
ence, howling with delight.”
“II.F.”: Your Melbourne report of my
Wayback play states: “Dad merely reflects
the crude and primitive nature of Dad Rudd ;
all Rudd’s fondness for sudden violence and
whiskers is carefully repeated.” Excepting
the whiskers item—-common to most bushies
—this statement is contrary to fact. Old
Rudd, a clearly-defined character, is an
opinionated, bull-headed and humorless old
settler of the Darling Downs. Dads Way-
back is an easy-going, humorous philosopher,
a native of the Hawkesbury, and incidentally
my neighbor for many years. Also date of
publication shows that The Waybacks came
to town years before Steel Rudd brought his
family to the metropolis. And it was as
bushies in town that The Waybacks struck
oil.
“Hamer”: 11. W. Varna, who figured as
petitioner in a Melbourne Divorce Court a
week or so back, came out to the William-
son firm to produce “The Darling of the
Gods”; and Sid Smith, an Australian who
had made a reputation as producer with the
Firm, refusing to play second fiddle, went
out. Later Varna stage-managed for the
Knight-Jeffries co. While Julius was in hos-
pital, and Plimmer Marcus Superbing—an
occasion when there was considerable
shuffling of parts—Varna played Nero. One
newspaper carelessly called the part “Zero.”
Hall Caine has manufactured a war
drama, “The Prime Minister,” which has
been censored in London. U.S.A. is to get
the benefit of the doubt.
Victoria has learned its lesson from last
year’s bitterly disappointing experience with
serum imported for the treatment of menin-
gitis. Lieutenant-Colonel George Cuscaden,
P.M.O. for the State, has published the fact
that supplies of serum, for coping with a
possible outbreak this autumn, are now
being made at the Veterinary College (Mel-
bourne University), and large reserves
thereof are being piled up against the day
of infection. The disease is being fur-
ther discouraged by more liberal tenting
arrangements for the men in militarv camps,
six to eight soldiers per covering being the
complement, instead of 10 as formerly. With
a few other precautions, such as arrange-
ments for early diagnosis and adequate
segregation, the soldiers should be able to
have a fairly healthy wet-season. It is the
civilian who will suffer, as before, with his
haphazard treatment by clashing authorities,
squabbling hospital-managements and indif-
ferent municipal bumbles.
The recruiting district of Heidelberg, part
of which is quite close to Melbourne, but
which extends into the bushy hills beyond
Diamond Creek on the north, contains about
40 square miles ; so the sergeant has to keep
at least one good horse. The other day the
local shire-council received a letter suggest-
ing that the ratepayers might patriotically
feed the animal. While the council
was considering the matter an old
Heidelberg dweller, Malcolm Macleod,
of Dalvey, arose and settled the busi-
ness by volunteering for active horse-
service during the period of the war.
Mac’s sporting offer was to provide
transport and to drive the sergeant any-
whither at any hour of day or night.
With the light of battle in its eye Sydney
D.T. threw the last bottle out of its new
skyscraper which occupies the site from
which a pub was torn and on February 17
roared that:—
The obvious course for Minister for Defence Pearce
to take.... if the State Government will not limit
the hours for consumption of liquor is to step boldly
in under the ample powers he possesses.
Whereupon Pearce stepped boldly in, and
the D.T. arose to propose his health with: —
At last! After irreparable and incalculable dam-
age has been done, Mr. Pearce has invoked his powers.
But on February 25 it appeared to the D.T.
that it was time to turn the usual somer-
sault :
The rights of the States to control their domestic
affairs must be respected, and it would be a dan-
gerous precedent if the Federal Government, by a
mere proclamation, insisted upon interfering with
them. The same power which by proclamation can
limit the hours of trading can extend them, and a
Minister on his own will, if left with uncontrolled
authority, might in this way make violent inroads
on the functions of the States.
Having got this off, the agitated organ of
Freetrade reckoned it might as well add to
the confusion by remarking a little further
down that: —
It is pretty plain that the Minister for Defence
will have to maintain a sufficient restriction on the
bar trade of hotels during the war unless the State
Government does its obvious duty.
So it boils down to this: that Pearce did the
right thing; that what he did was dangerous
and an “inroad” on the functions of the
State ; that he must go on being dangerous
and continue his inroads unless someone else
does what Pearce and the D.T. consider to
be the correct thing. It seems somewhat
mixed.
husbands on the hoof.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Later a letter in his wife’s handwriting was sent
to tiie leading lady in the company, containing the
(mowing: “I know you are fond of one another; I
na ff e ? business proposition to make to you. I will
sen him to you, not at his own price, because I would
he independent for life and you have not enough
money. You can have him, lock, stock and barrel, for
<to< b P-S.—lt is better for me than divorce.”
Evidence given in recent theatrical divorce suit.
1-v ry man has his price, so they say ;
But he wants the coin put in his pocket;
If a husband is slipping away
Get a price for the brute and then “sock” it.
Sell him up as he runs f.o.b. ;
Oh, but not at his own valuation!
I or the girl couldn’t possibly buy him, you see,
Though she thought him the pick of the station.
It will give him a shock when he learns
That he’s sold like the bullock that’s branded ;
Wave the bill in his face when he yearns
To return to the wife he left stranded ;
Tell him straight he was put in the pound,
And it won’t help to blaspheme and splutter,
And remind him he’s live stock cavorting around
When you hear him rebelliously mutter.
VICTORIA.
STOCK AND STATION AGENT.


English-made Horsehide Shooting Boots
FOR tramping over rough
country, no boots will give
you more foot comfort, or
stand more real hard wear than a
pair of these English Horsehide
Shooting Boots. Tougher than any
ordinary leather, specially treated
with a non-greasy oil to keep out
water, they will outlast three
ordinary pairs of boots. Made
with welted soles that are thor-
oughly waterproof. In all men’s
sizes 37/6 pair
37/6
PAIR.
&
®5
We
Pay
Carriage.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
Opposite G.P.0.,
SYDNEY
H 9/ 79)
IONE-SEVEN NIN^I
LUXUR/A
Cologne.
British made and
j o/ rareluxuriance.
-ft 7he Refreshing's
Toilet Dainty
Sample Bottle id post free.
Parviola Perfumery Co.
Normanby Road, South Melbourne.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantlj-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
now complete in every detail, ant,
under the management of Hos
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfec
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare fasoi-
ably with any Hotel in England’
America or the Continent. I >a 1
He Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
NOT HER FAULT.
“Darling, these onions have a horrible smell.”
“They can't have. I sprayed them with Eau-de-Cologne before I cooled them.”
“Tito” : You don’t often hear a growl from
a barman, so here goes. I was recently
driven by force of circumstances to snatch
a job or position as bar-tender in one of
Melbourne’s leading hotels, and after putting
in three months was asked to retire on
account of my alleged appetite for imported
stout. During those three months I worked
GO hours per week for the tremendous weekly
remuneration of 355., or 7d. per hour. In
return for this imperial income I was ex-
pected to be honest, sober, smart, obedient,
muscular (to deal with refractory strange
drunks), a diplomatist (to pacify without
offence good customers on the spree), and
to address every sodden bounder that hap-
pened along as “Sir.” The manager took
such a fatherly interest in me and my
fellow drink-agents that he couldn’t let us
out of his sight, even on Sundays. On that
alleged day of rest we came in at 8 a.m. to
polish up numerous whisky bottles which all
contained the same fluid under different
aliases. To make sure that we wouldn’t go
away without seeing him he didn’t pay us
our week’s money till 10 a.m. on the day
of resurrection. It is time the men who
supply sore heads at an expensive rate drank
up and demanded shorter hours and a decent
Avage. It is a disgrace that men who
work till 11.30 six nights out of the seven
should be made to rise at 6 a.m. on Sunday
so that they may walk into town and arrive
there at 8 to put a gorgeous boot-polish on
the bottle with the blue ruin in it.
* * * *
“J.P.”: An inventh'e farmer at Palmer-
ston North (M.L.) seems to have struck
something big in the shape of an electric
gun for hurling gigantic shells, containing a
high explosive, incredible distances. Six
months ago he sent complete models, plans
and specifications of this remarkable weapon
to the Inventions Board of the British Admi-
ralty. Contrary to its usual custom, the
Board sprang at the device, examined it
thoroughly and hurried it to the munition
branch for experiment. The inventor \A r as
recently advised that the tests were pro-
ceeding, that so far they had been satis-
factory, and that practically the only diffi-
culty to be overcome Avas the excessive
length of barrel required to ensure efficiency.
If the idea can be Avorked, a new horror
Avill be added to war, for dynamite and
dead cats can be safely hurled out of the
weapon.
» * # *
“Carfax” salutes the book and tells the
story of a neglected opportunity :
That yarn published in Australian papers a week
ago about the mechanical device perfected by Ger-
man scientists for electrically warming soldiers in
the trenches during winter was another illustration
of the scurvy treatment received by men of inventive
genius in the Commonwealth. The device is really
the invention of a man whose copy has frequently
been published in The Bulletin. Of a strongly
philosophic temperament he had, long before the war
broke out, foreseen the collision and forecasted
the revolution that would take place in the
conduct of campaigns by land and sea. The
seizure of Bosnia and Herzegovina by Austria
about five years ago was so obviously a
trial gallop that he immediately wrote to
the War Office, offering to place at its disposal the
plans and specifications he had drawn up for the
equipment of soldiers necessary to meet modern
methods of attack and defence. At great expense
he had samples prepared, and these were sent to
London, but in spite of repeated letters inquiring
what was going to be done he got no reply. This,
with the announcement of the Germans having in-
A'-ented a portable warmer, points strongly to sus-
picion that the goods were forwarded by the post
office to Berlin. Briefly, the Australian recommended
that trench warfare should be conducted by making
the trenches self-contained. Every trench would
PROPHETIC.
FIRST CITIZEN OF A GREAT REPUBLIC: "Waal, I guess it wasn't fer nothin' that our
national drink's the cocktail.”
contain a wire charged at low voltage from a dynamo
at headquarters. Each man going on duty would be
furnished with trousers sheathed with copper and a
small insulated connection in the hip pocket. This
he would connect with the wire and immediately
become suffused with a warm glow in the lumbar
region to which he could apply his hands and his
feet by sitting on them. This would have saved
thousands of lives, and was only part of the Aus-
tralian’s scheme, for it embraced novel schemes of
soup-distribution by shell-fire, of dry-bathirg by
electricity and of protection from rain by an umbrella
attached to the rifle. Should it be definitely ascer-
tained that the Germans are infringing his patents
the Australian is advised by counsel to proceed
against the enemy for damages. The preliminary
papers have already been filed.
* * * *
“Vin”: I’m waiting and hoping for the
educational depts. to officially scalp the time-
waster who visits schools and gives a lecture
or operates a gramophone or magic
lantern at 3d. admission. The show is always
20 years behind the times; yet education
departments allow it while preaching
thrift to the kiddies. Some of the school-
showmen rake in five or six notes a week by
working their miserable fakes. I’m so im-
pressed with the possibilities that I’m think-
ing of throwing up teaching and taking
down the younger generation by machinery.
It pays better than working.
* * * *
“T. 0.1.”: Apropos the much-advertised
Berry estate, down Shoalliaven (N.S.W.)
way. Alexander Berry’s acres were not all
gifts from the Crown. I have original re-
ceipts (1840-41) signed by F. L. S. Mere-
wether, Stephen Greenhill and C. I). Riddell,
for 604 acres of the land at 88s. ; 935 acres
at 315., and 7280 acres at 12s.
* * #
“Chinky” : The wet-farm areas in Northern
victoria are far ahead of the rich wheat-
farming latitudes in the matter of recruiting.
The irrigation settlement of Ballendella,
with its population of 30 families, has con-
tributed about 40 fighters to ' Australia’s
ranks, while cockydom nearby has hardly
contributed a man. There is, by the way,
a m ‘* l ’k ec J ! difference in the temperaments of
we f ‘‘dry” farming communities.
While the wives of the fighting settlers
tackle the work on their blocks, including
irrigating, cutting and stacking lucerne, and
generally work like good Australians to be
independent of the so-called “charity” of local
committees, the better-off cockies whose few
absent sons have blocks of the wheat-growing
closer settlement estates, have been beg-
ging for help to take the crops off. This
fatty degeneration of the liver that afflicts
the well-to-do is a terrible disease.
The man who boils down the cables got
to understandable, everyday hospital lan-
guage last week when he announced that
"the entire Servian army is now out of
danger.” Next caller will be told that it is
as well as can be expected, or is sitting up
in Corfu and taking nourishment.
* * * *
From the abode of Costs:—
Some divorce cases have lately illuminated the
drab business of life in Melbourne. In one the
husband, immediately after the honeymoon, con-
ceived the idea that his wife was a mere slave,
and whenever he was at home desired her to bog
into certain dressmaking work, the proceeds of which
he afterwards commandeered. When he went out he
locked the lady in the bedroom, which was lit in
the daytime by a skylight and at night by the
moon. As he was out a good deal and often till
midnight, and as he mostly omitted to leave his bet-
ter half any food the proceedings grew monotonous
and she left for a more crowded environment.
Nominally she had deserted her husband, but the
Law considered that he should have been deserted
earlier in the campaign and severed the bonds.
Another narrative, told by the petitioning wife,
astonished even the seasoned Justice Hood. it
concerned a moderately-rich English woman whose
husband occupied himself for 16 years in the Cold
land in living on her money. Then he engaged a
domestic servant and insisted that she should sleep
in their room. Petitioner acquiesced, as she did to his
nibs’s departure for Australia with the damsel. On
following them later the wife naturally found the
pair living together, but she took up her abode on
the premises quite ingenuously, although she didn't
approve of her husband preferring to sleep on the
verandah, where it happened the other lady slept.
It was a tale of almost incredible simplicity, but
his Honor dismissed his preliminary suspicions of
connivance and handed out a decree.
After listening for over two days to the
evidence in the original suit, when hearing
the appeal in the Norton v. Norton divorce
case, the N.S.W. Full Court took a long
breath (the rules unfortunately prevent a
Court taking a long sleever). The costs of
the first hearing are said to have reached
£2OOO, and, of course, Costs are still going
strong. While Justices Pring, Sly and Fer-
guson represented the Court’s fulness over
that case, Justices Street, Gordon and Har-
vey were wrestling with an appeal m
another case, wherein, also, the costs are
alleged to have reached the vicinity of
£2OOO before the appeal began. In that case
—Everingham v. the Municipality of Pen-
rith—the printed record of evidence reached
towards 300 pages. The land in dispute is
worth, at the outside, £l5O.
PARNASSUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The return railway fare, Christchurch to Parnassus,
is one guinea.
The ranges called Parnassus
Are leagues from Christchurch town.
There winds sing in the grasses
On hillsides golden-brown—
There cornfields glimmer yellow
And skies are mostly blue,
And Pegasus, old fellow,
Has hay enough to chew.
The old post-road to Waiau
Is steep; it never winds
By punga, pine or ngaio,
Nor sheltered hollow finds.
But over high Parnassus,
A Roman way, it goes
Where storm-kings clink their glasses
And drink to winter’s snows.
We took that road one morning,
’Twas Pegasus we drove,
And autumn’s rich adorning
Was colder than our love,
Along the high, blue ridges
We dreamed till sunset came—•
The mountain-tops were bridges
To cross a world of flame.
’Twas splendid on Parnassus—
We saw the wild hares flee—
And young gods seemed to pass us
With glances turned to see
Who came, with none to guide them,
By pathways of the skies,
With youth and love beside them
And laughter in their eyes.
Down dim and misty valleys
Good Pegasus made haste
Where twilight ever dallies
With shadows slim and chaste,
And even when the town lights
Were twinkling close at hand
We saw the blue and brown lights
That lit our golden land.
“Who’s going to Parnassus!’’
The guard cries, facing down—•
With every wind that passes
We smell the hillsides brown.
Two guineas, bright and yellow,
Two tickets, royal blue—
The engine’s deep-toned bellow—
“ Hold on, we’re coming, too!”
MAORILAND.
HORI.


ayt'"* 42/-
4 51-
Postage Extra
—what it means
to own a real
“KEEPDRY”
COAT
THE “OILY” FOR
WALKING OR RIDING
IT means that you have an Oilskin that “never lets
you down,” that will never stick or let the water
through.
It is carefully made from fine Japarra Silk —either Black
or Yellow, whichever you prefer. You ought to have
an “Oily” that you can depend upon, day in and day
out, for years.
That is why you should insist on a “KEEPDRY.”
Please state your height and chest measurement.
PIKE BROTHERS Limited
Toowoomba BRISBANE. Townsville,
Australians
BE PATRIOTIC. BRINK—-
The World can offer no better Natural
Mineral Water than Koomah—wh ch
comes direct from the famous Rock Flat
Springs, Cooma, N.S.W. A Natural
Mineral Water from your own country.
Sole
Agents:
E. ROWLANDS PTY. LTD.,
Purveyors to Vice-Royalty,
Ballarat, Melbourne, Sydney, Katoomba
Australia’s Very
Own in Natural
Mineral Waters.
The LUCKY GEM of the EAST
Brings Luck and Happiness to everyone.
Must be worn on the person.
The lucky LUNAIIIA .(a real gem) is
supplied by an Indian Brahmin, or High Priest,
and is an emblem of prosperity.
If it brings you luck, as it has done for
thousands of others, tell your friends.
Posted free to all parts of Australia, 2/6 each.
Sole Agents—ALLAN HARRIS & CO. LTD..
Gem Merchants, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
rjnilE AUTHORS’ ALLIANCE is pre-
pared to consider and place MSS.
Literary work of all kinds dealt with by
experts who place authors’ interests first.
Twenty years’ experience’. Write for pro-
spectus. 100 Flinders Street, Melbourne;
and at London and New York.
“Lou”: A returned soldier ran his fore-
finger across his throat about this: “We
were rusliin’ up a slope under a hot fire. On
me off-side was one of them Indian Silks.
All of a sudden a piece of shrapnel nearly
cut off one of his food hooks at the wrist.
Without stoppin' he screwed the paw off and
threw it away.” Well, he had no further
use for it.
* * * *
About the time war was declared a Ger-
man tramp, loaded with some thousands of
pounds’ worth of Hun firebricks for the Pro-
prietary Steel Works at Newcastle, poked
its nose in at Albany, but someone passed
the word along promptly, and the stranger
bolted for Java. As there was danger of
delay in starting the works, and as it was
impossible to procure a fresh supply from
abroad (where all good things come from)
manager Delprat proceeded to test an
Australian fire-clay deposit, and with
such success that a far better brick was
manufactured in Australia. When, about
a year later, the German consignment was
DID HIS BIT.
SON: “ Father, what did you do in the great war?”
FATHER: “I? Oh, I got married.”
released and reached its destination, it was
promptly stacked near the wharf, and will
probably remain there until some bad Aus-
is looking for something cheap.
“Oxo” : Have you ever heard of “C” sec-
tlwn of iDe Australian 2nd Field Ambu-
lance i This is what came their way. They
volunteered to assist 41st English Field
Amb. at No. 3 Outpost (a pretty hot shop),
worked continuously for about 50 hours,
shitted 2000-odd men on to lighters bound
tor hospital ship, and were then informed
ttiat in the opinion of the senior officer of
tlie 41st, they had not done enough. We
bioke the news to our C.O. and he demanded
our return to our own corps. If that Eng-
lish Johnny had kept quiet we would all
have collapsed at the work, as we were
determined to see it through. As it was
, the 15 ( yes ’ that ’s all), myself in-
cluded, were invalided to the cold land of
England.
* * *
Trade Union Ghost”: I wouldn’t care to
lie dead in old St. David’s Cemetery, at
Hobart (Tas.), where the monument of
Governor Collins and many another old-time
worthy defies the weather with more or less
success. The whole place is in a scandal-
ous condition, with gaping vaults and
di unken tombstones reeling in the moon-
light. According to the accounts, the bone
settlement paid its miserable way in
the revenue including a ' sum
ot £22 _ 2s. for rent of part of it
as a timberyard and an old cottage
once used by the caretaker. The
expenditure was only £8 7s. Id. If the
balance of £l3 14s. lid. isn’t spent on im-
proving the property, I am going to discon-
tinue haunting there.
* * * *
An ancient mariner was fined £lO at
Parramatta (N.S.W.) last week for feloni-
ously acquiring cash from a Chow who
wanted opium. The old shellback told the
Chow he knew where to secure some of the
sleepy stuff and was advanced £9 10s. to
procure it, but as the goods were not deliv-
ered the Chinaman summoned the sailor
to court on a charge of stealing his money.
Opium-buying, like betting, is illegal, and
the general impression is that a citizen can-
not recover a bet at law. Seeing that the
Chinaman had been trying to evade the law
by conspiring with the defendant to commit
aa illegal act, the Court’s decision to fine
the latter £lO is a curious one. If the Law
wants to prevent Chinamen from buying
opium one of the best ways not to do it is
to offer protection to would-be purchasers.
Briefly the Law undertakes by this case to
say to the opium smoker: “Arrange with
who you like to buy the poppy drug. If
he delivers it, all li; if not we finem tenner.”
Bishop Long, of Bathurst (N.S.W.),
records that out of 15 men preparing for
ordination 11 have gone to the Front, and
two others are staying only because they
tailed to pass the medical tests. Further, only
one stipendiary reader remains in the diocese,
and he has returned from Gallipoli incapaci-
tated by wounds. “It is impossible,” sighs
Bathurst, “to fill the vacancies for curates.”
Who wants curates, anyhow? These are
the days of warriors.
AS OTHERS SEE US.
PROUD PA: “ Rather like me in appearance,
don't you think, Miss Jones?”
DITTO MA : “How absurd, Alfred. The little
darling! Note tell me truly, Miss Jones,
isn't he like his mother?”
MISS JONES : “ Well, I dunno. It isn't the
kid's fault either way.”
A very wild man in pyjamas did a flame-
dance round his country home last week. He
had good reason for his excitement, and he
explained his troubles between leaps. Deep
in the heart of the furnace was a roll of 175
£1 banknotes, and as the Treasury hasn’t
yet started its asbestos issue, money was
burning as well as the- piano and the por-
trait of mother before she was married.
Most Australian notes look like dishrags and
deserve to be fired ; but it is one of the jobs
the private citizen can’t afford to do on
his own.
* * * *
“True Bill”: A Government (address
strictly censored) recently informed a
General (name on no account to be pub-
lished) that there were 30 decorations for
distributions among his officers who had dis-
tinguished themselves. Would he send on his
recommendations? In due time 30 officers
sported ribbons, but to the astonishment of
the General and his chief of staff not one of
the men he had recommended received recog-
nition. Discreet inquiry was made, and it
was found that by the mistake of an officer
at headquarters a list of 30 officers who were
to be inoculated against hay-fever or some-
thing got into the wrong envelope ; also, that
30 heroes had been dragged off to hospital
and punctured instead of being decorated.
Whereupon the O.C, turned himself into a
Catherine-wheel and uttered wild, dishevelled
language.
* * * *
A Sydney boatbuilder who knew him
lately supplied a suitable epitaph for the late ,
Emil Bomholtz, who was drowned with two
friends while trying to steeplechase over the
bar at Laurieton (N.S.W.) in a motor-
boat. “An absolutely fearless man” was
the boatbuilder’s farewell, and he told how
Bomholtz once travelled all the way to Syd-
ney from the Richmond Biver in an IS-foot
open boat, with engine and sail. In the
same week that Bomholtz was drowned he
and another friend, while out in the lost
motor-boat, were smashed up by a sea and
barely rescued from a saturated grave. Yet
he went out in bad weather a few days
later. Fearlessness may be a commendable
quality, but it would be improved if those
who are addicted to it made a point of always
performing alone, and not involving others
in their dare-devil acts.
“Hermes”: Have often been puzzled by
the advertisements for a good plain cook.
The premium on lack of beauty bewildered
me. It seemed to my unsophisticated mind
that all domestic helps should be beautiful,
for a pretty maid is about as lovely a piece
of furniture as can be got, and does a lot
to make up for the absence of Chippendale
cabinets and so forth. But now, like St.
Paul before the gate
of Damask Cuss, I
have seen a grea't
light, and heard
voices—angry fe-
male ones. In one
Sydney suburb no
less than three re-
spectable stout men
have bolted with
their cooks during
the last three
months. Accord-
ing to the ladies
from whom I de-
rived my informa-
ti o n the “crea-
tures” were not
beautiful. A n d
since hearing the
caustic female re-
ferences I have
understood why the
lady of the house
always advertises
for a plain cook.
Ma n consists o f
what he eats, and
a pretty wo m a n
who can cook di-
vinely, make hea-
venly soups and
tickle the palate
into taking a good
square meal after
a wild night out on
lift, of whisky is
beyond rubies and
more precious than
fine gold. When a
man finds that type
of woman in his
house it is his duty
to bolt with her.
Beauty and culin-
. .. , „ ary genius are
above all law. Still, one cannot blame the
dowagers who preside over most homes for
trying to prevent the heavenly cook getting
into the establishment. But their failure to
prevent the bolting of the old man shows
that mere plainness isn’t enough. Why not
advertise: Y\ anted, horrible-looking cook?”
f Unusualcadvertisement from Sydney D.T.
Two Graves, R.C. Cemetery, Rookwood, Old
Ground, best part. , P. 0., Newtown.
Disregarding for a moment the heading under
which this cry of financial distress appeared
(“bor Sale, Hire or Exchange”), a grave
site would seem to be the poorest sort of real
estate one could wish to own. Few men buy
their own last home; almost any hole is
good enough to be dead in.
A MONTE.
“How do you know his play will he a
success?”
"Why, even Vera went crimson when she
read her part!”
A CHOICE ASSORTMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
All the air was, warm with laughter,
All the sun was bright with joy;
Time himself that pleasant after-
Noon became a careless boy.
(Sort of boy that likes to tarry
Having telegrams to carry.)
All the world was like a feather
Sailing down a summer wind ;
Both your eyes made happy weather,
And your lips were curved and kind.
(Sort of lips that mock the roses
Worn with pert, tip-tilted noses.)
There I think you called me Billy,
And I tried to guess your name,
For your neck was like a lily,
And your blushes like a flame.
(Sort of flame that burns its brightest
When the waist is squeezed the tightest.)
All the night with soft stars twinkled,
And the white 'moon rode in state
Over fields the dew had sprinkled
E’er we found the train was late.
(Sort of train that o’er creation
Crawls and stops at every station.)
Often standing sadly under
Skies no longer quite so blue,
I look back and mildly wonder
What the deuce became of you.
(Sort of you whose memory teases
While it stimulates and pleases.)
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


THE PILGRIM’S PROGRESS.


c
n°
tt f i« still possible for the enemies of
Germany to obtain a comparatively easy
peace. ( warn the Entente Powers that
they should not allow this favorable
moment to pass.
—German Imperial Treasurer
f^Aiion
(oMpliCAtlOAIj
A skefcb wt
frourife-
ft
' JJofejAWg.: £>y CU, you selluro
me lotted . f[\ 1 li 1 ,1 send
you urn {sloT£ (
CwRQ : feotlo arm ee, sir?.
ANZAC . Mo ,-tVfariks, but*
friend I'UOuld
like otie
iH£
-rf|£
Th« British Government is restricting
the import of paper pulp.—News item.-
frooC ftAariu,(actor€r ;
Look here siis» embargo it>
a« Nt r A-sjjurtk . XT' iahll brm? absolute
fo\n -to a mosr mciusir**''."
r r>o, '?.' hat Ki "« ConMantlne
Greece has called up men of the iko*>
r« .9,4 classes inclusive uho are , ? .
abroad, except those resident in R uss =
and the Balkans Cable,
V/rfo banana* on -tW dodder
Svre tW feeT can't be much colder
They are ordered o|| fo A^en s m
+Wc mom in 1
DOVES, DAGOS, ETC.


MuaelcL
Chaving
QjTICK
;l€V€r;
For an
Ideal Shave
AUSTRALIA
MADE IN
BOATERS
Lightness with
Durability
distinguish these world-
renowned hats, which should
be worn by every man in
Australia, because they are
specially made to suit our
severe climatic conditions.
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS CO ROUN£ ?
LEWIS feWnITTY MAKERS
Martin’s Pills are sold by W. H. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature. Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
WAVERLEY
THE “BOON AND BLESSING” NIB
You can depend on a Waverley.
Its quality and durability make
it a world - wide favourite. It
writes so smoothly and lasts so
well that one Waverley outlasts
two or three nibs of an inferior
kind. The Reservoir Waverley
does 200 words with one dip.
6d. & 1/- PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS
AND DEALERS
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
Steel, Gold a Fountain Pen Makers
Edinburgh. Glasgow a London
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Birthdays in March: Philip Fysh, Tas-
mania’s patriarch, 81 on Ist; Judge Powers
_( High Court), 03 on 3rd; Edward Dyson,
<>l on 4th; J. Russell French, Sydney
banker, 09 on s.th ; Tom Roberts, artist, 00
on 9th; Rupert Clarke, Victorian baronet,
patron of turf and stage, 51 on 10th; ex-
Federal Senator J. T. Walker, 75 on 20th;
Fred Johns (“Notable Australians”), 47 on
22nd ; George Fairbairn, Melb., 01 on 23rd ;
Bishop Anderson, Riverina, 57 on 24th;
Prof. T. G. Tucker, Melb. Uni., 57 on 29th.
“F.L.J.”: Major Dr. E. T. Brennan, of
West Australia, who won the Military Cross
for bravery on the field, is a Victorian, lie
was born in Hawthorn, and had some letters
tacked after his name at the Melbourne Uni-
versity. lie was practising in W.A. when
the war cloud burst, and he joined the lltli
Battalion as medical officer. He was at the
landing at Gallipoli.
FEMININE REPARTEE.
GWEN (who doesn’t like him): “ Well . any-
way, he’s quite the fastest man I’ve
ever met!”
CYNTHIA: “Oh, you poor dear! What a
slow time you must have had!”
A ivian de Crespigny, a very young bro-
ther of that steady goer on the Australian
Inky Track, Phil de Crespigny, has gained
his British aviation-certificate and the usual
flight-lieutenancy therewith. Another bro-
ther, Captain Constantine de Crespigny, who
at one time used to.toil in the Western Dis-
trict in the interests of the Willaura and
Glen Thompson sheeplutocrats, left for the
Front some months ago with an A.A.M.C.
outfit. Philip de Crespigny the elder man-
ages the Bank of Victoria at Melbourne.
Boucaut, the lately-deceased S. Aus.
Judge, rarely missed rapping back an answer
to an interjeetor. A continued criminal, con-
victed of housebreaking, with a long list of
previous convictions against him, was up for
sentence. The old man was about to com-
mence a homily when Sikes interrupted him
with, “Cut it short, Judge; how much?”
“No, I’ll cut it long,” said Boucaut. “Ten
3 r ears.”
H. C. E. Muecke, though one of Adelaide’s
most prominent business men, has found the
present clamor against German extraction
names too strong for him, and resigns all
his directorships. One result was a keen
fight for the seat on the Bank of Adelaide
Board. A. G. Itymill, managing director of
the Canowie Pastoral Co., was beaten by
Howard Lloyd in a contest in December, on
the death of James Harvey. This time,
however, he increased his 8500 vote to
12,700, and won from Leonard Bakewell
with 10,100. It was the biggest poll, and
the highest winning vote, in the Bank’s his-
tory. Muecke’S place on the Executor and
Trustee Co. has been filled by John Barker,
and on the Adelaide Steamship Co. by
Leonard Bakewell.
MORTALITY AND MOTORALITY.
FIRST BOY : “My brother's at the war. lie's
hilled lots of blokes."
SECOND BOY: “ That's nothiny. My brother
drives a motor."
Napoleon H. Louwyck, who has been
appointed to superintend an Anglican col-
lection-plate at Yorketown (S.A.) worked
for years as a It.C. priest in the back country
oi South Aus. In 11)01) he speculated in
Anglicanism, and has since that time been
earning a crust as curate in Manchester
(Eng.). He is on his way from the Cold
Country to Adelaide.
George T. B. Ivyngdon, who passed out
in January at Treninnick, Cornwall (Eng.),
was one of the last survivors of the “Canter-
bury Association” which was formed to
found an Anglican settlement in Maoriland.
Kyngdon came as chaplain of one of the
four ships which sailed from England with
the expedition in ISSO. and became the first
vicar of what is now the Anglican cathedral
in Christchurch. He afterwards went to
Taranaki, and rounded up stragglers from
the Anglican fold in the bush country out-
side New Plymouth; but a breakdown of
health sent him back to the Cold Country
in 1861. Though pursued since then by ill
health, he won through to the 94th lap.
One of the oldest of Sydney’s ancient
mariners took up his moorings in Fiddler’s
Green when Frederick Bracegirdle passed
out last week. Born in Surrey (Eng.) 84
years ago, Bracegirdle was in the Medi-
terranean tra'de as a boy, and came to Aus-
tralasian waters for the first time in the
Samuel Enderby, which sailed from London
for Hobart in 1849. For years he traded in
the China tea clippers, and also to the West
Indies, but eventually he gravitated into
steam, and in 1866 joined the Panama Mail
Company, making seven voyages in the
Ivaikoura between Panama and Sydney. In
1869 Bracegirdle, then a master mariner,
signed up for the N.S.W. coastal trade, and
ran for many years between Sydney and the
Northern Rivers. In 1884 he climbed ashore
into a billet as assistant harbormaster at
Sydney. lie reached the age limit in 1901,
and settled down on the Balmain water-
front, varying the monotony by an occa-
sional job as an assessor in the Marine
Court. A son. who before the war was
district naval officer at Newcastle (N.S.W.),
is now in command of the Australian naval
bridging train in the Mediterranean, and was
recently • wounded and mentioned in
despatches from the Dardanelles. A daughter
is married to a flight-lieutenant (Watkins)
in the naval air service.
The enemy’s submarine frightfulness has
wiped out the family of the Rev. J. M. Mac-
donald, of Smithton (Tas.). His only son,
a lieutenant in the Navy, was lost when the
Hawke was torpedoed in the North Sea in
October, 1914, and his only daughter Enid,
who was on her way to India to be married,
was one of those drowned when the Persia
was sunk on December 80, 1915.
A Melbourne Methodist movement to com-
memorate the parsonic jubilee of Rev.
Fitchett reveals the fact that Rev. Joseph
Nicholson, the secretary for the movement,
has been the particular friend of Fitchett for
many years, Now, as Nicholson has for
long been the friend of Ikey Mo,
in his insidious warfare against the tote, it
would be a fair thing for the bookmakers of
Victoria to subscribe the £5OO which their
helpful brother is endeavoring to raise for a
memorial to Fitchett. The Federated Book-
makers’ Association ought to rejoice in this
opportunity to drop a “monkey” into the
Methodist hat.
Colonel Robert Wilson, dead in Egypt at
45, was a son of the late R. G. Wilson, the
best-known grocer in Melbourne. ColonJ
Wilson lived in one of the mellowest parts
of Toorak; but he was also a bush-lover.
The land now occupied by the Broad-
meadows camp belonged to him ; and he had
spent much of his time, for years past, on
his holding at Whittlesea, a beautiful and
verdant spot at the foot of the Plenty
Ranges. There, his name stands very high
in the estimation of the neighboring settler,
in whose company he was accustomed to
agitate for the usual district reform, and,
in a democratic manner, provide the cheque
for the usual good purpose. The dead
soldier’s only son is with the A.I.F. in
Egypt.
“Lud” considers the fruity past:—
A new biography of Queen Adelaide fills up some
old gaps, and, incidentally, shows what a lot of
anti-German feeling there was in the England of
that day. Dora Jordan, the actress who lived with
William Duke of Clarence (afterwards William IV.)
till 1811, had three illegitimate daughters before
she and the monarch became acquainted. This
batch was her undoing. William allowed her £2O
a week, and her stage salary was £3O, total £5O.
She was not extravagant, but had a horde of depend-
ants who fed on her. She broke an agreement made
in 1811 not to go on the stage again, and William
turned off her pension. The poor creature subse-
quently died in poverty in France. Meanwhile her
10 children by William, the Fitzclarences, were
reared in his household. After 1811 he fished about
for a rich wife. He was refused in turn by Lady
Catherine Long, Miss Elphinstone and Miss Wyke-
ham. So he bachelored up to 1817, when Princess
Charlotte died. lie then set about finding young
German wives for George lll.’s sons, Clarence,
Kent and Cambridge. For various reasons the four
others, George, York, Cumberland and Sussex, were
ineligible. In 1818 Clarence, then 03 years old,
married Adelaide of Saxe-Meningen, aged 26. Thev
had two daughters, who died in infancy. They, like
Charlotte, would have settled Victoria’s chances.
York, senior to Clarence, died in 1827. Clarence
became heir-apparent ar.d king in 1830. Adelaide
was much worried over the Fitzclarence swarm, which
William insisted on keeping in his house, and also
by public abuse. The Morning Chronicle boldly
called her “a nasty German flow.”
A FISHERMAN’S TALE.
Our torpedo boats met several British cruisers
which fled. Our boats pursued and sank the new
cruiser Arabis, and hit a second cruiser with a tor-
pedo.— (Merman Admiralty report.
The British Admiralty notifies that the cruisers
mentioned were four mine sweepers, of which three
returned sately.
VON TIRPITZ: "Py shingo! You oughter
seen der von I shust lost-he vos like
dot!”
“R.B.’s” send off:—
J. W. Hackett, of Perth West Australia* ,
S!r Winthrop Hackett a few years ha* Z’
tl.at and effluxion of time. Hackett was a finp'm ° f
tration of the Australian idea of taking a R
ously because he comes from abroad. As a
fired no crackers in the Eastern
attempt at being a pastoralist in Nor’-West a, * v
he blazed no better. Finally he went l o P « ‘
became editor-in the best English ?
West Australian, and afterwards nart he
with orchardist Harper. The common ° r
East Australia—whom he disliked to the mai J
finding Coolgardie, made Hackett’s fortune u~
reputation was enhanced when Perth was full’ Ik
roar of men from the East who did thines ,
Hackett was revered as representing a great de.i .
the bogus dignity of St. George’s Terrace Still h
meant well; and that is not a bad thing to sav
any man. dy 01
“WERE BOUND TO WIN.”
H.O.’: C. J. Dennis’s “Sentimental
Bloke” is making himself popular in Eng-
land. The author has lately received letters
from H. G. Wells and W. j. Locke handing
him the praise that cheers. “You must cer-
tainly come to London when the war is
over,” writes Wells.
The change of associates to Justice
Hodges, of Melbourne, is an interesting mat-
ter of military significance. Wilbur Ander-
son, the Judge’s present associate, has en-
listed and is about to go into camp. Ilis
successor is James Borrowman, who was one
°f the original Australian landing force at
Gallipoli and lost his left arm in the fight.
Lawyer Charlie Davis, of Bendigo, chief
censor for Victoria, has exchanged the axe
for the sword. He is one of the officers
chosen to encourage Australia’s new army
of 50,000 to keep up the traditions of Gal-
lipoli.
“Chinkz”: The recent passing out of
John D. Mackay, at Leeholm, Kelso
(N.S.W.), revives a memory of Mor-
gan, who bushranged parts of north-
eastern Victoria and N.S.W. in the
early ’6o’s. Mackay, who was one of the
Mackay clan from The Grange, at Everton,
in the Beechworth district, took up the
Nangunyan station, in the Riverina just
when Morgan had the landowners along the
Big Trickle badlv scared. Morgan heard
that Mackay had a loaded gun waiting for
him at the Nangunyan, so at the first oppor-
tunity he started a bushfire near the home-
stead. When Mackay appeared the bush-
ranger held him up and invited him to
where the gun was kept. The fact that the
weapon had just previously been discharged
at a kangaroo undoubtedly saved the squat-
ter’s life. A few days later Morgan, who
merely stole a horse and provisions from
Nangunyan, shot a man in a cold-blooded
frenzy on a neighboring station. Before the
week was out he was killed at Rutherford’s
l’eeeheelba station, on the Ovens River,
near Wangaratta, where a station-hand
named Quinlan potted him.
“Jimmy” Borrowman, of Armadale (Vic.),
only son of that James Borrowman who
directs the fortunes of the Trustees and Ex-
ecutors Co., lost his left arm at the Gaba
Tepe landing. Since his recent return there
has been small occasion for him to wonder
what to do with his future, for several open-
ings offered. The most agreeable was that
of associate to Justice Hodges, and he has
been duly appointed to the billet. Shortly
before leaving for the Front the youth had
passed his law-finals at Melbourne Univer-
sity.
THE IMPORTANCE OF BEING JEAMES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sir Charles Wakefield, Lord Mayor of London, has
applied for exemption from military service of a
19-years-old footman at the Mansion House.— Cable.
Loud clangs the War God's brazen gong.
The call is to the young aHd fit,
For Freedom’s sake, to come along
And in the ranks to do their bit;
But still, of course, nobody deems
That such a call applies to Jeames!
Though Mars may thunder in his rage,
His status must Sir Chawles maintain ;
’Twould be a blot on Britain's page,
And fill each alderman with pain,
If to frustrate the foeman’s schemes,
The Empire was deprived of Jeames!
If London falls Jeames must be there —
Though sickened at the sight of blood—
The Kaiser to announce, with care:
“His Majesty is here, me Lud.”
In pleasant contrast to the screams
Outside will be the voice of Jeames.
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


X Wf
. :$* jfm
0 a
x ? ai..*' «
>-\l
l o r /T r
-
-. A
I n
m«
;
V X
v'ißWfca p 4
AS
Sv ?
The Menace of
Germany.
After the War.
This is a world-wide war, and it is
being waged for the purpose of a world
power. This is not merely for the pur-
pose of military power, although the
means of achieving world power are
necessarily military in their nature.
But the war is waged by Germany for
the purpose of achieving COMMER-
CIAL, FINANCIAL AND INDUS-
TRIAL DOMINATION OF ' THE
EARTH. This is the great purpose
for which she has devoted her tremen-
dous systematised energies for nearly
half a century
■ UNLESS. ...W E TAKE PRE-
CAUTIONARY MEASURES NOW
....we shall after a season of barren
inactivity be overwhelmed by an inun-
dation of Enemy Goods, swamping not
only our good intentions and the
possibility of giving effect to them, but
giving to those who have vowed our
destruction the fruits of our enterprise
and industry
Hon. W. M. HUGHES,
Prime Minister of Australia.
The Opportunity is NOW!
For nearly half a century the civilised world has
thought and dreamt of the menace of Germany’s
Military Might—a menace that has at last material-
ised in a world-wide struggle for supremacy.
To-day, with our National consciousness almost
wholly preoccupied with the waging of war, we need to
lift our heads above the din and turmoil of the conflict
to realise clearly the issues that are at stake.
Only so shall we avoid the danger of a peace which
is no peace at all —because it does not remove the real
causes of the war.
German Militarism, beaten and even humiliated,
will be no bar to the long-planned German war on our
Commerce and Industry.
Victory—even a decisive Victory—will be fruitless
unless it leads toa fundamental change in our National
business policy, and the golden opportunity is NOW.
Germany MUST BE. BEATEN
NOW or she never will.
Clearly, unmistakably we realise the National
need for economic independence ... our ignorance and
weakness of the past, in the needless barter for German
goods. But to-day, conscious and wide-awake to the
menace of enemy goods, we know our weakness —and
our strength.
We CAN beat Germany now
IF WE WILL.
For the sake of our Empire’s future
we must bar all Enemy Goods, and in
the preference for things all British supply
our National needs.
Australia and the work of Australians
demand preference first of all, and its
practice will banish the menace that
threatens after the war.
[l?
‘•PIONEER DISTRIBUTORS OF AUSTRALIAN GOODS.”
484 to 490 GEORGE STREET; 3to 17 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.


NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES,
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
(gelignite
Blasting- Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridge)*
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Challis
House, Sydney
Before Making Your Will, or Settling Your Property.
WRITE TO, OR CALL ON,
the public trustee.
Lowest Charges. No Profits. State Guarantee Cuiwuiia chambers, 67 castiereagh street,
1 Sydney} N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Port Jackson and Manly Steamship
Co., Ltd. (Sydney) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
June, ’09.. 13,335 10 p.c. = 4,400 8,935 29,594
Transferred to capital, £17,001 .. 11,993
Dec., ’09.. 11.341 10 p.c. = 4,840 6,501 18,494
June, ’lO.. 13,280 10 „ „ 5,280 8,000 26,494
Dec., ’lO.. 18.971 13$ ~ ~ 7,040 11,931 38.425
June, ’ll.. 24.477 13$ „ „ 7,040 17,437 55,862
Dec., ’ll.. 23,861 13$ „ „ 7,040 16,821 72,683
Transferred to capital, £52,803 .. 19,880
June, ’12.. 19,245 13$ p.c. = 10,561 8,684 28,564
Dec., ’12.. 23,705 13$ „ „ 10,561 13,144 41,708
June, ’13.. 21,405 134 „ „ 10,561 10,844 52,552
_ Deficit.
Transferred to capital, £52,803 .. 251
Reserves.
Dec., 13.. 54,765 13$ p.c. = 14,081 40,684 40.433
June, ’14.. 18,606 13$ „ „ 14,081 4,525 44,958
Dec., ’14.. 19,791 13$ „ „ 14,081 5,710 50,668
June, ’15.. 17,210 13$ „ „ 14,081 3,129 53,797
Dec., ’15.. 16,336 13$ „ ~ 14,081 2,255 56,052
As the eye runs down that profit column it
gets a few bumps. For instance, as at Dec.,
13, when £54,765 was disclosed. But of
course some of that wasn’t made in the six
months. There was an old stocking some-
where, and it was emptied into the till—a
stocking saved up for some contingency that
didn’t arise. It has been a fine" office for
stockings, this—thanks to the hahit of going
without them at Manly. Surfing made the
co. Twenty years ago you could have had
the shares thrown at you if the co. thought
you were a solid enough person to put on
the register. In the brief table at the top
there is mention of three transfers to capi-
tal, totalling £123,207; and the capital even
now is only £211.232. So it has been con-
siderably more than doubled in less than
seven years, and the 13$p.c. dividend is
equal to 23 p.c. on the capital as it stood in
1009. Go back further than that, and the
results are even more astonishing.
And you can’t tell what the co. has done
merely by looking at the growth of dividends.
Seven years ago the co. had a surplus of
£20,118 of liquid assets. To-day, after pay-
ing for all repairs and additions made mean-
time, and putting more than £35,000 into real
property and workshop plant, etc., its liquid
surplus is £98,440. This paper doesn’t know
how much has been put into steamers mean-
time, but it seems to he well over £70,000,
representing the Bellubera, Kalgowlah and
Barren joey. Add £78,000 and £35.000 and
£70.000, and you get some idea of the money
the co. has made apart from what the share-
holders have had. It isn’t suggested that
every penny of this is net profit. These
vessels have been depreciating, and some of
the money has to be put by for renewals.
Btill the depreciation is not rapid, on account
of the really splendid manner in which the
whole of the co.’s fleet is maintained. Fur-
ther, out of the accumulations certain in-
definite amounts are to be earmarked to
cover various risks —including the very sub-
stantial risk of a disaster to one of the co.’s
boats through mishandling. Such a disaster
might easily cost the co. £200.000.
“The war has caused a decrease of revenue
and increased running exes.,” the directors
say ; but. as the next comparison shows, the
co. hasn’t been drifting perceptibly towards
the rocks: —
Dec.,'l4. June,’ls. Dec.,’ls.
Assets other than steamers,
freehold and plant ..£85,407 £96,207 £99,899
Liabilities 1,509 1,021 1,459
Surplus liquid assets. . £83,898 £95,186 £98,440
That’s £15.000 over and above the dividends
in the 12 months, and over and above any-
thing spent on vessels and plant. All the
same, the past six months’ figures are dis-
tinctly poorer than usual; and Sydney
hasn’t really started to feel the war yet.
Presently also the co. will have to pay a
trifle more for its monopoly of the ferry
traffic to Manly, the local Council having
struck against the hitherto quite inadequate
subsidy. But shareholders needn’t shiver:
the margin between earnings and dividends
is quite wide enough to shelter them.
Government Savings Bank of N. S.
Wales. —Advance Department :
Reserves.
Taken over from Advances to Settlers Board . . £14,319
Dec., Profit.
1907 .. £4,735 19,054
1908 . . 4,661 . . . . . . . . 23,715
Losses of A. to S. Board written off, £17,132 . . 6,583
1909 . . 5,390 11,973
Losses of A.' to S. Board written off, £3933 .. 8,040
1910 . . 7,566 . . 15,606
1911 .. 9,744 ♦ 25,350
1912 . . 10,334 35,684
1913 .. 13,019 48,703
Written off, £22 .. .. .. .. 48,681
.Tune,
1914 .. 7,949 56,630
Losses of A. to S. Board written off, £lO6 . . 56,524
1915 .. 15,217 .. 71,741
This is a branch of the Savings Bank which
was created to displace the old semi-political
Advances to Settlers Board. The money is
raised by debenture loans from the Savings
Department: thus far £4.355.000 has
been borrowed in this way. and £120,050 has
been raised through funded stock. The busi-
ness is managed by the Board of Commis-
sioners which also controls the Savings De-
partment; but it is guided by various Acts.
For instance, there is a sub-department
established to finance borrowers under the
Closer Settlement Promotion Act. As this
measure provides that the whole of the pur-
chase money may be lent to the settler in
certain cases, and as that plainly is not legi-
timate banking business, the Commissioners
have a guarantee from the Government cov-
ering the bank against possible losses in
these particular transactions.
The whole business is organised in some
such way as this. First, there is the Sav-
ings Bank, which takes the public’s savings.
It invests’ in Government stock, deposits,
mortgages, and in these Advance Depart-
ment debentures. The Advance Department
in its turn finances the ordinary settlers
individually and also three groups of settlers,
which groups are treated as sub-departments
(1) Advances for Homes, (2) Closer Set-
tlement Promotion, (3) Irrigation Farms.
The total advances are as follows:
Advances to Settlers .. .. .. £2,514,150
„ for Homes . . . . . . 215,085
~ on Closer Settlement terms . . 1,546,734
~ on Irrigation Farms . . .. 13,403
Total. . £4,289,372
There are also a few thousands outstanding
for interest and charges.
The Homes and Irrigation Farms are new
departments. Parliament, w r hen it author-
ised the former, put a limit of £300,000 upon
the borrowings; and, though the books were
only opened on July 1, 1914, applications for
the whole amount had been already received
when the Commissioners reported at the end
of November, 1915. Its purpose is “to
enable any person w r ho is not the owner of
a dwelling-house wdthin the State (other
than that upon which the advance is re-
quired) to obtain an advance to erect, en-
large or purchase a dwelling-house or pay off
any mortgage already existing.” The de-
partment shows a loss for the year of £2759 ;
but this includes all preliminary exes. The
Irrigation Farms loans, like those of the
Closer Settlement Department, are guaran-
teed by the Government. Under that guaran-
tee the Act allows the bank to lend “upon
mortgage of any irrigation-farm lease, not-
withstanding that such holding is mortgaged
or charged to the Commissioner for Water
Conservation and Irrigation, subject, how-
ever, to the approval of the Minister.” The
loan may be “of any amount not exceeding
three-fourths of the value of the holder in the
permanent or prospective improvements on
the land.” other than those still owned by'
the, Commissioner. The loss for the year
was £129; but as in the case of the Homes
Department this has no significance what-
ever. The Closer Settlement Promotion De-
partment made a profit of £lO9B ; and it has
now its own reserve of £1987—-wretchedly
little, of course, considering the risks. But,
as before remarked, the department is run
for a specific purpose, and the Government
is prepared to accept the risk without cover-
ing it by charging a commensurate rate of
interest. And, by the way. to give the Devil
his due. it wasn’t the reckless Labor Govern-
ment that did it. either, for the Act was
passed in 1910.
The Christchurch Meat Co., one of the
big meat-freezing concerns of Maoriland:—
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Oct., £ £ £ £ £
1905.. , 9,618
1906.. 57.657 8 p.e.= 12,938 44,719 54 337
1907.. 8 „ „ 13,005 17,500 23,306 77,’643
1908.. 37.075 8„ „ 13,203 19,024 4,848 82,491
1909.. 50.622 8 „ ~ 13,433 22,265 14,924 97,415
1910.. 75.719 10 „ „ 16,915 23,560 35,244 132,659
1911.. 42.213 10 „ „ 16,915 15,000 10,298 142,957
1912.. 41.269 10 „,, 16,915 15,000 9,354 152,311
1913.. 37.760 10 „ „ 16,915 20,000 845 153,156
1914.. 40.438 10 ~ „ 16,919- 30,000 146,675
1915.. 11 „ „ 18,615 23,949 170,624
In 10 years over £150,000 has been written
off, in addition to amounts charged in Profit
and Loss to cover ordinarv renewals and
repairs. This really means that £150,000
of profit has been spent in such things as
the new works at Pukueri, recently opened ;
or old works have been written down and a
corresponding amount put into stock or liquid
assets. The result is showm in the third
line in the following comparison :
1906. 1910. 1914. 1915.
Debentures . . £173,500 £150,000
Other liabilities 91,319 £81,619 £133,290 307,385
Property, plant
etc 369,647 297,723 253,899 273,522
Liquid assets. . 128,368 99,891 209,472 542,587
Very large additions have certainly been
made to the property, plant, etc., in the past
nine years; yet not only has the wdiole of
the cost been paid out of profits, but
£414,219 has been added to the liquid assets
(which include stock), while liabilities have
grown by only £192,566 and capital by
£7334. Put it another w 7 ay : assuming that
property and plant are worth to-day only as
much as they were nine years ago, the co.
would still show an undivided profit of a
trifle over £214.000 in that period The capi-
tal nine years ago was £165,920, and now it
is £173,254. Meantime a dividend of from 8
p.c. to 11 p.c. has been paid. Altogether, then,
the co. can be said to have done pretty well
—averaged perhaps 20 p.c. to 25 p.c. p.a.
Maybe it was more, it depends on the real in-
crease in the value of property and plant.
Just at present liabilities are unusually
heavy, but that is due to the financing of
exceptionally heavy “sundry debtors, invest-
ments, consignments unrealised and stocks in
works”—a miscellaneous heap which is
about £250,000 more than usual. Probably
because of the size of some of these items the
co. is building up a special insurance fund ;
but, apart from that, this paper wouldn’t be
at all surprised to presently find that, before
serving up the profits, it has carved enough
out of them to make a very decent contin-
gency fund.
City of Newcastle Gas and Coke Co.
(N.S.W.) :
To Re- Re -
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
June, 1911.. 6,563 15 p.c. = 4167 2,396 81,192
Premiums on new shares . . 5,282 86,474
Dec., 1911.. 7,191 15 p.c. = 4497 2,694 89,168
Premiums on new shares . . 5.282 94.450
June, 1912.. 6,739 15 p.c. = 4894 1,845 96,295
£66,370 Reserves transferred to capital 29.025
Unexplained additions to reserves ..1,377 31,302
Dec., 1912.. 7,089 10 p.c. = 6637 452 31,754
Assets written up . . 67,801 99,555
£99,555 Reserves transferred to capital
June, 1913.. 8,377 10 p.c. = 6637 1,740 1,740
“A” & “B” “C”
Shares Shares
8 p.c. 5 3-5 p.c.
Dec., 1913 . . 10,160 9292 187 681 2,421
June, 1914 . . 9,627 9292 308 27 2,448
Dec., 1914 .. 11,111 9292 468 1351 3,799
7p.c. 4 9-10 p.c.
June, 1915 .. 8,906 8130 551 225 4,024
Dec., 1915 . . 9,077 8130 691 256 4,280
For many years the capital was under
£60,000, and the dividend was 15 p.c. The
Act passed to regulate the price of gas very
properly permitted the co. to capitalise the
reserves, visible and undisclosed; in other
words, the co. was, with certain qualifica-
tions, limited to 10 p.c. on the actual value
of the undertaking, and to 7 p.c. on any new
ordinary capital got in subsequent to the
passing of the Act. The present capital is
made up as follows: —
“A” shares (10 p.c.), £2 paid ..£132,740
“B” shares (10 p.c.), 30/-paid .. 99,555
“O” shares ( 7 p.c.), 22/-paid ... 31,549
Total ..£263,844
Or. the reconstruction the assets were natu-
rally not valued on a basis which allowed
of an easy 10 p.c. Any business man would
of course value them as high as possible;
for that, though making the immediate rate
of dividend look small, would give the co.
a chance to benefit by any increase in the
ej rning capacity of the plant, etc. Thus for
the past half-year £BB2l is distributed,
whereas under the Act the co. can pay away
£12,500 without reducing the price "of gas
below the standard fixed by the Act. There
is thus room for a considerable rise in the
market value of these shares. Very likely
the management didn’t contemplate a divi-
dend as small as the co. is now paying;
exes, seem to have sprung up and upset cal-
culations. Only a year ago gas sales, etc.,
brought in £26,319 at a cost of £15,207;
for the past term the revenue of £27,012
was produced at a cost which had risen to
£17,935. However, the co. isn’t exactly
despairing, and is putting out a good deal
of money. This shows :
Dec.,’l4. June,’ls. Dec.,’ls.
Liabilities £17,737 £30,064 £30,259
Buildings, plant, mains.. 267,934 280,480 290,887
9,742 11,954 10,466
Liquid assets . . . . 5,992 8,443 5,851
Apparently the co. has been going into debt
for plant, notwithstanding calls have
been made steadily on the “C” shares. Here,
by the way, is an anomaly in connection
with the Commonwealth Government’s pro-
hibition of the issue of new capital. The
wily and often very dubious concern which
has issued 20s. shares paid to Is., may go
on calling in capital, while its often more
solid competitor, which had its shares paid
up, can’t get in capital without an official
sanction that isn’t likely to be given.
The Land Mortgage Bank of Victoria :
Profit Loss on
on Property Total Re-
Business. Sales. Profit. Dividend, serves
Dec., 1910.. £3523 £574 £2949 £46 169
Profit.
June, 1911.. 2404 747 3151 49,320
Capital returned, 12s. per share, reducing
it to £58,308.
(20 p.c.)
Dec., 1911.. 1165 2056 3221 £14,577 37,964
June, 1912.. 859 2126 2985 < '1,749 ) 39,200
Dec., 1912.. 1868 30 1898 1,749 39,349
T Loss. (8 p c.)
June, 1913.. 2347 10 2337 2,332 39,354
Profit. (7 p.c.)
Dec., 1913.. 2704 187 2891 2,679 39,566
June, 1914.. 2560 137 2697 2,679 39,584
„ Loss. (7 p.c.)
Dec., 1914.. 2668 85 2583 2,679 39,488
June, 1910.. 2473 164 2309 2,679 39,118
Dec., 1915. . 2507 • 10 2497 39,319
This concern is really in process of liquida-
tion, and most of the shares now belong to
tbo ree hold Assets Co., which controls it.
All the dreadful mess of over-valued property
which the bank was left to get rid of has
now been cleared out; and the co. is em-
ployed getting in balances owing on sales and
investing the proceeds. This shows where
the funds are
. , Dec.,’l4. Dec.,’ls.
Advances on mortgage .. £27,020 £32 474
Balances owing on property sold 39,040 26 458
1 reeholds . . . . . . 10 y]j
Cash, debentures, shares, etc. .. 52,896 59 557
Liabilities ! .*.’ £ll8 ’ 9^ 6
Net assets ..£118,936 £118,459
lheie lire <0 shares, so if all assets are
worth just book value each share represents
about lbs. 3d., which is Is. 9d. more than the
Assets Co. paid for its lot.
* * *
r . * and Citizens’ Trustees
Co. (Bendigo, Vic.) :
Deficit
Pmfif rv , Towards (Flotation
\pl 1910 _ ' Dividends. Reserves. Expenses).
Dec'.’, 1910;; £99 Z £ To £ I1?
Dec., 1911.. 307 Nil 307 334
Dec., 1912.. 371 Nil 371 Res ™-
Dec., 1913.. 291 Nil 991 39s
402 3 p.c. = £353 49 37?
Dec., 1915.. 518 4 „„ 471 47 424
While and i2® dh ' ectors had better stop a
while and let reserves accumulate. Wealthv
people have mostly got that way through
the habit of putting a bit by; and‘they have
as a rule most confidence in people who can
do the same thing. It is no argument for
a higher dividend that shareholders can get
tlip shareholder in this "
good security for his money as £ allybas as
outside a Commonwealth i oan « C ’° u (1 ? p t
practically all the capital is 'in v ?g tl,nt
Government stock lodged with ti e K ‘ toriail
It is rather remarkable, bv Ho llpasil «r.
little Bendigo should run two that
which was as many as all \ s u- st f e c °s.,
ported until the other dav Tr ales S«P-
tb« crusade in favor of a,,,,, « «W
wdio make trust work their * u tees
ness, and don’t die or go to S , l)Us >-
even yet made very much pr<~!’ ■ hasn ' t
conservative old Mother-in-Law S tate the
Bendigo Gas Co. (Victoria) : *
Writ-
Profits. Dividends. off I°™®' Re ’
£ £ o' 'l es - serves,
Dec., ’OB.. 2424 12 p.c = 2520 ZL £ £
June, '09.. 2752 12 „ „ lO9 IT 19 -382
Dec., ’09.. 2523 12 „ , 2520 os! 40 19 ,422
June, ’lO.. 2030 12 , 2520 ‘An 7“ T 9,174
Dec., ’lO.. 2973 12 ” ofiM ?« 66 1^240
•Tune, ’ll.. 2530 12 ,’ ” 2590 239 403 19 ’ 643
Dec., ’ll.. 2390 10 „ „ 2100 50 oTT 19 ’ 42 1
June, ’12.. 2108 10 „ „ 2100 50 “to 19,667
Dec., ’12.. 2433 10 "I; 2100 50 19,685
June, ’13.. 1974 Nil 50 .X® 9 19.968
Dec., ’13.. 2350 8 p.c. = 1080 50 6?n ,!f 2
June, ’14.. 2529 8 „ „ 1680 100 ! 2,512
Dec., ’14.. 2057 8 „ „ 1080 50 Ity ! 3,261
June, ’15.. 1597 0 „ ~1200 50 111 23,588
Dec. ’l5 1392 0„ „ 1260 50 2 g ,B ‘ s
Bendigo s old mines are fading, as all min!
must sooner or later, and the effort 1 m “ s
the glories of the field by working the'sid?
lines has been only a very small succes, 1'
to that misfortune the
wages and other exes., while electric
tition has stood in the way of this ' co “ST
ting up its prices to meet the increased
cos s, and you have the gloom in the table
explained Though the div. has been cut and
cut, the ship has still not been kept 0 n an
even keel:— dII
Assets apart from plant ” June ’ 15 - Dec -’G.
T- a uoo meterS " •• £ 1T,928 £11,973 £11777
Liabilities .. .. m 3 !677
Surplus .. £11,737 7^
Nominally, of course, plant and meters are
worth a few thousands more than they were
1 years ago: the co.’s misfortune is that
they don t earn as much. Gas sales for the
past half-year were £4845, as against £5307
in the second half of 1005; yet coal cost
£l!).>S, as against £1,14. and wages £1213
as against £lOB7. These are bad davs to
look for 12 p.c. divs. out of the supply of
public services.
Aarons’s Exchange Hotel (Sydney):
. , . . , June,’l2. .June,’ls. Dec.,’ls.
Assets apart from goodwill,
lease and furniture ..£1416 £3387 £3375
Liabilities 993 1254 1790
Surplus assets .. £423 £2133 £1585
From .Tune, 1912, onwards the profits and
dividends have been as follows:
June, 1912 .. £1405 121 p.c. = £765
Dec., 1912 . . 1297 12| „ „ 765
June, 1913 .. 1400 121 „ 765
Dec., 1913 .. 1375 121 „„ 765
•Tune, 1914 .. 1113 12J „ „ 765
Dec., 1914 .. 752 10 „„ 612
June, 1915 .. 747 10 „„ 612
Dec., 1915 .. 64 Nil
I rom the first comparison it looks as though
the more or less liquid assets had been cut
into during the half-year; but it must be
remembered that out of the £2133 a divi-
dend _°f £(>l2 was paid. The capital is
£12,250; and all there is to represent that,
besides the £1585, is the lease, the goodwill
and a tjdfle of furniture. The lease has
about 15 years to go; and with ordinary
trading conditions there should be a sub-
stantial return, though the security for any
principal that may be invested in the co.’s
shares is poor. Recently the co. has been
particularly hard hit because of (1) the high
cost of provisions, “Aarons’s” being largely a
restaurant, and (2) the increase in the
wholesale price of certain liquors, which it
is found impracticable to pass 011.
* » * *
The Equitable Building and Invest-
ment Co., of Wellington (MX.)
Dec., Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Reserves.
1904.. £7208 10 p.c. = £5OOO £2208 £36,342
Assets written up . . 2750 39.092
1905.. 7601 10 p.c. = 5000 2601 41.693
1906.. 7906 10 „,, 50 0 0 2 906 44,599
1907.. 8398 10 ~ „ 5000 3398 47,997
Premises written up . . 1000 48,997
1908.. 7943 10 p.c. = 50 0 0 2 943 51,940
Premiums on new shares 4621 56,561
1909.. 7809 10 p.c. = 568 9 2120 58.681
Premiums on new shares 379 59,060
1910.. 8578 10 p.c. = 598 1 2 597 61,657
1911.. 8524 10 „ „ 6000 2524 64,181
1912.. 8881 10 ~ „ 6000 2881 67,062
1913.. 8937 10 „ „ 60 0 0 2 937 69,999
1914.. 8538 10 ~ „ 60 0 0 25 3 8 72,537
19 1 5.. 8431 10 ~ ~ 60 0 0 243 1 74,968
The paid capital is £60.000, in 12,000 shares
of £lO paid to £5. The shareholders have
thus made themselves liable for another
£60.000 ; and that is a matter of some conse-
quence in view of these figures:—
1905. 1910. 1914. 1915-
Capital and 0 ;
reserves .. £94,193 £124,656 £135,537 £137,968
Liabilities . . 260,781 240,924 256,016 262,427
Assets:—
Advances . . 339,235 344,960 359,099 369,391
Freeholds. . 11,776 10,237 10,001 10,001
Liquid . . 3,963 1 0,38 3 2 2,45 3 21,003
Liquid assets are £21,003; liabilities not
thus covered amount to £241.421. Advances
and_freeholds total £379,392. There is thus
£157 worth of assets (book value) against
every £lOO of liabilities; and it would take
a pretty bad catastrophe to make assets all
round w r ortli that much less than has been
advanced on them, assuming that business
has been carried on with ordinary prudence.
The greater weakness lies in the very poor
holding of liquid assets. The co. lias 111
hand only 8 p.c. of its debts to depositors,
etc. With an ordinary bank this would be
perilous; but presumably all these deposits
are for fairly long periods. If they are no
the co. might easily find itself in a ® IPSS ‘
The thing that mustn’t be overlooked m a
case of this sort is not that the co. must
pay, but that it must pay on a certain date.
That’s what mostly causes the trouble.


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
2,4 & 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY
and EFFICIENT
MANAGEMENT
can best be obtained by the
appointment of this Company as
Trustee, Executor or
Administrator, etc.
LOW CHARGES.
BOOKLET ON APPLICATION,
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
The Pacific Cable Board
REST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
America, to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain .. 3,- 1/6 {S/.!lKsr,
New Zealand.. 4ld.
Ca„M. .. 2,4 10
US A 2/41020 l/2t02/l{Jf /8 <—
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations may be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
408 Collins Street, Melbourne. Tel. 2583.
J. MILWARD. Manager in the Pacific,
77 Pitt Street. SYDNEY.
1 AR£ BOftN TO
-Eea BeNEras.
Insure in
The 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Fire, Marine, Capital £250,000
Accident, Subscribed Capital 194,235
Live Slock. Paid-up 82,500
ACENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
“The battle is won by concentrating on the imme-
diate thing that matters.” And the thing that
matters to every plant owner is “maximum driving
power at minimum cost.” “Chromol” belting assures
this, as it possesses qualities that prevent deteriora-
tion. The severest atmospheric and industrial condi-
tions are surmounted by “Chromol” belting. Many
of the largest mining plants use “Chromol” belting
exclusively for their heaviest drives. Equally efficient
as a conveyor or driving belt, it is elastic, pliable
and durable, and will give lasting service. J. C.
Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York Street, Sydney (opp.
Q. V. Markets). Sold in Victoria by Messers. Geo.
Russell P’t’y Ltd., Flinders Street, Melbourne;
South Australia: J. McKell, Timpson Street, Port
Adelaide; West Australia: Horace Summers, Howard
Street, Perth; Queensland: Queensland Machinery
Co., Ltd., Queensland: Broken Hill: Geo. C. Demp-
ster, Argent Street.— Advt.
* * * *
ALUMINOFERUTC is used by the Sydney Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards and graziers
for precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is simply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours’
time the most discolored water will be as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless.
Sole agents: William Adams & Company Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth. — Advt.
* * * *
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Hecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem ; they have installed 64 of them, and say
“The Hardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
sole representatives for them in the Commonwealth,
and will be glad to forward particulars.— Advt. [1
* * * *
Extract from The Searchlight, London, Septem-
ber, 1915: “Colonial Mutual Life Assurance. —As in
the past, it is undoubtedly true that a great deal of
the headway made last year was due to the astute
initiative and enterprise of the management, but we
are inclined to think, all the same, that the real
secret of success has been the character of the poli-
cies placed before the assuring public.”— Advt. [7
PIONEER WOOD PIPE TANKS for water, wine,
vinegar, acids, oil, cyanide or mine liquors are
constructed in all sizes from 500 to 100,000 gallons.
They are easily despatched, being carried in sections
and erected on arrival. Catalogue from The Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Contractors to Federal
and State Governments, 57 York Street, Sydney
(Head Office.) — Advt.
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
In addition to making Wrought Iron, Steel and
Cast-Iron Pipes, Messrs, Mephan Ferguson Proprie-
tary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description.— Advt.
The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting Com-
pany of Australia, Limited. —By mutual consent
Mr. Francis H. Snow has retired from the above com-
pany, and the Ore Purchase Department at Bridge St.,
Sydney, has been closed. Sellers of ore should now com-
municate direct with the Works. Port lvenibla. —Advt.
Australian Machinery Co., Ltd., Charlotte Street,
Brisbane, are specialists in pumping machinery, and
will submit prices with arrangement drawings and
details upon receipt of necessary data of any size or
type of plant.— Advt.
The Australian Amicable Assurance Association
Ltd. —Premium Income Increases.—December, 1915,
over December, 1914, 289 p.c. January, 1916, over
January, 1915, 295 p.c. February, 1916, over
February, 1915, 335 p.c. The premium income for the
first three months of the present financial year was
greater than the premium income for the first seven
months of last year.— Advt.
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.— Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
» * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth's & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, 1 Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Silberberg & Co.. Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney ;
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne. — Advt.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£545,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,351 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 81,500 0 0
£782.611 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. 1
Gen. Man. : Fdwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Thp net profits of three Broken Hill mines
year totalled £1,013,380, viz., Propri-
jL./ £139,228, South £291,101, Sulphide
Corporation £280,000. Almost the whole
,ir the shares in Sulphide ; three-quarters of
Proprietary and probably a quarter of South
a reheld outside of Australia. It is well
k noW n that large blocks of shares in these
■md other mines are owned by alien enemies,
and it would be interesting to know how
the Australian Government proposes to try
to stop them from participating in these
profits. It may be easy enough to com-
mandeer the interests held by the enemy
within the gates, but without the co-operation
of the British Government in the way of
confiscation the enemy without cannot be
touched. And it is a shilling to o granite
that British misplaced magnanimity will be
proof against such drastic action.
Arrangements are in progress for the re-
sumption of work at the Mount Hope Cop-
per Mine (N.S.W.). The surface plant is
to he remodelled to ensure economy and
higher efficiency in concentration. Finan-
cial success will largely depend upon
mechanical perfection, which was far from
being attained in former campaigns. Even at
the present shallow depth the mine re-
veals enormous quantities of ore which,
with copper anywhere over the £7O mark,
should be highly payable, provided that the
mechanical engineer and metallurgical
chemist are given a chance to do effective
work. This will mean the installation of
an oil-flotation plant. The oft-discussed
project of smelting the ore at Blayney has
been abandoned, so the ore will be sent to
Port Kembla instead. The Public Works
Department of N.S.W. persists in its
policy of running the Condobolin-Broken
Hill railway line 13 miles away from
Mount Hope. To the lay mind this is
inexplicable—it can see no practical reason
why the line should not run right through the
different mine properties.
* * * *
New Burragorang (N.S.W.) silver mine
has not had as successful a half-year as was
anticipated. Work has been hindered by the
shortage of explosives; the lode pinched in
the principal workings, thus reducing output
and increasing cost of mining; yet, in
spite of these disadvantages, a working profit
of £1046 is shown. There is now £2734 to
credit, but the directors wisely decide not
to make a distribution, as further shaft
sinking has to be undertaken. Melbourne
speculators who own the bulk of the shares
will be disappointed, but their patience may
yet be rewarded—the mine ought soon to be
drawn out of the category of being a splendid
wage-earner, which it has been for many
years. Yerranderie mine-owners may be good
mining engineers, but as political engineers
they are lamentable failures. During the
borrow-and-burst boom of the Labor party
they ought to have applied persuasive influ-
ences to get a railway built from Picton to
the field. Their silence has been as the dul-
ness of lead, whereas there should have been
much talk with the metallic ring of gold in
it. Such a railway would be an advisable
and a legitimate undertaking. Talk about
land for returned soldiers! With a railway
the Burragorang valley would absorb them
all and leave room for more ; a few market
gardens would be provided for the metro-
polis, and many mines which are now merely
tantalising “stringers-on” would become
payable.
** *■ *
The surprise of Cock’s Pioneer, Eldorado
(Vic.), has been the rich patches found among
the old McEvoy props and laths at 70ft.
What lies ahead therefore largely depends
on the area of the ground so left by the allu-
vial-man, plus the intact block higher up the
gutter. Six months’ work to November 30
saw the clean-up of runs 5 and 6, out of
which £10,843 was netted. No 6 run turned
over 100,000 cub. yds., averaging 11.71 d. for
gold and 3.84 d. for tin oxide per cub. yd.,
taking tin at £l6O per ton. On the working
account costs figure at 9.76 d. for 301.000
cub. yds. shifted. This includes an allow-
ance of 1.25 d. transferred to a suspense
account for barge removal, etc., so that the
real costs were as close to B|d. as possible.
This is stiffen than expected, but so long
as 15d. dirt show's up, the margin is safe
enough. But what does Moline mean when
he reports 3,000,000 cub. yds. above the
dredge as worth only a shilling, with a pos-
sible additional 1,000,000 cub. yds. of the
same value? If costs are to be 9|d., the
uncertainty as to what the McEvoy may
have left at 70ft. adds a gambling touch to
the show'. In the old paddocks worked by
•lack Dane’s plant the average w 7 as about
Is. 4d. If Moline’s average, half a mile
away, has been roughly Is. 2d. he doesn’t
run much risk wdien he expects sluicing
values to beat bore values. Meanwhile,
i*] 11 aD f ements are a head for duplicating
ie plant. The impulse to launch out must
ne the 10|d. results got from a line of bores
"av down stream. If these have been com-
puted on the same conservative lines as the
bores above No. 1 paddock. Cock’s Pioneer
400Q S (W| Ut k S ! S T et ing - If on the
_JuiuxMJ cub. yds. above the dredge a profit
° only 4d. a yard is got the return would be
£66,000, or if sd. a yard £83,000. Hence the
original capital of £lOO,OOO would he nearly
returned, leaving the big block below the
dredge as an asset to the good, for the
bores are over 2000 ft. west of the No. 1
paddock.
* * * *
Only two Daylesford (Vic.) mines are on
the div. list —Ajax Central and North Ajax
and probably neither has much more
than a year’s profitable ground in
sight. Central drifted off divs. last
month, though it had a bit of a
reserve to play with. But as George
Buchanan didn’t go into mourning there
wasn t the usual display of uneasiness.
Everybody is now anxiously waiting to see
if the crosscut at 1150 ft. gets values. If it
doesn’t, and there isn’t a mine at Daylesford
that has good values below 1000 ft., someone
will get a nasty knock. Bill Gullock and J.
Trevor are pushing on with development
work at the North Nuggetty and the Nug-
getty ; but there is obviously very little bloom
on the field just now.
* * * *
Chiltern Valley, Chiltern (Vic.), got off
the call list in February on the strength of
mining 17dwt. dirt. Veteran John Cock
battles along as cheerily as ever, though
he is up against labor shortage, crab
holes and an uneven bottom to the lead.
His consolation is that farther west he
should get out of the influence of the tribu-
tary. Then he will have better ' working
ground and the prospect of an enrichment
of the wash from gold brought in by the
sideline tributary. John Cock is now on the
far side of 80 and deserves a bit of luck
to keep him cheerful.
* * * *
A new application of the cyanide process
is reported from Victoria. The Bealiba
Alluvial Co. has attached a filter-press plant
to its puddling-machines to treat the
“slum” as it is discharged. Results so far
are not satisfactory. Mechanically the
plant works well, but the presence of free
acids in the “slum” interferes with the
action of cyanide. There ought to be no
difficulty in neutralising the acid ; it ought
to be done in the puddling operation. The
cyanide man is a familiar figure on all the
Victorian alluvial fields. The quantity of
old slum treated annually runs into hun-
dreds of thousands of tons, and although the
average recovery does not exceed ldwt. per
ton there is a good profit in the business,
handling costs being low and the consump-
tion of cyanide averaging under Mb. per ton.
* * *- “ *
“Bulla” : The scoop in Edna Centrals was
not the aftermath of Frank Savage’s visit,
as might be imagined from his I-told-you-so
smile, but was due to the discovery, 216 ft.
south of the No. 1 level, of a horseshoe-shaped
run of quartz, which got in the way of a
drive put out to secure cemented gravel.
The importance of the strike was dis-
counted at first because only a hand’s-
throw away No. 3 reef had shown itself to
be a duffer and there was every chance that
the new body would simply blend into it.
When 18ft. and 20ft. widths with 50s. to 80s.
values were reported, a puzzled public mopped
its head at the possibility of a twin Edna
May formation having been cut. Prices got
their final lift when the news leaked out that
some shrewd heads who rushed up from
Perth liked the look of the stranger. The
market by cutting its best caper helped the
erstwhile bilious-looking bulls to assemble
cheerfully for drinks in the old-fashioned
way over the chance of getting back their
shekels. On merits there isn’t much that
can be said of the newcomer, for 25ft. over-
head is wash. That it is big is correct, but
as to whether values are good is not dis-
closed in the official communique. The effect
of the find, so far, has been to wash the last
trace of bear-juice out of the market. The
danger point is that the south-east face
looks like breaking into veins. What has
to be settled is whether the V-shaped forma-
tion in the crosscut is not a vein branching
into the main shoot and enriching it at the
junction. Points like these will be settled
when the 150 ft. drive now being rushed
along discloses the constitution of the shoot
75ft. deeper.
* * * *
The woodline strike cut deeply into
Ivalgoorlie profits. Great Boulder at £11,935
represented a decrease of £12,548 compared
with December; Golden Horseshoe could
only manage to scrape up £603 as against
£6744; South Kalgurli weighed in several
hundred pounds light; and Boulder Per-
severance’s figures were too bad to make
public. Kalgurli and Associated, by drawing
on the bullion reserve, made it appear as if
nothing had happened. So far Lake View
and Star hasn’t spoken; but Ivanhoe, which
worked full time with the aid of what wood
fuel it had supplemented by Collie coal, was
not affected at all.
* * * *
Gwalia Central, registered in Westralia
but bossed from London, held a meeting of
shareholders in Leonora the other day. For
the past six years it has worked a number
of leases, including the Tower Hill in that
district, and what it didn’t spend in other
ways it splashed up in cabling gaudy pro-
gress reports to the Bull office. Latterly it
has devoted most of its time and attention to
the Trump mine, from which an occasional
good return has been obtained. The pro-
ceeds from one crushing, however, seem to
be swallowed up in digging out another, and
consequently shareholders get nothing. High
gold values at depth are talked of by the
Board, but so many exaggerated accounts
of the value of the co.’s ventures have already
been given that little notice is paid nowa-
days to what is officially said about them.
A shipment of 181 tons of blister copper
from the Government smelter at Ravens-
thorpe (W.A.) has just been sold in London
for £28,000. Since the end of 1914, when
Minister for Mines Collier assisted the in-
dustry by taking over the smelter, a heap
of copper has been treated and marketed
for the claimholders on the fiqld. In every
instance returns have been good, and after
advancing 90 p.c. of the value of the ore at
the time of treatment and allowing for all
charges the balance handed over to the pro-
ducer has been substantial. So there is at
least one State enterprise in the West that
is giving satisfaction. Anxious to give even
greater satisfaction by saving brokerage and
commission, Collier recently applied to have
the Mines Department enrolled as a member
of the Metal Exchange. His repeated appli-
cations to the Federal Attorney-General,
however, have been ignored, and at latest
he was still sending telegrams wanting to
know the reason why.
* * * *
Obit Lake View South. The deceased
struggled with an unprofitable area at Kal-
goorlie for some years and then tried its
luck at Kanowna and Yarri (W.A.). As
it did no good at either place it returned
to Ivalgoorlie, but was soon disheartened
and trusted to tributors for succor. Again
drawing a blank it fastened on to a Yukon
venture; but as this straw could not keep
it afloat it went under.
* * * *
Collie (W.A.) produced 286,666 tons of
coal in 1915 worth £137,949. Area
of field is now 29,897 acres, and the
number of men employed is given as
500. The contributors to the year’s out-
put were: Collie Co. 59,195 tons, Collie Co-
operative 63,500, Scottish Collieries 37,259,
Proprietary 73,781, and Westralian Co.
52,948.
* * * #
Speakman’s luck is still out. The new
manager recently predicted good prqspects
and got the battery going. Result, lidwt.
recovery over the plates, and the balance,
allegedly 7dwt., in the tailings. Slimy water
is blamed for the disappointing return, and
in order to determine for all time whether
the co. has a mine or not a further test
parcel of 25 tons is to be sent to Ivalgoorlie
for treatment.
Frank Moss, George Ridgway and two or
three other cute Westralian mining men who
got hold of the Lancefield last year seem to
be succeeding where Hoover, Govett and
8., M. & Co. failed. Tons of money were
spent on the show before the present crowd
stepped in, and finally it was bought for a
song by one of the creditors, who turned it
over to Moss and party a little later for a
few thousand and a small interest. Since
then the monthly profit has never been less
than £2OOO, and is now T up to £3OOO.
Broncho Horseshoe (W.A.) intends to get
a treatment plant and shake itself up. Its
admirers still get up steam about its great,
possibilities and gleefully point to the fact
that tributors recently took out some hun-
dreds of tons of 40s. ore. Pessimists say
that the tributors picked the stuff, and fierce
arguments on this point are still proceeding.
Water for treatment is reckoned to be a
big fly in the co.’s ointment, but if the values
are really in the mine it wouldn’t cost a
great deal to connect by means of pipe line
with the goldfields water main.
Belief in the resurrection of the dead is
growing in the West. The Lancefield, at
Beria, and the Light of Asia, at Cue, have
lately risen again. Westralia Mt. Morgan
is said to be following suit, and the New
Boddington at Goongarrie is coming on.
Two cwt. of specimen stone, described by
the local paper as “the richest seen for
years,” has lately been on exhibition at Kal-
goorlie, and a syndicate which has an option
for £6OOO cash and 6000 shares in any co.
formed already believes its fortune is made.
A whoop comes from the local paper
about the improved prospects of Yilgarn
(W.A.). Corinthian North is declared to
have doubled its value; Bullfinch is described
as looking better than it has done for years ;
Edna May Central, about which nothing too
bad could previously be printed, is given a
boost; and Burbidge, where the Great Vic-
toria, Broncho, Horseshoe and others hang
out, is said to have the makings of the
busiest centre on the whole field. Forres-
tania, on whose rocks the “great gold hunt”
split, is admitted to be under a cloud, but
as yet undeserving of condemnation.
Parker’s Range is referred to in glowing
terms, and Marda is tipped to buck up as
soon as it rains. Nothing is said about the
sick or the dying, or the inmates of Yilgarn’s
already well-filled cemetery, some of which,
according to the local rag, looked as well as
anything but a short time ago.
- - * * * *
The latest oiLtalk in Tas. concerns the
Langloh-Park district, near Hamilton, where
there is a big coal deposit on which one-time
Government Geologist Montgomery reported
most enthusiastically. Oil is said to have
been found there, but, if so, the discovery
is being kept very quiet.
* * * *
The Mount Lyell Co. has decided
that with its cheap water-power from
Lake Margaret it can turn out other
things besides copper at Queenstown. For
a start it is putting in a plant to make
caustic soda, and intends later to turn out
other chemicals. For some montlis past
the co. has been experimenting to see
whether it can save the sulphur fumes from
the smelters and turn them into‘sulphuric
acid. So far results are promising.
Though only a small affair compared with
Mt. Bischoff, or even the Briseis, the Pioneer
tin mine (Tas.) has been a good thing for
the shareholders. Its latest dividend of Is.
per share brings the total amount handed
out to £312,586. And •it is still going
strong.


Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
Kin 6
George V
CHAMPAGNE
lflSl
REIMS
BBS
CHAMPACNt
‘-^ritsHejdsied^
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
A GOOD REMEDY FOR
SALLOW COMPLEXIONS.
Everyone may have a clear and bright
complexion, free from furrows or wrinkles if
they will only take a little daily trouble’ in
the following manner: Buy some Puri tol wax
from the chemist or draper, and apply every
night, lap a little cold water on the face ten
times with the hands every morning, allow-
ing it to get thoroughly round the closed
eyes, and pinch the skin very gently across
all wrinkles. Puritol Wax Soap, which
leaves a fine film of wax on the skin, should
be used; this acts as a protective during the
day. This treatment arouses the dormant
neives and blood vessels, and undoubtedly
accounts for many of the clear complexions
so much admired by those who do not yet
know the secret. — Advt. tq
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET <& CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FESQ (a, CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
since 1679. S inceJ679.
HAIG * HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, February 2S, 191 G.
My Dear Arini, —
Six o’clock closing of hotels was acclaimed
by wopien as too good to be true. It was
only true for seven days. If Senator Pearce
had used his power under the War Pre-
cautions Act to shut the bars at six
o’clock till the enemy outside our gates
was beaten, a unanimous woman’s vote
would have made the drought permanent.
This is not merely the extreme view of female
prohibitionists or cranks of any color. It
is based on the opinions of Free Kinder-
garten teachers, district nurses and every
worker in the thankless vineyard of mean
streets.
Any approach to discipline, as the animal
is understood in barracks where there are
regulars, would have kept our young recruits
from asinine diversions. A wet canteen
under strict supervision might easily have
prevented the bloodshed in the late
uproar. Soldiers all the world over are
accustomed to have a reasonable amount of
liquor, but the war caught us on the hop,
before we had the military beer-mug in place.
Acute trouble with inexperienced young
men in khaki is only a passing phase. Civi-
lian Billjim, whose hard earnings foam over
in every city bar, is the person who wants
drying off. The woman’s view is that the
aforesaid toiler can drink quite as much as
is good for his health or his pocket by six
o’clock in the evening. Also, he can—if
he happens to be built like a tank —keep a
bottle or two of lager on his premises, just
to soak his thoughts in before retiring for
the night.
C aptain lirth, the State Governor’s new
young gentleman, has been pounced on by
our Second-best People. These are the
dressy crowd nowadays; and a Hero with
a bullet in his lung is just the fillip their
languishing spirits need in war-time. While
some our Best Suburbs are devoted to
Good M orks for the Cause, there remains
the frothy fringe which must have an A.D.C.
to play with.
A man who has much to say, from bitter
experience, of German prison camps is
harden S. Harvey. Just now he is with his
sister, Mrs. Percy Owen, recuperating from
his 16 months’ agony. She is a widow of
the late Bellambi (Wollongong) identity,
veais ago Mrs. Percy, when Miss Harvey,
was governess to the younger members of
the Owen family. Then she married the
widower and got on very happily with her
ex-pupils. Brother Carden is also in the
teaching trade. Before the war he pounded
English grammar into three of the Kaiser’s
sons. So he claims to know what the boss
enemy looks like both in peace and war.
Mrs. Kerr-Pearse, a relative of Lady Ede-
line Stiickland, had a closg call in the
lecent Tasmanian train smash. Fortunately
she escaped with nothing more distracting
than a shaking. Her husband is the Aide
who once supported Governor Strickland in
Hobart and Westralia. He is now in the
Fairgusons’ Help department.
The Darnleys’ only daughter, Dorothy
lg oh I s to one Daniel Peploe, of
the 20th Hussars. The girl’s mother was
Australian (her name was Morphy) who
married Ivo Bligh in the days when his
favorite recreation was cricket. Later of
course, Iwo decorated a seat in the House
of Lords (or should it be Lards?) as Earl
Darnley.
Australian Gaunt family has a knack
of getting to the fore when it’s worth while
being there. Captain Guy Gaunt R N
naval attache to the British Embassy at
U ashington, recently was persuaded to paint
hls sign. He’s a brother of
Jiteiaiy Mary, who has been a considerable
globe-trotter. The family luck found her
1 n m w . ar . broke out * so had
the chance of describing Ivan when he turned
ms back on vodka and moved south. An-
other brother, Admiral Ernest Gaunt, is the
Australian-born sailor to command a
division of the Royal Navy. Major C B
Gaunt, a fourth member of this strenuous
mcle, wears the gorgeous plumage of the
Dragoon Guards.
. p ercy Grainger, the S. Australian musi-
cian with the wavy, corn-colored mane, has set
the I\ew York musical critics purring
er „. a composition which he describes
as A Tribute to Foster, dished up
by Percy Grainger.” The orchestral
effects are colored by wet finger bowls
wine glasses and similar trick “instruments ’’
Instructions to players are conveved thus •
Louder ; bumpingly; chippy. Seems as if
Percy has side-tracked the classic and joined
the circus. J
A former Hawkesbury College boy was
killed in France a while ago. He was Lieut.
Harold Woodford, fighting with a Berkshire
regiment. Woodford senior used to be
British Resident Commissioner for the Solo-
mon and other cannibal isles.
The Verbrugghen and his just-arrived wife
have been handing round the ices at two
afternoon parties. Friday’s gathering at
Farmer’s was accompanied by the growl of
thunder and a fine, swishing rain tumbled
through the adjacent guttering as the musi-
cal items were marshalled. Fiddler Jenny
Cullen, pianist Iris de C. Rego and the
hostess were amongst the entertainers. Also,
tenor Philip Wilson, who is now on the Con-
servatorium staff. The Englishman is acquir-
ing more temperament—l suppose it’s in the
Australian air, though I never saw iff—
since he first pitched his voice here-
abouts. Mrs. Verbrugghen takes the
hostess business seriously, and uncorked a
tactful greeting to her guests. Some
day she hopes to learn the names of the long
procession of strangers who welcomed her to
Sydney.
Mrs. Verbrugghen, wife of the musical
Henri, is an Englishwoman with a silky
manner and a sweet, chirrupy voice. She
sings in a graceful, drawing-room manner,
and expressed her feelings the other after-
noon in a ballad or two. The plump and
pleasing lady had some of her domestic gods
badly broken on the voyage from London.
The new Conservatorium lady fiuuler,
Jenny Cullen, is a slim, spectacled young
woman from Clasgie. She is labelled
late professor of the Athenaeum School of
Music in that city of factory chimney-
pots. The Scotch lass has a fine warm
temperament and puts plenty of color into
her fiddling. She handles her bow with
the firm grip of a man. The importation
belongs to the Verbrugghen string quar-
tette.
E. E. Seton, a North Sydney man, recently
took possession of his best girl at an evening
ceremony in St. James’s. He is a great-
grandson of the late Lord Sidmouth, a one-
time Speaker of the House of Commons. The
bride was Madge Fitzhardinge, of Cremorne.
It was one of the quiet weddings of war-
time, and only relatives of the leading charac-
ters were asked to drink their health.
Cheques dropped in as light-ballast to the
usual fish-knife display.
Re wedding presents. Have you noticed
the slump in those old favorites, silver entree
dishes? Clocks are the mania of the moment.
When the modern bride settles down in her
new home she has about one timepiece and a
half for each room. In case these all stop
work a few wristlet watches help her
through.
The Benevolent Society had its annual
day out —in a huge marquee—last week.
A terrific thunderstorm put a wet tail to
the proceedings. An hour of preliminary
thunder didn’t stir the various speakers to
cut short their remarks; so the feminine
portion of the company fidgeted under an
acute presentiment of ruined millinery.
Governor Strickland took the best chair.
I resident Neville Mayman ran over the
debit and credit accounts ; and Chief Secre-
tary George Black replied warily to hints
from the committee for favors to come
Lnder the president’s tactful allusions
to the _ C.S. s “deep culture and broad
sympathies’’ Mr. Black’s smile was ex-
pansive. Mrs. Trefle, rarely seen in
public nowadays, was seated' near Mrs
Mayman amongst the elect. Dr. Fore-
nian explained the ethics of getting money
ci rom Government). Prof.
nd\ Stuait handed a bouquet to the presi-
dent as the man who had raised £6OOO for
the society. A parson or two gave the
final blessing. Then the heavens cracked
in several places and the company fled
through the rain.
A daughter of the late manager Vindin. of
the A.J.S. Bank, stepped fearlessly up to the
altar with .1. D. Sanderson the other dav.
Bride Maud s plumage w-s the orthodox
white. St. James’s Church. Turramurra,
was a-bloom with flowers for the event. Gor-
geous vegetation turned Ivuladubali, in the
same locality, into an exotic nest. Uncle
and auntie Vindin were the hosts. The
groom is a son of A. A. Sanderson, Combad-
ery station, in the AValgett sheep area.
~ -^ ie , ren ch Music Society’s concert, the
first of its kind in Sydney, liad a tropic night
for its musical fireworks at St. James’s Hall.
Ccntiary to our allies’ hopes the Conserva-
torium Hall was not available. Neither was
!ts director. Verbrugghen, in the final effort
of rounding up his flock for the first term in
the Botanic Gardens Academy, was unable to
lend any aid. He is anxious that the
blench community should clearly understand
that time the Wretch ! —pushed him out of
the programme.
French chamber music is essentially mod-
ern. Some of it is full of weird tricks. For
this reason it has to be handled with care.
Debussy, brilliantly interpreted by Yvonne
( harvin. was the best offering on the pro-
gramme, though Debussy sometimes writes
smashing chords that arc not harmony. A
string quartet, with Staell as chief fiddler,
dragged. Society yawned furtively and
fanned itself with desperate vigor during
this long-drawn item. The Belgian singer
Lilliane Lore, a colatura soprano, was too
cold and academic in the trio of 18th century
French songs. Arthur Appleby was the male
vocalist. The William Cullens, the Ilolmans,
G. Karp and his lady, and the French Consul
Chayet bustled into the front pew in time for
the opening number.
The lace overskirt has come back for even-
ing finery. The Belgian soprano looked
like a fashion-plate of the ’Bo’s in one of
these frothy accessories the other night. The
white lace was rucked up on each hip, thence
it fell in ample lines to the hem of a lilac
understudy. There’s economy in this mode.
A veteran theatre frock would hide its
threadbare age under the graceful, lacy
upper terrace.
Dr. Worrall took an opportunity to urge
the necessity of getting a slice of the
Domain for increasing the area of Sydney
Hospital, at the recent annual plaint for
more cash. The public is likely to arch its
back if the frequent cuts at its green areas
continue.
The firemen and police carnival on Satur-
day was a huge success from an attendance
standpoint. Kings and queens were going
cheap. You could have bought them by the
gross for a pound or so in the big nroces-
sion. This wormed its way through gaping
crowds before noon. Then business com-
menced in earnest in the Agricultural
Grounds. Flora tius Johnston won the
Roman vehicle race. Did the early bush-
ranger advertise his profession in a flaming
red shirt? Anyhow, he was like a parti-
colored scarlet flamingo in the “sticking up”
incident at the carnival. Governor Strick-
land brought a couple of daughters to see the
events, which, as usual, included a swarm
of dancing youngsters in sweltering plaids.
About £7OOO will go to the clamorous hos-
pitals as the result of the show.
A Muswellbrook girl, Lilian Maynard, was
quietly wed to engineer Egerton Dennys the
other day. The bride wore her travelling
garb of biscuit-colored finery. The groom is
an Englishman, and his gifts to his bride
were something to inspire the devil of Envy.
Muswellbrook damsels will bear me out.
Lilian’s late uncle, Edwin Daintry, was a
well-known Sydney lawyer. The Egerton
Dennys doves are going to make their nest
in this harassed city.
Major d’Apice, who got a D.S.O. a while
ago, was in the S’African squabble with
N.S.W. Mounted Rifles. Now he is a bri-
gade-major somewhere at the Front, after
coming through the Dardanelles racket. The
d’Apice family was Italian and settled at
Hunter’s Hill years ago. The soldier’s
brother is on the Strickland staff.
Surgeon Herschel Harris, the Sydney man
who has done such brilliant work in France,
has been recuperating in a London hospital.
llis hands suffered severely in the blizzards
and frost of a Flanders winter.
The pretty Fred Dempster dame, from
Cowra, has deposited her wardrobe, motor-
car and husband at the newly-stocked T.
and G. flats. The lady carries with her
a a air of Rotten Row and Devonshire house
parties, but the English suggestion is merely
accidental. She originated in Westralia, and
her talent for making friends is entirely
Australian. , Her frocking genius belongs
to no territory, but is hers alone, and the
copyrights are reserved.
The Oliver Osbornes, of Jugiong, have
their newest she-babe Daisie
Willis, after Auntie Parberry. The infant
inhaled its first dawn at grandmother
Macfarlanes at Double Bay, and there was
much rejoicing when it took the rosy draught
iu spite of its sex and war-time theories
about the defender in the cradle.
After long months in warring lands, Clare
Gilchrist has come back, crammed with in-
formation, to her jumping-off place in
Macleay-street, Darlinghurst. In her smart
London-mades she looks as well as if she
had never left Sydney, and had remained
wholly ignorant of the feminine Sufferings
in Cano before the stern military command
drove the strayed doves back to* the home
fog.
W Oman mops her brow as she glares at
the new autumn fashions. Ileaw fur coats
—three-quarter length—and pelts fit for a
journey to the South Pole, are now decorat-
ing window pegs. The latest cut in cloth
tailor-built suits makes the small, plump
uoman feel that she is going to be extin-
gmshed. A long coat with a wide flare, edged
S h f y nns th y .top terrace. Then comes
the short, baggy skirt. Inside this gear the
i, W h ls , e eet iler three-inch heels
will be like a lone herring in a barrel.
The Red Cross depots for fruit and vege-
tables are located in Ash-street and 18 Bar-
rack-street The produce is for wounded
soldiers and their dependents. The difficulty
is that the demand now exceed* h, "
Orchardists, market-gardeners and ' su ! Jpl l'
who are prevented from doing
the firing-sphere are invited t<> „ . n blt it
matter of supplies. K m th«
lion, organiser. ' 1 on tey i s
Melba comes a month later than
arranged In the fore part ~f f fi , rs '
unless there’s another revoke—th. ~I )nl"
melody should fold her wings i u °'
The Field Artillery Reinforcements P,
benefits by the recent show at \r 0
Park, where “The Cingalee” w « ,°° re
by Manly’s Amateur Operatic <s P * yed
The fund being now in working ordeal?’
one who desires to throw somethin* a “ y '
collection-plate can communicate will, r Uf
Baxter, R.A.S. Grounds, Moorep* rk L,eut
The black-and-white show of David r' ,
cartoons comes off this week a
Horderns’ gallery will house' the !i°v'
David’s line work. Instead of openimr lif
an orchid so to speak (with th? aid* o ft
Personage), it will merely burst
like a ripe tomato. The Bulletin
work is worth catching before it soars t
foUow it “” ls ' mnch - sild « l <W m
. opting of the Zoo at Athol is prom-
lsed for June. Mimster-in-charge Hov e l
gomg to give the show a strong lift
while with Pictorial advts. of the anhnak
if there is any loan money left) i n £
natural surroundings. Some time ago th
public stamped up the wooded heights far «
tree-planting festival. Only the elephant and
the monkey family were then in residence
but cheerful rumors that a tiger or two were
lashing their ribs round the corner sent ner
vous ladies dashing up the hill at top speed
One elderly matron who put on too much of
a sprint fainted amongst the bracken, and an
array of medical comforts had to be fl |,
tained.
Numbers of Australian Nightingales have
been mentioned in despatches, a belated re-
cognition of their heroism in the early hor-
rors of the Flanders invasion. Miss Rear
and Sister Ada Gabriel, both Victorians are
included in a recent communique.
In the days when Australian bird-men were
regarded as freak-fliers who risked their
bones in public places, aviator “Billy”
Hart was in Class A. Now he’s off to soar
on active service. A send-off at the Aus-
tralia cheered him on his way.
The Women’s Horticultural and Home
Industries dames at a meeting the other day
balked at a suggestion that the Guild should
have an exhibit at the Easter Royal Show.
Yet the idea is good, and individual share-
holders are being given an opportunity of
saying “yes” or “no” to it. If a few mem-
bers of this long-winded Guild could prove
that they had only grown some carrots or a
high-class cabbage or two, the public might
begin to take an interest in its interminable
resolutions.
Onslow, son of a former M.L. Gov-
ernor, has recently been mentioned in des-
patches for his work in the Intelligence
Corps. He is still on the sunny side of 40,
and a gift of languages from Arabic to Rus-
sian has aided him to prominent notice
where that article is most useful.
Mrs. Florence Cooper, a Sydney woman, is
getting her breath in London after 10
months’ work in a Belgian hospital.
By the Rotorua, this week, Mrs. Pyne
( M.L.) and a brace of daughters go to chase
health in the danger zone. The party in-
cludes Phyllis Boyle, a daughter of that
Sandy Boyle who w r as racing and wool part-
ner with the late F. A. Pyne. Miss Boyle
goes to greet brother David, R.N., one of
the handy-men attending to the pursuit of
the baby-killers when the Gerhog guns tore
holes in Maoriland’s “gift” warship’s ensign.
He was officially noticed or recommended or
applauded at the time.
Sybil Macarthur Onslow, who recently
forsook her orchard and account books at
Camden for a few days’ gadding at Govern-
ment House with the Ferguson Exes., wafted
into Sydney in time to say “good boy”
to brother Jim on his return to home and
politics. Miss Onslow is very much the
man of the family just now, when almost all
the male members of the clan are out Hun
hunting, and she keeps her end up.
Millinery is suffering from an end-of-the-
summer expression. It wilts over one eye
ir it chances to be a last panama of the sea-
son. Or it surges iu front, under tall bows
that have a struck-by-poverty effect. The
buckle on all the-high black hats is'an obses-
sion. Nearly every woman’s headgear has
this decoration. it may be classed as a
necessary nuisance, twisted into black silk.
In May we are to have a Kiddies’ Exhibi-
tion in the Town Hall. This is not to be a
display of prize babies, but an effort to
show’ what modern pedagogues do for the
Y r oung Idea. John Mackay took the chair
at the preliminary meeting.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP nOME.
At the War.
,
Tj
EX* i
A
fa
mfflm
m
%*<■
m
ww
sfe
«
67*
e>
*f'/ ■■*?■■&?’ ? P2
■'/ . .
-•
i
M
vz
7
MMk
<r
IPPM
Y:U
7?
A
M
SS®
<j'
Ktfl
111
:&> '£p^< :
Y
■>Xi!
flsi
£gC'J*!
•a^VJ-A
V ;
>X
/V
[.V',-:' 3?-- VV' -P* * -.
Cr-'
|vr.->»sr4o v >;<. v .
i.pfaiffa
)U*'"&M
tik?,
i
m
m.
\ih
«jmM
m
'OWM
wsm
v>T»At>V Y/
frf 1 1 if f
few -Z :
KsV, •-•
E&i^Wtß-'-V
F 7 7
■*■ ’Of*#*
K&; : .)«,~i i-v^V'
f
£': '• **- ■#*s££
I . PSPi£fod J/ .
WPP*
//
'■y
IS#
llw f
*?V3
ims
m
WwM
\
K ) '
r^.
Ife
y/v
5S
7 _t
f / \)pl
• \l&f Jr
\
' -w
3
iAV
Ea»^V^
1 1
y
iiß®
/ •"• :
31^5 mSmi
md
w
rAW
Tc 4
■xjfy
y
y-
y^-cr'-
h c>
Cobra,” Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Now the Duke
Has broken through'
Takes along the
‘‘Cobra” Bear
And they have a
j
Meeting there.
O
“ Brother Gumleaves/
Says the Russ,
‘‘Over me don’t
Make a fuss!
“ ‘Cobra’ work was
Helping me
“D own there in
Gallipoli.”


' >
m
*
m
m
m
ini
m
as
-
is
eh
= -
tecsSS
SEASONABLE GARMENTS
AT PRACTICAL PRICES.
The merit of Farmer's Mercery is well known—that the
prices are distinctly economical may be sometimes overlooked.
Yet such is the ease, and they are more moderate than
those usually associated with such a high standard of
quality.
Note these comfortable Coat Sweaters, made of well-spun,
long-yarn wool from leading Scottish Mills, and button down
the front like a vest. Can be supplied in Grey, Sage and
Heather shades, also in White.
Chest Measure .. 34, 36, 38, 40, 42, 45 inches.
Prices . 22/6 25/- 27/6 30/-
Carriage Free to any part of Australia.
FARMER'S,
Pitt, Market,
and
George Streets.
SYDNEY
mm
• -.r-
The
Highest
Grade Tyre
v is the
DUNLOP
It stands alone for
Quality and Service,
and can be relied
upon for a big
mileage over the
roughest of roads.
It costs no more
to fit
“DUNLOPS”
although they are
the highest grade
made, in fact they
are now obtainable
at a lower figure
than many im-
ported Tyres.
When ordering Tyres
always specify “Dunlops,”
thereby ensuring yourself
thousands of miles of enjoy-
able motoring
at a minimum
cost for tyre
upkeep.
OBTAINABLE
IN ALL
SIZES AT
LEADING
GARAGES.
*
Illustrated
List on
application to
DUNLOP
RUBBER CO.,
108 FLINDERS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
255 CLARENCE ST..
SYDNEY.
103-105 FLINDERS ST..
ADELAIDE
67 KING ST., PERTH.
268-274 ADELAIDE ST..
BRISBANE,
53 CAMERON ST.,
LAUNCESTON.
95 COURTENAY PL
WELLINGTON.
116 WORCESTER
STREET,
CHRIST-
CHURCH
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, February 28, 1910.
My Dear Yarrie, —
After finishing a round of country visits
to fill in time, the Governors have now taken
to visiting each other. State Ex. Stanley,
with Victor Hood as his Man Friday, has
led off by going to stay with the Fergusons
while the Stanley lady is away at Macedon.
The G.-G. handed out the prizes at Mel-
bourne Grammar School on Friday last, and
her Ex. came along wearing a happy smile
and royal blue silk draperies, topped off with
a. biscuit-colored toque and a nodding plume.
The Governor-General was surprised when,
instead of the usual silver and morocco
trifles, he was led to a mass of cardboard
strips. It appears the prize-money had
been patriotically pooled by the boys. They
howled and stamped with joy when the
potentate promised a silver cup for next
year’s sports meeting.
Doris Blackwood is very critical these days
about the appearance of the silver on the
vice-regal dining-table. She is gaining ex-
perience of domestic affairs daily, for she
helps to wash up plates and polish spoons
and forks at the lied Cross Rest Home on
St. Kilda-road.
Caulfield drew a great crowd on Saturday
in spite of the patriotic emptiness of the
vice-regal crate and the absence of many
who would throw themselves under a tram
if an Excellency went first. The John
Maddens did not appear, but the Frank
Madden dame came out with a spreading
crinoline-effect of black glace. One daughter
was an exclamation mark in purple. The
It. G. Caseys did a sprightly birdcage walk
after the success of Maharajah in the big
race. Redfern, the William Cooper knight’s
importation, went to the starting-post with
an illicit leg; but the Mills of Maffra had
very optimistic looks for Traquette. Their
hopes, were shortened by two lengths. Mrs.
Y\ iddis (owner of Patrobas) inhabited white
linen. The Clive Leonards rejoiced suit-
ably when Queen’s Challenger easily won
the crowded Stanley Steeplechase. Mrs.
Clive smiled in checked tailorings. Her
sister, Miss Reynolds, was smartly groomed
in khaki. Mrs. George Woodforde wore
heavy khaki silk, while Mrs. Thompson
hid inside a brown race-coat. Mrs. Norman
Wilson showed a dainty white cloth cos-
tume cut in real military style. Mrs. Sam
Mackay’s tussore was side-pleated to within
an ace of crinolining. Sir Walter James,
a well-matured Englishman who is careful
about his dressing, strolled out from the
city tavern which houses him to see what
Australian races are like. He seemed to
be favorably impressed. Mrs. Cecil Fisken
made a swirl of interest with a load of
ermine fur. It was a close day, but she
bore up. A grey-haired squatter brought
five girls; he escorted his flock to tea and
sat them in a grandstand row for
inspection. They wore wonderful hats,
and one fair one had a shot-silk dress the
color of the sea. Another wore peach blos-
som in her smart little toque. The third
held up a wide coon hat of striped blues,
and the fourth wore smart black roses.
Number Five was in a dream of plain white
cloth, hat and all. They were a joyous rain-
bow. One of the newest brides (thev are
so numerous now that they need identifica-
tion labels) did the lawn with a pink pro-
peller whizzing in front of her little brown
hat, while the breezes blew her champagne
frills about.
Ashmead Bartlett had a packed house for
his first lecture. The front rows were very
polite and distant and quite beautifully
upholstered. The back rows wore their rainy-
day clothes and a most earnest air. for they
had to strain their ears to follow the modest
mumblings of the lecturer, who seemed to
confide his best bits to his maps and to fling
ur.essentials over his shoulder to the audi-
ence. Points of great interest to Austra-
lians were hurried tl/ough casually, while
others, dear to an English heart, were
heavily emphasised. He seemed struck by
the fact that General Birdwood was forced,
by want of room, to live in a common dug-
out during the whole of his nine months’
stay on the Peninsula. “And he a General in
command of 50,000 men!” exclaimed the
lecturer. But the Australian audience took
ic quite calmly. Even a field-marshal in a
dugout wouldn’t have excited them.
Bartlett said he longs for the time when
the wonderful work of the British submarines
may be written freely. He casually men-
tioned that the rifle periscope, devised by
an Australian, proved a boon in Gallipoli
and has been sent along to the stormy West
Front. The fascination that new clothes
have for the Turk was touched upon. Usu-
ally poor and underclad, the artless infidel
thinks his new kakhi uniform a glorious pos-
session.
Mrs. James invited a party to meet Ash-
mead Bartlett at the Overseas Club, and
carefully saw to it that a number of military
men attended so that the guest wouldn't feel
lonely. General Stanley and Drs. Cus-
caden and Springthorpe sat with Alex.
McKinley and other newspaper men. Every-
body waited until the works nearly fell out
of the clock. Then some pleaded other
engagements and fled to keep them. The
guest at last arrived breathless in charge of
manager Tait, and found the Hennessy dame
and Mrs. James still waiting to receive them.
The break in the procession of events was
filled with tea and bun and sweet tenor sing-
ing by Mr. Brooks, accompanied by Banana-
land pianist Cahill.
Our Colonel Sellheim of yesterday—or the
day before —is Brigadier-General Sellheim.
He was originally “lent” by England to
Australia and soldiered first at Brisbane
and afterwards at Melbourne. He is cam-
paigning in sandy wastes now and gaining
a lot of popularity amongst our fighting
fellow-countrymen.
While Colonel Moon is away in France
directing his fleets of Australian motor
transport his wife is grass-widowing at
Sandgate (near Brisbane) with her father,
who is in his 90th year and about to build
a new house. That shows you how tired
people get in the North.
Mrs. Walter Tunbridge, whose colonel-
husband is whirling ammunition through and
across France, lately found her own house
too large to grass-widow in and rented a
Toorak bungalow for a few months. She
hopes to pilgrimage nearer the fighting-lines
some time in the future.
The Naval College Halls were recently
farewelled by Toorak at a tea-and-caking
hostessed by Mrs. Adams. Daughter Muriel
almost shed a tear at parting. It seems
that it is not Australia that Mrs. Hall would
like to use her maternal slipper on, but only
the Labor party and the Naval Board. The
rest of the continent would be given a free
pardon. Laborites and Board members will
be painfully interested to hear that a sooth-
sayer or witch-doctor has predicted the re-
turn of the family in two years’ time.
Percy Chataway, a young journalist who
was put out of action three weeks after the
Gallipoli landing, has been made as strong
as ever by skilful doctoring and nursing.
Instead of receiving his discharge in Eng-
land as anticipated, he was sent back to
Egypt, and there encountered younger
brother George wearing the stars of a
lieutenant.
Frank Ham, the rich young bachelor who
went to England to offer himself for active
service, died recently of laryngitis.
_ Mrs. James (wife of the Major) has been
visiting Mrs. Sydney Pickles (mother of the
aviator) at her house at Leura. in the Blue
Mountains (N.S.W.). Son Sydney is to
receive his captaincy soon and take com-
mand of a flock of Australian airmen in
England. He has had a long and painful
time nursing his injured leg, and spent a
good deal of the vacation on top of London
motor-’buses. The drivers at last got to
know him and used to call from passing jug-
gernauts, “This way to ’Endon !”
One more Hobart girl has gone to be the
guiding star of a fighting sailor. Her name
is Curran, and she is now on her way
to London, where one Walsh, of the Aus-
tralia, is waiting with the ring.
The Hoad widow has gone down to old,
familiar Queenscliff for a rest after her war-
time exertions. Her late husband did a lot
of peaceful soldiering there.
The feverish rush and whirl of Adelaide:
The Russell-Henderson wedding duly occurred at
All Souls’ Church, St. Peter’s, with a limited list
of guests. The bridegroom is one of the Frank
Russells of Salisbury, and a nephew of the implac-
able being who sees that we pay our taxes, while she
is the daughter of Mrs. Hall Henderson, of Tin-
tinara. The aftermath of tea and toasts was held
at Mrs. Koepen Wendt’s.
The work of providing comforts for the men in
the trenches is slowly forging ahead. Mrs. Lendon
was responsible for a meeting at which it was
decided that doctors’ wives throughout the State
and next-of-kin of the unit should look after the
A.M.C. The same busy worker is arranging a
Button Day for the Comforts Fund for the whole
of the S. Australian forces. The cash value of
patriotism was ascertained at Walkerville the other
evening when a Continental in Mr. McDonald’s gar-
den swelled a motor-ambulance fund.
Dr. H. A. Powell, who has been mentioned in
dispatches for his work at the Dardanelles, has been
promoted Lieutenant-Colonel. He left here at the
end of 1914 and has been in many troubles, includ-
ing the Anzae evacuation. When the last despatch
left he was in charge of the Ist Australian Station-
ary Hospital at Tel-el-Kebir.
The threatened paper shortage is stirring up in-
terest in the possibilities of local industry. The
Minister of Industry has received from the Director
of Chemistry samples of paper made from marine
fibre, and if the Government Printer approves of
them there seems a chance that local mills may
come into being. That, of course, is excellent.
What we literary girls want is unlimited paper to be
clever on. At present lam reduced to blotting-
paper or something like it.
Miss Earl, who had the hick to be in Germany at
the outbreak of the war, described some of her experi-
ences at the May Club as the guest of Miss Boothby.
It took her eight days to cover the ground between
Frankfurt and London, and she will never be hard up
for something to hold the floor with.
The marriage of Captain H. C. Nott to Marjorie
Lowe took place on Tuesday, in the St. Peter’s Col-
lege Chapel. Captain Nott is on a month’s fur-
lough, and the fortnight between now and the end
of his leave is to be spent in Melbourne. The
bride, who is one of our smartest girls, has a brother
in Flanders.
Mr. R. G. Nesbit, who has been appointed to the
presidency of the Licensing Court, is the eldest son
of our Paris. He is an old Prince Alfred College
boy, and from there went to the Adelaide Univer-
sity, being admitted to the Bar in 1902.
The Adelaide delegates to the Y.W.C.A. Conference
who were in the Tasmanian railway smash, got off
with a shaking—probably because they came from a
good place.
The will of R. Barr Smith, of Adelaide, has been
probated at £1,799,500. After providing for charit-
able bequests and personal gifts there is a trifle
left over of about a million and threequarters. This
goes to help the widow and children wrestle with
the cost-of-living problem.
Old Judge Boucaut’s £30,000 mostly goes to his
numerous sons, but there is a bequest of 20 guineas
for—of all unlikely purposes—the repair of West-
minster Abbey!
Esther, the ruddy-haired daughter of the
Charlie Fairbairns, has gone to join her
mother in Egypt. Brother Jim accompanied
as general luggage-shifter. His job should
be a busy one, for Esther took just as many
Saratogas as the Medina could find space
for after the coal bunkers were filled.
“Tommy'’ Reynolds, who married “The
Girl in the Taxi,” has given an aeroplane to
the Australian forces. The donor is living
snugly at Cliveden with his wife and their
new baby.
Mrs. Ambrose Pratt, having come back
to Melbourne, knocked at the door of her
Melbourne Mansions flat, but found her ten-
ants wanted it for several more weeks. To
oblige them she is camping in the flat vacated
by the Hoad widow. The hardships are
terrible.
Mrs. Sam Howell, killed in the recent
railway-smash at Campania (Tas.), was a
daughter of warehouseman David Beath, of
London and Melbourne. Sam Howell, who
went with his wife on the Hobart trip and
was considerably knocked about during the
derailment, owns Chocolyn, near Camper-
down, in the Western District. Raith, how-
ever, the Howell dwelling at Herne Hill,
Geelong, had been the family home for years.
Beath, the elder, in London, had booked his
passage for an Australian trip just before
the tragedy.
Edward Cunningham, a trifle weary in
Liberal well-doing, has temporarily given up
trying to settle the striker and stun the
fiscal issue with Argus leaders, and has
retired for a few weeks to Portsea.
Esther Fairbairn bandaged her last patient
at St. Vincent’s on Tuesday last, just before
she sailed for London by the Medina. All
the nurses are sad about it, but mother
wanted her.
Carmen Harris, who is about to sail to
Vladivostock to join her husband, endured
the appendicitis operation the other day. At
present she is looking as picturesque -as pos-
sible in a private hospital.
Dorothy Langridge said firmly and sol-
emnly last week that she was willing to
love, honor, and obey Charles Gerald
Hack. It happened at St. John’s Toorak,
and now they are honeymooning in Sydney.
The click of the needles is heard no more
at Menzies’. Julius Knight has closed
up his knitting bag, stowed away his
machinery and moved on to Sydney. Lord
bless him !
Women owners of speedy horses are be-
coming quite common. Just now Mrs. Dick
Hawker, who hails from Adelaide, is enjoy-
ing the sensation of owning a winner
(Cyklon) of one of Caulfield's first autumn
gallops.
Douglas Mawson’s wife has gone to
Sydney to meet her sister. Dr. Rika, who is
returning to Australia by way of America.
Mrs. Falkiner, who died some weeks
ago at the St. Kilda-road home of her
daughter, Airs. Fred Knight, was the mother
of the Falkiner racing men. She had many
relations —including numerous nieces and
nephews and grand-children—and she cut up
her money very generously amongst them.
The real business head of the partnership
with her long-since-departed husband, she
watched the station accounts and the expen-
diture while her husband put in most of
his time in the stables with his horses. The
sons nearly all inherited his sporting ten-
dencies, and the nearest local railway station
to the old homestead would occasionally be
asked on the ’phone to hold the train for
three minutes for one of the sons of the
house, then steeplechasing gaily across the
paddocks on one of the galloping machines.
At St. Ives, Malvern, the auctioneer took
the cash the other day for the household
effects left by the late Mrs. Rosetta Fox,
who died a little while before E. Phillips F.!
her brilliant painter-son. It was a quaint
assortment of goods, two conspicuous items
being a library of Hebrew works and another
of classical music. The Phillips Fox exhi-
bition, now on at the Athenaeum, and
arranged by his widow, is worth seeing.
The Frank Walkers raked in another 50
pounds at Ringwood by means of a moonlit
garden party. All the stalls were sold out
by closing time, and while the she-brigands
were operating. Morris dances and Maypole
prancings by children soothed the victims
Claud Hall tenored sentimentally in the
moonlight, and Beatrice Higginson and the
Janson lady trilled pleasingly.
The Returned Soldiers’ Association .fives
its first annual concert on Friday (March 3)
the arrangement of the programme being the
job of Maggie Sterling and others of the prin-
cipal musical pros. This show is to help
towards the Fallen Comrades’ Memorial
Hall, and the vice-regal Fergusons have pro-
mised their presence as well as their patron-
age.
The Hennessy dame and Mrs. Eva Hughes
took the chair in turn at a meeting held bv
the women who have taken an oath to buy
only English, Australian or “Allied” goods
Ihe meeting was very grim indeed while it
was -sealing the doom of all enemy trade
But a I rotective tariff would do the business
vt'i'.v much better and save these •
tinned women time and trouble thntlm^ 11 '
otherwise wasted. at be
There was a wistful look in a.v
Hart ett’s eye when he sat entrenched &
40-odd women at a tea-party siv f ?' 1
last Wednesday at the Overseas Club hlm
really pathetic. No one p.mM 11 Xt Was
mead if he went back to London and'nth'
agony of remembrance wrote a thesis he
the interrogative powers of the Melhl,
woman The questions only ceased S e
tenor began to wail out of tune D *
course, the women did not cease tnllPnJr
Mm. The only bright thing about Ashm f °l
during that party was his socks t
showed verdant-green above his brown jifL h
The League of the Million Shillings, which
has been organised for St. Vincent’s TT
pital is gradually becoming a silver balloon'
ihe first quarterly meeting of the
will be spiced with music by leading a tfs
oil Monday evening, March 27.
The grey-haired, tuneful I'aul Dufault i s
due here again about the middle of the vLI
lie conies via Maoriland, after char, , ;
America. Paul has been doing Red f'.s
work in France since he left Australia and
has also sung in New York with the fni
little soprano who Quinlaned here in oner
(I forget her name but remember her ton
note vividly.) p
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


' v-
f: i i
7j,
» ■
■,<m
Ll.
m li
...
mm
» *; t
M
. -
m
■
M.
s.
M
X
\
•• •
s
V'
m
ff
w
1 w f U *
\ . \
General Dofha
Prime -Minister ofUovfhNrim
<S? leader 1 cf (he Union Forces
MAKERS OF HISTORY.
THE above reproduced portrait drawing of General Botha, Prime Minister of South Africa,
is one of a series of Twelve Present Day Men who are Makers of History. The
series, specially drawn for us by W. Jardine, have been reproduced on the finest art paper,
and retain the freshness and technique of the oiiginal drawings, and, being entirely free
from advertising, are suitable for framing. We will be pleased to forward the complete set
to any address in Australia or New Zealand on receipt of 66, in postage stamps to cover
cost of mailing, etc. Owing to a limited number of these sets, we advise you to write early to
JAMES WATSON & CO. LTD., Bromley House, Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
PC Y
■
■
iSltiSg


FOR COOLNESS SAKE
Wear garments that in actual wear verify all that
we claim in the dependable and acceptable qualities
of the
VENTILACE
UNDERWEAR.
Your display of energy in hot weather depends upon
the comfort and coolness of the garments you wear.
We offer you the ideal in the Ventilace Underwear,
which is made in cotton with a strong open mesh,'
permitting ventilation and the maximum of comfort.
Here’s truly wonderful value.
SINGLETS OR
KNiCKERS,
29
POST FREE TO
ANY ADDRESS.
CHAS. LANE & CO. pty. ltd.
The Mail Order
House for Men,
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
,n>,
m
/TO
A •y/
V%'
OS
c°
Wmm
IMPERIAL
Obtainable »H Chemists and Stores
AVON
TRADE mark
The TYRES
which increase comfort
and give longer service
at reduced cost.
BRITISH THROUGHOUT
Recipe to STOP DANDRUFF
This Home-made Mixture Stops Dandruff
and Falling Hair and Aids Its
Growth.
To a half-pint of water add:
Bay Rum l° z -
Or! ex Compound a small box
Glycerine t oz -
These are all simple ingredients that you
can buy from any chemist at very little cost,
and mix them yourself. Apply to the scalp
once a day for two weeks, then once every
other week until all the mixture is used. A
half-pint should be enough to rid the head ot
dandruff and kill the dandruff germs. R
stops the hair from falling out, and rehe\ es
itching and scalp diseases. ,
Although it is not a dye, it acts upon the
hair roots and will -darken streaked, faded,
grey hair in 10 or 15 days. It promotes the
growth of the hair and makes^mrt^l^jjjj
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
REASON FOR LENIENCY.
DEFENDANT (to magistrate who has just issued a maintenance order against him):
"Will your Worship kindly treat me as a first offender?”
“Y\ arre” : Has any fencer tried putting the
small end of split posts (which are better than
round posts) into the ground ? Have heard it
asserted that this method will increase the longevity
by 50 per cent. It looks feasible, because the big
end would act as a kind of roof, throwing off the
rain and dust, which would otherwise collect and
help to rot the wood.
“Bad Australian”: Away back about the
time the early Bulletin Chow arrived in Australia
I was kangaroo shooting in the Strathbogie Ranges
(Vic.), and one day I sniped a full-grown “black”
wallaby which was spotted worse than the pard. (I
never saw a pard, but this wallably could have given
him points.) The spots were perfectly white and ranged
from the size of a threepenny and up to that of the
change of the same coin in copper. Afterwards 1
killed thousands of the same species of marsupial, but
never another specimen with the native-cat markings,
although white faces and legs occurred occasionally,
and wallabies with a small white tip to the tail
were so numerous as to make it appear that the
white tip was the trade-mark of a distinct breed.
Now, about that spotted animal. Can anyone tell
me why or whaffor ?
* * ♦ *
“Moana”: Havelock North (M.L.) has
been indulging in a plague of eels. Pollution of
the Ngaruroro River has been the cause. Great
numbers of eels, many of them of immense size, have
been unable to get to the upper reaches of the river
as usual, so, to dodge certain death by poisoning,
they have bolted up the many creeks that run into
it, with the result that they blocked up these narrow
watercourses. Strawberry refused to cross the
streams or to go near them to drink for fear of
being swallowed by a water python, and the dairying
industry is threatening to die of thirst. When they
were last heard from the eels were starting to climb
about the landscape on each side of the creeks, and
as this cross-country job wasn’t agreeing with their
healths they were dying like flies and were decorating
the locality with a disagreeable, fishy aroma.
“J.”: Concerning that bush kiddy who
corrected headmaster Exley as to the family of Mrs.
Koala (B. 10/2/’l6). “P.F.” may be glad to hear that
Lucas and Le Souef, in their “Animals of Aus-
tralia” (1909), assert of the native bear, “The
female produces one cub.” So the kid was right.
* * * *
“S. S. Severn”: Talking of howling in
Papua. Going up the Tiveri River to the Lakekamu
in the old Bulldog was a load of boys signed on
for mining, amongst them being some women, one
with a dear, fat, honey-colored babe unclothed in a
string of beads. As we chunked sluggishly up the
river a native on the bank called out to Itow-bebe,
the mother of the babe, who thereupon lifted up
her howled. The other ladies joined in.
They put all their weight into the chorus, the re-
verberations whereof might have been heard in
Mars. “What is it ?” I asked. “That man been
say he see her brother,” they told me. “Him sick?”
I inquired. “No, him all right.” “What for she
cry?” “Him been say he see her brother,” they
reiterated. Apparently there was nothing the mat-
ter with her brother, “brother” being very often a
dimly distant cousin; the mere fact of a passer-by
having said he saw him being the raison d’etre
of this howling.
“Jaques ’: My old moke caught his fore-
leg in a barb-wire fence the other 'night and ripped
his hoof open from the fetlock to the shoe. The
tear is about three inches by one, and when he walks
the wound opens and shuts. I've tried bathing,
balsam, blasting and crystal-gazing, but without
any results that satisfy, the horse. Can any unem-
ployed veterinary surgeon tell me what next to avoid?
ANOTHER ARGUMENT FOR COMPULSION.
MISTRESS: “Your inferences seem very good, I must say.”
APPLICANT: “Sure. I always take fine care to get one to me liking before I leave the
house.”
“Barcoo”: “Itan” (B. 27/1/T6) is quite
correct as to the flying-fox being a particular pest
this season. This is noticeable because the drought
and consequent scarcity of wild fruit and berries
brings about a greater concentration of. num-
bers while foraging for a living. But “Itan”
is quite unreliable in saying that the foxes
migrate down the Australian coast from New
Guinea. The fruit-eating flying bat (Pteropodidce-
poliocephalus) is indigenous to the tropical coast of
Queensland and North Australia, and its breeding
grounds are in the dense scrubs in the tidal areas.
It is not generally known that there are four distinct
varieties of the Australian flying bat, and they are
all confused with the fruit pest. One of them is not
a fruit-eater at all, but lives entirely on the honey
of blossoms and pollen. This is a smaller bat than
the fruit destroyer, is scientifically distinguished as
Carponycteris minima, and is the most numerous
member of the family. It is black, with ashen
grey head and neck, whereas the black of the fruit
lavisher is relieved by a patch of brown on the back
of the neck. There is a smaller honey-eater, but it
is lare, and rarer still is the smaller fruit-eater with
yellow spots on the wings. The first-mentioned
honey-eater was much relished by the aborigines on
account of the fat and tender flesh, and white people
who know the difference in the species have no hesi-
tation in eating (particularly) the breast of the
honey-eater. Baked and converted into sandwiches
it is a treat.
* * * *
“Panear” : In addition to the sheep mus-
tered by “Haka” in a recent issue, there are Cana-
dian, West Indian, Morocco, Bearded, Madagascar,
\enu or goitered, Congo, Fezzan, Zeylan, Guinea'
Cape, Smooth-haired, Hooniah, Cajo or Cabul’
Nepaul Mysore, Indian, Deccan, Chinese, Japanese!
Broad-tailed, Ilindostan, Tartary, Barwell, and short-
tailed sheep of Russia ; and I don’t think he men-
tioned Sussex, North Devon, Yorkshire, Derby
Hardwick and Stafford.
“Snell ’: The king simpleton has come to
ight. He was discovered digging postholes on the
common at Waddy, Vic., and charged with doing
deliberate damage to public property. His name
was Shrews, and he looked like a sample specimen
fiom an asylum. “I jist wanted a job, V I
thought I d sink those postholes,” he said. “Were
jou asked to do the work?” demanded the Banch
with severity. “Oh, no,” said Shrews, “I ]U t
wanted a. job, n’ I thort I’d better do that than do
nothin. ‘But who was to pay you?” “I
charnced it I reckoned I’d charge the first
feller „ what come along and claimed them
th e *'„ ell, as it; happens nobody will claim
them, said -the magistrate. “You orter have a
fence along there,” Shrews declared. “What, in the
, of goodness, do we want with the 'fence’”
IV ell, said Shrews, “to show the district is goin’
ahead a bit. ’ Accused was ordered to fill the holes
up before horses or cows broke their legs in them,
le filled up the holes as ordered, and his next
appearance in court was as prosecutor. He was suing
the magistrate for his wages.
“I linderino” : On the beach at one of the
Palm Islands (N.Q.) there is a grave which is held
in respect by beche-de-mer fishermen and blackfellows
who occasionally camp on the island. Eight years
or so ago a New Guinea boy belonging to the crew
of a beche-de-mer schooner disobeyed some trifling
order given by the captain, a Japanese, who had him
tied by the hands and towed astern by way oi
punishment. On being pulled aboard later the un-
fortunate lad* lived only a few minutes. A course
was set for the Palm Islands and the body was buried
on the beach. A few days later, when the schooner
was anchored near Cape Grafton, some of the crew
cleared out in a dinghy, landed at the Yarrabah
Mission Station and reported the tragedy. Next day
a launch left Cairns with two armed police, and the
schooner was brought to Trinity Inlet with the cap-
tain under arrest. He was tried for murder, but
somehow escaped conviction. The schooner was seized
for debt and was sold to the Yarrabah Mission people,
who changed its name to Matubu, the name of the
drowned Papuan boy who sleeps at the Palm Islands.
THE PROOF.
ARMY BROTHER : “This, dear sister, is a
brand plucked from the burning.”
THE SISTOR: "'Allelewya, our brother is
saved!”
THE BRAND: “Cor’strath! I am, Miss, or I
wouldn't be joining a show like this."
“Musketoon”: I won’t dispute “F.C.’s”
contention (B. 13/1/’l6) that pine makes the best
posts for fencing, but a caution to him might not
come astray. That is, don’t use green pine posts.
Bill Wade made that mistake in fencing his farm at
Jacob’s Ladder, on the Yass-Tumut (N.S.W.) road.
Y ires were fixed in and sliprails arranged, when one
fine morning Bill discovered the fence had started to
grow. The pine posts struck root, and before
long all the cockies going through that run had to
get ladders every time they wanted to let down the
sliprails.
(Continued on page 24.,1
COMING HOME AT NIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Darkness with her chilly fingers
Draws a sombre curtain round
Where the lonely wind, entangled,
Whimpers with a mournful sound ;
Harshly chafes the swollen river
Fretting on its gravel bars;
Coldly on the world beneath them
Stare the white, disdainful stars;
i'et a gleam on yonder hilltop
Makes the whole creation bright—
'Tis a signal in the window
When I’m coming home at night.
411 day long the team has battled,
Struggling through the sodden loam —
What a difference in the pulling
ft hen I turn their heads for home!
How they rush the slipp’ry rises,
How they rattle o’er the bridge,
See the willing shoulders straining
As we crest the final ridge!
There’s a something, strangely pleasant,
Makes the heavy going light,
And the miles fall off like feathers,
When we’re coming home at night.
Morning sets the birds a-warble,
But their music can’t compare
With the tinkle of the teacups
When there’s winter in the air.
Noontide’s glowing ardor coaxes
From the bee-enticing blooms
All their wealth of hoarded fragrance
Breathed in delicate perfumes;
But no flower that ever blossomed
Could waft odors that invite
Like the smell of dinner cooking
When I’m coming home at night.
All along the slushy roadways,
Like a vision on the gloom,
I can see the loved lips smiling
In the warm, familiar room,
See the laden table gleaming,
Hear the old clock’s dreamy tick,
Hear the coals .upon the hearthstone
Falling with a pleasant click,
While the golden flame above them
Dances like a jovial sprite—
All, the whole day’s choicest moment
Is the coming home at night!
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


NERVOUS BREAKDOWN
MAY BE AVOIDED BY TIMELY USE OF
Hean’s Tonic Nerve Nuts.
MR. H. MARSDEN.
The wear and tear of modern business
life tends to deplete the nerve force of
the strongest folk. It’s WORRY that
does the harm, not WORK. Strain,
constant tension, the need of being
always on the alert against financial
disaster —these things sap vitality and
wear the nerves to a frazzle. The
power of throwing off anxiety is lost;
you “take the business home with you.”
Insomnia creeps stealthily on till it is a
habit, and the recuperative power of
sleep is lost. Then work itself becomes
a trouble, and nervous disorders “pile
up.”
Mr. Harry Marsden
known in sporting circles throughout
Australia as one of the “Famous Four,”
has written the following convincing
appreciation:
Record Chambers, Castlereagh Street,
Mr. G. W. HEAN. December 11, 1915.
Dear Sir, —Having been recommended HEAN’S TONIC
NERVE NUTS for headaches and overwork after strenuous days at
the races, I obtained a couple of bottles. I must say they did me
a world of good. I found them a tine tonic, increasing the appe-
tite and promoting mental and physical energy. I can honestly
recommend HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS to anyone needing an
effective restorative, and especially to those who are subject' to
nervous headaches. Yours faithfully,
HARRY MARSDEN.
Over-strained nerves mean poor digestion, poor digestion means starved nerves.
Each condition intensifies the other. Your nerves want rich, pure blood with the
elements that build strong tissues. HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS give the
very food your nerves are crying out for, and they give it in a quickly and
easily-absorbed form.
If HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS are not stocked by your chemist or
store, send direct to G. W. HEAN, Manufacturing Chemist, 178 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney. The price is 3/- per bottle, or six bottles for 17/3.
The 3T Shirt for Sport,
Outdoor or Town Wear
&
FIG. 1.
I
I 1 ?SS
L \ vi it/
FIG. 2
FIG. 3.
One Shirt with
3 Styles
POST FREE
"J\(\
/
For Sport. Outdoor or Town wear you'll
find the “BT”—with its three styles—the
happiest shirt idea yet.
A slight movement changes the Collar
from one style to another.
How it is Worn.
TENNIS SHIRT—Fig. 1. First of all
you have the cool, comfortable, turn-
down Polo or Sporting Collar.
TOURIST SHIRT—Fig. 2. Simply
raise the Collar, attach tie and pin for
the nifty, soft double Collar.
TOWN SHIRT—Fig. 8. The hinged
Collar lies inside wuthout a crease,
underneath the neckband.
It slips on and off
like a coat.
The “3T” Shirt is made in “Coat Style"
—on and off like a coat—with Military
pocket, split sleeves, sleeve-length adjust-
ers—improvements you will appreciate.
A rolled Gold Collar Pin is supplied free.
Write to-day for sample shirt—or send
for free patterns—of Oxfords, Zephyrs,
Cambrics or Kashmeer Twills.
S/6e Leviathan
Corner Swanston and Bourke Streets, Melbourne.
LITTLE WOND
-
A Wonderfully Good Engine at a Wonderfully Low Price
It will Pump Water-Shear Sheep—Cut Chaff—Saw Wood,
and do lots of other work about the place.
YOU CAN’T AFFORD TO BE WITHOUT IT
THIS ENGINE is made of the finest materials that can be obtained.
The workmanship is the best, and it has the very latest
attachments. Fitted with High-tension Magneto, Automatic
Lubricators, Hit and Miss Governor'and Float Feed Carburetter. It is
easy to start, and the 2-h.p. runs all day on four quarts of petrol.
More remarkable than anything we might tell you about them are
the good things hundreds of users continue to say about the Cooper
Engines throughout Australia.
Made in two sizes. The 2=h.p. Stationary is £25. The
3=h.p. Stationary is £45.
We build a direct=driven Pump Plant
complete, as shown above, with 2=h.p.
Engine for £35 ; or 3=h.p., £55.
We build a complete 2=stand Shearing
Plant, as shown, with 2=h.p. Engine,
£5O ; or with 3=h.p. Engine, £7O ; Portable,
£lO extra.
We can also supply Saw Benches, Chaff
Cutters,etc.,for eitherengineat special prices.
DROP US A LINE TO-DAY.
O
i
f?
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LIMITED
CLARK 8 FAUSET, Brisbane.
SIDNEY WILLIAMS 8 CO., Rockhampton.
134 SUSSEX STREET SYDNEY
486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
AUST. IMP. 8 H. F. CO., Adelaide.
GEO. P. HARRIS SCARFE CO., Perth.


Duval & Co.
13 Castlereagrh St.,
SYDNEY.
475 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
300 Adelaide St.,
BRISBANE.
CORNELL LTD.,
ADELAIDE.
A. C. McCALLUM,
PERTH.
Best in the Long Run
i ©BAS
•FOUNDED-1888-
Phillips, Ormonde (Inc.) Propy. Ltd.
Consu/f/np fncmeers, PaAznA rfA/onney-S
on& 7rx7c/e fvo/-A S?pen/3 • 17 QUEEN S T
MELBOURNE
The BLACK OPAL STORE.
OPALS, PEARLS, SAPPHIRES.
Specialty Australian Gems
89 Market Street, near Hyde Park, Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, formerly Manager White Clifis
Opal Mines, PROPRIETOR.
KS.
Add exchange
to country
cheques:
Victoria, 6d ;
1 /- Inter-State.
“N.R.”: To find north and south in
tropical latitudes when the sun is nearly vertical at
midday, mark on the ground the shadow of a fixed
point (the end of a bent twig stuck in the ground
will serve). Wait a quarter of an hour and have a
smoke or a bottle of iced beer. Then mark again
where the shadow of the aforementioned point falls.
This will be due east of the point first marked, or so
near it that the difference doesn’t matter. The
higher the point is above the ground, the longer, of
course, will the east-and-west line be.
“W.J.C.”: Passing along one of the old
coach roads out West recently I was impressed by
the tottering shells of one-time pubs whose frequency
bore eloquent testimony to the bygone drinking capa-
city of the baked inhabitants who are no more. I
passed along that road 15 years ago, and nearly all
the shanties were then in full curse—-I mean blast.
Now, when I look at the weather-beaten posts and
rafters I feel old and dry. Sometimes one comes
across a lonely grave adjacent to the ruins. Pro-
bably that one was trodden flat by beery hoofs
before the pub closed. That grave represents the
Last Drunk, the Final Jim-Jam, the Ultimate Fan-
tod. There are weeds on the sepulchre, and you
dream strange dreams if you camp thereabouts—
dreams of blue and green devils, and dogs that climb
trees tail first.
“Endezzer”: Any Bulletin reader like
to have the recipe for chicha de ma'iz, the booze of
Peru and Bolivia? First, collect the ingredients and
utensils. These are maize, an earthenware basin, and
half a dozen or more ugly old women, very dirty.
Seat them in a ring round the basin. Each oid
party takes a mouthful of maize, chews it and spits
the chewed mass into the basin. There it is left to
ferment. From this as a basis, with a few other
things suen as water and sugar, a charming drink is
made. No one with a maize patch and half a dozen
ugly old women on the premises need go thirsty.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: Gidya may be all that
some Bulletin writers believe it to be, but for posts
gimme good, sound, medium-aged red-gum which
has been properly dried before putting into the
ground. I l-emember a fence which used to run
right across the Molcoan Swamp (Vic.). This fence
was erected some 40 years before I saw it, and many
of the red-gum posts were then as sound as a bell.
These posts had been subjected to as severe a test as
any timber is likely to be, as in rainy seasons the
fence was submerged and at other times the atmo-
sphere was as dry as a wowser’s christening at Can-
berra. I have also seen red-box and ironbarlc taken
out of the ground in a perfectly sound condition 27
years after being put there. But much, if not
everything, depends on the age of the tree and
whether it has been grown slowly or quickly. You
can grow two entirely different classes of timber
from the seed of any given eucalyptus, just by culti-
vating one specimen under natural rainfall conditions
and the other under irrigation, which is, in a way,
an unnatural condition. The difference in the
specific gravity and quality of the timber in these
circumstances is simply astounding.
YOU NEVER CAN TELL.
SON: “What yer maltin', Dad?"
DAD: “If it turns out 'orright it's a cake;
if it don't it’s a puddin'."
“Moana”: Something special in the sun-
fish line turned up at Stewart Island (M.L.) the
other week and allowed itself to be captured. A
fish expert handed it the staggering name of Ortha-
goriscus mola. He was Bft. Bin. long and 9ft. 9in.
in girth.
THE LIMIT.
THE CANDIDATED : “I have your welfare at heart. Your interests are my interests.
I have a warm affection for you all. For the needy there shall he clothing, for the
hungry bread, and for the thirsty drink."
MARY ANN (suddenly interested): “Me too, Boss."
“S.S.S.”: In Moviani village, New
Guinea, I saw a kikeni (girl) sitting cross-legged
on the platform of a house with an old savage
kneeling before her sticking flowers in her hair.
He studied the placing of each frangipani blossom
from every angle, and took nearly an hour in the
process. Neither he nor the lady took the slightest
heed of the white looker-on. The kikeni’s breast and
face were coated with oily-looking red clay—this
denoting that she was in the marriage market. The
ancient artist was her he-parent decorating her in
broad daylight in full view of the village. The
Papuan parent sells his girls to the highest bidder.
How much does he want for her? I asked. They
gave a list as long as my sins of armshells, sapi-
sapi feathers and trade. I worked it out that the
old boy valued his daughter at about 60 pounds
sterling.
* * * *
“John P.”: Here’s a shearing tally that
was put up by six men at Coronet Peak station
(M L.) recently. In nine hours they whipped the
wool off 1296 jumbucks. The best score on the board
was 239 and the average 216. It isn’t a world’s
record, but it is a mighty fine, even performance.
“Barcoo” : The greatest flight of birds to
be witnessed in Australia is at the rare intervals
when the northern portions of Queensland are
visited by the “flock pigeon”—so named for an
obvious reason. The flights are made from Celebes
and other large islands of the Malay Archipelago.
The male birjl is of a brown-slate color, with a few
very brilliant green- and pink-hued feathers on the
back of head and neck. The female is minus the
gaudy clothing and is of a dull drab-slate. These
birds are undoubtedly identical with the wild or
passenger pigeon “Columboe” (Ectopistes migra-
torius) of North America, and are most impetuous
and swift fliers, capable of sustained flight over enor-
mous distances. Specimens killed and examined
have been found to have their crops full of rice
from fields quite 1500 miles away. One Wilson,
an authority on wild-bird life, estimated a flight
in Manitoba a few years ago at 22 millions of birds.
Queensland has had two visits in 20 years, and the
% isitants came in only on the huge open spaces of
the Mitchell grass downs, as far south as the Barcoo
and Thompson rivers. Further north, in the Terri-
tory, the visitations are more frequent, although not
in such large numbers. The birds seem to be con-
tinuously on the wing and even drink while flying
just a couple of swoops at the surface of the water
and up again. The flesh has a splendid game
flavor, but requires more cooking than practically
any other game. It is hard to reason out their
countless numbers, as their egg-laying competition is
two at a time.
‘‘Mulga”: In a recent Bulletin mention
was made of the long distances travelled by a horse
in a day, but I would like to record the distance
covered on foot by a bushman. While shearing at
Talavera station, four miles out from Turat (Q.),
back in the ’9o’s, one of the jumbuck barbers,
Watty Robertson, regularly every Saturday after
dinner, took a constitutional into Yeulba to see his
fiancSe, and was back for blow-up time on Monday
morning. The total distance would be between 90
and 100 miles. Another time, the coach breaking
down just after leaving Turat, Watty started to ped
it to Yeulba, and was quietly quenching his thirst
there when the coach arrived.
* * * *
“Jim Carraway” : The liuthergleu fly pest
is giving orchardists and others a dose of trouble
in the irrigation latitudes served by the Waranga
basin channels (Vic.). The fly lights in myriads on
fruit, tree and plant, causing them to wilt and
wither. It is a cross between the smallest house-fly
and the mosquito. Smoking with tar fumes is the
only antidote, and this merely moves the pest on to
the next fellow s orchard j so that you are only
swapping consignments. Like the locust, the Ruther-
glen affliction happens or.ee in 10 years or so, but
it creates enough damage when it does come to be
remembered till the next time. The deadly night-
shade plant, detested by most insect pests, proves an
enjoyable titbit to the Rutherglen insect, which has
even been known to attack children when other
provender was lacking.
’T. Ishor” : Pass the best method of eis
ing the sting of those little blue devils comm™,'
known as Portuguese men-of-war. This sum, '
Redcliffe (Q.) they are as numerous as war ™ f
and many people have been assaulted bv ti
Recently one of the tendrils was whipped aron!!i
my neck, occasioning a burning sensation as if
acid had been poured on to the skin. ’ Ammo
neutralises the effects of the sting somewhat a l"'*
local superstition is that if vou pull the p o ‘rt ' 3
off under water and then briskly rub the stune !!!!
with wet sand all will be well. It didn’t mS
upon a youth who was rendered almost paralytic
the other day. He was stung on wrist and foot
Saw one of these “men-o’-war” caught with tendril
five or six yards long.
“Yarrum”: What is the biggest eagle or
eaglehawk that has been captured in the Common
wealth? I have one stuffed that, as he stands
measures 3ft. 7in. from beak to tip of tail. tyh e ’
he was shot, at Rolland’s Plain (N.S.W.), he taped"
with wings spread, 6ft. sin. from tip to tip. ’
SYMPATHY.
THE CRITIC: “Yes, all through the night I
struggled on through those vast mountain
ranges, and just as I sank exhausted at
dawn the search party came upon me.”
HIS VICTIM : “What darned hard luck!”
allocated one-third of the gin before the landlord
hit him with a chair, which latter act led Smibert
to push the publican into his own cellar and throw
seven pounds’ worth of his own stock at him. While
Mrs. Publichouse was away seeking a policeman,
Smibert went home and beat his wife with undue
severity. The wife explained in court that her hus-
band had beaten her because of her shameful penu-
riousness and the gross indifference she had shown
itu burying him in a cheap, draftv old brick tomb
where the dogs could get at him. Smibert was fined
nine ways. He had to compensate everybody but
the dog.
BLACK FISH: A SWAGGIE’S SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The long day’s over, the journey’s at an end,
I’m thinking to stay here by the river’s bend.
How can I fare better wherever I may tramp?
It’s all among the wattles I’ll fix my camp.
I’ve three black fish
On a hook;
I’ve three johnny-cokes
I must cook;
w Three little dilly-bags
Feel quite plump;
And the dashed old flour-bag
Dangles on a stump.
There’s no more worry, there’s no more wandering,
I 11 roll out the bluey as happy as a king.
It s cool here and pleasant, the journey’s at an end—
Ail among the wattles, by the river’s bend.
Three little black fish
Just been hooked;
Three little johnny-cakes
Nearly cooked;
Three little dilly-bags
Feeling plump;
And the dashed old flour-bag
Dangling on a stump!
VICTORIA.
LOUIS ESSON.
“Eddyson”: The climax of Smibert’s
adventure was witnessed in the police court. Smi-
bert commemorated his birthday in the usual way
that is to say, he filled himself to the neck with
cheap gin, gave three cheers for “Olengland,” and
curled himself up in the pub yard behind the dog
kennel. Duff, the baker in the adjoining premises
was having a new oven built in his yard, and pre-
sently six convivial soldiers took Smibert up and
deposited hint carefully in the brick oven. Smibert
awoke at the grey dawn, and after taking careful
note of his surroundings went clamoring for more
gin. He prowled round and round the pub like
an impassioned cat. He said he could come in
through the keyhole and take the inflamed gin if
he wished ; but he was desirous of acting as a square
and honorable ghost, so he threw a half-crown
through a ten-shilling window, and the publican
threw a bottle of gin back at him. On recovering
from the impact Smibert went back to his oven with
a series of blood trickles emanating from the dent
in his head and finishing in his boots. In the
morning Duff, the baker, found Smibert in his oven
consorting with gin, and a most interesting dis-
putation ensued, Duff wishing to remove Smibert
and Smibert resisting. Duff contended that Smibert
was a crapulous intruder and a disturber of Christian
peace; and Smibert wanted to know “If a man
ain’ tav bitter peace when he’s dead, when is he tav
bitter peace?” Smibert then quoted something
from the poets about being “lef’ ’sleep in grave
where Bri'n has laid ’ini,” and threw his gin at
Duff. He forgot to remove the bottle before throw-
ing the gin, and after Duff was found by his wife
he was labelled “Urgent” and sent to the hospital.
Then Duff’s dog found Smibert in the oven, and
affected great indignation as an excuse for biting
him. On tasting Smibert the dog lost all self-
ecntrol, and dragged the man out of the oven, and
pulled him through the slaked lime, messing him
about a great deal, and opening his pores so wide
that he could no longer contain himself. Smibert
then went into the hotel bar, and, acting under the
delusion that as a spirit of the departed he could
not be seen, pinched a bottle of square-face. Smibert


LU
THE EMPIRE’S
BEST DOCTORS
n SMOKE a
CIGARETTES
BECAUSE
the perfect hygienic conditions under
which they are made, the absolute
avoidance of every form of added
matter, and the sublime quality of the
Tobacco used make them the most
healthy smoking that men can enjoy.
No. 333 THE FAMOUS RED PACKET JQ for
HIS
*
S
\0
c
m
un !s<*
\eA^
V?
«r
w
*
gw
V.X
ftc6 c
c to
aP^
0^
to
pt*
I*o
pt*o
Obtainable of all high=class Tobacconists
and Stores throughout Australasia.
ARDATH
Britain’s
Manufactured by
TOBACCO CO. LTD
London.
Greatest High-Class Tobacco and
Cigarette Manufacturers.


HEARNE'S
BRONCHITIS
= CURE =
IS THE FINEST REMEDY IN THE WORLD FOR
GOUGHS, GROUP AND GOLDS.
THOSE who have had occasion to take Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure are
astonished at its Wonderful Healing Power. Sufferers from Bron-
chitis, Cough, Croup, Pain or Soreness in the
Chest, Hoarseness, Difficulty of Breathing, Stuffiness,
Asthma, experience delightful and rapid relief. This
medicine is particularly valuable to those who are sub-
ject to Colds on the Chest, as it Strengthens the Lungs,
and renders them less susceptible. It is most comfort-
ing in allaying Irritation in the Throat, and giving
Strength to the Voice, and for this reason is thoroughly
appreciated by Clergymen, Public Speakers and
Singers. It does not allow a Cough to become
Chronic, and in this respect is absolutely indis-
pensable in preventing a cold from developing
into Bronchitis, Asthma, Pneumonia, Pleurisy,
or Consumption. No house should be with-
out a bottle of this Wonderful Remedy, as
taken at the first indication of a Cold, a
dose or two is generally sufficient. A
Cold should always be “nipped in the
bud,” or serious illness may follow.
15.
£
r
/•
•ill/
111/////,
Cv
a
life
GW2
E%
|^p>,
_
l)
“ An Excellent
Preparation.”
“ Delightfully
Soothing.”
Price 2/6 and 4/6 (double size).
Sold by all RELIABLE
CHEMISTS and STORES.
If not obtainable locally, send
direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co. Ltd.
Geelong, Victoria.
Branch Offices at
Sydney, n.s.w.; Wellington, n.z.
The Inky Way.
Ted Colies writes :
It is in a dugout on the side of a hill in the
gully known as Old Headquarters. With me is Dave
Barker, a Sydney man with some art experience
from the U.S.A., and painter Frank Crozier, well
known in Melbourne art circles. We are working
away quietly and happily at the production of The
Anzac Magazine, written and illustrated solely by
our own troops serving in the Peninsula, and to be
printed on dinkum surface paper with numerous
color-plates. War-correspondent Bean is the editor-
o.c. and chief hustler -and barracker for the project,
with the enthusiastic moral support of the entire
Army Corps staff, from the G.O.C. down to ll.Q.’s
cook’s offsider. Bean’s dugout, by the way, is on the
terrace below us. At present it is occupied only by
his youthful and kindly-tyrannical batman-secretary,
who is mad because the boss is doing some—to him —
entirely unnecessary dangerous pedestrian exercise
from far Suvla Bay to Anzac, instead of travelling
by the comparatively safer sea-route. Bean has
already suffered much physical damage in
following up charges in the past, besides having
once walked four miles with a bullet in his thigh
and arriving “home” in the dark hours without
awaking anyone, spent the rest of the night in his
clothes and a deep sleep that wouldn’t be denied,
leaving his wound to be attended to in the morning.
We are now off the peninsula and this is being
written amidst the verdant volcanic-tinted hills of
Imbros, in a building known as the War-correspond-
ents’ Camp. It consists of three small rooms
one reserved for eating and ■ writing pur-
poses. The tenants are Bean, English Ward-
Price (of the eyeglass) and “Pere” Nevinson,
representing respectively the London and the Provin-
cial press. Ashmead Bartlett has just hurried off
“elsewhere”; also, there is Malcolm Ross, the
Maorilander; and Lester Laurence, Reuter s man.
The Australian tenant is very rarely at home. He
could get most details of movement and progress from
headquarters here and only venture forth occasion-
ally for big events ; but being an unnaturally energetic
person he is usually in the front line seeing the real
thing for himself. The other tenants are but a little
less conscientious, so that our family is rarely gath-
ered at home together. Our cooking is done by a
small, greasy man who confesses to having been born
in Constantinople, but swears he is of Greek descent.
Another member of our household is the incomparable
Maloney. He is a stray Irish soldier who became
attached as Bean’s orderly. Standing six feet or
more, he is a humorous, good-natured, very worldly-
wise Tommy, with a stock of droll but very dis-
reputable soldiering stories and reminiscences on
which the career of another Kipling might be built.
He showed me a newspaper cutting with a portrait
of his “ould mother” surrounded by pictures
of his brothers —all “regulars” from India and else-
where. John has lost an arm. Pat is minus one
eye. Mat has sacrificed a leg. And Ned is a prisoner
of war in Limburg. “Ever think of getting home to
see her again, Maloney?” I asked, and this remote
possibility seemed to tickle him. “See her agin!”
he exclaimed. “ ‘Faith,’ she’d say, ‘which av th
divils ar’ ye?’ ”
Nevinson is a lean, peevish old gentleman, in
immaculate attire, with a querulous, pedantic speech
and a keen appreciation of all little discomforts and
inconveniences. He would break any batman’s heart.
Ward-Price is a big-built young man, with dark,
heavy Semitic features, perfectly parted and polished
hair, a lowering monocle; but in him the English-
man’s well-bred peevishness is neutralised by a
certain ponderous reserve. His costume also is sug-
gestive of the melodrama war-correspondent. Lester
Laurence is a perky, plump, pink-faced little man.
terribly short-sighted and wearing glittering pince-
nez, not unlike the conventional stage-johnny at
times, but in attire less assuming and in other ways
a real decent chap. As also is Ross. The batmen
(a Munster, a Maorilander, an Australian, a Dorset
and an unclassified “Terrior”) have given their ruling
that Bean and Ross are bonzer blokes. So no more
need be said. I did not become acquainted with
Ashmead Bartlett; but he seems to be a “hard case”
in a “gentlemanly sorter way.” Mainly on account of
his keen-sighted ness into things, and too caustic
criticisms, he found it best to transfer his activity.
.**-**
“K.”: Ashmead Bartlett, having com-
plained that he had to submit his Sydney
lectures to the Censor, Willie Kelly,
M.H.R., promptly rushed into print and
observed that the Northcliffe press (Bart-
lett was a Times man) had “earned the
contempt of England” by its criticisms of
running the war in a state of muddle.
Which was very characteristic of Willie.
In about 15 years he will wake up to dis-
cover that the Times ancl the Daily Mail
were the only papers in London that had
the courage to bell about 75 calamitous oats
and persuade John Bull he really had m
hand a job of importance. The attitude
of the other papers was trust the Govern-
ment, and six months’ experience was
enough to prove that a Government, shel-
tered behind a censorship, could be trusted
with the greatest confidence to be short ot
guns, munitions and men right up to the
disastrous end. And when Northcliffe cut
in and took Government and Censor
by their respective throats gave
three cheers, and the other fellows rag
became a drug in the market.
G. It. Sims has put. up a record. London
Referee has issued its two-thousandth num-
ber, and every Sunday without a single
break throughout 40 years Sims has weighed
in with his three columns of bright and
breezy gossip under the heading of “Mus-
tard and Cress,” and over the signature of
“Dagon’et.” Of course he has turned out a
vast amount of other sorts of copy during
these four decades, as well as plays, panto-
mimes, stories and contributions to other
journals. Sims has trained himself to do
with four hours’ sleep. He can work away
until two o’clock in the morning and is
ready to start again at 7 or 8 a.m.
Hence the prodigious amount of copy he has
been able to put into print. It is announced
that early in January his reminiscences will
start in the Evening News, the Harms-
worth London halfpenny supplement to the
morning Daily Mail. Henry Sampson, the
founder and first editor of the Referee, is
gone, but Sims has still a couple of col-
leagues who were with him in the first num-
ber—-Richard Butler, the present editor, and
Henrv Newton, who supervises the theatri-
cal department. Newton recalls theatrical
London as it was when the Referee started,
and incidentally mentions an oIU friend oi
Australia’s—Harry Rickards.
* * * *
H. A. Conant, after 19 years as sub-
editor of the Catholic Press, has subsided
into the editorial chair of its holy and aged
contemporary, Sydney Freeman’s Journal.
He was a Bulletin contributor in the
“Bohemian” days of Sydney, can pen a
good yarn when in the humor, and occasion-
ally brews verse.
“Harrison O.” : Henry Lucy, the literary
Jeames, who spends so much time dining
with “a certain very distinguished states-
man.” earls, dukes and such like who are
“well known to be on terms of re-
spectful intimacy at Court,” and then
tells the S. M. Herald and other
high-class journals all about it, has
resigned his job on London Paunch.
As Lucy would say: “I am in a position to
state this definitely.” The cabled message
made it clear. Why will the people at the
other end of the cable persist in the delusion
that Australia is tremendously interested in
Paunch? Lucy’s chief work for the paper
was “Essence of Parliament”; and it was
1 dull. To read the “Essence” that used to be.
contributed by Shirley Brookes is to under-
stand how Punch once acquired a reputa-
tion for brightness; but the only parts of
Lucy’s pages that scintillated were E. T.
Reed’s caricatures; and Reed was dropped
years ago.
“Dalriada’s” note :
Succeeding Carl Ludwig Pinschof, who has retired
from Melb. Herald’s Board of directors, J. C. David-
son, editor-in-chief, has been appointed. “Davy,”
or “Jack,” as he is variously known, presumably
because his baptismal name is James, is 49, but
owing to his habit of keeping himself fit by means
of boxing, looks a hard 37. A Scotch-American,
Davidson was born in Ann Arbor, Michigan, and,
fulfilling promise of a pugnacious disposition, has
punched a strenuous way through life. He gained
his early newspaper experience on the Detroit Free
Press, where Robert Barr (“Luke Sharp”) was one
of the stars. Having in him the blood that made
his brother an explorer, Davidson could not rest
from travel, and when he came to Australia he
preferred the saddle to the desk. But Fate dragged
him from the steers and the brumbies, and handed
him a job as secretary to Bigjohn Forrest and as a
reporter on the West Australian. Then he joined
the Argus and left it for the Herald. On the
latter paper he succeeded W. T. Reay as editor five
or six years ago.
* * * *
“Who’s Who” for once is unreliable. The
1916 edition describes Prime Minister W.
M. Hughes as “High Commissioner for
Australia since 1915.” Perhaps it was a
tip that didn’t come off.
* * ♦ *
“Fount”: Here’s my modest entry for a
Hard Day Competition. I lived through it
when news-gathering for the Brisbane
Courier and the Observer, under Editors
Ward and Morley. Up at 6 a.m. Did a
double execution at Boggo-road Gaol—one
column for the evening Observer. At 10,
Government rounds, including two deputa-
tions—another column. Meeting of credi-
tors in one of the largest businesses in
Bananaland at 2 p.m.—four columns (I
had a junior to help in transcribing). After
tea the first night of a big dramatic combi-
nation. Like most first nights everything
late, and 11.15 p.m. before I crawled up the
Courier stairs with a column and a half to
write about “The Second Mrs. Tanqueray.”
Just laid down my wobbling pen after 1
a.m. when a fire broke out in Red Hill. The
acute sub. (Barton) twigged it through the
windows of his room and caught me as I
was going yawning to the stairhead. A
cab, a rush, a few words with the Fire
Superintendent, a rush back in the cab, and
a quarter-column of serious fire at Red Hill
before the machines started clacking. Then
at last home to bed.
* * * *
The paper famine may have its compen-
sations. One of the chief anxieties of the
world is paper—cheap paper over which the
cheap soap advertisement sprawls and the
cheaper soapy article spreads its degenerate
slop. With a shortage of printed matter
there need be no real reduction of news.
A foolscap sheet would often contain ali
that is decently interesting or worthy of
note in the whole 16 pages of the double-
royal sausage wrap that befoozils the
public and cqnfuses its thinking. 'phe
number of daily or weekly papers on this
planet that might not with advantage be
cut down in size could be counted on the
fingers of one hand. Of course, a large
number of pressmen of ability and parts
might be urgently in need of a drink if the
cutting process went too far; but the gen-
eral mass of readers wouldn’t be greatly
hurt. The first effect of the diminished
press output would be to drive the crowd
to the libraries. Then the bookshop and the
second-hand bookstall would have their
show. Billjim would discover that books
which he might have read 20 years ago
gave him more to talk about than the lost
“final” of the Evening Bloodstain or the
departed “extra final” of the Splurge, if
the trouble lasted long enough the breaking
of the paper drought would be the most
remarkable'event in the history of the press
With a blare of trumpets and display of
black headlines the old matter would be
rushed in its former volume upon a new
world. And the public would hold the great
blanket of inanity at arm’s length and
snort its disdain. The calamity would be
permanent; for in the absence of the daily
irritant the public would have learned to
read.
“Copabella” moralises from behind the
counter
“Dry Shave” strikes the nail on the head (B.
3/l/’l6) when he says the Australian manufacturer
isn't keen for more trade. In spite of the iniquitous
Wages Board, the Socialistic unions, and capital
falling over itself to remain in the country, many a
manufacturer is doing so comfortably these days that
he smiles at the cry for more local manufactures.
His travellers tell us with pride that they cannot fill
all their orders. Invoices reach retailers with item
after item marked “making,” “to follow,” “tem-
porarily out of,” and so on. Some lines we wait
weeks for ; some we never get—in fact, I’ve a shrewd
suspicion the manufacturer doesn’t start to make
some things until he actually has the order for
them. We try other firms, and so fill our stock-lists
somehow'. Very healthy—apparently. But is it?
Let us examine from the retailers’ point of view—
which though he doesn’t know it, is the national
one, too.
There are a few Australian lines that may be
termed “national.” They are household words. Most
of them are on the drygoods side. I can recollect a
packet tea, a starch, a soap or two, two or three
cure-alls, a porridge oats, a milk—a dozen lines at
the most —I must stock ; because customers insist on
them and will not accept a substitute. They are
good goods, well advertised. (By the way, there are
a hundred imported lines in this category.) Offset
against these national ones there is a host of Aus-
tralian manufactures thsrt don’t count. Perhaps a
dozen little two-by-four firms are making the same
things in lean-to sheds decorating suburban back-
yards. Even if all the Australian firms making some
lines w’ent bung nobody would notice a gap. The
public never heard of their goods as Australian
specialties, and the retailer would always be able to
get an imported line to replace the goods. We re-
tailers sell the local products because they are cheap
or the profit is good, or because the traveller for
them is a sport with a lot of good stories under his
hat, or it’s the first brand offered us, or because Mrs.
So-and-So’s husband is foreman at the factory, or
because we were mates with the managing-director
at the Yackandandah rush back in the battling
days—never because the public demands them.
Take boots. I’ve sold a mountain of boots in my
time, but never yet (with one exception) has a cus-
tomer bowled up to me for a “Wedgwood” or a
“Highbrow” or a “MacFurphy” as they would for a
Yankee “Comstock” or “Partial.” (“Partials” are
now made, and sometimes demanded, in Australia,
but the demand was created when they carried
“imp.” after their name.) The exception was a hob-
nailed watertight very popular on the land and the
mining-field 10 or 12 years ago. I haven’t handled
it for years now, but even to-day an old shellback
asked for a pair. That maker, had he not been con-
tent to tap out a few pairs in a back room in some
mean street, might by now (and systematic pub-
licity) have scooped the whole Australian trade. The
stuff was right; the public was willing to buy, and
the retailer ready to sell it. It’s dead: as the other local
brands will die —and a Yankee competitor’s advertis-
ing manager will read the prayer over the grave! So
with hats. No one asks automatically for a local
Denton as he does for the Italian “Maraschino. ’ In
piece goods, what tailor offers Marrickville to the
hesitating customer as casually as he does “Boxs
serge”? How many buyers of “Laager” or “Japon
underwear ever heard of —now what is the name of
the Collingwood brand ? The Australian manufac-
turer is afraid to dare anything—a little overstock, a
few extra hands, a new machine. He will never be
accused of “dumping” on the other fellow’s market,
he never has anything over to dump. Some
of him will not even open up for the busi-
ness knocking at his door. Sometimes he is a pifflen
who doesn’t see beyond the end of his nose,
who doesn’t try to make himself count; and if the
job of making Australia a manufacturing nation ha
to be left to him we’d never get beyond the
stage of the village cobbler and the roadside smit y
and the red-nosed saddler travelling round from farm
to farm.
The stereotyped excuse (when it isn’t the u»ua
“We are a producing, not a manufacturing, coun
try”) is that Australian wages render world-compe 1
tion an impossibility. We’ve not got as far as "or
competition yet. We haven’t supplied Australia. n
fact, we omit to supply the little one-horse store ll
the Backblocks with all the boots and unders 11
and softsoap and currants and salacetic table s n
wants! I never heard chat particularly low
were paid in U.S.A., anyhow—so we should be a
to make nutmegs and raspberry jam-seeds and c 1C
food and fly-swatters against the world.
There’s an up-to-the-minute instance of o
“push” in mustard. Tire local mustard manu a
turer was given a mild uppercut in recent Bulleti
lie counter-moved, last week! He wrote to his
paper explaining very mildly that his produc
really very nice mustard! Anyone else wou
seen the pain wanted a poultice in anothei P
altogether. There are a thousand oversea ines
goods waiting to be “outed” ; there are retai
to help “out” them, and there’s a public wi in
buy anything that’s recommended to them
enough; yet, since the war started, how m an -V
local products have been getting a push! a
a shelved tariff and a sleeping Morgue o - a
tures the Teuton will be able to walk righ in
old stand before the peace signatures aic if
QUITE A DIFFERENT MATTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Good Lord ! What muck this is !” he saio,
And held his editorial head,
While scratching with a vicious pen
The pars sent in by writing-men.
“Their facts are nearly always wrong,
And ev’ry blankv thing’s too long!
These fools can’t write!” he cried with groans ;
“They ought to be out cracking stones!”
His fierce pen scratched and slashed each page,
For he was in a cold, grey rage,
And worked like one who thought he could
Write with his feet stuff twice as good.
In spite of his immense distress
The paper duly went to press,
Was published, sold and even read!
“Don't like this issue!’’ someone said.
“Don’t like it?” yelled the editor,
And scared the critic. He was sore.
“If you had brains you wouldn’t say
Such things ! You give yourself away !
“The brightest paper that we've gd*!
In it you’ll never find the rot
There is in others by the mile.
Don’t like it! Well, you make me smile!”
The critic did not speak again,
But turr/ed and ran to catch a train.
The editor puffed out his cheeks,
And scolded him for several weeks.
N.S.W.
KODAK.


11l
The FORD Fadory.
m
‘ r*i
«
m
naoa
CA
0
T
M
■
;-- '■ ■;
Here are some Facts about the Plant as it is to-day.
It is the largest automobile manufacturing plant in the British Empire, and
one of the largest in the world.
Builds the famous Canadian Ford for Canadians, and for all the British Empire
outside of the isles themselves.
Built more than three times as many cars this year as any other automobile
factory in the British Empire.
I urned out more than 3600 cars in a single month this spring breaking all
Its own previous records.
Has more than nine acres of floor space.
Has sold more than 50,000 Canadian Fords to date.
Has more than a thousand machines of various designs and for various purposes
in its machine shop, having a combined valuation running into the hundreds of thousands
of pounds. Most of these machines are designed especially for the manufacture of
the Ford Car.
Bought its material this year for a minimum production of 40,000 cars — 160,000
wheels, 200,000 lamps and other materials in proportion.
Bought more than 15,000 tons of steel this year for its output. Most of this
steel was the world=famed vanadium and was heat=treated in the Ford way.
Employs approximately 2400 persons at the home office factory, nine branches in
as many principal Canadian cities and at its branch at Melbourne, Australia.
■
£,225
£,210
11l
South Australia:
DUNCAN & FRASER LTD.
Franklin Street,
Adelaide.
REPRESENTATIVES -
New South Wales:
DAVIES & FEHON MOTORS LTD.
112 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Victoria:
TARRANT MOTORS PTY. LTD.
112 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Queensland:
Queensland Motor Agency Ltd.
Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
M


A. Saunders’ Cheese Dish, pure silver-plated,
A 1 qualitv, highly burnished,-fancy, embossed edges,
£2/15/-
A. Saunders’ Luncheon
Cruet, pure Silver-plated Nickel
Silver, A 1 quality, 25/-
'll
A. Saunders’ Nut Dish, pure
Silver-plated Nickel Silver, highly
burnished, 20 / -
With Cracks, 25/-
A. Saunders’ Sugar
Scuttle (Al), Silver-plated
richly engraved, 25/-
MSS
s
Ssn-
&
%
A. Saunders’ Tea and Coffee Service,
Border, Gilt-lined,
A. Saunders’ Hot
Water Jug, pure Sil-
ver-plated, richly en-
graved, 30/-
WEDDING GIFTS
wm
m
A. Saunders’ Preserve
l)ish P ure Silver-plated, Cry-.
’ stal Glass, 11/6.
\\ith Lovers.
A “Concave” design, Fancy, Embossed
with Covers, £9.
A. Saunders’ Toast and Butter
Combination, pure Silver-plated Nickel
Silver, 15/6.
A. Saunders’ Butter Dish,
pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
20/-
A. Saunders’ Butter Dish, pure Silver-plated
Shell design, 25/« v ea >
m
m
T~jr
A. Saunders’ Sugar and Cream
Stand, Silver-plated Frame, Floral
' China, 11/6.
A. Saunders’ Biscuit Barrel,
Solid English Oak, pure Silver-
plated Mounts, 25/-
807-817 George Street,
A. SAUNDERS,
(Opp, Railway Station), Sydney
m-
IMPROVED
Compass
Clynometer
For Taking LEVELS and ANGLES.
Reading inclinations in inches
per yard or degrees.
Invaluable to Prospector, Miner, Geologist,
Engineer and Squatter.
Strong, Compact. Best lacquer brass,
2iin. dia., Solid Leather Case,
Printed Instructions, POSTED
22 16
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.,
189-191 George Street, Brisbane.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, tSydney
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratoir organs may
be suffering from-whether Asthma, nay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustr
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mkrrik
England, 6d. Howto Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's Silent Friknd, Is 6d. Nkd Donnelly's Art
ok Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
thk Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted.' Riddle ok the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Cooperative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Like, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handyrook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Pa hi,oil Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2.' Miller’s Spout-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales. 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science ok Like
10s 6d. Aust. Min ers’ Guide (si mule tests for miner*.s),
3s 6d. Mahomet s Fortune Telling Book ok Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength. 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
ok Paris, Is 6d. History ok the Koi (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical G'as and
Oil Eng. Handbook, os. Nor Guilty " (Blatcn-
ford) 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Bead Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases ok Horses,
Is 3d Theory ok Value, ls6d. French Polishing
»nd Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets. Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler s Human science,
16s 6d. Australian Pastrycook s Guide, Is Cd
m
%
V,
1
m
HOME cyclopedia
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this or eat work. It will be posted to
ANY address for EIGHT SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE. COMMONWEALTH.
OilPtiV FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working kor Ama-
TKURS, SOLDERING, BRAZING, GaS-FT'ITTNG, etC., 18 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Trappic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits. Is: post
Is 2d. Electricity Made simple (new), 4s od.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping. 2s. Like ok Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers ok Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron ok Boccaccio, Hkptamkron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t he fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. . §BP~Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN'
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write lor 1117....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sene Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN' STAMPS, MONEY ORDER. OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNI RY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUI •
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SEN,
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho,genuiii ,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d dosc. Ur. Milford a -
wipe’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, -
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam 1.. Gordon’s Poems, comp >
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions
Ring, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, is. W. a ■
History Court op England, Is 3d post. ~
Letter Writer, Is. All about Incubators, is
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, hey
Decrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, Sd posted. Tokologi, ' a P
INGERSOLLS WORKS, 3d, 2S. HOW TO BKADH“»
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Cue v asses A
Wipe, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget son
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d P OBl “ d _
Bp.nnarp. Macpadden’s Works, all at os p
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers t . -
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wipes ;\,'ew
Is 2d posted. Fruits op Philosophy Ms
Recitations and Readings, Is du. .skkvolb.
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webstk ]*J net
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 100° » , 4
bound, my price, lbs post paid (wny pa p rw .
guineas). Bootmaking and r * ?air ' i '3’ | s Vnivers'L
mos and Electric Motors. Moor cloC |,
assistant and Complete M pohanic,
bound, 10s (3d posted. The Secrets o
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words udm** l.
piete), Is 6d posted. The Age op Bka -
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE XU u*


Do
You
Use
It
?
*
•; MM M
mm
<6:V
«: : : X? 5«
**§
■KioSa
,H
$5%
i
M<
If
not
try
a
Case
Plume Benzine
\ '•
the most powerful Benzine on the market and
will drive your car up any grade.
Its specific gravity is only .715 An imperial gallon
weighs less than 7 lbs. 2\ ozs., and, being light,
it is easily changed to vapour, and mixing readily
with the oxygen in the air forms a powerful
explosive mixture, which is Cfuickly and easily
ignited by any kind of spark.
The magneto need not always give the hottest
and fattest spark, and as no liquid petrol gets to
the combustion chamber, the explosions are
regular and uniform, the engine powerful and
sweet-running, and, more important still, there
is less tendency to the formation of carbon.
Plume Benzine is the brand used by the motorist who knows—
A fuel that gives him easy starting; a sweet-running engine;
and more mileage to the gallon than other benzines.
*
All Garages and Stores
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand.
Ms
m
mmA
KBS
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne*
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria-
The Australia Hotel
BUSINESS AS USUAL.
The Management of the “Australia”
Hotel are gratified to state that, not-
withstanding the ujjset caused by the
recent lire they are able to announce
“business as usual.” The service in
(he Grand Dining Room, on the
Balcony, and in the Winter Garden
is being conducted in the same style
that has made the “Australia” Hotel
so popular with its patrons, while the
arrangements for Private Dinners and
Suppers are working with their accus-
tomed satisfaction.
Throughout the holiday season
arrangements for Afternoon Teas will,
as usual, be carried out in the Winter
Garden, which has been running con-
tinuously throughout.
J. URE SMITH, Manager.
"ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others ; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/-and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores m Australia.
WatgHnan's
(Ideal) tSS
Fountain Pen
ASK TO SEE
THIS NEW
TYPE THE
LEVER POCKET
SELF-FILLER^
Filled in a moment
from any ink supply.
Of up-to-date Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
Fx. & R, Spoons and Forks
Embody the highest ideals.
They are the MOST HEAVILY
PLATED of all spoons and forks the
world over. They will be good after
forty years of everyday wear.
They are plated on the finest-quality
white nickel silver that it is possible
to silver.
They engrave like solid silver. Silver
deposit considered, they are the
cheapest spoons on the market.
They are made by us by the latest
new process, which makes them twice
as hard and strong as by the old
method.
We carry an enormous stick in Electro
Silver and Solid Silver, in cases, and
uncased.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.,
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET.
OLDEST JEWELLERY HOUSE IN
SYDNEY.
Plain Figures. Cash Only.
n*
Handsome Oak Case, containing 58 pieces, very heavily
plated on special hard white metal, Spoons and Forks,
and best hand-forged double-shear Steel Knives —-
£l2/10/-
Less 20% discount 2/10/-
£lO/-/-
m
■
2
Jokes, Puzzles, Tricks, Novelties
Write for our
New Novelty
Catalog.
IT’S FREE.
3
The three puzzles illustrated are strongly made and nickel-
'plated. They are very tricky to do, and will cause endless
amusement. Price, post free, 6d. each, or the three for 1/3.
Six puzzles, different from the above, post free for 2/3.
H.L. Hutchinson Ltd.
New York Novelty Co.
708-710 George St., Haymarket, SYDNEY
A £l4 Machine
With 5 Drawers
£8 10s.
IS YEARS’WRITTEN
GUARANTEE
Packed & Delivered Free
A.N.A. Sewing
Machine Co.
25 QUEEN VICTORIA MARKETS
(near Town Hall), SYDNEY.
Also at Errol Street, North Melbourne; 7 Arcade,
Adelaide; Baird’s Arcade, Perth; 39 George Street,
Launceston ; and 123 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
ABBEY
SHOES
are made in many stylish models
to suit the requirements of every
well-dressed man. You will have
no difficulty in getting footwear
exactly to your taste if you buy
it at the Abbey Shoe Stores.
We illustrate a very high-grade
TAN WILLOW ELASTIC-SIDE
BOOT, specially designed for farm
and station use. It is very smart
in appearance, a long-wearing boot,
and most comfortable.
Price 28/6
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between (i.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
mSmmm
CROWS MOUSTACHES
!
Why be content with
a weedy moustache
when CAPILLARINE
is so efficacious in its
results ? This true
hair-grower has stood
the test of years, and
is backed -up by the
testimony of hundreds
of users.
PER JAR, 10/6 POST FREE.
Craig & Aitken
654 CEOFMtE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over 30 years.
CEREBOS
SALT
is prepared under
ideal conditions in
a model factory
situate amid green
fields near the sea.
It is always dry
and free-running,
and above all, ab-
solutely pure.


hlehlwcfdA 'dfotel
Sydmez.v. N.SW.
The Wentworth Hotel Summer Garden, as in previous seasons, is still the
rendezvous of the Elite.
Delightfully cool and comfortable, it is ideal for Luncheons, Dinners, Afternoon
Teas, Supper and Wedding Parties and all semi open-air functions.
Visitors to Sydney will find the Wentworth Hotel most popular, central and
up to date in all modern conveniences, including telephones in bedrooms com-
municating with the Exchange.
The Appointments, Linen and Service are superb, and compare more than
favorably with the best Hotels in the Commonwealth.
Terms on application.
Mrs. H. MACLiURCAN, Manageress.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring ana
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68$ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT,
In use since 1596.
CURES Write for“ Book.
s BL i GHT ' FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
D, uREKN, 210, Lambeth Road. London, Hnfc
Insist on Singleton s* —refuse all substitutes.
REDUCE FLESH WITH SEA LEA! ES.
Any man or woman who is troubled
a burden of excessive fat can . e ,, the
to the desired amount by follow 1 *
simple, harmless plan of eating. sea •
obtained from plants growing m
off the coast of France. _ Aatiyes n i a nt
part of the coast readily get “LJ n ot
itself, but for-the convenience of t . e „
so fortunately situated most ~n (j er
them in compressed or tablet fom
the chemical name of salith l® ave ®: Pf . t ions
taken according to the simple . var j.
that accompany them, will almos g
ably reduce flesh at the rate of two t j y
pounds a week, and at the same tuni »
improve the general health. It is 1 use d
to note that when salith leaves ‘ j enC y
the skin remains firm without any
to become flabby or wrinkled. *
POLITICAL
POINTS
Conscription, or proscription?
Acting Prime Minister Pearce, in a mani-
festo to N. S. Wales Premier Holman: “My
Government does not feel,” etc. It’s nearly
time there was a little less of “my” Govern-
ment and a bit more of Australia’s Govern-
ment.
■ The other day Westralian Premier Scad-
dan suddenly thought of something new to
say. In a sorrowful voice he wailed that
the State was too large for him to' manage,
and harangued for a new set of Parliaments
and an imported Governor for the nor’-
west of the continent. If Scadd-an were an
advocate for Unification; 'which* he is not,
there might be something On his utterances.
As it is there isn’t; 5 Still it serves to keep
people quiet till' he can bolt to London as
Agent-General. Wjiat about a census of
Agents-Genefal in London?
At a dinner given to Aslnnead Bartlett in
Melbourne the other night a note of prac-
tical patriotism was sounded by Tate, Minis-
ter for Education. He remarked that Bart-
lett’s descriptive articles about the Austra-
lians in war had done much to make the
public proud of the soldiers and grateful to
them whilst the row was raging, but the
trouble in the future would oe to keep the
memory of their service green in the public
mind. To which end the Department was
doing its best to bring State School children
to a full knowledge of the cause of the war,
and of the great interests at stake, so that
the old soldier of the future would not be
a matter of indifference to the men and
women of the time. Australia is incurring
liabilities which will have to be shared by
the next generation and the one after that,
and if the children are shown the way to
think about these liabilities —-especially if
the way runs parallel with a towering
tariff wall —all will not have been in vain.
QUITE LIKELY.
AUNTIE: “You’re a lucky little girl to have
a letter written to you. Nobody writes
to me.”
LITTLE JANE: “Poor Auntie! Perhaps if you
ask President Wilson he’ll drop you a
Note.”
An oft-repeated tragedy was mentioned by
S. M. Herald in its biographical note on
the death of John Winthrop Hackett: —
Nine years before he had declined knighthood, but,
in the meantime, though late in life, he married, and
that made all the difference.
“He married, and that made all the differ-
ence” —it might be chipped on the tombstone
of many a man who started as a good demo-
crat and finished as a good husband.
“O.K.’s” dissatisfaction: —
In the interests of society at large, I rise to pro-
test against the hush-it-up policy of the Adelaide
coroner and police authorities in the matter of the
late L. Cohen’s tragic end. Cohen, who admittedly
had many enemies, was found dead or dying in his
pyjamas under conditions which indicated that he
had dropped from the window of his bedroom in the
hotel where he was last seen alive. The allegation
that he was quite sober wuen he retired to his bed-
room makes it impossible to understand how he
could have met his death as he did, unless he jumped
or was pushed out of the window —a fate which
might befall any of us. If the Labor party is quite
satisfied with the scandalous official eagerness to
accept the pleasantest possible explanation of the
cause of Cohen’s death I wonder how different would
be its attitude if Joe Cook or Iceberg Irvine were
found dead under similar circumstances, and the
authorities agreed to dispense with a public inquiry
into the cause of death.
A FRIENDLY TIP.
CURATE: “Come friend, give it up. It is
not too late even at the eleventh hour.”
D RUNK: “ ’Ere. wake up; y ’ got no ’ope
after eight.”
L. F. Giblin, who was a member of the
Tasmanian Assembly till it was dissolved
the other day, will not be a candidate for
the next Parliament, lie holds rank as a
captain in the Intelligence Corps and has
offered himself for active service. Had lie
not broken an arm he w r ould long ago have
robbed, the Tasmanian Parliament of the
distinction of being the only one of Aus-
tralia’s seven borrowing agencies that has
nor sent a member to the Front.
“Bystander": When Steve Barker, sec-
retary to the Trades Hall Council of
Victoria, went up to the Senate James
Munn filled the old man’s shoes at the hall.
Presently Munn was found
drowned in Hobson’s Bay, and
Charles Gray succeeded to the
secretaryship. After a time
Laurence Cohen, by trade a cut-
ter of letters on stone, w r as made
assistant-secretary. Now Cohen
is dead, killed by falling from
a window at an Adelaide hotel,
where he was staying on his way
back from an attempt at inter-
vention in the Broken Hill
trouble. Cohen was a leader
in the Victorian Labor move-
ment ; but he was an “advanced”
type of Laborite. Since he was
president of the Political Labor
Council and held a paid job at
the Trades Hall he was paraded
by the anti-Labor press as a
fearful example; and he figured
too often as the author of senti-
ments which caused pain and
vexation to better-balanced toilers in the
cause. Cohen stood twice for the City Coun-
cil, and polled well on the first occasion.
The second time he tried he ran third, and
never tried again. Mrs. Cohen is a sister of
Jack Lemmon, M.L.A.
After prolonged cogitation over the
inspiring questions related to hotels and
I'lossie, Tasmanian Royal Commissioner
Ewing recommends that legislation be passed
forbidding a publican from serving liquor to
the frail sisterhood, while protecting Bung
from the legal consequences of a mistake
either way—that is, whether he serves a lady
who should not have any, or refuse drink
to a woman of exemplary character who
doesn’t look like it. But Ewing says nothing
about protecting the vendor from the
consequences if a lady whom he takes
for what she isn’t lands him one with a
handy bottle.
“Billy Blue”: “Chasuble’s” story of the
attempted stampede of the Pope from Italy
to Spain (B. TO/2/T6) is similar to one
told on the same subject in the just-
published Life of John Hay, the American
statesman. Hay relates that in 3<SUb he
was having a conversation with Dr. Smith,
Professor of Theology at Fide Cqllege, Rome,
when Smith told him that some few years pre-
viously. when the Curia was much perturbed,
Pius IX. said to Lord Odo Russell, the
English envoy, “I suppose if I am driven
out of Rome you will let me come to Malta,
will you not?” Ixird Odo consulted the
British Foreign Secretary (Lord John Rus-
sell), xvho immediately answered. “Whenever
his Holiness desires it, an English man-of-
war will be at his service at Cavita Veechia
to take him to Malta.” This despatch still
exists, and Dr. Smith says it is the only
document that has passed between the two
Governments on the subject. Thus it ap-
pears it was to Protestant England the Pope
looked for a refuge.
Writing on the coming general elections in
Tasmania, Hobart Mercury lowers this
down :
Labor rule or German rule, it is all a matter of
degree, and with very little difference even in that.
We are not speaking of the German rule of an in-
vaded country in war time, but of the regimenta-
tion, the hobbling of minds and the oppression of
spirit which are part of their system. Liberal prin-
ciples are based on freedom, and are incompatible
with anything else. It is not possible to conceive
of the people of Tasmania accepting with eager
willingness German rule- on the ground that German
business methods are good, or that money is
more easily obtained! from German banks, or
because German administrators would do so much to
develop the resources'of the State. But in its e sen-
tials Labor rule is German rule, a fact which has to
be taken most seriously into account.
That’s the kind 'of thing party politics
breeds.
The A.W.U., always the sanest of Aus-
tralian unions and the one that has suffered
least from the demoralising effects of pene-
tration by the frowsy adventurer with a
machine-made pull, was asked at the recent
conference of delegates in Sydney to turn
down arbitration and make “direct action”
part of its programme. The proposal was
thrown out, and wisely. Any other decision
would have split the organisation into frag-
ments within a week. A month’s trial of
direct action would smash the remains into
little pieces and undo beyond repair the
hard, laborious work of a quarter century.
Arbitration has never been regarded as the
end of the section for Labor, though it knows
if to be defective. But it is a darned safer
foothold than a bladderful of hot air.
There was a heartbreaking appeal in the
Sydney papers the other morning for the
lend of a second-hand blacksmith’s forge, an
anvil and a hammer, a cart and a horse.
And in case anyone with a spare gimlet
might imagine the implements asked for were
wanted by Kitchener and rush along with his
borer it was explained that they were re-
quired for the use of volunteers who are pre-
paring land upon which to settle Billjim
when he comes marching home again. So
it looks as if grappling with the great influx
of population that is going to arrive later on
is not going to be so difficult after all.
FORM AT A GLANCE.
A Totalisator Bill is to be introduced into Parlia-
ment with Government sanction. —News item.
N.S.W.: “ Note, what’s he ringing in?”
Any victory which either side in the war
manages to secure is promptly followed by
explanations on both sides as to how it
occurred. The losers usually try to make
the point that the victors succeeded by
vastly superior numbers and a massing of
guns, while the victors point to the superior
dash and gallantry of their soldiers. In
the recent Russian success at Erzerum,
however, all the explanations, allied and
enemy, agree on one point: that lack of
railways for the transport of supports was
mainly responsible for the fall of the
fortress. Which is an admission that has
a message of particular point to Australia
and to Australian politicians who are
howling for a railway merely from Dead
Dog to Leggermuttongobilly.
Victoria’s Government has been „
ing the problem of the war-bahv~^ nsider '
little Australian that Billjim lias left i ? ood
him. Sometimes Bill Was married. H ‘ lllnd
times he was not. When he ws
dom troubled or had time to w'itimi* s ?'
infant. Often lie couldn’t bccausfthe the
didn’t arrive till after its father lmd 1 ‘ Pl)t>r
and perhaps been killed. But the isnn„ Parted
their fathers’ na mea, and as th
mation Act allows only the father t J S ‘ ‘‘
the necessary declaration, it is to i» ! ma , k( “
to give the mother right to do so ~ f nded
the case of soldiers’ children. ’ least 111
A CHANGE IMPENDING.
HE: “If you accept me it will make another
man of me; but if you refuse me I shall
never be the same man again."
“Leo Lear”: Among multitudinous ex-
cuses advanced by the Victorian Government
experts to explain why Portland should not
get a share of this year’s wheat export is
a hint that the port needn’t expect any con-
sideration in the future. One of the “ex-
perts” lately let the hen out of the coop
when referring to the new railway north
from Hamilton, which is to tap the wheat
area, with the much-advertised intention of
bringing cocky’s produce to its natural port.
This line when completed will —so the ex-
pert said —give Portland a much closer aver-
age mileage to the wheat country than Mel-
bourne. “But, as the line is being laid with
light rails, it will still be cheaper to take
wheat to Melbourne,” etc. Why the thunder
are heavy rails not used, when the authorities
know that the traffic for which the line is
built requires them? The Maroona to Mel-
bourne line, via Geelong, was built for wheat
carrying, and heavy rails were of course put
down. Why ? Well, because the business
pointed direct to the same old congested
centres where votes are thick. Preferential
rates have gone overboard ; Preferential rails
do the trick instead.
“Nobby” : The recent rise in wages to the
Newcastle miners has not made them much
richer. The coal trade of the port has
dropped to less than half its usual volume.
One pit has worked only six days in six
weeks, and another six days in four weeks.
If the trade gets any worse some of the pits
that are nearly worked out will close down
for ever. The men in the district are asking
for relief work of the usual futile kind out
of loan money. If the Government would
ship from Newcastle the wheat now hauled
over a hundred miles to further congest the
railway and loading facilities in Sydney, j
would save the country thousands of pounds
and would allow the rolling stock to mo\e
a lot of the wheat that will probably rot a
wayside stations. There are plenty of sllP . l .J
available, and the coal cranes could n
wheat as easily as they do the coal. 1 11,
would give useful employment to man}
the men who are asking for doles.
The High Court, sitting in Hobart,
recently delivered judgment in tvvo a PP aa
by the Waterside Workers’ Federa
against the decision of the Supreme Go
whereby two employers had , al . a
damages. Some of the workers refused to
with non-unionist tally clerks and >
and the aggrieved employers ® ucc ,
fully sued the Federation; but
High Court gravely upset the ® u P r ,
Court's legal apple-cart on the S lO
that the Federation was right m
contention that it could _ not he
responsible for the unauthorised acts o
members; that it was only responsible
its own formal and deliberate actions,
decision overturns the effort to ~
unions responsible for the breaks °t ,
vidual members. So the law can be d s
simply by a union (1) allowing its me
to do what they please and (2) being
nantly unresponsible. It's too easy.
THE LIBERAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Thank God,” the Liberal said, “I'm free
As any man on earth can be!”
And so, to point his argument,
lie clanked his fetters as he went.
N.S.W.
S. R.


Selected Shilling; Novels for
A COUNTRY Home LIBRARY
T/\B
CALLING VOICE
EFChristie ; *>
is
The following books are all from the
“Bookstall” Series—the famous Austra-
lian fiction series, whose sales to (late
total 1,500,000. They (leal with the
widest possible range of subjects, and
are the work of Australia’s foremost
writers. Xo country home should fail
to have these novels on its bookshelf.
2
Km
Each All One Price—l/1 Posted
Write to the Publishers for a Complete Catalogue.
“IN RACING SILK,”
By GERALD R. BALDWIN.
“FOR TURON GOLD,”
By DON DELANEY.
“THREE YEARS WITH THUNDER-
BOLT,”
By AMBROSE PRATT.
“THE HAUNTED SHANTY,”
By TIIOS. E. SPENCER.
“THE TRADER,”
By CECIL ROSS-JOHNSON.
“TOM PAGDIN, PIRATE,”
By E. J. BRADY.
“A BACHELOR’S WIFE,”
By M. FORREST.
“ÜBIQUE,”
By CLARENCE W. MARTIN.
“THE DOUBLE ABDUCTION,”
By H. Iv. BLOXHAM.
“A CURATE IN BOHEMIA,”
By NOIiMAN LINDSAY.
“MR. BARRINGTON,”
By ROY BRIDGES.
“LOVES OF LANCELOT,”
By EDWARD DYSON.
“LOVE AND THE AEROPLANE
By JOHN SANDES.
“CHANDLER OF CORRALINGA
By R. J. CASSIDY.
“A MAN OF SYMPATHY,”
By HARRY TIGHE.
“BASE BRANDS,”
By 11. M. SOMER.
“WOLAROPS CUP,”
By AMBROSE PRATT.
“THE SIGN OF THE SERPENT
By J. 11. M. ABBOTT.
New Novels Recently Added :
“UNDER A CLOUD,”
By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
“SKEETER FARM,”
By SUMNER LOCKE.
“DOUBLE=BED DIALOGUES,”
By HENRY JAMES JAMES.
AH Bookstalls and Booksellers throughout Australia.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. Ltd., 476 George St., Sydney
10-ii\cH
3/- each
DOUBLE-SIDED
(N.Z. 3/6.)
BRITISH-MADE
Records
12-incH
5-each
DOUBLE=SIDED
(N.Z. 5/6.)
SOME OF THIS MONTH’S NEW RECORDS.
First Records o/ Sir Henry Wood and
His Orchestra ever offered.
LIGHT BLUE LABEL SERIES—I2-inch Double-sided. Price 6 - each.
SIR HENRY WOOD AND H IS ORCHESTRA.
LlOO5
f Introduction, Act 3, “Lohengrin”
t Prelude in “C” Sharp Minor
LI 000
/ Shepherd’s Hey. No. 16
l Symphony No. 4. (III.) Scherzo
“ ’CELLO ** SOLO S by W. H. SQUIRE
LI 007
/ Cygne
t Beceuse de “Jocelyn”
PIANOFORTE SOLOS VLADIMIR DE PACHMA.NN
LI 010
f («) Etude Op. 25. No. 3in “F” Major (Chopin)
I (/>) Prelude Op. 28 No. 10, in 11 Flat Minor ( Chopin )
l Polonaise—Cadenza (Liszt)
First Record by Fisa Stralia.
PINK LABEL SERIES—I2-inch Single-sided, Price 15/- each.
74001
j LA TOSCA:
l
“Vissi d’arte”
Madame ELSA STRALIA, Soprano, with
Beecham Symphony Orchestra
74002
/*' A
l
FAVORITA:
“O Mio Fernando”
Madame CLARA BUTT, Contralto, with
Sir Henry Wood’s Orchestra
PURPLE LABEL SERIES—I2-inch Single-sided, Price 7 6 each.
7104
/ God Shall Wipe Away All Tears, from “The Light of the World”
l Madame CLARA BUTT, Contralto, with Organ and Piano
7105
/ The Promise of Life
l Madame CLARA BUTT, Contralto, with Organ and Piano
10-inch Single-sided, Price 5 - each.
X 227
/ The Fairy Pipers
Madame CLARA BUTT, Contralto, with Celeste Accompaniment
SEND FOR COMPLETE LISTS.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS
SYDNEY, N.S.AV. —Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, Kawson Place.
-MELBOURNE, VlC.—Dinsdale’s Proprietary, Ltd., 269 Swanston St.
BRISBANE, ((. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A. —H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.—Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Webley Sons and Gofton, Ltd., 243 High St.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Hayward and Garratt, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
si
.ip
I*#
s*»«v
p£s
St®®'* 1
ter,
mm
ETTPIWiV v3Pr«SS
<s i
i
BiS
i&j:&
lililil
pH
J>iia-ss;s-:-:^^;jS ::;^i
iii
i-c-i
s*.^r?N
II
a
(Regd. Trade MarWX
The British-made
Washing Fabric
“Viyella” is pre-eminently the fabric for the whole
family. There are many reasons why you should
use it.
There’s a health reason : “ Viyella ” absorbs and radiates the body’s
moisture, and thus prevents chills.
A comfort reason: “Viyella” is light, warm, and delightfully soft
to the touch.
An economy reason: It is exceedingly durable and does not shrink
in washing.
A beauty reason : It is rich-looking in appearance and is in a wide
range of patterns.
Sold by all drapers and storekeepers, or name of nearest dealer on application to
I. and R. MORLEY, 56 Market Street, Sydney, or 250 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.


The belief that the last lap of the war will
soon be reached through Roumania helping
the Entente is fully endorsed by that royal
spirit King George IV. topnotch Scotch.—
Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCAUDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCH3, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
START BUSINESS YOURSELF.
We supply Fancy Goods, Post Cards, Drapery, Tobac-
conists, Stationery, Jewellery, Id., 3d. and 6d. Bazaar
Goods Toys, Confectionery, Cutlery, etc. Sample
cases ’£s upwards sent by return. Guide Catalogue,
“Success in Business,” 3d.
H. Michaels & Son,
14-15 Cromwell House, High Holborn,
London, W.C., England. U
AGENTS WANTED IN EVERY TOWNSHIP FOR
PRIVATE GREETING CHRISTMAS CARDS.
Highly profitable line for energetic retailers in
any line of business. Sample Books free, containing
100 beautiful designs, including Patriotic, Photo-
graphic and Multicolor, by Special Processes. Write
now for samples and information; it will cost you
nothing, and will mean a handsome addition to your
income.
Address: PERCY FAULKNER & CO..
Parkgate Works, Chapel Street, B adford, England.
Legal Notices.
rno ANN WIIG (otherwise known as
J- ANN JANSEN) widow of CARL
ANTON WIIG or JANSEN, of Ashley-
Clinton, Hawkes Bay, New Zealand, and
last heard of in soine part of Australia
about IS years ago, and to all persons claim-
ing by, through or under her.
PURSUANT to the directions of the
Honorable F. R. Chapman, a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand, under Sec-
tion 25 of the Public Trust Office Amend-
ment Act, 1913, you are hereby called upon
to send in to the undersigned on or before
the Ist day of June, 1916, your claim to
part of the estate of CARL ANTON WIIG,
otherwise known as CARL ANDERS WIIG
or JANSEN, late of Ashley-Clinton, Hawkes
Bay, New Zealand. Farmer, deceased, who
died on the 25th May, 1902, intestate, fail-
ing wffiich such estate will be distributed
among the persons entitled thereto, disre-
garding your claim.
Dated at Wellington this 20th day of
December, 1915.
J. W. MACDONALD,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office.
Wellington. N.Z.
Ijegal Notices.
IN TIIE SUPREME COURT OF AAESj;
ERN AUSTRALIA. C No. sof 1J1«-
IN THE MATTER of the ESTATE <»
THOMAS HOOD CHATMAN, late ot
Derby in the State of Western Austra _
Pastoralist deceased intestate. And i
the matter of THE ADMINISTRA-
TION ACT 1003. T>l . ...
BETWEEN MIRIAM CHATMAN Haintitt
and THE ATTORNEY-GENERAL
WESTERN AUSTRALIA Defendant.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme
Court of Western Australia made 111
matter of the Estate of Thomas IfcG L ’
man late of Derby in the State of .'' es
Australia Pastoralist deceased » f!l .
and on an Originating Summons w iei
Miriam Chatman was the Plaintiff apd
Attorney-General of Western Australia
the Defendant all persons claiming to >
next of kin of the said Thomas Hood ‘
man late of Derby in the said State t
alist deceased intestate who died on tne -
day of April 1014 are by their Solicitorsi o
or before the 16th day of May 101 b to ,
in and prove their claim at the J ?
Chambers Supreme Court Perth or in de<
thereof they will be peremptorily exi
from the benefit of the said Order
further order the Judge may think nt a J .
The 16th day of May 1916 at 10 o clock m
the forenoon at the said Chambeis
pointed for hearing and adjudicating
this claim.
Dated the 18th otFebrW r .
(x.s.) Arthur Frank Abbott of 42 St. Geo
Terrace Perth Western Australia Agent i
AY. Clarke Hall of Broome Solicitor toi
Administratrix.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Before another issue of The Bulletin is
produced the Australian Cup will be a blessing and
a curse of the past. Two and a half miles require
getting over, and there are not many horses in the
business worth backing to see the job right out.
Patrobas, winner of last Melbourne Cup and V.R.C.
Derby, was under a cloud for a few days lately, hut
the Bar Vons took no risks, and kept him a firm
favorite, a position Mrs. Widdis’s champion is likely
to hold at the start. Patrobas ran two good races at
the V.A.T.C. meeting just concluded. Carlita, who also
has a V.R.C. Derby' to her credit, is sure to see the
long journey through, and will be going faster than
most others in the last four furlongs. Eric Connelly’s
fine-looking hurdler Grand Fleet, erstwhile Klinger,
is another which should be there. These three look
like providing the winner, which may be Carlita if
it isn’t something else.
* * * *
Newmarket Handicap, run down the Flem-
ington straight six furlongs next Saturday, is one of
the hardest prizes on Australian turf to win, and
Saturday’s streak is as open as any of the preceding
streaks over the same locality. The defeat of Cyklon
and Redfern at Caulfield on Saturday gave hundreds
of punters a pain, and both prads have passed out of
the calculations of eleventh-hour bettors. One nag
that must have a great look-in is Eurobin, despite his
failure in Oakleigh Plate when favorite. Eurobin
was badly away in the start for the shorter race and
didn’t have the best of passages subsequently. But
Eurobin had recently been first past the post in six
successive races. Another that ought to have some-
thing to say in the argument is Amata, and others
likely to be in the deciding line are Woorak, .Burra-
badeen and Merrimee.
* * * *
The mystery of Redfern was the topic of
the hour at Caulfield last Saturday. In the first
place Redfern was said to be a goner for all engage-
ments. The nag that cost £5300, or thereabouts, had
fallen down twice in his box whilst being taken to
the course and was more or less injured, it was said.
But he walked to his stall in the “birdcage” (No. 13
stall—“unlucky for racers”) looking little the worse
for the upset, though there was a nasty cut below
the knee and small gashes in sundry other places.
Nevertheless Redfern when his wounds had been
dressed looked as capable of galloning as any un-
damaged nag on the ground. He didn’t look like a
bargain at £5OOO all the same, nor did he*give one
the impression of being wound-up to win the Futurity
Stakes, with the Newmarket Handicap to follow. Just
a nice, “classy” sort of horse, good-tempered and
game. Not the flier he would need to be to wiu a
Newmarket with 9st. 91b. Yet Redfern had certainly
been backed down to a short price for the (joining
event, and Ike Foulsham had talked of running first
and second with the English my'stery and Woorak.
Seeing that Redfern’s wounded leg didn’t fail, the
owner and trainer decided to let him have a go in
the Futurity. There was no rush to back him. He
went as high, or as low, as 8 to 1 in the betting
whilst the other English horse Cyklon was quoted
firm at 2 to 1 on the strength of his easy defeat of
Traquette a week previously. And the race! Neither
Redfern nor Cyklon was ever in it, though the for-
mer did get away smartly enough. Traquette made
the running as usual, with the long-expected Mahara-
jah close behind. Eventually the colt (7st. 71b.)
ran away from the mare (9st. 121 b.), and Carlita
came third. Cyklon’s had running was only to be
accounted for by roguishness. Redfern’s performance
left the crowd a choice of four conjectures. The
costly animal was feeling the effects of his fall, or
he is not acclimatised and fit, or he has lost his
English “form,” or he was not bustled on account of
recent accident. Anyhow, he seems to have blown
out as far as his Newmarket chance is concerned, but
the writer reckons that Redfern may be quite equal
to a startling reversal next time he runs. He looked
well and happy when rubbed down after the race.
In the last race of the day—a six-furlong flutter
—Woorak (lOst. lib.) seemed to hold everything
safe until the favorite, Amata (Bst. 81b.) came along
and beat him. And in the Woodcliffe Handicap (11
furlongs) Flash of Steel beat a dozen triers and
non-triers, thus proving that the big, strong, English
horse should alwa3's have been trained for long
journeys, rather than pitted against the sprinters
and milers. Flash of Steel, with only 6st. 121 b. up,
won the Futurity Stakes last year. He then looked
to be a colt of stamina rather than speed.
* * * *
“0.1 v.” : The in-and-out running at Caul-
field messed up all the early theories about the
Newmarket Handicap. Any" one of 15 horses
might be reasonably tipped at time of writing, and
if Maharajah starts favorite the odds “bar one”
should be fairly tempting. The top-weights (includ-
ing Redfern, if he is started) are bound to be
fancied. Cyklon meets Traquette on much better
terms than when he beat her, but the great mare
appears to be coming on. Woorak meets the danger-
ous Amata on better terms than when the latter
won last Saturday. Burrabadeen meets Tullia on
better terms than in the Oakleigh Plate, and Blague,
last year’s winner, carries only 71b. more this time.
In a multitude of chances there is no wisdom in
fancying anything very keenly. The writer prefers
two that are about the best handicapped on their
best form—Eurobin and Red Signal. The latter ran
respectably behind Maharajah and Traquette in the
Futurity Stakes, and will have a big. pull in the
weights on Saturday. A punter might do worse
than follow Red Signal through the meeting.
One Christian Moses didn’t have turkey for
last Sunday’s dinner. Sequarious landing Rosehill
Handicap the previous day was the cause of the disr
aster. Barney Allen, one of the brethren, owns the
nag and sent a wire to Rosehill offering a tenner on.
The bookmaker who made the bet laid his comrade
£2OO to £lO in his own book. Somebody else knew
about the horse’s chances and accepted 100 to 6, 100
to 7, and even 100 to 8, while 100 to 4 was going at the
death knock. Sequarious will soon be 10 years old.
He became Allen’s property as far back as 1910 when
in the New Stakes at Randwick he put in such a
paralysing finish that Allen rushed in ahead of scores
of others and bought the brute for £l5OO. Sequarious
has been a disappointment ever since, and cost his
owner a hatful of bullion. He (the horse) must be
near the end of his tether now.
* *■ * *
Two years ago Wallalo won the Aus-
tralian Cup, but the inconsistency of the perform-
ance compared with one just previous, struck the
stewards so forcibly that the horse was ordered into a
paddock. Provided Wallalo is still sound his name
should shortly be appearing in the entry lists again.
He won his Cup in hollow fashion, and was a solid
favorite.
* * * *
La Carabine —sometimes nicknamed “the
feminine Carbine” —a famous racing mare a few
years back, died three months ago. She won the
Australian Cup, Sydney Cup, Champion Stakes
(twice) and other long-distance races. Everyone
expected that she would be a mother of excessively
fast sons and daughters, but she proved an utter
failure at the stud. Rupert Clarke, her owner, was
very proud of La Carabine.
* * « *
“Mujik” : The vocabulary of the turf and
the boxing ring is in each case about the most
expressive on earth. The racing man has phrases
and terms into which meaning is packed in large,
comprehensive lumps. The pug can express in a
dozen words—sometimes in one —as much as the
average man can convey in a column. Yet by some
singular sequence of events it happens that sporting
literature is as dull as the record of a hen-laying com-
bat, even though its acolytes have found the dic-
tionary. inadequate for their purpose and have coined
new words by the score to put a coating of gilt
on their dope. To read a Yankee account of a fight
is like tackling a new language. Thank Heaven
Australian sport, even though its literature be of
unexampled dulness, has kept itself free from the
spurious devices by which American sport is given
exaggerated and eccentric importance. A queer
example of this was given in one of the Melbourne
dailies lately' when in the account of a scrap the
disastrous experiences of one pug were attributed
ARCHIBALD
YUILLE,
Hon. Treasurer,
T.R.C.
to receiving a succession of “enervating rights” from
the other chap. There is a compelling simplicity
about this term for welts on the jaw which does
infinite credit to the man who dug it out of himself.
Superior people speak of the enervating climate and
the enervating influence of Socialism, hut could any-
thing be more enervating than a punch on the nose
from Darcy or “Knock-out” Brown ? If so I don’t
know what it is, unless it may be waiting from six
o’clock at night for the pubs to open next day or
watching the prad one has backed at even money
toiling painfully along at the wrong end of the race.
“Trot”: That scheme (B. 17/2/’IG) for
dividing owners and horses up into classes and fixing
jockey’s mounts by ballot misses the innards of
things. A far better system would be to make all
trainers civil servants and vest the nags in the
Crown. The result would be to ensure the horse
getting a competent valet and absolutely hamstring
P. Enterprise, particularly if the price of yearlings
was fixed by a Board of Control. The business could
be worked this way: On Reefer buying a colt he
would at once proceed with the anlm .l t he office
of the Minister for Punting, who w t.l 1 demand
particulars of what the owner required. L, for in-
stance, he wanted to run the animal a couple of
byes as a two-year-old and then bottle him up for
the Newmarket, this would be nlaced on record, the
animal handed over to a State trainer and the
owner’s wishes faithfully obeyed. When the colt
ran at two years he would be nominated as a stumer,
and anyone who backed him would be protected
from winning by disqualifying the jockey if the
brute came to light. Then when the Newmarket
happened along the colt would be delivered at the
post by the State accompanied by a sworn declara-
tion that he had undergone a thorough preparation,
was fit and well, and had in a trial six months
before trotted the distance in lmin. 371 sec. If he
won the race the State would take a percentage of
the winnings. If he didn’t, the owner could have
him back, but in no circumstances would the
animal be allowed to compete again except when
attached to a milk-waggon. There are sreat advan-
tages in a scheme of this kind especially to poli-
ticians who could get the strength of things first
hand, and I hereby make a present of the not on to
whoever is behind the gun in NJSAV. as something
Holman might incorporate in the Tote Hill.
“Carfax”: Purely in the interests of scien-
tific research something should be done to investigate
the physical condition of the person who makes
loud remarks at races and matches and boxing con-
tests, and other pastimes, the object being to dis-
cover the kind of bacillus he is afflicted with. At
last Randwick meeting the writer stood next to an
individual who appeared to have backed a horse in
the steeplechase whose rider’s name was But.
“Steadv, Bill!” he roared from the stand at the start.
(The animals were half a mile away.) “Steady, pie
hoy. Ah ! That’s it; that’s it! Hold him 1 Then
a wild burst of “Lettim go, Bill!” smote the air as
the starting gate flew up, and from that on William
was pursued with copious advice about the treatment
of his nag and the strategy of the occasion. Bill and
his dromedary arrived last into the straight, and
while the crowd was cheering the finish there were
frantic yells for the fate-comer to hurry up and
“make a name for himself.” This class of pest is
frequent at football matches, howling dementedly to
Sam and Mick' and Dodger to leap over the goal-
posts, or something, and groaning horribly if some-
one on the opposing side does the leaping. At the
temple of stoush the prayers of the loud-mouthed one
drown the stroke of the gong. T’other night at
Sydney Stadium there was a voice coming from
somewhere clamorously urging O’Connor to wipe Gil-
more off the face of the earth, and it prevailed like
a circular curse all through the fray. “Go it 1
blared the noise, regardless of what was happening
or likely to happen. “Go it!” “Go it!” “Go it!’’—
the hideous reiteration, pointless and fatuous, sounded
like the nightmare howls of a demented auctioneer.
It got so badly on O’Connor’s nerves that he didn’t
go it worth tuppence.
* * * *
The luck of the game! A country woman
went back home with a new bonnet and a smile
after a recent visit to Sydney. When she got on
the course she had ss. in silver, a 10s. and a £lO
note. The coins melted in the first race, and as
she knew something with a chance for the second,
she rushed into Israel with what she thought was
the scrap of paper for 10s. and had a flutter at 8
to 1. The nag* won easily, and when Ike weighed
out £9O she nearly fainted. She had put the
tenner on in mistake, but she didn’t hand the
winnings back. Neither would Ikey had he won.
* * * *
“Musketoon” : Having discovered the only
sure method of dealing it out to Ikey a punter at
Forbes (N.S.W.) sailed into Sydney on February 19.
The idea was to have £1 each way on the last-
quoted individual horse at Ascot pony races, taking
the Herald quotations ,4s a guide. By the end of
the fourth race the punter was 255. behind, but
Snip, in the fifth, made the credit balance £2 15s.
as he ran third and started at 15’s. The sixth
brought the balance down to 15s. again, and the
seventh put him 255. behind. After that Ikey got
it on the neck, for the eighth race saw Rainbow,
quoted at 20 to 1, finish third, balancing things
again and leaving £3 15s. to the good. Agnes
May added another £2, and in the last Clifford fixed
everything up by starting at 20 to 1, winning, and
being the last horse quoted meant £25 for a win
and place, showing a profit on the day for the
punter of £3l ss. If McShortodds can be persuaded
to bet on this system he gets walloped every time.
(Later. —Ikey said it was a swindle and refused to
pay.) The scheme would have accumulated £39
ss. at the trots on the 21st, while at Rosebery ponies
on the 23rd Ikey’s bag would have been plundered
of a further £7O.
* * • * *
“The Oldest Inhabitant” : About the Pear-
sons, of Ivilmany Park (Vic.), whose girls are going
to marry titles or something equivalent thereto. The
founder of the tribe was William Pearson, son of a
naval captain, and born in 1818 at Kilmany Parish,
which is in Fife, Scotland. He went off to sea and
had reached a command when at 23 he landed at
Port Phillip and decided to give the ocean a rest.
He was the first settler on the Mitchell, and soon
afterwards took up a block which he called Kilmany
Park, at the junction of the Mitchell and Thompson
Rivers (named after the Surveyor-General and his
deputy, N.S.W., of which Gippsland was then a
part). He was a good pioneer, and as population
came along he acquired a string of racehorses and
bred and raced largely, being practically the founder
of the Sale Turf Club. He was successful on the
turf, but on one occasion lie had a disastrous tilt
with the press. The newspapers charged him with
making his own handicaps and letting the Kilmany
Park horses in easy. When Pearson drew attention
to these statements a half-hearted apology was given.
But the sporting writers were not satisfied, and
when the particular race they had been writing about
came off there were but three starters, two of them
being Pearson’s, which ran first and third. At that
meeting, a three days’ one, Pearson won four races
with three horses and ran second with three others
and ran, also, into a third place. He took in stakes
nearly a thousand guineas, which' was not a bad
haul on a country racecourse. The newspapers
howled again and Pearson issued a writ for
libel against the Australasian— claiming £5OOO.
The newspaper offered an apology and paid
£5O into court by way of amends. It
would have paid Pearson in cash and peace of mind
to have accepted the apology, and he knew it when
before Ireland, who led for the newspaper, had con-
cluded his cross-examination. The paper won. Pear-
son became a legislator.
* * * ’ »
Frank O’Connor, of Sydney, who had re-
cently been hurling a stressful K.O. about, was shown
a point or two in the game at Sydney Stadium on
Saturday by Fred Gilmore, of Chicago, who got a
walloping from Tommy Uren shortly after landing in
Australia. Gilmore is a beautiful boxer, and simply
played with the Australian. He just hit when and
where he liked, and after dodging away would jump
in and hit somewhere else, O’Connor meanwhile lum-
bering round trying to get in with one of his
woodeners, and mostly having it blocks
poked into his eye. Halfway through hebrnk* eft
the outer trenches, and reached Gilmores * u,to
left and right. The visitor looked like going out"w
decided to remain on deck and improve on n’n ’ ut
weather eye. The rest of the disturbance was sin?? 0r ’ s
character, and at the end of the 20th collisYmi £
was nothing for Arthur Scott to do but to nk th ? e
hand softly on the American’s head and adiofr Ji! s
proceedings. But though he made O’cSnno Cokl 6
a tenth-rater Gilmore is not of the tvne to kc
the game. He is much too affable and Zl! “!
and casual. He looks like a voting man SI * " 1
gentle exercise for the good of his diction T
Boxers nine out of 10 men who get into the ring a t
the Stadium are dubs compared with this i: . at
stranger, and the odd one a long way below h"
class, but it is not in him to be* a scrapper and
never will be. As a gym. performer or smn!!
partner or trier-out of likely material Gilmore Fs r lu
m the top-notch, and that is the bfeginnin* and La
of him. 8 u ena
* * * *
The Fernand Quendreux-Leo Coyle affair
at Melbourne Stadium on Saturday night was a dim, i
assortment of clinch, smother, grin and monof™
The Frenchman was suffering from a severe attart
of embonpoint, and, in spite of the crowd’s exhnrtiL
of “The Marseillaise,” could neithei k e p
Coyle s loft off his cheekbones nor get the nethL
side of the smother. At the end of the wearing
Coyle was reckoned the lesser bore.
* * * *
Charlie Campbell, right-crossed and outed
for all time last week, was one of the biggest
hearted men boxing or any other sport had known
in Sydney. He flourished in the davs before the
Mclntosh started tile Stadium. The Golden Gate
Brickfield Hill, and the Gaiety in Castlereagh-street
were the Campbell headquarters for the unloading
of stoush. In those days unless bruisers knocked
lumps off each other they handled no money. Camp-
bell was quite illiterate. Once he told a' gatheriiL
that there were “humors about this fight bein'
crook.” If such proved to be the case Charlie pro-
mised his patrons “two more bouts and an exhibi-
tion of cutlery-drill by some naval lads in the hall"
Thousands of people have reason to remember the
dead man with gratitude, for he dipped into his
pockets to help the needy whenever an appeal was
made to him. Campbell was a true son of Ireland.
He had a great superstition about the infallibility
of the green, and flaunted an emerald scart’pin and a
harp on his watchchain. The writer remembers him
backing Francis Foy’s The Irish Horse at Randwick
in the only race that imported prad won, and anv
pug. seeking a match under Campbell’s management
and wearing a green tie was sure of a hearing.
* * * *
One of the reasons why the Vic. Hoofball
League isn’t too keen on strictly amateur football this
coming season floated into open air the other day.
South Melbourne doesn’t want to play, and will only
perform as an amateur team if at all. South’s assets
are £1750; its liabilities nil. Per contra, Carlton,
last year’s premiers, owes a bank £1650, guaranteed
by officers of the football and cricket clubs, and the
institution has just demanded that this amount be
promptly and considerably reduced. There are other
clubs in a similar bole, but not quite so deeply. Of
course, while things were booming the batik’s interest
was paid regularly, and it didn’t worry; but no club
provided any sinking fund, and when the call came
for good, reliable cash there was nothing in the till.
Carlton’s misery is only a hint of what is coining in
other directions presently. Incidentally, Melb. club
will not enter a team for the premiership until the
war is over.
* * * *
“Cog” : Concerning spectacular catches.
How about one on the Brisbane ground when the
last English team was playing an Australian XI. The
oval is encircled by an asphalt cycling track. Craw-
ford, who went in seventh wicket down, was just on
the thirties when Douglas wheeled up one for him to
hit. Crawford accepted the invitation, and the ball
went so high that I thought they’d have to send a
balloon after it. But Mead knew better. He moved
backward about 25 paces, and then found himself
against the asphalt. He balanced himself on his toes
on the edge of the grass, shot both hands high above
his head and took the drop magnificently. The shock
of the ball, however, upset his balance, and to recover
it he brought one foot back on the asphalt. The
scorer started to chronicle the eighth wicket score,
but, to the scorer’s, Crawford’s and particularly
Mead’s astonishment, the umpire held that Mead took
the catch while over the boundary line, and gave
Crawford not out. The Englishmen were dissatisfied,
but when Crawford went on to 105 they were real
wild.
* * * *
An heir to a big cricketing name arrived in
Sydney during February, when the stork visited the
house of M. A. Noble and handed in a son.
* » *
Sixteen-year-old Frank Carberry tried to
obliterate the 100yds. professional swimming record
at Sydney Domain baths last Saturday. He sped over
the distance in 61 l-ssec., just four-fifths of a
second too slow. The lad intends having another
kick shortly.
* * *
The fourth annual swim-through-Adelaide
was again a good thing for the long-start men. The
course, one mile 800 yards in the still water of the
Torrens Lake, was covered in 35min. 39sec. by the
winner, Pratten, a boy hardly 16. Moon, tf om
scratch, beat this time by little more than 2imn.,
and he was giving away 9min. Nine-minute men nlie
the first three places. There were 64 starters, welufl-
ing one lady, and most of them finished the course, lne
best time was made by Suhard (30min. 49sec.), ninti.
The race was upstream this year, which —there win-
now nothing worth calling a stream —is clearly
the contestants having the broad lake instead ot tn
bottle-neck up by the Zoo. Of course, boats we
allowed to get in the way—an unnecessary privilege
when the high banks provide a natural grandstand.


You’d be an Easy Mark for a
m
■
Scientific Boxer!
Because you’re inexperienced. You’d be flurried
consequently leave openings, which would enable
“deal” it out to you.
and excited, and
your opponent to
Your scientific opponent would be constantly drawing you on.
Hed be calm and collected, and make every blow leave a mark
Youd be unable to penetrate his defence, and would be ashamed
f/ou* lack o* knowledge, and at the humiliation of your being-
defeated —possibly by a smaller man. * , s
Ask yourself the question—lS IT WISE TO
when I can make you a Scientific Boxer?
REMAIN CRUDE
I TEACH BOXING BY POST
—instruct you how to be a sound, practical, hard-
Jutting Boxer, good in attack and defence. Mv
course explains in a thoroughly practical way every
serviceable move in Boxing—every efficient lead
counter, guard, feint, ef;£. The advantage of every
direction is fully explained, so that you will realise
its value, and therefore remember it.
You ought to write for my illustrated book-
let, Scientific Boxing in Your Home,” which
gives fuller particulars and cost of tuition. Just
write your name and address across this advertise-
ment and post to me. I’ll know what you mean
Send three penny stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
471 Belmont Buildings, SYDNEY.
Club Royal
“ Cabinets.”
If you enjoy a fine-flavored yet mild cigar,
with a delightful aroma, I should like you
to try my Club Royal “Cabinets.” They
are hand-made from the finest Havana Leaf,
and are a particularly good smoke.
In Handsome Cedar Cabinets of
50 207-
Postage on 50: N.S.W., 9d.
Inter-State, 1/2.
Sample Packet of Five, Post Free,
2/0.
My catalog of Cigars, Tobaccos, Cigarettes
and Smokers’ Requisites will be sure to
interest you.
Write for a Free Copy.
A. M. SOLOMON,
“CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
STRAIGHT
FROM THE
WELL
NATURE’S
BEST.
Ask Yourself These
Questions when Purchasing
Has the machine PROVED its superi= Q
ority in open competition ■
Is it easy to drive, simple of control and Q
luxurious to ride ■
Does it possess ample reserves of power Q
for all exigencies ■
Has it been built to last
Shall I get 20 shillings in the £ value for
the money I spend ■
Ask the man who rides an
Indian
Catalogue D Post Free upon request.
Rhodes Motorcycle Co.,
109-111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
SCHUTE, BELL, &. Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
RIGNEY SHOES ARE SO POPULAR
because every pair satisfies the wearer fully.
The more particular you are about the style,
fit and finish of your footwear the more
yon will appreciate the high quality of
rigney shoes.
We illustrate a PATENT COLT OXFORD
SHOE—a very popular and high-grade
made-to-order style. The brogue cap
affords very reliable wear.
Price - 27'6
Also in TAN VELOUR CALF, same price.
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
the rigney SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE*
KRUSES
FLUID MAGNESIA.
Solo ffiusal,
Calcutta. iss3
kRUQF'Q
FLUID MAGNESIA
SXS «X» HIM IX »x*«
.\\«.X\V.\A'*.\VxY WIVAAV imXMtttl «ft»*
VWNXI v'Ov'V \\ 0 A'A'AW'A!! VO*i <V< >*A.VV
<VV .WWWWVvW' W\.\V*\» «»Vtk«» WY.U-
\A.'\.'iV WWx'AV.V WW'AVA.V VVOA WtHfl 0\
>* v'AXN JttStmf XV».\ *m« *ft«X«Un
• •fix' »»X\'>XVo NVv'AXW.U AVA« ,\mtU
*'*«>* VAX? m CUXNtJ WWW IUttMAV
WWX'WY X«» AX Vi »* A\ V AXl.’.Utl*
S'WYWV ?J ;»■ V\ " ,» \V X lfftUMA
FELTDN, crimwadTTco:: Melbourne,
The Australian Remedy for
Indigestion,
Biliousness and
Acidity of the
Stomach.
A MILD APERIENT FOR
OLD AND YOUNG.
ALLAYS FEVERISH CONDITIONS DUE TO
VACCINATION AND TEETHING. A COOL-
ING MEDICINE FOR SPRING AND SUMMER.
Sold by Chemists and Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
Y
|H
IH
If you’d be completely
satisfied with your
Riding Trousers and
Breeches —Have your
next pair “Lincoln Stuart
Tailored to Order.
You can t ‘Go Wrong” in having your Riding Garments
Lincoln Stuart” Tailored to Order. It’s impossible to get
from us a Material not “All Right,” because we stock
nothing but Guaranteed Stuffs of Proved Suitability for
Saddle l se. There’ll be nothing wrong with the Cut or
I it, because we know all there is to be known about the
Production of Riding Garments, while over all there is
OUR GUARANTEE TO PLEASE YOU,
UNDER PENALTY OF A FULL REFUND.
Riding Trousers, 12/6; Riding Breeches, 22/6.
Tailored to Order in Khaki Drill, as used by the Military.
A Stuff of Sterling Quality—can hardly be Worn Out. and
Improves in the Wash.
WRITE for Patterns of this and our other Riding Textures.
They re Post Free, with Catalog, Tapes, Self-measurement
I‘orms, etc., to any address.
Lincoln, Stuart & Co Pty. Ltd ,
“Specialists in Outfitting by Mail,”
244=254 Flinders Street Melbourne.


“Biff” Gladdens
Sore, Tired Feet
Tender Feet, Sore Feet, Swollen Feet
cured without delay. New Foot
Medicine Quickly Banishes All
Foot Ailments
“My feet
just ache
for ‘Biff’ ”
To those who are troubled with sore, tender,
aching, swollen, perspiring, unpleasant smelling
feet, bunions, corns or hard skin, “BIFF” will
bring quick relief and gladness to the feet. Use
“BIFF” today and banish all pain and discomfit.
By using “BIFF” once a week you will insure
your feet against all foot troubles. “BIFF” is a
scientific compound which draws out all poisonous
matter from the feet, which clog and choke pores
of the skin. One application of this unique com-
fiound will render the feet sweet and antiseptic,
ts delightful results must be experienced to be
believed.
MRS. CARTER WRITES : —For years my feet
gave me much trouble. It was purgatory to
have to walk far, but after using one box of
“Biff” I can walk with perfect ease and com-
fort, there is nothing to compare with your
preparation for foot trouble.”
"Biff” can be obtained through all chemists and
stores; if not in stock send direct to the manu-
facturers. Price Is. 6d. per box, or triple size box
4s. (triple box contains three times the Is.6d. size).
The “Biff” Manufacturing Co., 114 a Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Have You a BAD LEG
perhaps surrounded with inflammation and
swollen, that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Perhaps
your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored. The disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your ease is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Try the great British Remedy:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which you will find a certain remedy.
Also for Poisoned Hands, House-
maid Kjnijetss, Carbuncles, Absces-
ses, Srialie\and Insect Bites, &c.
' Can be obtained at any Drug Store.
British Prices, 1/3 and 37-
albert & CO., Albert House, Farringdon St.,
I Agents — LONDON, Eng-.
EtbKOT BROS.
W. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, etc.
my ■ ■■ ■
Soldiers’ Presents-
Latest Noveliy, Case with Metal
Mirror, Silver Pencil, Fountain
Pen,,Potket Knife .. 18 6
Other Combinations.
12 6, 7/6, 6 6
I The New Bullet-proof Pocket
i Book, steel through both
I covers ... 126
Send Tor latest List of 80 Gifts
to select from.
ROTHWELLS LTD.,
Edward Street,
Brisbane
The hunters
triple Alliance
•—The hunter’s skill plus a
Ross .280 Rifle and Ross .280
£> ©
II
00 -Z
cl .2°
• X
Sporting ammunition
with copper tube
expanding bullet —are
sure winners. The Ross
.280 Rifle delivers your
message straight and
strong and the Ross
copper tube expand-
ing bullet fells the
largest game with its
smashing blow, which
equals at 500 yards,
1500 foot pounds.
Ross Rifles
are sold by best dealers
everywhere.
Illustrated Catalogue free on request. 215
Ross Rifle Co., Quebec, Canada.
The Sydney 8 Suburban Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
Mutual Life Building 14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
l or all classes of Lift Maintenance, Repairs, Renewals of Lifting Ropes and o tl
—for Hydraulic Material, Pipes, Valves, Tubing and High Pressure Stocks ' " >r ,>ar4s
Rest Workmanship and Material. Quotations supplied. generally.
Nothing can surpass
HORROCKSES’
SHEETINGS for
durability
When Buying see HORROCKSES’ name on Face-plait,
and decline all substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers
HIGHEST AWARDS AT ALL THE GREAT EXHIBITIONS. 2
Tftie
AIR GAS SYSTEM
CHEAPER THAN
Electricity, Coal Gas, Acetylene or Kerosene.
and BETTER THAN All.
a
A
ft
s.-
B
INTER-STATE AGENTS
Buzacott & Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Dangar, Gedye & Co.,
Young St., Sydney.
J. Bartram & Son [ft;
Bourke St., Melbourne
Works : 269 Toorak Rd.,
Melbourne
■» Spr
That Smooth,
Velvety Shave
There is no pulling or dragging of the beard
with
The “PLUM” RAZOR,
hut just that smooth, velvety shave that every
man appreciates.
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE.
We keep it. in perfect order for two years,
free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle,
15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
Successful
Tooth Cleaning
Sold by local
Druggists &■ Stores.
Mads by
F.C. Calvert & Co
Manchester, Eng.
should be more than a mere
phrase,-—it becomes actual
fact for the people who use
f
U
VjCARBOLiC^
More Triumphs of Voluntaryism.
A good of the rottenness of the
voluntary way of doing things, if any more
illustrations are needed, is afforded by the
ride-club system in country places. In large
centres there are generally enough enthu-
siasts to keep a decent amount of virility
in a club and see that business is carried out
in a fairly respectable manner. But in
sparsely-populated places the matter is dif-
ferent. Usually the initiation of the club
depends upon a few energetic enthusiasts,
frequently upon only one man, and the
majority of the members only join at all
because they are cajoled into it. If the
energetic minority can inspire enough inter-
est to build up a solid gang of workers, all
may go well; but it is a business requiring
not only enthusiasm and activity, but tact,
and in many cases the best endeavors only
result in ill-deserved failure. When the
initiation is confined to one man he may
be obliged to leave the district, whereupon
the movement gradually shuffles to the ceme-
tery. In any. case, it often happens that,
after all the initial “dead work” has been
carried out and the club placed on an
apparently satisfactory footing, the majority
of members take no definite interest in the
proceedings, and all the hard graft has to
be done by a few. Unless they run about
the district urging membef's to put in a
little time on the range, arrange about the
marking, see that targets are looked after,
rifles cleaned and put away, empty shells
and clips picked up and returned, and gen-
eral organisation and supervision kept up
to standard, nobody worries about them,
and a condition of dry-rot sets in which
soon reduces the club to a body of no prac-
tical value. If it is of practical value for a
country like Australia to possess a popula-
tion trained in the use of the rifle—and
there are few nowadays who would decry
such a proposition—fhe sooner this volun-
tary and haphazard system is supplanted
the better. In many districts where rifle
clubs exist there are young men with plenty
of time on their hands, and the makings of
fine riflemen in their physique and tempera-
ment ; but they are not sufficiently inter-
ested to attend the range regularly, and are
apathetic and indolent when they do
attend ; and the trouble is that nobody has
any legal power to grasp them firmly bv
the hair and shake them into disciplined
activity. If the ability to handle a rifle is
a useful asset to the State, the State should
take steps to see that everyone capable of
developing that ability does develop it with
neatness and despatch, and see. too. that
all take their share of the hard work as
well as of the easy part of lying on their
stomachs and firing a few shots, and then
sitting around on logs smoking, or going
home to dinner, while someone else pulls
the targets down and puts the rifles by and
generally acts the perspiring slave to keep
things going. To get all this done effectively
and efficiently it will be necessary to heave
overboard a few more old British ideals of
liberty and freedom and consequent jumble
and chaos, and make rifle shooting a com-
pulsory matter, and see that the compulsion
is properly applied by giving money to suit-
able individuals to boss the others. At a
time when a heavy splash about every other
week denotes that another British tradition
has been thrown overboard, and when the
local kid is already enmeshed in the toils
of a compulsory training system that very
few people have a word to say against,
despite the dreadful and dismal prophecies
that split the air when it was installed, it
would not be amiss to see if a sound and
inexpensive system of training the adult
male to shoot straight, and submit to enough
discipline to considerably improve his shoot-
ing as well as his civic conscience, could
not be devised and installed speedily. The
present system entails large expenditure
for a minimum amount of practical result,
while tending to discourage manv who-
deserve to'be encouraged for their endeavor
to do good work for a nation that takes
very little trouble to see whether its work
is good, bad or indifferent.
“Homo”: I’m not prepared to give an
offhand solution of “Edward Howler’s”
query (B. 17/2/T6) : “How does a man
know that he is dead?” but some data on
hand seems to have a bearing on the matter.
On the evidence against John Jackson for
the murder of Constable McGrath at the
1 rades Hall, Melb., the Law dealt with him
at the end of a rope. Everyone was made
fully aware of what was being done, and the
newspapers gave a liberal supply of details.
But, if there w y as any lingering doubt as to
the Law having well and truly carried out
its part, or John being under any misappre-
hension as to the result, it has since been
dispelled. In three successive weeklv issues
of the Vic, Government Gazette (Feb. 2.
D and 1G) appears a good half-column of
statutory testimony from a Government saw-
bones and nearly a dozen assorted gaol
officials, a like number of pressmen, and two
constables that they
this day (24/l/’l6) witnessed the execution of the
said John Jackson at the said gaol, and that the
said John Jackson was, in pursuance of the said sen-
tence, hanged by the neck till his body was dead.
So it seems reasonably safe to conclude that
John was settled. What took place ought
to be a warning to him, anyhow.
Rag”: One result of the riot amongst
soldiers in Sydney is that over a thousand
men have been dismissed, and the incident
is being spoken of as a beautifully swift,
definite ard satisfactory solution of the
trouble. To me it all looks dangerously
casual and expensive. If a soldier needs
only to make himself a nuisance in order to
obtain release from the army there can be
no doubt of continuous leakage. Moreover
every recruit in training costs something like
£1 per day, counting his wages, clothing,
food, accommodation and instruction. Thus
the thousand men dismissed last w r eek, who
averaged but a month in camp, meant a
monetary loss to the Commonwealth of over
£30,000. Obviously it should not be possible
for recruits to riot themselves out of the job,
after involving the country in much expense.
Another thing is that these thousand men
could be found useful toil somewhere where
they could be backed at long odds not to go
on strike before time was up,


Piccadilly Circus, London
The Directors of the largest hotel
in the Empire, or even in Europe,
a magnificent hostelry completed
and opened in June last, ordered
from us a Beale Horizontal Grand
Piano for the principal reception
room. We have no London show-
rooms, but had supplied an order for
pianos, also quite unsolicited, for
their other large hotel, the Strand
Palace. Instructions were sent to
us from London in 1914 as follows :
“ We wish you to make, for use in
“ the Regent Palace Hotel, now in
“ course of erection at Piccadilly
“ Circus : One full-sized Concert
“ Grand Piano in burr walnut, latest
“ model, with only exterior ornamen-
“ tation sufficient to be dignified.
“ We think it unnecessary to give you
“ any instructions as to quality—•
“as you will know to supply an
“ instrument of the best.”
We have since received letters ot
strong commendation from con-
noisseurs of high reputes upon the
instrument.
Even in time of war, this handsome
hotel, whose splendid reception
rooms are finished as examples of
strictly classical architecture, is
crowded daily with visitors. Any-
one sojourning in London who omits
to call at the Regent Palace, and
everyone goes to Piccadilly Circus,
misses one of the finest sights of the
great Metropolis.
There are about 1200 bedrooms, and
the whole of the arrangements are
modern, hygienic and comfortable.
The Beale Pianos^were awarded at
the great Franco-British Exhibition,
London, 1908, Grand Prize and three
Gold Medals for their points of excel-
lence, being the highest award given
for any pianos.
r
STB?
It
m
<yfP
lit
v//
r
SL
m\
1
1 w \,,
'-r?
K:
S3*
-ii
ir_'
o
«2
,\\v-^
' -
Sr'
\\
wmmm.
Head Office and Factories: 41 -47 TRAFALGAR ST., ANNANDALE, SYDNEY
City Showrooms: 136 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY
Branches at Newcastle, Lismore, Bathurst, Orange, Wagga, Broken Hill, Brisbane, Maryborough,
Rockhampton, Townsville, Cairns, Mackay,. Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth


m
The least
exertion,
whether
it be
work or
p 1 e a s u re,
seems t o
quickly tire
you out and
makes you
feel weak
and languid.
This means
that both
your mental
and physical
vitality is
low. It may
be caused by too much work,
worry or pleasure, but a course
of
FISHER’S
PHOSPHERINE
The Great Nerve Tonic
quickly restores the system to
its normal condition, and gives
you the vim and vigor necessary
to enjoy both work and pleasure.
in cases of Indigestion, Back-
ache, Malaria, Headache, Brain-
fag, Nervousness and Muscular
Rheumatism Fisher’s Phos-
pherine is the remedy which for
forty years has been unequalled.
All Chemists and Stores, 1/- per
bottle. Four times the quantity,
2/6.
Chemists,
337 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W. F.149.P.
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The i a test
Scientific Hearing: Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
1916 ThinßeceiverModel
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 CiEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
Druids’ Art Union.
Total Value of Prizes, £750.
Ist PRIZE, £400; 2iul PRIZE, £lOO.
Value Guaranteed.
100 Prizes. TICKETS, ONE SHILLING.
Upon receipt of postal note for 1/- ticket
will be forwarded to any part of the Com-
monwealth. Do not delay. Send postal
note and addressed envelope to the Secre-
tary,
R. A. BARRY.
715 George Street, Sydney.
I©
The
“Strand'
A boot for the “Smart Set.’’
Patent Colt Goloshed Dull Calf
Top, Derby lacing style, light
Pump Sole, Wood Heel covered
with Black Celluloid. Sir.es, 2
to 7. Fitting 3 and 4 ta/
width
We Pay Postage.
For Distinctive Footwear,
135 King Street, SYDNEY.
) The Bulletin
Stock Saddle
This latest saddle of ours combines mal , v
COMFORT INNOVATIONS in saddles—
dippy pisskin seat, the rough out-fls lps f or g r j n
G.S. panel with the short stuffing aiid leather nninf.
the long girth straps and long flaps, it i s fitted un
illustrated with folded leather girth, stirrun WfiJ.
4-bar nickel-plated stirrups and SURCINGLF Th’
knee-pads are well made and strong and the right shan
for comfort. If you prefer all smooth leather instead of
rough-out say so when ordering, and give your height
and weight.
Price £slos.
Freight Free
for Cash.
to arf port or railway station in N.S.W.
in the other States, New Zealand or Fiji.
or any direct port
KING HEAD BRIDLE, rein and billet in one piece,
1-inch cheeks and rein's, with Bradoon Bit, 10/6 post
free. If ordered with Saddle, 9/6; Saddle Cloth, 4/(5.
or a yard of good Saddle Check, 4/6.
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON LTD.
Saddlers & Harness MaKers,
393 George St. and 32 Hunter St., Sydney.
Perfect!
This beautiful
girl, never on the
stage unknown
to fame —is des-
tin%l to astonish the world.
Her figure conforms absolutely to the
standard measurements of perfection:
Height, weight, bust, arm, waist, thigh, calf and ankle. She
has posed for us exclusively', and we offer full-length
exquisite art studies (draped and undraped), size 7x9
inches. We will send one of these matchless art poses for
Five Shillings, all charges prepaid and satisfaction
guaranteed. A fine gift suggestion for a man’s den! If
you receive one you will want the whole set. They are
not prints, but Real Photographs.
CELEBRITY ART STUDIO,
Suite 12. Montana Flats,
Cremorne Point, Sydney
«
m
m.
isSS
1
m
ESS
U
1
m
’’imA-d
&
8 O
B, 10,
12,16,20,
24 and 28 gauge
HIGH flying, fast-
going game ne-
cessitates a powerful
Loaded in London
•with the popular
English powders
and ac-
curate
cartridge.
Try the Rf m Jfit lorl
ARROW” Brand
blainable from leading dealers every-
here catalogue post-free on request.
Remington Arms-Union
Metallic Cartridge Co.
Woolworth Bldg., New York City
St. Stephens House
Westminster, S.W.
London
EVERYTH IMG IM RIMGS” SEMD FOR OUR SPECIAL RING CATALOGUE
CHOICE DIAMONDS MOUNTED IN SOLID IS''' GOLD
-p _ lb
N 659 /- B!46~ "&fsj-
s -
SI
Ij I
11%
errs*.
A,'* f I
e/io/-
7/15/-
8600
P 73
SATISFACTION ‘ ’OU IECS r OB CSW'ftEFUNDED
MAKERS OF R!MGS IM WHICH THE STOMES DO STAY
No. 304 A
OSTER
MACHINES
BELT (EL MOTOR
DRIVEN
47 distinct die-
stocks and screw-
ing machines.
One to fit your
pipe-threading
needs.
Australian Representative:
CHARLES WRIGHT,
Box 251, C.P 0., Melbourne. Vic.
FOR ALL-ROUND
PIPE-THREADING
V f
OSTER Pipe-Threading Machines excel becajw
their wide range of usefulness concentrated
smallest floor space of any threading 1 ~
The machine shown at the left, i
304 A, threads 8 sizes of Pg
from 1-inch to 4-inch diwne r.
and bolts all sizes from r ter
If-inch. Special features of Us e
Machines are : Automatic ,•
lease, quick-opening dies, au {
oil pump and simpie,
die-head. For clean-cut
and quick work use Oster - <
The Oster Mfg. Co.
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
ti
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Ao notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Aame and address must appear on the MSS. Ao
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Mulga: The changing of the name of
Dead Man’s Gully might be interesting in the cir-
cumstances if wo could make out from your hand-
writing what the new name is. The guesses so far
are, “Dasakula,” “Barahula,” “Basshula.’’ What is
it, anyhow ?.... Fred N.: Dog yarn no use. If you
type any more so closely that a needle-pa® can’t
get between the lines, they’ll also be no use....
Kel: What’s a drip safe? Ought to be a par. in
that. . . .Vulcan: Ugh !. .. .J.D.L.: This paper has no
time for “chatty letters.” If you have a meaty par.
send it; if not, throw it away... . W.W.8.C.: Merely
a matter of opinion. “Democratic legislation” is a
horribly ill-used phrase, anyhow’.... E. 8.: You can’t
slop all over the place like that and call the result
verse... .T.R.: Where have you been vegetating not
to know that women have put their clothes on
again?... .Maphsu: Fine note to finish on: “While
only himself does know'.”.. . . Bellerive: “A glimpse
of the Slums” is the pick of the bunch this week: —
Though abolished are cribs —•
Of once vile renown,
Many rookeries yet stand in
The slum's of the town,
Born and bred in squalor—
Ragged children play,
Amidst the blistered dens on
The last stage of decay,
But we all have our sins
For the Lord to forgive,
From the outcast to the peer
Who in luxuriance live.
... .J.R.S.: Quite agree with you; you are what
you. are—a writer of bad verse. .. .Rejected: It is.
.... The Printer’s Devil: Put it in a choirmaid’s
album.... Macko: What wmuld you have done —
caught the bombs in your hat ?.... Alpenite: That
instrument is badly out of tune —and grammar —and
print... .1.R.G.: Vile verse; idiotic theory
G.L.: Perhaps the crook in your toe accounts for
the mental limp... .T.N.8.: “Hail! thou radiant
Southern Queen” moves us to fury. Out! .. . . 8.A.0.:
Tragedy too rtw v Stuff like that wants stewing
with peppered mint-julep.... Boozer Bill: You can’t
rhyme “royal” and “toil” in this paper....Uno
Hoo: Well, send it to him. The Professor ought to
see what some verse written in Australia is like.
.... M.P.: Getting tired of rhymes about heroes and
slackers; try teetotal drunks and irreclaim-
able wowsers... .H.0.C.: Good idea, but tails
off badly... .Hoodette: What is it? A riddle
or a telegram ?... .M.8.P.: N0....G.5.: If “my
lady” can’t rouse anything more than that
sort of emotion, get another... .C.W.: The
best cure for your complaint is to stand on
your head six hours a day and let your boots think
for you... .H. 8.: Oh, can’t you say damn plainly
and have done with it ? There isn’t any “yet” in
the matter. .. .D. 8.: Even in middle age if is quite
possible to “feel small” if you really like the sensa-
tion.... Bush Bov: A call to arms on a Jew’s-harp.
... .Walleolus: No; verse all out of tune. Try
prose. .. .Salt Lake: Too slight. .. .T.G.C.: What
stodgy dreams Springw'ood must produce, if they’re
anything like the verses C.T.C.: Out upon you!
Mere blanc-mange Obtest: Well, do as you “damn
please,” whatever that means. .. .Fernleaf: You
haven’t learned to take trouble. Don’t repeat other
people’s phrases and ideas... .Ansonia: “She took
me out of the dark gully of my early misery and
the rank, noisome growths of the last few years
into the glorious sun of her love and tenderness.”
And that from a slum rat who can’t write his
name! Go on, now. . . .8.C.T.G.: “Miyajima” doesn’t
seem to mean anything. Send it to the potentate
mentioned in the dedication. He’s got lots of time.
S.C.W.: Not quite F.W.: Unpleasant verse
about two flowers starts in one measure and limps
off into another,. . .Binalong: Workmanship a bit
too rough.,. .G.M.D.: Alphabetical rhymes too
weak.... Gosh: Lord, but it’s a dreary animal....
Semoline: Good luck, anyhow. We like a trier....
N. 8.: “Dook’s Letter” very poor stuff... .E.J.C.:
“Beyond Providence” not improved. .. .E.D.: The
“Doll” is a dull person. .. .W.D.: Cheerful to get a
whiff of beery verse from the Y.M.C.A. ; but there
isn’t enough body in it. .. .E.M.S.: Don’t see any
sense in “Nebuchadnezzar” verses. Stories go on
their merits.... H.S.: Not up.... J.M.W.: “The
Work Beast” isn’t entertaining,... D.M.: Parables
are easy to do and of no interest. The artificial
treatment rings false. Verse misses. .. .M.8.P.:
Verse out. Yes, there’s hope if you get., to grips
with the job L.F.: But it isn’t a poem. It’s a
piece of frightfully bad doggerel.... Baby: What a
doldrum he must be to inspire verse like that... .
Olive : Nothing in those eyes. Spectacles could provoke
better verse.... G.R.H.: Dismal ditty relieved by
“shrieks of hungry gnouls.” Haven’t met a gnoul
for years, but distinctly remember how they used to
steal the bathroom soap... .L.R.: If you can’t dream
nonsense without being stupidly conventional in
every line, for Heaven’s sake change your supper
liquor... .J.A.: You can’t write verse.
The Manly Council after a lot of trouble
has succeeded in obtaining fi-om the Port
Jackson Ferry Co. a rental of £lOOO a year
for the use of the wharf at the village used
by the co. This rent, the monopoly com-
plains, is dreadful, but the Council has now
received an offer from the proprietor of a
merry-go-round to lease a chunk of the beach
end of the Corso for 10 years for £lO,OOO,
or £lOOO a year. As the Ferry Co. extracts
a profit from every tripper to Manly and
the merry-go-round only gets a profit from
the small proportion enticed on to it, the
figure offered by the showman has taken the
Council’s breath away. The local policy has
always been to turn a deaf ear to these pro-
posals ; but one has to be very deaf not to
hear someone else offering to hand up £2O a
week. So the matter is being given earnest
attention.
Adelaide University has made Chief Jus-
tice Murray its Chancellor in succession to
the late Chief Justice Way. There is no
special reason why the two offices should be
held by the same man; some people think
the job of sawing off law —with the occa-
sional boredom of Lieutenant-Governorship
—quite enough for one man’s time. Murray,
however, has been connected with the Univer-
sity from boyhood, has held most of the
offices connected with it, and was already
Vice-chancellor. He would pretty certainly
have been Chancellor w T hether he w T as Chief
Justice or not. Law and education being
the two great interests of his life, he' can
probably do justice to both.


Model 75
Electric Lights
Electric Starter
Double-Seater, £295
Single-Seater, £290
fcs.
SI
M
3
1000 Cars Per Day Production Makes
This Car Possible at So Low a Price.
Our factory contains 103 acres of floor space, and
employs 12,000 men.
We produce 1000 cars a day.
This —and this only —explains our ability
to oive so much car for so little money.
Overland Model 75 is a small, light,
comfortable family car with most of the
advantages of much larger, higher-priced
cars.
It has a full streamline body of the latest
design. The finish is a lustrous black with
.bright nickel and polished aluminium fittings.
b ive adults can rule comfortably m the
wide, roomy seats. Ihe cushions are soft
and deep over long, flexible springs.
While the wheelbase is long— -104 inches
—the car is light in weight, igcwt.
The large tyres give greater mileage than
could be obtained from the smaller size used
on other cars of similar specifications. These,
with rear springs of the famous cantilever
type, insure remarkable riding comfort.
Together with these advantages and
many others you get the Overland
thoroughness in design, quality of material
and workmanship. This is possible at such
a price only under the Overland method
of scientific manufacture in large quantities.
Let us show you this car.
SPECIFICATIONS :
Long Stroke Motor, Cast En Bloc.
Electric Starter —Electric Lights.
Electric switches on steering column.
Right-hand steering—centre level s.
Instrument Board on Cowl Dash.
Cantilever Rear Springs.
Deep, Soft Upholstery, High Back Seats.
Wheelbase 104 inches.
Large tyres, 31 x 4, non-skid on rear.
Demountable, detachable rims—one
extra.
Rear Axle, full-floating type.
Large, powerful brakes.
Thermo-Syphon cooling.
Body, streamline with concealed door-
hinges.
Rain-vision Windshield, ventilating
type, built-in.
Crowned fenders.
Lustrous black finish.
Nickel and polished aluminium trim-
mings.
Electric engine starter and generator,
with head, rear and dash lamps and
headlight dimmers, storage battery.
One-man Mohair hood with dust cover;
magnetic speedometer; electric horn;
combination rear light and license
bracket; hinged rug rail; foot rest;
tyre carrier in rear; full set of tools;
tyre repair kit; jack and pump.
COMPLETE INFORMATION ON REQUEST.
AUSTRALIA :
E G EAGER & SON LTD., 299 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
the ' CO-OPERATIVE MOTOR SOCIETY LTD., 41 Hunter Street, Sydney.
THE KELLOW-FALKINER MOTOR CO., 206 Russell Street, Melbourne.
MURRAY AUNGER LTD., 60 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
ANDERSON & ADAMS LTD., W.A.
H. C. HEAT HORN & CO., Hobart, Tasmania.
NEW ZEALAND:
HATRICK & CO., Wellington and Wanganui.
NEW ZEALAND FARMERS’ CO-OP. ASSOCIATION, Christchurch.
The Willys-Overland Company, Toledo, Ohio
Full information on request to any of the abovementioned Dealers.


Hanking:, Public Companies, &c.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET. SYDNEY.
Commissioners—
R. A. WARDEN (President), W. 11. O’M. WOOD,
H. D. HALL.
SECURITY AND SATISFACTORY
INTEREST FOR YOUR SAVINGS.
DEPOSITS received from Is. upwards.
INTEREST paid at 3f per cent, per annum
on all balances up to £5OO on accounts
opened under the conditions of Government
Savings Bank Acts, and up to £2OO on
accounts opened with the late Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Deposits guaranteed bv the Government.
MONEY TO LEND TO FARMERS
AND SETTLERS.
in amounts up to £5OO, repayable by instal-
ments extending over 31 years. Interest 5 per
cent.
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES THROUGH-
OUT THE STATE.
POST OFFICES are NOT NOW Agencies
for this Bank.
By order of the Commissioners.
J. 11. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE,
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL. £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Directors: ITon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY.
Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, K.C.M.G.
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
Cenerai, Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Brandies throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE
Dustralian Rank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (31st December, 1915) .. £1,196,108
RESERVE FUND £75,000
HEAD OFFICE : George & King Streets, Sydney
LONDON' OFFICE: 37 Tlireadneedle Street, E.C
DIRECTORS- — Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman:
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Arthur S. Barton.
Esq.; Frank N. Yahwood, Esq.; Herbert R.
Lysagiit, Esq. ; George F. Todman, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 480.n0n n o
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 200,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,uim..oi>!< 4 a
All new business since 1993 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Running, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland. Ireland.
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking (Jo.
of Sydney, [imited.
Capital Paid-up.. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1,805,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,805,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. . . . . Chairman,
lion. 11. E. Kater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dimis, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and ,T. J. Brenan, Esq
General Manager: 11. H. Maskie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Hirchin Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq. ; .Hon. H. S. Littleton ;
K. D. Cohen, Esq. Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up . . ... .. 992,295
Uncalled Capital . . .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,057*170
DRANTS DRAFTS 011 A,lstr alia, New Ze-a
UHMN I O UlSrtr I o ]and) Fijj) Samoa; Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
business.
The Colonial [fjutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
r oa
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments a::d
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £0,000.000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office fof. New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Shipping &c.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D
• Geared Turbine
ORMONDE
ORAMA
ORVIETO
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA
ORONTES
OMR AH
A. “ nijcicoo i eiegrapuy. i\ew ana nixun-
-2“ f Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Keg?" sailings from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Eta.,
l2 Maiitin Place, Sydney.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
(UNDER THE BRITISH FLAG)
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA,
and PAPEETE (TAHITI).
'' a Annnn BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE, in connection
with all United States and Canadian
Railways.
MAITAI,
Sails from Sydney, 23rd MARCH.
To be followed by
MOANA,
from Wellington, 27th APRIL.
Connecting Steamer leaves Sydney 20th APRIL.
STEAMERS STAY 24 HOURS AT PAPFFTF
‘THE PEARL OF THE PACIFIC.” EETE ’
Return tickets available by various routes.
Ail Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraph}'.
Particulars and pamphlets obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND. LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting): —
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
‘CAIRNS
(‘Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports).
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney March 4.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne March 8.
Leaves Sydney March 11.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne March 15.
Leaves Sydney March 18.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for f
S.A.and W.A. ports) J
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney March 11.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
SAMOA- h O N O L U L U
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
Sailings from Sydney:—
MAR. 8, MAR. 29, APRIL 19, MAY 10.
AppIy:— OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282,
nORt
4V/ 4
J AV*
\&to»
'\%y<
Po.
%y
i %
’•*Zc
'it
BRISBANE
■
' lORD
YDNE
W/////A
fIBOUR
,4
' NORFOLK
I?
Holiday'
bruises
JAVA.S/NCAPORE
& Pacific Isles.
Burns Philp&Cvltp
Send for Pamphlet*
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£3,500,000
£2,600,000
£3,500,000
£9,600.000
The Hon. Sir Charles Iv. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.
M.L.C., President.
Robert Lionel. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, (j.Ai.u., M.E.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: Shepheard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq.; Alfred George Milson Esq
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St EC
344 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London’
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. 0 '
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nea-o-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU. Brisbane.
Branch Office:
279 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
c. TROEDSON, Director.
Commonwealth
JBaitHtaralta
HEAD OFFICE - SYDNEY
for a.ll General Banking Business in the
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct Foreign hilla
negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world S 8
Ban Sr EX f" ?e i !U l ineS j of „ every descr 'P tion transacted within the Commonwealth
United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits’
Advances made against approved securities. y deposits.
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at over
Minimum
Deposit
2550
Post Offices
in Australia,
and Papua
Interest at 00/
per annum 0/ 0
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor.
June, 1915
DENIS'IN MILLER, Governor
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
Capital Subscribed .. .. ..£250,000
Capital Paid-up £loo’,ooo
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits.. £l5 365
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
The Company acts as Executor, Joint Executor, Trus-
tee, Administrator or Attorney under Power for’absen-
tces, and is the only Trustee Company empowered by
Act of Parliament to operate in more"than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 48 Young Street.
Directors.
The lion. Sir CHARLES Iv. MACKELLAR, M.L.C.
JAMES KIDD, Esq.
K. M. PITT, Esq.
Full information as to terms, etc., obtainable on
application to JOHN MAIR, Manager.
COCORED POST-CARDS, bv Harrv J
Weston—“WEEKLY WORRIES.” ‘ Set
of sis, posted free. 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street. Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
lai’ly^to'?-^ 3 " 3 ' 8 n,a = nificent Steamers trade regu-
T WEED, IUCHMOND, CLAUENCK ni?mver„
jpß-SS'S
SMgSSfptS
rail to Byron Bav, Biclimond' e o r t % Munvilllllnbah .
there connecting with one of thp P Clarence u ‘vers,
HOUND TICI S 0r mPanyß UP ' t0 ’
steamer. £6 Ss! *6,1 ’• won'd^f 8 lais .. and saloon on
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d. -class rail and steerage
For Guide and all particulars apply—
__ Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIPco i
express passenger service o ■
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH ACSTR m,
VICTORIAN and OUEINSLANB PORTS
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIBIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DLMBOOLA, March
a »d April 8.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
March 4.
ALLINGA, March 11
MORIALTA, March i»
RUPaRa, March 25. 18
Saloon Passage Tickets 1™ ,
the first Port of call with other aftcr
on all services subject to conditioner S° m|)lni(, »
ascertained on application at the Company's £ I,e
G. S. YUILL & CO.. LTD
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
The Vancouver Route
VIA NEW ZEALAND, FIJI \\n
HONOLULU.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
AUSTRALIA, NEW zTaLAND, CANADA
CANADIAN-AUSTRAL ASI AN Tt W
LINE. L
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific lhihv<i„
lIIL “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENG! AND
OPERATING THE LARGEST, NEWEST PASmr
AND BEST-EQUIPPED VESSELS ’
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE A
CONTINENT. IUUCAN
SAILINGS:
Steamers.
t MAKURA .
* NIAGARA .
t MAKURA .
* NIAGARA.
f Twin-Screw.
Leave i ' ~~
Sydney' ! I ei "’e
3 p.m. , A »ckland.
Mar. 16 ! Mar IT
April 13 April 18
May 11 May i«
June 8 . June 13
Pitted with Cabins
wireless, etc.
Passengers stopping
comfort and convenie
Grand Pacific Hotel,
rates are available to
off at Suva can obtain evcit
nee at the new and palatial
Coupons at specially-reduced
passengers.
For full particulars and pamphlets apply
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OP N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 269 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
"Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“ Ulimaroa,” “Wimmcra,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Federal & Shire Lines
STEAM TO LIVERPOOL via NEW ZEALAND
and SOUTH AMERICA.
T.S.S. “ SOMERSET.”
11,000 Tons. CAPTAIN JARVIS.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
SAILING MELBOURNE about MARCH 10, 1916-
Fare to Liverpool, £4B.
Excellent accommodation f<y- a limited number of
Saloon Passengers.
Well-lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
All passengers must produce Passports before booking.
For full information apply to
BIRT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO. PTY.. LTD,,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide.
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,000 tons
T.S.S. “ KANOWNA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ KYARRA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel oy
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. Attei
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets aie
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, ais
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fiji .^ rate ’
particulars on application. For dates of sailing se
Daily Papers.
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
IF any illustration appearing in T 1
Bulletin takes your fancy write to toe
Manager, who will quote you price for tie
original.
TTuT&xxllefxoi.
214 George Street. Sydney.


Ml
ifH
»
m
An
Kodak for
making “Home”
pictures to
send to soldiers
fighting
at the Front!
You can cheer up your soldier friend by sending him pictures of the home surroundings, and of persons, scenes and happenings to interest him. They will
brighten him up, and help him to bear his lot more lightly.
There are Autographic Kodaks from 30/- to £l5/2/-, and you can learn to use one in half an hour.
And remember
Every Soldier needs a Vest Pocket Autographic Kodak
to take Snapshots of his part in the War.
Give your friend one before he goes away, for it will enable him to make pictures of his own experiences in this great war —pictures that will /he of
inestimable value in years to come.
The Soldier’s Kodak —The Vest Pocket Autographic Kodak, takes clear, sharp little pictures— 2i xlf inches, which are easily enlarged. Price 30/-.
Call and examine one —or write for free descriptive pamphlet. Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
250-252 Queen St., Brisbane; 37 Run die St., Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth St., Hobart;
Ruthven St., Toowoomba; Flinders St., Townsville; Denham St., Rockhampton;
346 Argent St., Broken Hill; Dixon St., Wellington, N Z.; 3 Borne St., Auckland,
N.Z.; and 76 Stuart St., Dunedin, N.Z.
The Edison Diamond
Disc Phonograph
The marvel of
the century.
The Edison Diamond Disc Phonograph is not merely a talking
machine, but the finest musical instrument in the world.
Without expression music is dead; it does not satisfy you; it cannot
move you. The Edison Diamond Disc music is full of expression
and feeling; it does move you.
It has a new, fundamental advantage found in no other make. It
truly reproduces the tone colors, or overtones, of music—making
it possible to interpret tbe world’s choicest music artistically and
in a manner acceptable to you and your musical friends.
&
£
A
The Tone has purity, volume, bril-
liancy, resonance and power.
The Diamond Disc Phonograph is
equipped with a genuine Diamond
Point —no needles to change —auto-
matic stopping device, automatic record
feed, and plays the new, long-wearing,
long-playing, sweet-toned, practically-
unbreakable disc record.
You must hear it to appreciate its
wonderful beauty of rone, and see it to
appreciate its beauty of design.
Call on your nearest Edison dealer for
full details, or write direct to us for
descriptive printed matter.
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD.
(Wholesale only), 364-372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
I!
rer
he Farm
Ho
A^PhersoiVs)
Proprietary Limited w
(Cjtab i§oq).
~ Melbourne
If
c?
Our 344-page Catalogue —FßEE
It deals with the requirements of Farmers, Grazierr, Orchardists, Gardeners,
Blacksmiths, Woodworkers and Mechanics generally. Write for it.
i '
o .«*
?V rJ(/*A Cii^.
2, u,j£tC>-H )•■••• *iss
cs
JEN-'NS
fe'NS
Ci-M. J 8 * 1 ,Xn * §3
-22?
JENKINS
JtNKiNs
JENK.NS
3> profit}-
“JENKINS ’96 PACKING”
will pack the most uneven surfaces,
making absolutely leakless, durable
joints. The pressure and heat cause
the packing to vulcanise, fill up
inequalities of surface, and afford a
fit perfect as would be possible on
the smoothest surface. The “Jenkins”
’96 is easily and quickly applied in
either hot or cold joints. Made in
rolls, one yard.
Approximate weight per square yard.
4>/- per lb
W e stock Packing' from 1/3 per lb
hers ojVs)
Proprietary Limited
Collins Street, Melbourne.
Bathurst Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 1860.


V*
The Newgate
POST
FREE
10/6.
Just the Hat for every young fellow.
A Fur Felt in rich, soft shades of
Grey, Fawn and Brown. Also in
Black brim wide, and can be
worn upturned, down or as the wearer
wishes.
Fitted with smart, silk-corded band
and back bow, also grease-proof head-
leathers.
Special Price - - 10/6.
Finney, Isles 8 Co.
LTD.,
The Big Block,
Brisbane.
THE BEST AND MOST
ECONOMICAL STATIONERY
IN THE WORLD
carries the KOLOK trade mark. No office is
sending out the best British-made stationery
unless KOLOK TYPEWRITER CARBONS,
PEN AND PENCIL CARBONS and TYPE-
WRITER RIBBONS are used. The KOLOK
ECONOMY BINDER has no equal. Every
businessman should at once see that his
office uses Kolok makes.
ALL STATIONERS.
Australasian AgentC. F. BICKFORD,
5 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
MODERN TOOLS
FOR THE
GARDEN and
FLOWERS.
“NORCROSS”
have revolutionised Hand'
Cultivating. The sharp,
tapering Shovels literally
tear up the earth from
lin. to 6in. deep, leav-
ing ground level, loose
and untrampled. And it
is done with such ease
and speed as to make
gardening an extreme
pleasure.
They work closer to
plants without injuring
them than any other
tool.
Ask your Ironmonger
or write our Agents—
Cultivator-hoes
s.
c.
SCOTT-YOUNG LTD.,
1 Bond Street, Sydney.
S. NORCROSS & SONS, Manufacturers
Bushnell, Illinois, U.S.A.
To Sydney Visitors
“ Clifford,” Macleay Street,
Potts Point.
BOARDING HOUSE REFINED HOME
Magnificent Harbor View and Grounds.
Swimming Baths, Tennis Court.
15 MINUTES FROM G.P.O.
<iovernment Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 22nd February. 1016.
Tenders for the Supply of Electrical
Machinery for Customs Launch No.
15, for Melbourne.
fTIENDERS will be received at the under
J. mentioned addresses, subject to the co
tions of tendering, until Twelve Noon o
Wednesday, 22nd March, 1916, for supply 1
Electrical Machinery for Customs L au
for Melbourne.
Further particulars may be obtained h
the Commonwealth of Australia Caze >
obtainable at any Post Office, or ironi
Office of the Director of Navy Conti »
Navy Office, Melbourne; Naval Stan: *
Edgecliff, Sydney; and the Naval
Office, Brisbane.
• J. A. JENSEN,
Minister of State for the Na'j.
IN BANANA LAND
Shortage of labor threatens to seriously
affect the cutting and milling of the cane
crop this year. Mackay district expects a
record harvest, and everywhere except
in parts of the Bundaberg district the
crops will be heavy. Two new mills
—the South Johnstone and Burdekin
—will turn their rollers for the first
time, and expect to put through about
150,000 tons between them, whilst the Gov-
ernment Babinda mill, which crushed 51,000
tons last year, anticipates handling from
125,000 to 150,000 tons this season.
“Daniel” : When Labor lost the Wide Bay
seat, chiefly through mistakes of the
State Government, the usual crop of Tory
prophets rushed to point the sinister writing
on the wall. How well their prediction is
likely to be fulfilled was illustrated on
Saturday in the biennial Metropolitan Water
and Sewerage Board election. The Labor
leagues nominated four candidates for the
four vacancies, and all were successful. The
Labor bunch polled more votes than the other
eight candidates put together. And this on a
roll restricted to property owners and house-
tenants. In the face of this re-
sult it is up to the aforesaid seers to re-read
the stars.
. “Itan” : Fruit-growing is going to be a
big thing in Queensland, For banana land
in the Blackall Range country over £lOO an
aefe has been paid. Choice fruit at times
brings Bd. a dozen in the markets, while 2d.
pays. The pineapple men are also net-
ting' much coin, chiefly as a result of their
having supplied the demand for the Mac-
gregor variety, which is rapidly supplanting
all others. The Macgregor pine seems to
have had its genesis at Bulimba, but no one
seems to have traced its origin further back.
Most probably it is one of the seedlings of
the Acclimatisation Gardens. An acre of
these pines will yield 2500 fruit, averaging
4Mb. weight, which keeps well and never
blackens at the heart. That’s why it is
named after Rob Roy.
Dave Bowman, who passed out last week,
was one of Labor’s pioneers, and was a con-
temporary of Lane, Mat Reid, Mabbott and
other early democratic prophets. Bowman
was a Bendigo boy and commenced life as
a bootmaker. Drifting to Queensland he
entered Parliament as Labor M.L.A. for the
Warrego, and after sustaining a couple of
defeats settled down as representative for
the Valley. When the big split took place
in the Labor party in 1907, and some 17
members were practically expelled in a
bunch, Bowman was chosen leader of the
straight-out remnant, a position he retained
until Ryan succeeded him. He owed such
political success as he attained to his un-
doubted goodness of heart and his genuine
belief in the Labor movement; but some of
his views, such as his bitter opposition to
any form of immigration, and his habitual
and uncompromising denunciation of the
PORTEATOUS SIGNS.
WET WILLIE: “Jus’ heerd an old geyzer say th’ end o’ th’ world is cornin’.”
DRY DANIEL: “Yus, en I would not he surprised if he wasn’t about right, too. This ’ere
tori' about closin’ th’ pubs at six is a shure sign suthing terrible is gain’ to
happen.”
employing tfhlasS, were narrow and con-
tracted. 'No politician had more personal
friends in Brisbane —or deserved more. He
-was 55 when he passed out, after having
seen his party experience every variety of
Fortune’s mutations.
“F. Paul”: Here’s an example of how a
Labor Government is assisting the small
farmer. The Babinda Central Mill, run by
the' Government, recently issued this notice:
Owing to the unexpected rapid development of the
area for cane-growing purposes, it is anticipated that
the present cane supply will exceed the mill's crush-
ing capacity. You are hereby notified that before
undertaking the preparation 6f all further areas for
cane-planting that approval must first be obtained
from the mill management.
1 his is how it works out. There are four
cane-growers in the Babinda district whose
aggregate cultivated areas are considerably
over one-half the total area under cane.
There are also several others with compara-
tively large areas. Not one of the four culti-
vate the land personally, or even live near it;
they each have a business in Cairns, 40 miles
away. Their areas for this year’s crushing-
run from 500 to 800 acres each. There is no
doubt the cane supply will exceed the mill’s
crushing-capacity, and it is hopeless for any-
one to look forward to any fresh cultivation.
The consequence is that the small cane-grow-
ers, some of whom only planted 10 to 12
acres last year, and anticipated extending
their cultivation this season, will be hard hit.
Some of them will have to sell out, and it
would not be surprising if the whole district
eventually passed into the hands of about a
dozen monopolists.
“Bill”: Mayor Reed, of Maryborough, has
found some use for the rabbit-skins which he
recently acquired with his new job. Several
of his friends wagered he was not plucky
enough to decorate himself with the furs.
However, Reed conducted his first council
meeting in full regimentals, and the local
hospital has tendered its thanks for an un-
expected £!).
“Wig”: Pressure has apparently brought
the Government to the verge of d 'iug some-
thing with Police Commissioner t thill, who
earned the bitter enmity of Labor during the
big tramway strike. Cahill’s billet holds good
until 1917 by special enactment, but it looks
as if an abridgment were probable. After
all Cahill only did what he was appoint< d
or ordered to do, and that’s more than can
be said for some of the Ministers who would
like to drop him overboard.
“Itau": Premier Ryan is, perhaps, the
most finished artist in Australia in the hand-
ling of deputations. His plan is to get a
speaker to make a statement, and then cross-
examine him on it. With the information
gained he proceeds to cross-examine the next
man on the same item. Almost invariably
there will be a difference on a material
point, and that’s where Ryan applies the
Iv.O. The other day the beef kings went
along to have a talk to him about the com-
ing killing season. Most of them arrived
111 motor-cars and shepherded by a solicitor,
who had been briefed for the occasion. Ryan
nailed each speaker to one point: How much
did he want for his beef on the hoof?
►Scarcely two views were the same, prices
varying from about 4fd. to sid. But the
average agreement was that the all-
round price should not be less than
4gd. per lb., as against previ-
ously agreed upon. “So,” "said the
Premier, with a smile, “this deputation is
not asking anything in the way of cheaper
meat for the men in the trenches?” Letting
that sink in he added that he had to con-
sider the Imperial authorities, Empire inter-
ests, the men in the trenches and local
consumers. H e was just about to unfold
the Lmon Jack when the deputation seized
its hat, bundled into its elaborate car and
rushed for a reviver.
The Psalms.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
No more they lift the anthem sweet
In yonder temple grey ;
The God who once was throned there
No longer holdeth sway ;
11 is shrines are still —His praise is done,
llis worship past away.
’Tis true a quavering psalm at times
The passer-by may hear;
Some devotee may lift the note
And wipe away a tear;
'That lonely treble only makes
Desertion doubly clear.
Away on yonder Eastern plain
And yonder Gallic hill
.Another psalm by night and day
Swells up with giant thrill ;
Doubt not that they who chaunt it there
Must worship with a will.
In endless line from North to South
How roll the battle-cars;
And what a fervor fills that song
That smites the ruddy stars —
So sings Mankind whene’er from Christ
It turns to bloody Mars.
QUEENSLAND.
F. HORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP
Brisbane, February 20 iq-ic
My Dear Thargomindaii,— ’
The new University Council held it, « ,
meeting this week, and elected Robert P&
warden. The only other starter v,as l P
popular parson, E. Morgan Baker % t*
John s, but he withdrew and left the
the old political war-horse. 6 fleld to
The War Council is getting wo n ■ ± .
stride. The sub-committee 8 which % ?
billets for returned heroes in,', • I ? ds
berths for 97 of 108 discharged n Jn' ?
have applied to it for work. Five more i!
be led to a berth in a day or so, and Th
committee is now in search of employers J
have something more practical than a IT , n
strafing after-dinner speech to offer th '
maining six. Crampton, Director of
is chairman of the committee, and one Trl’
derson, a member of the 9th Battalion
was wounded at Gallipoli, is secretary.’
Tlie Men’s Auxiliary of the Red Cross,
Sornety is hard at its job of making com-
fortable furniture for the soldiers in the mi
lary hospitals, and many carpenters and
joiners are devoting their spare time to ti p
good work. The Amalgamated Society '
Carpenters and Joiners made a bad break the
other day when it proposed that the Red
Cross should assist the unemployed by en-
gaging and paying two unionists to push the
plane that is now whirling, shavings free
of cost. The crusader was bidden'a w
and continued farewell.
('apt. “Bob” Chambers, of the 9th Bat-
talion, who has been twice wounded but lias
now rejoined his unit, is engaged to an Eng-
lish bud. When he was'first wounded he met
the girl in Egypt. On receiving the second
wound. Fate, in the person of an arbitrary
medical officer, sent the Queenslander to Eng-
land, where he met the girl asrain. There-
upon they accepted the inevitable and
decided to make the best of it.
Enid Maealister, second daughter of the
James Macalisters, of Milton, murmured the
usual "I wills” to Claude Anderson, of Red-
cliff station, llughenden, last Wednesday. The
bride wore a modern, quite-short frock and
a veil. Her two bridesmaids, one of her sis-
ters and a daughter of the squatting Hoods,
wore pink. A small girl and a. boy in white
satin were also included in the procession.
After the wedding breakfast Mr. and Mrs.
Anderson left for the South.
Another matrimonial contract which will
have been fixed up by the time you receive
this gossip is that of Miss Annis Biganto,
youngest daughter of ,J. Siganto, who owns
much property near the Coomera River and
is known locally as the “King of the Coom-
era,” and a Brisbane man. Alfred Acton.
L. C. Groom, of the Toowoomba Chron-
icle, has gone into camp. lie is the fifth
Chronicle man to get the khaki habit.
Tolmie, M.L.A., is also khaki-clad these
days. He has been appointed to the com-
mand of a transport.
The Women’s Mutual Service Club fare-
welled its secretary, Mrs. Macfarlane, on
Monday night, and handed her a few items
representing their good wishes. She is leav-
ing for N.S.W., where her other half, Cyrus
A., is pushing a journalistic quill.
Nora Collison’s play, “To the Day,” has
now been published. Anyone who buys a
copy gives the Red Cross a helping hand, and
also obtains several speeches that might be
recited with the minimum amount of danger
to the performer, at concerts and such-like
dissipations.
Thanks for Christmas billies still pour in.
One Billjim concluded with this threat:
“I’.S. —I am 24 and dark.” Another wrote
in a somewhat injured strain to his lady of
the billy to the effect that he still had two
feet, and that only one sock was included;
also, he reproached her for sending a “Made
in Germany” pocket-knife. A knife of British
steel, two socks and a full apology are
already on their way to calm him.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
‘'Bill”: After three generations of the
family had kept the anvil ringing, Campbell's
smithy at Ipswich has put up the shutters.
In 1842 Donald Campbell landed in Ipswich,
then called Limestone, and undertook to
shoe anything foaled. In 1857 the concern
passed to the famous Hugh Campbell. From
the Condamine to Brisbane almost every
horse had given Hugh its paw. Bullockies
and racing men reckoned he had no equal
in the world. Police horses have been shod
by the Campbells for the last 70 years.


'Wsy s*
‘VS/s ■' 's'
>
W/i •'%:&'■&.
m
i
r /
«
-S3
fcl
i
[IHCS*
l--*.
I**
JSttN
wm*
1
KH
O
D
ID
D
i


The Medicine your
Grandparents used
Pills come and pills have gone for half a
century, but Carter’s Little Liver Pills
have all the time been giving health, strength
and happiness to millions.
Large pills and harsh pur-
gatives act violently on
liver and bowels ; this
old, gentle, sure con-
stipation remedy
cures without hurt-
ing. Good for
old and young.
Purely i
Vegetable. '
Small Pill—Small Dose — Sm ill Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
Carters
lITTLE
IVER
I PILLS.
KITZS
CIDER
Interstate Agents. —SYDNEY: Tucker & Co.;
BRISBANE : Burns, Philp & Co.; ADELAIDE :
W. P. Auld & Co.; PERTH: Philip Coyle;
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS: Burns, Philp &
Co.; GERALDTON: A. H. Mountain & Co. ;
HOBART: J. Ferguson & Co. ; LAUNCESTON :
J. McKenzie & Co.; ROCKHAMPTON: J. M.
Heddrick & Co.
What o«r Troops Think
Holdsworthy Camp, 7th October, 1915.
S. Fielder, Esq., liandwick. Dear Sir —On
behalf of our Company I wish to state that
we have derived great benefit from your
famous Exzerma. A great number of our
Company suffered from sore feet caused
through marching; also sunburn and chapped
lips, and were quickly cured by Exzerma.
Believe me, Yours faithfully,
Corporal Brown of the 10th, A I.E.F.
All Chemists and Druggists , or from
S. FIELDER, Randwick, Sydney.
5/-, 2 6
[i
DAIMLER 1
* T
(JippEECIAI, VEHICLES
Aghceltuml Tractors
tmDAIMLER COMPANY w
COVENTRY, ENGLAND,
V* ov''
THE- GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
9
GOUT
& RHEUMATIC PILLS.
The famous Remedy that actually re-
lieves RHEUMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO,
SCIATICA and MUSCULAR RHEUMA-
TISM.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores, 1/- and 2/6 per box.
Front & Co.. 229 Strand. London.
• .
thfill
e prese
ust
it
Df B.* Allen’s (U-SA)
]
Three little merry maids are we,
Winsome, gay, lighthearted, free.
Hear our bright and merry talk,
Note our light and springy walk,
Rosy cheeks and sunny curls -
We ’re the Iron ‘ Jelloid ’ Girls I
After taking IRON ‘jELLOIDS’ the blood becomes enriched and
strengthened, the appetite is restored, vitality is renewed. Anaemia
quickly disappears, giving place to vigorous and buoyant spirits.
Miss J. F. Dubery, Southall, writes : —“ I find your Iron 'Jelloids ’
“a great boon, being so easy to take, and so palatable. I always take Iron
“ ‘Jelloids’ as soon as I feel a bit * run-down,’ and after taking a few I feel
“ a marked change ; it is a splendid form of taking Iron.”
A fortnight’s trial ( Price 1/6) will convince you.
For Women, No. 2. Special Tonic for Men, No. 2A. (containing Quinine).
For. Children, No. 1. Sold in England at 1/li and 2/9. per box!
Obtainable at all Chemists throughout Australia.
Wholesale: Druggists' Sundries Ltd., 82, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
§
§
§
1
§
§
Shun Unbranded Underwear
—look for the Brand that guarantees
British make and quality
44
99
Underwear
The Brand “Jason ” on a garment
is a guarantee of unshrinkabihty, com-
fort, perfect fit, and unrivalled finish.
New "Olympic” Brand.
Owing to the high prices of the yarns from which
Jason All wool goods are made, the manufacturers
have introduced temporarily lower lines containing
a percentage of cotton—bearing the same guarantee
of quality as the regular lines. Your dealer will
supply you. Sole manufacturers
Jason Underwear Co., Leicester, Eng.
Ab 69 (f)
the
ORIGINAL
AND ONLY
GENUINE
PHOSFERINE
I/-2/6-4/6
of all Chemists
oold
qN^
O
-ri
-.- OO'
IJISIP 1
ro R
nC»
r -
tCfO? 0
Rt-er
t L-^l
F»oxf ' r r~s’V-‘S~r^
5j R £o
~?2
e»3
V\&u
o$
JoSiSS
Jv3
Australasia J
A and the (f
/
Umpire //
If served
with a sub-
stitute not
bearing the
name Ashton
/ & Parsons
Ltd., post the
package to 408
Collins St., Melb.,
when the genuine
article will be for-
warded and the cost
of postage refunded.
A PROVEN REMEDY
FOR
AJ
INDIGESTION
NEU
Supplied by ROYAL COMMANDS
the: royal family
H. /. M The Empress op Russia,
h.M. The King op 3pam ,
H. M. The NmQ op Greece,
H.N. The Queen oFßoamama,
Crc. ttc. ek.
ft
PHOSFERI/NE
Errvsares Vigorous
HeoJrK and gives
and ETKe-rgy.
Cbe ffiranb prior? of
Btx Sitwr ot tlx tbotpltal o( St. 3c6n
•f IcroMlem. in je»fllan6.
+
LADY SLOGGETT
20th July. 1915
Messrs. Ashton & Parsons, Ltd,,
Gentlemen,
We are requested by the Com-
missioners of the St. John Ambulance
Association at Havre and elsewhere
to supply, for use in the Base
Hospitals, 1,000 2/9 bottles of
Phosferine.
They inform us that your remedy
is in constant requisition by the
Field Hospitals, and from the reports
they receive, it is held in high
esteem as a Tonic possessing valuable
recuperative qualities.
I shall be obliged by your imme-
diate attention, as it is necessary
to get the Phosferine forwarded to
France as quickly as possible.
(Lady) Helen S. Sloggett.
P.S.—You are quite at liber
to use this as you think fit.
&
Ask for
at the
Use Horlick’s Malted Milk—
the invigorating Food-Drink
in cases of Mental Exhaus-
tion, impaired digestion, in
fact all nerve troubles.
Horlick’s
Soda Fountain
Sample v/ill be sent on
receipt of 2d. in stamps,
Write Hutchinson & Co., 26,
Jamieson Street, Sydney,
N.S.W.
I
*»TS |«VAt
Cpc * J *c or Nt m
l k«*i r»C M* 4^
.'Jew CHC*^
MALTED
MILK
A squadron of the Australian Flying
Corps is hovering on the verge of
departure for- England, where it is
understood the outfit will be attached
to the Royal Flying Corps for in-
struction. There are men in the squad-
ron, from all States, each flier having some
special knowledge. Particular interest
attaches to C flight owing to the fact that
a number of wireless operators are attached
to its personnel. When he goes aloft
the wireless operator will be accompanied
by a pilot and an observer. By virtue of his
mixed job he wears an arm-badge showing
streaks of white lightning enclosed in a
pair of white wings. The squadron will
probably be located at the Hendon aero-
drome for about four months, by which time
it is expected that most of the men will
have sprouted a gold star in the customary
place.
Just to show that Australia can do some-
thing beyond strike, a record was estab-
lished in Sydney the other day over the load-
ing of the P. and O. Co.’s Medina, which
was discharged, loaded, coaled and made
ready for the homeward voyage in five days.
Similar operations usually take 1G days;
but the Medina was required to get away a
fortnight earlier in order to cover a hole
that the Hun had made in the co.’s sched-
ule. The vessel arrived on Friday; after
discharging some cargo she went into Wool-
wich dry-dock at noon oh Saturday; came
out, in 24 hours, cleaned and painted ; was
coaled by Monday; and ready for sea on
Wednesday. Yet many of the unionists who
helped probably think less of their achieve-
ment than they would of a smoke.
“J.P.”: Re the Bosch magneto CB.
20/1/Y6). It is good to hear that British
and Australian makers are now able to turn
out something as good as the Bosch. It’s
about time they did. But. to give the devil
his earnings, the Bosch high-tension mag.
was a wonderfully efficient device. It solved
the ignition problem as far as the internal
explosion motor was concerned. Bosch did not
invent the magneto at all. One Simms
had a lot to do with it, but the intricate
machine was perfected by a humble
mechanic from Maoriland. He got the idea
that made a high-tension magneto possible,
and Bosch stole his brains and then dropped
him. A year or so back he was again earn-
ing a crust at The Bluff.
Ringing up San Francisco from Noo Yark
on the new transcontinental telephone line
is an impressive business. It is the longest
call in the world, 3400 miles, and the cost of
three minutes’ conversation is £4 6s. 3d.! If
the talk overflows that limit an additional
28s. is demanded for each extra minute.
Whether the talker has to go on doling out
28s. a minute when he is cut off in the middle
of his yarn and has to spend £2B for 20
minutes consumed in getting him connected
up again isn’t stated. Probably it is only in
Australia that the ’phone acts that way.
An ingenious individual na.med Godward
in Invercargill (M.L.), where the pubs are
dry, has an idea that a new type of car-
buretter he invented for internal explosion
engines is a gold mine. The ordinary car-
buretter has always been looked upon as a
crude sort of affair that only turns about
half the petrol, that goes through it into
vapor. The other half reaches the cylinders
in a liquid state, fails to ignite, furnishes
no power and is blown out through the
exhaust. Godward’s idea practically vapor-
ises all the petrol long before it gets to the
engine, because it breaks up the spirit at
the start and atomises it before it reaches
the gas-making stage. So nothing but dry,
cool vapor comes from the carburetter and
is delivered to the engine, where combus-
tion is perfect. The device makes any
car easy to start, gives uniform efficiency
and quiet running at all engine speeds, and
gets nearly all the energy out of every ounce
of petrol. It has been exhaustively tested
on 21 different makes of cars, and in
every instance is said to have increased the
distance that can be run by them on a given
quantity of petrol from 25 to 100 per cent.
The inventor is backed by a syndicate, and
there are stories that Noo Yark is fran-
tically howling for him to put his own price
on the rights for Wilson’s country.
I CAN’T AFFORD TO DIE!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, not for me the glory call for Country and for
King!
I dare not let my spirit soar when calling bugles
sing;
For I am not a care-free youth—l have some kids
around,
And I must keep my mental feet firm-set upon the
ground ;
So when the battle standards stream and wild
cheers split the sky,
I tell the heroes as they pass, “I can’t afford to
die!”
I can’t afford to die! Dear me, I am a married
man !
Let young men for the Present bleed —l for the
Future plan !
Oh, I must fret and I must sweat and take things
for my cough
Lest civil Death should pounce on me and bear me
swiftly off;
I’d love to live one crowded hour and see the
splinters fly,
But reckless deeds are not for me; I can’t afford
to die.
The posters pasted on the walls disturb my peace of
mind ;
But, bless you. I don’t lose my head, for I am not
that kind ;
I pass them by as I have passed Black Ruin’s gilded
brink
And ads. that call on me to be a man and take to
drink ;
I daresay I could drink and charge if I might have
a try;
But I am battling now with Life—l can’t afford to
die.
Though I have often sighed for rest —deep rest that
knows no end,
I have to wake and rise at six to get to work, my
friend ;
And I’ll go on as best I can until my strength is
fled,
And die of something lingering, ingloriously a-bed.
I hate the undertaker with his speculative eye,
And I’d love to be a hero—but I can’t afford to die.
TASMANIA.
FATHER OF TEN.


British Made
in Rugby, England
f DRAWN WIRE
Electric Lamps
LIGHT IS
A TOOL.
It is the most important
tool in the industrial
plant. It is the tool
by means of which all
other tools are run.
Work mg efficiency de-
pends upon light. If
the light is inadequate,
production falls in both
quantity and quality.
Increase the quality and
quantity of your output
by installing
MAZDA Lamps
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
BERTH (W.A.) : Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
—Agents—
‘Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE (S.A.) : Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch. Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock and Co., Ltd., Launceston; Oliver & Oliver, Ltd., MacQuarie Street, Hobart
IMPORTANT
Look to Your Teeth.
rhere are no teeth like those furnished by
Mature. For service, comfort, and good
lealth, artificial teeth cannot be coin*
la,, ed with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long us possible by
seeping them clean. Cold water and soap
>nd water are useful, but are somewhat
peffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
ls * 1 > crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
ne too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
ally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
be breath, harden the gums and disinfect
piTm?™ l * l . ( thu s preventing decay).
“tUMTA is therefore regarded as “the
ertection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
ree 1/3. Free sample posted.
fIOCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.. Melbourne.
SULPHOLINE
the famous lotion
Quickly removes SKIN ERUPTIONS,
ensuring A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
ihe slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable Pimples,
flishguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema disappear
by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
S.urf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
pholnie is prepared by the great Skin Specialists,
S i^^^Co-’Ltd.,Bedford Laboratories,London,
■ MglMd, and can be obtained from any
cnennsts and stores throughout the world.
- Quickly removes the effects of Sunscorch.
Concerts
at Home.
Theatrical tours are few in
country districts. One tires
of picture shows. What,
then, is the best form of
entertainment?
llpft r
«■
Why not have HOME CONCERTS at which THE WORLD’S
LEADING ARTISTES will perform? You can have them
often if you possess a
it
GRAMOPHONE
Oak “Tasman” Model, £l5.
This portable, hornless instrument is an improved model, made
of Dull Polished Oak, with nickel-plated cabinet fittings. It
has double-spring, spiral-drive motor; 12-inch turntable; speed
indicator; and “Ilis Master’s Voice” tapering tonearm, with
patent “Gooseneck” ; “Exhibition” sound box.
The Tone is PERFECT.
Price -£l5.
Accredited dealers everywhere.
Instrument catalogue, record
accredited dealers on request.
lists and name of
nearest
“ GRAMOPHONE ’*
Registered Trade Marl:
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
163 PITT STREET
SYDNEY
rar
n
M
I.A
\ v r/ -&
y r
J '■ ■ '
:C,Vi
-*‘>*s 4
*
c<
vi •
W'A
m
o.<
7Vu>
£
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
KYNOCH “SWIFT” is
THE Cartridge for the
“man on the land.”
Smokeless—effective—
reliable—it is a really
good, low-priced Cart-
ridge, and is deservedly
popular.
Factory loaded; uni-
form in pattern and
penetration.
BRITISH MADE.


Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
*p IVO L I THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
1 VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Plans at Nicholson’s and Tivoli.
■IVOEI
THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
NIGHTLY AT EIGHT.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
A BIG BOOM!
TIVOLI FOLLIES
OF 1915-1916.
EVERYTHING NEW AND DOWN TO DATE.
Plan at Glen’s.
H
E R
MAJESTY’S,
SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present a Dashing,
Dumps-Defying Delight,
SO LONG, LETTY.
With a brilliant cast.
Plans Paling’s.
Day Sales Callose’s.
QBITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S Realistic Production of
UNDER EIRE.
A vivid dramatic story of the violation of Belgium.
Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
D A L A C E T HEAT K E. S Y I) N E I.
* Sole Direction CHARLES STANFORD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE AUSTRALIAN COMEDY DRAMA, IN 4 ACTS,
FACT’I! Y ’ANUS.
By EDWARD DYSON.
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Reserved, 4/-.
Plan at Nicholson’s.
THKHIIIT K C I T Y.
Ruslicutter’s Hay, Sydney.
OPEN NIGHTLY, 7.30 TO 11.
ADMISSION SIXPENCE.
T. H. ESLICIv, General Manager.
XWM3WMIWM
TH E GARDEN THE ATIi E,
1 BAYSWATER ROAD, DARLING HURST.
One (1) Minute from top William Street.
MR. EDWARD BRANSCOMBE’S
DANDI HS COMP AN Y.
EVERY EVENING AT 5.15.
CHANGE PROGRAMME EVERY THURSDAY.
Prices 2/6 (Reserved), 2/- and 1/-.
Theatre ’Phone: William Street 512.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
"THE PICTURE BLOCK THEATRES
1 In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-.
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
1 1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT. MARCH 4.
Return of the popular ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
GIPSY LOVE.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6/-, if-, 2/- and 1/-.
THEATRE ROYAL, M ELBOURNeT
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., present the Brilliant Farce,
IT PAYS TO ADVERTISE.
Prices: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls 6 /-•
Stalls. 4/- ; Gallery, 2/-, Plan at Allan’s.
ICING’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE
Lessees. .. .BERT BAILEY & JULIUS GR \NT
Direction, PHILIP LYTTON LTD
Representative GEO. L. MERRIMAN
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
PHILIP LYTTON presents
THE WAYBACKS
AT HOME AND IN TOWN.
THE COMEDY THAT CATCHES EVERYBODY
Prices: if-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Allan’s.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE. M ELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MARCH 4.
SKaJlpmEn'S. in 0 ' aEmaE MMiLO "" S
TWELFTH NIGHT.
Popular Prices: if-.
2/-, 1 1-
A THEN JE U M II AL L, MELBOURNE
" SATURDAY EVENING, MARCH 4.
Return Visit of
SIGNALLER TOM SKEYHILL,
THE BLIND SOLDIER POET,
in his Illustrated War Lecture
WITH THE AUSTRALIANS AT ANZAC.
Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Pianola.
Direction FAULKNER SMITH.
IVI E IV A S S E M B L Y H A L L,
1 ™ Collins Street, Melbourne.
Week Commencing
SATURDAY, MARCH 4.
MALINI THE MAGICIAN.
Prices i 5/- and 3/-. Plan at Allan's,
E£ I JOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
W FULLER’S THEATRES & VAUDEVILLE LTD.
Governing Director .... BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
Afternoon 2.30. Evening at 8.
NELSON and NELSON, ROSE LEE IVY, LEONARD
NELSON, THE WONDERFUL ERNESTOS, AL-
PIIONSO and KING, GEORGE WHEELER. FRANK
HERBERTE, POLLARD and JACKSON, JESSIE and
DOLLY MILLER, VAL and LOTTIE NEWMAN.
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Matinees: 1/6, 1/- and 6d.
HO Y T’S PICTURES, MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.
TWO 810 SHOW S.
HOYT’S OWN: Bourke Street, next Theatre Royal.
OLYMPIA : Prince's Bridge.
BIRCH & CARROLL
** (Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Companv of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE
\^RDLEYS^
If Yardley's were ordinary
Lau-de-Cologne it would
not be to-day pre-dominani
in all the export markets
of the world. Fashionable
London approved of it for i
145 years—to-day the t
world approves ! t
Btnngt
During these hot Sum-
mer days this fragrant,
distinctive Eau-
d e-C ologne will be
found an appreciable
adjunct to the toilet.
You will be wise in
specifying
de-(xdogne
\ LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
ii. should l'ead the British Austral-
asian, (id. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High llol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
FAST EATING CAUSES DYSPEPSIA.
Few people chew their food sufficiently,
and to this fact is ascribed a good deal of
dyspepsia. The first action of the digestion
of food occurs in the mouth —mastication
and the mixing of food with saliva. Too
often food enters the stomach in a more or
less unbroken state and remains undigested.
A famous London doctor used to bluntly tell
his patients that the stomach is not a giz-
zard and resents being put upon. The late
Sir Andrew Clarke made his patients count
their bites. He said that every mouthful of
animal food required 32 bites, and he made
them count accordingly. Persons who have
been careless in their eating, or from some
other cause are subjects of dyspepsia, should
try the tonic treatment for their complaint.
They should avoid haste at meal-time and
take a course of I)r. Williams’ Pink Pills to
restore stomach tone. They act directly on
the blood, and the first response from the
stomach is a better appetite, freedom from
distress after eating, and an increase in am-
bition and energy generally. Try Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills as a stomach tonic and see
how your general health improves. These
pills are sold by all medicine dealers. —Anvx.
A BILIOUS TONGUE.
When your tongue is coated evenly, all
over, with a whitish-yellow color and your
breath is bad the chances are that you are
bilious. If you also have indigestion, con-
stipation, headache and a general ill feeling
there is scarcely a doubt about it. Your
liver needs attention.
Harsh cathartics which purge violently
and then produce a re-action only aggravate
the trouble. Gentle assistance is what nature
needs to establish regular habits of health,
and Pinkettes, the little pink laxative pills,
free from harmful or habit-forming drugs,
meet the requirements most admirably.
Send for a free trial sample to the Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co., Sydney, mentioning
The Bulletin. Pinkettes are Is. a bottle
at all medicine dealers. —Advt.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently eurerl thou sands of eases
of Internal and External Bleeding- Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Bov, or a Course of
8 Roves £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
Missing: Friends.
¥7> KID, LEOPOLD ('HAS., of Richmond.
ictoria, entitled to money from
Mother’s Estate. £lO Reward for present
address or proof of death.
MANCHESTER.
Solicitor,
Melbourne.
Q.IBBONS, LEONARD, last heard of at
* Tarcutta, N.S.W., and GIBBONS.
CLAT DE, last heard of in South Australia.
Mother ill. and important news. Anyone
knowing the whereabouts of either of the
above please communicate with Mrs. M.
GIBBONS, Rosser Street, Cottesloe, W.A.
Then fly to the nearest Chemist and ask tor
EVANS’ Pastilles.
Invaluable for throat and voice, affording ins'tant relief. A
never failing remedy. Doctors prescribe them.
Evans Sons Lescher & Webb, Ltd., London.
This Watch Goes 8 Days.
s
M
I:
Make a Note to Wind it on a Sunday.
“ The better the day the betterthe deed.”
It’s an
Eig'ht-Day Lever.
What a boon to the traveller, the man
on the land—the shearer, the boun-
dary rider! Apart from the advan-
tage that it only requires winding once
a week, this watch keeps splendid
time from month to month, and is
limit to stand the roughest colonial
usage. Ihe movement is similar to
the ordinary High-grade Watch, but
uitli an extra-strong. extra-long
spring, which runs EIGHT I) VYK
instead of one. Keyless wind, strong
mcke l case, compensation balance.
Ihis watch as usually sold at 22/6
Stewart Dawson's Single-Profit Price
Only 17/6 Post Pree,
Stewart Bateson's Catalogue of
Vatches and Jewellery Cost Free.
Stewart Dawson’s
The Strand Corner,
412 George Street, Sydney
The Best-Most Economical
Watch is a
ROTHERHAMS
ENGLISH LEVER
Gold Medal Watch.
N
9
*
It will last a lifetime. p ro v e a
valued friend. Is most durable
dust proof, and saves repair bills!
Made in All Varieties.
If a less expensive Watch is
required buy a
ROTHERHAMS SELECTED
SWISS WATCH.
Examined by Experts in Rotherham)’
Enylish Works.
m
&
m
LHMAMSROTME
rnarn
NWSffISIS
►> OTH t RH A M S p m
| p O T M CRH A M S aim/
NOTH ! It will have this label on
the back.
Sold by Jewellers throughout
Australasia.
For List of Agents apply to—
P.O. Box 420, Sydney (English).
P.O. Box 2292, Sydney (Swiss).
P.O. Box 870, Wellington, N.Z.
MARLIN
HIGH -VELOCITY
RIFLES
Four of these famous side-ejecting,
high-power rifles have been added to
our list, and they are well worth
investigating by big-game shooters.
.32 cal. H.V. Rifle, 95/-
.32 40 and .38/55 H.V. Carbines, 90 •
.32/40 and 38 55 H.V. Rifles, 95/-
.33 cal. H.V. Special Rifles, £5/15/-
Sent by mail they cost 4/8 extra, but
the cartridges have to be sent by boat
or rail.
AlcocK (8± Pierce,
318 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Ray’s Hair Dye.
When Grey Hair begun
to show, rejuvenate
your ap p e arance
with
RAY’S
dye.
: Harmless "■iid
' stantaneous.
33 different shades-
Post pattern ol
hair with order.
4/10, 7/H» 10/9"
rosxEn.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 Block Arcade. Collins Street, Melbourne.
UNITED
insurance
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: T - v
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL
Fire insurances
Marine Risks ..
- £500.000.
effected on all cliU *f
Buildings, Stocks. Fm
on Wool
Hulls of Vessels, treig
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other
of various classes. „
The “United” is an Australian Inst,t " t
BARTIN HAIGB, General Manage


Quite a Disfigurement. Used Cuti-
cura Soap and Ointment. Began
to Disappear. Trouble Gone Now.
34 Queens Parade, Devonport, Auckland,
N z “Last year I suffered from pimples
and blackheads all over my face which were
ouite a disfigurement to me and when I
scratched them they turned into sores. We
always keep Cuticura Soap and Cuticura
Ointment in the house so I thought I would
try them and after using the Cuticura Soap
and Cuticura Ointment as directed for a
short time, the pimples and blackheads
began to disappear. I kept on using them
and the trouble has gone entirely now. I
always recommend Cuticura Soap and
Cuticura Ointment to anyone suffering
from the same complaint.” (Signed) Miss
M. Helps, Apr. 30, 1914.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
All is Food in
Food
When you prepare Bender’s
Food with fresh new milk, it
forms a dainty and delicious
cream. In this form, all the
nutritive elements in both the
milk and the Food itself are
made soluble, ready for bodily
nutrition.
Consequently Benger’s is
assimilated with ease, even
in illness, when other food
c
■v
w
Lu
178 A
causes pain
and distress.
Benger’s Booklet-A little
work of authority on the
special feeding of Children,
Invalids, and tne Aged, will
be sent post free on appli-
cation to
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd.
MANCHESTER, Eng.
Branc'i Offices—
New York (u.s.a.)
92, William Street.
Sydney (n.s.w.),
117, Pitt Street,
Cctnadia>i Agents —
National Drug and
Chemical Co Ltd.,
34, St. Gabriel Street,
Montreal,and branches
throughout Canada.
BengeYs Food is sold
by Druggists, etc,,
everywhere .
YOUR HAIR
WILL
LOOK BETTER
will be finer, softer, smoother,
Scurf and Dandruff will disappear,
if you take care of it by using
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR
OIL,
which will Preserve, Nourish, and
Strengthen it, and as it penetrates to
"the roots will replace the loss of the
Natural Oil in the Hair, the want of
which causes Baldness. It is sold in a
Golden Colour for Pair Hair, of Stores,
Chemists, Hairdressers, and Rowland's,
67, Hatton-garden, London. Avoid
cheap worthless imitations under the
same or similar name which have no
Restorative Properties and do not
contain that delightful perfume
Otto of Roses for which Rowland’s
Macassar Oil has been so long famous.
Letters Copied While Writing
(in ink) by using your own Latter-paper
With this Book, You slip your
paper into the holder and write,
and by the act of writing you
secure a perfect letter and a
perfect copy. Thei e is no
sss
w
sign of copying. 400 octavo Bin. x sin., or 200 quarto
letters, can be copied in NSC/200 Book, size 10f x
°b post free 4/6 ; or NSC/400 DOUBLE Capacity
‘ or ,6/-. Special Small Octavo Book, making 200
copies, Bin. x sin., post free 3/6 ; double capacity, 4/6.
Sample of the celebrated Zanetic Ink Paper, which
produces this result, free, if stamped-addressed
envelope sent to S. B. Zanetic. Leicester, England.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and ij°nu=>-
paying office in the World. HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, S\DNRV.
Directors Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C. ; Hon. Jas. Burns, M.L.C.; Hon. F. E. Winchcombe. M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.L.,
Samuel Hordern, Esq. v
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. H. W. APPERUY, Secretary.
Accumulated Funds, £33,500,000. Annual Income, £4,500,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1914 .. £1,034,346 Total Bonuses distributed .. £19,808,000
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. \V rite for prospectus
and full information without delay.
z
JLj
jS*
BOOTS have come back again and no mistake.
But such dreams of boot 3, up-to-date,
dainty, delightful, fit accompaniment to the
flounced taffeta frocks of the day, -which
combine smart modernity with old-world charm.
Paris and London both are now tripping to work
and play in short-fronted, high-heeled, suede-
topped boots like the Bostock style here illus-
It is a smart little boot, there is no doubt
about that, and every bit as comfortable as it is
smart. The beautifully fitting last on which it is
made sees to that, and lots of women, who have
never imagined they could wear a short-fronted
style, will be amazed to find how comfortable it
is, how jolly it makes their feet look.
Then for those who want something different,
who prefer shoes perhaps, there is a fine range of
styles to select from, all as up-to-date and charm-
ing as this model, and all safe to wear well and
feel as peculiarly one’s own as if they had been
made to measure.
Bostock No.
P 6476
sto
*0
None genuine unless
stamped “Bostock.”
See that the name “Bostock”
is stamped on the soles.
z>
Constipation
The case of Rheumatism or Gout
which Kruschen Salts cannot benefit
has yet to be discovered. This
famous British remedy is also
recommended by Medical Men in
cases of Lumbago, Sciatica, Eczema,
Constipation, and Liver and Kidney-
Disorders.
KRUSCHEN AT THE FRONT
Since the outbreak of the War, enormous
quantities of Kruschen Salts have been ordered
by, and delivered to the British Authorities, for
the use of the British Forces overseas and in
the Base Hospitals at Home. Kruschen Salts
are prescribed by Medical Men the world over.
THE WORD KRUSCHEN
The trade mark “ Kruschen ” is a legacy-
handed down from generation to generation ot
the family of Evan Griffiths Hughes, the sole
Manufacturers of Kruschen Salts, and one or
the oldest firms of Manufacturing Chemists in
the County of Lancashire. Established 1754
160 years ago.
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 175 A.
ENTIRELY BRITIShf FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
21-
Per Bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers,
and stores throughout Australia,
Wholesale Distributing Agents :
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
68, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester,
*, England.
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Maoriland Railway Department doesn t
stand round with its hands in its pockets
moaning about soldiers refusing to pay then-
fares to the nearest pub. Instead it pro-
ceeds to make the irregular business a
mighty expensive one. One cove in khaki
who recently decided to try the great Aus-
tralian dodge and refused to part up the
cost of a ride from Trentham to Wellington
(M.L.) was told by the beak that the bill
would be £3 9s. sd. instead of Is. 4d.
* * * *
“Midchannel” : An institution which calls
for "the application of the hobnail boot, or
a rise in salary or something, is that pait
of the P.M.G.’s Department in Sydney to
which dutiable parcels are sent. When
there is reasonable belief that a parcel
contains dutiable articles the addressee is
requested by circular to attend, so that it
may be opened in his presence. \\ hen he
attends this is the process: Hand the notice
in. Interval of half an hour. Meek inquiry
if there is any chance of getting the business
through before peace is declared creates
another interval of five minutes. Clerk
then disappears to find out the pos-
sibilities. He returns after more in-
terval to remark that it will be
through “in about an hour.” lliere
are usually 20 people waiting while halt a
dozen officials stand round exhausted by the
repose. Under the circumstances Webster
ought to add a line or two to his circular
warning the person addressed that the value
of his parcel can in no way compensate for
the amount of time he will have to w r aste in
getting hold of it.
, * * *
“D.S.F.” : The n<*ed for refineries of pot-
ter's raw material (“Dry Shave,” B.
10/2/’10) is indeed urgent. Local clay
invariably contains iron, which in the fui-
nace turns nasty and runs all over the
china, making it as streaky as a tote com-
mission’s reputation. Samples of white
day from Stawell (Vic.) were recently
handed to importers of potters’ goods, with
a view to placing the dirt on the. local
market. With local refineries still in the
clouds and freights to overseas refineries
soaring out of reach, it had to be turned
down. The only present demand for the
clay is a small one by the paper mills and
Stawell will find an atom of comfort ip the
war if it causes a leap in their output.
A draft of nearly 40 mules has been sold
in an Adelaide sale-yard by Norman Rich-
ardson, of S.A.’s far north-west. The ownei
announced that he could never have earned
on his mail contracts without the mule. (He
has plenty more at home.) The brute does
not eat as much as a horse, finds its own
food more readily, recovers quicker when
knocked up, and lives much longer. 1 had
one that was still going strong at ob, and
doing useful work, when poison ended its
career.” The draft sold readily, up to about
£l5 a head.
* * * *
Maoriland put a monoplane under the
auctioneer’s hammer the other day. lhe
machine was a Bleriot imported by a French-
man who was going to start a flying school
in the Isles, but the Tricolor caught linn in
its folds, and he rushed home to
be killed while flying over the Hun trenches.
Was an air machine ever sold at auction
before? Bidding started at a fiver, and the
Bleriot, with a 50-h.p. engine, was knocked
down for £62 15s.
* * * *
“Moana” : Four years ago a Gerhog com-
mercial traveller called on a well-known
Christchurch (M.L.) manufacturer in quest
of an order. The Maorilander intimated
that he made things instead of importing
them, and added that such goods as he had
to get from afar he preferred to be British
Then poor old Berlin lost his temper and
blurted out: “Veil in 1914 der Kaiser vill
speak about dis prohibition of Sherman
goodts from behind ’is Sherman guns !” The
threat disappeared in a waft of laughter at
the business-getter who couldn’t keep his
temper. But when war and 1914 arrived in
company it was remembered. Now, did the
peddling commercial just howl out the right
year by accident, or was he a friend of the
Kaiser’s? Perhaps he teas the Kaiser.
WHEN THE BILLS COME IN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wo had ham and tongue and turkey,
We had puddings, cakes and pies ;
All the kids were (like the Cratchits)
Sage and onion to their eyes ;
There were bottles in the ieechest,
And the cupboards looked like bars,
And the house was filled with fragrance
From some extra-fine cigars.
We went picnics in the country,
We made parties to the play,
We went boating up the river
And excursions down the bay;
In a tiptop car we jaunted
Many a dizzy, day-long spin!
Oh, we had a boshter Christmas —-
Till the bills came in !
Oh, father had, a Christmas!
There were bulges in, his hat,
And we found his boots and waistcoat,
Filled with prawns, upon the mat;
He brought mother home a crayfish
And some mussels in a tin ;
But she never lost her temper
Till the bills came in.
Now he dines on sodawater,
And his gloomy brow is knit
O’er a mighty pile of dockets
Ending briefly, “Please remit,”
While he bids the prattling infants
Cease their (mustn’t-say-it) din;
For poor father’s rather nervy
Now the bills come in.
When the dolls have gone to pieces,
When the drum is beaten flat;
When the big tin trumpet’s broken
(Though we scarcely grieve for that),
When the gay balloon is busted,
All the weary months begin
With an overloaded postman —■
Yes, they still pour in.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


THe BEST HOUSE for all
SHOOTINC REQUISITES
!P[fTF!fIFWE! f R
■ ,>_-v
B32 —REMINGTON HAMMERLESS REPEAT-
f,v„,'s ,ifle car,ridgcs: adiustab^; a e r re rs 2 °/T
We Repair
All Kinds
of GUNS
and
RIFLES.
-3
THE MAXIM SILENCER, for attaching to rifles. Improves
your marksmanship. Ensures noiseless shooting The
marvel of the shooting world.
Silencer for 22-cal. rifles £l/7/6
Silencer for all other calibre rifles £2/2'6
Postage on one Silencer—N.S.W., 9d.; Inter-State, 1/2. '
Wedging or screwing Silencer on 22-cal. barrel. . 7/6 extra
Screwing Silencer on all other barrels 12/6 extra
Send for our
Price List of
Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition and
Sporting Goods
Post Free Anywhere.
MUfoIMiVKLI
HAYMARKET
•SYDNEY-
... c AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS’ OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KINO STREET; also at NEWCASTLE and BRISRANF
■a .
B4D—MAUSER CARBINE AND PISTOL COMBINED- in ,
automatic self-feeding, self-ejecting, sighted to 1000 vala’
Delivered £6/10/'.
-- --
819
-“THE SAVAGE” REPEATING
HAMMERLESS RIFLE, 1914
MODEL, 22-cal. rim fire, 24in.
octagon barrel, slide action, dis-
mountable,
cartridges ;
cartridges ;
about sllb.
■pistol grip handles short, long or riflo
magazine holds 20 short, 17 long or 15 IJL
length over all 40in„ taken apart 2 7 fin ZSt
Delivered... f.." £3/17:
B29—REMINGTON RIFLES,
No. 0 Model, 22-calibre R.F.
20in. round blued steel barrel,
weight 3|lb 17/0
R3o—With ladder rear sights 21 / -
Postage—-1/6 N.S.W. •
2/8 Inter-State.
GOLDEN KEY CIGARS DE LUXE, British made. Sample Box of 5—2/6 (post freeT
B2—STEVENS’ MARKSMAN RIFLE,
22-cal. R.F., round barrel. 20in. chambered for long
rifle cartridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut”
stock, open front and rear sights, weight 41b., 17/6
Postage—N.S.W. 1/9; Inter-State 3/2.
LONDON HAIR SPECIALIST’S
GENEROUS GIFT.
Test this Splendid Hair-growing
Preparation FREE.
Liberal Trial Offered to Every Reader,
Every reader of this paper, man or
woman,. who is distressed by falling, split-
ting hairs, lank “damp” hair, over-dry or
over-greasy hair, total or approaching bald-
ness, scalp irritation, dandruff, or any other
hair defect, should avail themselves of this
opportunity to test free of
charge the renowned
TRUE HAIR
G R O W E R. Mr.
Burleigh announces
that he has so much
faith in the merits of
his preparation, which
it is well to know has
been used extensively
by persons in all walks
of life and in all parts
of the world for up-
wards of 20 years,
that he again invites
our readers to use the
coupon below and
make early application
for a FREE TRIAL.
No matter what the
present condition of
your scalp may be, no
matter what so-called
remedies you have
tried, until you have
tested this remarkable
preparation you can-
no t appreciate the
value of a truly scien-
tific method of hair
culture. You can prove
in a few moments each HAIR SPECIALIST
morning or evening how simple it is to grow
beautiful hair with Mr. Burleigh’s TRUE
HAIR GROWER, and how surprisingly
one s whole appearance, one’s brightness and
personal charms are improved by slight
attention to the hair.
Hair troubles, like many other diseases, have
been wrongly diagnosed and altogether mis-
understood. The hair itself is not the thing to
be treated, for the reason that it is simply a
JOHN CRAVEN-BURLEIGH
product of the scalp, and wholly dependent
S i ac^ol ?' scalp is the very soil in
which the hair is produced, nurtured and
grown, and it alone should receive the atten-
tion if results are to be expected. It would do
no earthly good to treat the stem of a plant
with a view to making it
grow and become more
- beautiful—the soil in
which the plant grows
must be attended to.
Therefore the scalp,
in which the hair
grows must receive
the attention if you
are to expect it to
grow and become more
beautiful. Loss of
hair is caused by the
scalp drying up, or
losing its supply of
moisture or nutriment;
when baldness occurs
the scalp has simply
lost all its nourish-
ment, leaving nothing
for the hair to feed
upon. (A plant, or
even a tree, would die
under similar condi-
tions.) The natural
thing to do in either
case is to feed or
replenish the soil or
scalp as the case may
be, and your crop
LONDON
will grow and mul-
tiply a* nature in-
Mr - Burleigh’s TRUE
HAIR GROWER, we understand, has a
most wonderful effect upon the hair glands
and tissues of the scalp. It is the only remedy
for the hair ever discovered that is similar
to the natural foods or liquids of the
sca Jf- It penetrates the pores quickly,
and the hair soon shows the effects
of its wonderful, exhilarating and life-
producing qualities.
Post the Coupon below TO-DAY, en-
closing 3d. stamps for postage, etc. By
return you will receive (1) a liberal sup-
ply of Mr. Craven-Burleigh's True Hair
Grower, (2) an interesting 32-page booklet
entitled “Concerning the Hair.” This book
has been carefully written, and contains
much valuable information concerning the
hair that could not be obtained from any
other source It Will prove a valuable
guide and reference book.
POST TO-DAY
1 u i/ un±\ i. ii/i \ (JKJuJjj[(jtH 9
Dept. 7, Macdonell House,
321 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Dear Sir, —Please send me
your look entitled “Concerning
Name •
your free
the Hair.”
trial of True Hair (bower, also a copy of
l enclose three stamps for postage, etc.
Address
•- State
ment are requested to make early application Mrt'airieijh Btittestiia' the demand
a; r a f B r «S a dajl SUre *° * h *‘’ ” d ®“ >» -» "e obS toS.Ldr^the^oS
HOW TO GET FAT
New Preparation Makes
Thin Men and Women
Plump and Healthy.
2/6 PACKAGE FREE
4t'-.
■ A •
- - IH.T
*£2
's^
91
r'nnrf
•sfe
XMjf
i/d
m9£
mm?*-
m
U
/I
U 2
2.
“Are You One of the Thin Ones?”
' Ve make this generous offer to everv
thin, scraggy, emaciated person who hapoens
nvke ,l a ad r« aeme,,t ' Vf particular?;
in\ite those who have been sufferers for
many years from lack of flesh to accept our
sana-Ve™* trial package
bifflder ' E \V A ’ i e great En S l ish tissue-
builder. 1 make no absurd claims for
this remarkable preparation ; we merely ask
and SlVe a fah ’ trial in y° ur own home,
and we venture to say that you will be
To aive S \ ted with the results
e , i 4 a fair test get your correct
anTat l the treatment,
and at the end of seven days weigh your-
selves.^ 111 ; 6 reSUItS wiU speak {or them-
There are no drastic rules with this treat-
“u li : J ol y/t eat ' vh . at Uke <53 when
JOU like. It is convenient and easy to tako
and is perfectly harmless. SANA-VETA
is not a cure-all, but a scientific prepaid
iron which acts directly on the Stive
organs, thereby enriching and assimilating
all food taken into the body, thus making
good healthy flesh and filling out all hollow
and scraggy parts of the body where flesh
is wanted.
There is absolutely no reason why thin
persons should not be able to add as
many pounds to their weight as their heigh l
demands (but please note that SANA*
V ETA does not make superfluous fat).
The proprietors of this unique preparation
are so confident of its flesh-forming possi-
bilities that they are prepared to give away
ten thousand free trial packages and stand
by the results. Send to-day for a fui
2s 6d. Free Trial Package, and see wha
wonderful results can be quickly obtained.
Enclose four stamps to cover cost of pos"
age. packing, etc., and we will send you tn
package by return post, securely packed, an
free from observation. Address: The Sana*
Veta Co., Suite 132, 178 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
r * KEE x
distinctly nn<?°fl!n° an i,i Jour letter. Write your name and address
'-UUi'ON
j, ■ —* j°ur letter. Write your name and auuiw
close tour stamps to cover cost of postage, packing, etc.
~ *<o cuui MJil
distinctly and fully.
*■' ~ v,vr » w V.V/OC v/J. J-MJ
THE SANA-VETA CO.
(Suite 132), 178 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Another Beautiful
Rexona Girl.
Miss JEAN
ROBERTSON,
from a photo, by
Kenelm Stump.
Miss JEAN ROBERT-
SON, one of the most
beautiful 'of the bevy of
Rexona girls, has never
had to toil up from the
lowest rung of the Stage
Ladder. She jumped into
a big part on her first
appearance with the Wil-
-loug h b y management.
Among her many striking
successes during a two
years’ stage experience
have been her Lilian Mait-
land in “The Silence of
Dean Maitland,” and her
Princess Venetia in
“Under Two Flags,” with
Ethel Buckley, another
Rexona girl, in the lead as
Cigarette. Miss Robert-
son, who is an Adelaide
native, writes: —
“Years ago I heard of your wonderful Rexona from a friend of
mine who could not find words to give it praise enough. As I was
needing something of this kind for an injured hand, I purchased a small
pot, and I congratulate you on your wonderful remedy. It is certainly a
most marvellous healer, much in advance of anything I have ever come
across before. lam also going to try a cake of your Rexona Soap, for
I hear that it is splendid, and am going to see for myself if it is in
keeping with Rexona. Rexona and I shall always be friends in the
future, and I will never lose an opportunity of telling my friends about
it-” (Signed) JEAN ROBERTSON.
Everybody’s Using It Now.
Rexona Soap and Ointment are universal favorites with everyone who
values a pure and healthy skin. Rexona will at once heal all the minor injuries
to the skin, as well as the more serious ones, and Rexona Soap protects the
user from disease and ensures both health and beauty. Rexona Soap is sold
everywhere at 1/- per tablet, and Rexona is supplied only in triangular tins at
1/6 and 3/-
o
o
0
THE RAPID HEALER
This Week’s TOILET HINTS
INTERESTING SELECTIONS FROM THE WORLD'S SMARTEST BEAUTY ARTICLES.
SIMPLE RECIPES MOST EFFECTIVE.
How to Discard an
Unsightly Complexion.
“Toilet Club Notes.”
How many women exclaim as they behold
their ugly complexion in the mirror, “If I
could only tear off this old skin!” and, do
you know, it is now possible to do that very
thing V Not to actually remove the entire
skin all of a sudden; that would be too
heroic a method and painful, too. I imagine.
The worn-out cuticle comes off in such tiny
particles, and so gradually—requiring about
teu days to complete the transformation—it
doesn't hurt a bit. Day by day the beautiful
complexion underneath comes forth. Mar-
vellous! No matter how muddy, rough,
blotchy or aged your complexion, you can
surely discard it by this simple process.
Just get some ordinary mercolised wax at
your chemist’s, apply nightly like cold cream,
washing it off in the mornings.
Why Have Grey Hair?
When a simple, old-fashioned and harmless recipe
will correct it.
Few people know that grey hair is not a
necessary feature of age—that it can be
avoided without resorting to hair dyes. A
very old, home-made remedy will turn the
hair back to a natural color in a few days.
It is only necessary to get from the chemist
an ounce of concentrate of tammalite and mix
it with four ounces of bay rum. Apply this
simple lotion to the hair for a few nights with
a small sponge, and you will soon have the
pleasure of seeing the greyness disappear.
This recipe is perfectly harmless, is neither
sticky nor greasy, and has given perfect
satisfaction for many generations to those in
possession of the secret.
A Strange Shampoo.
“Cosy Corner Chats.”
* * * I was much interested to learn from
this young woman with the beautiful glossy
hair that she never washes it with soap or
artificial shampoo powders. Instead she
makes her own shampoo by dissolving a
teaspoonful of stallax granules in a cup ol
hot water. “I make my chemist get the
stallax for me,” said she. “It comes only in
ilb. sealed packages, enough to make up
twenty-five or thirty individual shampoos,
and it smells so good I could almost eat it.
Certainly this little lady’s hair did look won-
derful even if she has strange ideas of a
shampoo. I am tempted to try the plan
myself.
Blackheads Instantly Go.
The new sparkling face-bath treatment gives instant
relief.
A very simple, harmless and pleasant pro-
cess is now used to remove blackheads and
correct greasiness and large pores in the skin.
You have only to drop a tablet of sty mol,
obtained from' the chemist’s, into a glass of
hot water and bathe the face with the liquid
after the effervescence has subsided. The
blackheads will then come right off on the
towel. The enlarged pores immediately con-
tract to normal and the greasiness disap-
pears, leaving the skin smooth, soft and cool
and free from blemish. But to make sure
that this desirable result is permanent, it is
advisable to repeat the treatment several
times at intervals of say about four or five
days.
Is Powder Necessary?
“Practical Suggestions.”
I say emphatically, No! There is a simple
lotion which can be easily and cheaply made
at home, and it is at the same time both
effective and beneficial to the complexion.
Cleminite is a splendid substitute for face
powder, which is at the bottom of many
complexion troubles. Get about an ounce
from the chemist’s and dissolve in four table-
spoonsful of water. The result is a fine clear
liquid, which instantly gives the face, neck or
arms that peach-like bloom of perfect health.
There is nothing to equal it for greasy skins,
and the result lasts all day long under the
most trying conditions. [4
.“AustreJidji Made
'AustreJidJi Made
A U 5
Postage extra. Ask for them at every shed,
or send direct to the Manager,
AUSTRALIAN COMB & CUTTER WORKS,
Corner Larkin & Sparkes Streets, Camner-
down, Sydney; or Head Office: FEDERAL
PASTORAL SHEARINC CO. LTD., Chamber of
Commerce Buildings, George Street, Sydney.
rffer*
Combs,
2/= each.
Cutters,
6d.each.
A U 5
Combs, (.
2/- each.
Cutters, • 'J[
6d. each.
Postage extra. Ask for them at every shed,
or send direct to the Manager,
AUSTRALIAN COMB & CUTTER WORKS,
Corner Larkin & Sparkes Streets, Camper-
down, Sydney; or Head Office: FEDERAL
PASTORAL SHEARINC CO. LTD., Chamber of
Commerce Building's, Ceorge Street, Sydney.
The Ocean Ways.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ra iHE ocean ways are wonderful, the
'I ’ sailing: tracks are wide,
A We steam in with a fair wind and
slouch out with the tide;
And ’tis “Drive with a blunt bow and stag-
ger to the rise
At the beck and call of Commerce and a
pair of pretty eyes !”
Forsworn to fetch and carry down the roll-
ing roads of Trade,
Our pretty babes are cradled and the ringing
keels are laid ;
A thousand bonny painted boats are moving
down the slipfc,
For the building of a Nation is the building
of its ships.
And the wide seas, the grey seas, are free
for us to roam,
Till homeless we can twirl the spokes and
make the ports of home ;
’Tis hey! the drumming sea-rain, and the
gallop of the gales,
And the sheeted mists of ocean, a-marching
past the rails.
The sailing roads are casual, the sailor
ways are slack,
But I’ve a tidy w'ife at home and so must
hurry back ;
An’ ’tis kiss me lass and hug me tight and
slip from off m’ knee,
For the packet’s at the pier-head and she’s
trimmed for open sea!
By all the music in the note the streaming
scuppers raise,
The skirling of a stalwart wind within the
funnel stays,
The roaring of a racing screw, and all the
magic rhyme
Of Ocean’s joyous Spring Song when the
engines beat the time ;
By kiss of mouth, by sob of babe, by cling-
ing of a hand
We learn the message in the call which rings
from land to land ;
And ’tis outward! and homeward! the
course is straight and plain
Though ’tis homeward! and outward! to
quest the seas again.
Oh, all the life we may not live upon the
open seas
We cast off with our mooring lines upon the
busy quays.
And the long roads, the green roads are
leading down and down,
Until, a blush upon the sky, we drop the
lights of town !
The bushland odors on the breeze steal out
and out in vain,
Like jealous fingers from the shore to draw
us back again ;
But ’tis “Johnny Bowlegs, turn you home,”
and “Johnny, get you gone,”
For our souls are under hatches and we’ve
snugged the covers on.
Oh, East and West the roads lead out, the
trading tracks are wide.
But we’ve the road of all the roads to fetch
the harbor-side ;
And ’tis swing to the long roll and drive
through the spray—
We only know the worth of Love when Love
is far away.
The sailing tracks are casual, the outward
way can wait!
A little bale of sailor-love is mixed up with
our freight.
’Tis Homeward and Homeward, to wake a
woman’s smiles ;
For the heart is on the log-line and ’tis beat-
ing out the miles !
MAORILAND.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
The Dragon and the Globe.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HAVE often wondered what was the
origin and ultimate resting-place of a
queer piece of metal-wmrk shown to
me by old Sarfonetti, who ran a trading
schooner in the Pacific thirty years and
more ago. He was a strange customer, Sar-
fonetti—a Sardinian, who had worn the red
shirt and knew more about the troubled
politics of his country half a century back
than most of the people who w y rite about
the subject. And he had all the Italian’s
traditional love of music and of some of
the other finer things of life. He was clean-
tongued and clean-souled, too, though had
an Australian wowser heard some of his
stories of life up and down the world that
wowser would have turned grey at the lis-
tening. Yet it was seldom of women that
he spoke. A man of strong impulse and
nery temper before Time had sprinkled his
hair with grey ; but in the days I speak of
slow in judgment and deliberate in speech
and action.
Never once did I see him stripped of this
quality of reserve; not even when Bueletta
told him about the Greek mate. Bueletta
was a Hue woman, and the Greek —well, he
had a long tongue and the fervent Hellene
heart, and Bueletta despised him as pro-
foundly as she loved the Sardinian. You
see, w T hen Sarfonetti acquired Bueletta from
that Eurasian at Hainan he took her with
his anchor ready to break after * -wift,
silent combat w'hich left the sharks Tint a
bloodless meal. The Greek only talked,
whispering of something he had that would
make him rich. Bah! So she told Sar-
fonetti of what might happen that night,
and when she finished he slipped off his
shoes and wmnt out on deck. Bueletta sit-
ting at the little table went on quietly sew-
Vm' > ’working at some price-lists,
In 11 guess there was anything wrong, for
they had spoken in the jargon of Cambodia.
1 morning when I, not seeing him about,
made casual inquiry concerning the mate,
the woman answered: “We spik him no
more. But he was spoken of —and that
very night.
"bile Bueletta was cooking the midday
meal Sarfonetti came aft with a sea-kit. the
r \ ee i S - Beckoning me below he spilled
Out the contents on the table. He picked
the sorry-looking rubbish up, one article
after another, and tossed it back into the
bag. A shirt or two, a pair of shore-going
dungarees, a cap, and so on. Then as he
lifted a silk handkerchief there was exposed
a small box of sandalwood, studded with
nails around each of its six sides. Looking
idly on I noticed that Sarfonetti stared with
uplifted hand as a man might who had sud-
denly found a pearl or a skull. But in a
flash he whipped up the box, wrenched it
open, and sitting down on the locker, turned
into his hand from the box a dull, silvery
globe, about four inches in diameter. He
rolled it slowly over, pulled it with a polish-
ing movement along his thigh, then went
behind the bamboo curtain which screened
his berth, and the rattle of keys followed.
The kit and the rest of the things went
over the side soon after.
That Sarfonetti was worried soon became
clear. Onfie for over an hour he sat on
an upturned dingy lashed across the hatch,
looking steadily in one direction. Three or
four times before nightfall I saw him go
to his berth and heard the rattling of a key.
Bueletta watched him with the feline
patience of Asia. But Bueletta never knew
what ailed Sarfonetti that day. Perhaps
she never cared after the sun had sunk.
“Come, my friend, I have not smoked this
day”; and as we sat on the break of the
little poop in the moonlight Sarfonetti spun
me the yarn of the box and the globe. I
knew it would come, for I knew that the
old pirate loved me well, though I was not
of his race and was young enough to be his
grandson. For had not I, a stranger, broken
the arm of a drink-maddened coolie who
had stabbed him once and was driving the
knife home again one night in Batavia?
“This,” he said, drawing the sandalwood
box from his pocket and opening it, “has
been looked for by me, by the agents of
the owner and of people you may have heard
of —searched for how many years? I do
not know—but fifteen by me. Once I saw it,
but I never wanted to see it again, for I
fear it may.... Well, it is like the Mafia —
In morte ,” and the broad shoulders touched
the speaker’s ears.
“I tell you how it was. Igo to Garibaldi.
With him I am at Calatafimi, Castel-fidaro
and Vulturno. There I was wounded and
there this thing began for me. Amongst our
prisoners was Pelledino, a Neapolitan and
old, whose daughter had married one of the
Perugio, once friends of his house, for it
was a Perugio -who had married his father’s
sister when Murat was king ; but they had
gone no one knew where. If the children or
grandchildren of the vanished pair could be
found, then the Perugio estates would pass
to them, for that was the direct line. But
this Perugio who had taken his daughter!
Curse him for an upstart who came in by
the side-door —a cousin’s son, bah ! He died
reviling the new Perugio (for the old man
had no son, and the girl’s husband would
win on that hand, too), but rejoicing that
a brother had sons to
“In time it is good for me to go to sea
again, and I drift away, now here, now
there, and one day buy this schooner at Sam-
bawa. I trade for a year or two anywhere
—away to the Ladrones, the Marshall
Islands, and when Bueletta came aboard we
went as far as Manahiki. Then to Singa-
pore again, and there a Spaniard came' to
me and we bargain for a run to Manila with
cargo for the Jesuit priests. He paid well;
was very anxious for me to go. On the
night we arrived I knew why. A boat came
alongside and there stepped aboard two sons
of the Church —one an old man, wearing red
on his neck. A long talk we had together,
he and I, alone.
“ ‘My son,’ he said, ‘stories come to us
sometimes of a man living somewhere in these
seas who avoids the world. We would like
to find him. If you can find him your re-
ward will be generous.’
“It seemed a mysterious thing this to look
for a man who did not want to be found.
I had other things to do, and said so. The
answer of my visitor was that all he wanted
was for me to listen on my trading trips,
and ask questions and let him have any clue
I might discover.
“‘And of what name is this man?’ I
asked.
“ ‘Perugio.’
“ ‘Any relative?’
“ ‘My elder brother.’
“A familiar name, and in a minute or two
I remembered —Vulturno and the Pelledino
who died. Of him I speak to the priest and
of his sorrows. ‘The same family,’ said the
Jesuit, and tells me more —that the Perugio
of Murat’s time was his father; that the
young noble had been obliged to seek
safety in Spain; that there he and his
brother were born. Something had happened
(it did not matter what) and the brother had
disappeared. He was sought now for two
reasons —first, to discover whether he had
left legitimate issue, and. secondly, that he
might yield up an heirloom which the father
had carried from Italy in his flight. This
was a silver globe, of much value and coveted
by someone of a very exalted station.
“And so he left, and back we went to
Singapore and wherever a dollar could be
■earned —even to Fiji, Tonga and the Mar-
ouesas, anywhere. Then one day at Vavau
the next page was opened. A cutter came
in from Penryn that night. Its native crew
pulled alongside and there climbed aboard an
old man.
“He was seeking passage on his way to
the Gilbert Islands. Ilow far should I take
him? ‘All the way,’ I told him.
“A strong, bold-faced man this, who, so
far as I could judge at the time and believe
now, preferred the semi-savage life to civi-
lisation. He showed little interest in such
things as I could talk about. Had I been to
Manila? Was there a chance that I had
heard of a Monsignor named Perugio? He
was well? He sought answers to these
questions and made no comment. When I
tried to draw him into conversation he
quickly slid off on a fresh tack. So I let
him alone and could see he was thankful.
On the day we hove-to to land him he
beckoned to me.
“ ‘Sarfonetti,’ he said, ‘next time you are
in Manila go you to the Monsignor Perugio
and tell him you have seen this’; and he held
before me this thing I have in my hand now.
‘And tell him, too, that one day it will go
to him.’
(Continued on next page.)


BENT
Why Are They Bent?
"Every Picture
Tells a Story ”
Not always'on account of age, for
many old people have straight backs
—and many young people have bent
backs.. They are bent with the pains
of kidney disease, lumbago—uric
acid in the muscles of the loins, con-
gestion of the kidneys—the pains
that make the young feel old, and
the old feeble and shaky.
Rest in bed may ease a bad back,
but it cannot cure it. Only a medi-
cine that reaches the cause can do
that. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
are solely for- weak and ailing
kidneys. They help the kidneys to
throw off uric-acid poison, which is
the cause not only of backache and
lumbago, but of gravel, stone, rheu-
matism, dizzy attacks, irregular
heart, and that heavy, drowsy- feel-
ing. Doan’s Pills regulate the
urinary system like ordinary medi-
cines regulate the bowels; they
release the accumulated water in
dropsy, and relieve bladder weak-
ness, which is so common in children
and the aged.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
pure; and cannot injure the most
delicate patient.
BE SURE YOU GET DOAN’S.
A Wonderful Cure.
Sydney Testimony.
Mr. George Woodroffe, 10 Koseby
Street, Drummoyne, Sydney, writes: —“I
have derived very great benefit from the
use of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
Seventeen years ago a cold settled on my
kidneys, and eventually inflammation of
the kidneys and bladder set in, and up to
the time of taking Doan’s Backache Kid-
ney Bills, some little time ago, I have
suffered terribly ever since. I have been
treated by some of the cleverest and best-
known Sydney doctors, and was for
seventeen and a half weeks in the Sydney
Hospital. I was also two months in the
Coast Hospital, where I had one kidney
removed. Though the various treatments
eased me for a time, I was not cured, and
would soon relapse into my former ill-
health. I also tried patent medicines
advertised to cure kidney complaint, but
they did not even give me temporary
relief. My brother was always worrying
me to try Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills,
if I only took one bottle. To please him
I got them, and before I had finished the
bottle I felt much better; in fact, I had
not felt so well for years; the Pills were
working wonders for me. I continued
taking them, and am now perfectly cured
of every symptom of kidney trouble.” _
Mr. Woodroffe confirms the above, nine
years later :—-“My cure has lasted, for I
am still free of the terrible torture of
kidney and bladder trouble. If ever I
feel the slightest pain near my kidneys I
take a few doses of Doan’s Backache
Kidney Bills, and they never fail to re-
lieve me at once.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
sold by all Chemists and Stores at
2/9 per bottle, or posted by
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
CURES BY DOAN’S OINTMENT
ITCHING PILES.
Mr. James Bees. 33 Lower Campbell
Street, Surry Hills, Sydney, says:—
“Three years ago Doan’s Ointment cured
me of a very bad attack of Itching Piles,
and I have been free of that distressing-
complaint ever since. Before I got this
Ointment I tried several Pile remedies,
but none of them even gave me so milch
as relief from my suffering. The pain and
irritation I had to endure were awful,
and sometimes I was so bad that I felt
I could nearly tear myself to pieces. I
heard of Doan’s Ointment being good for
Piles, so got some, using it with very
pleasing results. The first few anolica-
tions relieved the irritation a good deal,
ard before I had finished one pot I was
Quite cured. I always keep Doan’s Oint-
ment in the house, and use it occasion-
al ly, just as a preventive against any
return of Piles.”
IRRITATING RASH.
Mrs. A. Miller, 3 Knight Street,
Erskineville, Sydney, says:—“For a long
time I suffered with a nasty rash on my
arm. which was not only disagreeable ou
also very painful. It seemed worse atte
having my hands in water, then it won
burn. This rash resembled Eczema, an
1 was very worried about it and anxn'ii.
to get a cure. I tried every remedj
could hear of, but nothing did me am
good. When I commenced to use I'°a n
Ointment I was pleased to find I had
last got something good. A few a,)I) 10
tions gave me ease, and a short treatm
cured me. I say ‘cured,’ for it is tive \
months since l used the Ointment, an
have been quite free of the rash all t
time.”
Five years later, Mrs. Miller conn
the above by saying:—“l have been 1>
fectly free of that irritating rash si
Doan’s Ointment cured me over six je
ago.”
Doan s Ointment is sold by all Chemists and Sto
at 2 9 per pot, or posted free by Foster-McCieh
Co., 76 Pittt Street, Sydney.
‘‘Thus he went, and I, instead of laying for
Singapore, worked to Manila. The Mon-
signor paid me well. ‘You did right, my
son,’ he said, when 1 told him that I had
resisted an impulse to bring his brother to
him. ‘lt would have been a great scandal.
We shall find him now.’
“They tried hard. They failed. To me
he was but a memory.
“Six months ago there came to me at
Singapore the Greek Asolsofa, bearing a
letter and a package. The letter stated that
the writer, being about to die, had entrusted
the bearer with a parcel for delivery to me,
and that he hoped this would be carried to
Monsignor Perugio. The Greek’s story was
that he had been mate of a Batavian
schooner, and at the Ladrones was asked to
visit a native village. There he saw a white
man, and from him received the letter and
package, besides a substantial sum of money
for himself. - The white man had said very
little, according to the Greek, except that
he would not live more than a day or so,
perhaps only a few hours. So I brought
Asolsofa aboard here and sailed again to
Manila. The reward was good, but it came
not from the old Monsignor, for he was
dead. The head of the Order promised to
send the parcel to the relatives of Mon-
signor. To-night for the first time I know
one thing and suspect another —one that
Asolsofa took the only thing of apparent
value from the parcel made up for
him at the Ladrones; the other that
the drink in the Malay whose kris
reached my shoulder that night in Batavia
was a Grecian’s gift. Now I have this
thing what shall I do? Look at it.” And
Sarfonetti went into the little cabin.
There he put into my hands the globe, the
work of a fourteenth-century silversmith.
It represented the world as it was then
known, with Africa cut off short, with the
coasts of China and Japan straggling away
to nothing, with the Americas so absurdly
portrayed as to be scarcely identifiable.
Yet, strangely enough, Australia was on the
globe—or. at any rate, a large island was
there. But what riveted my attention most
was a two-headed, dragon-like creature with
its body across Central Europe, one fantastic
mouth being stretched in the direction of
Italy, the other neck carried across
Asia Minor towards what at the time the
maker of this queer thing had lived was the
unknown land afterwards called Australia.
Did this mean anything, or was it merely
a piece of artistic license? Sarfonetti
shook his head. “I do not know; but it is
beautifully done.” And so it was—exquis-
itely-—the idea being wrought into the metal
with a wondrous craftsmanship.
“And what will you do with this?” I
asked.
“Ask me some other time. I must think,”
he said, and locked the thing away, not to
speak of it again until the day I received a
letter which brought Sydney very close. “I
must go by the first steamer,” I told him.
“Why?”
And I told him that too, and he answered :
“Yes, and when you go you shall carry that
globe. I have it still.”
This, then, is how it happened that a
small box was deposited with a Sydney
bank, which held it untouched for seven
years. Then one day it was claimed and
carried to an office in the city, where two
men who had arrived the previous afternoon
from Singapore were waiting. One of these,
addressing the other as Sarfonetti, paid over
a sum of £2700, and placing the box in a
handbag said he would catch the Melbourne
express that night. The list of passengers
by that week’s outward P. and O. steamer
contained the name of Dr. Torfette. Three
months later Sarfonetti came to Sydney
from the coastal settlement he had decided
to end his days in with an Italian paper six
weeks old. It had an account of a sensa-
tional murder at Naples, where Dr. Torfette,
who had just returned from a pleasure trip
to Java and Australia, and was about to
marry a daughter of the Perugio, had been
knifed a few hours after arrival.
Now what was the meaning of all this, and
why was Sarfonetti so careless? And, above
all, what was the meaning of the later news
that one Pelledino was proved the murderer?
And of the stories published in American
papers that the crime was planned by mem-
bers of a society having agents in Manila
and the Straits Settlements and Australia?
Sarfonetti? Did he through a foolish Greek
work a double on the Church and hold on
till the market ripened? Perhaps. He said
nothing. He only shook his head, and,
maybe, it was because she never asked that
he grew so fond of an Australian bambino
and left her his money. She knew him only
as a white-haired retailer of queer stories
about two-headed dragons that sometimes
come out of the sea to swallow careless
people ; and he had a strange habit of call-
ing her Bueletta. I know this because the
bambino, a woman now. is my daughter.
Yes, he was very simple was Sarfonetti.
So much so that he never offered to tell me
why he was paid for the dragon-infested
globe, nor "did he express the least inclina-
tion to know what became of it. Yet I, who
saw only the ripple on the pool, so to speak,
would give something handsome to-day if I
could find out where that globe is now, and
why it was so prized.
MUJIK.
Amongst My Own People.
THE END OF LOG PADDOCK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SOME time back I wrote that Oow-
coclcyism and Cow were the end of
Log Paddock, the District and My
Own People, but I know now that they
weren’t. For the other Sunday I read that
Log Paddock had been leased by a syndi-
cate and was to be turned into a stud
farm, and "it was hoped it would give a
great impetus to racing in the Mudgee
district.”
They have thought and dreamed and
talked of and bred and trained horses for
little else but racing in the Mudgee district
for as far hack as my memory goes, and for
the last 10 or 20 years the younger men
have thought and dreamed and talked of
nothing else —unless it be girls and dancing.
And in other districts as well, I suppose.
Draught and oilier useful horses had to come
by chance —and take their chance. Race-
horses, with their clothes, were ever on the
roads and are ever on the trains. They’re
amongst the earliest memories of my child-
hood. So I don’t see what “impetus” racing
needs in the Mudgee district. Nearly
every boy’s ambition was to be a jockey,
when it wasn’t to be a mounted trooper —or
a bushranger. Jockey came first.
Opposite Log Paddock and across the
“Guv’mint Road” stands what used to be
“Our Hill,” with slopes or “sidings” above
the frost-line in the severest winter, and
nooks or “pockets” which were always warm
in the sharpest weather; where the cows
used to go to calve, and the cattle camped at
nights when it was bitter cold on the flats.
I suppose the old selection will be part of
the stud farm, and stables built up there for
brood mares—for warmth in winter and
coolness in summer. And the old house
(where- the local papers say I was born,
but I wasn’t) —where we fought drought
and ruin and death for so mani years—
will be a camp for the cigarette-smoking,
spitting weeds they call jockeys and trainers.
I was never on the sacred soil of a race-
course in my life —except perhaps to pick
buttercups and daisies at Mudgee, when we
were children, and the crusty old jockey-
caretaker seemed to look on even that as a
sacrilege, and would shoo us off. Later
on, when I went there to shoot hares, I
was shooed off again—because my gun
might upset the nerves of a brood mare or
two who boarded at the back of the grand-
stand. Even the offer of a hare now and
then couldn’t bribe the caretaker. So it was
a good sanctuary.
There was a lockup, or log or slab strong-
room or “dead-house” at the course, for the
convenience of the mad-drunks who were a
natural result of a combination of horse-
racing, bad liquor, mixed drinks and mixed
religions. Before that they used to be hand-
cuffed to a bullock-chain stretched between
two stumps, ten or a dozen at a time. Good.
jolly old Father O’D used to go out
every race meeting to “keep the boys in
order” with his buggy-whip; but they said
with, a wink that he mostly had a horse
running, too. The cemetery is quite close.
Across Log Paddock from Our Hill, and
across the “crick” are the bare, scalded
slopes where Germany grew the vine long
years agone and made money when the
“rushes” came, maddening the diggers with
new wine and making them throw away
the gold they'd come so far to win. Often
they threw away their lives and souls too.
But Germany also grew wheat and fruit
and pigs and sheep and cattle. There is
little, or few-, or none of these now. Those
slopes grow nothing now —not even the
native bush or grass; for, uproot them as
you will, those old vineyards have spoiled
the soil for anything else for long to come
—maybe a hundred years or more. There
are vineyards on the upper flats now, where
wheat used to grow, and the abundant,
heavy wine is ruining local youth and com-
pleting the ruin of local age.
I don’t know whether there’s truth in
wine, but I know there was madness in
our kind, and there is plenty sad proof of
it. Beer may be bad enough in cities, but
I know the effects of that cheap, new or
“doctored” wine in our districts. I sampled
some of my native vintage at a “wine” shop
(there are many of them) on my native
heath, so to. speak, when I last set foot on
it on a visit some holidays past, and the
effect was startling no less to myself than
to my friends. I’d arrived on good Aus-
tralian beer, happy but sober. It took
three days and several gallons of bottled ale
to repair the damage.
But sporting will have a worse effect on
Australia, as a whole, for it leads to the
neglect of the healthy vices as well as the
healthy virtues; and, like healthy virtues,
when healthy vices are neglected too long
they perish. And when both perish a nation
perishes.
So we take a last look at Log Paddock,
where nothing grows now but a little
“loosin’’ and other hay—for the keows
mostly, in time of drought.
And at the Last Shaft, which I wrote
about. some time ago—which two of mv
father s old mates struggled so bravely to
bottom” (one of them died last year as a
result of that struggle—and the* other is
hoeing grape-vines now). The shaft is a
well now for the benefit of the cow I
suppose it will soon lie a well for the benefit
o.i that other curse of ours.. horse-racin°-
Let me see. In the first place they 5 felt
they had to exterminate the kangaroo I
saw the process of extermination. With the
kangaioo (and the cattle later) went the
useful or hunting dogs that might have kept
down the rabbits. So the rabbits when
they came got rid of the farmers—and,
somehow, of the hares, too. Then someone
imported starlings and sparrows and other
birds, so the people will soon have to net
their vineyards and orchards. Then some-
one imported the bony, useless carp and
they came up the “cricks” and are extermi-
nating the edible native fish. (That was the
only real, healthy recreation near Log
Paddock—fishing.) Somebody put down a
bore in order to drain the paddock under-
ground and get at what little gold might
bo left, and the cool, pleasant evergreen
surface springs dried up; and the creek
for some reason of its own. has shrunken •
the clear, cool, she-oak. which shaded lilv-
deeked pools of my old Eurunderee Creek,
lia\e vanished, with the pleasant green
banks and sedges., the reeds, the water-cress
and the water-lilies. The very water, what
there is of it. seems dead—stale, unhealthy
and yellow, like the dead face of a dyspeptic
So this is the end of Log Paddock, of the
early settling days, the “roaring” days and
the farming days. The ’possums have gone
the magpies,.the bell-birds, the butcher birds’
the rosellas—all the native birds. Even the’
scents of the bush. And mv own people are
going toff.
HENRY LAWSON.


m
m
A Fair Question.
Have You Tried the
Best Practical Hethod
of Eliminating Your
Belt Losses?
WESTINGHOUSE
(MORSE)
CHAIN DRIVES
will Overcome Your
Difficulties.
Write To-day for Booklet
B.M. 310.
The Westmghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
No v Zealand Office: 93-107 Featherston St., Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
DON’T LOOK OLD!
But restore vour grey and faded hairs to their natural color with
LOCKYER’S SULPHUR.
HAIR RESTORER
1/6 SOLD EVERYWHERE. 1/6
Lockyer’s gives health to the hair and restores- the
natural color. It cleanses the scalp, and makes
the' most perfect Hair Dressing.
This world-famed Hair Restorer is prepared by the great
Hair Specialists, J. Pepper & Co. Ltd., Bedford Laboratories,
London, Eng., and can be obtained direct from them by
post, or from any Chemists and Stores throughout the World.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original anti Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
1/1 J» 2/9 & 4/t. Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
M-. 1 « I I U
ono:
The Beet Medicine fw
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
‘he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a charm In
nvcctlTCDV
DIARRHOEA
and simple DYSEN itzttr.
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN
BULL DOG BROOCH.
As worn by our Brave Soldiers.
Every Patriotic Person should
wear one of these Brooches.
These splendid Brooches made in Australia and finished it
Gold, Silver, orOxodised Metal are sold retail at 2/6 each.
For the purpose of making these Brooches more popular
throughout the Commonwealth, we have decided to give
everyone an opportunity of obtaining Valuable Prizes for
acting as our agents. SEND NO MONEY, your name
and address will do, and by return mail we will send you
6of these Highly finished Brooches, When sold
remit us our money, and we will forward you the prize you
select from our Up-to-date Catalogue of Watches, Chains,
Clothing, Bracelets, Handbags, etc. Write To-day to the
SIMPLEX NOVELTY CO., Pitt-st., Sydney.
///
\
Grown on British own€d plantations
in the British West Indian Island
of Montserrat,
Shipped in British, vessels- „
Montserrat
Lime Juice
The finest health beverage. Warranted
by a British -firm of world-wide renown.
Of All Storekeepers.
Evans Sons Leaeher & Webb, Ltd. — Liverpool & London.
Three Sizes—
m h. p .
2 h.p.
3/4 tk.p.
BF'.
QSHs
:: DETACHABLE::
ROWBOAT MOTOR
is the most successful and perfect motor of
this kind on the market. Over 40,000 now
in use. Very simple and easy to operate.
Can be attached to any boat in - a few
minutes —adjustable to depth and angle of
stern. Speed up to eight miles an hour.
Equipped with high-tension, built-in-the-fiy-
wheel Magneto. Fitted with Automatic
Reverse and Maxim Silencer. Operated by
Petrol, and lubrication is automatic.
Of invaluable assistance on the farm for pumping water, driving separator, etc.
To transform motor into a power machine is the work of a few minutes.
Propeller is removed and a belt pulley substituted.
Descriptive Booklet sent post free on application to
H. A. GODDARD, 376 Collins Street, Melbourne; 82 Pitt Street. Sydney;
404 Queen Street, Brisbane; Cliff Street, Fremantle; Remington
Chambers < opp. G.P.O.'j, Auckland, N.Z.
Take Care Of your Digestion
and your digestion will take care of you. At any rate, it is certain that
when you exercise care with regard to this important function you are
safe-guarding your health at its base. This is perfectly easy to under-
stand when it is remembered that unless the work of digestion and
assimilation is efficiently performed the system will not obtain the
nourishment it requires. It commonly happens when the stomach
becomes upset, that unless speedy attention is given to the matter, other
organs of the body suffer derangement, resulting in general ill-health.
Bp Taking
Beecham’s Pills —the famous digestive medicine that more than any other
has secured the favour and confidence of the public —disorders of the
stomach, bowels, liver and kidneys, are quickly arrested. The appetite
improves,the food is morethoroughly assimilated, andthe blood ispurified.
For securing a sound digestion, which is the necessity and foundation of
, sound health, take
Bcccbams pj||s
Sold in boxes, labelled, price IOAd. (36 oills) l/1h (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
agents for
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dogs Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Economical
Motor-
Cycling
\A/HY go to the expense of a heavy high-powered
** machine? The B.S.A. Motor Bicycle is far more
economical and has frequently demonstrated its remark-
able efficiency by holding its own against machines of
double the power. For Solo or Sidecar you will find a
B.S.A. unequalled in reliability.
RIDE A
BSA
4 % h.p. MOTOR BICYCLE
Fitted with
B.S.A. COUNTERSHAFT THREE-SPEED GEAR.
B.S.A. Motor Bicycle List Free.
D. Y. RENNIE (Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
Anstralian Buildings, MELBOURNE.
Agents : MILLEDGE BEOS. LTD., George Street, Sydney.
ANTHONY HORDERN’S UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free
Wheel on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop
Tyres. As ridden by FRANCIS BIKTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List,
post free.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LTD.,
u n,TpJi. p « Spoiium, Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
One pull, one dip, one push, and
the reservoir fills in a flash.
One fill suffices to write 20,000 words.
One turn of the screw regulates the ink flow.
One self-contained pen—needing no brittle glass
filler or inky rubber squirt.
One & unique—that’s the
YOU SIMPEY
UNSCREW IT
AND
PULL IT OUT
Self-
Filling
Safely
Fountain
Price 12/- and upwards at all
Stationers, Jewellers and
Stores, Booklet free on applic-
ation to Thos. De La Rue and
Co,. Ltd.. 182 Bunhill Row,
Lffndau, E. 0., or the
.. JUWIIUUIX, ~ wx
Australasian Managing Agents, Norman Baker and Longhurst, 50 York Street, Sydney*


The All-A.ustralian
Power Transmitter.
>m
*MA NGROVFrE <
LEATHER
%£LTljg
which is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
dispels
Hardie’s Genuine
Used in place of Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE, ROT, HEAT, ACID 8 ANT PROOF.
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
“Courier” Buildings, Brisbane; & Melbourne
■e
m
%
)
/
•M
m
F
l
A re-invigorating
Tonic Beverage,
Reliable Machinery
for FARM 8 STATION REQUIREMENTS
Tangye Lampless Oil Engines.
Tangye Benzine Engines.
Tangye Suction Gas Plants.
Tangye Irrigation Plants and Pumps.
Tangye Steam Engines and Vertical Boilers.
Clayton & Shuttlewortli Portable Steam
and Traction Engines, Thrashers, Steam
Road Rollers and Waggons.
V,
“CLAYTON” PORTABLE STEAM ENGINE.
With Large Wheels to give
Ample Clearance.
..iv.
TANGYE LAMI-LLS OIL El C ME.
Started Quickly like a Benzine Engine.
Munro Chaffcutters and Saw Benches.
Gane Milking Machines.
Nicholson & Morrow “Union” Harvesters,
Ploughs, Brills, Cultivators, etc.
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing Machines.
BALGETY S CO. Lid.
Sole Agents,
Miller's Point, Sydney, and all Branches.
For genuine satisfaction
use onto the
Worlds standard machine
**#:■
■m
m
■as
The
RIN
. O.ljtd . Sok Agents %
Designed to handle to-day’s work under to-day’s conditions —
CINCINNATI PORTABLE ELECTRIC
Hand and Breast Drills Heavy Duty Radials
Heavy Duty Drills Tool Post Grinders
Bench Grinders.
E^ B 1 S SlxOJ> a . “Cincinnati” Drill or Grinder count for big savings in time, power and
heavv r f convenienee of being able to TAKE THEM TO THE WORK instead of moving
SOURCE QFPnWFH pla ceto place. They go wherever you want them, and ANY LAMP SOCKET IS A
SOURCE OF POWER either DIRECT OR ALTERNATING. Write to So/e Agents for Complete Catalogue .
Parke & Lacy Co. Ltd.
Engineers & Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
PEEBLES MOTOR CONVERTERS.
THE. SYDNEY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
has placed a REPEAT ORDER with us for a
2000 Kw. CONVERTER
SOLELY on account of EFFICIENCY and RELIABILITY, after experience with Rotaries and Motor Generators.
LET US TELL YOU ABOUT IT.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Equitable Building, SYDNEY.
