

JOJbS'TOr The Whisky of Exquisite Taste
R. Q. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
N*s’W* MONT
PIETE D ®\ m L T -P
neau Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
ext to “Daily Telegraph” Ve.w Building. . Telephone: City 9325.
Head
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, /
40 Adelaide Street
EUSTACE BEHNETT, General Manager.
w
i i3ri
\/4 HSW MOWT~Ot VtOC OCPOSIT i<MYISTWIMT Ct L\*~'<*»
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
SO-PAGE BOOK
SAVE SPACE,
LABOR & MONEY
vb
GOLD MEDAL
PANAMA EXHIBITION.
For In- and Gut-door Sleeping:,
American Wall Bed 'C
380 George Street, near G.P.0.. Sydney
n
Iney
\\UTTOAfc
HAMS
mm
se
H. 6,
CHUBB'S
ANTI BLOWPIPE
SAFES
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
vc
J
L
bv
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
1
For Electric Wires and Cables
Made in accordance with the Standards of the Cable Makers’ Association.
Buy from
THE S/LVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street, Sydney.
bv
»
Royal
Dutch
COCOA
SUPERIOR
EVERYWAY.
- an
it
Not the
MALTHOID
Roofing
AM I WU D
Wall board
IDQE
SZjO
JO
□□
May We Send Samples?
House, Sydney (O. S. Evans,
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
cb
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
s v. o.
MINING
MACHINERY
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. „
Roll Shells, Shoes
and Dies, and all
STEEL CASTINGS.
aicnvdo
TOOTH
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
FREZONJE
LAVENDER
The Bulletin
VoJ. 37.—N0. 1921. j
[Thursday, December 7, 1916.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


XMAS
Siris
vcb
A chi at S'ize.
EOUAL OF SMOKES OFTEN SOLD AT DOODLE THE PRICE.
Boxes ot_ 50 .. .. . . 11/* ***»■■ *«- into-swe. 1/2
BOXOB Ol o g am pj’ e o C( j ar Cabinet of 5 will be forwarded on receipt of 1/6.
A. REBBLEWHITE, Cigar and Cigarette Importer,
“The Old Established House," 21 Hunter Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
**
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
DEATH TO FLIES.
THE NEW NON-POISONOUS
POWDER.
MUSTDIE
The Great Insect
Destroyer,
Price
9d. per tin.
KILLS ALL INSECTS.
Fleas, Flies,
Mosquitoes, Ants,
/
Cockroaches, Moths.
v
\ k
FREE TRIAD.
Write to “Mustdie,” Dept. H, Box
1520, G.P.0., Sydney, and a trial tin
will be sent post free, or forward 9d. in
stamps for a full-size tin.
The Red Page
A Kiddy Verse-writer
The editor of the Brisbane Catholic
Advocate has a hobby of discovering
geniuses. He has unearthed half a dozen of
the curious things in Brisbane, all in con-
vent schools. Peter Pan Land, and Other
Poems (Hibernian Newspaper Co., Brisbane;
Is. 6d.), horribly produced, bears the name
of but one of the Advocate’s private
geniuses on its cover, Ernestine Hemmings;
and her writings are the only ones in the
collection that demand any critical notice.
Ernestine’s first contribution came to the
Advocate when she was 14. She is now 16.
Now, we learn, “the fame of our brilliant
young poetess has travelled. Her work is
now known and admired all over Queensland,
and its praises have been sounded in the
other States, as notices in the press of
N.S.W., Victoria* South and West Australia
have demonstrated.” The editor proclaims
her “Australia’s future Queen of Poetry.”
At present she has a scholarship in a busi-
ness college.
Certainly her work shows remarkable pre-
cocity. In these child verses —for, of course,
they are nothing but child verses, obviously
reflecting her own surroundings and without
any gliihpse of the real world—Ernestine
discloses a great facility for metre, a clever-
ness in the intricate construction of the
stanza, and a felicity in the choice of musical
words; but these are hardly the attributes of
genius. It is in her similes and metaphors
that the critic would naturally look for any
claims to originality. And here she certainly
shows promise of greater things. In “A
■Kiss for Peter,” her 14-year-old effort, she
pictures Puck, Titania and Oberon each
claiming to possess the greatest charms. The
fairies recount their merits for the prize;
then into the contest comes a stranger, with
her plea : —
L' l am laughter and love, I am joy, I am mirth,
I’m the light of the world, I am sweetest on earth;
I am sunshine and tenderness, happiness, gold,
I am youth, I am truth, I shall never grow old ;
I am glory and beauty, and faith undefiled;
I am lovely and lovable—I am a child.
Now, that fancy is ingenious and graceful
and true. And in “Night’s Jewels” she
shows a similar delightful child’s fancy:—
And if the stars are .other worlds,
This one must shine just like they do;
It’s strange to think our busy earth
A tiny flower in fields of blue.
, And if it is a gleaming star,
And shines so much so far away,
How beautiful it should be here,
How radiant, and sweet, and gay.
But, somehow, I think day and night
Are dresses for the dear big sky ;
She always puts her best one on
When Mr. Sun is up on high.
And when she takes her gown of night,
All striped with golden moonlight-bars,
She loops it up with silver pins,
And those are what we call the stars.
Ernestine’s instinctive command of metre
and her glimmering sense of humor are evi-
dent in her quaint “Ode to a Jelly-Fish”:—•
I love to watch 11*' shrimps and sharks, the winkle,
whale and whiting,
And all the other thrilly things that thrive beneath
the sea,;
The manoeuvres of the mackerel to me are most
exciting.
And I find the greatest interest in the stealthy stmg-
aree.
So in “Sunbeams in the City” she has
chosen the right stanza and the right tempo
for her picture :
Out! In ! Let us begin
Turning to silver this old piece of tin,
Gilding each building with brushes so blight,
Splashing and dashing from paintppts of light,
Bronzing the brass on a bookseller’s shutter,
Changing to diamonds some glass in a gutter.. ..
Stop ! Stop ! A jeweller’s shop !
Over it, round it, beneath and on top,
Flitting, and twitting the jewels so gay,
Glowing to show how much brighter than they
We can sparkle and shimmer; and each, as it passes,
Using them all for our own looking-glasses....
Clever, yes. But this precocity in young
girls is much commoner than perhaps the
Brisbane fossicker for genius guesses. Too
often this is but a glittering but evanescent
phase of puberty, soon lost in the larger in-
terests of life. It will be time to hail Ernes-
tine Hemmings as a genius when she shows
herself a genius. This early confident boom-
ing of the Brisbane child is not the kindest
treatment for a talent that gives promise of
coming to maturity. Happily, to temper
any injudicious praise, there remains the
business college.
THE LULLABY SUIP.
When the ocean is tucking the sun to bed,
And the birdies are fast asleep,
When the butterflies back to their homes
have fled,
And shadows begin to creep;
When the silver stars that were hid all day
Come peeping about the sky,
And the tints of' the sunset arc swept away,
Then the Lullaby Ship draws nigh.
Its sails are silken, its masts are pearls,
Its decks are of gleaming gold,
jlnd a wonderful cargo of boys and girls
Is safe in the monstrous hold.
The lifeboats are prayers that you’ve said
to God,
So you never can come to harms,
The skipper is good old Captain Nod,
And the gangway, Mother’s arms....
When lo! through the shadowy, misty blue,
A wonderful brightness gleams,
For the Lullaby Ship is bearing you
To the Island of Happy Dreams.
You can see the gold of a castle spire
O’er the beautiful silver sand.
And you know it’s the Palace of Heart’s
Desire
In the Kingdom of Slumber Land. . . .
You can scamper, and frolic, and frisk, and
run
In the castles beside the sea;
There are scores of adventures, and heaps of
fun,
And everyone shouts with glee.
Yon can play in the palaces, swim the moats,
Or dance on the moonlit beach,
You can go for a sail in the riskiest boats —•
And nothing is out of reach. .. :
But oh! you must hasten, and not be long
When she comes at the close of day,
Or you only will hear the children’s song,
/t.s* they joyously sail away.
So hurry — oh, hurry, and don’t be late,
Or you’ll miss all its splendid charms;
The whistle’s the clock that is striking eight,
And the gangway, Mother’s arms.
By Ernestine Hemmings,
just 16 years.
Why Shouldn’t Billjim Have His
Murrains?
A marraine is a god-mother. The func-
tion of a god-motlier is to keep a kindly and
benevolent eye upon a god-son or god-
daughter. With Australians the job of
god-motlier has long since degenerated into
a mere empty title usually bestowed upon
some spinster aunt at the christening of an
unprotesting kid. Her functions are seldom
more than the bestowal of an occasional
birthday present. But in France, at the
outbreak of the war, the god-mother became
real. And for a real reason. With the
invasion of the northern districts of France
tlie pathetic spectacle became frequent of
men fighting for France whose wives,
mothers, sisters and children were all wiped
out. For these unfortunate poilus there
came no letters, no gifts. The warm-hearted
Frenchwomen in the districts untouched by
the war determined each to adopt as a god-
son some soldier from the North. The idea
was taken up with the warmest enthusiasm.
Then the Frenchwomen remembered, too,
that there were thousands of other lonely
soldiers in the ranks. The same generous
instinct that prompted our Australian
women to send Christmas billies and pack-
ages to “lonelies,” as the Red Cross depots
termed them, led to the French women writ-
ing letters and sending gifts to lonely poilus.
Suitable subjects were recommended by their
officers. Soon many poilus found themselves
with two or more god-mothers.
Then, inevitably, romance crept into the
movement. The self-appointed god-mothers
comprised every age and every rank of
French life- —working-girls, aristocratic
ladies, flappers, aged spinsters, grand-
mothers, kiddies. According to Gelett
Burgess in a recent Century, “the scheme
has now developed into the most pic-
turesque flirting system ever conceived....
With such opportunities for romantic corres-
pondence now open that were never before
possible for the jeune fille, it is not to be
wondered at that the correspondence is apt
to grow interesting when an imaginative
young woman writes to a lonely, susceptible
man. Mothers that, before the war, would
have been horrified now calmly look over
their daughters’ love-letters and smile;
after all, it is only her filleul (her god-son),
and every -poilu wears a halo these days.
Of course the women of the upper classes
take good care that their daughters adopt
men from low-enough walks of life, so that
Josephine or Angele shall be in no danger
of a mesalliance.” But —! One French
journal took the idea more seriously. It
now publishes, and distributes free to sol-
diers, a certificate for each to fill in
acknowledging that he has been duly adopted
and has received kind treatment at the
hands of his marraine. There is one, only
one, precaution taken: the marraine has the
privilege, when her adopted poll'll, comes
back from the Front, of either receiving him
or refusing to see him. And half the
humor of the Paris and trench journals
revolves around the marraine and her
filleul. The most frequent jokes show the
timid flapper welcoming her god-child—usu-
ally a great, unshaven poilu who before the
war was a navvy, and the romantic god-
son who from her letters has built up a
beautiful dream of his god-mother, discover-
ing her as she really is.
Now, Billjim is marrying the English girl
with, to us, a somewhat alarming frequency.
Why not keep his thoughts upon the Aus-
tralian girl? Then think of the amount of
bad verse that is written by the Australian
flapper. Wouldn’t this be much more appre-
ciated if she sent it, not to the basket, but
to the more appreciative and lonely Billjim
in Flankers or in hospital ? Here is a
ciiunce for some energetic flappers’ com-
mittee, presided over by a tactful grand-
mother, to adopt this charming French cus-
tom in Australia, Our officers at the Front,
if asked, would surely indicate the likely
“lonelies” in their platoons. Get in early,
girls, there is going to be a parlous scarcity
of lonely Billjims directly.
The Bear
Stephen Graham, who is more Russian
than English, is to be thanked for his many
delightful sketches of travel in little-known
regions of Russia and Central Asia. In
Through Russian Central Asia (Cassell, per
Sydney Book Club) he takes us to Bokhara,
Tashkent and Samarkand, and the curious
country of The Sevbn Rivers. Graham usu-
ally travels on foot, and no journey seems to
him too difficult. In Bokhara he found a
well-known make of American sewing-
machine, and nearly all the strange cities
he journeyed to possessed the cinema. “Bok-
hara is a perfect place. It is much more
remote even than Delhi, and is almost un-
touched, unaffected by Western life. It is a
city of a dream, and if a magician wished to
transport some modern Aladdin to a fairy
city, where there would be nothing recognis-
able and yet everything would be beautiful
and bewildering, he need only bring him to
the walls of Bokhara.”
Pfobably the most common assumption in
the West is that Mohammedanism does not
count. Yet in its adherents it greatly out-
numbers Christianity. Mohammedanism is
an extraordinary portent in the world. “The
Mohammedans, those many millions, are not
merely potential Christians, a set of people
remaining in error because our missionary
enterprise is not sufficient to bring them to
the Light. It is not an accident, or a make-
shift religion, but evidently a happy form
suitable to the millions who embody it. It
is a poetically fitting religion, part of the
very fibre of the people who have it, and it
cannot easily be got rid or supplanted.”
Everywhere Graham came upon the evi-
dences of the spreading wave of Russian
emigration. “The wandering spirit of the
Russian is the foundation of the Empire.”
Russia is always colonising, though she is
by no means overcrowded. “The old world
[of Asia] is hollow at the core, and Russia
has access to that great, wide hollowness,
stands at the door of it and stares into the
great emptiness.” Why shouldn’t Russia
increase? The process of colonisation is,
however, slower than the process of colonis-
ing the British Empire; but it is sounder,
more lasting. Yet in 1906, though the
population of Canada was greater than that
of Siberia, in 1911 Siberia had two million
more inhabitants.
The Bear goes on, and keeps on going on.
What size in bear-skins will he take in
another century?
•
James Norman Hall is an American who
enlisted in the British Army. His book,
Kitchener’S'Mob (Constable; 4s. 6d.), owes
its value chiefly to the nationality of the
author. For his comments upon the British
Army are delightfully free and unbiased.
The first thing the sergeant told him was to
talk like a Tommy. “All you got to do is
to forget all them aitches.... Now s’y ‘Gor’
blimy, ’Arry, ’ow’s the missus?’ He did.
Rut the Tommies weren’t taken in. Hence-
forth he was ‘Jamie the Yank.’ ” It Was
harder for the author to accept the fact of
his social inferiority' to the officers. He soon
saw the futility of discussing this question
with Tommy, for as Tommy put it: “Look
’ere! Ain’t a gentleman a gentleman? I’m
arskin’ you, ain’t ’e?” The author found
Tommy quiet and law-abiding in England,
bis chief lapses being due to an exaggerated
estimation of his capacity for beer. In
France Ms conduct was splendid throughout.
During six months in the trenches he saw
but two instances of drunkenness, and never
once did the author hear of a woman treated
otherwise than courteously, or of any looting,
lie remarks that the Tommy regarded his
toothbrush “as the best little instrument for
cleaning the mechanism of a rifle ever in-
vented.”
The first thing that Tommy learnt on
active service was respect for his enemy. He
had come from England full of absurd news-
paper tales about the German soldier’s in-
feriority as a fighting man. As one Tommy
put it, after the war he would never feel safe
when lie saw a Fritzie unless he was looking
at him through his periscope from behind a
bit of cover. The author mentions how
necessary it is for a soldier to acquire trench
legs. “Five paces forward, two to the right,
two to the left, two to the left again, then
five to the right, and so bn to Switzerland.”
“The better I knew Tommy, the better I
liked him. He hasn’t a shred of senti-
mentality in his make-up. There is plenty of
sentiment, sincere feeling, but it is admirably
concealed.... To the casual observer theirs
was not the ardor of loyal sons, fighting for
a beloved motherland. Rather, it seemed that
of irresponsible schoolboys on a long holi-
day. They said nothing about patriotism or
the duty of Englishmen in war-time.” The
American couldn’t understand why Tommy
did not talk of his mother. “Their talk was
of anything but home; and yet I knew they
thought of but little else In England,
before I knew him for the man he. is, I said :
‘How am I to endure living \yith him?’ And
now I am thinking, how am I to endure
living without him; without the inspiration
of his splendid courage; without the visible
example of his unselfish devotion to his
fellows?. ...Tommy is sick of the war-dead
sick of it But there is that within him
which says ‘Hold on!’ He is a compoumjiof
cheery optimism and grim tenacity which
makes him an incomparable fighting man.”
Australian
Pte. II. W. Morris, of the Third Brigade
of Axizacs, forwards The Anzacs, verses
written in his dugout at Anzac during lulls
in the fighting (G. A. Bellamy, Burton,
England). His serious verses are patriotic
without any pretence to distinction: they
doubtless served their purpose in cheering
up his pals in Gallipoli; but his humorous
verse has its own modest note. This page
likes best bis “Trench Morals,” which pro-
ceeds in this gentle strain:—■
The librarian of the Sydney Municipal
Library, which, it may be mentioned, for the
information of citizens, can be discovered,
after an arduous search, stuck away on the
second floor of the Queen Victoria Markets,
and reached by the slowest lift in the city,
forwards a classified list of books of. Soci-
ology, published chiefly for the students of
the tutorial classes but suggested for the
consideration of the public. The modem
library does not modestly hide itself from
readers; its job is to drag new readers
into its orbit; it should advertise its wares
and, like the rag-merchants, create a popu-
lar demand for its goods. But the job of the
Sydney Municipal Library is rendered almost
hopeless by the fact that it inhabits a dugout
in a deserted trench. A municipal library
should have its own noble building on the
city’s main street; books deserve almost as
good a site for disposal and nearly the same
window space as State flathead and leather-
jacket.
Thomas Bose pronounces The Doom of
Man (Murray, Sydney) in 343 pages of very
blank verse, and by that fact pronounces the
doom of Thomas Bose. His doom is to re-
main unread. What he has to say he says
in the baldest prose, chopped up into correct
and horribly monotonous five-foot iambic
verse. Like this;—•
Now through the ages of departing years,
They saw emerging from primeval state,
Man, like an ape in his external form,
His body covered with the growth of hair,
A brutal face, with little or no chin,
Tremendous jaws, and long protruding teeth,
With paws and nails, resembling- more the claws
Adapted to the brute, than human hands;
His dawn of intellect but just removed
Above the instinct of the savage beasts,
Such as he followed in the chase, and slew
Devouring their raw flesh for food, with nuts
And roots that in the lonesome forest grew.
«
The astounding avalanche of correspond-
ence that has descended upon us in answer
to, or in comment upon, the letter of “An
Ignorant Innocent” (B.P., 16/11/T6) can-
not be allowed to overwhelm this page. This
is not the place for such a detailed —and it
is detailed—discussion of sex-problems. In-
cluded in the swarm of letters received are
a number of other “Ignorant Innocents,”
equally ignorant, and another letter from the
first writer, asking even more embarrassing
questions, the answer to which she will find
in the books recommended to her. The
majority of the correspondents put down
their ignorance to the px-uderies of their
mothers. The correspondence proves a danger-
oils ignorance of elementary sex-matters for
a country whose education system claims to
be enlightened.
As soon as the strike is over and coal
declared white, an ambitious half-yearly
illustrated magazine,- Art in Australia,
will make its first appearance. This maga-
zine aims at setting a new standai’d of art
publishing in Australia. It is edited and
published" by Sydney Ure Smith,_ Bertram
Stevens and _C. Llovd Jones. Eight color
reproductions, up to the standard of those in
the recent Hilder memorial volume, and many
other illustrations and articles upon, and by,
artists should make up a good five-shillings’
worth. The magazine will be Australian,
not State, in scope.
When you’re in the trenches, boys, don’t cuss,
If you do the Heads will make a fuss.
It’s got to cease occurring, this awful, wanton
swearing,
So boys, just take this good advice from us.
So when you shoot and miss the wily Turk
Don’t swear, but pull your bolt back with a jerk,
And should the cartridge jamb it, don’t forget your-
self and damn it,
But go like Hell until you make it work....
When you’re tortured by an elderly, fat louse
Of the “active service” kind that makes one rouse,
Don’t “carry on” with swearing, look to see how he
is faring,
And if you catch him, do a gentle wowse. ...


At
aee
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for EVERYTHING!
Anthony Horderns*
for Value in Tobacco
Superb Coarse Cut, in
Airtight Tins.
Superb Coarse Cut Mixture.
There J 1 AUSTRALIAN PIPE SMOKERS
PHENOMENAL SUCCESS ttat'has ATTENDED T The t”? ( , the
ti°n of this MODERATELY-PRICED COARSE-CUT MIXTURE
PRICE ./9 1/3 2/6 P g/0
Postage: loz., 2d,; 20z., 3d.; 4oz„ 4d.; per lb.. 9d. extra
Postage Other States: Per lb., 1/2 extra.
Carreras’ Special Double Broad Cut Tobacco
CARRERAS’ SPPIATAT nnrrm. ... VU * IWUOtWU.
CARRER A A \t 1V °f ON OR n r T n TOB ACCO is Specially
ATING Smokers are RECOMMENDED ? r ?^ and SO , NS - and all DISCRIMIN-
toixrng adopted for the CARRERAS’ SPECTAT normir „. be new METHOD of cutting and
BLEND intended by the Manufacturer DOLBLE BROAD CUT ensures the EXACT
™bS, mq*», m. the natural
in “ ch * wajr ,hal
BROAD CUT allow, the ait to b pass throlaf^P REBAS ’ sp ECIAL DOUBLE
TOBACCO as EASILY as through a DRY SPDNPP l he
SMOKE REACHES THE MO&S SSW Jft
The Pipe always DRAWS FREELY and «dtv. „
into LTJMPS C °^ch ES a S s beCaU t ße the I tobacc ’° CANNOT form
with FTNE.CTIT M?XTURES° St Sm ° kerS eXperienCed
' , AMTNY 11 L IVLIA.L UjKUS.
CUT I TmIArrr» SPE P IA 1 ?i ! m? OUBLE BROAD
odAvCO smokes PURE and SWPFT +n f 4-v, Q
BOTTOM of the PIPE, leaving fi minimum aqu
CLIMATE 3n CONDITION for ANY TIME IN ANY
MEDIUM and FULL STRENGTH: 2oz. 1/5,
by post 1/8; 4oz. 2/9, by post 3/1; per lb.,
10/9. Postage, N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.
»■
c*\
C 7
if OMDO^
ai
e/frO
rP
Anthony Horderns’ for the
Bushman’s Universal Bicycle
SSS ZZZZ **t —• -t-
The strengthening stays stiffen the frame, Bushman" 01 it r J <h "f'
strongest model built. “King the Bushman s Universal the
Price £l3/10/=
With
DUNLOP
BUSHMAN’S
COVERS.
vcb
NOTE the
s t r e n gtheningr
Stays to stiffen
Frame, rendering:
this Machine the
Strongest Model
Made.
THE FRAME is Best Weldless Steel Tubing, Double Butted. This is a speciallv-
strengthened frame, the front forks being supplemented with girder front forks, and also fitted
with a pair of extra back stays, these making it very convenient for strapping tanks for carrying’
water, making it, at the same time, an almost unbreakable frame.
WTTWTTT D COASTER BACK HUB, which includes FREE
WHEEIj on Both Gears, also Back Pedalling Brake on each gear.
SADDLE. Brooks’ B 10. Front rim brake.
FINISHED Black Enamel of highest quality, all bright parts heavily plated on copper.
DUNLOP BUSHMAN’S COVERS and HEAVY DUNLOP TUBES.
COMPLETE, with TOOLS, WRENCHES, INFLATER and OILER.
Fully Guaranteed for 12 Months.
PRICE
£l3/10/-
Anthony Horderns*
for Value in
WATCHES.
The FENCHURCH NON-MAGNETIC
a HIGH-GRADE, Open-face
IvEILESS WATCH for men, and one that
will stand HARD WEAR and ROUGH
USAGE. 3
The FENCHURCH is an ACCURATE!
TIMEKEEPER, has Compensation Balance,
is fully Jewelled, and well finished.
The FENCHURCH is a SHORT-WIND
KEYLESS WATCPI, in DUST- and
WATER-PROOF Case, fitted either with
Screw Bezel and Back, or Hinge and Snap
Cases.
Nickel Silver Case, 157-
Gun Metal, 16/-
By Registered Post, 6d. extra.
The , SOLDIE R’S FENCHURCH SIL-
VER WRLSTLET WATCH, with Lumin-
ous Dial. A Perfect Timekeeper, £2/10/-
By Registered Post, 6d. extra.
The Uni Sirdar
is a good, strong, knock-about Keyless
Watch. It has a non-magnetic, keyless
movement, fully jewelled, compensating
balance. It is a thoroughly dependable and
accurate watch,
SOLID NICKEL CASE 16/6
OXIDISED 18/6
NICKEL HUNTING CASE. . 22/6
SILVER OPEN FACE 30/.
SILVER HUNTING CASE. . 37/6
By Registered Post, 6d. extra.
All watches are timed and adjusted before
being despatched from our establishment.
\ M /
fHE FENCHURCH LEVEft
kvy
S'
wukvy
#
4
&
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FOR
VALUE IN BOOKS
Everyman’s Library of Standard Literature.
EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY is exactly what its
name implies—a library for the professional man,
the business man, the young man, the student, and
all lovers of literature. There are over 700 titles
to select from in the EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY,
embracing the works of foremost authors in the
realms of Fiction, Poetry, History, Theology,
Travel, Biography and Essays of famous writers.
EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY is under the
general editorship of Professor Ernest Rehys,
and contains the best works that have been
written in all times and tongues, from Epictetus,
Cicero and Plutarch down to Dickens, Scott,
Ruskin and the other great Literary Lights of
the Victorian Era.
Each volume in EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY
is uniformly bound, and printed in large, clear
type on specially made paper, and many are
illustrated.
vcb
Sectional Bookcase, to
hold 50 vols., 21/-
Anthony Horderns’ Price :
Cloth, 1/3; Full Leather, 2|6.
Postage 2d. volume extra. Full list of titles post free. Send Is. 2d. for a
sample volume. The value cannot he surpassed.
Handsome Oak Bookcase (as illustrated) specially designed for Every-
man’s Library, made in Fumed Oak, and fitted with novel interlocking device,
to aliow for extension. Top Section, 6/-; Base Unit, 6/6; Book Section (to
hold 50 vols.), 8/6.
vc
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY. N.S.W.


W'4
7
///
h
7
:
LOOK OVER A
AND YOU WILL
FIND NOTHING
OVERLOOKED.
bvc
That’s what has made the reputa-
tion of Winchester Rifles, aside
from their own peculiar and suc-
cessful construction. The system
being all right, the next thing is to
make them right. This the Win-
chester people have always done.
They spend large sums of money
in testing materials, in inspecting
and gauging parts, and in testing
finished guns for manipulation and
shooting, so when the gun reaches
you—it’s a perfect shooting iron.
There are Winchester Single Shot
Rifles, Repeating Rifles and Auto-
matic Rifles, and you can get
them in various calibers suitable
FOR ALL KINDS OF HUNTING
Brush Your Teeth
After Lunch
Brushing your teeth after lunch is
as important a part of your daily
life as bathing. Equally impor-
tant is the form of a cleanser
used.
Do not allow particles of food
to lodge between your teeth and
remain there until dinner time.
For your teeth’s sake brush them
after luncheon with either
s v V
aasaiti
, ■:; ■:; ' : : : :
M
stmi
&
For
& B^aati&jrtg
A m pwimw
the mwn
mt zsmw
Dr. Lyon's
Droprr.T
Tooth Powder
OR
Dental Cream
Some people prefer dental cream, but in gratifying this
preference, the value of using a Tooth powder frequently
should not be overlooked. Dr. Lyon’s toothpowder is a
super-cleanser whose use is essential through frequent
applications to keep the teeth in perfect condition.
Obtainable at all leading chemists and stores. Send 3d.
in stamps today for a dainty sample package of either
Dr. Lyon’s Perfect Tooth Powder or Dental Cream.
I. W. LYON & SONS, Inc.
Lower Cuba St.
Wellington, N. Z.
109 Pitt Street
Sydney, N.S.W.
A
i.vm
* « (tf rcr f
*<B(j
1 m
If*:
J
“WVINGtMs
kil
m
IMPORTANT.—LOOK TO YOUR TEETH
There are no teeth like those furnished by Nature. For service, comfort and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be compared with a natural set.
, Sensible people will accordingly try to preserve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap and water are useful, but somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttlefish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifically prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted. ROCIvE. TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
LORRIES
&
H 53 Kisfl®fWlßMsL£3
The firestone TiBE j&Ru.BBERCa
The World’s Carriers
Federal Lorries are operating in almost every country on the globe.
Built in one of the largest factories of the world devoted exclusively
to the manufacture of lorries, Federals have earned a world-wide
reputation from thousands of satisfied owners.
Federal Lorries are worm-drive exclusively. Made in three sizes •
l-|-ton, 2-ton, 3|-ton.
FEDERAL MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY
A Company of groat financial strength and stability .
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—
Adelaide: EYES & CROWLE LTD.
Sydney: KELLY’S MOTORS LTD.
Queensland: TOWN & COUNTRY AMALGAMATED MOTORS LTD.
Australasian Factory Representative : BOX 635 Adelaide.
Awarded the Only Gold Medal at the Panama-Pacific Exposition.
[5
WAVERLEY
THE “BOON AtiD BLESSING” NIB
You can depend on a Waverley.
Its quality and durability make
it a world*wide favourite. It
writes so smoothly and lasts so
well that one Waverley outlasts
two or three nibs of an inferior
kind. The Reservoir Waverley
does 200 words with one dip.
6d. & 1/- PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS
AND DEALERS
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
STEEL, GOLD A FOUNTAIN PEN MAKERS
Edinburgh, Glasgow t London
are: you
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALU
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
MR. T. I. CAMPBELL,
General Secretary Farmers 8 Settlers’ Association of New South Wales,
one of the best-known of Sydney’s commercial citizens, having held this important
position for years, gives this voluntary testimony to Clements Tonic, because he
states it merits it: —
“Farmers and Settlers’ Association, N.S.W.,
“7 O’Connell St., Sydney, 27/7/’l6.
“CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.,
“Knowing the value of Clements Tonic from personal use and
experience, I do not hesitate to give you my opinion of it, simply
putting into words what I have so often spoken.
“I believe it to be a very fine blood and nerve tonic. I know
that it has benefited me greatly. At various periods my duties are
exceptionally heavy, involving great mental and nervous strain, and
I have always found your medicine of the greatest value to me,
having singularly invigorating and recuperative properties.
“I make a point of recommending Clements Tonic to many of
my friends, as I feel desirous of enabling others to benefit by my
personal experience. .
“(Signed) T. I. CAMPBELL,
“General Secretary.”
It is questionable whether there is any man better or more widely known than the able
Secretary of this far-reaching Association, the influence of which extends over the entire State,
and whose members amongst the pastoral and farming communities of New South Wales are
fo b-T numbered in thousands. To all of these Mr. Campbell’s letter will appeal, as equally
as it will to his numberless commercial city friends, because of its sincerity and lucid explana-
tion of the worth of a medicine the effectiveness of which is felt and recognised throughout
the Australian Commonwealth.
it is truly the medicine for the man on the land. Send for it if you suffer
from Insomnia, Poor Appetite, Weak Nerves, or Brain Fag. ALL CHEMISTS.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle.


n
The
Hot
Sun
&
Dust
Will not hurt your skin or complexion
if you use freely several times a day
ROWLAND'S
KALYDOR
which cools and refreshes the FACE, HANDS
and ARMS, PREVENTS and removes
FRECKLES, TAN, SUNBURN, REDNESS
and ROUGHNESS, &c., Soothes and heals
all Irritation, Stings of Insects, &c. Produces
a beautifully Clear and Healthy Complexion,
and a SKIN as SOFT as VELVET. Bottles
2/3, 4/6, and 8/6. Of Stores, Chemists, and
Rowlands, 67, Hatton Garden, London
CELEBRATED-
-53
z
*
1
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
Corns Positively Cured
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young; —-hard or soft, and
that remedy is ACORN SILK, which
removes the worst Corn in a few days, and
the sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure—it kills them. It is a painless cure—
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
: —no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz.:—
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
T. L. Seef, Parbury Buildings, Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Sydney.
L. Susman & Co., Merchants, Hobart. [1
THE GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
GOUT v
& RHEUMATIC PILLS.
The famous Remedy that actually re-
lieves RHEUMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO,
SCIATICA and MUSCULAR RHEUMA-
TISM.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores, 1/- and 2/6 per box.
Prout & Co.. 229 Strand. London.
The Authors’ Alliance
Is prepared to consider and place MSS.
Literary work of all kinds dealt with by
experts who place Authors’ interests first.
Twenty years’ experience. Write for prospectus.
100 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE,
And at London and New York.
TOBACCO KILLS!
k
(if, K
<7?
7
Face to Face With Deat *• /
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a positive cure for
the Tobacco and Cigarette Habits. It is abso-
lutely harmless, leaves no reaction or bad after-
effects, and cures permanently.
Free Package Offer.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a trial
package of this wonderful remedy, together
with our Free Booklet, Testimonials, etc.
TRIAL PACKAGE often effects a CURE.
Mr. 11. Smith, of Park Farm, Jericho, Tas-
mania, says: a I was a hard smoker for 30
years, but since talcina your sample of Tobacco
Specific 1 have never had a smoke."
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G,
29 O’Connell Street, Sydney. [3 .
bvc
A Cooling Lotion to prevent
Scorobing and Burning of the
Sod for Bathers. Motorists.
Tourists, etc
ALL chemists
lie BOTTLE
OR POST FREE
BonnmoTOfucb.
ITt HARRIS »
SYDNEY
MOWITOBAWE
A few drops applied to (be
Bands and Face keep away
Mosquitoes. Sandflies. Etc
All Chemists 1/6 Bottle
or Post Free
SONNINGTON & CO.. LTD.
179 HARRIS STREET. SYDNEY
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS, 1/6 a bottle each, or Post Free from
BONNINGTON & CO., LTD., 179 Harris Street, Sydney. [l
Nothing can surpass
HORROCKSES’
SHEETINGS for
durability
When Buying see HORROCKSES* name on Face-plait,
and decline all substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers
HIGHEST AWARDS AT ALL THE GREAT EXHIBITIONS. 2
\
Grown on British owned plantations
in the British West Indian Island
ol Montserrat.
M Shipped in British vessels.
Montserrat
Lime Juice
The finest health beverage. Warranted
by a British ~fixm of world-wide renown.
Of All Storekeepers.
Ivans Sons Leecher & Webb, Ltd. —- Liverpool & London.
m
•mil i i
MS
■
\ &9M JL&
J
&
The man who has learned how and
when to take risks, banks on his
superior nerve to pull him through.
And if by daily habit and by simple
precautions he has kept his body fit
and vigorous always, you may be sure
his nerve will not fail him in any crisis.
Such men succeed where others dare
not even try to succeed.
| HE habit of taking
* a half teaspoon-
ful of Kruschen Salts
in a tumbler of hot
water every morning
before rising clears the
head, invigorates and
cleanses the system
and promotes daily good health. You sleep
better —and rise refreshed ; you eat better —and
assimilate all the nourishment that food can give;
you work better —and enjoy your work. You
can tax your energies to the uttermost and take
pleasure in the effort if only you keep your body fit
while your brain works. The Kruschen habit makes you fit and
keeps you fit —good health becomes an unconscious habit of life.
IMiim
per bottle
2/-
per bottle.
ALL. BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS.
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents:—
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Bole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen), Ltd*, 68 Deansgate Arcade, Manchester, England.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Spring.
My love returns, ah! never mere
From those far lands across the sea.
Here blossoms spread their fragrant store;
Here glittering flies the laden bee.
From those far lands across the sea
His fame is blown on desert airs.
Here glittering flies the laden bee
And each grey bough a garland wears.
His fame is blown on desert ail's
And all his glorious manhood spent;
And each grey bough a garland wears
Beneath October’s azure tent.
And all his glorious manhood spent
In one swift hazard —lost to Fate.
Beneath October’s azure tent
The thrush sings softly to his mate.
In one swift hazard—lost to Fate!
Here blossoms spread their fragrant store;
The thrush sings softly to his mate —•
My love returns, ah! never more.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.
The Murder.
We slew our love; ’twas murder, sure.
Your laugh rang true in those old days;
The love shown in your eyes’ soft rays,
I swear, was pure!
We slew our love; the brand of Cain
Placed on our hearts a mark of red,
And Innocence, affrighted, fled
To leave us pain.
Ah, dear, the things that might have been,
But that, too fearful of the cost,
We slew young love, and all things lost!
Had we but seen !
It might have been a tender bond
To hold us lightly all our years;
A smiling sunshine in our tears
To keep us fond!
We slew our love; and ne’er again
Your passion seemed so warm and true;
There ever lay ’twixt me and you
The brand of Cain.
Just as a fair plant, soft and young,
Nipped in its early bloom and flower,
Withered our love, that might this hour
Still fair have sprung.
Oh, sorrow in our hearts must move
For the sweet thing that might have set
Our hearts in Eden. Lives regret —
We slew our love!
N.S.W.
HAMER.
Lines to Memory.
Ah! in what reverence I hold that spot
Where she and I, in youth, learned such a
lot.
She (have a taste?) was mine, and mine
alone,
Simple as dawn... .1 was her chaperon.
Sweet were h'er lips... .Ah !.... (Yes, mine’s
whisky, please)....
Nothing is left to me, but memories....
I saw her yesterday. Changed was her lot.
False hair, false teeth, three children had she
got.
I looked and sighed. Strange are the ways of
men....
Ah! how I blessed her memory ( Say
when).
QUEENSLAND.
ZORA CROSS.
The Wiser Way.
The small waves whispered on the pebbly
beach;
The little winds stole softly through the
grass;
Pale moonbeams vaguely lit your face, my
peach;
And all uncounted did the hours pass.
I looked into your eyes that flickering fell;
I watched the mounting rhythm of your
breast;
Your dainty ankle, dear, I noted well,
Your pretty shoe, your whist, and all the
rest.
And then—do you remember how my arm
Crept round you and you heard my whis-
pered plea,
And, trembling with vague, maidenly alarm.
You yielded, inch by inch, and came to me?
My fiercely burning lips upon your cheek,
Your ear, your neck, and then your mouth!
oh, bliss!
Was it an age I held you, or a week,
Or just a minute, darling, in that kiss?
The moon had passed her zenith when we
rose
And went our ways. And you were strangely
shy;
Your cheeks were burning—ah, sweet
blushes, those!
You were a bit unstrung, and so was I.
And we were all unwitting how that cheat,
That jocose Fate, had played a trick obscene.
Could we have known that that accursed
seat
On which we’d sat was freshly painted
green!
And, oh my pants, my neat, meticulous,
Grey-flannel trousers, paid for, yes, and new,
Were, sweetheart, in a part conspicuous,
Completely spoiled. How was it, love, with
you?
Ileigho! with dearly purchased, riper wit,
Whene’er love’s nectar now I seek to quaff,
I take precautions, Ermyntrude, and sit
Upon the Sun or Daily Telegraph.
N.S.W.
INVER G.


SP
m
n
A
m,
//' y
Jr
, r>*
*
SS'
****?<
PERDRIAU
GARDEN
HOSE
Made in Australia
and
Obtainable from All Stores.
Look for the registered brand,
moulded on every coil.
“WATERSHED”
Begd. Brand.
A very high-grade RED RUBBER Hose, light ana
flexible, but strong enough to stand the highest water
pressure. Specially made to resist our climatic con-
ditions.
“PROSPECT”
Regd. Brand.
The best low-priced Black Rubber Hose on the market.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.,
Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth.
b
vcb
John Lysaght Limited will be pleased, upon
application, to forward a free copy of the
new and enlarged edition of their “ Referee "
to Every Property Owner and Galvanized
iron User. This Book contains a quantity
of carefully compiled infor-
mation which will be found
both useful and in teresting .
8 Spring Street, Sydney ,
Supplied to the
Naval and Military
Authorities in
Great Britain and
Australia.
Aren’t You Glad
You Came?
Says the dainty little hostess of the picnic, as
holds up to the view of everybody the tin of
REX
Camp Pie
1
!■ •
3
that someone very thoughtfully slipped into the basket.
And there are few dissenting voices.
“REX” CAMP PIE is wonderful picnic fare. Just slice it up or make
sandwiches of it. If possible, have some kind of Salad with it.
Incidentally keep a tin or two on your pantry shelf, regularly, this Summer
time.
“REX” CAMP PIE is made from the choicest compound meats —carefully
minced and seasoned and packed with a delectable jelly. Ready to serve and
eat when you open the tin.
Sold by Grocers everywhere.
Also ask for
■L. \Ta
jter
op
PpODUC^
HE
iirti
um
“REX” Luncheon Cheese
The piquant, economical cheese that
is perfectly digestible. It can be
spread easily—no butter is needed.
Also ask for —\
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
“Hex” Pork and Beans, 121 b. tins.
“Rex” Brand Bard, for cooking purposes, in lib. prints.
“Rex” Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pigs' Feet in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Bunch Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Sheqp Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon;
Packers of “ Rex ” Pure Food Products.
&
RE
X
BR&HI
ECONOMY the Order of the Day.
3!
@®4s
MOTOR-OWNERS!
If you want to Economise Fit
Smith’s
Perfect British
Speedometers
To correctly determine your Tyre Mileage
and Petrol Consumption.
S. SMITH & SONS (MA) LTD.,
199 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
’Phone City 2087.
te House for British Motor Accessories
Dodge Brothers
MOTOR CAR
APPROVAL OF PURCHASERS.
The Makers’ Biggest and Best Asset
Feeling* of Confidence.
The car has qualities peculiar to itself.
People have found this out in their own way.
It has made good with them, and they have not been
slow to express their approval.
The firm of Dodge Brothers knows this and appreci-
ates it.
It is the biggest and best asset in their business.
And, knowing it, their intention is to keep on making
the car better and better.
There is a definite feeling of confidence in the name
of Dodge Brothers.
It is the strongest assurance that their car will
always conform to the highest jjossible standard.
THE PRICES OF REPAIR PARTS ARE EXCEPTION-
ALLY LOW, AND CONSTITUTE A SPECIAL FEATURE.
Dalgety & Company Limited,
Sydney and Brisbane,
Agents for New South Wales and Queensland.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a .Newspaper.
Vol. 37. No. 1921.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 7 , 1916.
Pkice 6d.
OUR BROTHER IN THE TRENCHES.
“It seems hopeless to expect that by voluntary enlistment we can keep up the necessary reinforcements.” —The Prime Minister.
CAIN: “Am I my brother’s keeper?”


SPECIAL NOTICE TO AGENTS AND
SUBSCRIBERS.
In consequence of the scarcity of
printing paper, we regret to advise that
there will be no Special Xmas Number
of The Bulletin this year.
MANAGER,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.
November 1, 1916.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
"Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosrnan, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
i address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £ 1 10s. per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., ivhich should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused. .
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted fair
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
toivn, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, San Francisco;
Childs News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San
Diego, Cal.; Queen City News Co., Randolph and
Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Uoung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Ivong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong,
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth , Maoriland,
Fiji, British Par>ua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10os., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one neivspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., 2id.;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, \oz., Id., and id. each,
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1910.
THE ABSENCE OF EVIDENCE TO
JUSTIFY A MAFFICK.
Tiie declared intentions of the Allies are: —-
1. To win the war.
2. To make peace on their own terms.
3. To exact from Germany some measure of repara-
tion.
4. To prevent a recurrence of the tragedy.
Of these the last three are impossible of
realisation unless the first is accomplished.
Slaughter has been proceeding for two years
and four months; and in order to win to the
extent of making their own terms, the Allies
have to present military reasons that will
induce the German to move himself from
France, Belgium, Roumania, Servia and
Poland. His grip on these places is still
strong. How strong has been showm on the
Somme and by recent performances along the
Danube. The conflict is really a gigantic
siege, and nothing has yet occurred to indi-
cate that the enemy is unable either to man
his walls at any point where they are
assailed or to launch a heavy attack
where the assailants appear to be weak-
est. Of course, the war has not gone
the way the enemy expected. But it
has not gone the way the Allies expected
either. The German has made miscalcu-
lations and blunders. The Allies have
done the same, and many of them. Not all
the talk in the world about this, that and the
other thing—about the splendid valor of
France, of Britain’s great recovery, of
Russia’s dogged determination and Italy’s
persistence; about the condition of Germany
and the disillusionment of her people, and
stuff of that sort —can alter the one central
fact on which everything else hinges. And
this is that until the German resistance
begins to crumple up peace on the Allies’
terms will not be in sight. The crumpling
up has not commenced. It is as impossible
to-day as it was a year ago for anyone to
place his finger on a particular spot and
say, “There the Allies are definitely masters
—the enemy’s powers are breaking.” Until
that can be done, the cry “We are win-
ning” will be as dangerous as similar blither
was a year ago. It would do the multitudi-
nous hot-air patriots who mislead themselves
and the community a lot of good if they
could bring themselves to realise that, for
every article they read showing the deteriora-
tion of the German army and the accumula-
tion of Germany’s financial embarrassments
and the scarcity of the sustaining sausage,
miles of identical stuff about the Allies are
printed in Germany.
In Australia ever since the war began
there has been a cowardly refusal to either
look squarely at the truth about its progress
or to recognise what tremendous issues for
the Commonwealth are in the balance. To
anyone looking back over a newspaper file or
the directions issued from the Censor’s office
the revelation of folly is almost beyond
belief. It is not optimism that is reflected
there —not the confidence that is born of
strength and determination —but the spirit
of the weakling and the braggart. What
the country should have known long ago it
was not told. Instead, it was filled with
malignant lies about victory when there was
none. The results are enough to make any
Australian who loves his country weep. Dis-
order and waste are on every hand, while
deluded people maunder about being con-
sulted as to the terms of peace that will fol-
low a war that has yet to be won. All this is a
caricature of the Australian spirit and a
direct result of long-continued assurances
from official dullards and miscellaneous
cranks that the German is going to be wiped
off the face of the earth by the end of next
week or next month, or some other time.
* * * *
The war is not going to be won by making
loud, disrespectful remarks about the enemy
or announcing that he has no more reserves.
Nor may it be won by people armed
with inkpots. To some of the nations
this is a fight for life; to others
for something very near the same thing.
Germany knows this. So do her vic-
tims. She will hang on to the last ounce so
long as she can make them bleed. And that
is about the stage the war has now reached
—a trial of physical and financial endur-
ance, in which defeat will be avoided by the
crowd that can stand bleeding the longest.
Once exhaustion commences on either side
the rest will be rapid. But we need not fool
ourselves with notions that the German is
the only one who is wasting. Whether he is
using up his resources more rapidly than the
others, or conserving them more scientifi-
cally, is at best only a matter for specula-
tion more or less idle. Until the day comes
when Germany is either flung out of the con-
quered territory she now occupies or
announces her readiness to quit, the problem
of which can suffer longest will remain
unanswered. But we do know this: If the
German is beaten outright it will not be
because he neglected to employ the whole of
his strength. And if the Allies win outright
there is very good reason to believe that it
will only be because they will employ, all
their strength. With less than all their
strength they certainly have made no pro-
gress worth mentioning. In such circum-
stances do the people of Australia believe
that they are doing the fair thing to them-
selves or their country by slouching along
with a gambler’s trust in a win, recklessly
plunging into debt for potted asparagus and
pianolas, wasting their assets and time and
opportunity? Six months ago Hughes was
yelling at Britain to “follow the example of
Australia.” Well, there is no one of any
importance in Britain who imagines that a
mighty effort is not yet required to pass the
German out or blind enough not to see that a
public policy based on mutual leg-pulling and
delusion is a more sinister national menace
than even the submarine and torpedo.
AUSTRALIA’S LOST SENSE OF
HUMOR.
St. Paul needs revising. Had lie lived to
see the development of the Christian force
which he brought to Europe, he would not
have told the Corinthians that charity was
the greatest thing. The text which has
decorated churches and prayer-meetings and
movements and sermons, and, occasionally,
lives, would have read: “And now abideth
faith, hope, charity and a sense of humor,
these four, but the saving grace of all is
a sense of humor.” The great solemnity of
Asia, from which most of the world’s
religions came, owed its gloom mainly to the
restricted outlook of the people who fed on
rice or barley-cakes and chaffered and
cheated in the marts with no vision beyond
the walls of the teeming city. Some laughter
there must have been in the wide deserts and
wider steppes. But Antioch and Jerusalem
and Ephesus killed the jest on the lips of
the wayfarer from the wild places before it
could infect the narrow, earnest people; and
the feeling of their own absurdity which
might have saved nations and empires gave
place to greater and greater gravity oyer
issues which dwindled as the solemnity in-
creased. Religions which had once attempted
to make the world a unity and a harmony
lost their sway and were replaced by others
which made the salvation and preservation of
the individual soul the chief business of life.
The vision of a small zealot chasing his own
small soul out of the fire of its own creating
might have been humorous enough, if only
it had been seen in its relation to, other
things; but the sense of proportion which is
the sense of humor was always lacking, and
the world grew more ridiculous and more
self-immersed as the years went on.
* * * *
The break came with the Age of Dis-
covery. Columbus was a very serious per-
son, and his Portuguese competitors in the
eastern sphere had an equally funereal view
of life; but the widening of the world had
its effect, and in a real sense those old voy-
agers brought back laughter from their isles
of gold. Elizabethan England, ail th
absurdities of court and' custom still ra
pant, did begin to get a sense of
and the honest laughter of Shaki spea ,
Ben Jonson and a few others ringing
nretty heartily still. Earnest pilgrims pushed
oTitoVe unknown wilds of America and
the saving grace of humor grew. The ster
bigots of New England were not Particular y
hilarious people, but their children s
looked on the cosmos with a whimsical eye
and tickled the world’s old ribs as they hud
never been tickled since the gay gods
laughed on Olympus at the absurdity of little
kings and noisy philosophers. e
Revolution, too, with its subtle alche y
truth, brought keen, fresh laughter out ot
bitter blood. It showed men the larger
things and threw the small things into caper
ing relief against the stern, red backgrou .
And still, with opening of the wider places
of life and thought, the sense of humor grew.
Australia, with a new continent to possess,
could laugh well. League upon league it
spread under sun and star, a boundless held
for imagination and enterprise; and tie
little things dwindled into their Places whi e
the good laughter played around them and
the intense soul-honesty which is the pivot
of mirth became the outstanding feature ot
the Australian manscape. But the vision
proved too large, the hope too vast. Having
the biggest things in the world as a tree
gift people turned away from them to make
a lot of small and solemn and ridiculous
things of their own, on each of which the
label “Australia” was displayed. Shrinking
into these little things and narrowing their
eyes and their souls, the people began to
lose their sense of humor. The laugh was
no longer a real laugh, but a thin echo ot
the big mockery which had moved towards
national greatness. Out on the bitter slopes
of Gaba Tepe, when face to face with death,
the real thing was heard; at home in Sydney
and Melbourne the cackle was thm a.nd
insincere, for the national shrinkage which
culminated in a No vote could find no mirth
in the contrast of great and small.
* * * *
The real Australia is a place of vast dis-
tances, vast resources, vast possibilities and
vast dreams; but the everyday Australia is
nothing like that. Its mind is set on the
business of little municipal and shire coun-
cils, the swaggering of small suburban
mayors, the feeble trifling of State Parlia-
ments and the wire-pulling of parties whose
largest aims are in themselves too insignifi-
cant to be worth the waste of an hour s
thought on the part of the nation. The real
nationalism fades before a crude expedient
borrowed from other countries and lamely
described as unionism; and when a small
piece of coal'gets in the public eye all the
political surgery of all the so-called states-
men is taxed to the last limit of its skill to
get it out without beheading the victim in
the process. Yet the nation sees nothing
humorous in all this. Men with the full
rights of citizens —with votes in their fin-
gers and breath in their lungs—run eagerly
to and fro buying candles and kerosene-
stoves to temporise with a difficulty which
one strong man could settle in half an hour.
And all the time they take themselves and
their sufferings as seriously as_ the devotee
who scourged himself into holiness or the
Indian fakir who seeks a passport to Heaven
by letting his finger-na.ls grow to a foot in
length. On every side Australia is crawled
over by parasites of infinite absurdity that
could be squashed flat with one sweep of
the nation’s broad hand. Yet the absurdity
is never seen; and even the hysteria of
would-be reformers who scream against minor
evils while monstrous abuses go unchecked
passes for noble effort. The hotel bars are
closed at six and the people get drunk with
their own folly. But it is all in keeping;
and no patriot arises to order Australia back
to the bigger work for which a continent
waits. Over all is the crowning figure in
the clowning— W. M. Hughes. Peakce, Cook
and the rest are grotesque enough ; but the
country which takes Hughes seriously has
painfully lost its sense of humor. Whether
the thing can be recovered or whether the
loss is permanent remains for the future to
decide. Possibly the Anzacs may return
bearing it with their victorious cheer. If
they do, a lot of small affairs masquerading
under false names will have an unpleasant
time.
THE CITY ON THE SPREE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There it is, the Prussian capital. It is
built on a sandy waste, which the Germans
have made to flower like a skittle-alley by
precisely planting it with pine-trees. On
the route from Berlin to Potsdam these lines
of pine-trees approach, mark time, change
front and retreat from you with the mad-
dening regularity and persistence of a regi-
ment of goose-stepping Prussian Guards.
Potsdam, by reason of its more natural
growth, is a little more human than Berlin.
There is a hush of sycophantic awe about
its narrow streets. Its houses tiptoe round
the Kaiser’s innumerable palaces like
courtiers oppressed by the imminence of
royalty One, becoming seized with the
influence, drifts in through the Caesarian
portals with the crowd of frightened Teuton
tourists, carrying a certain sense of rever-
ence and expectancy. It disappears. These
royal residences are no better than the royal
residences of other kings. There is the
same comfortless profusion, the same taste-
less jumble of a hundred styles. One prince
copies down to the minutest detail a famous
palace and garden of the French kings,
leaving the soul out. Another has collected,
with the senseless persistence of a child
gathering pebbles, jewels, rare shells, beauti-
ful stones from all parts of the world, and
stuck the walls, pillars and ceilings of a
vast room with them, in the manner of the
shell frames beloved of our grandmothers.
The cost was fabulous. The guide gave us
the figure. At night, he said, when the
lights were lit, the effect was overpowering.
We took his word for it. It was over-
powering enough by day. This is the con-
tribution of the present Crown Prince to
the world’s treasures of art and science.
Returning through the planted forest we
re-enter the planted city. Slums are not
obvious in Berlin. The dustless roads are
as uncomfortably clean as a Japanese in-
terior, and shine like burnished mirrors.
There are flowering gardens planted in every
windowsill, in the electric-light standards,
between the tram rails. There is a_gmi-
crack quality about most of the buildings,
while some are enormously substantial. At
every dozen paces a fresh blast of music
from cafd entrances assaults the ear. Auto-
matic machines at the tubes toss you your
ticket and return you your change it you
drop in the wrong amount. You may dine
automatically, receiving your glass ofi beer
and your plate of blutwurst and salad without
the mediation of a waitress. By dropping
10 pfennigs in a slot you may listen through
a tube to any of the operas in the city. And
in revolt from this passionless automatism
you may follow all Berlin and join the daily
orgy of blood, smell and savage tumult at
the feeding of the wild beasts in the Thier-
garten; afterwards, physically rejuvenated,
submitting to the pagan stimulus of the
finest band in Europe. One of the greatest
bluffs the Germans put upon Europe was
that their undoubted musical _ superiority
was the mark of higher civilisation.
The Germans are inordinately fond ot
their capital. They take the same naive
delight in it that a certain Malay rajah
took in a beautiful brassbound motor-launch
he had bought, in wlpch, in the complete
absence of petrol, he used to be. paddled
about on state occasions. It is quite
recently that the Teuton, pushing his shaggy
hair out of his eyes, emerged from . his
primeval forests and took to living in cities.
He has not yet got over his amazement at
his novel conditions and his cleverness in
evolving them. In Berlin the crowd has
a bucolic touch, like the crowd in any
Australian capital during Show week.
It wanders aimlessly down the wrong
side of the pavement, gaping at build-
ings and shop windows, at the Zep-
pelins and the marching lines of dusty
soldiery which are the most frequent spec-
tacles of the city. The traffic in Berlin is
probably the worst disciplined in Europe,
while the streets are civically the most per-
fect. The Prussian system applied to inani-
mate things is uniformly successful. Applied
to men and horses it breaks down. Despite
the influence of military training, there are
more slack shoulders, flabby stomachs and
shambling feet amongst the Germans than
amongst the English, the Russians or the
Chinese.
The Berliners having created their city
out of stocks and stones, deliberately set to
work to make it a cosmopolis. . They ran-
sacked the world for its adorning. They
erected Japanese toriis and Chinese pagodas.
But they failed to perceive that the secret
of the grace of these alien art forms. lay
in the simplicity and utility of their lines ;
and they teutonised them. Vice is a neces-
sary condition of a cosmopolis, and it was
decreed that the Berliner should become
vicious ; so Berlin developed a night life as
hectic but by no means as spontaneous as
that of Paris. A Rotten Row was essential
to a cosmopolis, so military officers were
ordered to ride daily along Unter den
Einden. The magnificent thoroughfare re-
mained as large and lifeless as ever. The
Grecian age was revived, and the city
hastily budded statuary. The disastrous
consequences of that deliberate renaissance
are everywhere apparent.
But the Germans remain undeterred. In
a huge barn-like building near the Berlin
equivalent of the Paris Salon we found a
little professor mounted on a tall ladder
amidst a cloud of scaffolding putting the
finishing touches to a colossal 1 wooden statue
of Odin. We laughed. He had so obvi-
ously, by reason of the gigantic size of the
figure, lost all sense of its just proportions.
That statue with a few alterations probably
does duty to-day for one of Germany’s more
modern gods of war, in which, with the
same instinct that made their forefathers
dip their spears in the blood of the slain,
the Teuton hammers nails.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Tell-tale Telegram.
Mr. Hughes : This is the telegram I ask you to
send:—■
“The Council has decided that in the best interests
of the Federation and of the Commonwealth, the
coal required for transports and the Small Arms
Factory shall be at once handled.’’
Mr. Hughes: If Mb. Willis will sign it and Mb.
PILLANS ENDORSE IT, I WILL SEND IT.
That is the recent history of Australian
Government. The Prime Minister drafted the
telegram, Mr. Willis signed it, Mr. Pillans
The Drums.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Something is touching the frosty air,
Touching its chords till they cry and quiver.
Warm as a pulse, through the morning fair.
Where the white road winds with the wil-
ful river,
What is the sound, like a voice that comes?
Only the Drums,
The slow-beaten Drums.
Heroes have marched to the rough, kind call.
Ages ago, by our heart-beats’ tally,
Mists of the morning took them all,
Striding away down the silent valley;
And the sound that passed, where the brown
bee hums,
Was the stutter of Drums,
Of quarrelling Drums.
Trumpeters, blow us a martial tune!
Buglers, sound us a war-song merry!
Silence the Drums that quarrel and croon.
Nursing a truth it were wise to bury.
War, in its nakedness grim, that numbs,
Speaks in the Drums,
The sob of the Drums.
Theirs is the measure that spurs men on ;
Rolling gaily, or, hoarse and hollow,
Bids them go, where our best have gone—
Theirs are the voices the true men follow;
Theirs is the call to our hearts that comes:
“Follow the Drums,
Follow the Drums!”
MAORILAND.
WILL LAWSON.


endorsed it —and Australia paid for it. That
simple message bears the incalculably expen-
sive admission that the allegiance of an Aus-
tralian trades unionist is not first to Aus-
tralia and its free Constitution, but to his
union. Mr. Hughes is candid this once. A
bogus Prime Minister, willing to accept re-
sponsibility for his country’s fate after the
plan he declared vital has been shattered, his
following wasted and powerless in a disrupted
Parliament, he declares without shame
that Government is, after all, only a free
telegraphic agency, and that loyal service to
Australia is of minor claim when compared
with the “interests” of big Labor Unions.
The patient Australian citizen who is neither
a coal-miner nor a coal-owner did not under-
stand the merits of the dispute and waited
for the Government to see that justice was
done. But he should learn something now
of the merits of the Government in which
he so pathetically believes. Doffing, all pre-
tence in so dangerous a crisis, the Prime Min-
ister shows us that the whole problem is how
to get “the best interests of the Common-
wealth” conceded through their artful sub-
ordination to those of the Federation. And
he -thereby revealed the course we have
been following to destruction. We have let
Labor Unions believe that they alone are the
Australian People. But the worst of our mis-
takes has been our tolerance of the politician
who will not play fair with our system of
responsible government, but trades it off bit
by bit to the big unions in return for permis-
sion to stop in office a while longer. The
process has gone so far now that such unions
bargain direct with the so-called Government,
in contempt of the regular law and in dis-
regard of the foreign enemy and all the War
Precautions Acts devised to prevent internal
traitors from aiding him. And the Govern-
ment. with all its judicial and martial robes
about it, comes down to exercise the sole
operative function of taking the chair at a
conference and drafting and sending tele-
grams gratis for the parties.
Australia’s Resumed Acquaintance with
Coal.
The settlement of the coal strike® so far as
it permits the community to get coal was
good business. But that is the only aspect
of the proceedings which is not bad. The
miners, got what they wanted by throwing
thousands of people out of work, tying up
the transport services and repudiating arbi-
tration as a method of settling the trouble
between themselves and the bosses. Natu-
rally the terms of the settlement, so far as
they have been arrived at, give no ground
for public rejoicing. The miners’ bank-to-
bank claim has been conceded, apparently
without any inquiry as to its righteousness
or otherwise. The public is to pay. Of
course that ended the strike. Why should
there be any further quarrelling between
miners and owners over the wretched
fragments of meat on this bone when
they could comfortably carve a slice
from the public all trussed and ready for
the sacrifice? Why should the burglar per-
sist in his burgling if the law bids the house-
holder hand over all that the burglar wants?
The bank-to-bank claim may be just. But
to allow it and declare that the public shall
pay for it, regardless of whether it is right
or wrong, means the complete abandonment
of the law and the abdication of the Govern-
ment. A dozen or so men of the I.W.W.
were found guilty last week of conspiracy
and a few other things, and got between them
about two hundred years’gaol. No more and
no less did the parties to this coal trouble
conspire against the law; and they inflicted
upon the community far more suffering than
these poor, earnest but misguided fools of
the I.W.W. But because there are a few
thousands of them the parties to this other
conspiracy don’t get either two hundred
years’ or two hundred minutes’ gaol. Their
reward is something quite different. The
public is to give them what they conspired
against the law to obtain. We are drifting
into very dangerous waters.
■*
The Habit of Voting on a Subject after
Talking about Something Else.
Australia’s reliable old friend Party is
getting an airing in the Federal Parliament
these days and looks a more inebriated old
fraud than ever. Tudor’s vote of censure on
Hughes was discussed from first to last in
the party spirit—by Hughes because he
could do nothing else, and by Cook because
he had to keep out of a deep, dark hole. The
issue allegedly before the Reps, was whether
the famous regulations which Hughes issued
and quickly recalled on the eve of the plebis-
cite could be regarded with approval. Of
course, there is no room for difference of
opinion on the subject. The regulations
were monstrous. Hughes knows that as
well as Cook and Tudor and every decent
citizen in the Commonwealth. The speed
with which he cancelled the document when
he found there was a kick in it proves this.
But though the regulations formed the sub-
stance of the motion the question really on
the table was whether because he issued them
Hughes should be fired out. Hughes did
not want to be fired out and talked pompous,
contradictory flam. Cook was unable to
join Tudor in the firing-out business, because
he would have tangled himself up in a game
of cut-throat full of dangerous possibilities.
So he talked flam, too. The hollow-
ness of these party wrangles is inde-
cent. All that this one did was to
make a mockery of Parliamentary debate.
Under an Elective Ministry system the ques-
tion of what the Reps, thought of a Minis-
ter who did what Hughes said (1) he did
not do and (2) would do again, would have
been decided in five 'minutes—the House
would have voted on the merits of the case
presented to it. What it actually did was
to talk ramblingly or hifalutingly about one
question and vote on another that had not
been mentioned. All of which is rational
as it would be to hold a long discussion on
fish-canning, and in the light of the facts
revealed vote at the finish on the gold passes
handed out by K. O’Malley to an assort-
ment of dead-heads.
The Hughes Ministry.
The question is: Has Joe Cook in pro-
claiming the intention of the Libs, to sup-
port the Hughes Ministry taken up
a “patriotic” stand? The test is whether
the Hughes Ministry is or is not a combina-
tion to which the Australian public can look
with the greatest degree of confidence for
the wise administration of affairs connected
and unconnected with the war—whether this
Ministry can be considered likely to get the
best possible results in recruiting and pursue
a financial policy of reasonable decency. If
the answer is “Yes,” then the Ministry
should be supported. If the reply is “No”
mere words about “patriotic duty” are hum-
bug, for there would be no patriotism or
sense or anything else in voting with such
a Government. Incidentally there would be
little patriotism about a group of men who,
through party disturbances, were able to
seize the machinery of administration, and,
though knowing that they were viewed with
distrust*, persisted in hanging on to place
and power. Judged by their record,
Hughes and Pearce certainly should not
be the head and front of a Commonwealth
Government to-day. Still less should they
be at the head of a Ministry drawn exclu-
sively from the weakest party in the House.
How these party politicians play battledore
and shuttlecock with the business of the
people is well illustrated by a comparison
of the position in the Commonwealth and
N. S. Wales arenas. In N. S. Wales the
Liberal party, in order to get a look-in,
raised the cry that the times demanded a
“National” Government —the strongest Gov-
ernment that could be got. But in the
Commonwealth Parliament precisely the
same crowd decides that its duty is . to
maintain in power a Government drawn
from the poorest little section —poorest
numerically, intellectually and in administra-
tive experience. How can the Liberals
excuse themselves for blowing both hot and
cold in this fashion?
«.
Holman, MacShortodds and the Tote.
Besides allowing himself to be persuaded to
take command of the N. S. Wales Libs, and
bluff the electors out of a vote for 12
months, Premier Holman has agreed to
waive his objections to the tote. So a bill
legalising the instrument that neither lies
about the odds nor bolts with the money
is to be introduced to the Assembly,
and Holman, as Treasurer, is to get some
revenue therefrom. The news of Holman’s
conversion created no more astonishment
than if he had remarked that rain never
causes drought. The arrival of the tote was
accepted as a sure thing in Sydney several
weeks ago, as'this paper pointed out at the
time, and there are enterprising persons who
are not going to lose any cash over it.
Nevertheless, because The Bulletin has
for years advocated the use of the totali-
sator, it is not going to reproach Holman
for permitting himself to accumulate sense
with increasing age. This paper is only
sorry that he has not the, courage to have
still more sense —that he contemplates allow-
ing Ikey to operate as of old alongside the
machine and to extend the use of the totali-
sator to the proprietary racing club. Both
of these proposals are. objectionable. With
the tote in use there ceases to be any justifi-
cation for Ike’s parasitic existence. And so
far as the proprietary clubs go, it is pre-
posterous to suggest that transfer of profit
from the totalisator to the pockets of share-
holders in these concerns would represent
anything but an abuse of the betting machine.
No club which does not devote the whole of
its revenue from the totalisator or other
sources to the encouragement of racing and
to the upkeep of its course should get a
shilling from the mechanical odds-merchant.
That is the sound practice followed in Maori-
land, and there are a score of reasons why
the same policy should be adopted in N. S.
Wales. If it is not followed, and
MacShortodds is allowed to carry on busi-
ness as usual, the advantages of installing
the machine will be discounted 90 per cent.
—to the racing community and to the State.
Holman is credited with saying that the
machine will be a Government monopoly,
“pure and simple.” ( Operated on the lines he
has indicated, the' purity and simplicity of
the arrangement will take a lot of looking for.
A Plea for Plain Anarchy.
If we are to have anarchy, let us go the
whole hog and introduce the animal in all
its simplicity of pork. Half measures are
always irritating; and the pretence of law
which we keep up when the substance is
gone is fraught with more real danger than
the plain admission of the fact that our
system of government is gone. Theoretically,
strikes cannot exist in Australia. We have
the machinery for settling all industrial dis-
putes without holding up industry or break-
ing the back of production ; yet strikes grow
more frequent, and the whole country can
be and is paralysed by the action of a small
number of citizens. There is no more reason
why a breaker of industrial awards should
go unpunished than why a pickpocket should
be begged off when caught foul-handed. The
principle is the same right through ; and the
would-be burglar or forger has a distinct
grievance when he sees the law defied in one
direction while he knows that it may not
be defied in another. Certain men have been
chosen to govern Australia, and the first act
in government is to see that the laws of the
country are properly observed; yet those in
office have practically admitted themselves
helpless to carry out this first duty, without
which all other service is fruitless. If Aus-
tralia cannot be governed, let us drop the
pretence of government and declare every
man his own policeman. We should pro-
bably get along quite as well under such con-
ditions as we do at present, and what the law
could not do would be accomplished in fact
by the strong hands of individual citizens.
Few of us would go really hungry or cold ;
and if in the confusion there was some
readjustment of wealth, at any rate there
would be no millionaires left to rouse the
wrath of the I.W.W. That body would have
to get to business and hunt its prey in the
jungles of Sydney and Melbourne like the
rest of us; and. as a new tribal system
evolved, the efficient leaders would come
unerringly to the front. It seems about the
only way in which we can get efficient leaders
—men who can really do things and are not
afraid of doing them. The present mixture
of anarchy with pious aspirations after re-
form is explosive; and the sooner we realise
it the sooner we may get back to first prin-
ciples and start all over again. Otherwise
the whole thing may go up in one volcanic
upheaval, leaving only a hole in the sea to
mark where Australia once listened to the
hysteria of Hughes and watched the acro-
batic feats of Holman.
♦
“Adelaide” : “The defence was that the girl
was a consenting party. The death sentence
was passed upon accused, who showed no
signs of emotion.” This is from Melbourne
papers of November 22. Why should the
accused show any? He knew, and the Judge
knew, and everybody in Court knew, that
there was not a glimmering of a possibility
of his being hanged. I wonder people in
States that still cling to a death-penalty—
on paper—for offences other than murder
don’t wake up to the contempt that it in-
spires. In those circumstances for a Judge
to assume the black cap and hope the Lord
will have mercy on the soul of a prisoner is
simply making a mockery of the Law. Sen-
sible South Aus. long ago abolished capital
punishment for everything but murder. In
these days even a murderer may have his
sentence revised; but at any rate he cannot
smile at the Judge and remark “I don’t
think”—as the condemned man in the case
above quoted might quite safely have done.
There is another, and a graver, side to it,
too. The untutored criminal may not always
believe the Law to be a bluffer and a self-
admitted liar; and, where he doesn’t, it will
be “Good-night, nurse!” for the victim. If
one has already earned hanging in a moment
of excitement, why not avoid risk by putting
the principal witness beyond all power of
giving evidence? Probably many of the
other States’ murder cases, in which the
victim had been outraged, are due entirely
to thd simple ruffian believing that the Law
means what it says. This putting murder
on a level with other crimes is one of the
chief arguments against the entire abolition
of capital punishment, and it tells just as
strongly against even pretending to inflict it
for anything else.
*
From an Australian officer in London on
October 1:—•
The present offensive on the Somme has been
going 96 days and we have averaged 5000 casualties
per day, British and Colonial only. Of these about
40 to 50 per cent, are permanent as regards further
utility as a fighting unit, so you will see that our
actual net losses during the last three months are
something like 200,000 men. At this price we have
advanced our line about four miles, on an average,
and, as we have to drive the Huns back many miles,
you can see how expensive it is going to be. I have
various estimates in which our losses are given as
from two to eight times those of the Germans, but
I think an average of three to one about hits the
mark. It is only natural in an offensive; for all
the shelling in the world will only reduce the
proportion very slightly, as it is impossible to
obliterate all the enemy’s defenders, and a few
machine and Lewis guns can make a — l of a
mess of a battalion if it is caught out in the open.
The losses I have quoted do not include French and
Russian, but these are also correspondingly heavy.
An Australian division went into action on the
Western Front 12,400 strong. After a week they
were relieved and sent back into supports, when the
roll-call showed only 2800 left intact, and some
of these had been slightly wounded or otherwise
disabled.
Now, Referendum or no Referendum, are
we going to leave that 2800 to carry the
whole load? Isn’t Australia the land of
mateship any longer?
- —♦
After considering the matter for two
months a coroner has announced that he is
not able to say how six men came to be
killed by an explosion on board the s.s.
Wairuna in Port Jackson on September 27.
Nor does anyone else seem to know —or want
to know. This is what happened. The
Wairuna having completed discharging case
oil, carpenters were sent down into the hold,
which was reeking with benzine fumes, and
an explosion followed. Twelve citizens were
injured—six mortally. On their behalf The
Bulletin now asks for answers to these
questions:—•
(1) Was the Inflammable Oils Act 1915 framed
to prevent a catastrophe such as this?
(2) Were the regulations required by the Act in
force ?
(3) If they were, why were they not obeyed? If
they were not, why were they not?
This paper is anxious to get the answers
because it is told that the responsible autho-
rities have been too tired to prepare any
regulations or maybe too quarrelsome to
adopt them if they have been prepared.
N. S. Wales suburban trains have but a
carriage or two set apart for those who
want to comfort their souls with tobacco,
the great bulk of the caravan being left
for women and the men who can get
along without smoking. Yet women
rush the smokers; and the spectacle of a
half-empty train with men standing on the
outside platforms of the only carriages
wherein smoking is permitted, because
women have filled the seats with small chil-
dren, grows more and more frequent. The
smoker will therefore welcome a new edict
by which anybody who rides in the com-
partment reserved for him and his kind must
pay full adult fare. That will lay an old
grievance if the railway officials will only
put the regulation into effect. Maybe this
is the railway job for which ex-Minister
J. H. Gann is to get £l5OO a year. Cer-
tainly this way he can earn at least some
of it. Without a fourth Commissioner a
similar useful edict relating to the trams
has been a dead letter.
♦
The upheaval in Labor politics has brought
to light again “old Bob” Harris, on whose
motion in the Trades Council the first steps
were taken to establish a Parliamentary
Labor party in N. S. Wales. His idea now
is to form a “Labor Loyalty League” to
gather strength around the expelled
leaders and resist “Executive tyranny.” His
chances are Buckley’s. As a matter of fact,
it was only an accident that the earthquake
in Labor’s forces came with the compulsory-
service Referendum ; it was due to arrive at
any time over any big question. And 20
years hence there will be a similar schism in
the party now just born. The new Holmans
and Vaughans will have grown older and a
little fatter and rather more tired and not
so willing to strike a match and hang the
consequences; and they will be pushed out
by others who want to go faster and take
more risks. Things have moved that way
since the beginning. The man who has had
his chance is never so good as the man who
hasn’t. Hope springs eternal in the human
breast. It may seem ungrateful to discard
the old servant; but the world moves that
way, sucking the orange for all the juice
it can give and taking up a new one. There
were Radicals 40 years ago. The Labor
party merely displaced them as Holman is:
being displaced now, and as Holman’s suc-
cessors will be displaced 20 years hence. It
is no use “old Bob” Harris complaining.
The world won’t stand still. It is treating
his party now no worse than he treated the
old Radical party in the first ’9o’s.
Years ago, when the late Bent bossed Vic-
toria, he bought certain properties for closer
settlement purposes, one in particular in
Moorabbin. On this various settlers, includ-
ing Vida Goldstein’s Women’s Gardening
Co-op. Co., or whatever it is, have come and
gone; also, they have had heaps of experi-
ences. When he had got his first settlers
Bent appointed a gardener to instruct them
in the pruning of spuds, the mulching of
cabbages and so forth. Whether it was the
fault of the cabbages or the land or the
instructor is not known, but the settlers
almost unanimously failed. A few held on;
a few others have come. Almost as many
have gone. To-day, when any one of those
now occupying the 38 blocks gets behind
with his payments, a returned soldier is
installed. That makes Chapter I. Chapter II
begins with the engagement by the State
War Council of the same gardener-instructor
to assist returned Anzacs. The first estate
recommended for purchase (since bought)
is so valuable that the owner years ago
threw up market-gardening for a £5-a-week
billet in the city, and for the last three
years it has lain absolutely idle save for
a few “grazers.” This land cost the War
Council, it is alleged, £5O per acre, and re-
turned soldiers are expected to make a living
on five acres of it, while an experienced
market-gardener could little more than make
ends meet on 35 acres. For other properties
the War Council is now offering £6O and
£65 per acre. What about the soldiers? If
they understand gardening and are put on
garden blocks and are set going, they will
do all right; but no man can make a decent
living on five acres of unirrigated land, and
to take £250 or £3OO from each on that
assumption is merely to rook them so that
landowners may sell out at a —er —reason-
able figure.
»
The overwhelming trouble is to get the
people to realise that this is a national crisis.
Nothing is great at the time except a pass-
ing love-affair, a faked-up fight for the
championship or Billy Hughes’s latest
speech. Only in retrospect can an average
unimaginative person be expected to recog-
nise the importance of these history-making
days. Everything loses even its excitement
with its novelty. The war has become com-
monplace to any Australian slacker who
has viewed it unfeelingly for 2 h years, at
a distance of 12,000 miles, while the fighting
soldiers have got used to the romance of the
risks they take. Quite unconsciously, though,
they are storing up rich food for future
memories, whilst slackers • are laying in a
secret sense of shame and regret. The sons
of the faint-hearted young men who voted
“No” on the Referendum will read of this
war 50 years hence and reckon that it was
a thrilling time for their fathers, and for a
hundred years afterwards the more serious
the citizen the more ardent will be his wish
that he had been born in the last decade of
the 19th century.
Bung was charged at the Prahran Court
with having delayed the police. A constable
who gave evidence admitted under cross-
examination that the delay might not have
been wilful. “All right!” exclaimed the pro-
secuting police-inspector. “I will deal with
you departmentally.” The constable _ in-
quired if this was a threat. “Yes, it is!”
replied his senior. The P.M. merely observed
that he was “shocked” and “ashamed,” and
informed the inspector that his attitude did
not “promise much for discipline and truth-
fulness in the police force.” Had the Court
exercised its power to do something else, not
only the rank and file of the force but a
large section of the public would have
awarded it three cheers. Yet it was just as
well perhaps that the inspector let his tongue
wag. A more cunning officer would have
“dealt with” the constable departmentally
without saying anything at all about it. The
outburst in this case suggests that that may
be the practice. If it is, it would go far to
explain why police evidence is often so pro-
foundly unsatisfactory. The Ministerial head
should make a thorough inquiry. _ Until the
matter is cleared up the public will suspect
all police evidence; and that will throw a
cloud over public confidence in the courts,
and few things could be less desirable than
that.
“Hamer’s” translation of the Munich
Blitzenblast :
Owing to the unpopularity of the war, as evi-
denced by the result of the recent referendum, Aus-
tralia is in a state bordering upon revolution. The
miners are in revolt, and, as a result of their refusal
to work the mines, the cities are in darkness. The
Legislative Assembly, to meet the position, hurriedly
passed a Daylight Saving Bill to compel ordinary
work to be done in hours of sunshine, and thus
conserve the failing gas and electricity supplies. The
life of the oldest of the 17 Parliaments has been
prolonged, for fear of bloodshed if elections were
held, it being considered that many well-known
politicians would lose their lives. A mob of in-
furiated citizens marched upon this House, but dis-
persed on finding it in darkness. Demonstrations con-
tinue, and the Legislature is now strictly guarded
by special constabulary. Herr Wade, loader of the
extreme revolutionary party, has been deposed from


GAELIC WHISKY.
We beg to announce that the Proprietors of this old Brand, viz., the
Craigellachie-Glenlivet Distillery Co., Limited, of Scotland, have voluntarily
liquidated their Company. The Assets thereof,' including the above-named Distil-
lery, the Stocks of Whisky, Goodwill, Trade Marks, etc., have been acquired by
the Stirling Bonding Co., Limited (the original owners).
We are able to assure the supporters of
GAELIC WHISKY
that the continuance of the business IS BEING MAINTAINED UNDER
PRECISELY THE SAME DIRECTION AND MANAGEMENT as heretofore,
and that the high standard of quality and the well-known characteristics of the
Brand will be continued without the slightest deviation.
Agents for N.S.W.:
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO. Ltd.
209-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
Head Office: Corner Pitt
&. King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIR.IL & ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
3 f.:
i«aa
429,120,000 Acres in Queensland
AND ONLY 1,060,000 ACRES UNDER CULTIVATION.
Fill in this Coupon below stating tbe Class of Land in which you
are interested and full particulars will come to you by return Mail.
NAME ADDRESS
CLASS OF LAND
To Director, Intelligence & Tourist Bureau, Brisbane. Q.
the leadership and the party itself sold, by a plot,
to the representatives of a powerful financial group,
which is ready to accept risk while cleaning out
the country. Herr Holman, until recently a popular
leader, has incurred the displeasure of his; followers
And will probably flee to England shortly j n order
'o try to float a loan to buy support. Hert Catts,
A'lio led the anti-war section during the Refer-
endum fight, has gone to U.S.A. on an ‘unknown
mission. Herr Hughes, the backwoods Prer nier who
recently was the toy of effete England, 'has been
forced to reconstruct his Ministry, and is biting
his fingers in a minority while the axe is being
sharpened. The crews of the fish-trawlers hrf ve refused
to work, and the populace is starving. 1 o prevent
force being used against them the small-an ns factory
employees struck, so that the military is powerless
and the nation is at the mercy of even a small land-
ing force from a couple of our U submariues.
L—+
The Impression that the B ritish
Government Should Wake Up.
During the week the German has given
Roumania some additional batteiimg, a war
or a riot or something has broken out in
Greece, and the British Government has
arrived at the conclusion that the time is
ripe to take a dose of ginger. O n this last
point there appears to be striking unanimity,
mainly because it can no longer be denied
that the things that are occurring on land
and sea call for more than solemn assurances
that they are part of a well-arranged pro-
gramme. For a long while it was possible
to fob the public off with words, and pre-
vent criticism, and bungle in peace and
quiet; but neither the censors nor Yhe
pathetically gullible individuals with a sup-
ply of cock-and-bull yarns about the pro-
gress of events are able now to hide the
failures and the errors and the stupendous
character of the job on hand. The shifting
of Jellicoe from the fleet to the Admiralty,
the readjustment of portfolios; among the
politicians and the appointment of a small
War Council instead of a big one may lead
to more effective results; but umless all this
is accompanied by an organist id concentra-
tion of the whole material resources of the
British people upon the single issue confront-
ing them, the chances are that mere changes
in the responsibilities of a few weary men
will accomplish little. The British Premier
is a man of exceptional strength in some
ways. As a straining-post he i:s unrivalled.
But his failure to rouse the nation to an
adequate sense of its dangers a:nd to stir
the people to realise their obligations
has been pathetic. And if ever- there was
a nation requiring the driving force of a
dynamic personality behind it, it is the
British. Certainly the Greeks suem to want
something behind them, too, o r else they
want to get behind the allied army and take
it in the stern with artillery. But what
has been happening thereabouts and what
the explanation of Salonica may be are
matters which persist in remaining wrapped
in gloom. The only certainties are that
something like Sheol is bubbling and that the
Kaiser’s brother-in-law has been foiling hard
to keep the fires going. An understanding
with the Greek which will not cause a fresh
misunderstanding next morning seems to be
an incident the Allies could hear of with-
out annoyance.
. l
The Hatred of the Australian Tree.
At a timber and forestry conference in Mel-
bourne last week Governor Stan ley said :
Granted methods could be devised for seasoning and
preparing Australian timbers to make them as reli-
able and as easily worked as the imported timbers,
it was certain that builders and arclii tects would be
as ready to use them as people overseas were ready
to use Australian wood or Australian gold. Produc-
tion would increase with demand.
This entirely misses the spirit that has ani-
mated the Australian people in dealing with
the Commonwealth’s timber supplies. It
assumes that someone is interested in season-
ing timber or exporting or conserving it for
the purposes for which other countries
imagine that timber is valuable. At the
beginning of its colonisation Australia was
afflicted with forests of hardwood and pine
and cedar, and as these were in the way the
population rose magnificently to the oppor-
tunity of finding out how quickly the foliage
could be shifted. The early immigrants thus
contracted a bad habit of regarding a tree
as an incubus —as something that was in the
way of a plough— : and we have clung to that
idea even though we are now spending a
million and a half a year in bringing timber
into the country from distant places. The
campaign has proceeded with a thoroughness
which stands as a complete answer to any-
one who may be fool enough to allege that
when the Australian tackles a job he wants
to knock off soon afterwards. The Inter-
State Commission had a look at the business
not long ago and found this: —
In N. S. Wales, Queensland, Victoria, and Tasmania
waste and depletion proceed with rapid and fatal
progress, and many timbers of exceptional beauty
and usefulness for cabinet and furniture work will at
no distant period be practically unobtainable.
It all makes a splendid record of work heroic-
ally performed—the annihilation of the
Iluon pine, the outrages committed on the
splendid forests of the Otway, the extermina-
tion of the ironbark and the cedar in N. S.
Wales and the softwoods of Bananaland. It
only now requires that the various Parlia-
ments shall continue to give encouragement
to the great national enterprise of burning
and wrecking, and Australia’s timber pro-
blem will be solved. The community will
then be able to buy more wood from -the
demented people who have not permitted
their lands to be stripped of trees and have
an absurd notion that a source of national
wealth should not be allowed to disappear in
smoke. By that time Australia will have
deposited in a museum samples of the wood
that was at one stage of the proceedings
available on the premises, along with a few
pictures exhibiting the process of burning
off. These will be guarded with great care
and will give the Australian child an idea
of what curses he would have had to
encounter if the old man had allowed the
vegetables a chance to stay where he found
them.
Dr. Edwin Iredale Watkin, who died at
St. Kilda (Vic.) on December 1, had been
saying “Let us pray” for nearly 60 years.
He was one of the real old-time Methody
preachers, and a good Australian whose
hobby was the study of black brother and
the early history of the land we live in—and
few men knew it better. He was born in
Sydney 77 years ago, the son of one of the
first missionaries to Tonga, but did most of
his piloting in Victoria.
“Hospital Ship”: The British War Office
has made a contract with a Huddersfield firm
to dry-clean 10,000 uniforms a week. The
process turns them out as good as new and
saves a waggonload of money. The scheme
is a reminder of the wasteful habits of Bill-
jim where army clothing is concerned. Aus-
tralian hospital ships coming south through
the tropics can be tracked by the discarded
heavy clothing which is shoved through the
portholes by our careless fellow-countrymen,
who have learnt that it is dead-easy to score
an outfit more suitable to the climate. I’ve
seen hundreds of pounds’ worth of merely
soiled uniforms hit the sea and go bobbing
astern to join Australia’s war-debt.
One of the new recruits to Holman’s
Cabinet, J. C. L. Fitzpatrick, has started
to make a name for himself already. Over
his name in the Gazette dated December 1
a formidable lot of marine regulations were
published to take effect from November 31,
1916. When the Courts are asked to de-
cide when it was that those regulations came
into force, Costs will have the time of its
life.
Major “Bill” Stuart is probably the only
man in Australia qualified to be Master of
a Supreme Court and O.C. of a military
school. He has had charge of Adelaide’s
principal camp, at Mitcham, for over a year,
and at his farewell Col. Darvall claimed that
“latterly the troops from S.A. had been bet-
ter trained than any in Australia.” But
now a returned fighting man, Col. Dollman,
takes command, and Stuart goes back to his
steady job of advising Judges on matters of
business and seeing that lawyers don’t over-
charge more than custom permits. At part-
ing, he gave a remarkable testimonial to the
younger officers. All through his 16 months
in camp, he said, most of the routine work
had been done by subalterns, and when
senior officers, had come in to help, things
had been no better done. Incidentally, the
saving to the country by the employment of
juniors was immense.
“Old ’Un”: What mining man from Car-
pentaria to Broken Hill didn’t know Fred
Keats? He budded first when things were
starting to boom at Silverton. There he
had as good friends J. S. Reid, W. R. Wil-
son, William Jamieson, Bowes Kelly and
others of the fine crowd who gathered on
that bit of a mineral patch. His first big
deal was when he was provided by Jamie-
son with a buggy, a pair of good horses and
a cheque for £2500, and told to get across
country to Menindie. There one of the local
publicans had the South leases for sale and
Jamieson wanted them. Keats arrived late
at night and got his deal fixed up not an
hour too soon, for on his heels came Charlie
Chappie, emissary for W. R. Wilson. The
float was carried through in Sydney, on
terms that would make Swinburne and Hig-
gins have apoplexy nowadays. Keats was
always “pally” with the old Queen-street
crowd, and was in most of the things that it
attempted. He got two or three trips _to
London over the Chillagoe reconstruction
and debenture floats. Perhaps the crowd
“inside” did better than the public over that
huge disappointment—or swindle. Luck
changed both for him and Tolhurst when the
chance came to get Hampden off the stocks
in Wm. Orr’s office, where it had rested so
long. Big rises came out of the Elliott,
out of the sale of the Duchess, the float of
the Cuthbert, and the Leichhardt. This
North Queensland biz threw Keats into
alliance with the Baillieus in a way that
once seemed impossible. And the connec-
tion lived till the hour when he was stricken
down with his fatal seizure.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
"iW;
\ “ “In Old Donegal
Tivou .V.V.V.V.V Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Host’s Theatre’ '.'.V.Moving Pictures
noiT s ihea Movin" Pictures
... The Dandies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
llbr Majesty's •• • • “ F \ oT ° d °Z’
i {OY , L “Damaged Goods
’s “Ilindle Wakes’
PrintksVs" . “The School for Scandal”
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Arcadia." St! KilVa The Pink Dandies
Hoyt’s De Luxe A Olympia Moving Pictures
The Allan Wilkie presentation of “The
School for Scandal” at Melbourne Princess s
is pleasing enough in general treatment,
without being specially brilliant or rigidly
punctilious. Yet the show may not lose
much by comparison with previous versions,
and it is certainly superior to our last Nance
O’Neil production. Nance, who put more
quantity than quality into her Lady Teazle,
looms in the memory as a loud and awkward
novice beside Miss Hunter-Watts. To be
sure, Miss Hunter-Watts is not absolutely
delightful as Lady Teazle, but she has
graces of speech and deportment, and con-
veys an agreeable impression of belonging
to the period. Allan Wilkie is dour and
brusque as her lord and master, but the
personality of the actor and his clever appre-
ciation of the comedy in the screen scene
lift his Peter out of the ruck of ordinary
character work. Vivian Edwards diagnoses
Charles Surface as a rough and rowdy
rake with manners at least a hundred
years more recent than his garments,
If it is possible to accept _ Charles
as a modern young man with the
social crudities of a bookie and the familiar
gestures of a picture-show spruiker, then the
portrait deserves a place on the line in the
gallery of 18th Century Nuts. Walter Hunt
has at his finger-tips the etiquette of artistic
duplicity typified by Joseph Surface, though
his bearing is rather too insidious, and his
voice too slimy with obvious hypocrisy. It
is not humanly probable that old Sir Peter
would regard this oily sycophant as an
honest man. Edward Landor, as Sir Oliver
Surface, brings out the bluff cordiality of
the character. Gregan McMahon, as Crab-
tree, is the foremost fragment in the deco-
rative background of malicious rumor. Henri
Dore (Backbite) cracks bon mots like bon-
bons and acts as if life were a continuous
birthday party. Fred Kehoe, as Careless,
is the mirror of Charles Surface’s lusty
modernity and the mainstay of that roy-
sterer’s drinking bouts. David Belbridge
(Trip) and H. W. Varna (Snake) are good
enough, while Rowley has John Cosgrove to
thank for his buxom Beefeater’s appearance.
Moses, for whom Fred Patey is responsible,
vividly recalls the awful Irish renderings of
low-comedy usurers by J. P. O’Neill in
Marlowdramas of yore. Patey gags woe-
fully in the picture-selling episode, and per-
“THE SCHOOL FOR SCANDAL,” at
MELBOURNE PRINCESS’S.
Fred Patey as
Moses.
Sir Peter Teazle
(Allan Wilkie).
sists in calling Trip “Tripe!” as if there
were something subtly facetious in giving a
superior flunkey the name of his favorite
author. Maria wilts in the hands of Elwyn
Harvey and needs strong conversation to
arouse her to a reasonable interest in the
proceedings. Valentine Sydney’s Lady Sneer-
well is raw and unfinished in the sneering
department; but Mabel Russell’s rapid
tongue as Mrs. Candour is probably allow-
able on the ground that as a bearer of scan-
dal She would be in a hurry to get the poison
out of her system. The comedy throughout
is adequately dressed, and the cast in most
cases wears the raiment with distinction.
“The Girl in the Taxi” has made another
stop for refreshments at Sydney Majesty’s,
and Field Fisher is once more intoning the
sad, cynical lines of Alexis, head-waiter and
philosopher at the Jeunesse Doree restaurant.
Sydney knows those words of wisdom so
w'ell now that Fisher gets his laughs in
advance —much to the annoyance of people
who are at the Jeunesse Doree for
the first time. Robert Greig plays
Baron Dauvray, the part that W. H. Raw-
lins fitted so well. Cecil Bradley is charm-
ing as Jacqueline, and Madge Elliott is
quiet and winsome as Rose Charcot. The
other principals are in their old places. C.
H. Workman scores once more as Pomarel,
the jealous scent-soldier whose virtuous
Suzanne (Dorothy Brunton) goes out to
dine with another officer and a gentleman.
“The Girl” isn’t a sermon in any sense, and
“A Waltz Dream” (due on Saturday) is
no hymn. But both have more right to a
theatre than “Broken Windows,” or what-
ever the moral. show was called.
“THE SCHOOL
FOR SCANDAL,"
AT MELBOURNE
PRINCESS’S.
Greg an McMahon
as Crabtree.
“Common Clay” is still being baked in tlie
Criterion kiln, Pitt-street, Sydney, and the
lawyer faults away at every evening per-
formance and matinee. The coal strike gave
the management a chance to introduce some
good topical touches, such as barristers read-
ing their briefs by matchlight. But the
grand opportunity was missed.
* * *
Allen Doone, as the picturesque “Tom
Moore,” will tear “The Last Rose of Sum-
mer” to petals on Friday night at the Palace
(Sydney). On Saturday, he’ll be “In Old
Donegal.”
* * * *
“The Passing Show 1916-17” began to
pass as gaily as possible at Sydney Tivoli
last Monday in a library of new costumes
amongst a forest of new Clint scenery, some
of it designed by Harry Julius. The com-
pact all-star Strollers who a while back
sparkled at the Palace are the leading
figures of the show, and when their new
assistants fail (as they do now and then)
you have the sad feeling that one or other
of the Strollers could have filled in the time
doing something really entertaining. A
numerous mixed chorus is kept busy chang-
ing costumes and rushing on and off, and
pearls of honest sweat are on the scene-
shifter’s brow all the time. A hurried audit
of the programme shows that 41 items are
listed—far too much for the money with a
strike-restricted transport service. It will
be a better and a shorter show next week.
* * *
It’s not so difficult to reach the stars as
some philosophers claim. All you have to
do is take a William-street (Sydney) car
and hop off at the Garden Theatre, where
shines the constellation of the Red Dandies.
i]; sjs
This week’s Sydney movies:—
Hoyt’s: A Frohman production of Locke’s popular
novel, “Jaffery” ; “Caprice of the Mountains,” first
appearance of the Wm. Fox co.’s new “perfect”
movie actress, June Caprice; more “Crimson Stain"
mysteries, and usual comedy and news features.
Lyceum : “The Velvet Paw,” the tragedy of women
in politics; “50-50,” a domestic scrap which ends
with the scores 100 — Nil; “Dollars and Sense,” a
rollicking Keystone comedy; and an instructive Aus-
tralian film, “Newcastle Coal Industry.”
Crystal Palace and Lyric : Chambers’s novel,
“The Common Law,” featuring Clara Kimball
Young.
In “Damaged Goods,” now shown at Mel-
bourne Royal after a season in Sydney, the
doctor who holds the stage for long periods
never spares the audience in his. develop-
ment of the argument. He rams home his
opinions with ferocious candor, pursuing
his line of reasoning with a confidence and
power based on a sure knowledge of medical
facts. For progaganda purposes he is the
only person in “Damaged Goods” who mat-
ters. Ostensibly representing Science’s last
word on the subject of syphilis, he is really


w
&
BOORD&So*
FINEST DRY GIN
& old tom
DT
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney"
D™El„fl«fOßM
The
OREAM
or
the North
star
ED
Whisky.
Silk—but Substantial
A SUIT THAT HOLDS ITS SHAPE.
Take a Peapes’ Formosa Silk Suit on your hoi! Way
trip. It will ensure coolness, comfort and r rood
style not only for that period but for all 'the
Summer. Cheap silks soon cut in the washing. This
silk is of durable quality and has sufficient we sight
in itself to hold the required shape. Bports-t mck,
Coat and Trousers only, as illustrated ... 0 ( )/ m
Ordinary Sac Coat and Trousers tyl y jim
Ready to wear. We pay postage.
Please state chest, waist and inside leg measurements-
Peapes & Co., I Ad.,
Men’s Outfitters,
300 (El 311 George St., Sydney.
cvb
a raouthpiece for the author’s indignation at
all the stupidity, prejudice, ignorance and
low living that have made syphilis and other
diseases prevalent. And there is no mis-
taking the savant’s conclusion when he has
finished his discourse. It is not young
Dupont, but society at large, that is the
villain of the piece. The other people in
the play are humanly interesting, though
most of them are comparatively negligible
diagrams in a medical tract specialising the
follies that the Doctor attacks. Theatrically
the most impressive of them is the elder
Madame Dupont, because she stands for the
maternal instinct in its finest form. Olive
Wilton plays the part quite well, freely
abandoning herself to the luxury of grand-
motherly grief and tears. The Nurse
(Gertrude Boswell) reveals peasant rapacity
and cunning with startling emphasis, but the
young wife (Alma Rock Phillips) is only
a vague remembrance of featherheaded chat-
ter alternating with gleams of white teeth.
Stephen E. Scanlan as the Doctor has the
aspect of being convinced by his own im-
mense conversation. Atholwood is a small
and angry feature in the hospital of Act
III.; Sydney Stirling is rank with the virtue
of an outraged father; and Lewis Wil-
loughby is the unfortunate Dupont who is
made to feel that the wages of sin is a flood
of talk. Throughout he gives a realistic dis-
play of the young man’s sensitiveness to his
position as the Awful Example.
$ $ %
Artillery will be busy all this week at
Melbourne King’s. “The Barrier” is having
a late Spring campaign with a practically
new gun-crew. lan Maclaren is now six
feet or more of animal pelts and dangerous
quietude as the semi-Injun trapper, ’Poleon
Doret. Kay Souper is the streak of U.S.
official Hue in the rainbow life of Flambeau
Flat. Kay is armed with formidable docu-
ments and a glacial stare, and affirms that
the six-shooter has yet to be produced that
can make him tremble. His frantic fearless-
ness and frozen eyeballs appeal strongly to
the heroine, Necia (Esther Mitchell), who
soon puts his name first on her list of young
men. The love of these two provides a thin
strain of harmony and soft words in an
otherwise belligerent and blusterous drama.
The ultimate ownership of a mine and a bit
of post-dated vengeance on the part of
Necia’s. poppa, mildly portrayed by Plump-
ton Wilson, are mainly responsible for the
male characters developing large corns on
their trigger fingers. A fateful expert in the
gun-play is Dan Stark, a bad man and
wholesale homicide whom the local under-
taker acknowledges as a public benefactor.
Dan is represented by Ward Lyons, and
suffers considerably from Ward’s hallucina-
tion that a desperado’s proper outfit includes
squeaky Wellington boots. However, that
is a minor detail, and, anyway, peace is to
be proclaimed to-morrow night. Saturday,
Stanley Houghton’s unusual drama, “Hindle
Wakes.”
“THE GIRL IN THE TAXI,” AT
SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
The philosophic waiter (Field Fisher)
watches the arrest of a customer.
At Melbourne Majesty’s the pursuit of
The Orchid continues to upset the portly
Aubrey Chesterton and turn the Hon. Guy
Scrymgeour into a foreign traveller. The
show remains fairly strong in humor and
girls, but is still giving short weight in
the vocal department. Ileg Roberts sings
pleasingly here and there, but others like
Nellie Payne with catchy solos scarcely ven-
ture to have a voice in the matter. The
most popular ditty is still “Little Mary”;
yet there was a time in the proceedings when
it seemed like a bit of brutal levity owing to
the coal strike and the suspension (more or
less) of cooking. Next Saturday a revival
of “Florodora” is promised.
Variety is the spice of the Dandies’ enter-
tainments at St. Kilda (Vic.). Last week
they broke more new ground in a scrap of
topical nonsense that could be mistaken at
a distance for a musical revue. Joseph
Brennan described John Hop No. 49 in
four languages, including Scotch, and
Ida Newton and John Campbell showed
symptoms of gaiety in a sort of songandance
scrimmage called “A Hesitation Rag.” The
vocal part of the item deserved full marks,
but the dance section illustrated the truth
of the proverb that they who hesitate are
lost.
$$ $ $
A Chinese prima donna, Lady-Sen-Mei, is
an effective novelty at Melbourne Tivoli.
The visitor has a warm, round voice, and
evidently occupies a high place in the affec-
tions of her dressmaker. Barker and Beth,
seemingly amateur harpists, strum dolor-
ously in an ill-arranged turn. Their great
defect is that they lack the experienced
vaudevillain’S ability to display a mere gift
as if it were a rare talent. Recent rearrivals
are Haydee’s Marionettes, Svinoff and the
Leroy-Carlyo trio. Another imminent resur-
rection is the Sambo authority, Walter
Weems, and a new acrobatic disturbance by
Short and Little is expected to occur about
the same time.
❖ »!'
"Tom Brown’s Schooldays,” screened at
Hoyt’s Theatres, Melbourne, this week, is a
quaint English reproduction of the ancient
classic that mixes scenes of lurid stoush
with exhortations to prayer. The film, which
might have been adapted and arranged by
the late Dean Farrar, will get the glad hand
from a school-kid audience, but will make
no particular appeal to the insatiable con-
sumers of Amurkan sex drama who form
the bulk of present-day picture congregations.
Hoyt’s customers will be more attracted by
the remainder of the current bill, whereof
“God’s Half Acre” and “The Family Stain”
are the conspicuous thrillers.
❖❖ ❖ ❖
Wirths’ Circus in in its last nights in
Melbourne. The show, which has been
making war profits for six weeks, is now
packing up the seals, Bailey’s Dogs, the
Riogoku Japanese, and other ferocious fea-
tures, preparatory to a descent on innocent
Tasmania.
** * *
Song and dance and pictures are the main
features of Adelaide shows, except for a
willing w'restling-match between Cross
and Fitzherbert in “The Village Black-
smith” at the Tivoli. Australia’s own
McLeans are giving their weird dances at
the Majestic, where also is the clever Doro-
thy Gard’ner, with Miss Checkett (originally
of Adelaide) and Cuthbert Rose. The Grand,
in Rundle-street, now has to be added to the
picture-show list. It follows the Wonder-
graph lead, being open all day, with a
different evening programme. The Pav. makes
no distinction. Royal, West’s, Empire and
Central are for the evening only.
“Goulburn” writes from a ditch in France :
Just under 21 I And myself without a vote in the
Referendum. I have been through nearly two years
of preparation and fighting, yet am not supposed to
know whether reinforcements are wanted. But my
dear old aunt whose problem in life is to keep the
antimacassars in the parlor straight—she knows, dear
old soul! Newfoundland gave every man at the Front
a vote. That State w'asn’t mean enough to accept his
life from a man and deny him a vote. Australia is. Or
at least those whom we have left behind to run things
are.
Broome L. Witts, who had been long and
honorably known to The Bulletin’s com-
mercial department, died in Melbourne last
week. This paper -remembers him away
back in the SO’s of last century as a debonair
young Englishman with a happy manner
and a laugh for all men. Uncommon mis-
fortunes and poor health in later years had
removed the old smile from his eye, and in
the last few months he developed into an
invalid, finally fading away through sheer
inability to go on living. Witts, who was
a Cambridge graduate, had wandered widely
over the globe. His family is very numer-
ously represented at the Front, xl cousin,
General Sir Percy Lake, was lately in com-
mand of the British in Mesopotamia.
“L.L.”: Re school-inspector McKenna’s
report as to the absence of cow-slavery in
Bananaland (B. 23/11/T6). I’m a school-
master in one of the best-known dairying
districts of Queensland, with long personal
experience also of the dairying districts in
Northern N. S. Wales. And I declare, and
don t hesitate about it, that child-slavery is
far worse- in Queensland than in N. S.
Wales. In my school there are two girls
who are nearly idiots, through (I know)
overwork and long hours, and several boys
and w ho are lop-shouldered, pale-faced,
skinny of body and dull-brained, through too
much teat-pulling. On comparing notes
with other teachers I find that a similar
state of affairs exists throughout the dis-
trict. What is the remedy? Don’t say it
is landlordism, for some of the worst of the
slave-drivers own unencumbered farms.
AT POVERTY POINT.
, J .F.H : “How interesting it would be
to see Miss Marie Lohr as Hamlet!” ex-
claims Sir George Alexander, of St. James’s
I jon don. He was deploring the
difficulty ot getting duly qualified male lovers
“THE GIRL IN THE TAXI.”
Sozzled Pomarel (Workman) finds the
small moth-eaten waiter (Wren) a comfort-
able leaning-post.
and heroes. All the beauty actors have been
put into khaki. The play with which Alex-
ander intended to open his new season at
the St. James’s he has had to abandon be-
cause he could not find a suitable juvenile
lead. In such an unprecedented famine of
young- and good-looking actors, Alexander per-
ceives a splendid opportunity for “our pro-
mising actresses.” Never in the history of
the English stage, he says, has the standard
of acting by English women reached such a
pitch of perfection. He sees no reason why
they should not play the male parts in
Shakspeare and poetical comedy. That is
where his wish to see Marie Lohr doing the
Danish Prince came in. And why not?
Marie made a big hit in male attire in one
of Pinero’s plays, and it is quite likely she
would draw the town for months as Hamlet.
Alexander recalls other women who have
played the part—Sarah Bernhardt (the best
of the lot, according to critic Clement Scott),
Mrs. Glover, Miss Marriott, Eliza Rudd,
Clara Morris and Mrs. Bandmann-Palmer
the last remembered by old Australian play-
goers. How many female Hamlets has Aus-
tralia had? In my day I saw only one—
Louise _ Pomeroy. She looked the part, but
her voice and Yankee accent let down the
show considerably.
. “Fax”: The pictures of Maoriland in
kinemacolor, which W. J. Shephard has been
showing on the screen in Melbourne, strike
one as being superior in photography and
color effect to any that have come from
Europe. Not only the volcanic landscape
and forest scenes, but the views of city life
are wonderfully realistic. The tints mav
be somewhat brighter than the truth, but
the contrasts harmonise. Women and chil-
dren in light dresses and summer hats look
as festive as the flowers and foliage in the
public domains. Everything in the garden’s
lovely. Kinemacolored Maoriland is God’s
own country beyond question. If the touring
picture-show gets a Government subsidy it
fairly earns the money as a lure to tourists.
“Bob D.”: The following Australians are
now collecting pay envelopes from Uncle
bams movies: Thomas A. Curran, Francis
Hare, Marc McDermott, Arthur Shirley,
Joseph Singleton, Paul Scardon, Stanley
Walpole, George Beranger, Ed Gibson, Dion
Titheradge, Sidney Bracy, Frank Clark,
Clarry Lyndon, Harry Neville, William A.
Lowery, Billy Nevan, Harry Pollard,
Dorothy Bernard, Annette Kellerman, Nina
Byron, Katherine Grey, Katherine Kaelredr
Louise Lovely (Carbasse), Molly Malone,
May Robson, Hilda Spong, Lydia Yeamans
Titue, Mae Busch, and the four-year-old Mel-
bourne kiddie, Lorna Yolare. If these could
only be coaxed back home they might obli-
terate the Yankee mullock that floods our
market.
“Harrison O.”: Ragtime for the expres-
sion of amorous, alcoholic and similarly
cheerful ditties can at times be tolerated,
but a tale of tears told in ragtime sets me
railing at the absurd convention that dis-
courages the taking of bricks to the theatre.
Minnie Love is a nice girl, but I can never
forgive her for dragging that “Broken Doll”
ditty in,*o “The Cinema Star.” Not since
Carrie Moore made such a wry mouth
in “This Merry Widow” has a musical
comedienne seemed to suffer more acutely
from her own vocalisation. With hunched
shoulders), a woebegone expression and
pathetic gestures she informs an invisible
seducer: “You called me Baby Doll a year
ago” (wViich shows what a fatuous ass the
man was), and then proceeds to tell of how
he cast her aside, like a chop from which
all the ni eat had been picked, and left her
the pore, broken doll she now is. The
attempt :to syncopate heart-throbs is like
rewriting the Book of Job in limericks.
“Midcha nnel” : AVhat “Stargazer” says of
Australian drama (B. 16/11/T6) has wheat
among the chaff. The little we have seen
of local dra ma so far hasn’t been the genuine
article so ruuch as a caricature of it. The
sequence of events is turned off at the meter
to allow some comic effect to be introduced.
Usually the effect consists of passing off a
rotten egg o n to an innocent curate, or four
men trying to extract a tooth with a ship’s
rope, and other incidents which properly be-
long to the 3d. circus. Again, why should
Australian di.rama always be limited to the
bush? We h aven’t had a single scene laid
in Sydney or Melbourne or their surround-
ings. There is abundance of material for
Australian dramatic art without going to
the bush and the wearisome backblocker.
Died in Melbourne, from lung trouble,
Robert Whyte, jun., one of those capable
mummers whose versatility prevents them
from becoming stars. Whyte came to Aus-
tralia five yeans ago with “The Swiss Ex-
press,” a truly deplorable affair which opened
at the Princess’s on a Derby night and was
handed the loud scoff that is too rarely
heard. Robert ‘Whyte, the leading comedian,
was the redeeming feature of the show, and
when the co. £aded from these shores he
stayed behind and took an engagement with
“the firm.” He played in drama, comedy and
musical comedy, was a very passable Peter
Doody in am “Arcadians” revival, and sup-
plied a cairital character study of a tramp
in Haddon Chambers’s “Passers By,” done
at Melbourne Royal a few years back by
Hilda Spo ng and Hareourt Beatty.
After four years’ absence in England and
S’Africa, Ered Bluett is returning to these
parts and will be seen again in vaudeville.
Lieut. Yalentine Williams, the pressman-
warrior whom Australian Alice Crawford
married a few weeks ago, has been wounded
in France.
“B.J.’": Daisy Gove, who is now one of
those b right Melbourne amateurs, The Girls
Who Stayed At Home, was last year playing
parts (not obscure ones either) in a couple
of English revues, “Fancy Meeting You” and
“A Yemr and an Hour.”
“Stargazer” 1 : “Private Boxer” attempts to
deal vrith some recent strictures of mine on
the appjearance and character of the alleged
Australian play. He asks among other
things '“Why doesn’t the original author set
about .learning the technique of the stage
and tu:rn out Ms own version of his own
work?” There is an assumption here that
those ytiio have mauled the said Australian
author’s material for him do know the tech-
nique of the stage. If so the technique of
the sta,ge is as complicated as a set of child’s
blocks printed to read “Cat” and “Rat.” The
fact is the talk about stage technique, of
which t ve had heard a wearisome deal before
“Privafi i Boxer” elected to harp upon it,
is in til is _ connection mere cheap sophistry,
and im plies only the most vulgar and
hackney ed use of the tawdriest of stage con-
ventioris . The fairly knowledgable and ex-
perience d writer who has dealt with much
stuff for stage purposes knows that the cant
about conforming to dramatic technique
meansi In nine cases out of 10 nothing more
than converting 4 rational dialogue and reason-
able situatioff into trite, stale gabble and
fatuous but familiar action to suit actors
who have one way of doing things, and can
conceive of no other probable, possible way
of dionog them. “Private Boxer” thinks
we be gtateful “that some recent
specimens of Australian play-building are
holding the boards.” I do not begrudge him
any satisfaction he may derive from them,
but to my mind they are infinitely worse than
nothing.
(Continued on page 26.)
A SORDID OBJECTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The playhouse posters urged that all
Should see the show within,
Put on from lofty motives, so
Each erring wretch might come to know
The consequence of sin.
“A sermon play,” read Todd, and thought:
“I’ll go and hear them preach.”
A minion stopped him at the door
And told him, when he asked “Whaffor?”
“Seats are six shillings each.”
Todd gasped. “Well, I have heard some damn
Fine sermons in my day,”
He mentioned, “but, I give my word,
The very best I’ve ever heard
Have only cost a ‘tray’!”
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


EVERY WOMAN CONTROLS HER OWN BEAUTY.
EVERY WISE WOMAN KNOWS
ohn Strange W inter’s
Poudre Marquise
A Delicate Face Powder in three tints—
Blanche, Natnrelle and Rachael. Price, 3/6
per box, is the most efficient.
Also Do Not Forget OUR NEW FACE CREAM.
(Blanche, 3/-, Naturelle, 3/6.)
LAKSHMI FACE CREAM AND LOTION.
(3/6 each.)
PAR EXCELLENCE—USED BY ROYALTY.
All obtainable from Drapers, Civil Service,
\V. H. Soul and Co., etc., etc.
Awarded Six Gold Medals—London, Paris & Rome.
SEE DEMONSTRATION NOW AT ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS AND WINDOW DISPLAY AT LASSETTER’S.
Send 2d. stamp tor Sample of Soap or Powder to JOHN STRANGE WINTER (Rondon,
Paris and Rome). Sydney Offices: 32 Depot, 26 Jamieson Street. Sydney.
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stoat
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
SO FORGETFUL.
THE DEAR THING: “I sent a postcard to
Tom last week and forgot to put his
name and address on it. He must have
thought me an awful silly when he got
it.”
“5.1. F.”: It was the day before their first
“hop over,” and the regiment was drawn up
in mass behind the lines to listen to a “few
words from the colonel. He pointed out to
them at some length the straight and narrow
path wherein their duty lay, and after giving
them the general direction of the Road to
Glory, concluded with the lines: —
If we go forward we die.
If we go backward we die.
Better go forward and die.
The awed silence which followed was broken
by the languid voice of a Billjim in the rear.
“Yairs,” he drawled decisively, “a bloke’s
best chance is to be a crab!”
GETTING HER COLOR UP.
NEW ACQUAINTANCE: “ Will your mother be long, dear?”
LITTLE SISSIE: “Oh, no. She’s just gone upstairs to blush.”
“Sam”: I can corroborate “Centurion”
(B. 3/8/T6) about the Prince of Wales
being counted “out” and “in” again at Tel-el-
Ixebir in May. But was “Centurion” at
the review of 40,000 Australians by General
Murray, on whose staff the Prince had a job ?
As the custom is when Royalty goes reviewing,
the colors were carried ; and as a tribute to
Australia, they were the Australian colors.
But who carried them? Out of over 40,000
stalwart sons of Australia the “heads” evi-
dently did not consider anyone fit to be
standard-bearer, so this office was performed
by a Hindu —a llydrabad Lancer! Per-
haps it was meant as a token of the bonds
of Empire. But to us it tasted a good deal
like dirt.
“T.C.” : When Private William Dagg got
a laboring job on an Engineer Headquarters,
the O.C. of which was affluent enough to
sport a typewriter, he made valiant efforts to
master the clicker at times when the lawful
operator was at mess. To make his task less
tedious, his habit was to include in his
practice the writing of certain frivolous
Limerick jingles that most of us have met
in our school-days. These efforts he would
carelessly leave about on the office table
when he had tired of his self-imposed lesson.
Anyhow, that’s the only explanation that
the headquarters staff could find for the fol-
lowing reply received from the officer of one
of the supply depots in reply to some mys-
terious communication alleged to have come
from themselves: —
To Brig.-Gen. C.E.—nth A.N.Z.A.C. Hq.
Your despatch of 9th inst. not understood. “Cal-
cutta” and “Bombay” are not on list of local names
of posts or works on this sector. Reference to
shutters. We do not thin,k shutters are available’.
Application for same should be made to R.E. Strs.
Dept., Adv. Base, on form 119-0-51A/3. Perhaps
trench boards would serve as well. We assume that
the fireclay you mention is for making bricks. Please
state only quantity absolutely necessary, as there
is a shortage. Indents for same should be written
on form G/W —005 Y/118. As there may be some
flaw in metal used in manufacture of nuts mentioned
by you, please forward damaged one for information
and" report of C.R.E. 4th Army. In requisitions for
more, please state diameter measurements of nuts
required. Matter concerning pay due to wife of
soldier resident in Bombay should be referred to
Paymaster General, Base Records A.I.F. _ Your
reference to the Bey of Algiers and H.M. King of
Siam is not understood. Would advise communicat-
ing re same to G.S.O. Intelligence, 2nd Army 11. Q.,
B.E.F. P. R. de Blobb, Lieut., R.M.R.E., R.E., 4th
A.N.Z.A.C.
Who says there’s no sense of humor in the
military?
“MacAnzac” : When we get whacked over
in France our clothes are mostly torn and
dirty, to say nothing of bloodstained. We
come to hospital in England, and when we
are fit to go out we get an Imperial uni-
form. If we want an Australian outfit, we
are told to buy it. We get a refund (if we
are lucky and patient) of 14s. on the
tunic, nothing on the strides or hat. What
is the matter? Why rub the dirt in because
we are a few thousand miles from home
and wounded? A tunic alone costs £2 and
upwards. The very lowest for a kind of one
is 30s. For a hat the lowest price is 6s. 6d.;
strides 15s. That puts the purchase beyond
most of us. We are not ashamed of the
Tommy rig-out, but we reckon we ought to
be issued with our own. Call it swank —
I don’t give a damn. I call it patriotism.
The Scottie gets his kilts, doesn’t he? Let’s
have ours. We would if we were home.
Surely we are no less entitled to wear our
own colors, so to speak, when we are away.
* * * *
“Aiouah”: This is my experience of the
muddle in the Defence Department which
would be humorous if it were not ruin-
ously expensive and did not put so many
people to such serious inconvenience. Two
weeks after I had actually landed in Sydney
my people-received a letter from Melbourne
stating that “they were sorry that they
had made a mistake in their previous letter
advising that your son was returning to
Australia, as they had found that he had
not yet left Egypt.” I would like to know
where I am, but I am afi’aid to ask the
Military, as they might tell me that I am
dead. It took, by the way, only eight months
after I had got a commission for the
announcement to be made in District Orders.
It may have been bad reasoning; but I tell
you that tens of thousands of men here and
at the Front voted “No” lately because they
were convinced of the hopelessness of our
Defence administration.
S. Aus. has decided that not even the
struggle to do the decent thing by its
returned soldiers shall be allowed to pierce
its Sabbath gloom. The city’s amusement
managers waited on the Government offer-
ing to help the Repatriation Fund by a
series of Sunday concerts, 23 shows being
united in the scheme. They would not begin
till 8.30, variety turns would be submitted
beforehand to the Chief Secretary if he
wished it, a Government official could col-
lect the funds, and the managers would get
nothing whatever except the satisfaction of
helping a good cause. Chief Secretary
Styles called it -“a splendid offer/’
“prompted by a noble spirit,” “worthy of
the highest commendation.” Then he con-
sulted his colleagues, and his colleagues
remembered the Wussleyan Conference, and
the reply was that “no departure can be
made from our settled policy.... It might
mean the opening of picture-shows for an
'indefinite period on Sundays.” The show-
men may, however, go to the Devil
one Sunday in the year. But items
must be of a “sacred” character, only
the collection-plate may go round ; ..no
charge may be made for admission,
and no seats may be sold by ticket or
otherwise. Nothing so well illustrates the
S. Australian spirit in relation to the
Repatriation Fund as the action of an old
lady of those parts who used to keep cows.
She taught her poddy calves to remember
the Sabbath by giving them only two feeds
that day instead of the usual three.
.*. » *
“Hr”: “Crucifixion,” mentioned in the
Commons as a punishment still inflicted on
soldiers, and defended by civilian Lloyd
George, who believes it is “humanely in-
flicted,” consists in strapping the offending
soldier to a cross with his arms extended and
his legs apart for a fixed period. In the field
the wheel of a gun is the usual place. In
S’Africa the Australians met the punishment
once, with Methuen’s column. A member of
the “Fighting Fifth” (Northumberland Fusi-
liers) was the victim. When the Austra-
lians saw a white man exposed to the jeers
of passing niggers there was a boilover, and
there were no more “crucifixions” while the
Billjims were about. The punishment is, of
course, unknown to Australian Army Regu-
lations.
* * * *
Two knots in the tangle of the N. S.
Wales liquor law have been cut by
Justice Ferguson. In one case a policeman
had been sent from Newcastle to Maitland
in order to catch a certain publican, and was
duly supplied with refreshment at the
marked establishment. The publican was
fined ; but on appeal he raised the neat point
that this John Hop was a traveller. The
point got blunted, however, when the Law
reviewed the case. The other appeal came
from Glen Innes, and was raised by two men
who had been fined for being on the pre-
mises of a pub after the regulation hours.
The magistrate held that as they had beep
many hours in the town they had ceased to
be travellers. The Judge, however, being
asked to say what he thought of the magis-
trate, decided that, while the beak was
justified as far as he went, he had failed to
consider • whether a new journey might not
have commenced. When does a journey
commence? Is the start delayed until you
actually begin to move your feet, or are you
legally on your way when the first suspicion
strikes you that you ought to be going?
PUTTING THE SCREW ON HIS
COURAGE.
ETHEL: “I can’t make George out lately—
he seems so perfectly miserable.”
MAUD : “Perhaps he’s going to propose,
dear.”
“Ireland” : The other night we had a raid
and “caught” two Bosches, who would have
hugged us if they had dared. On the way
back, a fairly-heavy machine-gun fire open-
ing, one of the pair grabbed the arm of his
captor and started to tow him to our
trenches. “For Gott’s sake, hurry,” he said,
“or dey vill rescue me!”
A LAY OF 1948.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“When the trams stopped running on Sunday night,
the service was taken up by half a dozen old ’buses,
which, perhaps for sentimental reasons, had escaped
the scrap-heap when the tram-car drove the horse-
drawn vehicle off the streets.”
Bring forth the steed! The steed was brought.
The ancient cab was also caught,
And rusted harness-buckles taught
To do their job once more.
The ancient Jehu on his seat
Seemed proud the altered world to greet;
And down the silent, startled street
Wheels rattled as before.
For years the petrol reek alone
Those kerbs and woodblocks smooth had known;
The horse’s grave was overgrown
With progress, grass and weeds.
High in the glassed museum case
The equine bones and hide found place;
Small children gazed upon the face
1 Of stuffed and pictured steeds.
But now the mighty petrol strike
Had stilled the car and motor-bike;
Biplane and monoplane alike
Had ceased to soar the sky.
Then, somewhere in a place remote,
The haunt of rabbit, rock and goat,
One found a beast of rugged coat
And dark and kindly eye.
Led gaily by the flowing mane,
Fixed to the battered cab again,
And freighted deep with Tom and Jane,
He plied from kerb to door.
Ilis coming moved the crowd to cheers;
The ancients left their chairs and beers —
Old Time rolled back his days and years—
The past was theirs once more.
The petrol strike with wild surprise
Rubbed the grey cobwebs from its eyes
And made a resolution wise
To drown itself in toil.
For this men saw without mistake,
If from its dust the past might wake,
It still had power to rend and shake
And desolate and spoil.
The ancient cab-horse strolling back,
The mouldered harness on his back,
Wheeling the hansom down the track
Made feet a little cold.
If he could get to work again,
So could the methods dire and plain
Wrought out in wrath and blood and pain
By iron hands of old.
In 191/8 such things were seen;
They hadn’t learned them in the year ’l6.
X.S.W..
CURSE O’ MOSES.


isfS
the Boot you
should wear
for rough work.
The “Surveyor” Boot has been specially
designed to fill the need of men, especially in
the country, who feel the need of a hard-
wearing and at the same time comfortable
boot. Black chrome leather, tongues strongly
sewn in ; double soles ; sprigged and finished
with rope-stitched welts.
POST FREE TO YOU. 21/- PAIR.
PLEASE STATE SIZE.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED BRISBANE,
HOTEL SYDNEY,
Opposite Railway Station,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE MODERN HOTEL AT A MODERATE TARIFF.
240 BEDROOMS—HOT AND COLD WATER IN EACH.
EXCELLENT CUISINE.
Dining-room Open to Non-residents.
THEATRE DINNER, 6 to 7.30 p.m., 3/6. Orchestral Items During Dinner.
CYRIL EDWARDS, Manager.
The talk of a new gaol at Hobart has
stirred up the more active prisoners to walk
out of the present ramshackle affair while
the going’s good. Five have already left
this year. The latest was helping to build
a brick wall to replace an old wooden shell
alongside a back street. He saw no point in
bricking himself in, so he put himself on
the other side.
CLASSING HIM.
HIM: “I only dance for exercise. You can’t
beat it for keeping a man young.”
HER: “How nice it would have been if you’d
only found that out long ago!”
“Sloyd”: In view of a recent par. point-
ing out the sensitiveness to criticism of
Frank Tate. Vie. Director of Education, it
seems a shame to write this, but the kids
concerned are too much occupied with other
and more fantastic subjects to do it them-
selves. Tate got much press publicity for
the State-school youngsters’ physical-culture
display, and every rehearsal received a par.
More than a par., however, might have been
given to the spectacle of 3000 girls who,
assembled in light summer dresses in Yarra
Park, were drenched to the skin in the rain-
storm which crabbed one rehearsal and sent
them home chilled and dejected at the end of
a wasted school-day. Melbourne Tories are
yapping for a reduction of education expen-
diture, and a few more incidents of this kind
will make more than the Tories wonder
whether the whole duty of scholars is tc
mass in a bunch of from 12,000 to 13,000 in
a windy arena in the form of the word
“Anzac,” after 3000 of them have honored
our Ally the Bear by performing a Russian
dance. And when the grand display actually
came off rain fell in torrents on* the Mel-
bourne Cricket Ground, and the youngsters
had to stampede for shelter to avoid being
drenched.
* * * •
Among the vessels listed for early arrival
at Sydney is the s.s. Cunene, on her maiden
voyage, and about 880 days out. Built by
the “Black German” Co. of Hamburg for
the Australian trade, and christened the
Adelaide, she left Germany chock-a-block
with goods to satisfy Australia’s importing
craze in the first week of July, 1914. Get-
ting a tip en route from the cruiser Konigs-
berg she bolted to Portuguese East Africa
for refuge. There, when the Kaiser declared
win- on Manuel, the vessel was seized as a
prize, but not before her crew had smashed
her machinery. She was next towed to
Capetown, where she floated in the midst
of considerable froth and bubble. Finally
she was dubbed Cunene, and is now heading
for her original destination. So far her cargo
has survived years in the holds, and as
it is of enemy origin what is to become of
it is exercising the minds of the consignees.
The vessel herself is a valuable prize, being
the last word that the architects of 1913
spoke about cargo-carriers.
“Tiaki”: When Mark Twain was pro-
menading Maoriland the train stopped at
Eltham and the humorist got out to have
a look round. “I say, guard, what is the
name of this little township?” “This is
Eltham, sir,” answered the guard politely.
Mark wandered up the platform for a while
and approached the guard once more. “Oh,
what do you call this place?” he asked.
“Eltham,” replied the guard, rather shortly.
Just before the whistle went the tourist
again signalled to the guard, who, politely
enough, came to see
what the long-haired
Yank wanted. “Oh,
pardon me,” said
Twain, “what do you
sav the name of this
townlet is?” “El-
tham ! Eltham !! El~
tliam !!!” shouted the
irate man. “Thank
you,” said Sam. As
the train was starting
the author of “Tom
Sawyer” ventured the
opinion that the civil
servants of the coun-
try were very uncivil.
Oh, I don’t think so,” said one of
the party, “I have found them very
polite.” “Well, I’ll just ask this
blackguard a civil question, and
we’ll see,” said Mark. He beckoned
to the guard, who hopped aboard.
“Oh, guard, what is the name of that
township we have just passed?”
There was a refrigerated silence for
a second or two while the official
fixed Clemens with a cold and glit-
tering eye. Then he said slowly
and deliberately: “That’s Chicago.
Now go and get-your blanky hair
cut.”
A woman who repented of her death ex-
plained matters to a Victorian jury lately,
when her husband, Win. Webster, was tried
for bigamy. Her hubby had left her in
Sydney in 1912 to go to a billet in Adelaide.
He had maintained her more or less
adequately till 1915; but in July of that
year she had sent him a telegram saying she
was dying, and a few days later got her
sister to sorrowfully inform him that she
had finished the job. Apparently she was tak-
ing no further interest in William, and he
naturally felt it wasn’t much use taking fur-
ther interest in Mrs. William. But that was
where he made a mistake. In spite ofthe
tact that she was a corpse, in a manner of
speaking she resented his haste in proceed-
vr!„ t «m e bOUI and aw iuii'ing a second
Mis. Webster. Even a dead wife felt she
Avas entitled to a kick Avhen her successor
wa;S installed in six weeks. Then the Judge
scratched his wig with his pen-handle and
u to go about his busi-
ness Which leaves things in a state of
great untidiness.
* * * *
In a Melbourne children’s court the other
day two beaks professed sapient astonish-
ment at the extent of the thefts laid to the
charge of two youngsters brought before
them. Ihere must be receivers who accept
the proceeds of these larcenies,” said Shal-
°w, J.I. “Where did you put these
articles, my lad?” “Under a barrel in your
yard, sir,’ replied the trembling infant.
Ihe other magistrate had no better luck
with the second culprit. “What did you do
with what you took?” he asked. “I put it
under a tank in your yard,” was the answer.
Ihere was no more talk that day of the
prevalence of undetected receivers of stolen
goods.
“Chasuble”: The Japanese Government is
taking no risks. It notifies all foreign
missionary societies in that they will
not be allowed the use of the public schools,
nor are they to act as medical men or move
outside “their proper sphere, the propaga-
tion of the Christian gospel.” They are
debarred from acting as educationists, even
Private schools, in history, geography
political, economy or anything secular. This
pronunciamento has struck the zealots with
amazement. They cannot see how they are
to carry on. There is an influential Mel-
bourne branch of the Presbyterian Korean
Mission. It had arranged to send T. J.
Smith as an apostle this month, but the
appointment is cancelled.
* * * *
“Swaddie”: Billjim of the Queensland
Eight Horse was lounging near the Marble
Arch entrance to the park when a mounted
officer went past. Bill stiffened as though
about to salute and then relaxed. “Why
didn’t you salute him?” I asked. “I was
gom’ ter give him one.” Bill drawled, “but
the beggar can’t ride!”
WHEN THE GAS WAS TURNED OFF.
SHE: “Called on your new neighbors yet?”
HE: No. But, by Jove, I will if there is any more of my coal missing.”
PRECAUTION.
MR. LODGER (inspecting room of boarding-
house): “Twenty-two and sixpence per
week, you say?”
MRS. SPEARMINT : “Yes, and I might men-
tion we keep an excellent table; the
very best the dishes are always so
varied.”
MR. LODGER: “H’m, and — er—how about
the food?”
Accompanied by an affidavit :
An Anzac lieutenant was soused in a tub in his
tent when a sudden demand brought him into the
open, dressed in a towel. One second later a shell
struck his tent, and when the dust settled there was
none of that tent visible anywhere. The Anzac had
what he stood up in, a three-by-two regimental towel.
This ghoulish yarn hasn’t been sworn to
yet, but it is wandering around. It is alleged
that about six months ago a Dunedin (M.L.)
woman whose brother had been taken pris-
oner by the Germans wrote to Mm when
she discovered his prison-camp address, and
uT , ier P osts cript made the artless request:
‘‘Dear Bill, please send me the Kaiser’s''
eyes as a souvenir.” Three or four weeks
ago she received a neat little parcel from
the prison. It wasn’t addressed in Bill’s
script, but the recipient didn’t trouble about
that at the moment. When she undid
the wrappings out rolled two human
eyes. Now her friends are trying hard
to persuade her that it is only an
everyday sample of the Hun variety
of practical joke, and that, although the
Imperial Bill’s eyes have not been listed as
missing, it does not follow that the other
Bill has lost his. Nevertheless, the moral
projects a kilometre.
* * * *
“Hassan”: I see Victorian policettes are
to keep their eyes on the flapper and dis-
courage and arrest the “male flirt,” as one
paper puts him. One of the most discour-
aging things that ever happened to the male
flirt occurred at Middle Park last summer.
Don Giovanni followed a nice plump little
lady from the station, and when in a
secluded spot politely accosted her. Might
he have the pleasure of seeing her home?
She gave him a glance that would have
lured the Crown Prince from the arms of a
chorus girl. She was so afraid at night, and
so lonely-—a widow, who lived by herself, and
more of it. Don Giovanni patted himself on
the back. Arrived at the gate she invited
him to come in. He followed her as in a
dream. They walked into a lighted room and
she locked the door. A vast man uneoiled him-
self from a deep chair. “John,” she said,
this forced itself on me near Armstrong-
street, and” When Don Giovanni came
to his senses he lay on a hard footpath with
gravel-rashes all over him and wondered
dimly whether he had been killed somewhere
in France. If each constablette has a large
husband, and this method is generally
adopted, the art of “mashing” should receive
a severe set-back.
THE FLOWERS OF REGRET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Roses, roses; red and pink and white—
Red for the passion, love, that scarred that evil night.
Pink for the ribboned gown—and God forgive us all.
White for the lilies that I laid upon your pall.
N.S.W.
THE SNAKE.
SHORT AND SWEET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At a meeting of the Vic. Board of Health Cr
are L!® 1 ! SaiU short skirts now being worn
view The T len n ab u e £ om a sani tary point of
the fashion.” B d Sh ° uld expi ' ess its approval of
These native Wood-notes wild proclaim
latest mode a winner.
The “skirts of happy chance” are these,
Since their unthinking wearers please
At once both saint and sinner.
They cut their cloth to suit the times,
Thus Wood’s respect commanding.
To any lack of length they’ll go,
And for the public good will show
A proper understanding!
VICTORIA.
H. O.


THE WAY WE SETTLE COAL AND OTHER STRIKES.
THE CABBY: “Here, this big bloke tells me I gotter drive him home for a bob, and the fare’s eighteenpence. You gotter make him pay the right thing. tame enough.”
THE BOBBY: "Dear, dear! He looks very big. You both of you look very big. And very unpleasant. Just wait and I’ll see if I cant nick the other sixpence from this kid. He looks tame enough."


THE POLITICAL CIRCUS.


ACID STOMACHS ARE DANGEROUS.
COMMONSENSE ADVICE BY A
DISTINGUISHED SPECIALIST
“Acid” stomachs are dangerous because
acid irritates and inflames the delicate lining
of the stomach, thus hindering and prevent-
ing the proper action of the stomach, and
leading to nine-tenths of the cases of stomach
trouble from which people suffer. Medicines
and medicinal treatments are useless in such
cases, for they leave the source of the
trouble, the acid in the stomach, as danger-
ous as ever. The' acid must be neutralised,
and its formation prevented, and the best
thing for this purpose is half a teaspoonful
of bisurated magnesia, a simple antacid,
taken in a little warm or cold water after
eating, which not only neutralises the acid,
but also prevents the . fermentation from
which acidity is developed. Foods which
ordinarily cause greatest distress can be
eaten with impunity if the meal is followed
with a little bisurated magnesia, which can
be obtained of any chemist and should
always be kept handy.— Advt.
cb
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
■wearing qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's*
■>o
K
JM
m
THE
am
/
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS GO ROU
L t VIS & WhITTY MAKERS
DOCTORS
RECOMMEND
CILBEY’S
PRY cm
For Kidney Complaints
and Rheumatism.
Obtainable Everywhere in Quarts 8 Pints.
TUCKER &. CO., SYDNEY.
Sole Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
John Tebbutt, who made his last observa-
tion in old Windsor (N.S.AV.) one day last
week, was better known in other lands than
he was in his own. He wasn’t a boxei , he
didn’t even ride a Melbourne Cup winner.
He was just an astronomer whose name
was knoAvn among scientists the world
over, and to his greater credit he
was self-taught for the most part. As
far back as 1562 he could have had
the post of N. S. Wales Government
Astronomer, but he had no need of the
money. He was a just man, according to
his lights, if not over-generous; he hated
Labor legislation and Labor ideals; he
abhorred the land-tax; but he left a very-
decent “wad” to one son and three daugh-
ters —fine women who go about doing good.
“Hussar”: Re Hiram Maxim’s death. The
first Maxim gun in action against an enemy
in the field was fired by E. A. Lendy in
West Africa. This happened about ’BB. I
was at Sandhurst Avith that first Maxim
operator. He was the daredevil son of an
old French officer who was a “crammer,” or
private army coach, on the Thames in the
’Bo’s. Poor Lendy was shot by accident in
’9O or thereabouts, his men and some French
troops firing on each other at night by mis-
take.
Of the last N. S. Wales Ministry prior
to Federation, consisting of nine members,
but four remain, and of the four but one,
John Perry, is in politics. Lyne, See,
O’Sullivan, Crick and Wise have passed
out; Hassall is said to be in South Africa;
Fegan and Wood are in political cold stor-
age in Australia.
Charon will have to get out the royal
barge for the next trip over the Styx.
Francis Joseph of Austria is waiting on
the bank, and stepping proudly behind him
comes an Australian royalty—Queen Tun-
bury, of the La Perouse (Sydney) blacks.
Her Majesty died a week ago.
When T. J. West packed up a few of the
new-fangled cinematograph films and in-
duced some musical people to flee with him
from the Cold Country to Maoriland, he
struck a lead which panned out 20cwt. to
the ton. That was 12 years ago, and at that
time West didn’t have more than a million.
“West’s Pictures and the Brescians” fell
into Dunedin and took a hall for a month —
an unparalleled proceeding which made
McTavish laugh. But within a week the
pictures and the melodious solemn-looking
Brescians were drawing like a free distribu-
tion of haggis. The remainder of the tour
was amazingly successful. At Wellington
the population rushed the Opera House, and
West had to shift to the Town Hall. At the
A MATTER FOR REFLECTION.
“You know, Henry, I speak as I think.”
“Yes, my love, I don’t think.”
end of about a year West and the musicians
—they were running in partnership—had
satisfied themselves that Maoriland was not
the worst place on earth. Then West was
led by Edwin Geach to prospect Australia,
and quickly showed Australian showmen
that pictures had something in them besides
a flicker. Though not the pioneer of the
business hereabouts he was certainly the man
who revived it. Soon after he struck Aus-
tralia the combination which now runs the
films was formed. About six years ago West
retired and proceeded to settle down in Kent.
His home he named Canberra. When he died
last week, after an operation in London, he
was about 58, and a keen, hard-working
chap, who always went to church twice on
Sundays.
“Bag’s” narrative: —
Mention erf that Harry Gofton (B. 16/11/T6) who
semi-circumnavigated New Guinea barefooted in order
to get aboard a vessel that would help him to reach
the German under arms, reminds me of an occasion
when he was even more anxious to get away from one
of that family. We were strafing the kuro-kuro (rank
grass) on a hemp plantation along the Laloki
(Papua). During Gofton’s absence a Hun, who was
one of the party, brutally kicked Gofton’s cooki-boy,
and the cooki-boy complained. Gofton arrived at
the camp at a gallop, grabbed the German and
administered a considerable amount of stoush. Karl
skedaddled, but presently came bounding back with
an ugly lOin. Colt in each hand. Then Gofton
“got.” I don’t think anyone ever got quicker, and
the rest of us were in the fear of death until next
night, when we purloined Karl’s armory. A few
years back Gofton was one of the crack performers
on horseback up North. On one occasion when Sku-
thorp took his buckjumping outfit to the Towers
“Bobs” then had an unridden record, but young
Gofton got aboard and rode the bad-tempered brute
to a squealing standstill. Then Skuthorp squealed
even louder than the nag.
Trouble has come to G. F. Matthews, a
Melbourne solicitor, in battalions. Two of his
sons were lately killed by the one shell in
Flanders. Now a third son, who was near
by but dodged the splinters, has joined his
brethren on the other side.
Moore-Jones, the Maoriland artist, who
enlisted in London early in the war, though
close on 50, went to Gallipoli as a sai p
and Avas afterwards attached to head-
quarters staff as an artist. His sketches
were shown at the M.L. ofhces in Loudon
last April, and later on the ex-sapper let
the King have a look at them at Bucking-
ham Palace. Ton of the sketches have now
been printed in three colors and published in
a portfolio at five guineas, with forewords by
lan Hamilton. Birdwood and Alex. Godiey.
Moore-Jones was in Sydney for some time
before the war and exhibited with the Royal
Art Society.
Captain Ritchie, a Murray River skipper
for 25 years, is now off the bridge and
M.L.A. for Alexandra (S.A.) ; but four of his
brothers are still trading along the stream.
During the “old man” flood of ’9O, when
the Murray, Murrumbidgee and Darling
were all over the place, the present legis-
lator agreed to ferry 40 tons of shearing
supplies to Murtee station. There \vas no
sign of the usual Avatercourse, and only the
tops of the gums were visible above the
muddy Avaters. Ritchie steered as long as
he could by the timber, but, coming to a
turn-off, lost his beacons and steamed across
country. It took two and a half anxious
days to go, but only a few hours to splash
back.
Hale and hearty at 86, and confident of
seeing out the century, George B. B. Elliott,
of East Melbourne, claims to be the first man
in Victoria to light his shop by coal gas; the
pioneer here of photography by artificial
light; and the first to erect dredging plants
in Vic. and Tas. He is now completing a
plant to recover new from old rubber, and to
make cover-protectors for motor-tyres. He
was born in Upper Canada, and at the age of
six carried a flint-lock musket at a parade of
the Queen’s Own Volunteers, raised by his
father to suppress a rebellion. It was his
joyful job to serve the soliders with Cana-
dian “rye” from a tin bucket. At the age of
22 he chartered the Helena, which, filled with
young adventurers, left New York for the
Victorian goldfields. At Melbourne most of
the crew deserted, and Elliott rented a two-
roomed shack in Prahran, built of split Tas-
manian palings. In the lodgings of the time
the sleepers lay like sardines, in a tin. The
young Ulysses’ first trek in the realms
of gold was a dray-journey from Melbourne
to Bendigo in 1852. It took four horses 13
days to accomplish.
Donald Melville, who had his 87th
birthday lately, ought to know as
much about political tripe as anyone
else in Australia. He has put in 34
years in the Vic. Leg. Council, and
has never missed a sitting since he
started.
Carrying a. camera and a service revolver,
Sergeant Flora Sandes, of the Servian
army, has gone through the deadliest part
of the Balkan campaign with a distinction
that should make her Sydney brother proud
of her. He is Johnny Sandes, of the Daily
Telegraph. Flora had already done fine
service as a voluntary nurse during IS
months of the typhus epidemic in Servia.
When the regiment to which she was
attached Avas driven back through Albania
to Durazzo and Corfu, she joined its ranks
as a private and became in succession cor-
poral and sergeant, and as such was under
fire at Mount Chukkus, where, exchanging
her revolver for a comrade’s rifle, she took
part in the volley firing. She has written
up her adventures in “An English Woman
Sergeant in the Servian Army.”
NOT O.F MUSHROOM GROWTH.
YOUTH: "Barbah! How long will I have to
wait for a shave?"
BARBER : “Can't say, 'Erbert! A year or
two, on present appearances."
Put it to the credit of Donald Charleson,
just dead at Mooroorook (Vic.), that,
though he was at Ballarat before Peter Lalor,
he disclaimed any connection with Eureka.
After three years of the simple life at
Emerald, near Fern Tree Gully (Vic.),
gentle poet-playwright Louis Esson has
charged at noisy N’York armed with a hand-
ful of plays written carefully amongst the
gums. The Niagara smoked out of Sydney-
last week with Louis and his wife aboard.
Before her marriage the lady was “Dr.”
Bull, from Melbourne Uni. But she never
waited behind a brass plate for patients.
THE GRIME OF MIDDLE AGE.
THE DISAPPOINTED ONE: “I suppose if I
were ten years younger I’d have a
chance.”
THE DISAPPIONTING ONE : “On the con-
trary, if you were ten years older you
might.”
While Victoria’s Conservator of Forests
was gloomily shaking his head at Aus-
tralian trees, Basil G. Watson, aviator, was
riding gaily on the aeroplane he had made
for himself out of Australian timber. He
flew to his native Bendigo during the week,
and the city that had known his grandfather
as a mining pioneer and his father as a
good citizen, turned out and craned its neck
as he came sailing over like a hawk.
The swelling of the Vic. railways-deficit
and the nagging of the dailies have helped
to give one of the commissioners a knock.
Louis McClelland, who carries the weight
of his job on a pair of comparatively youth-
ful shoulders, has had a breakdown and gone
off to the bush, where he can think about
his critics without getting so annoyed.
Talk about being dogged by Fate!
Thomas McMichael, a Maffra (Vic.) grazier,
left home early one morning to round-up
cattle. Pie came back to a hean of smoking
ruins, under which were the charred re-
mains of his wife and three children. He
married again, and a few weeks ago his
baby by the second . marriage died. And
then he found his wife dead in the hill coun-
try beyond Glenmaggie. Her head had been
blown off, apparently by a gunshot, and
the police are trying to find out something
more about it, though it looks as if the
poor woman was distraught.
I J assed out in Sydney last week, Cecil
James Youl, son of Tasmanian knight James
Arndell Youl, and grandson of that John
Youl who was the first divinity student to
leave Australia for ordination. John Youl,
the pioneer of the family, arrived in Aus-
tralia in ISOO with a band of missionaries.
He was appointed lay reader and school-
master at Green Hills (now Wind-
sor), in the Hawkesbury district,
and remained in charge till 1810,
when Robert Cartwright came out
and took over the parish. Then
Youl went back to England, and
was ordained by the Bishop of
London in March, 1815. The Eng-
lish Government at once gave him
a commission as chaplain to Port
Dalrymple, in Tasmania. He
arrived in Sydney in 1816, but
Macquarie, who was short of par-
sons, sidetracked him to St. Luke’s,
Liverpool, where he remained till 1818. when
he went, on to Port Dalrymplc, since rochris-
tened Launceston. He was the father of
some good Australians and the first parson
to preach by the Tamar.
An official sprig of laurel has just reached
the mother of the late Captain Norman
Broughtop. D. 5.0., a young Sydney doctor
who was killed in Prance three months ago.
He had a fine record of gallantry and devo-
tion, but his decoration was principally
awarded for burrowing under fire on three
separate occasions to get at British artillery-
men whose pits had been blown in on them
during heavy strafing.
TROOPSHIP MEMORIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A-lyin * in hospital broken up
(Old Pills he reckoned I’d die )
I woke from a pleasant doze one morn
And strapped to my cot was I.
“Raving!” I, heard the sister say,
In a way that weren’t no joke —
An’ all through a dream o’ the transport trip
An’ a march when we cut and broke.
Left—Right—Left—Right! Company feeling gay,
Marching along in a cheerful throng with kettledrum
in play,
Heedless of slush and the drizzling rain,
Singing a song with a good refrain,
And yelling the chorus with might and main—
Left — Right—Left !
Left —Right—Left—Right! Sounding a measured
beat,
Stretching our stale and stiffened shanks tramping the
muddy street.
Passing the houses of friendly cheer,
Where the rum runs red and the ale is clear,
And the Devil pitches a tale in your ear—•
Left — Right — Left!
Left—Right—Left—Right! Halt and doff your
gear,
And rally in single file, my sons, for bully beef and
beer,
A noggin a man, instructions came;
But we double-banked and changed our name,
And relished our second and third the same —
Left — Right — Left!
Left—Right—Left—Right! Company down at the
lip,
Leaving the joys of the town behind and marching
back to the ship,
With lasses smiling their sweetest smile,
And tipping the wink with cunning guile,
With Lucifer tempting us every mile —
Left — Right—Left !
Left—Right—Left —Right! Who sounded that dis-
perse ?
But didn’t we answer the call, my lads, and didn’t
the officers curse
When our rank and file dismissed and fled
With a row sufficient to wake the dead,
And stars and stripes on the stern chase sped—
Left — Right—Left !
Left—Right—Left—Right! Crimed for breaking
leave!
But sweetest ever were stolen fruits and dainty was
my Eve; <
When a maid and our duty come to grips
One of ’em wins and one of ’em slips;
And her kisses still linger upon my lips!
Left — Right — Left!
Left—Right—Left—Right, with never a moment’s
spell,
Consigning the sons of the Provost staff the hot-
test hob in Hell;
Oh, we bought our bliss and must pay the bill,
So our packs hang heavy as drill-packs will,
AVhile the surly sergeant’s shouting still —
Left— Right—Left!
With my crutch I’d marched about the ward
A-flashin’ it fresh and free;
Pills has a lump on his baldy nut,
The dispenser a blue-black knee;
I’d flirted with nurse (so I heard ’em say),
But what just fair licks me
Was kissin’ an’ muggin’ that orderly man
With a face like a chimpanzee!
FHAXCE.
JACK HAMILTON.


There is yet Time
Once again we repeat the
warning against delay for
the benefit of those who are
in need of an "Austral”
Suit-to-measure, for wear
during the Xmas Holiday
Season.
Even under normal con-
ditions, the time remaining
would allow but little lati-
tude. To-day the rush of
late orders lias already set
in, and assuredly will con-
tinue till the year end.
It would be ivise, and for
this reason we strongly urge
that men should place their
orders here to-day or at their
very earliest convenience.
■
m
w,
m
mm
lltill
WM
m
tSXr’
;m
.V.v. 1 '
Ms
m
immm
With
V
l
m
i
m
m
wm
tW$
Wog*&
.
m
m
Wm
m
mm
;
»'•»*' *r-r ,, svifre««V
■
&
iWi
gpilpl
■ S»£
i2fe J
Ps&aS«d®9sss
s#
S
Sj»s
32x2?
Sgi
Sjllip
gspsp
sis®
33a
IssS
®£§
M^p
V-
-1®
ft
SIS
Hi
N*
M
A
3® ■•
m i
aflt
s»>
■
Sggßffi
■
. fiWWAV
~\'W
.SB
A-
ap
SfclSl
friffi
/"i* ;
mlW&9BBn> '"''' v.-. •• ' wskss r 4
m
torn (tonwi'Mi'ffi
ffi
LOW
(LUUiAt^
HHtittg
m
m
I
® -
THE Customs and Traditions of Centuries past demand our
observance of the conventionalities of dress at Xmas Time, if at no other time of the
year, and so it is that most Men make the most of opportunity such as this —and look their
best at all the many functions of this truly festive season.
And in an “Austral” Suit-to-measure any man will look and feel
his very best—equipped to thoroughly enjoy the many pleasures of a family reunion or annual vacation.
“AUSTRAL” SAC SUITS TO MEASURE.
3 Guineas, 70/=, 75/=, 4 Guineas, 95/=, 5 Guineas, 115/=, 135/=, 7 Guineas.
CARRIAGE IS PAID ON ALL COUNTRY ORDERS.
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods,
484 to 490 George Street, and 3 to 17 Royal Arcade,
New Branch Shop at 304 George Street (near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty., Ltd
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H.. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:—
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brknd),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE, ANTIMONIAL LEAD,
LINO METAL, SPELTER, ZINC
DUST, REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of:
SILICIOUS ORES, containing
Lead, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buyers of:
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
All enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
The Australian Provincial Assurance Ass’n
382 George Street, SYDNEY. Limited.
Transacts Life, Endowment, Personal and General Accident Business.
Life Assurance Policies contain Disability and Hospital Benefit Clauses.
Reliable and Capable Travelling and Local Agents required throughout the Commonwealth.
S. P. WOOD, Managing Director.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Bank of Australasia :
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
Oct., ’07.. 188,750 14p.c.= 112,000 18,000 1,486,075
Apl., ’OB.. 212,029 14 „ ~ 112,000 20,000 1,566,104
Oct., ’OB.. 187,691 14 „ ~112,000 15,000 1,626,795
Apl., ’09.. 174,111 14 „ ~112,000 12,000 1,676,906
Oct., ’09.. 177,566 14 ~ ~112,000 15,000 1,727,472
Apl., ’lO.. 193,722 16 „ ~128,000 18,000 1,775,194
Oct., ’lO.. 198,531 16 „ ~128,000 20,000 1,825,725
Apl., ’ll.. 198,460 16 „ ~128,000 20,000 1,876,185
Oct., ’ll.. 205,889 17 „ ~136,000 20,000 1,926,074
Apl.. ’12.. 208,171 17 „ ~136,000 20,000 1,978,245
Oct., ’12.. 216,303 17 „ ~136,000 20,000 2,038,548
Apl., ’13.. 206,644 17 „ ~136,000 20,000 2,089,192
Premiums on new shares, £600,000. . 2,689,192
Oct., ’13.. 220,977 17 p.e.= 170,000 20,000 2,720,169
Apl., ’14.. 233,897 17 „ ~ 170,000 2,784,066
Oct., ’14.. 210,509 17 „ ~170,000 2,824,575
Apl., ’15.. 208,778 17 „ ~170,000 2,863,353
Oct., ’l5. . 201,743.17 „„ 170,000 2,895,096
Apl., ’16.. 206,663 17 „ ~170,000 - 2,931,759
Profits have been remarkably well main-
tained, notwithstanding the smaller amount
of foreign exchange business available for
the private banks. What is going to hap-
pen by-and-bye is of course the problem.
Just at present everything is booming, as it
always does when borrowed money is being
thrown around. Soon after the war ends
the Defence, Department will suddenly stop
throwing money around; and while that
alone would give us a severe jolt, there
inevitably will be also a lot of unemployment,
with the general tightening-up that follows
the cry of distress. Whether we shall come
through fairly lightly depends then upon
what we can get for our raw products,
with which we will have to pay the interest
on our huge foreign debt. To-day that
load sits comparatively lightly on our
shoulders; but there have been times
when we have had to send away 61b. of wool
to pay as much interest-debt as lib. pays
now and between three and four tons of
copper to do the work that one is doing to-
day. Very low prices are at least possi-
bilities of the future. More than that one
cannot surely say. We at least know this.
Owing to the interference with ordinary pro-
duction new channels have been opened up.
The United States, for instance, have put up
spelter plants capable of supplying almost
the entire normal demand of the world.
Japan has put up other metal plants. It is
thus quite possible that for some time in the
future there is going to be abnormal com-
petition just as at present there is an
abnormal demand.
Going back to the last balance prior to the
war, this is how the Bank of Australasia’s
principal figures have moved: —
April, 1914. April, 1915. April, 1916.
Notes .. .. £195,887 £258,793 £364,645
Bills, etc. . . 3,045,714 3,159,819 4,132,325
Deposits.. .. 19,259,977 20,699,953 20,684,773
Liquid assets . . 8,910,843 9,704,282 8,729,652
Advances . . 18,527,117 19,427,303 21,468,529
Premises .. 17,684 20,333 25,321
Circulation has increased steadily, no doubt
owing to the war-prosperity of Maoriland,
where this bank’s notes are still used.
“Bills, etc.,” is a composite item, including
“provision for contingencies,” which is part
of this bank’s internal reserve. It has a big
internal reserve besides; for its premises in
Australia, Maoriland and London, written
down to a mere £25,321, are worth anything
up to a million. The Bank of N. S. Wales,
which has nothing so extensive anywhere as
the ’Asia’s main Sydney offices, values its
premises at £835,000. Deposits have been
keeping fairly steady ; but these figures
would be worth more if Government deposits
were separated from the others. They ought to
be, especially at a time like this, when opera-
tions on Government account are so swift.
Advances show a steady increase due no
doubt to the requirements of people who
can’t market their stuff quickly and to
traders who are trying to cope with the
war-loan trade. The ’Asia has been too
long in the business and is managed with
too much prudence not to know the uncer-
tainty of the future and the exceptional ease
with which a fool and his money may be
parted in such times as these. He has only
to lend, accepting security on the basis of
present prices; and it won’t be very long
before he will have the security and some-
body else will have the money.
The Australasian Temperance and
General Mutual Life Assurance Soci-
ety (Ltd.) :—■
Ordinary Life Department.
Added to Total
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
1904 . . £79,779 £18,302 £29,285 £32,192 £342,775
1905 . . 89,738 18,894 36,071 34,773 377,548
1906 . . 98,666 21,026 38,925 38,715 416,263
1907 .. 108,447 21,451 39,616 47,380 463,643
1908 . . 130,384 29,470 44,751 56,163 519,806
1909 . . 160,946 44,733 49,412 66,801 586,607
1910 . . 177,578 40,810 53,658 83,110 669,717
1911 .. 189,794 31,236 52,071 106,487 776,204
1912 . . 203,467 32,286 63,938 107,243 883,447
1913 . . 224,252 33,752 75,588 114,912 998,359
1914 . . 242,979 36,281 71,858 134,840 1,133,199
1915 . . 269,696 37,747 95,302 136,647 1,269,846
1916 .. 298,962 41,098 120,583 137,281 1,407,127
Industrial Life Department.
Added to Total
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
1904 .. £82,742 £48,595 £13,365 £20,782 £69,845
1905 .. 103,499 54,761 14,213 34,525 104,370
1906 . . 115,433 58,833 16,444 43,156 147,526
1907 . . 124,703 52,289 16,129 56,285 203,811
1908 . . 134,723 64,402 22,320 48,001 251,812
1909 . . 145,757 64,954 34,189 46,614 298,426
1910 .. 155,333 59,359 40,129 55,845 354,271
1911 . . 170,358 61,002 50,537 58,819 413,090
1912 . . 194,650 71,308 56,505 66,837 479,927
1913 . . 234,465 84,420 104,245 45,800 525,727
Taken over from Accident Dept... 338 526,065
1914 . . 273,216 105,227 104,846 63,143 589,208
1915 . . 306,949 111,375 89,567 106,007 695,215
1916 .. 366,880 129,745 89,896 147,239 842,454
This, at any rate, is not the office where the
Go-Slow policy is issued. Its recent pro-
gress is as remarkable as anything in the
Australian insurance world. Established in
1876, its income in the Ordinary department
had not reached £lOO,OOO in 30 years. In
the next 10 years it has added just £200,000.
The Industrial income figures are almost as
striking: in the last 10 years they have
grown by nearly £250,000. Fifteen years
ago the office seemed to be right in the back-
water, and in danger of being left high and
dry. But new hands put such vigor into
their push that the old concern got way on;
and now progress is comparatively easy.
For nothing succeeds in insurance like suc-
cess. And it needn’t be all the best kind of
success either. For example, hardly anybody
inquires into the nature of the business
which has produced the very rapid increase
of income and reserves in the T. and G. Of
the £5,760,617 for which policy-holders are
assured in the Ordinary branch only
£750,453 is on whole-life policies, the balance
being endowments, which of course bring in
larger premiums in proportion to insurance
effected ; and in the Industrial section only
£648,858 is on whole-life policies out of a
total of £4,710,062. Endowment assurance
is no doubt a lot better than none at all; but
for the young man of small or moderate
means there is nothing so good as the whole-
life policy which in case of premature death
gives the maximum benefits for the premiums
paid.
Claims in the Ordinary department are
much heavier than usual, being equal to 40.5
p.c. of the total income as against 33-8 p.c. in
the year ended September, 1913. This less
favorable experience is due, wholly or in
part, to 378 claims under policies on lives of
members who have gone to the Front. Yet,
notwithstanding the war mortality, the ex-
perience of the last triennium has been, on
the whole, satisfactory in the Ordinary
department:—-
Expected Actual Per-
Claims. Claims, centage.
Temperance section .. £67,690 £41,495 61.3
General section . . 43,550 44,624 102.5
Total . . . . £111,240 £86,119 77.4
Note the difference in the percentage figures
of the two sections. On the face of it, it
looks as though there was an astonishingly
small mortality in the Temperance section at
the Front. Some very interesting remarks
might be made on this subject by the actu-
ary. Actuaries, however, have a large capa-
city for being poor journalists.
But if the office has had to pay more on
account of the war it has received more on
account of the war. The next table shows
interest earnings on average funds :
Interest Earnings p.c. of Average Funds.
1909 .. £4 10 3 p.c. 1913 .. £4 11 6 p.c.
1910 . . 4 10 6 „ 1914 . . 4 12 6 „
1911 . . 4 10 9 „ 1915 .. 4 13 0 „
1912 . . 4 11 0 „ 1916 . . 4 14 7 „
That is 3s. Id. p.c. more than was earned in
1913; and 3s. Id. p.c. on £2,342,458, the pre-
sent total assets, is worth £3600. This isn’t
enough to pay the war bill, especially in
view of the increase of taxation; but it goes
some of the way, and the chances are that
the funds will go on earning a higher rate of
interest for some years after the war.
Besides showing a steadily-rising interest
rate the eo.’s investments have improved in
character. Compare the position with that
of only three years ago:—
1913. 1916.
Govt, and municipal securities.. 36.2 p.c. 39.9 p.c.
Loans . . .. . . .. 49.4 „ 41.2 „
Freeholds .. .. .. 12.3 „ 15.0 ~
Cash and sundries . . . . 2.4 ~ 4.9 ~
Of the loans, £665,835, or not quite 29 p.c.
of the total assets, is out on mortgage.
“There is no item that requires to be written
down,” the directors affirm.
Finally, a satisfactory reduction in the
expense rate in the Industrial section is dis-
closed ; and, taking the volume of new busi-
ness into account, there is nothing to com-
plain about in the Ordinary rate:
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
Sept., Ordinary. Industrial.
1905 .. £2l 1 1 p.c. £52 18 2 p.c.
1910 .. 22 19 7 „ 38 4 4 „
1912 .. 15 17 4 „ 36 12 8 „
1913 .. 15 1 0 „ 36 0 1 „
1914 . . 14 18 8 „ 38 10 3 „
1915 .. 13 9 11 „ 36 5 8 „
1916 .. 13 14 11 „ 35 7 3 „
No less than 10,774 new policies were
written in the Ordinary department during
the year. Assuming that the old or renewal
business cost 7 p.c., then £49,486 of new-
business premiums were got in at a cost of
£28,066, or 57 p.c. of the year’s premiums,
which is a surprisingly low figure, especially
considering that the average policy is for less
than £l2O. And the fact that local rates on
property investments are not included with
the exes, would hardly make any difference
worth noting.
The actuarial valuation shows a surplus
of £43,273 in the Ordinary and £35,011 in
the Industrial department. In the former
£38,359 is distributed, equal to 16.4 p.c. of
the premiums; in the Industrial, £11,649,
equal to 3 p.c. of the premiums on policies
valued. The figures, especially in the Ordi-
nary section, will show up better when the
policies are more persistent. The proportion
of lapses is so far excessive.
St. Joseph’s Investment and Building
Society (Sydney):—
Profit Divi- Writ-
Business on dend ten Nominal
Sept., Profits. Sales. (5 p.c.) Off. Reserves.
1906.. £3,575 £3500 £294
Assets written up, £28,588, which
amount was transferred to capital.
1907.. 3,978 4000 272
1908.. 4,438 £6654 £2809 8,555 ,
1909.. 5,071 1420 2858 12,188
1910.. 5,015 367 2858 14,712
1911.. 6,485 1220 2858 19,559
Reserves transferred to capital, £9529 10,030
1912.. 6,855 1056 3335 14,636
Assets written up, £6OOO .. .. 20,636
1913.. 9,134 571 3335 27,006
Reserves transferred to capital, £9529 17,477
1914.. 10,114 2091 3812 25,870
1915.. 9,721 824 3812 32,603
Reserves transferred to capital, £9529 23,074
1916.. 9,897 493 4289 29,175
Reserves transferred to capital, £9529 19,646
And that takes the shares back to the old
£lO. When the co. collected its senses and
picked the fragments out of its hair after
the boom of the early ’nineties had burst with
loud wails and many bad smells, the direc-
tors had a valuation made of the assets and
then wrote off seven-tenths of the capital to
make the two sides balance. That happened
in 1893 and 1895; and the world looked very
grey then. Afterwards it improved wonder-
fully, and as written-down assets were
realised “profits” were made which, assisted
by current profits, allowed the co. to gradu-
ally restore the old written-off capital from
£3 to £lO. A bit of help was also got by
writing up the home-office of the co. from
£6OOO to £12,000.
The most striking thing about the whole
business is that, though the co. has been able
to restore all the capital, it hasn’t realised
anything like all the old written-down assets.
Mostly cos. in the position of the St.
Joseph’s have cleared the old skeletons out
of the cupboard at the earliest convenient
moment. St. Joe’s still has £77,684 repre-
sented by “properties, in, possession.” Twenty
years ago, 12 months or so after the valua-
tion on which the capital was last written
down, the advances, including properties in
possession, amounted to £193,295. The cor-
responding item 10 years ago was £95,257.
Apparently at their written-down value
the foreclosures show a very high re-
turn ; but many of them must be getting
old and decrepit now. Some of the profit
may therefore be reasonably written off to a
replacement fund. Apart from the properties
in possession, the co. has £55,219 of mort-
gages, £12,000 in office property, and £22,008
in deposits, etc.; and it owes £47,684. Prac-
tically nothing is doing at present in the way
of new loan business; and the immediate
future isn’t at all brilliant. There is too
much State competition to permit of big pro-
fits from building advances these times.
* * * *
The Colonial Mutual Fibe Insurance
Co. (Melbourne) :
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1903 ..£27,453 8 p.e. = £6,000 £21,453 £67,548
£25,000 Reserves transferred to Capital. . 42,548
1904 .. 36,579 8 p.c. = 8,000 28,579 71,127
1905 .. 26,069 12 „ „ 12,000 14,069 85,196
1906 . . 45,886 204 „ „ 20,500 25,386 110,582
1907 . . 31,572 204 „ „ 20,500 11,072 121,654
1908 .. 35.413 20| „ ~20,500 14,913 136,567
1909 .. 37,960. 21 „ ~ 21,000 16,960 153,527
1910 . . 52,500 21 „ „ 21,000 31,500 185,027
£lOO,OOO Reserves transferred to Capital.. 85,027
1911 .. 49,022 12 p.c. = 24,001 25,021 110,04 S
1912 .. 42,123 12 „ „ 24,001 18,122 128,170
1913 . . 48,516 12 „ „ 24,001 24,515 152,685
1914 .. 39,466 12 „ „ 24,001 15,465 168,150
1915 . . 45,155 17 „ „ 34,001 11,154 179,304
£100,003 Reserves transferred to Capital. . 79,301
1916 . . 46,758 12 „ „ 30,000 16,758 96,059
That is an amazing table. Look at it. In
1903 the capital was £75,000. To-day the
capital is £300,008, and (barring £5 put up
to conform with some statutory requirement)
not a penny of the other £225,008 has been
supplied by the shareholders. The whole of it
has come out of the business; and the re-
serves are larger now than they were then,
notwithstanding that capital has thus been
quadrupled out of profits in the 13 years.
The shareholders then got £6OOO a year out
of the business; now, without putting up
another bean, they get £30,000. But there
was a long, weary wait. The co. was formed
in 1878. Ten years later it was paying a
dividend of 8 p.c. on its then capital of
£25,000. But it shouldn’t have done it, and
in the early ’nineties, and up to 1896. it
again paid nothing at all. Then 5 p.c., then
6 p.c., then nothing. Not until 1899 did it
pay 8 p.c. From that onward everything in
the garden has been lovely. It is the old
story. The insurance co. is a gamble. If
it has extraordinary luck or extraordinary
cheek it may pull through and make its sup-
porters rich. If it hasn’t one or both of
those things it perishes and some other con-
cern buys its bones.
For some inscrutable reason, while it was
thought only the safe and proper thing for
the Australian to insure his mere life with an
Australian office, he mostly felt that none but
a foreign co. ought to be trusted with the
risks of his property. It took an awful time
to break down this belief; and until the
Federal movement got well under weigh Aus-
tralian fire offices were poor things which
made no progress worth mentioning. Twenty-
five years ago there were 30 Australasian
offices with a total premium income of
£1,414,567. They had actually lost ground
to the extent of just over £300,000 in the
preceding five years. Fifteen years later
there were only 16 cos. doing business; and
the premium income was £1,461,671. Prac-
tically the cos., though a few of them had
added a fair amount of business, were no
stronger than they had been 15 years previ-
ously. Since then, however, the Australasian
office has been steadily coming into its own.
Here are a few comparisons:—
Premium Capital and
Cos. in Existence. Income. Reserves.
25 vears ago .. 30 £1,414,567 £2,814,253
10 years ago .. 16 1,461,671 3,071,632
Present . . 26 3,064,411 5,721,216
And having had a little to do perhaps with
persuading Australian offices to hold their
heads higher, this paper feels that things
are going very well.
The Colonial Mutual’s share in the im-
provement is shown next: —
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £61,683 £29,526 £24,433 47.9 p.c. 39.6 p.c.
1900.. 95,254 49,101 32,113 51.5 „ 33.7 „
1905.. 134,748 60,632 54,911 45.0 „ 40.8 „
1910.. 176,949 66,079 69,661 37.3 „ 39.3 „
1912.. 200,694 88,193 81,460 43.9 „ 40.5 „
1913.. 204,542 85,617 84,040 41.8 „ 41.1 „
1914.. 210,738 98,951 87,681 46.9 „ 41.6 „
1915.. 210.313 90,694 86,626 43.1 „ 41.1 „
1916.. 213,963 93,852 90,365 43.8 „ 42.2 „
The expense rate includes outgoings on fire
brigades, underwriters’ associations and Gov-
ernment taxes; and these bit out an extra
£B5OO during the past year, which accounts
for the rise in the percentage figures. The
risks, as measured by the premiums, are
very well covered. Net assets on September
30 were £420.067. Add a year’s premium
income less exes., making altogether (say)
£545,000, and we see that during the next
12 months the co. could meet claims exceed-
ing those of the past six years. Of course it
would have to realise some assets to do it. But
they are a good and easily-converted lot, on
the whole. There is only £12,000 now out
on mortgage, £28,668 in freeholds, and
£33,644 in shares in other cos. Almost all
the rest is in Government and other public
stocks and cash and bank deposits.
The Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd.,
Melbourne (in this table “Goodwill,”
£198,000, is not reckoned an asset) :
Dividends.
' >
Pref. Written
Profits. (6p.c.) Ord. Off. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
Mar.,’o9.. 15,485 3750 12 p.c. = 7,500 1,287 126,316
Sept.,’o9.. 18,773 3750 12 „ „ 7,500 1,568 120,361
Mar.,’lo.. 17,987 3750 12 ~ ~ 7,500 1,338 114,962
5ept.,’10..20,870 3750 12 „ ~ 7,500 1,403 106,745
Mar.,’11..20,868 3750 12 ~ ~ 7,500 1,376 98,508
Sept.,’ll. 20,699 3750 12 ~ ~ 7,500 1.299 90,353
Mar.,’l2.. 19,782 3750 1 2 „ ~ 7,500 1,282 83,103
5ept.,’12..23,077 3750 12 „ „ 7,500 1,267 72,543
Mar.,’l3.. 19,762 3750 12 ~ ~ 7,500 1,260 65,291
5ept.,’13..16,138 3750 12 ~ „ 7,500 12,053 72,456
Mar.,’l4.. 18,387 3750 13 „ „ 8,125 2,756 68,700
5ept.,’14..24,641 3750 14 ~ ~ 8,750 3,894 60,453
Mar.,’ls.. 23,030 3750 14 „ „ 8,750 5,183 55,106
5ept.,’15..24,127 3750 15 „ „ 9,375 4,583 48,687
£125,000 of Reserve Funds transferred
to Capital 173,687
Mar.,’16..24,571 3750 8 p.c. = 10,000 2,349 165,215
5ept.,’16..29,630* 3750 8 „ ~10,000 2,532 151,867
including amount transferred to Contingency
account.
All things considered, this co. has done
amazingly well during the half-year. Per-
haps in the long run, though, the results
will not turn out to be quite as brilliant as


THE FIRST DUTY a Man owes to
Himself and his Family is to
MAKE HIS WILL.
Second only in importance is the
SELECTION OF AN EXECUTOR.
A Testator can at once relieve him-
self of anxiety concerning such
Selection by appointing the
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited),
The Largest and Strongest Trustee
Company in Australasia, which
has had over twenty-eight years’
experience of the duties of an
EXECUTOR & TRUSTEE.
Write or Call for Booklet.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
The Pacific Cableßoard
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
America, to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Qt. Britain .. 3/- 1/6
{9d. (minimum
15/-, 20 words)
New Zealand.. 4 Jd.
Canada .. » 2/4
1/2
7d. (minimum
11/8,20 words)
U.S.A 2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
7d. (minimum
11/8,20 words)
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations mav be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St., Melbourne. Tel. 2583.
J. MILWARD, Manager in the Pacific,
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
c are Born to*
iUM KNCfOVt
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
Tk‘ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital ..£250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital.. 95,767
Income (Cross) 1915 .. 146,027
Established 1910.
. nr.i-rn umuTrn Branches in every State.
ACENTS WANTED. Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The Australian General Electric Co., corner Went-
worth Avenue and Goulburn Street, Sydney; corner
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne, place
their services at the disposal of all those requiring
information which will enable them to readily select
the most advantageous material used in the construc-
tion of overhead-trolley systems, and track return,
for electric haulage in mining plants. We here men-
tion a few of the devices in which the above company
specialise. Rail bonds, trolley-wire supports, sus-
pensions, clamping ears, mechanical splicing sleeves,
strain insulators, turnbuckles, trolley frogs, drills,
etc. All of this apparatus has been especially de-
signed and manufactured to meet every possible
condition of mining service. Write for particu-
lars.— Advt.
Adamax Roofing is made from superior-qualit>
fibred woollen felt, which is thoroughly saturated
with pure mineral asphaltum. The saturated felt is
then heated at a high temperature. The process
results in a rough surface being deposited on the
roofing, which protects it from all the elements —
heat, cold, wind, rain, acids, gases, etc. Adamax
Roofing contains no tar, fish oil or resin, which are
sensitive to climatic conditions. It will not rot,
perish or crumble. It costs less than galvanised iron
—less for freight; easier to handle and means cool
homes during the summer. For full particulars call
or send to William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Mel-
bourne, Brisbane and Perth. — Advt.
* * * *
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. 3d. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is. ;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. — a saving of 2s. sd.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow 16in. x 9in. Patent Stoneerusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers. — Advt. [2
* * * *
When considering the economy, there can be no
satisfactory pipe as cheap as Pioneer Wood Pipe.
The ideal pressure pipe, manufactured in all sizes
from 3 inches to 14 feet diameter. Send for illus-
trated catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Com-
pany Limited (Head Office), 57 York Street, Sydney.
Contractors to all State Governments. Factories:
Lane Cove, N.S.W.; Footscray, Vic.; Port Adelaide,
S.A. — Advt.
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith avid Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can. be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * * *
In addition to making Wrought Iron, Steel and
Cast-Iron Pipes, Messrs, Mephan Ferguson Proprie-
tary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description.— Advt.
•* * * »
Earth-handling and Road-building Machinery,
Concrete Mixers, Robey Traction Engines, National
Suction Gas Engines, modern conveying outfits, pump-
ing installations, stonecrushing plants specialised in
by Australian Machinery Cp. Ltd., Charlotte Street,
Brisbane; and Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular
Quay, Svdnev. — Advt.
* * * *
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia. —Advt.
* * » *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * »
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights. Morgan's Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Silberberg & Co.. Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney;
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne. — Advt.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited,
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£545,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,351 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 82,500 0 •
£783,611 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. "- 1
Gen. Man.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Public Trustee
Acts as
Attorney, Agent,
Administrator, Executor
and Trustee,
and should be consulted before an
appointment is made.
STATE GUARANTEE.
Write or Call for full particulars,
T. W. GARRETT,
Culwulla Chambers, Public Trustee.
67 Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
THE UNION TRUSTEE CO.
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
NEW SOUTH WALES, VICTORIA & QUEENSLAND.
The only Trustee Company in Australia
empowered by Act of Parliament to operate
in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE, 48 YOUNG STREET.
The Hon. Sir CHARLES K. MACKELLAR,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman).
H. Y. BRADDON, Esq. JAMES KIDD, Esq.
H. W. BELL, Esq. R. M. PITT, Esq.
F. B. S. FALKINER, Esq.
Before making a Will or Settlement of pro-
perty or appointing an Attorney write for book-
let giving the Company’s charges and setting
forth the advantages of appointing the Com-
Q'"..- x IT 'TR. Manager.
they look now, because no less than £11,133
has been transferred to a Contingency
account. The directors don’t indicate what
contingency they have in their minds.
Maybe it is war taxation, though there is a
direct charge of £2422 for land and income
taxes, as against £BO7 as at September,
1915, and £790 as at September, 1913, in
the days when we were blind. Still, it is
hardly possible that £2422 will cover all
that the war will require of this co.; where-
fore some of the contingency reserve, now
reckoned as profit, may be called for pre-
sently. Even so, the progress of the co.
has been remarkably good. “Profit on trad-
ing account” is the profit from the business
before deducting salaries and office exes.,
taxes and depreciation; and for the last
four March-September half-years this profit
has been as follows: 1913, £26,477; 1914,
£37,756; 1915, £39,169; 1916, £43,874.
Meantime, certainly, exes, have gone up a
bit, too. The co. has, of course, benefited by
the eagerness of the public to learn if there
is more in to-day’s paper than there was in
yesterday’s; also the lavish spending of
loan money has made advertising unex-
pectedly brisk. But against that there is
the abnormal cost of paper; though an even-
ing paper like the Herald is less affected by
it than the bulky morning penn’orths are.
The end of the war will inevitably see large
changes in the figures.
The weakness of the stock from the invest-
ment point of view is that of the capital of
£375,000, no less than £198,000 stands for
goodwill—less, of course, the reserves. The
tangible assets are as follows:
Sept., Sept., Sept., Mar., Sept.,
1906. 1911. 1915. 1916. 1916.
Freeholds .. £31,360 £52,517 £60,924 £65,821 £67,846
Machinery . . 29,319 24,597 46,155 46,638 53,325
Stock . . 9,400 14,013 38,119 25,065 26,286
Liquid assets 50,902 84,147 72,203 93,162 95,847
Liabilities . . 3,511 4,377 2,963 7,150 6,160
So in 10 years net liquid assets (including
stock) have increased by £59,182, and over
£36,000 has been put into freehold, while
the purchases of machinery have without a
doubt more than counterbalanced the depre-
ciation. But there is still a long way to
go before all the capital is represented by
hard assets; and the goodwill by which the
balance is represented is a very fragile sub-
stance. The average investor, however, is
probably not disposed to take much notice
of that. His eyes are fastened on the profits.
* * * *
“Job’s Gully”: Bendigo (Vic.) is de-
pressed—no new thing truly in this district of
short gold shoots and much dead work. Gold
amounting to nearly £80,000,000 has been
produced since 1852, and there ought to be a
few more millions to be reclaimed. Most of
it was won by old-fashioned machinery from
ancient shafts under obsolete mining methods.
It is not a proper thing to speak ill of the
dead, yet it is open to question whether the
directors who guided Bendigo’s destiny dur-
ing the past quarter of a century were the
right men. Their ideas, like their shafts,
were too narrow, and they were responsible
for the deep-sinking craze which squeezed
outside investors out of Bendigo. Take one
illustration, and the facts apply throughout
the field. The Garden Gully line is
miles long, and there were 89 leases on it
held by 40 companies. The average length
of ground comprised in a lease was 264 yards.
Some leases were as short on the line as
230 yards, and few went beyond 700 yards.
This meant the sinking of too many shafts.
It also meant, say, five boards of directors,
five legal managers, five mining managers
and five pipe-stem shafts, multiplying over-
head expenses by five, instead of one com-
pany. All these surplus officials were natu-
rally opposed to amalgamation or co-operation
in any shape or form. Hence Bendigo, from
Snob’s Hill, Eaglehawk, has the back view of
an aged and very ragged man. His coat is tat-
tered, his hat bashed in, his pants frayed
from waist to heels, and he lacks boots and
socks. Viewed from Quarry Hill, Bendigo
amidst its greenery, with its wonderful city
park, has the prosperous air of a man with
new clothes, from belltopper to patent-leather
shoes.
It was time to do something to arrest
the field’s decay, and by a transfusion of blood,
meaning money, to give the place a new lease
of life. So a private syndicate went to
work, silently as was correct, and bought up
at auction about 80,000 forfeited shares. The
orders to buy came from all parts of Aus-
tralia, and the buying agents did not even
guess who were their principals. With the
pooling of several big holdings, mainly of
deceased estates, it was easy to secure con-
trol of 27 cos., buy out the legal managers
and amalgamate the properties. This has
bees- done cleverly. The next step is more
difficult and means money and plenty of it.
The public knows that E. Clarence Dyason,
son of the late 1.E., George Lansell’s con-
fidential manager for years, is chairman of
the new concern, and that J. G. Stanfield,
an old legal manager, is the manager. Rumor
says Sir Abe Bailey, a big South African
mining millionaire, is interested ; also Wm.
Angliss, the millionaire butcher of Melbourne,
and of course the Baillieus. Probably this
is all incorrect, as also may be the rumor
that the Lanseli interests have not joined in.
Anyhow, it means wholesale buying of
machinery and material instead of ordering
by penn’orths, lower office costs, electric
lighting and haulage, and a free use of dyna-
mite to get rid of worm-eaten buildings,
rusty engines and ropes, and a job-lot of
worn-out ideas and mining methods. It also
means £250,000 cash, of which perhaps
£30,000 has been used to get control.
* * * *
These are the 40 Bendigo properties which
Dyason thinks “most effectively lend them-
selves to amalgamation” :
Suffolk United, New Moon, Soutn New Moon,
Clarence United, Catherine Reef United, Williams
United, New Argus, Specimen Hill, Virginia, Mur-
chison, South Virginia, Great Northern, Constella-
tion, Golden Pyke, Golden Age, Princess Dagmar,
North Johnsons, Johnson’s Reef, Collmann and
Tacchi, Confidence Extended, Windmill Hill, Koch’s
Pioneer, Carlisle, Cornish United, Pearl, Hercules
and Energetic, Ironbark, Victoria Consols, Unity,
Garden Gully United, Sea Amalgamated, Soutn Gar-
den United, Central Red White and Blue, Shc-epi-
head, Monument Hill, United Hustlers and Redan,
Hustlers Reef, Great Extended Hustlers, Derby
Reefs, Victory and Pandora.
Also they “give the greatest facilities for
carrying on operations in a big way.” In
the past three years the cos. operat-
ing these 40 mines have won £1,152,172
in gold and collected £85,578 from trib-
utors; total, £1,237,750. The total ex-
penditure was £1,502,072, including
£322,253 in dividends. There was a
large deficit, especially on the part of the
non-dividend paying mines, which was' made
up by calls and sundry receipts. But, in
the bulk, there was a profit of £144,606,
assuming that expenditure maintained the
plant at the value at which it stood at the
beginning of the period. Dyason naturally
thinks he can do better than this, he ex-
pects in direct economies to save £38,500 a
year and indirectly (mining from one shaft
instead of two) £31,500. The figures don’t
seem a bit extravagant.
* * * *
As a result of five years’ work, New
Langi Logan, Ararat (Vic.), shows a debit
balance of £87,000 in its working account,
yet Jamie Mackay continues to pour out
confidence as cheerfully as the lark greets
the sun. The same cannot be said of the
chap who paid 255. for shares and tries to
reckon what chance he has of getting some
of it back before the war is over. The one
glint of hope comes from the prospect that
by the end of January panelling will begin
on a decent scale in the Cathcart lead, where
Toole at last has got good gold on the Cen-
tral boundary. If the dirt goes up to sam-
ple then good profits will come along, as
the grade of wash in the Cathcart lead for
pretty well its whole length has been about
lioz. per fathom. If it could only be felt
that the Langi Logan dirt would pan out
equally well, what a start Mackay would
have for divs.! Cathcart Central, out of
1700 ft. of the lead, gave 21s. in divs.; but
it was real good stuff, that came from a
nice bend of the gutter. The Langi has
close on 3000 ft. of the same lead to clean
up before getting to the junction with the
main gutter, so that a nice bit of gold
should be forthcoming out of it. Whether
any fraction of this will get into share-
holders’ hands isn’t clear. Everything
depends on the chances of securing efficient
labor, and on whether Bill Toole can dig
decent stuff from the Langi gutter itself.
He has the water under control in that
lead, but the test of panelling has to be
applied on a large scale. The old 2oz. esti-
mate has been shoved on to the back shelf.
If Toole gets oz. dirt he will be lucky; and
with a fair number of parties working he
ought to do well out of that grade.
* * * *
Deebook, whose disappointments were
recently mentioned, has made an arrange-
ment with Ronpibon by which the latter
takes over the sunken dredge. The plan is
to form a new co., to which Ronpibon hands
over 90 acres of dredging ground; also it
hands over £7OOO, which it is reckoned will
be needed to raise the Deebook dredge and
put it on the new property. The two will
have an equal number of shares in the new
co. Says Captain Teddy Miles, who was
the father of the disappointing Deebook, and
is interested also in the other: “At the
present price of tin the ground is estimated
to be worth, after paying all exes, and
royalty, £3OOO per acre; so on a conservative
estimate we may expect from this source
£15,000 per annum for about seven or eight
years.” It seems a very good arrangement.
Owing to the miscalculations with regard
to the value of Deebook the co. can very well
manage with one dredge. There are 350
acres in the l£ase; but probably not 150
acres are worth working, and that lot will
not average more than two-thirds of a
pound. Last year gave a net profit of
£9173; and the release of the co. from the
expense of floating and repairing the sunken
dredge will allow of an early dividend.
* * * *
As to Deebook’s alleged profit of £9173,
Flack and Flack, auditors, put this little
par. in their report: “No provision has been
made for depreciation of machinery, plant
and buildings, and nothing has been written
off the balance of mine account.”
For the year to June 30 Lake View and
Oroya (W.A.) showed a profit of £12,971;
but £6OOO of this was set aside to meet
doubtful debts, and a further £5OO was
earmarked for the tax-collector. Two 5 p.c.
divs. amounting to £36,095 were paid,
absorbing the wliole of the current year’s
profit, the £22,295 previous year’s P. and
L. balance, and all but £165 of £7500 trans-
ferred from reserves. The irregularity of
dividends nowadays is attributable chiefly
to the fact that no dividend has been
received since last December from Lake
View and Star, in which Oroya holds nearly
600,000 shares. Costs of administration were
considerably reduced during the year, but,
in addition to the £2OOO per annum for
Board fees, £6OO is still swallowed by the
technical committee, three of whose four
members are also directors. The co. started
the year with mines, stocks, shares and
debentures of a book value of £44.053. It
paid £1174 in calls and collected £6o9z,
bringing the total up to £447,799. Unload-
ings reduced it by £31,907, leaving a bal-
ance of £415,892. Apart from the Queen of
the Hills, which it owns, the co.’s Austra-
lian interests now comprise 51,100 Zinc
Corporations, 571,844 Lake View and Stars,
169,036 Yuanmis, £20,940 of Zinc prefs.
and £8024 worth of Great: Fitzroy deben-
tures. Its most valuable holding outside
the Commonwealth is 100,000 £1 paid shares
in the Burma Corporation.
Broad Arrow (W.A.) still brightens. One
party crushed and dollied 38 tons from an
old lease the other day and got IOOOoz. out
of it. Another party obtained a 4oz. return,
and good stuff is being rooted out of several
other claims. Most of the recent finds have
been made around the dilapidated and almost
deserted township on ground walked over
for the past 20 years.
* * * *
After years of idleness Golden Spinifex,
beyond Laverton (W.A.), is again being
worked. At one time it was equipped with
a battery and produced a lot of 40s. ore.
Then something happened to the shoot and
the flag was half-masted. At present opera-
tions are being confined to prospecting the
bottom level (120 ft.), but if sufficient in-
ducement offers the shaft will be deepened.
So far, however, the reefs in the locality
don’t promise permanency.
* * * *
Mons Cupri, which owns a copper show
near Whim Well (W.A.) and has its office
in London, has started shipping ore to
Europe and claims to be getting rid of
“best selected” at from £l3B to £.141 per
ton. Anxious to take full advantage of the
prevailing high prices the Board is now
busy financing so as to work on a bigger
scale. The resurrection of Whim Well still
hangs fire.
■***■ *
Golden Ridge (W.A.) still lives. The
manager states in his latest half-yearly
report that there is enough ore in sight in
the portion of the show worked by the co.
to keep going a little longer, but as regards
that in the hands of tributors he is not
quite so sanguine. Cash assets and invest-
ments total about £13,000.
* * * *
Wallaroo and Moonta (S.A.) has been
raising 200,000 tons of crude ore a year; so
reserves are a matter of great importance.
A few months ago the co., anxious to in-
crease the reserves in the Moonta section,
started work on the old Karkarilla lode,
which is a quarter of a mile south of the
Moonta stopes, and 100 men are now
raising ore from there. The water has been
drained from the 400 ft. level, and a rise—
connecting: the 350 ft. with the 300 ft. level —
has been enlarged. At the deepest level a
width of 15ft. of ore value 2 p.c. has been
opened up. The deepest level at Wallaroo
is at 2910 ft., and the opening of a payable
run of ore at this depth, when a cross-
cut gets through, will be of great interest
and importance. At 2790 ft. driving is pro-
ceeding east and west on lode stuff worth 3
p.c. copper.
* * * *
Bodangora (N.S.W.) cleaned up a crush-
ing of 674 tons for £1777, and as monthly
yields have been on the down grade, Mel-
bourne took fright and shares slumped to
3s. There are really two mines—Dick’s
Reef, which has been feeding the mill; and
Mitchell’s Creek shaft, which is practically
a prospecting show. The Mitchell’s Creek
shaft was sunk to locate a shoot beyond the
old workings, ,and the prospecting has so far
been confined to the 55ft. and 100 ft. levels.
Driving has proved stone worth 60s. per
ton, and the prospect is certainly worth
sinking on. At present, reserves are low T
because the reef is narrow and crushing has
been continuous. Partly for that reason
divs. stopped suddenly. Tne co. couldn’t
keep them going and also pay off the small
balance due on the purchase.
* * * *
“Mainshaft” : The London shareholders of
the bungled Mount Oxide have no com-
plaints. Edmond Davis got 250,000 Oxides
for the flotation and in the conversion he
gets 45.000 Mount Elliotts paid to £5 and
now selling at 120 s. He also got Earle
Herman’s 46,000 at 4s. —on the conversion
now worth over £l. Australian share-
holders are to get 170,000 shares (free of
the £30.000 debt to Henry) representing
about 34,000 Elliotts at 120 s. But the Lon-
don crowd is still playing the game of
keeping Australians out of the market until
it cracks.
* * * *,
At Mt. Lyell’s flotation plant experiments
are now being made to find out whether low-
grade mineral oils will not do the job of
holding up the metallic particles as well as
the more expensive eucalyptus oils.


Under
Royal
W&rranl
bc
To H.M.
King
George V
CHAMPAGNE
tales Heifa
CHAMPACHE
OaitesHddsie*
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
vb
KoSie
ALLAN <&. CO.
FINE PIANO PIECES
YOU NEED.
Price 2-/. posted 2/1
Norwegian Cradle Song— -Morel
Meditation, - - Morel
A Resolve - - Kotlar
Question - - Kotlar
Contemplation - - Kotlar
Moorish Danse - Eugene Blore
ALLAN’S. 261 Collins St.. Mclb.
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET (EL CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1900.
FESQ <Sb CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
SINCE
1679.
SINCE 16/9.
HAIG » HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, December 4, 1916.
My Dear Arini. —
Skirts are creeping down, and the smart
grandmother is no longer ordering frocks of
the 12-year-old variety. If the shortening
had continued only ballet-length would have
satisfied the lady who wanted to be an inch
or two ahead of fashion. N’York is now
thundering its last word on the subject, and
trains on evening clothes —the sinuous, fish-
tail species—are fighting the girlie short-
frock to a finish. A ’Murkan correspondent
mentions the revival of the Empire gowns for
which Josephine ran up such colossal bills.
“Dripping tassels of crystals,” the latest
notion, suggest our Jenolan caves. Only
the sartorial drip is garlanded with wreaths
of tiny roses of the kind beloved of the
dressy Creole lady. Loose, begemmed girdles
are worn with the long evening frocks.
Old Francis Joseph has had a torchlight
funeral, and it is said that the bad-mannered
Kaiser refused to go because the proud old
Austrian Court wouldn’t allow him to lead
and take precedence of the new Emperor
Charles. Still if William wants to play lead
at a first-class funeral, why not have one of
his very own?
Have you noticed that things have been
different this last week? We’ve lost our
queen, that’s what’s the matter —Emma, the
last monarch of La Perouse. She was 75
or thereabouts, and was born on George’s
River. The Hill family took care of her in
her early days ; but after a four years’ trial
of civilisation she returned to the habits of
her tribe—her mother’s tribe, at least. She
wasn’t a pnre-blood. But Emma is not the
only queen that has handed over her crown
in the last week. The consort of King Lion
at the Zoo laid down and died in her
new palace. It’s a cold, bleak place, made
colder and bleaker since the Goths destroyed
most of the trees.
The trustees of the Art Gallery got a
bargain when they gave Florence Fuller 10
guineas (her own modest price) for a
beautiful canvas, “Departing Day# In the
foreground there’s a bold clump of trees as
close to Nature as paint can get. Florence
Rodway’s adorable pastel babies at the
Society of Artists’ show are varied by a
miniature of Mrs. Cyril Shepherd’s small
boy—on loan. And Florence has painted an
angle in her studio, with a friend inspecting
“the new teapot.”
The Art Gallery secured a delicate painted
fan by Mrs. Mofflin (she used to be Miss
Greaves), a fantasy of light-footed pelicans
and nymphs at play. Mildred Lovett, Maud
Russell and Bernice Edwell —Bernice with
some charming miniatures —and the original
Ruby Winckler are outstanding exhibitors
in pettis. Ruby is so original that her
black-and-white illustrations —a virile sec-
tion, including much fairy lore—are not for
sale. I suppose they’re part of the work
she has in hand for a : U.S.A. publisher.
Melba’s secretary, Freda Sternberg, a
young Australian journalist with no cobwebs
in the shapely head she carries on her well-
built shoulders, came over the Murray with
our Sovereign Voice. After waving adieu
to her liege lady when the Niagara cast off,
Freda had a look round our twilight city
for a few days. At present she’s in a half-
packed-up frame of mind. If Melba decides
to go on to ’Frisco from Honolulu she has
threatened to cable for her secretary to
come at once.
News comes that Dr. Isabel Ormiston, the
Sydney woman who has won a sheaf of war
decorations, has met her Fate. His name
hasn’t come my way, but he’s a surgeon-
colonel who has been doing tremendous work
in Servia and other trodden-on countries.
Isabel mentions his courage, and says “He’s
as brave as a lion!” She has been some-
thing of a lioness herself, and stuck to her
post in Belgium while the invaders rained
shells around the hospitals.
A former Deniliquin man, Captain Frank
Weir, of the Light Horse, chose a Man-
chester girl, Dorothy Isherwood, for his own
a while ago. The wedding took place at St.
Annes-on-Sea. The Australian’s parents
and a sister, Mrs. Brace, saw the cake cut.
Lieut. Stan Russell, of Beltrees, up in
the Scone sheep country, has wedded a
Baroness Blanche de Grandcourt in the
Fog. The lady with the decorative handle
is a step-daughter of Percy Burton, a Surrey
magnate—if that’s any help to you.
Still another Australian wedding overseas.
The groom was Lieut.-Colonel Walter Cass,
a son of the late Charles Cass, of Albury.
The bride was Helena Holmes, of Truro,
Nova Scotia, where the boom of bells gives
•
Australians a creepy feeling. John Lem-
mone says the fogbells of Halifax make
the most eerie sound he has ever heard. And
John, between his own pipings, has heard
queer music in the four corners of the earth.
Meanwhile, Australian Jemima is going
to see what she can do about it, and pro-
poses to marry her young man by proxy—
with the help of a sympathetic Minister for
Defence. This is home defence. If Jemima
sits still while her soldier is snapped up
every time by overseas damsels, what is she
going to do when Johnny comes marching
home with a lady and a pram? A few wise
maidens have set forth and made sure of
the hero 14,000 miles away. But, even
barring the submarine’s gambols, it costs a
few thousand tram fares to thus pursue the
darling.
I’ve been waiting for Mr. Wade to tell
the ladies who propose to make him a pre-
sentation to stop that nonsense. The com-
munity is combed with a comb of the finest
teeth for coin for charities and our in-
numerabL soldier and Red Cross funds; and
no call of the gratuitous type ought to be
made on us at present. It is not as
though the country has been unkind to
Charles Gregory. After only a year’s ser-
vice as a private member he became
Attorney-General; and ever since then—that
is, from 1904 till a month ago—he has had
either the best-salaried Ministerial job in
the country or the very comfortable allow-
ance which this State makes to the leader
of the Opposition. Incidentally his sup-
porters came along once with something like
£2500 extra.
Do you remember how Mr. Wade once
sat silent while Joseph Carruthers cruelly
offered him some unearned Mt. Kembla jam
on a long banqueting spoon? That ought
to have taught him a lesson. Apparently it
didn’t. People will begin to suspect pre-
sently that he is a rather greedy patriot.
A week or two ago Giorgio, a well-known
Italian teacher of singing in Sydney, pre-
dicted a brilliant career for his star pupil.
She was a young Queenslander, Ella McGold-
rick, of Toowoomba. Her voice was a lyric
soprano of silvery sweetness. “She had,”
says Giorgio sadly, “everything that helps
success : youth, health, temperament and—
you see in this little picture!—personal
charm. Besides the temperament that
makes a great opera singer, she had—what
you call it?—a great grasp of music. In
this scudio she could sit at the piano and
play, not part of an opera, I wish you to
understand, but all of it from memory. After
hearing ‘Tosca’ at the recent Gonsalez per-
formance she sat down there and played it to
me from beginning to end. Giuseppe, the
head of the company, said to me when he
heard Miss McGoldrick: ‘I did not think
any student here, so far from Europe, could
sing in opera as this young Australian
does!’ He listened to her again, and, like
tenor Cappelli, he said: ‘She will make a
great name, even in Italy.’ But we were
waiting till after the war, and now—alas!”
The Conservatorium, with every musical
society in Sydney, is sending its sympathy
to the bereaved parents. The brilliant girl
was out for the day with the friends she
was staying with during her musical studies
here. Going down the side of a cliff at
Manly she playfully tried to jump instead
of taking the hand held out to help her and
fell 50 feet. This spot has been the scene
of so many accidents that possibly now it
will be fenced off.
Verbrugghen’s fourth orchestral and choral
concert brought a big audience. Upstairs, in
the uncomfortable gallery, there was stand-
ing room only at the opening overture—a
heavyweight Bach composition, which showed
improvement among the fiddlers as the result
of intense rehearsing. Some, of the sopranos
in the chorus are rather thin, vocally; but
the afternoon’s effort was a fine tribute to
the little man in the conductor’s nen. In the
darkening, with rain falling on the toot,
Beethoven’s enormous symphony, lhe
Eroica,” was a big postscript.
“Charley’s Aunt” and the cause for which it
left its moth-balls packed the Palace Theatre
on Saturday afternoon. The Cremorne
branch of the Red Cross is now counting the
cash. There was a preliminary concert,
arranged by Philip Wilson; but it had to
fight against a leaden atmosphere. Bryce
Carter made his ’cello wail; Leslie Herford’s
specs flashed in the flicker of the kerosene
lights as he murmured his way through
“Prince Ivan’s Song” ; Iris de Rego pounded
conscientiously at an elongated “Rhapsody” ;
Landon Ronald supplied ballads, with the
plump Mrs. Allard in charge. Tenor Wilson
began his ditty with a mournful “When I am
Dying.” But “Charley’s Aunt,” by the North
Sydney Comedy Club, brought the dimples
back to the flapper’s pink cheeks.
The “Joan of Arc” committee is hanging
on to its date, December 16, for the matinee
of Mrs. Boult’s playlet, “The Buckle of His
Shoe.” It is to happen at the Criterion
Theatre, lights permitting, of course.
Cheques and promises are rolling in for the
cause—Christmas gifts for soldiers’ kiddies.
Arundel Orchard waved his baton over the
Madrigal Society’s singsong the other
evening. The voices put back the clock, and
in such early lyrics as “Flora Gave Me
Fairest Flowers,” took the audience off
to the days when Flora —in cross stitch —
appeared on drawing-room cushions leading
a lamb with a garland round its ears. . The
later-day “Death Croon,” to fit the times,
was again the most effective chant. It was
this lullaby to Death which Orchard’s voices
sang so cleverly at the Edith Cavell
memorial concert. So cleverly that it would
have been encored if a horrified “Hush!”
hadn’t stopped the applause.
The Wentworth Free Kindergarten got a
lift over the stile at an Eastwood f§te the
other day. Mrs. Justelius and Mrs. Wilkin-
son gave the lame pup the helping hand, and
the Cullen lady talked softly of the knicker-
bocker brigade. There was about £4O when
the last ha’penny was counted.
Out towards the Spit Junction the Twi-
light House shelters under the shoulder of a
hill that overlooks the blue of Middle
Harbor. To help the funds the Twilight
ladies sold sweets and fancy goods the other
fine afternoon. And they sold to such good
purpose that £5O fell into the treasury.
Little Mrs. Rouse, formerly of Bathurst,
was in charge of the refreshment tent, bor-
rowed from a local bowling-green.
After the curtain rang doiVn on “Martha,”
at Mosman, honorary-conductor Alf Nor-
man, who for 13 years had waved his baton
at the local musical society with such excel-
lent results, laid his bit of ebony away in
lavender. Next season he will view the
shows as a mere spectator in a front-row
stall. En passant, only son Tom is helping
to strafe the Hunemy somewhere on the long,
long Front.
Mrs. Ellis Rowan, who last week fled
through Sydney, pursued by friends and
interviewers, had a strenuous hunt for
jungle flora in Papua, where Governor
Murray gives the hospitable hand to artists
and writers. It’s a pity our own National
Gallery has no complete collection of Mrs.
Rowan’s inimitable work. The chance came,
and was missed, a few years ago. Yet
even dry-as-dust botanists revelled in the
technical accuracy of this brush-work. The
ant-like industry of the gifted Victorian
has now added the treasures of Papuan
forests, where butterflies are as large as
pigeons, to her store. Will our Art
trustees wipe their specs and arrange an
inspection?
John Lane Mullins went to Melbourne to
meet daughter Bessie on her sad home-com-
ing from England. She is the young widow
of the late Lieut.-Colonel Norris.
Vernon Lorimer, artist and soldier, has
just passed beyond the Great White Cloud.
Months as a stretcher-bearer on Gallipoli
sent him for a long term to an English hos-
nital, and he had hardly rebuckled on his
harness when a shell from the Hun-side
found him, with fatal results.
Colonel Burns, the shipping man, can send
no more sons to the Front. The married
Jim —he joined the Sydney shipping house
to that of James Mills, of the Union line —
left under a couple of stars recently.
Myrtle Meggy, the Sydney pianist who has
done exceptionally well in London, is on her
way back to Sydney. Miss Meggy has lost
two brothers at the Frbnt, so she is cutting
out everything else in order to rejoin her
bereaved parents.
Sybil Gordon, whose marriage with Pri-
vate Gordon Thomas is to take place early
in the New Year, left for England on Satur-
day, after the usual tea-parties.
Mrs. Joseph Bradley might well be proud
of her matinee musicale at the Queen V ic-
toria Club on Thursday afternoon. Mrs.
Verbrugghen sang several Highland songs—
refrains supplied by students from the Con-
servatorium with charming effect. She also
sang three Schumann songs, and Margaret
Edson contributed a couple of piano gems.
Gladys Rose Richardson, daughter of Mrs.
Kirkland, of Bullimba, WoollaJhra, was
married on Saturday to Res] ic Walter Cum-
mins. The ceremony was held at St. James’s,
and the bride was daintily gowned in a dress
of white Georgette, with long ninon train,
through which blushed the modish pink tint.
A Brussels net veil fell from a wreath of
orange blossoms. Her bridesmaid was Nellie
Kirkland, clad in pink with a black tulle
hat wreathed with pink roses. Stanley
Cummins was best man, and the reception
was at Baumann’s.
The return of a big lot of wounded on
Sundav set the band going on the Rose Hall
lawn, and “Advance Australia Fair” was
followed by the “Marseillaise.” _ As the Red
Cross cars came up the drive Y.A.D.’s
trooped out to greet the damaged Kanga-
roos. Downstairs the lady scullery-maids
were busy seeing to the dishing of the dinner.
The visitors are served from the Red Cross
kitchen in the city, and there’s a movement
to get quicker transit for the baked meats
that await the Sunday arrivals. Queens-
landers generally have at least one meal in
the Darlinghurst eyrie before going north.
The Women’s Handicrafts Society has
high hopes of. its show this week. It’s in
the Education inulberry-walled galleries in
Loftus-street.
Why “Ragged School” in a new land
where rags are not a habit? Each year we
get a reminder of this archaic brand of
academy when a local prize-giving is in
progress. Miss Dangar handed over the
rewards in the Campbell-street retreat last
week. But the public, which pays for free
State Schools, is cold. It doesn’t like the
parade of tatters as an incentive to charity.
A party from the Australian Historical
Society went to cobwebby old Windsor the
other day. They visited many spots of his-
toric interest, amongst them the old home
occupied by Cox when he undertook the task
of constructing a road over the Blue Moun-
tains, in 1814. Old Government House was
also looked into- —that is to say, what there
is left of it. When it was no longer the
home of Governors there was a school in
the old residence. The last teacher was ,J.
G. Young, now in the Education Department
of Westralia. Then it was cut up into two
or three small tenements, and, as it retained
the old name, it was quite common to see
letters addressed, say, “Mr. J. Smith, Gov-
ernment House, Windsor” —another example
of what can happen to a working man in
Australia. By the way, the local Post Office
has had for its postman a Tom Cambridge for
the past 81 years. The present Tom has
been carrying letters for well on to 31 years,
and he is still going strong. His father be-
fore him put in 26 years at the job, while
his grandfather did it for 24 years.
Presently we shall have the annual scrape
of fiddles and the hoary old speeches—they
always sound as if they’d been put away in
moth-balls over the winter—at the Christ-
mas breaking-up parties. Even hard-worked
battalion committees will close their rooms
for a week or two over the holidays. Miss
Dibbs, a daughter of Sydney’s fine old
banker Tom, goes to Maoriland for some
sight-seeing. She is as persistent a note-
writer as Woody Wilson, but her letters
bring cash to starving comforts funds. One
Note the other day produced over £lOO.
Talking of closing down, the coal strike hit
the Ash-street Red Cross pickle-factory in
an unexpected place. A glassbottle-academy
couldn’t go on, so the condiment-makers had
nowhere but the copper boiler for their stuff.
Hence at least a fortnight’s silence in the
place where the pickled onion is bottled.
Have you noticed the fly-away tulle hat-
brim with a waterlily bending low over one
side? It’s a counterblast in millinery to the
dreadful undertakery black hat with raven
tulle combed up in a high ridge all round,
like the mid-Victorian mute’s headgear.
That Cinderella amongst hospitals, the
Crown-street haven for women, is making
heavy weather of this war time. To relieve
its desperate need the Lone Pine band
will play around town at week-ends and
Nightingales will collect the coppers. Isn’t
it humiliating, this need to send out our
nurses to cadge for pence?
A recent plea from London on behalf of
Belgian babes is stirring up our suburbs.
There’s to be a hop at the Pacific (Manly)
on December 16. Hon. organiser Gwen Nel-
son remarks that a sit-down supper will
support the lads and lasses of the Village
after they’ve fox-trotted for our small allies
and paid a whole ss. to be allowed to do it.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
O
m
>5
m
M
im
u
T/-
W
*
m t
v:-:a-V.
*«5»
sm.
m
■M
m
ft
mm
Ml
Mm.
/(
w
s
r „/i
So*
cr .J
w
WM)
0
id &
s■&
Jr..
m
m
&r. t
WM.
su
8 y J
Wm
m
v M*
ass
mmm
M
&
S':N<
I
I
W&SSjS
$ k
/
h
1,1 r
■sV
m
fff
A
sg
■Mf ■: £
m
Ja
m
& r.
B*3 .
#4
V
wm
is M
m
m
m
Vw f u J m f
wßtif ttMm
n
V? 0
(T &
f Aksf i
/ I .? JV £ .-.4 & «
//;/■
¥ t
s
iVr •!
Wl
/'
i /■
//
ii
Cobra.” Boot PolisK.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Takes a rest from
Fighting, too.
When the German
Trench is won,
Chunder, dozing
In the sun,
Dreams of days when
War will be
J ust a glorious
Memory.
But the “COBRA”
Three will fight
Till the world is
“COBRA”—bright.


Farmer’s High-Grade
Tailoring, £5/5/- to £6/6/-
SAC SUITS TO ORDER FROM NEW SUITINGS
MANY OF THEM EXCLUSIVE SUIT LENGTHS
Grey Worsted Suitings. Small, neat patterns, in small
checks, in combinations of Black, White, and Grey, and Black
and Grey, will be noticed in these Suitings, and a few of the
ever-popular Herringbone Weaves.
Sac Suits to Order, £5/5/- to £6/6/-
Exclusive Suit Lengths consist of materials made on the
best looms from the finest-selected wools. Our stock comprises
a large range of carefully-selected fabrics, showing only one
Suit-length to each pattern. Colorings—principally Greys;
also Fawns, Browns and Dark Blues. Materials —Scotch Tweeds,
Grey Flannels, Scotch and Irish Tweeds.
Sac Suits to Order, £5/5/- to £6/6/-
Tailoring Department, First Floor, Market Street.
vcb
Pitt, Market
and
George Streets,
cvb
cv
VARICOSE VEINS,
WEAK LEGS AND JOINTS.
. THE VAROX SUPPORT is an En-
tirely New Method of dealing with Varicose
Veins and any Leg Weakness. Instant
Relief is obtained, together With Perfect
Ease and Comfort. •
bcv
It is a laced
appliance,
which gives
equality of
pressure at
every point,
and can be
regulated t o
the comfort of
wearer. It
always keeps in
position, can
be easily put
on and taken
off. Will last
for years.
#[RP
r*:
a&i
Catalogue and Measurement Form Posted
Free on Application.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Missing Friends.
A NYONE knowing the whereabouts of JOHN
KELLY PHILLIPS, of Victoria, who left that
State in June, 1910, for Queensland, and known to
be in Auckland, New Zealand, in February, 1911,
kindly communicate with BLAKE AND RIGGALL,
Solicitors, Melbourne.
bvc
bvc
bvc
b
vcb
vcb
Motor Tyre
Census
AT THE
Melbourne
Cuj).
By their number
you shall judge
their popularity.
The greatest collection
of Motor Cars in Aus-
tralia is to be found
annually assembled at
Flemington on Cup
Day. An inspection
and count revealed the
partiality of the Motoring public as regards
the particular make of tyre they favored.
The figures tell the “real story” as to
what tyre finds most favor with Australian
Motorists. Certainly it is not with
American tyres, as some of their importers
are anxious for the public to believe.
Australian-made Dunlop Tyres easily
hold their own, and they hold it
because of the full value received in
mileage, and despite the heavy handicap
they have been faced with owing to ces-
sation of imports of European chassis and
resultant increase in imports of American
cars shod with American tyres. Look at
the appended figures and judge for your-
self what tyre does give the best service
24 Makes of Tyres were
Represented.
3233 Covers were carefully
checked on Cars.
1589 were Australian-
made DUNLOPS
1644 Covers represented
23 other makes.
THE LEADING TALLIES WERE
DUNLOPS 1589 206 108
453 120 75
4OB 110 29
{By their popularity you
shall judge their value.
* * *
Obtainable in GROOVED, THREE
RIBBED and RUBBER NON-SKID
at all Leading Garages.
LIST ON APPLICATION.
H ir -k
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane
Perth, Launceston, Wellington and
Christchurch.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, December 4, 1916.
Mr Dear Yarrie, —
Lady Helen gave a party on Thursday
afternoon for the wives of sailors of our
fleet. Most of them are lonely women, far
from their own people. Some are Scotch
and English exiles who came to Australia
when their Jack Tars were appointed to the
Melbourne, Sydney and Australia. The poor
things had only just settled in this country
when their men were scattered over the
seven seas. The hostess wore a simple
foulard gown and a big shady petunia hat.
She spent most of her time acting as nurse
to baby-boys dressed chiefly as sailors. One
who had broken adrift from his mother was
a little white tow-head who yowled heartily
and tugged at Lady Helen’s hand until she
discovered his mother among a concert audi-
ence. Leslie Gaze, singing a love-song at the
time, was quite howled down.
The G.-G. stood about wearing a beaming
smile, and his secretary (Major Pearce) for
once did mere A.D.C. duties and handed tea
and buns like a headwaiter. Mrs. Pearce,
in soft dove grey, helped all she could. A
young khaki genthelp devoted himself to
entertaining the wives of the naval officers.
He seemed terrified of the fine young women
who were typical Pollies and Marthas. They
might have stepped straight out of a W.
W. Jacobs yarn. The Creswell dame was
in a cool and sensible muslin frock of black
and white. Captain Stephenson’s wife walked
with moonflowers in her hat, and Mrs. Dean
from Westralia, who has been visiting
Sydney, was in muslin. Lady Doris
Blackwood wore a washing-silk frock and
an air of great energy as she helped the
Mia Mia girls serve the ice-cream, which
made a State entry in a cart with a scarlet
awning, drawn on to a shady part of the
lawn by a donkey. The way the guests rose
and streaked out of doors toward this item
made the hearts of the entertainers rejoice.
There was the usual thunderstorm and
downpour of this disjointed season; but the
guests were gathered into the State drawing-
room in time and treated to jolly sailor
songs. Dorothea Low, a little vision in
simple white, gave some songs-at-the-piano.
She and tenor Leslie Gaze had the pro-
gramme to themselves, and they made the
audience rock with delight. The vice-regal
pair were delighted that all went so well,
because they have a Christmas tree in view.
The Camberwell Convalescent Home for
Soldiers (it is a lovely old home that perches
on the Balwyn heights and looks towards
Macedon) is having a first annual meeting
and tea-party on Saturday. The Camber-
wellians feed the place on their own bank
accounts, and as many as possible will turn
up to applaud and listen to Dr. It. R. Stawell
talk about Sawbones at the Front.
Britomarte James, the warrior-like wife
of Major James, lately wrote at sea a book-
let called “A Voyage to England in War
Time.” The green-and-gold trifle was printed
and published on board a liner by “F. Cash,”
and the issue was sold for more of it to
benefit the patriotic funds.
The Austral Salonettes studied up their
Shakspeare and then invited the Allan
Wilkie players to tea last Wednesday. Mrs.
Secretary Quinnell, in a wide-spreading white
summer gown, took the platform and cooed
a welcoming speech full of carefully-selected
phrases. She then bowed some red roses
and rosemary into the hands of Miss Hunter-
Watts. Mrs. Wilkie (she’s the lady with
the hyphen) wore a pale face, luminous
eyes, a petunia-pansy hat and dove-grey gar-
ments. Arrayed in all these, she murmured
a musical reply. Then Allan, who looks like
a portrait of Bobbie Burns, spoke long and
forcibly. It seems that they have found the
Melbourne intellectual atmosphere so suit-
able for the culture of the Shakspearian
germ that they propose to found the modest
beginnings of a Shaky school. A lot of
nice young things with pretty little voices
took turns on the platform, and everybody
consumed something and stewed politely.
The chief theatrical interest of Saturday
was in the first production of “Damaged
Goods.” Doctors and their wives and the
clergy and their wives had viewed the thing
at an invitation matin6e, and leading
actresses of other shows turned up and
sniffed. At the end of the second act Mrs.
Weyman was in a state of collapse, Florrie
Young was openly sniffling and Ethel Cad-
man was dropping large tears. Really the
playgoer who goes to the theatre only to
be amused has a perfect right to stay away
from this sermon. On Saturday night the
Gaud Mayor and his lady boxed in splen-
dor. The Falkiners packed into a stage
box, and the McArthurs were in a lofty
pen. Lesley Madden sat in the very front
row of the stalls with green beads in her
black hair. Mrs. Glenloth Peter, in white
and gold, was with Mrs. Sternberg in a lace
frock and a horrified stare. A managerial
announcer fronted the curtain before the
start and declared that not one phrase in
the whole play could offend any hearer. But
he was an incurable optimist. The flappers
looked disappointed at first, but the dear
little things got the shocks they had come
for as the play developed. “How could men
be so wicked!” was the children’s chorus
sung by one bluebowed group. One acidu-
lated spinster of ripe years and haughty
lineage spoke her mind aloud in the stalls
entrance. “It makes me boil!” she snapped.
“Men are so wicked and We are the ones
to suffer!” Then everybody talked as loudly
as possible. The young, agitated wife of a
medico confided in a stage-whisper to her
companion that her husband “had seen six
caseg in his consulting-room that very day.”
A scared young matron whose boy is at col-
lege declared that she would “motor down
and fetch him home in the morning.” I
understand that he is to be kept in a crate
for the rest of his life.
There was a crowded house for “Mrs.
Gorringe’s Necklace.” John Madden and
his convalesced dame were in the balcony,
and the Cream of Hawthorn (with some of
the Butter and Eggs) rolled up in motors,
best frocks and ham-frills. A seasoning
of haughty Toorakese was present; they
could be picked out by their smart but
haggard look. The never-ending rush for
free entertainment fines them down. The
female committee fretted the nerves of the
■men performers, but the financial result was
good ; so it doesn’t matter who is offended
and who isn’t.
Allie Robson, as the shallow and frivol-
ous Mrs. Gorringe, passed the amateur limit
in a frock built of poster stripes in black and
white Mrs. Alfred Cornish, another super-
amatuah, was a severe Mrs. Jardine in a
prim petunia foulard house dress. Dainty
little Mardi Dillon stuck happily to the plain
white muslin of a blameless dressmaker, and
made a bread-and-butter Isabel Kirke.
On the lawn on Cup Day I stood near a
girl whose escort had put something on
Shepherd King on her behalf. She did not
at all like the idea of throwing away her
betting-ticket after the race, professing to
disbelieve her boy’s assurance that it was
now of no value. “Won’t it do for some other
time?” she chirped prettily. Her innocence
matched her dress perfectly!
Secretary Victor Hood departed last week
for a holiday in India as the guest of his old
chief Carmichael, now Governor of Bengal,
where the tigers come from. He will be
away until February or March, and mean-
time Captain Conant will do conjuring tricks
with the vice-regal stationery.
Adelaide’s epistle from the Holy City:—
The Red Cross Tea Garden on the Verco Building
roof was exposed by Lady Galway on Wednesday in
the presence of so many Pekoe hunters that it is a
wonder the lift did not go on strike. The garden
is to be open on Wednesdays only, but as the Red
Cross shop at Broken Hill, doing business one
day a week, yielded a profit of £685 in six months,
we’re expecting to do very well, thank you.
The Gawler races (which were not at Gawler at
all, but at Morphettville), a Red Cross entertain-
ment at Walkerville, a CafS Chantant at
the Cheer-Up Hut, and a garden fete at
Mitcham for the Eugene Alderman Memorial
Fund, provided our Saturday’s dissipations.
For the Walkerville entertainment Mrs. W. F. Stock
was mainly responsible. The Mitcham fete was in
Mr. W. H. Uffindell’s garden, the attractions of
which were added to by really good programmes
arranged by Miss Lloyd Thomas and Harold Parsons.
Lady Galway was at this show. From the first she
has taken a keen interest in the scheme to estab-
lish a memorial to the gentle musician who did so
much patriotic work.
N. W. Stirling, youngest brother of Professor
E.C., lost his life recently while serving with Botha
at Dares-Salaam, in German East Africa. He was
born in this State in ’6l, and was educated at Chel-
tenham, England. Subsequently he settled in South
Africa. His widow and three daughters are living
in England. About a week before the news of his
death arrived, his niece, the younger daughter of the
Strathalbyn Stirlings, was married to Lieut. H. S.
Prockter, eldest son of the late J. S. Prockter, of
Glenelg.
Chief Secretary Styles unveiled a police roll of
honor on Wednesday to the 37 members of the Force
with the A.LF. The day before the Governor did
the same for Christian Brothers’ College, which has
contributed nearly 400 of its old boys, among them
W. J. Denny, who set an example which his fellow
members of Parliament haven’t shown any wild
desire to emulate.
Died in England a few weeks ago, Mrs. Purey-
Cust, second daughter of Sir William Jervois, who
was Governor of S. Aus. from ’77 till ’B3. Her
husband was a son of the Dean of York, and himself
a cleric. Some time ago she had influenza, and the
shock of a Zeppelin raid brought on heart failure,
from which she died.
The Returned Soldiers’ Association has enrolled
over 1000 members in the first year of its existence,
and is now to have offices and club-rooms in Hindley-
street. Its first secretary, E. G. Fairbairn, has re-
enlisted, and has been succeeded by A. E. Tait.
Senior-Chaplain McPhee is now president , vice W. J.
Sowden, who only took the job till a suitable re-
turned man could be secured.
Our Clara Serena is to sing at the Melbourne Phil.
Society’s performances of “The Messiah” in Decem-
ber.
The Sturt statue will soon be ready for unveiling
in Victoria Square ; the pedestal, at any rate, will be
finished and in its place before Christmas. Our next
is to be a stone to Flinders.
The youngest son of the late Theodore Bruce, who
is with the R.F.C., met with a bad accident in
October, two days before he was due to leave for
France. He had taken his ’plane up 400 ft. before
he found that his control wires would not act. Re-
sult, machine smashed and occupier laid out with
bad concussion. However, he is on his way to
recovery at Forest Park Hospital. He is a St. Peter s
boy, and is still on the happy side of 20.
Captain J. M. Donaldson, of the King’s Royal
Rifles, who has won his Military Cross, is the son of
the late Alexander Donaldson, of Donaldson, Andrews
and Co. Major L. W. Jeffries, of the A.M.C., who
has the D.S.O. to his credit, is an old P.A.C. College
boy and a son of the Rev. W. Jeffries. He was
wounded at Gallipoli, but was back in the firing-line
in 12 days. He got his medal for “devotion to
duty” at Moquet Farm, where he went to the front
line and tended the wounded under heavy fire.
Captain Blackburn, V.C., who arrived with the last
batch of wounded, is to be lunched by the St. Peter s
Old Collegians’ Association on Monday, with Chief
Justice Murray at the head of the table. Another
S. Australian to win distinction is Lieut. Lance
Rhodes. His decoration was also won at Moquet
Farm.
Last month Mrs. J. H. Luxmoore, a lady who for
nearly 50 years of her married life has carried sun-
shine about with her at Brighton, died. Last week
the body of her devoted husband was found on the
sea-beach near their old home.
Dr. Marshall, of Scots’ Church, is a
proud man the day. Young Norman
Marshall, who won the M.C. on Gallipoli
and was last heard of as a lieutenant, is
now two steps higher up—a major. He was
at the Landing, with the sth Battalion; and
afterwards, transferred to France, he helped
to push things along at Pozieres. Before
the war he used to kick a ball for South
Yarra, whose team he captained, pull an oar
for Banks, and put the gloves on for any-
body. In his spare moments he sub-managed
the Australian Paper Mills.
Yes, we will have our own way. You
remember the motto of the age-stricken and
featherless cocky at Tom Ugly’s Point (now,
alas, no more) —“So help me, I’ll fly !” Even
as his was the soaring ambition of Mrs. H.
Clive Daniels, of Port Augusta (S.A.), who,
after five unsuccessful attempts, has at last
experienced the joys of flight. Not content
with her reputation as an overland motor-
ist, she determined to tackle the central
blue; but luck was long against her. Six
years ago she had arranged to take passage
with Hammond, but weather forbade. Three
years later she was within an ace of being
taken up by Harry Hawker in his exhibition
flight on the Caulfield racecourse, but the
crowd so hampered the aviator that he had
to go without his passenger. Successive bar-
gains with Eric Harrison, Guillaux and
Stone fell through in turn ; but now at last,
after journeying from Port Augusta to Bal-
larat, she has taken wing with E. Prosser,
of the Ballarat Flying School, in a half-
hour’s flight at Bacchus Marsh.
Dr. Rupert Hornabrook, who for years
prior to the unleashing of the Hun had been
practising in the fragrant neighborhood of
State Government House, was given 24
hours in which to make his will, pack his
pyjamas, insure his toothbrush and leap
aboard H.M.A.S. Australia just before that
well-censored ship left for parts well known
—well known to all sorts of people, but never
to be mentioned in print. He spent over a
year Hun-hunting on the high seas. Now
he is off again, this time bound for France
with the A.A.M.C. Major Hornabrook’s
chief casualty so far has been the loss of his
moustache. The rule of the navy is: Either
a bare face or a full set of whiskers. So
the bare face had it, and the habit has per-
sisted ever since. Mrs. Rupert used to be
a Sargood—a daughter of the late Defence
Minister Frederick Sargood, for whose im-
porting business the British navy did so
much.
Miss Sydney Innes Noad, fourth daughter
of the I.N. house of Sydney and grand-
daughter of our ancient Howard Smith, is
engaged to Lieut. Charles Gough Howell,
who was badly wounded at Loos and later
convalesced with the Innes Noad ladies at
Torquay. Miss Sydney hadn’t made up her
mind, at the time of writing, whether to
have the orange-blossoming this side of
Christmas or put it off till April. India
may be her future home.
The younger of the Wesley Hall heiresses
is now Mrs. Bridge. She was married a
month ago to her soldier at St. Martin’s-in-
the-Fields, Trafalgar- Squa-ah. London. Cap-
tain Bridge is the only son of Brig.-General
Sir Charles Bridge, of Ballinaboye, Reading,
England. The bride is the daughter of the
late Wesley Hall, an early Mt. Morganaire.
Her stepmother, who is also her aunt, has
been living for some time in Belgrave
Square, where the butlers rage together.
Austral Hat Mills Kozminsky is feeling
quite patriarchal. Young daughter Elsie,
who is the wife of Dr. Jona, has made him
the grandfather of tw 7 ins while yet her first-
born is cooing in the cot. Kozminsky will
have to alter his smart little Vandyk to a
patriarch’s Niagara beard.
H. F. C. Keats, of Tolhurst, Keats and
Gumming, dropped in the Australian Club
with a paralytic stroke last week. He lin-
gered for four days, died at Toorak last
Tuesday, and the Exchange adjourned for
the funeral. One lieutenant-son was killed
in action some time ago. Another, a captain,
is still fighting in France —he won the
Military Cross at Thiepval.
Stella Power had a great concert at the
Auditorium on Saturday night. As we all
have web-feet now, the citizens came out in
the splashing rain and filled the big hall.
Stella was dignified and sedate in spreading
skirts of ivory glacg with a net fichu above.
She has thick dark hair, quiet grey eyes and
a smooth, creamy skin. She sings as natu-
rally as a bird and trills delicately with bell-
like clearness. Melba hugs herself with
delight when Stella pipes up. “She will be
Great!” says the Woman Who Knows. The
young star of to-morrow is still training
hard ; but she has the stout heart of the real
worker, and needs it, for she has to battle
for practising-time.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


BLACK
WHITE
«#
A lovely one
A
r/
n*i
/
‘£ y> i'^x
SQfep
SSk
xv£
O
m
u i
I
'4> l >' ;
m
K
mMMMmm.
Mm
mm
srm
~s _„ - scorcn v/HB« UwSff
BiAcrawiitf&j
«*<C*DU>9C<rW *W* Lfty .;Ci<f,
KMM£«3ft E&ld
1 fttSk-wr?V -£-. •> Jt/'-i&.V,% 4• J
V'£~r<V
fate
BS
i#®
iSr-! Si'u.iz.y-
**#*.
P
IPS&.&’
.it’
IMPS
* - VT #-. W.U V.f'S vV !W/A?\Vi
‘4fe»^ :
i-^ScILt.-#^
’ / i
*»• V*'*; .•>:?-. J
t&shstf.
p'tr' : 3^' V
is‘ jsra
Ess*
K«
3?*#
&
■rfm*
%
2S
2
“l' v L^.- 1
ai~-v&» •: c <: /- Iff >
•" 'i> A V ;; *■•'•'**£■ .j) ;*••♦ J .-i'..-\.w **7 -i.
ZY/?*
J ,y/cSToH %
vb


m)
«r
Ht
Shampoo Sachets
For cleansing and beautifying the hair. The
only wet snampoo that helps the hair to grow.
British made.
3d. packet everywhere.
Icilma is pronounced Eye-Silma.
A. 5.6.
i. C. GAMBLES & CO., Agents, 11 Commerce House, Melbourne.
Sb
bovril
increases the defensive forces of the body.
To keep lit drink Bovril.
BRITISH TO THE BACKBONE.
it
o
The TOP'NOTCH "Scotch
Say WHEN
manll
n
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
Beentus”: Give me room to cheer the
Australian Outback girl. Drover Stuart has been
delivering mobs of fats for the Adelaide market for
years past with no other assistance than that of his
daughters. They are the equals of any male stock-
man, either on the road or in camp, and no horse
is too wild and no country too rough to stop them.
They ride astride, using the ordinary divided skirt,
and average 10 or 12 hours a day in the saddle most
of the year. They are well-educated girls, who could
comport themselves with grace and dignity in any
society. Of that type are the mothers of the
Anzacs.
* * * *
“Mann Maori”: Here and there the hotuku,
the rare white heron of Maori poetry, is still to
be found on the wet West Coast of M.L. It is
reported that a solitary specimen is seen at West
Wanganui, near Collingwood, in the Nelson country.
When I was last down Okarito Beach way, a
hundred miles south of Hokitika, the rain-bleached
habitants of that mossy and mildewed old
mining settlement were as proud as Punch of
their pet kotuku. The bird used to sail over
the shingle-roofed pub—the last of 35 that once
made things hum at Okarito—at 10.32 a.m.
by the stop-watch every day and set-to at
his fishing in a pool at the back of the dram-
house. I believe the population would have slain
and eaten any “sport” who drew bead on the beauti-
ful bird. There was then a little colony of leotuku
somewhere deep in the flax of the Okarito lagoon,
but this was the only specimen that made free with
the gum-booted and oil-skinned beach men.
Leo Lear”; “Frank S.” mentions (B.
2/11/’l6) the drying up of lakes Terang and liie-
lambete, in Western Victoria. The process seems
pretty general from Geelong right through to Mount
Gambier (S.A.). This stretch of country forms one
of the chief extinct volcanic areas of Australia, and
the disappearance of surface moisture can be put
down to volcanic action. About 1897 the locality
underwent an earth tremor that wobbled the land-
scape about in a decidedly unpleasant manner, and
many large swamps on the South Aus. border went
out of business. A few years later a marine dis-
turbance off Warrnambool shook the district up
afresh, and I know many swamps and watercourses
that have not held liquid since. Evidently a former
impervious strata has been cracked down below, and
the water now goes home per the underground.
Again, Government and private owners delight in
lunning surface water off into the sea, presumably
to deprive all insect-destroying water-birds, such as
ibis, of their homes. No wonder the district is
drying up. Two years ago Lake Condah was given
a free passage to the ocean, and now some cranks
aie agitating to drain Victoria’s largest lake, Coran-
gamite. If it goes on like this we’ll be living on
beer down in these parts about the year 1960.
* * * *
Musketoon”: I want to make an entry
for the long-living-without-moisture competition.
Two and a half years ago J. H. Noakes, a shire
councillor at Forbes (N.S.W.), brought a sample of
prickly-pear to the council’s office. It was just a
thick green leaf, and had been found growing some-
where in the district. The shire clerk placed the leaf
on a desk high up, where not a spot of moisture
could get at it. At the end of 12 months two long
green tendrils emerged. At the end of two years the
pear-leaf was still fresh and going well. Then the
office-assistant planked a book on it, and the ex-
periment ended.
“Pick”: In what hitherto unheard of
region of Australia has “Bushman” (B. 9/11/’l6)
discovered “miles of dead forest, the result of ravages
by the so-called harmless koala” ? On the Nerrimunga
and Shoalhaven (N.S.W.) country, before the pelt-
hunters wiped the bear off the landscape, there were
more of Norman Lindsay’s friends to the acre than
there were to the square mile in any other locality
Ive ever heard of. Trees favored by them were in those
rough hills constantly decorated with a bear or two
to every bianch, and by its scantily leaved and greasy
appearance a bear tree could be readily picked out
at any distance by the hunter. Yet the trees never
died from the incessant trimming, and the same vege-
tables flourish still,- though their former grey-coated
denizens have long since become extinct.
* * * *
“Pick”: The South Coast (N.S.W.) cow-
worshipper gets rid of the bracken fern nuisance for
nothing, and incidentally makes a bit out of. his
clearing gangs. His plan is to surround the bracken
fields with pig-proof fencing, and then turn a
mob of rooters in to do the rest. Where the
enclosed area isn’t too large and the snouts em-
ployed are sufficiently numerous, the ferns are
eradicated to the furthermost root in a few weeks,
and the soil is so pulverised in the process that a
crop of maize may be planted immediately, without
any ploughing. The Fernrooters’ Union never calls
its members out, and the contract goes on section
after section until the whole of Cocky’s land is
under fodder for the divinity.
AT OUR LOCAL BRIDLE RACES.
T HE MADDENING S MALL BOY ( to Operate rider of the very last horse) : “Hurry up,
blokie. Don't yer want to know what horse won the race?"
WELL RECOMMENDED.
THE MISSUS AT THE HOMESTEAD: “Oh, but I want a woman who can cook and dean
up the house!"
JACKY : “You takeit Mary, Missus. She cookit gohanner an' 'possum fine —cleanit 'ouse
up inside out, my word! You takeit Mary, you gibbit me five shillin' a week."
“Beeritus” : In ’B6, at Silverton (N.S.W.),
in De Baun’s pub, two prospectors made some his-
tory. They had just floated a show out Apollyon
Valley way and to celebrate the luck invited the
multitude to come and stop one. It was done in
champagne, and several barmen were kept going
until the supply ran out. The fizz was poured into
buckets, from which it was dipped by thirsty souls
with pintpots, “butchers” and every other drinking
utensil that was handy. Morgan D’Arcy and Reg
Pell acted as extra barmen for the occasion. Inci-
dentally, the mine never produced enough ore to
pay for the birthday. The biggest “shout” I have
personal knowledge of next to this happened at
Cockburn, on the N.S.W.-S.A. border. An alleged
nephew of an English earl was rusticating there,
and one night he set ’em up. The bill ran into
£37, but as Lord Harry disappeared a day or two
afterwards without settling, perhaps this shout will
be barred from the competition as not being genuine.
* * * *
Bad Australian”; He Bolivian booze
poured by “Enzedder” into a recent Bulletin.
Boiled maize is not favored. When the Bolivian
(Indian) finds himself hard up against it he con-
tents himself with his quid of coca leaf and a poor
kind of “stringybark” made from maize; but as
long as the algarroba tree bears beans (which is
nearly all the time) and the chanar is loaded with
its little acrid plums (which is mostly) he always
has a chicha with an aroma like the Saltwater River
on a summer afternoon and a bite like the Original
Serpent. “Chicha de algarroba” is all right, after
you get the first pint down. Then you don’t seem
to notice anything except the one great outstanding
fact that you are the elected candidate, no matter
who has been nominated. Incidentally, “chicha de
algarroba” is regarded as a sovereign remedy for
lung trouble, and an old Indian pal of mine named
Niquisanga told me that he once carved up the
innards of a dear and well-beloved enemy of his
who had been in the habit of going on glorious
and protracted “algarroba” jags and that the autopsy
showed that Hualihan had five lungs. Niq. blamed
the algarroba, though it seems to me it couldn’t be
like that somehow. But a Peruvian or Bolivian
cannot live on coca or chicha alone, although at
times he comes perilously close to it. So when he
gets hold of a few “soles” or “bolivianos” he fills
up joyously on “cana,” “pisco,” crude alcohol
(methylated or otherwise), “salsa Inglesa” (Wor-
cester), “whikkie” (Scotch or rye) and a kind of
pinky made from “quibracho” juice, tartaric acid
and sugar or honey. When the last stage is
reached he joins the ladies, and for further details
please consult Pizarro’s “Present State of the Ancient
Peruvians.”
“W.T.R.”: This is how it was done.
Bronco Smith, blocked by the flooded Diamantina,
running 300 yards wide, wanted to get tucker across
from a party on the other bank. Nobody was game
to try to swim over and there was no boat. We
had a cattle bitch that seemed interested in a black-
boy s attempts to throw a boomerang across with
a light cord attached. The attempts failed, but the
cord and the dog gave Bronco an idea. He tied
FIRST AID.
VOICE: “Is the doctor in?”
THE NEW MAID: “No, ’e ain't!”
VOICE: “Will you give him a message,
please? Tell him that Mrs. Dun-Brown
has a Belgian gymkhana coming on
and wants to know if he can do any-
th ing to help.”
THE NEW MAID: “Ah, dearie, have ye now?
Ye can’t do wrong with a tread poul-
tice, and I’ll tell ' im when 'e comes in!”
the one .to the other’s collar and introduced the
combination to the water. The little one got across
on the third try. Easy business after that. We
sent a stronger line over on the twine, then rigged
a wire flying-fox. Bronco was offered a “spin-
naker” for the bitch, but he said that he would
sooner sell his auxiliary grandmother.
(Continued on page 24 .)
BY MURRAY BRIDGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is a bend by Murray Bridge
The willow boughs lean over ;
The river runs twixt limestone’ridge
And squares of wheat and clover ;
Oh there, where on the river’s breast
The swallows flaunt their daring,
Beneath the willows I could rest
And let Life pass uncaring.
The warm suns through the willow-leaves
Gold webs are ever weaving;
Among the fragrant lucerne sheaves
The singing bees are thieving';
And though the trains might thunder by,
They’d never break my swooning,
I’d only hear a lullaby—
The kind old Murray crooning.
S. AUSTRALIA.
ERNEST CASEY.


DAVID JONES’
RELIABLE BOOTS
at Moderate Prices.
•a
\o
\G
Box Calf Boots,
18/6 Pair.
In black only, very soft and
pliable, medium welted soles,
round toes. In all men’s sizes.
18/6 pair.
Box Calf Boots,
21/- Pair.
In black or tan, heavy welted
soles, medium and full round
toes; three fittings to every
size. 21/- pair.
Box Calf Boots,
21/- Pair.
In black and tan, both Derby
and Balmoral shapes, medium
round toes, welted soles; two
fittings to each size. 21/- pair.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
Opp.
G.P.0.,
SYDNEY
Look Your Best at Xmas in a
LEVIATHAN Sait
At Xmas time a man generally likes
to wear a Suit that will enable him
to impart an impression of good taste
and refinement. YOU will certainly be
pleased with your appearance if you have
your clothes made by us. A Leviathan-
Tailored Suit possesses unmistakable smart-
ness and a superior goodness which cannot
be forgotten.
The time to order is NOW. Xmas is
but a few weeks ahead, and you have yet to
choose your pattern—and we have yet to
tailor your Suit. Ask to-day for free pat-
terns of New
Xmas Suitings
at 63/- to 126|-
together with Tape, Home-Measure-
ment Chart, and our new Illustrated
Catalog.
STRAW BOATERS
and PANAMAS.
The new, smart, Summery styles in
Woodrow’s, Tress’ and the best Aus-
tralian makes are here in profusion.
Our Boaters are fitted with the famous
“Ivy Grip” attachment, which makes
them conform quickly to the shape of
any head. They are perfectly venti-
lated, light and cool. Best Australian
makes. 6/6.
Also in a better quality, 7/6.
PANAMAS. —Best Jap make,
extra light weight, brims.
SPECIAL VALUE, 8/6.
In Finer Qualities, 10/6, 12/6.
White Bleach Toyo Panamas,
with 22-inch brims, 15/6, 17/6, 21/-,
25/-
Real Native Panamas, made in
South America, can be folded without
crushing, 25/-, 27/6, 30/-, 33/-
ORDER BY POST. WE PAY CARRIAGE.
■
tr W
: *»•/
Cl
I
T*t
EVI ATMAN
Corner Swanston &, BourKe Streets, MELBOURNE
YOU CAN INSTALL THIS TWO-STAND PLANT
of Cooper New Improved Shearing Machines,
complete with Engine and everything, as shown, for only
bvc
THE MACHINES possess improvements
and exclusive features that place them
head and shoulders over any other type
on the market. They are exactly the
same as recently installed by The New
Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency
Co., Ltd., in their sheds at Melbourne;
the same that Messrs. Rooney and Co.
have placed in their big shearing depot
at Stamford, Queensland. They are
silent-running, positive in action, and
very easy to erect and care for.
THE HANDPIECES are unconditionally
warranted to give satisfaction. Cooper
Handpieces shore over 70,000 sheep
last year at Buttabone, after being
installed 10 years, at a cost of less than
5/- each.
THE ENGINE is our well-known Cooper
2-brake horse-power, with High Tension
Magneto and the very best construction
throughout.
GRINDER, Belting, Pulley, Sundries.
Tools, and everything necessary to
shear are included, and the price as
shown
Complete is £63.
LARGER PLANTS AT SAME
FAIR PRICE.
- r
ifsjj
Site!
1
HI
|»
©
r * _
mm
silt
v.<
j$ *' Vv^f' !
SS
JT
WV
*'* &
- -
■rr^
vl
Bssa*gfts
SB?
i -
1 ’' ■ ■
’•Km
. - «
r'OOPER ENGINEERING CO. LIMITED,
134 Sussex st>> Sydney. 480 Collins St.. Melbourne. Hughenden, Queensland.


vuvwvaavd \
a xl U.IOQ3W
iteWlloo33SNll
SUIDO3W
FARMERS!
Feed your
MILKERS,
CALVES,
PIGS,
HORSES,
POULTRY,
on one ration per
day of
MEGGITTS
Linseed Oil
Meal.
Full particulars write
MeggittLtd.
Parramatta,
New South Wales.
SPLENDID REMEDY FOR
CHILDREN’S COUGHS.
Mothers all over Australia are making in
their own homes as good a i-emedy as money
can buy for Coughs, Colds, Whooping Cough
Croup, Influenza, Bronchitis and Sore
Throats. All they do is buy from their
chemist or store 2s. worth of Hean’s Essence,
and add to it water and sweetening matter
enough to make up to one pint. Such a
quantity of ready-made cough mixtures
would cost at least 12s. The beauty of the
Hean’s Essence mixture is that it contains
no paregoric, laudanum or other opium
drugs, which are apt to do untold harm to
young children.— Advt.
b
Do You Suffer from CATARRH ?
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
will cure Catarrh, Hay Fever, Bronchitis,
Influenza, Catarrhal Deafness, etc.
Price, with Complete Treatment, only
10/-. Post Free.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
■nv abb. 49b Elizabeth St., Melbourne. [2
“The connoisseur is one who knows. The dilet-
tante is one who thinks he knows.” Try MartelTs
and you’ll become a connoisseur; you will know then
what the best is; and will know you know. When
it comes to ordering brandy again" you will specify
MARTELL’S BRANDY,
and thus enjoy the luxury of flavor, the mental and
physical tonic, that Martell’s ensures. Never travel
without some Martell’s. It is
THE BRANDY OF UNBEATEN QUALITY. [2
How I Darkened My
Grey Hair.
Lady Gives Simple Home Recipe That
She Used to Darken Her Grey Hair.
For years I tried to restore my grey hair
to its natural color with the prepared dyes
and stains, but none of them gave satisfac-
tion and they were all expensive. I finally
came across a simple recipe which I mixed
at home that gives wonderful results. I
gave the recipe, which is as follows, to a
number of my friends, and they are all
delighted with it. To 7oz. of water add a
small box of Orlex Compound and loz. of
bay rum. These ingredients can be bought
at any chemist’s at very little cost. Use
every other day until the hair becomes the
required shade. It will not only darken
the grey hair but removes dandruff and acts
as a tonic to the hair. It is not sticky or
the scalp—Advt, [5
Martin’s Pills are sold by W. H. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
.Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
CHRISTIE’S
3P£OAUS£
TWO
,/,/A/SS
S
I#
flB
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE
/>nd
PATTERNS
TO
CHRISTIES
.ii,, STRAND
«st
* « m
mm
3
520 GEORG E ST'SYDNEY5 T '5YDNEY
Zr'/iONTER NEWCASTLE
“N. or M.” : Tell “Jan Tas” (B. 2/11/T6),
wlio wants to know if anyone has heard of the
medicinal properties of the bracken fern, that there
is a nebulous idea afloat that it formed the basis
of Underwood’s lost cure for snake-bite. He always
declared that his antidote was made from a plant
that grew very plentifully. There is nothing very
definite about this, but a bush friend who is keen
on natural history assures me that she once saw a
fight between a snake and a blue-tongued lizard—
the sort of lizard we Tasmanians call a gohanna.
Blue-tongue was bitten more than once, but he
polished off the enemy and then ran to the bracken
Patch, where he chewed some of the fronds and
slavered them over his wounds, apparently with good
effect.
“N. or M.” : If any of you are becoming
tired of sea elephant or weka diet try native hen,
the limber-legged fowl that scoots about the Tas-
manian marshes making noises like a saw being
sharpened. Cut the flesh into pieces and boil in
a billy with pepper, salt and a little bacon. The
meat is reddish, like hare, when it goes into the
pot, but when cooked it is as white as chicken and
the flavor is as fine.
* * * *
“Te Babarantiko”: Blackbirding may be
unfashionable in Papua (B. 9/11/’l6), but in Ger-
man New Guinea it was until four or five months
ago a respected and profitable industry. Up there
it was called “pulling boys.’’ The “puller” rounded
up the village population, and under the rifles “ad-
vised” likely-looking men to step into the boats—and
they stepped, too, without palaver. At Lindenhafen I
had, among 227 laborers, 49 German New Guinea
boys thus recruited, all of them anxious to return
home. The cargo was delivered during the darkness
of night, and the schooner cleared out before day-
light. The recruiter’s haste became less of a mystery
when daylight showed four of the recruits td be
not uncomely “Marys.” The “puller” was captured
by an expedition during my regime, and was jumped
upon—lightly.
* * * #
“Barcoo”: Recently coming in to Clon-
curry (N.Q.) I stood off and admired three strings of
\lB horses hitched to a 10-ton load; and then the
54 failed to shift the cargo. An additional 12 were
yoked in, and the traces and draw-rods began
to snap like pipe-stems. The load had to be re-
duced before the team made a fresh dash to pull the
bog out by the roots. The greatest number of oxen
that I have counted in front of a waggon was two lots
of 26, hauling 10 tons of wool'out of Oakwood station,
S.W. Queensland. The double-banking was necessary
owing to bogs. There were two waggons, one at a
time being taken on five miles, and those 52 steers
had all their work cut out to shift the 65 bales.
HE MUST HAVE HIS GRUMBLE.
CITY MAN (to farmer): "This crop of yours is coming
on all right!”
FARMER: “Yes; but look at the goodness it’s taking out of the ground!”
“Melos”: For some reason of her own,
Nature pops something which resembles a water-
worn stone into the mouth of every foal that is
born. The keepsake is of a dark liver color, round
and considerably flattened. Size approximately an
inch and a half in diameter. Can any Abo-liar
explain the material?
‘Nick Bottom”: If you want to see a
really good performance in. the grub-eating line,
we ve got an artist on the Tweed that will satisfy
all requirements. One day he called while the hands
at Priest s sawmill were waiting for the after-dinner
whistle. A big log that we had broken down lay
on the skills, and from this the stranger extracted
about half a hatful of big fat white grubs. Then
he sat down and made a meal of them. I waited
long enough to notice that he-didn’t eat the head of
the first worm, and then I suddenly remembered an
appointment with the fireman. Apropos the oyster
flavor mentioned by “J.D.,” did you ever try
cobra ’ ? I forget their college name, but I mean
those shellfish that are so destructive to woodwork
in our saltwater estuaries. If you haven’t, let me
recommend them. They have the true oyster flavor,
and owing to their macaroni shape and texture are
much easier to handle than either oysters or the
wood-grubs aforementioned. When cut in lengths
and stewed in milk the fish cannot be distinguished
from oysters.
* * * *
“Spreader”: As rough-riders, the best abos.
at the game can learn nothing from the white man.
The Edkins family of Mount Cornish reared and edu-
cated a full-blooded Binghi named Dick, who was a
royal-flush horsebreaker and trainer combined. He
handled one of the biggest mobs of horses in West
Queensland for many years, and was never sprawled.
If the mount happened to fall the first part of Dick
that came in contact with the earth were the soles
of his feet, which he always shod with india-rubber.
“King,” another of the Thompson tribe of abos.,
was also a plaster at sticking in a saddle. Jack
McC'allum, a half-caste of the Springsure district,
had men and money behind him to say that he’d stay
on a horse as long as the brand. He’d always give a
trial bare-backed with a halter when delivering a
broken-in colt. Jack gravitated into an owner-trainer,
and won a few grass-fed Derbies. Old Night Cap,
bred on Arcturus Downs, kept him out of the
ranks of the unemployed for some time. Cook, one
of the Duaringa tribe, had a great name in his
palmy days, but he tumbled into a Government job
tracking and taking the rough edge off the police
remounts. He lost his nerve after the easy life began
to tell, and nothing short of a pint of overproof rum
would stir him up to sticking-point. But when
duly primed he’d camp on the back of the worst
brute ever foaled till it pleased him to come down.
“McNorth”: Does any Abo-scientist know
what causes the peculiar formation known as devil-
devil, or Bay-o’-Biseay ? I’ve seen hundreds upon
hundreds of acres of it in the North, and it always
presented the same characteristics: circular, flat-
topped mounds from two to three feet high and a
yard apart, with well-defined channels or gutters in
between. It’s truly the Devil’s own country to ride
through, for one has to stick to the winding gutters,
and a long-legged man on a short-legged moke has to
keep his lower ends up to avoid striking the mounds.
In wet weather, when the debil-debil is under water,
finding the track is a job full of surprises. It has
been alleged that the formation is caused by insects
excavating and digesting the surrounding scenery and
depositing it in heaps which eventually become big
mounds. No insect-navvy did any muck-shifting while
I was around. Perhaps there was a strike on.
RESOURCE.
FIRST CLUBMAN : "You say that Blabber has gone on the lecture platform? Well, you
do surprise me."
SECOND DITTO : "Yes, a friend gave him a dress suit for a Christmas present, and as lie
doesn't dance and is too proud to be a head waiter, it was up to him to do some-
thing."
“Alamon”: The scent of the “cokemiit.”
eaten by coastal niggers of the N.T., would over-
power anything. I am going- to bottle some and
forward it to the War Department. for use against
the Hun. Cokernut is the inner part of the pan-
danus nut. It is powdered between stones, put into
a dilly-bag (or trouser-leg), soaked for a while in
sea water, interned in a stagnant pool till suffi-
ciently high, then toasted in the ashes and eaten.
Half-a-dozen niggers after a feed of it would stiffen
a German army corps. I have known a Chinaman
to sicken at a whiff of cokernut-eating nigger.
* * * *
“Will-o’-the-wisp”: Early in July, 1875
a . very wet time—l and two others trudged in
drizzling rain along a track roughly parallel to and
approximately a mile distant from Yanco Creek, about
opposite Bundure station, Riverina (N.S.W.). As
darkness set in the gleams of numerous campfires
along the watercourse cheered us up, but we became
uncomfortable when the number of lights among
the timber increased. The new lot, which we could
easily distinguish from the campfires, moved in an
eerie manner. For miles along the creek in both
directions discs of light like full moons were visible
in scores for upwards of two hours. Some were
stationary a little from the ground, while others
moved horizontally or rose slowly to the treetops
and either burst like rockets, but noiselessly, or just
dissolved. I have seen nothing of the kind since.
Any Abo. explain? (P.S. —We were all teetotallers.)
* * *
“Reefer” : One afternoon we lay at anchor
just inside the bar among the Nip a palms in the
estuary of the swift and muddy Lakekamu (Papua).
Suddenly the villagers trading cocoanuts with us
from the catamarans ceased their chattering and
intently watched two pieces of what looked like
black wood, a couple of feet apart, drifting down
in the shadows. Abreast of us the bits of wood
remained stationary. Then with savage energy the
niggers began fitting arrows in their bows and
paddling softly. I got a bead on the more prominent
of the marks, and the next moment the huala (croco-
dile) was having a fit, belly up on the surface. With
shrieks of exultation every canoe leapt towards the
stricken saurian, roped it and towed it alongside. I
wanted the claws, so hove the beast aboard. “Huh,
taubada, he dead finish,” opined Bogi. After we’d
measured the trophy—l3ft.—Bogi got the tomahawk
to chop the feet off, and I began investigating the
awful mouth. In a flash the croc, came to life and
sent Bogi down the open hold with a swish of its
armor-plated tail, while the wicked tusks grazed
my hand as they sunk clean through the bit of
board I was holding. The “boys” told me that I
touched nothing between the deck and mainmast
cross-trees in the jump I made. The croc, pretended
to sleep again, but when any of us neared the
deck, fire shot from the slitted eyes and the saw-
edge horns rose along the brute’s back. Meanwhile
all the canoes had sprinted to the shore, and hun-
dreds of natives rushed excitedly about the beach.
Presently a big Samoan missionary and his crew
paddled out. When he arrived, the croc, had just
chewed our cat into bits, and its head dangled in
a bloody pulp from one side of its clamped mouth,
lhe Samoan grabbed a shovelful of blazing coals
and a stick with a chunk of meat tied to it, and
leapt into the rigging just above the ’gator. Then
he teased the creature until it began snapping at
the bait. Presently it opened its mouth sufficiently,
and in went the shovelful of fire. That croc, threw
1-1 handsprings simultaneously, and disappeared over-
board biting great chunks out of the atmosphere.
I haven’t seen it since.
LIKE HIS IMPUDENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They told of little Billy Wynne,
A freckled bloke from Hay.
He stands five-feet-four inches in
His stockings any day.
Shaved, stripped and washed, just on his own,
He weighs an ounce and seven stone,
The most of which is thew and bone.
This Billy Wynne was at Ypres
With ten Australian sons,
And in a dugout, blithe and gay,
He cornered twenty Huns.
With seven bomblets in his hat
He said: “Sit down!” The beggars sat,
And Billy held them on his pat.
This bloke from Hay had slaughtered nine,
And captured twenty more.
His courage we all voted fine,
Till Hogan up and swore.
Took twenty flamin’ ’Uns—that freak?”
He cried. ‘‘ That courage? Hear me speak:
’Turns fist blue, blinded, blanky cheek!”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


tn V-.
'X
VK
mj
'V
* v > i
\ v **
* \w
!\i
)
✓-
\j-rr
o/:
/ v
i *
U
/
* A
t
?..1
! -
«< 5
ZoV
/y
\V
•••«
V>,
,r?
• <
ill
£
a
/r
N 4
v>\
v •*
r
0
As
8
X#-w a—
v ** owicir M
K
*»r
•mv»
■n
Touring
Cars,
Roadsters,
Vans.
A Car to Be Proud of—
No man can take greater pride in
his motor car than the owner of a
Studebaker. He knows, and his
friends do too, that there is no manu-
facturer today who enjoys a better
reputation for quality production of
motor cars than Studebaker.
To own a Studebaker is to experience keen
motoring delight and the absence of the
majority of motor car troubles that prevail
;n many cars which cost more. That’s an-
other reason why Studebaker production
for 1916 will easily reach the one hundred
thousand mark the greatest production of
Quality Cars ever contemplated.
We welcome you to our showrooms for a
Studebaker demonstration.
Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office and Showroom: 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
State Importers for Australasia—
VICTORIA—TURNER BROS., Swanston Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND—CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY LTD., Brisbane
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—ARMSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENC'Y Perth
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Messrs. T. J. RICHARDS <& SONS LIMITED Adelaide
TASMANIA-W. H. GAHAGAN, Hobart. ’ Aae,a,ae -
NEW ZEALAND-ADAMS LIMITED, Christchurch.


School Children
are very liable to catcb
cold. They have to
go in all weathers—
often having to sit in
school with wet feet. Apart from this, they are always face to
face with the risk from infection —especially when epidemics or
Whooping Gough, Measles, Diphtheria, Influenza, etc., are about*
Mothers of School Boys and Girls however can be always iKtili
of ANXIETY if they havo a bottle of
Heame’s
Bronchitis
= Cure
in the house, as one dose of this Medicine at the
first indication of a “cold will at once nip in the
bad” what might otherwise prove to be a serious
illness. Cork the bottle up— the rest will keep.
For Coughs, Croup,
Colds on the Chest
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION.
From all CHEMISTS and STORES.
W. G. HEARNE & CO. Ltd.,
GEELONG, VICTORIA,
Sydney, N.S.W., Wellington, N.Z.
4/6
Double
Size
vb
“H. 0.”: Before leaving for Honolulu
Melba gave a party to her ‘‘dear girls JJ*
the Conservatorium and spoke unto them,
wouldlike the name of this Conservatorium to be
“The House of Love and Lnderstandin». I
y Ju to look for that which is beautiful m the oHd
and ignore all that is ugly.
Take beauty into your lives a» much as I
color, fm-mf pictures, and let it be assimilated into
your everyday life. . . - <lTl ,i
After which ragtime was let loose, M
according to a gushing reporteress. The
final scene of all was Madame Melba and
Mr. Oarruthers doing ragtime . ste P®
the balconies, down the stone stairs and then
on to the waiting motor. Thus Melba P
ports her precepts by encouraging the ug y
Yankee craze which has done so much
degrade the beautiful arts of music and
motion!
“Glen H.” : For years there was a vaude-
ville convention, not yet as dead as it might
be, that every turn should be introduced
with a song. One was not Permitted to
witness a capital acrobatic act until the
excellent acrobats, who incidentally were
rotten vocalists, had announced in a depl
able ditty. “We Are the Physical Culture
Girls,” or something of the sort. The con-
vention at present is that no turn com-
plete unless loaded with dialogue. On the
Tivoli circuit are two performers, Degnon
and Clifton, who provide one of the Severest
acrobatic shows I have seen, in the int ?£7 al f
of talking some of the most futile piffle
have listened to outside the Leg. Council.
The stage setting misrepresents a luxurious
bachelor apartment. While one of the occu-
pants is playing patience the ot f
the ’phone. There is to be a send-off at the
club” — w ill they come? Dialogue between
bachelors. Yes, they will. More talk anent
“the club.” “While we are waiting for the
motor suppose we practise a few tn< *s,
suggests one. Thus after a dreary preface
perpetrated with the utmost solemnity, they
get to business. Their tricks are capital,
but there are half a dozen intervals to per-
mit of fatuous references to the club, tne
boys.” “the car” and other circumstances
supposed to be suggestive of gay and expen-
sive life. Finally a motor-horn sounds off
stage, further remarks are made, and, wear-
ing cigars, the pair stroll off, bringing an
at times thrilling turn to the lamest pos-
sible conclusion. Performers whose science
is golden should be seen, not heard.
Two Australians, pianist William Con-
way (whose dad is owner of Pochee, one
of the nags that didn’t win the Caulfield
Cup) and Cecil Parkes, the remarkable
boy fiddler from Williamstown, have been
scoring successes in the dallah republic.
They have a long vaudeville engagement
and the papers are enthusiastic.
“Melb”: Wilkie in “The School for Scan-
dal” is a surprise and a novelty, though the
piece was first performed in Melbourne by
Coppin in 1845. Cast: Sir Peter, Coppin;
Sir Oliver, Rogers; Charles, C. Young;
Joseph, Thomson (father of Mrs. C. Young) ;
Lady Teazle, Mrs. Coppin. The play was
given in the Theatre Royal on its opening
night, 1855: Sir Peter, Rogers; Charles, H.
N. Warner; Joseph, Burford (long after-
wards stage doorkeeper at Sydney Vie.) ;
Lady Teazle, Mrs. Poole. On one very
notable Melbourne occasion, Rogers was Sir
Peter, and Lambert condescended to act Sir
Oliver. Barry Sullivan opened his mana-
gerial season with the comedy: Sir Peter,
Lambert; Sir Oliver, Harwood; Charles,
Sullivan ; Joseph, Heir ; Crabtree, C. Young ;
Lady Teazle, Mrs. Heir; Mrs. Candour, Mrs.
Phillips; Maria, Rosa Dunn. As Sir Peter,
Cathcart, Brough, and Rankin have all been
good. But Brough acted the part for only
one night, I think, retiring through illness.
He gave his fine brown-satin Sir Peter cos-
tume to his substitute, the ever-ready Cath-
cart, who had acted nearly every part in the
comedy. Rogers acted Sir Peter in _ bluish
satin, Lambert in yellow, Coppin in pink, as
appears from an old colored daguerrotype.
The worst performance I _ ever saw of the
comedy was Nance O’Neil’s.
“Ekirts” : Few American plays staged here
have been played by Americans. “Mrs.
Wiggs” was one. The usual method is to
import two or three American actors and
make up the cast with Australian and Eng-
lish. Hence the audience hears three differ-
ent accents during a play in which all the
performers are intended to talk American.
But this mixture of accents is negligible
compared with the mixing of dramatic art.
An English or an Australian actor finds it
almost impossible to pretend to be an Ameri-
can, or mentally to mould himself on Amerij
can lines. It’s not fair to English or Austra-
lian actors to ask them to imitate American
stage methods —they have their own, and
better, tradition. Either Australianise all
American plays by interpreting them by an
all-Australian cast with an Australian “pro-
ducer,” or import the whole company and
let us see exactly what an American play is
like. The present makeshift is fair neither
to the American playwright nor to the Eng-
lish or Australian actor.
“Harrison O.”: Oscar Asche’s pious re-
marks (B. 9/11/T6) anent theatrical pro-
ductions which are “put on solely as an
excuse for disrobing” make me smile. The
revues which, on the feminine side, struggle
for a bare existence, so to speak, “simply
pander to indecent minds.” How long is it
since Oscar acquired such notions? “Kis-
met” is remembered as one of the most
undressed shows seen in these parts, especi-
ally in the harem scene in which an odalisque
walked to her bath clad in limelight; and in
the Asclie version of “A Midsummer Night’s
Dream” we saw much more of Titania than
in any previous production. When “Kis-
met” was put on in London the censor com-
pelled Asche to increase his expenditure on
chiffon, and the actor snorted indignantly
in the press. His recent snorts on the other
side suggest that what is rank indecency in
a Stoll revue is High Art in an Oscar Rash
melodrama.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
A 70-foot slice of George-street, Sydney,
was sold the other day for £40,000. On it
stands the western side of the Strand
Arcade, which isn’t nearly as dusty and
forgotten as most tunnels of the kind, the
reason being that it connects Pitt and
George streets and allows the hurried Syd-
neyite to avoid the crush or the creditor in
King-street. The trustees of the late William
Macdonald were the vendors, and the modest
buyer’s name hasn’t transpired yet. The
slice was leased for 50 years in 90 at £oooo
a year. God save the landlord!
* * * *
Caulfield has at last grown weary of the
rusty remains of the Rosstown Railway and
is trying to get the useless bank levelled so
that it can get on with its drains. The
poor old relic of Melbourne’s mad boom loops
from the Brighton line at Elsternwick and
joins the main Gippsland line at Oakleigh,
five miles away. Commenced in ’7B by Sir
William Murray Ross, it took 10 years to
build instead of the five stipulated m the
Rosstowm Junction Act, and only one train
ever ran over it. Ross ultimately abandoned
the concession to the National Bank, which
enthusiastically supports the movement to
get the defunct white elephant erased from
the circus, the new electric tramway having
robbed the beast of its last hope of a resur-
rection.
* * *
The luck of drunks —and tugs! The M.L.
tug Koputai, sold to Sydney, crawled into
Port Jackson after 12 days of steeplechasing
and high diving across the enraged Tasman
Sea. The plucky crew of 13 used sail as
much as they could; but bad weather made
them burn up at top speed the little coal they
could carry, and some of the ship’s fittings
had to be pushed into the furnaces to make
the Australian coast. Even then the Kopu-
tai had to put into Botany Bay for a last
shovelful. The Sydney men who went to
M.L. to bring the Koputai across to her
new owners anticipated a gay time, and
there were some grim jests at the
Union liner’s saloon table. But they won
through in the worst sort of weather.
* * * *
“Corio” : The Oberon and Swatchfield dis-
tricts of N. S. Wales once abounded in
wild horses —clearskins which from time to
time had strayed away from the overlanding
camps to revel, in the freedom of the ranges.
During the ’6o’s and ’7o’s two dauntless
bushmen, the Green brothers, both still alive,
engaged extensively in brum,by-running for
the profits it afforded. As a result of their
operations over 25,000 hides were despatched
for sale at Sydney within a few years. The
men used to drive the mob to a trap-yard,
and from the ensuing holocaust the young
and attractive-looking animals were reserved
to be sold in the city yards at the standard
price of 10s. a head. The carcases of the
slaughtered beasts were boiled down in great
cauldrons and fed to pigs, large numbers, of
which were thus fattened, and, after being
“topped off” with grain, were marketed. Fat,
hair and oil were subsidiary but important
products of the business.
♦ * * *
“Kodak”: One forgets what a mass of
food is held in a state of suspended deadness
until a coal strike comes along and threatens
to stop the cool-stores’ refrigerating machin-
ery. We read about seas of embalmed eggs
and mountains of Rip Van Winkle meat that
will wake up and discover their great age if
some gasping engine stops for lack of fuel;
and it all makes the weary city toiler with
a bad-tempered stomach long for the quiet,
drawling country where the obliging cow
strolls home from the paddock with modern
milk in its pocket and the barndoor hen
gives a sudden surprised cackle and goes to
press with an egg.
* * * *
From the North :
Regarding the proposed Wartime Profits taxation,
what is going to happen to Jones, the cattle-breeder?
Jones started a couple of years ago by putting all
his savings into 300 young female cattle. For the
year ending 30/6/’l5 his income from all sources
was £l5O. He valued his 300 . heifers at £5 per
head, standard value. For the year ended 30/6/’l6
he had a good season and all his cows became
mothers. In the Federal returns all natural in-
crease is called “Income,” and calves and other
cattle are valued alike. His return for the year
ending 30/6/’l6 looked like this: —
Value 600 cattle at £5 per head .. . . £3OOO
Less value cattle on hand, l/7/’l5 .. .. 1500
Net income .. .. •. ..£l5OO
Capital invested at l/7/’l5 would be £l5OO and
(on paper) his income would be 100 per cent, on
capital. Will the Treasurer collar the 92 per cent,
difference between 100 p.c. and 8 p.c. ? If so, Jones
will have to scratch around and auction most of his
cattle, with the possibility that next year a drought
may take the balance- Jones is much perturbed and
hopes he takes a wrong view of the Government’s
intentions. So do I. I am Jones.
Illuminating item from Sydney Tele-
GR pLE I NTY' 2 o/\vooif—Although the P rice o( . w °°^
ss: ta t sa
likelihood of a shortage in this direction.
No shortage, of course. Still the best tradi-
tions of our race must be kept up at any^cost.
* * *
“Hamer’s” tale of spiritualism and sin: —
The wife of Hoy, the Chinese storekeeper, was a
red-haired white woman with a fiendish temper
■ that was only lulled to rest with whisky. Hoy him-
self was a devout convert to Christianity, and when
his wife died, either in gratitude for his release or
to impress the white world with his sorrow he pre-
sented a memorial window to the church, and erected
a heavy monument over the grave, which he visited
every Sunday. This suggested the idea to Blaney, an
amateur but thirsty ventriloquist, and he invited
some friends to share in the fun. They concealed
themselves near Mrs. Hoy’s tomb, and when, as usual,
Hoy came to visit the grave, a sepulchral voice from
somewhere under the monument said “Hoy! Hoy!
Get me a drink!” The poor Chow steeplechased over
the graves towards the gate, and as Blaney and his
friends were returning to the township they met him
hurrying back again with a bag in his hand. They
stole back later, and found that the scared widower,
following the Chinese custom of refreshing the dead,
had placed a bottle of whisky on the grave. It
became a regular dodge of the jokers, and Hoy was
impressed by the fact that when he returned the
bottle was always empty. But they spoiled it all
one evening by making the departed ask for some-
thing to eat. The widower ceased his attentions at
once. He knew the departed Mrs. Hoy better than
that.
* * * *
Hooray—here’s one cheerful item, any-
way ! A new casein factory at Camperdown
(Vic.) is working night and day, turning
once-valueless skim milk into cash a
traybit for each gallon. By utilising all
Strawberry’s by-products the Western dis-
trict cow-worshippers—and there are 1900
in Colac shire alone —are now squeezing as
much as £3 a month out of the lady, and in
dozens of cases the boss has agreed that it
is a fair thing to lift wages a bit.
* * * *
“Lagani-Namo”: Papua is awaking to
the fact that she has big possibilities lying
dormant along her mangrove-smothered fore-
shores. Of her eight varieties of mangrove,
four yield good tannins. Formerly Burma,
the chief supplier, derived cutch solely from
“black” mangrove, and the red tinge this
imparted to leathers militated against its use
for the better sorts ; but chemists have now
discovered re-agents which eliminate the red-
dishness, and mangrove tannins look like
coming into their own.
* * * *
“Bob D.”: Melbourne’s electrical business
is going black on account of six o’clock
closing. Beyond a few advertising signs
across the Yarra the only blinkers are those
in front of the hotels. Bung has no need
for these now, and is having them dis-
mantled. One firm, which made quite a good
thing out of repairing them in the dear dead
days beyond recall, now has about 80
second-hand signs for sale. Meanwhile, the
beer is sold darkly at dead of night in the
barmaid’s room at five shillings a bottle,
which means a profit of a thousand per cent.
* ' * * *
John Bull isn’t waiting for the expected
official inauguration of the decimal system.
The best English hardware makers have
dropped “inches” in denoting the sizes of
their enamelled bowls, dishes, etc., and now
use centimetres, though they haven’t yet
mastered the simplicities of litres, grammes
and so forth for articles that go by measure.
* * , * *
There is still a chance that Gormanston
and Linda (Tas.), where the sulphur won’t
let any vegetation but mosses and fungi and
a few stray weeds grow, will blossom like
the rose even if the Mt. Lyell Co.’s plans
for catching the sulphur and turning it
into manure do hang fire. Someone has
found a Chilean plant, called Lapageria
rosea by the botanists and Copigne by the
natives, which thrives on the fumes. So it
is said, anyway. As the plant has edible
berries half the size of a hen’s egg it ought
to provide more than food for the blind.
* * * *
“F.N.T.” : The high-cost-of-living problem
has been simply solved by an advertiser in
the Melbourne dailies. One pod from his
Giant Guam Bean will provide a meal for a
family; while his Herculean Hairless Bean
will go still better, one pod making “several
meals.” To vary the diet one could keep a
few hens, feeding them on the bean-scraps
and using their eggs. The surplus beans
could be sold, with the surplus eggs, and the
money used for clothes, tobacco, movies, tea
and sugar, rent, and so on. As the hens
ceased laying, they could be eaten, and some
of the egg-and-bean money employed to buy
new birds. With flesh, vegetables and eggs
thus provided, with the other necessaries men-
tioned, all then required would be a bread-
fruit-tree growing at the back of the bean-
patch and a few milking pigeons. life,
plotted out thus, would be quite a simple
affair, and one could be almost independent
of work and the income-tax^
TRUCKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Trucks! Little train trucks gliding to the siding,
Grumbling and grunting by the big red shed;
Empty little train trucks, slow trucks, grey trucks!
A big bully engine a-blowing on ahead!
Trucks! Sleepy train trucks waiting at the station,
Huddled in the city from the Outback lands;
Hungry little train trucks, dim trucks, grim trucks!
Tiny grey beggar-trucks holding out their hands!
“Food for the starved trucks! Wine for the dry
trucks!”
Dreary, weary train trucks drowsy in the sun!
Long gipsy caravan of stained trucks, train trucks,
Stranded in the city when the long run’s done!
Ho! little full trucks, sleek trucks, busy trucks,
Staggering with the big bale, lurching with the
crate!
Be off, bully engine, with your grey trucks, fat
trucks!
The Outback is hungry and clattering its plate!
MAOKILAND.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
NO WASHING DAY THIS WEEK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Many of the steam-laundries have closed down till
after the strike. —News item.
Maid Summer shakes her laundry out,
A pile of fragrant coolness there;
Zephyrs demure float all about,
And well-trimmed lawns “got-up” with care,
Broidered with tracery of flower,
And glad design of twig and leaf.
The wretch can change her dress each hour;
I sit at home wrapped round with grief.
My muslin finery hangs crushed,
All woe-begone my washing hat —
Ah, curse the hour when we got bushed,
And on the juicy grasses sat!
The poets sing thp wanton wench,
Dimpling beneath her gauzy clothes;
My fingers impotent I clench
Who lack a hank, to wipe my nose.
Dame Nature in her laundry sings
The while the soapy bubbles rise,
And the fleet maid of Summer brings
Armsful of scarce-soiled seas and skies,
For who is right, or who is not,
Fresh changes she must never lack,
And gnomes stoke up the copper-pot,
Nor care a (sh!) though coal be black.
N.S.W.
FLOSSIE FLUFFYTOP.


/
/?■
r
o
r-,
&
<5?
v
V
\
7
\
Si
l
\
\
!s\?
7/
A
/
<7
>
x
r
z
fcp
THE MAZDA GENIE SHOWS ALADDIN THROUGH HIS NEW PALACE, PROUDLY
EXHIBITING THE SEMI-INDIRECT LIGHTING ARRANGEMENTS.
7
Aladdin Series
No. 6.
/gTucflggflfcn
“ Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
cm airoTfc). Qoulburn Street, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.), Etd.,
corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Etd., Hay Street.
—Agents—
“Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
TELEPHONE-
CENTRAL 2646, 2647; CITY 9579.
■
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE! (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone, 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd., Auckland,
Christchurch, Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tulloek & Co., Ltd., Launceston; Messrs. Oliver & Oliver, MacQuarie Street, Hobart.


f.W.Mf
*L
c*
7
S'
N
%
€
H
A. Saunders’ Bight-Day Westminster Chiming Clock,
Silver Dial, Hand Carved, Solid Oak Case, £7/10/-
/
A.oAUNDERS
syonev
V
4
:
A. Saunders’ Eight-day Clock, Kimied Oak case,
Bronze Ornaments, strikes hours and half-hours, 20 /-
A. Saunders’ Eight-day Swinging-ball Clock,
fine Art figure, finished in real Bronze. Height 31$ inches.
£9/10/-
Smaller Figures—Height 28in., £6/10/-, 30in. £7/7/-
A, SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street ( ° p & a tionr ay Sydney.
A. Saunders’ Eight-day White Onyx Drawing-room
Clock Enamel Dial, strikes hours and half-hours on Cathedral-
’ toned Gong. Height 12 inches. £5/10/»
A. Saunders’ Eight-day Clock,
Case, strikes hours on Cathedral-toned
bell, 25/-
Polished Solid Oak
Gong, half-hours on
Lxyvuna
Cures Eczema.
Frederick Street, Camperdown. Mr. S. Fielder,
Randwiek. Dear Sir, —I have received great benefit
from your Skin Cure “Exzerma,”’ for Prickly Heat
and Chafe, and I will be pleased to recommend it to
anybody I see suffering from the same distressing
trouble. — Ernest Bird.
ALL CHEMISTS AND DRUGGISTS,
or S. FIELDER, Randwiek. jj|_
The Right Pistol for
the Boys at the Front
Ask any of the returned Anzacs what they think of a good
Automatic Pistol, they will all say the same as they tell us:
“It’s absolutely the best thing to help a man out of a tight
corner.”
. Full equipment, including Pistol, Holster, Special Lan-
yard and 200 cartridges, £5/16/-. This price is only for
men in uniform.
ALCOCH & PIERCE,
318 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
NS*
vb
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from—whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by cill Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Merrie
England, Bd. How to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dr.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art op Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston’s Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, 1/- posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, Bd., AND ALL THE RATIONAL PRESS RE-
PRINTS (send for list). Joys op Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures op a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk," 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler's Science
op Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. Sandow’s Book op
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries op Paris, 1/6. History
op the Rod (Flagellations and.the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. . God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British,
Sd How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases op Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins,
1/. posted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.
■
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a verv
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjov married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted
to ANY address for EIGHT SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. ~mg
Prof. Fowler’s Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS— LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, ll-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Uf-to-Date,
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speak-
ing Made Easy, 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang or
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/- ;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannan's Engine
Driver's Guide, 6/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio,
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee's Priceless Recipes, 1/6 posted.
Women's Secrets, 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The Waybacks, 1/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. -o Years.
ONIiY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROiM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking,
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OP ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS' SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
1/- posted. New Tricks with Cards, 1/- Sappho,
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 post. Dr.
Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical illus-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Gor-
don’s Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry,
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret His-
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers’ Letter
Writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Mor-
gan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees,.
New Edition, 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
Bd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoll’s Works,
Bd'., 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife. '3/6 posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’
Assistant, 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 6/6 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New Recita-
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and Its
Cure. 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather bound,
my price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas?).
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, 1/2. Moore’s Universal Assist-
ant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
1/- post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music
complete), 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, bv
Paine, posted Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, cheap Book Depot, 67 869 Market Street, Sydney <only>


Amusements.
Harrv Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
•ja i yoLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Plans at Nicholson’s and Tivoli.
“|“IVOLI THEATRE,
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE TAKINESS, JAMIE KELLY, MARIE KING-
SCOTT, LADY SEN ME I, SHORT AND LITTLE,
THE TOGOS, BARKER AND BETH, WALTER
WEEMS, BERTIE FORD, HAYDEE’S MARION-
ETTES, MARGUERITE LEROY AND THE CAR-
LYONS.
Plan at Glen’s.
Eli MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
H
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE GIRL IN THE TAXI.
SATURDAY NEXT, DECEMBER 9.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.’S MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
(“Sydney’s Own”) in
A WALTZ BREAM.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales Callose’s.
ARITEKION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. announce a newly-
organised Dramatic Company, headed by FLORENCE
ROCKWELL, in
COMMON CLAY.
A POWERFUL PROTEST Against SOCIAL INJUSTICE.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
4IACE IHEAIKE. SYDNEY.
Sole Direction ALLEN DOONE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF TOM MOORE.
SATURDAY NEXT, DECEMBER 9.
ALLEN DOONE presents for the last week of the
season the Romantic Comedy Drama,
IN OLD DONEGAL.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at the White Rose.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
ARDEN T~IH E A T R E,
Bayswater Road, Darlinghurst, Sydney.
Direction E. BRANSCOMBE PTY. LTD.
THE DANDIES.
EVERY EVENING (wet or fine) at 8.15.
Prices: 2/- and 1/-. Reserved, 2/6.
vcb
Triangle plays at
THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session:
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling’s.
_ Prices : 6d. to 2s. 6d.
Union'Theatres Ltd. (incorporating West’s Ltd.,
Spencer’s Pictures Ltd., The Greater J. D. Williams
Amusement Co. Ltd).
W. Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION PICTURE THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, DECEMBER 9.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
revive the Delightful Old Favorite,
ELORODORA.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and lI-
HEA T R E ROYAL, MELBOURNE
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
J. C. WILLIAMSON 'LTD. present the Famous
Propagandist Play,
DAMAGED GOODS.
Prices: 6/*, 4/- and 2/-.
Amusements.
P KIN CESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Gov. Director: BEN J. FULLER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
First Appearance of the ALLAN WILKIE CO. in
THE SCHOOL FOR SCANDAL.
Popular Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees... .Bert Bailey & Julius Grant.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, DECEMBER 9.
E. J. CARROLL and BEAUMONT SMITH present
STANLEY HOUGHTON’S DRAMA of Lancashire
Life,
HINDLE WAKES.
Popular Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-
RCADIA, STL KILDA, MELBOURNE.
Direction NIGEL BROCK PTY. LTD.
THE PINK DANDIES.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.30.
In their Delightful Entertainment.
Prices: 2/-, 1/- and 6d. Sixpence Extra all round
on SATURDAYS and HOLIDAYS. Plans at Glen’s
and Habers’.
Birch & cakroll
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
ITULLER’S HOTEL. MELBOURNE
* (adjoining Bijou Theatre).
Proprietor: BEN J. FULLER.
One of the Largest and Most Comfortable Hotels in
Melbourne. 200 Rooms and Suites. Hot and Cold
Water in every Bedroom. Drawing, Music and
Smoking Rooms. Two Elevators. Night Porter.
First-class Table. Moderate Charges. Board
Optional.
Under the management of CHARLIE TAYLOR and
ELLA CARRINGTON.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. 'MURPHY, Woj
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
vc
>
BEFORE.
FOR
'QUICK results^
- r-y VJSE
(APILLfIRINE
A- splendid growth of hair can be
produced on the upper lip by the
aid of CAPILLARINE. Make up
your mind to grow the mous-
tache, and start using this won-
derful moustache-producer straight
away.
PRICE 10/6 JAR, POST FREE.
4FTFR.
CRAIG U AITREN,
654 George St.
SYDNEY.
** * °/<
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
THE “SKANDIA” IN GOVERNMENT WORK.
LIGHTHOUSE SCHOONER—4O-h.p. “SKANDIA” ENGINE.
NELSON S ROBERTSON,
Loftus Street,
SYDNEY.
SYDNEY EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION, 1916.
DRAWN DECEMBER 2, 1916 (Postponed from November 4).
201—
202 — 252,419
203
204
205 — 237,579
206 — 242,302
207
208 — 91,227
209
210—
211 — 296,772
212 263,581
213 — 205,702
214
215 274,677
216 — 220,084
217 — 240,992
218—
219 — 235,599
220 — 147,317
221 — 283,933
222 — 123,369
223 — 274,465
224 302,776
225 — 201,911
226 — 179,536
22t—271,940
228 —200,828
229
230 — 91,978
231 182,081
232 — 86,415
233 — 224,405
234 — 16,080
235 — 229,421
236 — 91,374
237 — 157,502
238 — 171,419
239 69,607
240
241 — 268,244
242 — 6,462
243 — 156,456
244 — 214,578
245
246 — 285,950
247 — 280,598
248 — 266,204
249 — 286,490
250 240,035
251
252
253 — 144,623
254 — 97,687
255
256
257 — 276,847
258
259 164,781
260 215,794
261 285,804
262 — 244,554
263 — 63,878
264
265 135,052
266 — 171,784
267
268 — 75,502
269 — 179,605
270 — 91,114
271 — 219,900
272 — 95,465
273 — 202,982
274 — 261,059
275
276 — 119,215
277
278
279
280— 128,987
281 — 109,173
282
283
284 — 296,900
285 91,836
286
287 — 190,966
288 — 110,010
239 —92,624
290
291
292
293 265,558
294 — 58,434
295 — 162,413
296 128,936
297 — 124,070
298
299 — 261,217
300—
301—
302
303
304
305 — 294,674
306
307 — 165,502
308—
309
310—
311—
-292,929
-276,308
-234,850
-151,087
0H
a S
£!
316
317
318—
319
320
321 — 95,201
322
323
324 — 230,285
325
326
327
328
329
330
331
332
333
334
335 196,768
336
337
338
339
340 i 65,394
341
342
343
344
345
346
347
348
349
350
P.
G CL>
IH
351 — 290,841
352
353
354
355
356
357
358
359
360
361
362
363
364
365
366
367
368
369
370
371
372
373
374
375
376
60,808
108,744
187,925
■70,810
381—
382
383
384
385
386
387
388—
389
390
391
392
393
394
395
396
397
398
399
400—
377-
378-
379-
380-
We, the undersigned, hereby certify that we have this day witnessed the drawing of the above Art
Union (postponed from 4th November), and declare the same has been conducted in a proper manner, a d
with absolute fairness.
(Signed)
C. CHURCHLAND, Sun Office.
V. MOLESWORTH, Evening News Office.
A. MITCHELL, Evening News Office.
R. H. DIXSON, Sunday Times Office.
F. W. CLARKE, J.P., Australian Worker Office.
DAVID YOUNG, Sergeant of Police.
JOHN HEPHER, M.L.C.
The Prizes will be paid over to the
at 10 a.m., at the Trades Hall, Goulburn
Trades Hall, Sydney, December 2, 1916.
winners on FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8,
Street, Sydney.
JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary.
Used the
World Over
MOTOR
...CARS
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT*
In use since 1596.
Write for Book. " " CURES Write for Book.
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road. London, Eng,
Insist on “ Singleton s' —refuse all substitutes*
i
n§i s
mm
'i
I£
What the Universal Drafting
Machine is doing for Draftsmen
A direct saving of 25 to 50 per cent, in time, freedom from mental interruption
and freedom from nervous strain are all brought about by the UNIVERSAL
DRAFTING MACHINE.
The continual changing from straight edge to scale, scale to triangle, triangle to
scale, scale to erase*;, and so on; also the continual attention to proper and
accurate alignment, are absolutely dispensed with, the man being permitted to
put in his lines as fast as he can think them out.
The Universal Drafting Machine is adapted to all forms of Drafting, Archi-
tectural, Mechanical, Structural, Map Work and Surveys.
Is it enough proof of efficiency of the Universal Drafting Machine that the
Victorian Railways and leading Australian Mining and Engineering Companies
find them time-saving necessities t
We shall be pleased to supply further particulars.
AJ^Pfiersoif§)
Proprietary Limited
Machinery, Iron & Tool Merchants,
Collins St., Melbourne; and Bathurst St., Sydney.


The drink for men. Men who drink whisky wonder
why there are others who don’t. Men who drink
Thorne’s Whisky wonder why there are some who
don’t. If you’re a whisky-drinker and want real
quality-production—the choicest that is distilled in
the famous district of Glenlivet—you should call for
Thorne’s. The carefully-selected high-grade malts from
which Thorne’s is distilled give it a distinctive flavor
and delightful bouquet.
THORNE’S WHISKY.
O.H.M. “Incomparable.”
[2
bc
vb
LdilMAil
Two features every night, 3 hours—l2,ooo feet of film—B to 11. Theatre
thoroughly cleaned and ventilated between day and night performances.
CONTINUOUS DAILY, 11 to 6.
WILLIAM FOX PHOTO-PLAYS SUPREME are shown
one week at Hoyt’s before any other theatre.
METRO-DRAMAS FIRST RELEASES SCREENED.
’Phone City 6218 and Reserve Seats. Plan at Theatre. Prices: 6d. & 1 /-;
Saturdays and Holidays, 1/- and 1/6.
Bourke 5-
icturc BlocK
•w
I:;
w:
y £»„J. »’ -v•:
The Very Thins for Christmas.
You need no longer worry about what to give your friends
—Give them all Onoto Pens. If An Onoto is a gift that is sure to
please. It is the fountain pen that fills itself, never leaks, and
never scratches. It is a model of simplicity. «f The Onoto is
British made and is guaranteed by its makers.
OnoioPien
14/6 and in a variety of more elaborate styles for
presentation purposes, of all Stationers. Jewellers, and
Stores. Manufacturers— THOS. DE LA RUE
& CO., Lti>., Bunhill Row. London, E. C.
Australasian Managing Agents— Norman
Baker & Longhurst, York Street,
Sydney
■jr. :
m
••t.V
CV£
-
:
y,*j
#-3r
vb
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Liberals in the Commonwealth Par-
liament talk about their patriotism in sup-
porting Hughes. Thei'e is no patriotism
about it. This is a time when tlie nation
demands that something shall be done. If
ever we needed a successful Government we
need it now. But the Liberals don’t want
A CHANGE OF DIRECTION.
MRS. SCHMIDT : “An' vos you really dink,
dear Pastor, dot all der prove soldiers
who fall in der fight for der Vaterland
go sdraight to Paradise?"
PASTOR: “Most cerdainly, Mrs. Schmidt,
egsept p’raps in der case of a reverse."
this Government to succeed. They are keep-
ing it in power, not in order that it may
succeed, but that it may show its helpless-
ness and hopelessness. Is that patriotism
at a time when we cannot afford to waste a
day?
Prime Minister Hughes handled the coal
strike for a fortnight, and left it where it
was. Then a second-grade N. S. Wales
Judge took it up and settled it in some sort
of way within 24 hours. There is a lot of
significance in this. The long and short of
the matter is that the principal supporters
of the political Labor party will give Hughes
no opportunity to make political capital out
of them. Their business is to show him up
as a failure. That is one reason why Hughes
as a Prime Minister is at present a danger
to Australia. He failed to do anything with
the coal-strike problem; he will for precisely
the same reason not be permitted to success-
fully solve the recruiting problem. And
Joseph Cook, in deciding to keep Hughes
where he is for a while, must be held more
responsible for the failure than Hughes him-
self.
As the boys at the Front simply have got
to have reinforcements, the thing we had
on October 28 was really only a Deferendum.
THE WHITE MAWS BURDEN.
“And after me lusting up half a week's
screw on these bloomin’ lamps and
stoves and things!”
The case of William Ernest Bird supplies
further evidence of that intolerable muddle
in the Defence Department with which
Pearce has shown himself so utterly unable
to grapple. Bird was solemnly prosecuted
at the Richmond (Vic.) Court for failing to
report himself for home service. The de-
faulter’, who did not turn up to answer the
charge, was sentenced to three months’ im-
prisonment, and the Law, which had to
collect him, sighed apd wondered in which
bush the Bird was hiding. As a matter of
fact, he was then a sea-Bird, having enlisted
five months previously, and being already well
on his way to the Front. His father says he
told this both to the constable who called with
the summons and to the military registrar,
supplying the latter in addition with Bill-
jim’s number and battalion. Nevertheless,
the paraphernalia of the law was set creak-
ing and there was the usual infamous waste.
Civilisation is rocking on its foundations,
our very liberty is at stake; yet Nero
Peacock has time for a little violin practice.
In his estimates occurs a modest flower in
a forest of giants. It is labelled “Expenses
incidental to egg-laying competition, £775” !
What though 40 million men are under
arms fighting to the death, the poultry-
fanciers of Victoria must hold their yearly
contest between the white leghorns and the
brown orpingtons. What though empires
crumble, nations vanish and men disappear
in millions, the chicken-breeders must play
their delirious game of inciting Wyandottes
to lay eggs at the public expense, xind all
through the estimates there are similar
items, good money thrown away to catch
votes, or keep the crowd quiet, as in times
past they were silenced with free bread and
deadhead circus-tickets. Seven hundred and
seventy-five pounds for eggs, when it would
buy an ambulance to bring wounded Anzacs
from the trenches to the base hospital!
“Premier Holman proposes to leave for
London to get into touch with the British
money market early in the New Year,” one
paper says. Holman, however, says he
hasn’t yet decided on doing any such thing.
But why be shy about it? Seeing that bor-
rowing has been the principal feature of
the Holman Government, it is a matter for
serious consideration whether the Premier
shouldn’t permanently camp in Cohen’s
village.
National economy? Australia hasn’t yet
found the courage necessary to even save
daylight! The Bill promised in N. S.
Wales has been dropped.
State Departments are capable of every-
thing and of worse, but the yarn Councillor
Phillips told a Vic- decentralisation confer-
ence surprised even those who knew the
lamentable Victorian Government system
best. When forest land near Beechworth
was thrown open for selection, Phillips, as a
sawmiller, would have been glad to buy the
timber. But the selectors were strictly for-
bidden to sell it, though they were allowed
to pile it up in heaps and burn it.
It is said that Prime Minister Hughes
has already picked out his new constitu-
ency. Of the Labor electorates, Fawkner
appears to be the most vulnerable, and it
will probably be Hughes’s choice. Fawkner
comprises Prahran (industrial), South
Yarra (boarding-house), Albert Park (shop
assistants and moi’e boarding-house), with
South and a part of Port Melbourne (mostly
industrial). The sitting member, Joseph
Hannan, had one unsuccessful attempt to get
ex-M.H.R. Fairbairn out of the iob. Then
the boundaries were revised, and the thing
was a gift for Hannan, with 2000 votes in
hand. At the next election Franc Carse,
who is a relative of Falkiner 11. of the
Riverina, had a go, with depressing results
from the Liberal viewpoint. The conscrip-
tion figures indicated that a lot of Labor-
ites voted Yes. Banking on the support of
the Liberals, including the considerable num-
ber who must have voted No, the seat looks
a fair thing for Hughes, provided that amic-
able relations continue to exist between him
and Cook until there is . an election. If
Hughes does get the seat it won’t be hard
to imagine Hannan industriously kicking
himself for seconding the Caucus motion
offering the hand of eternal farewell to the
Prime Minister.
One of Bamford’s earliest official acts was
to postpone the competition for designs for
Parliament House at Canberra. Despite re-
presentations from both British and Aus-
tralian architects, O’Malley had persistently
refused a postponement, which threw the
Kink open to the grave suspicion that he was
rushing the job so that his Yankee friends
might not have to compete with the British,
French and other architects who are at pre-
sent busy fighting for the Empire.
“8.D.”: Apropos this silly craze for
economy. My friend Frilson used to
put in a good two hours’ graft every
day in a branch of the Victorian Law
Department (he was on the premises for
eight hours, but the other six he was think-
ing), and he noticed that endless time was
wasted in hunting for documents which were
scattered around promiscuously. He sug-
gested to the boss that a few weeks’ work
sorting these things out and arranging them
would save all this, and that seven meh
would be able to do the work that took 13.
“If that happens,” said the boss, “where do
I come in? The staff and the importance of
my department will be about halved.” The
change has been made since, but it was
delayed for years.
The little Mallee shire of Lexton (Vic.) is
a shining light amongst its brethren. The
latter divide their time between barracking
for economy and battling for grants from
the State Government. When the war broke
out the Lexton Council decided that till it
was over no request should be made to the
State for any money; and so far the patriotic
determination has been stuck to.
In his book on Commonwealth forestry D.
E. Hutchins proposes an exploring expedi-
tion into darkest Tasmania. Nobody, least
of all the alleged Forestry Department, on
which the Speck spends as much as £461 in
a year, knows how much timber-country
there is in the island or what ought to be
done about it: and Ministers’ talk about a
forest survey has ended in hot-air. Hutchins
reminds us that the Royal Geographi-
cal Society of London has spent large sums
on surveys in Bolivia and other out-of-the-
way places, and he does not believe they are
of more interest, even from the purely scien-
tific point of view, than a forest survey of
Tasmania would be. Meantime, while’ the
society is thinking over the broad hint, the
Speck’s microscopic, but fearfully hard-up,
politicians muddle along quite happily with
a revenue of about. £5OOO a year from a
forest area estimated at 11,000,000 acres.
Opportunity comes to those who wait. The
war gave Australia two opportunities—-to
fight and to quit. The coal strike gave an
opportunity to support foreign industry by
shutting up those at home. The “solidarity”
of the Labor party gives Holman an oppor-
tunity to sneak the vote away from the
electors and hang on to his job. Party Gov-
ernment presents Hughes with an "oppor-
tunity to form a Ministry out of the smallest
party in Parliament. The accumulation of
debt by Australia affords the populace an
opportunity to pay the bill. And the burst-
ing of the boom will give us the opportunity
to live on what we can earn after Cohen has
taken his bite.
“F.C.”: Here in England I find women
by the thousand doing men’s work as a
matter of course— scavenging, ploughing,
timber-cutting, tram-driving and conducting
and a hundred other things. How many
Australian women are at it? And why not?
Because we have not yet felt the shortage
of men ! We are fighting for our existence,
yet, when I left, young men were still behind
counters selling socks, shirts and jewellery.
Even if they have been classed as unfit they
should not be doing this sort of work after
two years of war. Germany is organising
the whole nation for a supreme effort, and
if we are to win we have simply got
to do likewise. Moreover, if we are to keep
our heads above water and pay our debts and
remain solvent, we will have to do likewise
after the war. It is a big task, but it has
to be tackled; in the cut-throat struggle that
is coming the lack of national organisation
will spell ruin.
There’s always heaps of excitement for
the importing country. Because the Baltic
ports are practically closed by war, the Vic-
torian Railways are unable to cover a lot
of the wheat that is being trundled about
the State. Most of the flax used in the
manufacture of canvas gets to the world by
way of the troubled Baltic. But the sea-
Hun is making things too hot for traders
there, so the European and American can-
vas-weavers are being starved for raw
material; and distant Australia, the faith-
ful customer over the horizon, hasn’t the
bit of rag necessary to keep the rain off the
loaf of to-morrow. England made sailcloth
for itself in 1590, and the Egyptians and
Phoenicians were experts at it in the morn-
ing of history. But modern Australia, with
a flax-growing neighbor at its elbow, and
millions of acres of idle soil on which it
could grow the vegetable for itself, hasn’t
made a start yet.
MILITARY AMENITIES.
ARTILLERY OFFICER: “Well, about last
night’s ‘stunt’—find our fire any more
effective?"
INFANTRY DO. (back “resting"): “Much
more so. This time you copped ail our
support trenches and the Major’s dug-
out as well.”
The statement that several recent Hun
prisoners belonged to the original army that
ravished Belgium confirms one’s suspicion
that the most enduring of German warriors
are to be found among the rank and vile.
THE IMPERIALISTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We desire Imperial union. —Any alleged Australian
politician in London.
The little nations lived in peace,
And ma de the earth a-bloom;
The robber-barons did not cease
Till each field was a tomb ;
The murderers then God’s altar kissed—
Each was a true Imperialist.
The poppy grows in Indian fields;
The patient, wise Chinese,
Abhorrent of the drug it yields
Refused the pedlar’s pleas.
He made them buy, with mailed fist —•
He was a true Imperialist!
When Attila and Ghenghis Khan
Laid waste the weaker people’s land;
When only safe the armed man;
When Tamerlane, at Samarkand,
With mills of steel made bloody grist—
Each was a true Imperialist!
Scrofulous Wilhelm and his hordes
Defiled the valleys of Champagne;
The Belgian mothers were their bawds;
The babies shed their blood like rain;
Wise men in Berlin still insist
He is a great Imperialist.
Wherever man has digged a field,
The robber kings come down with swords;
When the good earth has given its yield t
Come thieves with shot, and guns, and cords;
But purblind History will persist
Each was a true Imperialist.
A simple man who loves his land,
Desiring that it should be great,
And holding all of his own hand,
Yet, giving envy not, nor hate
For stranger field, and math, and grist,
He is no true Imperialist.
So, while Australia stays the same,
A white isle walled about with seas,
She shall not join the closer game
Of Empires and of Chancelleries,
Australia, Mother! Who has kissed
Thee once is no Imperialist!
N.S.WV
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
OVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tlie New York Times says that the war is over.
It is only necessary to stop the fighting.— Cable.
The war is over. Now we shan’t be long.
It’s all plain fighting. (Bang!) We can’t go wrong.
(Blast all the thunder of the rattling guns!)
Bill, take a tip 'from me, these blanky Huns
Are —(Cripes, drop down!) —are losers in the strife.
We’ll bleed them till they—(Duck!)—cry out for
life.
I heard a German cow the other night
Blither Australia funked the blanky fight.
My oath! This nicking in my rifle butt
Means that the Devil’s fumbling with his nut.
Cripes, here’s the charge! Bog in, old man, and if
You find me when the push is done stark-stiff,
Stiffen the crows ! This war is over, Bill!
Hell! A dead-finished war is hard to kill!
N.S.W.
ADELAIDE STREET.


Great Australian War Novel
THE HATE
OF A HUN
By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
fl sensational, thrilling story of how
the Kaiser made war on Australia.
ONE SHILLING. JUST PUBLISHED.
All Bookstalls and Booksellers. 1/1 post free from Publishers.
SOilE “BOOKSTALL” FAVORITES.
1/- each 1/1 posted.
THE PYJAMA MAN,
By RALPH STOCK.
THE TRADER,
By CECIL ROSS-JOHNSON.
IN RACING SILK,
By GERALD R. BALDWIN.
THE GOLDEN KANGAROO,
By AMBROSE PRATT.
BILL’S IDEES,
By A. G. STEPHENS.
LOVES OF LANCELOT,
By EDWARD DYSON.
vc
RECENT ADDITIONS to the “BOOKSTALL” SERIES.
SKEETER FARM,
By SUMNER LOCKE.
A story of the Bush.
UNDER A CLOUD,
By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
A rattling sporting novel.
THE BELLE OF THE BUSH,
By GEORGE DARRELL.
A splendid mining novel.
GRANDPA’S SELECTION,
By STEELE RUDD.
One of the famous Selection series.
Write for a Complete Catalogue of the
NINETY SHILLING “BOOKSTALL” NOVELS.
N.S. W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD
476 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRITISH-MADE
10-inch
DOUBLE
SIDED
2/-
EACH
(N.Z. 2/6.)
0
b
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
21-
EACH
(N.Z. 2/6.)
REGAL Monthly “No. 24” Supplement.
07881
) Love the Pedlar Annie Rees, Soprano.
( Love is Meant to Make Us Glad, from “Merrie England” „
G7325
S In Lonesome Land F. W. liamsey, Baritone.
( Iv’e Had a Wire from the Man in the Moon „ „
G7328
j UNDERNEATH THE STARS Stanley Kirkby, Baritone.
1 MY MOTHER’S ROSARY Irving Gillette, Tenor.
G7329
S The Phantom Brigade Regimental Band of H.M. Welsh Guards.
I Bittle Gadabout—Intermezzo ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,,
G7330
[ Punjaub March Regimental Band of H.M. Welsh Guards.
1 Flash of Steel March „ „ ,, ,, „ „
07331
f Popular Songs Medley. Part 1
{ Popular Songs Medley. Part 2
Concertina Solo by Alexander Prince.
Introducing-: Part 1. —Great Big Wonderful Baby; Kentucky Home; When I Leave the
World Behind ; Tennessee. Part 2.—Good-bye, Virginia ; Since Chumley Came Back ;
Piney Ridge; Are You From Dixie?
G7333
f Popular Songs Medley. Part 3 Concertina Solo hy Alexander Prince.
I Popular Songs Medley. Part 4
Introducing: Part 3.—Keep the Kettle Boiling, Mary; Joybells Ringing Down in
Georgia; Pack Up Your Troubles; Oh, Mr. Rubinstein. Part 4.—Bad as You Are;
When You're a Long, Long Way from Home; Cassidy; A Broken Doll.
G7333
\ LOVE’S GARDEN OF ROSES Cornet Solo by Sergt. Leggett.
I The Garden of Your Heart
G7334
{Because John Adams, Tenor.
I An Evening: $ong: ,, „ „
ERIC Tenor with the Throat of Gold.
r ~ooz f The Island of Dreams Eric Randolph, Tenor.
u,di5i> il Know a Lovely Garden
<17336
\ Just a Jack or Tommy J.
I The Saucy Arethma
G7337
( There’s Silver in Your Hair
l My Heart is Calling You .
G7338
i M-O-T-H-E-R Irving Gillette, Tenor.
I Mother and Me Ernest Sullivan, Tenor.
G7339
f British Bulldogs: 1. The Fireman
[British Bulldogs: 2. Poor Joe
Harry Weldon, Comedian.
G7340
S Rackety Coo Duet: Grace Nash and Sam Ash.
( All Aboard for Chinatown Collins and Harlan, Comedians.
cmi
f Stand Back, Boys, Here Comes a Soldier Harry Marlow, Comedian.
-I Taffy’s Got His Jenny in Glamorgan ,, „ ,,
[ (Every Tommy’s Got a Girl Somewhere).
G7343
\ No Treating. (Bluff and Whitlock) Humorous Descriptive.
( Billy Takes a Pub. (Bluff and Whitlock ,,
G7343
S Sleep, Baby, Sleep Yodling Song by George P. Watson.
I Emmett’s Lullaby „ „ „ „ „
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR REGAL RECORDS-
SiDNEt, N.S.W.—Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, Rawson Place. '
MELBOURNE, VIC. —Hinsdale’s Proprietary, Ltd., 269 Swanston St.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH. W.A.—H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH. N.Z.—Webley Sons and Gofton, Ltd., 243 High St,
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Hayward and Garratt. Ltd. J
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
3
n
r
h
a
■
%
il
w
- ■ >
» liliiifii IMa! MwP WmrnmW
i *
m ?
m
< • -
R
SMITH U
.UUUi
-Av -3
SnuKt
m
IMPORTED EGYPTIAN
m
A standard product
» « of Cairo « <»
The cidarette elect
for the man. who hnows.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING TOBACCONISTS,
HOTELS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.


The hypocrisy of the Minister of Fright-
fulness talking, when crippled, of peace for
humanitarian reasons is too obvious even
without inspiration from that spirit of wis-
dom King George IV. topnotch Scotch.
—Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LiniTED, Redfern, Sydney.
UMP
t'tf The Trusty Triumph is
* a mount for all occasions.
It is absolutely reliable as
proved by its unparalleled
success in the Great
European War.
Triumph Cycle Co., Ltd.,
Coventry, England.
Agents:
Bennett 8 Barkell
Ltd.,
124-132 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
cvb
c
m-o-t-o-r
Accessories.
MOTORISTS, we stock the RIGHT kind of Fit-
tings for you, Fittings such as the Stewart
products—-real, serviceable goods that mean
security, and more pleasure in your motoring.
And they’re no more expensive than the inferior
kind. We’ve seen to that. The Square Deal we’ll
give, when you call or write for your needs will
convince you of this.
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty. Ltd.,
334-336 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
6s
cr'
SOVJ
DO
DEVIL’S PUZZLE MATCHBOX.
The Matchbox, which is different from all
other puzzle-boxes. You’ll never open it until
you read the directions. Made of Nickel-plate,
beautifully finished. Without doubt the most
ingenious Puzzle Matchbox that has ever been
made. Price, Post Fi*ee ? with Instruc-
tions, 2/-
Jokes, Puzzles, Tricks,
Novelties.
Write for our New Novelty
Catalog—lT’S FREE,
bc
bc
SHOCKING
CIGARETTE
CASE.
A splendid have.
No sooner do you
open the case than
you drop it as
quickly.
Post Free, 9d.
H. L. Hutchinson Ltd.,
708-710 George Street, Haymarket, Sydney.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
There is stated to be “a feeling amongst
Ministers” in N. S. Wales that the State’s cut from
the tote should be 7 per cent. There is a feeling
in the writer of this paragraph that 7 per cent, is
pretty hot. It is about twice as much as is
annexed anywhere else; and as Premier Holman has
foreshadowed (1) that ikey will not be interfered
with in the prosecution of his profession, and (2)
that the betting-ticket tax will be removed, the
experiment of running the machine on the lines pro-
posed will be worth watching. How the 7 per cent,
will pan out with the wagering turnover divided
between MacShortodds and the tote is almost im-
possible to guess. The only certain thing is that
for every £lOO,OOO passed through the instrument
the Government rake-off would be £7OOO. Well, at
the M.L. Cup meeting last month (Christchurch)
£175,697 went through the machine in four days.
There is no Ikey operating publicly there. On that
total 7 per cent, would be £12,298 with, at 5 per
cent., an additional deduction of £8748 for the
racing club. At Randwick if there was no book-
maker the totalisator would certainly handle
£500,000 in four days, thus yielding £35,000 to
the Government and £25,000 to the club. With
the bags open, how much? By diverting all wager-
ing on horse-racing to the machine throughout the
State the Government at much less than 7 per cent,
would get a revenue that would make Holman’s guess
at £220,000 look as cheap as 2d.
* * * *
“Trot” : One of the propositions put before
the N. S. Wales Government in connection, with the
tote is that as Ike is mostly over 40 and stout and
not in good training for any other profession, the
State should recognise his vested interests, and by
registration give him a life tenure on the lines
followed by S. Aus. when dealing with the bar-
maid. It is a very beautiful proposal. Imagine the
pathos that would abide in Israel as the public
watched MacShortodds and O’Moses growing older
and older with the passing years—and more raven-
ous. And as Time thinned the ranks of the odds-
merchants, consider the onnortunity there would be
for having a bet on whether some particular Mo
would be a yeller at next meeting. And the last of
the tribe! What elements of tragedy would cluster
round him as he slowly climbed on a box surrounded
by 175 clerks each with a sack and in a voice
tremulous with emotion opened at even money the
field. . This matter requires solemn consideration.
During its last financial year the Speck
kept record of £367,134 passing through the totali-
sator. This was £73,361 more than in the year
before. The racing clubs hung on to £36,713 for
commission and the State annexed £3671. Inci-
dentally the clubs appropriated £6017 of “broken”
money. The State is beginning to look in the same
direction with a hungry eye. In W.A. the machine
handled £497,534, of which the State took £12,439.
Since then the Treasurer reckons that if Ike was
removed the State could get more, wherefore Ike is
to be shifted, if it can be managed.
* * * *
Imported Torbane, from Lou Robertson’s
stable, annexed the principal event at Mentone
(Melb.) meeting on Saturday. This was something
smaller than Torbane was recently expected to do.
The Caulfield Cup was once reckoned within his
reach, but he didn’t act up to that opinion by a
long way. Still, small fish are sweet after failure to
land bigger stuff. Torbane is in the stable which
shelters Lavendo and others. The ex-Newcastle mare
Lady Blacksand, now owned by Barney Allen, ended
up in third place in the race won by Torbane on
Saturday, and should pick up a prize before she
comes back to the Ma State —if the intention is
that she should return.
* * * #
Flamboyant, a nag that has won two
principal handicaps in succession at Sydney asso-
ciated meetings recently, was a boom a couple of
seasons back. ' Many times this six-year-old son of
Positano —Lady Trenchant was backed for heavy gold
and just as often failed to land the goods. Now
he has “come good” his new owner may be able to
relieve Ike of some of the bullion which went into
the bag so frequently of yore. The breeding of
Flamboyant is good enough to win anything, but
he was' no better than some of the other winners
at Victoria Park on Saturday in that respect. Among
sires represented by first-home neddies were Cyrus
(imp.), Mimer and Merv. Among the beaten crowd
were reps, of Malster, Linacre and others equally
fashionable.
*.* * *
“E.J.8.”: How to find winners, is it?
Well, at the Melbourne Cup of ’92 I sat down beside
an old gent, on the grandstand prior to the start
for the Cup. The old chap stated that he had never
seen a horserace before, and he suggested that we
should each select a horse —one to win—for half a
sov. I agreed, and picked the favorite. As the
horses filed past the old ’un selected the nag with
the “long scarlet colors.” As I never shoot birds
sitting, I gave him a second shot, for the horse he
picked was starter George Watson’s cob. His next
selection was Glenloth, 33 to 1. Glenloth splashed
in—-and I handed over 10 bob. Also I strongly
advised my unknown friend to communicate with
Hobart without delay.
“P.X.”: Seems to me you can’t help picking
winners. I tried tipping only once. It was
just before the Melbourne Cup was run and I
didn’t know the name of a horse in it. I was
feeling serious, and wrote some verses for my
paper telling Australia to feel the same way and
roll up its sleeves —that the only winner was Hard
Graft. Two days later Grafter won; and my pose
of a man who knew nothing whatever about the
wretched race-business was ruined.
* * * *
There were three odd things about
a small Gawler (S.A.) race meeting last week. (1)
The races were not held at Gawler at all,
but at Morphettville, 30 miles away. The Gawler
track is occupied as a military camp, and the S.A.
Jockey Club, which had till lately suffered in
exactly the same way for a year, hastened to return
some of the kindness it had received from other
clubs. (2) In one race, with £1521 invested in the
totalisator, there was a starter without a single
ticket on him. If he had won there would have
been nobody to collect, and supporters of all others
must have got their money back (less tote com-
mission) —a thing which the bookmaker has never
yet been known to allow. However, the public
knew something, for the unbacked one finished alone,
about 100 yards behind. (3) A jockey being kicked
at the post, and having his leg broken, the starter
thoughtfully drove round to the saddling-paddock
and' recruited another rider. As the race was
delayed for 25 minutes, the precedent seems a
dangerous one.
Adelaide sports had room for ingenuity in
inventing pedigrees for the draught horses intended
to race on Repatriation Day. The old jokes were
in evidence—“ Out of Berlin by 1917” and “Out of
the Bar by Six O’clock” —but most were plain
advertisements of theatre or hotel, or somebody’s
whisky. Mayor Isaacs had a good one —Returned
Soldier (Musket —Firing Line).
* * * *
“Mulla”: Ran against Sammy Cracknell,
the old-time lightweight jockey, his long ginger
beard now streaked with grey. “By Jingoes,” he
said, “if it wasn’t for the rheumatism I’d be at
the old game now. Cup-time always gives me the
fever. But not bad enough that I’d ever give in to
be shaved. All the kids hereabouts call me Darri-
well. It is 37 years since I rode him in the Mel-
bourne Cup. At the same meeting Steve Mahon
got me to ride Tidal Wave in the Veteran Stakes,
and won. Then Dakin he asked me to ride Le
Loup (the favorite) in the V.R.C. Handicap. ‘I
can’t,’ said I; ‘l’ve promised Mahon to ride my
old mount, Tidal Wave.’ ‘Don’t you,’ said Dakin,
‘he hasn’t the ghost of a chance. Besides, you’re
in my employ and I have first call.’ Well, I rode
Le Loup and won. It was the only win he ever had
in Victoria. My biggest smash was in the Caulfield
Cup, off Kingship. Donald Nicholson was killed off
Prince Imperial. They picked me up for dead.”
In ’B2 Sammy won the Sydney Cup on Cunnamulla,
6st. up ; his last race was on Firelock in Carbine’s
year, 1890.
* * » *
“Bad Australian”: The Outback horsey
man in Paraguay takes no chances of being bored
on the rails by the other stiffener. He does his
racing over a straight track about 250 yards long,
and each prad has a separate course running parallel
to and at a short distance from the next. Each
track is about four feet wide. The main point in
Paraguayan bush racing is the get-away, and when
the bunch faces the starter the meeting looks more
like a Wild West show than anything else, each of
the horses walking on its hind leg or bucking and
reefing and darting away down its own particular
avenue whenever the rider eases up on its mouth
for a second. On account of the nags being so
difficult to get off the mark on anything like an
equality the false starts are so numerous that it
sometimes takes all day to run one event; and
although the distance is so short the racers are so
done in by the constant jump away and call back
and the wear and tear that it is generally a hairy-
legged, banjo-headed “stayer” which collects the
$5O prize. Fifty dollars Paraguayan equals about
four bob Australian.
CHARLIE MEMMOTT, veteran billiardist.
“Spreader”: To penalise imported horses
in classic or w.f.a. events would be a sorry advt. for
the native-born. But the idea applied to handicaps
looks reasonable. It is not long since the sight of
a’ Waler occupying first position at the business end
of big English handicaps was common. What has
gone wrong since? It is bunkum to say we cannot
breed horses now like Newhaven, Maluma, Georgic,
Australian Colors, Moifoa and others that became
top-notchers over beyond. The safety-valve is in
our handicappers’ hands ; in fact, it has been there
all along, hut they omit to use it. If anything is
wanted to make this sure take Quinologist as an in-
stance. In the Caulfield Cup they weighted at Bst.
a fashionably-bred, imported son of St. Frusquin,
with just enough mystery about his past to make
him capable of doing anything (on paper). The
handicap must have been worked out on the same
lines in the Metropolitan, only this time they
reckoned they were dealing with a very common-
looking gelding with nothing in the way of per-
formances to get excited about, and gave him
6st. 101 b. No wonder coups are brought off with
English-bred horses, to the disadvantage of our own
breeders.
* * * *
The murkiness which has overshadowed
racing in Brisbane for the last 15 or 16 years seems
to grow murkier. E. G. Blume, a Northern pas-
toralist, who has been a generous patron of the
track, lias leased his large string of horses and has
retired from the game on the alleged ground that a
ring of jockeys and disreputable punters practically
rule the roost. The local press handles turf scandals
very gingerly, having a keen recollection of the fate
that overtook a too-outspoken turf writer a few
years back. The Q.T.C. has a racecourse detective
of unimpeachable integrity, but it acts on the results
of his investigations with great infrequency.
* * * *
Bananalander Wave Geike had an inter-
view with Jimmy Hill, the featherweight champion,
at Sydney Stadium on Saturday, but was unable to
induce James to knock off- presenting him with
arguments in favor of leaving the ■ premises. Either
Hill was in better form than he had been on recent
occasions or Geike is not what he was cracked up
to be. Anvhow, Hill outboxed and outfought him
from first to last. He hit and moved quicker, and
at in-fighting showed Geike that he didn t know the
first thing about it. By the twentieth collision
Geike was done to a turn. There was no need tor
Hill to pass over the k.o. then, for the
Bananalander had not won a round, so he mercifully
tapped the minutes away until Scott handed him
the verdict.
* * * *
Of course it wasn’t William Squires that
succumbed to big Tom McMahon in Melbourne. A
pen got tangled in the cobwebs of the past and
Bill Squires slipped in instead of Bill Lang, who
took the wallop. Of the two Bills, William S. is
getting ready in Sydney to find his punch about
Christmas, and William L. is nursing a sore thumb
in Melbourne.
Two pocket pugs, Albert Locke and Harry
Holmes, battled at Brisbane on Saturday for a look-
in at the Bantam championship or something. Any-
how, it doesn’t matter what for. Holmes, a head
shorter than his friend, ducked and biffed and pre-
sented upper-cuts with sufficient repetition to get
the referee’s blessing. But Heaven help Henry if
he has the misfortune to run against Jack Jannese
—unless John is a mere demi-John compared with
what he was a while back.
* * * *
“Mujik”: What is all this about the
superior fitness the pug of long ago worked himself
into by the training methods of those bygone times?
Those methods were hopelessly wrong, and no
trainer would follow them now unless he wanted to
qualify for a lunacy certificate. How demented they
were the record of ages at which most athletes
perished and the damaged hearts with which the
others emerged from the struggle bear tragic wit-
ness. When ’people talk about the men who got
“fit” by trying to break themselves they ought to
produce some sort of evidence that the majority
were not afflicted with the staleness of the aged
bun. But the yarn that prior to a big engagement
the athlete ought to sit up o’ nights playing cards
for relaxation is as bad as the other. Sleep and
plenty of it is absolutely necessary to an athlete.
The man who wants to train and at the same time
works off all-night at solo is pretty sure to go sour.
“Tasman”: Hughie Myers, the little ex-
Yorkshire professional who went to Hobart in 1913
to act as coach to the T.C.A., has settled down
permanently in the Speck. During the three years
he has been in Hobart Myers has (1) made himself
liked by everyone who has had anything to do with
the game, numbering fully a dozen; (2) gone a
long way towards making first-class batsmen out of
three or four of the most promising colts; and (3)
put up a series of performances that made the
population sit up and take anxious notice. At first
he was rather handicapped by the pace of the
wicket, but in 1914-15 struck form, and for six
months the scorers were kept busy. He wound up
the season with 1072 runs and an average of 93.3.
Incidentally Myers scored a century in each of
the North v. South fixtures and hit up 273 in the
last knock of the season.
* * * *
That 390 for the first wicket totted up
by Heslien (243) and Gostello (140), when the Syd-
ney Grammar scored the decent total of 848 against
Scots’ College the other day, came very near being
a school record for Australia. The list is headed
by J. A. Barnett and Colin Newton, of the Speck,
who trounced the bowling of Hutchins School in
1909 to the tune of 400 for no wickets (a world’s
record, by the way). Barnett’s share was 185,
whilst Newton, the younger of the pair, knocked up
213. Barnett, who went to Oxford as Rhodes
Scholar for 1915, played a good deal of club cricket
subsequently, but never got nearer big things than
a place as 12th man in a North v. South match.
Newton has represented the Speck regularly for the
last four or five years and last year headed the
batting figures for southern Tas.
* * # *
A cricket match at Mitcham, near London,
between a team got up by Lacey, of the Marylebone
Club, and “XI well-known Australians now in Eng-
land with the A.1.F.,” was something of a triumph
for Stirling, latelyi of the South Aus. team. The
Australians won, in a one-innings match, by 200 to
63, and of these he made 79 not out and took six
wickets for 30.
* * * *
Ned Trickett, dead at 69, was the greatest
of the old-time Australian scullers. He was a
Cornstalk of 6ft. 3in., born within sight of the
water at Lane Cove (Sydney). His first big
effort was to defeat Dick Green for the Australian
championship; then, after a victory over Mick
Rush, he crossed to England and tore the world’s
title from Joe Sadler on the Thames. That was
in ’76. Mick Rush and Elias Laycoek were his next
victims in Australia for the championship; but the
temptation of a £2OOO stake lured him to England
again in ’BO, and there he paddled in astern of
Ned Hanlan in a memorable tussle. Trickett was
also defeated by Hanlan in a return match two years
later. After that he gave up chasing the Canuck
and hung his jersey up to dry. Trickett won over
150 races in all kinds of boats between his opening-
pull at the Anniversary Regatta as a lad in ’57
and his retirement. He was a white man from his
Salv’army jersey to the core.
It was Trickett who introduced the sliding-
seat into championship sculling in Australia. He
used it for the first time on the" Parramatta the
year after he beat Sadler. Those were the days
when backers spoke in hundreds. Rush was a great
fixed-seat sculler, and backers who were falling over
each other to back him laughed at the movable fad
and announced that they were prepared to wager on
Trickett ending with a swim. George Jordan, a
Ryde pubkeeper, who timed many of Rush’s spins
on the Parramatta, wouldn’t hear of defeat. The
morning of the race a friend dropped into the bar.
“Look here, George,” he said, “Mick will get
beaten.” “Rot! There’s not a with breath
in him who can do it! But, anyhow, what do you
know about it?” “Well,” said the friend, “listen!
Every time Ned slides he’ll gain 18in., and as they’ll
pull 37 to the minute, Rush will lose over a length
in the mile.” Jordan hearkened and hedged, and
Trickett won according to arithmetic.
» * * *
Ned Trickett made one of the biggest stirs
that sporting Sydney ever knew. When he went
to England to row Sadler under the guidance of
Jim Punch, who owned the great sporting pub of
the day in Sydney, the citizens showed a concern
regarding the race that is never displayed in these
days. Thousands of people thronged the streets and
pushed and elbowed their way into Punch’s house
in order to get first-hand news of the result. Trickett
won, and the pub’s stock vanished like a dream. Ned
was an idol in those days. When not sculling he
worked in a quarry, and ambitious rowing men of
the time became obsessed with the idea that to be
ESS?
rs t P TZ? .“? fStt tE f»“y ld
developed. They all developed a thirst, anyway.
The time is coming when everyone in
Yankeeland will have a car —except milllonaires^ wgO
will run aeroplanes or Zeppelins. t . •
that there are now 4,000,000 autos running in the
States, and 4000 new ones are rushed our every day
to start consuming oil. # *
Recollections of the cycling boom of 20
years ago were revived by a gathering of M o
wheelmen, organised by the recently-formed cycling
Advancement Society. About turned VP’ clarkt f
them being Jack Parsons, Don Walker, C. M. Clarke,
Harry Beeson, Geo. Broadbent, F. Beeson, J. A. Boyes,
G Bennie, G. D. Henderson, S. Beading, C. Ander-
sen A. Levy, A. McDonald (father of the amateur
champion) and Ben Garnett. All sorts
were included in the procession, and the liders
ranged from an old sport of 70 to the *
former champion aged eight. But it would want
mighty big push to make the cycling game feel
young again these times. # #
At the Vic. Lawn Tennis Tournament last
week Jean Littlejohn, of the Scotchbyterian Ladies
College, won the Schoolgirls’ Championship for the
third year in succession. Young Jack Hawkes, ot
Geelong College, also achieved the hat-trica in the
Boys’ Chamo. If ever the Fight ends this youngster
may be heard of driving down the sideline of a
Davis Cup court. Miss Littlejohn did not have one
set called against her in the whole championship
struggle. She is the daughter of W. S. Littlejohn,
head of Scotch College. Her brothers, who were
prominent Oxford and Melbourne ’Varsity oarsmen,
are doctors serving with the A.M.C.
* * * *
The Garrett family of girls had a field
day on Saturday at Rushcutter’s Bay, where the
Sydney Ladies’ Swimming Club met. M. Carrett
won the 50yds. event, and was in front in a 50yds.
breast-stroke struggle. There was a bunch of
Garretts in at the finish of file 30yds. Junior Handi-
cap. They supplied all the place-getters.
■* * * *
The fastest boat in the world is Miss
Minneapolis, a single-step hydroplane built by one
Smith, of Michigan (U.S.A.). Other boatbuilders
have been trying to make mile-eaters by loading the
frail little hulls with the most powerful engines they
can cram in. The modest and wily Smith has so
far beaten them with a 250-h.p. motor in a beauti-
fully lean body 20 feet long. The flier foamed
away with the 1916 Gold Cup races and the One
Mile American Power Boat Association Championship
at a shade over 61 miles an hour. But even that
isn’t her best. She has done a flick or two over 65.
The first Gold Cup winner in 1904 made the Yankees
rise up and cheer by travelling 22J.
* * * *
Baseball is one of the most flourishing of
Unc. Sam’s industries. At a game in Boston lately
a “house” of 36,000 yielded a gate of 76,500
dallahs, the players dividing 41,500 for their share
in the disturbance. Even that total only represents
the takings at usual prices of admission. Many of
the three-dollar seats were sold for as much as 30
dollars, ticket speculators annexing the difference.
In some of the biggest centres of baseball enthusiasm
speculation in tickets is considered as good as play-
ing the game.
* * * *
“Inver G.”: Not so very long ago golf was
a game peculiar to the nobs, so to speak ; and some
not very ancient democrats can remember the day
when appearance in a public place with a kit of
goff ironmongery incited the vulgar herd to loudly
remark, “Haw!” To-day golf is one of the sports
of the people—the vulgar herd itself. Take Cowra
(N.S.W.), for instance. During show-time, when the
settlers for miles around come in to gaze upon the
fatted ox, the population has been known to swell
to 10,000 or thereabouts. Well, Cowra has a golf
club (male members 10s. 6d. a year, female associ-
ates a bob a round), and the great popularity of
igolf is shown by the fact that the roll of member-
ship reaches —six. Four of the crowd play and two
don’t. Two of the four are bank men, and one of
them is Leigh, who happens to be capable of falling
into Sydney and winning a Suburban and Country
Championship. Which takes some doing.


“In Time of Peace
Prepare for War”
The above familiar saying contains a volume of sound advice. It
conveys a message to the individual, as well as to the nation.
Before the day arrives on which you will have to defend yourself, you
should learn how to box. If you don’t prepare now, you run the risk
of getting a sound thrashing from the first “bully” who crosses your
path.
Why take the chance of losing your prestige—your manliness in the
eyes of your fellows, through your inability to assert your rights when
the occasion occurs ?
I TEACH BOXING BY POST
The instruction is practical, simple and easily under-
stood. It thoroughly explains and illustrates every ser-
viceable move in Scientific Boxing. You reap the benefit
of my many years’ experience and keen observation of
the moves of the world’s best boxers.
You now have the opportunity of cultivating your natural
ability—of making good use of the means Nature gave
you for protecting yourself. You will surely be fair to
yourself and learn Scientific Boxing.
Write to-day for my interesting booklet, “SCIENTIFIC
BOXING IN YOUR HOME,” which describes my methods,
terms, etc. Send three penny stamps for postage. Just
write your name and address across this advertisement
and send it to me. I will know what you mean.
vb
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
569 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
w
Select Your Xmas Gifts
from My Catalog!
Write for a free copy of my illus-
trated catalog—it will help you in
choosing suitable Christmas gifts for
your friends.
m
Actual Size,
I can highly recommend
“London
Opinion”
Cigarettes.
They are Virginia cigarettes of
rare quality, and have a: fine,
mild and distinctive flavor that
puts them in a class by them-
selves.
Manufactured by the Ardath
Tobacco Co. of London.
They are very exceptional
value for the money.
Price 5/-
per Box of 100.
Postage: N.S.W., 6d.; Inter-State, Bd.
A. M. SOLOMON,
“ CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Q
pivanani
m
BROODY HENS for 12/6.
The “HATCHO” 15-egg Incubatar
is a perfect substitute for a Broody
Hen, will hatch every fertile egg,
simple to use, cannot get out of order.
Over 4000 sold last season.
Price 12/6 complete, carriage paid.
Egg Testers 1/2 each. Agents wanted.
R. CASTON & CO., Dept. H.,
40 Hunter Street, Sydney.
tUi
5C
SHELt
BHNZINE
iHELL
•NZINE-
vcb
[SHELL
Lbenzin^
TheCMASTOLITE
or Luck
Stone
The Wonderful Old-World War Charm.
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM.
Found in Australia.
Mounted as Pendants in 9ct. Gold, from 10/6 each.
Mounted as Rings in 9ct. Gold, from 20/- each.
The Black Opal Store, 89 Market St., Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, Gem Merchant, Proprietor,
Solo-
&
i
o
u
The Machine Supreme
for Australian Roads
ni
-or
Sidecar
CalaluKUc •l)“ with pleasure.
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. Russell St., Melbourne
P4TOW
>T«I
WHEN YOU WEAR RICNEY SHOES
you can step out into the world with the
comforting knowledge that your feet are
perfectly shod—that the shoes you wear are
the best you could procure anywhere.
We illustrate a choice, All Patent Enamel
Kid Bal. The design, material and work-
manship are alike perfect. Also in Derby.
The famous Paris last. Patent or Tans.
Price - 37|6
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
V
lit
*****
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men's Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,"
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Building's. Edward Street, BRISBANE.
/
I
0
3
*
\
>
THE BEST FOR ALL
-Athletes
Bosisto’s
Parrot Brand
Eucalyptus Oil
Essential to
Athletic Fitness.
Australian Remedy
for Colds, Bronchitis,
Rheumatism, etc.
CAUTION—AIways ask for
BOSISTO’S
PARROT BRAND
as substitutes may be
offered to you.
Si
m
j
K
' ■■■• ,
£
Mg
f 1
GUINEA
The Limit of Panama Quality 8 Panama Value.
The “L.S.” Guinea Special is a Genuine Native Leaf. It is
Perfectly Made. It is Light, Cool and Comfortable—Looks
and Feels Well, and will give Seasons of Service. It is
obtainable in almost any width of Brim and Height of
Crown. As a Panama Investment it is the “Best Ever” at
the price.
POST YOUR ORDER WE PAY FREIGHT.
Lincoln, Stuart 8 Co. Pty. Ltd.
“Where You'll Always Find the Hat Yon Want ” Melbourne


Choose This Boot
It is a shapely style, but in no
way freakish. Medium easy-
fitting toe ensures comfort. The
smooth leather lining has NO
SEAMS. Tan Calf 27/6
We Pay Postage.
fiiciia
For Distinctive Footwear,
135 King Street, SYDNEY.
27/6
GOITRE
A father writes thus of Doig’s Goitre
Treatment:—“The boy that went under
your treatment was completely cured
after taking two lots only, and has not
had a return of the trouble.”
Doig’s Goitre Treatment has
over 3000 successes to its credit —and
seldom fails to reduce the swelling with-
in two or three weeks, usually restoring
the neck to its normal graceful lines
within a few months. Easy to take.
Full information Free on application to
A. DOIG (Australia) LTD.
Manufacturing Chemists
197 P Lambton Quay, Wellington. N.Z.
Bankers: Bank of N.Z.
EAU
DE COLOGNE
Distilled from natural -v
flower products only, its reviving
fragrance never deteriorates even in
a vitiated atmosphere.
An Ideal Toilet Water for sick room use : a
refreshing addition
to washing water;
indispensable when
travelling or on a
sea voyage; and one of the few
perfumes a man permits himself to use.
Sprinkler bottles ... 5/- and 9/6.
Stoppered bottles ... 17/6 and 35/-.
“201 ” Moray Eau de Cologne.
2 oz. bottles, 1/9 ... 4 oz. bottles. 3/3.
“Morny” Eau de Cologne is pro-
nounced by experts —“ Sans rivale.”
The MORNY FINE BATH & PERFUME PRODUCTS
are retailed in Sydney by:—
Civil Service Co-operative Stores of N.S.W., Ltd.,
152-154 Pitt Street; Farmer & Co., Ltd., 221-229
Pitt Street; David Jones Ltd., George Street; Las-
setters Ltd., George Street; Pattinson & Co., 427
George Street; Washington 11. Soul & Co., 160 Pitt
Street; H. A. Rose & Co., 149 King Street.
Wholesale Depot for Australasia: —
DRUGGISTS SUNDRIES LTD.,
32 Pitt Street, Sydney.
For Christmas
Amberoh X
Price
£B/10/-
Take home to your wife an Edison
“Amberola’' X —it will make an ideal Christ-
mas present. There is no gift to equal it at
the price, for it is a superb instrument, one
that will add to the pleasure of home life.
Is handy size, with a cabinet in fumed-oak
finish, and plays the New Blue Amberol
Records —fresh lists of which are published
every month. Price £8 10s.
Call on your nearest dealer or write for
catalogue, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only),
364-872 Kent Street, Sydney.
X
•W*
BEAUTY SECRETS
REVEALEP.
By “MIMOSA.”
HAIR CULTURE.
A DISTRESSING lack of hair will mar
the most beautiful face, and after all
there is really no need to have pool 01
impoverished hair if a few commonsense
rules are observed. First of all, hair tonics
must be freshly-made in order to obtain the
best results, and thousands of women, and
men, too, are now making up their own
lotions with most satisfactory results, ror
this purpose they obtain from the chemists
one ounce of boranium and mix this with
pint of hay rum, quite a simple formula,
and according to all accounts remarkably
effective. This simple home-made lotion
quickly removes all dandruff, and creates a
growth of new, healthy hair which will
gladden the heart of any woman. One word
in conclusion. Do not experiment with
your hair, long suffering though it may be.
Nature will surely revolt if you continue
to subject the hair and scalp to all kinds
of fanciful treatments. Employ a tonic by
all means if such is required, but having
found a satisfactory one use no other.
GOOD SHAMPOO IMPORTANT.
THE hail- should be allowed to breathe,
and the greasy film around each strand
must be removed with a mild non-
alkaline shampoo. Soaps should be tabooed.
The very best solution for the purpose can
be made by dissolving a teaspoonful of stal-
lax granules in a cup of hot water. It
stimulates the scalp to healthy action, and
at the same time leaves the hair in that
soft, fluffy condition so much admired. Any
chemist can supply you with an original
packet of stallax, sufficient to make twrnnty-
five or thirty shampoos.
MAGIC FOR SUPERFLUOUS HAIR.
IT is astounding the number of women
who suffer from unsightly growths of
hair on the face, and it will come as a
piece of good news to know that there is a
simple substance, known as powdered phe-
minol, which will remove it immediately
and permanently. Mix a small quantity
into a thin paste with a little water, and
apply to the objections] growths. In two
minutes all trace of the hair will have,
entirely vanished, and your skin will be as
soft and smooth as a child’s.
RENEWING COMPLEXIONS.
THE average woman of to-day is usually
satisfied if her complexion is passably
pretty, little knowing that an exquisite
skin is now within her reach, providing she
has the good sense to stop using cheap made-
up preparations and adopt what has now
become known as the mercolised-wax habit.
It is a pity that every woman in the land
cannot be apprised of this simple method.
The few to whom its virtues are already
known have complexions that are the envy
or all their friends, and, as is usually the
case, the majority of them refuse to divulge
the secret. However, the formula has now
been verified, and is known as mercolised
wax. Inquiry at several chemists’ shops
have resulted in ascertaining that this sub-
stance has beer known to the select few for
some years as complexion beautifier, but it
is only until quite recently that it has been
used to any extent for this purpose. It was
also explained how mercolised wax renews
the complexion, but as this is rather tech-
nical it is not proposed tp repeat it here. It
will be sufficient to say that through some
peculiar action the wax absorbs the dead
and discolored outer cuticle, revealing the
fresh young complexion which every woman
has underneath. The process occupies about
ten days, and the change is so gradual and
imperceptible that no discomfort whatever
is caused. The treatment is perfectly harm-
less and the wax may be used as often as
desired.
BLACKHEADS FLY AWAY.
A PRACTICALLY instantaneous remedy
for blackheads, greasy skins and
enlarged pores, recently discovered, is
now coming into general use in the boudoir.
It is very simple, harmless and pleasant.
Drop a styrnol tablet, obtained at the
chemist’s, in a tumbler full of hot water.
After the effervescence has subsided bathe
the face in the liquid, using a small sponge
or soft cloth. In a few minutes dry the
face and the offensive blackheads will come
right off on the towel. Also the large oily
pores immediately close up and efface them-
selves naturally. The greasiness disappears
and the skin is left smooth, soft and cool.
This simple treatment is then repeated a few
times at intervals of four or five days to
ensure the permanence of the result. [1
#
Australian Wholesale Agents:
DRUGGISTS SUNDRIES LTD.,
Corner Clarence & Market Sts., Sydney.
DO YOU KNOW the importance of rich blood? It will be evident
when you consider that the entire system derives its nourishment
from the blood. „ , r
When the blood is poor in quality and unable properly to perform
its function, the system becomes starved.
The sufferer complains of exhaustion, lassitude, loss of appetite
and depression—he is debilitated. , . , , ,
He will continue to suffer until his blood is enriched and strengthened.
This is when Iron ‘Jelloids,’ The Reliable Tonic, are needed to
enrich and strengthen the blood. ,
As the blood becomes restored to its normal condition, strength and
energy return —one feels fit and well.
Dr. Andrew Wilson wrote Impoverished blood can be
“made rich and good by means of Iron Jelloids the
“most effective and desirable treatment.”
A FORTNIGHT’S TRIAL (price 1/6) WILL CONVINCE YOU.
Reliable Tonic for Men . • IRON ‘JELLOIDS No. 2A.
For Ancemia in Women . . . IRON JELLOIDS No. 2.
For Growing Children . . . IRON ‘JELLOIDS No. 1.
Obtainable at all Chemists, price 1/6. Large size 3/'.
tocnMoid&m
tettw (Pronounced Jell-Lloyds)
vb
SHVTIOD P UB SJLHIHS
FIT LIKE PARTS OF MACHINERY
John O’Donovan, who succeeds John
Cullen as boss of the Maoriland police, is a
gentle, cadaverous Celt who would rather
give a sinner half a sovereign and 75 chances
than put him in quod. Twenty-five years
ago he was orderly at Wellington police
court, and decorously exhorted the witness to
kiss the book. Between times John studied
law and qualified as a solicitor. But instead
of pursuing Costs he kept on being a Hop
and laboriously climbed up the long ladder
of promotion. He makes the sixth Police
Commissioner Maoriland has had inside 20
years—Hume, Tunbridge, Dinnie, Walde-
grave, Cullen and O’Donovan.
It must do princes good to come to their
thrones while a war is on. In peace time
Archduke Charles, old Francis Joseph’s suc-
cessor, would have been wise and sagacious.
Now he is assured frankly that “he is
featherheaded, and has no more capacity for
handling public affairs than a rabbit.”
F. Halcomb, M.A., who as Clerk of Par-
liaments at Adelaide sits in the chair that
the late E. Gordon Blackmore used to fill
before he went to the Federal Legislature,
is still going strong, although in his 81st
year. Halcomb was educated at Maccles-
field and Wndhsm College. Oxford. He has
been in the service of the S. Aus. Parliament
for 46 years.
Walker Lane, who died the other day in
a private hospital in Sydney, after an
operation, was a Lancashire man, and in
his early days in Sydney was the champion
cube-setter. This was before woodblocking
for streets became general, when many of
them were laid down with blue-metal
cobbles. Much later in life he was senior
partner in Lane and Peters. This firm built
the Cataract Dam, the main source of Syd-
ney’s water supply, and is now busy on the
much larger Burrinjuck wall. Lane wasn’t
personally responsible for Cataract. That
credit really belongs to Thomas Peters, the
dam-building specialist of the firm. Lane
dabbled in gold-mining at one time, and
lost most of the money he had made. on
sewer contracts and street-blocking jobs —
and, incidentally, nearly lost his reason as
well. He was a “good sort,” a fair and
considerate employer, and a man of winning
personality, though very retiring. Shortly
after the completion of Cataract, Lane
retired from the old firm, and presently
started the Ryde brickworks. He had an
abiding faith in bricks and mortar, and con-
sistently went on erecting shops and dwell-
ings.
Nobody has told anything about the
thoughts of Brother Binghi at the Front;
yet there ought to be something to say,
because S. Aus. alone sent 20 abos. on active
service during 1915-16.
R. L. Outhwaite, probably little Tas-
mania’k one representative in the House of
Commons, has got his Hanley constituents
on the boil at last. His large capacity for
bei -g heterodox in a nasty way has got him
branded as “unpatriotic,” and Asquith has
been petitioned to shift him by legislation
if he won’t go out of his own accord. Outh-
waite’s father, was an early Victorian
squatter; the son did injustice to his up-
bringing by being a Henry George land-
taxer. He was a journalist in S’Afriea
before he went to England to unsuccessfully
oppose Joe Chamberlain at Birmingham.
When the English Royal Commission had
reported that the compulsory notification of
syphilis was not yet called for, Dr. Robert
Gibson dropped this into the British Medi-
cal Journal concerning a patient of his: —
He had a chancre on the index finger and a second-
ary rash over the body. As the law stands I am
unable to compel this man to give up his work.
And just to make the members of the Com-
mission enjoy their meals abroad, Dr. Gib-
son added that his patient was a cook in a
restaurant.
Dr. Dugald Clerk, chairman of the Lon-
don Society of Arts, lately spoke of the
“stability of Britain”
He disagreed with the colonial idea of a self-
contained Commonwealth. The British idea of the
expansion of trade to every part of the world was the
right one. Without it stability was impossible.
Well, time was when Australia —just like
Dr. Clerk —went red-raw for the British
idea of “the expansion of trade with every
part of the world.” In fact, this country
“expanded” so enthusiastically that it
handed the foreigner practically full con-
trol of some of its most important metal
production. Does Dr. Clerk say that by
thus supplying Germany with war material
Australia was helping to keep John Bull on
his pins?
“Perewiki” Casting back over half a cen-
tury since my birth in Kaiapoi (M.L.) I see
a great change in the Maori. In the old
days he was just Maori; but what a change
has taken place in the progeny of the pure-
breed old-timers who loved a toothsome meal
of “long-pork,” and who saw nothing wrong
in gnawing their enemies’ shinbones! To-day
it is difficult, especially in the South Island,
to find the pure-blooded native. Every year
the brand of the palceha becomes more pro-
minent, and the real thing in olive-skins is
passing away. Before the end of the present
century it will have been largely absorbed.
Similarly with the language. Take Kahiti
(Maori Gazette) as an example. To-day it
uses a lingo of Anglicised or adapted words
that almost anyone could dissect or attach
a reasonable meaning to. The nearest thing
to the genuine Maori, and the correct lan-
guage, lingers in the King Country up
north ; but the inroad of the white shows
that trespass has taken place even there.
The change is' further illustrated in the
dress of the waliine and the young bucks.
What a contrast to 50 years ago, when a
blanket was all that hung between the brown
skins and the atmosphere. To-day the light-
skinned, golden-haired wahines tog up in the
latest costumes, in fashionable millinery, in
cloth-topped boots and silk stockings. As to
vices, it can truly be said that the modern
Henare and Mere have all those peculiar to
the original article, with the whites’ plethora
thrown in. It makes an unlovely mixture.


OEM*
ss
fj«
p»
3
?
I
i ; -«a
31
IWf*
*
7 ?fP!
i
3VT W L
\ *
11HK
M
''^3
'
7
Xi
7,
7/7,.
y
I
J
w
A*
S 3?
S&r «gf
' /
xf 7
UX/ /
/ /
/
/
we/ym
/■
m
?!
ft
m
In 20
nsi
Guests
is a simple matter with
BEALE KALOPHONE
It is essentially an instrument that appeals to
cultivated tastes. The performers are artists with
world-wide reputations men and women of
genius who sing and play with consummate skill.
The Kalophone faithfully and realistically presents
their efforts —in touch, tone and temperament.
Informal concerts held daily from 10 till 4 ; 1 0 till
1 2.30 on Saturdays. Convenient terms arranged.
Also at
232 KING STREET, NEWTOWN.
Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn and Wagg
Victoria : Maples, in all Melbourne Suburbs.
Tasmania: Williams Bros , Hobart. Maples, Launceston.
South Australia : John Evans. Ltd., Adelaide.
eale
C 9
LTV
333 George St
Sydney
Factory:
41-47 TRAFALGAR ST„ ANNANDALE
Queensland : 90-92 Queen Street Brisbane
ent Street. Maryborough Flinders Street. Townsville
Rockhampton. Sydney Street. Mackay.
Cairns.


*d £
be caused by too
worry or pleasure,
of
The least
exertion,
whether
it he
work or
p 1 e a s u re,
seems t o
quickly tire
you out and
makes you
feel weak
and langnid.
This means
that both
your mental
and physical
vitality is
low. It may
much work,
but a course
FISHER’S
PHOSPHERINE
The Great Nerve Tonic
quickly restores tfte system to
its normal condition, and gives
you the vim and vigor necessary
to enjoy both work and pleasure.
In cases of Indigestion, Back-
ache, Malaria, Headache, Brain-
fag, Nervousness and Muscular
Rheumatism Fisher’s Phos-
pherine is the remedy which for
forty years has been unequalled.
Ali Chemists and Stores, 1/- per
bottle. Four times the quantity,
Chemists,
337 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. F.149.P.’
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day. —The Latest
Scientific Hearing- Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
m™.
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mgars Ear PhfllXP many times as efficient
iHßaia L,ai ruune and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion ,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and varticulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
WESTERN MACHINERY
WHEELED SCOOPS and DRAG SCRAPERS,
PLOUGHS FOR CONTRACTORS,
WESTERN ROAD GRADERS,
ELEVATING GRADERS, ROCK CRUSHERS,
ROAD PLANER and FINISHER,
DUMP CARS, SCARIFIERS.
(Large Stocks Carried).
Catalogs and Full Information from
the Sole Agents.
E. D. MORRISON 8 CO. LTD.,
257 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BE GOOD
TO YOUR
COMPLEXION
USE
Nyal’s
Face
Cream
1/6 & 2/6 per jar.
FOR SALE BY
CHEMISTS ONLY
To Assist Inventors.
Patents Investigation Board
Established by the Government of New South Wales.
PROSPECTUS on application to the Sec-
retary, Patents Investigation Board, 16
Carrington St., Sydney. Telephone 1989 City.
MM
PlfP
The Bulletin
Stock Saddle
This latest saddle of ours combines many of our
COMFORT INNOVATIONS in Saddles—the
dippy pigskin seat, the rough out-flaps for grip, _ our
G.S. panel with the short stuffing and leather points,
the long girth straps and long flaps. It is fitted up as
illustrated with folded leather stirrup leathers,
4-bar nickel-plated stirrups and SURCINGLE. The
knee-pads are well made and strong and the right shape
for comfort. If you prefer all smooth leather instead of
rough-out say so when ordering, and give your height
and weight.
Price £5-18-6
Freight Free
for Cash
to any port or railway station in N.S.W. or any direct port
in the other States, New Zealand or Fiji.
ring head bridle, with rein and billet in one I
piece, and one inch cheeks and rein, 11/6, post free, for
cash. If ordered with Saddle, 10/6.
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
WALTHER S STEVENSON LTD.
Saddlers & Harness MaKers,
393 George St. and 32 Hunter St., Sydney.
K,
BOOTS have come back again and no mistake.
But such dreams of boots, up-to-date,
dainty, delightful, fit accompaniment to the
flounced taffeta frocks of the day, which
combine smart modernity with old-world charm.
Paris and London both are now tripping to work
and play in short-fronted, high-heeled, suede-
topped boots like the Bostock style here illus-
trated.
It is a smart little boot, there is no doubt
about that, and every bit as comfortable as it is
smart. The beautifully fitting last on which it is
made sees to that, and lots of women, who have
never imagined they could wear a short-fronted
style, will be amazed to find how comfortable it
is, how jolly it makes their feet look.
Then for those who want something different,
who prefer shoes perhaps, there is a fine range of
styles to select from, all as up-to-date and charm-
ing as this model, and all safe to wear well and
feel as peculiarly one’s own as if they had been
made to measure.
Bostock No.
P 6476
HI
HI
■S
m
m
H
828
cn
None genuine unless
stamped “Bostock.”
See that the name “Bostock”
is stamped on the soles.
E
the SIGN Of
A GOOD SHINE
In This Age of Economy—
the use of BOSTOCK’S SHOE DRESSINGS is necessary, because they
not only shine but preserve the leather.
ROSTOCK’S VIOLA CREAM for Patent Leather and Glace Kid gives a
brilliant polish, and keeps the leather soft and pliable.
Colors—Black, Brown, Dark Brown and White.
In 2oz. Tubes, 6d.; 4oz. Bottles, 1/-. SOLD EVERYWHERE.
BOSTOCK’S VIOLA POLISHES LTD., SYDNEY.
Choose Xmas Gifts Now
From Stewart Dawson’s Unrivalled Selections
AND SEND IN YOUR NAME FOR A COPY OF THEIR SPLENDID GIFT CATALOGUE WITHOUT DELAY.
M 7 Gold
and 5-Diamond
Ring, carved set-
ting, £7 10s.
D 2931. —Fine Soli-
taire Diamond
Engagement Ring,
Platinum setting,
£l2/10/-
C 6506. Sterling
Silver and Enamel
Brooch, Kookoo-
burra design.
Price 3/-
C 9453. —Common-
wealth Coat of
Arms, 9ct. Gold
and Enamel,
12/6.
Sterling Silver, 2/-
Al9O. —9ct. Gold Australian
Souvenir Brooch, 6/6.
Sterling Silver and Enamel,
a/-
Fine Diamond
3-stone Ring,
set in Plati-
num and 18ct.
Gold,
£l5 10s.
P239B.—Plati-
num and 18ct.
Gold Diamond
Cluster Ring,
£8 10s.
STEWART DAWSON’S,
Strand Corner,
412 George St., Sydney
C 6699. —Fine Pearl
and Pink Tourma-
line Set 9et. Gold
Necklet with Case.
Price £3 IQs.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
F.Y.G. Write to late N.S.W. Chief Secre-
tary George Black, Parliament House, and he’ll
enlighten y0u.... Aurelian : It was not proposed to take
only single men, but to take them, in grades, first....
E.M.C.G.: Any suburban chemist could tell us that.
But you’re living in an interesting island that not
more than one suburban chemist in a million has
seen. Now, why not tell us something about that?
. ...J.L.D.: Awful business... .E.S.: “Bosom” yarn
lumpy and bumpy and all out of tune.... M. 8.:
The old theme, the old clumsy treatment. If you
really want to die, there’s no difficulty about it these
times... .V.C.: Commonplace lines; and it takes
48 of them to say that you found shade and got a
drink of water.... Snik: Not interested in the “pens
of the future.” The accomplishments of one pen
of the present are sufficient punishment... .W. 8.:
Not a glimmer in them Kismet: N 0... .T.W.8.:
Lame stuff without interest W.H.K.: Information
about time, necessity, hunger and the other bright
and original fantods dutly noted... .Will Andy:
Small point; not skill enough H.M.: Sell “The
Quest” elsewhere. Not our style W.P.8.: Thanks.
We take it as a pretty compliment W.T.J.: No
u5e....R.G.: The gods ddn’t intervene here....
H.P.H.: Here goes for one verse at least, as you
are at the Front yourself:—
I’ve read all sorts and kinds of books
Of fiction worse and better,
But I think the biggest lies are all
Told in a soldier’s letter.
....Gee: Well, that is a tame horror!'... .T.L.R.:
Make it into a picture drama to improve the morality
of bookmakers’ clerks.... Chookie: Patriotic pork
yarn wants better handling. .. .Poet Aster: Your
rhythm is all at fault; and the “Storm” seems to
be mere loose bundles of words.... Mac: Nearly
every line 0ut.... J.R.: Suppose you can’t help it....
E.F.A.: Madam, if you must attack the Ten Com-
mandments, do it with an axe, not with a feather
duster. .. .A.R.P.: The simple squatter must be
taken down in better verse. ... A.W.McI.: Verse is
raw and crude, but has some promise. We’ve had
your first attempts. Send us your fiftieth J.M.M :
Yes, better, but not up....Tongu: Your friend the
cat doesn’t interest. .. .R.A.S.: If that’s your notion
of humor, the case is serious... .C.S.: Walk right
in and chant your
.... Kemo: One canto:—•
Little Willie Hughes
In a double bed.
(’Twould hardly hold his head!)
To himself he said:
“What’s the use in being Hughes 1
I might as well be dead! ’.’
C.L.: Not nearly up G.L.P.: “Bright Times”
don’t make bright verse... .L.W.: Nice pious, com-
monplace reflections without an idea or an original
phrase... .F.K.: Don’t care what the other papers
say. Write on one side of the paper if you want a hear-
ing. .. .S. A.K.: Nearly... .V.F.K.: Drop that, and
get to grips with something real... .W.A.C.: “Em-
pire’s Call” is mostly rhymes falling over one
another so heavily that they smash the sense....
J.Z.R.: Can’t be done. .. .P.P.: Sorry, not up. Those
rhymes would poison the best verse ever written...
C. : “Sailor and His Wife” can be better toasted
than that.... Bracken: The moon is always calm,
but you make her hop like a frog. .. .E.L.S.: Lord,
how it jolts !.... Timi P.: Wants a finer touch and
better rhymes; the idea is all right... .M.M.: Noth-
ing .... Alfonso: Promise in it, but a long way yet
to g 0.., .H. 8.: Not up... .G.0.M.: Good material
poorly handled... .M.L.G.: No grip in it K.G.:
Mere commonplace. Don’t write on two sides of
paper. .. .Mavis: Too slight. Write about something.
... .Rostus: Verse bumps heavily... .G.J.: You don’t
seem to have the verse sense.... A.R.G.: No good.
....Olive: You can’t work it with an odd rhyme
in the places it isn’t heard... .R.D’A.I.: Old jest.
. ...W.F.: Your heart’s all right, but your verse
creaks... .One of Them: Narrowly missed being
quoted as a shocking example, even if you do teach
a school... .R.M.: Awful... .R.I.K. : Couldn’t make
any sense of it till we stood on our heads to read
it; and then we fancied it was a recipe for cough
mixture.... Amos Manbis: We write and print in
Australian for Australian readers... .E.H.O’L.:
They miss, but not by a mile C.L.: Dunno.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.G.G.: Doesn’t get us either way. .. .C.C.H.:
You won’t do.... Kay: Not up.... Jack S.: Nothing
in it... .E.T.: Don’t add that to the horrors of war.
D. : Weak gags, spidery drawings V.H.: They’re
not worth anything... .R.M.C.: Very little in the
idea and it is badly drawn and out of date G.T.:
G00d... .C.R.: Nothing to make a picture of in the
bunch; and several of them unpleasant... .A.R.L.:
Corpses and fleas are insanitary subjects for car-
toons. .. .E.M.C.G.: No cartoon in it.
The calling up of married men in England
must be what the papers are referring to as
the Turn of the Tied.
“Murkah”: The other day, in the men’s
lavatory at Sydney Central Railway Sta-
tion, I stood and saw a procession of nine
men use one overworked strip towel. The
last of them had a suspicious rash on his
face. Ten seconds after he had vanished
in came another man who joyously blotted
himself on the same old rag. What is the
use of starting sanitary agitations if a
Government department permits this sort
of savagery ? Why can’t the Railways charge
a small fee, and hand each customer a clean
rag, as is done in the municipal lavatories
in the city? But the best idea that I have
seen is that in use in the U.S.A., where the
disease-spreading communal towel is illegal.
The turn of a handle unwinds and hands
the damp American about half a yard of a
cloth-like blotting-paper. It retains its
strength long enough to dry him and is
then dumped for ever.
“Ode to the Sky”:
Hail! black, and grey, and bluish sky,
That appearest as a dome,
How thankful to thee we should be,
A roof to our wordly home.
When the sun reigns o’er the blue,
Sights like thee are few,
But when thy blackness o’ershadows it from
view,
Thou art miserable.
WTien thy grey appearest,
How beautiful thou art;
Thy beauty is in fulness
A rapture to my heart.


Go
O
6
M
*
m
f
m
*
m
7
£
//A
' I
1 3
I w
! >
!
%
mo.
SI
m
%
H
%
ft
I
r
IS
K3B
CE
s
r"
M
Myi
moniaeair
cJK
e U>
"JZY
%
x
w.
I
Safe as
the Bank
To the cautious investor the Bank
has long been synonymous with
security and safety.
To the wise motorist Goodyear
Ty res also occupy a like position in
his view of the tyre situation.
By their sound construction and
perfect workmanship, by the quality
Your safety is assured when you ride
on Goodyear tyres. You are secure
in the knowledge that on a “cost per
mile” basis they are at one and the
same time the best and most eco-
nomical tyre on the Australian
market to-day.
To give users the greatest possible
value —to stand at the back of our
product so that each purchaser gets
a “square deal” —to insure the pro-
of the ingredients of
which they are built,
Goodyear T y res
occupy the highest
position in the estima-
tion of tyre users.
THE GOODYEAR TYRE & RUBBER
CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Head Office—23l Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Branches and Agencies in all Principal Cities.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE.
tection now and always
of our o-ood name has
been and always will
be the aim of this
company. Experience
has proven that it pays
much more than, a
bank dividend so to do.
Goodyear Tyres , Tubes , Belting , Hose , Packing ,
wzt' obtainable throughout Australia and N.Z.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabinss-de-luxe ;
Staterooms, with bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms,
Private Bathrooms, Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Regular sailings from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :—■
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
NORTH.
See Daily Papers for sailing
dates.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and VV.A. ports)
‘Passengers only.
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
From Sydney, Dec. 12.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700.000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY.
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C M G
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Rrishane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen V ictoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian gank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act 1
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED . . . . . . 193 379
PAID-UP (30th June, 1916) . . £1,197,393
RESERVE FUND .. .. .. £Bs^ooo
HEAD OFFICE: George* King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE : 37 Thread needle Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS— Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman-
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Frank N. Yarwood,
Esq. ; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq. ; George F
Todman, Esq.; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
World. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 I
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 (
Reserve Fund 212,000 0 1
interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 l
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman)
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq.
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Brandies—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, [imited.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. 1.875.000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,875,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. 11. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: J. J. Brenan, Esq.; and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S. Littleton;
N. D. Cohen, Esq. Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South AVales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the World.
Bank of ||eiu Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. . . 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,118,605
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
, land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
liritain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts
all other usual
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
Banking business.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Austraiasian Royal Mail Liao to Vancouver
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE, CALLING AT
AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (Fiji) and HONOLULU (Hawaii).
the "ALL-RED"
RAILWAY, Across
ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN
the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
PACIFIC
LAKES,
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
t Twin Screw. * Triple Screw. Fitted with Cabins De Luxe , Suites, Bedstead Rooms. Lifts. Laundry,
Nursery, Wireless, etc.
AROUND THE WORLD BOOKINGS, RETURNING VIA CHINA AND JAPAN, OR VIA
SUEZ CANAL OR SOUTH AFRICA.
Royal Mall Line to San Francisco.
VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
* Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
STEAMERS SAIL FROM WELLINGTON ,'N.Z.).
*MAITAI, 4th January, 1917. *MOAN A, Ist February, 1917.
steamers leave Sydney—2Bth December, ,25th January, 1917.
Passengers Transfer at Wellington to the Mail Steamer immediately on arrival.
Vessels stay 24 hours at Papeete, “The Pearl of the Pacific.’’
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
“ The Paradise
of the Pacific.”
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers Trading to America—
R.M.B. Niagara and R.M.S. Makura.
A Tonr of Seven Weeks, allowing Nineteen Days’ Stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
GRAND PACIFIC HOTEL at Suva now open.
Specially designed for the Tropics and up to date in every respect.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
Something Unique in
Island Tours
WB,
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES,
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
4m
Directors:
£3,705,320
£2.725.000
£3,705,320
£10,135,640
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.G., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T, Walker.
The Hon. .Edmund W. FosJjery, (J.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.’
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq. ; W. 11. Palmer, Esq.
Hoad Office—George St., Sydney. London Office- 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
338 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
, -T. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager. '
(IommomKalth^®anft“HnstaIia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
Open
for all
General Banking: Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
1/'
Minimum
Deposit
At all Branches, and over
2600
Agencies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest at 9°/
per annum **/o
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL. Deputy Gorernor. June, 1916 DENISON MILLER, GoTernor
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
Quickly removes SKIN ERUPTIONS,
ensuring A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable Pimples,
disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema disappear
by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAB BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
Scurf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
Sulphoiine is prepared by the great Skin Specialists,
J.Pepper&Co., Ltd., Bedford Laboratories, London,
S.E., England, and can be obtained from any
chemists and stores throughout the world.
Quickly remove* the effects of Suneoorch.
ITUvCtcd
Stimulating—
Nourishing—
Palatable—
Easily Made—
Easily Stored—
Always an Ideal
Food-Drink.
SffP**
SBas&i
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
WEST ADSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DIMBOOLA, Friday,
Dec. 15. and Jan. 12.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
PARINGA, Dec. 9.
RUPARA, Dec. 16.
MORIALTA, Dec. 23.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUIL,Ii & CO.. LTD.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,”
“Ulimaroa,”
“Riverina,”
"Westralia,
“Wimmera,
“Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
AMERI C A—C A N ADA
and
GREAT BRITAIN
via
SAMOA—HONOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
Sailings from Sydney:—
DEC. 27, JAN. 17, FEB. 7, FEB. 28.
Apply:— OCEA NIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom, via Suez Canal, Cape of Good Hope,
Torres Straits.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine. Surgeon and
Stewardess. Electric Fans.
FARE TO LONDON OR LIVERPOOL, £4B.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD., Hobart.
"THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer. £6 Bs. 6ii. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N.Co. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ”
T. 5.5. “ KANOWNA”
T.S.S. “ KYARRA”
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA”
10,000 tons
7000 tons
, 7000 tons
6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA”
S.S. “ WYANDRA”
6500 tons
4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel by
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fiji Trade;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Dailv Papers.
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, II BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.


What It Means to YOU
\
O- CEDAR Polish-Mop means relief from
the hardest part of housekeeping —the
hard, tedious, back-breaking drudgery
of constant cleaning, dusting and polishing.
And it means even more a clean, bright,
dustless home, without hard work, red
hands, tired back and tired knees.
Just a few minutes daily and your floors are
spotlessly clean bright and pretty as new.
The New the Improved—the Better
r
Polish
[Registered in principal countries]
is even better than last year’s model. And
there are over two millions now in use
all giving perfect satisfaction.
O-Cedar is indeed a blessing where you have a
large floor surface to clean and polish. It is used
extensively in hospitals, schools, churches, etc.
One Trial
Will Convince You
Purchase from any leading dealer. Try the
O-Cedar Polish-Mop on your own work.
You will be more than satisfied. Write our
local distributor if you have any
difficulty in obtaining.
Catalogues and Dealer Samples
and Prices can be had from
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
37 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Sole Agents.
Also at BRISBANE.
Manufactured by
Channell Chemical Co •
Factory: Chicago, U.S.A.
Offices:
London, Toronto, Buenos Aires
Cable Address: Ocedar
Do You Really Know How To Shave ?
So many men don’t, that this is not intended as a joke. Most men
take twice the time needed, and endure unnecessary torture.
As a test, shave one side of your face with the preparation you
now use. Then shave the other side with
ns
SHAVING CREAM
i SHrtUINQ
f CRWM
mnrig ns
SeRHfIR6f v fcnnw
CmemicalCa .
Newark mum
following directions with every tube. You will be astonished
at the difference—not only in the way your razor acts, but in
the way the two sides of your face feel.
THE REASON IS
that Mennen’s is absolutely different in composition from every other preparation. It
took three years experimenting to perfect it. It softens the beard —requires no “rub"
bing in”—no relathering—no lotions.
««rr>
0
Send penny
stamped envelope
for free sample of
MENNEN'S
TALCUM FOR
MEN.
I
Obtainable at all leading chemists and stores
G. MENNEN CHEMICAL COMPANY
109 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S. W. Lower Cuba Street, Wellington, N. Z.
<D
Trade Mark
•? A
♦♦ARAtiiS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ABABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabia” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
t’VW T7TT? Ifrffg
■ U UlilULIU LUUt kUUUil .lk.ktWU.V3a
F* mETAL POLISH
Makes old metals new. Keeps all pol-
ished metal bright. The only safe pol ish
to use on aluminum as it contains
neither acid nor ammonia. Puts on a
quick, lasting luster. Sold in two size
cans by all Grocery, Hardware and Drug
Stores, hook for the Photo «n Can,
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
'A case for
Wt'ncnrnis *
Weakness
Every movement of the body
uses up a definite amount of
vitality That is why you
feel tired at the end of the
day. When you overtax
yourself, or when your
vitality is undermined by
illness, your whole system
becomes too exhausted to
recover its lost vitality with
out assistance. Your system
is like a plant that is
drooping for want of water
And just as water revives
a drooping plant —so
Wincarnis' gives new life
and new vitality to a weak
ened constitution. Because
‘ Wincarnis possesses a
four-fold pftwer It is a
Tonic, a Restorative, a
Blood-maker, and a Nerve
Food —all in one. Therefore
cv
creates new strength, new
blood, new nerve force, and
new vitality. The benefit
begins from the first wine-
glassful. You can feel it
doing you good You can
feel every wineglassful
giving you more strength
than you had before, and
surcharging your whole sys
tern with new vitality That
is why over 10,000 Doctors
recommend ‘ Wincarnis.
Begin to get
well TO DAY.
‘ Wincarnis ’ is made in Eng-
land by COLEMAN & CO.,
Ltd., Wincarnis Works, Nor-
wich. You can buy ‘ Wincar-
nis ’ from all Chemists and
Stores selling wines, prices 4/-
and 6/6, but if you experience
any difficulty in obtaining it,
write direct to Sole Distribut-
ing Agents, Fassett & Johnson,
5/7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
The Name is
ttie Guarantee
of the
ff
4
The world-wide
popularity of
YARDLEY’S
EAU-DE-COLOGNE
established when
George the Third was
King, is a tribute to
the skill and art of
Yardley, the famous
Bond Street perfumer
[ Done in London
\ since 1770.
8 New Bond ST, •
London
b
A £l4 Machine
With 5 Drawers,
£8 10s.
15 YEARS’ WRITTEN
GUARANTEE.
Packed and Delivered Free.
A.N.A.Sewing Machine Co.
25 QUEEN VICTORIA MARKETS
(near Town Hall), SYDNEY.
Also at Errol Street, North Melbourne; 7 Arcade,
Adelaide; Baird’s Arcade, Perth; 39 George Street,
Launceston; and 123 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.


ZANETIC Penduplicating Paper ensures perfect,
permanent copies with absolute ease. If your dealer
does not stock, send to S.B. Zanetic Works, Leicester,
England. It’s All-British, and economical in use. [2
Legal Notices.
T EGAL partnership. A partnership is
open for a competent Solicitor in a
leading North Queensland Practice. Com-
munications, which will be treated as
strictly confidential, may be addressed to
Box 109, G.P.0., Brisbane.
Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 26th October, 1916.
Appointment of Power Engineer for
Royal Australian Naval Radio
Service.
APPLICATIONS are invited from per-
sons between the ages of 30 and 45
years qualified to fill the position of Power
Engineer in the Royal Australian Naval
Radio Service. Salary, £216 to £312 per
annum. Commencing salary will be accord-
ing to qualifications.
Further particulars may be obtained from
the Commonwealth of Australia Gazette, or
from the Naval Secretary, Department of the
Navy, Melbourne, to whom applications,
accompanied by copies of certificates and
testimonials, must be sent • direct so as to
reach him not later than 18th December,
1916.
J. A. JENSEN,
Minister of State for the Navy.
"■'l', . "
' i
: i
THE FARMER’S FRIEND.
IMPERIAL FARM TRACTORS
Made in Australia to Suit Australian Conditions.'
Solves the Labor Problem. Saves Horseflesh.
Repair Parts Rarely Needed, but Always Available.
Write for Full Particulars.
Queensland Agents:
QUEENSLAND MACHINERY CO. LTD., Albert Street, Brisbane.
IN
BANANA LAND
Rees R. Jones, of Rockhampton, senior
solicitor on the Queensland roll, whose death
took place in Sydney last week, aged 77,
loved facts, and had the scientist’s scorn of
anything else that was offered him. Techni-
cal men browsing in any one of the kingdoms
—mineral, vegetable or animal —could not
draw the wool over Rees Jones’s eyes. He
knew something of wool, too, and had placed
on record that the highest price realised for
Australian clip was 10s. 4d. per lb. for one
bale sent to England by John Macarthur. A
graduate of the Ma State, mathematics were
his long suit. He “did” his first book of
Euclid as a boy in one night, and the next
book by the end of the week. A general
election with three or more parties in the
field did not occur often enough to enable
him to indulge his love for the analysis of
figures, so on Monday mornings at the Rock-
hampton Club he would produce calcula-
tions showing the chances he had taken in
some declaration at bridge on the previous
Saturday night. Law was his living, but
facts were his god, and Old Sydney his
favorite hunting-place. Right up to the
moment of his death he was brainy, brave
and lovable.
G. G. McKay, who latterly lived quietly
at Narracoorte (S.A.) and has died there at
75, will be remembered by Queenslanders as
a prospector beyond Cooktown and one of
the first Australians in New Guinea, having
twice been sent there on prospecting expedi-
tions by Administrator MacGregor.
To be made acting-sergeant, transferred
to headquarters, and presented with the
Police Medal at 22 is an easy record for
the Queensland Police. The John Hop who
has thus got out of the ruck is Frank Fahey,
of Rockhampton. He earned his sudden
lift in a rough-and-tumble with a thief in a
butcher’s-shop. The man was armed with
a carving-knife, nevertheless Fahey closed,
and was out of hospital in time to see his
assailant sent along for six years.
Planted his last stick of sugar-cane at
Bundaberg the other day, R. D. Hickman,
aged 66. He opened Bundaberg’s first school
in the early ’7o's with 5o pupils. After-
wards he founded the Volunteer Rifle Corps,
and instructed the local orators in elocu-
tion. He soon abandoned the school-cane to
plant the sugar-stick, and had contributed
profits to the C.S.R. Co. for 40 years.
Maryborough lost one of its benefactors
when G. A. White died the other day, aged
81. Feeling ashamed of the old town hall,
nine years ago he presented the citizens with
£lO,OOO to build a decent one, stipulating
that the Council pay him £5OO interest per
year until his death, after which all liability
ceased. As the old chap was then 72 the
aldermen took the risk. Later on he pre-
sented the town with public swimming baths
at a cost of £l5OO. He had put up with
the Queensland climate for 56 years.
THE ANSWER.
THEATRICAL MANAGER: “Well, what do YOU want?”
SMALL GIRL: “I’ve come in answer to the advertisement for the 200 beautiful ladies.”
The Anti who knocked ex-Minister Adam-
son senseless in the streets of Bundaberg
and received a sentence of two months’ im-
prisonment was liberated recently before
half his term had expired. You don’t stay
in gaol in Queensland nowadays if you
have the right password.
From the Gallery :
A sudden change has struck the Ryan Government.
Until recently the whole Ministry was trailing its
coat, declaring that it was going to take all the
Bills emasculated and defeated by the Council and
referend them. Now, however the Premier
is found asking for free conferences with the Fossil
Chamber. The result in regard to the Arbitration
Bill is that the Government has agreed to cast over-
board preference to unionists and other principles.
Another free conference is to discuss the Land Bill.
Last year the Ryan Government boasted its intention
of going to the electors with the Kidston Referendum
Act for all deadlocks. Now, apparently, it is out
after the patronage of the Upper House. There has
been a disturbance in caucus, too, over the Gambling
Bill, which does not propose to control proprietary
racecourses or bookmakers. Aggressive Laborites are
rolling up their sleeves.
The Leader from Behind.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Leader from Behind —hurrah! I sing the praise
of him !
He gaily leads a gallant crew, stark both of head
and limb!
With not a thought of foes ahead, with outlook black
as pitch,
He sings: “Yeo-ho, my merry men, I’m heading for
the ditch.”
But what cares he or what care you, so long as life
is gay,
And first ahead and then behind he steers a wobbly
way!
W T hat need you fret if skies are black and eyes are
semi-blind
If but you know he’s on your track—-the Leader
from Behind!
The Leader from Behind, guidsake! he’s got a soul
for fun,
He worries naught about a trench and hardly knows
a gun;
He always “keeps in touch,” he says, with them his
wisdom leads,
He fills them up with pappycock and never gives
them deeds;
If when he’s steering north they cry, “Old feller,
give us south!”
He says, “With pleasure, gentlemen,” and never
makes a mouth ;
He keeps his warriors’ courage up by whistling down
the wind
“I trust the people all the time,” this Leader from
Behind.
His keynote is: “I’ve climbed on top —that’s good
enough for me—
So let the people have their sport no matter what
it be.”
He’s led us many a year in peace, he’s led us into
war,
He’ll lead us to Gehenna yet before his leading’s o’er;
It’s north by south and east by west and “Charge!”
by marking time,
And see your gun’s in order, boy, or keep it choked
with grime,
For discipline’s a stupid thing that tends to hold
and bind—
“lt ain’t the thing that put me here, a Leader from
Behind!”
How sweet it is, when day and night the guns of
battle roar,
To know our leader’s safe and sound, conducting as
before;
If we decide to charge, he says at once he thinks
we should;
If we retreat, “It’s plain,” he says, “the only thing
you could” ;
The only time he gets ahead is when his men have
run,
And then he keeps his place in front until the race
is done.
Oh, life would be a weary wheel, one long “demnition
grind,”
If we but lost our Guiding Light—our Leader from
Behind.!
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, December 2, 1916.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
The other morning the Allies’ Babies
Clothing Society was interrupted by a visit
from her Ex., who is one of its good bar-
rackers. She didn’t read all the letters of
thanks that these workers have received,
because she was expected home before mid-
night.
Her Ex. promenaded the Governor during
the week to see the Grammar lads play
Pinero’s “Dandy Dick.” The performance
was in aid of the State Patriotic Fund.
Young Charlie Dearden, son of Kathleen
Watson Dearden, the novelist, was the
recompense of the evening. He played the
sporty Georgiana.
Other war funds got a lift about the same
date from the capable Amateur Operatic
Society, which produced “The Geisha” at
Her Majesty’s. The lead's were played by
George Webster, Mesdames Lecaze, L.
Gyles and Bush. Little Miss Aronson
deserved a box of bon-bons for her illus-
tration of a French maid, and E. R. B.
Jordan, who engineered the baton, is deco-
rated with the distinguished order of H.Iv.H. J.
(He Knew His Job).
Another little fund. ' This one for war-
worn nurses, and Mrs. Stodart is attend-
ing to it. She is running an art union to
brighten up the money-box. You wouldn’t
think, Thargomindah, that this fund in the
wealthy northern State would have a cloud
over it, but I blush to admit that it has.
Apparently the public doesn’t know that
Nightingales who return incapacitated re-
ceive no pensions. The object of Mrs.
Stodart and others is to provide a rest-
home for the girls, and if you think they
haven’t earned it, don’t bother about hand-
ing in a trifle.
The refreshment pagoda in Queen-street,
which is run to benefit the sth Light Horse
Comforts Fund, is to be shut for a few
weeks so that the over-busy team of workers
may take a spell. More than £l5O a week
has been raked in by this venture.
By the way, the 15th Battalion has a
Comforts Fund now. Mention it to Miss
Kate Cannan or Mrs. Jack Cannan and
watch for the smile.
Major Percy Savage has the D.S.O. He
left with the first batch of Bananalanders,
came out of the Gallipoli campaign with a
captaincy, then gained his majority and won
the Order after Pozieres.
Barristei* Tom Macleod has had some
thrilling experiences with the R.F.C. While
he was engaged in the gentle pastime of
bombing the Hun recently an “Archie”
smashed one of his wings badly. He was
8000 feet aloft, but managed to wobble down
to safety. He writes gleefully that he lias
qualified as a night pilot, and hopes to get
some really exciting work to do soon.
A word from Mario, who reigned here
before Australia Jane was crowned your
correspondent:—■
Having washed up much china and waited on
much soldier in London, at half a score of clubs
and rest-rooms, I have come back convinced that the
Anzac Buffet, now at 94 Victoria-street, is the best
thing that has come to Tommy Anzac in the city
of tuppenny tubes. There are many more sumptuous
places open to him. He can dine and dine well
for a bob at any of the Y.M.C.A. Pavilions, which
have sprung up all over London like some strange
tropical mushroom. He can lunch, breakfast or tea
for ninepence in any of the Victoria League rooms,
and make merry in various oversea clubs. But as
a typical Billjim from Cunnamulla, Queensland, put
it to me, “the Anzac Buffet” (he pronounced it
strictly as spelt) “is just a bit er ’ome in London.”
It struck me as a fine epitaph, and ought to cheer
that band of devoted women, who, day in, day out,
from 6 a.m. to 9 p.m., work like galley-slaves to
keep it “a bit er ’ome.”
It is not that Thos. Anzac gets much. Nothing
but a cup of decent tea or coffee, a plate of sen-
sible sandwiches and a slab or two of cake. But he
gets it *as he would get it at home, without a
thought of paying for it. And with it the hand of
one of his own people. Besides, there is sure to be
someone from his own State nearby who finds time
to tailt Cunnamulla or Kalgoorlie with him, and
that’s what he wants and likes. Later, he finds
Australian papers, a room to lounge in, a billiard
table and a soldier-proof piano. He can also register
his name and have an occasional paper sent him in
the trenches when he returns to the game of Hun-
strafing in the mud, and finally, if he is “stony,”
and he often is, a committee-man will take him in
hand and see that he has decent night-lpdgings.
Mrs. Huck, Mrs. Fisher, Miss Innes-Noad, Ruth
Murray Prior, the Manning girls, Mrs. Norman
Armytage with daughter Edna, Mrs. Baynton and
Miss Lewis, daughter of Brisbane’s Telegraph sub-
editor, were among those I saw most frequently at
the wheel. It means work, too, remember, when
you have 2000 callers a day. And the funds
are always low, too; so if you know anybody with a
sixpence he would like to give away, tell him he
could send it to a heap worse people than the Anzac
Committee.
Ornithologist A. J. Campbell has returned
to Melbourne from an expedition in the
Cardwell tableland. H. A. Barnard, a
brother ornithologist, went with him and
helped to sort out 200 species of birds, their
nests and eggs. Mr. Barnard has just been
appointed manager of Rio station.
Miss B. Hutton, a Rockhampton girl, has
been elected a member of the Institute of
Architects. She is the first of the hairpin
sex to properly impress the exclusive local
body.
Recently departed from Melbourne en
route to the European unpleasantness as
sergeant in the motor transport, a young
giant named Sam Philp, of Mount White-
stone, a cousin of Sir Douglas Haig.
Another of the same clan, Capt. Richard
Haig Philp, R.A. (son of “Dick” Philp, of
Geelong), was killed the other day in France.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.


Toot K’s
Lig'ht
Crystal
vcb
I The palatable
i qualities of this
superb beverage can-
not be expressed —they
can only be experienced.
You will never really know
Light Crystal till you
have given it a fair
trial.
Buy a bottle
to-day


Good Health, Good Looks,
Good Spirits, Good Sleep
A clear head, clear complexion, clear eye,
clear bowels are the reward
of keeping the liver clear:
and Carter’s Little
Liver Pills take
care of that. Don’t
wait to be bilious.
Keep them at
hand. Purely
vegetable.
Safe for
children.
cvb
CARTERS
Kittle
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
HAVE YOU A
BAD LEG
perhaps so surrounded with inflammation and
swollen that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Perhaps
your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored. The disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Try the great British Remedy:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which will give certain relief.
And for Poisoned Hands, House-
maid’s Knee, Carbuncles, Absces-
ses, Snake and Insect Bites, &c.
Sold In England at 1/3 & 3/- per box.
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farringxlon St.,
LONDON, Eng.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store, and
stocked by all the Wholesale Houses in the
Commonwealth.
HOTEL
STEWART
SAN FRANCISCO
Ceary Street, fust off Union Square
A high class hotel very favorably
known to travelers from Australia,
New Zealand and the Orient. Head-
quarters for Britishers in San Fran-
cisco. New steel and concrete struc-
ture. 350 rooms. 250 connecting
bathrooms. Homelike comfort rather
than unnecessarily expensive luxury.
Famous for its cuisine and service.
Located in the heart of the shopping,
theatre and cafe districts. On street
car lines to all parts of city. Our om-
nibuses with uniformed attendants meet
all steamers. Cable address “Trawets.”
Rooms with Meals 15 s. a day and up
Rooms without Meals 7 s. a day and up
Charles A. Stewart and Margaret Stewart
PROPRIETORS
THOS. COOK & SONS, Representatives
Belle Vue Hotel
Reconstructed. BRISBANE.
Electric Lift. Perfect Sanitary Arrangements,
incomparable Position. Easterly Aspect.
Overlooking Botanical Cardens.
MRS. A. FINNIGAN, Proprietress.
G
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda., Melbourne*
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
The Australia Hotel
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone 7260, Telegrams—
-4 lines. Australia,
P.O. Box 1610. Sydney.
The Premier Hotel of Australasia.
Mas accommodation for 300 Guests. Single
and double Bedrooms and Suites, with Bath-
room attached. Hot and Cold Water, Auto-
matic Telephones and Electric Heaters
throughout. Visitors have the preference of
the American or European Plan of rating.
Two special Grill-rooms are attached, in
addition to Main Dining-room, seating 500
Guests. The Winter Garden is the largest
in Australasia, and is the meeting-place of
the Elite of Sydney, who foregather for
Afternoon Teas and Supper after the Theatre.
A High-class Orchestra furnishes Music twice
a day.
Single Rooms from 16/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Double Rooms from 32/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Room and Breakfast from 11/-
per day.
Suites of Apartments as per arrangement.
J. URE SMITH, Manager.
0
0 SHI
rwp
31310~
A Special Stewart Speedometer
for Ford and other
Standard Small-type Cars.
A car without a good speedometer is like a business
man without a reliable watch.
Nothing can be kept track of.
Every Ford and other standard small-type car needs
the best speedometer on the market —the Stewart.
With it you can keep track of your tyre mileage; your
petrol and oil consumption, and keep tab on the
efficiency, economy and performance of the whole
car.
This Stewart Speedometer is specially built for these
cars. It is also specially priced.
It is built on the famous magnetic principle —the same
as the speedometers that are used on the highest-
priced motor-cars.
There are nearly 2,000,000 Stewart Speedometers in
use at the present time.
It is the best and the most practical instrument from
any standpoint.
You can get a lot more pleasure out of your car when
it is equipped with a Stewart Speedometer.
Take no other. Insist on a Stewart. Don’t accept a
substitute.
Purchase one without delay.
It is a wise plan In buying your next car to see that it
is equipped with a Stewart Type Pump, Stewart Vacuum
Tank, Stewart Warning Signal and Stewart Speedometer.
For Sale by Leading Accessory Dealers, Motor-car Dealers
and Oarages—Everywhere.
Bennett Wood Ltd.,
284 Pitt Street Exclusive Distributors Sydney, N.S.W,
“No car is better than its accessories.”
cv
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Australians Noted for Dash” is the head-
line of a recent cable in the big dailies. War
has a softening effect. It used to be a much
stronger word.
“M.M.”: The veterans from Bear Island,
La Perouse (Sydney), visited Manly the other
day to have a look at a modern soldiers’
memorial, and a local dame asked the eld
wairiors in to have afternoon tea. During
an interval R. Cowham, a sprightly young-
S j ,who faced the footlights long syne
and the Maoris in the war of ’6l, showed
now G. V. Brooke, assisted by Barry Sulli-
Melbourne lmSelf? played “ othell °” for early
+ S w fa^ the , N ; S ‘ Wales stat e wheat farm
at Woodlands has had no luck—except the
other sort. After battling through the
worries of fencing, clearing, grubbing, culti-
vating virgin country and weathering sun-
dry derisive remarks about the “Govern-
ment stroke,” the farm got its first crop
sprouting last year. Then a sizzling drought
arrived, and the harvest didn’t liquidate all
of Holman’s P.N.’s. This year prospects
looked more promising for awhile, but lately
storms have played skittles with a big slice
ot the crop, and rust is cutting into the
remainder a streak of bad luck that will
Pfobabiy mean a loss of anything up to
20,000 bags. The experiment points an old
Bulletin moral: The man who “goes on
the land” Outback without three years’
tucker in cold storage is liable to go hungry
himself—or make somebody else do it.
Henry Outofcollar”: An abandoned
woman is a loose female who becomes tight.
An abandoned wife is a lady whose husband
has bolted with an abandoned woman.
Complaint of a Melbourne man who has
been asking for a divorce: “My wife ran
away with a circus.” But his plaint read
simply: “Jones versus Jones and another.”
Sunny Q.” : Timothy Doolan had fallen
from Salv’army grace. No longer was he
to be heard testifying, and at last the Cap-
tain sought out the straying sheep, and
wanted to know the wherefore of the back-
sliding. The sinner’s replies were evasive.
“Tim, my friend,” said the Captain, “this
way of doing things will never get you to
Heaven!” Tim ricochetted off the man of
doom. “To H wid Heaven!” he roared,
and bounced off along the broad and greasy
way.
“A Journalist’s Jottings” is the title of a
volume that biographer Fred Johns of Adel-
aide hopes to have in the press shortly.
Proceeds are given to the Australian Repa-
triation Fund. Johns is now busy on a new
“Who’s Who in the Commonwealth.”
The now flourishing Hibernian Society of
Australia started from the Grand United
Order of Oddfellows. One of the latter’s
most prominent officers, Mark Young, who
kept the White Hart Hotel in Ballarat,
founded it. This was in 1866, when the
Fenians were much talked of in America
and Ireland; and of course the new lodge
was branded with the name. The first meet-
ing of the society was held in the belfry of
St. Patrick’s Cathedral, Ballarat; and
though Mark Young kept a pub himself
he carried a motion that no meetings of
the members should ever be held in a hotel.
The Hibernians wrote to Paris for sample
stuffs for regalia, and as Paris was then in-
fested by the Prussians—the Franco-Prussian
war was on—the sample was sent to Eng-
land by balloon, and then on to Melbourne,
and from it the first regalia was made in
Flinders-lane. Mark Young, now between
80 and 90, is still living within a few miles
of Melbourne.
Nearly a year ago I remarked
that public opinion had lost a lot of its
former reverence for the noisy, gloomy,
supremely-German operas of Wagner, the
humorless organiser who first combined the
forces of sound, color, action and sentiment
in one harmonious dramatic scheme. There-
upon Thorold Waters wrote to The Bulle-
tin from London, stating that my paragraph
was droll but wrong. I was not convinced;
but. when the gentle Thorold said that the
prejudice against the music of the Kaiser’s
favorite composer had been followed in Lon-
aon by an inevitable reaction, I gave myself
ample time to get assured that he was
really dreaming. Now I know that the cant
of a little musical clique had obsessed him.
There is not a restored demand for German
music in the English programmes. In proof,
read the following extracts from London
Referee
For obvious reasons modern German music is not
desirable, but its removal from our programmes
creates a void which it is not easy to fill in a way
to attract the public. It must also be remembered
that the. Germans were liberal supporters of concerts
and their removal affects box-office receipts. On
the other hand, the bold experiments of French
writers have made the public more interested in
novelties, and, provided these possess vivacity and
modernity, their merits would be recognised far
more readily than formerly.
This interests me specially by its reference
to the fact that the Ger’<>- ■ i V „ '
sistent barracker for German goods of all
sorts, musical or material. He is a born
patron of the Fatherland’s native industries.
Another extract:—
The variegating of the Wagner night at the
Promenade Concerts with works by other composers
and an occasional novelty is being wisely continued.
Formerly it was usual to have at least one
wholly Wagnerian night per week; but the
war made it unprofitable. One more quota-
tion :
The cause of fashions in music changing and the
evolution of different styles is not so much that forms
become worked out as that with increase of know-
ledge people take up new points of view. It is the
unmusical, not the musical, who are the fundamental
causes of changes in the art world. Nationality in
music is not the outcome of composers but of the
sociology of their compatriots whose feelings and
modes of thought they are gifted to express.
Quite so. As Britain becomes de-German-
ised it takes a new view of Wagner’s music
and perceives the ingrained Hunnishness of
his rowdy operas, with their brazen orches-
tral effects. Henceforth there will be no
more Wagner craze among British com-
munities than there ever was among the
French and Italians. We may continue to
have too much Wagner thrust upon us by a
generation of professors who were educated
in Germany, but they and their influence will
die out.


A Happy Christmas Thought
KODAK
The o-ift that adds to the good times at the moment; that
indoors and out gives zest to the merry making, and then —
preserves the happy picture story of all that goes to make the
day a merry one —of all the good times in the years that follow.
The Kodak has made photography really very simple and
inexpensive. There are Autographic Kodaks from 30/-
to £l5/2/-
The Vest Pocket Autographic Kodak -The “Soldier’s” Kodak
-—slips easily into a man’s pocket or lady’s handbag, and should be owned by
everyone —whether he or she possesses another camera or not. Easy to
carry, always ready. Eor pictures 2.\ x 1-f inches. Price 30/“
The No. 1 Autographic Kodak Junior, for pictures 2\ x 3} inches.
Price 45/-
The No. la Autographic Kodak Junior, for pictures 2\ x ■',]
inches. Price 50/-
The No. 3a Folding Autographic Kodak, takes postcard
pictures —5J x3i inches. Price £5/10/-
Brownies for the Children. Splendid gifts—the kind that educate.
No. 1 Brownie, for pictures 2\ x 2it inches. Price £>/~ Others up to 50/-
M
n
«i
«77, e y e st Pocket Autographic Kodak slips
easily into the pocket.”
Of all Kodak dealers, and
Ask for splendid illustrated booklet, “ Picture Making with a Kodak.
KODAK (Australasia) LTD
Incorporating 1 Baker & Rouse Prop* Ltd*
379 George Street, SYDNEY; “The Btock,”2S4 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
250-252 Queen Street. Brisbane. 37 Bundle Street, Adelaide. 45 Eliza-
beth Street. Hobart. Ruthven Street, Toowoomba, blinders Street, Towns-
ville. Denham Street, Rockhampton. 316 Argent .street. Broken Hill.
Dixon Street, also corner O"'"' nnd Wdlis Street, N.Z.
3 Lome Street, Auckland, N Z.; and 76 Stuart Street, Dunedin, N.Z.
SWEETENED
if
Stocked By
All Storekeepers
Ml
<t)
S
CONDENSED
Jt
&
THE PALACE
O/ PURITY
lOW/O-ZW/** * *"
9
:i>
T
ULU
ES
stle
CONDENSED
i^iuc
i
STUB
r
CONDENSED
9
T4IUC
all
VO
M
\
? ipj
1
BRAND
BRAND
%
nS
Ntif
Nfci
VR?LO -5W155 CONDENSE
SV¥it 2erland: LONDON and
pSLO -SWISSCOftDE^ S^
iSw,t 2erund. LONBONand^
r ==::=:::= ==&i-
m
m
&
IS NOW
In Full-
Supply
richest
IN CPEAM
l
71
X
V)
i
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
MILKY WAY BOOKLET


bcv
ABBEY
SHOES!
You wifi always find that it pays
in the end to buy ai’ticles of the
best quality. Therefore it will pay
you to wear Abbey Shoes —the
footwear that is not only the most
distinctive in style, but gives the
longest service.
We illustrate a Choice Patent
Derby Bal 37/6
Also in Highest Grade Tan
Willow Calf 37/6
In hailf-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage 9d. extra.
ABBE Y,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
When you buy tyres,
buy MILES
&
SOME tyres achieve “freaK'* mileages,
of course, just as some men live to be a
hundred. The average motorist is natur-
ally more interested in average mileage, and
these disinterested records of service by British
Avons are presented with full confidence that
they will command thoughtful attention:—
<}f Average mileage of 20 Avon Tyres
run on London Taxicabs by Jacobs and
Malpass, 462, Fulham Road, S.W
7,801
miles per tyre.
<J[ Average mileage of 20 Avon Tyres
in everyday service (town and country)
reported by private motorists (names
all published on page 17 of the Avon
Catalogue)
10,037
miles per tyre.
Get the MILES built into Avons—tyre beauty of a typically
British sort that is more than “tread-deep.**
Agents:
N.J. HOWES & CO.,
212 Clarence Street,
.Sydney.
H. C. PANNIFEX,
26 Market Street,
Melbourne.
B
S
Made by The Avon India Rubber Company, Ltd., at Melksham and Bradford-on-Avon, Wilts, England. London: 19, Newman St., W.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co., Ltd.
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
For the Old Folk at Home
*
and the young folk, too, and all the friends who come to
visit them, you will provide Christmas cheer and musical jollity
by sending home a
m
GRAMOPHONE
Excello Model - £7/15/-
There are many models, and they’re all good. We
mention the “Excello” for gift-purposes because it
brings you quality without great outlay.
The cabinet is of Fumed
Plain Oak with moulded
doors. The fittings are
nickel-plated.
It’s a. genuine “His
Master’s Voice” produc-
tion. That m e a n s
“GENUINELY BRIT-
ISH !”
Ask your nearest dealer
to play it for you.
Instrument ca t a logue, *
record lists and name of
nearest accredited dealer
on request.
©
“ GRAMOPHONE ”
Registered Trade Mark.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
bcv
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
m
r
'H
u
t—}>■
Repeater and a Boy
HIS is the true combination for a good time; for
getting the lads out into the open; for good, health-
ful exercise that trains the faculties and helps to make
useful citizens.
. Re “i n gton UMC.22 Repeating Rifle has a solid breech, is
hammer! ess and beautifully designed and finished.
Send for catalogue post free.
Remingtons Arms Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
Wew York London
D. D. BRYANT, Manager for Australia, National Mutual Buildings, Melbourne.
■A
QUICKNESS!
A quick, keen shave is the result of using' a
sensible razor like
THE “PLUM.”
Its Silver Steel Blade is tempered with such
scientific accuracy that it requires but little
stropping, and no matter how stiff the beard
the “Plum” will leave the face as smooth as
velvet.
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of
charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle,
15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
All the above Post Free.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.


Trial Free by Post
“My little girl had a very bad case of
eczema. It started with watery blisters
all over the back of
her neck and spread
all over her head. The
skin on her neck
and head was raw, and
wherever shescratched
fresh blisters would
appear and break.
I read of a case
. _ being cured by the
cuticura Soap and Ointment and sent
for samples. I kept on, only buying one
tin of Cuticura Ointment, and in three
months the trouble had disappeared.”
(Signed) Mrs. Keogh, 10 Antill St.,
Hobart, Tas., Oct. 29, 1915.
c ,? re e sample each by post with 32-p.
Skm Book. (Soap to cleanse and Oint-
ment to heal.) Address post-card-
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. w’
bold throughout the world.
iiv^i
Teach Cadets
b
ROSS "CADET," .22 CALIBRE
to shoot
The Ross “ Cadet* s Rifle is a
.22 calibre rifle, made expressly
for Cadet Organizations to the
specifications of the
Canadian Government.
It is strong and
serviceable, shoots .22
calibre short, long, or
long rifle cartridges—
(the most inexpensive
made), and has self-
ejecting, straight-pull
action.
It is an excellent and
safe arm to use to drill
youths and teach them
how to shoot, and is
powerful enough to use
for any except larger
game.
The price is £2-10,
in Canada; discounts
are quoted on orders
for quantities.
Full particulars on application. 715
Ross Rifle Co., Quebec, Canada
Information and Prices can be obtained from—
Mr. HUGH SCOTT-YOUNG,
P.O. Box 1031, Melbourne, Australia.
ELEY
CARTRIDGES^
Always Reliable |
B
■IS
ELEY ‘Grand Prix’
Cartridge Case, loaded with
Eley Smokeless, Ballistite,
Smokeless Diamond,
Schultze, or any other
standard smokeless powder.
b
ELEY
•450
Revolver
ELEY
380
Revolver
vbçvb
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELEYBROS.LS LONDON
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
The
Best Bonus - paying 1 Life Office in the World.
ATT n, EX + T MM™,™* ojf CASH SURPLUS as at 31st December, 1916.
I P - ollCleS effected before that date will share in the CASH BONUS to be then allotted.
CASH BONUS divided for one year, 1915 ... £B4B *528
Total 1 ' to Policies of about .. £1,500,000
Total Bonuses distributed since inception of Society £30,700,000
T . , , ~, SOCIETY IS PURELY MUTUAL. NO SHAREHOLDERS.
Now is the°Timp G fA a o S ffo s } lrplus is divided each year among the participating policyholders,
this year’s Bonus. ° fCCt an assuranee on your life, or a further assurance, so as to reap the benefit of
of thY Society. fU " U particulars to the Head Office, 87 Pitt Street, Sydney, or any District Office or Agent
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
The Tootal Guaranteed, line of British-made Cotton Fabrics
OB RALCCP)
GUARANTEE IT
m
m
> ■
Lj 2
u
HI
Other Tootal Guaranteed Lines
TOOTAL PIQU E. Double width, soft and
supple. In white and colors.
TOOTAL SHIRTS FOR MEN. Ready to
wear, replaced free if they lose color.
TOOTAL SHIRTING for Ladies’ and
Children's wear.—32 inches wide
LISSUE HANDKERCHIEFS FOR
LADIES. Self-white & indelible borders.
PYRAMID HANDKERCHIEFS FOR
MEN. Self-white and indelible borders.
TOOTAL CLOTH. The guaranteed velvet
fabric—more supple than silk velvet.
Every mother
delights in dressing
her children in Tobralco.
The patterns are so pretty,
the texture is so supple,and
the fabric so serviceable.
Tobralco can be washed
again and again: the colors
are fast, and no starch
is needed in laundering.
Name Tobralco on every yard of selvedge
White
12id.
per yard
Colored and Printed
13id.
'2'
per yard
To be had from all Good Class Stores
• • •
Reg’d.
TARANTULLE
A for Dainty Home-Sewn Lingerie and Layettes
40 inches wide in 3 Weights
Standard 1 Finel/6d. S^'~l /9d.
As delightful to sew as to wear.
Soft, fine, pure and dependable.
Ideal for trousseaux and layettes,
and remarkably economical.
Name always on Selvedge.
Tootal Broadhurst Lee Company, Ltd., Manchester, England
Australian A orpnfc • STOGOAL.E & SONS PTY. Ltd., Finks Buildings.
Australian agents . Melbourne, and York street, Sydney
MS
6 NR6Oj^
O ano*
Glad to oblige you!
A genuine fellowship exists between
users of Plume Motor Spirit. It is only-
natural that men whp have learnt to believe
in Plume men who know by experi-
ence, its efficiency, its dependability, its
economy—should have the greatest con-
fidence in recommending it to their friends.
Plume Benzine
Easy starting—Sweet running—More miles
It is an established fact that “Plume”
costs less by giving more mileage to the
gallon, is easy starting and ensures a clean
cylinder.
Correct Lubrication
. Lubrication plays such an important part
m the sweet running of your car that you
can* l ?* . a ff° rd to use other than Gargoyle
Mobiloils A grade for each type of
Write for free Recommendation
Ghart, which shows the correct grade you
should use in your car. For sale at all
dealers and garages.
Vacuum Oil Company
Proprietary Limited
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand
°6/LO n '
vb
vb
The Inky Way.
Gone to press, at 53, “Pat” Finn, lour-
nalist, dramatic writer and good fellow. “ Son
of Edmund Finn, author of “Chronicles of
Early Melbourne,” Pat was on Melbourne
Punch with his brother Edmund. Then
he went to Westralia, and subsequently in
Sydney ran Quiz with poet Rod. Quinn and
others. Later he joined Truth. He did
a good deal of dramatic writing and topical
song verses, mainly for “Johnny” Sheridan,
for whom he wrote “The Beautiful Mrs.
McSweeney.”
Celebrated his 80th birthday in Mel-
bourne a week or so ago, George Dvson, a
good Australian, who while working as a
mining-engineer found time to rear a" family
of 11, including Edward, Will, the late
Ambrose, Mrs. Lionel Lindsay and Mrs.
Harrison Owen. He is still a cheerful
youth and an omnivorous reader for whom
baldness is not yet in sight.
* * • »
A belated kick from the Front (it isn’t
Bean’s kick, by the way) :
Have you wondered why the official war-corres-
pondent from Australia has become such a retired
personality since the days when he used to buzz
round the Peninsula? Yesterday I accidentally
came across his headquarters when at home. British
and other correspondents over here mostly stay at
hotels in the larger towns of France, and are pro-
vided each with a -chauffeur and a motor-car to
whiz about on their business. Also they are
allowed to use a camera—something strictly for-
bidden to others in the war zone. London illustrated
papers are full of their snapshots. Out man’s den
is a small, cold, fireless, unillumined dog-box fur-
nished with a bed and a small camp-table that
hardly holds a pocket-diary and a packet of cigar-
ettes. And when going or coming from a “stunt”
he has to avail himself of any old cart handy.
Also he is not allowed to use a camera. And
although his press-work is almost a side-line com-
pared with his business as Official Compiler of Aus-
tralian war-history, he is not granted even the
ordinary “office” facilities of the man of rank whose
business is supposed to be fighting only. The Aus-
tralian correspondent was never noted on the Penin-
sula for a preference to do his war-witnessing com-
fortably from headquarters. Nevertheless, if he is to
properly perform the job for which his Governmpnt
pays him, he should exact to the uttermost every
facility for the carrying out of his job, whether at
headquarters or otherwise, so long as the real work
of the army is not prejudiced, and Australia should
see that lie gets them.
* * * •
“Warrego Bill”: A few days ago a Bana-
naland reporter got sick of hearing a harsh-
voiced lady bawling in his ear at various
meetings. So he cut loose thus:—■
The meeting was an orderly one except for the
antics of one obstreperous individual. This middle-
aged body quite unwarrantably planted herself on
a chair at the press table and give expression to her
views at intervals throughout the proceedings in a
raucous voice.
Next day, he found in the letter-rack this
epistle:—-
~ *? ear Sir,-—I write with all due respect to suggest
that you allow yourself to be photographed in the
interests of science. Your facial contour more nearlv
lesembles that of an ape and other monkey tribes
than any allegedly human face that I have seen
during the three decades in which I have been privi-
leged intelligently to regard dbjects on this sub-
lunary planet. If you will be so good as to agree
tomy suggestion, will you carry your graciousness
still further and permit me to obtain disc records
ot your speaking and singing voice for phonographic
purposes. Ido not know whether or not you have
on any previous occasion similarly assisted scientific
investigators, but, if not, here is your grand oppor-
tumty.—Yours super-racially, (Scientific
Investigator). P.S. —Have you any objection to this
being published as an open letter in the weekly
press ?
Then a tired newspaper man wandered out
and considered life over a pint of sherbet.
* * *
Dear B.—“ Pen” (B. 9/11/T6) makes
some references to the Perth Press
Glub which show him to be either totally
ignorant of the facts or the owner of an eye
blind to the truth. He says (1) that the
Perth institution is a press club only in
name; (2) that pressmen omitted to keep
control in their own hands, and were flooded
of the management by outsiders; (3)
that I erth pressmen are now thinking of
forming another club. That is “Pen” : now
for the truth. The W.A. Press Club was
formed originally by members of the A.J.A. •
but it was soon realised that the available
held in Perth was too limited to make the
club go. Hence it was decided by a unanimous
vote of the members (all A.J.A. men) that
the club and the association should be dis-
tinct bodies. Non-pressmen were then ad-
mitted to the club, which at once began to
make progress; but control of its affairs has
never for one moment passed from inky hands.
At the present moment every member of the
committee, including the president, vice-presi-
dent and secretary, is connected with news-
paper work nine are working journalists
and four are members of the A.J.A. If the
air airs of the association had been as soundlv
managed in the past as those of the club
jourrmlists would be in a better position than
they are. The assertion that Perth press-
men are now thinking of forming another
club has been read with amusement. Per-
haps the plural was due to a slip of the
x' A F^ all J'' I confess to some curiosity
as to the identity of the “Pen” who writes
with such a crossed nib. The name of this
writer is—G. W. Burgoyne.
REPRISAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For fifteen years, at each week-end,
Brown’s steps to Taylor’s cottage led,
To borrow from his faithful friend
A journal with a cover red,
Which Taylor never failed to lend.
Arrived a time Brown failed to come,
And Taylor, with a real concern,
In some dread seeking at his home
The cause of his strange lapse to learn
Found Brown with anger all a-foam.
“The cause,” he said, “is very plain!
That paper for Conscription fought,
And my regard for it is slain.
It need not look for my support—
I will not borrow it again!”
N.S.W.
HAMER.


DEPENDABLE GUNS
It’s Great Sport to get ’em on the wing c
We’ll Supply Your Needs Better than any other Store.
824. Boswell’s High-grade D.8.8.L. Hammerless Pigeon Gun, “The Reliable,”
ir'f au p’ t°P fever. Anson and Deeley action, barrels both choke, side clips, Greener X
■tsoit, chambered for cartridges, nitro proved, pistol grip, elaborately
engraved; weight about 71b. soz Delivered
GOLDEN KEY CIGARS DE LUXE,
British Made. Box of 5, 2/6 post free
£17(10/.
WE STOCK EVERYTHING FOR EVERY SPORT. "Goods Right—Prices Right.”
80. -Greener’s 12-gauge D.8.8.L. Hammerless Gun, treble wedge, fast action,
rebounding, 32in. “Siemen’s” special steel barrels, shooting guaranteed, both full choke,
hair pistol grip, same as above, but no engraving'; a splendid pigeon
glm Delivered
£.14/10/-
WE REPAIR. GUNS and RIFLES.
Send for our new
edition Sports
and Firearms
Catalogue. Post-
ed tree to any
address.
BiB. Cashmore’s 12-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, Solid bar action, 30-inch steel barrels,
extension rib, left choke, cross bolt, D. & E. fore-end, pistol grip, wal-
nut stock; weight about 71b. 1 Delivered
Same as above, but with 32-inch barrels Delivered £B/12/6
£B/7(6
m
m, mmm
f&m
826. C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun, 12- or
16-gauge, top lever, double bolt. 30in. barrels, lef
choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved,
bar locks, Greener cross bolt, nitro proof; weight of 12-gauge about
711 b.; of 16-gauge, about 6*lb Delivered
Same as above, 12-gauge, 32in. barrels, or 20-gauge, 30m. barrels, 7/6 extra.
f2!*f Sunol Tobacco
Awarded 4 Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample lid., Post Free.
&5151-
The restriction prohibiting: the sale of Shotguns and Shotgun Cartridges having
been removed by the Military Authorities, we are now in a position to fulfil any
orders for these goods. .
i
il*
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KING STREET ; also at NEWCASTLE & BRISBANE.
vb
Waterman’s
(Ideal)
Fountain-Pen
The Parting Gift .
What Present could be more appropriate than
a Waterman’s Ideal ? It is the Gift which
will keep him in touch with home , the gift
that will enable him to write at length and
to write often A perfect fountain pen—and
there is only one—is just what every soldier
needs. His equipment is not complete with-
out one.
Thousands of Waterman’s Ideals, the
perfect fountain pen, are writing the
letters and diaries of the brave men at the
Front. If your relative or friend hasn’t a
Waterman’s Ideal, claim for yourself the
privilege of giving him one. Send the
“ Safety " type—it’s best for Active Service.
Every Pen Guaranteed. Nibs to suit all hands.
Three types—Regular, Safety, and
Lever Pocket Self-Filling.
Of Stationers & Jewellers everywhere -
L. G. SLOAN,
Uyz~#eti Corner,
Australia : Harold D. Dixon,
105, Clarence Street,Sydney.
' ff).
Y c
•t
A
- )h> ’
* S 3 *
ms
r 1 “ '
SSSkS*&- *►
2
eg
*•
vb
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
MHffIUM
SYDNEY
N.S.W.
Location : Conveniently situated in
Castlereagh Street—a few doors from
King Street —and nearly opposite
Theatre Royal, with separate entrance
in Elizabeth Street 1
§ a
i is
J
mtF
Ul
W
m
The Most Modern and
Palatial Hotel in Australia!
THE Hotel Carlton, completed at a cost exceeding £lOO,OOO,
and furnished sumptuously throughout by David Jones, Ltd.,
has, since its opening on March 30, 1916, been thronged
with crowds of delighted visitors !
While its exquisite appointments —its perfect cuisine and courteous
service more than commend themselves to travellers used to every
comfort —the Hotel Carlton can hardly be described as being
merely the leading hotel.
It is more than that !
It is from every point of view the most desirable place bn Sydney
to stay.
Every detail in the perfect attention to visitors’ wishes has been
thoroughly studied, and reflects the careful thoughtfulness of the
management, who have had a wide experience in catering for the
best class of patronage ■!
One of the attractive features of the Hotel Carlton is that every
bedroom is naturally ventilated, unusually spacious, has hot and
cold water installed, and is artistically furnished.
It is absolutely fireproof, having marble staircases and concrete
floors throughout.
The general appointments include amongst others: Magnificent
Dining Hall (with separate accommodation for children), elegant
and comfortable lounges, reception, smoking, writing and reading
rooms, also private rooms for weddings, dinner-parties, afternoon-
teas, etc.
ALL LETTERS, WIRES, etc., PROMPTLY ANSWERED.
TERMS-14/- PER DAY EACH PERSON.
CHAS. W. CUPIT,
Manager,
m
Vi
l*m
N.S.W.


VIVE LA REXONA
Beautiful Miss Dorothy
M. Gardiner joins the
“Rexona” Girls.
Miss Dorothy Gardiner, the charm-
ing young comedienne, whom every-
one admires, joins our galaxy of
Rexona Girls. She knows the value
of a good complexion. Are you a
Rexona Girl too ? Read what Miss
Gardiner says:—
“May I enlist as one of your
‘Rexona’ Girls? I use Rexona
and like it immensely, both for
hair and complexion. It is
cleansing and healthy, and
above all is entirely free from
the drying effect of so many
toilet soaps. I think it is an
Australian production of which
we may justly be proud, and I
shall do my best to recommend
it always. As our Allies would
say, ‘Vive La Rexona!’
“I am sending you one of my
photos, and hope it may be of
use.
“Yours sincerely,
“DOROTHY M. GARDINER.”
/
lIP
REXONA—the Aristocrat of Soaps.
Why not enioy a good complexion? You cannot, if you do not care for the delicate skin of
the face. When you wash your face do you realise that it is not enough to remove simply the
dirt, but that your skin needs a soothing, healing influence to keep your complexion fresh and e
from blemish ? Scented toilet soaps are often very p l easant, < but do _ not assert this influence, a
you are well aware. Many of them contain free alkali, which tends to dry up the sl
destroy its delicate textures. Even the better class of such but Rexona
Skin and Facial Soap is not
only an absolutely pure soap,
but is medicated on the same
principle as the famous
Rexona Ointment, which is
famous throughout Austral-
asia as the Rapid Healer.
That is why Rexona Soap
really does for the skin and
face what cosmetics are sup-
posed to do, by ensuring not
only a clean face but a pure
and healthy skin, and thus
gives you a clear complexion.
Don’t forget, now is the
Take a tablet home to-
night. It is beautifully put
up and sold at Is. per tablet;
or you can get it in boxes
each containing three tablets.
SOOTHING
HtAUHG ANTISEPTIC SOAP
.JPC medicated on the same PRINCIPLE
as the famous Rexoma o>wtmewt^
o
/v.
q/J
Rare Enchantment
is found in Zenobia Perfumes. These unequalled perfumes
reproduce to perfection the clean, sweet breath of flowers,
the Very atmosphere of the garden. Some favourites are :
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom. Zenobia Night Scented Stock.
Zenobia Lily of the Valley.
Ji
Sold by leading Chemists, Perfumers & Stores.
Zenobia British Eau de Cologne is the perfect
Cologne, surpassing by far any foreign make.
Zenobia Greeting Sachets An exquisite Zenobia
Perfume in a book-form Sachet, combining a pretty
Christmas Card. Nearly xoo designs to-choose from.
Zenobia, Ltd., Loughborough, Leicestershire, Eng.
T-#m>
mmsm.
CENTcR
!iyi^]y' l 1
The Sydney S Suburban Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
Mutual Life Building 14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
For all classes of Lift Maintenance, Repairs, Renewals of Lifting Ropes and other parts
f or Hydraulic Material, Pipes, Valves, Tubing and High Pressure Stocks generally.
Best Workmanship and Material. Quotations supplied.
v
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Fiddle and Bow.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AS I walked into town
In the sweet light to-day,
There was one by my side
Whom I wished far away ;
Though the rosebush might flower
And the bee it might hum,
It was she who was sour
And ’twas I who was dumb.
Oh, the drought in her eyes
Took the dew from the air,
With the ill face she had,
And the cream-curdling stare;
Mistress Care she is called.
And a pest on her name!
And her hot words that scald,
And her sorrow and shame!
When you laugh down the wind,
Golden song in your throat,
With young Love on your arm
And a rose in your coat,
Though the gay world be wide
And the wide skies be blue,
She is there at your side
’Twixt your heart’s own and you.
If ’tis you have the gems,
And the heaped gold to waste,
And the good wine to drink,
And the rich meat to taste,
’Tis she spoils your bliss,
Turns your sweet hour to pain,
With a craving for this
And for that—longings vain!
As I walked towards the town,
With the dew on the grass
And the birds in the trees,
’Twas a soured man I was.
For the sweet birds might call
From the green o’ their trees,
But ’twas no while at all
That she left me at ease.
To the Cross Roads I came
At the foot of yon hill,
With the sweat on my brow
And she nagging me still;
But ’twas there the ease began
That I looked and longed for so,
For ’twas there I met the man
With his fiddle and bow.
Oh, the hat upon his head
Was the queerest ever seen,
And his jacket was of frieze,
And his vest of velveteen ;
But, by all the powers, ’twas he
That could make the fiddle talk!
For the leaf danced on the tree
And the flower upon the stalk.
With his fiddle and his bow,
And the magic of his skill,
There was ne’er a thing at all
That could stay a moment still;
For he played an ancient reel,
And a-dancing I began—
Heel and toe and toe and heel,
Like a feather-footed man.
With the cheeks of her aflame,
And her hands upon her hips,
And her eyes no longer sour,
And a smile upon her lips,
In the gold o’ sunlight gowned
And as fresh as morning dew,
To and fro, all round and round,
Care, she fell a-dancing too.
Oh, a blessing on the man,
And his fiddle and his bow!
For to dance with Mistress Care
Is the drollest thing I know;
And ’tis he I thank this hour
For the wisest of all wiles,
For when Mistress Care grows sour
I shall dance her into smiles.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Botany Bay.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
UNTIL six months ago the most I knew
of Botany Bay, Sydneysider that I
am, was hearsay and map knowledge.
As a boy I knew Cook’s River, with a nar-
row, foul and crooked road, leading past Dr.
Vause’s private asylum for lunatics, with
every bush behind the stone wall and iron
gates peopled for me by gnomes and
horrible yellow-tusked dwarfs foaming
at the mouth; long, low, swampy land belted
by sheoaks the color of rusty crape, their
black green needles sighing in the wind;
Cook’s River, sluggish as a gorged alligator,
between its banks of fat mud; a broken,
rocky causeway ending in a crazy bridge;
very old men opening oysters, and them-
selves preserved in rum so that they could
not die; and rude kilns to burn the lime of
shells. Away east was Botany Bay ; but a
child’s horizon was too near for it to be
visible. Once I started to walk to Sans
Souci, and on two short chubby legs got
through Tempe and its mosquitoes, and up
the rocks of Arncliffe, past boiling-down
works and • piggeries; failing somewhere
beyond Kogarah, and sleeping in the scrub
an hour or two. Once, with a picnic, I
drove to George’s River, but wasn’t tall
enough to see the bay. For the rest, I knew
of it and Captain Cook, and always liked to
increase his little ship, the Endeavor, to an
armada of galleons, sweeping in from sea on
the flood to a land so full of flowers that
bloom concealed the sand. Similarly, I built
a First Fleet all for myself; high ships and
caravels and frigates, and sailors with long
pigtails down their backs and twisted tobacco
ever in their mouths. The beauty of my
First Fleet was adorable; the cruelty
very cruel; post captains and commanders,
admirals and midshipmites walked the deck,
the admiral with his hand upon his jewelled
sword as he strutted, his white satin knee
breeches fastened with a diamond garter;
convicts flogged at every gangway, and the
scuppers full of blood.
I grew out of that, bdt Botany Bay
remained always the place of great romance
which I would one day see. A few years
later I heard of it again, and whenever I
came into George-street near Market-street
I used to go to those old iron-roofed shanties
which were once the central markets for
fruit, with the old white-washed Central
Police Court at the Druitt-street end. Here
came the romance of the South Seas, bring-
ing bananas of Fiji, and orchardmen, who
smelled of apricots, drinking at the old
Flower Pot Inn. There was then but one
line of rail to Sydney, and that from Parra-
matta Junction; and very old and sun-dried
men and women, wrinkled like walnut shells,
drove their tilted carts of peaches, oranges
and honey from Pennant Hills and Beecroft,
Concord and the Field of Mars. It was in
those markets that, in the first week of a
September, I saw a bank of native roses
which sent me to the Manly Flower Show,
and thence a-lusting for the bush.
Without the Markets, near the George-
street front, sat one who sang of Botany
Bay. A little withered, twisted old man he
was, and his only friend seemed to be that
identity of Sydney in the ’Bo’s, the good-
looking, humorous, gay old man known as
“Garden Honey,” with eyes bright as a
bird’s, and a long, thin, bearded old chap
whom I thought able to carry heavy
shoulder burdens for ever, and who cried
about the suburban streets “Clothes props”
—with “props” ascending to E above the
stave. I went often to hear the twisted
old man sing of Botany Bay to the accom-
paniment of a concertina, rocking him-
self as he sang, until his face came within a
foot of his knee. It was a song of a convict
transported because his blowen peached—
the blowen who tied her hair with a black
velvet band :—•
I was taken, and tried, and committed,
And sent out to Bot-in-ney Bay;
And, as the Judge on me passed sentence,
Why! these were the words he did say:
“Some like the Victoria fashion,
And some in their curls are so grand;
But, for my part, I’d much rather have them,
When tied with the —black —vel-vet —ba-a-andl”
And though that song made me want to see
Botany Bay the more, it happened so that I
did not see it until 35 years thereafter; hav-
ing in the meantime seen much of London
that the Londoner never knows, and a lot of
the back-end of Tuscany that the Tuscan
dreams not of. For that is the habit of men;
always desiring the far-off, so that the
beauty of the gardens around Farm Cove
are beloved mostly of strangers.
Six months ago I found Botany Bay at
its best point, which is that northern
bank of George’s River at its exit,
called Sandringham. From Kogarah a
noisy street railway, calling itself a tram,
makes the maddest progress of any tram I
know. It is dingy and dirty, and, but for
its speed, would be rightly called a steam-
hearse. But those old American motors, very
small and light for their power, have good
feet. Fifteen miles in thirty-four minutes,
including twenty stops, is not slow. The
line was designed by a man who had cork-
screws in the brain —allowing something for
the difficulties of route. The curves are very
short and follow mostly the letter S. They
suddenly swing from the straight into one
of these foolish double loops; and, as the
curves occur on steep grades, they are taken
at a speed which will one day send the motor
to butt the telegraph post on that last turn
of the inward run.
At near Sans Souci the tramway becomes
a real railway, leaving the road and following
the shore past Sans Souci, sentinelled by its
pines, a grove or two of the fine N. S. Wales
fig. on to Sandringham and its hibiscus, mag-
nolia, oleander, Moreton 'fig and stone pine
of Liguria. There is an old hotel, with the
bar hidden, so that it seems a “colonial”
house of the ’forties, though someone has
painted the stone and prevented the beauty
of its mellowing with age; children in the
swings under the trees; a big brown retriever
who swims all summer; a red and white
shooting dog with a slavering mouth, who
chases, while the sun shines, every shadow
of a bird. Beneath a Norfolk Island pine—
a great and, splendid tree, so big that no
wind that ever blew from the east can make
it do more than wave its lighter branches —-
an old hound, glossy black, kindly as he
appears to be Satanic: a tragic dog with
sunken temples and the flesh thinning from
his skull and a voice of resignation and
despair. Yellow sand and the row of Norfolk
pines guarding the grassv land from the fly-
ing sand of the beach; in sunlight joyous,
and by starlight or moonlight black with
melancholy, as if the hip of the beach were
a hearse, and the trees the funeral plumes—
dropping earthward on the wind, as mourners
over an open grave.
Almost all the year the bay before is with-
out a ripple, for it has little depth; rarely
does Doll’s Point show surf; the strand
on the mainland to the south —mostly
places of low scrub with heavy banksia forest
behind them, and the yellow dunes of
Cronulla again beyond—takes the water
silently to its fat mud. By sunshine, beauti-
ful with strength; by starshine, beautiful
with mystery; by moonlight, beautiful with
mobile silver, for every ray finds a ripple.
I had had the old superstition that Botany
is Botany Bay; and that if Captain Cook
returned he would find a boiling-down, a glue
factory and three noxious trades in place of
the shores of bloom that made Jamie Cook
and Joseph Banks and Solander crazy with
the beauty of the land after the long travail
of the sea. And I found a region clean and
virgin as Torres Straits ; silent but for the
quiet talk of the fishermen drawing their
nets, the soft paddings of the red-patched
hound chasing the shadows of leaf and bird,
the bax*k of the retriever mad to pursue
sticks thrown in the sea, and the pathetic
cry of the black, lame old hound howling of
the death he felt so near unto himself.
The place had fallen on lean days; many
people avoided the hotel since the war began,
because the hotelkeeper was of German
origin, born in the Hanover which has pro-
duced so many English kings. He was
naturalised thirty years ago, has held hotel
licenses in Australia for twenty years with-
out ever a black mark to him; has held this
hotel by Botany Bay for thirteen years. And
now, not content with permitting personal
opinion to give trade or withhold it, this
Parliament of New South Wales passed a
law at the instance of the Legislative Coun-
cil —whence no good shall ever come —pro-
(Continued on next page.)


ARE YOUR KIDNEYS ILL?
The kidneys are the life and strength of the back. When
they are ill the back is ill—feels weak, and aches day and
night. Sharp, cutting pains run through you. Work is
impossible; and what with headaches, dizziness, nervousness,
bladder and urinary troubles, your health is quite broken
down. A few doses of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills will
make a wonderful improvement in you, and a course of the
medicine will cure you. For Doan’s Pills reach and heal
the kidneys themselves—help them to remove from the body
all the impurities that poison the blood and cause such
diseases as rheumatism, dropsy, Bright’s disease, urinary
chsordeis, gravel, headache, dizziness, etc.
SERIOUS KIDNEY TROUBLE CURED.
SEVERE BACKACHE, HEADACHES AND URINARY DISORDER.
trouble. I don’t Diow how to'account for’if U nnL^ Sa * S : ~“ Some . time ago I was taken very badly with kidney
treatment; and each one, failing to do m g“W Iconaulted three doctors and underwent
ahnost hopeless and that an operation was my only chance ? f ° r an operatlon - They said my case was
lnd d ™ State - I **
-- j * juauitacne JVicii
completely, and for good, by these pills. T postponed' the "W "l* 8 118 uacl , « * was and had been cu„u
fortnight later 1 returned to work, and the men there contd w’ v r com ™ enc u ed using Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. A
possible. There is no doubt it is wonderful. lam d and ™ W °" ,d eVe ‘' b " e bM "
that my huslknA'SlHrel distnuiw symptom ofTid* ‘l™’ , eter J r ' vord ' al ' d 1 .now add tile important fact
Backache Kidney Pills will cure serious kidney complaint ” fk d y trouble> Hls lastln & cure 1S Proof positive that Doan’s
v
Backache
Kidney
bv
£"very
fficti/re
7e//s A
Story "
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold at 2/9
per bottle at all Chemists and Stores, or from
Foster=McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Be Sure You Get “DOAN’S.”
venting this Australian citizen holding a
license at all.
Australia is? under the British flag; and
it isn’t British, but better. We are not
British but Australian, with better conditions
than British conditions; betterment of cli-
mate and food, of sunlight and environment,
has seen to that, The Australian-born son
of a Frenchman isn’t a Frenchman, but an
Australian, and iiiay be a better Australian
than other Australians by the name of Brown
or Jobson. Apparently these German-baiters
take the directory, find a German name, and
denounce it to the local Robespierres. Yet
who of them objected when he saw on the
lists of the men of Gallipoli names such as
Kisselbach, Brandt and others of like pro-
bable origin?
And all this enemy-baiting misses the mark.
I know of an Australian, all his life a soldier,
holding a captain’s commissi on, and a valued
area-officer under the Commonwealth. His
father was a German, naturalised as a Brit-
ish subject in India; and for some years a
British soldier. That Austral ian has had his
work as area-officer taken .from him, and,
by prejudice outside, his livelihood also. He
was advised to change his name and refused;
yet men of enemy origin and enemy name—
some fined for trading with the enemy—have
changed their names from Bieberwurst or
Iv artoff elpuffer to McTavish or Cameron, or
what not. If any man be a possible menace
to the State let him be interned ; if he be a
traitor, such as Carson or Casement, let him
be hanged. But to say that inoffensive citi-
zens shall not earn a living, nor be kept at
Government expense, nor be allowed to leave
the Commonwealth, is to make the men who
made the Commonwealth ashamed. These
are the methods of the First Fleet and
Botany Bay.
The launch splutters its course over the
shallow bay to the tfocky shore and the little
beach where good James Cook of Mar ton
made landfall 147 years ago come April. Its
banksias—their golden bottlebrushes yellow
as corn tassels against the deep green of their
serrated leaves—the ericas, the scrub and
fern, the white rocks and yellow sands, the
sunlight on Cape Banks and Cape Solander
leave Kurnell as beautiful as when Cook
knew it, though the successor of the flower
season known to those fine modest men who
knew their job so well is. past two months
ago. There is the spring from the rock
joints making little runnels in the sandstone
where James Cook filled the water-butts of
the Endeavor; and the rough-dressed monu-
ment to Solander on the bayward side of the
cape; and, further south, at the head of a
sandbeach but twenty feet long the obelisk
of discovery and the extract from James
Book s fog graven in copper.
That plate, with the short statement of
discovery and the latitude and longitude of
Botany Bay, is repeated at the shoreward
end of the pier; and, facing it, thefre is a
plate with a sentence three times the length
of James Cooks remarks. Why not? You
find the smallest possum lip the biggest kind
of tree: and the more crowded copper-plate is
signed with the name of—Joseph Hector
Carruthers. Cook and Carruthers! Purtell
and Shakspeare! The Performing Elea and
Julius Caesar! Major Sarah Bloggs of the
Salvation Army and Diana of the Ephesians!
And so back again in the evening beauty;
propellei ; working in a field starred with
s P the happy home of
many jellyfish.
i;o-S ghl V °r n the P ine trees and the sea; the
n o nr.s or Bong Bay prison shining over the
k|i oke /l by the easterly raging beyond
11; - ! he f ? hore 1 more like a hearse, the
pines quiet as its plumes.
The fingers of the trees let fall their con-
centration of the almost-invisible rain; the
evicted go away to a new roof; and the big
Ivmff 1 ' tiie dog who will miss this
S 7 u- to / hls pnrsuit of the shadows of leaf
honnd lr £ SQ m W i th i them - But the old black
hound, too old to learn new things, stays in
the rainy grass beneath the pines, limping
uneasily, too afraid to rest, and howling his
despair all through the night. Over the
sand-dunes sound the surfs of Cronulla, roar-
ing like lions hungry for meat.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Out of the World.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHRN I read of the windjammer cap-
tain who called at one of the lost
islands that speck the ocean and
asked the islanders who came off to meet him
what was the latest news about the war, and
of the Crusoes who looked up at him wonder-
ingly from their rolling whaleboat and
shouted “What war?” I remembered old
Mrs. Roakes, who lived and fought with us
ever so many years ago.
There was a tradition amongst the senior
members of the family that in some dim
period Mrs. Roakes had been a brilliant and
fascinating young woman. To us youngsters,
confronted with the withered, stone-deaf old
lelic, the legend seemed like a grotesque lie.
But the ancient lady had three departed
husbands buried in three different cemeteries,
and if she thought you were worthy of it, she
would show you photographs of their graves.
If she had never lacked company and
entertainment in her long-lost youth, deaf-
ness a_nd a vile temper combined had made
her old age lonely, and she kept herself alive
by continually changing her lodgings and
tongue-fighting all the women she came in
contact with. She had all the best of the
arguments, too, because her antagonists had
to scream down a long, flexible ear-trumpet,
and if the old faggot hadn’t a suitable retort
about her she simply didn’t receive the
message. As her eyes were too weak to read,
and as no one would read to her, all her
news came to her in a garbled form through
one devoted woman-friend who had stuck to
her despite numberless insults and rebuffs.
This friend took little interest in great
affairs, but great interest in small person-
alities ; consequently the old dame had fallen
behind like the islanders discovered bv the
sea-captain.
It was during some sort of household crisis
that Mick the boy was sent in to soothe the
ancient lodger and keefi her from growing
panicky and ringing the huge brass railway-
station bell she kept by her for summoning
help when bad-tempered' or alarmed. Mick’s
elder sister called up the old lady and ex-
plained who the strange youth was. Then
she gave him a swift, birdlike nod and
showed her yellowed teeth at him.
“She’s on!” sighed Mick’s sister, and
handed him the telephone. “Tow talk to her
now! Speak as loudly as you can.” And
Mick’s sister rustled swiftly and thankfully
from the room.
“What—do—you—think—of— the—war?”
shouted Mick, and, as the old lady merely
looked dazed, he gave her a repeat.
“War !” croaked old Mrs. Roakes. “War !
Is there a war?”
Mick was so delighted that he had to roll
about in his chair. Pie only pulled himself
together when he noticed the old bird wait-
ing tensely for further information. “Where
is the war?” she shrieked with a side glance
at the brass tocsin.
Mick put the blowpipe to his lips. “Every-
where !” he yelled. “All-over —the —shop !”
“Who is doing it?”
“The Ger-mans!”
“Who?”
“The Ger-mans!” It took her a little
while to digest that much.
“What are they doing it for?”
Mick thought despairingly of all the
paries that had been printed since August,
IJI4. “The Ger-mans want to boss the
earth!”
<Eear me 1 suppose they’re helping
those Boers?”
“O Lord!” thought Mick, “she hasn’t been
posted since 1899!” He called her up
again : “No! The Boers are fighting for us!”
■ A |° ok of blank incredulity. “Why, I
thought someone told me yesterday morning
England was fighting the Boers!”
“Fh?” that WaS years ag0 — years a 9°!”
“Years ago!”
°.J d lady shook her head severely.
Queen Victoria won’t like it! Why are
an sing sides so? It isn’t a game, is
does Mr. Chamberlain allow it?”
Mick didn’t feel equal to telling her that
all these personages had passed. He tried
to snort-cut back to modern times by shout-
ing Germany you know—it’s Gei-many
n °w • Were all fighting Germany!”
What— everybody /”
“Oh, yes, we’ve got to!”
Roakes had been a sportswoman in
3l . , tx “£’ That doesn’t seem fair,” she
f e Germans are very moral people
—not like the French at all. Why don’t
ow ® rs intervene and stop it?”
“Beenni O< S V leep 7 7 breath and shouted back.
Because they re all in it! All in it—can’t
intervene!” *
Tim!! 0 Hit 'lf v? thought ovep it for a minute.
Boer\ d a Ve f y gravely: “I hear the
n , VCry dlPt y People. They read the
th;vt whl d^ y and d °n’t wash themselves. Is
England wants to punish them?”
“Eh, what’s that?”
“No-o! it isn’t about that any more!”
“They’re not going to do it any more?”
“No!”
More nods of approval. “I’m very glad
to hear it! I don’t like dirty people at all.
Do you?”
“No !”
“I never could understand why such
religious people didn’t wash themselves. It
isn’t nice not to wash.”
“No !”
“And why don’t the Germans want them
to wash?”
“Oh, ’struth!” groaned Mick to himself.
She saw his look of distress and watched
him narrowly till he took up the transmitter
again. “That’s all over and done with!”
he yelled. “This is a different war now—-
A different war, do you understand?.. . .Eng-
land, France, Russia, Italy, Belgium, Rou-
mania, Servia and Montenegro are fighting
Germany, Austria, Bulgaria and Turkey!
Greece is expected to come in at any minute
—on our side. There’s nothing but war now
—it’s everywhere!”
The old lady looked at him wide-eyed.
“It’s disgraceful—disgraceful! I never
heard of such a thing!”
“Yes — it’s aivful — awful!”
“And all because the Boers don’t wash
themselves, you say?”
Mick gave it up then. “YES!” he
shouted. “The whole world is fighting about
it!”
The door opened and the relief arrived
just in time to see him drop the speaking-
tube. _ But the old dame, immersed in her
reverie, didn’t notice the action.
Suddenly she sat up alertly, eyes bright
with a fresh thought. “Impudence! I
wouldn’t like to be in their shoes when
Queen Victoria gets to hear of it!”
KODAK.
Salmacis.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DREAMING, she lies beside the quiet
pool,
Where lily-pads like faery islands
float,
Whose rose and ivory cups repeat the note
Of her rose-ivory body, couched and cool
In the green grass, starred with white
flowers all.
What dreams are hers? What fantasies
remote
Flush with faint flame the whiteness of her
throat,
And tranquil limbs, and small breasts
virginal?
She lies and dreams, unconscious of the
world,
Beyond the sleepy garden where the sun
Makes golden shadows in her heavy hair.
One arm above her head, her fingers curled.
Dissect a rose, whose petals, one by one,
I all on her rose-like face, and linger there.
N.S.W.
F. S. BURNELL.


bv
WESTINGHOUSE (Morse)
Rocker Joint Chain Drives
•/
■C.
i .... :• i
The Rocker- Joint
by its rolling
action eliminates
rubbing friction;
the pins, being
dead hard, en-
sure long life.
m
10 -h.p. Drive — - 9 Pitch x wide,
r.p.rn 875/360.
The true me-
chanical move-
ments are verified
by THE SILENCE
whilst working.
Attention and
upkeep ARE
NIL.
Your power account will be decidedly reduced by the installation
of one of our drives, and your output greatly increased.
Wheels manufactured at our works and Chain supplied from
local Stocks.
Head Office—
The Westinghouse Brake
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N Z. Office— 93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
bvvb
vb
DON’T LOOK OLD!
But restore your grey and faded hairs to their natural color with
LOCKYER’i SULPHUR
HAIR RESTORER
1/6 SOLD EVERYWHERE. 1/6
Lockyer’s gives health to the hair and restores the
natural color. It cleanses the scalp, and makes
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
This world-famed Hair Restorer is prepared by the great
Hair Specialists, J. Pepper & Co. Ltd., Bedford Laboratories,
London, Eng., and can be obtained direct from them by
post, or from any Chemists and Stores throughout the World.
SAFEGUARD Yoon health
0? J.Collis Broanes
Cutorodyae
TJio Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and
in the Cough of BRONCHITIS
CONSUMPTION.
nd
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA,
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery
Oj all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3, 3/-, 5/-.
Made in England.
DINNEFORD'S
Magnesia
vb
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
vb
The Universal Remedy for Aoidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
vbc
it
ow
See
easy
You merely rub a wet cloth
on a cake of Bon Ami,
getting a white lather,
which you daub all over
the glass. In about a min-
ute it is as dry as a bone.
You wipe it off with a soft,
dry cloth, and all the dirt
and grime comes off at the
same time.
In America, which has been
the home of Bon Ami for
twenty-five years, practi-
cally everybody cleans win-
dows and mirrors this way.
Bon Ami is used in more homes
there than any other cleaner. It is
quite different from scouring soap
—it •wiil not scratch. It is for all
the finer kinds of polishing and
cleaning. It has a special field of
usefulness all by itself.
For all
mB
Finer Kinds of
Polishing & Cleaning
At your grocers.
“There is nothing else like it.’*
jtow To Keep Kealthy
Almost everybody requires at times a little medicine, that is at once
cleansing and strengthening in its action. Men and women, even of
the healthiest, occasionally need a reliable remedy which will relieve
and correct liver, stomach and bowel derangements and at the same
time, act as a general tonic. For these purposes there |is no family
medicine better than Beeeham’s Pills. So pronounced are the
benefits derived from the use of this famous preparation that many
people have come to regard Beeeham’s Pills as indispensable to the
maintenance of health. Carefully compounded from specially
selected ingredients of great medicinal value. Beecham’s Pills may
be confidently relied upon to correct to relieve strengthen and
restore. Any disorders of digestion or run-down condition of the
system should be treated at once with
JJcechaa’s pills
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St Helens, England.
Sold in boxes, labelled price 10id (36 pills), 1/14 (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
BROOKS
Saddles are the most popular because they
have always been the most comfortable, and
they will ever remain supreme by virtue of
the unique experience which such widespread
popularity affords
the makers.
OF ALL
DEALERS
Si?
'£}' «>4;b«-;..%S
çvb
To make tube screwing faster, easier
and more accurate, use
OSTER Bulldog Pic Stocks
the tools with five big features: (1) Self-locking, adjustable
dies, (2) self-centreing guides, (3) no running back over
newly-cut screws, (4) no loose bushings to lose, (5) no
breakable small parts. Eleven convenient sizes. Write
for catalog.
THE OSTER MFG. CO., Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
Australasian Representative—
CHAS. J. WRIGHT, Box 251 G.P.0., Melbourne, Victoria. _
vbc
Oster Screwing
Tackle, Dies
and Extra Parts
are carried in
stock by
Ironmongers,
Machinery and
Hardware and
Plumbing
Supply Houses.
%
%
THE EE '-JR’TBBIZZ) TYjRES
Mis
vbc
vbvc
Spencer - Moulton tyres are gaining
laurels all over the world for their
remarkable efficiency and long life.
The tropics, with their flinty and
crudely engineered roads, make
no impression on the hard rubber
ribs of a “ Spencer-Moulton,” and
the lesson of the tropics is one
that should be taken to heart
by all practical motorists.
Illustrated Catalogue
and prices will be
mailed on request.
C. SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., Ltd.,
77-79, Cannon St.. London, England,
Stockists:
MELBOURNE:
MOLLOY & CO., 129, KING STREET.
CHRISTCHURCH. N.Z.:
COTTON BROS., 212, MADRAS STREET.
P.C.8.—70
çvb
m


The All-Australian
Power Transmitter.
NGROVTFE
LEATHER
LTI
wbioh is used exclusively by th«
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
“An Eagle on a Globe” Brand
CIRCULAR SAWS
Manufactured by Highly-skil’ed Workmen from Best Sheffield Crucible
Cast Steel Plates. Sizes 6in. dia. to 72in. dia.
BAND SAWS SET AND SHARPENED, % to 1%, wide. FILES.
SPECIAL HIGH-SPEED MILLSAWS, also CRUCIBLE CAST STEEL
MILLS AWS IN STOCK.
SAW REPAIRING A SPECIALITY.
IRON AND STEEL FOR MACHINE KNIVES.
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Australian /
Offices— l
379 Kent Street, Sydney; 264 Latrobe Street. Melbourne:
46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie; Cliff Street, Fremantle.
Sheffield,
HARDIE’S
GENUINE
“FIBRO-CEMENT
it
Sheets & Slates for all Building Purposes.
REXILITE
B]
MADE-
Flat Roofing: and Dampcourse
(Approved by Public Works Department)
FFbeFIR
Th&B uildlng Board made from Root Fibres
For Interior Walls and Ceilings.
Write for Samples from
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney.
And at Melbourne; “Courier” Buildings,
Brisbane; and at Adelaide.
WOLFE*
Should be in
Every Home.
Buy Whole Bottles.
Made from the Best Selected
Barley & Italian Juniper Berry.
SCHNAPPS
Farmers S Chaffcutting Contractors!
Please note specially that we are now Sole Agents
in New South Wales for the celebrated
Tangye Portable Oil Engine.
“BUNCLE”
Chaffcutter
The machine of 60 years’
standing-, and used on the
majority of Australian
Farms.
SR
Clayton & Siiuttleworth
Portable Steam Engine.
Big: Stocks Quick Delivery & Satisfaction guaranteed
with every machine. Write us for Catalogues.
Tangye Suction Gas Plant.
Clayton & Slinttleworth
Traction Engine.
&CO.
Soie Agents,
Miller’s Point, SYDNEY.
oil En^ines > Pumps, Irrigation Plants, etc.
SHUTTLEWORTH Portable Steam and Traction Engines.
JJ?ie N .£ a 7 n 'mP'ements. WOLSELEY Sheep-shearing Machines.
CftNE Miimng Machines. E.R.B. Separator Engines, etc.
vbc
E.R.B. Separator Engine,
manufactured specially for
driving separators. Won-
derfully simple and
reliable. Price, £42/10/-
THE
SHEEP SHEARING MACHINES
Efficiency in operation and low cost of upkeep are two factors which have
helped to make the Wolseley the most popular Sheep Shearing Machines
in the world.
The Wolseley is always a thoroughly sound investment for sheepbreeders,
and invariably pleases the shearer most.
Address your enquiries to nearest branch.
Australasian Agents: DAUGETV & COMPANY LTD.- —— ALL BRANCHES.
çvb
Here is a Machine that will show a savins
in Time, Labor and Money on your present
Sanding Methods
cvb
I ZJIHf “a lOnSer i ,our li,,is " hl « department with old-fashioned Sandhi- Drum, or
The Matt ison Block Belt Sander
“r * he ma,ority °* thst e *P ensi ™ handwork that yon are now confronted with, and,
what is really more important, WILL GIVE A BETTER AND MORE UNIFORM FINISH.
cvb
PARKE <O. LACY CO. LTD
•f
Mac hinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRUCE PEEBLES & CO. LTD.
EDINBURGH
Dynamos, Alternators,
Motor Converters,
A.C. and D.C. Motors,
STOCKS CARRIED.
Block shows Standard Slip Ring
Induction Motor.
ENQUIRE OF AGENTS—
m
JOHNSON & PHILLIPS LTD.
CHARLTON, LONDON
Switchgear, Transformers,
Cables, Arc Lamps, Wires.
WE HOLD ANNUAL CONTRACTS FOR
SYDNEY CITY COUNCIL for
H.T. and E.H.T. SWITCHGEAR and INDOOR
and OUTDOOR TRANSFORMERS.
ENQUIRE OF AGENTS—
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
Equitable Building,
George Street, Sydney.
