

The Genial
R. C3r. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street:. Sydney,
—FOR —
Mining' and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
N-5-W- MONT DE PIETE D $1 C? Lip
Head Office: 7 4 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
National Amphitheatre.
Telephone: City 9325.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, Ceneral Manager.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
Keep Your Home Clean and Healthy
And Free from all Insect Pests by using
Radium Spray
Sold at all department stores. Radium Spray is
made in Australia by an Australian firm.
RADIUM CHEMICAL CO. LTD.
210 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Hu^on'd
Pitveofrfrle-’”
Hams& 6acoi\
" -£fl& ! i
CHUBB’S
ANTI BLOWPIPE
SAFES
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs
HANSEN’S
tablets
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 180 First-Class Prize Medals.
u. <0
o cat
<
AO
“THE SILVER KING”
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BEST BALL
OF ALL
GOLF
BALLS
f
f
9
Royal
Dutch
COCOA.
SUPERIOR
IN
EVERY WAY*
MALTHOID
ROOFING
“Not the same as others.”
THE METHOD OF LAYING.
Will not rust, nor crack, nor split, nor
blow off—those are the things Malthoid
WON’T do. It WELL be water-proof,
weather-proof, spark-proof, and proof
against extremes of temperature. What
more can you ask of a roofing? Samples
and booklets gladly sent.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO.,
Challis House, Sydney.
D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager.
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
BL
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
v
s .v. o.
MINING
MACHINERY
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE. MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. „
Roll Shells, Shoes
and Dies, and all
STEEL CASTINGS.
■QPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
th P Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
lavender
water
The Bulletin
Yol. 37.—N0. 1891.]
[Thursday, May 11. 1916.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


OUR BOOR SALE (Postages shown in
SOME SPECIAL OFFERS.
part},theses. )
Packer’s Among the Heretics in Europe. 3/6 for
1/6 (2d.).
Cheshire’s Bees and Bee-keeping, 2 voK 24/- for
7/6 .(1/5).
Hunt and Burkett’s Soils and Crops, illus. 10/- for
4/6 (5d.).
Ivneipp’s My Will. 6/6 for 2/6 (4d.).
Bosvile’s Horses, Horsemen and Stable Management
lllus. 6/6 for 3/- (4d,). 6 ’
Mason’s The Origin of Invention. 4/6 for 2/- (3d 1
Stewart’s Nietzsche and the Ideals of Modern Ger-
many, 10/- for 5/- (4d.).
Louis’s^ Handbook of Gold Milling. 13/6 for 7/6
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PRQP’T’Y LTD., 238 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
Round Table,
MARCH,
1916.
Special Articles: “The War for Public Right,”
“Production in Peace and War,” “The Problem of
Women in Industry,” “America’s Reaction to the
War,” and the usual articles from the Dominions.
Price 2/6 per cop3 r ; 10/- per annum.
MACMILLAN & CO., 109 Russell Street, Melbourne;
and all Booksellers.
Afraid of Food.
Those who suffer from Indigestion
and Dyspepsia very often become fad-
dists as regards their food, and find
themselves in time reduced to a very
meagre and unsatisfying diet. The
Antiseptic properties of
HUDSON’S
"Eumenthol” Jujubes
prevent abnormal fermentation of the food,
and correcting Acidity of the Stomach, they
thus allow the natural digestive ferments to
act, ana, if taken regularly after meals, tney
so improve the Digestion that a strict diet
becomes unnecessary. They are a most valu-
able corrective for all forms of Indigestion,
and are especially useful and beneficial to an
who suffer from Heartburn, Flatulence an
Dyspepsia.
NO
2
so.
rn
Sold everywhere in tins. Price 1 /6.
The Red Page
The Drame
Arthur Wing Pinero's The Big Drum,
(H.eittettuitm, per Dymock’s Library) was
written before'the war. but produced only
last September- ip London. He calls it a
comedy; but the war-audience considered it
a tragedy. For it had what the average
audience wrongly terms “an unhappy end-
ing”—which means merely that the hero and
the heroine don’t decide to marry as the
curtain falls. Pinero explains that he
regarded the ultimate break between his
hero and his heroine as the happiest thing
that could happen to them. “But comedy
of this order has a knack of cutting rather
deeply, of ceasing, in some minds, to be
comedy at all.” So pressure was immedi-
ately put upon the dramatist—presumably
by the manager, who preferred a long run
to artistic consistency—and at the third
performance the curtain fell upon the pic-
ture, “violently and crudely brought about,”
of heroine in hero’s arms. Pinero says lie
made the alteration against his principles
and against his conscience; yet not alto-
gether unwillingly. The times are too
depressing for “ironic comedy”; and perhaps
in such times “it is the first duty of a writer
for the stage to make concessions to his
audiences, and. above everything, to try to
afford them a complete, if brief, distraction
from the gloom which awaits them outside
the theatre.” _ There is in this sad confession
of one who, judged by the quantity and the
technical quality of his long record, is Eng-
land’s premier dramatist, a hint for the 5396
Australian dramatists who are now seeking
the suffrages of the public through the
medium of J.C.W., Ltd., and other patriotic
Australian theatrical firms. Remember “So
Long. I.etty” and chase gloom.
*
However, Pinero refuses to stultify him-
self in print. He publishes The Big Drum
as it was first written. The big drum is not
military: it is the big drum of personal
advertisement beaten so loudly by the mem-
bers of that curious London society to which
Pinero, wise man. confines himself. Roope,
the stereotyped Cayley Drummle who
appears in all his plays, says to a brilliant
but unpopular novelist: “Advertising minus
talent goes a long way; advertising plus
talent is irresistible. Feed the papers. The
more you do for them, the more they’ll do
for you. Newspaper men are the * nicest
chaps in the world. Feed them gratis with
bright and amusin’ ‘copy,’ as you term it,
and they'll love and protect you for ever....
Dash it, they’ve got to advertise soap, and
soap's essential! Why not literature, which
isn’t?'’
Philip, the poor novelist, loves Ottoline,
the daughter of a newly-ricli man who is
drumming himself into society. The girl,
despite her dislike for her parents’ methods
of advertisement, is, the reader gradually
learns, after all their child. The infection
ot personal advertisement has got into her
blood. But she loves Phillip ; and when the
family, shocked at their discovery that
Philip is not even in Who’s Who, refuse to
countenance the match, Philip offers to wait
till his next novel is published. If that is
not a big success then he is a failure, and
will release .Ottoline, But he is quite sure
that it is going to be a best-seller.
The novel is published, and achieves an
instantaneous success. Philip gets a state-
ment showing actual sales from his pub-
lisher, and arranges a of those
cosy little dinners that Pinero invariably
provides—for the celebration of his triumph.
And then, gradually, with clever culminative
effect, Philip learns the truth. Ottoline,
fearful for Philip's success, has made \ that
success sure—by buying up edition after
edition of the novel. And Ottoline, found
out, confesses that she is “an incurably xml-
gar woman....We xvomen catch the color
of our surroundings. But xvhat xx'e xvere, we
continue to be—in the grain.” Well, there
is nothing for the lovers to do but to sepa-
rate. But an audience is composed solely of
match-makers, as Pinero discovered. The
play could logically have no other end than
that printed. The audience’s troubles! Also
the manager’s!
Jt
Technically the play is highly interesting.
The embryo playwright is always concerned
to provide dramatic speeches in his dramatic
moments. Pinero long ago found out that
what people say in emotional moments has
no connection, with literature. What really
matters is what they do. Hence his stage
directions are extraordinarily detailed. These
arc a few of the things that Ottoline does
m one little scene : Leaning her hand upon
his arm, melting plucking at the arm of
her chair. .. .leaning lack she searches
for her handkerchief ... .wiping a tear from
her cheek.. . .blowing her hose .rising and
wandering to tke writing-table... .inspecting
some of the pieces of bric-a-brac upon the
table replacing an object upon the table
and moving to the other side of the room
with abandon ... .her laughter dies out, leav-
ing her with a serious, appealing face....
pleadingly... .with a little moue brush-
ing her hair from her brow fretfully....
stamping her f00t... .contracting her
shoulder-blades .... impetuously .... check-
ing herself .... penitently .... drearily. ...
starting up as if to rid herself of disagree-
able sensations... .moving, to the chair on
the left... .sinking into the chair... .fan-
ning herself with her hand.., .glancing up
at him... .reproachfully, her eyes meeting
his... .lightly but softly... .shaking her
head pityingly resting her ' elbow
upon the arm of her chair and her chin on
her hand, musingly ... .half laughing, half
sighing... .partly in jest, partly seriously
... .falling in with his humor... .staring at
him... .rising, smiling but discomposed....
faintly putting her hand to her forehead
... .passionately etc., etc.
Here are two actual scenes of high
dramatic tension:—
Ottoline (warding off the recollection
with a gesture): Oh, don’t —!
Philip: Ha, ha. ha! A shame of me —!
Ottoline (turning from him): Do get
your hat and coat.
Philip (going into the vestibule):
Where's your car?
Ottoline ( moving towards the vestibule):
Iu South Square.
Philip (returning to her, a cape over his
shoulders, a soft hat on his head): Eigh :
o’clock!
Ottoline: Eight o’clock. (He takes he
hands and they stand looking into cac
other’s eyes.)
Philip (after a pause): Fancy!
Ottoline (faintly): Fancy! (He
drawing her to him slowly when, uttering
low cry, she embraces him wildly and pas
sionately.) Oh! (clinging to him) Oh, Phil
Oh—oh—oh— !
Philip (responding to her embrace)
Otto—Otto—!
Ottoline (. breaking ,from him) : Oh —!
The second scene is even more tense:
is chiefly “Ha, ha!” except when it is “Ho
ho!”
Philip : Ha, ha, ha, ha ! Ha, ha, ha —!
Lady Filson (dolefully): Oh, Ottoline—
Ottoline—!
Philip: Ha, ha, ha —!
Ottoline (creeping to the nearer end
the writing table): Il’ssh ! IPssh ! Philip—
Philip—!
Philip (loudly) : Ho, ho, ho—!
Ottoline: Don’t! Don’t! (making
movement of entreaty towards him): Phil—
Phil—!
(His laughter ceases abruptly and, he look
her full in the face.)
Philip (after a moment’s pause, bit
ingly) : Thank you—thank you— (turning
from her and seating himself in the chair
the smoking table and resting his chin o>
his fist) thank you.
That is how modern drama is written. Ii:
you omit the “Ho’s” and the “Ha’s,” it i
exactly how the scenario of the movies
written —or shouted.
d*
Edward Knoblauch is always experiment
ing in drama. He is by birth a citizen o
the U.S.A., though his home is in England.
He, first came into prominece by The Fawn
produced in 1911, and running a whole
season in America. Next came his well
known Kismet, and the equally well-known
Milestones tin collaboration with Arnolc
Bennett). Discovering America, The Head
master, My Lady’s Dress and Marie Odile
followed—-a remarkably varied output. My
Lady’s Dress is now published by that use
ful organisation known as the Drama League
of America—and the publishing of plays is
but one of the activities of that society. This
play was produced in London in April, 1914
and in New York in October of the same
year. The construction is quite novel. It
is really nine complete plays within a play
each of which contributes an essential ele-
ment to Knoblauch’s theme. The audience
is first introduced to an elaborate gown
which is to be worn by one of the charac-
ters on an occasion where it will have an
important influence upon her husband’s
future. Then, in the manner of the movies,
the dramatist shows how the materials of the
dress, the lace, the silk, the artificial flowers,
the fur, etc., are manufactured or obtained.
These playlets, each complete in itself, main-
tain no chronological consistency or sequence.
Thus the third scene takes place in the
present, while a later scene, that dealing
with the old lace used on the costume, is
dated 1(550; and the localities of the plays
differ widely. All these scenes lead logically
up to the final act, in which the woman who
is to wear the dress, and who has apparently
dreamed the previous scenes, reappears. But
she is shown at the dressmaker’s, before the
gown has been. sent home. Thun this scene
is actually prior in time to the opening
scene of the play, when the dress had already
arrived at the lady’s home. One of the
characters remarks to the dressmaker, a
fashionable artist in attire, “Strikes me you
have to rummage all over the world to put a
dress together nowadays. Means a lot of
work for a lot of people, don’t it?” The
dress-artist casually replies: “Oh, the work
is nothing—nothing. It’s the putting
together that counts. The rest’s easy enough.
You see—it all lies with the artist, not with
the materials.” The audience has already
seen the amount of work that was necessary
to procure those materials.
One feature, cunningly devised by the
diamatist- in order to give the leading
actors a Chance to show their versatility—is
the fact that in each of the scenes the lead-
ing characters strikingly resemble the
heroine and hero. Thus each of the “leads”
appears in a variety of characters. In this
final scene not only does Anne, the one who
is to wear the dress, appear, but subse-
quently, as Anita, she appears as the manni-
ng who wears the dress at the shop. And
in the next scene the audience is shown the
other side of the black velvet curtain frpm
which the manniquins had appeared. The
final scene shows Anne waking up from the
sleep induced by a headache powder, and
recounting her curious dream. “The glimpses
of all those lives that go to make a flimsy
thing like my dress! The awful struggles
for .existence! And you (her husband) were
mit somehow, and I was in it, too. And
yet we weren’t ourselves, and vet we were—
and everybody was pushing, lighting, hatin^
loving—in one endless battle Oh. it was
mere headache-powders this I
feel quite queer about this dress now. To
think of the sickening expenditure of human
energy it stands for!”
. Tim play is highly dramatic and interest-
ing, but of more value as an experiment than
as a play.
The First Referendum in History
Edwin E. Slosson has unearthed a unique
Egyptian hieroglyphic script found at Sinai,
of which he publishes in the New York
Independent an approximate translation.
The '“find” has created considerable excite-
ment in Higher Criticism circles. The trans-
lation, which has been slightly altered for
Australian comprehension, runs thus :■ —
DEFEAT OF THE TEN COMMAND-
MENTS !
Mosaic Laws Voted Down on Referendum
by Decisive Majorities.
Sinai, 2000 b.c. —Some surprise has been
expressed in political circles that every
article of the Decalogue recently submitted to
popular referendum was defeated, although
each was voted upon independently and sev-
eral had a considerable measure of influen-
tial support during the recent campaign. The
first two commandments* had against them
a strong body of opinion among persons
who feared that they might lead to an alli-
ance between church and state. The first,
however, ran far ahead of the second, which
had against it the Sculptors’ Union and all
the artists, with the single exception of the
Futurists, who supported the commandment
on the ground that they were guiltless of
making anything in the likeness of anything
that is in Heaven above, or that is in the
earth beneath, or that is in the waters undei
the earth. The third commandment was
doomed from the start by the cry that it was
an interference with freedom of speech. In
the electorate of Billingsgate it did not
receive a single vote. The fourth command-
ment was downed by the untiring efforts
of the Anti-Blue Law League, supported bj
the Manly Soda-fountain Shopkeepers
Union. Like the fifth, it received a certain
amount of support in the rural districts, but
not enough to overcome the negative
majority returned by the great centres of
population.
The defeat of the sixth amendment had
not been anticipated. But there seems to
have been a feeling, even in the most conser-
vative circles, that a commandment which
was all very well in time of peace might
weaken the nation in case of war. The
seventh commandment, loudly denounced as
“wowserism,” lost out by a three to one vote.
Sodom and Gomorrah reported less than ten
votes in its favor, although a prominent man
had expressed the hope that peradventure
fifty might be found in the Twin Cities. The
eighth _ commandment had been expected to
carry in spite of the powerful opposition of
the Burglars’ Union. What seems to have
killed it was the fear lest the High Court
might construe the law in a sense broad
enough to include the operations of high
finance. The defeat of the eighth command-
ment involved the defeat of the tenth, which
also had against it the organised opposition
of the Socialist party. The ninth command-
ment seems to have been beaten on the face
of the returns, probably owing to the cam-
paign conducted against it by a large section
of the press. The professional politicians
gave it no support and are said to have
secretly instructed their supporters to vote
it down on the ground that it would take the
life out of politics.
It is not thought that the electorates still
to hear from will make a great change in
the result. The electorate is in a very con-
servative mood and is not disposed to wel-
come changes. As Rameses, Premier of
upper and Lower Egypt, told our reporter
last evening: “The present is not the time
for tinkering with the constitution.”
“Note.-—As every member of The Bulletin staff,
appealed to in turn, proved unable to recollect, in
their order, the Ten Commandments, and even the
Religious Editor forgot the Seventh Commandment,
it is presumed that several of this page’s readers
might be a little hazy about the thing. A prolonged
search m the office caverns resulted in the discovery
of an authentic text of the original decalogue, which
is here published (copyright, all rights reserved)
for public information:—
l —3? on shalt have no ot her gods before Me.
- Thou sbalt not make unto thee any graven
image, etc.
Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord in
vain, etc.
4—Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy
5 Honor thy father and thv mother, etc.
6—-Thou shalt not kill.
—Thou shalt not commit adultery.
B—Thou8 —Thou shalt not steaL
9_ neighbor l '* " 0t bear falSe witness against thy
lb Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor’s house etc
J*
This discovery is extremely awkward.
Every nation needs some commandments:
Australia needs at least a score. Evidently
something must be done to fill this national
need, and in a hurry. Hence this page has
decided to ask its readers for a new Deca-
logue, and will pay a guinea for the best 10
Australian commandments received by June
I<. It should be noted that the command-
ments must be specially applicable to Aus-
tralasia and the moral needs of Austral-
asians. And, above all, they should be up-
to-date. For the purposes of this competi-
tion which is more of the nature of a patri-
otic national service than a mere competi-
tion for a prize—the commandments sub-
mitted need not be graven on tablets of
stone. Preferably they should be type-
written, but not in hieroglyphics.
It was a charming thought that prompted
the Belgian refugees in England to recog-
nise the help and hospitality given them by
the British Empire and the U.S.A. by the
publication of A Book of Belgium’s Grati-
tude (Lane; 5s.L The profits of this beau-
t“l\l ™ lume he placed at the disposal
of the Queen. The illustrations by Belgian
artists are many and interesting, and the
color-reproductions are admirable. The
letterpress consists of articles and sketches
by representative Belgian authors, the trans-
lation of which is the work of leading Brit-
ish authors. One article describes in enthu-
siastic terms “Mow Australia and Maori-
land have helped Belgium.” “It seems that
the sentiment of solidarity displayed by the
Australians acquires strength by its very
exercise. From the distant southern shores
to organisations of relief in r i
Hows a river of gold broadb and there
majestic every month! So tint t , m °re
sent time (August 31. 1915) if the Pre-
war and suffering. Belgium h«« - a year of
Australia and Maoriland. besides wlif f f° m
loads of gifts in kind, more than
-Vnd in appraising at its true value’ i' i>,2 ' S4 '
grandeur of this effort of intermX? th ? real
fraternity we must not lose sight r° n '
that it has been carried out hv , % act
whose total population hardly
millions 'and who have taken Jpon V' X
sehes at the same time the burden h f m '
close collaboration, financial, S® ° f a
naval, in the struggle against and
ans.” The author speeiallv mZ arbarj-
mexhaustible charity-’ of Sydnev - the
loiif the contri *>utions of N.S W toW 8
1915, ‘amounted to the enonn.ms ° A pt "
millions of francs,” with the ° f 21
£30.000 a month will be sent
as ( the Hnns occupy Belgian territory g
‘‘fcgaway Pegasus’’: l am out wit)l v , (r ,
bella (Red Page,” 30/3/Tti) t.. ~ )a-
. hand-grenade at the Adam Lindsay 'o a
tradition. Gordon is not the reprlsentaS
Australian poet—because there is n A. f
thing. In fact, does any country posset
in any one poet, a genuine rep.? Even Niff’
pea re is more representative of mankind
large than of England. As to vim i at
Australian poet: I define him as a mm wf
is (1) an Australian, (2) a poet rJ °
was not the former ’at all and vaslh!
latter only in a medium degree. The fart
hat lie spent part of his life in, or at time
tried to write about, Australia, does not Lake
an Australian of him. If it did, where would
we enu t Browning would be an Italian
rather than an Englishman ; Keats, writini
of Greece, would he a Grecian • Shellev whf
frequented the clouds, would be a Zeppelin
Conrad writes of the sea, but he is neither
barracoota nor a sea-serpent. Dante and
Milton associated themselves with Hades
and its monsters, but no one would
call either of them a German. They are nut
even called lladeans. If they were, what
earth should we call “Henry I DoubtWs“
when lie switches his dooble-bediamonded
brilliance on to the Double-Bed? This closes
the case for plaintiff; but while I’m on the
subject I would like to suggest a search, not
for the representative Australian poet, hut
tor the Great Australian Poet. And I pro-
phesy that when he is discovered he will
prove to have been born in Tasmania. To
be very precise: in a log-and-fern hut near
an old tin-mine, known as the “Star of
Peace,” and situated on a nice, quiet moun-
tain. a couple of thousand feet above the
cow-flecked paddocks of Kingarooma. I’ve
just made quite sure of the locality by looking
up my birth certificate.
Cartoons Magazine (Chicago, 25 cents)
remains the best illustrated monthlv maga-
zine of the war. Despite its pardonable
preoccupation with what passes for poli-
tics in the Neutrited States, it contains a
brilliant selection of the best cartoons of the
war. including the most “strafeing” of the
Hun cartoons. In the April issue Jack
Flanagan’s Bulletin front-page is repro-
duced. and Edward Dyson’s “The Church
Bells,” from this paper, is reprinted.
AUSTRALIA IN GALLIPOLI.
The blue /Egcan waves may run to thee,
Now, as of old; thy cliffs may watch the
light
Purple the east and mark, as dies the 'Night,
No change in that which they were wont to
see.
Put yet, for us, the long, long years to be
Shall not erase, through all their lab'ring
flight,
Those grave-hewn records of our Austral
. might
Which consecrate thy crags, Gallipoli!
And, though we knew defeat, was it in vain
We purchased knowledge with heroic blood ?
If thus tec learned that old-time virtues beat
Within the pulses of our sons again;
If thus we won our spurs of Nationhood,
Thanks be to God who sent us such defeat!
S. ELLIOTT NAPIER.


A
XL
FASHION and ECONOMY at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
ANTHONY
HORDERNS’
6
-CO-
m
W
0/023
34J5
1067
5^6
I
»)
*
ye 3
ss>/e
02 r
&**s
402/
4-5/-
7S/~
42/-
IN presenting the Portfolio
of the Winter Fashions,
ANTHONY HORDERN AND
SONS, Ltd., trust that it may
be found useful as accurately re-
flecting the Modes of the Moment,
and also as a means of economis-
ing expenditure per medium of
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
The Sketches will be found to
be a true representation of the
styles depicted, and being drawn
from articles actually in stock,
Customers may select Goods from
this Authoritative Guide, with the
assurance that disappointment is
not likely to result. Indeed,
although City Customers usually
make a personal inspection of the
Season’s Fashions, Country clients
may rely upon their orders being
executed with equal carefulness by
a specially-trained staff of assist-
ants. Write for a copy, posted
free on request—it will interest
every lady.
No. 9415. —Useful Tweed Coat, seven-eighth length,
inlet sleeves and gauntlet cuffs, full skirt outlined at
waist with tabs of self and buttons. Shades of Dark Grey
or Brown <.. < 29/6
No. 1067.—Up-to-date Coat, of Vicuna Cloth, seven-
eighth length, made in fashionable Military style, to be
buttoned right up to neck if required, and drawn into
figure with wide belt, the collar, epaulettes and cuffs
smartly braided. In Black or Navy 32/6
Same style in full-length Navy Cloth 34/6
No. 01829.- — Light-weight Coat, Of Vicuna Cloth, seven-
eighth length, in Black or Navy, loose-fitting back, finished
wide strap at waist, pointed collar, revers and cuffs trimmed
Silk Military Braid 29/6
No. 4021. Becoming Coat, of Black Sealette, seven-
eighth length, smart wide box-pleated back, slightly eased
into figure with hip belts, fastens close to throat with new
collar. Lined throughout Polonaise 757-
No. 8445. — Serviceable Coat, of Navy Vicuna Cloth,
full length, long waist effect, with new flared skirt, inset
sleeves with deep turn-back cuff, fastens braid, buttons
and ornaments. Similar style in Black 42/-
No. 563. — Warm Winter Coat, Of Blanket Frieze in
loose Raglan cut, suitable for walking or driving, Coat
Collar and revers, can be fastened high at neck, large
envelope pockets. In Navy, Clerical Grey and Dark Heather
shades 39/ 6
Xo. 627. Well-made Coat, in soft Blanket Tweed, easy-
fitting shape, sleeves set-in with wide belt and strapped
at waist, Tab fastenings and smart Military belt. In shades
of Light or Dark Grey 45/-
WE are Family Drapers,
Complete House Fur-
nishers and Universal
Providers, and offer
three-quarters of a million pounds’
worth of the World’s Choicest
Commodities, in variety that puts
all competitive effort in the shade.
Write for illustrated Price Lists of
anything you want, post free on
request. They place the immense
resources of the new Palace Em-
porium at the command of every-
one, and enable no end of savings
to be effected through the agency
of Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low
Prices.
WITH SOME EXCEPTIONS —
We pay Trainage or Shipping
Freight to any Railway Station or
Port in N. S. Wales, on parcels to
the value of £2/10/- and upwards.
The Exceptions include —Furni-
ture, Crockery and Glass, Groceries,
Ironmongery, Tobacco and Cigars,
Sports Material, Toys, Harness,
Carpets and Floorcloths, Bedsteads
and Bedding, and other heavy and
bulky goods, on which we DO NOT
PAY CARRIAGE.
Indispensable Blouse & Skirt
//v/jogy sorderm ’
A
&
•Oft
&
■
257
25/6
6502
m
27/6
+ 474
2//-
I ' 9
% /m v*
V'A %krk ! ; ;
t 1
im\ ■ Ikf
IKS
22
455
3 5/6
'2l/. %
2A7
«M» *•
/A/6
'47//
« %** *
167
w
7 07
F A \ k 50/
030 2
r
ta/,i
'Vo
SZ/u
25/1)
No. 4474. Maternity Skirt, in Black Panama Cloth,
panel front, inverted pleat down centre back, gathered at
waist 21 /-
No. 237. Neatly-cut Skirt, in fine Coating Serge, flared
shape, scalloped at foot, in Black or Navy 23/6
No. 13. —Ivory Japanese Silk Blouse, extra heavy
weight, buttons to throat with Pearl Buttons, smartly-
rolled Collar, small sets of tucks back and front, hem-
stitched throughout—S.W., W., O.S 17/11
No. 453.—Useful Costume Skirt, in fine Coating
Serge, Umbrella shape, with imitation scalloped yoke and
patch pockets, Empire waist, Black or Navy 35/6
No. 12.—Ivory Japanese Silk Blouse, hemstitched
throughout, Yoke effect with pin tucks, newest cuffs gauged
around wrist with frill overhand, S.tV., W., O.S. ..10/11
Or in Black 11/9
Extra Out Sizes, 1/- extra.
No. 6302. Well-cut Flared Skirt, in Coating Serge,
patch pockets, in Black or Navy 27/6
No. 22.—Shirt Blouse, Of Ivory Crepe de Chine, has box
pleat front effect, set-in sleeves, double upright Collar,
finished Black Moire bow tie —S.AV., W., O.S 21/-
Xo 14.—Ivory Crepe de Chine Blouse, firmly-
smocked fronts, Collar, Cuffs and Front outlined cable
stitching; S.W. and W 23/11
No. 167. —Smartly-cut Three-piece Skirt, Self strap-
pings over hips, plain back, Empire waist, Black or rsa\>
Fox’s Serge •• • 21/-
No. 24 Smart Blouse, Of Black Paillette Silk, has Rag-
lan sleeves, yoke effect, upright Collar, turned-back cu s
and shaped empiecements at front. S.W., W., O.S 14/11
No. 734. Stylish Skirt, in Black or Navy Coating Serge,
yoke effect at back with box pleats, back and front trimmed
fancy Buttons 32/6
No. 23. — Fashionable Bolero, of Black Taffeta silk,
for wearing over any Blouse, has effective scalloped edge,
set-in sleeves, Semi-Military Collar and hemstitched —-
S’.W., W., 18/11
No. 7107. Stylish Skirt, in Black and White Shepherd’s
Plaid, with deep-shaped hand at foot, panel front, Empire
waist 80 / *
All sizes stocked: Length, 37-44 in. ; Waist, 22-27 in.
O.S-, extra length, 39-44 in.; waist, 28-33 in 33/-
No. 247. Useful Skirt, in Black and Grey Mixture
Tweed, yoke top with scalloped front, finished bone
buttons 14/6
No. 0502. — Smart Full-flared Skirt, in Light Grey
Tweed, with pencil stripe, patch pockets, high
waist 16/11
Other new stvles, in Light and Dark Grey Tweed —-
13/6, 15/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
RricKfield Hill,


WINCHESTER
Cartridges
Tor Rifles, Revolvers or Pistols
The most accurate shooting rifle, revolver
or pistol made will do unsatisfactory work
unless the cartridges used in it are as accurate
as the arm. For that reason it is important
when buying to get cartridges that have an
established reputation for quality. Win-
chester —the w brand of cartridges in all
calibers from .22 to .50 are unexcelled for
accuracy, penetration and uniform shooting
qualities. They cost no more than inferior
makes and are for sale everywhere. If you
want to get the most satisfactory results with
your rifle, revolver or pistol, always use
Winchester ammunition. Do not simply
ask for “some cartridges” when you buy,
but be sure to specify Winchester make
and look for the bold w on the box.
THEY SHOOT STRAIGHT AND HIT HARD
n
as
m
va
3D-U
The Edison Diamond
Disc Phonograph
reproduces the original music
exactly as it was played or sung by the artist—every
overtone being reproduced.
Recently 300 phonograph experts attended a recital in Orange,
U.S.A. Alice Verlet—the famous Belgian prima donna—stood
beside the Edison Diamond Disc Phonograph.
There came the clear notes of the beautiful song “Caro Nome” from
“Rigoletto.” Which was singing—phonograph or lady? The ear
* could not distinguish. Sometimes Miss Verlet sang; sometimes the
phonograph, but the only guide as to which was singing, was the
movement—or otherwise—of Miss Verlet’s lips.
Faces were lit up with surprise—even amazement—a modern
miracle was happening.
But every day music lovers—once sceptical—are being convinced of
the unique beauty, clearness and naturalness of this wonderful
instrument. It has none of the faults common to other talking
machines. It stands alone; has no tone of its own, but is a perfect
vehicle for the re-creation of the artist’s voice—or instrument. No
needles to change; records are unbreakable.
Write at once for illustrated and fully descriptive catalog; post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 3G4-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Hhe Dootij - Croaker
AIR GAS SYSTEM
CHEAPER THAN
Elecrricity, Coal Gas, Acetylene or Kerosene
and BETTER THAN All.
M
>/
=*--1
INTER-STATE AGENTS
Buzacott & Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Dangar, Gedye & Co.,
Young St., Sydney.
J. Bartram & Son
Bourke St., Melbourne
Works: 269 Toorak Rd..
Melbourne
THE BRITISH MADE
YELLOW METAL NIB
GOLDEN
WATTLE
Smooth and durable, as it does not
corrode or break. Just the kind
of nib to improve characterless,
illegible handwriting. The best
of writers like it and use it, and
with ladies it is a great favourite.
SIXPENCE & ONE SHILLING PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS
MANUFACTURED BY
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
Steel, Gold a Fountain Pen Makers
Edinburgh, Glasgow & London
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
MUDiSRiM 1 UULvi
“NORCRQSS
have revolutionised Hand
Cultivating. The sharp,
tapering Shovels literally
tear up the earth from
lin. to 6in. deep, leav-
ing ground level, loose
and untrampled. And it
is done with such ease
and speed as to make
gardening an extreme
pleasure.
They work closer to
plants without injuring
them than any other
tool.
Ask your Ironmonger
or write our Agents—
S. SCOTT-YOUNG LTD.,
1 Bond Street, Sydney
FOR THE
GARDEN and
FLOWERS.
Cultivator-hoss
m
m
C. S. NORCROSS & SONS, Manufacturers,
Bushnell, Illinois, U.S.A.
“I Felt Extremely Weak
and Gould Scarcely Walk.”
“I Was LaicMJp in a Hospital.”
“But am now Completely Restored, and my Sleep is
Rendered Most Refreshing.” The Wonders of Clements Tonic!
THERE are many Business Men in Sydney to-day who feel the effect of the
great heat, the strenuous times caused by the War. and the worry of business
to such a degree that they are more dead than alive when the day closes —
almost too fatigued to reach home. To those men the letter published below by
a prominent city accountant appeals, for it tells in a few words how jaded nerve
strength can be restored, insomnia banished, and health regained bv the use of
this well-recognised remedy, Clements Tonic. It is the medicine that decreases
weakness and increases strength. It should be in all houses in these oppressive
days. No house is medically equipped without it. Read this letter: —
200 Victoria Street, Darlinghurst, Sydney, 11/12/’lo.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
After suffering and being ill in hospital for about 12
months, I met a friend of mine (a chemist), and, feeling
extremely weak and scarcely able to walk properly, I asked
him what I should take to bring some vigor into my system.
“He strongly advised Clements Tonic, and, not to be
sceptical about it, I took his advice and have since thanked
him most heartily. That was about six weeks ago, and I can
most truthfully say that the Tonic HAS CREATED WONDERS.
“My constitution is almost completely restored. From
restless nights I can now sleep soundly, awakening in the
morning thoroughly refreshed. My appetite, which was very
jaded, has returned, and I thoroughly enjoy every meal I take.
‘lou can make use of what I have written, as it is a
man s duty to advise his fellow beings what benefit he derives
from a medicine that will do universal good. I really feel
TWENTY" YEARS Y"OUNGER SINCE TAKING THE TONIC.”
“(Signed) J. N. S. CLARKE.”
If you have Insomniajou should take Clements Tonic, and Sleep LIKE A CHILD.
It is the great W E Remedy in Peace or War. Its effect on the jaded
constitution is magical. It does good because it is good. All Chemists and Stores
sell it.


Australia Riddled with
DeadlyKidaey Disease
ALMOST EVERYBODY COMPLAINING.
Kidney disease is most certainly on the in-
crease. Thousands and thousands of people
in the towns and villages of this country are
in terrible danger of deadly kidney disease.
This insidious disease creeps on, gradu-
ally getting a firmer and firmer grip, until
when it is too late the poor sufferer discovers
he has Bright’s Disease. Have you kidney
trouble? Do you know how to recognise
whether you are suffering from this or not?
Here are some of the symptoms of kidney
disease : Aches and pains in various parts of
the body, nasty taste in the mouth first thing
in the morning, constipation, cloudy and bad-
colored urine, general feeling of weakness
and irritability, pufiiness under the eyes—
these are all symptoms of kidney trouble.
And then people who suffer from backache,
rheumatism, gout, sciatica, gravel, stone or
pains in the bladder, muscles and joints are
all suffering these pains through weak or
diseased kidneys, for these are the sure and
certain symptoms of kidney trouble.
All these things mean that the kidneys are
weak and diseased. They need strengthening
and making healthy.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
Kidney&BladderPills
| These Pills also act on the liver. J
i
NOT GENUINE WITHOUTTHIS SIGNATURE (
chemist at once and ask him for a 2s. 9d.
box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
which are made expressly for kidney and
bladder troubles.
To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid of
the cause —the poisonous uric acid. Remem-
ber to do this a real remedy must pass
through the kidneys and the bladder and not
through the bowels, as most kidney pills do.
When you see the urine change to a muddy
bluish color—a feature which distinguishes
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills from all
others —you know beyond all doubt that they
have put their healing touch on the right
spot—the kidneys and the bladder. A won-
derful pill—straight to the kidneys—that is
why De Witt’s Pills give such amazingly
quick relief —every time. A permanent cure
follows in almost every case. Look for that
blue-colored urine.
They will cure every one of the above
symptoms no matter how long or bow badly
you have suffered.
Protect
Your
Throat!
It’s largely a matter of
care. Don’t leave it to
chance, be on your guard
against attack.
Wilson’s ‘ Pino-Mentho
Pastilles
are the surest protection you can get; you
can rely on them warding oft Coughs and
Colds successfully. Keep them handy.
If you are unfortunate to have a cold,
P»o-Menthos will relieve you instantly.
They have a remarkable manner of getting
right at the root of the trouble.
Pleasing to the taste. 1/- per tin, of all
Chemists and Storekeepers.
ALEX. WILSON 8 CO., 17 Pitt St.,Sydney
Treat your
hair kindly
You desire fine, beautiful hair.
Therefore you must treat it
kindly—nourish it, preserve it,
care for it by regularly using
ROWLAND'S
MACASSAR
OIL
“For Your Hair.”
This preparation has been used for over
120 years—it has proved its value time
and time again. Do not try experi-
mental remedies on your hair—get a
bottle of Rowland’s Macassar Oil at
your chemist’s. Also sold in a Golden
colour for Fair or Grey Hair. Rowland
& Son, 67, Hatton-garden, London, E.C,
For Mother
Mothers also are liable to COUGHS,
COLDS, INFLUENZA and BRON-
CHITIS. The best family remedy is one
that ALL may take,whether young or old.
For instant relief take " Bonnington’s
Irish Moss,” only a few doses are re-
quired. Take none but—
BO
/r
m
dcxxxs. co»J^3l
(IROWC H(
op the rnOD<«
GEORGE
Avoid all
Imitations
BONNINGTON’S
FREE TO
SMOKERS!
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W ,
writes:—-
“It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 12 months since I last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, I do not have the least desire to
smoke ; therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“Mv general health is now perfect; all my former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizziness,
Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which I have every
reason to believe were caused through the use of
tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are only re-
membered as a hideous nightmare. I eat and "sleep
well, and feel fit to face the world again. It will give
me great pleasure to recommend your remedy to
others.’’
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet,
Testimonials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
are: you
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not onlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS ? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE vet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can vou ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO., '!
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
TF any illustration appearing in The
. Bulletin takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the
original.
77uT$xilIefcM.
214 George Street, Sydney.
Lumbago
The case of Rheumatism or Gout
which Kruschen Salts cannot benefit
has yet to be discovered. This
famous British remedy is also
recommended by Medical Men in
cases of Lumbago, Sciatica, Eczema,
Constipation, and Liver and Kidney
Disorders.
KRUSCHEN AT THE FRONT
Since the outbreak of the War, enormous
quantities of Kruschen Salts have been ordered
by, and delivered to the British Authorities, for
the use of the British Forces overseas and in
the Base Hospitals at Home. Kruschen Salts
are prescribed by Medical Men the world over.
THE WORD KRUSCHEN
The trade mark “ Kruschen ” is a legacy—
handed down from generation to generation of
the family of Evan Griffiths Hughes, the sole
Manufacturers of Kruschen Salts, and one of
the oldest firms of Manufacturing Chemists in
the County of Lancashire. Established 1754
160 years ago.
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754.
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers,
and stores throughout Australia,
Wholesale Distributing Agents:
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
68, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester,
England.
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hie King's Sweetheart.
Oh, the King’s sweetheart is more than
Queen;
Red-caped cardinals bow to her;
V omen who hate as women hate,
Prim dowagers in robes of state,
Curtsy lowly without demur.
She tramples them with her silken feet....
But outside there is the waiting street.
The King’s sweetheart can nestle down
In velvet cushions and tease the King,
Withhold her mouth from the royal kiss,
Let great kings learn what a man may
miss,
Pout displeasure across a ring;
8ut.... the day of her pride is early yet—
The man may tire, the King forget.
Oh. the King’s sweetheart rides to the chase,
And the Queen pretends that she does not
see
The royal falcon upon her wrist
And the jewelled hand that a King has
kist,
And the broidered pommel against her knee.
But... .the world remembers an ungilt sin,
The tide may turn and the wife may win.
Oh, the King’s sweetheart has wmtched the
day
Break right rosy on lake and dell,
Has heard birds twitter among the trees,
And breathed the honey of blossomed
breeze
And of heather from the fell.
But. . . .she is cold to her feet of white,
For the King came not to her door last
night.
Perhaps he wearied and slept full long,
Perhaps lie toiled at affairs of State,
Some priest has held him in serious talk,
So there was no step in the secret walk
And no light hand on the gate.
She hid is her pearls and she counts her
rings,
For men are fickle, and so are kings.
Oh, the King’s sweetheart has fed full well,
She has lain softly in satin bed,
Her hair is bright as a wild bird’s wing,
And I think ’tis true that she loved the
King
King’s love is man’s love, when all is said—
She may yet be sold for a beggar’s fee;
There are varying prices for such as she!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
In Southland.
A sun-flecked road where dusty grey sheep
pass,
A fleecy cloud flung on a dome of blue,
A white-frocked girl deep in the meadow
grass,
Grey distance where the violet hills gleam
through.
An errant ladybird with stalwart heart
Creeps to your hand, and while you chant
the spell
That bids her fly, your soft lips smile apart,
Belying all the horrors that they tell.
Fly home, O Ladybird ! And I straightway
Dream of a brown house set upon a hill,
Above a river yellow with dredged clay.
Brown curtains billow o’er the window-sill.
The beeswaxed floors are mellow in the light
Of yellow beams. A round bowl flecked
with gold
Brims o’er with petals time has creamed
from white.
Tall amber vases fragrant wallflowers
hold.
From room to room you pass, your sun-
kissed hands
Tending the treasures we have gathered
there
From furthest corners of the olden lands ;
A high shell-comb gleams in your red-
brown hair.
This was the home of dreams, O golden girl,
A picture in faint shades of yellow
browns;
Can all his gold buy you a richer pearl
In the heaped treasure houses of the
towns ?
We might have wed. Love, like a butterfly
On trembling wings, expectant of the spark
Flint strikes from steel, circled and fluttered
nigh,
But found not warmth nor light, so fled
the dark.
MAORILAND.
JOHN EGAN.
Carnival.
The glittering street is strewn with gold
And hung with quivering fold on fold
Of frosted silver. Volleying comes
The deafening lilt of little drums,
Low, liquid voices laughing, calling,
Rustle of pelted favors falling,
The keen, clear clash of slender lances
Thickening as the masque advances,
And the shrill treble of delight
That tatters all the gloom of night.
Above, the heavy banners droop
With jewelled fringe ; and loop on loop
The long, thin, glinting trails of fire
Kindle the moisture-beaded wire,
And wreathe about with blurred festoons
The lights that stare like monstrous moons.
The wind is dancing, lissom, fleet,
And swift on music-maddened feet
The joyous raindrops leap and spring,
The drunken gutters lurch and sing.
While, skirting all the sparkling throng,
Houses and shops, a shrouded row
In sable mask and domino.
With sombre brooding in their eyes,
Watch the gay tide of folly flow.
VICTORIA.
SYD C.


PEPDIPJ-AU
■Hlf
r K \
%Lv,
::
yjl*
iranw
w
n.
Made:
In
Australia
Entrench yourself permanently against
continual Tyre Trouble.
EQUIP YOUR CAR WITH
Perdriau Special Heavy Three-rib Tyres.
Latest Lists Posted on Application.
tf *
SYDNEY, BRISBANE,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH.
§•
John Lysaght Limited will be pleased, upon
application, to forward a free copy of the
new and enlarged edition of their “ Referee”
to Every Property Owner and Galvanized
iron User. This Book contains a quantity
of carefully compiled infor-
mation which will be found
both useful and interesting.
8 Spring Street, Sydney.^o
Supplied to the
Naval and Military
Authorities in
Great Britain and
Australia.
rh^JoJlvwells
m
They oft inrite
To dine at night
Congenial Friends,
With humor bright.
Of wit and jest
Each gives his best;
How Jolly well 8 laugh
You've surely guessed.
Guests never fear
To find good cheer
Where “Rex” Goods arc served—
That fact is clear. E&KJHHS
A Dyspeptic Who
Wines and Dines
■■■■■■■■■■■hhhhmhbhhhhbhhhi■■■■■■■■■
Is apt to be found whining after dining. But
the Dyspeptic who, after dining, takes a
little
“REX”
Luncheon Cheese
will not do any whining. For “Rex” Luncheon Cheese contains all the
valuable properties of perfectly-matured Full Cream Cheese, and it is only
“green” Cheese that dyspeps.
In most well-conducted homes nowadays a tin or a jar of “Rex”
Luncheon Cheese goes on the table with as much regularity as the table-
cloth.
It is fine for all kinds of Sandwiches, and
may be eaten with or without butter.
Sold by all Grocers Everywhere in Sanitary, Solderless Tins, or in
Opal Porcelain Jars of British Manufacture.
Go to the Grocer who stocks “REX” Goods. He will be pleased to hear
you ask for
“Rex.” Ham Pate.
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, ljlb. tins.
“Rex” Camp Pie, in tins.
“Rex” Brand Bard, for cooking purposes, in lib. prints.
‘Rex”
‘Rex”
‘Rex”
‘Rex”
Temporarily out of stock.
Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
Pigs’ Feet in Jelly, lib. tins.
Lunch Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
FOGCITT, JONES & GO. LTD.,
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon ;
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products.
tSn=
3 &
«
TWO IN ONE Shoe Polish
UNLUCKY FOR DIRTY BOOTS.
The Shine that Won’t Rob Off.
It doesn’t lie greasy on the surface of a boot.
It feeds leather as no other Polish does.
It is absolutely free from Turpentine, Acid or Spirits.
It oils as well as polishes, but doesn’t soil the clothing. As its name
implies, it is a paste polish that combines all the good qualities of the
liquid and paste polishes without their injurious, effects.
Colors: Black, Tan, White.
STOCKED BY ALL LEADING WHOLESALE FIRMS AND STOREKEEPERS.
AYERS CEL JAMES PTY. LTD., Sole Australasian Agents,
122-12 S Flinders Street, Melbourne; 19 York Street, Sydney.
Thorne’s has a deliciously
captivating flavour that con-
noisseurs prefer and that
every man can relish.
Look for the “black square
bottle
THORN ES
WHISKY
“INCOMPARABLE”
| Old Highland Malt


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 37.—N0. 18)1.
THUKSDIY, MAY 11, 1916.
Price 6d.
“BANKRUPT.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Maclf.od, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
ivill be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-draivn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency \ Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson arid Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., l/l/l Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C. -
U.S.A.— Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A. ; TP. E. Lenehan, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Houng, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon.—TP. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one neivspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise . Boz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., 2id. ;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, l/oz., Id., and Id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, MAY 11, 1916.
THE ENEMY WITHIN.
TiiE attempt to inspire confidence in the
Australian public by blindfolding it, turning
out the lights, silencing all the voices of the
outer world and then assuring it that every-'
thing is going well has not been a success.
From the first shriek of the guns to the
present moment the war has been one long
series of disillusionments, and those disillu-
sionments have not been due to the tragic
happenings in Europe or to any failure of
the Allied arms, but to the censorship.
Australians are not nervous folk walking in
daily fear of the terror that lurks in the
dark. Our open-air life, our joy in the sun
and our simple outlook upon life have given
us a preference for truth. If the doctor says
that the case is hopeless we want to know
it, to know in just what way it is hopeless
or where the last obscure chance lies. We
are not afraid of the dark or of the ghost
that walks in the moonlight or the devil
that gets up early to catch the soul-worm as
it turns. All we ask in time of crisis is that
we may be told the worst; and we are pre-
pared to guarantee that, facing it, our
mouths will not lose their cheerful grin. The
censorship, which during the present war
has kept us in blank ignorance of the real
happenings, has been imposed by men who
were utterly incapable of understanding the
Australian character and temper, and is in the
nature of an insult to the whole nation. At
the outset, it may be admitted, Australia
was untried ; and there was in the minds of
our own politicians, who for the most part
are men of such narrow outlook that they
fail to understand the people they profess
to represent, a fear that we might not rise
to the heights of the supreme test. But
since then the people of this continent have
proved themselves. The same spirit that
animated the men who rushed the blood-
stained heights of Gaba Tepe in the full
knowledge of the pain and death which
awaited them, has been shown by the men
and women who read the death lists and were
only strengthened in their resolve when the
evacuation of Gallipoli proved the incapacity
and folly of the statesmen who had planned
the enterprise which wounded Australia
sorely for so little gain. If Australia had
not won the right to be trusted at the start,
there can be no question about her right to
knowledge now; yet the censorship has
become stricter and the obscurity greater as
the months have gone on.
At the, beginning, when Germany had
still some show of strength in the
seas surrounding Australia, there may
have been military expediency in suppressing
certain information which might have helped
the enemy; but if the whole course of the
censorship be examined, it will be found that
the matters thus denied publication for
definite and understandable reasons were of
such small consequence that the total
amounts to nothing in the general esti-
mate ; and the knowledge of these
things by every person in the Common
wealth would be of no advantage what-
ever to the enemy. But the real trouble
does not lie in the passing irritation of a line
removed from the Comet which is allowed to
appear in the Mercury ; it lies rather in
the great fear that things which are essen-
tial to the public good are hidden under a
mere pretence of military necessity.
It is not allowable to mention the fact
that the censor has prohibited the publica-
tion of any information, or even to hint that
in any particular instance the censorship
has been exercised ; and as a result this mat-
ter is not kept before the public. The
people vaguely know that the whole truth
about the war seldom if ever reaches them,
but imagine they get a sufficient summary
to enable them to gauge something of the
position. A comparison of dates when things
happen with dates when the partial informa-
tion, grudgingly given, comes along, would
go some way tow-ards enlightening them as
to the true position. More than this, tlm
nature of war is such that nothing which
jiappens in any country engaged in ffie
struggle is wholly without relation to mlE-
rarv arrairs. Aot abound of chons is soH
in Sydney. not a suit ■9t.i M ics ordered.
fro nr" a tailor in .Melbourne, .without having
some.-remote bearing on the final issue of.
the strife or the details of local preparation
to take part in it As anything mav hg
pressed into militaTv service or use, so any-
iirmg mav bv the elasticity of war-nreca'y-
tiyn powers be; brought-under the military
The net result is that a power
of “complete dictatorship is placed in the
hands of a single individual. The freedom
of the press is gone, the mouth of criticism
is shut, and the whole democratic power of
the people ceases when the Minister for
Defence issues his ukase. It is a position
which many a tyrant in the world’s history
would have been glad to enjoy. Had W. A.
Holman been blessed with the control of
such a censorship he never could have been
beaten either within the P.L.L. or without.
It looks as if national expediency, which
after all is above military expediency, must
demand the abolition of the censorship. On
all the evidence the thing has become a grave
danger to the nation. For 18 months the people
of England and Australia have been kept
in the dark. Every week or two they have
woke up to find that they have been deceived
about something or other. There is a limit
to their endurance of that. Presently, if they
were told the whole truth, they would not
believe it. They would expect the same old
disappointments, the same old disillusion-
ments. The inevitable result of all this
will be, at some time or other, a clamor for
peace on terms that will utterly discredit
us. The Censorship was a curse from the
outset of the war. It threatens now, for the
reason just mentioned, to be a terrible
calamity at the end of it. On the other
hand, as exercised, it is of no military value
to Britain and her Allies, of no value to the
people of the Commonwealth; it serves no
real military purpose; it is but a cloak to
cover the failures of the Governments.
UNDER MILITARY NECESSITY.
The sombre fact that new-laid eggs, fresh
from the suburban Wyandotte, are
quoted at 2|d. each is one which, while it
may not be cause for alarm, is still calcu-
lated to make us pause and seriously con-
sider the situation. Eggs can, of course, be
obtained at a lower rate —Chinese, which
arrived by the s.s. Empire, have been offered
as low as lfd. —but at the moment when
national economy of the food supply seems
as imperative as trousers and as essential as
cough medicine, the question arises as to how
far the inflation of prices may be due to the
machinations of the poultry-yard. On the
showing of the various egg-laying competi-
tions, the Australian hen now holds rank
with the ablest exponents of her art; and it
seems to us that the Leghorn and the Wyan-
dotte ought to be giving better assistance to
a people engaged in a great and bitter
struggle for national existence. No one seri-
ously expects the Plymouth Rock to be a
weight-carrier, or even to enlist for home
defence; but it does seem reasonable to
demand that in. the matter of custard, ome-
lette and ordinary poacliment they should
make a serious effort to maintain their effec-
tive standard at least until the close of the
war. That they are not doing so is lament-
ably evident; and conditions are further
aggravated by the unsatisfactory nature of
the bacon trade. True, bacon has its price
fixed by law at from lOd. to Is. 2d. per
pound ; but though the former might be well
within the reach of most householders it
applies only to shoulders, and no provision
has been made by the authorities for increas-
ing the number of shoulders carried bv any
pig in response to the popular demand/
*.* * *
From such disquieting considerations the
military authorities may deem it still per-
missible for us to turn to the stronger and
more vigorous position of onions. These are
reported to be held in large quantities, and so
far, in their relation to the food campaign,
the situation may be regarded without
alarm ; but there is something ominous about
the further market statement that they are
quiet. A quiet onion may or may not be a
menace to the community. When Leonidas
and his splendid 300 stood combing their hair
in front of the mighty array of Persian
spears, their noble manhood was nurtured
upon black bread and onions. There is not
the smallest suggestion in the works of any
ancient writer that those onions were quiet.
On the contrary, there is every reason to
believe that they were the same vociferous
herbs which for ages have breathed defiance
to the foe in the forefront of the armies of
Southern. Europe. AN e trust that we shall
not be regarded as giving away a hint that
may help the enemy when we say that onions
and their strenuous relative garlic have
played a tremendous part in human history.
Possibly they sighed in the pipes of Pan and
edged the death-song of Sappho ; it is abso-
lutely certain that they went before the
marching hosts of Alexander and had a part
in the shouts of victory which heralded the
advance of Hannibal upon Rome. r In these
dark days when the nation, beginning to real-
ise all that is at' stake, saves a tramfare or
the price of a drink to purchase tickets for a
picture-show r , the quietude of onions may be
worth more than a passing thought. Silence
may be as dangerous as the speaking of open
treason; and patriotic Australians would be
well advised to watch for developments in the
onion market before it is too late.
With potatoes we may take our chance.
*lt is true that the peelings are now almost
as valuable as the complete tubers in some
previous years; but while Tasmanian red-
skins stand at £lO 10s. and Bismarks are only
worth £B, there can be no reason to despair.
The state of the roads is quite a different
matter. In all parts of Australia, but par-
ticularly the neighborhood of Sydney, the
road difficulty is a very serious one. NYhile
it may be that the railways really constitute
the arterial system of the country, it must be
admitted that the roads are its veins and
capillary vessels. Along these throbs the
slowly-toiling vehicle of the Chinese cabbage
merchant; and if the dust-hidden ruts are
deep there is a shortage of green food which
may prejudice the public health. No sophistry
can disguise the fact that without metal-
blue metal for preference —a road is pot
a road at all, but merely a carica-
ture of an elongated dust-heap. The
demands of public safety have in some
advanced countries such as Turkey and
Madagascar practically abolished roads, on
the ground that their*upkeep is costly and
that they too readily furnish ammunition for
the less-orderly elements in the community ;
but such considerations can have no weight,
in a land like Australia, where freedom of
thought links itself with the settled desire
for religious and municipal reform. The
religious aspects of roadmaking have been too
much overlooked in the past; but with the
return of earnestness, which the war now
raging has promoted, there seems no reason
why the ancient spirit which built the great
Gothic cathedrals of Europe should not mani-
fest itself even in the architecture of the
narrow lane along which the bacon gets its
first start to market or the onions receive
their first impulse towmrds the commissariat.
But all these things are of very small
consequence in comparison with the health
of the people; and when'it is remembered
that the injurious nature of tram and rail-
way travelling predisposes the public to
over-indulgence in turpentine as a remedy
for those rheumatic ailments which remain
uncured even after a long course of hot sea-
bathing, the real character of the thing that
is eating as a canker at the heart of society
is readily seen. Where there is no rest
there can be no leisure. Where there is no
leisure there can be little thought for the day
after to-morrow. The Australian Billjim
knows this—knows it and rightly fears it.
The case of bacon is not unique any more
than the case of onions is representative.
In the United States of America egg-produc-
tion and poultry-rearing is the greatest in-
dustry, entirely eclipsing cotton, tobacco,
steel or any of the other important branches
of national endeavor which succeed in keep-
ing the dollar in circulation. With the war
cloud dark above us and the echo of the
Europeon gun-fire rolling—under instruc-
tions from the Official Press Bureau- —
through our breakfast newspaper, it is well
to think of these The war may
be won by the gallantry of our troops, by
the skill and energy of our censors, by the
fine leadership of men whose brains seethe
and sizzle with acute ability in the midst
of the storm and stress;. but there are con-
tributing causes to which only a deaf man
could be entirely blind. All other things
being exactly equal, it is not, we sincerely
trust, going beyond the limit of Kitchener’s
instructions to say that the war may be won
by the nation with the most laying hens.
The poultry-keeper knows; and ‘what the
poultry-keeper knows to-day the Kaiser may
discover some wild morning.
THE MISERIES OF A SMART YOUNG
MAN.
“Quill,” for the defence :
Not long ago Lloyd George was chased with dead
cats and over-ripe hen-fruit whenever he showed his
nose in England. He may be chased again. Holman
was raised up on the shoulders of the multitude in
N. S. Wales and acclaimed as a Daniel come to judg-
ment. Now that he has been cast forth into the ash-
barrel and dragged back by the heels shamed and
repentant of his bluffs, there are few who do not
recognise his follies and his failures and his painful
limitations. Still, there is a case for Holman as
against the mob who rubbed his nose in the dust; not
for Holman the man, who has played the only game
he knew, and played it badly; but for Holman the
politician, thrown into place of power and patronage
by the machine he had helped to fashion— a machine
on which many other men in the Commonwealth
depend for their precarious foothold in public life.
Holman the Premier has failed because he was put
into a place where only failure is possible.
Banana land has yet to be heard from. But take
N. S. Wales and Westralia— Holman and Scaddan. In
both States the history of the last few years has been
practically the same—deplorable to the point of
tragedy. Or take the Commonwealth and see w r hat is
happening there. The political philosopher, the ideal-
ist, even the time-server and heeler, may find much
to hold his attention. And the fundamental cause of
what has happened and is happening and will happen
in the future is that the Labor machine, effective in
an extraordinary degree as an instrument for getting
members into Parliament, is ineffective for anything
else—even for keeping them there. The victory
gained is purely mechanical. The Parliament pro-
duced by the activities, sordid and otherwise, of par-
tisan leagues and associations does not represent the
people. In the ease of Labor the represented ■
not of the political beliefs and desires Tfth ,S
and women who toil, but of those who u
the organisation. The result is an unrepresented
deliberative body, and, in consequence of the 1?
system and its offshoot the Caucus, a body in m
public policy is to the end determined by . •
ority. Examination of polling figures shows thatT
strength of parties in Parliament under the Dr J„!
system is often a gross distortion of their stress
in the constituencies; that practically half the 1
tors have no representation at all, their votes havi
been ineffective; that a majority of a party
representing little more than a fcf.rth of Parli ’
ment, may, and does, decide the character of Wi !'
tion and control the cashbox. Any movement Z
schpme or system which aims at turning Parliam [
into an institution inhabited by delemteo ,
leagues and coteries of Libs, or Labs. Tl JZ
else, instead of maintaining it on the firm basis of
popular representation, is certain to come a crooner
It may have temporary successes of the more squalid
kind. It may secure reforms and other things that
the people approve. It can never be anything but
opportunist, cowardly and uncertain of its ground.
That is where Holman fell in. As a critical
suggestive body organised Labor had filled an im-
portant place in the field of politics. Called on to
administer and construct, it found itself gravelled
after the first flush of zeal had vanished. Holm ax
discovered himself with Parliamentary followers
whose souls were in pawn to leagues and committees
He was not even his own man. Always the wires
were there from the floor of the Assembly to the
Caucus room ; from the Caucus they radiated away
to the Trades Hall, tihe P.L.L. headquarters and
hindquarters and elsewhere. The platform was there
to be carried out, but the swift march of events
from day to day raised new questions. Tactical con-
siderations having relation to the effect of this or
that step became paramount. Ministers and mem-
bers, pledged body and bones to those outside who
held power of life and death over them,' were con-
cerned, not with the great problems affecting the
mass of men and women and the industrial and
economic fabric of the State, but with placating
special interests and keeping executives and com-
mittees “sweet.”
* * * *
Into this welter of dodge and doubt the sprightly
Holman found himself floundering like a ship dis-
mantled and leaking in a gale. Not one man in
10,000 would have done any better. A stronger
nature —a man of old Dick Seddon's fibre, say-
might have grasped the skirts of happy chance and
established a mastery over his environment. But
even then the claim to act for and on behalf of the
democracy would have been as great a jest as
Holman’s has been. That he was not of that type
is to his discredit no more than that he was weak
and vacillating is to his credit. What is to Hol-
man’s shame is that when he realised the impossi-
bility' of his position and saw that he could only
cling to it by devices which meant the betrayal not
only of his adherents but of the people, he did not
stay his hand. But to gird at him for that and offer
him up as a baked sacrifice on the altar of Indignation
is not rightfully in the mouth of those Laborites who
encouraged him in his offending, and are even now
trying to perpetuate a system which must inevitably
lead to the same weary old mess. Holman side-
stepped and did silly things because he was not
allowed to behave wisely. The P.L.L. gave its sanc-
tion to the monstrous Norton Griffiths agreement.
The P.L.L. tolerated his frantic borrowing exploits
and told him to keep on doing it. An organisation
that did these things was well served by Holman.
That is his defence. If he hadn't boomed and bloated
and pawned and squandered, the rest of the stuff he
had to offer would not have satisfied either Caucus
or the executive or the populace. Therefore he has
boomed and bloated and tried to buy his way through
until the scandal of it smelt to Heaven, and another
crowd pushed in and seized the f’.L.L. on general
principles and in half a day got cold feet and
patched up the quarrel—but always with the old
intention of a Parliament nominally subservient to
the P.L.L. Poor Holman ! But what price the
unhappy wretch who follows him ?
ON BEING PROUD OF YOUR JOB.
Out of the mists of the past comes a tradi-
tion that there was once a country known as
“Merry England.” People who read British
comic newspapers find this difficult to believe,
and others w T ho go further and study the
debates of the House of Commons scout it as
a lie ; but there is a persistency about the
belief, and when you have followed it
back the outlines of the place that
w r as given up to merriment become
clearer, until the ancient land is with
some accuracy re-constructed. On all
appearances, the gaiety of the nation reached
its height about the time of Edward III.;
and the first and outstanding feature of that
king’s reign was the war on the Continent of
Europe. \\ ar in itself is not usually a
subject for mirth ; but the conduct of that
war is the very best proof that there really
was merriment in the hearts of the people.
In the first big battle less than 20.000 Eng-
lishmen completely smashed up and routed a
better-equipped force at least three times as
numerous, and in another outstanding piece
of carnage a still smaller English army,
taken unawares and driven into a corner,
fought at odds of one to ten and made mince-
meat of its foes. The merriment of these
proceedings lay chiefly in the fact that the
war-game could be taken so lightly and with
such easy confidence. The English forces
which invaded Europe were simply picked
fighting teams. England had in the previous
reign raised an army of 100.000 for the inva-
sion of Scotland ; and, as every man was at
need a soldier, a very big mob of fighters could
have been put in the field. But the King
didn’t worry about vast hosts, preferring to
think that fewer men meant greater glory;
and considering his small loss in the big
engagements his calculations were sound
enough. However, the King was only a small
item on the national bill, and his wars are
only the decorative part of the history of the
time. What is interesting about the fight-
ing, and of permanent value to anybody who
■wants to know r how r 12 and 12 make 24, is
the source of that tremendous strength which
could afford to put out a careless left hand
and smash the best-looking military Powers
beyond the Dover Straits. The secret
appears to be that England w T as then a work-
ing nation taking pride in its job.
The pride of the job is really the founda-
tion of solid nationality—whether the job
be rushing a trench or grinding flour. A
good deal of so-called modern progress, w’hich


measures itself by output and cash returns, is
no real progress at all, for the reason that
it lessens the human factor in achievements.
In most departments of craft handwork is
still superior to that turned out by compli-
cated machinery ; and while it would be idle
to argue in a general way against the
machine, it is just as big a mistake to regard
it as the be-all and end-all of effort. Thus,
in the matter of a man’s clothing. The swift
spinning and weaving of the factory and the
rapid manipulation of the cloth with mechani-
cal aids enables the average person to buy
one or two suits of moderately decent-looking
fit and style in the course of a year. But
in the days when all such work was done by
hand, when the thread was spun on the house-
hold wheel and the loom clicked in the private
workshop, when the tailor put in every
stitch with craft pride and loving skill, a
suit of clothes would last the wearer many
years. The gain to the public has not been
so great that it altogether outweighs the loss
to the individual craftsman. That old
weaver understood his loom and his thread in
an intimate way, and his finished product
was full of character. llis work was his
life, and half his pleasure in existence was
drawn from it. He did not worry greatly
over shorter hours, though, as a matter of
fact, he could take holidays when he pleased
and had an immense capacity for enjoyment.
In the pride of his job he was his own man
and held his head high among his fellows.
To-day the factory grinds out cloth at express
speed, but the new looms represent the minds
of mechanics who have no direct connection
with their working. The person who stands
wearily by the machine has lost all joy of
craft;' and the pride has shifted from the
many workers to the few employers in the
company’s board room who see the finished
product of the factory in terms of f s. d.
As things are, we can’t well get away from
the machine ; but a saner industrialism may
yet be devised which will give the craft
workers their own souls back again.
But the pride of the job has nowhere been
so completely lost and swallowed up by the
machine as in politics. In the State of
N. S. Wales, where the wheels of the Caucus
grind the Ministry small, and the wheels of
the Labor Conference turn both, and a so-
called industrial clique within the conference
has discovered a crank by which it can
operate the lot, the mere free elector feels
himself a pretty small proposition. Theoreti-
cally, he is the master of all; in practice, he
gets a say once in three years, and his choice
is limited for him by other outlying pinions
and wheels of the complicated machinery,
until his say is of the smallest kind possible.
Real democracy doesn’t want a machine at
all and doesn’t need it. The elector must
become his own legislator and recover the
pride of his job if. the crooked places are to
be made straight. A great deal is still talked
about the man with special abilities as a
politician and Parliamentarian ; and people,
otherwise sane, who call themselves demo-
crats, cling to the old shibboleths of aristo-
cratic or autocratic government which should
have no place in modern politics. Govern-
ment by the ablest man or the most pushing
may be quite successful, and often has been ;
but it is not democratic government and has
no right to masquerade as such. Direct gov-
ernment by the people can be secured without
any very tremendous revolution by simply
putting into use an infinitely saner and
simpler system than that now employed.
Let Ministries be elective as Parliaments are ;
and let the electors have the right to recall
any member either of the Ministry or of
Parliament who does not do his work. Let
the Referendum with Initiative be placed on
the statute book ; and the whole thing is done.
Then party dies and every man becomes his
own politician, thinking out the problems of
State, and giving effect to his judgments by
petition and vote. In this way alone can
we recover the pride of our job as freemen
and nation-makers. Certainly, it would still
be possible to make a mess of things ; but the
democratic mess could be democratically
cleaned up, and at its worst it could scarcely
have the evil smell of our present machine-
made muddle.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Brown Sword and a Silver Dream.
“D.M.W.’s” Irish rhapsody :
Under the Sinn Fein banner they filled the city
with blood and died the death of the trtaitor facing
the judicial rifles which bitterly discriminate
between the enthusiast who takes risks and the dul-
lard who allows risks to be taken. So another pitiful
chapter is added to the history of Ireland, and there
are more tears and graves with no good done.
Rebellion in Ireland is a crime against the soul of
Ireland. It is not by the sword that the conquest
of the Gael is to be wrought. That fact was dis-
covered nearly 2000 years ago by leaders of the race
as enthusiastic as any Sinn Feiner of them all.
There w'as a time when that Gaelic sword —a brown
one, by the way, if the tradition of Fingal’s mighty
“Luno” has any force —was absolutely the strongest
thing in Europe. It waved round the Adriatic and
the Aegean as well as in the British Islands, but it
W’as the same Irish article and the man behind it
had the same features of mind. About 363 b.c. that
sword smashed down the defences of Rome; a little
more than a century later it swept through Greece,
and, taking the Dardanelles in its flash, established
itself in Asia Minor. Four centuries or so later two
lines of walled fortifications and the whole of the
Roman legions in Britain could not keep the same
weapon from laying London waste. On all the evi-
dence, the Gaelic sword might have mastered all
Europe and snbdued it to its owner’s will; but that
owner at some remote period definitely decided that
it was not worth while. For the Gaelic mind was
more than the Gaelic fist; and the dream and song
that were the first elements in the make-up of the
people prevailed for the breaking of the sword.
Then the Teuton arose and played the deuce with
the Roman Empire and with Europe generally;
and while the age-long throat-cutting was in progress
the Gaelic dream and song faded away, and nobody
in the riot area, where Norman and Frank and
Dane wrestled for supremacy, knew anything about
these things for which the old power of the sword
had been exchanged. Within the last 20 years or
so has developed what is called the Celtic revival.
The thought of the Gael—mostly of the Gael in
Ireland—has seized hold upon the universal mind
until almost unconsciously all the world has been
sweetened and softened with Irish thought. There
have, indeed, of recent years been two intellectual
forces in Europe, and two only—the Irish and the
German. The first stood for the fine, keen uplift of
the soul, the appreciation of the mystery of life
and the wonder of the elemental world ; the second
for the definite order and sequence of a machine-
made universe, in which man, the individual, was
but the eternal sacrifice to rigid and arbitrary law.
The Irish idea intellectually enthroned a fairy
whisper ; the German idea exalted a scientific theory.
The one pointed the road to a sweeter and gladder
world-peace; the other found its natural goal in
world-war. And the Irish thought was, and is,
winning in spite of the thunder of all the Kaiser’s
guns. Then—the pity of it! —some of Ireland’s
intellectual leaders, mistaking wholly the make and
color of things, snatched up the foolish Teutonic
sword and sought to drown in bitter blood a nation’s
dream that was soon to be a world’s noblest heri-
tage. They did not succeed, for their dream was
greater than an hour of madness ; but the mingled
sorrow and pity and shame of it all grips at our
"hearts the world over, and for the moment blinds us
to th t fe. fact that in the peace-to-come the broken
sword of Teuton force will be the first landmark on
the road of a greater Gaelic conquest. Dublin will
be re-built, and the finer thought-harmonies that
bullets cannot break will be heard again.
The Need for an Intelligent Pessimism.
From an Englishman who had no misgivings
about the result of the war when he first
talked of it: —
We are all at fault for the present state of things.
Who shall portion out the blame? At the commence-
ment of war we had never made a complete aero-
plane; we had not enough cannon works to keep pace
with the growth of even our fleet; our military ord-
nance was about equal to that of Servia, but probably
inferior in quality; and our trained artillerymen were
a much smaller proportion of our forces (small as
they were ) than those of any other European country.
Now, you cannot make cannon foundries and the
skilled mechanics to run them as the Creator made
light, however rich you may be. Nor can you make
expert artillerymen in six months. The Germans
require six years. The fact is that the wily Teuton
has discovered that his one immense advantage lay in
his artillery (not to mention his gas trick), and has
pushed it, and is pushing it, for all it is worth.
Had we possessed the artillery and ammunition at
first we should have easily won Gallipoli. It is guns,
guns, guns we want. Let it be a lesson to you Aus-
tralians, who talk only of the men required for beat-
ing the enemy. I suspect that the Central European
Powers are still making artillery, etc., at least as
fast as the Entente Powers. The attack on Verdun
now going on illustrates my assertion that artillery
is the main factor in this warfare. The Germans
advance only by pulverising everything in front of
them with shells. I take no interest in the blockade
question. Napoleon, having practically command of
the whole coast of Europe, was unable to prevent
even his own subjects from trading with England.
The blockade in the American war was a confessed
failure except that it raised the price of contraband
in the Southern States. Well, we have raised the
price of everything imported into Germany at least 50
per cent., and, on ah average, at least 75 per cent.
That’s all.
It cannot be too strongly insisted that Ger-
man artillery and our own cocksureness —
the result mostly of misinformation —are the
principal powers which the Allies are up
against, and which have not yet begun to
be subdued; and the most unpatriotic cry
that can be raised is the cry of the unreason-
able optimist who expects the Germans to
throw up the sponge this year or next year.
The real patriot is the sturdy pessimist who
reckons that although the British Empire
would be surely damned for its sins of omis-
sion if the war were bound to terminate
this year or next, there will yet be time for
it to work out its salvation by learning the
lesson of the past 21 months. The fool
optimist expects Britain to “muddle
through” as of old. The patriotic pessimist
perceives that to “muddle through” is an
impossibility this time. An undreamt-of
number of cannons and other pieces of hard-
ware must be made, and millions of intel-
ligent soldiers must be educated. The war
so systematically begun and waged by the
Huns can only be won by the Allies by being
equally systematic. Muddling is certain mur-
der for the muddled. The thing has got to be
done properly if it is to be done at all.
Australia cannot afford to wait any longer
before starting to do her bit properly. She
must dread the worst; and then and not till
then w r ill she strive her best.
♦
Our Sinful Waste of Men.
A good Australian s so-long to Egypt:—
Men, many men, are still wanted; but they are
getting scarcer than they were 18 months ago when
I left. Therefore it is up to the able-bodied men
who have enlisted to do able-bodied men’s work.
Unhappily such is not the case in Egypt, at any rate.
The various Base Departments of the A.I.F. are over-
flowing with effectives who have never vet seen the
Front, possibly don’t want to, and probably never
will.
These Base Departments provide a large amount
of light work, which could ea>ily be done by men
who have not been able to pass the doctor on account
of some slight defect, or b3 r wounded men unfit for
further active service. As the staffs of the various
departments run football and other teams, it is quite
feasible that they could run rifle and bayonet squads
also, and do a bit of campaigning. These remarks
apply also to hospital orderlies. Nothing was finer
than the work of the A.M.O. at Gallipoli, and all of
us have the greatest admiration and respect for
them. But I know other men who have, got their
stripes in the Citizen Forces, and are simply loafing
as orderlies in base hospitals.
The Commonwealth has sent over 150,000 men to
fhe Front, all able-bodied. But the number of
“effective rifles” which the A.I.F. numbers at present
is a lot less than most people imagine, and it is
the “effective rifles” that constitute the real striking
force in any army.
What is wanted is more business management on
the job. A man running a commercial concern
employs as many “effectives” (i.e., workmen) as
possible, gnd cuts down his ineffectives {i.e., staff)
to the minimum ; and, after all, the army is only a
large business. When a, man is passed as “fit for
active service” let him be put to active service, and
let the various Base jobs, as far as possible, be filled
by those who are nut fit. When a tired Tommy
Kangaroo, who has been through the Gallipoli cam-
paign, gets 24 hours’ leave and visits Cairo and sees
the various ways of “dodging the Front” that are
practised, it is apt to damp his enthusiasm a bit,
and he begins to wonder if it’s a mug he is, or a
hero.
It is about time Parliament did meet. And
if they do their duty will no longer
hesitate to expose gross abuses and grosser
incompetence. The time has passed for
stalling off criticism with the old, “Sh ! You
mustn’t let Germany know.” The only thing
that counts in this light is the blow; and
if we are so training that we carn’t hit hard,
what does it matter what Germany knows ?
Germany will be quite happy so long as
Australia, doesn't know.
♦
The Laborer among the Penitential
Pumpkins.
The recent Agricultural Show in Sydney
was decorated with a collection of pumpkins
and other vegetation grown on prison farms,
and much wonder was expressed by various
pers ns that individuals convicted of crime
should turn out the giant carrot and exten-
sive cabbage. Yet the point of the exhibit
was not in any revelation on this score, but
in the substantial evidence thus afforded of
a reasonably enlightened gaol policy. Never-
theless, though much may be expected from
the changes that are taking place in N.S.W.
prisons, it occurs to this paper that, far too
many people of one sort are still going into
gaol and too many of another sort are being
relieved of toil on the penitential pumpkin
patch. For instance, last year, according
to the report of the Controller-General, of
7SII persons received into gaol after con-
viction at police courts 5050 were delivered
from the Black Maria because of non-pay-
ment of fines. What had happened to most
of them was that the Bench had remarked
“£2 or 14 days,” and because they were not
able to produce the £2 they had taken the
14 days. The meaning of this in most cases
is that men are gaoled not for their offence
but for their momentary poverty. It is a
wrong system altogether, and there ought
to be someone listening to _ the Controller-
General’s remonstrance. Either the beaks
will have to get out of their habit of snap-
ping “No” at nine defendants out of 10 who
ask for time to pay their fines, or the Crown
Law office will have to draft some new rules
and regulations, and the Police Department
establish a system under which gaol can be
evaded by payment of. instalments. Of
course the police do not want to be bothered
with a crowd of frowsy citizens who owe
the State fines. They are only concerned
about getting rid of them. But that is no
reason for not giving people a fair oppor-
tunity to find the cash. And if the crush
at the gate could be reduced by' a change
of method regarding fines, there looks to be
good reason for further considering the in-
dividual who is several times convicted of
serious crime and develops into an in-and-
outer. Last year of 736 individuals con-
victed in the higher courts 245 were making
anything from a fourth to a twentieth
appearance. Whether encouraging the
growth of pumpkins is going to reduce the
number of these “repeaters” is a mystery
that will take a long time to clear up. That
a man who is liberated after three convic-
tions will come back to help with the pump-
kins is a reasonably safe assumption. Does
society gain anything by continuing to lib-
erate the man of proved criminal instinct?
The Bulletin is certain that society does
not and that habitual criminality should be
a passport to a steady job among the
pumpkins. In 10 years 64 individuals have
been judicially declared to be habituals.
About half of them have been liberated.
The law on this subject wants overhauling.
Last year scores of habitual criminals passed
through the courts without getting the brand
and scores were liberated from the gaols.
There is no protection for the community
in this. Gaols are for criminals and they
should be kept there. Mere offenders who
haven’t a couple of sovereigns should be
kept out as much as possible.
The Treaty Rights of Bung.
Bung in N. S. Wales appears to be a
generous person to his own hurt. The six
o’clock closing proposal pushes the war hard
against his pocket, and he is opening Ins
defence campaign with a compromise. A
couple of years ago the voters of the State
by an overwhelming majority decided that
liquor was still to be sold under the old
conditions for the next three years. Those
old conditions meant keeping the bars open
until 11 o’clock. Then the war came along
and the no-liquor party got in some fine
work. Because trouble arose in the mili-
tary camps through the absence of the wet
canteen, a loud cry went up to close the
pubs early in the evening, and the Cold Tea
faction saw a chance of beating the refer-
endum which had gone against it. Bung
had a perfect right to say fhat, if the ques-
tion was to be re-opened at all within the
three years, his supporters should have a
right to vote for extended hours. But Bung
did nothing of the kind. While his enemies
are pressing every point against him he
voluntarily offers to give up two hours of
his selling time, and asks his supporters to
vote for nine o’clock. In the light of the
fact that the military authorities can fix
their own hours for hotel closing, irrespec-
tive of the vote of the State, it is probable
that in a straight-out fight between Bung
and Cold Tea the man behind the beer-
pump would carry the day as before; but
the six o’clock issue complicates things. A
very large number of trade unionists and
others have got the idea firmly intp their
minds that all work should stop at or about
six in the interests of the workers; and
these people, adding their votes to those of
the visionaries who declare that beer is the
root of all evil, may turn the tables against
the beermonger. The idea of a universal
rest after sunset doesn’t seem to have much
in it. If the pubs have to shut at that time
of day on a question that has no relation to
liquor, why not close the theatres also?
Why not stop the night trams and trains
and printing presses and crayfish? Bung
may be lighter or darker than he is painted,
but there ought to be some fair play about
his treatment. In December, 1913, the
electors said quite emphatically: “Go on
and make your arrangements for another
three years. We’re satisfied.” The three
years are not up; and neither the labor
question nor Wilhelm of Prussia should be
allowed to walk through an agreement. We
are getting too much of that sort of thing
altogether. If the beer supply is really
interfering with . the war, that is another
matter; but it is a matter for the Federal
military authorities, who have all the power
they want without any referendum.
«,
“Stars and Crowns” : Apropos the
announcement of the Defence Department
that “it is not thought desirable that men
who go away to fight for their country, and
who win commissions or promotions in
actual warfare, should altogether lose their
rank on return to Australia” (B. 20/4/’16).
As The Bulletin says, the men who stay
behind are to keep their ranks; and only if
these warriors who don't go to the war should
drop out will the men who have been away
get a look-in. Meantime the latter can have
“honorary” rank. But the position is even
worse than that. Not only will returned
officers be permitted to retain merely
honorary rank when (and if) they
do return, but in many cases they
will find themselves superseded in seniority
by officers who have remained here,
and who have collected substantive and
brevet ranks during the absence of
the other fellow on service. For example,
here are two, say, majors. One is either
kept at home or pulls strings and stays at
home, generally in a comfortable, very well
paid and perfectly safe job, and he gets
promoted to, say, Colonel. When the war is
over he remains a colonel and keeps his
colonel’s job. The other goes off, does his
bit, and by hard work at the Front gets
promoted to the same rank. On his return
he is merely an honorary colonel, and, if
there isn’t a colonel’s job for both, the fellow
who stays at home gets it, and the man who
has won his promotion on active service
either stands aside or takes his old major’s
job. This perhaps doesn’t matter much if
a man returns to civil imploy ; but it stings
the professional soldier. The order is simply
another illustration of the fact that Pearce
is under the dominatRm of the stay-at-home
soldier, who sees that the juiciest cuts go to
his own plate.
“Hambidge” takes part in a joy ride: —
Through bunting and cheers the recruiting train
drew out of Adelaide bearing the Premier, various
other politicians, business men and returned soldiers.
At Strathalbyn the station was decorated, a large
crowd greeted the visitors enthusiastically and part
of the train’s cargo delivered stirring addresses,
enhanced by a military band. Much cheering and
flag-waving. No recruits.
At Victor Harbor the station was joyfully dressed,
and a larger and more enthusiastic crowd greeted
the recruiters. The Mayor, councillors, torchlight
procession and a returned major (good luck to him!)
managed to raise two recruits.
Nairne —No recruits.
Oallington—No recruits.
The average Billjirr doesn’t like a fuss, so he goes
down to town quietly and enlists there. Goolwa
told the jaunters that 75 men had already enlisted
out of a population of 600, and then packed up its
flags and went home.
At Port Elliot a procession of school-children,
several M’s.P. and a homing soldier (South Africa
and Gallipoli) painted such vivid pictures to the
crowd that it delivered itself of two (2) recruits.
The train is still crawling over the landscape
picking up strays. Meanwhile, at Adelaide, 390
men offered their services during the week, and
most of ’em came from the country. I don’t know
what the picnic is going to cost. Salaries, expenses
and a train of 12 compartments will boost the bill
up.
As a setting for it all, people who think they are
Socialists are expressing their undying determination to
fight against conscription ; Kut has fallen ; Lowestoft
has been bombarded ; out in Flanders men are sticking
to it in the face of overwhelming odds; a British
flagship has been sunk; and {put this in big type )
a trawler has rammed and sunk a German sub-
marine in the North Sea. (Cheers.)
God save the King ! Comanavanother !
In the Present Crisis.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
The world is black. The bitter strife goes
wrong,
Yet at the barrier edged with death we
stand.
Where others tremble, we, erect and strong,
Thrill to the lilt of that full marching song
That is the native music of our land.
We cannot shudder in this evil hour.
The world with our fresh blood is warm and
wet;
Above our graves the wild spring blossoms
flower;
But death and pain combined have not the
power
To fill our souls with flinching and regret.
Our purpose holds through all the dark of
days
Edged with no light of silver cloud or star.
While hope grows pale and victory delays
And headlong courage its stern tribute pays,
Our level eyes, untroubled, look afar.
Somewhere we fail, as strong men failed of
old.
Somewhere we stand, unfailing, sorely prest.
The days to come are wide enough to hold
The triumph-music when the guns are cold
And the war-trampled fields of earth have
rest.
The days are long. The end is not in sight.
But hearts are more than swords at truth’s
last call;
And knee to knee in this most holy fight
We battle till clear faith has clearer sight
Of wrong’s wide ruin when the doom shall
fall.
We, who so long had watched the year’s
increase.
Laughed in the summer, played at feast and
song,
Now grasp the shafts of war that shall not
cease
Till the red harvest yield the newer peace
That dare not break through ages full and
long.
N.S.W.
D.M.W.


GAELIC WHISKY
the old smuggler
-vxon
''■^l
fP
T 77
GAELIC
The Perfect Whisky
■ • • in ...
The Perfect Bottle.
DISTILLED IN THE
„ HIGHLANDS of SCOTLAND.
The Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
° ldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
LNSL RANGES EFFECTED FOR
Fire Personal. Accident, Hailstone, Live Stock.
n , nff . _ Workmen s Compensation, Plate Glass, etc., at Lowest Rates.
Coinei Pltt and Kin g Streets, Sydney. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
<£>
TRICKS 8 PUZZLES IN GALORE
Write for our New .>oveltv Catalog—FßEE.
THE PHANTOM CARDS.
Five cards are shown, and any person thinks of three of
them. Die five cards are now dropped in a hat. Performer
now picks out the two cards not selected. Someone puts a
hand in the hat to bring out the three selected cards, blit the.'
have vanished, the hat being quite empty. Ea«y to
work. Xo skill required.
POST FREE. WITH FULL DIRECTIONS. 9d
I he above Trick and three other different ones
sent POST FREE FOR 2/6.
H» Iv. HUTCHINSON Ltd., 708-710 George St., Haymarket, Sydney
Things that Will Occur if They Take
Place.
The most dangerous thing to do just now is
to jump to conclusions about (1) Notes, (2)
battles, (3) anything and everything con-
nected with war. The only thing about
Notes that seems to be at all well estab-
lished is that the exchange of Correspondence
between Wilson and William is going on
till the Last Trump calls the postman off.
The latest yarn is that the German has
replied to Wilson’s “final” memo, with an
announcement of his intention to go on blow-
ing up everything that floats until the Y'anks
establish for neutrals the “right” to trade
with Hamburg, a«u that Wilson is writing
back to inquire whether this is an indication
of desire on William's part for peace. All
this merely suggests that somebody is pulling
lhe world’s leg. Of much more importance than
this letter-writing is the renewal of activity
among the armies. On the Eastern front
German and Russian and Austrian are get-
ting ready for big things, which may occur
immediately, if they don’t happen to be post-
poned. There are also reports of hurryings
to aud fro in Flanders ; and the cables inti-
mate that Australians are now in the front
trenches facing the Germans. But whether
lhe Great Offensive is to be presently deliv-
ered depends upon whether it stands ad-
journed or not. In the interval the little
there appears to be no doubt about is that
the “battle” of Verdun, which was all over a
fortnight ago, is stiff in full blast. Incident-
ally, various anonymous individuals are still
solemnly explaining how useless it would be
for the Hun to breach the line at this point
and push an army through the hole. This
can be regarded as the usual tip-top twaddle.
The German knows his job. So does the
Frenchman. Neither are fighting the most
gigantic battle known in war for the mere
sake of trying to achieve or resist futility.
Defeat of the German’s aim thereabouts
means a serious blow to him. Victory to
him would spell material advantage, mili-
tary and moral. Signs of the German weak-
ening are nowhere any more plentiful than
they were the day before yesterday, and the
Bill introduced into the British House of
Commons providing for general military ser-
vice is the best possible evidence that John
Bull has reached the conclusion that he
lias been looking for the aforesaid signs too
long, and has humbugged bis public into
doing the same thing. In Australia, how-
ever, the humbug is to proceed still further;
aud the pale young man who has all his life
been taught to curse the P.L.L and the
L'.L.C. is thanking Goo for interposing those
beautiful bodies between him and Conscrip-
tion.
—♦
When a deputation went to Black. N.S.W.
Minister for Ciiidley, Fish and other diffi-
cult problems, to ask him to throw his moral
eye over the picture-show business, one of
the speakers said that film production in
the United States was. after the steel in-
dustry, the biggest thing in that country.
The reverend assembly was very keen on
hunting the Devil out «f the flicker, but it
never seemed to strike it that the biggest
showing of his hoof was in the importing
part of the proposition. The U.S.A. is of
all countries the one which makes the biggest
parade of moral virtue; but it has a keen
scent for nastiness dished up under prudish
platitude. Australia isn’t like that. We
don’t howl about our conspicuous virtue to
any extent, but there is a wholesome clean-
ness in the thinking done in this Common-
wealth ; and our art and literature up-to-
date are remarkably free from the smirk that
bides the grimy suggestion. If these par-
sons really want to clean the picture-shows,
why don’t they advocate the protection of the
local film-making craft and so at one stroke
kill the foreign devil that deludes the young
and give a job to some decent Australians?
+
N. S. Wales railway figures are yelling at
the top of their voice to look out for the
smash. During the last eight years the
revenue has grown, partly through higher
charges, bufr mostly through new lines, by
61 per cent. That is, for every £lOO earned
in 1907 £l6l was earned in 1915. But for
every £lOO spent in 1907 no less than £212
had to be spent in 1915. The revenue has
to pay expenses and interest. In 1907 exes,
required £53 of every £lOO collected ; last year
exes, mopped up £69 15s. The £47 which re-
mained in 1907 after exes, were paid was
rather more than enough for the interest;
but only £3O ss. is left now, and as that
won’t pay interest the taxpayer has to do it.
If be can dodge it, then the money is bor-
rowed and the bill is passed on to the baby.
The fact that exes, have risen £ll2 while
the revenue lias risen only £6l suggests that
there is something dangerously wrong; and
Hoyle, the Minister who nominally controls
the Department, had better screw up bis
courage to say what it is before an infuri-
ated people start to smash things.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Mother Goose”
Criterion “On Trial”
Palace “Peg o’ My Heart”
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
Wirths’ New Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s ...., “So Long, Letty”
Royal “Get-Rich-Quick Wallingford”
King’s “The Squaw Man”
Princess’s '“Mavourneen”
Bijou Fuller Vaudeville
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s Own & Olympia Hoyt’s Pictures
Glaciarilm Ice Skating
Auditorium War Pictures
“Peg o’ My Heart” is making Sydney
Palace a real home for playgoers, and
Michael, her plain dog, seems to be suffering
as badly as ever from stage-fright.
“Mother Goose,” at Her Majesty’s, Syd-
ney. is getting along famously in her Thou-
sand and One Nights entertainment. The
humorist who animates Priscilla, the golden
egg-layer, is glad that the long summer is
done and the chill nights of autumn here at
last.
The jury empanelled nightly at Sydney
Criterion still persists in acquitting Frank
Harvey of the murder of an American mil-
lionaire against all the evidence. It is quite
time that his Honor Mr. Justice Souper
admonished them in the familiar fashion of
our own Bench.
A barrel of blither burst at Sydney Tivoli
last Saturday when Rockwell and Wood’s
number went up. They are officially de-
scribed as “the balmy boys that banish the
"FEG O' MY HEART," AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
Peg (Sara Allgood) gives villain Brent a
dirty one amidst loud applause.
blues’ ; but only the partner in the rag
check hat seems to be affected. He makes
an extraordinary amount of unnecessary
noise and overdoes the female-impersonation
part of the deafening turn. Blanche Colvin,
another of the new arrivals, is a shaoely
song-and-dancer without much voice but
with some charm and a sense of humor. Burt
Shepherd, a breathless cowman in the lurid
make-up of the stage plainsman, explodes
an arsenal of stockwhips, and with one of
them slices a cigar held between the lips
of his dainty little partner, who does a
joyous lariat tango of her own. Bill Pruitt,
a cowboy Caruso, would go better if he
would refrain from also being a cowboy
Melba. Marie King-Scott, Cardo and Noll.
Mennetti and Sedelli and the Three Kundles
are the other applausive turns.
Shylock’s impassioned demand for lib. of
the portly .John Cosgrove will cease at
Sydney Adelphi on Friday, and on Saturday
night Richard 111. will illustrate the pleas-
antries of life when kings played at party
politics.
After prolonged reflection the writer of
this paragraph came to the conclusion that
there must be a knack in turning three con-
secutive somersaults and landing on the feet
of a friend who happens to be absent-mind-
edly standing on his head. Therefore he left
his gorgeous seat in Wirths’ palatial Sydney
hippodrome the other evening and went
round to interview the Japs on the subject;
but just at that moment the whole family
leaped over the top of itself and disappeared
up its sleeve, so the yarn didn’t come off,
and the seals gave loud applause for a piece
of dead fish. Meanwhile the performance
is being repeated every night; and if anyone
wants a matinee to go on with, it is avail-
able at the ticket office.
"MOTHER GOOSE ” PANTO. AT
SYDNEY HER MAJESTY'S.
Dame Farrow
after being
made beautiful.
“Good Haight”
Bogs” Kelly
foliates the moon.
“The Squaw Man” continues to travel
on its three virile cowboy acts at Melbourne
King’s. For another week at least the old
rooster chief will confide his dead daughter
to the care of her lawful widower, and he
will carry her off stage as the curtain drops
without pausing to ask how she died. By
the way. talking about manner of dying,
The Bulletin last week remarked that no
one troubled to examine the alleged corpse
of bad-man Hawkins when he fell on the
bar-room floor. In this show, however,
somebody does turn him over and pronounce
him to be shot plumb through the heart.
This the sheriff accepts as first and final
evidence of Mr. Hawkins’s demise, and the
body remains where it fell, neglected and
despised. An exciting citizen whilst he lasts
is Mr. Hawkins. “A short life and a loud
one” is his motto.
This is the third week of “Lettv Solong”
at Melbourne Majesty’s, and in another fort-
night or so Money will have grown accus-
tomed to being turned away from the doors.
Meanwhile the turning away of good, hard
Oof stimulates its desire to get in, and
amounts to one of the attractions of the
show. There are several other attractions,
ot course—the frank impropriety of the
plot; the tw T o lady principals; the air that
plays the name part; the end of the first
act; the various assortments of gay, intru-
sive Girl; and especially the octette of inter-
laced ballannas whose feet have but a single
thought, whose eight legs twirl as one.
Marlow’s panto, has done its dash at
Melbourne Princess’s, and the unseasonable
tiutn that if you can’t get a girl in the
summer time you’ll never get a girl at all”
is no longer being obtruded on public notice,
lhe bounding girleens whose lower limbs
were bare aud beautiful have gone away;
deptombte Cat that waited upon
\\ hittington is somewhere else. Just now
the theatre is being swept out and dusted in
readiness for a soul-stirring Irish drama on
Saturday. Its name is “Mavourneen.” and
the lady so feelingly alluded to will be Ethel
Buckley. A singing hero seems to be essen-
tial to heart-throbbing Hibernian drama
these times, so Gerald Griffin, new to Mel-
bourne. will supply the want. A plea sin"
feature of the “Mavourneen” advt is “No
early doors,” which is good news' for the
iiisli. Early but economical patrons will
not be exposed to the icy fang and churlish
eluding of the winter’s wind whilst wait
for late doors to open unto them. g
At Melbourne Royal to-morro\> (Fridnui
is the last night of “The Boomoramr ” y
little comedy that well deserved * curtail
raiser to help it put in time. For the fh «i
week of the season “Get-Rich-Qulok wJi
lingford- reappears, with Ilale Hamilton a ,
the blufrsome spieler whose sins are V-i* ao i
ration. After which brief revival that
typical American business comedy cZ
the famous film production—“ The Birtk of
a Nation”—America aforesaid being th.
nation m question. The story of how i!
became converted into a mongrel community
will perhaps be filmed after the war.
Fred Maguire, late of ,T. C. Willi amsot
musical comedy, is a seasonable attraction
at Melbourne Bijou. Fred gives vent to
his nice voice in military airs which lack
nothing in emphasis and sincerity. The
Neapolitans, a new pair of canaries are
anything but Neapolitan in their manner-
nor are their songs of Dago parentaV
Latest reinforcements also include Mom
deno’s dogs; Laveen and Cross, travestv
gladiators; and Billy Wells and Eclair
Twins, songsters and gymnastic dattc-ets-
Amongst the Cohtinned-fi-om-tnir-last aid
Nelson and Nelson, who stir the populace
with their varied capers on stilts. These
artists are unique in their way, for no two
people ever performed such surprising feats
in such appalling get-ups. Singly 01 -
together they look like a dipso’s dream.
Most of the people appearing at Mel-
bourne Tivoli to-day will be gone the day
after to-morrow, so the banalities of the
worst offenders may pass unspecified. V
painful monotony of ragtime and weird
’Murkan accent marks the present pro-
gramme. The tricks and devices of an
alleged musical clown are sad memories,
and even the turn of Arnold and Ladd
makes one wish them back in comic opera.
Four of the items will continue until further
notice: Kverard, a smooth, cultured, light
tenor; Margaret Jewell, a timid-looking
soprano with a strain of Melba sweetness
and a suspicion of Melba tuition in her
voice; Ley wood and Norell, whose style is
a polite apology for their stuff; and Hay
and Crawford, duet dancers, of si in*, appear-
ance and very little importance. All these
and others will be in the bill next Saturday,
when Horace Goldin takes a hand. Goldin
is the most extensive illusionist in ,the
business, and his company of assistants
includes a tiger. He starts his series of
apparitions and evanishments at the matinee.
“The Ideals” are dropping out of Mel-
bourne Auditorium for a time to make room
for War Films of the French Front. These
are pictures taken for the French Govern-
ment, and are in some instances the nearest
approach to views of actual warfare that
the cinema fiend has obtained.
At Adelaide the Williamson Opera Co.'s
players rose well to tin* quick changes.
Florence Young, capable and incisive, was
in and out of the cast as wanted, but won-
derful Maggie Moore worked hard all
through. Phil Smith and Leslie Holland
were always themselves, and the public asks
nothing more. As a successor to Fred Leslie
Roberts was a failure in the crook's part in
“Miss Gibbs,” but came to his own in “Ma
Mie Rosette,” where also Derek Hudson
sang finely as the king. Of the new girls,
Ethel Cadman is dainty and effective, but
it was the jolly methods of Minnie Love that
gathered the fragrant vegetables at the
crowded farewell. Business was big all
through, and for the co. to be sent West
just as Adelaide Cup week began seems a
striking error of judgment somewhere. On
the other hand, the Cannot-Greene-Pearce
Follies at the Tivoli dropped in just at that
auspicious moment. At the King’s, Phillips
and. Merritt have revived the “stiffy” series
of Australian playlets, and Fred James
makes capital of his own mistakes as a
juggler. The rest is pictures.
„,
Anti-Grab”: For the benefit of the
Adelaide woman who claimed that she holds
r d ” si v Wi ‘ s *v se *-—
jewellery, medals, pottery fancy goods
X l produce the °P inion ° f G - G - Tlll ' ri
C °” and trade -“ ark attorneys,
Melboui ' ne ; They say:—
She certainly has a limited right to the use of the
Wovd Co °- ee ” on jewellery, but only for trade-mark
Purposes; consequently the public and the jewellery
trade are not and cannot be deprived of their rights
use °f the word for other than trade-mark
purposes, always provided thac the word is used
as l lot to deceive people into thinking the articles
mark ed “Coo-ee” are articles produced by this lady,
? r w »th her authority, and, in short, not to inure
her trade-mark rights.
That seems to fix the rights of everybody
exce P t tlle inventors of the word. They
don't count.
IN PINK AND GOLD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ragtime grates on my cultured ear,
Syncopation offends my soul.
Gloom takes hold of me when I hear
“Rag With Me” or “The Jelly Roll” ;
But the play has its pleasures yet,
Lures alike for the young and old :
What attracts you in “So Long, Let.”?
Mine the ballet in Pink and Gold !
Marie Eaton may romp and rag.
Saved by Frith from a damp-proof sea ;
Plunket may posture, Fisher gag,
Workman frivol with Dorrie B.;
Connie Ediss may still recall
Women and whine of days of old,
But one feature eclipses all —
Mine the ballet in Pink and Gold !
Looks alluring and lovely legs,
Eloquent legs that flash and twirl;
Bare-backed beauty that boldly begs
Homage due to each golden girl.
Youth feels giddy and Age grows gay,
Spoofed is Sadness and Sorrow’s sold ;
In the meadows of love make hay—
Mine the ballet in Pink and Gold !
VICTORIA.
HARRISON. O.


3 O ORD e U ON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
A
.Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
A DELIGHTFUL STIMULANT.
Daniel (rawfords
RED STAR WHISKY
A WATERTIGHT BOOT
REGULATION MILITARY STYLE
For Active Service, or for Farm and Station Wear during
Winter this boot is ideal. It has. smooth-finished Leather
Linings that prove comfortable for the feet, and full-cut
water-tight tongues sewn at the sides. The soles are
double and stoutly rope-stitched, and as there is no toe-
cap, friction in walking or marching is eliminated.
In Tan Willow Calf 257-
Superior finish 27 /6
We pay postage. Please state size.
Peapes & Co., Ltd.,
Men's Outfitters,
309 & 311 George Street, SYDNEY.
;
m
25/-
AT POVERTY POINT.
The Vic. Vocalists’ Society, formed a
few weeks ago for the purpose of reminding
the public that professional singers cannot
live by warbling gratuitously for War Funds,
makes a reasonable appeal to all solo con-
cert performers who can afford a ss. annual
subscription. As a matter of fact, there
are some who can’t. Confidential inquiries
have disclosed “genuine cases of destitution
amongst gifted performers.” who had no
other source of income than the fees which
“THE SQUAW HAN." AT MELBOURNE
KING’S.
E. M. Keon as Baco
(Injun interpreter)
Frank Bradley as
Sir John Applegate.
of late have been unobtainable. So the
Society’s members are doing only a fair thing
by their neediest brethren in agreeing to
refuse to sing at any function whatever for
less than a guinea ; and the social clubs,
etc., that were addicted to the bad habit of
cadging professional services have been
requested by circular to adopt the new and
reasonable principle. Municipal councils
have been asked to run concerts for the sake
of the singers they will employ, and Mel-
bourne City Council has • responded by in-
creasing its monthly output of concerts from
one to two. Also the executive is arranging
for a big concert in aid of its fund for the
relief of necessitous cases ; and Dolores has
promised to sing for the good cause.
“Harrison O.”: Portion of Judge Mur-
ray’s latest annual report on Papua deals
with the indigenous drama. “Jomburu” is
a typical farce which has been well received
by theatregoers in the Ivumusi and Mambare
Divisions, and has had a successful run of
one consecutive night. The play opens with
a woman, after a hard day’s work in the
garden, lying asleep on the broad of her
back. Enter op. &. young buck from a
neighboring village, who has been on an
unsuccessful pig-hunt. After gazing for a
while at the sleeping beauty “he takes a
draw at his bamboo pipe, closing one eye
with a quizzical expression, turns on his
heels, giving the audience to understand that
temptation has no lures for him.” He comes
back “with the air of a fixed purpose,” and
“sticking his spear in the ground near the
lady’s feet, immediately proceeds to wake her
up in a most immoral manner,” whereupon
.Alary plants her feet in the centre of the
hero’s chest and sends him crashing on to his
spear on the broad of his back. So it may
fairly be claimed that the play points a
moral.
“Statist”: A press-agent screlm to the
effect that Dorothy Brunton, at the head of
“So Long, Letty,” is the first Australian musi-
cal-comedy star to score 100 nights in one
piece in one Australian city stabs my memory.
Didn’t Carrie Aloore accomplish the feat in
Alelbourne years back in “Florodora,” with
a cast that included AAhillace Brownlow,
Hugh Ward and Grace Palotta?
“Moana”: Prohibiting peanuts in picture
palaces was a small step alongside the stride
recently taken in Hastings (ALL.), where
the flicker showmen decided to prohibit
Alaoris! It was done because of Henare s
confirmed habit of taking crayfish as light
refreshment and dropping the armor about
for other patrons to sit or walk on.
“O. Ockney”: Actor Frank R. Benson
has been knighted, and that makes seven, the
others being Wyndham, Tree, Alexander,
Forbes Robertson, Hare and Bancroft. Ben-
son was never what is known as a “fashion-
able” or West End actor. But he did good
work in running Sliakspeare—a dramatist
who wouldn’t be much heard of in the land
of his birth but for Benson’s efforts. Though
sometimes he plays a season in LondoiKßen-
son is better known and appreciated in the
provinces. Frequently he has had as many
as three companies touring at one time, all
presenting the work of William. And for
26 years he has been responsible for the
annual Sliakspearian festival at Stratford-
on-Avon. No one could call him a great
actor, but some of the best-known mummers
of to-day have been brought out by him.
Oscar Asche and Lily Brayton learnt their
business under his management, and when
Asche first appeared in Australia most of
his crowd were old Bensonians.
The third time wasn’t lucky for Huvli
Douglas, the flicker operator at His
Majesty’s Theatre, Hobart. A few months
ago he was walking down a Melbourne street
when a live wire fell on him. He was
nearly electrocuted, but got off with the loss
of the flesh from one side of his arm. Later
he took a walk near a quarry while blasting
was going on, and got his leg badly broken
by a piece of flying rock. His third call
came the other day when a film caught fire.
He removed it with his bare hands, and in
doing so got burnt very badly all over the
arms and face, and things look very black
for him.
“Hamer”: The closing-down of the show
at the Little Theatre (Sydney), which was
supplying plays of a superior quality to
audiences that were appreciative but not
numerous, is another evidence of our rotten
theatrical taste. Lack of patronage at the
Little has been credited to the theatre being
on a “bad stand,” but even in a central
theatre, Brough, staging the same sort of
goods, had a perilous season ; and more re-
cently the two sons of the Majeronis, staging
the classical plays that had made the name
of their parents, had almost reached the
rocks in Brisbane, when the bright idea of
putting up “The Kelly Gang” occurred to
them. That glorious masterpiece gave them
packed houses night after night, and filled
the gaping hole in the treasury.
“M.P.A.” : Melbourne Temperance Hall is
still the home of a once-a-tveek variety show
which has been running continuously for
over 50 years. In the old days the enter-
tainment was known as “the penny read-
ings,” and the admission was 3d. and Id.
The “readings” included singing and recit-
ing by well-known amateurs and budding
“THE SQUAW
MAN,” AT
MELBOURNE
KING'S
Willie Driscoll as
Hiram Doolittle.
professionals. Mrs. Pett used to preside at
the piano; and when things went wrong
and a hole occurred in the programme the
management would invite any member of
the audience to chip in. From the “penny
readings” the “Temp” show gradually
developed into minstrel and variety. To-day
it preserves the circle of gaily-clad Singing
and dancing ladies, with a centre man and
two end men. After the interval the circle
disbands and the performers all work singly
or as doubles. I sampled the bill the other
Saturday night and found a pair of Aus-
tralian-Chinese serio-chronics and a dusky
lady ballad singer who made a noise through
her teeth. Except for a tall, charming girl,
with a naturally good voice, the talent was
really awful; yet the “Temps” took their
amusement very seriously, joined in the
choruses and greeted the performers as mem-
bers of the family. The China girls sang
and danced badly, but were very well
frocked. They finished the bill and received
a quantity of shrubbery and sweets from
their supporters. Evidently the “Temp” is
the recognised outlet for Melbourne’s China-
town talent, and it has a certain following
that is prepared to accept whatever it gets
as first-class vaudeville goods.
Hall Caine, who has a stirring little war
sketch, “The Iron Hand,” running at Lon-
don Coliseum, has been denouncing the
theory that people want to forget the war
when they go out for an evening’s enter-
tainment. He considers it “dishonoring and
insulting” to suggest that people are always
trying to escape from the war. They know
it is their duty to think of the war day and
night, and the duty of the theatre is to keep
it constantly in the public consciousness.
In London the other day a benefit was
being organised for destitute Mrs. Barras-
ford, widow of the head of the first big-
music-hall syndicate. Tom Barrasford
started by running a negro-minstrel troupe.
Discovering the possibilities of the “two
shows a night” system, he exploited it and
rapidly acquired the control of 21 variety
palaces, directing operations from gorgeous
offices in Charing Cross-road. When Irving
left the Lyceum, Barrasford took possession
and converted it into an up-to-date variety
palace. It was this cow that kicked over
the bucket, and landed his affairs at last in
the Bankruptcy Court.
“Lantern” : I saw a nice girl on the beach
yesterday. She had her eyes screwed up
like an American picture actress, and was
chewing gum with that soulful look the old
ehewer always gets. Down by the rocks a
straw-haired lad was giving a lifelike repre-
sentation of a dislocated scarecrow. Charlie
Chaplin was his trouble. It didn’t surprise
me to read that Sydney was taking the virus
into its system through 113 shows —city and
suburban. The weekly attendance is
426,000 and at Od. a gazer the yearly bill is
well over half a million.
John McCormack has just sent a wreath
for the coffin of Robert McGuire, of the edi-
torial staff’ of London Daily Telegraph.
McCormack was singing in the choir of an
Irish village church when McGuire chanced
to hear him and recognised the exceptional
qualities of his voice. The stranger inter-
viewed him after Mass and the result
was that John was placed 'on the
road to fame and fortune. McGuire
was himself a good Irish singer, and,
while accompanying a recent concert party
in the war zone, filled the place of a
prominent London vocalist suddenly taken
ill. He served the Daily Telegraph as
Parliamentary reporter, special correspondent
in many places where trouble was brewing
or fighting was in progress, and occasionally
as musical critic.
“O. Blin”: Ex-actress Mary Anderson,
now faintly known as Madame de Navarro,
recently showed herself to the vulgar movies.
But it was strictly for a charitable purpose,
so the 'old lady was able to survive the
agony. As she sobbed to a reporter: “In
these times old artistic ideals must go down,
as the soldiers and sailors go-down, without
a murmur.”
"Floater” : Granville Bantock, the prolific
musical brother of C. R. Bantock who ex-
ploits his circumference for a J. C. William-
son salary, has written a symphony called
“The Hebrides,” which was lately "tried in
Edinburgh with noticeable success. Some
time ago he got the critics talking by setting
bubbly old Omar to music. Granville Ban-
tock, by the way, visited Australia 20 years
ago as musical conductor of the famous
“A Gaiety Girl,” and a brother was one of
the leading comedians thereof. C.R., im-
ported to play the mandarin part in “San
Toy,” was the third Bantock to come here.
“Gustavus Gravelpit” : When, having six-
pence and an hour to spare, I grope my way
into a seat at a continuous picture-show that
boasts a live orchestra, I cannot help specu-
lating as to how the movie musicians enjoy
life. The question spoils my entertainment.
Imagine sitting in front of a screen the live-
long day watching Brobdingnagian photo-
players making faces at each other and
attempting to musically accompany them!
What a life! I’ll never more complain that
the incidental melodies are ill-chosen. I shall
only marvel that there’s a man among all the
conductors sane enough to tell Stop Yerrr
Ticklin’ from the Hallelujah Chorus.
“Oking” : Re “Harrison O.’s” objection
(B. 27/4/T6) that Yankee performers hurl
their points at our benighted audiences. A
fair share of the blame must fall on the
theatrical importers. Quietly-played and
effective scenes have been altered and
broadened “to suit Australia,” by mana-
gerial mandate, almost at the “death knock”
of a production. The result is that gentle
souls like “Harrison O.” have to tie their
hats on.
After all, Irene Browne didn’t play the
name part in “My Lady Frayle ” in London
on its first night. Laryngitis laid the
auburn hair on a pillow, and a hasty under-
study trailed and made eyes and was pet-
tish in her place.
(Continued on pa ye 26.)
R. B. Rees, M.L.C., has resigned from the
Vie. Closer Settlement Commission, and
the press gang must be included among the
many who will refuse to be prostrated with
grief. Rees’s habit of asking unnecessary
questions got on the nerves of his colleagues,
who begged him to sub-edit his inquisitive-
ness. That huffed him, and relations between
himself and the other members finally
became so strained that he resigned. Now
that the fashion has been set, worried press-
men in the habit of reporting other com-
mittees with which Rees is connected have
hopes; for the little Welshman has always
been a prize bore, even for an M.L.C.
Left the port of Hobart the other day
John Dalgleish, master shipbuilder, who
hammered up some good vessels in the times
when the Hobart yards turned out ocean-
going wooden sailers. He had lived 76
years.
Ilicks-Beach, the English politician just
dead, had Beachport (S.A.) named after
him. The late Chief Justice Way, who was
Lieut.-Governor at the moment, made a
point of having the origin of the name made
public, lest it should be supposed to be in
honor of the Beach family, his own near
cafe-keeping relatives.
Incensed by the attempt of the industrial
disputes committee of Melbourne Trades
Hall Council to drive a collective bargain,
Alec Peacock has risen to a tine simile:
A submarine has discharged a torpedo at me after
I have given my promise to the employees, and 1
cannot call a conference while Damocles’ sword is
above my head.
The deputation grasped its aching brow and
fled to begin its yeasty meditations anew.
Until the condemned Sinn Feiners were
led out the other morning there had not
been an execution for treason in the V.K.
for nearly 100 years. The last to provide a
job for the executioner were the Cato-street
conspirators, who in 1820 proposed to
abruptly end a Cabinet dinner by making
dead meat of tbe diners. John Frost, the
Chartist rioter, William Smith O'Brien, and
others were sentenced afterwards, but
escaped death. The last trial for treason
was that of Arthur Lynch, M.P., the amaz-
ingly versatile Victorian who fought as a
colonel on the Boer side in the S. African
war.
It looks as if the Sunset Drought is going
to get through all right in the Speck. Of
the three members of the House of Dodery
who went to the electors this year two were
pronounced 10 o’clockers and both were re-
placed by candidates who had pledged them-
selves to support the will of the people as
expressed at the referendum. The third
member elected was also a six o’clocker, so
that early closing should now have a deal-
majority in both Houses.
“Jean S.”: I was hovering in the neigh-
borhood of John Murray one day when a
pressman broke into his siesta with the news
that Blank, a well-known identity, was
dead. As John was a friend of the departed
we tapped him for a few biographical par-
ticulars. He heard the request behind the
usual veil of smoke ; then straightening him-
self into an attitude of faint attention, he
drawled: “I haven’t any biographical par-
ticulars about Blank, but I can tell you a
good yarn about him.” That was a
tine illustration of Jack’s character. To
those who knew him well he was so emi-
nently the sort of engaging personality who
always had a good yarn about some-
body.
“0.K.”: When is our easy-going Empire
to be enlightened? Look back 18 months
at all the accursed nonsense published in
the English papers, and cabled to Australia,
concerning the shortage of copper in Ger-
many ! At the yarns about the removal of
heavy church bells and bronze statues from
Belgium and France for the sake of the
sorely-needed metal! Look back only a
couple of months at the reports of food riots
in Berlin due to the alleged stringency of
the blockade of German ports! Who but
the German Government, through its Dutch
agents, was responsible for the circulation of
those restraints upon the conscription move-
ment in Britain? The censorship, which
permitted persistent suggestions of the
enemy’s desperate plight, whilst suppressing
important testimony to his strength, has
been working for the anti-conscriptionists
all the time. The “food riots” stories were
disposed of recently by a man who wrote
from Berlin to a friend in England :
Do not believe all that you read in the German
press. Things are better than is stated in England.
There are no disturbances except butter riots. The
people are very angry because of the good food given
to prisoners at Ruhleben, and threatened to attack
the camp.
The fact that good, fattening fare is avail
able to any hated Englander who will pay
for it is proof that all but the poorest Ger-
mans are getting along comfortably. And the
poor are only suffering for their poverty,
which is a pretty general complaint in all
countries. If a couple of million underpaid
workers in America, for instance, don’t riot
for butter it is because they are accustomed
to do without it. Evidently the Germans
were not accustomed to do without it, and
they rioted because they knew someone was
getting plenty.
THE USE OF MUSIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Five hundred bards in Fingal's hall
Made music when the night was drunk ;
Five hundred pipers bold and tall
Blew, to absolve our souls ot' funk.
The foeman’s threats we could not hear
With those wild noises in our ear.
That was some years ago, but still
The principle holds sound and good.
How much of Mary’s frenzied skill
The old piano has withstood !
Yet how we bless the noise she flings
To drown our fear when Thompson sings!
x.s.w
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH
THE INEXPLICABLE HOUSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Half-empty!” repeated the heavyweight star,
His eyebrows—well-corked ones—uplifted ;
“At hat means it? Gadzooks, but this town’s singular
in ignoring an actor so gifted!
I can’t understand it’’—the boss g-ave a roar—
“l’ve never, lad, have I, appeared here before?”
VICTORIA.
E.T.


m
i\
“Orient” Tweed Overcoats
Ready-to-Wear,
From 40/-
“Made by David Jones,” in the popular Chesterfield stvle, from English
and Scotch Tweeds, in Brown shades specially selected for their even
texture, newness of design and dependable wearing qualities. These
coats are backed by David Jones’ reputation to give satisfactory service.
In all men’s sizes
Superior qualities
45/-, 50/-, 55/-
.. 40/-
65/-, 75/- to 7 Gns.
Mhen ordering please state chest measurement taken over ordinary coat.
WE PAY CARRIAGE THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
DAVID JONES, LTD.
Opp. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
J
STOP STOMACH DRUGGING.
NEUTRALISE THE DANGEROUS ACID
WITH A LITTLE MAGNESIA.
Stomach drugging is dangerous. Drugs
deaden the nerves and render them insensible
to pain, but pain serves a good purpose—it
is nature's method of indicating that some-
thing is interfering with the smooth work-
ing of the human organism. When the
fault is corrected, the pain will cease. Pain
after eating—heartburn, flatulence, etc., etc.,
usually indicates not that the stomach is
diseased but that it is troubled by excessive
acidity. The acid irritates and inflames the
delicate lining of the stomach and so causes
pain. Obviously it is of prime importance
that the cause of this pain should be
removed, and to accomplish this you should
obtain some bisurated magnesia from your
chemist and take half a teaspoonful in a
little water immediately after meals. This
will instantly neutralise the harmful acid in
your stomach and prevent all possibility of
food fermentation. Drugs do not overcome
this acid—they simply deaden the symptoms
and give a false sense of security. That is
why those who rely on drugs' gradually
become worse and worse, until the stomach
itself becomes actually diseased.— Advt.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
now complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
Australia has a Little Germany up at
Holdsworthy (N.S.W.), and there has been
a providential inquest to show by the sample
what the whole is like. In the concentra-
tion camp there are, of course, rich and
poor—the population is quite representative
—and one of the chief industries seems to
be blackmail. “There are plenty of rich men
in camp who have had beatings, but were
ashamed to say anything about it,” said one
•witness. Also, according to other wit-
nesses, there were plenty of other rich
men who had bought off their beatings,
The tariff seems to have been as low as six-
pence. Apparently a Lutheran pastor had
omitted to call on the plate before he went
in, so, having no sixpence, he was thrashed
too. Still, you can’t judge a community alto-
gether by what the scoundrels do. The
really enlightening incident in this case
was connected with the manner in which
this Little Germany dealt with the people the
majority didn’t care for: they reduced them
more or less to pulp with any old weapon
that was handy, and then dragged them by
the legs and pitched them out over the fence
in a bleeding, quivering heap. (P.S. —Mr.
Pearce still favors the voluntary system of
coping with the danger of German domina-
tion.)
“Jobber”: Snobocracy has made itself
strongly felt in the army in Egypt. Recently
I went to Alexandria, 48 hours’ leave, and
dropped into the Carlton Hotel to book. The
porter was very sorry, but they could take
officers only ! “To with them,” I said.
“I’m as good as any officer in the English
Army and a damned sight better than a
lot.”' The bloke agreed ; he seemed to think
it wise to do so. I found another pub which,
not being quite so good, we mere blighters
may patronise. Then the question of dinner
in town arose. Naturally I wanted to give
her the best on offer. I made some in-
quiries. “Oh, yes, the Majestic is the best
place in town, but it is out of bounds for
other than commissioned officers !” Yah !
Isn’t it enough to make a decent Australian
“go crook”? I had dinner on the train
coming back to Cairo, and two Tommy offi-
eahs stared at me as though I were a curio.
Damn them, I can probably afford to pay
for my dinner quite as well as they, and
maybe eat it as decently!
“Full Astern”: A queer accident hap-
pened on Sydney Harbor lately. Two ferry
boats were approaching each other as “cross-
ing ships” within the meaning of the har-
bor rules. It was the duty of vessel A to
go to port, and vessel B shaped her course
accordingly. Suddenly A gave one sharp
whistle, meaning “I am going to starboard.”
B’s mystified skipper hastily put his helm
over, only to find that A was, after all,
going to port. B’s manoeuvre had the effect
of making a collision inevitable, and all
that the masters could do was to go full
astern to soften the blow. Fortunately the
impact was not severe and no one was hurt.
Upon B demanding an explanation it
appeared that A grasped the whistle cord to
give the regulation two blasts before putting
his helm over. Either because he pulled too
hard or because the cord was due for a pen-
sion it parted after he had blown one blast
and left him helpless. That’s how the lives
of ferry passengers on the harbor may hang
by a thread.
The men who now and then build the
railway between Broken Hill and Condobo-
lin can claim the championship for polite
speaking in an emergency. They object to
a ganger, and at a strike-meeting passed a
resolution, “That we give him a chance to
view the scenery of Sydney Harbor.” The
idea seems worth cultivating. Thus a girl
need never reject a suitor. She will say :
"Clarence, my sisterly-affection is of the
finest quality; and you can consider yourself,
promoted to try some.” Or the boss:
“Young man, the architecture of this build-
ing is much admired; you shall have a
chance to view it from the street.” Or the
Judge: “Prisoner, it is generally admitted
that, for scenery and climate in the one
HER SYMPATHY.
“Yes, my dear wife has been a great sufferer
for 20 years.”
“Dear me! I had no idea you'd been married
so long.”
direction, or for company in the other, the
Next World is unrivalled. You shall have
the privilege of finding this out by experi-
ment."
MILITARY NONSENSE.
THE OFFICER: “ Didn't you see me coming up the lines?"
THE RECRUIT : “Yes, sir!”
THE OFFICER: “Then, why didn’t you challenge me?”
THE RECRUIT: Challenge you! why, hang it, I’ve knowed who you teas since you was
a kid!”
The elaborate humbug surrounding
Hughes’s departure from Australia was
puerile nonsense; and he
realised it when he got to
Fiji. It had been given out
to the Australian papers
that the Prime Minister
was travelling by Orient
liner via Suez, and there
was actually a send-off at
the Sydney railway-station;
then in a clever way he
was whipped back and put
on board the outgoing
Niagara. On arrival at
the debilitated wharf at
Suva Hughes found that
his route was so well
known that the party was
met by the whole town
headed by the Naililili
native brass band. William
was next entertained in a
pub, beautifully decorated
for the occasion by a
bumper gathering of Aus-
tralians. who presented
him with a walking-stick—
its handle a gold-mounted
whale’s tooth—and Mrs.
Hughes with a pendant
studded with island pearls.
Further, Hughes discov-
ered that, while the
authorities were playing
their absurd melodrama in
Australia, the Fiji papers,
knowing no secret and vir-
tuously suspecting none,
boomed the arrangements
beforehand and talked
about them afterwards at the top of their
voice.
N. S. Wales P.L.L. Conference found time
to hurl some bricks at the State system of
boarding out destitute children. " Thirty
years ago Ma followed the plan of cooping
up “charity children” in barracks and asy-
lums, a disastrous system which Henry
Parkes changed in 1885. Since then the
infant flotsam thrown on the State’s hands is
boarde_d with private families at a cost of
from ss. to 12s. a week. The success of
such a system depends on its administration,
At the Labor Conference it was asserted that
the administration has broken down, and
after the many years of internecine strife that
has disfigured the N.S.AV. Charities depart-
ment, it is quite possible that it has. The.
Conference decided that the time was ripe
to abolish the whole plan and establish in
PA’S MISINFORMATION.
“No, it’s no use, Percy. Father says you’re
quite unable to meet your creditors.”
“Now, that’s awful rot. I meet the bally
fellows everywhere I go.”
its place State boarding-schools to which all
homeless children should be sent. The
P.L.L. notwithstanding, careful investigation
all over the world has shown that the board-
ing-out system is the ideal one; all that is
needed is to make drastic changes in the
method of working it in N. S. Wales.
A HASH OF MOONLIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She breaks all vessels with an equal hand,
But chiefly scores with those that cost a lot.
The simple china cannot understand
Her whirling style ; but, when the days are hot,
The gas-stove, smashed three several different ways,
Hits back for vengeance with a fierce, blue blaze.
Then does she steam as steams a pumpkin boiled
And puff as railway engines on the track ;
And, stamping through the midst of dinners spoiled,
She bears a household’s curses on her back ;
Yet on her Sunday out so fair she seems,
Her faultless face her weekday crimes redeems.
The girl I met at Bondi that still night
Was all a seaside maiden ought to be.
Her voice was soft, her touch was fairy light,
She wandered far along the sands with me ;
We talked of many things and closer drew,
And as I touched her lips the taste seemed new.
The moon was not yet up. The stars are frauds.
And yet her hair was soft as thistledown.
The low wind sang; the ocean meadow’s broads
Tingled with hooded joy as soft and brown
As when the lampless night on Ossa fell,
And one white god had one old tale to tell.
I told my tale, of course, in happy haste.
I loved. Could this girl doubt it who had felt
The pressure cf my arm about her waist
And heard my voice to softest cadence melt
Breathing her name? She listened and she sighed
And kissed me chastely like a new-made bride.
Oh, Arcady! What tender whispers pressed
The shining of her little, rounded ear!
How soft the fingers that my jaw caressed !
How tremulous her accents and how dear!
Nights have I known and morns of honeyed bliss,
But never in the years a night like this.
The hour grew late and still we stayed and stayed.
The couples starting level all were fled,
Save two so silent that perchance they prayed,
Sand-reverent, each with bowed, averted head.
Our own devotions were of such a kind
That kisses made us dumb and sighings blind.
The laggard moon uprose in silver light,
Trailing white satin lustres o’er the sea ;
I saw that happy face all rosy bright
And dimpled with a subtle witchery—
And then my senses reeled, for in that look
A flashlight of the gods revealed—-my cook !
And now when through the chaos of my home
I hear the clash of dishes as they fall,
I think of one soft night beside the foam
When those pink fingers made my soul their thrall;
And she whose soul makes hurry to destroy
Found mine the lightest thing with which to toy.
Girls are so scarce; and someone must prepare
The tasteless pudding and the daily hash.
Love comes and goes upon the heedless air—
Ye gods of happy moonlight, what a smash!
But Mary says, because her heart is kind,
■“You couldn’t help it, Bertha. Never mind!”
x.s.w.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


Navy or Brown, 17/G.
White, post free, 19/G.
PIKE
Toowoomba..
2T/>e
Coat Sweater
when working'
or taking' your
pleasure
The Coat Sweater will afford you cosy comfort. You
see, it may be worn without a coat, or just as an ordinary
vest, only that it has long sleev6s. Pike Brothers offer
the Coat Sweater like the picture, or with collar to
button close up to the neck. Please state which you
prefer—also chest measure.
SEND FOB A COAT SWEATER ON APPROVAL. CASH WILL BE
RETURNED IF NOT SUITABLE.
BROTHERS ltd.
BRISBANE.
Townsville.
The Marvellous Contrivance
that makes it possible to dis-
pense with buttons, hooks and
eyes and press-studs in men’s and
women’s garments. One simple
movement and the garment is
opened or closed.
The World has been Wait-
ing for the Hookless
Fastener.
It saves time, trouble and tem-
per. Is fixed in a few minutes,
and is indestructible.
Ask to see it at your draper's
or tailor’s.
The Hookless Fastener Co.
Elizabeth House, ( Aust *- alasia )>
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
“I can’t help it —they all laugh at me.”
Just who Sis Hopkins is not many Aus-
tralians to-day could possibly have the slight-
est knowledge. There was a time when the
name of Hughes meant no more than Smith
or Brown, but to-day there is but one Hughes,
just as we are told to note that four weeks
hence there will be just one Sis Hopkins and
every letter a capital.
Sis Hopkins says : “Making folks laugh is
my business. What’s yours?” and she "does
it on the Movie Film. Australian Feature
Films can tell you much more about the new
comedienne.
“Carfax” —in the throes of indigestion :
A Sydney co. devoted to the preparation of public
food supplies was fined £lO the other day for
having its premises in a filthy condition. During
previous weeks several similar cases were before the
courts, and the defendants were asked for various
trifling amounts. A rotten system this. Such
individuals should be prohibited under severe penalty
from ever again carrying on this sort of business.
Then perhaps it would be possible for Australia to
have at least one place where the food industry was
run on decent lines. As it is, Sydney is a gastro-
nomic Sodom and Gomorrah. The place is deco-
rated with a multitude of revolting shops in which
perspiring womep struggle for lumps of raw meat;
with fried-fish emporiums exuding hot, full-bodied
stinks; with restaurants foetid, gloomy and shudder-
some. Sydney people don’t eat decently of simple,
carefully-prepared food. They wolf grub. They are
being steadily brutalised by a greasy and greedy
Private Enterprise which wipes the spoons on its
coat and keeps the chops warm in its pocket. Have
we no patriot with aesthetic tastes sufficiently strong
to start a holy crusade to get all this smellfulness
and grimy squalor cleaned up? Don’t, for Heaven’s
sake, tell me that the Government would make an
even greater mess of things. That is not humanly
possible. Of coarse, it would start by losing money
and forget to take the steak off the grill at the
critical moment; but (by our great patron, Cohen
the Kind!) it couldn’t make a more revolting botch
of the job of feeding the public than Private Enter-
prise perpetrates in 9765 places three times a day
and far into the night. You can take it from me
that unless Australians can get plain food under
decent conditions our Great National Resources will
have been pawned in vain.
* * * *
N. S. Wales Equity Court is struggling
with a matter of £4OOO left behind by a
Sydney citizen of Chinese birth. Testator
bequeathed the whole of his property to the
“Canton Hospital,” and the efforts of his
aggrieved family abetted by a painstaking
Bar failed to upset the will. The Public
Trustee then threw the estate into Equity
because there are dozens of hospitals in
remote Canton, and he couldn’t tell wliaffor.
Five barristers instructed by five solicitors
assisted the bewildered Judge, but failed
to identify the winning institution. So the
matter is to stand over generally, waiting
for the hospital to call and prove its title to
the cash. Meanwhile that foreign devil,
Costs, is wondering if it can manage to get
away with the lot to save Canton John the
trouble.
* * * *
The quaint railway system of Port Adel-
aide has been revolutionised at last by the
opening of a new station. The old line
ran along the middle of the main street and
over a bridge which sometimes had to be
swung open for ships to pass. The new
station is the first “elevated” one in S. Aus.,
and has called for a lot of banking up. It
is mostly of concrete. So is the new bridge
over the Port River, by which all trains for
the Outer Harbor and the neighboring sea-
side towns will get through without touching
the centre of Port Adelaide at all. The
new arrangement has cost something over
£125,000, but is worth it in cutting out
a few of the level crossings, which get more
deadly each year as traffic increases. Yet
on the flat, chessboard Adelaide plain they
cannot be avoided without enormous expense.
SPEAKING FROM EXPERIENCE.
NEW GROOM: “ What's the right thing to do
when your wife asks you for money and
you haven't got it?”
SCARRED FRIEND: “There isn't any right
thing. Under those circumstances, any-
thing you do will be wrong.”
SELLING OUT OF WAR AT A PROFIT.
KAISER (explaining his peace terms to “nooval ” correspondent): “I rant you to eggs-
plain to dose stupid fellows dot I must gedt something for DER GOODVILL OF DER
PEEZNESS!”
For the ear of Billjim in particular, the
cry comes from Corp. H. Martin, Ist
Southern Hospital, Edgbaston, Birmingham,
England:—■
Can you help me to news of my son, Private
Ralph Martin, No. 615, 18th Battalion, A.1.F., who
was reported missing on August 27, 1915? Previous
to enlisting he was employed at Richmond (N.S.W.).
Since his reported disappearance I have received his
portrait, taken with a companion at the Sphinx,
Egypt, wrapped up in black-edged notepaper, and
posted in Sydney last October. No name came with
it or anything besides. Whoever sent this probably
knows my boy’s end, and we hunger to get in touch
with him or with anyone else who knows.
* * * #
The old tradition that no good billet in
the Anglican Church in Australia can be
tilled except by importation got another
small knock the other day, when
Canon Forster, of Bathurst, was
appointed head of the training
college at Armidale, in the same
Ma State. He succeeds A. H,
Garnsey, another Australian, who
goes to be head of the Anglican
college at Sydney Uni. Forster
graduated at Melbourne, and was
trained for sky navigation under
Reginald Stephen—also an Aus-
tralian —who now bishes in
Hobart. Bishop Green, of Bal-
larat, ordained him, and after
serving his time as curate he went
schoolmastering, being also for a
time chaplain at Melbourne
Grammar School. For six years
he was second in command at a
training college in Ballarat, and
lately he has looked after the
collection-plate at Bathurst Cathe-
dral. The Armidale college is a
comparatively small affair, run by
the country dioceses in the Ma
State as a sort of orotest against
the exclusively “Low Church”
twist given to the training at the
big Moore College in Sydney. But
while mere Australians like For-
ster may be good enough for the
small country colleges to train
bush parsons, nothing but the im-
ported article has yet been
thought fit to take charge of' one of the big
training colleges in a State capital. The
appointment of Australian-born A. H. Garn-
sey as head of St. Paul’s at Sydney ’.Var-
sity, welcomed in The Bulletin some
weeks back, is not really an exception, as
that institution is not a training college,
and its head is chosen by a council elected
by the graduates of the college, in which
official Anglicanism has no voice.
“Mujik” ; Any explanation of why women
contract the habit of making a last will
and testament at an earlier age than men?
A mere remark that women are more par-
simonious than men isn’t an explanation—
it’s merely an opinion, and a silly one, too.
The facts are that woman tackles the job
young and that her brother maintains his
casualness until he gets up into the nineties.
According to the available figures in N. S.
Wales more men die intestate than with a
will up to the age of 40; then the position
is reversed. Which suggests that either
the improvident expire young or
not many men have much to will
until their hair is turning grey.
Women mostly get busy with their
wills when they are 25, but la'st
year a couple had postponed the
matter until after they were 94,
though this may have been because
they had only £5O between them.
One lady of 102 left £25; also a
will. Men with a lot of money
do not appear to die young, as a
regular thing. Perhaps chasing
more keeps them in good health.
Possibly the qualities of body and
mind * essential to the pursuit of
cash are those also which conduce
to longevity. For instance, the
10b3 men who quitted between the
ages of 40 and 60 had accumulated
£1,533,045, an average of £lll5.
But the 657 who died between 70
and 80 were torn away from
£2,755,744, an average of £4194.
This suggests among other things
(1) the effect of interest; (2) the
consequences of bloat; (3) that the
older men didn’t go to the races;
(4) that after 70 a man is pretty
hard in the tooth. Queerly enough
the very old men—the chaps who
run from 90 to 100—only have
about half as much as the 70 to
80 crowd. Do these super-stayers get out
on a bend at the last, or give the gilt away
to young wives or what? What it all pans
out to, though, is that the man who doesn’t
make a will dies before he has £4OO (or after
he has spent it) and the man who does make
a will has on the average about £3500. Of
men who died in the year under notice the
thick end was held by two out of three—
and that is something you won’t find hap-
pening in many other countries. There are
some places where for every one who pegs
out with a million a thousand quit with Id.
“S.T.S.”; What a wild idea of humor
some English journalists have! And
what a weird idea of what is harm-
ful the censorship must have! There
are two supposedly-comic stories going
the rounds, and being extensively copied by
Australian papers, with the murder of sur-
rendering Germans by British soldiers as
their sole point. In one ease a Cockney
asked how many men there were left in a
captured trench. “Five,” they said, “think-
ing they would be allowed to surrender.”
Then he threw in a bomb, remarking wittily :
“See if that will go round.” The other story
seems simply devilish. The “polony-biter”
is actually on his knees before a High-
lander, with his hands up, saying: “Kam-
erad! Me a Christian.” “Ye’re a liar,”
says I, sticking ma bayonet through him.
“Ye’re an angel!” Possibly that kind of
thing does go on in hot corners, but to boast
of it in print as a rich joke is a different
matter. For think of the effect of these
yarns when reprinted—as they certainly will
be —in Berlin and the neutral countries.”
“We had to do some stern things,” the Hun
can say, “but at anyrate we never thought
them funny.”
* * * *
The divorce court is still a handy place
to meet the really casual Australian, and
one of him turned up the other day in Mel-
bourne. After 12 months of marriage he
wandered away and would probably have
stayed away but that, being fined a tenner
for chastising his spare wife, he called on the
real missus and asked her for the loan of
the cash! He was quite pained when she
refused.
THE MARVELS OF MOLLY.
NELLE: “ What sort of a girl is Molly?”
BELLE: “A cat! She’d pat your back before
your face and scratch out your eyes the
moment you'd gone!”
“Y.Z.”: The best rifleshot I know has
just been turned down as a soldier because
of an impediment in his speech. The excuse
is that a stutterer would be useless on
sentry go. But a good talker is not turned
down because he is a hopeless hand with a
rifle. Evidently the politicians still believe
we can shoot Germany with our mouths.
HILL CLIMBING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The winter fashions are for the slim woman ; and
hill-climbing is recommended as an excellent correc-
tive for limbs that have become too well-rounded.
Here, mid billows of ninon and lace,
I smile as I gaze in the long pier-glass ;
Swaying for joy of my slim-limbed grace,
And my eyes grow grave as the swift thoughts
pass.
Up from the town the high street ran,
Then turned to the left where the grassy ways
Wound, reaching up till the sky began
And the wild wind blew from the sea and tlie bays.
Oh, all the winds of the earth met there,
And dew-splashed flowers blinked bright through
the mist,
My cheeks were red and my tumbled hair
Held the tang of the sea as we clung and kissed.
Yet ever I urged you higher still
On the path that corkscrewed up to the moon
(Sometimes “you” meant Harry and sometimes Bill),
Nor would I rest, though you prayed that boon.
The dear hill path! Now no fashion-plate
Holds terror for me. But had I sat
To dreamily spoon, had I dropped in weight,
And lost that stone of superfluous fat?
N.S.W
FLOSSIE FLUFFYTOP.


THE FINE ART OF RETURNING.
HOLMAN (genially): “Well, puss, here we are again!”
THE OFFICE CAT (humbly): “Would you mind giving us a few points, sir? I’ve only nine lives you've .not ninety.”


“That’s our little nest, and there’s-
Mary and the children waiting at the J
: gate.”
“Glad to see you, old chap! Mary will)
be pleased you've brought the baby.
Come right along.”
“Upsidaisy! diddums! Ky at
am kingsy wingsy ’en. Never
mind, baby; try' om on.”
“The wife thought she’d
surprise you, and give you
afternoon-tea Australian
fashion. The damper wasn’t
a success, though. Well, 1
must show you round the
house.” t
“Yes, that's some of the
missus’s work. Used to be
pretty good at that sort of
thing when she was young.”
“I' generally do a bit 0* gardening
after 1 come home from the office. Look
at these bungdoozles coming on—only
planted ’em last week.”
“Notv, you mustn’t mi ftf l our j B * ,n ’
' pllcity—.war-time, you know. Can r
yoss one sausage or two, old man • -
“Yes, we’ve tried all kinds, but give
me Leghorns—eggs wet ot flue, mv
boy!”
“Oh, yes, I always do the housework.
George is> so democratic, and. besides,
the servant-problem”
“Ha! ha! But have you heard the
one about the commercial-traveller and
the typist?”. . .
■‘Well, good-night, old chap.
bathroom’s the second door along.
“Well, we’re very sorry
you’re going. The wife made
me bring along a picture of
the youngsters, and a knitted
undershirt for Billy. Re-
member me to all the boys
out your way.”
BILLY MAKES A FRIENDLY CALL.


Chaving
<2)tick
;L6V6R)
For an
Ideal Shave
Vi
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
Tearing qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's*
/
r.'*
T-t
♦
//
Beauty Doctor Tells Secret
Beauty Doctor Gives Simple Recipe to
Darken Grey Hair and Promote Its
Growth.
Miss Alice Whitney, a well-known beauty
d< ctor, recently save out the following >t.i *
rnent “Anyone can prepare a simple nin
ture at home, at very little cost, that
darken grev hair, promote its growth *
make it soft and glossy. To a half-puit
water add lox. of bay rum. a small box .
D«lfl «lUU ADA. "A IHI.» I 1““' . r pL-,p
Orlex Compound and ;oz. of glycerine. -
ingredients can be bought at any cliei » •
... > i i. . holt l l\\ U v
at very little cost Apply to the hair
a w eek until the desired shade is ob i
a WWK UUUI Ult* uonni
This will make a grey-haired person
years younger. It is also fine to P 1 ,
the growth of the hair, relieve itching <
scalp disease, and is excellent tor d. ,
and failin'? hair.”— ADVT.
BelleVue Hotel
Reconstructed. BRISBANE*
Electric Lift Perfect Sanitary Arrangement .
incomparable Position Easterly Aspect
Overlooking Botanical Cardens.
MRS. a. FIXXIGAN, Proprietress. .
PERSONAL
ITEMS
"Melb”: Wo have just lost perhaps the
most brilliant of our younger architects by
the death of I*. A. Kennedy, pupil of A"ah-
land, of Bendigo, and afterwards with Pitt,
the theatre specialist, of Melbourne. Ken-
nedy designed St. Tincent's Hospital, the
East Melbourne Catholic Ladies’ College
( built from the stones of ivy-clad Chalmers’
Church, where rhe birds used to chatter),
completed the superb St. Mary’s Star of the
Sea. West Melbourne, and was associated
with the construction of St. Michael's. North
Melbourne. Besides the ecclesiastical work,
he did much else on a large scale. His
young sou is a naval cadet at Jervis Bay.
"0.K.”: By a quaint coincidence the news
that William Hughes was dining with the
King at Windsor Castle came to hand just
after Malvolio, the most ceremonious-minded
person in literature, had been strutting his
little hour at the Sydney Adelphi, with four
minor flunkeys in attendance. The noble
Countess Olivia summons her steward to
her presence, and he comes along in state.
Allan Wilkie's idea of a Malvolio who
orders a quartet of waiting-men to stand
behind him when he talks, is hardly justified
by the Shakspearian text In fact, it
seemed a good deal over the odds until the
cable told us that "at dinner four Royal
pages waited on Mr. Hughes." What a
chapter in the life of William Hughes!
Four pages—and Royal ones at that! Yet
the humorless cable stated that no intoxi-
cants were offered to the honored guest-
only cider cup. orangeade and lemonade. As
though the whole proceedings were not cal-
culated to go to his head!
TELEPATHIC.
NORMAN BLOOD: "And after sce’re had a bit
of stirring I'll tale yon somewhere in
the car right out of the heat ware."
SIMPLE FAITH: "Ah! I’m so sorry; but
whenever we get a heat ware I get a
brain ware, and the sight of earnest
young men with autos always males me
yearn for the. — er —ordinary tramear.”
O'Connor, M.L.A. of South Aus., has been
brought before the Adelaide police court by a
humorous Electoral Department on the
charge of having failed to get on the Com-
monwealth voters' roll. Fined a shilling.
Through John Murray’s sudden death A.
R. Outtrim became father of the Tic.
Assembly. Outtrim, who is now 71, was
first elected for Maryborough 31 years ago;
but he was dropped for a while.
The eldest son of parson S. G. Fielding, of
Paddington (N.S.W.), has just got a com-
mission in the Oxfordshire Light
Infantry. Young Fielding is an old
boy of King's School, Parramatta,
whence he went on a scholarship to
Oxford a while be-
fore the war. As
soon as the Devil
broke out of Pots-
da m Fielding
dropped his books to
join King Edward's
Horse as a trooper,
and before long won
sergeant's stripes in
France. A Hun bomb
nearly passed him
out, but he has been
patched up in an
English hospital, and
is again at the
Front. Meanwhile,
Oxford Uni., reckon-
ing that his time in
the trenches will
teach him more
than years of lec-
tures. has given him
his B.A. degree with-
out further exams.
Parson Fielding him-
self has had a bit of
experience outside
the ordinary clerical
groove, for he served
some years at sea
before the mast in
windjammers, and
holds a mate's ticket
as well as his sky-
pilot's license. One
of his books of sea-
faring stories, “The Southern Light,” has a
place in a good many Australian school
libraries.
Women candidates were a long way from
the top in the Ma State Labor ballot for the
"Senate Three.” Rae (14.8S8), Watson
(12,7431, and Bowling (6743) got the
selection: Mrs. Dwyer ran first among the
women, and she was only 7th, with 2734
votes. After her straggled Miss Matthews
(14431, 16th; Miss Beddie (1144), 22nd;
and Mrs. Seery (779), 29th, and last of the
long tail. It seems like a strong tip to the
feminine section to turn to the culinary
department.
More May birthdays: “Cattle King” Syd-
ney Kidman, 59 on 9th; Prof. A. J. Perkins,
S. Aus. Director of Agriculture. 45 on 11th;
Pope Cooper (Queensland Chief Justice),
6S on 12th: Auditor-Gen. F. A. Coghlan
(X.S.W.), 57 on 13th: Chief Justice John
Madden (V.), 72 on 16th; Justice Chubb
(Q.), 71 on 17th; Melba on 19th; ex-S.
Aus. Senator Charleston, 6S on 27th;
Archdeacon Gunther, 77 on 28th; Geo. Gor-
don McCrae (Melb.), father of Hugh and
Dorothy, 83 on 29th.
The Federal Parliament reassembled on
May 9, which was the 15th anniversary of
the opening of the first Commonwealth Par-
liament by the present King. Of the orig-
inal legislators there are only 29 still
serving: 32 members of that first Parliament
are dead, which leaves just 50 survivors
who are now out of Federal politics. Gould
and Millen (X.S.W.), Stewart (Q.), Keat-
ing (Tas.) and Pearce and de Largie
(W.A.) have been members of the Senate
without a break. Sixteen have served con-
tinuously in the Reps.: Chapman, Cook,
Hughes. Bruce Smith. Spence, Thomas and
Watkins (X.S.W.) : Bamford, McDonald
and Page (Qr) : Tudor (Tic.) ; Glynn and
Poynton (S. Aus.) ; O’Malley (Tas.) ; and
Forrest and Fowler (W.A.).
.Tack Storey, who was “leader” of the
X. S. Wales Labor Party during last week’s
Day of Repentance, is a Sydney boilermaker
with a red. clean-shaven face and spectacles,
who will be heard of later on. He first
dropped into the Assembly in 1901 as repre-
sentative of Balmain, and after dropping out
during the See-Waddell-Carruthers regime
returned in 1907 to make remarks to G.
Wade, and has been there ever since. He
hits been chairman of the Public Works
Committee, and at times a pretty candid
critic of Holman and co.. especially of some
of the co.. and particularly of Arthur.
Griffith. When Holman backed his cart to
the P.L.L. and the P.L.L. had backed its
equipage to Holman and Hector Lamond
had remarked that the age of miracles had
not passed, John Storey said he was “much
relieved.” He was, too.
The South Aus. Liberal Union, after ex-
perimenting with numerous secretaries, has
decided to appoint W. B. Page. He was an
enthusiastic up-country worker at the Burra,
and on the last crisis in the Adelaide office
be jumped into the breach with such energy
that he has been chosen to stav there.
WHEN BAR MEETS BEAK.
CHAIRMAN: “Well, Mr. Blank, after listenin'
to you for three hours the Bench regrets
to say it is not one whit the wiser."
COUNSEL (politely): "I beg to assure your
Worships that I did not expect that
for one moment. I had merely thought
that possibly your Worships might be
better informed."
One Northern Territory family has put
tip a good record. Four Cains are at the
Front, and a fifth brother expects to get
there shortly. All were born in the X.T.,
and grew up in Darwin, one of the places
which the white man finds most uncomfort-
able to live in—if he’s of military age.
Tibooburra (840 weary miles from Syd-
ney ) must hold the track record for enlist-
ments. A recruiting officer and doctor re-
cently plugged through 210 miles of sand
from Broken Hill to examine recruits, of
whom 25 came over the horizon to be tested.
The shortest journey performed by any one
of them was 30 miles, and three dusty die-
hards had done 220 miles. Unfortunately
they all fell at the first medical hurdle. One
trier hadn't seen even a bush shanty for
over two years. Another, who is in the
first flight as a buckjump rider, was rejected
for having a weak heart, buckjumping,
apparently, being a parlor game suitable
-for nervous old maids and retired bank
directors. Only 14 of the 25 genuine bush-
fellows will wave good-bye from a transport
presently.
That broth of a boy. Dr. .T. A. Beattie,
who retires from the directorship of the
Liverpool (X.S.W.) Asylum after 30 years’
service with the Government, says it was
Henry Parkes who put him into a lunatic
asylum: his first job was at the .Mental
Hospital, (rladesville. But the doctor’s jobs
have been varied. First he was an innni-
gration doctor; then he got the appointment
at Gladesville, and afterwards went to
1 arramatta; some years later John See sent
him to London to represent the Government
at the International Congress on Tubercu-
losis; and ar different times he visited Japan
and China, and prosecuted inquiries in Egvpt
Berne- Heidelberg, Paris and Dublin.
At Liverpool, where thousands go to-die of
lung trouble, he was chief entertainer as
well as medical officer. Being a good elocu-
tionist, the drama had a first place in his
entertainments. If a “Povertv Pointer”
struck Liverpool Asylum he found a -ood
friend in Dr. Beattie. The late J. B. Steele
wa ? jH-je for years suffering from cancer
and died well cared for. John Ilowe was
a so an inmate for a time, and manv another
old pro. has drifted into the same haven.
J. B. Reymond, ex-M.L.A. (N.SW i y, ,
his first eighty-second birthdav at iforhe'
the other day. He was born in France ami
became a member of the reaching staff nc tl,
French University in 1853, but the l ore
the goldfields drew him to Australia Snh
sequently he pioneered wheat-growing i n th '
Vest, sowing his first crop near Forbes •it
a time when general opinion persisted that
the Western lands could not be made to d<
anything except cultivate sheep. In a aa;
tion to his experiments with wheat he laid
down vines for wine-production and built
flour- and sawmills. As a pioneer lie filled
the bill, and his failure to get prominence in
Parliament merely shows that a useful per
son is not necessarily a politician.
The frankest appeal to the electors Tiif
Bulletix has met for a long while wa<
made by Dr. (of Laws) Bottrill in the Tas*
Leg. Council fight the other dav bJj
Bottrill, LL.D. ‘ - a,d
At previous elections I have received so few x 0 i
votes that I have twice lost mv £25 deposit >i- lv
I rely upon you on Tuesday, Mav 2, to ’prevent mi-
losing another deposit? •
Undaunted by failure, I again launch my boat
This third time of asking, pray give me" your vote.
The question now is whether Bottrill com-
mitted a breach of the Electoral Act. The
law says no candidate may offer “valuable
consideration” to any elector. A banker
may not offer sovereigns. A man who
grows apples may not -scatter pippins. The
point that ought to be decided is whether a
poet may cast pearls before the swine.
Notwithstanding the reconciliation between
the P.L.L. Conference and the Holman Gov-
ernment, G. R. W. McDonald. Labor mem-
ber for Bingara (X.S.W.), probably chose
the best moment for severing his connection
with the party. An extremely enterpris-
ing little person, still in the early thirties,
he has been, and still is, many things. Com
mencing as a pupil teacher he gravitated
into the Crown Law Department as clerk.
While assistant C.P.S. at Tamworth during
the Peel River Estate subdivision, he saw
possibilities in the land-agency business, and
soon nailed up a shiny shingle. Before long
be was also M.L.A., stock and station agent,
importer, indentor, director and company-
promoter. Ever since the scandals of a
decade back Labor has looked upon land
ag< nts with a suspicious eye, and introduced
a small plank or splinter which prohibited
its Parliamentarians acting as paid agents
in Crown land deals. It might have become
ant-eaten like the other planks about non-
borrowing and other things, had it not beeu
for the more recent Boorabil matter. This
caused the piece of timber to be faced up
again until it was held to be too slippery
for McDonald to cross on his way for P.L.L.
endorsement. As a Government supporter
McDouald had few chances in the House,
but he was generally suspected of being able
to put the Liberal view as well as the next
man.
GILCHRIST ,
at present
moling trouble
with the Trans-
continental
Railway
Administration.
The new central executive of the P-L.C.
of Victoria, consisting of 20 members, con-
tains 10 new names. There are now three
Parliamentarians on the executive r eaa^ !l
Barnes (re-elected). Frank Anstey, M.H.h.,
and Blackburn. M.L.A. Of the rest, nm
have stood for Parliament at one time 01
another, and nearly all the others are trades
union secretaries.
AFRAID.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Afraid to go!" the young man said.
He heaved a sigh, and shook his head.
"I read of thousands lying low —
To tell gor'struth, I’m ’fraid to go!’
They pleaded with him everywhere—
Grey streaks v.ere showing in hi' hair.
He only answeied: “No, no, no!
Don't worry me, I dare not go."
I saw him yesterday, and he
Was clad in khaki cap-a-pie.
"Yes, yes, I'm off." he paused to say—
“ Fact is, I am afraid to stay ?”
VtCTORIA.
Y. Z.


) /
Si
b,J
%
a*
err
•SW
mr,
US ! l
:«i
»,qj );*;;
•k >• ;
"Irsi
'NVJ*
%
«lift
P
|u!
I ;
1KA&0
i iMP
m
itWrt
§&f:
w
«: /ill/,
! l £ i M,
V\,V
fij Uiiiij
mjsi
Wv
i
*msam
! *1
!
\\\'
JSSSfe
5 /
U
m
Si
- , r
////,•/
“V ,
11
r
;.-,!
XxL
!!!
/rf*-
13&&M
v\V\S
m
m^2
m
• y \
m
■mi
m
"'zF
!i :ii
Wbk
’?AV,
kite's*.
rr^i
A}
Ml
PI
linP&c
1?:
a
£?£>
ki ■%
m
mM
as
vM
6-A
F:His&ss
&
rfS
:C?i
sits
Ssssgs®'** 4 *
l/
i»V;
§&9hs-
-
\</
•'SSSSvS
..- V
<-■?
/
HA
HU
•-r
/ / ,*9®S@P§r
ID
HI
U
-_■-
MS
M
4si3S*gs
(
iy
JsfS
«
?!5!
ii!
mu
ii!
St|pif 0
9f -£&f£h& &y
.-.
ill
2?/V
!£«
II
>u i
i.?l !l
: «r
r.
I Vi
ii! i
HltS
HU
ii
u
W
3es:?
—’»W!
jSi-
ar*
fi
K^=±
f-
tos
■
:■ ,-.?
-
!Th «■•
23c-':
m.
The Winter
is with Us!
HOWEVER bright the Sun-
shine at mid-day, there is
all the piercing keenness
of the settled Winter in the
early morning, or the nowadays
early evening air.
In any case of day or night, man
needs an Overcoat to ward off
sudden storms of Rain or
Wintry Wind —both his comfort
and convenience are at stake.
And in an “Austral” Overcoat —
under all or any circumstance —
is assured not only the certain
satisfaction of Man’s every need,
but the realisation also of his
every expectation as to perfect
fit and style.
“Austral” Overcoats
A FINE showing of popular
single- and double-breasted
styles in many new and smart
light-weight shower-proof tweeds,
and heavy, soft and fleece-finished
overcoatings. Many of the newer
short-skirted models have Raglan
shoulders, and are loose-fitting, as
fashion demands. Other styles are
more conventional, but the variety
will satisfy any preference a cus-
tomer may have in this respect.
35[-, 40/-, 45/-, 50/-,
55/-, 63/-, 70/-, 84/-,
to 95/-
“Austral” Raincoats
AMONGST City Men especially a
light-weight raincoat is greatly
favored, and our showing in-
cludes smartly-cut single-breasted
styles, buttoning to neck or with
ordinary step collar, in Garbardine,
Garbicore and Cravenette, in all the
fashionable colorings. Values at all
prices are exceptional.
45/-, 50/-, 55/-, 63/-,
70/-, 75/-, 84/-, to 105/-
“Austral” Macintosh
and Oilskin Coats
FOR men who are constantly out
in the wet, and who prefer a
Macintosh or Oil-coat, we show
a wide and suitable range of styles
for every kind of wet-weather wear.
Walking and Riding Lengths in light,
medium and heavy weights are avail-
able, and every coat is warranted and
guaranteed. The prices are as low
as the standard of quality will
permit.
19/6, 21/-, 22/6, 25/-,
27/6, 30/-, 32/6, to 70/-
OVERCOAT BOOKLET. To any address we send
on request an illustrated booklet of Overcoat Styles.
SEND FOR IT TO-DAY!
CARRIAGE IS PAID ON ALL COUNTRY ORDERS.
a
Ltd
Pioneer Distributors Goods
484 to 490 George Street;
3 to 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.
NEW BRANCH SHOP at 304 GEORGE STREET
(Near Hunter Street).


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
Before Making Your Will, or Settling Your Property.
WRITE TO, OR CALL ON.
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE.
Lowest Charges. No Profits. State Guarantee.
Culwulla Chambers. 67
Sydney,
Castlereagh Street,
N.S.W. -
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia (Mel-
bourne) :
,—Dividends.—>
Net Old. Pref. To Re- Re-
Profits. 5 p.e. 5 p.c. serves, serves.
Mar., 1909. .£53,170 £29,811 £7,614 £21,715 £207,975
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
Sept., 1909.. 59,390 35,773 9,173 11.444 222.419
Mar., 1910.. 60,564 35.773 9,173 15.61 S 238.037
Sept., 1910.. 60,392 35,773 9,173 15,446 253.483
Mar.. 1911.. 66.515 35,773 9,173 21,869 275.352
Sept., 1911.. 63.053 35,773 9.173 18,107 293,459
Internal reserves disclosed. . 35.000 328,459
Mar., 1912.. 77,104 35,773 9,173 32,158 360,617
Internal reserves disclosed.. 25,000 385,617
Sept., 1912.. 78,742 35,773 9,173 33,796 419,413
7 p.c. 7 p.c.
Mar., 1913 . 84,232 41,735 10,702 31.795 451.208
Sept., 1913.. 82,283 41,735 10,702 29.846 481,054
Mar., 1914.. 87,855 41,735 10,702 35,418 516.472
Sept.. 1914.. 84,073 41,735 10,702 31,636 548,108
Mar., 1915.. 77,224 41,735 10.702 24,787 572,895
Sept., 1915. . 73,480 41,735 10,702 21.043 593,938
Mar.. 1916.. 80,601 41,735 10,702 28,164 622,102
The gross profits for the past half-year
were greater even than in the Sept.-March
half of 1913-4. which shows up tallest in
the net-profit column; but the exes, were
higher:—
Mar., 1914. Mar.. 1916.
Gross profits ..£198,711 £199,890
Expenses .. 103,856 114,289
£94,855 £85,601
In the earlier half-year £5OOO was written
off premises and £2OOO was handed to the
officers’ provident fund: in the past half-
year the only appropriation was £5OOO to
reduce the premises account. The expenses
now. however, include a fixed charge of
5 p.c. on salaries for the benefit of the
provident fund. Taxes have nearly doubled,
and it is not likely that the limit has been
reached yet. But some of the extra exes,
may be passed on, because the banks are
still in the happy position of being a fairly
united brotherhood, though the arrival of
the Commonwealth Bank has to some extent
disturbed the circle.
But if the banks have formed a happy
circle it cannot be said that they have been
bleeding the country. This bank, for in-
stance. has £1.498.220 of capital and
£G22.102 of reserves. Thus it claims to
have for every £lOO of capital £142 of
funds. Yet the public values the £lO prefs.
at about £lO 15s. and the £5 ordinaries at
only £5 ss. Put iu another way a £5 share
in a bank which says that it has £7 2s. worth
of assets for each £5 share is saleable at
only £5 ss. This seems to mean one of two
things: either the bank's funds (or part
of them) are regarded as unsafe, presumably
because they are guaranteeing doubtful
securities; or the funds are not earning as
much as money is expected to earn at
present. As to the first point, there are. of
course, risks. The bank has £9.343.903 out in
advances —that is, all its own money and
over seven millions of other people’s. In
theory all of it is covered by security; but
in Australia, which inflates all sorts of pro-
perty values by wild borrowing booms,
experience has unfortunately shown that
security which to-day looks ample may to-
morrow turn out to be quite inadequate.
Except for the curse of these booms and the
possibility of heavy bank losses through
slumps, investors wouldn't have to look past
bank shares: a stock backed by £7 2s. of
live assets that could be bought fi r £5 ss.
would be good enough for anybody.
The National has been pushing ahead
rapidly for a good many years past, and the
progress is maintained :
Liabilities.
Mar.. 1915. Mar.. 1916.
Notes .. .. £ 36.223 £34,689 Dec. £1,534
Bills, etc. . . 924.405 1,123,960 Inc. 199,555
Free deposits .. 4,576,146 4,731,151 Inc. 155,005
Deposits at interest 6.505,368 6,508.137 Inc. 2.769
Assets.
Liquid assets ..4,832.500 4,808.390 Dec. 24.110
Advances.. ..8,914,253 9,343,903 Inc. 429,650
Premises, etc. .. 426,941 423.404 Dec. 3,537
Liabilities of all kinds total £12.397.937.
and before paying the dividend shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves) were
£2.177.759. So the bank has about £5 14s.
of the public’s for every £1 of its own:
and that is well within the bounds of
reason. Of more or less liquid assets it
holds £4.808.390; and as that is almost 40
p.c the National is well placed to meet any
sudden trouble, though it hasn’t at the
moment any very large margin on which
to draw for the further accommodation of
customers.
The chairman of the National, by the
way. offered this good piece of Bulletin
policy and exhortation to the shareholders:
It is to be hoped none of us will be misled by the
present apparent prosperity, caused by the distribu-
tion of borrowed money. Producers and distributors
are doing well, bur it behoves each of them to be
very careful, for no one can say what state of things
will exist after the war, there being amongst leading
financiers opposite opinions, mostly depressing, but
some quite optimistic. The wise and patriotic man
will probably be he who, consistently with liberality
to deserving funds, saves what he can and invests a
fair portion of his savings in the War Loans when
money is required by the Government. Both as a
people and as individuals we should recognise the
paramount necessity of restricting as far as possible
our imports from foreign countries, thus keeping all
our money in our own.
The Bank of Adelaide (S. Australia) :
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1903.. £32,317 8 p.c. = £32,000 £20,317 £237,740
1904.. 47,337 8 ~ 32,000 15,337 253,077
1905. . 47,876 8 .. „ 32,000 15,876 268.953
1906.. 46,286 S .. ~ 32,000 14,256 283,239
1907.. 56,265 84 „ „ 34,000 22,265 305.504
1908.. 56,510 9 .. ~ 36,000 20,510 326,014
1909.. 52,694 94..,, 38,000 14,694 340.708
1910.. 66,130 10 „., 40,000 26,130 366.838
Premiums oil new shares. . 50,000 416,838
1911.. 79,648 10 p.c. = 45,000 34,648 451.486
1912.. 80,598 10 ~ „ 50,000 30,598 482.084
1913.. 81,138 10 „ .. 50,000 31,138 513,222
1914.. 71,946 10 ~ „ 50,000 21,946 535,168
1915.. 53,023 9 „.. 45,000 8,023 543,191
1916.. 49,806 8 ~ „ 40,000 9,806 552,997
Remarkable changes have taken place in
the Board-room of this bank. Old Henry
Scott was the first to go; Arthur Water-
house succeeded him. Then Jenkin Coles
went. George Brookman took his place only
a year or two ago. Now, rapidly, one after
the other, their three colleagues, A. G.
Downer. James Harvey and Mueeke. all
connected with the bank for very many
years, have passed off. The bank of to-day
isn't therefore quite what the bank of
yesterday was. It may be better; it may
be worse. We don't know. All we know is
that it is different. In filling the vacant
chairs S. Aus. has delivered a rather inter-
esting kick. In particular Adelaide has got
it into its head that it has been ruled too
much by old men—both in the public service
and out of it. In some respects it is cer-
tainly so. As the result of the rebellion,
the Bank of Adelaide directors couldn’t
muster among them much more than half the
years they could not so far back.
Comparison of the figures of this bank
has always given uncertain results, because
of its connection with the Government.
Now, apparently, the Government has gone
over to the Commonwealth Bank; and
partly for that reason the figures compare
pretty badly with those of two years ago.
Then the total balance-sheet figures were
£6.228,041: now they are only £4.726.755.
The next table shows how the various groups
have altered :
Liabilities.
1914. 1915. 1916.
Notes in circulation £12,822 £11,003 £9,700
Bills, etc 320,311 270,436 184,316
Deposits - - - - 4,834,739 3,486,027 3,459,742
Assets.
Liquid a.->ets ..2,988,615 2,126,062 1.566,932
Advances . . . . 3,128,104 2.589,386 3,043.900
Premises .. .. 111,322 115,209 115,923
Those figures will show why profits have
shrunk of late. And they are really less
favorable to the bank thau the last column
would suggest. because the ordinary*
advances are now down to £2.441,057, the
balance being the amount loaned to the
Government to pay the farmers a first half-
crown a bushel for their wheat. This paper
doesn’t suggest that the present is a suitable
time for splashing around advances: but a
steady reduction from £3.128.104 to
£2.589.386 and on to £2.441.057 doesn’t
indicate a movement towards larger profits.
The bank is of course strong beyond all
question. Including advances to the Gov-
ernment with cash and liquid -assets, it
holds in those forms no less than 60 p.c.
of all the public’s money in its hands; and
the public’s money amounts to only about
£3 12s. for every £1 of its own. Big profits
in such circumstances are quite out of the
question unless the bank is fed on tit-bits.
The bank has the foundations for a much
larger business; and profits will not be
commensurate with the shareholders’ funds
until that larger general banking business
is got. At present, combining capital and
reserves, the shareholders are getting little
more than 3f p.c. on their funds; and plainly
that isn't good enough.
* * * * ♦
Burns, Philp and Co., Limited (Syd-
ney), ship-owners. Island traders, merchants,
etc.: —
W rit- Added
ten to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
March, £ £ £ £ £
1904.. 41,900 8 p.c.= 24,000 12,372 5,528 299.415
1905.. 44.586 8 „ „ 24,000 20,586 320,001
1906.. 43.276 8 „.. 24.000 19,276 339,277
1907.. 55,637 10 .. „ 30.000 20.000 5,637 344.914
1908.. 69,787 10 „ .. 30,000 10,000 29.787 374,701
1909.. 54,915 10 „ „ 30,000 24.915 399.616
1910.. 70.167 10 ~ .. 30.000 15.000 25.167 424.783
1911.. 79.890 10 ~ ~ 30,000 49.890 474,673
£ 350,000 of reserves transferred to capital 124,673
1912.. 99.704 5 p.c.= 35,000 64.704 189,377
Cash bonus of 74 p.c., £52,500 .. 136.877
1913.. 109,389 5 p.c.= 40.000 . 69,389 206,266
Cash bonus of 5 p.c., £40,000 . . 166.266
1914.. 115,401 6] p.c.= 62,500 52.901 219,167
1915.. 98.317 61 ~ ~ 62,500 35,817 254 984
1916.. 118,553 74 „ „ 78,750 39,833 294,817
In the previous year the war was blamed
for direct losses of £45.771. In the past
year, though trade has been disturbed in
various directions, the wind has been tem-
pered to the shorn lamb. But that’s a way
the wind has in its dealings with B.P. The
co. is one of the finest money-spinners in
this hemisphere; and a large part of the
art of making money, like that of the art
of making war. is to turn accidents to good
account. In this instance, no doubt, though the
c-o. probably couldn't get away its copra, and
though the Island trade may have been
affected in other ways, its shipping and
agency business with Asia must have coined
money for it The Jap boats (which B.P.
manage this end) have been pouring in
stuff, and the trade with Java and Singapore
in the co.'s own boats has been booming.
Added to that there has been considerable
new business with ex-German New Guinea—a
good deal of it Government business at
prices which don't matter. Anyway, they
don’t seem to matter. It will be quite a
different thing when presently we have to
pay the lOU on which we are so far raising
the money.
As the result, direct and indirect, of the
war. the eo.’s figures have changed a good
deal during the year:—
• Liabilities.
1900. 1905. 1910. 1915. 1916.
£ £ £ *
Capital .. 275,000 300,000 300,000- 1,(00,000 1,050,000
Reserves.. 213,346 344,001 479.783 317,454 3/8,56/
Other debts 222,294 167,334 195,435 261,095 301,301
Assets.
Properties 144,679 171,00*1 155,000 0 7,000 1/5,0U1
Shipping . 72,707 110,600 168,485 258,. 20 i _
Cash & in- _ _ 410,,2,
vestments 71,447 74,827 84,340 18/,(^.l
Stock .. 186. SSI 164,318 180,551 250,808 304,003
Book debts 197,233 215,748 245,011 382,624 014,812
Other assets 37,693 74,842 141,831 322,339 3_4,//6
Trade debts have increased by about
£40.000: on the other side both stocks and
book debts are much heavier. This is
doubtless partly due to the extension of
business (during the year, for one thing,
the co. bought out Robbie, Kaid and Co.,
Ltd., of Fiji) ; and perhaps, owing to the
lack of ocean shipping, the co. is finding it
necessary to finance Island customers. But
the co. won’t be doing it at a loss. They
don't cut quotations by sixteenths in the
Islands. Think of the difference that must
gradually arise between the mental habits of
the wheat-farmer who laboriously once a year
drags out a 10 or 12 bushel crop and the
planter in tropical islands who sees growth
in a week greater than the other can find
iu a year. B.P. has established its kingdom
where, when anything at all is to be got, it
is as easy to make it half a crown as in most
places it is to extract saxpence. It takes
good management, no doubt; for supervision
of these very scattered branches and
agencies is difficult. So far the co. has had
all that; and there is growing up a crop of
inspectors who should be able to carry on
for many years even when the co.’s present
big mainspring is gone.
* * * *
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
(Sydney):—
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
Sept.,’oB.. 146,493 10 p.e.= 124,885 21,608 386,369
£.350,000 of reserves canitalised. . 36.369
Mar., ’09.. 162,632 10 p.c.= 142.500 20,132 56,501
Sept.,'o9.. 168.881 10 „ ~ 142,500 26,381 82,882
Mar., ’lO. . 175,590 10 „ „ 142,500 33,090 115.972
Sept.,’lo.. 196,714 10 „ ~142,500 54,214 170,186
£150,000 of reserves capitalised. . 20,186
Mar., 'll.. 207.428 10 p.c.= 150,000 57,428 77.614
Sept.,'ll.. 210,830 11 „ ~ 165,000 45.830 123.444
Mar., ’12.. 225,601 124., ~187.500 38,101 161.545
Sept.,'l2.. 229,629 12| „ ~ 187,500 42,129 203.674
Mar., 13.. 233.530 124,, ~ 187,500 46,030 249,704
£250,000 of reserves capitalised. . I
Sept.,'l3. . 255,440 124p.c.=203,125 52,315 »
Mar.. 14.. 263.761 124 „ ~203,125 60,636 112,655
Sept.,'l4.. 256,361 124 „ ~203,125 53.236 165.891
Mar.. ’15.. 272,708 124 „ ~203,125 69,583 235,474
Assets written up, £3,250,000 1
Bonus to shareholders (in Fiji 235,474
and X.Z. Co. stock), £3,250.000 J
Mar., '16.. 261,250 64p.c.= 211,250 50,000 285,474
‘Exclusive of Replacement and Depreciation Fund.
This business has been in the melting pot
during the 12 months. Three years ago.it
was admitted that the money spent in Fiji
consisted of undisclosed profits made outside
Australia: but the assets were not then
written up —merely a small quarter-million
of visible reserves were capitalised. Since
then, there appears to have been a valuation
of the assets outside Australia, and
£3.250.000 is written on to the total assets.
In other words, to put it quite plainly, the
accounts issued during past years have
misrepresented the position to the extent of
£3.250,000 in the aggregate. This amount,
hitherto hidden, is now brought to light and
represented by £3,250,000 of shares in a new
co., the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. (Fiji
and New Zealand), Ltd. The shareholders in
the old co- while retaining their shares in
that parent co., get an equal number of
shares in the Fiji Co., the latter carrying a
fixed cumulative pref. div. of 6 p.c.
The old . co. pays 61 p.c.; so the two
together are equal to the old 121 P-e- For
the present, therefore, the shareholders have
gained nothing by the reconstruction. But
they hope to benefit several ways.
It isn't healthy these times for a
monopoly to pay anything more * than
10 p.c.; and this co.’s method of dodging the
difficulty by issuing frequent bonus shares
was drawing unfavorable attention to itself.
The new plan is bold and comprehensive. It
seems to be complicated, so there is less row
about it than if the co. merely issued another
half-million's worth of shares. Yet now the old
co. will be able to divide another £113,000
a year and still pay only 10 p.c. And really
if the co. can make the public believe that it
is a concern which scorns to grab at more
than a fair thing, there is hardly any limit
to the profit which it may make. It- has the
sugar trade of Australia in its hands, and is
heavily interested in cultivation and crush-
ing. as well as being practically the only
refiner: and even when it is coining money
it is able to virtuously show that Australia
is actually paying three or four or more
pounds a ton less than England. That Eng-
land doesn't grow sugar and Australia does
is. of course, not mentioned. This recent
shuffling of the cards is therefore going to
strengthen the co. at the point at which
strengthening is likely to bear the best fruit.
The new co., mentioned above, was formed
by the creation of £3.250.000 of pref. shares
issued to the old shareholders and £250.000
of ordinaries for which the parent co. paid
cash ; this cash provided trading capital for
the new concern. Its first 12 months have
given this result: —
C.S.R. Co. (Fiji and X.Z.) Ltd.:—
Net Profits. Dividend. Reserves.
Mar.. 1916., £328,830 6 p.c. = £ 202.500 £126.330
That makes for the two a net profit of £500,0N1
for the year, compared with £520.069 for the
preceding 12 months and £463,159 for the
year ended March. *l3. This indicates a far
too rapid rise in profit-making out of a public
necessity: and the figures are ample proof
that in the frequent strife of wits between
the Governments and the C.S.R. the latter
has been an easy winner—thus far. '■
If one occasionally feels disgusted at the
abominable greed of the co. one can’t heln
admiring the consummate, skill with which
it angles for its fish. Though the entire assets
in Maoriland and Fiji were cut off without
affecting the old co.’s balance-sheet figures
note how already the M.L. and Fiji nn.fit'
scamper ahead. C.S.R.. £201,251; M ] aTlf i
Fiji. £328,830. The M.L. and Fiji Co is
registered in Fiji; and there is no Labor
party there to show tiger’s teeth if a co. pavs
20 or 50 p.c. As mentioned above, the old
co. —the Australian co—has £250,000 in
ordinary shares in the Fiji co.; and these
shares are entitled to all the profits (1) after
0 p.c. has been paid to the prefs.; and (2)
after the reserves have been built to £200.000
Had the required reserves been previously
provided, the Fiji co. could thus last year
have paid the Australian co. 55 p.c.; and of
course in the future we are going to hear
the chairman explain that things were dread-
ful in Australia, but fortunately their inter-
ests in Fiji enabled them to pay 2 p.c. more
than last year. And when he further mentions
that the Fiji co. paid them 50 p.c., the Aus-
tralian will believe that it was all due to the
Fiji co.; and the C.S.R. may escape, as it has
escaped hitherto. It is an awful old humbug,
but it is such a clever old humbug,
and does its humbugging with an air of such
tremendous respectability, that one can’t
help admiring it.
* * * *
The City and Suburban Building
Society ( Brisbane) :
Added
Dividends and Written to Re- Re-
Feb., Profit-. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves
1903. . £4502 4p.c. = £3219 £1,192 £9l £l3 416
1904.. 4547 4 „„ 3159 1,353 35 13 451
1905.. 4381 4 ~ „ 3185 10,380 4,267
1906.. 4142 4 „ „ 3190 463 489 4,756
1907.. 4201 4 „., 3196 594 411 5,167
1908.. 4388 4 ~ „ 3184 718 486 5,653
1909.. 4552 4 ~ „ 3173 421 958 6,611
1910.. 5068 4*,,., 3376 1,280 412 7,023
1911.. 5329 4§ „., 3801 347 1181 8,204
1912.. 5792 5 ~ „ 4023 517 1252 9,456
1913.. 6362 5 ~ „ 4021 1,208 1133 10,589
1914.. 6458 6 ~ „ 4767 1691 12,280
1915.. 6330 5 ~ „ 3791 2539 14,819
1916.. 6008 6 „ „ 4503 1505 16,324
This co. has a paid capital of £72.857. with
£27U5 in subscribing shares and £16,824 in
reserves after paying the current dividend;
total of its own funds. £Ol.BBO. It works
on this and £08.138 of deposits and other
public money. The liquid assets amount to
£14,513. Deduct this from the liabilities,
and £83.625 remains, against which there
are advances £171.063. and other non-liquid
assets to bring the total to £178.063. The
creditors are therefore protected by over £2
worth of assets (book value) for every £1
or debt. What these assets are really worth
is another matter: and accounts don't tell
you that. But there shouldn't be much
dead-wood in the present £171.063. Some
years ago there was a good deal of writing
down: then, partly because of the extra-
ordinary rise in timber, dwellings around
Brisbane increased so very much in value
that this co. ought to have been able to
get rid of its foreclosures. Further, the
interest credited to I*. and L. during last
year was just under 74 p.c. on the average
amount of the advances; and that looks as
though there weren't many dead accounts.
But. though the principal looks right, onecan’t
expect any large thing in the way of profits.
In the first place, we have had all the pro-
perty boom we are going to have for some
time: and in the second place the State is
seeing that in one way and another these
building societies" best customers the home-
makers. are offered facilities undreamt of
by Dad when he was first married.
* * * *
Melbourne Co-operative Brewery Co.:
Trade Written Re-
Profit. Bonus. Dividends. Off. serves.
Jan., £ £ £ £ £_
06.-27,679 10,276 110 p.c. = 10,180 4.000 10,671
Premiums on new shares. £18,084.. 28,75 a
’O7. . 32,325 12.567 t 64 p.c. = 12,543 2,347 33,623
Premiums on new shares. £ 299.. 33.9-]-
’OB. .36.154 14.175 7SJ p.c. = 14,001 3,703 35.19-
Premiums on new shares. £4<3.. 38,6-0
’O9. .32.536 16.167 S6j p.c. = 15,540 2,049 37,4a0
Premiums on new shares. £17,347..
T0..31.691 15.020 73J p.c. = 15,679 1.000 54,-89
Premiums on new shares. £1,323.. 56,11-
Tl. .48,849 18.778 90 p.c. = 19,006 6.505 60,6-2
Premiums on new shares. £445.. 61,11-
T2..62.871 21.868 100 p.c. = 21.635 7.703 72,-8-
Premiums on new shares. £27,021.. 99,803
T 3. .62,684 24,437 90 p.c. = 24,32 8 9,037 104,68 a
Premiums on new shares. £488.. 105,1-3
T4..60.611 23.558 SS p.c. = 23.906 9,669 108,6 T
Premiums on new shares. c 396.. 109,04-
T-».. 73,022 26.299 96 p.c. = 26.212 13,067
Premiums on new -hares. £163 11®'*"_
*l6. . 40.493 19,883 75§ p.c. = 20.357 12,420 104,48-
Some of the figures in the last line ar ®
necessarily estimated, because the amount
of the trade bonus for the last quarter won t
be disclosed till the next accounts are issued.
What is disclosed is that for the first three
quarters of the year £14,027 was paid to
shareholders and £14.883 was returned to
customers, and that for the last quarter F-
per share ( = £54301 is payable to share-
holders and 2s. Id. in the £ on trade.
amount of the trade has to be guessed a •
but unless the guess is hopelessly wrong >
is quite plain that the co. is now living to
large extent upon its own fat. Indeed,
the co. didn't divide a stiver for the pa-
quarter. it would still wind up the year wi
less reserves than it started. It distribu
in the three quarters £29.510. and the n
profits for the whole year were o .
£28,073. In the circumstances it was
pretty bold thing to decide on distributi „
another £lO.OOO or so. To keep the accounts
square the co. drew £l3.iX*o from the reseii
for the equalisation of dividends. 1 .
left a poor little £lOOO in that fund,
other words, over 90 p.c. of the entire acc
mutation was mopped up to maintain
bloated dividends in a single year. ‘
says very little for the management, n -


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
33 to 39 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY
and EFFICIENT
MANAGEMENT
can best be obtained by the
appointment of this Company as
Trustee, Executor or
Administrator, etc.
LOW CHARGES.
Trust Funds now under the Company’s
Control exceed £12,500,000.
BOOKLET ON APPLICATION
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited.
Net Cost of an M.L.C. SPECIAL
PROBATE POLIC\ T for £2OOO.
Age at Entry, 35. 10 Years in Force.
Annual Premium .. ..£52 18 4
Deduct Cash Value of the
Reversionary Bonus of
£6O for one year . . . . 25 12 5
Net Cost of the Assurance
for one year .. ..£27 511
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
Th ‘ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Capital ... ..£250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up 82,500
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
“You can’t measure service With a foot-rule”—
and you can’t measure the worth of “Chromol”
Leather Belting by lineal measurement. It’s the
service it gives, its durability, pliability and adapta-
bility to all sorts of conditions that tell in its favor.
“Chromol” Belting is mineral tanned, has a longer
fibre, and is more elastic than bark-tanned belting.
Being heat- and damp-proof it does not deteriorate
rapidly, and it will stand the severest atmospheric
or industrial conditions. Used exclusively on some
of the stiffest drives in the mining plants of the
Commonwealth. J. C. Ludowici and Son, Ltd.,
“Pioneer’ 1 Leather Works, 117 York Street, Sydney
(opp. Q. V. Markets). Interstate Agents: Victoria,
Geo. Russell Pty. Ltd., Flinders Street, Melbourne;
South Australia: J. McKell, Timpson Street, Port
Adelaide; West Australia: Horace Summers, Howard
Street, Perth ; Queensland: Queensland Machinery Co.,
Ltd., Brisbane; Broken Hill: Geo. C. Dempster,
Argent Street. — Advt.
* * * *
ALUMINOFERRIC is used by the Sydney Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards and graziers
for precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is simply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours’
time the most discolored water will be as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless.
Sole agents: William Adams & Company Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.— Advt.
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. 3d. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is.;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. — a saving of 2s. sd.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow i6in. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers. — Advt. [2
* * * *
Extract from The Citizen, London, 15th Septem-
ber 1915: “Colonial Mutual Life Office.—lt is a
distinct pleasure to receive and review the annual
report and actuarial investigation of this excellently-
managed, world-wide mutual life office. Apart from
the purely technical aspect of its operations, there is
the admirable work which it is doing in knitting
together the English-speaking peoples in various
parts of the great British Empire. The Society is
mutual in the purest sense of the word, and the
manifest advantages of life assurance upon the
mutual principle are admirably portrayed in its
records. The Society has no shareholders, and all its
profits are divided amongst its members.” — Advt. [1
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe is manufactured
for all purposes. It is the cleanest of all classes of
conduit —is much cheaper than steel or iron pipes.
The pipe is light and easy to move about, and when
kept saturated is practically everlasting. Catalogue
from the Australian Wood Pipe Co. Ltd., 57 York
Street, Sydney (head office). — Advt.
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * * *
In addition to making Wrought Iron, Steel and
Cast-Iron Pipes, Messrs, Mephan Ferguson Proprie-
tary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Bolts, Nelyambo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description.— Advt.
* * * #
The celebrated “Leplastrier” road-graders are most
suitable for Australian conditions. Prices range
from £25 upwards. Full particulars from the Aus-
tralian Machinery Co. Ltd., Charlotte Street, Bris-
bane. — Advt.
* * * *
Vislok is a single, self-contained lock nut, consist-
ing of two sections hydraulically forced together.
Vislok has a solid, continuous thread throughout, and
when locked gives a regular and positive hold on the
thread of the bolt. Vislok is so constructed that the
energy of the working load, and vibratory force
exerted upon it tend to increase the locking action.
Vislok can be used as an ordinary nut, and is easily
applied in confined spaces. Vislok will not injure
the bolt-thread, and is quickly locked or unlocked
with an ordinary spanner. At the present time
Vislok is proving its usefulness on the Government
Railways and at the Cockatoo and the Naval Dock
Yards. Agents: B. J. Ball, Limited, Sydney and
Brisbane; Elder, Smith and Co., Melbourne and
Adelaide; Elder, Shenton and Co., Fremantle and
Perth; Colin J. Shields, Launceston. — Advt.
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia. —Advt.
* * * »
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Silberberg & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney;
and 443 Bourke Street. Melbourne. — Advt.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£545,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,351 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 81,500 0 0
£782,611 0 0
HEAL) OFFICE : BRISBANE. -~ —
Gen. Man.: Edvvd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
especially as apparently the money could
only be paid by increasing the overdraft.
While fortune smiled the co. did amaz-
ingly well. Look at the figures:—
1906. 1911. 1914. 1915. 1916.
Capital .. £13,814 £21,588 £27,082 £27,131 £27,150
Debts, over-
draft, etc. 14,632 24,373 14,993 15,300 29,241
Buildings
and plant 34,142 77,182 107,591 103,050 120,327
Book debts 11,396 29,101 46,381 54,543 50,803
Stocks .. 2,928 10,087 20,078 20,848 21,126
Cash, etc. 1,242 1,240 709 3,379 2,991
Really, of course, the capital is much more
than £27.150, because £72.133 has been paid
as premium capital. In one respect that lat-
ter item has been a bad thing: it has so
bloated the reserves that the directors haven’t
troubled much to strengthen them otherwise.
It is really disgraceful that a co. which has
had such a tremendously good time should
have put by only about £32,000 of its
profits to meet contingencies; and there is
not another line of business in which the
contingencies seem to be more serious at
present. The one thing that can be pleaded
in extenuation is that the co. has written
down its plant severely; which means that
it has paid for a good deal of plant-exten-
sion out of earnings.
Federal Pastoral Shearing Co., Ltd.
(Sydney), which took over the Federal
Sheep Shearing Co., Ltd., contract shearers
in the Eastern States and S. Aus. The
deficit of £9635 comprises goodwill, £9500;
and preliminary expenses, £l3s:
To Re-
Dec., Loss. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£9,635
1912.. £4216 Nil 13,851
Profit.
1913.. 486 Nil £486 13,365
1914.. 5950 Nil 5950 7,415
Loss.
1915.. 1775 Nil 9,190
It looked 12 months back as though the co.
had got round the corner and was going to
make a success of a very doubtful proposi-
tion. Then drought looked in, and share-
holders will have to wait to find out whether
there really is any money in the business.
This paper hasn’t great hopes that there
ever will be much. If the profits show up
well one year the co. will be come at for
higher pay ; and it will be easier to get the
pay put up on the strength of a good year
than hauled down because of a bad one.
There is the further heavy expense of admin-
istration and the difficulty of supervision.
Maybe the utmost economy is now practised ;
but the outgoings seem terrific. “Head-office
and branch-office salaries, administration,
charges, telegrams, postage, interest and
general office exes.” run to £11,207, and
that doesn’t include advertising, stationery,
legal exes., wages of travellers, and a host
of other things. These exes., apart from
depreciation of plant, run to 4s. 6d. per 100
sheep shorn ; and that is a lot of money to
pay for a management which produces a
loss. The capital is £22,596; and liabili-
ties total £8135. Assets consist of plant
(£8867), stocks (£8227) and cash and book
debts (£4930).
* * * *
The Illawarra and South Coast
Steam Navigation Co. (N.S.W.) -
To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
Mar., 1999.. £3456 7 p.c. = £2625 £B3l £8713
Sept., 1909.. 2335 7 „ „ 2625 8423
Mar., 1910.. 2636 7 „ ~ 2625 11 8434
Sept., 1910.. 972 7 „ „ 2625 6781
Loss.
Mar., 1911.. 3993 7 „ „ 2625 163
Profit.
Sept., 1911.. 2537 7 „ „ 2025 75
Mar., 1912.. 2643 7 ~ ~ 2625 18 93
Sept., 1912.. 2600 7 „ „ 2625 68
Mar., 1913.. 2647 7 ~ „ 2625 2'2 90
Sept.. 1913.. 2606 7 „ ~ 2625 71
Mar., 1914.. 3099 8 ~ ~ 3000 99 170
Sept., 1914.. 2631 7 ~ „ 2625 6 176
Mar., 1915.. 3344 7i „ „ 2812 532 708
Sept., 1915.. 3380 7* „ „ 2812 568 1276
Mar., 1916.. 2962 7i „ „ 2812 150 1426
The N. S. Wales South Coast suffers from
sleeping sickness, and whenever things get
rather worse than usual the inhabitants turn
over with a groan and put it down to the
Almighty. A shipping co. which serves a
district like that hasn’t any bright thing in
hand. Still it manages to keep going in an
unemotional way, and can mostly put by a
bit of surplus profit. But whether it really
makes the profit to put by depends on whether
it writes enough off against depreciation ; and
on that point no information is given. The
financial position is comfortable : the co. owes
£6166, and its assets apart from ship
property, freehold and plant run to £18,601.
Seven years ago liabilities were £6380 and
the corresponding assets £BO7O. That shows
an improvement of £10,736. But nominally,
at any rate, some of that must be set off
against wear and tear. How much we
can’t say. But it looks as though the
easy-going old co. was keeping things. well
in hand.
* * * *
J. R. Godfrey, formerly mines inspector at
Broken Hill, has given the C.S.A.. Cobar, a
thorough overhaul, and estimates that about
150,000 tons of 7 p.c. secondarily enriched
ore are available for smelting. Taking cop-
per at £6O per ton, which isn’t much more
than half its present boom price, that means
over £600,000 of metal. The enriched ore
hasn’t oeen fully explored, either. Below
the altered ore there are large quantities of
sulphide, carrying little copper, but with
good zinc values. It is not a smelting ore,
but some of it will serve as basic flux. How-
ever, that is wasteful, wherefore Godfrey sug-
gests that experiments be made to determine
whether the flotation or some other known
process will do the trick and save the zinc
and .the lead. “If,” says Godfrey, “Great
Cobar, Ltd., will buy this ore without pro-
hibitive penalties for the zinc and lead, -large
quantities are available, probably amounting
to about 200,000 tons between the Nos. 3
and 4 levels.” Lower down the ore seems
to lose some of its zinc and lead and, not
being so much on the acid side, becomes
more valuable for fluxing. Fifty thousand
tons of the best of it could be added to the
150,000 tons of secondary ore to make a
very fair smelting mixture worth 54 p.c.
The little co. which some time ago took
over the way-back Mt. Hope (N.S.W.) is
sending down enough copper to keep the pot
boiling. Audley Smith has the business in
hand : so far attention is chiefly directed to
the tailings dumps. Now and then, between
strikes, the Broken Hill-Condobolin railway
is being built; and that will relieve the co.
of most of the present burden of road
cartage.
* * * *
Concerning a strenuous life :—-
Fred Neeld, who passed out at Wvalong (N.S.W.)
a few days ago, crowded a lot into his years. Coming
to Australia in 1849 he started mining in Victoria,
and was at Ballarat during the Eureka disturbance.
Then he went to Castlemaine and Bendigo, and
thought nothing of walking 120 miles from the dig-
gings to Melbourne and back. Crossing the Murray he
“selected” in N. S. Wales; but he couldn’t lose his
old gold-hunting habits, and thus became entitled to
a £lOOO Government award for discovering the
payable Wyalong field. Although the amount was
passed for payment it was never collected, perhaps
because the miner didn’t particularly need the
money. It was on March 13, 1894, that Neeld re-
ported his Wyalong find. He did his early prospect-
ing and washing in a fryingpan, and used a splitting
wedge to break down the stone. In the twinkling
of an eye there were 10,000 people on the field. The
old prospector was 86 when night fell.
* * * *
Trouble is threatening in Westralia over
the appointment of part-time workmen in-
spectors of mines. The unions connected
with the Miners’ Federation do not intend
to submit nominations for the jobs until the
Minister gets rid of his present disinclina-
tion to appoint full-time men. The dispute
doesn’t affect the Ivalgoorlie field, where two
full-time inspectors are to be elected by
ballot; but the unions threaten trouble if
any of the 30 who have been nominated are
found to be non-unionists.
Gt. Fingall (W.A.) has effected all the
underground improvements it set out to do,
and 20 head of its 50 stamps are again in
operation. The remainder are to be set
going when sufficient inducement offers.
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) has decided to
look for a new mine in the country that
made it. At an early date prospectors are
to be sent out to hunt for gold and other
minerals, and if they can’t be found in suffi-
cient abundance in the vicinity of Leonora
the search parties will be sent further afield.
An interest will be given the finders of any
valuable discovery.
Nullagine Gold and Diamonds Co. (W.A.)
has most of its plant on or en route to its
dredging holding, and hopes to make a start
some time in August. Profits from gold
dredging are tipped to average between
£l5OO and £2OOO a month. Any diamonds
found will add extra brilliancy to official
anticipations.
* * * *
The April yield of Edna Central (W.A.)
was 2904 tons for 100740 z., worth £4OSB.
Of this total 1304 tons consisted of cement
dirt worth 12s. Bd., and 1600 tons came
from the new reef and averaged 395. The
average of the whole crushing was 28s. 14d.
This is poorer than the March effort, ..for
then 3023 tons gave 31360 z., worth £4465.
the 1119 tons from the new make averaging
545. per ton, and the cement a trifle under
13s. Costs ran out at 18s. Id. and 17s. 2d.
for March and April respectively. If the
run of the mine keeps up and capital costs
keep down, the co., as things go, can afford
the shilling div. it has declared. There is
still a big gap between the assay values,
not only of the new make, but of the
cement; and until that is filled the men in
the Central feel about as safe as if they
were suspended on a parachute.
By going on to the Edna Central Board,
William Orr establishes a mining connec-
tion with every State in the Commonwealth.
An early bird at Broken Hill he raked in
a fortune there, and then topped it off by
going into Mt. Lyell with Schlapp and
Bowes Kelly in the Crotty days. He pio-
neered at Zeehan, and later on sent John
Godkin on the hunt for mines in North
Queensland, with the result that the Hamp-
den was secured. William Orr didn’t cut ice
in Westralia till he got into the Westonia
camp. Dick Williams, of the Central, is an
old servant, and no doubt his word attracted
Orr to the field. No one knows better when
to take a profit than he. And if the market
could only have the call of his intentions
it would be very much obliged.
* * * *
Just when State-Geologist Herman put
out a warning to Victorians not to expect
too much from the Mitta Mitta tin-bearing
area, Adelaide thumped the big drum over
the Springtime claim. C. H. Angas and
C. H. Nitschke represent the cash and the
brains of the show. The modest estimate
is that a 2 p.c. grade ore can be banked on.
At current prices for oxide this would give
a gross profit from the handling of 1000
tons weekly of £3OOO. Think of it!
£150,000 to be picked up annually in near-
by Mitta, and not a motor tooting out of
Collins-street to share in the plunder! Why
so?
* * * *
Corella, Cloncurry (Q.), joyfully reports
that the deepest level in the Rosebud has
run into friable sulphide that doesn’t require
picking before it is sent to the smelter. The
width_is from sft. to 6ft., and values range
from 5 p.c. to 11 p.c. copper. During April
1000 tons ore returned 102 tons matte, con-
taining 56 tons copper and 30oz. gold. A
Charters Towers man, W. 11. Williams, is
managing the show, which has been the
main source of the Corella’s ore supply. In
all 4539 tons have been smelted from the
Corella this year for 252 tons copper; but
some of that was from the Secret and a
trifle was custom ore. As smelting was
stopped because of a shortage of sulphide,
the development at the 300 ft. level is very
opportune.
* * * *
MacDonald, of Mammoth Copper Co., is
chief shareholder in a molybdenite claim on
the Tate (N.Q.). It is popularly known as
“MacDonald’s big show.” The shoot is devel-
oned from a shaft sunk on the underlay, and
the two levels that have been opened indi-
cate very valuable reserves. A battery that
has been carted from Torpy’s Crooked
Creek mine is in course of erection. A
rough calculation makes the molybdenite
value £20,000; but the mineral is worth over
£4OO per ton (for concentrates assaying
90 p.c.), so £20,000 would mean rather a
small tonnage. The concentrator will soon
decide whether this new “big” show is going
to swell the war-tax.
Herberton (Q.) still produces far more
lode tin than the rest of Queensland: its
114 tons of concentrates in March were
worth £12,500. But the Good Friday con-
tributed £6900 (60 tons of concentrates)
from 401 tons of crude ore, and Herberton
doesn’t see a crushing like that every day.
The Vulcan crushed 900 tons for 16 tons,
which was poor.
In March the Oaks (N.Q.) crushed 1100
tons for 1250 z. It costs only 6s. 2d. to
mine and mill the low-grade crushing stuff
from the open cut and tunnel workings, so
a small profit is made. In Queensland only
Gympie can compare with these figures.
Several attempts have been made elsewhere
in the North to make low-grade gold-stone
pay dividends. Mt. Leyshon, near .Charters
Towers, is the latest failure.
Some wag who must be running a bear
account has been digging out typical anal-
yses of North Lyell ore to compare with the
Lyell Blocks bornite. The North bornite
averages about 6 p.c. copper, 63 p.c. silica,
7 p.c. iron, 74 p.c. sulphur, 94 p.c. alumina
and 2 p.c. residues (barium). No lead is pre-
sent, and the gold is 0.0050 z. and the silver
I. per ton. Typical analyses of the
Blocks ore are not obtainable, but for 24ft.
just driven the borings show copper from
7.3 to 9.12 p.c., silver running up to 23dwt.,
lead 0.4 p.c. and gold to 20gr. per ton. This
ought to be very profitable, though it is an
axiom at Queenstown that it doesn’t pay
outsiders to send in stuff going less than
7 p.c. copper. Probably Robert Sticht isn’t
over-anxious to encourage small fry to ask
him to treat low-grade ore. Knowing birds.,
ranged on the “short” side of the market,
are grumpy just now because the sampling
isn’t done their way, and because they didn’t
get a first tip of a change in the face. None
of them, by the way, have ever been liberal
in that direction over their own mines.
* * * *
There seems to be a livelier time brewing
in the oil business. Recently a combine of
big shipping interests, including the
Cunard, White Star, Atlantic Transport,
Dominion and Leyland lines, concluded an
arrangement with the Mexican Petroleum
Co. whereby the latter has undertaken to
supply all the oil the shipping concerns may
require during the next 25 years. In order
to hump the fuel to Noo Yark and Liver-
pool contracts were immediately placed for
no less than 30 oil-tank steamers.
* * * *
John McWhae’s Philippine Dredges, Ltd.,
has been picking up steadily ever since
J. G. Aikman and secretary Showers got
the Gillies crowd to ease up their claim to
a slab of the co.’s ground. They also were
able to size up the groggy state of No. 1
plant and consign its working parts to No.
2 pontoon, whence, as resurrected, it will
emerge as a unit late this year. Such vir-
tuous semi-scrapping has its reward, for
last month’s yield with only three dredges
was 23470 z., against 19640 z. for March,
when four dredges were in commission. The
ground dredged ranged from sd. to Is. No
wonder John McWhae’s fiat feet beat a
pleased tattoo in Collins House, for with
£4OOO to £5OOO profits a month to be swilled
into the treasury and litigation out of the
way, worries over the debenture issue can be
made light of. The co.’s four plants last
year did duty as follows :
Value
Drift Handled. Gold. cub. yard,
cub. yards. oz. pence.
No. 1 plant . . 386,159 291 D 6.5
No. 2 plant . . 273,573 1776 f 5.6
No. 3 plant .. 629,238 42491 5-8
No. 4 plant . . 685,109 2912* 3.5
These totals would have been better if law
and breakages hadn’t cut in. The improve-
ment is in this: that while 1,800,000 cub.
yds. had to be sluiced in the financial year
ended Oct. 31 last to get 11,8500 z. gold, in
Nov. and Dec. 235,000 cub. yds. gave 23390 z.
On top of this comes last month’s run of
24370 z. with one plant less operating. These
facts are floated out to shareholders to con-
sole them for the long wait for the accounts.


CIMRLES
Vintage 1906 i
CfiMPM
HE PLUS ULTRA
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
How to Have a Clear
Complexion.
It is quite easy even in a hot climate like
Australia to prevent the wrinkling, drying
and blotching effect of the dust and heat, but
it is absolutely necessary to use a pure soap
without any added coloring matter or excess
of soda. Puritol Wax Soap is such
a soap, with just a little fine per-
fume added, and some Puritol wax,
which has such a reputation for keeping the
skin soft and for removing pimples and
blotches. A very fine film of the wax is left
on the skin after using this soap, which
effectually protects the skin from heat and
dust. Its healing effect is well known on
blotchy skins, and undoubtedly many of the
fine complexions are due to the use of Puritol
Wax Soap.* [1
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET <& CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
rESQ (Sb CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
SINCE
1679.
SINCE
1679.
HAIG * HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, May 8, 1916.
My Dear Arini.—
There are a number of nice old gentlemen
wandering about Sydney looking as though
they have lost something. And so they
have: the Athenaeum Club has gone. The
membership got too small for the high rent
which the absentee Rosebery collected, and
the chop and the steak conspired with the
cook and the waiter to put up costs till
there was little comfort in the old place
which “Toby” Barton used to frequent and
of which “Hop” was a pillar to the end.
This week the auctioneer's hammer is being
heard through the rooms. The faithful will
merely hold on to enough glasses to furnish
a couple of rooms- —with the help of an easy
chair or two. They will move with this
salvage into Bull's Chambers till the spring-
time comes again.
Once upon a time women wore hoots to
keep their ankles warm and because cash-
mere stockings were not wildly attractive.
With the advent of the cheap silk stocking
shoes became the vogue. High-heeled and
silk-hosed we walked the block and feared
no man. Then came the short full skirt. It
was attractive, but it ended so early and the
shoes commenced so late that only a boot-top
permitted fashion and “respectability” to
walk together. But the other evening, at a
spot where fashion and beauty foregather to
drink the before-dinner cocktail, the legs of
one girl were not only respectable but re-
splendent. Her boot-tops were in some light
shade of suede, edged round with dark fur
and finished off with choux of tulle!
An audience composed almost entirely of
the Old Testament derived much enjoyment
at the Repertory Theatre on Saturday even-
ing from a performance in Yiddish of “The
Jewish King Lear,” a four-act drama by
Jacob Gordon, in aid of the starving Jews
in the Russian war zone. For myself I
confessed I felt like I think Shylock would
at a Methodist Conference. The drama
depicts a Russian Jew who acts as King
Lear did in dividing up his kingdom among
his two elder daughters, and, like that ancient
monarch, he has a third daughter who, de-
spite his ill-treatment of her, really loves
him. This Cordelia is named Tibala, and
is apparently protected by her tutor from
the old man's rage. As I don't understand
Yiddish, the plot, further than that, re-
mains somewhat vague. But the difficulty
of understanding a play in Yiddish is not
so great as with other foreign tongues, be-
cause Strunin’s talented players speak so
eloquently with their hands.
Although in his most tragic moments
King Jacob Strunin Lear was compelled to
flourish a brilliant bandana handkerchief and
wave his flowing beard in the wind, he con-
trives to present a picture of nobility
and genuine pathos. The two husbands
of the wicked daughters. Messieurs Morris
and Cohen, furnish brilliant character studies,
and even manage to survive their humorous
hats. One triumphantly achieves the re-
markable feat of being conscientiously drunk
in Yiddish. In Mr. Broid the company
has a humorist beside whom Charles Work-
man would look as pathetic as a film-
imitator of Charlie Chaplin. He expresses
more with his hands than Hugh Ward used
to express with his feet Mr. Berkovitz,
the juvenile lead, has youth and dramatic-
vigor. Miss Lewis, one of the wicked
daughters, is -also to be complimented upon
her illuminating gestures, which needed no
translation into English. Mrs. Strunin,
the quiet Cordelia, looked the youthful part
and preserved her girlish demeanor through
the first two acts. Probably her chance
for drama arrived while I was away learn-
ing Yiddish.
On Saturday afternoons the Clerical
Women War Workers bang the covers on
their typewriters, switch off their adding
machines, jab an extra hatpin through their
lids, and are ready for the motor-lorry jour-
ney to French’s Forest, where they dig and
delve and make afternoon tea, just as we
suppose Eve did in the Garden of Eden.
One band of helpers, under the direction of
Miss Horticultural Brace, is laying out a
few acres after the style of the poultry-runs
and vegetable patches of Los Angeles. But
the girls who run the commissariat sling
billies of steaming tea on a long pole, and
distribute the same with a smile to the
different workers, and I guess that’s pretty
Australian.
The Octavius Beales —Mr., Mrs., and two
younger daughters—are going to the Unoted
States early this month. The very valuable
and public-spirited daughter Ruth remains
here. She also had the chance of the trip,
which will be a prolonged one, but reckons
she has work to do here —the work of induc-
ing the Australian woman to wear her own
tweeds and eat her own chutney and make
the mesh of the Protection fence as fine as a
milk-strainer.
Mrs. Walter Elkington. a much-travelled,
brilliant talker, capital listener, doer of kind
deeds and a no-account frocker, who used to
live in Macleay-street, is now a widow. She
had been in Switzerland since just before
the war, but was with her husband in Genoa
when he died the other day. It her
son Geoffrey that pretty little “Bunty” of
the string-pulling married. And it was her
niece (Colonel Otway’s daughter) who was
Melba’s first daughter-in-law. Just-departed
hubby, once an officer in the English army,
was of the well-known family of silver-
smiths of his name. He had stations in
Maoriland and fads everywhere. There was
quite a real though short-lived fear that he
would leave all his woolly property to Chidley.
The widow Elkington was a noted beauty
in her day, and a number of the Best Fleeces
in M.L. overlooked her unconventional views
because she and the quarrelsome Countess
of Warwick had been presented to the dear
Queen (Victoria) at one and the same
Court.
A Poverty-Point-
ing colleague of
mine tells me he
has just painted
the family tree of
Frediswyde Hunter-
Watts. * But I'm
sure you’ll find a
picture of the lady
herself more inter-
esting. She is
Allan Wilkie’s wife
when they’re by
the fireside: and
the pair took the
lead in onr small
Shakspeare tercen-
ten a r y outburst
last week.
Cabled that Mrs. W. J. Holloway has
died at the home of her daughter, Mrs. J. R.
Wood (Essie Jenyns). in Surrey. England,
aged 75. She was the widow also of Dr.
Jenyns. of Brisbane, but married “Plain
Bill” Holloway many, many years ago.
Tea and the scone run a pantomime or
comic opera quite close as a money-winner.
How much do you think the various batta-
lion workers who had a tea-room at the
Agricultural Show took for the week? Six
hundred pounds! To be accurate, they took
more; but six hundred is the profit the bat-
talions will get.
Dr. Taylor-Young, who left here many
months ago to help in Egypt, is now
attached to the Third London General Hos-
pital at Wandsworth. “This is very dif-
ferent work,” he writes a friend, “to the
Sydney routine, but I am sincerely thankful
to have the opportunity of doing a bit.”
When Dr. T.-Y. was in Sydney he sat on
the topmost branch of the gynecological tree,
and fellow sawbones used to have a bit of
fun with him over the name of a house he
inhabited in Edgecliff-road. It was called
Kilbride.
From Wednesday's Herald:—
nis Honor determined the value of 22ft. of land,
in Wilmot-street, which the Commonwealth had
resumed from the trustees of the estate of the late
Mr. G. B. ilodini, at £ 100 per foot; and, by con-
sent of the trustees, directed that the amount pay-
able be invested in the War Loan, Mr. Pike
appeared on bebalf of the Minister for Heme Affairs;
Mr. ilodini appeared in person.
In his shroud?
“Your affectionate but thirsty brother
Billjim” dates this from “A Bad Smell”: —
Dear Vandorian (and I hope you’re young and
don’t mind), —Let me give thanks unto the Aus-
tralian women who have started a teashop for
soldiers in Heliopolis. Good cakes, boiled eggs,
sandwiches and tea, coffee and cocoa from half to
two piastres (sd. to Is. Bd.), and served by good,
clean, wholesome Australian girl —after the evil-
smelling Greeks and their loathsome food it comes
like a breath of Australian air in this city of ancient
odors. And how those girls work' There seem to
be only about a dozen of them, yet one day they
served 2700 of us. I don’t know them all, though
1 was trying to when I was pushed off to somewhere
else. However, 1 did recognise Mrs. Chisholm, who
started the show, and looks very much overworked
(and will you please give her three cheers) ; Mrs.
Stanger-Leathes and her daughter; Mrs. Norman
Robertson, whose lightning calculations on her
fingers are one of the attractions; Miss Constance
Carson and Miss Beresford. But they’re not all like
That. There are still some “ornaments” who pervade
Shepheard’s angling for staff fish. And pretty fish
some of ’em are, as one or two of the dears have
found out a’ready.
Mrs. Holman’s address to the Citizens’
Association on Thursday was about the most
interesting to which that body had listened
since its auto-creation. The Premier’s rib
is a great advocate for United States
methods —industrial, sanitary, labor-saving,
and the like. When she told of going to a
cupboard in the dark and a light appearing
automatically on the opening of the door
her bearers gasped “How lovely!” Did the
Premierix lie abed and letters of light sud-
denly appear on her bedroom wall, it was
not with the usual fatal significance attach-
ing to fiery writing on such an absurd pad.
No, it was not “The Loan has fallen due,”
or .“Thou bast been weighed and found
fatter,” but merely an intimation that there
were letters or telegrams for her in the
office.
Women’s industrial and intellectual
achievements in U.S.A., as told by Mrs. Hol-
man, . proved a revelation to her listeners.
She spoke of their citizenship as being a real
religion. And they think and talk and
work for the benefit of the Child. All this
enlightenment is certainly needed by people
who have let their views be tinctured, if
not formed, by stories in American maga-
zines and by Rupert Hughes’s novels. Bad-
ness, money-madness, brainlessness, selfish-
ness, faithlessness, all worked into the com-
plex pattern by America’s most brilliant
novel writer! The Child has about as much
place in these stories as a dodo chicken. One
wonders, after reading six months’ output of
American mags., how the race is carried on.
Talking of conveniences in home-planning,
Mrs. Holman’s remarks reminded me of a
humorous experience of a friend of mine.
She and her husband got to Wiesbaden dur-
ing tbeir foreign travels. Arriving at night
they went to their hotel, and this is how my
friend tells the remainder: “I woke early.
I always do —drat it! And I looked envi-
ously at my sleeping mate. Then I
got up softly, cooed an order ‘Tea for two’
through the telephone and proceeded to un-
pack and hang up our united kit. All the
time full of admiration for the architect of
such a room! One side had double walls
into which were built the finest wardrobes
that ever gave a woman pop-eyes. One door
after another I opened suspending masculine
or feminine clothes —I must have filled four
and, still in my nightie and holding an even-
ing gown, I opened a fifth door, a mirrored
one and— there was a man standing within!
My scream must have lacked kultttr, for
Hans looked injured as he stepped past me
into the room, carrying a tray with tea for
two. A second look, of course, showed me
that Hans had come in the outer (wall)
door and closed it behind him. thus giving
himself every appearance of hiding in the
wardrobe.”
Mrs. Louis Waxman, wife of the “stormy
Petrol” who lifted the lid off something in-
flammable connected with the British Im-
perial Oil Co., is still at the Australia,
invalided. She came over for the Easter
races, saw them, and met with an accident,
falling down some steps in Her Majesty’s
Theatre whilst making her way in the semi-
darkness to her seat. Mrs. Waxman
injured one arm and an ankle rather
severely.
Everybody who
ever reads a Syd-
ney paper knows
Miss Rose Scott:
she has been full of
good works for
years and years,
and a fairly well-
lined purse has
been open to the
needy, especially
poets and other
afflicted people. But
not everybody who
asks receives. One
strapping fellow,
the worse for Miss
Scott’s pet horror
of drunkenness —at
least, that is one
of her pet horrors
—called a while
ago and demanded money. The lady told him
he looked very well able to support himself.
He argued the point; then began to bully.
Finally he scraped up a handful of light
gravel and threw it at her. There were no
men-folk about the house, so Miss Scott
called a hefty housemaid, and the man left
full of abuse and throwing more gravel as
he went. All the time, a few yards along
Jersey-road, a carter had been sitting on
the kerbstone. Miss Scott, seeing her duty
clear, spoke to him. “You heard that man
abusing me; you must have seen him throw
gravel at me —and yet you didn’t move to
the assistance of a lady! Why didn’t you ?”
“Well, mum,” he said, “he was your hus-
band, I suppose, and I make it a rule never
to interfere atween husbands and their
missuses.”
By the Manuka on Thursday the breezy
John McCallum. M.P. for Wairau. hastened
back to the Maoriland session, after doing
the rounds in Egypt and other warlike parts.
Unlike his colleague Heaton Rhodes, who
intends to soon return to Pharaoh,
inde C a a n l ite". h ° PeS *° r6main 1,1
Stage, society and soldierdom were
at \ ictona Barracks last week when
Dudley White, the Major’s wife S a 5
feted friends of her niece, Beattie* YaldwSf
The beauteous Beatrice was clothed in entlir
cut khaki, with lots of flam, and the n'S
thing in throttle protectors. With her cam!
miniature actress McMillen, who under
studies Peg-o’-my-heart at the Palace The
pair inhabit the same Darlinghurst 'flat in
between gadding and answering their cues
Mrs. W. C. Wall has had word that her
doctor son, who was at the landing at Suvla
Bay and afterwards spent some months in
15th Stationary Hospital at Lemnos" k
coming home by the Medina. Another ’son
who was invalided from Gallipoli in "the
latter part of last year, is making a good
recovery at Wentworth Falls.
George Meudell, of Melbourne, takes his
wife to Vancouver by the Makura. which
leaves Sydney on Thursday. For four
years the volatile Australian has been
pioneering the oil-well industry in Australia
and he is visiting the United States to talk
to Uncle Sam about it.
St. Andrew’s Cathedral housed the wed-
ding of Captain E. E. Longfield Lloyd and
Miss Elsie Wilkinson, daughter of Lancelot
A. Wilkinson, of Bondi. Captain Lloyd,
who was twice mentioned in despatches
won the Military Cross at Gallipoli.
Word comes from the Cold Country that
Dr. W. .Tenner, late of Leichhardt, has
passed the exam, for the F.R.C.S. of F.din-
burgh. Just before the Great Upset
the doctor and his family left on
a holiday, but on arrival in the Big
Smoke found that there was no room
for idle doctors in war time. So he plugged
into a hospital job, and in between sleep
and work found time to secure the coveted
Fellowship of Edinbro’s R.C.S.
As the people found their way to the
Conservatorium on Monday night to hear
Holman, senior, lecture on elocution they
were met at the door by a frantically anxious
man who asked, “Can you play the National
Anthem?” Nobody could, so his Ex. and
two daughters came in without being “God
saved.”
Mrs. Ellis Rowan passed quietly through
Sydney on her way to Tapua lately. She’ll
spend some months painting the gorgeous
plumage of the Wonder Jungle.
Eva Lambert, daughter of the late Captain
and Mrs. Walter Lambert, and adopted
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. de Coureey Russell,
of Arlington. Edgecliffe, has promised to
keep the moths out of Captain A. T. H. Xis-
bet’s uniform. The captain belongs to the
Ninth Field Ambulance, and is the eldest
son of Dr. Nisbet. of Townsville.
Brendan, only son of John Lane Mullins,
cables his arrival in England, where he has
gone looking for a commission.
“Rosna’s” note from London:—
The one Australian hospital for officers in this
village is at No. 1, Moreton Gardens, S.W., the
former home of Jenny Lind, and now the property
of Mrs. Popplewell, who used to be Rosa Bird, of
Sydney. She has given her house and runs the show
herself—under the War Office’s eye, of course—with
the aid of a paid matron and two sisters and a staff
of voluntary nurses. They are nearly all Australian
damsels; and Mrs. Popplewell’s own daughter and
(until her marriage) Thelma Reid and various other
butterflies have for many months peeled the potatoes
A Red Crosser tells me plaintively the'
workers are badly needed at the Town Hall
to keep idle machines company. What offers':
Our young friend Ellis Ashmead-Bartlett
has been correctin’ persons in Maoriland
who have been callin' him a mere journalist
or common war correspondent. It seems
he is a Military Expert and that he was
first of all a soldier, having been an oflieah
in the Boer war. It was only by accident
that he became a descriptive writer. Another
rumor that he has been energetically chasin
about Volcanoland with a club is the one to
the effect that he is a son of the Ashmead-
Bartlett who married the Baroness Bnrdett
Coutts. He is explainin’ firmly that he is
a nephew of William Lehman Ashmead Bur-
rlett Cootts and that he is the son of Sir
Ellis Ashmead-Bartlett. Bart. I cannot tell
you, my dear, how mnch my mind is
relieved.
The place for lovers! This was how he
described it: —•
There is a little island in the centre of the garden
connected with the mainland by a bridge. There are
flocks of penguin of the palest-pink color, with dara
blue edging their bills—as majestic as s\yans—vari-
colored ducks in uncountable numbers swimming m
the placid waters, and the edge of the island is
fringed with violets.
And only the fact that his company was
ordered to France, immediately, prevented
the “dearest girl in Australia” from rushing
over to Egypt with her powder-puff a ncl
toothbrush.
Yours affectionately.
VANDORIAN.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP
HOME
At the War
/■ i
i vs
■S’-'-'V.
■ "t.r
■. *
.Sr
O-:
••M A^A
j.- /'y“' V * '
/\js
#l.
'.XV
✓
/
m'
s.
ls0;U-- r >
r j&:
*#**•*
Ss»
,x
ssx* 0
A-
«»«*«
-- ./<*-s . ; Vsi>
w f
‘2H® 51
*w«**s*
■.? - ~»
Sv
f#r
iifflC*'*
f '• \
•O--''
.WC!
«»«*
/£>
ii^wagg
A
!
'fife?
: 1 )
x.
>-.
•v
v -
yy
A •;,
-' Ak n. •
•s
QL
• S'’ ,'** .
s.
/ A
L/^at-.i
:•• ~XX
\'&&r/+s
// j
:W
/■<■ -
r £-:'J£&M>.
m
. A
mm.
p-'t\
5«“
A*SV«
V-'-- ’
r^HrTT;
■•«£ v< ' *-
••x
r c ■
-■li
" -
i-. 7!
W/
y“-
xas®
V'- Sr
■* J * ■
m
f^£< j
7 ’V .
Ms&zk
w#
m
Irv? •'
X .
:X
- <>X jxs
/ ,/,lS
m
-i-i' 'X- rr
5+;,V/
Jffi* *
IS
m
XX-i,
Stf&r
Ss>s
ms
/*.*S**A
;;•'>■• .i:' i**
>o«r
• »
;sv«
.■V-J)
£ va* ''A^sk:
s s
S..rf
x;.>
-•.-?■
!Ssk?
r'j/x*
••r ■
Jife*" » y^ifTXi
»«X«
?
v\
>*- : j/? -Vj?• s r ?iy s^’*. ~.•
SV!
»Xt
/I
Xif'
c:
yV;-*’.
/ / ./ >
X-
•••
m
rxp.>'x;x_xi-'.- •
-■-V
M^/A
ft
m
./; S S
/^g-M
..< './ i>*
>,•/
//. A ,
'
//‘i ; r/,
-<v.
C
@5B.
7v
rV->-'
A«t
X-V 0
4T
1 «
O
Cobra,” Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Fells the Bear
What he’s to do
While the Foxie
H eaves and strains
At the beam that
Still remains. *
When the shells burst
Dirt will fly ;
But none goes in
Chunder’s eye*!
“COBRA” beats dirt,
There’s no doubt,
Soon old Cbunder
Will be out.


Shirt Satisfaction
IS ALWAYS FOSN) AT FARMERS.
TV asiaetw tiuvte ci af -Ftsar'
Shirt s thmwghtr wimlni l(r *& camct
irrr»frr. N« iisif r* she IxKw
is tirr JahßißKs aorr. brc. is
wi3 V s*»es iz a* CrtTaeti 2nit«ral acn 3*
Ti.Tr TliarsriT :j*. it «**. V VTSr-rel K rxz>fTT'
:ir* WTtzkt Steta IV tt <r *
wrr SWS?! ioash. ui a* ww **> ii i*B swr.
TVs SSi-T .*1 >«* * :i "a« «iir. 1 ;
atsof«£. «r vtt a.-* wm* <vC2tr.
PRICES . . 10 6: 3 for SO -
12 «: 3 for 30 -
c tjutfji ;r ?jJP.
Farmer's.
Ki, Mrtfa
eu
ti firpf SPWfc.
Sydney.
FJUETS
>r/>vrr.
DUNLOP
RUBBER
For
Quality
Wear
and
Comfort
- a
•<V
V
all
£>,«!•» R*U~ C*
Kl Si
A.K2.
(OLD f m
Do yon suffer at night
in this direction ? M
so ! Why ? A perman-
ent remedy is a
K
( \
JJ
■3*s
DUNLOP
HOTWATtRBAC
* p, - Tm OivjL-rMSf* ill
v«K i ~ DCNLIOP " —IT LASTS.
L
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melboi'rne, Mat 8, 1916.
Mr Dear Yahhie, —
Governor Stanley aud his lady, as if to
atone for their haste oa the opening day of
the exhibition of antiques—this inustn t be
confounded with the Leg. Council, which is
still in recess —strolled along again on Fri-
day. Mrs. Russell Clarke tshe was the Tas-
manian Mackenzie girl, you know) gave
them some excellent tea. Admiral C reswell
joined the group later, and said he'd have
three lumps, please. General Bridges s widow
was present in deep mourning. Command-
ant Williams also adorned the party in a
really beautiful purple tie.
Mrs. J. B. Pearson and Mrs. Sharp came
down from their Berwick castles and took
charge of the Government House lolly-shop
for one day last week. They built all the
sweets themselves and made their respective
kitchens so sticky that both houses are now
hanging out the pathetic placard, "cook
wanted." the established practitioners having
declared that they'd "stand no sech non-
seuse with the saucepans." A week's notice
followed in each case. The result of the
nonsense was £l4 taken in a few hours.
Some frank country girls, who came along
to help rathe the big boxes, declare that the
Government House brand of dame is "just
too mean" and hangs on to her sixpences
until the coins nearly break with the strain.
One haughty hippopotamus, loaded with
hundreds of pounds' worth of fur and dia-
monds. and with four pounds of gold in
her tusks, waddled past with her nose
v. rinkled. "I never eat sweets !" she hooted.
The snubbed little country mouse who didn't
know that hippos feed principally on aquatic
plants, said quietly: "Well, now! Doesn t
she know a child in the world who would
eat some for her?”
Government House got rid of its antiques
on Saturday by a long-distance auction sale.
Arthur Tuekett took' the hammer in hand
at 2.30. and at dusk, the bidding still being
suirited. placards appeared announcing that
the show would continue until eight o'clock.
Tuekett was then standing like the sole sur-
vivor of a bombardment among an awful
medley of furniture of bygone days, facing
another mountainous heap of stuff awaiting
disposal. The relies were slapped off at
any old price. Miss Clapp put up her
poled spectacles and g! ated over a massive
mahogany bedstead of ancient pattern, which
was knocked down to her bid of a tenner.
Mrs. Rmmerton collected an ivory -handled
parasol, several thousand years old. for l'is-.
and daughter Mrs. Norman Brookes go: an
ostrich-feather fan. with a real osprey and
an amber handle, for a song ( ‘Home. Sweet
Home." I think was the item!. Some of
the Baillieux st od aloof, watching and wait-
ing. and nodded away some of their barking
accounts. Strong men struggled and fought
over a hideous panel of some rare textile, and
the bidding went up by leaps and pounds.
S. me lucky woman caught a scarlet-and-g dd
Oriental c wn of great magnificence for .ess
than bargain-counter price. Dr. CTeyeni
hovered lovingly over some r.ne pieces of china.
Nobody would go more than £4O for the mas-
sive Georgian silver teasel, so it was removed,
greatly to the relief of the man who had to
shoulder it round the crowd for exhibition.
Miss Currie was one of the brisk bidders.
The sweets and dower stabs did s me flna.
i- aaltory business in the porch and entrance
hall: bnt passers-by escaped the f. wer maid-
ens with a murmured “Not to-d-c.. thank
you." “Just as if we were John Chinaman
at the door!” hissed one flower fairy wrath-
fully.
Somebody remarked that the Government
House dis lay i antiques was really a •
as a whole, bnt a tritt green in parts.
' . nuine antiques frowned on th merely .d.
which in turn scowled at the frankly ociera.
But not one visitor In a thousand knew
which was which, so there was no earthly
chance of a riot about It.
From sister “R <ca" in Britain: —
Rinahcss of hhuk Tammy I n #m«. ieceea-
-.asied by Prbiw Atiiis ud redssaeeei by Sergeant
Maple-Leiai. save tea g eg re ra c.-A Gkci? isi
Starr at BueidaghaK The Rexes bare hid
hah the variety sir? Brlaii w ffiteradi A*,
ud rest «3*y Dr. Walsard lUvit? (SrcUier oc lir.
HiToid P «? Ajeala) took kts seims TesajAe
C&ravh Cheer re kii the sirsr-ss c-i “Awlrati wul
he there ~ They had a kind :r ires, rehearsal be&oe
fisrg and Stiry arrived, nd I hwe n oa the bird
. : r.. - ity i iiarhnn Alt the leer H r* CAadie-
soot ia Ti rla* hid to eirrah te the Pirire rev £
and Md it iwm.
Is the 5-roe tecC.v far Managed sddsers the
Acstnha girl ni isU her and ihescr a
has it jwrs Arsarat Destriers ire waneitra: fee
wv? :c Rr : :si Beae&is. A*r»:rr the Sites t>
tSrsoe. degiter vV the Rev. Hiurley Wilhims. ee
Adeit .se. vrhe his ys; Bade a rriscoec « Lamt.-
tU J. E. MrPherwffi. cc the Xonlimliia Rest:
Ear-Beers. The eardtaluxsa OKtrrrei it Usssrcctrae
—-frsan the hrese rf the of X 5
Wik>—and the younger: Deeley maiden (N'ancy,
from Adelaide) waa be*t girl.
Rupert Boyd, who belongs to the ft Beck-
etts and Gurners (old-time Australian
families), is Lieutenant Boyd once more.
He held the rank in the piping times of
peace: but when the guns began to plaj he
enlisted as a private, and subsequently got
au active-service commission —which is quite
a different thing from the parade-ground,
evening-party lieutenancy.
Esther, the ruddy-haired daughter of the
Fairbairns. is applying all that she learned
at St. Vincent's to the patients in Dr.
Douglas Shields's London hospital. In a
recent letter she underlined the news that
she is no longer a Red Cross housemaid but
a nurse. Then she proceeded to describe
the string of motors which wait each after-
noon to carry the noble English housemaids
to their ancestral homes.
• Bob’’ Cain, after assisting to reshape the
Egyptian end of our Red Cross work, drifted
on to England and a commission in the
Grenadier Guards. This tremendous exploit
caused no surprise to his Australian friends,
for Robert had an air. a mannah. and
pretty taste in socks and ties which
was thought to eminently qualify him
for life in a crack regiment. I under-
stand from my war literature that
the crackest regiments nowadays sit in
the mud and scrape themselves with hoop-
iron : but the sock-and-tie test may still be
used, for all I know.
The girl-nurses of the Massage Corps at
the Base Hospital (they wear ducky uni-
forms both indoors and out) lately got an
infinitesimal rise in their pay. Overjoyed,
they arranged a huge theatre party to "ho
Long. Letty." to follow a dinner-party at the
Francaise. The doctors (God bless them !)
delighted the bonnets by attending.
The Scot Sharps gave a merry house-
party at their Beaeonsfield country place in
honor of cousin Walter Berry, who is leav-
ing for the danger-zone almost at once. Some
friends assisted the family to keep Care
beyond the doors and eat the fatted rurkey.
and the parting guest of honor broke the
news that he had been made a major.
These dear, unmercenary society pets do
appreciate the war-glory of their one-time
dancing partners. “Oh. my dear." squeaked
one. “did you see that Billy Woolbale has
been made a captain 1* Tern pommds a iced.
you know!*' So Biiiy was put on the list of
eligible*. and will get a silk mutSer or a
set of trench slippers by return post.
Dr. Fred Bird and Dr. Harold Jackson,
the latter the lengthy brother of Mrs. ARGUS
Cunningham, came back during the week.
Dr. Bird was not attended by the quartette
of nurses he took away at his own expense.
Sterns that little squad was broken up long
ago.
Philip Schuler has been converted from a
war correspondent into a mere private. He
is off to the Front at an early date with the
A.M.C.. and is taking several specially-bound
editions of his war book to impress the
enemy.
General Landale (an Indian Mutiny
veteran * passed out in his English
h me on the same day as his soldier son.
Captain J. Landale. was killed in action in
Mesopotamia. He was a brother to the
late Alec and Robert Landale. two of
Riverina's wealthiest squatters.
From the Adelaide girl:—
hi 111 nil ?*s preerisse was varied. There was a
Nsisay Rhyrae eanaval is aid of the St. John
Arsbckrw. i Red Cress fete at the Johr Lewis
borce at GJes Osaoood. Caßege sports cm the St.
Peter's and Prince Alfred sreemds. and aznim races
it Victoria Park. Ic the ertsiwg the Returned
Sol its' Associatio* iiiV'crl iw its ±rc rig affair,
isd i O of its meabns dined it the Cheer-Up Hut
to the acwrtptramez* oe speeches frees the Cora-
Bjisdir;. the Ri-xjr. the Premier ini other notables.
It's i few eii ;c*r to live it. I cat tell ysc!
The Gorrge Pears kite had Detvs that their
sob Aiit who left here with the S*h Lids: Horse,
has :«r mi oe it A.P.C. to Ccir-nsl Walker, wha is
it KBBJtsd of the Ist Atoscraliat Kosees. IC.
New Lire has gives ccrrjrard of the Ist A>
tr.ii.i3 Cieanrs Sofia it the lines of w—rw
tiist zzrts: Dr. Fcwgß who is sail to hive dene as
so: week as ary median it the Frees i has
chares? o: the Ist Anstraivt scatsoesaiy Hose -iui ani
Dr. Bsseil will work saner him.
X\vii SrSt Tbacts fc-Sows Heitxke as teacher
;f the vsefiz it the Cocsevictc. m
We are heirs aesritsi of all ret exhibits.
The trait has varied row K:r* Wr” ram-street
ini borse-tram? :ts* aer sberh; and now the
ra&t is to go bar the tills railway. 1 have
demited ssy triasfiiif to the military i- i cage far
lies. Bet I ice'sc the vtsis of ±ytrs ahead it
this rare.
ArimaFnacrrer Fewefl. wh: has scared i soessess at
the Rcy.il A-ranewy. was it Acehiae aboet 13 or JJ
jsears uc. He was the*. be 4 zve Ibirikni. and
>cii a story of a horse's head to a local scrSw jar
~sl id.
The fiMtt Dry Lane has mhnsnef jrsrif. wad
will it nezns he knrwz as the xlLks' Hccne
Letgne of Sccii Aus. it chose its oririial itroi it
the hope of getting in early when peace was
declared, and an official peace day came to be cele-
brated; but members found the gentle title inter-
fered sadlr with its business of collecting funds for
a permanent home for soldiers and sailors.
The Wattle Day Leaguers organised a Bose and
Button Day on Friday, and added £1650 to the
motor-ambulance fund.
S. C. Kaines Smith, who has been given a com-
mission in the British army as interpreter, is a
brother of Mrs. Evan Kyffin Thomas and S. Aus-
tralian br birth. He has made his name as a writer
and linguist, his “Greek Art and National Life
being a very learned volume on which many front
teeth have been broken.
The church thief has turned up again in this
righteous community, and one of him relieved the
Roman Catholic Chuch at Hectorville of £6O worth
of vestments the other evening. But the detectives
are sure to catch him when he wears them.
Popular tipping is that Acting-General Traffic-
Manager McGuire will be the new Railway Commis-
sioner—for a time, at least- It is also suggested
that Professor Osborn may take Dr. Holtze s place
at the Botanic Gardens, while keeping on his pre-
sent job at the University. He is still in the 30 s,
but has already done very noticeable wor« as an
economic botanist.
Miss Gillies-Stewart and E. Stanley Rob-
inson increased the list of war marriages
bv one last week. She made an effective
bride, and her white doth suit would have
passed any fashion inspector. Sydney is to
be their home.
Jack Goodall and Vera Crowle signed a
marriage certificate at St. Peter s. Eastern
Hill, last Saturday, and then left for Syd-
ney. Jack recently inherited a good share
of grandfather Goodall’s wealth. So the
bills won't worry the pair.
The local Petts are busy with the £117,000
left by grandmother Victorine Pett —the very
musical lady with the remnant of a glorious
voice who lived in Toorak.
The handsome St. Kilda girl who was
Kitty Boyes until a couple of months back,
when she said that she would to Captain
Russell-Jac-kson. has suffered in the cause
of patriotism. Wearing the national cos-
tume of Haggisland she was to have ridden
in the national pageant organised by the
wife of artist MeCubbin for Anzac Day. but
at a dress rehearsal the trooper's steed on
which she was mounted became restive and
the lady was thrown. Kitty broke a bone
in the leg and is at present confined to
crutches.
Mrs. Carlyle Smyth- is back in Melbourne
and breathing easily after a stopwatch rush
to Westralia and bac k with her bus'and and
Frederic Villiers. I understand she or ke
all records for the distance.
Elly Williams, the peach-bloom society
flapper, is getting s me publicity by d-:-ing
special ice-skating turns with "Profess- :-r“
tor perhaps it is Deacon?! Hal Jon-- at :L-
Glaeiarium. Eiiy wears her Hack skins
shon enough to show off a diam nd carter
with a buckle that cost her adoring father
a cheque for a cool twenty-five shillings or
more: also her furs are the envy of the other
dappers, who . - -k as though they wish sh-r
would fall down and get hurt.
The academic air of the Lyceum Club was
almost electrified last week. Mrs. Jam- -
gave a morning tea-party for Mrs. M.
Pickles, who once flew across the English
Channel with her son. and the - hatter was
quite brilliant. Mrs. Pearce helped to -at
the muffins, and exhibited an autographed
menu which had just c -me to her from
Egypt. It bore the names of Genera- Max-
weiL one of the Bartenburgs ami :h-er people
the daily papers force ns to read about.
Died last week, while in Melbourne visit-
ing a: her son's quart rs at Qneensc-iiff. Mrs.
Cox Taylor, mother of the Colonel who was
formerly in command of the fort and is now
knocking artill-ry intc shape in Egypt. Th
lady—a very old resident of the very Id
Windsor district f X. S. Wales —was at a
friend's overnight. In the morning th- y
found her still sweetly sleeping.
St- Vincent's H spit. . s t t-i in? its Mo-
tion Shillings Fund by a Leavyweiu: t fixture
at the Exhibition on June IT. It will re
called the Queen Carnival, and Dorothy
I'earve. flapper daughter of the Minister for
Defence, will play Her Majesty.
The Hawthorn mayoress Mrs. Russel
made a great Lit with her Red Cross con-
cert last week. The Very Best of the Ices, s
turned up heavily starched, and the sears
were served so far lack that field-glass -
were ne-.-essary t s - the last row All the
artists were sol—a satisfying thing t re-
p rt when s many performers are > ng
persuaded ro make music tor nothing. Irma
Caron, star of the evening, sang selected
trifles from “Carmen" and “Madame Butter-
fly" in appropriate dress, with scenery. "One
Fine Day." m m "Butterfly.” brought down
the house and blew it up again 19 times.
The John Maddens are shortly to shed the
hr - white 1 £ t of their presence on
another Ehh Davies concert, which is to
happen on the ltkh Last, at the Town Hatt.
It is to be an invitation affair.
Gloom hangs over the Block and tvu-
r ems just now owing to the absence f
tenor Waiter Kirby. Walter was seised
suddenly with a pain which he was con-
vinced had nothing to do with his soul, and
n rushing to a dcotor was ted ke w . i
have to part with his appendix.
Doris Madden, the talented niece of
knights Jin and Frank, will piano at the
Melba's pet Couserratnriam on Thursday
u.ng Ernest Melba Mit.bell will lift u
-is voice the same evening in sengs bv Cesar
Franck. Massenet and Hue. Ruth I .add
will concerto at the piano. and the pro*
gramme -therwse is full of interest Melba
will probably be hovering around.
Conductor Kost batoned orchestra
****** thnsngh on Satnrday afternoon in
tne T. wn Hail. Massed music is sc tnfre-
*P*M in this town that one must not he too
cr.tu.-A. of this scratch team, which iea'ly
did very weii. But I didn’t altogether
approve of the selection of music. One or two
F * .ysawing competittons
f-jr mSers. The great hall was filled with
1 must that made f or romance. and
all the people who can retire into dreamland
trese srlmrg rimes sat with their heads .
* hanos. drinking deep w.th their oars.
Dolores—a benign presence in a duck?
black bonnet —sat in the balcony with Mi,;
Yairdot. They left early and ‘went to* the
dogs op at the Exhibition. The large Ger
man and Austrian orchestral devotees wire
not of the company. Somewhere their chairs
were yawning. In the Marshall Hall age
the aliens used to rage and the intervals
were made interesting by musical mastodons
trampling on other people’s feet in order to
herd together and grunt criticisms. Little
Fritz Hart and his bird-like wife were the
centre of a big Con. following this time
Mrs. Eccles was perched magnificently at
the point of greatest resonance in the bal-
cony. and Mrs. Tom Hogan, in blue and Sup
furs, headed a party in the front chairs
Professor Harrison Moore, all alone, looked
as if he had brought his soul to give it a
three-course meal. Pianist Harold Smith
sat among a big party of soldiers and prettv
girls.
Harrie Ireland, who safely weathered many
a stormy beilowdrama. is making slow and
painful progress towards recovery. Ever
since her last hospital excursion she has been
staying at George Bryant's country bunga-
low at Blackburn. The little actress has
had two long years of bodily suffering.
Yours sincerely.
JOHANNA.


: * #!■:
® ...
t-M
s. _ i
f m
M
SSL %
w
J» '■*'■
_
S
1 I*l
A
'
i ■
fW§
il
is
"1 '■ m
... \
i m /a
'•' V
£
RK
lewar'
■ ,*
/
SI .
;
\ s f
mrnrnm
MM
ll* *
i 1
s ,
r*. ,
' -X:
.
:• I
.
wmmMmmm.* wm
■
m
mf-■'*■:! h ' •
'
:
3N
' % **wi J
<. % if
&&■■
|K
M
»? j
Wt /JH
PS ’’ o i
A ' nr
■ ' •-&!« “ *
Ilk
H&S '■ '■ P
■Eli JL
CTro..
St' J—
i SHI
it
V'T
.•
MM
m
S E
K
Bi
X.
-
■■ \qmsm
}
mam i
fißl
f sv
.
:: ;..;
X?


a
: -
SHIRTS THAT GIVE
FULL SATISFACTION
a Jj kind we specialise. Everything 1 is introduced to
add wearing life to the garment. Our popular
“ DOUBLE-LIFE ” SHIRT
/? constant approval and new customers, because
the fit and cut are right and
OUR NOTED COT-TAFFETA MATERIALS
?dnforc 1 p e d ndid O,^ ea si aTld ] ?°l smart ahva - vs ' The Neck-band is
reinforced. Our Sleeve Lift adds comfort. Made in Blue
lack and Helio Stripes. Colors guaranteed. ’
POST FREE-
Marvellous Value.
4/6 TO ANY STATE.
CHAS. LANE & CO. PTY. LTD.
“The Mail-order
House for Men.”
ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Martin’s Pills are sold by W. H. Soul,
lattinson & Go. Ladies recommend them,
lie sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
fid
» I
I *ll
Obtainable all Chemists and Stores
THE: GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
™GOTJT 9
& RHEUMATIC PILES.
Tlie famous Remedy that actually re-
lieves RHEUMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO,
SCIATICA anil MUSCULAR RHEUMA-
TISM.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores. 1/- and 2/6 per box.
Prout & Co.. 229 Strand. London.
The BLACK OPAL STORE.
OPALS, PEARLS, SAPPHIRES.
Specialty Australian Gems
89 Market Street, near Hyde Park, Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, formerly Manager White
Cliffs Opal Mines, Proprietor.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Coolibali”: “McNorth” says his buslimen
don’t bother about studying topographical features,
points of the compass, etc., when striking a course
through the wilderness. They just “rely on plain,
instinctive sense of direction.” Well, I know horses
have this sense, and so have dogs, but I have never
been able to discern possession of any such faculty in
the human animal, black, white or piebald. I have
seen a nigger just as badly bushed as any jackeroo
could be. If “McNorth” -thinks there is anything in
his theory let him take any duly-certified bushman,
blindfold him, and tell him to strike a course. I’m
game to bet pints for the crowd that his “plain in-
stinctive,” etc., won’t enable the bushie to even find
the pub. No; Billjim gets his direction from the
sun or the stars, and makes a close study of
watercourses, dividing-ranges, belts of- distinctive
timber, etc. True north may be found when the sun
is cloud-hidden by observing the white-ant nests on
the trees. These are always on the north side of the
trunk; at least, this is so south of Capricorn, but it
seems probable that in the Far North, where the sun
in the course of its orbit travels all round the trees,
the white ants may do likewise and build indis-
criminately.
* * * *
“D. Tease”: Re “Beeritus’s” ancient
battler and his wheelbarrow (B. IC/3/’l6). In the
early sluicing days of Victoria a prospector named
Joe Curran, more often known as Wheelbarrow Joe,
took his kit from one rush to another on the one-
wheeled contraption. Sometimes he pushed it; at
others he pulled, harnessing himself between the
handles. He was shifting camp on one occasion from
Kilmore to Reedy Creek, and slept a night on
the road. There w r as heavy rain that night, and
when morning came all tracks were obliterated, and
Curran had forgotten whether he had been pushing
or pulling his landau the night before. He decided
at last that he had been pushing it, and went the
way the wheel was facing. He was highly delighted
when, after midday, he arrived back at Kilmore.
“Try Fluke”: About the quaintest thing
I have seen in the way of a graveyard ornament in
my M.L. wanderings is a battered old tin bath-tub,
which lies under the shade of a cabbage-tree beside
a tombstone set up by a Government of the ’7o’s
to the memory of the Maori chief Epiha te Tuhi in
the old native churchyard at Mangere, on Manukau
Harbor. The bath-tub had been used by the vener-
able brown party just before he died, and so, being
tapu, it was no longer a useful piece of furniture,
and was placed handy for his ghost to shelter,under
on wet nights.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: Scobie came to Tinfield, and
put up for the time being at the Dingo Inn, which
was next but two to Mrs. Semple’s small emporium
—greengroceries and fancygoods, fresh milk and
eggs daily. Scobie took up a fencing contract with
Quilliam the same evening; next morning he pro-
posed to Mrs. Webday; on the following afternoon
he married her. Two nights thereafter he was
back in the bar, lamenting his sins. “I’ve let myself
in for a pretty thing,” said he dolefully. “S’elp me
fat, the house is chockful of kids— her kids.”
“But the youngsters were there when you married
her,” chirruped the barmaid. Scobie shook his head.
“I bin took down,” he said. “I thought she kep’ a
school!”
THE SHIRKERS’ CHORUS.
“My oath, we’ve got ’em beat!”
“Tiaki”: That ferra “W.D.” (R.
24/2/’ 16) him all te wrong when he say te maori-
hen or weka no good for kai. Te Maori eat him
and te pakeha over at Nelson used to cook him too.
Te reason te Ngatika hungunu no take te weka is
because Hau Ananaia changed two pononga into
kiwi and weka. Te Ngatika-ete. no like eatum
transmogrified brother. Te Maori eat shark. It
taste like boot soaked in sheep dip. If that werry
good to Henare why would he not swallow te tender
little weka? “W.D.” got te rat.
AX INDUCEMENT TO BUCK UP.
"Here! Wale up! Yer missing all the sights. We’re just passin’ a boshter cemetery
“Wanderer”: “Barcoo” (B. 13/4/'IG)
asks if anyone knows of the meat-eating proclivities
of the horse. A nag belonging to a hotelkeeper on
the Downs (Q.) was turned out during the last
drought into a slaughter-yard and paddock. The
tallowman was at a loss for some time to understand
why his pots were always more or less empty, until
he caught the quadruped enjoying the broth. He
was in splendid condition and had a fine coat. (I
mean the horse.)
* * * *
“F.D.”: One of tlie quaintest brews or
squashes on record is that manufactured by the abos.
on the Tully River and adjacent dis-
tricts in N. Queensland. In the scrubs
of those regions there is a peculiar
sort of green ant whose nest is about
the size of a football and is found
installed in the leaves at all heights
from the ground. It is a sort of con-
glomeration, with the ants in thou-
sands , and their eggs, belongings and
bad breath in the centre. The blacks
wrap the nest in leaves or a cloth and
squeeze it over a billycan or such
receptacle. It is surprising the quan-
tity of liquid that can be secured by
judicious pounding and pressing.
The overproof tack, is then diluted
with water and handed round amongst
the bucks. In the days when the
Chow did a roaring trade in opium
charcoal and other strange compounds,
there was a great demand for the
ant-juice, and little mobs of nigs
could be met at all times in the scrub
hunting for the nests, or sitting
round the billycan while the squeezing
process was going on. After a de-
bauch of the Chow’s decoctions it
seems as if the green-ant juice acted
as a sort of pick-me-up, and no beer
shark after a perisher ever handled a
foaming tankard of colonial wallop
with greater anticipation of bliss than
our wayward and benighted brother when eyeing the
ant booze trickling into the billycan.
* * * *
‘Pick ’: Perhaps there is something in
“Pharmo’s” idea (B. 13/4/’l6) re inoculation with
snake venom, and maybe it was, after all, gradual
inoculation and not an antidote that made Morrissey,
Fox and other snake fanciers apparently immune
from the poison. Anyhow, I know, because I have
been through both games, that bee-farmers and bush
bees-nesters after a season or two of constant sting-
ing are no longer affected, though to beginners
among the honeypods the stings cause much pain,
swelling and profanity. The misfortune is that
Government bodies and the medical fraternity turned
down Morrissey and Fox, and nobody authoritatively
proved whether their antidotes were shams or the
real thing.
“Piscatory”: Re “Chaney's” inquiry (B.
23/3/'l6) for a lure for codfish. During a sojourn
on the Darling I found rabbit-liver to attract them
from Menindie to Wilcannia. True, I haven't been
there for years, and cod may have changed his fancy
since I tickled it. Or, maybe, rabbits took a tumble
and changed their livers.
“Barcoo”: “Quandong” (B. 16/3/16)
seems to doubt my statement that the electric motor-
driven sheep-shearing machine does the quickest and
most effective work. He complains of his electric
machines heating and fusing on any cool morning,
and asks what gear our machines were swung on to.
Let me whisper to him that, providing the electric
power is adjusted and applied intelligently behind
any brand of “cannon” on the market, it will do the
job in hand more speedily, more effectively, and with
less friction to all parts (including the “gun” itself)
than any of the old-fashioned methods, while the man
behind the implement wears a joyous smile as his
record mounts upwards. The machines I mentioned
are still running, and not hot either. Two or three
of the same breed are receiving no complaints in
C.Q., and 50 of them will be in one shed shortly.
My cheque this year is already beginning to acquire
the dimensions of a ’possum-rug. I can put my
thumb on the causes of “Quandong's” growls—
crook “experts” and snide electricians.
“Stanlioe”: Re the Jackaburra-snake-kill-
ing argument. I was prospecting near the Weir
(Herberton, N.Q.) when I happened across what at
first sight seemed to be a bundle of feathers sur-
rounded by numerous hoops. It turned out to be our
friend Jack in the death-grip of a brown tiger snake
oft. lOin. in length. Both parties departed this
life ; the snake per medium of a small hole drilled
in the back of his head. I could not find a mark
on Johnny, and the only conclusion I could arrive at
was that Joe Blake had strangled him.
* * * *
“Corio”: What is the record number of
fencing-posts split out of one tree in Australia? (I
say split, not sawn.) Three years ago a red gum
near Forbes (N.S.W.) yielded 130 posts; while
another, also near Forbes, delivered up to the splitter
143. Is that anything like top figures?
“M.W.”: It was at a country sports meet-
ing that I saw the most hospitable man in the world
reclining, dead drunk, against a fence. There was
beer-froth on his lips, and his faithful but thirsty
dog was standing by and licking off the sparkling
hubbies. As I watched, the owner put up a heavy
hand and feebly patted the dog's head, muttering
sleepily: “You're welcbme! You’re welcome!” The
sociability of a perfect gentleman!
(Continued on page 24./
NEWS FROM TARRAWINGEE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One day there sped this message
(God send its like again!),
“Good news from Tarrawingee—■
One hundred points of rain!”
And straight it set me seeing
Once more the leaden showers,
The crowfoot and the trefoil,
The everlasting flowers.
I have heard a Melba singing,
I have heard the chanting seas,
I have hearkened to the harping
Of the sea-wind in the trees.
But, when Drought is lord and master,
And fair Hope has drawn aloof,
There is ne’er a music equal
To the rain upon the roof.
Oh, ’tis well I know that music,
And how sweet it is and rare;
For ’twas drought at Tarrawingee
In the year that I was there.
Bitter Drought, and stony hardship
For the man upon the land—
Herbage dead and dust and done for,
And dry creeks on every hand.
For the crow ’twas pleasant quarters,
And ’twas he that battened well;
But for birds of nobler feather
It was Hell, or nigh to Hell.
Aye, ’twas Hell for man and woman,
Though right well they bore their part;
For ’tis theirs the will of iron,
And ’tis theirs the willing heart.
And there’s few 7 could bear their burthen
And be strong, like them, and true,
M ith the sheep and horses dying,
And the big bills falling due.
On the road to Tarrawingee,
In the year whereof I speak,
When the Drought was lord and master,
Gleamed and glittered Campbell’s Creek.
Creek in name! No w 7 ater greeted
Sight or taste—no gleam or sup ;
lor the lands had soaked its treasure,
And the sun had drunk it up.
But ’twas mine to see it flooded
Bank to bank, a torrent brown,
In that year at Tarrawingee,
When the saving rains came down.
It w 7 as this way. No bird whistled
In the hushed, hot, stirless air;
And the trees and saltbush reddened
In the djing sunset glare.
And the white quartz redly glistened
Like crushed china in the ruts;
And the night fell, still and noiseless,
On the homestead and the huts.
It was this way. Sleep had fallen
On the homestead and its cares,
And the night had turned towards morning
When the change came unawares.
First ’twas just a wind that whispered
In the inulga trees, and died ;
Then ’twas mighty thunder rumbling
through the gasping countryside.
Then ’twas rain.... one drop.... another,
And then—O joy of joys !
A,fury of wild music,
A madness of sweet noise!
Then ’twas talk of men awakened—
Did they dream, or had it come?
Had their prayers at last been answered ?
Were the heavens no longer dumb?
Then the noise of many waters
Loud and laughing, low and weak,
And the tramp of restless horses,
And the noise of Campbell’s Creek!
Ah, that noise upon the darkness!
Ah, that message kind and fond!—
Ah, the eager waters speeding
To the Border and beyond!
Ah, the fear of wreck and ruin,
And the hope that stood aloof!
Ah, the music in the night-hours,
And the rain upon the roof!
Lord send I’ll hear to-morrow,
And grow glad of heart again,
Such news from Tarrawingee—
“One hundred points of rain!”
N - s - w -
RODERIC QUINN.


Read What Famous Singers Say About
■*=o
HEANS
ESSENCE
The Great 20th Century Remedy
. ..for. ..
COUGHS, COLDS, CATARRH
and other CHEST and THROAT
TROUBLES.
COUGH
Mixture
SAVES YOUR MONEY —DOES YOU GOOD.
Miss Gladys Moncrieff, the gifted young Australian
Singer, whose voice has been praised by Madame Melba :
“Ilean’s Essence is splendid for preserving the voice and
overcoming the effects of a cold. It is a blessing to
singers, with whose throats the winter weather plays
such havoc.”
Miss Ray de Vere, the beautiful young French-
Australian Singer: “I am sincerely thankful for the
benefit derived from the use of Ilean’s Essence, which
has cured me of several incipient colds, and enabled me
to do my work right through the wdnter without any
voice distress.”
Miss Ida Barr, the English Contralto: ‘‘Hean’s
Essence quickly cured me of a severe cold which had
resisted other treatments and was occasioning me much
distress and anxiety. It is a wonderful medicine.”
Miss GLADYS MONCRIEFF.
yi
Ur. PETEK DAW my.
Mr. Peter Dawson, the Celebrated Baritone: “I am
glad to say a few doses of Hean’s Essence succeeded in
dispelling a cold that had troubled me for several weeks.”
Mr. Hector Goldspink, the brilliant Tenor, late of
the Quinlan Opera Co. and with Miss Amy Castles: "I
know of nothing else which so effectively dispels the
untoward effects of a cold. I most highly recommend
this preparation to vocalists as an ideal throat tonic and
voice preserver. It speedily relieves bronchial distress
and facilitates respiration.”
Mr. Allen Doone, the famous Irish Singing Comedian :
“Hean’s Essence, in my case, has done all and even more
than was claimed for it. By its discovery a real boon
has been conferred upon singers, public speakers and
others who may suffer from congestion of the throat and
relaxed vocal chords due to colds.”
Mr. Reginald Kenneth, the popular English Singer :
“I am very pleased to say Hean’s Essence has proved of
great benefit to me in my professional work, by com-
pletely warding off the ill effects of voice strain which had
begun to assert themselves.”
Over 2000 TESTIMONIALS have been received in 12 months from users in all
parts of Australia commending IIEAN’S ESSENCE as a speedy relief giver in
cases of Asthma, Bronchitis, Colds, Catarrh, Croup, Whooping Cough and Sore
Throats.
Two Shillings’ worth of Hean’s Essence goes as
far as 12/= worth of Ordinary Mixtures.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores, or by Post from the Manufacturer —
G. W. HEAN, chemist, 178 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
SHEFFIELD TOOL
FOR-ALL
ES
RP
Engineers
“Ultra Capital” and
“Capital” High-speed
Twist Drills.
We
carry Large Stocks.
Jin. to 2 7-10 in. ; “
In Sizes: “Ultra-Capital,”
'Capital,” Jin. to 2in.
Contractors to the N.S.W. Govt.
“An Eagle on a Globe”
Circular Saws
Manufactured by Highly-skilled Workmen.
From Best Sheffield Crucible Cast-Steel
Plates,
Size Gin. dia. to 72in.
SAW REPAIRING A SPECIALTY.
“ULTRA-CAPITAL” and
“NEW-CAPITAL” High
Speed Steel.
NICKEL STEEL for Motor-
Car Work.
MINING STEEL, supplied
in Octagon, Heavy and
Cruciform Sections.
OCTAGON and HEXA-
GON HOLLOW DRILL
STEEL.
■'* 0tOlOBf^“
_ %pr
mot W WARK 2 f TRAfIC % MARfc.
A'
■ ' &flp
£m£'
r/t.M>
SPECIALTIES:
“A N EAGLE ON A
GLOBE” BRAND COAL
CUTTER STEEL.
Hammers, Picks, Saws,
Files, etc.
CRUCIBLE CAST STEEL
for Tools of all descrip-
tions.
BRIGHT DR AW N
STEEL, Round for Shaft-
ing, also Hexagon and
Square’.
O
mC
i* -
«***
CARfTAfe
Australian Ofßco*-
379 Kent Street, Sydney; 264 Latrobe Sti
46 Boulder Road, Kafgoorliej Cliff Str
Fremantle.
CAPITAL
This Superior Garbinette
RAINCOAT
for 35|-
This Garbinette "Raincoat is in
tiie very fashionable Olive color.
Tt is made with the much-favored
Raglan Shoulders, Step or Storm
Collar, Tab Cuffs, and is lined
with Check Plaid.
It is light in weight, but exceed-
ingly warm, and is proof against
Rain, Wind and Dust.
Price
Freight Paid to any
Part of Australia.
We can supply other Gar-
binette Raincoats —in better
qualitie s —in all the
fashionable colorings, at
42/-, 45/-, 50/-, 55/-, 63
Our New Winter Catalog
is ready. Write now for
a Free Copy.
*r
IL
■v'.
The Leviathan
Corner Swanston 8 Bourke Streets, Melbourne.
BRITISH-MADE
DOUBLE-
SIDED.
2/-
EACH
(N.Z. 2/6.)
0
DOUBLE-
SIDED.
21-
EACH
(N.Z. 2/6.)
This Month’s New Records, supplement »
Concertina Solos by Alexander
Prince.
The Rosary (Nevin)
0ra Pro >fobis (Piccolomini)
William Thomas Tenor {with Orch.)
{ Thora (Stephen Adams)
G7~0b | R OSes (Stephen Adams)
Thorpe Bates, Baritone (with Orch.)
( Rand of the Long Ago
J (Knight and Ray)
G7'Ar7 , The Ballad-Monger
( (Easthope Martin)
Vesta Tilley, Comedienne
(with Orch.)
There’s a Good Time Coming for
G7195 { the Ladies (Leigh and Lyle)
What a Nut (Leigh and Lyle)
G. H. Elliott, the Chocolate
Colored Coon. Exclusive to
REGAB! {with Orch.)
' Big Brown Eyes
(Mellor and Gifford)
G7208 { There’ll Be Joy Bells Ring-
ing Down in Georgia
(Mellor and Gifford)
Gertie Gitana and Ella Shields
(with Orch.)
G7209
j- Molly MeGlory (Mills, Scott and
Godfrey) Gertie Gitana
) I’m Walking Round the World
[ (Hargreaves) Ella Shields
Two Rascals and Jacobson
(with Piano)
' When You Wore a Tulip and I
Wore a Big Red Rose
(Wen rich)
Love, Here Is My Heart (Adrian
Ross and Lao Silesu)
■ Geo. Miliken, Bar. (with Orch.)
Charles R. Whittle, Comedian
(with Orch.)
{Dance With Your Uncle Joseph
(Lipton and Hargreaves)
Let’s Have the Lights Up
(Harry Castling)
G7210
Trevor anti Thompson, Comedians
(with Orch.)
( Ragtime Temple Beils
r . 011 I (O’I)ea and Caryll)
" *" j He’s a Devil in His Own Home-
l Town (Clarke and Berlin)
f There’s a Lonely Little Girl in
Honolulu (Wilson)
G7236i Hello, Frisco (I Called You Up to
Say Hello) (Hirsch). Duet by
V. Annie Rees and Edgar Trevor
Band of H.M. Scots Guards
f Under the Union Jack March
G72231 (Dubois)
l Australian War Songs March
Introducing: When the War is Over, Maggie;
Only One of the Toys; Australia Will Be
There ; Some Hearts Will Be Joyful.
Pantomime Hits. Part 3.
I Pantomime Hits. Part 4.
Introducing: Part 3—Mr. Bottomlev—John
Bull; There’s a Light That’s Burning in the
Window ; Cassidy ; Oh, Mr. Rubinstein. Part 4
—Dear Old Saturday Night; Won’t You Come_
and Plav With Me: Remember Where You'
Come From; Somebody Knows, Somebody
Cares.
r ,u. / Pantomime Hits. Part 5.
u ‘"' 4£> (Pantomime Hits. Part 6.
Introducing: Part 5—Show Me the Way to
Your Heart; I’m Glad My Boy Grew Up To
Be a Soldier; Dreamy, Dreamy Lullaby; You
Were the First One to Teach Me to Love.
Part 6 —-Somewhere in France, Dear Mother;
Blue Eyes; The Band Was Playing an Old
Scotch Tune; Tommy’s Learning French.
/ “The Cinema Star” —Selection.
G<~~<> In rp wo p ar t s (Gilbert)
Introducing: Part 1 —Money: In the Night;
Love’s Dream. Part 2—Girls; Oh, Louisa;
Every Girl's an Angel; Finale, Act I.
Wingates Band
I “Maritana” —Selections, Part 1
G7186 -t “Maritana” —Selections, Part 2
1 (Wallace)
Mark Sheridan, Comedian
(with Orch.)
{ McKenna’s Singing Lesson (I)o-
G7213 J re-mi-fa) (Alt EUerton)
l Mother (Sheridan)
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS
SYDNEY, N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, Rawson Place.
MELBOURNE, VlC.—Dinsdale’s Proprietary, Ltd., 269 Swdnston St.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH, YV.A.—H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street
WELLINGTON, N.Z. —Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Webley Sons and Gofton, Ltd., 213 High St.
DUNEDIN, N.Z. —Hayward and Garratt, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


m
Give your patronage to British
Hosiery—made from Austra-
lasian Wool
Quality Stockings and Socks
for Ladies, Children & Men
No other make has so fine a finish—
Jason has a texture like silk, and surprising
comfort to the skin —yet costs less than
many inferior brands.
Insist on Jason Stockings and Socks—which are
all-wool, and of soft, silky finish. See the
Jason Tab on every pair. Drapers and Outfitters
everywhere. In case of difficulty write to
Jason Underwear Co„ Leicester, Eng.
A Wonderful
Offer—
The boot here illustrated is one you know well by sight—the
boot worn by members of the Expeditionary Forces. We are mak-
ing them in thousands to the order of the Government, who hav<
an inspector to examine and pass every pair before delivery is taken.
Some pairs, when finished, fail to pass him —not for any fault that
really affects their wear or comfort, but for such minute defects as
one boot being as little as one-eighth of an inch higher at the bac-k
than the other; one slug being out of place; or the heel not bein~
sufficiently even to pass the spirit-level test.
Nothing else is wrong with the rejects.
They’re SOLID LEATHER THROUGHOUT,
are built to withstand the toughest usage to
give the MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF COM-
FORT TO THE WEARER, and are GUAR-
ANTEED to do so.
WRITE NOW FOR A PAIR. They’re
ideal for country and other hard wear, and
for the money—l4/6, carriage paid—are
POSITIVELY THE GREATEST BOOT
VALUE EVER OFFERED.
6d. Exchange must be added to Country
HY. HARRIS,
50 McKean Street, North Fitzroy, Victoria.
14j6
Carriage
Paid.
“Agricola”: Mention (B. 30/3/T6) of
“snake bread” induces me to ask why the bush kid
labels anything mysterious or repulsive in plant life
as pertaining particularly to the snake. There is a
white, frothy substance exuded at certain seasons
from the bark of the wattle and other small trees,
and caused, I believe, by the irritation of some grub
under the bark. The kids know what it is; it is
“snake spit.” Any flower of a certain unattractive
shade of purple is a “snake-flower,” although none
of the varieties I know flourish in snaky spots. A
thorny creeping plant with striped, green leaves
bears a berry about the size of a bottle-marble. This
is the “snake apple.” A vine here (southern N.S.AV.)
produces sickly-yellow berries known as “snake
berries.” Two varieties of spindle-shanked mush-
rooms, slimy and dull brown, are “snake mush-
rooms.” An evil-smelling, distorted fungus growing
about old stumps is “snake punk,” and a round
fungus, nauseous to behold, of the toadstool breed, is
“snake’s egg.” Truly, the serpent finds it hard to
live down the curse handed him in Genesis.
“Hay”: The fall of downy flakes men-
tioned by- “Alurrabit” (B. 6/4/T6) is common near
Lake Frome, in the north-eastern part of South Aus.
Also, north-westerly from that point not far from the
AfcDonnell Ranges. The silky substance is produced
by a dark, hairy- caterpillar common in those parts,
and known to the blacks as “parappi parooka”
(meaning “walkabout grub”). AVhen these caterpil-
lars are on the move they form themselves into
trains, head to tail, in lengths varying from a yard
and a half to four or five yards, and it is very- inter-
esting to watch a string of them on the wallaby. Brush
one caterpillar out of the train and the whole caravan
stops immediately and waits for the missing link to
right himself. They infest the boonti bush, a
broomy- kind of scrub, and it is when coiled up in a
heap at the foot of the bush which they- feed upon
that they spin the silky material. The wind lifts the
light stuff and spreads it about in large flakes.
Another caterpillar much resembling the ordinary- silk-
worm feeds on the same bush in large numbers and
hangs thousands of silk cocoons from the twigs. The
contents of these cocoons are pale yellow, and look
much the same as mulberry-leaf silk.
■’Mulga” : If “Munguburra” (B. 23/3/TG)
is passing through the Darling Downs at any- time,
let him look into the brigalow and belah scrubs
that abound there, and he will see that there is a
non-venomous as well as a venomous green tree-
snake. AYhere I am the non-venomous specimen
wears white underclothing; the other, red. AYhen
you’re scrub-falling you’ll meet them in scores,
coiled up in the wilga bushes; but they are rarely-
more than 3ft. in length. As to whether the laugh-
ing Jack kills venomous snakes I submit this evi-
dence. AVhile scrub-falling it is no unusual thing to
have a dozen of the birds perched on trees around
waiting for the crash of timber, and as soon as this
occurs the Jack family- are on to the lizards and
centipedes that come to light; but never a snake
have I seen them touch, and snakes are often the
most plentiful of the collection.
CHARGING IT ALL UP TO THE
BLANKET.
JIM: "Ullo, Bill. Nice-lookin ’ blanket "
you’ve got there.”
BILL (returning after his tenth ineffectual
attempt to get to the Melbourne Cup):
“Ought ter be —cost me forty quid!”
“Montague M.” : Re “Patricia B.'s” query
(B. 6/4/’l6) about the age of pine trees round Syd-
ney. If Pat. has got it in her innocent nut that
the vegetables are dying from senile decay she is
backing the wrong horse. Millions of the species
are dead or dying in U.S.A., and hundreds in our
own County- of Cumberland, from some mysterious
disease which was being investigated by the Uncle
Sam's Forestry Dept. before the war made
Christianity and civilisation by-words. Anyhow, if
“P. 8.” wants authentic information, allow me to
introduce her .to tree-expert Maiden, of S.vdney
Botanical Gardens. Air. Alaiden, Patricia ; Patricia*
Air. Alaiden.
AN OLD ’UN RE HASHED.
GUEST: “Arc you quite sure this is fresh?”
WAITER: "Well, I won’t swear to it, sir. I only been ’ere three days."
IIQ ~
>_pieadei . At what stage of its growth
Johnson (or cane) grass poisonous? No less than
three instances of dairymen losing cows from feed-
°h this weed have occurred in Cumberland
(N.S.W.) this season. The extraordinary part of the
business is that only at a certain stage do the fatal
Qualities exist. Sorghums of all kinds in a green
stage are apt to poison stock, but with cane-grass
’ s Q u 'te a common occurrence to feed it down at
stages of growth without any bad results; then,
suddenly, apropos of nothing in particular, a whole
herd is affected. Last month a farmer on the
Hawkesbury put 20 head of cows on a six-acre patch
a a ' Iln thing unusual happened. Two days
l a l el his next-dooi neighbor lan his cows on the
same patch and four skied their hoofs within an
hour and the whole herd had the blue-devils.
“Sandgroper”: That yarn of “P.L.’s”
about native bees sucking up the perspiration from
the hides of cattle would be all right if the beasts
sweated through their hides. Any cattleman will
inform him that they- sweat only from the pores in
their muzzle.
“Tiaki” : Piri Waitoa was the paramount
chief and brown prosecutor of Taihororia. Billy
Bevans was a pakeha-Maori who loafed on Henare
when not otherwise engaged, and incidentally loved
Kura, the illegal wife of Paturama. A fixture was
immediately- arranged by Piri for adjudicating on a
petition for divorce. English was spoken on Billy’s
account. “You ruv tish ferra Paturama?” asked
the C.J. “No,” said the dusky respondent. “Y'ou
ruv tish ferra Firry- Pewan?” “Yesh,” said the
brown bride. “I giw-it te diworsh. Pilly, he win te
prurry case,” said his Honor, and the decree was
made absolute in three minutes. As a matter of fact,
it was absolute before the Court sat, as Billy had
taken the precaution of briefing Piri with a bottle
of whisky and a quid.
* * * * •
“Markham” explains his change of
address:—■
I was quite all right with the Netherby farpily
for three days, but on the third night things occurred
that convinced me I would have to go elsewhere
for that perfect quiet which the doctor ordered.
There were on the Netherby estate three daughters
and a fond mamma, all agriculturists, all of a cer-
tain uncomeliness, very- good creatures, and most
anxious to please. They- even gagged the poultry to
relieve me of the stress of farmyard chatter. I was
well fed, well bedded, and every prospect pleased.
Only- man was vile, as the sequel proves. It was
past midnight, I had found sleep by the pleasing
process of jumping nine million sheep over a hurdle,
and peace brooded o’er the scene With even mor-e
than her customary broodincss, when the front of
the house fell in. That was a first impression. Later
I discovered that some portions of the front were
still intact. On collecting my senses I came to the
conclusion that an exceptionally powerful dromedary
was trying to paw his way in through the parlor
window. Later I abandoned this in favor of the
belief that a regiment of Germans were busy about
the place with an old Jerusalem battering-ram. 1
heard bad language in a Hunnish guttural, and
female voices in protest; so I went down in pyjamas
and a ’possum rug, and carried an iron bed stretcher
in case the Teutonic invader should have some
special antipathy to red-headed men. From a
strategic position I gathered that a large, angry man
was cutting his way into the house with an axe,
while a shrill woman argued with him from an
upstair window. The aggressor was chopping at the
dining-room wall on the left front, so I betook
my self to the parlor on the right front, and investi-
gated by- way- of the window. I had betrayed my
usual sagacity. A large man was cutting his way
into the house with an axe, and Mrs. Netherby at
the upstair window was expostulating and dropping
ware. The good woman missed him with the basin,
but fetched him with the jug, and Mr. Netherby—
for I have since ascertained it was he—was all out
for the count, during which time two of his large
daughters tried to tow him indoors by the leg. They
got him -half in, when he recovered and fought his
way out again.. Air. Netherby resumed operations
with the axe. Mrs. Netherby- dropped a small dress-
ing-table on his head, and the Netherbv girls pleaded
with him to go in by the door. Papa refused to go
in by the door. He said it was his own house, and
would go in where he damn well pleased. It
pleased him to go in through the dining-room wall,
and he’d go in bv the dining-room wall. He’d teach
them to go shifting the front door about. He’d
let them see how necessary it was to leave the front
door where a man could find it coming home ex-
hausted from his work. Netherby made a hole
through the wall, but the third Miss Netherby stood
on guard inside, and jabbed at him through the
embrasure with a clothes prop, while the second Miss
Netherby provided milk pails for mother to throw
at father. Father secured the prop, lamed the
younger daughter, and continued the task of creating
new exits and entrances to his hannv
milk-pails, buckets and hand-basins !
head. He made a hole in the dining-™ m ®in hls
enough for his original purpose and thJ lar ?e
that it was necessary to get hh? horse th™ 2 ecill «i
refused, he said, to leave his out on gh \ He
awful night, and it raining tinware a * B n U< * an
Three minutes later Mrs. Netherby got thott?.r-v-
-she had been scheming for; she outed Henrv
mincing machine. Then mother and 1,2 a
descended on the inanimate man, and ha lefr*
upstairs. I gathered from the subseononi - , hlrTl
nons that they tied him to a bed, and put a ‘t'?'
or two on him-to keep him down. At br«S
elder Miss Netherby ventured to hone mv , the
not been disturbed. “I suppose vou heard mL—
to bed?” she said. “P a is always a bßne?™*
going to bed.” Then the second Miss
in : But pa doesn’t Often go to bed ” u J „
address is c/o John Tarling, Twin Creek* n
goon. John Tarling’s poultry are not W
John himself is not demonstrative in his mlnn’er 0
going to bed, thank Heaven. er of
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: “Verdad” (r
16/12/’l5) is quite right about the llama, which is
as useful to the dweller in the Higher Andes as th
reindeer is to the Lap. The remnant of the Inca
empire is generally born on a bed of llama skins
covered with a rough hand-woven poncho or blanket
of llama wool; he is cradled and 'carried about bv
his ma in a kind of dilly-bag of the same material -
he finds much of his early nourishment in ll atn a
rnilk, and later he waxes fat on a somewhat odori-
ferous cheese derived from the same source. Young
or healthy llamas are seldom killed, except on
some special occasion, when the whole community
gorges itself and goes on the wildest kind of
crude alcohol jag for several days. The llama
is almost exclusively a pack animal, but it is occa-
sionally used for riding, and it knows its load to
an ounce. Give it an extra kilo, and down it goes
until the pack is adjusted according to the beast's
ideas of what is a fair thing. The llama’s Indian
boss is clothed in a pair of shorts made of a rough
hand-woven material like Harris tweed, a gaudv-
colored poncho, a kind of skull cap and sandais,
the whole outfit harvested from the llama. The
pack-saddle is a bundle of skins of the same useful
animal lashed on by ropes made of its wool, which
is of long, coarse and exceptionally strong staple.
The boss uses the animal’s bones for making
“musical” instruments and correcting the missus
and kids, and when he cashes in he is tucked up in
his shallow grave in an old “poncho” which was
once the natural covering of his universal provider.
When he is forced to pass the night on a round
camp the want of a “corral” doesn’t worry the
Indian. He just rounds his troop up as closely as
possible and passes a hitch of his woollen hawser
around the necks of the animals on the outer circle
and connects up at the starting point. Anchored in
this way the troop makes no attempt to break away,
and the caravan is ready to up-stick and off at any
moment. “Verdad” is not quite correct when hi
says that the beast does not do well below 10,000
AN UNFAIR FIGHT.
THE PARSON: “And how goes the fight with
your enemy the drink?”
THE BEERFIGHTER : “I'm winning on a foul.
I carn't get enough capital to give him
a charnee.”
feet. I have seen him flourishing like the green
bay tree as low down as 1500 ft. above sea-level I
harbor a deep suspicion that any interested person
may find him performing the same act in Sydney or
Melbourne Zoo. The Indian who infests the Great
Andean Plateau is exactly like a Chow —high cheek
bones, slant eye and pigtail; but he wears two tails
instead of one. It seems a curious coincidence that
the people of the great plateau of Thibet and those
of the Higher Andes resemble each other so closely
and that the most venerated circumstance in both
these elevated lands is the llama.


the car that has
E
GOOD in
And in all America or Rurope you’ll not find a single car anywhere near the price of this
new Studebaker 5-passenger, 4-cylinder Touring Car that offers anywhere near so great a
value.
You CAN pay more, yes, but you can’t BUY a car that will give you any more service,
any more durability, greater dependability or greater safety. And on points of beautiful
lines and handsome finish, as well as the more practical considerations of performance, this
car will stand comparison with the most expensive, either on the finest boulevard or the
roughest roads and steepest hills.
FOUR CYLINDER
Touring Car
It is one of the handsomest cars you ever laid your
eves on. It is easy riding, very comfortable, of highest
j J O 7 J ' O
quality mechanism throughout and very economical.
Words alone cannot do justice to the car-—but, if you
will let us, we will put this new Studebaker “FOUR”
through its paces for you, and that will be the most
satisfactory way for you to find out whether it is the best
car-value at anywhere near its price. Or if you cannot
call, we will gladly mail you illustrated descriptive matter.
.rf° L "i 11 °c>
GQOD^/c^
'3
STATE IMPORTERS FOR AUSTRALASIA—
NEW SOUTH WALES (except Sydney)— CLUTTERBUCK BROS. LTD., Sydney.
VICTORIA—TURNER BROS., Swanston Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND— CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—ARMSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Perth.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Messrs. T. d. RICHARDS &. SONS, Adelaide.
TASMANIA—W. H. GAH AG AN, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND—ADAMS LIMITED, Christchurch.
General
Distributors—
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Limited,
177 Elizabeth St..
SYDNEY.


School Children
are very liable to catcb
cold. They Have to
go in all weathers—
often having to sit in
school with wet feet. Apart from this, they are always face to
face with the risk from infection —especially when epidemics of
Whooping Cough, Measles, Diphtheria, Influenza, etc., are about.
Mothers of School Boys and Girls however can be always FRLE
of AINXIEFY if they have £ hoit !e of
9
Bronchitis
= Cure =
in the house, as one dose of this Medicine at the
first indication of a “cold w ill at once “nip in the
bud’ what might otherwise prove to be a serious
illness. Cork the bottle up —the rest will keep.
For Coughs, Croup,
Colds on the Chest
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION.
From all CHEMISTS and STORES.
W. G. HEARNE & CO. Ltd.,
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Sydney, N.S.W., Wellington, N.Z.
2/6
Double
Size
i m
> * "T
\\\WAi
&
: -'A
A
/ / k
*
■
&
1
s
5
■'US
53
V
~
IS
sr.
iCWIWC)ttV->HITO
12
Business, Bobbery, etc,
“Sarto”: lias Tiie Bulletin a second-
hand wheelbarrow for sale? I want one.
Eight days ago the owner got the invoice
and I got the rail ticket for some goods
despatched from Sydney. To-day the things
turned up. Of course they were not urgent,
being merely drugs for a local (Albury)
chemist. I got another ticket for cement
from Portland, and reckoned the stuff ought
to be along in a couple of days at the out-
side. A fortnight passed and no cement
came. Wired and wrote, and still no
cement. The consignees, who were making
pipes for the sewerage system at Albury,
were lucky enough to beg, borrow or steal
some of the stuff locally, otherwise they'd
have been hung up. Evidently trucks are
kicked off and forgotten until the SAL,
crawling about in the small hours, falls
over one and (if he doesn’t forget) makes
a note of it. Then next morning or two
weeks or' three years afterwards he sends
them on their way. But if I can get a
cheap barrow I intend going for my next
consignment of goods myself.
* * * *
“A.G.8.”: Does anyone know anything
useful concerning smut, especially in barley?
S. Aus. barley is badly affected this year,
more so in the primer samples, and the
“Prior” or Chevalier type is suffering more
than the “Cape.” I have seen crops one
mass of smut in spite of being grown from
seed pickled in bluestone, formalin and all
sorts of patent medicines. One half of a
crop I saw last year was strongly pickled
in brine, and the other half was planted 10
days later without pickle. The unpickled
half was clean, and the other mostly smut.
At the same time, the reverse was noticed
just as frequently.
+ * * *
“Oof Bird”: Perth and the goldfields are
again howling for beef, and the same old
tale about the difficulty of obtaining cattle
from the Nor’-West is told to account for
the shortage. Supplies are at present
brought down by Singapore boats, with occa-
sional shipments in coastal steamers; but
more are wanted, and in view of the large
quantity of beef taken by the transports
and the consumption in military camps the
Federal Government has been asked to lend
the State a ship or two to meet the demand.
All this time the show vessel of the
State fleet, the motor-driven Kangaroo,
whose predecessor, the West Australian,
was bought to smash the beef ring and bring
down the price of meat, is wandering around
the world with odds and ends, and a promise
of a hold full of kerosene for Fremantle on
the return journey. Why isn’t she engaged
in the cattle trade? Is somebody pulling
strings, or is it merely Scaddan’s utter
futility?
“Carrier”: Brown paper—almost the
only sort we make in Australia —took
another leap upwards in price last week.
Presently the people who sell things that
are already sufficiently well wrapped won’t
be so anxious to disguise the customer’s
purchase by swatlfing it in a few extra
folds of brown. As often as not the shop-
man wraps from force of habit, and the
customer waits for the same reason. Most
other times the wrapping is done by
the insinuating salesman who wants
to show oft' his beautiful counter manners
and make dead sure he can't sell you some-
thing else. #
‘•Dyer”: Woman’s a curious cuss. A
sweet thing came to me the other day with
six pairs of hand-knitted socks of a vivid
scarlet and wanted them dyed pearl grey
for the soldiers. She explained that Gen-
eral Orders had declined to let our boys
wear any footwear except khaki or grey.
She had unravelled a last year’s woollen
petticoat, and would I, as a patriot and a
man, and incidentally a dyer, make ’em pearl
grey for her, for nix? I compromised for
khaki, the best shade I could get, made a
fair job of them, and delivered them to her
door. Next day she came along to the shop
and raised Cain —the hoof wear had shrunk
to nothing and weren’t pearl grey, and she
demanded £1 compensation to “go to the
Fund” ! Tom Potstick, my rival in the next
street, I found later, had also been patriotic;
but it cost him only 10s.
* * * *
A female rushed into the shop for a lamp
chimney and remarked that she belonged to
an anti-Gerhog League was down on
buying enemy products. When the store-
keeper showed her a chimney she waved it
aside: “That’s no good to me if it was made
in Germany.” “Excuse me, madam,” said
the pirate of commerce, “you are mistaken.
It is plainly branded ‘ Made in Saxony.’ ”
“Oh, I beg your pardon,” said the patriotic
female, and produced the cash. “That gag
works every time,” murmured’ his nibs as
he rang up lOd. and started sorting out
some pencils made in Bavaria.
The case of Seurr, a land agent, v. Stout,
Chief Justice of Maoriland, a claim for
commission on the sale of property, recently
decided against Scurr, has been given a
fresh interest by the publication of the
correspondence. New premises were re-
quired for the Public Trustee at Dunedin,
and Scurr, while considering the matter in
his office, was struck with an idea that a
building opposite would be the thing the
Public Trust was looking for. It further
occurred to him that the C.J. owned the
premises, and as time was scarce he wired
to Stout at Wellington, asking the lowest
price, subject to commission. The reply
was: “Willing negotiate. Writing.” The
letter which followed gave no set price, but
indicated an amount somewhere in the
vicinity of £5OOO. Scurr then wrote back,
setting" out the whole position, stating that
he had placed the matter before the Deputy
Public Trustee, and asking for a definite
price; whereupon Stout repudiated Scurr, as
having no client and no authority to act, and
intimated that as the Public Trustee was in
Wellington, he (the C.J.) could if necessary
negotiate with him there. Incidentally he
offered to compensate Scurr for his trouble.
Scurr held that if he were not entitled to
Chamber of Commerce rates of commission
he was entitled to nothing, and, that commis-
sion not forthcoming, he sued —and got
nothing. Under the Land Agent’s _ Act
(M.L.) a land agent must have written
authority to act for the vendor, this to con-
tain an agreement regarding commission.
Therefore the Court held that Scurr had no
standing.
* * * *
“Devilfish”: A now extinct Tasmanian
industry was the “making” of natural ice.
Before freezing machinery came in there
used to be a couple of ice-houses dug out
on Mount Wellington. After a heavy fall
snow w T as shovelled into them, and after
being well beaten and trodden down was
left to freeze. Then the pits were roofed
over with rushes, and when ice was wanted
blocks were hacked out, wrapped in blankets
to keep them from melting, and carried
down to Hobart slung one on each side of
a horse.
* * * *
“D.F.”: There is a better dodge for keep-
ing apples than cold storage. Dig your
apple-house in on the side of a hill so that
one side-wall and most of the two end-walls
arc- formed of the natural earth, and then
roof with some non-conducting material.
‘ Put the apples inside, and they will keep
for months and their flavor will remain
perfect—which some people think is not
the case with cold-storage fruit. R. 11.
Beally, of Kangaroo Talley (Tas.), has an
apple-house of this sort, and he keeps one
season’s apples in good condition till the
next season’s crop is ready.
* * * *
“Moana” : Apropos the shortage of paper
“B.” (B. 30/3/T6) asks why the absurd
and expensive system of sticking postage
stamps on telegrams can’t be dispensed with.
It has been —in Maoriland. All the larger
telegraph offices now have electrically-oper-
ated cash-registers. When you hand in your
message with Bd. to pay for it the clerk
drops the cash into the till and sticks the
telegram form into a slot in the machine.
Then he presses the key marked “8d.,” and
the machine automatically stamps on the
form the time of receipt, the number of the
message and the amount paid. So the cost
of the stamps is saved, the requirements for
audit purposes are complied with, the tim-
ing and numbering is done quickly and
accurately, and the cash received is recorded
and totalled by the machine. The only thing
it doesn’t do is brush the customer’s
clothes and say “Next!”
* * * *
“D.F.”: A new use has been found for
the outer coveting of the paperbark tea-tree
which flourishes in Bananaland and parts
of N. S. Wales. As a packing for eggs and
such like breakable articles it can’t be out-
classed. It is light and as soft as down, and
there’s no chance of the supply running out
for a week or two.
The authorities of the Stock branch of
the Vic. Agricultural Department say they
are unable to account for a sudden appear-
ance of tick among the dogs of Bairnsdale,
Vie. Possibly they are watch dogs.
Now and again, at the Repertory
Theatre, the stage directions indicate “a
mob.” Giegan McMahon gets what he wants
in a few minutes, without any need for the
expenditure of time and wardrobe in dress-
ing the part. He simply sends a messenger
around to the Socialist Hall, where the
“mob” is ready and waiting, and every man
sufficiently sansculotted to fill the gap and
a bit over. Cheap, too.
“C. Ockney”: The war is apparently not
ruining English music-hall managers. The
Coliseum, run by Oswald Stoll, had so much
surplus capital just before the disturbance
that it gave its ordinary shareholders a bonus
of IUO per cent, in preference shares; and
on top of that it has since paid an annual
U 5 per cent. The Moss Empires (known up
till a few years ago as the Moss-Stoll cir-
cuit) has just showed a credit balance of
£150,104, and the Shareholders’ dividend was
S per cent.
J. M. Barrie’s contribution to the Shak-
speare tercentenary is a film version of
“Macbeth,” When Lady Mac wants Duncan
slain she gives Mac the tip in a note, which
is thrown on the screen : “Dear Macbeth,—
The King has gotten old and silly. Slay
him. Yours sincerely, Lady M.” The film
habit of informing the spectators before each
scene what is going to happen is also hit
off. “Old Man Duncan Retires for the
Night” is a typical announcement. The
King hides under the bed. The scrap between
Macbeth and Macduff starts in the courtyard
and finishes on the battlements. Macbeth
is dropped over and falls 100 feet, but. is not
injured and is able to take part in the
happy ending which Barrie has thoughtfully
provided.
Frediswyde Hunter-Watts (Allan Wilkies
leading lady on and off the stage)
comes from the Intellectuals. Two great-
grandpas lie under the stones in W estmin-
ster Abbey. On the distaff side was John
Hunter, known to the present generation
as one of the fathers of surgery.
On the other side was Dr. John W atts, the
famous parson who wrote the things we
chirruped at Sunday-school. However,
Frediswyde didn't go to the pulpit for her
elocution. She learned it from Aorman
Forbes, brother of the beauteous lorbes-
Robertson. So far she has pleased Sydney
best as Ophelia.
Mention of the German element at the
Melbourne Uni. Conservatorium recalls that
a German student, affronted by a criticism,
once issued a challenge to the late Professor
Franklin Peterson. The challenger wa*
a wild, husky, matter-of-fact mass ox
meat, doing a single term in voice
production. He sang "It Is Enoug ,
from Elijah; and the Professor re-
marked that the first bar was. Thereup')
the pupil w-ent home and wrote a letter c
manding that the Professor should meet ii
and have the difference of opinion tbras
out. Peterson settled the matter by real g
the letter to the singing class, a “ d ]e
servatoriuiu heard no more of that a - i
thenceforward forever.
On the platform of the Austral Salon,
which started to intellectually uplift us g
more than a quarter-century ago. several
Australia’s more gifted singers first r< j c
the recognition of “influence” and c •
There Ada Crossley contralted into notice.
There Amy Castles justified the 8
opinions of her persevering booster, 1
Robinson; and it was among the duches
of the Salon that Walter Kirby was broK
to parlor harness. A host of lesser jnu
also owe to the Salon in Part, tbeir P J
opportunities to twinkle. Still, w
Salon goes on “encouraging talent, to
balanced Australian woman is
the fact that a little light
housework or factory practice can t
healthy girl, while it does for the common
welfare what the product of a rather
able top register can never do.
Business, Robbery, etc.
The rain is pattering on the roof and rattling on the
window-pane,
The sea booms grandly on the beach, and I’m in
Maoriland again.
For so rain crashed and surges screamed as grim
black night came driving on
When I was very sweet and staid and righteous,
there in Wellington.
Oh, days bygone
Of sleet and slop!
The Muse daren’t hop
In Wellington!
I like to think that in a while when I’m an angel
in the sky
I shall look down on Wellington and see the spin-
drift driving by.
Then in that honeyed clime I’ll smile to see the
people, staggering, shout
About the streets, bedevilled by the climate that
they boast about.
It is not bland —•
Oh, not at all —
The capital
Of Maoriland!
Meantime in Sydney town the rain comes switter-
swishing on the sills,
And with its shifting haze it drapes the beauty of
the tree-clad hills.
Ah me, ah me, how sad to know in autumn time, as
slips life’s sand,
That soon there’ll be no trees at all to take up
room in Maoriland!
With gleaming axe
They’re cleared away.
Which helps to pay
The income-tax.
O Sydney skies, so blue, so blue! O Sydney girls,
so blooming, so
Demure-provocative! I stand secure as in a sooth-
ing glow.
A little pilgrim glad I walk among a goodsome
Christian band
Most circumspect; and when I’m gay I shed a tear
for Maoriland.
0 mind ill-planned,
O senseless block,
Which dares to mock
At Maoriland!
Still on the roof the pattering rain is sweet. It
taps the windowpane.
The sea is angry on the beach, and I’m in Maori-
land again.
So screamed the gale, so surges smashed, as savagely
grim night came on
Once when I was a tradesman slick in dour and
doughty Wellington.
Meek and foredone,
Mid sleet and slop,
The Muse must shop
In Wellington.
MAORILAND.
FRANK MORTON.
THE STAGE-DOORKEEPER'S WAIL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I met him weeping on the Quay;
He turned a woeful eye on me.
“Ah, sir,” he said, “I recognise
One who, I’m sure, will sympathise.
“No doubt you wonder why I weep.
A stage door, sir, I used to keep.
“It was for years arid years my job,
I loved it”—here he gave a sob.
“Though some might say my work was light
’Twas delicate —I ‘checked’ each night
“The actors and the staff, and lacked
Never both courtesy and tact.
“I could prove that, sir, by the tips
I got. But now the great eclipse
“Has come for me —alas! No more
I'll faithful-hound-like guard the door
“When evening-dress swells want to see
The lady stars re lunch and tea!
“No more I’ll boss the letter-rack;
No more I’ll keep an ‘urgent’ back
“Until the time I deem it fit
And proper to deliver it!
“Cry, like Othello, now I could:
‘Mv occupation’s gone’—for good !
“The old shop doesn’t want me —no!
It’s turned into a picture-show!”
VICTORIA.
DICK SNIVELLER.
A JUST CRITICISM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The house was packed in ev’ry part.
The atmosphere was somewhat hist l »
I sat in gloom, and from the start
Longed for some lethal weapon I
Might use upon the actors. Still,
Not them alone I yearned to kill.
For other things as bad were there,
I felt one on my leg at first,
And later they seemed ev’rvwhere,
I wriggled in my seat and curse ,
And soon the critics’ meaning g u «f ed „
Who wrote: “A scratch show, at the •
VICTORIA.
HARRISON G.


fc--
4
*4# ■' \. •;
O »&||®
••
■»A !i
;1
1 !
il,v
J 1 *
!i !
«
i mr i
11#
I • :r
*
Hi
1 I
. P
M ' Pi
?is: :
H
'
;£■*& * y ’
gp® 's. -x> f- < ~
■
pM&m
mm
'
n.v-i-/:
:'< = *
-,. *
V ~■
....
■
#■
I
. .1
• ::/:•>
HRI '.l- : # : ; ■■ ■'••
SIT '# tfijiß
*w» J? ..._i
’ . m '.
■ ■
. - :
.. . ...
" ■ ; ®j
•.A
:
■j. jHjT # 1 ' - !
■HKMHk : l M
m m HI , 1111 flfti
IS# it B fsfflmsm I 9jijHßSi9Hra lei SI
*’ :
IMi ■ # -
:/ ■ '
# < 5
,
S ~'4WMHr
TOOTH'S
Hr e C
LIGHTCRYSIAL
,*i ALE
r
W
TOOTHfc C b ! ??
KEs«TEBfB®l
j||
' .
£aa*&ea*ttiM
.
...
MS
•c-
lIS Wtg&M IS MM ' :j-,®
mmmmmmrn ■-. ■ ,
1 1 » !l
PI;; »§
■
.
WsHaSK J
■*
lliiwll
Hi
HiM
■
: »» s : /
111!
I
i
»
v®,; P.IIIPIPP ... . ....
mm
I
ill 1
■ .
SIS!
.
jam
mam
: I : :ll :|
. •
MPPSI iSII IP ii


-.-H
*
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Hand Bag,
Black Morocco Leather, Leather Lined, Nickel
Frame, 20/-
A. Saunders’ Silver-
mounted Hairpin
Roller, Cut Glass Bottle,
1/6.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s
Chain Bag, in Solid
Silver, Strong Mesh, Pol-
ished Frame, £3/3 /-
Silver-plated ditto, 32/C.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Silver Hair Brush, Plain Design,
Hand Burnished, pure quality, extra long Bristles, 20 /-
A. SAUNDERS
GIFTS
m
m
GIFTS
FOR
ALL
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Wallet, Real Black
Morocco Leather, Silk lined, Silver Corners, Lock and
Shield, 12/6. Real Crocodile, 25/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Silver Purse, Plain Design, Hand
Burnished, Leather Lined, Centre Division and Mirror, £3.
FOR
ALL
m
Saunders’ Gent.’s Cigar Case, Solid
Silver, Hand Engraved, Gilt Lined, 357-
Ditto in Silver Plate, 15/6.
A. SAUNDERS,
OPP. RAILWAY STATION, SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s
Wallet, Black Morocco
Leather, Sterling Silver
Mounts and Shield, com-
plete with Calendar,
13/6.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Hand
Bag, Real, Fine-grain Morocco,
Pleated Front, Leather Lined, £2.
A. Saunders’ Scent
Pump, Cut Glass Bottle,
Solid Silver Top, 17/6.
In Nickel, 4/6.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Ebony Hand Mirror, Solid Silver
Mounts, Bevelled Glass, 20/- Brush to match, 20/-
ft
IMPROVED
Compass
Clynometer
For Taking LEVELS and ANGLES.
Reading inclinations in inches
per yard or degrees.
Invaluable to Prospector, Miner, Geologist,
Engineer and Squatter.
Strong, Compact. Best lacquer brass,
2iin. dia., Solid Leather Case,
Printed Instructions, POSTED
226
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.,
189=191 George Street, Brisbane.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, iSydney
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
hfc suffering front—whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, fir ordinary EdugH—
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled-
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia . p,—
OOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Merrie
England, fid. How to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dr.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art op Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston's Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, 1/- posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell's Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle op the Uni-
verse, Bd., and all the Rational Press Re-
prints (send for list). Joys op Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1)13. Mechanics’ Workshop
Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures op a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler’s Science
op Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. Sandow’s Book op
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History
of the Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British,
Bd. How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins,
1/- posted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.
9S
I
M
M
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dii. B. B. FOOTE,
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted
to ANY address for EIGHT SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
!•“ BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
Prof. Fowier’s Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules tor
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise. 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speak-
ing Made Easy, 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannan’s Engine
Driver's Guide, 6/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio,
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes. 1/6 posted.
Women's Secrets, 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The Waybacks, 1/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want Pve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. SWEstablisbed 25 Years.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE OOL FROM THIS ADYT.
Write foi* my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere foh the Askingi
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, Olt
POSTAL NOTE OP ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS' SENT BY RETURN ROST; NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEMYIERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
1/- posted. New Tricks with Cards, 1/- * APP f!°’
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 post. hr.
Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical illus-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Gor-
don’s P oems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry,
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret his-
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers’ Letter
Writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Mor-
gan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees,
New Edition, 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
Bd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingeßsoll s '' ,ORK ,'-’
Bd., 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas, Coates), i,»
posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/6, postern
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugaß-Boilers
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5/6 poste •
Assistant, 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/2 poste •
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New Recita-
tions and Readings, 'l/3. Nervousness and ir-
Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster's Large Unabridgei
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather bou >
my price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guinea
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2. Dynamos a.
Electric Motors, 1/2. Moore’s Universal assi
ant and Complete Mechanic. 1016 pages, cm
bound, 10/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
1/- post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words ami music
complete), 1/6 posted. The Age of Reaso..
Paine, posted Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAi.
SIR ROBERT BEAR , Cheap Book Depot, 67 869 Market Street, Sydney (oWLlf>


eorge hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
The Australia Hotel
BUSINESS AS USUAL.
The Management of the “Australia”
Hotel are gratified to state that, not-
withstanding the upset caused by the
recent fire they are able to announce
“business as usual.” The service in
the Grand Dining Room, on the
Balcony, and in the Winter Garden
is being conducted in the same style
that has made the “Australia” Hotel
so popular with its patrons, while the
arrangements for Private Dinners and
Suppers are working with their accus-
tomed satisfaction.
Throughout the holiday season
arrangements for Afternoon Teas will,
as usual, be carried out in the Winter
Garden, which has been running con-
tinuously throughout.
J. URE SMITH, Manager.
Ray’s Hair Dye.
—'-
When Grey Hair begins
to show, rejuvenate
your ap p e arance
with
KAY’S
DYE.
I Harmless and In-
! stantaneous.
S 3 different shades.
Post pattern of
hair with order.
4/10,7/11,10/9,
POSTED.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 Block Arcade, Collins Street. Melbourne.
f/A jYtA^
Tin*
Body-building power proved
equal to from 10 to 20 times
the amount of Bovril taken.
8.H.8.
MontserrAT
SAUCE
t
made from the
CELEBRATED
MONTSERRAT
LIME JUICE.
ITS PURITY
and great
DIGESTIVE
VALUE
make it the finest
Sauce procurable.
Of All Storekeepers.
Three Sizes—
-1/4 H.p.
2 H.p.
3/4 H.p.
rra—-j
TheEVINRUDE
:: DETACHABLE::
ROWBOAT MOTOR
is the most successful and perfect motor of
this kind on the market. Over 40.000 now
in use. Very simple and easy to operate.
Can be attached to any boat in a few
minutes —adjustable to depth and angle of
stern. Speed up to eight miles an hour.
Equipped with high-tension, built-in-the-fly-
wheel Magneto. Fitted with Automatic
Reverse and Maxim Silencer. Operated by
Petrol, and lubrication is automatic.
Of invaluable assistance on the farm for pumping water, driving separator, etc.
To transform motor into a power machine is the work of a few minutes.
Propeller is removed and a belt pulley substituted.
Descriptive Booklet sent post free on application to
H. A. GODDARD, 376 Collins Street, Melbourne; 82 Pitt Street, Sydney;
404 Queen Street. Brisbane; Clift Street, Fremantle; Remington
Chambers (opp. G.P.0.), Auckland, N.Z.
LOCAL AGENTS REQUIRED IN ALL TOWNS WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
£<-
y
A Good Day s Sport
and a good bag are
assured by using
“NITRO CLUB”
and “ARROW”
lined" W aterproof ed
Smokeless Cartridges
Made in S. 10, 12, 16, 20, 24 and 2S gauge
Loaded in London with the
popular English powders.
„ Obtainable from leading dealers
everywhere
Catalogue 'post-free on request
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
Wool-worth Bldg-, New York City
St. Stephens House, Westminster, S. W., London
This interior steel band, the lining of all <SMHi
“Nitro Club” and “Arrow” cartridges, gives ■Bjl
great strength where it is needed most, and
extraordinary penetrative power.
INSECTIBANE
This Popular Fly
Killer and Insect
Destroyer is now
obtainable.
ALL CHEMISTS and STORES.
The Curse of Australia! White Ants!!
90% ARE AFFECTED. YOURS ALSO. Your Home and Castle. 4/6 WILL SAVE IT.
After a decade of investigation in the heart of WHITE ANT colonies, we have perfected
the secret of their extermination. Eradication within 10 days is absolute, whether in BUSH,
TOWN or SUBURB. WRITE TO-DAY FOR INFORMATION, or forward 4/0, and receive by
return one tin of
Marshall’s WHITEANTO Secret Compound
with full instructions and pamphlet. No Tar. No Staining Place in single spot. They will
find it. A boon to Home-owners.
J. VANCE MARSHALL, Manufactory, Pitt Town, Windsor, N.S.W.
AN 8-DAY LEVER WATCH
s
NCjlM
* Mi
Make a Note to Wind it on a Sunday.
“The better the day the better the deed.’’
1716
Postage
Paid.
What a boon to the traveller, the man
on the land —the shearer, the boun-
dary rider! Apart from the advan-
tage that it only requires winding once
a week, this watch keeps splendid
time from month to month, and is
built to stand the roughest colonial
usage. The movement is similar to
the ordinary High-grade Watch, but
with an extra-strong, extra-long
spring, which runs EIGHT DAYS
instead of one. Keyless wind, strong
nickel case, compensation balance.
This watch is usually sold at 22/6.
Stewart Dawson’s Single-Profit Price
is
Only \7 / 0 Post Free -
Stewart Dawson’s Catalogue of
Watches and Jewellery Post Free.
Stewart Dawson’s
The Treasure House,
Strand Corner, 412 George St., Sydney.
EVERY PAIR OF
Abbey Shoes
gives the utmost satisfaction to the
wearer. They are made to satisfy
all who want footwear of smart
appearance and high-grade quality.
We illustrate a special High-grade
Patent Derby Pal. Also in Tan
Willow Calf. A smart, made-to-
order style.
Price - 30/-
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between (i.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney
CORRECTING BAD BREATH.
Bad breath is extremely unpleasant to
those around the subject of the trouble. Bad
teeth are a cause of offensive breath, and the
trouble abates when the teeth are attended
to. Constipation and a disordered stomach
are, however, more frequently the cause. To
correct constipation* Pinkettes, the new laxa-
tive. should be taken. They are designed, to
correct the stomach conditions which cause
these symptoms; regulate the liver and
remove constipation. Pinkettes act without
causing sickness or griping or the bad after-
effects of strong purgatives. Send us your
name and address, mentioning The Bul-
letin, for a free trial sample. Sold every-
where, Is. per bottle; or sent, post paid, by
the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Ltd.,
Sydney. — Advt.
CURES
ECZEMA
Writing from Cobargo, in January, 1910,
Mr. J. McCleary says:—“l did not credit
there was such a wonderful liquid on the
face of the planet that could do what
Exzerma has done for me. I had tried
everything that I saw advertised, without
the slightest improvement; but with one
bottle of Exzerma I was almost cured—
this after two years’ suffering. I was afraid
to mix with people and got as far into the
bush as I could. Now I can once more
mix with the bunch.” All Chemists and
Druggists, or from f 2
S. FIELDER, Randwick, Sydney. 5/-, 2 6
START BUSINESS YOURSELF.
We supply Fancy Goods, Post Cards, Drapery, Tobac-
conists, Stationery, Jewellery, Id., 3d. and 6d. Bazaar
Goods, Toys, Confectionery, Cutlery, etc. Sample
cases £5 upwards sent by return. Guide Catalogue,
“Success in Business,” 3d.
H. Michaels & Son,
14-15 Cromwell House, High Holborn,
London, W.C., England. [l
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—■
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Htc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68} PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.


TtmtwmM 'dCotei
Sydneiy. NSW.
The Wentworth Garden, with its beautiful surroundings, is
ideal for Luncheons, Dinners, Afternoon Teas, Supper and
Wedding Parties, and all semi-outdoor functions.
Visitors to Sydney will find the Wentworth Hotel most popular,
central and up to date in all modern conveniences, including telephones
in bedrooms, communicating with the Exchange.
The Appointments, Linen and Service are superb, and compare more
than favorably with the best Hotels in the Commonwealth.
Terms on application.
Mrs. H. MACLURCAN, Manageress.
MAMMA, DADDY AND CHILDREN ALL
LOVE CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Harmless fruit laxative cleanses the
stomach, liver and bowels without
any griping.
A delicious cure for constipation, bilious-
ness, sick headache, disordered stomach, in-
digestion, coated tongue, sallowness—take
California Syrup of Figs—‘•Calilig.” For
the cause of all this distress lies in a torpid
liver and sluggish bowels.
A tablespoonful to-night means all con-
stipation poison, waste matter, fermenting
food and bile gently moved out of your sys-
tem by morning without griping Please
don’t tliink of California Syrup of Figs
“Califig”-—as a physic. Don’t think y° u
drugging yourself or your children. .-*■
delicious fruit laxative cannot cause iuJ ul . ■
Even a delicate child can take it as safely
a robust man. It is a most harmless, ett
tive stomach, liver and bowel regulator an
tonic ever devised. „
Ask your chemist for a bottle of "Califig
—California Syrup of Figs—which has m
directions for babies, children of all ag®®*! l
for grown-ups plainly printed on the botti •
Get the genuine, made by California rig
Syrup Company. Refuse any other km
with contempt. “Califig”—California Syrup
of Figs—is sold by all chemists in bottles o
two sizes, Is. and-Is. 9d.- I 0
POLITICAL
POINTS
A petition now in circulation in Fiji opens
with “the humble prayer of the petitioners”
which “sheweth that the condition of the
Colony after 40 years of Crown Colony
Government is not satisfactory.” Following
this plain and plump declaration, it sets out
a list of grievances whose variety would
turn a Labor League Conference green with
envy. For instance: —•
The colony is without railways, lias few roads and
bridges, and very inefficient means of communication.
A vigorous public works policy is an urgent need,
a fact that the petitioners respectfully submit the
Colonial Office has never seemed able to grasp.
Finally the petition in sweet frankness says
that “the potentialities of these isles can
only be properly realised by those commer-
cially and personally interested in, and in
understanding sympathy with, the progres-
sive spirit of the Colonies,” and therefore
prays “that the Colony be annexed to the
Commonwealth of Australia or to the
Dominion of Maoriland—to the one or to
the other as the considerations of Imperial
and Colonial policy in the Pacific may dic-
tate.” One little thing, however, the peti-
tioners neglected. They forgot to ask the
two dogs referred to whether they would like
a new tail.
There’s a permanent and reproductive
work lying in a corner at the Hobart rail-
way station. In 1890 it was decided that
the Macquarie-street crossing needed a pair
of ornamental iron gates, so the Government
borrowed £5OO and bought them. Then it
was found they were not wanted and they
have never been used and are not likely
to be. But, 26 years later, the kid, the poor
kid, is still paying the interest bill —or has
fled to the mainland to eseaue it.
The hand of a malign Fate has rested
heavily on the Irish Nationalist cause ever
since it raised its head; but no incident in
the long, weary campaign has been so tragic
as the deliberate striking down by Irishmen
of »tlie prize they had toiled to win, at a
moment when it was within their grasp.
Leaders of men and of causes the world over
have tasted bitter disappointment; hut not
many of them have had to swallow the kind
of draught just presented to John Redmond.
One day lie saw Ireland on the steps of
nationhood once more. On the next there
was nothing for him to do but plead for
leniency for Irish allies of the German.
Almost simultaneously with the news of
the intended stoppage of the export of
indentured Indian labor comes the passage
of a Bill through the Leg. Qouncil of Fiji
providing for the acceptance of a loan of
£lOO,OOO by the Fiji Government from the
C.S.R. Go. “for the settlement of Indians
on the land.” If the Indians are not avail-
able, what then? Some idea of the solu-
tion of this problem may he got from the
announcement that the C.S.R. recently
leased two fine properties, previously con-
trolled by Britishers, to Chinese syndicates,
“the syndicates to import their own labor.”
Evidently that's what’s going to happen to
Fiji.
In Fiji they have no income tax, no land
tax; the Customs House is the only blood-
sucker, and while it leaves the worker a
little pale it only tickles Fat. Fat, in the
form of the C.S.R. Co., recently showed its
appreciation by registering the cut-off half
of its little business (the Maoriland and
Fiji eud) in Fiji. Patriotism, in the shape
of the Fiji Government, effected the registra-
tion for a few hundred pounds; the same
job in Australia or M.L. would have cost
as many thousands. Altogether Downing-
street’s receut administration of Fiji could
do with a lot of investigation. Meantime
the growing cry for an income tax is caus-
ing some of the Fiji Fats a little anxiety.
To the attack made upon Mm by the
P.L.L. Conference Holman had one answer
that he didn’t use. The resolution hinged_
upon the Government’s failure to proceed
with the abolition of the Leg. Council. Last
year’s conference had sustained Holman in
his attitude, such as it was, towards that
Chamber. So the resolution this year could
only have reference to his conduct during the
last 12 months. Now, abolition of the Coun-
cil requires an amendment of the Constitu-
tion. That calls for attention by the British
Parliament, and, taking all things into con-
sideration, it is probable that the man who
rushed that body just now with a Constitu-
tion Amendment Bill would stand a fairly
good chance of being handed over to a warder.
Anyhow, the public is rapidly coming to the
conclusion that to abolish the State Assembly
is about as necessary as to sweep away the
Council. Eight Houses may be better than
14; but eight are six too many.
THE THEATRE OF WAR.
THE VILLAIN: “Gott strafe! I did not make
much of ,a hit in that act.”
Pearce sa'ys there is a lot of stinking fish
about the demand for conscription. So
there is. And Ministers who say that the
people of Australia are not sufficiently demo-
cratic to approve of a measure which the
most democratic countries of Europe have
adopted are the people who cry it.
The first Labor member to disturb Tas-
mania’s House of Dodery has just been
elected. He is Jim McDonald, president of
the F.M.E.A., who was turned down at the
recent Assembly election, but in the fight for
the Council managed to knock out Major
Morrisby for the Gordon seat by 623 votes
to 383. As a set-off. Peter McCrackan, a
veteran who committed the crime last session
of acting as Honorary Minister for the
Laborites, was thrown out in Launceston by
Mayor Ilart, a wealthy old Tory.
THE RESCUE.
HOLMAN: “Gee whiz! That one nearly got
us. Whoa, pet!”
A large number of ambitious X. S. Wales
Labor delegates no longer want the Upper
House abolished. They only want it embel-
lished.
Veteran war-correspondent Yilliers. now
lecturing in Australia, scores his strongest
point with a simple note of interrogation.
Speaking of a British gas attack as being
harmless instead of deadly like the German
chlorined vapor, he turns his head from Ms
reading-desk and asks “Why?” Whereupon
the audience to a man—and a woman —ap-
plauds the querist. Why?
Retired from the Active Service list, the
S. Aus. Early Closing League. Few public
bodies have had such a short and successful
career. It was born in November, 1914. In
the following March it engineered a big State
majority on the referendum for six-o’clock
closing of all bars —the Adelaide Club
always excepted, by special dispensation of
the Fat Man’s Council. Last March the
closing came into effect. So the League is
retiring from work, leaving its parent, the
Temperance Alliance, to keep its eye on the
world.
The tiger is quite a Conservative pet these
days, and the Hobart Mercury calls loudly
for more of him :
We are too fond of applying Socialistic methods
to matters that might well be left to individual
enterprise and of invoking voluntary individual effort
where collective action by the State or Common-
wealth might properly be taken. What idiocy it is,
for instance, to go round with a cap for charity to
provide a regiment with a proper kitchen or a band !
We are not sure that this criticism does not apply
also in a measure to the repatriation movement.
Iu fact, the only difference now between the
Socialists and the Anti-Socialists is that the
Anti-Soshers want to socialise something
else.
When Hagelthorn was Vic. Minister of
Works last year he made an order that a
dozen or so one-horse councils which had
failed to earn a revenue of £l5OO fx-om an
annual Is. rate were to be swallowed by
stronger neighboring shires. Of course all
the one-horse councillors rose up and cursed
the Minister: but the general public ap-
plauded this display of departmental muscle
by a member of the weak Peacock team.
When the portfolios were re-shuffled to let
one or two of McLeod’s crowd in, Hutchin-
son got the Works job and Hagelthorn was
appointed to Agriculture. Now it looks as
if the strong-man turn is not to be finished,
after all. Hutchinson, the new artist, will
allow the shires to live on unswallowed if
they can raise £l5OO per year any old way.
So rates are being hastily shoved up and
re-valuations made in order to keep the little
dutchies going, and a lot of money that the
roads can’t spare is to be spent on unneces-
sary officials and their superfluous frill.
Every time Pearce opens his mouth on the
conscription question he shows w w
hopeless, hidebound Conservative he is p a
plying to a deputation from Victorian' .
cipalities the other clay he £a re !l Tl
bodies which had held no recruiting meetW
had no right to pass resolutions urging CO n
script mu. Why haven’t they’ Din i>i
hold recruiting meetings among the cE
before he imposed universal service on E
A Queensland Government de-
partment showed the other dav
1 t see beyond the
oml of its nose. Wanting s „ p
l.lies of linseed oil over a hi
penod it called for tenders and
turned down an Australia,
offer because it was a penny !
gallon above a quote from
India. The Department with
the short sight couldn't or
would nt see that it will he
wanting linseed oil all the davs
of its life, and that the only
sure way of getting reasonably
cheap supplies for the future is
to build up a big, healthy in.
dustry on the spot.
The Victorian crowd has its
trout los, too. George Mead, the
Wesley College schoolmaster
who has grown old in attempt-
ing to enter public life as an
academic Laborite, has been
“blowing the gaff” in regard to
what happened at the confer-
ence in Melbourne. Mead re-
presented the Prahran branch
of the P.L.C.; and speaking
afterwards to his flock he stated
that there were three distinct
tickets run for the places on
the executive—the employers’
section, the Catholic section and
militants’ section—while the
Parliamentary party, the old
executive and the rank and file
straggled along anyhow. But
. , _ Comrade Mead still wears the
beautiful P.L.C. motto on his watch-chain-
“ Each for all. All for each.”
The Adelaide Advertiser, observing that
some of the trade of the South-East goes to
Melbourne, tells the traitors that “the call
- . „ „ , . , fl ,
oug to com P e 'l them to see that
as Australians their loyalty should lie in
this direction”—that is, the direction of
\ c, ~ . „
Adelaide. ‘No South-Easterner,” it adds,
«i„ nU , ~ ,
should prefer to be called a Victorian, nor
should he endeavor to \ ictorianise the
South-East.” No; and there is no good rea-
son why he should Adelaideise it either lie
should Australianise it: and the policy of
Australia is. not to drag trade along the
coast 300 mi i es to a bloated port, but to open
up ports handy to the trade.
TAKING AN INVENTORY.
“This little pig went to Egypt;
This little pig stayed at home.”
Seasonable warning by the chairman of the
National Bank of Australasia: —
It is to be hoped none of us will be misled bv the
present apparent prosperity, caused by the distribu-
tion of borrowed money.
Simultaneously the Savings Bank of X. S.
Wales reported that the previous months
deposits had been rhe greatest on record.
And on the same . day Holman, mak-
ing his usual monthly remarks about
the finances, had the gall to say
that things were pretty good at the
Treasury, “in spite of the war.” Of course
it is on account of the war that the Treasury
feels good. The fearful pains will arrive
when the wasteful horror has to be paid for.
THE LAST PATROL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tlic last patrol of England's fleets
Moves ever, to and fro,
O’er seas where drifting iceberg meets
The southern summer's glow.
A lonely ship—on ocean’s sweep
Of grey, a hull forlorn —
She has her watch and ward to keep
From Leemvin to the Horn.
An east-bound liner saw her pass,
A shape, beyond the mist.
On seas that were like darkened glass
That gleamed with amethyst:
And in the dusk, off Borda Light,
The keepers watched her go,
And saw the royal ensign white
That all seafarers know.
Who says, in pessimistic moods,
That from the Cape to here,
The ships must seek high latitudes
A safer course to steer.?
Who talks of raiders, sweeping south,
To reive our coastal lands?
Strange lights shone off the river-mouth,
You say, across the sands?
Strange lights! And yet no cannon spoke.
The day came, clear and sweet;
The sunlight, through the morning smoke,
Glowed on the waking street.
Oh ! had you watched the sealine grey
Where bitless surges roll,
You would have seen her steam away,
The lonely Last Patrol.
Our fleets in Northern waters cruise,
And every ocean knows
The thunder of the British screws
Where Commerce comes and goes;
And, fighting out front port, at night
A lookout man will see
All suddenly a winking light
Where no light ought to be.
“A British warship!”—watch the Morse
To British steamer speaks;
Follows a word about the course
And news the cruiser seeks.
And then —the night is black again; .
Spray flogs the funnel guys,
And on the bridge the deep-sea rain
Darkens the steersman's eyes.
The Last Patrol of all the fleets
Is she the ship forlorn
That cruises on the lonely beats
From Torres to the Horn ;
Perchance the colliers know her name
That gave her Westport coal;
We only know that in the Game
She is the Last Patrol.
JIAOUILAND.
WILL LAWSON.


The “Bookstall” Series
of Shilling Novels.
Australia’s Foremost Library of Popular Fiction.
Written by Australians.
Printed in Australia.
1,500,000 Volumes
already sold.
BILLS IDEES
BY A G STEPHENS
Ninety Volumes.
Uniformly Bound.
The Ideal Library for
a Country Home.
“IN RACING SILK,”
By GERALD R. BALDWIN.
“THE SPELL OF THE BUSH,”
By JOHN X. CAMERON.
“THE CALLING VOICE,”
By E. F. CHRISTIE.
“THE GOLDEN KANGAROO,”
By AMBROSE PRATT.
“JOHN VANE—BUSHRANGER,”
By CHAS. WHITE.
“LOVES OF LANCELOT,”
By EDWARD DYSON.
“THE SPRING CLEANING,”
By TIIOS. E. SPENCER.
“MUM DAWSON—BOSS.”
By SUMNER LOCKE.
“SODGER SANDY’S BAIRN.”
By A. BATHGATE.
“THE TRADER,”
By C. ROSS-JOHNSON.
“ÜBIQUE,”
By CLARENCE W. MARTIN.
“THE SIGN OF THE SERPENT,”
Bv J. H. M. ABBOTT.
“STELLA SOTHERX,”
By I. A. ROSENBLUM.
“BY HIS EXCELLENCY’S COM-
MAND,”
By ROY BRIDGES.
“GENTLEMAN JACK,”
By DON DELANEY.
“GAMBLERS’ GOLD,”
By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
“THE DEVIL’S NIGHTCAP,”
By LANCELOT BOOTH.
“THE BOOK OF DAN,”
By STEELE RUDD.
“THE KNIGHT OF THE MOTOR
LAUNCH,”
By ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
“LOVE AND THE AEROPLANE,”
By JOHN SANDES.
“THE DOUBLE ABDUCTION,”
By H. K. BLOXHAM.
“ROCKY SECTION,”
By SYDNEY PARTRIGE.
“CHANDLER OF CORRALINGA,”
By R. J. CASSIDY.
“TOM PAGDIN, PIRATE,”
By E. J. BRADY.
1 - each.
All Bookstalls and
Booksellers.
XST
Tiffinmts DQff
DELANEY
1/1 posted.
Write for a Complete
Catalogue.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. Ltd., 476 George St., Sydivey
iiniiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiimimimmimmmimmmmmmmmmmiimmimimimmimimmiminmmmmmnmmi
The British Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Co., Ltd.
Electric Meters
and Instruments
Meters and Instruments of all types are designed,
manufactured, and tested at Trafford Park,
Manchester, by the British Westinghouse Electric
and Manufacturing Co., Ltd.
There are sufficient types for you to select one
exactly suited to your requirements whether for
switchboard or portable use.
They are sensitive without being delicate and
perfectly dead beat.
They embody all the latest improvements in their
design and construction. They are given a high
grade finish and present a pleasing appearance.
They combine ideal simplicity with permanent
accuracy, unimpaired by temperature changes,
throughout a long life.
Portable types are compact and light, in neatly
finished dust-proof cases.
The accuracy of Westinghouse meters is a safe-
guard against loss of revenue and their use reduces
inspection and maintenance costs to a minimum.
The highest grade of measuring instruments is
the only grade for your purpose.
SEND YOUR ENQUIRIES TO NEAREST OFFICE.
fstinobus?
Manchester
Head Office for Australia:
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Agents:
Standard Waygood Hercules Ltd.,
77, King Street, Sydney.
Elder, Shenton & Co., Ltd.,
Williams Street, Perth.
Elder, Smith & Co.. Ltd..
27-31, Currie Street, Adelaide.
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.,
84-88, William Street, Melbourne,
Agents in New Zealand: Turnbull and Jones, Ltd-,
Wellington, Auckland. Christchurch, and Dunedin.
Works— TrafTord Park. Manchester. England.
Estate,
Quiraing'
SYDNEY,
Edg'ecliffe-Woollabra
(Midway between Ocean Street and Bellevue Hill Trams).
MANSION SITES Consisting of 17 Allotments,
Average Frontage 75 feet to 80 feet, by Good Depths,
to Edgecliffe Road, Trelawney Street, Fullerton Street and Wellington Street.
For Private Sale in Subdivision.
Also the well-known Residence, “Quiraing,” recently the residence of Dr. Ewan Fraser, with about Two Acres
Frontage to Trelawney Street.
Practically the last sites in large areas now available in this favored district, amidst the well-known Mansions
and Homes of Prominent Citizens.
GOOD LEVEL BUILDING LAND.
The Fstate Grounds are beautifully laid out, and each Block is highly -improved from a Horticultural standpoint,
which is of incalculable value to those building.
TITLE TORRENS.
Now ready, printed in book form, a description of the whole property, illustrated, plan of subdivision attached;
also drawings of residences now in course of erection upon Lots 2 and 7.
TERMS * 10 per cent. Deposit. Balance in 5 years £it 5 per cent. Price, Lithographs tinci
full particulars from the Agents.
We will prefer to accompany you to inspect this property by appointment where possible.
STANTON <&. SON LTD.,
Real Estate Ag'ents, 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCH3, LIHITED, Redfern, Sydney.
Men shaved years ago in a way
that gashed their chins and
spoilt their tempers. Why cling
to these old-time methods ?
NO STROPPING i
NO STROPPING NO HONING
combines safety, speed and
comfort with adjustability.
Sold everywhere. One Guinea. British
Made. Write for free booklet. Agents:
S.Ho£fnung&Co.,Ltd.,Pitt Street, Sydney.
Gillette Safety Razor, Ltd., London, Eng
world over.
The career of conscription in
shows that a flexible leader may
wise ends with less friction than
masterful one, opines that wise spir
George IV. topnotch Scotch. — Advt.
Britain
achieve
a more
it King
BRVUXMVISWVHi
i iii inuimuMHw
KING OF ALL, METAL POLISHES
i Keeps automobile fittings new au
all metals a pleasure to look at. 11> h '
safe polish for aluminum. Made ot t
finest oils —no acid or ammonia .
Does the work quickly and gives a, lMtj
ing polish. Sold in two size cans byau
i Grooerv. Hardware and Drug Stores.
Lonk for the Photo or r «" -
THE
"HA
BROODY HENS for 12/6.
The “HATCHO” 16-egg
is a perfect substitute for a
Hen, will hatch every fertile eg=.
simple to use, cannot get out of
Over 4000 sold last season.
Price 12/6 complete,
Egg Testers 1/2 each. Agents
R. CASTOX & CO., Dept. H.,
40 Hunter Street, Sydney*
SPORTING
NOTIONS
TO OLD JOHN MURRAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sleep well, John Alurra.v, for the long last time,
Forgetful of the personal attack,
The rough cartoon, the disrespectful rhyme ;
Henceforth we will remember you as “Jack,”
The man you were before you turned your coat —-
Not John teetotaller, but Jack tee-Tote.
victoria. O.K.
* * * *
There was some good racing at Tatter-
sail's meeting in Sydney on Saturday, and the cold
wind was only moderately tempered to the lambs
who were shorn at the A.. 1.0. fixture in the previous
week. AVhile the Cup was being run it wasn’t tem-
pered at all. The race is invariably a disastrous
one for punters, and this time disaster arrived in an
avalanche, with Karanaud King, 6st. 71b., a rank
outsider, well in front. Fantarie, the imported Eng-
lish mare, who had run a good second over a mile
and a half in the Place Handicap the Saturday
before, was backed down to 3’s. Canzone at 4’s.
Karanaud King, occupying a good position all the
way, landed into the straight alongside the favorite,
and, shaking her off at the distance, won with a lot
to spare by a good three lengths, amid a vast, abys-
mal silence. Whereupon Ikey girded up his loins
and withstood a heavy charge of punters, who wanted
to back the imported Celano at 3’s for the Novice
Handicap—l 7 starters. AVhy they backed him the
good Lord only knows. He is a surly brute, went
out only after making emphatic remonstrance, and
ran like a rotter. Anotto (7st. 41b.) and Tartan’s
Double (7st.) fought out the finish. They are a
very decent pair, and ran the seven furlongs in
“27f.”
The flying Poitrina, carrying 9st. 71b., made 18
other youngsters look like carthorses in the youthful
Stakes. She cleared right away from them and won,
easing up, by four lengths' from Hitachi, having
negotiated the five furlongs in lmin. lsec. This
immature lady stands out as the fastest thing of her
sex in Australia just now. But the filly that takes
her jockey’s breath away leaping through the air
in the autumn often doesn’t do it again when the
spring happens along. Poitrina and AVolaroi are
going to be Australia's great national problems when
they are six months older. •
Three, having run into second and third places at
the A.J.C. meeting, had a chance of justifying his
name by winning the Denman Stakes, and thus com-
pleting the sequence. He carried a saddle-cloth with
“3” on it, Ikey W'as yelling 3 to 1 about him, and
his years are 3 in number ; and there is a great fool-
pubiic which pays attention to these things and calls
them “the office.” If it sees a parson it looks at
the race-card and sees the Christian Brother is
to have a go, and calls that “the office,” too—and
generally loses its cash. But the alleged tip to •
hank on Three w'as all right this time. The animal
sprinted to the front early in the proceedings and
stayed there, and the multitude of persons explaining
all about the significance of “3” were loud in the
land while AlacShortodds in a broken voice announced
his readiness to pay the winner. Three ran the six
furlongs at his ov'n pace and passed the judge in
“12f,” half a second only outside the record for the
course put up by Soultline eight years ago. If Fisher
had given him a kick of encouragement Three’s
name wmuld have gone on the hook.
; The McMahon family, one of whom,
James, owns Karanaud King, which romped away
with Sydney City Tattersall’s Cup on Saturday, didn’t
have five bob on the disappointing brute. They
Were justified in their caution. The fact that
Karanaud King was ordered only 6st. 71b. proved
that even the handicapper didn’t think much of his
prospects. Karanaud King was a runner in Sydney
Cup, and after being well up for a mile dropped
right out, and was one of the last two to reach
home. In that race 100 to 1 was vainly' offered to
the public, although the McMahons had a sneaking
regard for their horse’s chance. Thirty-three to one
w'as easily obtainable on Saturday. This Prudent
King colt was the third outsider in succession to
beat the favorite into second place in rich handicaps
in a fortnight. Eurobin started the debacle by win-
ning the Doncaster from AYoorak, and then Prince
Bardolph rifled the public pocket some more by
downing Green Cap.
What mad freak made the public go
baldheaded for the imported nag Celano in Tatter-
sail’s Novice Handicap last Saturday'? One explana-
tion is that he came down from Newcastle, and any-
thing on four legs from that quarter seems to be
regarded as worth risking a wad upon. Yet
the wretched nag had tried on 13 occasions to
win a race at Newcastle and never once succeeded.
Patrick Aloses w'as so obsessed by' the seriousness
ot the matter that he opened up by offering 6 to 4
againt Celano. Then he warily lengthened out to
7 to 4, and not being knocked off his perch took
courage and called “3 to 1 the field.” Then the
money tumbled in. The mad-headed brute gave the
ALL. jockey Low r e a rough passage round. In the
circumstances, the man on board did well to bring
Celano into fourth place even though he was many
lengths behind the winner.
*• * * *
Duke Alwyne looks like making a great
hid for the Newcastle Cup again this year. Twelve
months back, with 7st., he won the event. This
time the titled animal has 41b. less on top, and on
Saturday demonstrated that everything was O.K.
with his feet by easily securing Boolaroo Alay Handi-
cap, conducting Bst. over a mile and a quarter in
2min. lOsec. AVhereupon punters unloaded some of
their winnings in supporting the Duke for the Cup.
The improvement worked on Blague in a
few w'eeks is remarkable. Just prior to the New-
market Handicap, which the nag won in 1915,
Blague was given a full-dress rehearsal in Aloonee
A’aliey Trial Stakes. Odds were laid on him in a
small field, and he ran like a goat. On Saturday he
won the Goodwood Handicap (S.A.), of 700 sovs., with
ridiculous ease. Horses well behind him were lownif
(third), which occupied a similar position in the
last Newmarket, Achernar, Aliss Bob, Aliss Neckersgat
and Tringa, all of which ma.v he considered class
enough to be given a cut in the next big dash down
FJemington straight this y'ear. Blague is the
property of one of the Svmes, who races under the
name of “S. A. Rawdon.”
* * * »
St. Spasa, who downed a hot favorite in
Cyklon for the Adelaide Cup on Alondav and paid a
£l2 div., is, like the unreliable beast he walloped,
a “pommy'.” He was sent out to Australia by Robin-
son and Clarke, and for a time was trained by Billy
Kelso at Randwick, and won a Aletropolitan. Flash
of Steel arrived about the same time, and last
spring both nags were sent into the auction-ring
at Alelbourne. Kelso apparently thought Flash of
Steel the better of the pair, as he acquired him and
allowed St. Spasa to go to S. Aus. The other prad
is now in the paddock. Cyklon, favorite for the
Cup, was also bred in the Cold Country, and after
winning Elder Stakes on Saturday was thought to
be a certainty' for the richer, though less aristo-
cratic, race. But Cyklon is never a certainty for
anything. » » *
“Musketoon” : For years I have been get-
ting tons of excitement cheap—trying to back every
winner at every race meeting I visit. The recipe is
simple. If the day is a bad one my loss is never
more than 55., so there is no danger of my being
put in the bull-ring for hooking the boss’s cash to
square up with. On the first race I dump ss. on the
most likely-looking sort. If it loses —no more bet-
ting for me that day! AVhen it gets home first I
plank the winnings on the next race and keep on
doing it. On Doncaster day at Randwick I backed
five winners and ended up square. I had ss. on
The Spire in the Hurdles, four to one, and, pocketing
55., put the £1 on Reputation in the Autumn Stakes,
and scored £5 10s. Backing two-year-olds is not
a strong point with me, but, all the same, bang
went the £5 10s. on Thana,' which once more landed
the bacon. AlacShortodds thought I had been
drinking when £59 10s. went on Eurobin at 33 to
one, but he laughed on the other side of his ear
when I called round to collect £2023. It seemed
risky putting two thousand odd on Kandos to beat
Cetigne and Patrobas, but I chanced it, and at six
to one collected £14,161. Then it took a lot of per-
suading to coax myself to jamb the whole lot on
the last race, but as a faint heart never broke a fat
bookmaker, I fired the whole £14,161 on Sy'dian in
the Highweight. The wretched animal finished
last, but Ikey' had a narrow squeak all the same of
being asked for £84,966.
“Trot”: How much is riding on Austra-
lian courses affected by' (1) the blindness of authority',
(2) the reckless conduct of horsemen, (3) the fear
jockeys have of the consequences of reporting inter-
ference? The number of times the public hears of a
jockey reporting another for try'ing to empty him out
of the saddle on the journey is mighty small. The
number of times jockeys have been blamed for poor
judgment in riding is pretty considerable. But
neither the public nor the stewards always know the
kind of milk that is in the cocoanut. Jockeys don’t
report one another more often because they have to
ride again, and want to be reasonably sure there are
not a dozen or so others with a “snout” on them.
If there is the ride may not be pleasant, or some-
thing may happen suddenly off the course at night
with odds of 12 to one.
* * * *
Anybody ever heard of a horse losing a
walk-over ? AYell, it happened at Gladstone, on
the Alacleay (N.S.AAL). AVaddy Boy was the only
horse to go to the post in the last race. As he was
cantering round his 121 b. leadbag slipped off, and
he was disqualified.
CLARKE
MAC OK ACHY,
Maoriland
billiard
champion.
How’s this for a record? On the conclud-
ing day of the Calcutta racing season earlv in Alarch
out of six events on the programme five W’ere won
by animals belonging to J. C. Gaulstaun, all booted
home by the English horse-pilot AA'ing.
In 1914 there were 301 flat-racing fixtures
in England. Last year the total was pruned hard to
96 ; this year the shears have been put in again and
another 31 roll off.
Amid the clash of a world at war someone
found time to cable from London that the famous
mare La Fleche was dead. Owned by Baron Hirsch,
who wasn’t born in Aberdeen, La Fleche won several
classic turf events in ’9l-’92, but was beaten in the
Derby.
John Bull’s Government will shortly be
racing prads, as well as breeding and owning them.
Colonel Hall AA’alker having presented his stud to the
Government, with a view to breeding nags suitable
for army work, it has become necessary to find
out what's w'hat. So several of the most promising
two-year-olds in the stud have been leased to Lord
Lonsdale, who will train and race them under an
arrangement that the Government takes half the cash
they earn. Will the State go the whole hog and
place a vote on the Estimates for putting a bit on
the prads with MacShortodds ?
When the Moana swung into Wellington
(M.L.) the other day from U.S.A. she had something
faster than the ’Frisco mail on board. This was the
pacing stallion Copa de Oro. The animal was im-
ported by Charlie Hudson, of Dunedin, who expects
to produce a string of flying machines, because the
nag is credited with having paced a mile in lmin.
59sec.! This time was never “passed,” but he has
an authenticated record of 2min. lsec., which puts
him in the front rank. He is the sire of the famous
Rayo de Oro, the champion three-year-old pacing
gelding of Fried Niggerland.
Ten seconds after the starting gong
sounded at Sydney Stadium on Saturday Air.
Edward Alov, of the U.S.A., was getting beans. Air.
Herbert AlcCoy, of Victoria, was assaulting him with
great fervor and continued doing the same thing
until the first interval arrived, whereupon Mr. Aloy
took a seat, had his nose mended with collodion
and listened to some earnest advice about where to
keep his face. He looked as cheap as peanuts. They
had run into clinches in* that first round, and at
infighting the Yank wasn’t worth tuppence. AlcCoy
got all over him with hard, short jolts which nearly
knocked his head off. For 10 rounds the A’ietorian,
finding that at close quarters Aloy was practieallv
helpless, carried the battle there and gave the
stranger a really good hiding. At this stage the
argument looked like ending abruptly, though Moy
didn’t look cheap any' longer. He had shown that
he could box with fine skill, could use bis feet with
speed and judgment, and had tremendous vitality.
Therefore, instead of being woodened, he started to
hold his own fairly well, and ir. the next few rounds
commenced to make McCoy wear a worried look. By'
the end of the sixteenth he was master of the situa-
tion, and for the rest of the journey had the other
fellow alternately hanging on or on the run. At
the end there was nothing for Scott to do but give
McCoy his benediction ; but the winner was mighty
glad the disturbance had finished. Luckily for
McCoy, Aloy had found out too late how to fight him.
The stranger is not decorated with a beauteous
dial bv nature, and after a hostile glove had laid
an eye open, cut his nose across and burst his lips,
Mov was no more handsome than before. But this
youngster has a big heart and extraordinary stamina,
and is a better boxer than McCov, and if the pair
meet again the Australian may not get away with
the bacon as he did on Saturday. Moy was com-
pletely demoralised at first, and was a long time
discovering that McCoy is singularly open to attack
with the right. He seems to have ifo defence against
this and no great liking for a welt on the jaw. But
he would beat Afoy every time they met unless the
other fellow either learned something in the in-
terval about infighting or interposed a smack on the
jaw before it took place.
“Roughhouse” Burns got away with
Matt Murphy’s scalp at Brisbane on Saturday.
Matthew stood a severe battering in the sector where
he keeps his grub, and at the end of the tenth
batter reckoned things had gone far enough. The
iron-visaged Canadian smiled agreement, and went
to get ready for a scrap with Ferdinand Quendreux.
“Masetto” : In the good old days pugs had
a reserve blow in the shape of a butt with the head.
At Andover, in 1834, Sam Evans, “Young Dutch
Sam,” fought Gavnor, “the Bath carpenter.” Sixteen
rounds had occupied two hours, and both men were
sparring for wind. Suddenly Gaynor caught Evans
by the hands, but that astute general, instead of
wrestling, dashed his dome full in Gaynor’s face.
Evans followed up his bull-goat act by dealing out
port and starboard sheol, and next round the timber-
merchant was easily finished. Evans’s elegant style
of butting was declared foul in subsequent ring legis-
lation.
For their 10-round no-deeision assault at
New York recently Willard received £13,150 ( £1270
as his share in the motion pictures) and Moran col-
lected £5875. Total takings amounted to £37,500.
* * . * *
“Cleido”: When “Sam” Cassidy captured
the Stawell (Vic.) Handicap, the blue ribbon of
professional sprinting, bn Easter Monday he regis-
tered his first big win over the Sheffield distance
(130yds.). Starting off 131yds. he rushed over the
remaining distance in 11 3-ssec. If the time is
correct he ran Jyd. inside “even time.” Which is
rapid travelling, and gives the men on the virtual
scratch mark (7yds. and Byds.) less than Buckley’s
chance of getting the cash. Hitherto Sam’s chief
pastime has been arriving home first in 220vdff. and
440yds. doubles, at which kind of flutter he is a
topnotcher.
* * * *
G. B. Shaw, who left England recently to
take whatever is waiting for fine athletes and good
fellows, was a world-famous hurdler in his day. Ama-
teurs and pros, everywhere took their hats off to
Shaw, for he was the first man to leap over 120yds.
of obstacles in less than 16sec. ’Way back in the
’Bo’s a slim young man arrived in Maoriland from
England with a lot of beautiful clothes, a pair of
running shoes and two flying feet, took a job as a
clerk with the N. Z. L. and M. A. Co. at Timaru, and
started to pursue the jam-dish and toast-rack.
Heavens, how he could run over hurdles! He was
easily champion of Maoriland, and, after a few years,
went back to London with a crate of e.p. ware, and
commenced showing the world’s best his heels.
Each year from ’93 to ’96 he won the 120vds. cham-
pionship at Stamford Bridge, his best time being
15 3-ssec., a really wonderful performance then, and
only beaten since by the merest fraction. Perhaps
his mightiest effort was when he won a handicap from
15vds. behind scr. in 17sec. Death beat him at 51.
* * * *
Victorian premiership cricket for the
season yielded some fine batting averages: W. Sewart
(Carlton), 671 runs, average 95.85 ; Warwick Arm-
strong (Melb.), 842 —93.55: and Kiernan (Fitzrov),
660—42.55. With the ball, H. McLean (Carlton) gath-
ered most wickets —52, for an average of 22.66.
Better averages, however, went to A. Kennv (S.
Melb.), 43 at 12.3; L. Braid (E. Melb.), 31 at
14.54 ; H. Ironmonger (Melb.), 46 at 14.67 ; and IV.
Allen (E. Melb.), 49 at 15.18. With the season
over, IV. Sewart dropped into khaki with the object
of getting a game in Berlin.
Dr. R. B. Minnett, the University crack
batsman and bowler, who reached fame by taking
eight wickets in an innings against the last visiting
English team, has been serving with the British
forces. Now he comes home to join the A.I.F.
* * * *
R. J. A. Massie is rapidly improving his
average. Last month he was promoted from lieuten-
ant to captain. Last Thursday he was gazetted
major.
* * * *
Motor-cycle records got another tilt lately.
In the 200-mile toot at Mortlake (Vic.) H. Parsons
whizzed over 101.7 miles in 97min., and thereby
w r rote a new line in the book ; while the full journey,
by N. G. Duckett, in 3hr. 40min. 42sec. knocked
out Yankee Baker’s Australian record of 3hr. 41min.
E. Absolom put up a very good motor-
cycle dash the other day in an effort to catch the
Rotomahana with a supplementary mail before she
got out of the Tamar. AA'ith 201 b. of letters slung
over his shoulder -he left Hobart at noon, and bv
4.55 p.m. had covered the 160 miles to Beauty
Point, though the roads were muddy and in bad
shape. He missed the boat, after all, but only by
10 minutes.
According to The Horseless Age. there
are 3,114,000 motor_ vehicles on the planet. Of these
2,400,000 are in U.S.A. Britain comes next with
276.690. France has 98,400, Germany 71,455, Aus-
tralia 20,350. Maori];)nd, with a population of only
one million, had 10,010, or one machine for everv
100 inhabitants. On a Population basis Hicketty-
ville stands second to AVilson’s country, which had
one car for every 45 residents.
“Barcoo”: Met a once well-known snort
in Emerald (Q.) a week or so ago—wWi
man Bill Richmond, whom Plugger Bill Marti
“discovered” at a cycling carnival in" Rrk
bane. Plugger Bill made no mistake when he lobbed
on the Glasgow boy, who had perfected his riding
in the Sunny South. He induced Richmond into the
professional ranks, and took him to America where
they still talk of the unbeatable “Caldo” in’ handi
caps. He got away with no less than 37 of these
straight out, five of them in succession in New
Orleans City. With Martin attending to the
sprints, and “Caldo” making no errors in the handi
cap, bags of dollars flowed to the treasury. He
looks just as fine a type of man as the day I saw
him sprinting over the winning mark at New
Orleans like a flash from a gun.
It lias been claimed by N.S.W. Rugby
League that 2000 of its players have enlisted. Mavbe
Nevertheless, an analysis of the first-grade teams
which figured in Saturday’s games shows that Bal-
main, last year’s premiers, has one new plaver ■
Glebe two, Eastern Suburbs two, Annandale five :
South Sydney one, Newtown none, Western Suburbs
none, and North Sydney two. And the Government
still sets its face against conscription.
* * * *
The Vic. “Head of the River” races were
rowed on the Barwon (Geelong) last week. The
heats were won by Wesley, Geelong and Melbourne
Grammar. The final was spoilt by a collision. The
river is not wide enough for three crews, especially
with schoolboys at the tiller. Wesley, coming out
too wide at a bend, collided with Geelong Gram-
mar, and was disqualified. Then the two Grammars
rowed, and Melbourne was the winner. This is the
first time the Dark Blues have been in front.
Wesley reckoned it was badly treated, and, anyway,
the Barwon will probably never be the scene of the
race again.
“Bad Australian”: Away back in 1914
every aviator in South America had notions about
flying across the Andes, but the death of that fine
athlete and sport, engineer George Newberry, when
his ’plane fell with hiip at Mendoza, coupled with
Macias's miraculous escape when attempting the
flights from Uspallata a few weeks later, seemed to
have put the kybosh on the hopes of the bird-men.
But another risk-merchant has arisen in the land.
His name is Bradley, and he proposes to cross the
ranges in a balloon accompanied by a military friend.
They are now busy in Buenos Aires getting the gas-
bag in condition. There is one circumstance which
Bradley appears to have overlooked, and that is that
the winds which fan the summit of the Andes always
blow from the Pacific, and how he expects to claw
across in the teeth of an Andean zephyr beats me.
What he should do if he means business is to
inflate his balloon somewhere on the Pacific coast,
take in about a month’s provisions and let her
drift. His undertaking as at present outlined looks
about as hopeful as old Vanderdecken’s attempt to
punch around the Cape. Of course, starting from
the coast the air vehicle is liable to be blown out
to sea by some unexpected air current. So if, during
the next month or two, you should observe a strange
bird hovering over The Bulletin office, don’t worry;
it will only be Bradley making his landfall after a
somewhat trying voyage.
* * * *
The game of billiards is of very respect-
able antiquity in Australia. According to the general
muster of the inhabitants taken in 1800, just before
the departure of Governor Hunter, Sydney found
employment for one billiard-marker. He was bracketed
with a musical-instrument maker, each being the
only representative of his kind the settlement could
boast of.
* * *
Colonel Cody, the Buffalo Bill of the
penny dreadfuls and Wijd West business, has
quitted showmanship and is running a sum-
mer resort at a ranch in the mountains
of Wyoming (IJ.S.A.). Bill houses his boarders either
at his ranch or in cabins and tents on the place.
His idea is to cater for actors, vaudevillains and
show people who want a rest after a fast season.
Sydney bowlers have worked off two more
championships. In the pairs, Alderson and Fraser
(Kuring-gai) defeated Brogden and Leitc-h (Redfern)
by 25—20 ; and as Kuring-gai won the pairs last
year (with Alderson and Clarke), the honor doesn’t
shift out of the club-house. In the “rinks’ Moses
(Ashfield) had a runaway win against Morgan (Peter-
sham) by 35 —14, from which the skipper got a
crumb of comfort for defeat in the singles by
Colquhoun.
“Bass” : What is known as big game fish-
ing lately commenced a new season in N. S. Males.
At certain times the estuaries on the coast Broken
Bay, Port Hacking and Port Stephens—swarm with
opulent, useless fish, including tunny, Spanish
mackerel and such like. The Angling Club, mostly
doctors, lawyers and bankers of sporting tastes, spends
much time and money in toying for these members
of the Finny Legislative Council with rod and reel.
The method adopted is to hire a motor-boat ot tan
speed and to patrol likely ground. Then when you
get a strike the launch driver has the time of his
innocent life to help land the fish. AAhen two men
on the same launch strike together there is a biggo
circus than Wirths’. I went out with one of these
boats t’otber week-end. We had a good day, an
when we started for home we were well out at sea,
nothing in sight and a bit of a jobble. The lonely
aspect of the outfit suddenly came home to me. anc
asked the man in charge a few questions. He ha
on board neither air-tanks, lifebelts, fire-extinguishei,
spare oars nor boat for emergency. So I thought
would liven up the picnic. “Any of y’ou chaps kn w
Larsen?” They didn’t. “Who was he?” I explained
that Larsen was a well-known motor-launch skipp ,
that the other week he left Wollongong for Sydney,
and that when off Clifton something crackled. Before
Larsen could wink the craft was ablaze from s
to stern. He did the only thing he could when ne
jumped overboard. Someone asked was Ins .
found, and I remarked that Larsen had a ding
towing astern, and that in it he drifted bar"
Wollongong. “How far out was he?” ‘Oh, about as
far as we are.” One by one pipes went out am
was a sort of restraint on the party. One ot
days some of Sydney's professional men "l l K
fishing. And all that will come back will be a
of petrol. The British Board ,of Trade _
allow motor-boats to carry passengers at sea ,
under stringent rules, and it won’t stand p
driven seagofng launches at all. No more to ■
The Spanish mackerel will have to have diamoi
teeth before I go after him again.


My Scientific Exercises are Keys to
Health and Strength.
lour health and strength depend upon exercise.
Exercise is the judicious movement of the organs of the body, so
that they will not become flabby through want of use.
AN hen an organ becomes flabby it cannot carry out its functions
in a natural way. It goes from bad to worse. Eventually it is a
source of never-ending annoyance—then chronic ill-health.
Judicious exercise is the key of health.
It cuts out monotony, accomplishes permanent results quickly,
takes up very little time. Every movement goes right to the spot.
My Postal Course of Health and Strength Exercises
consists of exercises prescribed to suit the particular requirements
of the individual.
It is the key of better health and greater strength. It’s
benefiting hundreds throughout Australasia and New Zealand.
It is making them stronger and better men. Here’s one
pupil’s experience:—-
“I feel much stronger and better in every way since I
started tyour Course. I thank you most sincerely for bring-
ing me better health. I will always recommend your Postal
Course to my friends.” —H.L.S., Warwick, Q.
Walking is a fine exercise, but few can find time for a
daily five-mile jaunt. But everyone can spare fifteen
minutes a day. Devote that time to my Special Health
Exercises, and you’ll be delighted with the results.
Full particulars of my methods and fees are given in my
booklet, “Health and Strength from Self-Culture,” which
will be promptly sent to you if you will write for it. Just
write your name and address across this advertisement. I’ll
know what you mean. Send three penny stamps for postage
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
493 Belmont Buildings, SYDNEY.
Because I Happen
to toe a Cheruto--
CAROLINA
CHERUTO,
open at both ends, I
cost ever so much less
than a finely-made
cigar.
Yet I am just as good
to smoke.
Like my more expen-
sive brothers. I also AM
MADE IN HAVANA.
And I was a great fav-
orite in the time of
Christopher Columbus.
Since then I have been
re-discovered, and you
can buy me in silver-foil
bundles of 5 for 2/-
Carolina Cherutos.
5 for 2/-; 35/-per 100
Postage on 5,2 d.
100, N.S.W., 9d. ; Inter-
State, 1/2.
Write for my Catalog of
Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobaccos,
Pipes, etc. It will interest
all smokers.
Actual Size.
A. M. SOLOMON,
“ CIQAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
5Jff LL
muo
MiplHhft
Armoured cars of the
Allies are run on
‘SHELL’
BENZINE
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO-LTD.
"ifadim
Makes All Australia
Your Pleasure Ground
ft
a
Mm
WHIIH HUB CATALOOUE
RHODES MOTOR CYCLE CO.
PTY 109-113 RUSSELL ST
LID. MELBOURNE.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co., Ltd.
SELL WOOL & SKINS. 0
Personal attention to all consignments. Wh V not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Everv Dress-Particular Man
appreciates the high quality of
RIGNEY SHOES.
Footwear is the last touch which either
makes, or mars, a man’s appearance ; theie-
fore, select your shoes carefully.
We illustrate a Patent Colt Oxford Shoe,
in very popular and high-grade made-to-
order style. The brogue cap affords very
reliable wear.
Price - 2716
Also in Tan Velour Calf, same price.
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
*>>
J /&
r
■'Si
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men's Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE-.
KRUSE’S
HID MAGNESIA.
©cl& ffldoal,
ffatcnna. 1883
KRUSE'S
FLUID MAGNESIA.
v\nxww' sxs vx\' us mtt w W*J
w**»*'A.y*AVvv \a:\swv ax.vA.m'WX* ta»#
VWXVJ OvV' \X v'A\*A.Yv'Xl! V«i <V« ««M»
\\y xxmwww' x«m*» #****•»* «***
t)A\.\.V Vtt.Vv'AVA’ XXVAAX'A.V VV#A "
»X am M»5 *m« ««m»
IK(» »,\XA>\\'o ASAM'IAX OAVA* iXtktO
tiXtH *SX? \'vH- A'X*«« «'«(V MAXII4V
»%\NC>.I» v» \«l AXtV >'* .WV.\XtO*.\ll»
X\K\X»'
\'S i<
FELTON.
£5 ■“ ‘ ! ■■■■• •£
The Australian Remedy for
Indigestion,
Biliousness and
Acidity of the
Stomach.
A MILD APERIENT FOR
OLD AND YOUNG.
ALLAYS FEVERISH CONDITIONS DUE TO
VACCINATION AND TEETHING. A COOL-
ING MEDICINE FOR SPRING AND SUMMER.
Sold by Chemists and Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
TVh-nl^
m
U 4
'
01!
J. ilvlVx
• j >- 95
U -w-
L
A DAMP PROOF BOOT
This “Wearite” Model is something unique, by reason of
its Exclusive Feature —“ Rubber-Packing.” This consists
of a Fine Sheet of Rubber inserted between the Welt and
the sole, through which no moisture can penetrate, and
which renders the Boot absolutely Damp-Proof. But apart
from this feature, the Boot represents really out-of-the-
ordinary value. It would be
PROPERLY PRICED AT 22 6
the beautiful Quality, of the Fine, Soft Stout, Fully Matured
Box-Calf in which it is made and the perfection ot its
manufacture meriting this amount which would be further
justified bv present market rates. We can qfcote 18/6
because the line is part of an immense purchase
made before the Recent Rises In Leather—■, —_—
The “Rubber-Packed Wearite*' Is Leather-Lined from Tag
to Toe-has Welted Double Soles-ls stocked in Full
Round Toe as shewn and in i sizes.
POST YOUR ORDER.
We Pay Freight. We Guarantee Satisfaction.
Lincoln,
Stuart & Co
Pty
S:
f
lew- Street
MELBOURNE.
• aB.
Ifielhin Sheet
of Rubber between
Weltand Sole :
m
mr r
WFm-- . 1 ■■-,p-


Good Health, Good Looks,
Good Spirits, Good Sleep
A clear head, clear complexion, clear eye,
clear bowels are the reward
of keeping the liver clear:
and Carter’s Little
Liver Pills take
care of that. Don’t
wait to be bilious.
Keep them at
hand. Purely
vegetable.
Sale for
children.
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
Have You a BAD LEG
perhaps surrounded with inflammation and
swo’.len, that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression ?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Perhaps
your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored. The disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Try the great British Remedy:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which you will find a certain remedy.
Also for Poisoned Hands, House-
maid Knees, Carbuncles, Absces-
ses, Snake and Insect Bites, &c.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store.
British Prices, 1/3 and 3/-
AL3ERT & CO., Albert House, Farringdon St ,
Agents— LONDON, Eng.
ELLIOTT BROS.
W. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ANTHONY HORDERN k SONS, etc.
Latest Novelty for a Present
The Steel Lined
Pocket Book with
Two Pockets for Papers
Strongly made. Tan Leather
Covers, Steel Plate in each—will
stop a bullet. Preserves docu-
ments. Ideal gift for soldiers.
Price
12/6
Postage
6d.
Extra
Send for latest List of Gifts to select from.
ROTH WELL’S LTD., "SUE"
Instant Relief
for Sore Feet
Tender Feet, Sore Feet, Swollen Feet
cured without delay. New Foot
Medicine Quickly Banishes All
Foot Ailments
“My feet just
ache for ‘Biff’ ”
m
IF
To those who are troubled with sore, tender,
aching, swollen, perspiring, unpleasant smelling
feet, bunions, corns or hard skin, “BIFF” will
bring quick relief and gladness to the feet. Use
“BIFF” today and banish all pain and discomfit.
By using “BIFF” once a week you will insure
your feet against all foot troubles. “BIFF” is a
scientific compound which draws out all poisonous
matter from the feet, which clog and choke pores
of the skin. One application of this unique com-
pound will render the feet sweet and antiseptic.
Its delightful results must be experienced to be
believed.
MRS. CARTER WRITES :—For ''ears my feet
gave me much trouble. It was jurgatory to
have to walk far, but after using one box of
“Biff” I can walk with perfect ease and com-
fort, there is nothing to compare with your
i preparation for foot trouble.”
“Biff” can be obtained through all chemists and
stores ; if not in stock send direct to the manu-
facturers. Price Is. 6d. per box, or triple size box
4s. (triple box contains threetimes the Is.6d. size).
The “Biff” Manufacturing Co., 114 a Pitt Street,
Sydney.
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices. 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tne
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
The SIGNS of SUPERIORITY
in Blue and Black Serges, Coatings,
and Dress materials are proclaimed
by the trade-marks here illustrated.
Every yard of
Genuine FOX Serges
bears these trade-marks. Ask for
“Fox” Serges—look for the trade-
marks —insist on these guarantees of
quality.
Manufactured by FOX Brothers & Co. Ltd., Somerset,
Eng. If you cannot obtain Fox Serges locally write
the agents. Stogdale & Sons Pty. Ltd., Box 1802
G.P.0., Sydney, who will tell you the nearest store-
keeper stocking it.
The Right Pistol for
the Boys at the Front
Ask any of the returned Anzacs what they think of a good
Automatic Pistol, they will all say the same as they tell us:
“It’s absolutely the best thing to help a man out of a tight
corner.”
Full equipment, including Pistol, Holster, Special Lan-
yard and 200 cartridges, £5/16/-. This price is only for
men in uniform.
ALCOCK & PIERCE,
318 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
ir*
Mothersill s
SEASICK? REMEDY
Analysed by Sir Charles Cameron,
C. 8., M.D., President Society of
Public Analysts, England. Does
not contain Cocaine, Morphine,
Opium, Chloral, or any of the
Cdal Tar Products.
NO BAD AFTER EFFECTS.
Honourable Mrs. Lowther, wife of the
Speaker of the House of Commons,
London, England, writes:
Mrs. James Lowther is glad to testify to
“Mothersill’s” being the most efficient remedy for
•ea-sickness that she has ever tried.
C. D. Rudd, Vice-Commodore, Royal
Highland Yacht Club, Great Britain,
writes:
“Mothersill's ” Seasick Remedy was introduced
on my yacht, and all my own ladies and other
friends tried it and found it entirely efficacious and
without any unpleasant after effects.
Guaranteed to cure 1
SEA OR TRAIN SICKNESS
OR MONEY RETURNED
Jill Chemists, in Large and Small Boxes.
Motbersil! Remedy Co., Ltd., 82, Pitt Street, Sydney.
KITE'S
H Cider
1
K!TZ"Sx : :
PURE SPARKLING APPLE JUICE
L. KITZ (Kb SONS PTY. LTD.,
4-60 Lit. Collins St., Melbourne.
Interstate Agents—
TUCKER & CO Svdnev
BURNS. PIIILP & CO Brisbane
WALKERVILLE CO-OPERATIVE
BREWERY CO Adelaide
PHILP. COYLE & CO P ert h
Bl RNS, PHILP & CO Townsville
BURNS. PHILP & CO Cairns
A. H. MOUNTAIN & CO Geraldton
J. FERGUSSON & CO Hobart
J. McKENZIE & CO Launceston
J. M. HEADRICK & CO. .. . Rockhampton
BISTO is a fine dry
powder which thickens,
colours and seasons
gravy, soups, stews,
meat puddings, etc. No
flour, fait or browning
is needed.
is
" Everything
but the meat."
AH Grocers. In Tins. Made by Cerebos, Ltd.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
Quickly removes SKIM ERUPTIONS,
ensuring A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable Pimples,
disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema disappear
by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
S -url
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin Specialists,
J. Pepper &Co., Ltd., Beuford Laboratories, London,
S.E., England, and can be obtained from any
chemists and stores throughout the world.
Quickly removes the effects of Sunscorch.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
Some people brush their
teeth to keep them white
some also to keep the mouth
clean, sweet and free from
destructive germs. To both
lox
The Oxygen Tooth Powder
appeals as nothing else can. Just
as pure air is now found to be the
greatest of all restorers (it con-
tains 21 per cent, oxygen), so
Calox releases oxygen when moist-
ened.
It penetrates the recesses, purifies
and sweetens where the brush can-
not go—but where decay plays
havoc.
Get Calox at
ALL CHEMISTS. DRAPERS, FANCY COODS STORES
AND TOBACCONISTS.
Wholesale
Distributors:
GEO. WILLS & CO. LTD.
Stationary Engines
Magneto from 1 ’ h.p. Upwards.
PUMPING OUTFITS SUPPLIED.
CONCRETE MIXERS, ROAD
GRADERS.
ROW-BOAT MOTORS, 5 different
models.
LAKE BREEZE COOLING FANS, run
on methylated spirits.
LAMPS and LANTERNS, burn benzine
or kerosene.
LIGHTNING LETTER OPENERS, 3
models, capacity from 100 to •>'“
letters per minute.
LAT E S T-I MPROVEP LETTER
SEALERS.
Agents for all lines wanted where not
represented.
ADDISON PARKER,
34- Clarence Street. SYDNEY.
"D.F.” : Ever since Sprent’s triangulation
of Tasmania, more than 50 years ago, Cradle
Mountain with 5069 ft. has been reckoned
nearer Heaven than anything else in the
Speck, till a year or tw r o ago someone
measured up Ben Lomond again and made
it 5150 ft. Now the Cradle has dropped
back to third, for another scientific gent,
has bumped Barn Bluff, a few miles away,
up to 5115 ft. Some people have a theory
that the Frenchman’s Cap is higher than
any. But none of them is within cooee of
the pile of the drifting little island’s unpro-
ductive debt. There is so much of that
curse that even in a good year all the public
works and services don’t earn 75 per cent,
of the interest bill, and 40 per ceut. of all
the revenue goes to keep Mr.. Cohen from
putting the bailiff in.
Sam Johnson foresaw Zeppelin raids
away back in the 18th century. The in-
ventor in “Rasselas” objected to teaching
the world the art of flying, which he had
discovered, and gave his reasons: —
If men were all virtuous, I should with great
alacrity teach them to fly. But what would be the
security of the good if the bad could at pleasure
invade them from the sky? Against an army sailing
through the clouds, neither walls, mountains nor
seas could afford security. A flight of northern
savages might hover in the wind, and light with
irresistible force upon the capital of a fruitful
legion.
Henry Lucy mentions in his final notes as
“Toby, M.P.,” in London Punch, that of
Lord Russell’s Government of 1866 there is
only one survivor—Lord Eversley—and of
Gladstone’s first Ministries of 1868-1874,
only two —Eversley and Lansdowne. Sur-
veying a crowded Commons he could discover
only one survivor of those who first greeted
Gladstone as Prime Minister. So 48 years
has made practically a clean sweep of the old
identities among the Commoners; they are
either dead or in the peerage—both of which
are useless occupations.
How effective is likely to be the scheme
of crushing German trade in Australia by
getting emotional dames to take an oath not
to buy enemy goods has been illustrated
by a firm of chemists in Hobart. They ran
a well-known line of German-made soap,
and a while back put up placards in the
following terms :
Enemy goods.—Let us wash our hands of them.
This soap was bought in 1913, and is now offered at
specially-low prices to clear.
The scheme was so successful that it was
applied later to another line, which was
mopped up with equal celerity.
When Cecil Rhodes founded his scholar-
ships he made room not only for Americans
but, after seeing how keen his friend the
Kaiser was on the study of English, for a few
Germans, too. His hope was that his scheme
would promote a British-German-Ameriean
understanding which would ensure the
peace of the world. Rhodes had been in his
grave only about a dozen years when the
Germans went mad and were soon at death-
grips with the British, with U.S.A. writing
notes to each in turn. Now most
of the German ex-scholars are with
the Hun forces, and doubtless able
to render specially good service owing
to the experience they were paid by
the Rhodes Trust to get at Oxford. Of
the British scholars 167 are known to have
enlisted. Only 18 are still left at Oxford,
and five of these are going for commissions,
four have been turned down by the doctors
and six are studying medicine and have been
advised to stick to it for the present. At
least six scholars are known to have been
killed, including A. Wallace (M.L.) and A.
P. Turnbull (W.A.).
From L. E. Hubbard, Tasmania’s crack
rifle-shot: —■
I am sorry the par. (B. 20/4/T6) about me turns
out to be wrong. The facts are that, though I had
failed to get any medical officer to pass me for the
A.1.F., in spite of all efforts since the very early
days of the war, I was called upon to submit to
medical examination under the war-census scheme.
The examining doctors sent my papers up with a
recommendation for a special case, and on the
strength of this my name was included in the list
of men passed as fit. But the higher medical
authorities have now refused to break a rule and
have therefore rejected me. As far as I can make
out, the chief objection is that, being one-eyed, I
would be a totally-disabled soldier, and qualified for
a pension as such, in the event of my losing my
remaining eye.
Born in Canada 28 years ago, Captain
Dick Gould, the mariner who shoves the 84-
ton ketch Hawk across Bass Straits, has
had experiences which would serve most men
of 60. Two years ago he salved part of the
cargo of the s.s. Norfolk, which was breaking
up on the Ninety-Mile Beach. Another
time his engines broke down, and the ketch
drifted across the straits and bumped the
Flyspeck, but was brought off undamaged.
In 1915, a gale swept away the rudder, the
cook, a seaman and the lifeboat. Only the
cook came back. Afterwards Gould himself
was washed overboard, taking the steering
wheel with him. When he came on board
again he found the engine-room flooded.
Going from Tasmania to Geelong with 4000
cases of apples, 21 stormy days were spent
instead of the usual six, and a third of the
cargo had to be jettisoned. In January the
Hawk grounded in 7ft. of water at Black-
man’s Bay, but was righted after several
days’ hard graft, in the course of
which a boat was overturned and the
crew had to swim ashore. Two months
ago he was upset from another boat,
but his luck was still good. Gould
takes all these things with philosophy, the
only occasion on which he became eloquent
being when a deck-hand who spoke no Eng-
lish started a winch which the skipper was
adjusting, and took off a finger. The deck-
hand learned a word or two that day.
Dear Bulletin, —Don’t be surprised to
see this in the papers directly:—
[a card.]
nr. Hughes, M.H.R., D.C.L. (Glas.), E. and 0-E
E.A.Q C.I.F. (Melb.], C.O.D. (Balmain),
specialist in the removal of skin-discoloration
Operations for German Cancer daily. Hours of
consultation: 6 to 6.1 a.m.
The post-graduate course is not very exact-
ing since the hot-air process was invented -
Quill.


A French Proverb
runs like this: “It is the tone that makes the song." (C’est
le ton qui fait la chanson) and in English we say, "It is
the way it is said or sung that makes the difference.”
If the tone makes the song, it certainly makes the Piano,
for most people will choose a Piano from their appreciation
of what they consider the right tone. In approaching
The BEALE PIANO
the first notes struck create in the hearer a sympathetic chord
of appreciation- a sort of definite acceptance of the instrument
as having passed the first and most important test.
Other tests, such as touch, responsiveness and sympathy, as well as general
beauty of case are matters which easily tall into line once the tone has
been pronounced perfect.
And this leaves one thing for decision. Is this beautiful tone permanent ?
And we guarantee that it is that it will positively improve as the Piano
matures, and be a constant and never-ending pleasure to live with.
We can help you to pay for one by allowing you full value for your old
instrument, and giving you extended time to pay off the balance.
We give a Life Policy, if desired, to every purchaser, which provides that if
the hirer, with intent to purchase, should die before the completion of
payments, the Piano will become the property of the person named in the
Policy without further payment. Call and let us talk the matter over with you.
Mr OCTAVIUS C. BEALE, Founder and present Controlling Director
of this business, was born at Mt. Mellick, Queen’s County, Ireland,
of an old Irish family. The directors and managers throughout the
business are all descendants of British families for many generations.
There are no Germans employed in the business, and no supplies arc
obtained from Germany.
BEALE & CO., Limited
HEAD OFFICE and FACTORY:
41 - 47 TRAFALGAR STREET, ANNANDALE, SYDNEY.
Showrooms: 136 a-b LIVERPOOL ST., SYDNEY. 232 KING ST., NEWTOWN.
And at Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn, Wagga. Adelaide, (S. A.) Melbourne, (Vic.) Perth, (W. A.)
90-92 Queen St., Brisbane. Kent St., Maryborough. Flinders St., Townsville, Rockhampton. Sydney St., Mackay. C airns.


‘6oob
HEALTH
%
J
s i
i
I
WHEN IT’S A MATTER OF
TREATING
FILL YOUR GLASSES WITH
A LO K
The non-mtoxicating drink which gives
greater health and success.
It’s a Tonic as well as a
drink, with a delicious
nutty flavor. Try it with
Lemonade, Ginger Ale
or Soda Water.
If you didn’t take Alok the night
before take it the next morning.
IT TREATS YOU WELL
All Hotels, Clubs and Fountains
6d. per glass.
CHEMISTS 2/6 & 3/6 per bottle
HOTELS - - 31- per bottle
CHEMISTS,
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Effga
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
1
...
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees'of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 Gitv. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
WESTERN MACHINERY
WHEELED SCOOPS and DRAG SCRAPERS,
PLOUGHS FOR CONTRACTORS,
WESTERN ROAD GRADERS,
ELEVATING GRADERS, ROCK CRUSHERS,
ROAD PLANER and FINISHER,
DUMP CARS, SCARIFIERS.
(Large Stocks Carried).
Catalogs and Full Information from
the Sole Agents.
E. D. MORRISON S CO. LTD.,
257 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CHRISTIE^
SPECIALISE
TWO
E/A/ES
s
IIH
*pf
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORGES T SYDNEY
1C /WAITER S T NEWCASTLE
The Authors’ Alliance
Is prepared to consider and place MSS.
Literary work of all kinds' dealt -with by
experts who place Authors’ interests first.
Twenty j’ears’ experience. Write for prospectus.
100 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE,
And at London and New York.
The Bulletin
Stock Saddle
This latest saddle of ours combines manv nt
COMFORT INNOVATIONS in SaMtaLth
dippy pigskin seat, the rough out-flaps for grin n r
G.S. panel with the short stuffing and leather noint/
the long girth straps and long flaps, it i s fitted tin
illustrated with folded leather girth, stirrun l«tL?
4-bar nickel-plated stirrups and SURCINGLE Th
knee-pads are well made and strong and the right sw!
for comfort. If you prefer all smooth leather instead of
rough-out say so when ordering, and give your height
and weight.
Price £5-18-6
Freight Free
for Cash
to any port or railway station in N.S.W. or anv direct
in the other States, New Zealand or Fiji.
port
RING HEAD BRIDLE, with rein and billet in one
piece, and one inch cheeks and rein, 11/6, post free for
cash. If ordered with Saddle, 10/6.
Illustrated Catalogue Post tree.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON LTD.
Saddlers & Harness MaKers,
393 George St. and 32 Hunter St., Sydney
HORROCKSES longcloths
SHEETINGS
FLANNELETTES
179^
mwm
a
1391^
- N
»* f '"V..- •
7v'r>V
Wgjj'xx-
m
*)S*g
cl®.
sn ikj*
W fc'-'
--’A
- ; v. • V3&**
ESTABLISHED OVER 100 YEARS
T£s)wv;j>im
mm.
Improve
Your Hair
in the cheapest and best
way the Icilma way.
Unless you use Icilma Sham-
poo Sachets (for wet shampoo) you
cannot imagine what, a lot of good
they really do. They regulate the
flow of natural oil and stimulate
the hair to tieh glossy beauty.
ieiimd. Shampoo Sachets pre-
vent the hair from falling out and
actually help it to gtow. Try one
the next time you wash your hair.
falßHi
Shampoo Sachets
(The famous British Wet Shampoo).
Price 3d. Packet.
Of Chemists, Druggists, Stores, etc.
Icilma is pronounced Eye-Silma.
J. C. GAMBLES & CO., Sole Australian Agents,
11 Commerce House, Melbourne.
A.s-9.
Letters Copied While Writing
(in ink) by using your own Lstter-pape f
with this Book. You slip your
paper into the holder and write,
and by the act of writing you
secure a perfect letter and a
perfect copy. There is no
sign of copying. 400 octavo Biu. x sin., or 200 quarto
letters, can be copied in NSC/2GO Book, size lOf x
Si. post free 4/6T or NSC/400 DOUBLE Capacity
for 6/-. Special Small Octavo Book, making 200
copies, Bin. x sin., post free 3/6 ; double capacity, 4/6.
Sample of the celebrated Zanetic Ink Paper, which
produces this result, free, if stamped-addressed
envelope sent to S. B, Zanetic. Leicester, England.
*
ESTABLISHED 1874.
COUGHS.
nvbridg
UjkdTon
es
ic
FOR
COLDS.
Public Speakers Singers, and all who
Suffer from Throat Weakness find
it safe and effective
SOLD BY RETAIL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
STOCKED BY ALL WHOLESALE
DRUG HOUSES iri AUSIRALIA;
Prepared by W. T. OW BRIDGE, LTD-
HULL, ENGLAND.
BEST - ALWAYS.
m
tiiri
Velveteen
every yard is marked with
the letters L-O-U-I-S.
/
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR-
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated A •
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is tne
cheapest I have ever used.” i. of
“Arabia” Egyptian Henna has the large j n .
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market, a s j' ffn a-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for % o/6.
ture of Alfred Ardley on genuine. Price.lr "t.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores inA .
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. ho
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Jack E.: Thanks. Of course, that poor
little S.A. paper is merely ignorant. There can be
something very much the matter with a Fair Rents
Court. It may be an Unfair Rents Court, designed,
as the present affair is in N. S. Wales, to maintain
the existing awful rents of Sydney, which are based
on sinful land values. That is the chief basis of The
Bulletin’s objection to the measure... .Yellow Liz:
Dear lady, we cannot grant you that honor. The
Golden Elizabeth of The B. paragraph died many
years ago... .E.G.H. • Pleased to hear it. There ought
to lie a par. in the glad tidings... .E.G.H.: The
father of all chestnuts. .. .Ma’feesh: You’ve got
something to say, but you go about it in too round-
about a way. Contributors can’t be too direct.
This paper hasn’t got room for anybody to roam in.
Garnet: There is a large area of ground running
}lb. tin and over. But surely you don’t suggest that
the existence of a large area is calculated to main-
tain the price of the metal? Five dredges (or more)
are at present under construction.... Bill: Under
our beautiful voluntary system it is unfair to throw
bricks of that sort. They may be three strapping
sons; but there may be good medical reasons why
they don’t go to the Front. It’s a cruel system
which bunches together the willing defective and the
cowardly effective. .. .J. T. Goonan: Send address
to accountant. .. .C.F.: As pars, are printed, indicate
them by date and page (it’s best to cut them out)
and forward to the accountant.... Fraser D.: Now,
where did you learn all that ?.... Cockaigne: Blown
that lie out about Yes-No Reid already... .F. Tater
(or something like that) : Several experienced con-
tributors have been saying lately that it is worth
trying... .Miss A.R.D.: There should be some good
stuff there. Send some and let’s have a look at it-.
... . A.W.W.: Two stanzas from “Australia’s Chat-
ham” :
That awful cancer, German trade,
Must soon behold its laurels fade;
Its crab-like tentacles will fuse
With electric sparks from Billy Hughes;
But Willie, YVillie Hughes his talents there ?
Or YVillie come back over here?
But anyway, we’ll not abuse
Australia’s Chatham —Billy Hughes.
... .'G.O.H.: “The Blighter” misses... .Polly: Not
pretty, P011y.... Tom Mulgowan: Your selection
seems about as lively as a dustheap. .. . YYLS.J.:
YY r e don’t reprint; and it’s poor stuff, in any case.
JR.: Begins like a vigorous curse; tails off to mere
slush. .. .C.L.: “In Memoriam” doesn’t g 0...:
YYLO.: Too crude. .. .J.C.: YVithout one gleam of
insight or originality.:. .j.W.YV\: Lurid mixture of
blood and bad spelling gives A hint of promise....
M.A.: Your violet is a Scentless, insipid weed....
Tad: Verse bumps badly... .YV.E.H.: Anzac verses
now amount to a hundred lines apiece for all heroes
engaged there... .Lapp: Your “Philosophy” is a
slnppy business J.R.: Don’t care if the Hogvili.k
Gazette has accepted your “peotrv.” It doesn’t gd
here until it improves 1000 per cent., .. , J.G.: Verst?
too bumpy... .E.Y.D.: They seem idiotic. What is
a “jokal” ?. ~ .E.M.: No hope.,,-.Red Tape: Some-
one has blundered, all right, but your statement of
the case doesn’t mend matters. . . .Spiritus: Want a
name for it? Why not call it “Garbage”?
T.YLB.: Sombre cow-verse gets no blue ribbon from
this judge. ... S.M.: Bad verse. What might have
happened had the Goth then as now owned most
machine guns?... .8.C.: Well enough done; but
only conventional obituary verse with no new idea.
... .L.H.: Why didn’t you introduce a raging mouse-
hound baying the moon for “lost money” 1... . R.T.:
Poor. No value. .. .C. 8.: Feeble little verselet died
of its own fatigue.. . .M.H.J.: That old mill doesn’t
cheer u5....A.G.: Doesn’t quite get there.... ElleS
Dee: Smartly enough written, but leads hbwhere....
R. 1.: We have had several cwt. df better Anzac
verse, “Hope Dtt” Only amounts to saying that you
have a dreadful Suspicion that the war may be over
some day...,Lek Devar: “House of Mystery” reads
like a translation of a tenth-late picture drama. The
only joyous line in it is about the piiles that
“wined.” Did the other vegetables liquor? R.S.:
Yarn doesn’t go A.8.G.: “Stuff they are Made
of” finishes lamely m the bulldog. The real test of
things should have been what happened to Grey....
Ranger: Of your three “anecdotes from personal
observation” two are old and print-worn and you
haven’t improved them. The third could only be
offered to a congregation of insane maiden ladies in
hot weather R.L.J.: “A Bush Picnic” shows a
far-off hint of promise; but your son must learn to
write... . E.H.: “Lone Pine” verses are not bad of
their kind ; but Gallipoli heroics must be extra-
special to get in now J.S.: “Macedon” appears
to be without rhyme, rhythm or meaning. ... R. If. ;
Horrible P.D.: But your “Drab Hero” docs noth-
ing.... Douglas Martin: Crude attempt at humor
without one touch of sympathy A.M.: Long yarn
about conscription faultless in idea; but you needn’t
have taken all that space to say it.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Nick B.: One is dull and the other is crude...;
Mrs. 11. YV.: It’s going home by the grace of the
penny stamp. The wise drawing always wears its
fare home fastened to its back E.V.J.: You
haven't got to go on—you’ve got to make a start.
H.S.YY’.: No, it isn’t G.L.M.: Outed
Petro. V ery good as an idea. And-—this for your
encouragement—men with ideas are much rarer than
men with pens.
A pathetic person with a Scotch name
was convicted and remanded for sentence in
Sydney the other day. When the Judge asked
the gaol recorder if there were any pre-
vious convictions, the man in the dock saved
all parties trouble by admitting: “I have
been in gaol all my life!” The little jobs
he pleaded guilty to this time were done on
January 3. January 4 and February 31. On
February 12 he had fled from custody, and
one of his “previous” was 15 years for
shooting with intent. The heavy-footed Law
spends a great deal of its time catching and
releasing poor devils who can’t or won’t go
straight; but it doesn’t look really foolish
til. one of its own customers stands up in
court and confesses’that he has nearly worn
out a gaol on his own account without get-
ting any nearer social salvation or becoming
a top-hatted rogue in a large- way of busi-
ness.


Use SANTO Portable Vacuum Cleaners
The Most
Satisfactory
and Reliable
ILledtric
Vacuum
Cleaner for
Alternating'
or DireCt
Current
Circuits.
Folding clip which |
forms upper hook
on which cord is
wound. Also used
to hang cleaner up
when not in use.
Handle made from
nickel plated* tub-
ing closed end.
20 feet of Flexible
Cord readily
wound up on fold-
ing clips when not
in use.
Lower clip which
folds up out of the
way when not in
use.
Handle separates
here for shipping.
Nickel plated cas-
ing containing fan
mounted direct on
motor shaft.
Dust bag made
from special mater-
ial —dust cannot
come through it.
More convenient
when m o u n t-e d
around handle than
when flopping be-
neath it.
Dust bag slips off
here and is easily
removed for
emptying
Floor renovator
readily detached
here and hose for
other attachments
slips directly in its
place
"1
Connector plug for
starting and stop-
ping the motor.—
Very convenient
and more durable
than a switch.
Specially designed,
v er y r el i a bl e
General Electric
Motor —uses less
than a cent’s worth
of current per hour.
Swivel joint which
permits the open-
ing of renovator
to lie flat regard-
less of how the
handle is turned,
to clean under low-
furniture or around
chair and table
legs.
fe IS
a
Renovator or clean-
ing nozzle will
easily go under
radiators or heavy,
low furniture.
Smooth floor felt
polisher and rough
floor stiff brush at-
tachments are slip-
ped into opening
of renovator.
Attached or remov-
ed in a "jiffy.”
~
A
0
#
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE-CITY 3510 (5 lines).
RTHSRAXE (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
I'EItTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.)., Ltd., Hay Street.
—Agents
‘Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
TELEPHONE-CENTRAL 2646. 2647; CITY 9579
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock and Co., Ltd.. Launceston; Oliver & Oliver, Ltd., MacQuarie Street, Hobart.
\ pin
*•
m
u
Makes your milk pails look like silver
Bon Ami is made of a soft,
white, crumbly mineral
softer than ordinary scour-
ing soap, so it will not
scratch.
Its biggest field is for mir-
rors and windows, but it is
also wonderful for pol-
ished metals.
illfl 1 I^^Forall the
Finer Kinds of
Polishing&Cleaning
It contains no acid or poison
or oil so it is perfectly safe
to use on milk pails. You
have no idea how brilliant
your milk pails can shine
until you try Bon Ami on
them.
Ordinary scouring soap will
scratch polished tin and
make it harder to clean
the next time, but Bon Ami
keeps the original, easy-to-
clean, smooth, unscratched
surface.
At your grocers. 6d.
“There is nothing else like it.”
Rasters
GRAMOPHONE
CELEBRITIES.
It would be impossible in this space, or in one many times larger, to
list all of the Gramophone artistes; but the list below, which is
merely a selection, will show that the world’s leading singers and
instrumentalists record exclusively for the Gramophone. They will
entertain you in your own home.
PADEREWSKI
CARUSO.
BATTISTINI.
BUTT, CLARA.
CALVE.
CASTLES. AMY.
CHALIAPIN.
DAWSON, PETER.
DESTIN.
EISDELL.
ELMAN.
FARRAR.
GLUCK, ALMA.
HAMBOURG.
HARRISON, JOHN.
MELBA.
JOURNET.
KIRKBY LUNN.
KUBELIK.
LAUDER.
McCormack.
PADEREWSKI.
PATTI.
RADFORD, ROBT
RUFFO, TITTA.
SCOTT I.
TETRAZZINI,
ZIMBALIST.
Ask your nearest dealer for complete record catalogue or write to
“gramophone”
Registered Trade Mark
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGL AN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-luxe;
Staterooms, with bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms,
Private Bathrooms, Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Regular sailings from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
l2 Martin Place, Sydney.
jtanking. Public Companies. &c.
You can obtain BETTER INTER-
EST and EVERY FACILITY FOR
SAVING at the
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
The STATE Savings Institution
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
DEPOSITS RECEIVED FROM 1 /-
UPWARDS?
Interest paid at 3J per cent, on balances up
to £5OO, except on accounts opened with
the late Savings Bank of N.S.W., which are
limited to £2OO.
Cultivate the habit of making regular
deposits—no matter how small.
The Repayment of all Deposits is Guaran-
teed by the Government of New South Wales.
By Order of the Commissioners.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY.
Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, K.C M.G.
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES. •
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian gank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (31st December, 1915) .. £1,196,108
RESERVE FUND £75,000
HEAD OFFICE : George & King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37 Tlireadneedle Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS — Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Arthur S. Barton,
Esq. ; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq. ; Herbert R.
Lysagut, Esq. ; George F. Todman, Esq.
Blanches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 200,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since IR9B specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Sunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. TV. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking jjo.
of Sydney, Qimited.
Capital Paid-up.. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1,805,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,805,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. IT. E. Kater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and J. J. Brenan, Esq.
General Manager: H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Eire bin Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq. Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of (|eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. •. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. •• 992,295
Uncalled Capital 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,057,170
GRANTS DRAFTS
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
transacts all other usual Banking business.
at Interest. lor
fixed periods, and
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
Shipping &c.
STEAMSHIP LINES OPERATED BY UNION S.S. CO. OF NEW ZEALAND, LTD.
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line to Vancouver
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE, CALLING AT
AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (Fiji) and HONOLULU (Hawaii).
THE “ALE-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES,
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
STEAMERS SAIL:
t Twin Screw. * Triple Screw. Fitted with Cabins De Luxe, Suites, Bedstead Rooms, Lifts, Laundry,
Nursery, Wireless, etc.
AROUND THE WORLD BOOKINGS, RETURNING VIA CHINA AND JAPAN, OR VIA
SUEZ CANAL OR SOUTH AFRICA.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco.
VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
STEAMERS SAIL FROM WELLINGTON (N.Z.).
*MAITAI, 25th May. *MOANA, 22nd June.
* Connecting- Steamers leave Sydney 18th May, 15th June.
Passengers Transfer at Wellington to the Mail Steamer immediately on arrival.
Vessels stay 24 hours at Papeete, “The Pearl of the Pacific.”
SPECIAL HOLIDAY TOURS.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU , of the Pacific.
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers Trading to America —
R.M.S. Niagara and R.M.S. Makura.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing Nineteen Days’ Stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY—PERFECT WEATHER —MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
RETURN FARES: First Class, £4B; Second Class, £33.
SOUTH PACIFIC ISLANDS.
Winter T° urs Fiji Samoa Cook Islands Rar °to»ga
Monthly Sailings from Sydney and Auckland.
T.S.S. ATUA (3444 tons). S.S. TALUNE (2087 tons).
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 Geo'rge Street, Sydney.
Something Unique in
Island Tours
' * -•
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
via
SAMOA-HONOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
Sailings from Sydney:—
MAY 31, JUNE 21, JULY 12, AUG 2.
Apply:-OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
COLORED POST-CARDS, bv Harrv J.
Weston—“WEEKLY WORRIES.” * Set
of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co.. 214 George Street. Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zealandia,” "Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
"Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
BANK OF NEW SOUT
Established 1817.
H WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability -
£3,500,000
£2,600.000
£3,500,000
£9,600.000
Directors:
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar,
M.L.C., President.
Robert Lionel Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
K.C.M.G..
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, (J.M.G., M.L C
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: Shepheard Edgecliff Laidlev, Esq.; Alfred George Milson, Eso
Hea o, O *»ce-George St., Bydney. London Office 29 Threadneedle St .E C
344 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London'
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. J p London.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nesro-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
jj_JRUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Commonwealth
I HEAD OFFICE
JBaur Australia
SYDNEY |
Open
•for all
General Banking Business
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
in the
principal
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth,
United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits!
Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at over
1/-
Minimum
Deposit
2550
Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua
Interest at
per annum
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor. June, 1915 DENISON MILLER, Governor
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAfSHIPco.
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE < 0 and ,
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS
FOR MELBOURNE >
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all l.orth-Western Ports.
DIMBOOLA, June 3 and
July l.
BRISBANE
MACIvAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
n r,,. ,
ALLLMU, Mav 13.
RUPARA, May 20
PARINGA, May 27
MORIALTA, June 3
oaioon rassacre Tickets ■
the first Port of call with other Intw-StaTCo* 6 after
on all services subject to con.lition= f-S m,)amea
ascertained « application a, Comn™';'?
G. S. HILL & CO., LTD
6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDXEV
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting)'—
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACIvAY
TOWNSVILLE
"CAIRNS
("Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports).
north.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney May 13.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne May 17
Leaves Sydney May 20.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Mav 24
Leaves Sydney May 27.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping; for
S.A.and W. A. ports)
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney May 20.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom, via Suez Canal, Cape of Good Hope
Torres Straits.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine. Surgeon and
Stewardess. Electric Fans.
FARE TO LONDON OR LIVERPOOL, £4B.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; TURN-
BULL, MARTIN & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
II. JONES & CO. LTD., Hobart.
"|"HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
'1 lie Company s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE. BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, GOFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination tickets are issueu m conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Bvron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, Bs. 6d. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,000 tons
T.S.S. “ KANOWNA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ KYARRA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel by
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fiji Trade;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Dailv Papers.
BURNS, PHILP g COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Colonial (Ijutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOB
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments auu
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £0,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
The Hon. C. J. M.L.C.. Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
Capital Subscribed .. ..
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits.. £lo,ooo
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
The Company acts as Executor, Joint Executor, Trus-
tee, Administrator or Attorney under Power for abse
tees, and is the only Trustee Company empowered
Act of Parliament to operate in more than one ata
SYDNEY OFFICE: 48 Young Street.
The Hon. Sir CHARLES Iv. MACKELLAR, M.L.C.
H. Y. BRADDON, Esq. I JAMES IvIDD, Esq.
H. W. BELL, Esq. I R. M. PH U *-sq.
Full information as to terms, etc., obtainable
application to JOHN MAIR, Manager.


Kodak “N.-C.” Film,
always dependable
Safeguard your photographic results by making sure that it is genuine Kodak film with
which you load your Kodak. Look for “X.-C.” on the package and “Kodak” on the
spool end.
Made in Australia
and always thoroughly fresh and dependable.
Reart what “The Bulletin” of 13th April, 1916, says:
“Who has anything to say against the Australian-made photo film? When buying some
in Sydney a few months ago I was told that the Australian film would not travel
through the tropics. But I got some, had good results with them on the voyage to Egypt,
and later during the long, sweltering run to Colombo. There, the supply being nearly
exhausted, I got more —English this time, and ‘specially made for the tropics.’ The
results from the few remaining Australian reels, even after their long trip, were much
better than the results from the special English stuff.”
Other photographic goods manufactured at the Austral-Kodak works, Melbourne, include:
AUSTRAL STANDARD PLATES —rich emulsion —fine grain; always fresh, therefore
best. AUSTRAL ANTI-THERM PLATES —safely worked with solutions at a
temperature of 90 degrees. AUSTRAL LANTERN PLATES—the stand-by of profes-
sional slide makers. AUSTRAL BROMIDE PAPERS —for 28 years the standard by
which others are judged. NEPERA GASLIGHT PAPER—the simplest printing paper
known. VELOX PAPER—in every grade and surface. KODAK SELF-TONING
SOLIO—a new paper ; test it for yourself. PHOTOGRAPHIC MOUNTS—aII varieties
for professionals and amateurs. KODAK CHEMICALS—put up in Australia to suit
local conditions. ANTI-THERM FIXING SALT —safe up to 90 degrees; try it.
OF ALL KODAK DEALERS and
$
\ \r 0 > '
o>'
& i y
-
\7
9
&m ■m&s&w
mtSm s % ? jmx\
feVaaSf :n «- ° c Va
W£; J s%{' 1- \V
mi'mk&Wi
\j- v Vsd?& •.»*•>. v&y#
Y \XWk-.%:& A% '•
m
m
7
t
I*
:CB ; ;V.
v*;‘
. **.
.-.y-
-•v ••>•*.
KODAK
(Australasia)
LTD.
Incorporating: Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
379 George Street, SYDNEY; "The 810ck,”284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
250-253 Queefi Street, Brisbane. 37 Bundle Street, Adelaide. 45 Eliza-
beth Street, Hobart. Ruthven Street, Toowoomba. Flinders Street, Towns-
ville. Denham Street, Rockhampton. 346 Argent Street, Broken Hill.
Dixon Street, Wellington, N.Z. 3 Lome Street, Auckland, N.Z.; and 76
Stuart Street, Dunedin, N.Z.
See the SAFIX MILLER before
you buy an Outboard Motor.
♦
I3*k»
&s+*■* .
2i h.p. Speed 8 miles. 561 b. weight.
Equipped with DIXIE M.T. Magneto.
PRICE £25 Complete.
Ready to attach to any boat in a minute.
PROOF OF POWER—
“The SAFIX MILLER is the best outboard Motor we have seen out here.
Others are always having trouble with their motor, but the SAFIX MILLER never
sticks us up, and we go out in all kinds of weather. Sometimes we go out to sea
seven miles to tow boats in ; we have no trouble towing two boats for as long
as \\ hours. The Motor runs just as well with a load ; we have had as many as
18 in one boat. We always tell Customers to get a SAFIX MILLER if they
want an Outboard Motor.” (WELLS’ BOATSHED, La Perouse.)
PROOF OF SPEED—
“We had a splendid trip on the Hawkesbury with the SAFIX MILLER. We
must have done 160 miles altogether without the slightest sign of trouble with the
motor. She started every time, and ran beautifully, covering 14 miles in 14 hours
once, and 32 miles in 44 hours another time. TU<e economy in running is wonderful;
our trip worked out about 4d. a mile.” (C. S. HARNETT, Mosman.)
PROOF OF RELIABILITY—
“Every time we want the SAFIX MILLER to start she answers, if it’s 00
times a day, and as for speed, she drives our old tin boat at least 8 miles an hour.”
(A. EWIN, Lake Burrell.)
“Having used the SAFIX MILLER for some considerable time, and under
very severe tests in all kinds of weather, without the slightest trouble, I am satisfied
that your motor is perfectly reliable.” (W. HORSFIELU, Oatley.)
“The SAFIX MILLER has never once failed me, and I cross some very rough
water between the heads every week. I previously tried two other types of outboard
motor, and find the SAFIX MILLER much faster thaji either.”
(F. G. RUSSELL, Port Hacking.)
( Originals of these voluntary letters may he seen at our Offices.)
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET giving full particulars sent post free from the Sole Agents for the Commonwealth—
A. J. DADSON & CO., 9 Hamilton Street, Sydney
Demonstration Rooms: J. L. SCOTT LTD., 80 Hunter Street, Sydney.


Missing Friends.
|.> ELATIVES of .TAMES GRAHAM,
11/ miner, who died at Marranbov,
Northern Territory, on 22nd April, 1015,
are requested to communicate with the
Public Trustee, Darwin, N.T. Deceased
James Graham is supposed to have had a
sister residing in South Australia.
Public Notices.
SUPPLYING LIQUID FUEL TO
INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINES.
>TMIK PROPRIETOR of Australian Letters Patent
No. 4916 of 1912, for “improvements in means
for supplying liquid fuel to internal combustion
engines,” desires to make arrangements by wav, of
License or otherwise with a view of the invention
being worked commercially in Australia. For infor-
mation apply to —-
WALTER S. BAYSTON & SON, Patent Attorneys,
441 Collins Street, Melbourne.
INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINES.
Op HE PROPRIETOR of Australian Letters Patent
I No. 4948 df 1912, for “improvements in internal
combustion engines,” desires to make arrangements
by way of License or otherwise with a view of the
invention being worked commercially in Australia.
For information apply to—-
WALTER S. BAYSTON & SON, Patent Attorneys,
441 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Catarrh
of Intestines
and
Of all Chemists, 1/3, 2/9, 4/6
Angier’s Emulsion reaches the lower
intestine without being altered by the acids
of the stomach. It exercises its soothing,
lubricating, anti-fermentative properties
throughout the entire digestive tract.
That is why it is so valuable in bowel
disorders. It soothes and cleanses the
mucous membrane, allays irritation, inflam-
mation, catarrh, ulceration. It restores
proper, tone to all the digestive functions,
Angier s has proved its val e in many
obscure digestive and bowel disorders.
FREE TRIAL
BOTTLE.
Send name and address, 4d. postage, and mention this paper.
Angier Chemical Co., Lid., 7, Barrack Street, Sydney.
jfi' sTet> e a
THE BEST AND MOST
ECONOMICAL STATIONERY
IN THE WORLD
carries the KOLOK trade mark. No
sending out the best British-made stat -
unless KOLOK TYPEWRITER CARBO. ,
PEN AND PENCIL CARBONS and Itr
WRITER RIBBONS are used, lhe
ECONOMY BINDER has no equai.
businessman should at once see tna
office uses Kolok makes.
ALL STATIONERS.
Australasian AgentC. F. BICKFORBi
5 Hamilton Street. Sydney.
IN BANANA LAND
The Queensland Railways have just done
a brilliant piece of business. Irately they
called tenders for linseed oil, raw and boiled.
Meggitt’s, who are putting a tremendous lot
of energy into the vegetable-oil industry in
Australia, tendered at a price which they
knew must give the Railway Department an
advantage of about 6d. a gallon over Eng-
lish brands of equal quality. When the
tenders were opened, however, it was found
that an Indian oil was offered at a penny
per gallon less than the Australian ; and the
amazing Department accepted it. So it
seems that there are railway bosses in Aus-
tralia who think they are best off by en-
couraging people to live in India or some
other foreign country and use foreign rail-
ways. While there are such bosses it
plainly isn’t safe to leave the Customs tariff
on linseed oil at the present sixpence a gal-
lon. Incidentally, the Australian workman
is paid 10s. a day 7 for work for which the
Indian coolie gets 10s. a month; and the
Queensland Labor Government is apparently
willing to allow one of its Departments to
give preference to the lOs.-a-month laborer
even when his product is only a
penny a gallon cheaper than that of the Aus-
tralian lOs.-a-day workman. How the
Queensland Labor Government expects the
lOs.-a-day standard to -be maintained when
preference is given to the cheap foreign
colored person The Bulletin doesn’t know.
Neither does the Queensland Government.
Eieut.-Colonol Bailey, a Gallipoli man,
and “one of a number of officers recently
demobilised bv the Defence Department for
purposes of economy,” shot himself at the
Commercial Travellers’ Club in Brisbane the
other morning. 11 is dismissal, it is said,
preyed on his mind. Tiie Bulletin knows
nothing of Bailey’s case; but the treatment
they are getting on their return to Aus-
tralia is preying on the minds of a good
many officers. There are one or two men
in large jobs under the Defence Department
who- are fighting for the employment of re-
turned men ; but they are not able to make
much progress. To put it quite plainly a
very large number of those officers who
haven’t moved outside Australia, but have
entrenched themselves in safe, easy jobs, are
making a dead-set against the returned
officers—men who have been invalided back
from the Front —and the men who have
stayed at home seem to be able to pull most
strings at present. The fact that the Censor-
ship and the instructions under which the
Censors act are in the hands of such officers
doesn’t make it any easier for the public to
get a grip of what is going on.
“Cleveland”: In 1884 Fred Johnstone
(present Mayor of Charters Towers), Dave
Edwards, wheelwright at Townsville, and
Harry Walker took out an improvised target
in a cart at Charters Towers and established
the first rifle-range in the North. John-
stone lias the distinction of having sworn
in more than 700 recruits from the North,
and it was he who hit upon the idea of pre-
senting a silk handkerchief to every Billjim
enlisting at the Towers and to every native
of the village sworn in elsewhere. The
hanky bears the seal of the city of defunct
goldmines, and has been claimed from all
corners of the earth. Johnstone foots the
Dill himself, and has so far paid out over
£9O.
Died in England recently, W. A. Diggens,
who rectored in Rockhampton for many
years and raised most of the cash to build
the Anglican Cathedral there. When Dr.
Dawes was made the first bishop of the new
see in 1890, Diggens, who had expected that
the gaiters would come his way, shook off
the dust of the ungrateful city from his
feet, and went to Maoriland, where he was
a canon of Dunedin Cathedral. Since 1896
he had been expounding Anglicanism to a
population of mainly-Meihody Cousin Jacks
in Cornwall (Eng.).
A PREMATURE QUERY.
MEAN UNCLE (to nephew): "D'ye think baby's like me, Ithaac?"
ITHAAC: "I dunno. He ain't got nothin' to give awag yet."
Tom Ingham, one of the survivors of the
Maria tragedy of 44 years ago, rolled up to
the Historical - Society the other night to
give a first-hand account of how the New
Guinea bubble burst. The leaky cutter left
Sydney with about 75 men aboard to go to
the new Eldorado, where gold was sup-
posed to be lying about in lumps. When
the cutter put to sea it was discovered that
the captain and mate knew nothing about
navigation, and that the Maria was leaky
and could only be kept afloat by all hands
manning the pumps. Several days out the
captain unsuccessfully tried to make the
Solomons; then he went in search of the
New Hebrides, New Caledonia and Moreton
Bay in turn. Finally, he discovered a hid-
den reef near Cardwell, and only a handful
of them, of whom Ingham was one, got
ashore to face hunger and the native sav-
ages. For days they dodgt d boomerangs
and spears and pleasantries of that sort,
till they gave up in despair. At last a ship
hove in sight and they were rescued. But
the bubble had long since burst.
“A.D.”: “Boro Belle’s*’ big shout at
Mackay <B. 13/4/’l6) is small potatoes
for the North. During election time
in ’BB Fred T. Wimble and R. A.
Kingsford, canvassing the Cairns dis-
trict, held meetings on the second section of
the Cairns-Herberton railway, then in course
of construction. After a meeting a refresher
often counted 300, and more than once ex-
ceeded 400. Also when W. Martin went
over the Barron Falls in ’9O the body was
recovered some three days after, hauled up
with ropes from the bottom of the falls,
about 800 ft., and carried by relays of men
to Ivamerunga. The subsequent “shout”
cost £24 10s. = 9SO drinks, and I know the
bill was fairly correct. I counted the crowd;
the contractors (through their riding ganger)
paid.
“Camp Horse” : Full your muzzle out of
the feed-box and listen to this. At a patri-
otic orgy up our way a loyalist whose bank
balance goes three laps to tlie mile donated
one complete pony to be sold for the good
of the national heroes. The animal was
sold and resold to the extent of £5O before
the last bid arrived. As it happened the
man who got it was an employee of the
original owner, and that potentate was so
anguished at seeing his own hired man in
possession that he dropped a hint to the new
owner that he had no receipt for the moke.
The employee thought it over behind the hay-
stack, and eventually decided to stop his
boss’s mouth and stay his boot by handing
the patriotic horse back.
From J. Avery, one of the late artist’s
schoolmates:—
Hilder won a State scholarship in ’94 from the
\ alley School with three mates-—Jack Boast, Percy
Best and Bob Brennan. I can see them now—Hilder
always scribbling, Best a maniac on old music,
Brennan a very powerful athlete always smoking-
cigarettes, and Boast the possessor of a remarkable
soprano vojc% At lunch-hour Best would provide
the music, and Hilder would scribble spine words to
go with it. If any lad ventured to interrupt
Boast while the voice mounted higher and higher
some biting sarcasm from Hilder or one threaten-
ing movement by the powerful Brennan would
silence the scoffer. Brennan died by his own hand
in inland at the age of 20 ; Best was passed out by
cpnsumption ; now poor Hilder is gone of the same
scourge. I wonder if Boast—the last of a remark-
able group of four —is still living?
The Wolf and His Own!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Goth is away on the war-path to-day,
The Hun has his bayonet bare;
The Turk lias his dirk in a merciless work ;
The Bulgar is out of his lair;
The Eagles are screaming and glad in the
blue,
And down by the smoke there's a groan,
And deep in the forest there's howling for
joy—
The Wolf has come to his Own.
Too long has. he slept on the rights of his clan
And thirsted in vain for the red
Hot river that leaps like a joy to his throat
When War-lord and Rapine are wed ;
The lust in his soul has been sated at last,
lie peels the good flesh from the bone.
And blood-drunken yelpings proclaim to the
blast
The Wolf has come to his Own!
Afar on the Vistula master is he,
He prowls on the skirts of the blaze ;
His banquet at Yule was the bodies that lie
Unburied by Danube and Maas;
By Scheldt and by Struma, by Niemen and
Bug.
They’re lifting a Kaisorlieh throne
And scribing above it in letters that burn —-
“The Wolf hath come to his Own.”
The Goth is away on the war-path to-day,
The Hun hath Bis babies to drown :
The Turk hath his dirk in a murderous work,
The Bulgar is burning a town ;
The Vultures you startle, they scarcely can
rise
So sated they he and so blown,
And Ruin tells Death with a bating of breath
“The Wolf hath come to his Own!”
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, May 6, i9 le
My Dear Tiiargomindau, .
Yesterday was Chrysanthemum Dav . ,
in spite <»t the wet weather and hi’f 1
that the ladies conducted business lj et
etc., only from 0 a.m. to 1„ , ,
able £172 was got for the firf i «! Pect '
Club. Mrs. Tom Robertsons ldl
responsible for the largest amount £29 " as
The Imperial Service Club provid'd th
fust recreation of any kind offered to
boys in khaki. There they can Ko fS in
hards, or to read and write, or t<lget
at nominal prices. The Salvation v
supplied the second “shop”-—the
Best Booms in Edward-street--, n ,i „® dler »
after that the White City was built"‘l,
Lnoggera. Now a movement is beine m,A?
along by Mrs. Tom Wilson, wife of
member for the Valley, and the Wv, "
Mrs. lletherington, to provide a rwidaS
club for Billjim. A meeting is to | )0 ,
at the Town Hall next Wednesday to ail
cuss rhe scheme. UlS '
Harry Couper, eldest son of the F r
Coopers, of Westbrook, has joined the
lantry in Maoriland. It wasn’t Ids f. n
that he didn’t get away with a local bat
taiion. He was rejected three times h ero
The annual exhibition of the Needlewori-
Cuild happened at Mrs. Frank CoSt
home. Caldew, on Thursday. Each member
supplies two garments every six months and
at the end of the year the things are divided
up among various homes and hospitals. o„
Thursday the plate went round at afternoon
a . n, T \ t h< - PJ. rewived was sent to the
Allies Babies Kit Fund.
Mrs. Campbell Riley is back from Sydney
It was owing to her efforts that Toowoomba
started a Babies’ Kit Fund, and she has
now hatched a branch here.
Flic Y.W.C.A. opened a new hostel the
other day in which business girls will he
boarded at reasonable rates. It is a com-
fortable, two-storeyed building with wide
balconies and no latchkeys.
Another batch of wounded and invalided
men came home on Friday night. Amoiw
them was .Major Hill, who won the Mili-
tary ( ross. But he is the unhappiest sol-
dier in the world if anyone refers to it.
The star performance of Anzac Day was
contributed by Toowoomba. In the Downs
city they have a moss-grown piece of iron-
mongery that passed as a cannon in the good
old hlackbirding days. In a burst of patri-
otic fervor someone dragged out the ancient
blunderbuss, oiled its whiskers, and ordered
it into action. The gay old gun responded
joyously. It awoke with a reverberating
roar that smashed windows, wrecked plants
and made, a general mess of Toowoomba’s
prize conservatory.
Yours affectionately.
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“Analjst" : ] )engue fever, which has been
shaking our bones up, has crossed the border
and is giving Sydney a turn. It takes a lot
of getting rid of, especially the hacking
cough, but an old hand up North recom-
mends this: Two ripe persimmons skinned
and squashed, two grains, of sulphate of
quinine, two tablespoonfuls of rum, the mess
mixed with milk and taken at bedtime.
Banana land is still busy manufacturing
Anzacs. A seven-year-old youngster named
Boebig got lost in the bush near Wulltim-
billa, out Iloma way, recently. lie was
barefoot, bareheaded, and dressed only in
a shirt and knickers, and the weather was
wet and stormy. After eight days of anxious
search he was found “walking along uncon-
cernedly” in the thick and dingo-infested
scrub. Though dazed with hunger he was
otherwise quite 'well, and had managed to
keep going all that lonely time on wild
berries.
One of the features of Anzac Day at
Townsville was the turn-out of the original
members of the Naval Brigade. There were
about 30 of them, and they sent for their
old C. 0., Lieut. W. A. Ackers. R.N.R., to
knock them into shape. This he did in a
style which showed that he and his men
still have the old habit about them. The
veterans, all of them near 60, made an im-
pressive guard of honor.
The Lands Department estimates that the
pear pest has cost the State 16 millions
sterling so far. In many districts the afflic-
tion is carrying on a campaign of depopula-
tion. Instance, the shire of Taroom, with
an area of five million acres. Its total male
population has fallen off to 425. Through
this rich territory runs for 100 miles the
Dawson, and Joey Bell used to say it was
potentially Hie richest irrigable belt in Aus-
tralia.


wm
m
m
- r -<
: : '
.
V' K;
: *
■
IK!
> • '
•>
V.
*
SlllSlll
M&
V • m
■
■
met
mm
WM&
wife*
mm
mm
m
[iifi A
Sffi
-■
ksM wn
lii mmm
frWO,
i
I
MM
Sl l^ # £ *. *
&*' $
Sfs*J IS Wlmi
*h yf'M
■
•::
a s gig
-tWs
* , v v -3
fe * *•
mm
pll*
.
*-: I
yit * r i * j
| 4* -t- '| *
’
:-■■
■
■ * /’-
® .
- ...' ' _w
■
v :
' K ■*• J' ' 'fp&) lyS s'v?
m£
'.. ' .r ;
m
■
is*
SH
Wsl^S
.
I
iR
- m
-
:
ife’r •:
i
' . "y.
•••;•■?••;
!®®ii
,
■
’■ «
-' vJgpl
"
..s - -V. -4tk
H
■ ■
■-»
' ■■'!-,
:
««iiiii'lfft
/ttfa- ■■
-
-**4
' .TH
'ti-,... -IsfeXaJ
A
m
s
a


A £l4 Machine
With 5 Drawers
£8 10s.
15 YEARS’WRITTEN
GUARANTEE
Packed & Delivered Free
A.N.A. Sewing
Machine Co.
25 QUEEN VICTORIA MARKETS
(near Town Hall), SYDNEY.
Also at Errol Street, North Melbourne; 7 Arcade,
Adelaide; Baird’s Arcade, Perth; 39 George Street,
Launceston; and 123 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
" SELS
AROMATIQ.UES
pour le bain
MO
io,
on
One tablespoonful
scientifically “ softens ” an entire
bath of the hardest water, and leaves
upon the skin a delightful and
lingering fragrance. The youthful
clearness of the
, skin is preserved
to old age by the
daily Bath of Morny softened water.
"Chaminade” Bath Salts.
5/6, 13/6, 30/-.
"Juae Roses " Bath Salt, f 4/ , 0/6
Yesha Bath Salts >
“ Violette ” Bath Salts J
Rose-Verveine, Cologne or
Lavender Bath Salts, 3/-, 7/-, 17/6.
The Queen says : “An Aura of frag-
rance surrounds the woman whoso
Bath-room Kitual is ministered to by
Morny.”
Tie HORNY FINE BATH & PERFUME PRODUCTS
are retailed in Sydney by:—
Civil Service Co-operative Stores of N.S.W., Ltd.,
152-154 Pitt Street; Farmer & Co., Ltd., 221-229
Pitt Street; David Jones Ltd., George Street; Las-
setters Ltd., George Street; Pattinson & Co., 427
George Street; Washington H. Soul & Co., 160 Pitt
Street; H. A. Rose & Co., 149 King Street.
Wholesale Dep6t for Australasia: —
DRUGGISTS SUNDRIES LTD.,
32 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Mr. J. Moorehouse, of
Winnipeg, secured this fine
black-tail Deer with his Ross
.280
Like other experienced hunters he
is loud in his praise of the accuracy
and tremendous anchoring power of
the “Ross” and its Sporting Ammu-
nition with Copper Tube Expanding
Bullet, patented. You also should
use them.
Illustrated catalogue on request.
Ross Rifle Co., Quebec, Can.
Information and Prices can be obtained from —
Mr. HUGH SCOTT-YOUNG,
P.O. Box 1031, Melbourne, Australia.
915
Good Fit-Good Style
Maenaught’s “Blaxland” Boot, Semi-
American Freak Shape, in Patent
Calf Skin, with Dull Kid Tops,
roomy Toe, good comfortable fitting.
A Boot for best wear 25/-
We Pay Postage.
Write for Catalogue.
1
For Distinctive Footwear,
135 King Street, SYDNEY.
How to Treat Your Hair and Complexion
4
A Few Simple Beauty Hints.
By Mdile. GABY DESLYS, the well-known Parisian Actress.
YOU ask me for a few hints on the thing is a good shampoo. Never use anv-
treatment of the hair and complexion, thing inferior to wash the hair with. Get
Well, the less “treatment” you give some good stallax from your chemist and use
the skin the better. I do not
believe much in massage, but a
little cream to the face is neces-
sary to counteract the effects of
wind or sun. What cream
would I recommend? Well, I
advise you to use a little mer-
colised wax every night and
again in the morning, after
washing the face. Rub it
gently into the skin, then wipe
off any superfluous wax and
dust a little barri-agar over
the face. You will find that
this will be the only “treat-
ment” necessary and will keep
your face fresh and youthful-
m
Photo: Wrather <£■ Buys.
a teaspoonful in a cup of hot
water. Then rinse the hair
well and it will look bright and
glossy.
A tonic is necessary when the
hair is inclined to fall out more
than it should, and is always
good to use during the spring
and autumn. Then the hair
needs a little —what do you call
it? —stimulant, and for this I
would advise you to get a packet
of boranium and mix it with
some bay rum ; dab this into the
roots and it will not only stop
the fall, but make your hair
grow long and thick. Give your
looking for all your life. The mercolised
wax removes all the dead outer skin, so
that you have always a fair, fresh com-
plexion like a girl’s.
For the hair, the first and most important
* * * ae *
Blackheads Fly Away.
Instantaneous Remedy for Blackheads, Greasy Skin and Enlarged Pores.
hair a good brushing every night, and that
will be all that you need do.
WA
A practically instantaneous remedy for
blackheads, greasy skins and enlarged pores,
recently discovered, is now coming into
general use in the boudoir. It is very
simple, harmless and pleasant. Drop a
stymol tablet, obtained at the chemist’s, in
a tumblerful of hot. water. After the effer-
vescence has subsided bathe the face in the
liquid, using a small sponge or soft cloth.
In a few minutes dry the face and the offen-
sive blackheads will come right off on the
towel. Also the large oily pores immedi-
ately close up and efface themselves natu-
rally. The greasiness disappears and the
skin is left smooth, soft and cool. This
simple treatment is then repeated a few
times at intervals of four or five days, to
ensure the permanence of the result.
Grey Hair—Home Remedy.
An old-fashioned Recipe restores Youthful Appearance.
There are plenty of reasons why grey
hair is not desirable, and plenty of reasons
why hair dyes should not be used. But, on
the other hand, there is no reason, why you
should have grey hair if you do not want
it. To turn the hair back to a natural color
is really a very simple matter. One has
only to get from the chemist two ounces of
concentrate of tammalite and mix it with
three ounces of bay rum. Apply to the
hair with a small sponge for a few nights
and the greyness will gradually disappear.
This liquid is not sticky or greasy and does
not injure the hair in any way. It has been
used for generations with most satisfactory
results by those who have known the
formula.
To Kill Roots of Superfluous Hair.
The most Effective Formula ever Discovered.
Women annoyed with disfiguring growths
of superfluous hair wish to know not merely
how to temporarily remove the hair, but how
to kill the hair roots permanently. For
this purpose pure powdered pheminol may be
applied directly to the objectionable hair
growth. The recommended treatment is
designed not only to instantly remove the
hair but also to actually kill the roots so that
the growth will not return. About an ounce
of pheminol, obtainable from the chemist,
should be sufficient.
Good News for Fat People.
Something New in Obesity Cures.
A London chemist says: “The latest
method of reducing obesity certainly is far
more pleasant and convenient than all pre-
vious methods. It consists merely in eating
clynol berries. The fat person who wants
to reduce without the usual rigid diet, exer-
cise, sweating baths, etc., now puts a few
of these little brown berries in his or her
pocket and eats three or four each day.”
Clynol berries not only eliminate fat from
the body, but also correct the tendency,
which is usually constitutional, to create
fatty matter. No discomfort whatever is
caused by their action; in fact, except for
the loss of superfluous fat and the feeling
of “fitness” so created, you would not be
aware that these little berries were doing
their work.
Local inquiry shows that elynol berries are
not very well known in this country, but
the demand is increasing daily, and any
chemist can quickly procure them if specially
requested to do so.
Three little merry maids are we,
Winsome, gay, lighthearted, free.
Hear our bright and merry talk,
Note our light and springy walk,
Rosy cheeks and sunny curls ■
We’re the Iron ‘ Jelloid ’ Girls I
After taking Iron ‘Jelloids’ the blood becomes enriched and
strengthened, the appetite is restored, vitality is renewed. Anaemia
quickly disappears, giving place to vigorous and buoyant spirits.
Miss J. F. Dubery, Southall, writes : —“I find your Iron ‘Jelloids
“a great boon, being so easy to take, and so palatable. I always take Iron
“ ‘Jelloids’ as soon as I feel a bit ' run-down,’ and after taking a few I feel
“ a marked change ; it is a splendid form of taking Iron.”
A fortnight's trial ( Price 1/6 ) will convince yon.
For Women, No. 2. Special Tonic for Men, No. 2A. (containing Quinine).
For Children, No. 1. Sold in England at 1/1 a and 2/9. per box.
Obtainable at all Chemists throughont Australia.
Wholesale: Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., or. Clarence Market Sts., Sydney.
• • TllE
If any illustration appearing 1D
Bulletin takes your fancy, write o
Manager, who will quote you price 01 1
Martin Hannah, Victorian M.L.A., who
for ages has been advocating a wider use of
Australian woods, is once more acting as
spruiker for a Made-in-Australia sideshow at
Btate Parliament House. This time it is an
outfit of furnishings for the Commonwealth
offices in London, built entirely by Aus-
tralian craftsmen from Australian timbers.
Next year, war or no war, the A.N.A.
intends to have an Australian exhibition in
Melbourne, whereat particular attention will
be paid to a display of home-grown timbers,
representative of every State. The A.N.A.
does this sort of thing rather well, so there
will doubtless be a very imposing array of
useful and beautiful woods and things Aus-
tralians have made with them.
Simon Hanley, of Diggorra (Vic.), is a
survivor of the Eureka Stockade trouble.
He went forth to the revolt with two
brothers armed with a pistol and a pike.
The trio had just arrived on the fields via
Geelong, and as they were out of Ireland
it was not for them to stand out of a fight
whereby poor bhoys hoped to win their
rights. ' One brother who was riding was
shot in the wrist, and, having only one hand
to control his rearing horse, fell and subse-
quently died from his injuries. Simon has
been peaceably farming in the Rochester
district for 45 years, and as a blue-eyed
veteran finds great comfort in the fact that
he didn’t succeed in damaging anyone.
“Chasuble” : The eight bells of St.
James’s Old Cathedral, Melbourne, having
been rehung, were chimed for the first time
-in their new site on Easter Sunday. The
tongues were only knocked against the sides,
because it was thought the steel frame
might not be strong enough to stand the
regular swinging. These bells are 64 years
old, hung first in 1852. 10 years after the
churcli itself was opened. About two years
ago it was shifted, nearly a mile northwards,
to the corner of King and Batman streets,
where there was once a wooden shanty dat-
ing from 1837, and used by various denomi-
nations until the arrival of the St. James’s
which has just taken up its bells and
walked to make room for more warehouses.
Faith may move mountains, but Melbourne
has seen for itself how Business moves
Faith.
Rua, the Maori prophet who got it in
the neck the other day, once raised a fairly
big loan in a simple way. Being desperately
in need of cash to develop the “great natural
resources” of Rua, he struck the happy idea
of starting a bank. The head office was in
his famous temple at Maungapohatu, and
there were receiving offices in all his pahs.
Rua was Chairman and Board of Directors
and General Manager, while the Accountant
w r as a Tirown friend who took the same size
in liquor and knew as much about astronomy
as he did about accountancy. All Rua’s
subjects were ordered to pay their loose cash
into the bank, and such was the hold that
the long-haired maniac had over his chosen
people that most of them obeyed. One
prosperous native, on going along later to
draw some of his deposit to meet current
expenses, met a smiling Rua, who informed
him that, in spite of excessive care on the
part of the management, the whole lot had
escaped in the night and leapt towards the
Mist Mountains, where the Pale Moon
breathes. When the depositors heard about
this they rushed for their money; where-
upon the prophet looked in the till and told
them there was only sfd. that hadn’t
escaped to the bosom of the Moon. Then
the bank exploded and the smell was heard
all over the King Country.
“Clarrack”: “Verdad” (B. 1/27/T6)
reminds me that South America is not the
only place where streets are called simply
by their names. My “digs” here in San
Francisco are at “126 McAllister,” one block
from Market. Also it is most incorrect here
in writing the date to put the day of the
month first; it must be the month first, as
above. After one year’s sojourn I am quite
Friscofied. I never dream of calling an ele-
vator a lift, or an automobile a motor-car. I
inquired of a traffic conductor once concern-
ing a certain tram. He said “Whart?”
three times; then, with a grin, “Oh, I get
yer; yu mean car.” If I’d told him I’d
been here only a fortnight it would have
brought a stare that would have made me
decide on “two weeks” next time.
Sir Sidney Colvin’s retirement from the
job of London adviser to the Melbourne
National Gallery, following the resignation
of Frank Gibson, Charles Ricketts and Sir
Claude Phillips (representative of the
Felton Bequest Committee), was probably
responsible for an article in which London
Studio denounces the alleged lack of system
in making Felton purchases. ' The writer
deplores that Manet and Degas, the two
great masters of the Impressionist movement,
are not represented in the Gallery, and
states that “Foyer de Danses,” by Degas,
was offered to the Felton committee for £6OO,
but, owing to the bad working arrangements
between the trustees and their London repre-
sentatives, went to the Neutral States for
£2500. But this isn’t quite right. The
picture was a small one, and the price asked
of our Gallery was £lOOO. Still, it would
probably have been a bargain. The fact
that we missed Gainsborough’s “Viscount
Hampden” earns animadversion, and we are
urged to get something by Orpen and Augus-
tus John before the prices soar, or we may
suffer as the British National Gallery did
in the case of Whistler. On the other hand,
it is quite possible to suffer from precipi-
tancy. The S. Aus. Gallery knows what
that means, especially in the case of Orpen.
Unco’ guidness still likes its odor of sanc-
tity a trifle gamey. Cairns’ Memorial
Church, at East Melbourne, has lately been
varnished and veneered at a cost of £350.
Yet, although Cairns’ Memorial has ample
ground space for such a building, the young-
sters’ Sunday-school is still located in the
basement, parts of which haven’t seen Aus-
tralian sunlight since the place was built. 34
years ago. Instead of pushing children
down into the cellar once a week for their
souls’ good, a really wholesome and truly
religious management would have given the
place a coat of sanitary wash, and spent the
rest of the cash on some sun for the infants.
A well-sunned infant will radiate more good
in the long run than the consumptive result
of underground soul-shaping.


QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
an<l . Enchanting Scenery, L „„
land offers a field of P «nbounded S seope to °ti imt ' al development. Queens-
prospective settler and to the honest worked nestor ’ tlle scientist, the tourist, the
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
apply to THE INTELLIGENCE £ TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
Branch Office:
279 George Street, Sydney, N.S.YV
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
They Screw In
to the outer case. They,
therefore, are impervious to
dust, to perspiration, to damp.
Pre-eminently suitable for the
heat of campaigning.
What of their going reli-
ably ?
Yes, they are absolutely
dependable. They are high-
grade, f-plate lever movements,
with 15 jewels, a brequet
hairsping, and a compensa-
tion balance.
They have also high-grade
luminous dials and hands,
which make the time visible
on the darkest night.
They have been specially
made for us for the use of
our brave men going to the
Front.
They are fitted into the
best-quality, pigskin regula-
tion wristlets, and cost 60/-
Our stock of Soldiers’
Watches is enormous, and
range from those at 30/- up
to f 10/10/- in gold.
A special discount is given
when for public presentation.
G
o O
to
*
ot
CM
00
a
Absolutely reliable, fully-jewelled Silver Lever Watch with
luminous figures and hands, the whole to screw into the
case, complete, in regulation leather wristlet 60/-
Fairfax § Roberts,
PLAIN figures- cash only.
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney,
23 8 25 Hunter Street.
Razors Old and Razors New.
N-
x\
The “Plum” Razor is no new invention. There are hundreds of “new”
Razors on the market, but, while Razors come and Razors go,
THE “PLUM”
retains its position of supremacy, through sheer consistency of merit.
Have you tried it ? The blade is of unmatched keenness. You can
trust this old friend.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep this razor in perfect order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- This line makes a lovely present.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITREN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER SO YEARS.
=Clean, Reliable
Heating' System
Enjoy- the snug hug of cheerful warmth
without smoke, dust or soot. These
tarnish the beauty of furniture and
tapestries, make plaster or paint dingy
and unsightly, and necessitate much
needless drudgery in keeping the home
thoroughly clean.
Ideal Boilers
and Radiators
make every nook and corner of the home
genially cosy and require no more care-
taking than to run a stove for one room.
They are equally suitable for any build-
ing, old or new, cottage or mansion.
Make your home a haven of comfort
before the drear, draughty days again
show how cheerless and costly your
present heating method is. You will
not then be at the mercy of chill, ex-
posed rooms, nor will half the heat of
your coal go up the chimney.
Mi
The Radiators come in many handsome designs, and are
greatly admired. They are fed from pipes connecting
with an Ideal Boiler, and can be placed in cold, draughty
places. The heat can be regulated as required.
Come in and investigate the sterling merits
and genuine economy of this dependable,
itn-to-date Heating System, or write to-
day for free booh, which is full of big
facts you ought to know.
“DANKS ”
Otherwise
John Danks
& Son Propy.
Ltd.
The House for Heat and Light,
324 Pitt Street, near Liverpool Street, Sydney
-
.
Welding* 18in. diameter Steel Gas
Main at Newcastle, N.S.W.,
by Messrs. Stewarts
& Lloyds.
If-ACETYLENE
wamo
NO MORE BROKEN CYLINDERS,
COG WHEELS, etc.
THE DAY OF THE EXPERT. To-day is the day of the expert—the man who knows every detail of his work
—who is thorough, efficient and up to date. The engineer who desires to reach the top of the tree in his profession must
be conversant with every engineering method which makes for speed, complete craftsmanship, and for economy.
THE ENGINEER WHO DOES NOT KNOW of the Oxy-Acetylene process is not abreast of the times: he is
at big disadvantage, and leaves himself open to the charge of incompetence.
Throughout the world to-day the Oxy-Acetylene process is the latest scientific addition to every engineering-
workshop, which, fitted with this process, has an advantage over the opposition impossible to estimate. It is simple
yet wonderfully effective; its price is trifling, and the plant is portable. Whether the broken parts require to be cut
or welded at the bench or by the roadside is of no consequence.
Any work of Iron or Steel welding or cutting can be carried out with Oxy-Acetylene. It is revolutionising
the Engineering trade. Broken parts that once were useless can now be successfully welded and made new
r again. This, too. in the matter of minutes. Cost is a matter of pence as compared with the expenditure
of pounds in the old method of buying new parts and making new drawings and castings.
All Engineers should at once write us for free catalogues and illustrations showing the remark-
able variety of work that can be done with Oxy-Acetylene. Following are a few of the broken
and worn machinery parts our process w ill make new again:—
Cracked or broken Aluminium Crank or Gear Cases, Differential Boxes, Steering Wheels, Pipes,
Cylinders, Pistons, Cranks, Clutches, Cardan Shafts, Band Brakes, Worn Keyways in Shafts.
Pieces welded to broken Gears and New Teeth Cut, etc.
Broken Machinery of any kind can be welded, including Cast Iron, Wrought Iron, Mild
Steel, Brass, Copper, Gun Metal, etc., which cannot be repaired by any other process.
The latest authoritative work on the subject, “A Practical Manual of
Autogenous Welding,” published by Charles Griffin & Co., London, states:
“Within the last few years welding by oxy-hydrogen and oxy-acetylene blow-
pipes has been applied in thousands of workshops.” Those workshops which are
rapidly adding the process to their equipment include manufacturers, con-
tractors, machine shops, garages, blacksmiths, boilermakers, repair shops,
foundries, steel mills and railroad shops.
The Commonwealth Oxygen Co. Ltd.,
The Permanent Trustee Building,
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
A
o
£■lll
L
Fractured Cylinder Repaired by H. Williams
Oxy-Acetylene Works, Flinders Street,
Adelaide.
Agents MELBOURNE: Fyvie & Stewart, Collins House, Collins Street.
BRISBANE: Evans, Deakin Co., 172 Edward Street.
ADELAIDE: Alex. Ingram & Co., Wyatt Street.
PERTH: Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Murray Street.


Legal Notice.
■pURSUANT to an Order of the Court of Chancery
-k of the County Palatine of Lancaster Manchester
District made in an Action 1916 Letter A. No. 18.
In the matter of the Trusts of an Indenture of Settle-
ment dated the Hist day of January 1887 made by
Henry Joseph Andrews, Ilea Id v. Bowden. Whereby
an enquiry was directed to be made by the Registrar
as to whether Thomas Corlett Andrews a son of Henry
Joseph Andrews is alive or dead and if dead when
he died and whether he left any and what Will and
whether he was ever married and if so when and to
whom and whether there were any children of the
said marriage and who are his legal personal repre-
sentatives. The said Thomas Corlett Andrews or if
he be dead his legal personal representative or the
persons claiming to be his next of kin or to be the
legal personal representatives of such of the said
next of kin as have since died or any of them are by
their Solicitors on or before the eleventh day of July
1916 to come in and prove their claims before the
Registrar of the Manchester District at his Chambers
• situate at 4 Clarence Street, Manchester, England, or
in default thereof they will be peremptorily excluded
from the benefit of the said Order. Friday the 21st
day of July 1916 at 11 o’clock in the forenoon at the
said Chambers is the time and place appointed for
the adjudication on the said claims.
NOTE. —Thomas Corlett Andrews who was a son
of the said Henry Joseph Andrews formerly resided
at Gatley Cheadle in the County of Chester and is
believed'to have sailed for Australia in or about the
month of February 1908. For some time letters
were addressed to him c/o Messrs. Dalgety & Co.
Limited of Adelaide Australia who used to forward
them to various addresses he left with them. In
December 1908 the said Thomas Corlett Andrews was
at Pooncarie New South Wales. The last-known
address of the said Thomas Corlett Andrews was
Cambewarra P.O. New South Wales from which
address he wrote on the 14th June 1909.
Dated this 20th dav of March. 1916.
HUBERT WINSTANLEY,
Registrar.
CROFTON, CRAVEN & CO.,
36 Brazenose Street, Manchester,
Solicitors to the present trustees of the said Indenture
of Settlement.
Business Notices.
A PATENT is a monopoly granted by the Crown
giving the Patentee especial license, sole privi-
lege and authority, that the said Patentee by himself,
his agents or licensees, and no others, may at all
times during the term of 14 years make, use, exer-
cise and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia in such manner as to him or
them seem meet, and the Patentee shall have and
enjoy the whole profit and advantage accruing by
reason of the said invention.
Patents secured and maintained throughout the
world, Trade Marks registered.
Direct and most reliable agents in all countries
granting patents.
Advice free. Write to
A. J. CALLINAN,
Patent Attorney (by Official Examination, 1906),
281 Collins Street, Melbourne;
Or 14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
■ ORE CRAMPS on COLD FEET
Electric Insoles Keep the Feet Warm, pro-
mote circulation, relieve nervous troubles, dispel
rheumatic pains, prevent Cramps, overcome
sleeplessness, and ward off colds and chills. Fit
comfortably into any boots or shoes. Alternate
places of copper and zinc generate a mild form of
«tlectric energy and warm the feet by increasing the
circulation Warm feet mean no doctor’s bills.
Try a pair; you will be pleased. Delivered anywhere
for 3/6 per pair. State size of boot when ordering.
The Union Co M 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
DAIMLER
+ w a
sotor Carriages
Vehicles ~
Agricultural Tractors
tm DAIMLER COMPANY ki
COVENTRY, ENGLAND,
WRINKLES
—How the Japanese
Banish them for ever.
Accept this great offer made to introduce in
this* country a totally new method guaranteed
to permanently remove even the deepest
creases within one week.
Nothing even remotely resembling this new
Japanese method has ever been heard of in
this country before. That is the only reason
why so many women now have wrinkles and
still consider them incurable. I want one
R
'i
thousand ladies in this
country to remove their
wrinkles by this method
and agree to recommend it
to their friends AFTER it
has done all I claim. This
is, frankly, an advertising
offer, but the names and
addresses will be treated as
strictly confidential and not
used in any way. I prefer
applicants to be from 40
to ,70 years of age, and the
more wrinkled their faces
are the more pleased 1 shall
be to make them look 10 to
30 years younger.
Remember 1 am not ask-
ing some ridieulously-exor-
bitant price to try this method, nor do
I charge you for any “instructions.” I
bind no one to secrecy, and ask you
to use no kind of cream, flesh food,
powders, plasters, lotions, liquids or pastes,
prescriptions, medicines, steaming, bandages,
masks, electricity, exercises, juassage, appar-
atus, nor any mechanical appliances whatso-
ever. In fact, I have no toilet articles of any
kind to recommend, and I send you no com-
plicated “treatment.” ,or “system,” either
duplex, triplex or any other sort of “plex.”
I guarantee to hold this offer open to all
applicants for three months from the time '.his
announcement appears. SEND NO MONEY,
but if convenient three penny stamps may be
enclosed for my posting expense. There is
no obligation of any kind. Merely address
Mme. Y. Miyako (Dept. 23), 133 Oxford Street,
London, W., England, and . your letter will
receife prompt attention, the packet, being
sent under plain, sealed cover. (There is, of
course, no interruption to the regular mail
service between this country and England.)
I agree to return even your postage in full if
you are not surprised, astonished and delighted
by what I send you.— Advt.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
JIVOLI THEATRE. SYDNEY
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE 1)E LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Plans at Nicholson's and Tivoli.
*J"I VOI.I THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
NIGHTLY AT EIGHT.
GOSWARD, HAY & CRAWFORD, WILLIAM
EVKRARD, LOOSE k STERLING, THE ADRAS,
MARGARET JEWELL, and others.
COMING NEXT SATURDAY, MAY 13.
HORACE GOLDIN, the Royal Illusionist.
Plan at Glen's.
WIRTHS’ NEW HIPPODROME,
lIAYMARKET.
Campbell and Hay Streets (between George and
Pitt Streets), Sydney.
NIGHTLY, AT 8 NIGHTLY.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS AND
HOLIDAYS.
HURRY UP. HURRY UP.
The Circus will soon be going out on tour, and you
must see it before it goes. You mustn’t miss
CAPT. RULING’S SEALS.
The Only Troupe of Riding, Wire-walking and
Mi.sic-playing Seals, in the World.
WIRTHS’ CIRCUS. WIRTHS' CIRCUS.
A NEW AND NOVEL PROGRAMME.
Prices: Arena Stalls and Dress Circle, 5/-: Stalls,
4/-; Back Stalls, 3/-; and Family Circle, 2/-.
Children Half-price to all parts except Saturdays
and Holidays. BOOK EARLY! BOOK EARLY I
Plans at Nicholson’s and Hotel Australia. Cars
and Carriages, 10.30. ’Phone 1234.
Coming shortly: “KULTUR”—a wonderful War
Drama and Spectacle.
|_| E it MAJESTY’S, SYDNE Y.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present their Gorgeous
Annual Pantomime Extravaganza,
MOTHER GOOSE.
A HOST OF NEW ARTISTS. A RIOT OF FUN.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales, Callose’s.
|_|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
(MOTHER GOOSE PANTOMIME.)
VICTOR KELLY sings the London Sensational Song
Success:—
“FOLLOW THE MOON.”
“FOLLOW THE MOON.”
“FOLLOW THE MOON.”
Cheered and Cheered Again.
PRICE 2/-, ALL MUSIC-SELLERS.
Or direct from the owners of the copyright:—
JOE SLATER PUBLISHING CO.,
Haymarket and Leichhardt, Sydney.
A 1, A C E THEATRE. SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J&N.TAITS NEW ENGLISH C®
PEC.
o’my
HEART
A COMEDY OF YOUTH
by J.HARTLEY MANNERS.
THE SUPREME SUCCESS OF SUCCESSES
Box Plans now open at Nicholson's*
'MiITEKION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S Dramatic Attraction for
1916, introducing
The Brilliant London Emotional Star Actress,
MADGE FABIAN
in
ON TRIAL.
Plans at Paling's. Day Sales White. Rose.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Amusements.
W. BARRINGTON MILLER, General Manager
Union Theatres Limited, presents the new
Triangle plays at
THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MOTION PICTURE ENTER-
TAINMENT as it should be.
SESSIONS: 11.45 a.m., 2 p.m.,
4.15 p.m, EVERY DAY, and
8 p.m,
Prices: 6d. to 2/6. Box Plan at Paling's.
You haven’t seeh Sydney until ytni’ve visited
The picture block theatres
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-.
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD
W. Barrington Miller. General Manager.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
SO LONG, LEJTY.
A WHIRLWIND OF GAIETY.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and 1/-.
Theatre roy a l, .Melbourne.
Direction J C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MAY 13.
HALE HAMILTON find MYRTLE
in
A Brilliant Revival of
GET-RICH-QUICK WALLINGFORD.
Prices: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/-; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MAY 13.
GEORGE MARLOW presents GERALD GRIFFIN
Ireland’s Sweetest Singer, in
MAYO URN EEN. .
Popular Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-
IXG’S THEATRE, M E L B O U R N E.
Lessees BERT BAILEY & JULIUS GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
FIRST APPEARANCE OF THE BERT BAILEY CO.
in
THE SQUAW MAN
(By arrangement with J. C. Williamson, Ltd.)
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Allan’s,
THE AUDITORIUM.
1 MELBOURNE.
Direction ROLAND STAVELY.
THE OFFICIAL
FRENCH GOVT. WAR PICTURES
SHOWING THE FRENCH FIGHTING FRONT.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY, MAY 13, AT
THE MATINEE.
Box Plans at Allan's.
BIJOU T H E A T II E, MELBOURNE.
FULLER’S THEATRES & VAUDEVILLE LTD.
Governing Director .... BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
Afternoon 2.30. Evening at 8.
STERLING AND LOVE, PARIS GREEN, FRED
MAGUIRE, GICK WATSON, THE NEAPOLITANS,
GEORGE MURPHY, BILLY WELLS AND ECLAIR
TWINS, MANDENO’S CANINE MARVELS, LA VEEN
and cross, nelson a- nelson,
prices: 8/-, 2/- and i/- 4 Matinees: i/6) 1/- and 6d.
Q l A C i A r 11 Melbourne.
REAL ICE SKATING.
EVERY AFTERNOON AND
EVENING.
O Y T’S PICTURES, .M ELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.
TWO BIG SHOWS.
HOYT’S OWN: Bourke Street, next Theatre Royal.
OLYMPIA: Prince’s Bridge.
!99_Ways of Cooking Apples
a fresh WAY For every day i
APP'&Ei
APPIIi
/pies, Puddings, dumplings, custards
ii tarts, Cakes, salads, sauces, jams
\ JELLIES, CHUTNEY, FRITTERS, OMLETS
I PUNCH, TODDY, MERINGUE
iSCATCHUP. BUTTER, GINGER, MARMALADE
/GELATINE, SCONES, CROQUETTES, LOAF
I HONEY, PONE, RELISH, SPONGE, SOUFFLE
IVTAFFY, TURNOVERS, and still some more
' Every Recipe has been tested by a cooking expert and found thoroughly practical and i
[temptingly delicious. Apples Were never so plentiful and cheap; there are four million 1
cases that cannot be exported this season; You should eat your share of them, help [
the grower and benefit yourself. “An apple a day keeps the doctor away.” Applesi
improve the complexion and renew the nerve forces. They are as nourishing as meat. 1
Pnce Seven Pence, posted anywhere. Agents Wanted, liberal discount. Special price]
to Growers. The UNION Mfg. & Agency Co., 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne. ,
No. 304 A
FOR ALL-ROUND
PIPE-THREADING
OSTER Pipe-Threading Machines excel because of
their wide range of usefulness concentrated in the
smallest floor space of any threading machines.
OSTER
MACHINES
BELT (Si MOTOR
DRIVEN
The machine shown at the left, No.
804 A, threads 8 sizes of pipe
from 1-inch to 4-inch diameter,
and bolts all sizes from to
lf-inch. Special features of Oster
Machines are: Automatic die re-
lease, quick-opening dies, automatic
oil pump and simple, convenient
die-head. For clean-cut threads
and quick work use Oster Machines.
47 distinct die-
stocks and screw-
ing machines.
One to fit your
pipe-threading
needs.
Australian Representative:
CHARLES WRIGHT,
Box 251, C.P 0., Melbourne, Vic.
The Oster Mfg. Co.
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
ri
Amusements.
IRC
K O T
II & CAR
”■ (Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all tW .
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from ToowL^,"' 01 '
Charters Towers. io O"oomba to
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over «.•
route, appearing in ail the Leading The,,?„ .
which we have the Booking Control * es °*
Representatives in Queensland for'the General rn
Company of Australasia a
llkad Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBWj;
Business Notices.
(fIPILLfIRINE
CROWS MOUSTACHES
QUICKLY '
7
Thu ideal preparation
for growing those
short, stubbly Mous-
taches affected by the
Military is undoubt-
edly CAPILLARIXE.
Hundreds have
proved its unfailing
tndrlt. Serid fob i
Jar to-day.
&RICE 10/6 JAR-POST FREE.
Craig & Aitken,
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over 30 years.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of Catarrh, Hay
Fever, Bronchitis, Influenza,
Catarrhal Deafness, etc.
Medicator, with complete treat*
ment. only 10/., post free.
Write for Free Pamphlet. *
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
49b Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
When something is wanted
to put on a burn or scald,
to heai a cut, scratch,
or skin sore, apply
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Ointment
It soon relieves the soreness and pro-
motes a qui k cure, while for a skin
wound especially its antiseptic virtue is
important. On other occasions also
it is useful—for insect b tes or stings,
fo- eczema, ringworm, and skin ail*
ments generally—whenever a healing
antiseptic ointment is needed.
Local Stores and Chemists sell it.
Made by F. C.CALVERT & Co., Manchester, En&
My name is Simplicity "
“ I am carried everywhere—”
“ even up to the clouds by the airmen For /
am Onoto—the pen that makes writing easy
everywhere. ’’
'The Onoto fills itself instantly from any
ink supply and cleans itself in filling-
one to-day and save time, trouble and mess.
Onoto Pen
the self filling pen.
Price 12 /- and upwards of all Stationers, J‘?‘ ller ‘
and Stores. Booklet about the Onot e , ,j
application to THOS. DE LA RUE & C<X, Ltd
176, Bunhill Row. London, E.C.; or the Aus
representatives, Norman Baker & Long 1
York Street, Sydney.
Ask for ONOTO INK-Best lor all Pe"*-
Horlick’s Malted Milk contains
all requisite forms of nourish"
ment. That is what makes
Horlick’s so rich -so delicious.
If you have not yet tried Hor
lick’s, there is a great tre at n
store for you. Ask for it a
Soda Fountain.
HORUCK’S
HALTED MILK j
Jt
m
©
H 53!


OVER WHOLE BODY
- •
Causing Irritation, After Three
Months' Suffering Used Cuticura
Soap and Ointment. Now Free.
Lake Road, Takapuna, Auckland, N. Z.
—“Some time ago a small red spot came
out on my back and very soon spread into a
rash over my whole body, causing consider-
able irritation and inconvenience and I was
greatly concerned lest it should spread to
and disfigure my face. After suffering for
three montlie and using several remedies
without avail 1 at last gave Cuticura a trial,
washing with Cuticura Soap and applying
the Cuticura Ointment twice a day. The
rash gradually began to disappear and after
using two tins- of Cuticura Ointment and
three cakes of Soap I am now free from it
thanks to Cuticura Soap and Ointment.”
(Signed) A. ISlackay, Apr. 5, 1914.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
gmf tiwk §l6
bti using
k;
Au-iPrs (USA)
BENGER’S FOOD is
universally recommended
by medical men.
For use during illness and
convalescence.
For weakly and over-growing
children.
As a supplementary food in
malnutrition, and for all
cases of dyspepsia and
impaired digestion.
Food
d
r
IIM
179 A
For CHILDREN,
INVALIDS and
the aged,
is comforting - ,
when other foods
cause pain. It is
the most easily
digested of all
foods, but is not
pre-digested.
Render’s Food is sold hy
Druggists , etc., everywhere.
BFNGEB’3 FOODI.TD.
MANCHESTEK, ENG.
Branch Offices —
New York (u.s.a.)
92, William Street.
SYDNEY (N.S.W.)
117, Pitt Street.
Canadian Agents—
National r rug and
Che ■ ical Co., Ltd.,
34, St. Gabriel Bt.,
Montreal,
and Branches
throughout Canada.
AVON
The TYRES
which increase comfort
and give longer service
at reduced cost,
BRITISH THROUGHOUT
trade mark
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-
paying office in the World. HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:— Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman: Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman ; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C. ; Hon. Jas. Burns, M.L.C.; Hon. F. E. Winehcombe, M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, L.q., Iv.L. ,
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Accumulated Funds, £33,500,000. Annual Income, £4,500,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1914 .. £1,034,346 Total Bonuses distributed .. £19.808,000
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. Write for prospectus
and full information without delay. ■
ariMr*
tl
<5?
THIS year the dainty foot daintily shod
comes into its own. Never were skirts
shorter or fuller, never were shoes more in
evidence. So the smart woman will hail
with joy the arrival of the new Bostock styles
for the season, since these are more captivating
than ever. The shoe here illustrated, for example,
is typically charming. Out from that most
elegant of ” materials, patent leather, made in
that new, short-fronted French shape which
makes every foot look so arched and delightful,
this is the shoe of shoes to give a telling finish
to one's new walking suit or gown. And it is only
one shoe amongst many equally desirable.
Bostock styles now on view at the leading stores.
Bostock No.
Q 9583
None genuine
unless stamped
“J?o stock.”
830
Unmistakable in style, cut and finish,
and the name “Bostock” on the soles.
SO long -is an operator has to be—so to speak— constantly watching a multitude
of !n“nveniSS lelers with one eye and his work with the other, the work
naturally suffers both in quantity and quality.
Put him on a Modern Machine Tool designed with convenient motions with levers
conveniently placed. . .... , ,
Reasonably secure and easy in mind, lie can now devote his attention moie to
casing out the work in hand; and interests himself in obtaining a rapid pro-
duction. .. .
Modern Machine Tools are the kind we sell-tools built with all convenient motions that
malqe We r ha?e id a P cata U loSe' illustrating our complete stock, and will mail a copy gratis if you send
your address.
Proprietary Limited
Machinery and Tool Merchants,
544-06 and 5 82=88 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
ESTABLISHED 1860.
The Inky Way.
Harold McCauley, one time of Brisbane
Daily Standard, and more recently of
Melbourne Age, is now with the Light Horse
at Seymour. After a few weeks foot slog-
ging with the infantry he sacrificed two
stripes to get astride a horse again. He
doesn’t go green to the game, as lie had three
years with the 14th Light Horse in Banana-
land.
* * * *
F. W. Boreliam, Baptist parson, book-
writer and Inky Wayfarer, has had a call
and leaves Hobart for Armadale (Vic.).
Boreliam was once a reporter on the London
Daily Chronicle ; then he was drafted into
the Baptist Shepherds’ Union, and fed the
slieep first at Mosgiel (M.L..) and for the
last 10 years at Hobart. Besides preaching
and writing books he produces essays by the
yard, and brightens up the local Mercury
with more essays, billed as leading articles.
* * * *
Richard Harding Davis, the lately-dead
Yank war correspondent, was probably worn
to death by liis clothes. Richard always
looked like a tailor’s latest creation, and
even in war he had his underpants creased
and pink clocks worked into his pistol hol-
sters. Despite his dandyism, however, he
was gritty and resourceful, with a large
capacity for observing the things that
matter. ,
Henry Brett, owner of newspapers and a
benefactor of Auckland (M.L.), confessed
to a record the other day while wondering
what next to give his home town. He
said he had started singing in a choir at
the age of six and hadn’t given his voice a
rest since, a distance of about 73 years. He
is now choirmaster in his josshouse. Brett,
by the way, set the type that broke the news
of the end of the Crimean War.
* * * *
“C. Ockney”: Kennedy Jones, who
recently contested the Wimbledon (Surrey)
seat, and but for a matter of two thousand
obstinate objectors would have won it, is
Northcliffe’s riglit-liand man. He was a
struggling journalist in the English pro-
vinces not so much more than 10 years ago.
Ilis rise (or fall) lias been meteoric, and
he is now well on the road to being a mil-
lionaire. Like Horatio Bottomley (who in
other ways he much resembles) Jones is fond
of the turf, and owns a number of race-
horses. But, unlike Bottomley, lie has not
vet annexed any race of importance, or won
the right to put M.P. after his name.
“Eddyson” : A story of an Australian bard
of whom we were all very fond, despite a
Bohemianism that made him out of place
in a well-ordered household. Once when
living in Melbourne lie sold an accumulation
of rejects and bought a fortnight’s supply of
whiskv. “No man with self-respect should
b* in ’the position of having to run out for
sixpen’orth when the spirit calls,” said he.
Next morning his wife and a black-and-
white artist found the sweet singer down
in the parlor, spread on the hearthrug,
embracing an empty demijohn. It took him
14 hours to recover recollection. Then lie
explained. “I couldn't get the whisky oft
mv mind,” lie said. “Suppose the house
took fire! The thought wouldn’t be shaken
off, so I got up and covered my risk.”
*■ * * *
“T. 0.1.” : The fire at Tenfold’s, in Sydney,
recalis that this is one of the oldest printeries
in Australia —perhaps the oldest. It was
founded by William Moffitt, in King-street
East in 1820, and came into Pitt-street in
the early ’3o’s. When Moffitt died in the
’7o's the business fell into the hands of a
Mr Yeo, who had been manager for many
years. On Yeo’s death the Penfolds came
in John Sands’s business was founded in
the mid-’3o’s, in a house still standing in
George-street, near the corner of Market-
street.
STANZAS BY AN OVERWORKED SUBURBAN
POET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The lawn,” Chlorine announced to-day,
“Just looks a positive disgrace” ;
A shadow of annoyance lay
Across the joy that is her face.
Off to my room I went to gaze
For long into my inkwell there,
While from its depths I sought to raise
A girl with some new' kind of hair.
Of black-haired wenches, big and bold,
And maids with locks of purple sheen,
Of ringlets wrought of living gold
I’ve raved, and e’en of tresses green!
Is there not left some Tot or Grace,
Who from my inky Well of Lies
I yet may lure, to help me chase
The troubled look from Chlorine's eyes?
I call my sinless past to mind,
And curse the girls I never kissed—
Alas! that men could be so blind—
They make indeed a lengthy list!
Some dead romance might help to-day ;
Unfortunately, though, in rhymes
The very few that came my way
I have exploited many times.
Madge, whom I -wooed but never w'on,
Helped me the furniture to buy ;
Dot often saved me from a dun
In impecunious days gone by.
Of Elsie I wrote many reams,
With which the kitchen shelves I filled ;
Lolette, whom I but knew in dreams,
The fowlyard kindly helped to build.
I've written off the ancient debt
Upon the house in which I live;
Jean gave her aid and fair Phrynette—
But now they have no more to give!
The lawn's indeed a shocking sight;
It well may move Chlorine to tears ;
But still I strive in vain to write
A mower and a pair Of shears.
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


GUNS and RIFLES
* of Reliability and Accuracy.
s£
810, “WINCHESTER,” Single Shot, 1902 Model,
22 Cal. Ilim Fire, peep or V sights, scroll
trigger guard, rubber heel plate, Of/
r weight 2£lb.
The above Rifle, fitted with sporting ladder rear sight 00/f?
Postage—l/6 N.S.W.; 2/8 Inter-State. w
WE STOCK . .
EVERYTHING
FOR EVERY SPORT
“Goods right Prices right.”
SPORTING REPAIR WORK A SPECIALTY.
-* K
pm
817. “ITHACA” Arms Co.’s Hammer/ess
D. B. B. L. Pigeon Gun,
12-gauge, top lever, dense Trogan nitro steel, 32-inch barrels, both
choke, Greener cross bolt, high, file-cut rib, pistol-grip, chambered for
2fin. cartridges, walnut stock, tested for nitro; weight, 71b. to 711 b.
Delivered
We can supply the above gun in 16-gauge, at £7/10/-
3B
812. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906 Mode
1G shot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger, straight grip, slide
action, for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges. —. _ ,
Postage—2/- N.S.W.; 3/8 Inter-State. 55 -
SWEET CROP
Smoking
Mixture.
Really
Delightful.
Sample Tin
1/- post free.
GUN AND
RIFLE
REPAIRS
a Specialty
Send for our Price
List of Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition and
all Sporting Goods.
Post Free Anywhere.
828. BAYARD SEMI-AUTOMATIC RIFLE,
-- cal., 19in. Round Steel Barrel, length over
all 3S|in., weight 3flb., handles short or /
long cartridges,
Postage—l/6 N.S.W.; 2/S Inter-State.
ST
Stevens' “FAVORITE,”
22 Calibre Rim Fire, round steel, 22in. barrel case-
hardened frame, solid breech block, take-down 0 o z?
action, open front and rear sights, weight 4|lb , t>
Ate can supply the above Rifles, fitted with Beach Combination Front Sisht and
'ermer Rear (as illustrated), 40/- S and
p o . s 2 i°e r - 3 1 2 /9 R N n s.w re - CalibreS> Sa _ me c]es T iption as above, 2/6 each extra.
3/2 Inter-State.
9M
89. “ Winchester ” Single Shot
Rifle, 1904 Model,
, . . for 22 short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in
heavy round steel barrel plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sieht'
length of rifle over all, 37im bead front sight, with patent alloyed tm
which will not tarnish ; weight, about 41b. ‘ Up ’
Postage—l/9 N.S.W.: 3/2 Inter-State. -t/ D
NAYMARKET
•SYDNEY-
AUSTRALIA'S GREATEST SPORTS OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KING STREET; also at NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE.
Your Choice Should Be
(X®feM°p
[Registered in principal countries]
Because
it will give you all-round satisfaction —just as it has
to more than two million other housewives.
—it is treated with O-Cedar Polish the polish that
does not gum, stick or veneer, but gives a hard, dry,
durable lustre that will not collect dust.
—it makes it easy to clean those hard-to-get-at places.
•—it ‘cleans as it polishes.’
it collects all the dust from everywhere and holds it.
—it is easily washed and renewed.
—it is unconditionally guaranteed.
When shopping look for
this Yellow Tin on your
dealer’s shelves.
1
Places
s
Hill
O
c
The Original
the Standard
O-Cedar Mops were the first
and have remained the stan-
dard Mops despite wide-
spread imitation. Beware of
substitutes —look for the yel-
low package and the trade-
marked name “O-Cedar.”
—it is substantially made and
padded to prevent the marring
of furniture. The finished, pol-
ished handle is 54 inches long.
Try It at Our Risk
Any leading dealer will supply
you with O-Cedar Polish-Mop.
We guarantee it to fully satisfy
you.
Catalogues and Dealer Samples
and Prices can be had from
GIBBS, BRIGHT 8 CO., 37 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
Also at Sole Australian Agents.
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Fremantle.
Manufactured by
CHANNELL CHEMICAL CO.
Factory: Chicago, U. S. A.
Offices: London, Toronto, Buenos Aires
Cable Address: ‘Ocedar’
Prettier,
Cleaner and
Brighter
Floors than
you have ever
had before!
AL»
&
/
id
BE GOOD
TO YOUR
COMPLEXION
USE
Nyal’s
Face
Cream
1/6 & 2/6 per jar.
FOR SALE BY
CHEMISTS ONLY
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
KYNOCH “SWIFT” is
THE Cartridge for the
“man on the land.’
Smokeless—effective
reliable —it is a really
good, low-priced Cart-
ridge, and is deservedly
popular.
Factory loaded; uni-
form in pattern and
penetration.
BRITISH MADE.
L
as
m
4
4K
o\r
£


MISS KATHLEEN ARNOLD
finds Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
a Prompt and Effective Remedy.
Miss KATHLEEN ARNOLD.
{From a photo.)
Miss Kathleen Arnold is one of
the best-known of Australia’s pretty
and popular actresses. Her Lady
Isabel in “East Lynne,” and her
Dearest in “Little Lord Fauntle-
roy” are characters in which she
has been admired throughout Aus-
tralasia. She has given nearly five
hundred performances as Lady
Isabel and has played the part of
Dearest at least six hundred times.
Miss Kathleen Arnold writes to
us :
“I want to add my praise for
your Dr. Sheldon's New Dis-
covery. More than once it has
stopped off a Cough or Cold for
me in record time. Now I
always keep a bottle by me, and
upon first indications of a Cold
I find a few doses soon put me
right. New Discovery is really
a good remedy, and I have much
pleasure in recommending it.
“Yours faithfully,
“(Sgd.)
“KATHLEEN ARNOLD.”
Start this Winter Right.
Do not let a cough or cold get a hold on you at the beginning of the Winter
or you will have great trouble to shake it off. Start the Winter right by
having a bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery handy as a safeguard to ward
off the first sign of a cough or cold.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery banishes all Winter ills. Price 1/6 and 3/-
D» Sheldons
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
Nothing contributes more
to secure happy temper in
a child than correct feeding.
Get the diet right, and baby is as happy as
the day is long.
Mellin’s Food is adapted for use with the
youngest babe, is light, easily digested, safe.
Besides, “Mellin’s” is a no-worry food hot
water and fresh cow’s milk, and it’s ready.
As important as
baby’s Food is
baby’s Feeder.
Mellin’s Feeding
Bottle stands
unique; hygienic,
efficient, easily
cleaned.
Mel I in's
Food
A Sample of Mellin’s Food, with Handbook for Mothers,
“The Care of Infants in Australia,’’ sent Free. Write to-day:
MESSRS. GOLLIN & CO. PROPRIETARY, LD., SYDNEY.
The Sydney § Suburban Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
Mutual Life Building 14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
For all classes of Rift Maintenance, Repairs, Renewals of Rifting Ropes and other parts
—for Hydraulic Material, Pipes, Valves, Tubing and High Pressure Stocks generally.
Best Workmanship and Material. Quotations supplied.
WILLIAM MITCHELL(PENS) LX?
The Original “G” Pen, Flexible and Fine.
MITCHELL'S
No. 9. 1st Class. Extra Strong, Fine Pt
0568. Round Point Reservoir Pen.
The Original “J” Pen, Quill Point.
m
0538. “Kestrel,” Medium, for General Use.
0701. Medium Flexible Pen, White Coated
PENS TO SUIT ALL WRITERS
Assorted Sample Boxes of 24 Patterns from all Stationery Stores.
The Judgment of Harris.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
train was languid and the way
I was long.
The whining brakes at wayside
stations talked ;
And I regretted that the sun was strong
Or I perchance had tumbled out and
walked.
I yawned each mile —a hundred times or
so —•
And watched the three girls sitting in a
row.
Three commonplace and dowdy maids they
seemed,
Though one was rather pretty in a way.
Under her yellow lashes blue eyes gleamed ;
And as they roved around they seemed to
say:
«[ w ish these other tiresome girls were
gone;
Travelling alone, I’m sure we could get on.”
The second maid was dark and rather pale.
She kept a steady front and never spoke.
Her hat was beehive shape ; a rabbit’s tail,
Or something like it, nodded stroke on
stroke
With every jolt the toiling engine made,
Pulling us southward through the forest
glade.
The third was of a larger, bolder style,
Red-haired, green-eyed and stout of hand
and foot,
With quantities of teeth which in her smile
Glittered with gold enough for thieves to
loot;
And her slow voice was resonant and strong
With brazen rollings like a Chinese gong.
The languor of the afternoon increased ;
My brain seemed empty as a paper bag ;
The engine like a weary, sullen beast
Grunted and tried my angry thoughts to
drag
A little faster through the breathless heat
That over all creation kept its seat.
Who threw the apple in I never knew.
It seemed to come from nowhere in a
trice;
But each girl grabbed it as it came in view
And each declared the other wasn’t nice
In such a truculent and heartfelt way
I shuddered at the words I heard them say.
The row grew worse. I stood upon a seat
Leaving them space to wrangle to and fro.
They scratched, they yelled, they swung
their arms and feet,
Their wildered locks about me seemed to
flow ;
They rent their garments till they seemed to
wear
No blessed thing at all except their hair.
And whether it was rage or nakedness
I really had no power at all to tell.
But each girl when she got outside her dress
Seemed to have changed ; in fact, they all
looked well,
Though I for very shame had turned my
head,
Pretending I was blind or drunk or dead.
The battle ceased. They did not yell or
scream, .
But merely panted, standing in a row.
The sunlight in a hot and dusty beam
Poured in a yellow flood upon the show ;
And in its brightness that ripe apple lay
The red-streaked cause of all the fierce
affray.
My thought was but one incoherent smudge.
I placed that shining apple on my knee ;
And then the big one spoke : “Here, you be
judge!
Which is the nicest looking of us three?”
The others chorused sweetly: “You decide !
Who gets the apple for the best outside?”
I am a modest man ; yet I was plaeed
In such a curious predicament,
The task they gave me simply must be
faced;
So to the job my languid wuts I bent.
And all three smiled as hard as they could
smile
To catch my plain judicial soul with guile.
The tall one spoke: “Election day is near.
I have a lot of say in such affairs ;
Five hundred pounds for talk is sometimes
dear
To those who pay it, but the billet wears
A pleasant wreath of joy around its hat
For those who have a taste for things like
that.”
She laughed serenely, but I shook my head ;
And then the dark girl wildly butted in:
111 give you something more than that,”
she said.
‘l’ll put you on the track to safely win
By your own efforts anything you like —
Post money’ is a useful thing to strike.
Have a good look at me and really see
If I am not the nicest kind of girl;
Ilien toss the ruddy apple straight to me
And you will find me brighter than a
pearl—
In fact, worth scores of high-priced pearls to
t J ' ou
tn helping all you think and all you do.”
looked right at me and I thought a while
Whether the girl could make her promise
good.
A niust admit I rather liked her style,
W ith her black hair around her where
t she stood ;
But e’er my mind about the thing grew clear
Ahe third girl put her lips against my ear.
She surely was the brightest of the bunch —
A perfect peach she seemed to me just
then—
The sort to make a man forget his lunch
And dinner and all girls and other men
•And simply want to spoon twelve hours a
. da y
fitting on oyster shells by some blue bay.
, w^s P ere< 3 lightly, “Helen Jones is sweet,
A know she likes you very much indeed !
you toss that shining apple to my feet!
Her husband is a brute. You needn’t heed
Hi* whiskers in the whole affair at all.
A 11 talk some sense to Helen when I call.”
What could I do? For pretty Mrs. Jones
I would not waste a single hour a week ;
But this bright damsel spoke in dulcet tones
And pushed her bright hair right against
my cheek.
I said : “Oh, take the pippin. Here you are.
You are the best, the bonzer and the star!”
The tall girl looked at me with angry eyes ;
The dark girl gave me one long glance of
scorn;
I heard the yellow damsel’s laughter rise
As clear as kookaburras in the morn;
And then the slow train labored on its way
And nobody had any more to say.
The landscape jolted very slowly past;
The tall, grey ring-barked trees in silence
fled.
Each mile seemed rather dryer than the last
And time, sat heavy on my weary head,
J ill something shook me like a fell disease
And I awoke bewildered—“ Tickets, please!”
The girls were gone. Or w*ere they never
there?
No corset-string to prove the fact was left.
Although within my heart I did not care,
In that pale instant I felt all bereft;
And all that evening through the engine’s
groans
I sat and wondered about Helen Jones.
N.s.w.
CURSE O' MOSES.
Las Palmas.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’XTTT'EST of the morning, a hill; delicate
\ \ as a wisp of cloud, looking so
fragile through the haze that a
soft wind might have blown it away. The
sea, a deep blue, fluttering like a hundred
flags ; and the smoke of the steamer, racing
its own shadow, loses itself in the colors of
the air.
Separated only by a distance of three
miles the cloud hardens into hot stone
swathed over with yellow «sand.
No birds.
A hole in the hills, the fallen mouth of a
dead giant—and the white stones of a ceme-
tery.... Yet not a cemetery, after all; only
houses. Three men, quite close to us, in a
boat like an old box, seem to imitate flying-
fish by waving their oars as much in the
sunlight as in the water. They shake their
hats to us, and keep on shaking them, till
they duck out of sight.
Some of the passengers, grown childish
after long days of nothing to do, set up a
strange chant without any meaning, and
then suddenly all burst out laughing at their
own silliness. The boatmen listen
attentively.
People begin asking all sorts of stupid
questions. The coast continues to go by,
just as a picture unfolds on a cinematograph
film ; colors change, outlines alter. But the
sea is always the same.
We pass a wireless station with four
very high poles, quite solitary looking and
right at the edge of the water.
They say there are men living on the
hills behind there with caves for houses; I
wonder if it is true and am afraid to look
incredulous.
Then gradually, yet just as surely, and
with the same effect as though, watching
through glasses, we had trimmed them to
our vision, Las Palmas appears before us.
A careless scattering of whitewashed
buildings, and, above these, the twin high
towers of a sixteenth-century cathedral.
Blackened with age and weather, it rises on
two strong wings like an eagle against the
flat hills at the back. There is no beach....
only a wall.
Leaving the city negligently behind, we
pass on to the port and find that, except for
two rusty old steamers, we have the harbor
to ourselves. But not for long. About
seventy or eighty boats come struggling from
the shore to meet us. These boats with
their oars all tangled together resemble a
suddenly disturbed nest of water-spiders
tearing towards the ship. Men stand up
close against the thwarts holding baskets of
oranges, bananas, cigars, etc. Some even
are wanting to sell dogs, and show fingers
for the number of shillings required. Then
there are canaries, lots of them, in bamboo
cages ; shawls and packets of indecent photo-
graphs ; tomatoes of a pale geranium color;
long strings of beads.
Under the boats are solid blue reflections,
not with any detail as we see them in Aus-
tralia, but thick unpatterned shadows. A
boy, quite naked except for a loin-cloth,
beckons to us to throw money in the water.
He is rowing his own skiff and is companion-
less. We toss a threepenny bit to within
about six feet of him and watch the silver
turn over and over as it goes under. The
boy drops after the coin any old way, and
presently comes up again gripping it in his
teeth.
Ready for a fresh diversion we turn to
note the arrival on deck of the doctor, a
withered little bun-faced Spaniard, dressed
in a khaki -suit and peaked cap to match,
with gold leaves round the band. He carries
a thin black stick which he shifts from his
right claw to his left when he shakes hands
with the ship’s surgeon. A torrent of
hucksters sweep on board.and carry him out
of sight as we go down the gangway to the
launch.
On the quay, built of dingy white stone,
we find beggars, hotel-porters, policemen and
four-wheeled carriages; we choose a con-
veyance and a guide, and drive to the city.
The road is made of huge cobbles like loaves
of bread, but our three grey horses can go
like the devil. We pass plantations of
bananas and long, monotonous fields divided
into little squares by sunken rubble, pre-
sumably to retain the water wherever it
falls. The footpaths appear to be about 24
inches wide, and the streets nearly as narrow
again as the winding lanes of Sydney.
The way to town lies parallel with the
shore, and, when we look backward, we can
(Continued on next page.)


IS IT KIDNEY TROUBLE?
“Nothing Much.” —This is what the
kidney sufferer will tell you when you
ask him what is the matter. You can
see how miserable and hopeless he looks ;
his skin is yellow, his eyes puffy and
swollen; he is afraid of his life to move
quickly, or to bend. He is never free
from a pain or burning ache in the back ;
now and then he comes over so dizzy that
he nearly falls ; his heart acts strangely.
He has bladder and urinary troubles,
rheumatic pains, and is always feeling-
tired and worn out ; he is sleepless and
restless.
“Nothing Much ! ” —He little knows
how serious his trouble is, and how
every day draws him nearer the fatal
Bright’s disease or dropsy. Take your
trouble in time, and begin with Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, the reliable
kidney and bladder medicine, at the first
sign of anything wrong. Read how
thoroughly the Sydney people who
speak here have been cured; it will
encourage 3 r ou.
a Every Picture
Te/ts A Story ~
s^®
It
w
m
I
Tired out from morning till night —
Head bad—heart bad —rheumatic and dropsical
Have you suspected your kidneys?
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all
chemists and storekeepers at 2/9 per bottle, or
post free by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
Backache and Kidney
Trouble.
TWO SYDMEY PEOPLE CURED.
Mr. Chas. Merrill, Kyarra, David Street, Croydon,
Sydney, says: “For many years I was employed in
the ironworks at Eskbank, and I was often put on
filling the skips with coal. In this work there is
almost continual stooping, and after a while I began
to get nasty pains in the small of my back. At first
I thought they might be caused by fatigue, but they
continued and grew worse. They troubled me also at
night when in bed. as if there was something hard
gripping my kidneys. Matters looked pretty serious,
so I commenced trying different remedies, but I did
not meet with any success until I got Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills. They have given me splendid
relief; I can now work with ease and am quite free
of backache.”
Fourteen years later Mr. Merrill says: “Fourteen
years is a long spell, but time has made no difference
in my cure. I am still absolutely free of
backache. That is a good record, and proves that
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are a genuine remedy.
Mrs. Emily Osborne, Store, 101 Foster Street,
Leichhardt, Sydney, says: “Some years ago I had a
very bad attack of disordered kidneys, and, as a
result, suffered agony from backache and rheumatic
pains all over my body. I was often so bad I could
hardly get about the house, every movement giving
me increased pain. My rest at night was very dis-
turbed, as it was impossible for me to lie in one
position for any length of time, owing to the naggmg
pain in my back. My ankles and arms swelled a
good deal, and were very painful if I touched them.
I had no energy for anything, and was really far from
well. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were recom-
mended to me, and after taking a course, of these
grand pills I was completely cured. It is eight years
since I was cured, and I have had no return ot
kidney trouble since.”
Four years later Mrs. Osborne says: “Twelve ynars
have elapsed since Doan’s Backache Kidney in*
cured me, and I am still well, a fact that speass
volumes for this splendid remedy.”
pm
§
¥
Backache
Kidney
still see between the houses the Beltana and
the boats in myriads about her.
The dust gets into our mouths and a big
double-decked tram worries away to the
harbor; a man, the size and shape of Sancho
I’anza, patters behind us on a mule not
much larger than a do^.
There are no more fields now, only shops,
straight-up-and-down ones, flat-roofed, with-
out verandahs or even awnings. The doors
reach very nearly to the full height of the
ground floors.
Our first visit is to a cigarette and cigar
factory. We dash into an abominable little
lane j rags, beggars and dogs everywhere;
soldiers in what look like striped pyjama
pants; in the background the clean blue
mountain shimmering up into the sky. The
guide g'oes before us and explains the making
and the packing of the cigarettes. We
sneese. steal, buy, gaze secretly at the
women, and hurry out again.
Higgledy-piggledy into the carriage, or
cart, or whatever you like to call it, and we
whir round to a curio-shop where we buy
postcards, carved elephants, shawls and fans.
* * * *
We skipped the Casino and forgot the
Torture-Chamber; but we saw the
Cathedral. No need to tell you of the lame
and the blind at the gates, or of the thick,
sweet sunlight flowing steadily over the
dusty trees all day outside. Following a
little girl into the doorway we were sud-
denly surrounded by darkness; the great
depth from the roof to the floor made the
sound of our movements almost echoless.
The light was dim and floated above us like
the wave on the surface of a well. I
noticed two women (nuns, I think), in
white robes and white hoods, praying at
separate shrines. Their attitude, their
absolute stillness, and the heavy mist of
incense which enveloped them, affected me
strangely. A priest in a black gown came
through a shadow and passed us without
once turning his head, so that we were left
with the silent women and the tall cross
shining over ns. We walked before the
altar into the room where the vestments and
ornaments are kept; saw the gold and the
silver, the rich dresses, the candles six feet
long, and, in a glass jar, the heart of a
bishop ! But it really looked more like the
heart of a bullock, the proportions were so
great.
Later we ascended one of the towers,
going up a spiral stairway of stone without
any railing to hold to, until we came out
upon a square platform under the bells,
whence we were able to see the city and the
mountain and the ships in the bay.
* * * *
The day is not so bright now as it
has been, but it has left us thirsty and
full of nervous excitement. Having been
warned not to drink of the wine of the island,
we go to an English hotel, where, seated in
the street under a tree, we sip German lager
out of clean glasses, admiring the scenery
all the while, and becoming perhaps by this
time a shade more critical.
If the mountain is blue behind that
queer tov/er, it is also monotonous because of
its pei’petual presence; it creates the back-
ground of everything—we can never get rid
of it. Moreover, we have discovered that
the atmosphere has a trick of giving houses
and hills alike an appearance of flatness
which is positively theatrical. The build-
ings are apparently only thin strips of can-
vas stretched on wood, without any inside
or backs to them; they look as though they
were ready to rattle to pieces under the
first stroke of someone’s lusty fist. The
mountain and the sky seem one piece of a
painted cloth, and nobody would feel surprised
if the whole affair were to suddenly wind up
into the air to make room for the next act.
But the guide is getting nervous about us ;
he is so afraid we might miss the steamer
that he comes down from his seat by the
driver and implores us to hurry.
Again the three grey horses, again the long
cobbled stretch to the sea. Boys in tatters
run after us. “Ta-ra-ra-boom-de-ay! Ta-
ra-ra boom-de-ay! One penny, Meester!
One penny!”
There is just time to call at the last wine-
shop—the usual, flat, dusty-looking house
with all its shutters up. The only entrance
lies through a high, narrow door, thence
down a dark passage, and so to a room fur-
nished with chairs, tables, and a squat bar-
counter. Here we find the ship’s doctor in
his white uniform, busy over a bottle of some-
thing that looks like muscat, but isn’t. .He
orders two more and invites us to drink.
So, forgetting all warnings, we. accept and
inquisitively lick it out of little silver-rimmed
glasses.
A blind Spaniard is thrumming on a
guitar, and the hot night air is fogaed with
the smoke of cheap, black cigars. The shop-
keeper, in English clothes, straw hat and
full wide shirt, keeps up a continuous flow
of talk that is perfectly maddening. He is a
fat. clean-shaved man, brown and oily, with
arms that are never still. He shows silk
blouses and skirts, but nobody will take
anything, although it would be worth the
money he asks if only it would silence him.
Failing to wheedle us into buying liis
blouses he gives us a cigar each out of his
own box, and endeavors, for a change, to
sell us some more of his wine. “Fair and
square, sir—-yes, sir, that’s what I am.
John Bull is my name. I am known all
over England. Ask them in England if they
ever heard of John Bull!”
We say good-bye and hurry outside to our
three grey horses, only just arriving in time
at the quay; to catch the last launch. The
men in the boats are still clinging to the
sides of the steamer, and the canary that
would have been sold in the morning for five
shillings is now down to eighteen-pence, for
the bargaining goes on even while we are
moving, and many long ropes with baskets
on the ends of them are lowered from the
tnffrail to be drawn up again filled with
fruit and vegetables.
An hour later there is no evidence of
Las Palmas, unless it can be traced in the
banana-skins in the scuppers and the faint
glow beating up against the night far away
over the water.
HUGH McCRAE.
“East is East.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AH MAT, Malay, had been curry-cook
to a great Rajah somewhere. How
he came to be now merely cook-boy in
a little island hospital only Ah Mat and his
lady friend Kadijah knew. Wizened and
ugly but spotlessly clean was Ah Mat, with
childlike smile and little toes that ran
trippingly when one called.
You and I and none else but these two
may know that Kadijah had been one of the
Rajah’s two hundred wives who lived in
great luxury behind his velvet-curtained
purdah.
Beneath the innocence of her eyes lay
in those days many imaginings, one being
that she would yet be chief wife. Zadieka,
who occupied that envied position, thought
otherwise. Kadijah, with those long, gold
eyes and that aura of complete simplicity,
was the one wife whom she feared. So she
saw to it that the Rajah came not to her.
In a hundred ways she made life in the
purdah unbearable for Kadijah; and it was
when things were at their worst that
Kadijah discovered the curry-cook, Ah Mat,
who brought her sweets to eat and word of
the outside world.
One orchid-scented evening Zadieka came
upon them as they' sat together under the
frangipanis near the fountain. And now
Kadijah’s life was in the hollow of her
hand, and by to-morrow’s daylight the gold
gleams of those eyes would be out for ever!
She was foolish enough to say so; where-
upon Ah Mat took her dainty little
throat in his two hands and crushed the
taunts and the breath out of it. He and his
Kadijah just managed to escape as the
Rajah’s bodyguard came running up.
With them they took the Red Pearl of
great price, which always spilt blood, as all
great gems must. The Rajah’s chief wife
had worn it strung in a golden mesh upon
her bosom. •
* * * *
Ah Mat hid the pearl, and became cooky-
boy in the little island hospital far from his
own Malaya; and whilst he was at work his
dear Kadijah secretly sought the gem and
sought in vain.
Down the poincianas track that flamed
with crimson flowers and led through the
tennis courts to the hospital came Kadijah
one golden afternoon. On her little head she
carried a pandanus basket of sun-ripe grana-
dillas for Ah Mat, her lord. Rose-striped
was her silken sarong, gold were the buttons
of her dainty white kabaia, gold were her
eyes, and gold the clasp that held her long
black hair. Outlined against the cobalt blues
of Torres Strait, it was all very beautiful.
The young subs, from the garrison were
playing off a tournament on the beach court
this sunspread eve as Kadijah in i 1 0„ ,
passed by. Willis, the 0.C., who w», g ° lda
nearly fell off his stool in his
both the vision and the plav. Ho k j See
eyes for beauty. Wayne, the senior l w ,°
tern, to whose care Mrs. Willis— eo no
sick of a fever—had commended her w 0
frowned slightly; and the IZmt f “ ■
men from New Guinea, drinking tea S
the crotons with some tennis girls smiHa
S'S'scoforf ,0 6aCh °' her ' “5
alm^st^anmmted’to'wo^hi’p^^w’ifyne
adoration mostly took the shape of wonder*
ful curries that he composed and toT.
Simon the Cingalee meaa-boy, s ‘°* »
Ills sahibs. And when there were guests u
Mat scurried through his work at the hosni
tal and loaned himself to the mess
extra help. dII
Two moons passed.
This guest-night Ah Mat had made n
curry fit for the gods of Malaya, and himself
served it wearing his whitest linens and his
most childlike smile. One tiny norti™
colored red he gave to Willis. j l]gt
before coffee came round the O.C. casually
mentioned that he was wanted at barracks
but wouldn’t be long, and Wayne would look
after them till he came back.
At midnight the guests departed, and still
the O.C. had not reappeared.
A little later Wayne went out. First to
barracks. None there had seen the OG
Then down the Lovers’ Walk to the end of
the island where Ah Mat and Kadiiah
lived on the beach beneath the palm patch
The gold-sprinkled beauty of the tropic
night almost took Wayne’s breath away as he
came down the hill that faced the Strait.
The moon rose in a copper crescent between
two peaks of Waiben. Beyond the Outer
Isles the purpling waters curved to a foamy
film about the reef. The whole world was
heavy with the mingling of many scents. ‘
The hut was strangely quiet. As Wayne
lifted the latch and went in. he saw Kadijah,
the beautiful, fallen on her face, with Willis's
gold watchcliairi linked in her fingers. And
Willis lay not far off.
“Murder! God!” said the senior sub.
Yet there was no wound upon Willis!
Back to the quarters Wayne went for Jack-
son, his junior, and together they carried
back their dead. Then they fetched the regi-
mental surgeon, and together they made it
that Willis was found dead in his bed of a
sudden heart-failure. So Willis had the
biggest and most important burying the
island ever saw, and his widow shrined him
in her heart for ever.
And Ah Mat, Malay, squatting between
decks on the s.s. Falc, which had sat beside
the wharf that night waiting for a tide to
take her out. fingered the Red Pearl that
always brought blood. And, fingering it,
smiled.
All of which goes to prove the wisdom of
having a subordinate with his wits about
him ; the folly of leaving one’s husband on a
desert isle ; and (where Ah Mat and Kadijah
come in) that East is East all the way
round.
S.S. SEVERN.


IS ,■ .v-'
r & '
A Fair Question.
Have You Tried the
Best Practical Hethod
of Eliminating Your
Belt Losses ?
WESTINGHODSE
(MORSE)
CHAIN DRIVES
will Overcome Your
Difficulties.
Write To-day for Booklet
B.M. 310.
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
Ne .v Zealand Office: 93-107 Featherston St., Wellington.
N. S. WALES.
&
DON’T LOOK OLD!
But restore your grey and faded hairs to their natural color with
LOCKYER’S SULPHUR
HAIR RESTORER
1/6 SOLD EVERYWHERE. 1/6
Lockyer’s gives health to the hair and restores the
. natural color. It cleanses the scalp, and makes
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
This world-famed Hair Restorer is prepared by the great
Hair Specialists, J. Pepper & Co. Ltd., Bedford Laboratories,
London, Eng., and can be obtained direct from them by
post, or from any Chemists and Stores throughout the World.
SAFECUARO ro UR HEALTH
QtJ.Cottis Browneis
CWorody^g
The Original and Only Genuine.
BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Co/ds, Asthma,
?h of BRONCHITIS and
f SUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS -and effectually,
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A, CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3, 3/-, S/-.
Made in England.
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN
BULL DOG BROOCH.
As worn by our Brave Soldiers.
Every Patriotic Person should
wear one of these Brooches.
These splendid Brooches made in Australia and finished in
Gold, Silver, orOxodised Metal are sold retail at 2/6 each.
For the purpose of making these Brooches more popular
throughout the Commonwealth, we have decided to give
everyone an opportunity of obtaining Valuable Prizes for
acting as our agents. SEND NO MONEY, your name
and address will do, and by return mail we will send you
6of these Highly finished Brooches. When sold
remit us our money, and we will forward you the prize you
select from our Up-to-date Catalogue of Watches, Chains,
Clothing, Bracelets, Handbags, etc. Write To-day to the
SIMPLEX NOVELTY CO., Pitt-st, Sydney.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Do you feel Throaty
Then fly to the nearest Chemist and ask for
EVANS' Pastilles.
Invaluable for throat and voice, affording instant relief. A
never failing remedy. Doctors prescribe them.
Evans Sons Lescher & Webb, Ltd., London.
dinneford’s!
Magnesia j
DINNEFORD’S
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout;,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
(MPORTALV
NOTIGE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S"
on every bottle
and label.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach. Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
are one of the oldest and the best tried of family medicines. tells
all things” says a truthful adage. The test of time has been applied,
most assuredly, to Beecham’s Pills, for this preparation has been in
the public service for over seventy years. Such a record should surely
be a safe guarantee. It proves beyond the shadow of a doubt that
people are fully satisfied with the results obtained by using this world
famous family medicine, and appreciate the fact that in it they find an
easy and efficient aperient, a safe and sure corrective, and a speedy and
reliable restorative of weakened or disordered digestion. No wonder,
then, that Beecham’s Pills
ARE ALWAYS
TO THE FRONT
Sold in boxes, labelled, price (36 pills) l/l£ (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
\
Little Lectures
by Nurse ’ Wincarnis.’
o Lecture No i.)
Anaemia
Our blood is composed of
red and white corpuscles—
the red to nourish the body,
the white to fight disease.
In Anaemia —or bloodless-
ness —the red. corpuscles are
more or less deficient. Thus
the blood cannot provide
sufficient nourishment for
the body. Therefore the
face becomes white and
“pasty”— the eyes become
dull and “heavy”— and a
feeling of intense weariness
pervades the whole system.
To overcome Anaemia, the
blood supply needs re-
charging with red corpuscles.
And it is here that
possesses such wonderful
power. Because, being a
blood-maker, ‘ Wincarnis ’
creates a wealth of new, rich,
red blood, which brings the
roses back to the cheeks —
gives a sparkle to the eyes
—and surcharges the whole
body with new vitality and
new life.
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
‘Wincarnis’ is made in England by
COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Wincarnis
Works, Norwich. You can buy
‘Wincarnis’ from all Chemists and
Stores selling wines, price? 4/- and
6/6, but if you experience any diffi-
culty in obtaining it, write direct
to Sole Distributing Agents, Fassett
& Johnson, 6-7 Barrack St., Sydney.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries*
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road. London, Hn&
Insist on “ Singleton s' —refuse all substitutes.
HEALS ANY WOUND OR SORE
If you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won't
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind,
no matter of how long standing, you can cure it
quickly and surelv with
WILKINSONS
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price 1/6, posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist
I] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
TALKS ON BICYCLE BUYING-
No. 2.
•Sfitfife*
THE long established
1 reputation bemnd a
bicycle built of genuine
B.S.A. Fittings is a guarantee
of satisfaction. You cannot
go wrong if guided by the
B.S.A. name as it is never
associated with any but the
highest quality. Should you
ever wish to sell your
machine the B.S.A. name
is a valuable asset and will
help you to make a good
sale, whereas a second-hand
cheap “pattern” machine is
only worth scrap price.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF GENUINE
IXTINO^
‘THOROUGHLY BRITISH.“
B.S.A. Handbook
free from
D. Y. RENNIE,
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
TRAM IMMI
k
Anthony Horderns’
Universal Bicycle.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with
EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub, Free
Wheel on -both gears, Back-pedalling
and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop
Tyres. As ridden by FRANCIS
BIRTLES. £l2/10/-. Write for
Price List, post free.
Anthony Hordern 8 Sons
Qnly Universal Providers, Ltd.
New Palace Emporium,
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


The All-Australian
Power Transmitter.
MANGRQVTr
LEATHER
belyME
which is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND POR PRICE LIST.
AROW
SCHIEDAM
SCHNAPPS
IT'S
THE
Original!
/THERE IS ONLY
One
WOLFE’S
Schnapps
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
ThePurestStimulant-
Hardie s Genuine
Used In place of Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE, ROT, HEAT, ACID 8 ANT PROOF.
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Qua; West, Sydney;
“Courier” Buildings, Brisbane; & Melbourne
. SCHIEDAM
sc mm
I I
I=3
' 7. . "• *• ,
ITS
THE
Original!
There is only
one
Wolfes
Schnapps
Reliable Machinery
for FARM 8 STATION REQUIREMENTS
Tangye Lampless Oil Engines.
Tangye Benzine Engines.
Tangye Suction Gas Plants.
Tangye Irrigation Plants and Pumps.
Tangye Steam Engines and Vertical Boilers.
Clayton & Shuttleworth Portable Steam
and Traction Engines, Thrashers, Steam
Boad Boilers and Waggons.
“CLAYTON” PORTABLE STEAM ENGINE.
With Large Wheels to give
Ample Clearance.
TANCYE LAMPLESS OIL ENGINE.
Started Quickly like a Benzine Engine.
Munro Chaff cutters and Saw Benches.
Gane Milking Machines.
4 Nicholson & Morrow “Union” Harvesters,
Ploughs, Drills, Cultivators, etc.
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing Machines.
DALCETY 8 CO. Ltd.
Sole Agents,
Miller’s Point, Sydney, and all Branches.
THE
Sheep Shearing Machine
has beaten all others in open competition, and holds the
world’s record for Machines sold and number of sheep shorn
annually.
This year we are specialising: in a new Fong-Bearing: Bush, which is
devised to replace the old front and back bushes, and ensures: Perfect
lubrication, coolness in running:, easy adjustment of parts, correct
leng-th of bush in relation to spindle and economy in spare parts.
Fully descriptive printed matter mailed post free on request.
Sole Agents:
DALGETY & CO. LTD.
Miller’s Point, Sydney,
s a
er which
—. ... handles almost
any Size or Shape of Work.
Sole Agents
The
NIATTISON BLOCK SANDER
WiU handle a greater variety of work than any type of Drum Sander, produce cheaper work,
and, what is really more important, WELL GIVE A BETTER AND MORE UNIFORM SURFACE.
No hand-sanding plant can ever hope to compete with a plant having a machine like this —
the best all-round sander for any cabinet-maker or joiner, and the price is within scope of all.
The practical side of the Machine is taken up and fully explained in our descriptive folder No.
131. Write or call for it.
PARKE ®. LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merch
THE “CARD” CONCENTRATOR
MODEL “D” PATENTED.
Special Decks for Coarse and Fine Sands, as used by the leading
Australian mines on Tin, Copper, Gold, Silver, Lead, Wolfram, etc.
The “CARD ” is manufactured ONLY by the SOLE, LICENSEES—
,. 3 i A
•9
Equitable Building, Sydney.
Camomile St. Chambers, London.
