

The Genial Spirit
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 IkGlltj Street,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
AiirnnisiPPP? Pni? MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always aval ae.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST
N 5-W- MONT DE PIETE D SI C
74 CASTLEREAQH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Telephone: City 9325.
Opposite National Amphitheatre.
186 Castfereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Dinml
ufuj
A
UarAkil?~Q
m
L-*tfe«£-§.au-rji
3
COMHrnC)At CHAM Bt US H t '■« AVKHW OS Pnlt OCPOSn AIWYI ST MI ATCM V-
fi.fi
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
Keep Your Home Clean and Healthy
And Free from all Insect Pests by using
Radium Spray
Sold at all department stores. Kadium Spray is
made in Australia by an Australian firm.
RADIUM CHEMICAL CO. LTD.
210 Clarence Street, Sydney.
<
BUTTONS
IiSAMS&BMSffi
S.RB.
ANTI BLOWPIPE
DOORS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HAN S E NS
INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets act's
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
lf
G
S
B
.
*
THE BEST BALL
OF ALL
THE S.LVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 OEOROE STREET, SYDNEY
GOLF
Royal
Dutch
COCOA.
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY.
Not the same as others.
MALTHOID
ROOFING.
AMIWUD
Wall-Board.
For roofing all
kinds of Buildings.
For building wails
Paint Co. (D. 8. Evans, Australasian Manager), Challts House,
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES .
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
s .V. o.
MINING
MACHINERY
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. , 3
Roll Shells, Shoes
and Dies, and all
STEEL CASTINGS.
ALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER,
The Bulletin
Yol. 37.—N0. 1897.]
[Thursday, June 22, 1916.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


WAR LITERATURE
(Postages
shown in
parentheses.)
Russia of To-day, by John Foster Fraser, Ulus. 3/6
QeSj Before' the ‘the Belgian Ministe^'in
In 41»14-15,*bjr Marcel Dupont. 4, 6 (3d.).
Glorious Russia, by E. A. B. Hodgetts. 1/6 (2d.).
With Botha in the Field, by Moore Ritchie, illus.
3/6 (2d.).
Hindenburg’s March Into London, Trans, from Ger-
man. 1/3 (2d.).
Ordeal By Battle, by F. S. Oliver, 2/- (3d.).
At GEORGE ROBERTSON S CO. PROP’T'Y LTD., 238 HTT STREET. SYDNEY.
Afraid of Food»
Those who suffer from S
and Dyspepsia very often be L om
dists as regards their fori, ver r
themselves in time reduced to a
meagre and unsatisfying d $
Antiseptic properties of
HUDSON’S
“Eumenthol” J«j« kes
. rtf the
prevent abnormal . fermenta i° n c j, the?
and correcting Acidity oftbe*^ente»
thus allow the natural digests
act, and, if taken regularly.alter det
so improve the digestion most valu-
becomes unnecessary. T^^ ar ® £ Indigestion
able corrective for all beneficial to
and are especially useful Flalu ience
who suffer from Heartburn,
Dyspepsia.
JUj
iffiDX
y]lTTt U"
■w
dson
where in tins. i>rice 1
Sold every
The Red Page
The War
II l&rim Keyeris, late Belgian Minister at
fin, gives some interesting details of
I minent Ilun personalities in bis Oer-
nt Before the War (Nelson, per
nock’s Library) ; but otherwise his book
runs over ground already battered
I of recognition by allied and neutral
I oriaus. His “psychology of the principal
man actors in the tragedy of 1014’ dis-
hes few of those secrets with which a Bel-
li Minister at Berlin might have been
versant. He credits Wilhelm with creat-
a favorable impression on those who for
first time converse with him, despite the
iser's disagreeable hoarse and guttural
ce. “To have a conversation with him
aus to play the part of a . listenei,
L fnving him to unfold his ideas m
>ly fashion. while from time to
te one ventures upon a remark on
ieh his quick brain, flitting readily
m one subject to another, seizes with
dity Yet when we come away from an
erview of this kind we begin to feel doubts
to the sincerity of this dangerous talker.”
we have pen-pictures of those “very hum-
servants of the Kaiser—the King of
varia, who under a homely exterior hides
most keen and subtle mind; the King of
xony. with his loud voice, sonorous laugh,
d martial gait; the King of Wiirtemburg,
it model of a polished gentleman ; the nnn-
le Grand Duke of Baden, and the other
:ser gods of the modern German Valhalla.”
lese minor monarchs serve an unsuspected
e: they, though retaining but a shadow of
eir sovereignty, have become the solid pu-
rs of the monarchical principle in new
u-inany. “If they had been entirely dis-
ssessed, the Socialist and republican propa-
nda would have made giant strides wher-
er the Prussian regime was detested. . . .In
conquered Germany, however, the federal
levs, who yesterday bowed down low befoie
e Emperor, would to-morrow perhaps be
e first to raise their heads, and to deny
eir humbled Caesar that pre-eminence
hieh he has used so ill.”
Beyeus permits himself to prophesy what
ould have happened had the war been
fayed for a few years. He believes that
irpitz would have surprised his opponents
ith a quite different naval war —a treaeher-
is war of aeroplanes and submarines which
■ould have made up for his inferiority in
umbers. "What would have been the result
f such a struggle under the sea, if the Ger-
lan effort had been backed by a natient and
fethodical preparation?” Well. Beyens can
ow be reassured by the Jutland fight.
“Still, even if England had been van-
uished, Germany would have been drawn
iito other naval wars. In the process of
stablishing her world-power she would have
ad to force other rivals to lower their flag,
t would have been essential for her to
estrov the United, States navy, in order to
online the Americans to the northern half
if their continent, and to keep the markets
if South America open exclusively to her
iwn trade. After this, would she have been
ontent to leave to the Japanese the mastery
»f the Pacific, and to be thwarted or driven
mt by them in the Far East? V hat a vista
>f conflicts for the organiser of the German
lavy. what a task for his-own tireless diergies
md for those of his successors! Sticli are
he inevitable results of the first step on the
mdless track of II cltfloUtik.”
jt
J. 11. Morgan, who served for some time
is Home Office Commissioner with the Brit-
ish army in Flanders, produces another ot
the excellent books upon the war. Jjeaves
from a Field Notebook (Macmillan: 55.) is
fact made into fiction —and admirable fiction.
Morgan says that he has adopted the fornj
of the conic “as the most efficacious way of
suppressing his own personality. . But
happily lie fails to suppress a most delightful
personality, whose spirit pervades these
graphic sketches, even though, as he modestly
says, “his own duties were neither spirited
nor glorious.” But. so impressive are his
stories that his statement that the characters
portrayed and the events narrated are true
in substance and in fact is unnecessary. For
instance, this report of a corporal instruct-
ing a section of men in bayonet exercise is
too obviously the real thing: “Now I’ll give
you the second butt exercise. You bring the
butt round on ’is jaw—so ! —and then kick
’im in the guts with your knee. Don t think
you’re Tottenham Hotspur in the Cup Final.
Never mind giving ’im a foul. You’ve got
to ’urt. ’im or ’e’ll ’urt you. Kick ’im any-
where with your knees or your feet. Your
ammunition boots will make ’im feel it.
The author evidences a wide knowledge of
the diverse units that make up the British
army—one sketch is merely a study in the
astoundingly varied dialects that still persist
in polyglot Great Britain; and with the
speech and the psychology of the corporal
and of the colonel he is equally conversant.
He offers interesting sidelights of modern
war: “I have been told by one of our gunners
that the gentle German has for years been
experimenting in order to produce as ‘fright-
ful’ and intimidating a sound by the explo-
sion of his shells as possible. He has suc-
ceeded. Cases have been known of _ men
without a scratch laughing and crying simul-
taneously after a too-close acquaintance with
the German hymnolotry of hate. The results
are. however, sometimes disappointing from
the German point of view, as in the case of
the soldier who. being spattered with dirt
but otherwise untouched, picked himself up
and remarked with profound contempt, ‘The
dirty swine!’ ” . .
The story, “The Coming of the Hun. is
one of the finest stories of the war. To have
written this true story—that is true in sub-
stance but with the identity of the hero and
of the’ locale, from military necessity, care-
fullv disguised, is sufficient literary achieve-
I lent for an expert fiction-writer lhe b ; ll(
ummary of the plot conveys no hint oFthe
xquisite literary art displayed. ll ' i
< the make of a certain French town, oa.u-
ied by the Huns. The German oflicer made
is requisitions. The matre knew that the
,-hole resources of the inhabitants would
ardlv suffice to fulfil the Hun demands,
lowever, lie succeeded m collecting the tn
ute and the requisitioning officer scrupu-
nislv gave the make written receipts tor
very article surrendered. Incidentally, the
licture of the German officer is worth re-
ording: “He had high cheek-bones, protrud-
ng eyes, and a large, underhung mouth,
diich when he was pleased looked sensual,
end when he was annoyed merely cfuei.
The base of his forehead was square, but. it
apidlv receded with a convex conformation
if head, very closely shaven as though with
i currvcomb, and his ears stood out almost
Lt right angles to his skull. . lhe ferocity
hat was his by nature he seemed to have
issiduously cultivated by art, and the points
,f his moustaches, upturned m the shape of
i cow's horns, accentuated the truculence ot
iis appearance. In short, he was a ty pica
Prussian officer. In peace he would have
>een merely comic. In war lie was tenable,
'or there was nothing to restrain him.
The make, ordered to sign a proclamation
written by the Huns, was not so. muf* de-
pressed by the fact that he was, in ad pro-
bability, signing his own death-warrant, as
bv the fact that he had to put lus name to
the atrocious French used in the proclama-
tion. “Monsieur le Capitaine, lie pro-
tested, “if I had used such French in my
exercises at the Lycee my instituteur would
have said I deserved to be shot. I-ray aIIQW
me to make it a little more graceful. All
the answer the make got was the production
of the Hun’s watch and his revolver, and :
“I give you 30 seconds to sign. The next
act in the tragedy was the imposition of a
line of 300.000 francs upon the town tor
some imaginary offence. The make protested
that the inhabitants had not got anything like
that amount of money left. “And all our
goods have been taken already. . But, said
the general, “you have our receipts. They
are as good as gold. You have our stamped
Quittunqcn, You surely do not doubt the
word of the German Government? And our
reouisitioning officers have put a substantial
price on the goods we have taken.’’
The harassed make set out on lus im-
possible ouest. Two hours later he reported
at headquarters, with the announcement that
he had collected the fine. He produced a fat
wallet —of documents, all bearing the Ger-
man requisitioning officer's stamp. They
were the receipts so lavishly given for the
requisitions. And, the make gently pointed
out, “They are as good as gold.” Why the
niaire was not shot the reader must be leit
to discover. _
Anthony Wilding
There was a time —years ago—when to be
a world champion of lawn tennis was to
rank in the popular mind with royalty.
Indeed, a tennis champion like Anthony
Wilding was accepted by kings and prime
ministers as a companion and a personal
friend ; his partners in tournaments included
a man of the serene philosophic mind of
Arthur Balfour, dukes and kings and all the
princely small fry of Austria and Germany.
Bv his unique physical fitness and mental
concentration upon smiting a tennis ball this
young Maoriland athlete received the homage
of a superman. It comes as an anti-climax
to learn that Wilding, having gathered all
the tennis championships of the world under
his arm, should have practically to give up
the game and get to work —in order to make
a living. And the business that he entered
was one dealing with the importation of
wood-pulp, and, later, one that dealt in
motor-tyres.
But those were the days of long ago. when
proficiency in sport ranked far above profici-
ency in art or science. And those days are
gone. The racquet is put aside for the
and Wilding won a more enduring fame in
the strenuous work of war. No longer is an
awakened world interested in sports; the
sportsman has disappeared, or continues his
sport in obscurity, almost on sufferance, ex-
cept, of course, those two noble exponents of
the British race, the pugilist and the race-
course booky. What does war matter to the
racehorse or the pug? Even our newspapers
recognise the sacrosanct character of these
surviving supermen. Every Saturday night
a Sydney evening paper publishes a special
edition, proclaimed by the newsboys as con-
taining “Every round of the fight." There
is another fight going on every week; but it
is not that fight that this newspaper, with
its proper appreciation of news-interest,
specially issues its late edition for: the fight
that it" so carefully details occurs at the
Stadium.
Captain Anthony Wilding, by A. Wallis
Myers (Ilodder and Stoughton), is an admir-
able testimony to a gallant soldier, of whom
no record would have been published if the
hero had not happened to have been a cham-
pion at lawn-tennis. There are thousands of
equally gallant soldiers who perished as
nobly but without a public obituary. Well,
it is an interesting story of a pleasant per-
sonality. “He was not a scholar. He cared
I nothing for politics ; he hated war. Of books,
rqusic and the fine arts he had but cursory
knowledge. He had no use for stimulants or
narcotics; he neither smoked cigars nor
drank whisky. The only form of seient’fic
research in which he showed intelligent in-
terest was mechanical traction. Wheels and
petrol and quick motion he loved —loved them
because, himself a perfect human machine
designed for rapid propulsion, he was
instinctively drawn u, raachines created by
m-m for the same object. Anthony \> liaing
had more than liis body to offer world.
The man was finer than his play. I.eneat
his perfectly developed frame there beat the
* ' Tlnxt Anthony Wilding was always
a bov. He was just beginning to grow into
manhood when a German shell closed to life.
His biographer gives us a eharmin,, picture
of the boy’s life m his fatliei s home at
Opawa. near Christchurch. The rest of the
book is a chronology of tournament aftei
tournament, of the entree into the titled li e
of Europe, of innumerable fiittmgs through
Europe on his mot., -bicycle, of holidays at
lordly country houses, and then of Ins almost
pathetic attempts to work at the wood-pulp
business, and his brief but brilliant service
at the Front.
Here is a delightful glimpse into his liter-
ary likings, a list of books that he asked a
friend in England to forward him: Motor
Cud os and How to Manage Them, Dohertys
Book of Lawn Tennis, Amateur Sport (a
magazine), Winning Cost Annual, Ruskms
I nto This Last. And his letters, too freely
quoted, are usually nothing but the curtest
and baldest notes of travel or holidays, ihe
keynote of them is liis frequent references
to his physical fitness. “Physical tiaining
was a part of Wilding's creed. 5 It was all
his creed. .
A discussion that will have interest tor
Australians is the biographer's comparison
of Wilding and Brookes as' tennis-players.
I “There is little doubt that Brookes had
more inherent genius as a champion than
his great rival. He was the artist, Anthony
the athlete. Brookes may be described as
a horn player, although he remodelled one or
two important departments before his great
eminence was reached. W ilding was essen-
tially a player brought to maturity by
assiduous practice, the eradication of funda-
mental faults, the careful protection of his
splendid physique. Nevertheless, in a
series of matches played under first-class
conditions, with both men in good health, it
is probable that Wilding would have had a
majority of victories to his credit” —for rea-
sons that the reader will discover.
It did not- take Wilding long to get into
the war. Here, as a driver of armored
motor-vehicles, he was happy, especially as
he was able soon to get right to the front of
the Front. On the day he went eagerly
out to his last adventure lie wrote to a
friend: “For really the first time in seven
and a half months I have a job on hand
which is likely to end in gun, I, and the
whole outfit being blown to Hell. However,
it is a sporting chance, and if we succeed we
will help our infantry no end 55 And
the reason for his writing was to ask his
friend, in case he was “put out of action,” to
settle up things for him. Certainly this boy
who took to war as he took to tennis could
have desired no finer end than to be killed in
action. Looking back, those'few months were
the only months that he had lived ; in our
graver view of these times, those few months
were worth all his triumphant years in
flannels.
Geography
!With the fact that the history of the
arid has been controlled to a large extent
' geographical conditions, the public is
nerally familiar. But James Fairgrieve,
Geography and W orld Power (London
niversity Press, per Dymock’s Library)
orks out that theory in a convincing and
unprehensive manner. lie takes all his-
ry for his province, and produces evidence
lat the course of civilisation has been due
pt so much to what might be called man-
ind’s personal contribution, but to the
ressure of his environment. The rise and
111 of nations is due, the author practically
tys, to the shape, situation and conditions
t their particular backyards. However,
lough the author presses his theory to ex-
■emes, to the limit of which the careful
lader will not follow him, Fairgrieve has
irtainly written an interesting and useful
ook.
Almost all the energy present on the
arth’s surface has come from the sun. Thus
he distribution of energy on the earth is
ery largely the distribution of the sun’s
nergy. “The most important permanent
act in the history of the world” is that
daces near the equator are on the whole
etter off than places nearer the poles. This
act is modified by other conditions, the
leight of the land and the distribution
if air-currents. It is not enough that heat
ihould be present; the enerev is there, but
t cannot be made available unless there is
■ain ; and the rain is brought from the ocean
>y the winds. Fairgrieve might have in-
itanced Australia, but doesn’t.
Civilisation began in temperate climes and
lot in equatorial because existence is too
iasy in the latter, and there is not in the
atter regions the difference between one
month and another to make the race store
provisions for the winter. Lacking those
stimuli, there is no impulse to take heed
of the morrow; and it is only by taking
deed that a people advances. And it was
pnly in certain places naturally defended
by "geographical conditions that civilisation
had the chance to develop in peace. Such
favored oases were surrounded by the natu-
ral defence of a desert, a marsh, a steppe,
a forest, a plateau or the sea. The valley
of the Nile had this natural defence, hence
it was Egypt that first emerged from the
formless ocean of prehistoric time.
In his highly-interesting discussion of the
future possibilities of the globe, the author,
who mentions Australia but twice, suggests
that in the near future a source of energy
will be made practical that will raise the
interior of this continent and deserts like
the Sahara to positions of world-importance.
With the coming exhaustion of the coal-
fields and oil wells, the countries possessing
waterfalls will become the world-reservoirs
for electric power; but if it becomes pos-
sible to use directly the energy of solar
radiation, the vacant regions of Australia
would be able to support great populations
and would become of extraordinary import-
anee. Upon an area the size of, say SvcW*
is yearly directed as much solar ener-v
could be produced by the total amount of
coal annually raised in Britain. “Exned
merits have been made with engines whir-h
give a high thermal efficiency, but it i s
early to say whether or no the first sten,
which will lead to a great revolution haw
been taken. This is certain, that the nearer
the equator one goes the greater are the
potentialities of saving energy; that there
are supplies of energy on which we may
draw when co'al is exhausted, and that sooner
or later these supplies, of energy will j )e
used. With tlieir use, there must come an
inevitable change in the distribution of
mankind —in habits of life, and in all those
matters which profoundly influence the
course of history.” Isn’t this a matter f or
the Research Committee set up by the
Federal Government? The offer of a bi?
prize for the best thermal engine invented
by an Australian would be a more practical
way of settling the Northern Territory than
even 37 Royal Commissions.
o
The Athenaeum (London) prints a
sonnet upon “Anzae,” by George Itostrevor,
which compares very badly with the selec-
tion of Anzac sonnets recently printed upon
this page. The bad old tradition of riming
sky with victory and Gallipoli fortunately
is dead in Australian verse. Australian
sonneteers, it will be seen from this sonnet
printed by a paper with the high literary
reputation of The Athenaeum, have little
to fear from overseas competition
I Johnson’s Bookstore comes to the rescue
f this page’s perplexities (B, 25/5/16):
“8..T.5.”: ’Tis said Dracula. by Bram
stoker, and The Beetle, by Richard Marsh,
vere the result of such an arrangement,
lave never been able to verify it. The third
>ook was The Earth Mother, by Morley
Roberts, now out of print and rarely obtain-
ible second-hand. The other two are evcry-
,vhere at Is. 6d. in cloth. All three were
published early in 1897.
“Mosquito”: The book was Confessions oj
I Physician, by Yoresaeff. published by
Grant Richards, London, 1904, at 7s. 6d.
Reviewed on Red I‘age and received a fair
sale, but not considered seriously by medical
profession. Though no doubt true of the
author, the blunders, ignorance, etc., related
in the confessions are not typical of the pro-
fession generally, nor probably obtain even
in Russia to-day.
“P.V.W.”: How to Mix Dm ifc*—
American, Is. 7d. post free, from Johnsons
Bookstore, Svdney.
C. W. Cudworth mentions that Y.veresa-
eff was a pseudonym, the author’s name
being Y. Smidovitch. and adds that it was
in Sydney Public Library ten years ago,
and should be there now.
A cheaper edition of IronUrk Splmm
bv G. Herbert Gibson (“Ironbark ),
been issued at Is. 6d. On its srst appearance
this volume of Outback humorous verse re-
ceived this page’s commendation.
Jack London has achieved OQO . SOV L° V
fame: his books are by far the most popular
among convicts in the L.S.A.
writer can compete with his prison popu
The N.X. Bookman perspires with joyj
excitement over the fact that P®® tiy s , s 0 £
ing in America. It instances
the Collected Poems of Rupert Brooke as
having reached “the astounding total
25.000 copies.” Also 12,000 copies 0
River Anthology have been sold.
price Dennis’s Sentimental Blohe,
35,000 copies already sold, and
lently selling? . __
ANZAC.
They who sprang up from fair Australian
soil
Lie in foul dust beneath an alien sky;
They who sprang up dreaming of victory
Hold but one barren plot to crown their
toil:
Yet no disaster may their destiny foil.
Yor any doom, though dust to dust they lie
In dust of alien Gallipoli.
Their bones of fitting burial despoil.
Surely one empire were too strait a bound
For the dominion of their burial-ground.
They have outgrown her. These her children
brave
Have all the borders of the world for grave:
For these Earth is not parcelled out—for
these
She keeps no frontier-lines nor sundering
seas.


a
No. >llo2.—Useful Robe Costume
of Venetian Cloth, full-pleated Blouse,
open front, Military Collar, set-in Sleeves,
ornamented Silk Military Braid and
Buttons, wide Skirt pleated in front, in
Black, Navy, Saxe, and Brown.. 42/-
No. >llos.—Smart Plain Coat and
Skirt Costume, of fine Coating
Serge, three-quarter-length belted Coat,
set-in Sleeves, roll Collar and Revers of
Self; plain White Skirt, Black or Navy,
55/-
r-rasr
No. FX3s.—New Circular Skirt, in
fine Navy Serge; fitting girls 15 to 19
years 18/6
No. FX37. — Useful Skirt, in Grey
Tweed, inverted box Pleats; fitting
girls 10 to 15 years... 28in., 9/6;
30in., 9/11; 32in., 10/6.
*TIO4
No. 844.—Useful Coat and Skirt
in Gabardine; the Sports Coat is
Belted and has self patch pockets ; Skirt
is high-waisted and wide at foot, in
Fawn and Drab 427-
No. MlO 4. —Plain, Semi-fitting
Coat and Skirt Costume, of fine
Coating Serge, three-quarter-length Coat,
set-in sleeves, Roll Collar and Revers of
Self, ornamented arrow heads; plain,
wide Skirt, Navy or Black .... 67/6
Anthony Horderns’ for
Fashion and Economy.
Fashion and Economy go hand in hand at the
New Palace Emporium, where all that is New in the
World of Dress is brought under the influence of
Anthony Horderns t Famous Low Prices* Write
for Fashion Portfolio* posted free
on request*
m
%
rx-5
rx*
FX-5
No. Tailor-made
Coat and Skirt Costume, in Scotch
Tweed; inset sleeve and patch pockets, wide
belt; for maids 14 to 19 years—
Size 6, 32/6; 7, 33/6; 8, 34/6; 9, 35/6
Similar style in Heavy Cheviot Navy Serge, 32/6
No. FX4. —Robe Costume, of fine Cheviot
Serge; Bodice has inset sleeve, smart belt of
Black Satin and small Black Buttons; perfect-
fitting Skirt, slightly flared; color, navy or
lime, fitting girls 16 to 19 years...... 45/6
No. FXS. —College Coat and Skirt Cos-
tume, in heavy Coating Navy Serge; Coat
cut in practical, loose, sac shape; well-fitting
plain Skirt; for girls 12 to 19 years—
Size 6, 32/6; 7, 33/6; 8, 34/6; 9, 35/6
No. FX6.—Frock, in Vieux Rose Cheviot
Serge, also Grey Tweed ; Bodice has inset sleeve ;
Skirt is demi-plaited from hip and yoke—
-36in., 23/6; 39in. 23/6; 42in., 24/6;
45in., 24/6.
TMOS
a&n
No. 7608. — Smart Blouse, of Navy Taffeta
Silk, finished self ruche at neck and band of
Cherry Ribbon Velvet 24/6
No. 8812. — Neatly-cut Skirt , in Black or
Navy, fine Coating Serge, panel front, with
(Circular band at foot, piped Black Silk Braid
and Self Buttons 29 / 6
9174
No. 9174. — Fine Serge Skirt, double-box-pleated
back, Fancy Silk Buttons, Black or Navy .... 28/6
No. 32. — Floral Delaine Shirt Blouse, upright
Collar, with White Turnover; pointed Cuffs, Black
and Pale Mauve, Navy Blue and Saxe 9/11
* - -•«
yfpr
5700
s Jos y
No - Sioo.—Attractive Kobe Cos-
tume, of fine Coating- Serge, hip coat
effect, pleated at back, full fronts, with
Collar and Vestette of White Corded
Silk, finished Military Braid and But-
tons, wide flared Skirt, Navy or
Black 07/6
No - SlO3-—Smartij-eut Coat anti
Skirt Costume, of fine Serge, five-
eighth-length Coat, set-in Sleeves, Roll
Collar and Revers of Self, with’ over-
collar of Black Velvet; full plain
skirt 49/6
IX3*-
No. PX34. —Silk Sports Coat, half
belt at back, Roll Collar and patch
pockets, Royal Blue, Saxe and Black; to
fit child 8 to 12 years 25/6
No. FN36. —lnexpensive Skirt, in
fine Serge, Navy and Black, flared at
foot, suitable for girls 10 to 15 years—
28in., 9/6; 30in., 9/11; 32in., 10/6
f
/9S>
No. 199.—U seful
Navy Fine Serge
Coat ' and Skii-t,
smartly cut, Self Collar
and Revers, half belt at
back; plain, high-
waisted Skirt, full at
foot 47/6
ANTHONY HORDERN $ SONS LTD.,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield
Hill, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Cartridges
Shoot Straight
and Hit Hard
These two cardinal points
of a good cartridge, and
also that of reliability, are
always found in Win-
chester ammunition. No
matter what caliber cart-
ridges you want or whether
they are for use in a rifle,
revolver or pistol you will
get the best results by using
Winchester make. They
are sold everywhere.
Accept no substitute,
insist upon having
This Bench soon Saws
a big stack of Firewood
And allows you to get on with other
jobs, which you couldn’t do if you had
to peg away all day with a crosscut
saw. By saving time you save money.
The Saw Bench soon pays for itself.
Lots of other sawing jobs, besides
firewood, can be undertaken too.
This is an up-to-date Bench, and
quite the best value on the market.
Special Iron Bow prevents acci-
dents from saw dragging in block when
cutting short lengths.
Travelling Table is made from
angle and sheet iron. Cannot shrink.
Can neither tilt nor cant when plac-
ing heavy logs on the bench.
The trouble with ordinary benches —
that of wood stays shrinking—has
been overcome by providing long
wedges, which can be driven at any
time, thus preventing a rickety bench.
For all-round work on Farm or Sta-
tion, and for Firewood Merchants,
this SAW BENCH HAS NO
EQUAL.
Complete with 30-inch Saw.
PRICE ON APPLICATION.
MS-Pfierson'l)
Proprietary Limited
Established 55 Years,
554-60 582-88 Collins »St., Melbourne
Die Bool^-Croaker
AIR CAS SySTEM
CHEAPER THAN ~~
Electricity. Coal Gas, Acetylene or Kerosene.
and BETTER THAN All.
r<
%
m
INTER STATE AGENTS
Buzacott & Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Dangar, Gedye & U,,
Young St., Sydney.
J. Bartram & Son uJ:
Bourke St., Melbourne
Works: 269 Toorak RtL
Melbourne
-TrtROUGHOUT-
WV&'J
WAVERLEY
THE “BOON AND BLESSING” NIB
WAVERIEV PEN .
MACNiv'tnicAwrtfcN
You can depend on a Waverley.
Its* quality and durability make
it a world-wide favourite. It
writes so smoothly and lasts so
well that one Waverley outlasts
two or three nibs of an inferior
kind. The Reservoir Waverley
does 200 words with one dip.
6d. & 1/- PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS
AND DEALERS
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
Steel, Gold & Fountain Pen Makers
Edinburgh, Glasgow a London
IE any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
FOR THE
GARDEN and
FLOWERS.
“NORCROSS” Cultivator-hoes
have revolutionised Hand
Cultivating. The sharp,
tapering Shovels literally
tear up the earth from
lin. to 6in. deep, leav-
ing ground level, loose
and untrampled. And it
is done with such ease
and speed as to make
gardening an extreme
pleasure.
They work closer to
plants without injuring
them than any other
tool.
Ask your Ironmonger
or write our Agents —
S. SCOTT-YOUNG LTD.,
1 Bond Street, Sydney
K
C. S. NORCROSS & SONS, Manufacturer*,
Bushnell, Illinois, U.S.A.
“I Felt Extremely Weak
and Gould Scarcely Walk.”
“I Was Laid Up in a Hospital.”
“But am now Completely Restored, and my Sleep is
Rendered Most Refreshing” The Wonders of Clements Tonic.
THERE are many Business Men in Sydney to-day who feel the eff ect of g
great heat, the strenuous times caused by the War, and the worry or eg __
to such a degree that they are more dead than alive when the aaj . , by
almost too fatigued to reach home. To those men the letter nerve
a prominent city accountant appeals, for it tells in a few words how 3 0 f
strength can be restored, insomnia banished, and health regained <> reases
this well-recognised remedy, Clements Tonic. It is the medicine t give
weakness and increases strength. It should be in all houses } n t^ se ,
days. No house is medically equipped without it. Read this letter.
200 Victoria Street, Darlinghurst, Sydney, 11/12/’l5.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“After suffering and being ill in hospital for a hout
months, I met a friend of mine (a chemist), and, teeing
extremely weak and scarcely able to walk properly, 1 a
him what I should take to bring some vigor into my system.
“He strongly advised Clements Tonic, and, not to
sceptical about it, I took his advice and have since tnai
him most heartily. That was about six weeks ago, aimi <„
most truthfully say that the Tonic HAS CREATED \\OND
“My constitution is almost completely restored. I
refetless nights I can now sleep soundly, awakening in ii
morning thoroughly refreshed. My appetite, which " a ' s , ‘
jaded, has returned, and I thoroughly enjoy every meal i <
“You can make use of what I have written, as it is a
man’s duty to advise his fellow beings what benefit he dei n e
from a medicine that w ill do universal i 00 " 1 * r !f!vrr n
TWENTY YEARS YOUNGER SINCE TARING THE TONIC.
“(Signed) J. N. S. CLARKE.
If vou have Insomnia you should take Clements Tonic, and
It is the great WEAK-NERVE Remedy in Peace, or War.
constitution is magical. It does good because it is good.
sell it.
>ep LIKE A CHILE,
its effect on the jaded
. Chemists and Motes
i


A Great REMEDY for
BLADDER TROUBLE.
Drinking water that is of bad quality or
;oo soft often causes bladder trouble. Every
sufferer tortured with the agonising burning
pains of bladder inflammation (cystitis)
should try a harmless remedy which gives
relief in ninety-nine cases out of every hun-
dred in a way that can only be described as
miraculous.
This torture and pain is caused through
germs in the bladder. De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills contain a very strong,
yet marvellously soothing antiseptic, which
I:-
v)E WITT’s,
V
Kidney&BiadderPills
l These Pills also act on the Ziver. J
NOT GENUINE WITHOUTTUIS SIGNATURE
° ND,o.N».-\y»j^.^.Qk^i
penetrates the diseased tissues, attacks and
destroys the germs, makes the urine after a
time bright and clean, bringing a wonderful,
quick sense of relief and ease.
If you are troubled with rheumatism,
gout, gravel, backache, tired feeling, dropsy,
Bright’s disease, Constipation, cloudy urine,
inflammation of the bladder, or other
symptoms of urinary trouble you should
give this wonderful remedy a trial imme-
diately, because it brings quick relief, almost
every time —guaranteed—and a sure cure
follows in most cases.
To cure rheumatism or any other form
of kidney trouble you must positively get
rid of the cause —the poisonous uric acid.
Remember to do this a real remedy must
pass through the kidneys and the bladder
and not through the bowels, as most kidney
pills do. When you see the urine change
to a muddy bluish color —a feature which
distinguishes De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills from all others—you know beyond all
doubt that they have put their healing touch
on the right spot—the kidneys and the
bladder. A wonderful pill—straight to the
kidneys—that is why I)e Witt’s Pills give
such amazingly quick relief-—every time.
A permanent cure follows in almost every
case. Look for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2s. Ad.
box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
which are made expressly for kidney and
bladder troubles.
DeWITTS
Kidneys Bladder Pills
Purify the Blood.
Protect
Your
Throat!
It’s largely a matter of
care. Don't leave it to
chance, be on your guard
against attack.
Wilson’s ‘ Pino-Mentho
Pastilles
are the surest protection you o*lll get; you
can rely on them warding off Coughs and
Colds successfully. Keep them handy.
If you are unfortunate to have a cold,
Pino-Menthos will relieve you instantly.
They have a remarkable manner of getting
right at the root of the trouble.
Pleasing to the taste. 1/- per tin, of all
Chemists and Storekeepers.
ALEX. WILSON 8 CO., 17 Pitt St., Sydney
are: you
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? _ Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW ; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIV E A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can vou ask for more*
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
HEALS ANY WOUND OR SORE
If vou have an obstinate sore, a wound that won t
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kino,
no matter of how lonsr standing, you can cure 1
quickly and surely with
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price 1,6, posted 19. J. WILKINSON, Chemist
1] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
EBBKaBPaB
BONI\
fCCTO* I
carra'
X
IRISH MOS
GEORCE BONMINdk :-V
For Boys
Boys dislike medicine and won’t take it
unless it is pleasant. They are, however,
none the less liable to COUGHS and
COLDS. “ Bonnington’s Irish Moss’’ is
both PLEASANT and EFFECTIVE. The
best household remedy for Colds, Influenza
and Bronchitis. Take none but—
Avoid all
Imitations
BONNINGTON’S
TOBACCO KILLS!
(t
>JA
Face to Face with Death I
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a positive cure for
the Tobacco and Cigarette Habits. It is abso-
lutely harmless, leaves no reaction or bad after-
effects, and cures permanently.
Free Package Offer.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a trial
package of this wonderful remedy, together
with our Free Booklet, Testimonials, etc.
TRIAL PACKAGE often effects a CURE.
Mr. 11. Smith, of Pari; Farm, Jericho, Tas-
mania, suys: “I teas a hard smoker for SO
years, but since takin/i your sample of Tobacco
Specific / have never had a smoke.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G,
29 O’Connell Street, Sydney. [3.
HontserraT
SAUCE
MADE FROM THE
CELEBRATED
MONTSERRAT
LIME JUICE.
ITS PURITY
and great
DIGESTIVE
VALUE
make it the finest
Sauce procurable.
Of All Storekeepers.
mm
Lumbago
The case of Rheumatism or Gout
which Kruschen Salts cannot benefit
has yet to be discovered. This
famous British remedy is also
recommended by Medical Men in
cases of Lumbago, Sciatica, Eczema,
Constipation, and Liver and Kidney
Disorders.
KRUSCHEN AT THE FRONT
Since the outbreak of the War, enormous
quantities of Kruschen Salts have been ordered
by, and delivered to the British Authorities, for
the use of the British Forces overseas and in
the Base Hospitals at Home. Kruschen Salts
are prescribed by Medical Men the world over.
THE WORD KRUSCHEN
The trade mark “ Kruschen ” is a legacy-
handed down from generation to generation of
the family of Evan Griffiths Hughes, the sole
Manufacturers of Kruschen Saits, and one of
the oldest firms of Manufacturing Chemists in
the County of Lancashire. Established 1754 —
160 years ago.
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 175 A.
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers,
and stores throughout Australia,
Wholesale Distributing Agents :
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
68, Arcade, Manchester,
England.
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Villanelle.
I have missed my lady fair.
Seeking down life’s toilsome way,
I can’t find her anywhere!
Friends I’ve gained, some pleasures rare.
In the end what worth have they?....
I have missed my lady fair!
Rosy lips and midnight hair,
Tender eyes demure and gay....
I can’t find her anywhere!
ine and song, I have my share, ft.
Strife and sin ; but, well-a-day,
I have missed my lady fair!
Yi coded glades and summits bare,
Seas and streams !. . .. where can she
stray ?
I can’t find her anywhere !
Death, beyond thine ancient lair
Waits she while I pine and pray?....
I have missed my lady fair
I can’t find her anywhere!
M.L.
EILLERSLIE GREY.
Wisdom.
Wisdom was a grey, grave sire
By the weight of knowledge bent;
Scornful of each light desire
In which mortals find content;
Godlike in the magic power
By his store of knowledge lent.
He could name me all the stars;
Make the whole world plain to me;
Give me steel to file the bars
Of surrounding mystery,
That is like a prison set
Round our frail humanity.
Far withdrawn in high disdain
(Wrapt in ecstasies of thought)
From the careless human flame
Where their lives dull mortals wrought,
On a mountain cold and high
I should find him when I sought.
Then the ardor of my quest
Through his barriers would break;
I would gladly his behest
As a pupil ever take,
Eager only for the light
Thai his lore in me would wake.
So, high hopes within me borne,
On my eager search I strode,
Passing by, with lofty scorn,
Joys that ardor’s steel corrode;
Thus I sought for Wisdom 10ng....
But I found him on the road.
“Knowledge is a human thing;
Not a cant of doctrines dead.
Best of knowledge finds its spring
Where humanity must tread.
Come with me and walk the path,
There is still a goal ahead.”
So we tramped amongst the throng
Proud of ev’ry mile we passed •
Goal to goal we marched along,
Eager, treading firm and fast,
Learning but of miles ahead,
Till it wearied me, at last.
“Will you rest now?” and again
"Will you rest?” said Wisdom, still.
Though he smiled, I saw disdain
For my quickly-wearied will,
And I grimly shook my head
While we trudged by vale and hill.
Till at last we turned aside
From the. glare of weary day.
When I stumbled in my stride
It was Wisdom led the way ;
Through a woodland’s leafy shade,
For a while, we turned astray.
Oh, the shadow of a tree
In a dry, sun-wearied land
Seems like Heaven; so to me
Was. the grass, a shadowed band,
Lying, sloping, twixt the wood
And a laughing river’s strand.
In an instant, there down-flung,
I forgot each weary mile.
“Stay and rest,” said Wisdom. Young
Now he seemed, and wore a smile:
“There is laughter in the stream;
I will bathe in it a while.”
Low the waters laughed, and made
Pleasant jests to pleasure me,
As I dreamed within the shade;
Till I woke at last to see,
Wisdom was a happy child
Laughing careless at my knee!
N.S.W.
HAMER.
Australia to France.
They hit you when you wasn’t lookin’,
France!
You wasn't ready, an’ you ’ad to give;
But as you backed you made th’ beggars
dance,
Hittin’ ’em hard an’ waitin’ for a chance
Ter show th’ swine that you was fit ter
live!
And when you reckoned it was time ter
fight,
Y r o« jumped at ’em! It needs a flamin’
Byron
To tell ’aw you let out their German skite!
Five ’undred miles o’ steel! That was orl
right!
My Gawd, it was! Good on yer, France !
(lood iron!
N.S.W.
PRIVATE BILLJIM.


V
\ \\
\W
SEE AUSTRALIA FIRST on
ffs
M&jja
Manufactured by
PERDRIAU
RUBBER CO LTD
ALL STATES.
wm
* «Ax
. * iit
mm
sm
?$5
John Lysaght Limited will be pleased, upon
application, to forward a free copy of the
new and enlarged edition of their “ Referee ”
to Every Property Owner and Galvanized
Iron User. This Book contains a quantity
of carefully compiled infor-
mation which will be found
both useful and interesting.
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Supplied to the
Naval and Military
Authorities in
Great Britain and
Australia.
The Jollvwells
//
Long Winter nights
Hold great delights
For the Jolly well pair
’Midst gleaming lights.
To cabaret
They wend their way
To dance and “Rag”
Till break of day.
They “trip” it grand —
First prize they land
Urged on by cheers
From the merry band.
For supper light
Friend Jolly well’s right,
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese
Is “quite all right ”
Capture Again the
Joy of Living.
“And so all to din nor,” wrote Pepys about a
banquet which he left early because wearied by
so many ugly faces.
Of course, that was 200 years ago, long before
“REX”
Luncheon Cheese
i *
Vj
was ever thought of. If the diarist could see how the faces wrinkle up and
smile with pleasure as “REX” LUNCHEON CHEESE touches the palate he
would have lingered longer.
“REX LUNCHEON CHEESE tells no tale of “after regrets.” It is more
easily assimilated, because it contains all the valuable digestive property of
perfectly-matured full-cream cheese.
A little after each meal aids the digestion.
Chronic Indigestion Martyrs, we pray thee take notice. Sold by grocers
everywhere, in sanitary, solderless tins, or in opal porcelain jars of British
manufacture. Insist on "REX” Brand, no other “just as good.”
Other “Rex** Canned Delicacies ares
‘Rex”
‘Rex”
‘Rex”
Rex”
Temporarily out of stock.
Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
Pigs’ Feet in Jelly, lib. tins.
Punch Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
sr
\
E
R
X
FOCCITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
Curers of 14 Rex” Hams and Bacon;
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products.
No. 394 A
FOR ALL-ROUND
PIPE-THREADING
OSTER Tipe-Threading Machines excel because of
their wide range of usefulness concentrated in the
smallest floor space of any threading machines.
The machine shown at the left, No.
304 A, threads 8 sizes of pipe
from 1-inch to 4-incli diameter,
and bolts all sizes from 1-inch to
lf-inch. Special features of Oster
Machines are: Automatic die re-
lease, quick-opening dies, automatic
oil pump and simple, convenient
die-head. For clean-cut threads
and quick work use Oster Machines.
OSTER
MACHINES
BELT (SL MOTOR
DRIVEN
47 distinct die-
stocks and. screw-
ing machines.
One to fit your
pipe-threading
needs.
Australian Representative:
CHARLES WRIGHT,
Box 251. C p 0 . Melbourne, Vlo.
The Oster Mfg. Co.
Cleveland. Ohio, U.S.A.
[i
Thorne’s is a superlatively good
spirit, and immense reserves ensure
that its perfect quality will be always
maintained.
The carefully selected, high-grade
malts from which it is distilled
give it. a distinctive flavor and
delightful bouquet.
Call for Thorne’s —and look for
the “black square” bottle.
THORNE’S
WHISKY
“Incomparable”
Old Highland Malt


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, IST.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 37.—N0. 1897.
THURSDAY, JUNE 22, 1916.
p-.ce 8 d.
STILL ON THE TIGHT-ROPE.
President Wilson’s success in maintaining the rights of the Republic, while keeping out of the war, will win him
the nomination of his party for another term. Cable.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. Gd. per annum you can have The
"Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
'The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
GOOO voids, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. ivhen
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. IVhen MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
l)iniceT reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, ivill be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin, can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludaate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A .-Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; TP. E. Lenehan, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Uoung, Cairo. Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon. — IP. G. P. Perera, 16 Bail lie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. — Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Hates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth. Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bloz- to 10oz., 2id.;
tOoz. to 120 z., Sd.; elsewhere, l/oz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
ffie'&tzlleZz/rL,
THURSDAY,' JUNE 22, 1916.
RUSSIA.
In 1553, while Mary, in the interests of
I’HILIP of Spain, was setting England by
the ears and putting matches to sainted
heretics, Ivan the Terrible, of Moscow, was
threshing around like a large imperial whale
trying to get an outlet to any sea that
would carry a bale or two of Russian trade.
Just at the moment when Pole and Lavonian
and Turk seemed to have effectively barred
every gate, Richard Chancellor, from
London, knocked at the terrible person’s
door and mentioned that he had found a
road by which Muscovy and England could
get into pleasant trade holts. Chancellor
had been out looking for China by a north-
east route, but, chancing to land at the
Dvina, had strolled down 600 miles
or so to pay a morning call and make a
business suggestion. Ivan took to the
notion as cats take to whitebait, and the
White Sea became a live fact on the map of
commerce. To-day, after a lapse of three
and a half centuries, Russia and England
are the two great millstones between which
Prussian militarism must be crushed.
England, with her sea power unimpaired by
the recent tumult off the coast of Jutland,
strangles the trade-breath of the enemy in
the West: France, afire with the patriotic
purpose that holds a world’s admiration,
guards her narrow borders against all the
hell that 40 years of Teuton thought could
devise. But it is Russia, with her giant
strength not yet fully exerted, that begins to
roll back her seeming conquerors, breaking
their wall of defence and crushing them
to pieces.
The bald fact that Russia has taken
160,000 prisoners in a week, and probably
put out of action close on a quarter of a
million Austrians and Germans at the same
time, is something that in this war of close
,-over seems difficult to seize upon. While
the bitter trench warfare in the West stag-
gers backwards and forwards a yard
or two at a time, it is hard to grasp the
reality of sweeping movements which cover
scores of leagues and involve the. fate or
areas bigger than all Belgium; but the
magnitude of the operations is in keeping
with the greater Russian march down the
centuries and the tremendous resolve of a
giant nation. The whole history of Russia
is the story of one undeviating and tenacious
purpose. Russian czars might be good or
bad, keen for reform or wholly reactionary ,
Russian statesmen might be plunderers or
honest men; but always and through all
can be traced the determination to reach a
great national goal. That great national
goal has been a free outlet to the world-
free ports in open seas. Ivan the Terrible
dimly felt the need long before aspiring
Moscow had become united Russia; Peter
the Great strove for it in the midst of his
caprice and in spite of his Neroman
jamborees; Catherine laid it down as a
definite policy. Russia, with the biggest
area of all the countries in Europe, must
have her free place on the sea. _ To this
policy has been added another with a still
stronger appeal in it to the imagination of
the people—the unity of all the Slav peoples.
The tremendous and over-reaching Russian
ambition, of which so much has been made
iii the past by English jingoes anxious to
inflame anti-Russian feeling in the interests
of the British Cohen who held Abdul’s
bonds, has not gone further than this. In
every forward movement Russia has either
been feeling for a sea outlet or reaching
out an arm to protect some isolated bunch
of badly-used Slavs. The first and main
cause of the present war was the determina-
tion of Russia that the small Slav State of
Servia should not be brought on a sham
pretext under the heel of the Austrian. And if
the wars of Russia during the last century
be fairly traced to their origin, it will be
found that they have more solid justification
behind them than those of most nations.
Whatever the faults or crimes of his home
Government may be, Ivan has gripped his
sword more often in the cause of a fair
deal for his little brother than any swash-
buckler of them all.
* * * *
While the big motives of Russia are
tolerably clear, and her definite, downright
policy can be traced with some sort of
accuracy, it has been the fashion to ignore
the vital force that lies behind all this, and
to represent Europe’s biggest country as filled
with a nation of slaves answering to the
whip of a tyrant. While it would be absurd
to judge Russia by modern democratic
standards or to blink the hard facts of the
cruel inequalities and bitter conditions
under which many of the people live, only
a person very blind to the soul’s make and
style could imagine that a nation doing the
deeds of Russia in the present war could be
the poor thing that it has been represented
to be. The truth is that Ivan is still a
medieval person living in the midst of what
is practically a Feudal system and standing
always for medieval idealism when the
moving modern word has passed on to other
places and forgotten the look of the old
landmarks. The Czar is still a reality to
Ivan; he is his “Little Father.” With
him the kingship has its old meaning
because the kingship still stands for his
country and his religion, which in his
thinking are one and the same. To him
Russia is “Holy Russia” —a land that can
do no wrong; a cause for which it is good
to die. Nothing can shake this faith ; and
it is this that makes of the dull and
ignorant peasant the first-class fighting man
that he is. The passion for self-sacrifice is
almost a national characteristic. It is not
a bad characteristic in such days as these;
and "when it gets busy in the hearts of a
hundred and twenty millions of people bent
on prosecuting a great war, it is easy to
guess how that war will end. Never
before in all the years has a call been made
upon the full strength of the nation; and
now the call is made the results begin
to show. Austria staggers whipped and
bleeding; and there is discomfort under
the spiked hats both east and west.
Somewhere in France Australians stand
shoulder to shoulder with the contingent
Russia has sent to aid her French ally;
and before the chorus of Tipperary is heard
under the lindens of Berlin Bii.l.tim may
learn quite a number of things from Ivan.
If among those things he can catch the
spirit of keen national devotion which the
tail person from the Dneister carries under
his knapsack it will be good for Australia.
We can do without a Czar. We regard
Grand-Dukes as altogether superfluous. But
there is that in the heart of the armies
new rolling down on Lemberg which counts
for steadfast national triumph. England,
France, Russia—when the war ends the
triple entente will stand forth masters of
Europe without fear or distrust. Then will
come the big day of reform; and Russia,
with her open ports on the warm sea, may
roll as easily and tremendously from her
place in the Middle Ages to a front rank
among democratic peoples as she now rolls
towards the military destruction of an
ancient foe. LTnited Russia —the Slav world
—may not have lost so much after all by
waiting a- century or two. The spirit of a
nation is there, and where the spirit lives
the body will clothe itself in its own true
form.
WHO IS IT THAT IS GOING TO GET
A LEG UP?
The British Empire seems to be infested
with practical jokers, who are delivering to
it piles of pamphlets, newspaper clippings,
copies of emphatic resolutions, reports of
stodgy speeches, poems., essays, paragraphs
and yells about the same thing—the forma-
tion of Anti-German Trade Associations,
All-for-Empire Leagues, Imperial Commerce
Committees and various similar organisa-
tions with loud, clamorous titles and frantic
platforms and copious reserves of hot air.
These things are being poured all over the
earth. They come from every British coun-
try, city and townlet. And . they . all repre-
sent the very nadir of futility.
* * * *
It goes this way. Someone calls' a rtieet-
ing, and when the reporters turn up the
mayor and the member of Parliament and
a collection of local Bumbles begin to rant
about “the hold the Germans had on our
trade,” and publicly hate the enemy, and
furiously declaim about what happened the
day before yesterday, and say it must never
happen anv more. Then someone hippies
a bit. and resolutions are carried declaring
that the Germans must not be allowed to
carry on “unnecessary trade” within the
British Empire, that enemy goods should be
burdened with heavy duties, and that the
Empire should do business only with its
friends. Then three cheers are given. on
general principles, the meeting bursts into
song, and the League or whatever it is has
been born. And what does all this mean—-
this whirl of words and escape of wind?
Less than nothing! Translated into public
policy it would lead to no more than a furi-
ous stampede in pursuit of red herrings ; it
means waste of time, opportunity and
cash, and in the end going to sleep in the
middle of the same old untidiness. Mere
bellowing at the German is no use at all.
In the field of commerce the German showed
himself alert to take advantage of openings,
industrious, inventive and enterprising. He
collared trade —because someone else did
not. Stripped of all the rhodomontade of
excited word-spinners, the real complaint
against him. so far as trade is concerned, is
that he made pianos and socks and razors
and copper kettles and mathematical instru-
ments and butter dishes, and ran steamers
into which Chief Justices and other patri-
otic Britishers rushed their luggage, and
bought zinc concentrates, and did a variety
of other things which most of the people
who are talking at the top of their voices
nowadays didn’t do, and swore by all their
trumpery tinpot gods the German could do
best. And what are they after now? Do
they want someone else to do the things the
German did—to get their socks and dyes
and electrical apparatus from Chicago or
Timbuctoo —or do they propose to make. these
things on the premises? In this question is
the crux of the whole business. It is not
answered by yelping vaguely about pushing
the German overboard. Who is going to
take his place and when and how? Inci-
dentally. it is worth inquiring what these
infertile spouters would have to say if, after
the war, the German commenced to develop
a voracious appetite for mutton and lamb
and imported butter and cheese, and had
some cheap chemical manure to sell or a new
medicinal extract, or engravings of British
Lions and Anzacs? Judging by the past
records of most of them and their occupa-
tions and the absence of detail about them,
the answer is easy.
* * * *
The Bulletin is under no delusions
about the ethics of commerce, the salving
influence of the dollar, the compromising
tendency of politicians or the bona fides of
individuals who are trying to distract the
attention of Australia from the consequences
of repeating the errors of the past by
shrieking about trade with the. German. It
is with Australia only that this paper is
concerned. The war, however it may end,
is going to leave a iegacy of bitter hatred
among the combatant nations, and German
trade is certainly going to get a hard knock.
It has had one already. But who is going
to benefit? Who step into the boots Eritz
left behind? Somebody must. Shall it be
Australians? On this vital point the noisy
organisations that have sprung into being
are dumb as oysters. Yet at the end what
shall it benefit Australia if after a few
days or years she finds herself in the same
relation to another country as she was com-
mercially to the empire of the Hun —to
one which will not make the mistake of
flinging down a winning hand in the middle
of the game? Twenty-five years are nothing
in the life of a nation ; but in that period,
reckoned from now onward, it will be
settled whether Australia has merely given
someone else a chance to take up the running
where the Hun left off, or has so developed
her own technical skill and industrial enter-
prise as to stand on her own feet, provide
for her own wants and utilise her own
materials. So far as can be seen no notice
is being taken of this. No patriotic ora-
tions are being delivered at public meetings
held to impress upon the Australian public
that it is their own inertia and the somno-
lence of their own Parliaments that the
German profited by; that unless these things
are overcome the elimination of the German
will be only temporary, and fresh com-
petitors will get a grip on what the Hun
let go; that the time to start repairing the
damage, to make provision against the
dangers of dependence on foreign trade, and
to bring the national system of education
into some sort of relationship to industry
is now. Instead, there is this roaring
chorus to keep the German out, a row in
which every scheming importer and wood-
and-water joey in the land can join without
doing violence to what each calls his senti-
ments. Australia is a debtor country, back-
ward industrially, with a population ill-
equipped and ill-protected against the out-
sider. Is it going slouching along this way,
breaking into loud applause when a ship-
load of beer-pumps or frying-pans or
asparagus arrives from ’Frisco instead
of from Wilhelmshaven ? Getting razors
and pianolas and shirt-buttons from
a well-known London firm which, in
order to extend British industry, has
opened a branch establishment at Cologne?
If it is our situation in 25 years
will be serious. If it is not—well, what are
these leagues and other things and all these
Bumbles and loud Imperial barraekers
going to do about the matter? A start has
to be made somewhere. Throwing language
at the German is not even the beginning of
a start, and the spectacle of politicians
flitting away into space and Parliaments
knocking off to have extended holiday looks
like the same thing. Also the idea that
Australia can plug the leak by passing reso-
lutions not to deal with Bludthurst,
Slautebhaus and Co., when it cannot send
him an order, anyhow, has a comic
resemblance to the notion that the war could
be ended by a flag-wag. It is from the All-
for-Australia leagues that this paper wants
to hear, and the sooner more of them arise
and awake the better chance* they have of
not missing the ’bus.
RATS!
Brethren, let us consider the rat. Xot
the political rat, but that other branch of
the family which is at least equally destruc-
tive, equally capable of protecting itself
against the individual voter, and equally
destitute of conscience or decency. Once
out in the open, one fair clout with a fence-
picket will demolish either kind. But the
animals have a particular genius for trench
warfare, they are extraordinarily prolific
and long association has blinded mankind
to their crimes. Extermination of the poli-
tical rat may eventuate after the war, but
something definite might well be done i n
the meanwhile to control the four-leg«ed
kinds. Some of us may preserve a vivid
recollection of the terror and turmoil which
smote upon Australia 16 years ago when
Sydney’s rats became veritable McLinens
in the plague line, and distributed their
imported bacillus through their retail sales-
man,, the rat-flea, with no regard for State
border-lines or inter-State restrictions
Plague is still in New Caledonia and
throughout Asia, rats still wear fleas, and
the gross rat-population of to-day is pro-
bably larger, in the coastal cities, than it
was before Australia woke up with a yell
to realise what the importing craze had
developed into. The seaports are more care-
fully watched; vessels from plague-infected
countries are more systematically dealt with
by fumigation and by certain quarantine
laws which are supposed to interfere more
or less with the landing of an actually sick
rat; but the national welfare of the animal
in Australia is very little affected. So long
as it retains a footing on any considerable
scale, so long will we be menaced by plague.
Just here arises the practical person, say-
ing with a loud snort that the bush is full
of rats, that rats are nature’s scavengers,
and that if we kill all the rats —which we
can’t do, anyhow—something else will take
their place and we will be worse off than
ever. Let us dissect the snort of the prac-
tical person, even as the bacteriologist dis-
sects the rat to discover the signs of plague
in its dishonorable interior. The bush is
not full of the sorts of rats which specialise
in plague. Two kinds do this, Mus nor-
wegicus, the grey or house rat, sewer-haunt-
ing and fierce, an expert burrower who can
make his way through a brick wall on occa-
sion, and Mus rattus, the black or
English rat, an expert climber and leaper.
relatively dainty in his habits, and no hand
at burrowing. Both have far too much
sense to take to the bush for a regular
livelihood. They live on that easy mark,
the town-dweller. Bats there are in plenty
in the bush, but they are wild Billjim
rats who fend for themselves and only come
near houses when they cannot get tucker
elsewhere. The most alderman-haunted
scavenger who ever cringed at a back door
for a dustman’s Christmas-box is infinitely
more capable at his job than five thousand
rats would be. He is far less risky, too.
It is relatively easy to take precautions
against infection of an entire community
by one plague-infected dustman, but highly
difficult and expensive to take them effect-
ively against five thousand plague-infected
rats. Five thousand rats, too, will eat and
destroy more than dozens of dustmen, they
are of no earthly use for military service—
even a drawback, in fact, since the more
respectable English papers tell us that they
(rats, that is) are eating the shells and other
warlike stores in France —and they haven t
got a vote between them. As for the
upsetting of Nature by wiping out tw T o
species of rats in large centres, whatever
else may come along for the lady to trip
over, it could not be as dangerous and
destructive as the rat. Plague is not the
only speciality of the beast. Trichiniasis.
a horrible sort of worm with which human
beings become infected by eating under-
done pork and which causes a painful and
fatal disease, is also nurtured by rats. Pig*
become infected by eating a diseased rat.
Trichiniasis burst up the Chicago pork-
industry for several years. Rats also have
a special disease of their own, “Rat-bite
fever,” which may infect human beings.
Also, rats suffer from a complaint which
resembles leprosy so closely that bacterio-
logists are not sure yet whether it is not
the real thing. Now, a dustman who was
liable to infect an alderman with plague,
trichiniasis or leprosy by mere contact, or
to give him an excruciating disease by biting
him, or even to crawl out of a sewer into
the alderman’s pantry and sit on the cok
pork chops which had been put aside toi
the alderman’s supper, would never be
tolerated in any municipality. But the
rat is. He is encouraged, regarded as a pet-
fed literally by nine householders out of lu.
and written up in special articles by nature-
study fiends who praise his intelligence am
adaptability s . He is intelligent and adap
able enough, but so is a safe-breaker or a
confidence man. It is not his brains bu
his beastly habits which condemn him a
an undesirable associate for civilised peop e.
* * * * f
The beast has a perverted sense ot
humor. He will carry a box of wax mate ,
into the crate of loose straw T from whi
Australia’s imported staple products h
beeii unpacked, and will have a lark whi
results in no end of excitement for a wei
organised and expensive fire brigade,
will labor industriously to gnaw a hole m
a lead water-pipe on the top floor o ;
office-block on Saturday night. Iy s
will select a 40-guinea roll of silk a
desirable residence for his family. - '
Rat, by the way, has no race-suicide m •
•She averages four families a year. el »“ t
so in a family, and works hard to supp
them. The artistry of the animal does no
end with wax matches and water P V ■
Listen to the wails of a bootman dispf J ®
14 pairs of lioof-envelopes, each wi ,
ragged hole gnawed in the instep,. •
explaining in a variegated way that 1
blanker had been an asterisked bootmaK
he couldn’t have done it any adjectival
better. # »
Only two or three of the States have any
legal power to tackle rats unless P
comes along first. Of these, two do n '
and the third is just about to hand oven


rat work to the municipal councils. The
other States are like Mrs. ’Odgson—they
“ ’ave nothink, do nothink, think nothink.”
And they risk the funeral. The Common-
wealth can’t do anything under its Quaran-
tine Act until plague actually arrives; and
oien then it is doubtful, whether it can
legally do more than incite the States to
get busy by threatening to declare quaran-
tine areas. Meanwhile the rat flourishes,
and preens liis whiskers under the Speaker’s
chair, whilst Boffkins, M.L.A., explains
why he didn’t enlist. Even if the effective
States did something, any rat who got over
the border would be perfectly safe. This
does not seem fair or just either to rats
who live far from the border or to human
beings who live near it. The only reason-
able suggestion appears to he to tack the
rat on to a few other little matters, such
as the proper investigation and control of
typhoid fever, diphtheria, consumption, lep-
rosy, venereal diseases and cancer, the pro-
tection of Australia from cholera, yellow
fever, plague and typhus, the organised
manufacture of all the serums and vaccines
we require, and the effective regulation of
health matters in general, and hand the
whole lot over to an Australian Health
Service under a Federal Health Act. This
seems to afford about the only hope for
developing a health-protective organisation
which will be free to do its work without
interference from nolitical log-rollers and
rhe white-vested interests which provide the
logs to be rolled.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Objection to Allowing Billjim to
Vote.
Sydney Telegraph loudly snorted the
other day at the proposal of the Holman
Government to extend voting facilities to
men on active service when the general elec-
tion arrives. The angry penn’orth called
the idea “fantastic” and threw down the
information that “if there is one place in
the wide world from which party politics
should he excluded it is the battlefield.”
There is nothing fantastic about the pro-
posal. There are no battlefields nowadays.
And ns the Telegraph is a windy barraeker
for Party, the suggestion that its Joss is
not a fit thing to show its nose in a dug-
out, or a hospital, or a concentration camp
has a queer sound. The objection that a
vote isn’t wanted is mere guess work.
Where is the evidence? Pending its pro-
duction most people will take the contrary
view and conclude that Billjim, who is a
furious politician as a rule, would regard
the arrival of his ballot-paper as an agree-
able interlude in a strenuous job. Anyhow,
if he doesn’t want to ballot he can use the
paper for other purposes. There is no
valid reason why the men on service
should lose their votes if means of capturing
them can be devised, and this is merely a
matter of clerical arrangement. It is mere
claptrap to talk of “carrying ballot-boxes
about in the trenches” and of fighting being
interrupted, and so on. All the men are not
in trenches; and when they go there they
are relieved after a few days. Thousands
of them are in rest homes, hospitals and
camps. What right has anybody to dis-
franchise so much as one of these? The
really quaint feature about the thing is that
the votes would not he cast by Australians
for an Australian Parliament, hut by Ma
State citizens for a local outfit.
The Fictional Yearnings of Australia.
Asquith, with the perplexing problem of
Ireland in hand, promises to call an Imperial
Conference after the war, and suggests that
it will then he possible to re-fashion the
Anglo-Irish and Anglo-Dominion relations.
How much he has been moved by desire to
fob Ireland off for the present, or to stimu-
late the crusading Hughes to greater efforts,
is not altogether clear. But as Asquith
says that it will he impossible for Australia,
Maoriland, Canada and S’Africa to “revert
to the old methods of government” because
of their participation in the war, he is
probably impressed with the idea that in the
Commonwealth and elsewhere there is a
great yearning for something unspecified.
On the other hand, it is possible that
Asquith is merely side-tracking the Daily
Mail, which represents him as an impedi-
ment to the cause of organic Imperial union.
In any case, it all means no more than was
said thousands of times years ago, and an Im-
perial Conference to review Anglo-Dominion
relations will he no new thing. The point on
which the problem —if there is one re-
volves is not the alleged impossibility of the
status quo, hut the desirability of upending
ir and on the remains erecting a super-
structure of full-blooded Imperialism. Apart
from a handful of doctrinaires and flustered
Tories, to whom has the relationship of Aus-
tralia to Britain been objectionable? And
what precisely is it that has happened in
this war to make it intolerable? These
questions have not yet been answered, and
replies are due from anyone who pushes a
new form of relationship forward for accept-
ance. To argue that because Australian
soldiers are fighting in this war the Austra-
lian people want a permanent finger in the
European war-making pie is absurd. They
want that least of anything on earth.
Attempts to create an idea in Britain that
Australia is panting for more bonds, and is
profoundly dissatisfied because she is not a
wheel in a vast Imperial machine, are sheer
farce. There has, for instance, been no dis-
cussion of the Empire’s internal and external
relationships since the war broke out. No
honest discussion is possible. Australia is
throttled. The mere fact that Hughes.
having put the gag on Australia, skipped o
to London and veiled about Imperialism is
no evidence that a constitutional freedom to
which the people of the Commonwealth ha\e
shown themselves passionately devoted—and
one which on British testimony has yielded
unexpected fruit in time of war is going o
be lightly tossed aside. Hughes has
grossly misrepresented the Australian
democracy. Before his flight to London he
abjectly declared that Australia s sole dutj
was “to do as she was told.” When he got
there he roared that there must he a change.
It was a burlesque in two places.
The Case of Wine.
The plea which the wine-growers of N. S.
Wales are putting in for a little special con-
sideration in connection with the six o clock
drought has so much horse-sense behind it
that it is certain to raise a howl of righteous
indignation from the person who now waves
a triumphant umbrella. The wine people
claim that their light, dry beverages, which
N. S. Wales can produce to perfection, have
no real connection with booze, as it is com-
monly practised, and that as dinner drinks
they should still be available in restaurants
up to eight or nine o’clock in the evening. It
is certainly true that in rare and surprising
instances people have been known to get gay
on hock and claret; but then other people
have got into the same sort of ecstasy when
they had drunk nothing stronger than a
prayer-meeting or a Salvation Army appeal
to come up quickly and be saved. The per-
son who got drunk on the amount of honest
hock or claret he could consume during
dinner has yet to be found; and as the pro-
posal is merely to make these liquors avail-
able to people while they eat, and not to
serve them over any sort of bar, only a
frenzy of restrictive indecency could move
anybody to deny the appeal. The wine in-
dustry is a decent thing, natural to Australia
and of big prospective value. Nationally
fostered and properly regulated, wine-making
in this country might earn a fame that would
place our vintages on all the world’s best
tables and make the juice of European grapes
green and insipid with envy; but, even as
the business now stands, good light wines
are about the best antidote honest temperance
can offer for the booze habit w r hich afflicts
Australia. If Wine had taken the stand
long ago that it was the gentle and deter-
mined enemy of Bung, he would be in much
greater favor in certain quarters to-day.
Uufortunatelv Wine has tried to dress him-
self to look like Bung, and has poured
Bung’s strongest imuorted fluids into his
own grape-juice to “fortify” it and ruin its
reputation. More than this, he has too often
run his wine-bars in an obscene fashion;
and he has made no real effort to create a
taste among the people who might have been
his best clients for the wares he has to sell.
In the city of Sydney there is not one wine-
bar whieli in the least resembles the dozen
or so best hotel bars where other liquors are
sold. If Wine would shut down altogether
on the “fortification”., business, push the
sales of his liehter wares, cut out the small
dives and cellars and obscure booze-kitchens
altogether, murder most of the people at
present engaged in the sale of his port and
sherry, and put forward a plain patriotic
appeal to moderate folk of temperance Jean-
ings, he ought to make about five times as
much money as he is doing at present, and
at the same time offer decent occupation for
white Australians, utilise poor lands which
are fit for little else, and produce natural
beverages suitable to the climate and
making for the gay sobriety which distin-
guishes all the grape-sustained Latin com-
munities of Europe.
The Inner Light anil the Outer
Dark.
The Friends in Australia —otherwise the
Quakers —have issued a sort of manifesto
on the question of conscription in which they
attempt to define their attitude by saying
that they don’t like voluntaryism any better
than compulsion. In their view all war is
wrong; and whether the gun is put into a
man’s hands or he picks it up ot his own
accord is a matter of small consequence,
except in as far as voluntaryism gives the
Quaker conscience a chance to side-step. All
this, of course, has been part and parcel of
the Fox-ite belief ever since certain worthy
men in the seventeenth century struck the
“inner light” and became whole-hog follow-
ers of the Christian precept to turn the
other cheek; but when the Friends go a
step further and declare that the present
war is “in no small measure due to conscrip-
tion” they are mouthing one of those wild,
whirling statements which make the logical
person feel giddy. How is the present war
due to conscription? Long before standing
armies came into existence armyless kings
made war on other armyless kings with as
much vigor and enthusiasm as now; and
the magnitude of the armies raised by
America in the big Civil War and by Britain
in the present crisis proves the scale on
which hostilities can be conducted even
without conscription. On the other hand,
when the causes of the present turmoil are
considered, the fact stands out that if con-
scription had been the rule in Britain, and
four or five million trained men had been
ready to uphold British treaty obligations,
Germany would have thought the matter
over about 57 times before invading Bel-
gium. With conscription entirely set aside
by all nations there must be always a ten-
dency on the part of rulers to gamble on
the chances of war; with conscription the
rule in some countries and not in others, this
risk is enormously increased ; with all coun-
tries fully armed and ready to put their full
strength in the field, the love of peaceful
arbitration is likely to become much more
robust. But at present the lover of peace
can only show his love by trying to bring
the war that is to a rapid ending; and if
conscription is the best way of doing it,
why not use the means at hand?
The Grocer and the Tied House.
“Wholesale Grocer” on some remarks made
concerning the slaughter of fair competition
in the grocery trade (B. 25/5/’l6) :
The tied house in the grocery business does not
exist. That there are supported houses in the trade
is admitted, but the wholesale merchant financing
the concerns sees to it that these shops stock the
articles the public demands. They do this in their
own interests, otherwise the competing shop would
give the finis to the wholesaler’s investment.
There is, it is admitted, one manufacturing com-
pany which, when the grocer wishes to purchase its
principal product, insists upon him talcing- a certain
quantity of subsidiary lines before it will fill his
order. In the interests of the public this system
should have a sledgehammer dropped upon it.
Whilst giving The Bulletin credit for drawing
attention to the matter, the paper is wrong if it infers
that all manufacturers compel supported houses to
stock their products. That one firm is at fault in its
methods is no reason why the trade as a whole should
be placed in the same category.
This paper didn’t suggest that all or even
a large number of wholesale suppliers were
doing anything outside the Ten Command-
ments or the unwritten law of the Square
Deal. What it did say was that the tied-
house business had got a start, and that
sooner it was murdered the better.
“Wholesale Grocer” knows of one case and
this paper has pretty good evidence of the
existence of another. The big American
Beef Trust began in as small a way as that.
It is comparatively easy to kill man-eating
tigers in their suckling infancy if you know
where they live; and “Wholesale Grocer”
might well use all the trade weapons he
possesses to bit the one company which he
has caught in the act.
• ♦
The Norton Griffiths shindykit has been
sticking close to its job of earning commis-
sion, and until the other day bad been layin’
low and sayin’ nuffin. Then it got its tail
trodden on and opened its mouth—wide, of
course. It seems that the gallant Major
Norton Griffiths, M.P., while at the
Front or at his Club in London, lately made
some bitter remarks about the “scandal” of
the Asquith Government using up J. Bull’s
cash and allowing Private Enterprise to
make profits on the transaction. As N.
Griffiths was at that moment allegedly
extracting cash from J. Bull to construct
public works in N. S. Wales —whether he is
actually doing this doesn’t matter —and cer-
tainly getting a good-sized wad of what the
State is spending, it looked as if N. Grif-
fiths was publicly calling his shindykit a
snare and a delusion, and the State Govern-
ment a crowd of disloyal profligates. There-
fore the boss of the skindykit at this end
waylaid the daily press and started to talk,
his yarn - being that Holman’s borrowings
had “led to great prosperity,” that the
money had been used for purposes which
yielded great profits and permitted “taxation
to be greatly reduced,” and that if the boom
were not kept going all the ships on the
ocean would fail to accommodate the
wretched people who would have to flee to
England or Lord Howe Island or somewhere
in search of the job they would be unable to
find in Australia. All of which is in a
measure true erough, with this amendment,
that there are no profits, that the great pros-
perity has been mainly froth, and if N. S.
Wales keeps on entertaining the N.
Griffiths syndicate long enough, the
escape of population will not be in
search of a job but -to elude the
bailiff. As to the substantial reduc-
tions the boomsters are making in taxation,
the proof of it is everywhere—except the
tables compiled by a person named Knibbs
and in the budgets produced by one Higgs
and numerous other Treasurers. Reduction
ot taxation by borrowing and« bloating.
Prosperity by the grace of shindykits! Let
us see. There was something called a
Labor programme, wasn’t there?
C. Ferguson writes on affairs in Fiji: —
The Bulletin (8/6/’l6) lias a paragraph announc-
ing that the Viti Company, which was said to be
threatening unrest and undermining white rule in
Fiji, was being wound up. Allow me to explain.
Some two years ago Avolosi, a Fijian with a gift
of the gab, secured a great hold upon the natives
with his co-operative trading ideas.' He formed
irregularly the Viti Company. The Fatmen of the
islands (Marks and Co., Brown and Joske, Morris
If f.dstrom, Ltd., Broadziaks, etc.) were right up
against him. However, James Mackay, a young
trader, 25 years of age, supported the natives, and
induced Avolosi to form a regular company,' which
became the Viti Co., Ltd., registered. Avolosi was
sent through the islands to collect money and sell
shares. Eventually, to protect themselves, Mackay
and his fellow-directors prosecuted him, and although
he was supposed to have got off with £3OOO, they
could only formulate one charge against him, that
of giving a receipt marked “received £2 for life
insurance on the town of .” Avolosi got 18
months’ imprisonment. Mr. Crompton, who
defended him, took the line of slahdering Mackay
and his fellow European directors (small traders),
submitting that their design was to squezee Avolosi
out of the company. Well, to make a long story
short, the Fiji press gave Crompton “blue Peter” ;
but his defence, printed in the newspapers in Fijian,
so impressed the natives that they set about forming
another Viti Co., which came into existence under
the title of the “Fiji Produce Agency,” unregistered.
Result: (1) Viti Co., Ltd., registered, without native
support; (2) Fiji Produce Agency, unregistered,
without European directors.
Failing native support the Viti Co., Ltd.,
registered, has died away, and is now being
wound up. Failing European business direc-
tion the Fiji Produce Agency, unregistered
(familiarly known in the islands as the Viti Co., its
parent co. having died out), is trading more and
less haphazardly, its chief object being to maintain
some form of organisation pending Avolosi’s release
from prison, when many believe that the organisa-
tion will declare itself boldly in rebellion. Wher-
ever this company operates the whites have had to
suffer insolence. I myself, as editor of the Times,
published many letters from settlers, until the Gov-
ernment passed a law making it a penal offence to
print anything on the subject of native unrest. 1
interviewed the Colonial Secretary at the time of the
passing of the law to which I have just referred, anti
he assured me that the Government had its eye on
the Fiji Produce Agency (“Viti Co.”), and would bo
down on it as soon as it could collect evidence,
which, he said, was extremely difficult.
“Copra Bug” : Every steamer brings batches
of Chinese from Rabaul to the Solomons,
and, let me shout it from the cocoa-nut
tops, they are welcomed by the authori-
ties. About two years ago the first
Chinese of any consequence made his
appearance and applied for land to start a
store. He was not only granted land within
a quarter of a mile of the Government
offices, but the Government built him a
house out of public money, for which he is
charged a small rent. On hearing of this a
European applied for similar terms, but was
turned down. The Chinese lately made a
trip to Rabaul, whence he brought back a
consignment of brethren, who are now com-
peting with whites and taking up town
sites on the all-too-small island of Tulagi,
the headquarters of the Solomons. Local
officialdom says Chinese are a greater asset
to the islands than whites, who “want too
much mothering!” This group, on account
of its natural assets in the way of fertile
lands and absence of the dreaded hurricane,
promises to be one of the most valuable
possessions in the Pacific, so I ask what is
Australasia going to do about it?
♦
“Croson” : I weary of the yarns about the
millions of pounds’ worth of goods which
Germany has ready to dump on us as soon
as peace is concluded. For two years she
has been fighting her hardest; she has sev-
eral millions of her best producers occupied
at war and in making munitions; she lias
latterly been helping Turkey and Bulgaria,
as well as Austria, and she has to produce
nearly all her own food. On the other side.
England and France, both manufacturing
countries, are, in effect, borrowing consider-
able quantities of their food, and until a
year ago the former had nothing like the
proportion of men removed from industrial
life that Germany had. Yet how many
millions of tons of goods have the two
Western Allies stored up ready to dump
abroad as soon as ships are available? No.
it’s the neutral nations that will dump;
wherefore any freak tariff directed against
merely our enemies will be no good to us at
all. But it will be a heap of good to such
strenuous friends as the U.S.A., Holland
and Sweden.
«
Although Walter Runciman, who char-
acterised Lord. Roberts’s advocacy of con-
scription as “not only deplorable but per-.'
nicious,” is still a member of the British
Cabinet, light is breaking in other direc-
tions. It is not so long ago since indignant
brokers publicly burnt the London Daily
Mail, and so “beared” its circulation that
the Daily News joyously advertised the
decrease. But now the Times and Mail
are booming as never before. and
Kellaway, M.P., a Liberal of the Liberals,
is delivering himself of sentiments like
this:—•
We know now that our armies and the nation
were on the verge of a great disaster. In the House
of Commons I have criticised Lord Northcliffe’s
methods, but, knowing what I now know, I say that
in calling public attention to the shortage of the
supply of munitions Lord Northeliffe rendered a
great service to the army and to the country. There
was deep indignation amongst the public aiid in the
House of Commons. Under the spur of that indigna-
tion the Government set up the Ministry of Muni-
tions, with Mr. Lloyd George at its head. That was
in .Tune of last year. We are now in a position to
estimate something of what the Ministry has accom-
plished and dimly to realise what it will have
accomplished by the time its work is completed.
England at last has heard the warning
thunder of other drums than those of Batter-
sea, of which Henry Lawson wrote so
finely years ago. But what shall we do to
those who were responsible for muffling
them so long?
The Empire of Too Late.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
V\ hile others worked with vision long,
and trained the hand and mind,
Due reckless nation stood aloof, content to
lag behind.
Not theirs to fill their wide-spread realms,
though envious eyes might scan,
lor if an easy wealth be won, of what
account the man?
Why strain to stock with sturdy men the
vacant, sun-kissed lands.
So long as mighty piles of gold wax great in
Dives’ hands?
traditions of our past.” quoth they, “and
of our mighty dead,
ill keep the foeman from our shores, and
guard our roof and bed.
Why starkly strive as others do? Our weal
and wealth are great,
And who would dare to rive apart the
Empire of Too Late !”
And when at last there came the need to
swiftly do or die,
Ten thousand arguments arose about the
reason why
No one had seen the growing cloud, and
whose should be the blame
For all the sadly-wrong beliefs the crash had
put to shame.
Amidst the wrangling, jangling din that
drowned the cannon’s roar,
Some valiant spirits strove to hold the foe-
man from their shore;
One soldier sent Yvhere ten should go, one
gun where scores should be,
And few reeled back from out the storm
where Death mowed fierce and free.
Steadfast they faced the grey-clad hordes,
the hissing bolts of hate,
And, dying, did their best to save the
Empire of Too Late.
With strangled truth and published lies the
dreadful facts lay hid,
While blatant * voices babbled on of what
their fathers did,
Till like a swelling tide there burst, deep
from the nation’s heart,
A cry that told, in spite of all, they knew
the truth in part.
Then, startled from their fluent ease, where
talk liad served for deed,
The fear-pricked leaders strove to hatch fit
plans for awesome need.
And while the death-rolls ever swelled, and
rivers ran with gore,
They tried to do a thousand things they
should have done before.
A thousand things they’d idly left to Fortune
or *"o Fate
Were now most vital matters for the Empire
of Too Late.
Slowly and ever slowly on, while widening
wisdom grew,
Yet still the laggard multitude held back her
dauntless few
Who strove to stem the dawning doom, with
straining heart and hand,
And fought the shibboleths of those who
would not understand,
But met the cry of direst need, and stilled
their half-born fears,
With ancient follies handed down from
foolish, bygone years.
“How can we fall? Why should we turn
to pathways new and strange —
Are not the roads our fathers trod the best
for us to range?”
But History went striding on —It had no time
to wait —-
While windy arguments enthralled the
Empire of Too Late.
N.s.w.
QUIDAM.


GAELIC WHISKY
THE 010 SMUGGLER
fw
thk
e.
GAELIC
The Perfect Wh isky
.. . in ...
The Perfect Bottle.
DISTILLED IN THE
HIGHLANDS of SCOTLAND.
INSURE WITH
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society Limited
Head Office: Corner Pitt &. King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE. ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY II. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager. _
Newman’s
“Better
than Either”
A Worcester Sauce of Fine Quality, not excelled
by the best Imported lines—costs less.
An Australian Triumph.
Get a Bottle from the Grocer.
While the World is Watching a Bear.
The newspapers thought it worth while the
other day tq publish a London cable mes-
sage announcing that, on the British front,
artillery can now make the advanced linos
untenable on either side. This raises an
interesting point for speculation. If the
front seats can be cleared at will, then the
next row can be made the front —and so on
indefinitely. There may be something in
it. and it may be possible that the end of
the war will arrive after everybody has
hung out a curtain of fire and gone back
to business as usual. Meanwhile, pending
developments in that direction, there is
evidence that the Austrian omitted to make
the front row of Bears bolt to the rear, and
has himself been kept on the reverse gear
through Ivan rushing at him with a bayonet.
At the beginning of the w’eek two deep
indentations had been pushed into the
Austrian line running southward from the
Pripet marshes to the Roumanian border;
and as the Russian had captured Czer-
novitz, and begun to roll the end of the
line up along the Pruth, and was also
putting in some good work away north-east
of Lemberg, the position thereabouts seemed
one of great possibilities. What had
still to be discovered was whether
the German could stiffen the resistance
and how much weight there was behind
the Czar’s punch. The solution of these
mysteries will in all probability determine
whether the end of the war —through mili-
tary operations, at any rate —is within
measurable distance. So long as the Iluns
are in occupation of conquered territory it
cannot be said to be; so long as the German
can assist his mate and both can help the
Turk and Bulgar, the finishing post is a
long way round the corner. In the interval
the weird performances in Greece and
Salonika remain wrapped in fog, and there
is a heavy mist brooding over the ruins of
the garden of Eden. In those regions all
hands are playing poker except the Turk,
who is springing around with his gun as
expeditiously as anyone on earth. This
paper is beginning to have a sneaking
sympathy for Abdul, mainly because he has
put up a good fight and is going to get it in
the neck whatever else happens. While these
and various other incidents were clamoring
for notice, Uncle Sam got himself torpedoed
in a new place and gave notice of his inten-
tion to leap suddenly to arms. This time it
was Mexico that hit him with a declaration
of war. As Sam has a force of cavalry on
a loose end somewhere in that distressful
country looking for the bandit Villa, and
as there appears a probability of something
sudden happening to that cavalry unless it
gets back in a hurry, the time for Wilson
to start delivering his correspondence on the
end of something with a kick behind it seems
to have arrived at last. If Sam gets tangled
up in a war with Mexico, Heaven knows
what the Kaiser will start banging him with
next.
Though there are still very large numbers
of Australian soldiers in Egypt, Headquar-
ters have been shifted to England, and the
main base is at Tidwortli. Salisbury Plain.
The Commonwealth Bank has opened an
agency there.
What snuffling hypocrites we are 1 While
the guns are roaring along thousands of
miles of front, our papers are horrified at
“an alarming revival of head-hunting in the
Solomons,” where, it is stated, as many as
16 heads a night have been taken. The
shameless savages! As though anybody
should be allowed to hunt heads but our own
civilised selves!
Sydney’s record divorce case, Vincent v.
Vincent, which ended with the dismissal of
the husband’s petition, erected another monu-
ment to Costs. The entertainment is esti-
mated to have been worth £5500. It ran for
24 days, 16 of which were occupied with
the evidence of 39 witnesses, and the rest
with counsel’s addresses and his Honor’s
judgment—a two-hour turn. Ralston, K.C.,
for the petitioner, gave the record speech, his
effort running to 120.000 words out of a
total estimate of 479,000 words for the
entire trial. Mrs. Vincent was in the box
for three days, with a bunch of flowers
always in her hand. She refused a chair
and stood all the time.
In a report just issued on glass manufac-
ture the Inter-State Commission says it
sees no prospect of the manufacture of ordi-
nary household flint glassware. This in-
dustry “requires the highest skilled labor,
a large amount of capital, the most modern
appliances, and, not least, expert scientific
control in manufacture.” The meaning of
which simply is that Australia has not
bothered about learning how to run this
business, has instead paid the German about
a quarter of a million a year to help keep
his factories going, and has borrowed copi-
ously from Cohen to get a job with a pick.
And tlie Commission seems to have an idea
that Australia will go on not bothering as
long as it can go on borrowing.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Quaker Girl ,
Criterion “It Pays to Advertise
Palace “P e f? o v
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
Wibths’ New Hippodrome Kultur
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s - “High Jinks
RoyAL “On Trial
King’s .... “Duncan McClure and the Poor Parson
Princess's Gonsalez Italian Opera Co.
The Playhouse “Quinneys
B, JOU Fuller Vaudeville
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s Own & Olympia Hoyt’s Pictures
Glaciarium •••• Ice Skating
Judging by “II Trovatore,” which opened
the season on Saturday, the Gonsalez
Italian Opera Co. is in for a prosperous
eight weeks’ run at Melbourne Princess’s.
The city is 15 years more musical than it
was when the last Italian invasion took
the stage at Her Majesty’s and the names
of Dani, Larizza, De Vere Sapio and Bassich
became familiar in its mouth as household
macaroni. Meanwhile the plots of many
Verdi and other operas have been further
familiarised —sometimes in English—to the
mass of theatre-goers. The old objection, to
the rendering of Italian works in foreign
language has almost ceased to be. People
no longer make a virtue of staying away
from grand opera on the plea that they
don’t know what it is all about. Education
in the matter has been thrust upon them,
and they take the music cheerfully as it
comes, recognising in most cases the fact
that even the most ancient of good old
Verdi’s operas are “grand” in comparison
with the modern strains of “Buck. up,
Bridget,” or “The Tart in the Tea Shop.”
“Trovatore” must still be one of the surest
winners among the old operas, otherwise
managers wouldn’t give it the first show.
Martin Simonsen used to ring up his curtain
on the crude story of the gipsy lady who
threw the wrong infant on a camp fire
because her mother had been, cruelly roasted
to death under false pretence's. And George
Musgrove had the temerity to start his
season with “Trovatore” sung in Australian
language so that everybody might know all
about it and be in a position to shudder at
the right times if they felt so disposed. The
tragic story, however, is far too unconsciously
comic to be shuddersome, and no Italian co.
has ever attempted to mitigate the humor
of it. The Gonsalez Co. sticks to the grand
traditions, of course. The tenor lover is
the same time-honored troubadour in a steel
helmet, which he wears whilst abiding with
the weird gipsies, and only takes off when
he is seated on the sward beside his adopted
mother. And the baritone Count wears the
same thin, white cloak, which falls upon his
projecting sword scabbard and sticks out
“THE LION AND THE MOUSE.” AT
SYDNEY ROYAL.
Judge Alfred Bristowe and Ex-Judge
Boyd Irwin.
behind him like the tail of a White Leghorn
rooster at half-mast. Also the tournament
duel, battles and captures of the enemy are
just as invisible and inexplicable as ever
they were. The main business of the prin-
cipals in “Trovatore” is just to come on and
sing and run off in a hurry, previous to
coming back to sing it again. They accept
recalls like artists on a concert platform,
but require more pressing to grant an
encore.
The men were the stronger half of the
principals in this first contingent of the co.
Seamuzzi, the baritone, has a smart, young
appearance and a moderately strong voice
with sufficient sweetness and soul in it.
Cacialli was impressive as a basso and an
actor at first hearing, and the tenor, Capelli,
seems to be nearly everything that all
Italian tenors ought to be, but mostly are
not. He is rather tall and graceful than
otherwise, young and good-looking, and his
voice is equally robust and sugary. Miss
De Revers, the prima donna, is a passable
dramatic soprano who knows her business
and sings with something of a lisp. She
got her best effects in the concerted numbers,
especially the trio at the end of the first
act. Miss Russ, as the gipsy lady, sang in
nondescript tones with a good deal of im-
passioned eloquence. She hasn’t a large
“THE LION AND THE MOUSE,” AT
SYDNEY ROYAL.
The Lion,
Julius Knight.
Carle ton Stuart as Senator Roberts.
voice, but she contrived to get, as it were,
the odor of burnt human flesh across the
footlights when she warbled of her inciner-
ated mother and child. Orchestra and
chorus—about 30 strong in each department
—did well. The evidence of this being a
well-practised organisation with a clever
Gonsalez at the conductor’s stand was
strong enough to convict anybody. Every-
thing went without a hitch. As for the
scenery, it sufficed, except in the dungeon
scene. But there will be other operas to
talk about ere the resources of the manage-
ment are fully tested. Seven Italian names
different from the aforesaid were billed for
“La Traviata,” due on Tuesday. To-night
(Thursday) and to-morrow a third prin-
cipal tenor will appear in “Cavalleria” and
a third soprano in “Pagliacci.” And on
Saturday the co. will deal with “Lucia,”
after which come “Rigoletto” and the admir-
able “Un Ballo.”
It was a packed Sydney Town Hall that
listened on Saturday afternoon to the
delightful Tschaikowsky programme In which
the Russian musicians Alfred Mirovitch and
Michael Piastro were introduced to Sydney.
A professional orchestra under conductor
Joseph Bradley successfully supported the
violinist and pianist. Mr. Mirovitch dis-
played a quiet power and an artistic restraint
that recalled Berwick rather than any Rus-
sian first-ranker hitherto heard here. Mr.
Piastro’s violin playing was marked by the
brilliancy of his execution and a wonderful
sweetness and richness of tone. The audi-
ence met them with a whirling welcome and
sent them away laden with applause and two
laurel wreaths —the welcome won for them
by their compatriots on the Eastern Front:
the wreaths for their own artistic merit.
The Taits announce another concert on
Saturday at the Conservatorium.
To-night and to-morrow night Allan
Wilkie’s gravedigger resurrects “Hamlet,”
and with it Marlow will conclude his Shaks-
pearian season at Sydney Adelphi. On Satur-
day night there will be “Something Doing”
—chiefly Wish Wynne, a star who, coming
from London without the clatter of loud self-
advertisement, has swept this paper’s Mel-
bourne representatives off their feet. In
London she was lead in Bennett’s “Great
Adventure.” Since then she has had one of her
own—the dodging of German submarines on
the way to fulfil a recent engagement in
S'Africa. As she wasn’t taking any further
risks in that direction, and preferred to come
south for peace and quiet, Ben Fuller secured
a snap at the bargain counter.
The lion in “The Lion and the Mouse”
was really a tame old circus animal well
broken to double harness; otherwise, of
course, he would have eaten the she-mouse
alive instead of permitting her to roar him
down when she had artfully entered his den.
Julius Knight produced the somewhat faded
U-S. drama for inspection at Sydney Koval
last Saturday, with himself as the |,, n(
trust boss who “breaks” such Supreme <'
Judges as dare to interfere with his pincv
only to be bossed and fooled and humiliated
in the end by the bright little Mouse. The
way the cold, hard business man who hasn’t
a second to spare for senators and generals
settles down for a good long chat with the
port little novel-writing stranger, and tumbles
out the secret records of his nefarious career
for her to sneer at. sent the Royal gallery
girls silly with delight. Lizette Parke’s
spoke up to the great John Burkett Ryder
just as they would love to speak up to their
bosses on the mornings he gets down to the
office with a liver and wants 14 letters
typed simultaneously. When the Mouse
wasn’t actually roaring at the Lion, she was
telling him how much superior Woman's
Wit is to Man’s, or, better still, actually
proving it.
Julius Knight is an urbane Lion who
gives the observer the impression that he is
neither as angry nor as busy as he pretends
to be. Lizette Parkes is charming and
forcible as the brave and dainty Mouse
avlio does the outwitting and thereby saves
a very unconvincing judicial father (Alfred
liristowe). Louis Kimball, as Jefferson
Ryder, makes a brisk young lover. Hugh
Huntley supplies a neat U.S.-made carica-
ture of the young secretarial Englishman of
good family. Eileen Sparkes, as the flirta-
tious fiancee of young Jeff, is at her best in
the dreadful moment when her enraged
father asks her if she really intends to run
away with the English ass she isn't engaged
to. J. B. Atholwood, as a prying wowser,
scores heavily during his few minutes on
the stage, and Emma Temple is quietly
natural as the brow-beaten Ryder million-
airess. “A Royal Divorce” starts a week’s
hearing on Saturday.
“Duncan McClure and the Poor Parson.’’
which got a first hearing at Melbourne
King’s on Saturday night, suggests that
Steele Rudd’s talent for disorderly conduct
has become rather impaired since he wrote
“On Our Selection.” Generally speaking, the
job-lots of humanity in the present outbreak
have puerile notions of humor. Among the
McClures the height of farcical behavior is
to prod someone in the seat of the pants, or
touch another in the same place with a hot
branding-iron. Similarly, shrieks of merri-
ment are provoked by subtle allusions to cer-
tain bedroom articles, whilst chloroforming a
patient to repair a cut lip sets the whole
McClure homestead rocking with glee. The
play is a farrago of like absurdities, the
scanty characterisation naturally suffering
through the efforts of the company to be as
funny as possible. The principal personage
is Duncan McClure, a Scawtch edition de
luxe of old Rudd, with a rude and hasty tem-
per and an embongpong that looks like the
happy ending to a story of great feeds. Dun-
can has a daughter. Minnie, nursing a deep
attachment for a youth named Beatles; a
shock-headed son, Peter, mostly engaged in
wolfing the provisions; and an older boy.
Alex., who goes awa'v to the Argentine and
turns up later in a suit of khaki. Alex, is
in love with Dulcie Morrow, who is alleged
on slender evidence to be a dream of loveli-
ness that makes .Job Wattleton loony with
yearning. Job, the son of a hardfisted pillar
of the Kirk, wants to marry the girl, and
gets the support of her pa by threatening to
expose the ancient for forging Alex.
McClure’s signature to a promissory note.
When Dulcie is apprised of her dad's position
she is willing to make the necessary sacri-
fice, but her noble boy Alex, saves the victim
from the jaws of Job. as it were, by acknow-
ledging the bogus signature to be his own.
Thereupon the Wattleton pair step out of
the picture, leaving the battle-scarred hereto
fondle the reward which a grateful forger
bestows upon him.
•*•***
Dulcie’s love affair is the thread of narra-
tive that interrupts the various circus acts.
The parson himself is an incidental circum-
stance. and appears as a phantom of silent
suffering humbly turning both cheeks to the
biffs of Fate. Guy Hastings plays this role
with an extra dash of whitewash in his com-
plexion and a meek flat bat on bis head.
Ned Duggan is Duncan McClure, and mis-
appropriates the tartans of several clans to
do justice to his Highland ancestry. Laura
Roberts sniggers or snivels as tlie lovesick
Minnie, and Alfreda Bevan is told off to
make Mrs. McClure as plausible as her ability
permits. Arthur Bertram is responsible for
Peter’s appetite, and Bryant and Bellairs are
respectively dour and doltish as the insepar-
able Wattleton duet. J. P. Lennon is the
chief drawback in the task of making Alex,
fascinating to the heroine. Miss Hardwicke
is the heroine, and she is flapperishly color-
less. The most entertaining performances
are supplied by Fred Macdonald and Lilias
Adeson. Fred is naturally droll as an
amorous, disturbing influence in the quiet
life of Daphne, a faded Mary Ann. whom
Miss Adeson presents with spectacular effect.


pOORD & SON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
%
DT
&h=M
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
/
r
Cream
of i
the Norlh
Whisky.
'Star
—PROOF AGAINST RAIN AND COLD
* • «
With Gabardine at its present price this coat is truly unique
in value. Inexpensive, yet typically smart—a Peapes'
production that will give complete satisfaction in wear and
appearance. It buttons to neck with close-fitting collar,
vent at back, vertical pockets, light-weight check lining.
In mid-weight Sage-Green Gabardine 35/-
H'e Pay Postage.
Please state ehest and height measurements.
Jubilee Catalogue on request.
PEAPES CO. LTD..
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
r/'
“Gipsy Love” will put out the camp fire
and get away from Sydney Majesty’s, with
all the available poultry and washing, on
Friday night. Next revival is “The Quaker
Girl.” She will live again for 12 nights.
#
Evidently it still Pays to Advertise at
Sydney Criterion.
* * *
The Tivoli Follies overhauled the con-
tents of the old carpet-bag at Sydney head-
quarters last week-end and put together a
show that is partly old and partly new. It
is as satisfactory as most mixed drinks, and
the official ad.-writer applauds it madly in
the front row of the morning paper. Writer
nowadays always knows when the small,
early youth has thrown the usual penny-
worth over the fence by the muffled sound
of hand-clapping that floats in from the dewy
garden.
Ella Caspers was the chief draw of the
first Merryvale pop at Sydney Town Hall
on Saturday. She lifted up her solemn con-
tralto first in “Abide with Me,” followed it
with the twilight song “Coming Home,” and
finally extinguished mirth with “Sink, Red
Sun.” Tenor Sid Macdonald soloed with
considerable success, and with Charles
Smythe formed himself into a Commission
to inquire “What of the Night?” Ernest
Truman unleashed organ thunder ; Warwick
McKenzie fiddled; Gladys Bourke aired a
rather thin soprano; and Harry Thomas
practised the ancient art of recitation. The
same entertainers will perforin again on
Saturday for a fresh crop of shillings. Last
Saturday’s harvest was quite satisfactory.
sfc sji jp
The girls have only a week wherein to
work themselves up into a suitable frame of
mind for welcoming the adorable Paul
Dufault. The tenor’s season starts at Syd-
ney Town Hall on July 1.
Though “Kultur” has been swept away at
10.30 every night during the week from
Wirths’ Sydney Hippodrome in 20,000 gal-
lons of cold water and 5624 sneezes, it has
insisted on invading Belgium again as usual
next evening at nine. It will get a final
hath on Saturday night, and conduct a
masterly retreat behind a curtain of loud
applause.
** * *
Melba gives her strong support to the
first night of “Quinney’s” at the Melbourne
Playhouse next Saturday by appearing in
the fourth act of “Otello,” with the hearty
assistance of a band commanded by the
modest and self-effacing Fritz Hart. The
prices for the one Melba night are £1 Is. and
10s. 6d. for single seats, and £6 6s. each for
the cages at the back of the balcony; but
on the following six nights, when “Quin-
ney’s” will be repeated, the scale will be
55., 3s. and 2s.—£2 2s. each for the prisons
aforesaid.
PAUL DUFAULT, the French-Canadian
tenor, who is about to open his Australian
tour.
“On Trial” is still proceeding in a hurry
at Melbourne Royal. The drama takes
special pains to depict Gerald Trask’s early
exploit as a giddy deceiver, but omits details
of the circumstances under which Mrs.
Strickland renewed acquaintance with her
former flame. The audience is told in a
casual way that the threat of her husband’s
bankruptcy at the hands of Trask throws
her into that sinner’s arms after a separa-
tion of 13 years; but this seems a flimsy
explanation, considering that Trask would
be hardly likely to put a price equivalent to
10,000 dollars on the lady’s virtue when he
had good reasons for believing it was worth
much less. On the available evidence
Strickland’s trial ought to be reopened so
that his wife’s motives in visiting her old
canoodler might be more fully explained,
To-morrow is the last of “So Long,
Letty,” at Melbourne Majesty’s—the long
last time the jelly-roll lady will be rescued
dry and dusty from visionary waves by a
human gazeka; the last time hungry Tommy
will nearly split his pants and Grace will
complain in a sad, sore voice that life con-
sists merely of one damn thing and another.
And the last time of those active, attractive
and compactive eight girls in pink and gold
—Heaven bless ’em! It grieves the writer
to think that such girls must, in due course,
grow old and pass out on their last legs, so
to speak. Saturday brings a revival of
“High Jinks” with a somewhat altered cast.
"DUNCAN
McCLURE AND
THE POOR
PARSON,” AT
MELBOURNE
KING’S.
Bertie Beatles, the
Tick Inspector
( E. M. Keon).
A few remarks concerning Mary Doit and
other new arrivals at Melbourne Tivoli
(whence Horace Goldin has departed) can
be held over for another week. One reason
for holding them over is the fact that the
newest turns were not yet in evidence when
this paper went to press.
* ij:
The only notable change at Melbourne
Bijou on Saturday was the reappearance of
Harold Parkes, the vigorous young reciter of
Dennis’s poems. Also Daisy Jerome com-
menced a week’s excitement as an adjudi-
cator in her song competition. Otherwise
the programme was practically the same as
last week, with Wish Wynne holding up the
first part and “The Dizzy Limit” laboring
heavily after the interval.
* *
The French war-pictures have gone from
Adelaide Royal; and a new lot have come in
at the Town Hall, declaring fiercely that
they alone are the real, hall-marked article.
They are, at any rate, as instructive as any
records of the kind hitherto shown. The
camera-man is not allowed at the Front,
so he does his best at the back, and very
interesting if unexciting it all is. The best
effects are got from aeroplanes and from the
real dogs-of-war which the French let loose
in mountainous country. The sudden and
much-lamented death of young Eugene
Alderman is not to deter the Patriotic
Orchestra he had just founded ; Edgar Far-
row, who conducted at short notice when
his leader’s illness was announced, is to go
on holding the baton. The popular concerts
at Queen’s Hall continue, and find plenty
of local talent. The Majestic programme
now has Ray Monde (another of the uncer-
tain-sex artists), Rose Lee Ivy and the
juggling Littlejohns. Melodrama still rules
at the King’s and (for the moment) at the
Tivoli, where Goldin and his tiger are
expected shortly.
Died a few days ago W. C. Browne, a
native of St. Patrick’s Plains, who from
1870 to 1880 represented his native place in
the N.S.W. Leg. Ass. His father was one of
the earliest settlers on the Hunter.
Died at Sydney, “Sammy” Lees, 73, for
36 years an alderman of his native Sydney,
mayor in 1895 and gaud mayor in 1904.
He sat in the Assembly for 14 years, and
in the Council subsequently. When George
Reid saw a Labor vote coming in East
Sydney and climbed out of politics into the
Pie Commissionership, Lees contested the
vacancy in the Joe Cook interest, but was
beaten by J. E. West. In his spare time
between politics and running a printery,
Lees was president and vice-president of
many things, including Sydney Hospital,
and a Methody “steward.” His only son
is at present keeping Australia’s end up in
the argument with the Kaiser.
The indispensable “Year-Book of Aus-
tralia” makes its 35th appearance, revised
and up to date. Its 800 pages contain almost
everything worth knowing about the con-
tinent, and the information in every depart-
ment is presented in admirable style. Pub-
lished at half a guinea by the Year-Book of
Australia Co., Ltd., Goulburn-street, Sydney.
AT POVERTY POINT.
From Ted Colies: —
There’s a picture-show, of course, at Ismailia
(Egypt). T’other night I dropped in and found an
audience of some 30 people, of whom about 13 were
Biljims. In the “five-disaster” seats were a dowdy
Frenchwoman and two rather pretty daughters, a
bored, elderly, well-tailored gentleman with a straw-
hat and a cheroot (evidently one of the Canal Co.’s
staff), an elegant army staff-captain and two
despondent sub-lieutenants, a naval petty-officer and
a bluejacket, a sieda in tarbush and long night-
shirt, a young Italian shopkeeper and his flapper, a
tall, immovable Soudanese soldier and two French
tars. Presently a long, lean army chaplain and a
little fat A.S.C. major entered. A few cheers burst
from the batch of Biljims, and the chaplain retali-
ated beamingly. Persistent reminders about a
“gohanner” prevailed, and the sky pilot rose and
walked to where a bob-tailed piano stood mute and
neglected in a corner. He opened with “Home, Sweet
Home,” then “Clementina,” and soon had the gather-
ing unanimously howling “Whoops! Let’s do it
again!” Most of the pictures I had already seen in
some dim period before the war, at Manly and St.
Ivilda open-air shows. But I forgive them for the
sake of the genial chaplain who Les Darcied the box
of bones.
“H. 0.”: The Gonsalez Opera Co. has
brought a consignment of paper scenery,
such as is in general use in Italy. The com-
pany has had part of the collection for 25
years, and although it has been many times
packed and unpacked, it is still quite re-
spectable ; tearing being prevented by a strip
of cheese-cloth along the edges. The paper
is mostly in sheets a few feet square, so
that Manrico’s prison, Violetta’s ballroom,
the smugglers’ retreat of “Carmen” and some
assorted palaces and gardens can be folded
like househould linen and packed in a single
case. The paper is stretched on battens in
the usual way. The Board of Health has
decreed that it shall be painted over with a
fire-proof mixture, so it will be no use
a stagehand tearing off a strip of prison
masonry to use as a pipe-light, for the stuff
simply won’t burn.
“Peter”: Maggie Knight, Geo. Bryant
and Ned Duggan, now playing together at
Melbourne King’s, are, I believe, the only
working pros, in Australia who appeared
with Titheradge when he played Hamlet at
Melbourne Royal in 1886. Tith. did the
Dane for six nights, but never afterwards
repeated the performance. Maggie was
Ophelia, and Bryant and Duggan were
Itosencrantz and Guildenstern. Other people
more or less well known in the show were
Mary Weir (Mrs. J. C. Williamson), Player
Queen ; G. R. Ireland, King ; Stirling Whyte,
Polonius; William Elton, First Grave-
digger; W. 11. Leake, Ghost; and G. 11.
Fenton, Horatius. Bob Inman doubled the
parts of Osric and First Player.
“Masetto”: Steam trials for grand opera
choristers usually attract some queer craft;
but the impresario of the Gonsalez Opera
Co. got the surprise of his life at a recent
ordeal when two small, precocious girls
butted in ahead of the fretting crowd o'f
undiscovered Melbas, shoved a bit of rag-
time music in front of the pianist and pre-
pared to do a neat double turn. If the
season is a failure, two girls at least will
know the reason why.
The new tax on amusements in England
runs up this way: Admission up to 2d.,
tax |d.; 2d. to 6d., Id.; 6d. to 2s. 6d., 2d.;
2s. 6d. to 55., 3d.; ss. to 7s. 6d., 6d.; 7s. 6d.
to 12s. 6d., is.; over 12s. 6d. an extra Is.
for every 10s. or part of 10s. The squeeze
goes on theatres, music-halls, movie shows,
exhibitions, races, athletic matches and the
like. No exceptions are made—save that
there’s no special charge upon the ancient
pastime of bigamy.
“Row A.”: Rosina Buckman, of Maori-
land, has added another golden line to her
record by scoring well as Isolde in Beecliam’s
production of “Tristan” at the Aldwych,
London. She has gone a long way since I
first heard her in Melbourne Athenaeum
years ago. She was then “supporting” Les-
lie Harris through a season which was only
partially thawed by a faithful contingent
who used to turn up night after night and
applaud in the front seats. Even in those
days Rosina’s rendering of one little nursery
song used to make all decent-minded adults
yearn to have nine small children to put to
bed.
“Stargazer”: Tiie Bulletin grieves over
the madness of a world that pays Charlie
Chaplin £172.000 per annum. But what
can be done about it? If he doesn’t bag it
it will go straight into the possession of
less worthy objects—the people who make
and market Chaplin films. There are 4500
picture theatres in the United Kingdom
alone with an average daily attendance of
800. There are more in America. Heaven
only knows how many besides are scattered
over the habitable globe. The managers id
practically all of them are eager to get the
Chaplin farces, and pay top prices for them,
because they are the things the children
cry for and the grown-ups demand with no
uncertain sound. Chaplin is a clown. For
my part I think he is the funniest grotesque
that ever existed ; and at a time when the
mad world is paying another clown far
bigger rates to fill the earth with smoke and
stink, death and destruction, I cannot regard
its contributions to C. Chaplin as anything
but a hopeful indication that it is not as
imbecile as it seems.
“S.T.S.”: A big error in art is being
made by certain moving-picture producers. It
is admitted that on the stage you have to
act in order to look natural. In real life a
raised eyebrow or a bitten lip says quite
enough. But across a theatre those small
actions cannot be seen. Further, the movie
actor, having no words to help in making a
meaning clear, has to orer-act to get the
same effect. All that is admitted. Make-
up is used for the same reason —because the
natural face can’t be clearly seen at a dis-
tance. And now, in emotional plays, the
camera is foolishly moved up close to the
player, or else the film is magnified after-
wards, and he —or she—gives a wild dis-
play of “facial expression,” with all the
make-up showing and the exaggerated con-
tortion of features thrust on one at close
quarters. Is it the photographer’s fault?
Or the actor’s? The idea is to show how
effective the actor can be; and that end is
never attained. These grimaces often bring
laughter in a scene that is meant to be
terrible.
“Private Boxer”: “Good times and bad.
the theatre-manager’s life is one long anxi-
ety. Catastrophe is always lying around
in wait for him.” Thus one of our fore-
most showmen to an interviewer. That’s
probably why the theatrical managers of
this continent seek relaxation in such sooth-
ing pastimes as running racehorses, news-
papers and politicians. One can’t be
attending to a nerve-racking business all the
time.
“T.T.”: The contention of “S.S.” (B.
8/6/’l6), that Barrie is a better advertiser
than Shaw, does not bear reflection. Shaw
bangs the big drum ceaselessly—before he
produces a play, when the play is running,
and afterwards, when he publishes it, with
more drum-thumping in the preface or pre-
faces. Barrie rarely publishes his dramatic
works. When he does (as in the case of
the one-acters, including the masterly
“Twelve-Pound Look”) he proves to demon-
stration, and without a preface, why the
noise is not necessary.
(Continued on page 28.)
From “The Oldest Inhabitant”: —
I don’t suppose it matters, but Hay Fred
Donaldson, who went down with Kitchener, was
born in Kellett House, oft Upper William-street—
now Bayswater-road—and not in Craigend House,
which at the time was occupied by Henry Prince,
M.L.0., Jack Want’s father-in-law. Sir Thomas
Mitchell, the Surveyor-General and explorer, built
Graigend; and this week news was cabled of the
death of his last surviving son, Richard Blunt
Mitchell, who was born there in 1837. Both Donald
son and Mitchell were owners of windmills. You
know the story that the prevalence of windmills
thereabouts gave a name to Woolloomooloo, which
is supposed to be black brother’s attempt to say the
word.
Death was capricious in Adelaide last
week. It took, at 31, Eugene Alderman,
the bright and still boyish violinist —every-
body’s friend. Meningitis -was the trouble.
An apology had to be made on Sat rday
evening for his failure to conduct his new
Patriotic Orchestra at the Exhibition: on
Tuesday he was dead. At the same time
died old Josiah Boothby, of the last genera-
tion and unknown to this. Son of a judge
and brother of a sheriff, he was himself a
valuable Government official half a century
back ; his hints on census-taking gave it a
Federal turn in days when each “colony”
made its count at such time as it might
fancy. Boothby’s proudest moment was in
1878, when he represented South Aus. at
the Paris Exhibition, and General
Macmahon, then President, pinned the cross
of the Legion of Honor on his coat. He
lived to be 70, and left a family of clever
daughters. Guy Boothby was his nephew.
THE TRAGIC CLOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A telegram from Berne states that, owing- to
“serious nerve strain,” the German Crown Prince
no longer takes an active part in directing the opera-
tions at Verdun.— Cable.
The Clown Prince in his madness planned
To justify his great Command.
He ordered up his legions fine
To break the Allied battle line.
The swarming troops in grey and blue,
The grinning soixante-quinzes slew.
Again they charged. Again the Huns
Were meat for Joffre’s hungry guns.
The Clown did not regard the dead,
He aimed to paint the landscape red.
Within the wings the German staff
Was busy on his epitaph.
VICTORIA.
JEAN S.


r.
“D.J.” CEYLONETTE PYJAMAS
8,6 SUIT. . READY-TO-WEAR.
These Pyjamas are “Made by David Jones” from specially-imported
Ceylonette—a material of soft texture —comfortable and durable in
wear. Behind every suit stands David Jones’ name as a guarantee
of Quality, Workmanship and Sound Value.
In smart 1 in. block stripe effects of Grey, Pink,
Blue or Helio. Fitted with collar and pocket as
illustrated. Sizes: 34in. to 42in. chest measure-
ment. Per suit 8/6
lye PAY CARRIAGE.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
Opposite G.P.0,, SYDNEY.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel.
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantlj*
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel J
now complete in every detail, an< '
under the management of 0
l slier, the Comforts of a I >C | et
Home are assured. H ie ulS1 ”
and Service will compare fa' o
ably with any Hotel in Eng ,ult ’
America or the Continent. a
He Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
Brigadier-General Elliott, in a letter to the
sister of the late Corporal F. Wright, shows
that every one of the lads who were with
Lieutenant (then Corporal) William Dun-
stan in the exploit at Lonesome Pine was
recommended for the Victoria Cross. Two
of them —Dunstan and Captain (now Major)
Tubb —lived to wear it. To Corporal Bur-
ton, who was killed in the trench, it was
posthumously awarded. Wright, whose head
was blown to pieces, got nothing-—even
posthumously. The story is one of the most
thrilling in the glorious record of the <th
Battalion. Elliott gives details that do not
appear in the official version, which neces-
sarily confined itself to the deeds of the
three to whom the Cross was awarded. Five
hundred of Elliott's men faced 3000 Turks,
who were determined to get back the Lone-
some Pine trenches. They had grenades in
thousands —the Australians but few. When
relieved, the battalion had lost 12 officers and
341 men out of It! and 511 respectively.
Tubb. Dunstan and Burton, with seven
others, held a trench-barricade. Three times
charging Turks bombed it through; three
times they were bayoneted back while it was
EVIDENTLY AN AMATEUR.
BLANCHE: " They say Harold is an expert
in the art of self-defence.”
BEATRICE: “Nonsense! Molly made him
propose in just one week.”
built up again. Wright and another corporal
—Webb, who got the D.C.M. for it —stood
back with blankets and sandbags, and pro-
tected the defenders by either smothering the
bombs or throwing them out. One exploded
just as Wright caught it. killing him in-
stantly. Webb kept on till another went off
in his fist, blowing both his hands off. He
died at the dressing-station. Elliott thus
names five of the splendid Ten. Now who
will give Australia a chance to know the
others?
The casual Australian again. _ One recent
morning a woman ran screaming tnrougn
the bush to the house of a neighboring
settler in Gippsland. The settlers familj
was at breakfast. The woman stood in tin
doorway, wild-eyed and breathless. •'
husband!” she gasped. "He has hanged
himself!” “What, Bill hung lusself? said
the settler incredulously, “Aes, yes. Hi.
come to him!” “When did he „ ,^ 1S "
self?” “Sometime in the night. •Some-
time in the night? Then, gorbless the
woman, where’s the hurry? Sit-down, will
yell, an’ have a bit o’ breakfast. #
There is nothing loud and vulgar —no fran-
tic impulse to arise and awake and reason
with the boss at the end of a club—abou
the Drapers’ Assistants’ Union at Christ-
church (M.L.). The young men in the
Manchester and haberdashery departments
know their place. The other day they had
an idea that it Avould be a fair thing if the
various “houses” forked out a 10 per cent-
war bonus, so the secretary parted his han
in the middle, manicured his fingers and
sent a note to the local rag-barons on the
subject. He bleated this way :
My union feels sure that if the employers offer no
objection the Court will be pleased to have the oppor-
tunity of bringing the wages of those engaged in
the soft-goods trade more in keeping with the dignity
.and importance of the industry. I would fuithei
ask that if you have any objection to oner to our
proposal, you will kindly acquaint me of same.
Next day when the dignified and important
assistants saw the baleful eyes of the shop-
walker watching them measure off the next
article at 2s. lid., they felt creeping down
their spines something which seemed hor-
ribly wet and cold and nothing like a bonus
ought to feel. s
“H.S.” : It is a humorous development to
find “Australians temporarily in Britain or
serving with British regiments ’ clamoring
through B. IU Wise “to be allowed to enlist
with or transfer to the A.1.F.” Many
perhaps most —of the young Australians
now in the United Kingdom, or serving
with British regiments, journeyed to Uon-
don with the admitted object of avoiding
the A.I.F. The Australian Army was
regarded by a certain class in the early
days of the war as an inferior sort of con-
cern, and many of our wealthier youths
were unwilling to be associated with it.
After “the Landing,” and up to “the Evacua-
tion,” this class had added cause to shun
the Australian flag. The job which the
Anzacs were handling was uniquely dan-
gerous, insanitary and unpleasant. __ By
travelling to England, instead of reinforc-
ing their hard-pressed countrymen on the
Peninsula, the Australians who now claim
that they are not receiving “a square deal”
got glory, comfort and safety in a quiet
British training-centre. If the representa-
tions of Wise are successful, these shrewd
young men will get more glory—the glory
that was won for Australia in Gallipoli—
and a further instalment of comfort and
safety; for the Anzacs are bound to train
nome more, either in England or on one of
the easier parts of the British line in
France.
“11.5. H.”: This is dinkum. We
were being “instructed” in some of
the tricks of the fighting trade in
France by an English sergeant, and
he was telling us what excellent
scouts Australians should make.
“You are men." he said, “who have
doubtless all led adventurous lives,
filled with danger; but I want to
impress upon you that in dealing
with a Hun vou are not dealing with
an Australian native. You must not
dash out at a Hun as you would at
a native, with a view to scalping
him. You doubtless would succeed
in scalping your native, but the Hun
objects to the idea of scalping, and
you would possibly get into difficul-
ties.” Still, you never know. The
boys may yet teach Johnny Bull not only
how to catch and scalp a Hun, but how to
make him tasty without apple sauce.
* * * *
A hard-working Parliamentary Commis-
sion took the level-crossing death-traps of
the Adelaide plain into consideration lately,
on the plea of suburban Unley, which has
three railways—Melbourne, Willunga and
Glenelg—running through it. Several of
the worst possible cases of level-crossing
have been dodged by road-deviation or sub-
ways, but many remain ; and almost while
the Commission was talking a popular
young motorist was killed by a Glenelg
express. Unley suggests putting the lines
low, as in suburban Melbourne, allowing
roads to get over by bridges only slightly
raised. It is obviously cheaper to make a
subway for the road at each crossing; but
diainage is the difficulty. Besides, the Rail-
ways Commissioner has advanced the
characteristically S. Australian objection
that subways might be had for public morals
—a fearfully brittle article, according to the
local account.
MONOGRAMS.
FIRST: “ What are those hieroglyphics, dearieA
SECOND: “Oh. that's Y.W.C.A. These soldier men always commence to size up
strange lady by looking at her ankles. That monogram works like a cold eye!”
“Centurion": The most trying part of
our work in this part of Egypt is attending
banquets tendered by local potentates.. Pre-
liminaries are opened with a written invita-
tion. of which the following is a fair speci-
men : —■
H. Excellence Major , I offer you my hearty
regards, praying that God will keep you safe, beating
jour enemies. I have the greatest honor to call you,
accompanied by four officers and 15 soldiers, to my
palace for drinking tea and taking your dinner in
Monday that falls upon 24th April instant. I pray
jour pardon to tell the handbearer of the time in
which j-ou will visit us to be ready.
On the appointed hour —about 3 pan.,
as a rule —the cavalcade arrives at
the “palace." In this instance the
host was . a jolly old bird, a Copt
and worth anything over £50,000 a
year, all derived from rents. After milkless
tea, flavored with cinnamon (six glasses is
the right quantity), dinner is served. There
are 14 courses, the first being a lamb roasted
whole, and the others running the gamut of
poultry. The last dish is plain blane-mange.
This is considered the thing when dining a
European. The Copts supply knives and
forks, but when your host is an Arab you
use your fingers, and have to get in quick.
The drinks vary with different hosts: they
run from sweet champagne to beer and
whisky. These last are generally provided
],the Arabs, whose Prophet, while for-
bidding wine, says nothing about the others.
On leaving at the end of three hours or so
the guest is presented with a bouquet of
roses and scented geranium.
From a spare colonel :—-
Now, what ?ort of a soldier is Billjim? Of course,
we’re biassed ourselves, but the opinion of the
Imperial officers and N.C.O.’s who are training him and
his cobbers here in France is worth something. One
officer said to me: “They are wild beggars, but thej
are the keenest men I’ve ever handled, and they are
d good soldiers.” The opinions of the N.C.O.’s,
who know the men better than the officers, maj- be
gauged by the competition among them to be placed
in charge of Australians in the training camp. A
compliment of another sort was paid bj- a nurse in
one of the American hospitals here: “I like the Aus-
tralian soldier —he looks like a free man.” I assured
her he was also glad to feel like one. Vie are now
under a much stricter discipline than anything we
encountered before; but Billjim knuckles down to it
as cheerfully as if he had been used to it all his
life. In his letters home (officers have to act as
censors) I don’t think I break confidence to say that
there is not one per cent, of grumble; he assures his
A MOMENT OF INTENSITY IN THE
PARAMOUNT PICTURE “THE
EXPLORER.”
Alec McKenzie ( Lou-Tellegen) tells George
Allerton (Tom Forman) there are hut two
bullets left.
wife, mctlu r, sister and all his best girls that he i>
having the time of his life, that he likes the country
and its people, and that he is looking forward to
getting back to Australia, which he solemnly swears
never to leave again. The percentage of “crimes” is
so low as to he not worth considering; and although
we have numerous wet canteens about the camp ami
cafes galore in the village, I haven't seen six Aus-
tralians drunk in a month. Perhaps the wet canteens
in the camp are responsible. My not-hastily-formed
opinion is that the Australian soldier is the easiest
thing in the world to handle and discipline provid-
ing commonsense is used in the process. But he is
irritated beyond endurance by Red-tape and Muddle,
and he wants to “get there’’ too sincerely to be
indifferent to patent incompetence in his officers. We
THE GOSPEL FROM CHICAGO.
According to Dr. H. Kress, of Chicago, meat is
the great cause of divorce. The eating of flesh toots
produces a quarrelsome disposition; so the bigher
the price of meat goes the less we shall eat and the
fewer divorces there will be.
“When Chops come in at the door, Love
flies out at the window.”
on this side have heard of the trouble at Liverpool
(N.S.W.). At present, Billjim is suffering in repu-
tation in consequence of it. But some day there
have to be a Commission to go deeper into ta
cause of the trouble. Billjim’s behavior under i- 1
rigid but intelligent discipline in France deniaus
that that justice be done to him.
BILL'S LUCK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am engaged to a boy at the Front, but tlie
engagement can be broken off if we see anybody we
like better. —A housemaid in a Sydney court the
other day.
Oh, Bill, you know I love you. Straight,
I never thought I could get shook
On any boy ; but it is great
To know that I have you. Dear, look I
To bind me as your future wife
I’m going to let you buy a ring,
And when you’re back from war and strife
I’ll take you to my arms for life —-
If nothing better’s offering.
N.S.W.
B.B.


BLACK 196, TAN 21 -
Post Free.
—next time you
buy Riding Boots
try the
“STOCKMAN”
MADE from fine-quality Willow
Calf, either Black or Tan.
Fastens neatly with two straps
and buckles; single soles. Light yet
strong, w r ith plenty of service and
comfort as well.
PLEASE STATE YOUR SIZE AND SEND
FOR A PAIR ON APPROVAL. CASH WILL
RE REFUNDED ON RETURN OF. THE
BOOTS, IF UNSLTITABLE. Y T OU INCUR
NO OBLIGATION TO PURCHASE.
PIKE BROTHERS^.
Toowoomba.
BRISBANE.
Townsville.
HOTEL SYDNEY
Opposite Railway Station,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Modern and Popular Hotel with a Moderate Tariff. 240 Bedrooms
Hot and Cold Water in each.
TARIFF.
Apartments
Bed and Breakfast
Board and Residenee . . .
Board and Residence...
4/6 each guest
6/6 each guest
11/- per day
70/- per week
TARIFF.
Dining: open to Xon-Residents.
Luncheon, a la earte, from 1/6
Luncheon, Table d’hote 2/6
Dinner, Table d’liote H'(|
PERFECT SERVICE. EXCELLENT CUISINE.
Orchestra plays in Dining-room G to 7..‘!0 p.m.
■ CYRIL EDWARDS, Manager
“Lumber”: The sale of the schooner .1. M.
Weatherwax by the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment for £7lO seems ludicrous, seeing that
for the barque Lallah Rooke an offer of
£7OOO was refused last week. But the fact
is that when ex-Minister Nielsen chartered
the old girl to carry a cargo of timber to
the Ma State he acquired something not
much better than a raft. It was the cargo
that floated her to her destination. When
Nielsen bought her in Honolulu he paid only
£6OO for her. It would take some thousand's
to fit her for general trading, and the Govern-
ment fought shy of the job. But to show
the possibilities of such a spec., lumber
charters for late 1917, Pacific Slope to Mel-
bourne, option Adelaide, are now quoted at
£7 7s. per thousand, and on a cargo of half
a million that is nearly £4OOO. A big French
barque, certainly a different proposition to
the Weatherwax. recently sailed from Sydney
to “U.K. or Continent” with a cargo of
wheat. The freight was insured for £ 13,000 !
* * * *
When the.devil broke loose there was a
bright young man named Milne in a railwav
inspector’s job at Harden (N.S.W.). He
was told to recruit a railway supply detach-
ment of 04 men for the A.S.G. There were
plenty offering, so he picked his Austra-
lians and left in Dec., 1914, for Egypt.
He had only begun to get a move on when
they opened their eyes and made him a
captain. Then, having passed the Anzaes
and their luggage to Gallipoli, he went to
the Peninsula. Nearly half the squad were
killed there ; the others scored five commis-
sions and 20 promotions, Milne being made
major. After that they hurried him and
his remnant back to run supplies out to
the defenders of the Canal; that done they
were all sent off to France, and their boss was
gazetted D.S.O. Yet we still go on import-
GIVE IT A SHOW.
"Here, what do you think of that for a
fresit egg?”
"Pretty rotten —have you tried the other
end?”
ing Tom Johnsons; and when we hold up
for a while there’s a smell of stinking fish
and a voice asking how you can really
expect Australians to know anything worth
mentioning about railway work.
I rom the petticoat column of the Argus :
, .Y-Y.Z. ’ asks if gabardine will wash without
sm inking: there are some black boot-polish stains
on it. He also asks what is the correct time for a
young man to ask a parent for his daughter.
W ell, judging by the boot-marks on the young
inan s clothes. The Bulletin should say
that a better time would be when pa has his
suppers on.
SOMETHING TASTY AND EFEECTUAL.
GRAVESTONE MAN: “Sec, mum! You can 'arc it upright like this ’ere one, or you can
'ace it laid flat like that there one.”
WIDOW MARTHA: “Oh, clap it right down over 'im! Clap it right down over 'ini!”
“C. Dioxide”: It has come at last. A cau-
tiously-worded but ouite deUnite official mem-
orandum in the last N.cUW. Education
Gazette points out to teachers that if a
little fresh air is not let into schoolrooms
now and then the Minister will be quite
angry. One P. Board, Under Secretary, who
signs it, is evidently a cautious official of
great experience, one who does nothing reck-
lessly. Reading between
the lines it would appear
that he does not approve
personally of this new
and daring departure,
but foresees colds and
sniffles and absences from
school. Nevertheless P.
Board is loyal, and he
makes it quite clear that
if an inspector happens
to notice that a school-
room is in an absolutely
mephitic condition, the
Minister wishes that in-
spector to make it quite
hot for the teacher who
is responsible. The mem-
orandum refers in a
severely official way to
the fact that “the Mini-
ster has noticed” the
prevailing bad ventila-
tion in schools. It speaks
well for the Minister’s
powers of observation
and initiative, as lie
must have had far less
time and opportunity for
noticing such things than
P. Board has had.
Things are changing
sadly from the glorious
days when the P. Boards
of Australia were able to
dismiss loftily and, as
they thought, finally the more elementary
facts of school hygiene and child physiology,
as brilliant efforts of the job seeking medical
imagination.
Balsillie, the rain-coaxer, has been catch-
ing and wringing out the passing clouds at
Bookaloo, about 50 miles from Port Augusta,
or. the first section of the great Overtime-
Railway. lie was requested to fill
a large railway dam at this point,
and the good rains fell to order right
along the line, making the country blossom
like a milliner’s window. If Mrs. Nature
really did the window-dressing she won’t
claim for it, so Balsillie’s account will be
all right.
From “Callan Park”
I voted 6 o’clock in the recent N. S. Wales refer-
endum. Why? Because (1) I don’t own a pub;
(2) I rarely use pubs; and (3) the occasional spec-
tacle of an evening drunk slightly, annoys me. You
could shut down on almost anything by referendum.
Take - the Union Club. The members and servants
would no doubt vote for its retention. So would the
wives and families pf some of its frequenters. On
the other hand, many wives would like, probably, to
see it abolished, and would vote accordingly, on the
general grounds that it is a place where drink is
consumed and the family money expended. Thousands
would vote against it in the spirit that moved me to
vote down the pubs ; and so a harmless, even deserv-
ing, institution would be slain.
Many religions might be rendered illegal by refer-
endum. The Methodists would have a narrow shave,
with the R.C.’s and the more “respectable” Anglicans
hostile to them, and the anti-wowser vote solidly in
their disfavor. The Swe nth Day Adventists, the
Particular Baptists, the Lutherans, the Independents,
the Free Anglicans, and the Catholic Apostolic
Church would certainly be declared illegal under the
preference system. I would myself walk several miles
to register a vote against the Salv’army. I never use
their “refuges” and I hate their music.
The Holman Government talks, of a referendum on
the State pub question. I am agreeable to that;
also to a referendum on the sum to be paid to the
publicans for their property. As between (say)
£lOO,OOO, £50,000 and ss. 6d. I am pretty sure I
know which would win. By this means the State
would pick up a number of bargains, and hundreds
of strong, healthy young publicans would be encour-
aged to enlist. And by that time the moment would
be ripe for a referendum on the question of whether
all those with £25,000 and over should or should
not be compelled to divide up their possessions
amongst those with £lOOO and under. On these
lines we could achieve Socialism in Our Time in no
time. The Millennium without tears, and no respon-
sibility attaching to the Government! If Holman
really trusts the voice of the people he will get busy
forthwith.
From one who still hopes:—
Relatives of those Australian soldiers who are miss-
ing at Gallipoli can obtain some comfort from an
official statement recently made in London and
printed in the Times. It appears that the Turk, who
is a well-meaning but haphazard cuss, has never given
an}' written list of prisoners. All communications
have been by word of mouth. The Times stated that
Abdul had pushed away all prisoners somewhere in
the interior, and very likely didn’t know how many
there were himself. The paragraph concluded with
the words: “So there is reason for hope in the case
of all missing men.”
The French of our lads isn’t all that it
might be. Soon after the first bunch landed
at Marseilles a regimental doctor with the
A.I.F. was asked to diagnose the troubles
of a French baby. “Ah,” he said to the
tearful little mother, talking as if his mouth
were full of barbed fishbones, “it is neces-
sary to eat your baby very carefully.” The
word “feed” wasn’t in his make-shift supply
of colloquialisms.
The other morning in Melbourne, after
Lieut. Lonesome Pine Dunstan, Y. 0.. had
his decoration pinned on by the Gov.-General,
he was abandoned to the tender meeffs of
the crowd until the police interfer'd a< d
rescued him. What happens in those cases
is that onlookers forthwith rush the victim.
The men shake him by the hand, half a dozen
of them breathing beerily into his face the
while. Meantime the women scrag him
around the neck, make pecks at his crim-
soned cheek and then rush away to tell all
about it. It is a poor reward for valor, all
this mucking about.
* * * *
When an earthquake took Cootamundra
(N.S.W.) by the ear and shook it for 12
seconds the other Sunday night, the good
Romans who had turned up to vespers
surged out of their seats and sought the
open air. If his Rivirince tackled them
later on for their lack of faith, they pro-
bably retorted that they had plenty in Pro-
vidence but none in anny contractor.
There is no escape from the grave; but
every man is entitled to lie under his own
tombstone. Two loaded coffins were the
other day despatched from Melbourne con-
signed to Wangaratta and Wodonga
respectively. Undertaker and mourners at
Wangaratta took delivery of one of the
coffins and started for the last resting place,
Milawa, nine miles out. The funeral party
was at the graveside when it was dis-
covered that the wrong coffin had been
brought along. Meanwhile the Wodonga
mourners, 45 miles away, were declining to
take delivery of the remains due for inter-
ment at Milawa. They sent back a special
engine and motor to recover their own;
but the Wangaratta people had to wait till
the ordinary “up” train steamed in.
* * * *
“Sergeant C.”: To start with you must
know that to the Australian Billjim the
most humorous thing in the world is the
headquarters staff-captain, especially the
Imperial species. It was a warm day, and
outside the palms stood motionless. The
orderly sat on the end of my
table, handling my Koran, and questioning
me on the religions of “the East.” On the
other side of a thin, low partition Captain
the Hon. Trevors-Bligh was lying buck,
with lavender socks and neat-fitting shoes
propped up on the table. We smelt the
aroma of expensive cigarettes and heard
the rustle of paper as he turned the pages
of the Pink ’Un or some other standard
English work. “An’ wot about th’ blokes
that worship a bloomin’ cow? Why’s
that?” asked Bill. 1 outlined the theory
of re-incarnation, and told him that the
greatest reward for a Buddhist was to come
back on earth as a cow, because cows were
supposed to load the most placid existence.
Hence also the Buddhist’s respect for a cow,
as it might be his own angel-grandfather.
Bill grinned aiid asked what happened to
the bad ’uns. “Well, for instance,” I ven-
tured, “a bloke who’s boozed up, stoushed
niggers, burnt wazzas, and so on would
probably come back a mule or a dog—and
lead the life of such. Wouldn’t you rather
live quiet and proper and be a cow or a
pubkeeper or something easy in your next
THE MODERN KAPPA R.
LONDON, Thursday.—Notwithstanding the roe trio-
tions on the liquor traffic the sale of spirits this vear,
compared with that of the year preceding the war,
shows an increase of over 3,000,000 gallons.
“But everybody said,” quoth he ,
“That 'twas a famous victory
life?” I asked. Kill reflected for a while;
then in an appallingly loud tone replied:
‘‘Yairs, I suppose so. But how good ha’
you got to be afore you’ve a chance of
coinin’ back as a staff-capt’in?” The rustle
of pages on the other side ceased suddenly;
and in the tense stillness I handed Bill a
message and semaphored him towards the
signal office.
THAT VICTORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Kaiser stood above the flood,
And watched his ships crawl in ;
He saw the scuppers red with blood,
He saw the reft hulls grin,
And marked the cruisers, halt and blind.
Trailing their mangled parts behind.
The belching dreadnought in the gale
To William seemed to be
The stinking carcase of a whale
A-wallow in the sea;
And watching there, no longer proud,
Ihe wretched Kaiser groaned aloud.
“Sire,” said the gallant captain, “now
Is victory complete!”
He pointed to each shattered prow,
And to the riddled fleet.
“What, then, are these?” “Oh, Emperor,”
The others said, “the spoils of war!’’
VK’TORIA.
EDDYSON.


ANOTHER VICTORY.
“Vot’s der matter, uncle? Vot’s der matter? Can’t you see ve’re vinning—still vinning?”


ON TRIAL.
The Premier has promised to ask Parliament to authorise a referendum on the question of early closing Parliament should not delegate its duties nor consent to obliterate itself merely because, in quite abnormal circumstances, public opinion is running in
one direction. If the people step in and sup rsede Parliament on one matter, they will soon clamor to do it on others. — Argus.
MRS. ARGUS: “While not goi n’ so far as to say I appear for the innercent gentleman in the dock, I wish to say that after the way the jury behaved to his brother over in Mr. Holman’s court, it seems to me that juries are gettin’ too uppish
and may soon want to run the whole show. So I ’umbly ar sk yer Honor, in consideration of the way I ’elped yer to get yer job, to have the court cleared and let’s argue it out between you and me, like.”


Chaving
(2)TICK
XL6V6RX
For an
Ideal Shave
J
:* :
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
- ,'aring qualities ana good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's.
5? :
m
/
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS CO ROUNA 9
LEWIS &V*rllTTy MAKFPS
Recipe to STOP DANDRUFF
This Home-made Mixture Stops Dandruff
ami Falling Hair and .\ids Its
Growth.
To a half-pint of water add :
Bay Bum
Orlex Compound a small box
Glycerine
These are all simple ingredients that you
can buy from any chemist at very little cost,
and mix them yourself. Apply to the scalp
once a day for two weeks, then once every
other week until all the mixture is used. A
half-pint should be enough to rid the head 01
dandruff and kill the dandruff germs. B
stops the hair from failing out. and relieves
itching and scalp diseases.
Although it is not a dye. it acts upon the
hair roots and will darken streaked, faded,
grey hair in 10 or 15 days. It promotes the
growth of the hair and makes harsh hah
soft and glossy.—Anvr.
BRITISH MADE
from Australasian Wool*
JASON
HOSIERY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The death of Albert Austin, full of years
and acres, recalls the interesting story of
uncle Tom, of Barwon Park, Geelong. Tom.
the old chief of the clan in Australia, made
no disguise of bis origin. He told how in
bis native Somersetshire there AA-as'a popu-
lar belief that to steal a hive of bees was
to guarantee your own good fortune. So
he. being an adventurous youth, stole a
hive of bees. For that he Avas transported
to "\ an Diemen’s Land, and in due course
lx- did make his fortune in accordance with
the Zumerzetshire superstition. In the late
40 s. he Avas already a large landowner
in Victoria, and at his invitation his brother
and nephews followed and took up country
and increased and multiplied. The lately
deceased Albert, born in 1834, Avas one of
the nephews. The pastoral history of Aus-
tralia has been considerably influenced by
ibe fact that young Tom Austin “shook” a
hive of bees in Somersetshire. For one
tiling, it was an Austin Avho introduced
rabbits to this vountry. The family crest
should be a bunny rampant upou a beehive.
GOLD, of the Melbourne Uiversity
Conservatorium.
Died in Adelaide, at 83, George Hills, for
30 years superintendent of the Prince Alfred
Sailors’ Home. lie was steward on the
Admella when she was wrecked on the coast
of South Aus. in 185!.). .V horseman took
the news of that smash to Mount Gambier,
and this is supposed to have suggested the
idea of “From the Wreck’’ to Gordon.
M lien G.-G. Ferguson, standing under
the King’s and regimental colors of the bth
\ iotorian Infantry Battalion, pinned on
William Dunstan the Victoria Gross which
b<“ had earned at Lonesome Pine, it was
mentioned that this was the first ceremony
o, its kind in Australia. It was. as a matter
of fact. Melbourne’s second. On June 20.
1861, Private Frederick Whirlpool was
decorated by Lady Barkly, wife of the then
Governor, and 15,000 people assembled
at an Albert Park review to watch the
ceremony. Whirlpool was escorted by two
sergeants, one of whom. Edward A. Atkyus.
for long a Hawthorn and Kew councillor,
was a non-com. of the old Hawthorn and
Kew regiment, and is still alive to tell tlx
tale. 4he private with the giddy cognomen
av, n his Gross in the Indian Mutiny as a
soldier of the Third Bombay Regiment.
The soil and heir of the late Sam Winter,
obee owner of the Melbourne Herald, and
Victoria’s most vitriolic journalist
(A T ocally), is off to the war. Sam. junior,
contributed a couple of motors, and may
presently be found delivering frozen mutton,
live shells and other supplies to T. Atkins.
Alexander Johnston, one time partner
vvi th lately-deceased James Angus in the
biggest contracting business in the Ma
State, died last AA'eek. Born in 1830 at
Tobermory, Scotland- —the place Harry
Lauder sings about —Johnston came to
Queensland in 1856, and Avent mining. Later
he got on to road and other contracts. After
building the bridge over the Burdekin. near
Townsville, lie came south and linked up
Avith Angus. The firm Avhich included
two other partners, Topliam and Smith, had
a finger in most of the big contracts of the
86 s—Sydney tram lines. Goulburn to
Cooma raihvay, and Sydney AA-ater supply.
Later, lie had the Watts River contract in
connection Avith Melbourne’s water scheme:
and in 1802 lie built Sydney’s Avhite ele-
phant suspension bridge over ah ai-m <>f
Middle Harbor, carried out for a land syndi-
cate of which a Governor was a member.
Of late years Paptia had had a good deal of
his attention.
James Runeie, Avho died in Sydney the
other day in the eightieth lap.' avhs an
ancient mariner Avho had folloAved the mer-
cury from one end of the thermometer to
the other. Born in Scotland, lie signed on
at 24 for a voyage to the Xorth Pole. lie
never got there, but he had four years of
Arctic Aveather, the A-essel being ice-bound
for tAA’o. That satisfied him Avith under-
zero conditions, and he tried the other
end of the scale by joining the London Mis-
sionary Society’s John Williams for a A’oyage
to the Gilbert and Ellice Islands. The
tropics suited him better, and he stuck to
mission ships for years, becoming master of
the Ellangowan, Avliich took the pioneer mis-
sionaries Macfarlane, LaAves and Chalmers
to Papua.
Dr. Richard Sellors, avlio died at Lindfield
lust Thursday, aged 81. avhs one of five
Mothody ministers avlio came to X. S. Wales
in 1864. Two years ago the “jubilee” of
their arrival Avas celebrated at a river picnic.
Since then three of them have crossed
Jordan—llr. Manning, Charles Stead, and
mow Dr. Sellors. The two left are W, E.
Bourne and F. T. Brentnall. both over 80,
“Dyer”: When Kitchener
visited Melbourne and Wefat Up
to the camp where the flower
of our soldiery was paraded
before him. I had the job of
dyeing a few bolts of cantms a
sort of sickly yellow for his
tent. The tentmaker Avho gave
me tlx- job Avent up to the camp
tu see how it fitted and Avhether
the shade Avas true to pattern.
Somehow he struck “K..” who
said lie liked the shade, and
liked the tent and liked every-
thing else and everybody, from
the genius who built it' to the
Pom- beggar who dyed the canvas, but it was
a damn waste of time and material, all the
same.
Surrendered last week to Time’s bail Sub-
Inspector Burns, „f the X. S. Wales police.
mho had many thrills JO years ago in run-
ning down bushrangers out west. llis chief
source of congratulation was the killing of
Thurston and Angel in the ’Bo’s. With two
constables Burns tackled this bright pair and
shot both. One of the police party was a
young trooper named Day. who afterwards
became Inspector-General.
CHARLIE VITTALLL and GEORGE
DANCEY Melbourne black-and-whiters.
ml miring their own show of war-eartoons
at Melbourne Athenwum Hall.
HIS DASHED ASSURANCE.
BILL: "Take you down in Adelid. don't
they?”
JIM: “ My word! Hut the warmest thing I
struck was a chug that had a scheme
for giving yer 1000 quid if you paid him
20 quid, t knew there was a catch in it
Somewhere. What d'yer think it was?
Y' have to be dead before yer can get
the money!”
Ages of Chief Justices: —S. W. Griffith.
High Court, 71 on June 21 ; W. I*. Cullen
(N.S.W.), 61; Pope Cooper (Q.), 68; John
Madden (Vie.), 72 on May 16; J. G. B.
Murray (S. Aus.). 53 on Sept. 27: 11.
Nicholls (Tas.), 48 on Aug. 11 ; R. 1
McMillan (\\.A.),58; Robert Stout (M.L.),
72 on Sept. 28.
Charlie Douglas, old-time Maoriland
explorer, who made his last traverse, at
Hokitika lately, was the Leather-stocking
of all Southern Alps pathfinders. For 4(i
years this tough parr itch-reared Scot
trudged the backwoods and scaled the high
country of Westland for the Survey Depart-
ment. His life was a perpetual battle with
wet. cold, ice-fed rivers and sundries. But
lie loved it. Douglas, who landed with the first
lot of diggers from Australia in 1865, told
LrtE Bulletin once that he knew of 42
passes over the Southern Alps; but what he
called a pass the average mountaineer
would describe as a trap for chamois.
Parramatta (X.S.W.) begins to feel that
it wasn't born yesterday: it has a resident
wim has lived there !>2 years, and his
parents were Parramatta natives, too,
George Richard Tuck well was born in ]S‘»4
when Governor Brisbane reigned in name
only--the gentle old soul lmd shut himself up
in his observatory at Parramatta in cm-
munion with the stars. Tuckwell’s father
was a euaehbni’dor. and fashioned the first
st,.ge c-cach made m Australia and the first
Died last week, after nearly 40 years’ con-
nection with the Maoriland public service,
James Eman Smith. -‘Jimmy" got a place in
1,0^ t u I< V‘ V ° r - In - Vo,lth he shone with
mid!fl® dlBtinC f ,on . aS 1,1:,y, ‘ r ~f Kugbv; in
middle age he became a king and had a
glorious reign while if lasted. He was
sbfner fnu'l the Treasury, then Commis-
.lonex or Old Age I elisions, and finallv Gov-
ernor of the Co, k Islands. Amoim the
-It'iT ] , "-ir f0,:l1 , m ‘ fs James reigned" with
7, eat brilliance for a time —and then his
throne became the centre of fearsome rows
on the spot and in Maoriland. H e e n f
long way from a fair deal, but the end of it
and ?,|M <> i W; ' S ■ vank « 3 back to Wellington
and subsided into an office labelled "Immi-
San wiSTf tmo,,t -'’ !, Ie Wi,s “tapper little
-_hap cytli a brogue and a red face, and onlv
• >•> at the end.
"B. L.C.W.”; Tom
Casement, only brother
of Sir Roger, start, d as
a middy and saw some
life in Australia. For the
sake of a Queenslander's
blue eyes he once tried
to desert his ship i n
Brisbane. Later he
humped his bluev— this
was in the ’Bo’s— and
then ran a big trade dis-
play in the Melbourne
Exhibition of ISSS. x ext
lie gravitated to S’Afriea
and became assistant to
the Alining Commissioner
of the Rand. Chinese
labor was proposed. Tom
Casement, with his work-
ing knowledge of the
Mongolian on Australian
goldfields, was ail active
opponent, and when his
Chief lost favoi- because
of his opposition Toni
shook Transvaal gold and
other dust off his feet. I
was camping on the boot'
of South Africa when I
met him again, two or
three years ago. He was
in charge of the S’African
Railway Department’s
Tourist Centre on the
borders of Basutoland.
Tom had made many
“first ascents’’ there and
personally conducted such
as hankered after Alpine
joys. He blazed tracks
tip 11 or 12 thousand
feet above sea-level by
carving shamrocks, and
at special points flew the
Irish flag. But he is a
loyalist, and the moment
the Kaiser broke loose he
volunteered, and is now
helning Smuts .to round
Up the Huns in British East Africa.
Fluttered out with the month of Mar.
one of Riverina’s pioneer squatters. Thomas
Jamieson Faithful! Gibson, in his 80th year:
1 le was the eldest and last-surviving son of
the late Dr. Gibson, of Tirranna, Goulburn.
and Jiis mother was a Faithfull. The Gib-
sons and Faithfulls were two of the very
earliest settlers in the Goulburn district.
Over GO years ago T. .T. F. Gibson left
Goulburn and took up two stations near
Albury- Bulgandra and Bumunbuttock—
and he lived on Burrumbuttock till he died.
No bigger-hearted or more honorable man
ever went to his rest.
CORKER, of Queensland, whose whisker*
now adorn Andrew Fishers old sent in
the Federal Parliament.
Web Gilbert, Australia’s best native
si ulptor since MeKennal adopted the
mother country, is on the eve of returning
to his native wattle. The opening for
sculptors in England just now is about as
W'de as the gate of Ileaven reserved for the
rich.
AFTER THE WONDERFUL VISIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Pearce has received a cable from Mr. Hughes,
Prime Minister, stating that he will arrive in Aus-
tralia on August 2.
And when Britannia’s little godson goes,
And the Victorian drawing-room is still,
There at the fire she’ll toast her ancient toes
And dream in silence of her little Bill.
The old house silent as a house should be
When all its sons are off on warlike biz,
The dear old dame will murmur: “Deary me!
That child—oh, what a chatterbox he is!"’
X.S.W.
UNCLE BOB.


GO WING BROS
ESTABLISH A NEW
STORE FOR MEN IN
THE “DOWN TOWN
DISTRICT.”. . . .
304 GEORGE ST.
(NEAR HUNTER ST.)
CITY.
it
r
\<*U.
/ iJtWItVJJ
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods,
454 to 490 GEORGE STREET,
3 to 17- ROYAL ARCADE,
SYDNEY.
>4.. l v*i
t rvv
R idea in estah-
lishing a New
Braneli Shop at 304
George St. (Near Hunter
St.), is to meet the needs
of our Customers-the many bus-
iness and professional men whose .
interests keep them “lied to Time,
and who can therefore shop muck more
conveniently and witk greater satis-
faction as a result at our “Down Town
Store
This new conception of store service
is an assurance that customers who
are pleased to make their purchases
at the New Shop will be shown the
same courteous attention and will
find there, the same high stand-
ard in all lines of “Austral
Apparel for Men, as at
Headquarters —our main
George Street Store.
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Hoods,
tS4 to 490 GEORGE STREET,
0 to 17 ROYAL ARCADE,
SYDNEY.


NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobe
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelig-mte
Blast ins: Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridge))
ROYDS, LTD.. Investors’ Advisers. Challis
House, Sydney
Before Making Your Will, or Settling Your Property,
WRITE TO, OR CALL ON.
the public trustee.
Lowest Charges. No Profits. State Guarantee.
Culwulla Chambers, 67 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Tlie Bank of New Zealand:—
, —Dividend.—^
74 p.c. pref. Written
March, Profits. lOp.c.ord. Off. Reserves.
(907. . £303,881 £87,500 £16,000 £281,675
1908.. 329,923 87,500 20,000 504,098
8f p.c. pref.
124 p.c. ord.
3909.. 328,151 106,250 15,000 710,999
1910.. 274,386 106,250 15,000 864,135
10 p.c. pref.
15 p.c. ord.
1911.. 315,270 125,000 20,000 1.034,405
1912.. 356,183 125,000 25,000 1,240.588
1913.. 342,530 125,000 40,000 1,418,118
1914.. 348,490 125,000 40,000 1,601,608
Premiums on new shares, £366,536 1,967,144
“A” pref. “B” Pref. Ord.
10 p.c. 15p.c. 15p.c.
1915.. 369,486 229,460 50,000 2,057,170
Premiums on new shares, £12,141 2,069,311
1916.. 335,801 236,507 50,000 2,118,605
The past year's profit isn’t up to the stan-
dard established in the preceding few years;
but the apparent shrinkage is easily
explained. Look at this comparison
1911. 1915. 1916.
Gross profits . . . . £582,390 £728,559 £780,046
Salaries, etc 165,816 217,802 227,716
General exes. .. .. 48,143 66,722 79,433
Rates and taxes.. .. 53,131 74,519 137,096
Net profit . . . . 315,270 369,486 335,801
Salaries p.c. of gross profits 28.4 30.0 29.2
General exes., ditto . . 8.3 9.1 10.2
Rates and taxes, ditto .. 9.0 10.2 17.5
Net profit, ditto . , .. 54.3 50.7 43.1
The increase in outgoings might be made
to look more striking still, and probably
ought to lie, because in the first year £40,0(40
paid as interest on guaranteed stock was
deducted from the gross profits, whereas in
the later years the interest or dividend paid
on shares exchanged for portion of the
old stock has not been deducted. The
biggest increase has been in rates and taxes
paid last year. This accounts wholly for
the apparent shrinkage in the profits for
that period. Had the expenditure under
this heading been on approximately the
old basis the profit would have made that
of any previous year look like a poor rela-
tion.
Everybody, it seems, has had a bigger
proportionate cut out of the gross revenue
except the men who toil behind the bank’s
desks and the shareholders who have to
stand the racket if anything goes wrong.
This paper is not. however, prepared to say
that any injustice is being done to anybody
—-except the people who are going to suffer
by-and-bye from the boom which the lavish
expenditure of foreign loans is producing.
Of all countries engaged in this war Maori-
land ought to be most easily financing her-
self. She is wonderfully well placed. Her
principal industry is meat-growing; and
meat, unlike Australia’s wheat, can be
shipped to the market that is greedily
awaiting it. But, instead of financing her
small share of the war out of the proceeds
of the sales, she is relying wholly or almost
wholly upon money which she is borrowing
from J. Bull, who is not in so good a posi-
tion as she is herself. Nine times out of 10
this column finds itself in agreement with
Harold Beauchamp, the chairman of the
Bank of New Zealand, when he talks
finance; and it is amazed that he should
now take up the position that the Dominion
ought to do this borrowing. The borrowing
creates an artificial prosperity; it further
bloats bubble values created by the pheno-
menal and purely accidental demand for
M.L. products. This paper believes that
no banker ought to look complacently on,
let alone approve of. any proceeding which
creates such unhealthy conditions. If the
money which the Dominion is borrowing
from abroad was being spent in reproduc-
tive works, or if the money which this bor-
rowed money is releasing for general use
was being spent to advantage, there might
be-something in the argument on the other
side. But the present is a time when
hardly anybody is getting normal value for
his money.
What the ultimate effect is guing to be
on the B.N.Z. Tin: Bulletin isn’t pre-
pared to say. It depends mainly on the
view the people inside take of present
values. Maoriland values were bad enough
before this boom. Two years ago the chair-
man said that, whereas dairying land had
increased in market price 4()0 p.c. in 20
years, “the gross yield per acre is onlv
about 130 p.c. more to-day than it was
then”; and “land hunger and competition
are forcing values up to a point which
leaves no margin for any material increase
in cost of production or decrease in sale
price of the product.” If the bank has
pasted that in front of every manager, and
if the bank has refused to "be a party to
the forcing up of values still higher as a
result of the present boom in M.L. pro-
ducts, it. at least, will not be in 'the soup.
In fact, the bank may put itself in a safer
position than it was, by using the present
influx of money to get the advances on
overvalued land reduced. It certainly ought
to be doing so, and perhaps is. At any rate
advances have not increased during the past
year:—-
1911. 1915. 1916.
Notes in circulation. . £977,246 £1,676,051 £1,862,823
Bills in circulation, etc. 1,439,421 1,670,103 1,767,410
Deposits . . . .17,886,746 18,741,657 23,556,677
Liquid assets .. 13,929,328 14,227,408 19,431,080
Advances .. .. 9,049,751 11,849,166 11,844,767
Premises .. .. 423,739 451,867 441,867
On these figures one would judge that the
bank is holding itself well in hand, and
isn’t taking any part in the Maoriland orgy.
The fact that it is holding liquid the money
that has been pouring in is good evidence on
that point. But. even so, it will not escape
a serious shrinkage in profits in the reaction
which, in this paper’s opinion, Maoriland
is bound to suffer later on.
W. E Smith, Ltd., formed to take over an
old-established printing and stationery busi-
ness in Sydney as from October, 1910 (the
deficit to start with represented goodwill
and preliminary exes.)
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
Apr., 1911 . . £3947 10p.c.=£3408 £18,529
Oct., 1911 .. 5354 10 „ „ 3408 £677 17,260
Apr., 1912 .. 5122 4 „ „ 1500 702 14,340
Oct., 1912 .. 4382 7 „ „ 2625 717 13,300
Apr., 1913 .. 3867 * 3 „ „ 1125 747 11,305
Oct., 1913 .. 3182 3 „ „ 1125 1017 10,265
Apr., 1914 . . 2268 Nil 1236 9,233
Loss.
Oct., 1914 . . 98 Nil 1238 10,569
c 30,000 of capital written off.
Assets written down, £19,431.
Profit. Reserves.
Apr., 1915 .. 1656 Nil 527 1,129
Oct., 1915 . . 2066 Nil 539 2,656
Apr., 1916 . . 2222 5 p.c. = 1125 537 3,216
This co., being originally in the Earle
Hermann stable, was of course overloaded.
And it was a rotten flotation in other
respects ; among other things, there was no
proper valuation of stocks —and very little
of anything else. The co. might have pulled
through somehow had old W. E. Smith
lived to take an active interest in the busi-
ness. Instead, he retired and died ; and as
he wasn’t a man who had surrounded him-
self with eager and devoted understudies,
the place was soon in a muddle. So the
new co. had to set to work to build up an
organisation, inasmuch as what the co. had
paid so much for didn’t really exist. To
attempt to provide the co. with decent assets
for the whole of the capital was too big a
task; hence the capital was written down
to £45,000. With so much deadwood cut
out the tree looks quite respectable; and
with a first-class lot of shareholders who
can send a lot of business to it, there is no
reason at all why the co. shouldn’t pay very
well. Given good, careful management, of
course; and that chiefly means management
which has a proper idea of costing.
As a result of the writing-down of capital
and the accumulation of profits the balance-
sheet is now quite clean. There is no good-
will or other loading; plant, etc., was
written down; leaseholds stand in at a
mere trifle; and stock, which stood at about
£33,000 after the writing down, ought to be
worth 25 p.c. more now. “Immediate trade
prospects appear satisfactory.” the direc-
tors say; and with that stock to sweeten
things up they certainly ought to be.
Liabilities total £22,827, including £19,000
of 6 p.c. debentures. On the other side, in
addition to its stock, plant and premises,
the co. has £23,446 of floating assets —
mostly book debts and bank balances. Two
years ago it owed £23,422 and owned
£17,050 in these same floating assets. That
means an improvement of about £7OOO in
two years—less any reduction of stocks or
depreciation of plant, etc.
* * * #
Standard-Waygood-Hercui.es, Ltd., for-
merly the Standard-Waygood, Ltd., an amal-
gamation of four or more Sydney businesses,
w-hose chief object is to put in and look
after lifts and electrical machinery (good-
will, £15,000 to start with)
, r „ Towards
Mar., Profits, Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1910. . £11,0(8 12ip.c.= £5,750 £5,328 £9,672
Premiums on new shares .. 5,825 3,847
Ik PSPI’VPS
1911.. 17,274 124 p.c. = 10,080 7,194 3,347
, Premiums on new, shares . . 6.675 10,022
1912.. 19,970 20 p.c. = 19,345 625 10 647
1913 21,372 124 „ „ 14,062 7,310 17 857
Unexplained additions to reserves 1,969 19 926
1914.. 35,725 124p.c.= 19,547 16,178 36’104
mo . 23,215 124 „ „ 19.547 3,668 39,772
'* ritten off book debts and securities, £9286 30 486
1916.. 5,152 10 p.c. = 15,638 20’000
The directors seem to have suddenly changed
their outlook on life. Previously everything
in the garden was lovely. Now there are
caterpillars in every cabbage. Bad debts
have been made “under some exceptional
circumstances.” These have been provided
partly out of a reserve (which was for-
merly included with other reserves) and
partly by debiting profit and loss. That ate
up, apparently, nearly £5OOO. “The bal-
ance has to provide for depreciation on
collateral securities held in connection with
hire agreements for machinery sold on long
terms.” In addition, the present has been
regarded for some reason as the most appro-
priate time to write down the co.’s holding
of Automatic Telephones to par. Altogether
™ese things account for the writing-off of
±J_BO. But, even without charging the
year with these disasters or miscalculations
or whatever you like to call them, the pro-
fits have been wretchedly small compared
with those which were made in previous
years. In explanation the directors say •
•Work in progress brought forward from
the previous year was expected to show'good
profits. Increased costs of labor and
material swallow r ed up these margins and
left losses, some very large.” Stock and
work in progress J 2 months ago were said
to be wmrth £90,492. It looks as if that
was an overvaluation. Unfinished contracts
were valued at the actual amount ex-
pended thereon. ’ Ordinarily that ought to
be fair enough. But there may be exeen-
tional circumstances. It should not, for
instance, be necessary to quite finish a job
to ascertain that there is going to be a
“heavy loss” on it.
So much for the past—a past which
again emphasises the enormous responsi-
bilities of directors, the utter impossibility,
as a rule, of checking the principal items in
a balance-sheet, and the dependence of
profits upon mere estimates as to the value
of stock-in-trade and uncompleted con-
tracts. As for the future, the directors,
still seeing caterpillars in the cabbages, say
that “orders are extremely scarce and the
co. must be content to mark time till the
building trades are busier.” Still, what was
said a year ago holds good: “Revenue will
be affected by the depression we are bound to
see in the building trade, probably for some
years to come. But the co. has valuable
agencies and a good connection as an engi-
neering odd-jobber, and it looks as if it will
be able to keep the pot simmering, even if
the utensil doesn’t boil violently enough to
produce the present 124 p.c.”
As frequently pointed out the profitg of
some of the earlier years were inflated not
only by the construction boom (which was
the offspring of public borrowing) but also
by abnormal proceeds from investments,
probably from sales. This shows some
items: —■
1911. 1913. 1914. 1915. 1916.
Net manufac-
turing' profits £11,032 £4,422 £7,678 £8,805
Gross profits on
sales and con-
tracts . . 12,068 18,048 29,282 23,694 16,972
Investments .. 1,780 8,581 9,823 1,893 1,701
Apparently there was no profit on manu-
facturing during the past year. During
that period the co. has increased its liabili-
ties from £30,848 to £46,603 ; meantime the
only asset which shows any substantial
increase is stock and work in progress, from
£00,492 to £97,500. In plain English, on
the directors’ showing, they owned on
March 31 £6926 less than they thought
they did 12 months previously, and they
owed £15,755 more. There will be no
interim dividend this year.
* * * *
The Electric Light and Power Supply
Corporation, Ltd. (Sydney), which started
m 1908 with a deficit of £98”6, representing
Parliamentary rights and other preliminary
exes.:—
Written
Profit. Dividends. Oii. Deficit.
Dec., 1910.. £1,104 £530 £11,652
June,l9ll.. 1,406 5 p.c. = £1075 531 11,852
Dec., 1911.. 2,321 5 „ „ 1075 680 11,286
June, 1912.. 3,255 7 „ „ 1505 1164 10,700
Dec., 1912.. 3,158 7 „ „ 1505 1000 10,047
Debenture capital exes., £527. . 10,574
Apl., 1913.. 2,666 7 p.c. = 1003 840 9,751
Debenture capital exes., £lO9. . 9,860
Dec., 1913.. 7,020 Nil 3340 6,180
Debenture capital exes., £7531 13,711
June, 1914.. 4.429 7 p.c. = 1795 3000 14,077
Oct., 1914.. 4,795 7 „ „ 1588 10,870
Debenture conversion exes., £504 11,374
Apl., 1915.. 8,826 7 p.c. = 4409 5300 12,257
Oct., 1915.. 11,628 8 „ „ 5776 3500 9.905
Aol., 1916.. 9,523 8 „-p 6177 4000 10,559
This co. was formed under arrangement
with the Balmain suburban council to
instal electric light and power in return
for providing a garbage destructor; and
Parliament gave it authority to contract
with other municipalities. It has under '
this franchise made agreements with New-
town, Leichhardt, Petersham and Ashfield,
for periods of from 20 to 58 years. Finance
gave the management some anxiety. Money
for the extensions was wanted before the
co. had got on to a dividend-yaying basis;
hence the co. was practically compelled to
raise it on debentures, and the second lot
carried no less than 7 p.c. With the object
o. removing this uncomfortable plaster it
was arranged that this 7 p.c. issue should
be convertible into shares; £SSOO were thus
dealt with during the past six months. The
finances now look healthy enough. Two
years ago there were £50.000 of Ist deben-
tures (54 p.c.) and no less than £125 000
ot the expensive seconds. The 54 per cents
remain, but now there are onlv "£26.600 of
the 7 per cents. The balance lias been con-
verted to capital, and this has been cliieflv
responsible for carrying the latter up from
£51.250 to £104.424. The 54 per cents
were renewed for 10 years in 1914. Apart
from the debentures the co. owes only £BO6B.
Repairs, renewals and maintenance are
charged to profit and loss; but the plant
is new, and the expenditure under this
head will be much larger in a few years
time. In order to provide for it amounts
are being written off (as shown in the
table) and transferred to a Depreciation
I und. Plant and machinery and mains
fittings and services run to £219 912 • that
is exclusive of land and buildings and
stocks. So, though the amounts written
off look substantial, even when added to the
sums spent on repairs and renewals they
come to a bare 5 p.c. on the value; and it
is very doubtful whether that is enough. At
any rate, it may be taken pretty confidently
that what has been written off has not been
much: and it gives a net profit of
ilo.bol during the past 12 months. The
< p.c- dividend required £11.953. There
isn t therefore much of a margin.
But prospects are good, and standing
charges shouldn’t increase now as fast as
revenue. This shows how the co. has been
bustling along:—
De" l0 ?9M .. a rr m ™ l *-
'•» ■ • n 99,009 . £US
Iql? •• 628,090 5,589
“ '• 640 1,486,179 12,804
” 2,469,470 20,564
dot qlr “ 2.803,730 30,462
Oct, 1914 .. 26,/ 3,959,450 31 497
„ 1915 .. 3268 5.803A90 4610 S
Apl., 1916* 3648 6.068.539 47'844
For the previous 12 months.
fnt l0( |u.I lke a so l id - Progressive business.
But there are not going to be auv hi-
dmdends in it. The co. provides a publif
utility ; and that is quite enough t
tee trouble if the dividend moves g ,? aran *
10 p.c. Besides, to a great extent- tv,
m competition with the Citv * l he - CO, is
undertaking; and that isn’t out
profits at all. out afte r any
* *
The Herald and Weekly Times* iw
Melbourne (in this table «n b
£198.000, is not reckoned an asset??^ WlI1 > ’
Dividends.
Profits. (6p.c.') Qrd. "q.
h £ L- un * deficit.
Sept.,’oB.. 17,436 3750 12 p.c. =7 MO nil £
Mar., ’09.. 15,485 3750 12 „ 75m 12 »,2C4
riept.,’o9.. 18,773 3750 12 „ ’’ 7” 6 m 12 «,316
Mar., ’lO.. 17,087 3750 12 „ 7'floo ’•«! 120 - 3 61
Sept.,.’lo.. 20,870 3750 12 fT,*, J’*® 1 4,962
Mar., ’ll.. 2», 868 3750 12 ” 7 5<K ?’s2 “^5
Sept., ’ll.. 20,699 3750 12 ~, 7 500 ]9ua n 8 ’ 5u3
Mar., ’12.. 19,782 3750 12 750 MS
56pt.,'12.. 23,077 3750 12 7*500
Mar., ’l3 . 19,762 3750 12 ” ‘^43
Sept.,’l3.. 16,138 3750 12 „”7 5 0 120 S
Mar,, ’14.. 18,387 3750 13 8 125 W
Sept ,’14.. 24,641 3750 14 ~, 8 750 3 so a 5 8 ’' 1,0
Mar., ’15.. 23.030 3750 14 8 750 s ’ik3
Sept.,’ls.. 24,127 3750 15 ~,, 9.375 4*s^
£LJS 000 of Reserve Funds transferred 48,68 '
to Capital ..
Mar., ’ l6 . , 24,571 3750 8 p.c. = lO.OOo" 2,349 lffi’S
Goodwill is in this case the habit a number
01 people have of buying the Herald and
the Weekly Times, plus the organisation
tor supplying the demand; and if' ton
choose to call that intangible thing 2
asset, _ worth the £198,000 it is valued £
then in September last the co. had after
Hqqvf- for th e e current dividend
£149,313 in excess of capital;— ’
Formal reserve fund .. .. £65,000
Contingency account.. .. 60 000
Dividend equalisation fund .. 2o’ooo
Unappropriated profit. . .. 4^3
, Total •• • • £149,313
Maybe because 15 p.c. divs. are liable to
produce unhealthy consequences nowadays
the directors a while ago decided to ein’
italise £120,000 of these undivided earnings
and Ordinary shares are therefore now
250,000 instead of the old 125,000 So a
< 2 p.c. dividend, which isn’t likely to make
anybody sit up and take notice, gives Ordi
names just as much as the old 15 pc But
the directors do better than that:’ they
spring it to 8 p.c., notwithstanding the
gloomier outlook. Printing paper is about
times its pre-war price, and other things
are dearer, too. Further, “the cost of
materials and freight is constantly rising,
and this. naturally will lessen profits con-
siderably. But it isn’t all gloom. A lot
of things are so dear because the men who
sell them are making such indecent profits
and they are prepared to pay out a bit
extra—in advertising and otherwise—to get
the luscious trade. So the wind is warmed
up a point or two before it strikes the
newspaper lamb who has been shorn bv
the paper-miller.
Something more than half of the c-o.’s
capital is in the fragile goodwill. Other
assets are shown next: —
March, March, March, Sept., March,
it >, * 9O6 ’ 19U - 1915 - 1915. 1916.
Freeholds £31,2/2 £50,611 £60,924 £60,924 £65,821
Machinery 28,594 25,438 48,431 46,155 46,638
Stock .. 12,3 93 1 5,53 4 3 3,76 7 38,119 2 5,065
Liquid assets 43,868 79,155 69,019 72,203 93,162
Liabilities 3,946 7,991 4,740 2,963 7,150
lhat is £223.530 net of assets exclusive of
goodwill. The capital is £125,000 pref. and
£250,000 ordinary. But in valuing these
shares one isn’t likely to go on what the
co. could show in convertible assets on
liquidation. One judges almost wholly on
its profit-making chances; and, although
they will vary of course with the times,
they are not likely to be seriously affected
by anything but overwhelming competition.
By the way, the directors are now five
esquires and an unadorned “newspaper-
man. The latter is J. E. Davidson, the
Herald’s editor-in-chief, who succeeds Carl
1 inscliof —pushed out bv the Kaiser.
**‘ * *
The Trustees, Executors and Agency
Co., of Maoriland (Dunedin) :
To Re- Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1904 .. £2234 12 p.c. =£l2oo £1034 £6,579
1900 .. 4138 15 „ „ 1500 2638 9,217
1906 . . 2830 15 „ „ 1500 1380 10,597
1907 . . 1697 15 „ „ 1500 197 10,794
1908 . . 1830 15 „ „ 1500 380 11,174
1909 .. 1847 15 „ „ 1500 347 11,521
1910 .. 2185 15 „ „ 1500 685 12,206
1911 .. 1880 15 „ „ 1500 380 12,586
1912 .. 2190 15 „ „ 1500 690 13,276
1913 .. 1876 15 ~ „ 1500 376 13,652
1914 .. 1709 15 „ „ 1500 209 13,861
1910 . . 1624 15 „ „ 1500 124 13,985
1916 . . 1911 15 (> isoo 411 14,396
The manager’s 10 p.c. of the net profit has
been deducted ; and still there is a very com-
fortable lay-by—all the more comfortable
because the co. has no borrowed money and
has not risked the investment of any-
body else's capital. True, if it goes outside the
instructions loft to it by a testator it is
liable; but there isn’t much risk when the
matters are dealt with by experienced men.
especially as the Courts are always available
in case of doubt. In view of the fact that
the co. doesn’t back anybody else's bill, and
that it doesn’t have to sink any of its own
money in stock or plant that may become
dead, profits are very luscious. Of the
shareholders’ total funds of £24,39*1 no less
than £23.597 is available for investment
m mortgages and debentures; and presum-
ably’ they are all gilt-edged. Anyway, it
would be inexcusable if for the sake of an
extra 1 p.c. or so the directors took serious
risks. That a co., thus placed, can make
approximately S p.c. on its total funds shows
that it is on a remarkably good wicket. And
people interested in trustee cos. 011 the Aus-
tralian side will be interested to note that
this result is achieved in competition with
the oldest and easily the largest and most
progressive Public Trust Office south of the
Equator.


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
May be appointed as
Executor and Trustee under
a Will;
Trustee under Marriage or
other Settlement ;
Administrator in Intestacy;
Attorney under Power,
Agent, etc.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET.
35-39 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDSE, Manager.
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN.
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEIv-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
America. to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Mondav morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain .. 3/- 1/6
/ 9d. (minimum
1 15/-, 20 words)
t 7d. (minimum
) 11/8, 20 words)
..2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
U.5.A...
/ 7d. (minimum
111/8,20 words)
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations mav be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pttt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St., Melbourne. Tel. '2sBs
J. MILWARD, Manager in the Pacific,
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
EBqaNTO
BCKtfO^
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
Thc 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
GF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Capital £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up 82,500
ACENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
“To be rather than to seem” is the translation of
the Greek maxim—-and positive quality rather than
mere appearance is the predominating feature of
“Chromol” Belting. It is all that It seems to be —a
power transmitter that will stand up to the stiffest
drive under the most severe conditions. It is heat
and moisture proof, and will not readily deteriorate.
Mineral tanned, the fibre is longer and stronger, thus
ensuring a more durable belting. Used exclusively
by many of the largest mining plants in the Common-
wealth for their important drives. Tested by long
service. J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York
Street, Sydney (opp. Q. V. Markets). Inter-State
Agents:—Victoria: Geo. Russell Pty. Ltd., Flinders
Street, Melbourne; South Australia: J. McKell, Timp-
son Street, Port Adelaide; West Australia: Horace
Summers, Howard Street, Perth ; Queensland: Queens-
land Machinery Co., Brisbane; Broken Hill: Geo. C.
Dempster, Argent Street. — Advt.
* * * *
Efficiency in all classes of mining machinery is
one of the predominating features which presents
itself to the mine manager. The Australian General
Electric Company of Sydney and Melbourne, who have
supplied a great portion of the mining apparatus in-
stalled throughout Australasia, are thoroughly con-
versant with the demands of all classes of electrical
mining machinery, and place themselves at the service
of all who require information or quotations in con-
nection with any class of electrical mining supplies.
—Advt.
» * * *
ALUMINOFERRTC is used by the Sydney Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards ami graziers
for precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is simply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid* cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours’
time the most discolored water will be as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless.
Sole agents: William Adams & Company Limited,'
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.— Advt.
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. Sd. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is.;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. — -a saving of is. sd,
per cub. yard,. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow 16in. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.— Advt. [2
* * * *
Extract from The Searchlight, London, Septem-
ber, 1915: “Colonial Mutual Life Assurance.- —As in
the past, it is undoubtedly true that a great deal of
the headway made last year was due to the astute
initiative and enterprise of the management, but we
are inclined to think, all the same, that the real
secret of success has been the character of the poli-
cies placed before the assuring public.”— -Advt. [7
* * * *
“Pioneer” Wood Stave Pipe lasts indefinitely, and
the sole condition to ensure durability is that the
pipe shall be kept saturated. In addition Wood Pipe
is the most economical pressure pipe obtainable.
Catalogue from The Australian Wood Pipe Co. Ltd.,
57 York Street, Sydney. (Contractors to all State
Governments.) — Advt.
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from 1-elton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
In addition to making Wrought Iren, Steel and
Cast-Iron Pipes, Messrs, Mephan Ferguson Proprie-
tary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description.— Advt.
* * * *
Earth-handling and Road-building Machinery,
Concrete Mixers, Robey Traction Engines, National
Suction Gas Engines, modern conveying outfits, pump-
ing installations, stonecrushing plants specialised in
by Australian Machinery Co. Ltd., Charlotte Street,
Brisbane; and Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.—Advt.
* * * «
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collixon & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty yean’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.—Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth's & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Silberberg & Co.. Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney;
and 443 Bourke Street. Melbourne. — Advt.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £545,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,351 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 81,500 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. -
Gen. Sian.: Kchvd. 0. Day. Asst. Sian.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Bow, Cannrn Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Asrents and Correspondents throughout the World
THE UNION TRUSTEE CO.
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
NEW SOUTH WALES, VICTORIA l QUEENSLAND.
The only Trustee Company in Australia
empowered by Act of Parliament to operate
in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE, 48 YOUNC STREET.
Dirkctors:
The Hon. Sir CHARLES li. MACKELLAR,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman).
H. Y. BRADDON, Esq. JAMES KIDD, Esq.
H. W. BELL, Esq. It. M. PITT, Esq.
Before making a Will or Settlement of pro-
perty or appointing- an Attorney write for book-
let giving the Company’s charges and setting
forth the advantages of appointing the Com-
pany, to ' "N * T R. Manager.
The Co-operative Credit Bank of Vic-
toria (Melbourne) :
Carried to Re-
, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
Feb., 1910.. £56 4 p.c. = £46 £lO £B3
Aug., 1910.. 72 5 „ „ 60 12 95
Feb., 1911.. 72 4 „ „ 50 22 117
Aug-, 1911-- 62 4 „ „ 46 16 133
Forfeited capital. . 18 151
Feb., 1912.. 57 4 p.c. = 41 16 167
Aug., 1912.. 53 44 „ „ 44 9 176
Feb., 1913.. 41 4| „ „ 40 1 177
Aug., 1913.. 59 4* „ „ 49 10 187
Feb., 1914.. 60 44 „ „ 48 12 199
Aug., 1914.. 45 44 „ „ 48 196
Forfeited capital. . 9 205
Feb., 1915.. 52 44 p.c.= 48 4 209
Aug., 1915.. 33 44 „ „ 42 205
Feb., 1916.. 45 44 „ „ 39 6 211
This little concern was formed in the first
place to finance customers of the Vic. Civil
Service Stores. The latter lately went out of
business. An effort is, however, being made
(o keep the co-operative money-lending
office going, almost entirely for the benefit of
public servants who strike temporarv mis-
fortune ; and it has a fine lot of the more
public-spirited officers behind it. You can’t
lend out public spirit, though, and pay the
baker with it, or use it to release a fool from
the clutches of a money-lending shark ; and
that’s the little co.’s weakness. It lacks
capital. But it supplies a want, and has so
much else to recommend it that this paper
gives it a blessing, and hopes it will be
stronger by next year.
Great Britain is still one of the most con-
sistent of little N. S. Wales tin sluicers; but
it has had luck. Last half-year it made
£2762 and distributed £2500. Tin concen-
trates sold at an average of £125 per ton, so
a profit of £2762 from an output of 74 tons
is nothing to boast about. Expenses took
£6521, or say £BS per ton of black tin. A
normal market can’t stand that.
* * * *
After just 30 years (the Adelaide co. was
formed in 1887) there is still a kick left in
Baker’s Creek (N.S.W.). The remarkable
old mine has just given 2830 z. from 47 tons.
Of course, the stone comes only from streaks
—down as far as the No. 17 level.
* * * #
A Government geological party has gone
out to survey the Warburton Ranges, 300
miles north-east of Laverton (W.A.). Pro-
spectors have from time to time reported the
country to be mineral-bearing, and have sent
in specimens showing gold.
To March 31 last the Westralian State
batteries treated over a million tons of gold
ore for a yield of £4,507,977, and 75.000
cub. yds. of tin ore for a return of £86.952.
A feature of the present plants is the expe-
ditious treatment of tailings. At one time
customers had the choice of either removing
their tailings within a specified time or dis-
posing of them to the State and waiting
until a plant was installed to treat them.
Now the owners are able to get their resi-
dues handled right away, with the result
that many a show which was formerly
abandoned is now worked payably.
Fremantle Trading Co. (alias Fremantle
Smelters, Ltd.) has again circularised share-
holders, of whom there are very few in Aus-
tralia. to say that its Baddera and Narra
Tarra lead mines at Northampton (W.A.)
continue to open up all right, but that a
shortage of labor is hampering operations.
The whole of the output from the mines up
to March next has been sold to the British
Government.
Labor Minister for Mines-Collier (W.A.)
has turned down a proposal that £5OOO to
£lO,OOO should be set aside annually for the
purpose of sending out State prospecting par-
ties to search for new mines and try to resur-
rect old ones. What in Collier’s opinion is
wanted to liven up the industry is capital
for testing, on a big scale, those extensive
low-grade deposits which the prospector is
compelled to pass over. The Sons of Gwalia
has just made a start to do this, and Collier
thinks it is up to some of the other mining
cos. that have made big money in the West
to follow suit.
From Weston ia :—•
For want of power Edna May’s new slimes plant
is only able to deal with current stuff, and the
latge accumulations will have to wait until a new
electric generator lends a hand. It is expected to be
in position in a few weeks ; then, according to the
mine barrackers, the monthly output “will be con-
siderably augmented.” Some of the bears are making
a song about Edna's working casts averaging 30s.
and upwards, but it has to be borne in mind that
this outlay covers everything except purchase of
equipment. It might also be mentioned that
although the co. pulls only 100 tons of ore a day it
hjis to haul 5000 tons of water up the shaft.
In September last the reserves in Yuanmi
(W.A.) were estimated at 42.500 tons of
435. ore, compared with 45,562 tons of 41s.
stuff in June. But no ore below the No. 5
level was taken into account in the Sep-
tember estimate, so it was predicted by 8.,
M. & Co., who boss the show, that there
would be a better showing by the end of
the year. This proved to be the case, as on
December 31 ore in sight was reckoned at
44,090 tons, worth 455. Bd. The improve-
ment is attributed in a large measure to good
developments reported at No. 6 level, where
525. values are stated to have been opened
up.
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) claims to have
more than kept pace with the mill during
the past financial year, and when the
accounts were made up reserves were esti-
mated at about four years’ supply. The 12
months’ production was valued at £253,686,
and after allowing for all working costs,
and writing off £13,494 for depreciation and
paying £5122 income taxes, a net profit of
£51.726 remained. The co. paid £40.625 of
this in divs.
Oswald’s, Maldon, one of the million-pound
mines of Victoria, has had a bad half-year
owing to the prospecting faces between 50Oft.
and 1000 ft. all going into poor dirt. A loss
of £3279 was met by a transfer from the
reserve fund. With the balance in hand
the co. did a dash into the 1450 ft. level at
the North British shaft, where a strong for-
mation peeps out. It is also hammering
away at 500 ft. on a big shoot which Couch-
man reckons is up to the pay mark. He is also
digging into a 20ft. reef at 1000 ft. in the
Independent mine. With good gold in the
levels above and below him there, he has
more than a sporting chance of getting a
decent run of quartz.
* * * *
Peace is patched up in the Tasman and
Crown Lyell ring. John Nicholson effaces
himself, and so do Marks and Peacock, two
of the fighting directors. This lets Nichol-
son introduce three of his pals who seem-
ingly can play speaks with Chairman
Dunster and his lieutenant Durham.
Nicholson now goes into harness as boss at
the mine—with no salary, unless he makes
his reduction process a success. That done
he pockets £5OOO out of profits. As he also
agrees to finance the co. he can’t be said to
be greedy.
* * * *
Mount Bischoff (Tas.) is becoming more
interesting since the management started
exploratory work. The most important job
in hand is a shaft from the Brown face,
which has been a very productive part of
the mountain. The first 16ft. below the
floor of this enormous open cut was practi-
cally blank; then 12ft. assayed from 1.25 to
1.75 p.c. tin, the ore being pyritic. Below
that to 32ft. there are layers of pyritic and
oxidised ore of fair value. Pyritic ore re-
quires roasting, but the Bischoff Extended
next door is making a living out of this
class of stuff carrying no more than 1 p.c.
tin.
* * * *
The Magnet (Tas.) has been selling silver-
lead crudes and concentrates at high prices;
hence a credit balance of £7900, which, how-
ever, includes estimated profit on ore still
to be settled for. The directors announce
a shilling dividend (£2500) and place £lOOO
to a reserve fund. Future profits depend
very much on the metal markets. The man-
agement reckons there are 17.359 tons of ore
proved on two sides and 16.488 tons “proved”
on one side, which makes 33.847 tons alto-
gether. The Magnet is mining galena at
800 ft., which is the deepest for silver-lead
in Tasmania. The bottom level (No. 12)
shows a lode Bft. wide, 2|ft. of which is first-
grade and the balance milling. There are
branch veins in the hanging wall.
* * * *
Mount Lyell has given notice that it will
take on the Hercules. Tasmanian Copper
and Primrose mines if it is given more time
to form a new co. and raise the capital
needed for the electrolytic treatment of the
ores on a big scale. The Lyell Co.’s en-
gineers estimate the ore reserves in the
three mines at 800,000 tons, with an aver-
age assay value of 29 p.c. zinc, p.c. lead,
91oz. silver and gold. According to
latest reports they have something even
more juicy than that, for it is said that an
important gold find has been made on the
Hercules.
* *
Broken Hill Block 14 is testing a scheelite
deposit at King Island. It is essentially a
low-grade one, according to Tasmanian
Assistant-Geologist Waterhouse. The aver-
age value of the ore sampled in the main
formation at Grassy River is 1.69 p.c. tung-
stic acid, and if 80 p.c. of this is recovered
the ore has a net value of £3 ss. per ton at
present, the price being guaranteed by the
Commonwealth Government. If 300 tons of ore
were treated per week, as may be done a
little later if the ore body keeps on opening
up well, this would give 5f tons of scheelite
concentrate, containing 70 p.c. of tungstic
acid. According to local belief there would
be a whole lot of profit in this. But Water-
house is cautious, though he admits the show
is worth attention. A magnetic separation
plant will probably be tried.
Pernatty (S.A.) debenture-holders are
moving for reconstruction. J. A. Wauchope
combats late manager Moule’s adverse find-
ing, and the show is to be given another try.
Wauchope says that from 25 to 30 p.c.
of the solutions escaped from the leaching
and precipitating vats through leakage, and
that the scrap iron was too dirty to make
for efficient precipitation. Certainly the
general manager’s reports varied from
warmly commendatory at the beginning to
absolute condemnation after the failure of
the plant; and engineer Wainwright’s orig-
inal report and sampling were good enough
to make the checking of both desirable.
* * * *
John McWhae has thrust the Philippine
Dredges accounts for the past year into
green covers to show how finances are
sprouting. The co. is tangled up with the
Paracale Bucket Dredging Co., in which it
holds 97,075 ft shares, and on which in the
misty past it bestowed certain plants.
The four Paracale dredges in 12 months
made a working profit of £18,099 and
a net profit of £14.508. As divs. of
£15,000 were paid for the term it is obvious
that the stocking had to be drawn on a
bit. The Paracale Co. on October 31 owed
sundry creditors £1613 and to the Philip-
pine Co. £4850. The Philippine got a div.
of £9707 from its holding, and £1953 from
two dredges that were able to work in its
own ground. Adding these receipts to other
odds and ends, the Philippine during its
year had £11,70l to play with. The usurer
sharked £5OOO for interest and £2566 went
for depreciation, so that after meeting office
and other charges the co. was left with
£2275 towards getting the debit at profit and
loss down to £43,504. When the year closed
its liquid assets and liabilities ran out thus:
Assets. Liabilities.
Stores .. .. £1192 Interest and bills £6,471
Sundry debtors. . 6377 Sundry creditors 6,781
For royalty . . 1842 Mrlb. overdraft 9,410
Cash, etc. . . 521 Manila overdraft 13,183
Liabilities don’t include £46.000 of deben-
tures that fall due in September and which
John McWhae is making it his business to
handle. He will be helped in this by any
profits earned since the books were closed in
October. Yields have practically wiped out
the Manila overdraft and other Island debts,
while the Melbourne load has been lightened
by a payment of £2OOO. This has been pos-
sible mainly because of the patch run into
by No. 2 dredge—2B7,ooo cub. yards went
12.6 d. per cub. yard. Alongside this No. 3
dredge’s average of 5.6 d. and No. 4's of 4.6 d.
per cub. yard look poor; nevertheless they
yield good profits.
* * * *
The mostly Sydney-owned Ivampong is
putting up a remarkable performance in the
Malay Peninsula. The May figures, just
through, show that costs (including renewals
—not heavy yet, of course) are a point
under per yard. As the recovery is
slightly over lib. per yard, the working profit
at present splendid tin prices was 9.BSd. per
yard. Captain “Teddy” Miles did more for
Australia than he thought when he told his
Hobart jam friends about Tongkah Harbor
and got them to form the original IXL syn-
dicate.
* * * *
Trong’s half-yearly report is full of woes.
The carried to Shanghai, and the
co. lost £l5OO. Worse still, the southern val-
ley, when close bored, was found to be un-
payable, and timber started showing up in
the rising ground- Still a Is. div. has been
declared, the dredge is expected to earn
£28,000 a year, and there is plenty of work
ahead.
* * * *
“Plagiarist” : The paragraph (B. 15/6/’l6)
anent the proposal of the Mining Engineers’
Institute, that only persons registered by
that body should be qualified to report on
propositions for public prospectus purposes,
reads like an attempt to create a monopoly
for professional unionism. The suggestion
also savors of an effort to put into concrete
form proposals made by Thurston Evans in
1914. Evans urged that Government cen-
sorship should be exercised over the issue
of every prospectus, and advocated sworn
declarations from the promoters and experts
as to their sources of information and
methods of examination. He reckoned it
was up to the Yic. Mines Department to
shake off its lethargy and show* it was worth
what it was costing the State. In particu-
lar he contended the Department should pre-
vent broadcast circulation of inflated pros-
pectuses when it knew the matter contained
was at variance with the information in
the Department’s pigeonholes.
Interesting to note that the highest-priced
mining stock in U.S.A. is the Union Sulphur
Co. —it has only 2000 shares. The output of
sulphur last year was 400,000 tons, which
was sold at high prices to acid makers. We
are going to do a lot more in that way our-
selves presently. We’ll want millions of
tons of chemical fertiliser before we’re fin-
ished.
* * * »
Here are figures for our encouragement.
The Steel Corporation (U.S.A.) sold
£145,336,700 worth of steel goods last year
and handed out £4,314,600 in dividends. The
surplus income was 44,260,000 dollars, or
£3,852,000. The Steel Corporation, by the
way, built a zinc smelter of very large capa-
city—it was rushed up in a few months.
That’s where Australian zincs have been
going.
Kulamadau, Woodlark Island (Papua),
has been rewarded for sinning No. 1 shaft
another lift below No. 5 level. The old
workings above that level gave a few divi-
dends 14 years ago, so the wireless
message stating that the crosscut at No. 6
has nroved a 10ft. lode carrying rich stone
on the hanging wall, is good news for share-
holders who have paid calls in the hope of
a lucky strike. But it is early to cry. out of
the wood, and a dismal half-yearly report
has restrained the imaginative punter.


Under
Royal
Warrant
&
c
To H.M.
Kin 6
George V
3 NOVdiAIVHD
Champa
GliltsiirttLflK*
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
How to Have a Clear
Complexion.
It is quite easy even in a hot climate like
Australia to prevent the wrinkling, drying
and blotching effect of the dust and heat, but
it is absolutely necessary to use a pure soap
without any added coloring matter or excess
of soda. Puntol Soap is such
a soap, with just a little line per-
fume added. and some Puritol wax,
which has such a reputation for keeping the
skin soft and for removing pimples and
blotches. A very fine film of the wax is left
on the skin after using this soap, which
effectually protects the skin from heat and
dust. Its healing effect is well known on
blotchy skins, and undoubtedly many of the
fine complexions are due to the use of Puritol
Wax Soap.* [I
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET <& CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FESQ (Sb CO. LIMITED, Sydney,
SINCE 1679.
SINCE 1679.
HAIG * HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A WOMAN'A
LETTER
Sydney, June 19, 191 G.
My Dear Arxni.—
Pianist Miroviteli and fiddler Piastro, who
recently raked in the dollars in a gilt-edged
Oriental tour, gave a Tseliaikowsky after-
noon in the Town Hall on Saturday. The
Russian composer is a formidable person
to spend a wintry tryst with. But the
Tait management thoughtfully provided an
analytical programme for a mere threepence
—in war time, too 1 Twenty-five performers
under Conductor Joe Bradley backed up the
visitors. A big house broke out in a series
of recalls when the picturesque partner and
his fine organ-toned violin had done their
bit in the big Concerto in D. The fiddler
finally escaped to the den under the organ
with a laurel wreath tied with yards of red
silk. The orchestra suppressed itself as the
vassal of the soloist in this effort. Hence
the success.
Julius Knight strolling in before Alfred
Miroviteli got his chance after the interval.
Almost every Sydney musician who was not
in the orchestra crept stealthily in to see.
how the other fellow did it. Alfred is a
brilliant hand at the piano, and a wreath of
appropriate herbage tied with green
streamers supported his exit. Unfortunately
the Bradley team wasn’t up to Celestial
specifications as the support in the huge
concerto which ate up most of the daylight
left.
Some people would be late for a concert
if it were timed to start at a hundred
o'clock. On Saturday afternoon, all through
the first item, a stream of people continued
to arrive, and exasperated artists and audi-
ence alike. The rule of gluing up the
doors during a performance should be more
strictly enforced.
When we arrived. St. Stephen’s Hall was
athrong with vividly smiling brown-faced
soldier-men in blue uniforms, a stripe
or two of gleaming red or gold on the
sleeves; and Miss Clmtaurd. a delighted
hostess, was beaming at the success of her
party to the French soldiers from Tahiti
and other Pacific isles. They were fine
fellows, as fresh as youngsters in their
keen enjoyment of an excellent musical pro-
gramme ; plainly delighted with the groups
of dainty girls chattering to them in their
own vowelful tongue, and quite excited
over the final surprise of a little gift for
each. One man close by got a knife and
fork. “But this is mo s’ excellent,” he said.
"First I will cut my meat with it. Then I
will steeek a German with it.” “Then cut
some more meat.” laughed a girl. He
grimaced. “No, no, with so mooch beauty
in the world I have no weesh to be
poisoned !" Ah, these Frenchmen! How
they do infect even the Pacific islander!
A soldier-man writes me:—
there is a marked tendency among a section of
British military femininity in Cairo to look dow on
Australians as the monkey in the story looked down
upon his pursuers—with unutterable scorn. These
worthy females are mostly Territorial or “Kitch-
eners Army" attaches, and coming from the junior
lower-middle class of British society, as most of
them do, are wrapped about with an exclusive
hauteur in which no real duchess would be seen at
a charity bazaar. Our regimental doctor was dining
at Shepheard's with his wife the other night. To the
next table came a portentous female whose appear-
ance yelled English Suburbia. There were two or
three quilbx with her, so possibly she was the
spouse of a colonel in the Kitcheners. ( Quilb,
you know, is Arabic for pup, and is usually applied
10 second-lieutenants here. - ) Said one quilb: “And
boa did you enjoy your trip to Luxaw?” Quoth
ibe lady, with a vicious side-glance at the next table:
"«>w. toppiir ! Quaite top hole! Xot a Fl’ows-
iruliau there.’’
In a trickle of rain under grey skies, the
Botanic Gardens had their 100th birthday
party. A limited audience sploshed to the
official evrie inside Government House
grounds, where the Governor and two young
daughters climbed the official platform.
There were the usual old speeches and the
many times resurrected story of the begin-
nings of the garden ; and the only thing that
was said that most people didn’t know before
was that Director Maiden has preserved
the two long beds in which the first cereals
in this continent were planted. They are
in the lower garden. But wliv not (as in
the Ivew gardens in England! make some
effort to indicate such spots of sentimental
interest?
Austin Anderson, colonel of Artillery,
who has just been made brigadier-genera}
with command of a British division in
Flanders, is an old Brisbane bov. son of
M . M. Anderson, one-time chief' inspector
of the long-defunct Oriental Bank An
unde, William Neilley, was a well-known
inky wayfarer 30-odd years ago on N.S.W.
South Coast, where he used to keep the
Bega Standard flapping. Soldiering runs
in the family, for one of Anderson’s grand-
fathers. also a William Neilley, was a cap-
tain of Wellington’s army in Spain and at
Waterloo. Anderson, who went to France
with Indian troops, married in 1004 a Syd-
ney girl, Ethel Mason, granddaughter of
that James Scroggie who was for long a
director of the Australian Gas Light Co.
A couple of years ago the Andersous brought
their little girl over from India on a visit to
Sydney.
Before her marriage, Ethel and her two
sisters, with mamma Mason and grandma
(now great-grandma) Scroggie, used to
make a Sabbath-day’s journey each week
from Potts Point in search of “High”
spiritual fare at Christ Church, up near the
railway. Strangers who saw the extraordi-
narily youthful-looking party on its pilgrim-
age generally sized up grandmamma as the
mother of the brood, and took Mrs. Mason
as her own daughter’s elder sister. The
second girl. Gwen, nine years ago married
a Christ Church curate, Stephen Ilouison,
son of the old-time Sydney doctor who
founded the Australian Historical Society.
He now superintends a High Church collec-
tion-plate of his own at Parkside, near
Adelaide.
Concerning that
picture of Ruby
Winckler. She is
a pupil of Julian
Ashton's, and dur-
ing her recent two
years in the U.S.A.
she illustrated three
books for divers
publishers: “Ris-
ing to n Town,”
“Arabian Nights”
ami “Who’s Who
in the Land of
Nod.” Now she’s
at work on the
“Odyssey”—a very
big job—and she
has 2| years to do
it in. She .has
gone up to Kat-
oomba and the
blessed peace and quiet that her hard labor
calls for.
From “Rosna,” in London:—
dhe yearly outburst of pair art has occurred at
Burlington House, and various ’Roo-ladders are hung
on the line. Of course, there are Anzac pictures.
Xo self-respecting academy would be without them.
Power has two, and gets the type well, but his
“Canberra” is a better canvas. Quinn’s portrait of
Miss Brough, M.A., gathers a sheaf of bouquets from
the critics, and is a distinctly live piece of work—a
study of the unpromising face of a clever woman
whom he didn’t have the strength of mind to
flatter. Burgess with the ocean, Bess Norris with
some ducks of miniatures, and Margaret Macpher-
son, Tom Roberts, Agnes Goodsir, the Coates pair,
Gladys Reynell, Web Gilbert, Justine Kong Sing, and,
of course, Mackennal, represent Australia in this
strenuous year.
TV e’ll cook that German sausage yet in
the best French manner! Consul Chayet
recently gave the Institute of French Stu-
dents another heart-to-heart chat on the
cookery or his country. The übiquitous
Austialian frying-pan which has driven
many a strong man to drown his indigestion
in sodawater and other perils still sizzles
in the land. But its day is passing. Some
time ago the French Consul gave an illu-
minative lecturette on the right ways to cook
bunny. His latest sermon on the saucepan
touched lightly on everything from an oyster
puff to a breath of air shaded with sugar—
the elusive macaroon.
From Maoriland news of Violet Traill's
engagement has arrived. The lucky .me.
Tom Wigley, of Fairlie, S. Canterbury,
owns a skeeprun and some inches over six
feet iu length. His mother is his father’s
second wife; the first Mrs. Wigley was
Superintendent Sefton Moorhouse’s youngest
sister Mary. Miss Traill, who comes from
Burwood, has been for some months
in Maoriland, visiting her cousin. Mrs.
Harold Fisher, who used to be Hilda Win-
deyer. one of the local tribe of Windeyers.
Elsie Greene, of landra, married her
Scottish Borderer, Colonel Sherwood-Kelly.
D.fc.O., with no fuss. A few relatives drank
the health of the newlyweds, who parted a
few days later—he to return to blazing
r ranee; she to settle down to war work in
London.
Betty Neligan, daughter of a former
Maoriland Bishop, was married in England
the other day to the Rev. T. .T. Parry, an
army chaplain. Another Xeligan maiden.
Helen, , was chief bride-upholder, and the
Benedict s warrior-brother, who wears a
H. 5.0., was second-best man.
At St. Clement's, Mosman, one dav last
week, retired Government Analyst W M
Hamlet handed his daughter Edith over for
e 'er and ever to James Gordon McKern
who wears the khaki of the Mining Engi-
neers Corps. The bride, being used to
tramps—she’s a follower in father's foot-
steps—did the walk up the aisle without
the least fatigue. She was in a creation of
silk and lace and filmy veilings. The
groom, not being so sure of himself, had
two brothers to support him. One is an
invalided returnee from Anzac, the other is
booked for some part unknown.
Gertrude Stephen, a daughter of the late
Cecil. K.C., is engaged to chaplain Baker,
of the A.I.F. Aliss Stephen has the family
habit of Good Works and the family luck
of a silver lining to her clouds. Her mother
is one of the wealthy brewery Tooths, sister
of late millionaire Lucas.
Another of . them ! This time Sergeant
G. Nash, only son of Albert Nash, of Wool-
lahra, one of the original 3rd Battalion at
Gallipoli. The siren was Dorothy Wad-
dington, of The Manor, Gotham, Notting-
ham. This is young Nash’s second visit to
England : he went there first with the Aus-
tralian cadets at the time of the King's
coronation. But he was too young to come
to any real harm then.
William Arthur, second son of our Baro-
net Broun, of Coonimbia, Coonamble, is
engaged to Marie Victoria Mclntyre, only
daughter of the William Mclntyres of
North Sydney. Fearfully old thing is the
Broun baronetcy—dates back to 1086.
You should have seen Mary Gaunt run
her longest hatpin into a London Morning
I’ost correspondent the other day. The
stupid fellow ought to have known better,
anyhow, than to say such a thing so soon
after Anzac Day—“ Why should virility of
race decline with approach to the Equator?”
Mary’s exclamation as she got to work was
the polite equivalent of "Rats!” After she
had thrust the pin well in she gives a hint
of what our brothers are saying and con-
trasts it strikingly with what our fathers
said :—•
I can remember in Australia the older generation
for ever railing at the climate and bewailing the
cool pleasantness of England. And already before 1
am old I have listened to the repining of the men
of ntf own land clamoring for the climate they have
ieft behind them, the glorious sunshine their grand-
fathers’ land cannot give them.
Mary had a supporter who was briefer.
“Ask our enemies,” he said in effect.
The versatile Charles W. MaeCarthy,
surgeon, sculptor, composer, etcetera, has
broken out again, this time in song. “The
Toast is Anzac.” The proceeds of the
music sales go to swell the banking account
of the Returned Warriors' Association.
War Chest Button Day is getting a good
lift from the Wentworth Hotel people, who
are providing a cafe cliantant on the 20th.
I’m not sure what a Church Hill cafe ehan-
tant is made of, but I notice -that it’s
seasoned with raffles and refreshments.
This year’s party for the French National
Day (July 141 is going to have an extra
coating of Australian sugar. Francois and
the Kangaroo are now on the wallaby
together, and Sydney means to star the
great circumstance.
Still they come! This time it's going to
be a week’s fling—at the end of July—for
the innumerable comforts funds. Chief
Secretary Black is at the head of the pro-
cession of gentlemen helps, which includes
the leading showmen, the police and the fire
brigades.
This is little
Dorothy Gard’ner,
the young ALL.
comedienne a n d
verse writer, whose
three-player act,
“The Merriuns,”
will be staged by
the Fuller Circuit
in Wellington
(M.L.) in a few
weeks' time.
Violet Dickens is
a visitor to this
hamlet. She is a
daughter of the late
Alfred Tennyson
Dickens, whose
father wrote novels.
But I dare say
you’ve heard of
that. Alfred
Tennyson D. was one of two sons who
settled in Australia—and didn’t make a
million, neither of them. But they were rare
good fellows.
A first-rate band welcomed Sunday’s batch
of wounded with such snappy bits of senti-
ment as “Oh, My Dolores,” and other old
pre-war memories. The Queenslanders had
lunch at Rose Hall, where V.A.D’s, young
and not so young, trot round the viands.
Then there was a spin to Yaralla, the
Eadith Walker mansion, in a glorious after-
noon.
The perky calico knight McMillan takes
his little lady for another trip ’Ome. They go
through Canada and leave here early in July.
D’you remember the kindly D. J. Monk
family with the high-sounding names for the
daughters t . Mother and Boadicea are in
I.ondon helping lame Kangaroos.
The W’mooloo Day Nurserr n
decided to stick to the usuM mDUttee
dance. The hop comes off t annual
at the Palladium—the place that ’ n«i!i
be the Imperial Salon. Funds d t°
the place that minds the kiddies* wW
mothers out doing chores. aies " lllle
At a cafe chantant in Farmers’ „„ v .
day night in aid of the Soldiers’ Entert? 1 '
ments I und. a programme of all smaf
presented. Mrs. T. 11. Kelly n I s as
lace frock with very bunchy panniers" Ute
posed of wonderful pompadour silk, recited
W oman and A ar” and "Two War
nets.’ Then she was called on to auS
flowers and managed by fascinating chafi
to drag only a few shillings less th Yu
pounds from the pockets of those present-
and all for tiny buttonholes. General v-
Captain Firth and George Earp were nT;
extravagant bidders. Louise Mack ILI 1
yarns and Harry de Bobeek in
comedy items. 111
The Bulletin told you the other dav nf
a new Captain Billjim whose surname u
Tollemache-Tollemache. Billjim's full fLnt
name is Leone Sextus Denys Oswolf Fran
dati films rollemache-Tollemaehe de Orel
laua Plantagenet. lie used to be a lieutenant
( jeicest f rBhire Regiment, and in view
ot the facts that his first three initials are
L.S.I). and he is a member of the noble
family ot Dysart, whose motto is “I trust
and am content.” the chances are that he
hoids the price of a drink when necessary
His eldest brother is Lyulph Ydwallo Odin
Lgbert Lyouel Toedmag IJIHI
Lrchenwyne Saxon Esa Cromwell Omni
Aevill Dysart Plantagenet; and a younger
brother wallows in the following sea *of
splendor: Lyonulpli Cospatrick Bruce Ber-
keley Jennyn Tullibardine Petersham de
Orellana Dysart Plantagenet. Another
brother renounced a bunch of his names bv
deed-poll, but a sister keeps up the family
record with .Mabel Helmiugham Ethel
Huntingtower Beatrice Blazonberrie Evan-
geline Vise de Lou de Orellana Plantagenet
Toedmag Saxon. How she must yearn to
be called Sue! There are three other sisters
—all worse.
This is a story told by a Sydney writer
just back to his native city. It was on a
steamer coming from India, and a fellow-
passenger was a young medical student
who had had a job as medical officer on a
plantation. The job was most satisfactory;
all the same he was compelled to quit!
Cause: A girl. No. he had not been monkey-
ing with one of the biggest of the Ten CV.
This girl was a mulatto, and she had phe-
nomenal hair. It swept the ground and was
as a jungle in thickness—and something
else. Other colored servants would network
near her, and there was much strife and re-
crimination. The case seemed incurable. So
four able-bodied colored folk held her down
whilst the doctor cut off her crowning glory
close to the scalp. After that she laid for
the doctor with a long, sharp knife at
every dark corner until he lost his nerve
and fled from the country and got a job at
laying asphalt pavements in Melbourne.
A London gossip writes that on Anzac
Day the grey old Abbey was several sizes
too small. Only the lucky few could get
wedged inside its doors, and many Anzaes’
relatives could only push as far as the kerb-
stone. Queen Mary was in mourning—a
tribute to the Australian dead at Gallipoli.
George Rex, still showing traces of his acci-
dent of months ago. was in khaki.
In spite of the European bonfire, artists
still struggle for space in the London Aca-
demy. Old friend Joe Wolinski. a per-
sistent trier, has this year got his wish. His
picture of St. Paul’s is hung in a good posi-
tion.
The fichu is a prevailing frivol of semi-
devollcte garb. It helps the bodice of last
winter’s frock to look less wilted, and is
thus a friend of the deserving poor who
once shuddered at it. Some day, if war-
time devices go on to 1017, we will dig up
an ancient antimacassar and flourish it as
the latest thing in theatre wraps.
New evening frocks are not quite defunct.
-V mild revival shows a little flounced basque
that comes round the waist, but stops after
floating out over the hips. The > other
flounces below are all round the skirt and
very full. Edged with velvet in a darker
shade, there’s a pansy effect about a pale
mauve gossamer frock with deep amethyst
velvet laid on to edge its billows.
Bachelor-girls and spinsters are cheering
up. While there’s life there’s hope. A local
welding of two hearts happened the other
day ; the bride blushed 87, while the groom
owned up to 72.
News comes of the death of the girl we
remember as Rliona Brandon, of Welling-
tion (M.L.) —she was married to Private
Freeman, who was at Gallipoli. Mrs.
Freeman was a cousin of Flight-Lieut. De
Bathe Brandon, the Maorilander who helped
to bring down the Zep. in the Thames
estuary.
Yours affectionately.
VANDORIAN.


CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
f. f li'fS
a ) iltfi't i mkrt ; H i i;
VtfMflm'W M l i r
;ill a \Lttii
t@II"
aiwiiiiMiiif
y
&al
WB£m
SiSifSSi^
icWSt
B®ss!
r?;’:
ift '
■ ■
Wm
«|g|gfe
s.
“%4?
m
I
mm
■>
,£KS>
■
gg
cm
5S?<
/ W|
>■.
it £' ;
( 'QS
Mx
J-si
vii
m»
mu
r>s
Stiiiii
>'&? $«
S|f:j
SMr*
i *11!
S:
fliWl
:•>
m
!•?£•V y.;;:« v .'.VV Vv3 <•' %'&■ <i;
# £
■ •-A-
-ll A
4 / n
v C ll
iSSJ
■i?V
/ -
p&
K-V
! I!
<~-£i
. r -
-ill
£*V.r,W| \\ : '*'A lv^\'^r?l‘vX -V ' L T f ' ,iir ' > '‘
'Sy'ftlv fod v<w >i'|iifti , i,i'i • • *1 iv^'
juSi!
,r r^:
*****
A•• ‘VU-. : :.* . -
WM
\r/
?s®
11
(\
ir"
v* syi
Iftf
V
'--5 -•/
■
.r -‘
*«is^p
«a,v>:iss
dV
v-
«v
ill
iv^-X'a
.,, ~ ! i/;
.J«vtf--"
!-:V
*.>,
wm
iSSS»ii
•••..,
s u
V
Mmsee
;;K;v>2*arfy
*.7^.
1 4 >, !i;
V.-
'MfO%
u \\ ItV-'i
>vA
! 51
V.
li \ i
\
Xi-B
\ \
XK'XX
S v^v^
V-<;V
\ 'i
\ '
-f:
). =
•} 4?>
- :
\\ ■' \- '': \%W\ • •■ ••■.., : ■-
€€
Cobra,” Boot Polish
Churuler Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Swabs the flagship s
Guns out too.
Jellicoe, Old
England's Hope,
Sees them hauling
On the rope.
“ That’s the style,
Mv lads! ” savs he ;
j J
“Clean them and
They’ll clean the sea
“ Put your weight in!
Pull it through !
“We’ve got ‘COBRA
Work to do !”


Chamois Leather Vests
ARE MUCH APPRECIATED
BY MEN ON ACTIVE SERVICE.
They have proved invaluable under service condi-
tions, affording protection from sudden climatic
chances, and giving double protection over chest and
complete cover up to the neck. These Vests must
prove a valuable acquisition to any kit, being wash-
able and practically vermin-proof. Numerous
letters of appreciation have reached us testifying to
their usefulness.
Each garment is cut and finished in Fanner's best
style, and has Wool Lining. We undertake to
despatch then: to ary a :trees at the Fro:. t /
Orders booked in the TAILORING // / A
DEPARTMENT Xel/U
FARMER'S.
Pitt, Market
mmd
George Streets,
SYDNEY.
A
Says Dyspeptics
Need More Magnesia.
Take a Little Bisurated Magnesia in Hot
Water immediately after Eating, and
Enjoy Hearty Meals without Distress.
If people who suffer more or less con-
stantly after meals with acid indigestion or
dyspepsia, sourness, gas. bloating, etc.,
would make a practice of taking half a tea-
spoonful of bisurated magnesia in a quarter
glass of hot water after eating they might
there and then put an end to all'fear of
stomach trouble. For bisurated magnesia
mixing with the digesting food and stomach
juices promptly and effectively sweetens all
excess acid, prevents fermentation and sour-
ing of food, and insures a normal and pain-
less digestion that possibly you have not
experienced before in years. Get some
ordinary bisurated magnesia from the near-
est chemist and try it and see. It is harm-
less to the stomach and inexpensive. For
stomach purposes be sure and get bisurated
magnesia rather than magnesia in other
forms, as this is specially prepared for
neutralising stomach acidity. —Advt.
quality
i
In fitting
DUNLOP
TYRES
you have the highest
grade Tyres made.
Thev stand alone
for QUALITY OF
MATERIAL—and
STRENGTH-and
SERVICE.
They not only offer you
greater mileage, but more
economical motoring, inas-
much as they can be
purchased from any
Garage at a lower figure
than any imported Tyre.
DUNLOPS
are not only the best tyres j
in Australia, but they are ]
made in Australia and are i
worthy of your support. j
usr a\ appucatiox
THE DUNLOP RUBBER COMPANY J
MELBOURNE SYDNEY. ADELAIDE. PERTH !
BRISBANE. WELLINGTON. CHRISTCHURCH 5
AND LAUNCESTON
.
Hj
\
&
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, June 19, 1916.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Governor Stanley has gone off to smoke
a pipe or two with Brother Galway in Adel-
aide. After getting through a long list of
“openings,” he must need a rest. The tragedy
of a State Excellency collapsing through
overwork at a bazaar is too dreadful to con-
template.
The Japanese Admiral and his officers
gave a huge party on Friday in return for
all the entertainments they had been offered
by Melbourne folk. First, Governor Stanley
and his namesake, the General, went along
for a final lunch on the Azuma; then the
rank and file of Sassiety trooped down to
the afternoon entertainment that followed.
The lunch party motored into a thick fog.
and the General confided to some young per-
son that he wished the frivol would merge
into a deck dance, so that he could get the
winter chill out of his toes. There was no
dance, but the afternoon was gay and cosy,
for all that. Hidden electric radiators shed
warmth along decks closed in with thickly-
flowered canvas; and as the gangway was
bound in white and red, like peppermint
candy-sticks, the ship had the appearance of
a doll’s house.
Only visitors were allowed on the Town
Pier, the entrance to which was guarded
by the valiant Guy Madden and some sol-
diers of less degree. At the canopied
gangway, small smiling brown men pinned
guady favors under the chins of all feminine
visitors as they tripped across a crimson
carpet. A commander and four officers
handed the visitors on to the Admiral, who
was tucked away in an inner shirne of can-
vas and radiators. His uniform blazed with
gold lace, and a Rising Sun in blood rubies
adorned his chest.
Each group of guests was carefully pil-
oted round the ship “Our sailors did this!”
was the reply to every word of praise for
the decorations. Miniature tableaux of
Japanese scenery were spread out on deck
at every turn. There were rocks of painted
canvas, bridges of ship’s cable, and the
forest edge of a peninsula was made of
scrubbing brushes. There were spy-holes
and panoramas in odd corners, and below
decks illustrations of Japanese legends. A
boy like a Japanese toy stood at attention
with cigars and cigarettes. Tea tables were
set everywhere, and froeked Japs served tiny
cakes. A band played English music cor-
rectly. The bandsmen were small, and wore
baggy scarlet uniforms with dejected white
brush plumes toppling over their foreheads.
Sailors in meagre white cotton clothes
and bare feet gave an exhibition of wrestling
on deck. Our guiding officer called it “U
Yeddoo.” The combatants hissed loudly and
bashed each other cheerfully on the canvas
mattress. Fencers also performed and
armored swordsmen contended in the ancient
manner. The whole extent of the pier was
presently a stadium. Two pettieoated armies
in fencing dress took their stations at oppo-
site ends, the baud played martial music, and
the armies rushed at each other with st’eks
and swords uttering weird battle-yells. Their
"shanv'-fight ended with a swarm of men
climbing a gangway aft. most of them bleed-
ing very realistically from arms and legs,
but gurgling with satisfaction behind their
big tortoiseshell masks.
But even that wasn't the end. There was
a fancy dress parade of sailors, some clad as
women. The flower-seller was fascinating
with just the right touch of lip carmine and
heavily made-up eyelashes. The Japanese
Hayseed was the buffoon. These paraders
played musical chairs on the pier while the
thousaud-or-so cadets swarmed the upper
decks and rocked with young laughter.
The Cyrus Barlows gave a dinner party
at the Vienna to a couple of dozen officers
from the visiting Japanese cruisers. After
dinner and innumerable bows [the smiling
Japanese officer will bow twice, then turn
and bow again on the least provocation), the
beaming Barlows led the way to a motor-
fleet and took their jolly guests on to a
theatre party at the Tivoli.
The vote-hunting St. Vincent’s Hospital
"Queens” are making the Yarra turn in its
bed these days. The Lesley Madden ("Queen
of Charity") committee worked up some-
thing like a football match at the Oriental
Hotel last week. Tea tickets at half a
crown enticed about a thousand in their very
best frocks to go and fight their way through
the feeding rooms. Lesley, in mouse-colored
silk, wore a hat with a crown-like ruche of
tulle. She surveyed the crowd with joy
because pretty little Mrs. Healy. the Bookies'
Queen, was actually beginning to catch up.
Mrs. Davidson entertained Lesley and her
mother at tea. and had Minnie Waugh to
sing. The large and handsome songstress
had just returned from Westralia. Mrs.
Fritz Hart, in the sailor hat of a flapper,
arranged a musical pr< gramme which was
sung and sawn in the gallery ’way up above
the high-toned riot. Mrs. Tom Hogan had
a tea party for a cousin, Mrs. Cannon, who
was visiting from Geelong. Presently the
committee ladies went out and smilingly sat
on the damp lawn to be photographed.
Senator Pearce and his wife were at
dinner at the Grand Hotel the same night
at a big spread designed to aid the cause of
daughter Dorothy, the “Queen of Defence.”
Walter Kirby carolled while his own special
spatchcock was being cooked, and then took
•around a collection-plate. The plate was
somewhat of a mistake. Kirby should have
delegated a pretty girl to sell tickets. Human
nature is human nature, and most well fed
men prefer to buy a handful of tickets from
an appealing beauty and then show them to
an admiring audience of clubmen. ,’^ ee
what they d.d me in for at that dinner! he
says, and is suitably applauded. If he says,
"I put a pound in the plate,” he has nothing
to prove it with.
Then the Dalrymples got together a card-
party at their Toorak house for Gertrude
Rennie, “Queen of the Soldiers.” I am told
that Mr. Dalrymple implored the organisers
to leave him his home intact, offering to
write a cheque covering the total profits they
expected to get. But .urs. D. and the daugh-
ters said the good work must go on.
And all the time the “books” are handing
in their cheques for £5O or £lOO worth of
tickets on Mrs. Healy, and the lady is get-
ting ahead at a merry rate.
In the quietness of their basement sitting-
rooms the good nuns at St. Vincent’s receive
committee delegates. They are not involved
in the fearful storm, but they sm.le quietly
ai:d sedately at the results of the war they
have started. If they have a preference
among the host of lady monarchs it is pro-
bably for little Irma Caron, who came in at
the eleventh hour as "Queen of the Allies” to
fill a gap. and is doing her little bit in the
ruck of the field.
Lesley Madden. "Queen of Charity.” spends
hours in the Block Arcade begging nicely
for pennies. The Barrel-Organists’ Lnion
may yet make a fuss about it.
The Victorian Art.sts cashboxed £175
after their recent tableaux in St. _K Ida
Town Hall; but they want to get £550 to
send an ambulance of their own to tne war.
The next moneygetter will be a pageant
play. They’ll get a theatre for nothing if
they can. and Melba may take a part and
sing a few precious notes. The th.ng is
getting hold of people, and there is a general
desire to be "in it.” The artistic Montgom-
ery is president and General Hughes stands
shoulder to shoulder with Baldwin Spencer,
Frank Clark. Harrison Moore, Mrs. Grice,
Mrs. R. Morrison and Miss Sweatman. The
first committee meeting happened last week,
and president Montgomery read out suggested
color schemes for the various performers.
There is to be a Streeton like tone of gold
and blue about the one who is to represent
Australia. Progress is to wear green chain
armor (I don't know why), and someone
is to be draped with oysters and carry an
oyster cocktail. They are looking for a
young man with beautiful legs and feet to
walk barefooted as the Spirit of Youth. The
V.A.S. is to attend to all costumes, and is
now hunting for a large central city room
for making and fitting. They know they’ll
get more than the balance of . the £550, so
the surplus is to be devoted to the French
Rod Cross and the local Y.M.C.A. Soldiers’
Club. There will be 100 supers at least in
the pageant, and professionals will take the
leading parts. Six society dames will repre-
sent Australian States.
From our Adelaide cousin :—•
Meningitis has killed violinist Eugene Alderman.
Barred from enlisting by the medical officers he set
himself to use his time and talent for war-work here,
arid there has hardly been a patriotic entertainment
that has not asked for his services—and got them.
He had the rare power of infecting others with his
own enthusiasm, and what he undertook went
through. From 1905 till 190 S he was studying
music in Europe, and on his return here he stepped
at once into the front ranks as a teacher and concert-
player. His younger brother enlisted only a few
days ago.
The War Office has reported that Lieut.-Cols.
RoweU and Reynell, both killed at Gallipoli, were
mentioned in lan Hamilton's despatch of September
22 for “gallant and distinguished services in the
field.”
Minister of Industries Blundell has been threaten-
ing us with a meat shortage unless some miracle
intervenes. He says his own Sunday roast of beef
costs him 75., and Is. a pound has been demanded
from him for mutton chops.
Apparently German names are to be wiped off our
map. The Premier says that the whole question is
to be considered, and that, anyway. Kaiserstuhl. in
the Barossa Rar.gts, must go. Chief-Secretary Styles
says Cabinet wiU back the Premier up. “If we
cannot find English names sufficiently suitable," savs
Mr. Styles “then, for Heaven's sake, let us go back
to the aboriginal nomenclature rather than adhere to
names of German origin.” But why not aboriginal
names at once?
The past officials of S. Australia have added another
to the list of ambulances this State has supplied. It
was handed over to the Defence Department by Lady
Galway at the base of the S. African memorial—the
usual setting for these scenes.
Sub-lieut. A. G. Bagot, who was at one time on
the Queen Mary, had the luck to be transferred, with
promotion, to a mine-sweeper not long before the
North Sea battle. His people here only heard of
his transference some days after the battle-cruiser
was lost.
The Kuhnel estate has been sworn at £150,000 in
S. Australia and £31,816 in Victoria. The whole
of it goes to the testator’s children and relatives.
The Stanleys arrived here on Saturday on a ten-
days’ visit, and an At Home is to be given for them
at Government House on the 23rd.
Two S. Australian nurses were amongst those men-
tioned by Sir Douglas Haig in despatches—Nurse
Dow, who was once matron of Ru Rua hospital, North
Adelaide, and Nurse Tabor, whose people are at the
Semaphore.
Barrister Sam Backhouse, greyhaired but
debonair, is much about town with his
young fiancee. She’s the ever-so young
daughter of the Stuarts, of Malvern-road —a
brilliantly-colored youngster whose merry
eyes and dimples don’t quite reach Sam’s
shoulder.
“Babs” Eddington, w’ho left here under
the wing of Mrs. Burnand for Canada and
the marriage altar, has been held up in
Maoriland by a cable saying that the bride-
groom-elect, Dr. Carr. R.N., wouldn’t be able
to keep the appointment, his ship having
been ordered off to parts unknown.
From “Rosna,” in London : —■
The Curran damsel of Hobart has duly reached
this isle, but we know her now as Mrs. Walsh, her
Commander having left the Australia drifting round
in the cold just long enough to buy the girl a wedding
ring. He’s a son of the Archdeacon of Dublin.
On April 29 Gunner T. Arrowsmith, of
the Australian Artillery, was wedded in
St. Margaret’s Church, London, to Kath-
leen Deane. If the organ voluntary was
not “I’ll take you home again, Kathleen,”
it certainly should have been. Arrowsmith
(Cupid's arrowsmith, as it were) and the
lady were boy and girl lovers in Esgland.
Kathleen, however, in the absence of Arrow-
smith in Victoria, became engaged to his
Wealthy Rival. But that didn’t matter: on
learning that her First Love had been
wounded in Gallipoli, she met him on arrival
and knew she was unalterably his. Droves
of Anzacs attended the wedding, among
them Lance-Corporal Keyzor, Y.C.
A later communique from Esma Inglis
Clark (daughter of the late Justice Clark,
of Tasmania) proves her to have jettisoned
her maiden name. She’s married to “the
dearest and best man in the world.” (How
numerous is the man of that tribe!) His
name is Silver. Gentle Esma’s rather in-
coherent letter mentions that she had "a
firelight wedding at eight in the evening at
Mrs. *s [name undecipherable], with
red candles in bronze candlesticks and a
bushel of roses sent by Mike.” If
Mike is Mr. Silver she is hereby congratu-
lated afresh. Mike is always a first-rate
ftllow whether man or terrier. Michael is
only suitable for archangels and Russian
grand-dukes. A Mr. Dutton, a parson from
the First Unitarian Church, converted Miss
Clark into Mrs. Silver. By the way, all
this happened in San Francisco, where the
subject of it will now live permanently.
W. G. Watson and his familv are in
mourning for handsome younger daughter
Beatrice, a red-caped nursing sister who
passed out suddenly in Egypt early this
month. A cable reporting her serious illness
somehow went astray, so the first and last
news came as a terrible blow.
The picturesque Brown family, of Tuppal
squattage in the Riverina, is represented
in the neighborhood of the field of action
by sister Ruby, now the wife of Allan Mac-
pherson. The Maephersons live in Geelong
when they are housekeeping; but Allan
nowadays snatches his breakfast chop in
Northern France, while Mrs. Allan helps to
make hospital life tolerable to wounded
soldiers in England.
The Lolly Men had a great time last week.
It was an inter-State Conference of Manu-
facturing Confectioners, and they conferred
sweetly from Monday to Thursday, beginning
with a lunch at the Grand, and
finishing with a dinner there and a laugh at
Letty, who is at Her Majesty’s. I don’t
know what the price of chocolates is to be
presently; I only saw their bosses going to
and fro wearing that secretive gum-pastille
look.
The struggle for the Gaud Mayoral rabbit-
skin is bitter already. Alderman Cabena is
spoken of; also ’Enry Weedon. Both have
new wives with aspirations. Jaunty Davey
is also a possibility, and Hennessv is even
being barracked for on the ground that he
and his Mayoress ought to last as long as the
war.
Squatter Bob W est. who has just recov-
ered from a serious riding accident, has more
hard luck to face. His young wife (once
Ilorrie Mason 1 is lying desperatelv ill in a
private hospital.
Enid Whiting Waters has at last gone to
jom her colonel-husband in England." where
he is on leave. She has left her plump little
youngsters here with nurse; and her spertSk
sister gives an eye to them when she is not
out on the links. ,
Captain Fitts, son of Hamilton Fitts Clivn
Leonard’s partner, says that when the Aiwa ®
marched into France he was standing by ■»
British “brass hat.” When half the A,i<f
trahans had marched past the "brass hat”
began to enthuse : “Magnificent!” PreseX
he exploded : "God ! We haven’t a brig a £
in our -New Armies that can touch them”’
The Australian huskily assented. p er ham
he felt a little ashamed of having gone awlv
from his own Australia to get his comm!
sion.
The Stanley Dobson matron handed over
her South larra house for one night onh-
to a group of friends who wanted funds n
endow a military hospital cot. A conceit
raged in the oak-lined entrance hall - bridle
sizzled in the front parlor; and at 10 o’clock
the sweets sellers put down their Da X
baskets to hand round coffee-and-cream puffs
The Mayoress’s Patriotic League is mak
ing a bid for more coin with "A Night Out”
at Ivew —the asylum and cemetery suburh—
on June 23. The Softgoods Orchestra will
saw the music off and the committee is
heavily jewelled in all movements.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


I
j
%
f
vr
%
X
V
>
i Ut
mum
£v
a
rfl
£/,
s
a
Ist Yachtsman : “Jove! That boat ought to be called ‘Johnnie Walker’ 1 ”
2nd Yachtsman ; “ Why, because it’s non-fillablk ?
i st Yachtsman : “No, because of its tremendous ‘boom’ and ‘sail.’”
The “ boom ” in “Johnnie Walker” came when it was protected by the non-refillable
bottles. But its immense sale has been a steady growth since 1820. Fast as “Johnnie
Walker ” sales are forging ahead.it is not so fast as have been its steady increase of
reserve stocks held in bond to ensure its unvarying quality.
Every drop of “Johnnie Walker" Red Label in a non-refillable bottle is over 10 years old.
GUARANTEED SAME QUALITY THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
JQMN WALKER & SONS, LTD., Scotch Whisky Distillery, KILMARNOCK.
Bo*v IR2O
—still going strong.


—MURDOCH’S—
RED SPOT SALE
STARTS TO-MORROW.
It will be a glorious time for thrifty folks who want to economise.
How the l*e<l Spot has come to the aid of anxious clothing buyers will be
revealed when the doors of the. Mammoth Store open to-morrow.
Opportunity is yours—full and abundant values and tremendous savings
—the Red Spot has assured it.
Call and inspect —you can't afford to miss the money savings which the
lied Spot has assured.
NOTE THESE ATTRACTIVE RED SPOTS.
The Red Spot Victory in
our Tailoring Department
Realise the conditions and difficulties of the woollen
trade to-day and you will admit the Red Spot has
achieved a famous victory.
These figures tell the tale better than we can.
55/- SUITS TO MEASURE, Now 47/9
63/- 8 70/- „ „ 58)9
75/- 8 84/- „ „ 67/9
You can't afford to miss such money-saving bargains
—now’s the time to leave your order. If you can’t
call—-write for patterns to Desk R.
DESK N.
Messrs. Murdoeh's In Park St.. Ltd.,
SYDXEY.
Please fortranl patterns of Ned Spot Suitings at
Suit to-measure, also tape and self-measure-
ment form, with eopg of Ned Spot Catalogue.
Xante
.1 d dress
Bfv
ill
m
A Red Spot Bargain in
Men’s Overcoats.
A splendid chance to secure a Blankety Tweed
Overcoat at a big saving.
Usually 27/6, NOW 21/9
We can fit every man.
Boys’ Cotswold Suits at
Red Spot Price.
Made in good-wearing Donegal Finish Tweeds —
Brown. Greens and Greys—with plain knees —
fit boys 8 to 14 years—
Usually 18 6, Red Spotted to
GOLF SHIRTS
A special line in Golf Shirts— smart, g
fabrics —neat patterns.
Usually 3/11, Red Spotted to
ood-wearing
2/10
SOFT FELTS —Red Spotted
for Your Satisfaction.
Pure Fur Velours —splendid hats in Green
shades of Olive, Reseda, >- <•_
Usually 8/11. Red Spotted to. . . /
SMART. STYLISH SOFT FELTS in Grey
with Black Band, also Slates with Self and
Black Bands. a/h
Usually 8/11. Red Spotted to. . 0/11
Similar shape Soft Felts in Greys
narrower hands offering at RED
SPOT PRICE,
only-
-3/6
WRITE FOR RED SPOT CATALOGUE.
Never was it more important to save your cash —and
never had you a better opportunity. There are
hundreds of bargains. Send to Desk R. for Copy of
Red Spot Catalogue.
!2 a
1
MURDOCH’S
iiv Park St. Ltd.
SYDNEY
11 Where the GOOD Hats are.
What Then?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
-■ wry-ii Y should I weep when you
%/ %/ unseemly scold?
* * Why should I glow when you are
pleased to fan me.?
Whv should I sigh (who am so scarred and
‘ old)
When it’s your whim to torture or unman
me?
Why should I always, when you're warm or
' hot.
Ape incandescence, be I warm or not?
Why must I, when your humor’s cold or cool,
Still whip and* spur my passion’s patient
mule ?
Why should I at your bidding, Impudence?
How can I strive for tawdry commonsense?
Oh why, when you’re inclined to scratch —
you cat, you !
Should I caress and stroke and coax and
pat you?
How should I know, who only know that
you,. ,
Being yourself, must always bend and sway
me?
How can I tell, when only this is true—
That my last breath shall bless you when
you slay me?
How can I strive for tawdry commonsense
While I'm the toy of your munificence?
I low could I wish you other than you are,
When as yon are you're peerless, O my star?
Ilow dare I dream, when I can hold you near
And love you. that you’re flawed, most dear
my dear?
Some things below, some things (mayhap)
above y0u....
What matters it, Babette, my girl?—l love
you !
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.
Madame Bong Fong.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
following letter comes to me from
| Innisfail, Queensland, to carry me
back into the mists of childhood,
behind the dry and dusty Past, when I was
nearer the awful age of five than the awful
age of fifty :
Innisfail, Queensland,
4th Feb., 1916.
My dear Mr. Lawson,— ,
I am minded to write to you because we have
many experiences in common. In 1858 I was at
school in Mount Blackwood and could read manu-
script, for I remember the roll used by the master.
His figures were neat, fat and square; and, in the
little sums he gave my class, they looked to run in
a diagonal line away from each other; but it was
not so, they were truly under each other. There
were two large brass globes in the school, but I
cannot remember getting lessons on them, though
I seem to have some knowledge of their use. The
maps were few and large. The world in' hemispheres
—America green, Europe red, Asia yellow, Africa
buff. Australia had but few names on it; and on
the West and North-West they were mostly Dutch.
“Arrowsmith and Sons” was printed in large type
on the south-east corner. The school was denomi-
national—Church of England—and scholars paid Is.
I a week. The grammar was “Sullivan’s Irish,” for
the use of Dublin schools. A good deal was said
of Lindlev Murray, but I cannot recall the book.
Rule 20 was “The verb to be takes the same case
after it as before it.” That and the date of the
Norman Conquest were hammered into me by breech
loading, as the fashion then was. The boys plaved
prisoners’ base chiefly. The girls had a variety,
mostly with rhyming accompaniments, which I
vaguely remember.
Ihe school was at Golden Point, and there, too,
was the courthouse and police-station. The gold
escort went away once a month —a great sight for
us boys. Four troopers rode in front with swords
in bright steel scabbards, pistols and muskets; four
or five pack-horses with the gold followed, and
there were more troopers behind—a most imposing
turnout. Dams were made at the head of nearly
every gully, and races and flumes took the water to
the alluvial. Madame “Bong Fong” owned the
principal race; and many times I had to interview
her to explain why the rent was not forthcoming.
Chinese were on the field in thousands. The school-
boys shared the prejudices of their elders, and many
a fight and adventure we had with them. I shall
never forget a party of Californians. They were all
very big men and wore long, nuggetty boots (do
you remember them?) red sashes round their
waists and big cabbage-tree hats. They used long
toms for sluicing and lost as much gold as they
saved —so said the others.
I remember the maps and Arrowsmith and
Sons, but not the globes; ours was a "pro-
visional school,” and we had none. I re-
member the school-books, “for use in the
national schools of Ireland,” with the sun
and all the geography upside down—that’s
been rectified only lately, since Anzac I
remember the verb to be having* the same
case before it as after it, but I don’t remem-
ber why—l remember better the Man to Be
that Wasn’t. Our game was prisoners’ base,
too —“prisoners’ baits,” we called it—and it
was a good game that exercised all our
muscles and wits. I wonder if it is in
existence now?
The girls’ game was rounders; but we had
little time for them. It was always the
girls that suggested things— that is true
enough. But we were mostly kept in
separate paddocks. The girls had games
they used to sing to: and we had rhymes we
used to sing coming home from school. We
used to sing, or shout, or shrill something
like this: “Kick! buck! jump! shy! all
along one si’!” (a supposed China-
man s account of being thrown off a horse)
or some other senseless, harmless, jumbled-up’
indistinguishable chorus. The girls
home on the other side of the gully ( we never
followed the easy gully-bed path), would
squawk back : “Aeo-o-ow ! We know what
yeh said ! We heard what yeh said ! Jist
see if we don’t tell the master!”
* * * *
But, for me, standing but from mv far-
away friend’s letter, standing out from the
mists of childhood, and before the curtain of
the Past, is the ever-changing figure of
Madame Bong Fong.
She might have been a big woman; she
might have been a little woman. I picture
her, for a reason to be made clear as a
big. voluptuous, full-breasted, broad-hipped
woman, very blonde or very dark—probably
dark—coarse to those who did not know her
and. not unlikely, well-bred—a “woman of
the world who had not been a girl of the
world." But she might have been a sUarn-
n"std. skinny little woman with a sniff. She
might have been a !• renchwonian, and h,,,
nickname might have been "Bong Tong" m 'y
correspondent's memory having p(ay«i r;.,.
a trick. Or. again, she may have been tile
will l and the boss of a boss Chinaman In
that case she would, most certainly, have
been his wife, and not his worse.
I have tried several times during my lif e
to hate the Chinese and China ; but some
how, I never could—probably because our
creeds were somewhat similar when I was
young and China old—and China was kind
to me and mine in times of trouble. "A kind
deed shall he repaid even unto the third
and fourth generation,” saitli a Chinese com-
mandment somewhere—or words to that
effect. They don't seem to bother about re-
paying evil deeds.
Madame Bong Fong might even have
been a Chinese woman herself—or a half-
caste and an Australian. But. whoever she
was, and whatever she was. I'll stake mv
reputation (in thorough repair at the pre-
sent time, and well painted and varnished)
that few, if any, ever went in vain to
Madame Bong Fong to “explain about the
rent.” My old Queensland friend says he
went “many times.” Perhaps lie was a
dreamy-eyed, interesting boy—as they sav I
was once.
The Madame Bong Fong of my childhood
and boyhood was a Mrs. Mary Jane Bill
who kept the "Royal Hotel in my (allegedly)’
native town (Aludgee). She was a woman
of the pouter-pigeon variety—you know the
sort I mean. She wasn’t a short woman, nor
a little woman, but might, in perspective
have been taken for both, being built low all
round. All the men called her Mary Jane
IJill, and she called them all by their Chris-
tian names, married and single alike.
She was noted by all the men as being
“no better than she ought to be. but one of
the best.” They borrowed the first half of
that expression from the few broad-minded
women of the township. The rest of the
married women —and all the single—referred
to her as "That woman !” With some cause.
Such of the children as were allowed, or
dared (and I was one of them), to get
close enough to her tainted skirts, called her
Mrs. Hill. They only knew that she was
good—“a good woman.”
There was never a drover who drank horse,
packhorse and all in a mad spree—and no
matter at what pub or pubs—but he could
go to Mary Jane Hill to help him get another
outfit; there was never a young fellow—or
old, for that matter—in trouble (it was
mostly young fellows who got into trouble
in those days)-—never a wreck, derelict,
dofvn-and-out, waster or no'erdoweel in
trouble that either .Alary Jane Hill’s cook or
barman could fix up. but, sooner or later,
he'd be found, hat in hand, on the kitchen
verandah wantin' to speak to Mrs. Hill for
a minute. There was never a girl
And those were the days when a girl's
“shame” v:ns shame in such places.
There is a legend of an honest working
mother .who hadn’t a penny, and whose girl
was in trouble, and who was afraid her
father would either kill her or kick her out.
r i lie poor woman, in the terror of her class
for the shame and disgrace of it all, and in
desperation for her daughter’s sake, sobbed,
or, rather, choked out: “Well, you’d better
go to that ivo —to Airs. Hill and see what she
can do.” The father had worked for Alarv
Jane Hill.
And the sequel. .1 [y father was working
for Alary Jane Hill at the time, carpentering
and mending and painting up about the
hotel. Father’d been to the painter’s to get
a pane of glass cut: and, going round to the
back, he was rather surprised to see the
kitchen door shut and fast at that hour of
the day (it was near “tea time”), and no
sign of the cook through the windows under
the verandah. lie went up the ladder to the
roof to replace a broken pane in the skylight
there. He’d been a sailor, and climbed
easily and with little noise, no matter what
he carried in his other hand or under his
arm. Looking down through where the pane
was gone, he saw that the cook had been
turned out, the door made fast, and by the
dresser sat Alary Jane Hill, while the girl,
kneeling on the brick floor, had her head,
arms and wild red hair flung across Alary
Jane Hill’s wide lap. The sobbing girl had
told Airs. Hill “all about it” —as if Mary
Jane Hill didn’t know ! And father said that
the sinking sun, low and reddened on the
purple Aludgee Hills, seemed to send a
shower of fine gold in through the end
kitchen window over the pair of them.
Father used to say, in after years, that,
because of this and many'other things he
knew of her. he always felt inclined to take
his hat off when he heard “that woman’s”
name mentioned : and he kept his hat on as
a habit—old sailor’s habit, perhaps. There
may be yet one or two ancient buffers knock-
ing aronnd who will rake their hats off —to
the memory of Alary Jane Hill who kept the
Royal in Aludgee long years agone.
* * * *
Mary Jane Hill died years later, dropsical,
and poor, and mostly forgotten; and was fol-
lowed to her grave by the ghost of au old
stableman and the shades of one or two
bygone-time diggers who were fossicking:
about on adjacent abandoned goldfields. And.
years later still, mere came to a responsible
townsman, from some person or persons
unknown, a letter from somewhere abroad
with money in it and a request that a
“stone or something” should be placed over
her grave* “as far as the money went.” And
rho stone stands there to-night.
I have met many Aladame Bong Fongs—
or Alary Jane Hills—in my time (there s
one here, even in this temperance town ot
Leeton), and. thinking of them, womans
selfishness and deceit, her incessant l.vin£-
her mercilessness towards those whom she
considers her and her brutality
(which surpassetli the brutality of man)
towards those she has wronged—all these
things can he forgiven for the sake of hei
mighty, self-sacrificing sympathy aud com-
passion when those qualities, or passions,
are roused. "For she had compassion upon
Hint”!
* * * *
Aladame Bong Fong, Alary Jaue llih, 01
•Aiary Afagdalen—which ?
HENRY LAWSON.


THE UNIVERSAL CAR.
The Only Car
which has
Increased Sales
Every Year for
Nine Years
on its Original
M e r its-
Lightness
Simplicity
Power
Economy
(both in First Cost and Upkeep)
and
Standardisation
REPRESENTATIVES ; ——
N.S.W. Davies & Fehon Motors Ltd., 112 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Queensland— Queensland Motor Agency Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Victoria—Tarrant Motors Pty. Ltd., 104-112 Russell Street, Melbourne.
S. Australia —Duncan & Fraser, Franklin Street, Adelaide,


Avoid
Constipation
by taking
(be « tie
Eoaiaca : >
aoCTcil heal:
rtxtag tie
=ar.T cccc erect? c: *---,-»- <
:> sx:: ti -_br,cat:r_c eftc.
ts; c: it: tcrotts
At: ?r > A ~h><
*-S-- s_
re
?*
- ~ IC O© • ■Z* * T *""*~' ~ ~~- ; -v.- -~ jt
-'rxrne srr ocul iscrif^
FREE TRIAL
BOTTLE.
i>i3i Css-CiCjll Co„ 7
xrc aaaa
Seri-; >- - -,-• j
Mird*
PititSCS
n
I\-5 SI? scld by w. H. Sc-ul.
* i-o, I-?a:e> reeomai-od -
Alima, dcaist, SoaUntaapto*.*
p*r» t}*rcrisQ JJT
IVKQdHO
■SSfiWOH-
-ry
Vr
v>'
.o
THE. GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
GOUT W
Jfc RHEUMATIC PILLS.
The £iin«s Kowir tkat •wuliy
RHPI MATISM 1.0 l T. LLMBAOO,
SCIATIC A iii Ml n ILIK KHEI MA-
TISM.
P*rH» \ ftmSif. Sir* Kafr-
A r-rrc Sv r«s. 1 - a*d -*> P« box -
:' Jt O * u
The BLACK OPAL STORE.
opals, pearls, sapphires.
Specialty Australian Gems
19 Mute? Strert. kftr Hyde Put Sydney.
E. r Ml RPHY. f —yrlT Whlte
c :s Oj*jl MLsi*. FT^pn<i*r-
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
Konini : One B. Kennedy, who immi-
grated from London dr thereabouts years ago to
Bananaland, and returned to illuminate his country-
men on the features of this outlandish continent,
describes in a recent issue of the Bovs' Owk Annual
our best-known northern snake {Chainlightenus aut-
:—
I was out on the ruij one day with an old chum
when he suddenly put spurs to "his horse, turned In
Ir.s -saddle and yelled, ‘-Look out for the beast." and
1 saw a black snake chasing his horse, flattening the
grass as he screwed like lightning after it. How-
ever. horse and rider managed to get on to some
burnt feed, where theif was but little cover, and
the black demon went no further Mv chum had
seen him before, guessed where his hoie was in a
cl mp, and before two weeks had passed shot him
by means of a stealthy stalk. His skin made some
useful belts.
The species is practically extinct now. owing to the
crop of remhtancemen (Anglo/imjvMu-us), which was
its main food, having been very poor of late years.
* * * *
‘‘llinchiubrook": “Boro-Belle" stretches
the alligators a bit when he states (B. 27'4 'l6)
that there are specimens adorning the walls of a
pub. in X.Q. ranging from 2ft. to 25ft. A 16-footer
is the best on view in the place referred to. The
collection, a very fine one, was accumulated by the
well-known rifle-shot Sid Robinson, whom I nominate
as the king alligator-slayer of the continent. His
tally to eate is 256. A 25-fecter is a record breaker.
Some too-class Abes, may be able to enlighten us a*
to the dimensions of “Big Ben," slain in the Fitxrov
River. Rockhampton, in the *7OX Some horse-
thieres say he was near 25ft. from end to end.
A RISTK
COHEN: "Rechel! Don't pat owdt your
[?]oed to be sick."
RACHEL: "O-sh, Ikey, I Won't fall oudt."
COHEN: "No, but year gold [?]ete might."
DOING HER BIT.
BENEVOLENT OLD LADY (to petulant young soldier who is tapping the kerbstone with
his stick ): "Excuse me, but may I lead you across the road?"
“Wandi”: Wedge-tailed eagles are doing
damage this season among lambs in eastern Riverina.
Out West the big bird has always been noted for his
taste for lamb. In other ways, too, Mulyan, the
wedgetail, is an interesting character. He is the
largest and fiercest bird of prey in southern latitudes.
In fact, his total length, owing to a more protracted
tail, is two inches greater than that of the famous
golden eagle of other lands. A giant was killed at
Wooroowoolgem Richmond River (X.S.W.), in Jan.,
1912. It measured Sft. 9in. from tip to tip of
wings, 4rt. lin. from point of beak to tip of tail,
and weighed 1741 b. A lamb has no hope of getting
out of Mulyan» clutches once he gets a grip, an-j
the meat may be carried for miles to the nest. On
account of his short legs (only sin.) and his great
spread of wings (normally
over 7ft.) the wedgetail rises
slowly and with difficulty
from the level ground. The
heavy timber o! which the
family lodge is built is raised
from a flat surface in the
same way as his cargo of
tucker is lifted, by the bird
swcer-i-g across it and clutch-
ing it smartly in his talons.
Sense pieces are obtained
from standing trees by
Mulysr. and his wife, th-
boss ;j\irg oS a dead limb
by butting against it with his
feet S 3! the missos dartirg
! and catching It as it
■alk. The egg delivery is
s' tw-. :
colored and blotched with
mi- ; ish bnme. Over the wide
spaces of the interior the
eagle fellows the shepherds,
m: terers ;.i»» kangaroo hunt
fpi - besiies b-werirg sVj
camp? and homesteads, If
pressed by hr.-ger it will
attack a dog or child as
readily as it well a yocrg
marsupial. In F«K, 190*.
one that bad escaped from its
cage in the Altana- Botanic
Carders seined the young cor
cf the curator of gardens,
flxirg irs talons in the K>b
~=>i IdFs and had to V killed
before the chad coed : V re-
lease; . Northern ard wester-,;
pastoraiis-s are totally ktr-
issed by eagles at iambinc
**■*» One mar at Hiachet-
ce* stance kißed -25©
weeks. At another
place the cook was wont to
**“* iiswrif *y ike kink ocis-ie tV
k!frW AVr - Fo * » he *w;W
°* ““S *■*» *e *ir- *fckk ti*y sa-cv-i
ep: ~as» a p*« ®f SlMt atvut *?r t.--.. '^-i
* ;ii:7 ' 17 «« «* ««H wkiHrt *=™*
tkaSL. Kck i»KS WNii K> ct^ : . i-'I u**
srrssyV
k Kris* esca_y i* *9owo« of
Yancy”: Considering that AustraUa is
Such a horsey country why do vets., quacks and
bloquos persist in throwing colts for castration?
Fight cen months ago I got an alleged surgeon to
operate on a colt of mine. He was accompanied bv
a retime of assistants, and by the time the prad got
op. be looked as though a squad of Hum had dealt
with him. The only man I know in Australia so far
who emasculates withont ropes is Harry Dempsev of
Yacco i X.>.W.). When be takes his coat off'he
hangs it on the neddys head and with the aid of a
switcn does the trick before the colt has time to say
whaffor. A Maorflander I know puts a rope round
•lie exit s cw and slips a mask over the eves. The
rope is off. Does the horse move? hot
him! The blircres has him thoroughly subdued
I anew this is right because this person performed on
a nag for me, not in a yard, bug in a ten-acre
paddock.
TAKING NO CHANCES.
DOCTOR: "Did yam fire him the brandy I
prescribed?"
NURSE: “I eamldm't penmate him to tale a
drop He said he wasn't going to appear
before his Mater with the smell of
drink spon his breath."
"Yamon": There's no doabt about some
s-? 5 - tsiag: their libras wbet swimming. Twice
I hire >ev* t&es it it. First time, it was an old
pci* Ktir carried t-y a food down the Kangaroo
Kv *r i = n> BnagkMa Creek (XYAW.). He was
rekt dewra to the brisket. Again, four
T®wwur s-aris* oeoe .use ashore at Weflocgong from
ta»f ketch CocnsC. wrecked of BeilamhL They were
irccai tie otottaii past redanption. I
V'vw. Ssrttse tty- it d <«wred the piss and the Comet
—ud ciis't re jet sk'k of port!
(Comtimmrd am page 26.)
A LITTLE HIT O’ MUSLIN IN THE EAST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At Piker’s pub. A caravan goes slowly lurchin’ by—•
A snaky, shamblin’, out-o’-focus crawl;
The odor of the camel is, well, just a trifle 'igh—
A smell, in fact, that stretches to the summit of the
sky:
The dust they raise becomes a pungent pall—-
A sweaty, suffocatin', sickly pall.
1 wonder what their burdens are —not ivory or
myrrh,
lint something for a squatter’s love at least.
With loneliness a-promptin’, an’ with longin' for a
spur.
My fervid, futile fancies fly like Billy-oh to 'Er,
My little bit o' muslin in the East—-
’Cross the silence an’ the sand
Of this Gawd-forgotten land
She’s waitin' an’ she’s watchin’ in the East.
Oh, snaky, sneaky, crawlin’,
Lopsided camel team.
You never ’ear Love callin',
Nor dream a lover's dream!
For twelve long months I sweated like a nigger, aye,
au' now
I'm knockin' down a tidy little cheque;
No need to tender reasons, an’ no need to mention
'ow—
Except, maybe, to venture that the climate is a cow,
An' seems to sinde crossways in me neck—
Like bits o' Shed's clinkers in me neck!
An’, after ’Ell in moleskins, Piker’s bar is very cool;
The tucker, after tinned dog, is a feast.
So there's the sum an' substance of the whyfor of a
fod,
Who’s moonin’ ’ere a-dreamia’, on Piker's v'randah-
stool,
Of a little bit o' muslin in the East—
'Cross the mulga aud the mare
Of the camel-trodden ways
She’s waitin', sick with waitin', in the East.
Oh, snake-juke mixed with furies!
Oh, broth of viper's stings!
My peers you are, my juries,
My conquerors, an" kings!
The plans I had to prosper, an’ the promises I made
(An’ Gawd! I meant to keep ’em—every one!)
Before 1 watched the Sydney lights to eastward faint
an’ fade—
Before across my western way the Devil's loop was
laid;
Ere I was down an* out. an' damned, an' done—
Yes, bogged, an' biffed, an' booted, damned, an'
done!
But, then, I didn't know the land that I was cornin'
to,
Nor 'ow a man could grow to be a beast.
I didn't know what 'errors lay beyond the dry Barooo.
Xor what the solitudes will drive a wanderer to do —
Despite a bit o' muslin in the East;
Despite ’er fond good-byes.
An' the love-light in ’er eyes
(I wonder are they gaiin' from the East *).
Ah. Barooo Hot, corrodin'
The blood within me veins,
Yours is the Devil's codin'—
Without the Devil's brains!
The Sunset Siren's Hi's are red, an', eh! 'er soft
deceits
Are like unto Bush 'oraey dripped on silk.
Au’, oh, 'er ample bosom most voluptuously greets
The starvin' gate of 'im whose 'cart the world-ol j
eanker eats—
What though ,r breast shall know net mother's
milk;
No white an' warm Madonna mother's milk.
’Kr ewes are like twin stars a-ffame. but. eh! their
ibrscirg lights
In mine make no responses—ant the least!
Let old Merino k:ss "er through the 'ot, impassioned
nights
I osdy see. what time the twain aehreve Old F.-dly's
fftgfcss.
A little bit o' muslin in {he East!
I am deaf an' 1 am blind
Save to what I left he'icd—
A little bit o' muslin in the East!
Oh, bosom 'ot an’ 'earin',
Oh, warm arms that eotmt,
I pass you. still believin'
In all tksss pure an' sweet!
Oh, tkt ghts that tear my 'eart-strings, tis»: set
my brain on fere.
Oh, trudges through the sand in' through the scrub
B. wml the .irisst dead man's bores, the furthest
seven-wire—
Oh. ‘ivett of the 'oaeeLss an' the goal oi ty desire:
The gleamin', glarin' twv of Piker's pub—
TV cheerin', leerin' root of Piker's petv
cteh-tvceh \vt of mtseor. of "u rger a*' of thirst;
Oh. mvtvty of festival an' feast:
Oh. opia's that were Vpelecs yet insist cut hum the
ferst.
TV\v MM me with that menwey —the wuer'uliest a*'
worst:
That little bit o’ muslin in the East—
Gawd in ’Eaven, keep from me
That ’eart-breakfn’ memoiy—•
Gawd, keep it, keep it, keep it in the East!
Oh, Gawd! the memories grievin',
The kiss be’ind the door,
An’ silken shoelets weavin'
Waltz patterns on the floor!
Indoors the Painted Princess is a-strummin’ on the
keys—
A dreamy, drowsy somethin’ out o' toon.
But, oh, it fells of tender trysts beside the silver seas
(Oh! stop its ’auntin’ sweetness if you'd set my 'cart
at ease,
An' blot away that eastern lover's moon—
Mine an’ that bit o’ muslin’s eastern m00n!)....
There's someone standin’ treat for a11....Ye5, Sadie,
mine's a rum :
It's poison—but it's anodyne, at least.
So strum, O Painted Princess, since you're paid to
sing an’ strum;
Maybe, your toons will sort o’ cheer some souls to
Kingdom Come,
An’ blur that bit o' muslin in the East—
Blur Memory till it fades
M ith the substance an’ the shades
Of all the things that matter in the East!
Oh. grinnin’ skills an’ dry bones
M here thirst an' 'unger bar,
I wish that you were my bones
Instead of whose they are!
BEYOND THE SUNSET.
R. J. CASSIDY.


What Eminent Hen say about
1195
SJtoITUD
TRADE/ MARA
ONE PINT FINEST
ler e
COUGH A^DCOLDRig
a . c h
SVo
n Ev
The Great Money=saving Remedy for
COUCHS, COLDS, CATARRH,
and other Chest and Throat Troubles.
Extracts from a few of many letters received:
Slit RIDER HAGGARD, the famous novelist: “It may interest you to know
that I am taking: Hean’s Essence with me on my retuvn journey to,
England, where I shall he pleased to bring its merits under the notice of
my friends.”
SIR. GRAHAM MOFFAT, the celebrated Scottish playwright and actor: “For
two or three nights my throat was very husky as the result of contracting
a cold; but after using Hean’s Essence I experienced great relief. Tlie
hoarseness disappeared, and I was able to speak without the slightest
, discomfort.”
MR. PETER DAWSON, the world-renowned singer: “I am glad to say that a
few doses of Dean’s Essence succeeded in completely dispelling a cold that
had troubled me for several weeks.”
MR, FRANK ELLIOTT, the Royal player from Lane, London: “The
fact that Hean’s Essence enables me to go through a heavy part each
night without any semblance of tiiroat weariness or relaxation of the vocal
chords convinces me that your preparation is worthy of the highest
commendation.”
HEANS ESSENCE
is not only of the highest medicinal value, but its economy, places it within the reach of every
household. A. bottle, added to water and sweetening, produces a pint of the ready-to-use mixture,
which is praised by so many eminent people, as well as by thousands of parents and other users
throughout Australia. A pint of ordinary remedies put up in a lot of little bottles would cost
anything from 12s. to a couple of guineas. Hean’s Essence costs only 2s. (by post 2/3). But
the price is only a secondary consideration; it is the quick-relief-giving properties of HEAN’S
ESSENCE that have made it the standard family remedy for chest and throat troubles.
Note how the maker’s name is spelt. H-E-A-N—only four letters—pronounced HEEN. It
is important you should remember this when asking for HEAN’S ESSENCE, which is obtainable
from chemists and stores everywhere; or from G. W. HEAN, Chemist, 178 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Comer Swanston & Bourke Streets,
MELBOURNE.
IBS
o
n nr
Sit?
/ \
sj|
Of
snip!
■> i
Leviathan-Tailored Suits
are Renowned for their Dis-
i *
tinctive Cut and Fine Finish
The very best Materials to be bought
in England and Australia —Perfect
Styling and Scientific Cutting—are
combined to make Leviathan Suits so
good and so famous.
It matters not what part of Australia
you may live —for you can order ybur
Suit hy Post, and receive the same
Distinctive Out and Fine Finish as
our ni’any City Customers,
Write Now for Free Patterns, tape and Chari-
Sac Suits
to Order
63 -, 84/-, 105/-
Freight Paid to any part of Australia.
WOOLCROWERS AND CONTRACTORS
Here is a Shearing-machine Worth Considering'
It is as far ahead of other makes and types as the motor-car of to-day
is ahead of a 1900 model.
This Cooper New Improved Belt-Driven
Shearing-machine
is making new shearing-machine history.
From Contractor to Contractor —from one Neighbor to another—its reputation has been spread throughout
Australia.
It is so thoroughly practical and so simple in construction, that it immediately commends itself to anyone who
has Sheep to shear.
There are no friction wheels to wear flat—make a noise or lose power.
No special adjustments or complications of any description. It is fitted with our patented fast and loose
pulley arrangement, which gives -a solid, silent, positive drive right along. Anyone can erect it, and, once
up, the overhead gear requires no further attention.
Each Machine is fitted with the Cooper Air-
cooled Handpiece, which is now pronounced by
Contractors and Shearers everywhere as the
Coolest and Lightest Running, and the Most
Economical Handpiece made.
For Shearing heavy-woolled, sandy
Sheep, this Handpiece has no equal.
A Plant of these Machines will cost
you 25 per cent, less in the first place
than any other make, and will save you
50 per cent, in cost of upkeep after-
wards.
Sold on an unconditional guarantee of
complete satisfaction or money
refunded.
IT you have'Sheep to shear, let us send you our Catalogue, describing this Plant in detail, with an
Estimate on a Complete Plant to suit your requirements. WHITE TO-I>A\ .
roOPER
ICt A C«ICCPY Si
ENGINEERING CO. LIMITED,
134 Sussex Street, SYDNEY,
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
or


FEED
BUTTER FAT TEST,
Won by a Pen of Meggitt Linseed
Oil Meal fed calves, which won
everything at Kingaroy Show, 1916.
These calves, owned by Mr. H. McD. Living-
stone, Kingaroy, besides securing Ist, 2nd and
3rd in The Butter Fat Test, also secured seven
other first prizes. The skilled judge, Mr.
Holes, said they would win at Sydney.
Full particulars by writing
MEGGITT LTD., Linseed Oil Meal
Manufacturers, PARRAMATTA,
N.S.W.
ADD TO STEWS
a little Bisto which
thickens, colours and
salts them saves
bothering with flour,
and gives a fine rich
colour. Bisto makes
splendid gravy.
is
•* Everything
but the meat."
AH Grocers. In Tins. Made by CEREBOS, Ltd.
A Wonderful
Offers—=
The hoot here illustrated is one you know well bv sight—the
boot worn by members of the Expeditionary Forces. VVe are mak-
ing them in thousands to the order of the- Government, who have
an inspector to examine and pass every pair before delivery is taken.
Some pairs, when finished, fail to pass him —not for any fault that
ieail\ affects their wear or comfort, but for such minute defects as
one boot being as little as one-eighth of an inch higher at the hack
tluui the other ; one slug being out of place; or the heel not being
sufficiently even to pass the spirit-level test. ‘
Nothing else is wrong with the rejects
They’re SOLID LEATHER THROUGHOUT,
are built to withstand the toughest usa°-e to
give the MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF COM-
FORT TO THE WEARER, .and are GUAR-
ANTEED to do so.
WRITE NOW FOR A PAIR. Thev're
ideal for country and other hard wear, and
for the money—l 4 '6, carriage paid—are
POSITIt ELY THE GREATEST BOOT
AALUE EVER OFFERED.
Gd. Exchange must be added to Country
Cheques.
14:6
Carriage
Paid.
50 McKean Street, North Fitzroy,
Victoria.
“Munjuburra” : This ought to nearly wind
up one timber argument. It is from Modern
Mechanics (U.S.A.), of March, 1915: —
One of the most remarkable of the many hard-
woods of Australia is yati. According to some,
this tree apparently furnishes the strongest timber
known. Its average tensile strength is twenty-four
thousand pounds to the square inch, equal that of
cad-iron. Many specimens are even stronger, and
one was tested up to seventeen and one-half tons to
the square inch, a tensile strength equal to that of
wrought iron. The tree sometimes attains a height
of one hundred feet, and is often more than two
and one-half feet in diameter.
But, after all, this is only the second hardest tree
in the Commonwealth. No. 1 is the celebrated hard-
wood mentioned in The Bulletin some time ago
as being impossible to fell. It has to be melted down.
“A.C.T.” : What was it, again, about the
Australian race deteriorating? On Tuesday test I
met a boy 10 years old driving a mare and foal along
the road. He had left home on the previous Satur-
day and ridden from Upper Boomley to Bomera
(N.S.W.), a distance of 73 miles. Next day he rode
only nine miles. On the Monday afternoon he went
out and got the mare and foal from a paddock and
came part of the way back, doing a trifle of 27
miles. When 1 met him on Tuesday he had already
covered 36 miles, and was going to do 46 that day
and get home on Wednesday morning.
“Flinderino” : I cannot enlighten “Corio”
(B. 11/5/’l6) as to the record number of fencing
posts split from one tree in Australia, but for palings
1 think the cake goes to a Dandenoiig Range (Vic.)
vegetable. It split into 10,000 6ft. palings, worth
about £BO at the railway siding.
■**-*•*
“Ilassan”: The dog, in spite of all you
hear about his noble qualities, is the prize snob of
the animal kingdom, and the best-brought-up dog is
the worst snob. When a nicely-dressed insurance
agent with a large brass watch-chain comes confi-
dently rapping upon the front door, Towser trots
round to the front of the house and barks with a
sort of apologetic “I’ve-got-to-old-chap” air until
the door is opened. When the grocer comes round
in his shirt-sleeves, the hound is a good deal more
demonstrative, but he recognises that the trousers
are not bad ones, and confines his remarks to the
strict bounds of praiseworthy suspicion, to show the
cook that he’s always on duty. Then comes the
bottle-oh, or the council scavenger. Ye gods! What
frothing at the mouth, what gleaming tusks, what
yells of rage! He has to be pulled away by the
scruff of his neck and chained up, or you stand
to lose quite a hundred times his value for torn
pants and devoured calf. Yet, if the bottle-oh
came clad in a dress suit, the insurance person in
frayed pants and a broken hat without the brass
chain, the honest creature would fawn upon the
former and cat the latter. It is all a matter of
clothes with the dog.
A BUSTED ILLUSION.
“My, what'a brave man you must hare been to get all those medals and badges!”
"Oh, I dunno. They was on the coat when I got it.”
“Big Tarwin” : Is 143 split posts a record
from a stringy-bark ? No. Two hundred is com-
mon in North Queensland. I have known 56 tran-
soms 7ft. 6in. x 9in. x 4lin. to be cut out of one
N.Q. stringybark. A bald-headed creditor of mine liv-
ing at Dumbalk, S. Gippsland (Vic.), got 60 chains
of post and picket fence out of one tree. With
posts 12ft. apart and a picket every six inches you
can work it out for yourself.
A USEFUL HINT.
CUSTOMER: “I know how you could sell
more beer.”
BUNG: “Indeed! How?”
CUSTOMER (darkly): "Give less froth.”
“Montalex”: The of the auto-
matic pistol which “Bad Australian” refers to (B.
4/5/’l6) occurs only with cheap makes. A good
auto., in good hands, is no more likely to stick
the user up than the best revolver. At a test I
fired 1000 rounds from a police-pattern Browning—
cleaning once, after the 500 th —and I did not have
a hitch. And here is what the U.S. Military Com-
mission (1911) reported: “The auto-pistol far sur-
passes the service-revolver in safety, rapidity, accu-
racy and immunity from break-down. In the
rapidity-test 1000 rounds were fired in 38 minutes,
and in the endurance test 6000 rounds were fired
continuously, cleaning after every 1000. No stop-
page from misfire, jambing, breakage or any other
cause. Pistol still performing perfectly. As a
final test, 10,000 cartridges were fired from one
pistol, and then, without cleaning, seven shots at
25 yards were placed consecutively within a 2-inch
bull. We strongly recommend the purchase of
100,000 of these pistols to begin with.”
“Axehandle”: Ono word and then Amen.
A few years back one of the Illawarra co.’s boats,
anxious to come overland to Sydney from Eden,
stuck on the rocks too far seaward to get a line per
rocket or any other apparatus to the shore. The
skipper didn't waste time arguing whether pigs com-
mit suicide when swimming, but promptly hitched
a bowline to the stern of a hog, gave the beast his
blessing, booted it overboard and roared : “Home, you
blanky son of a Hun.” The squealer got ashore
all right, and the onlookers secured the line and
hauled a hawser from the stranded steamer. By
that means every soul was safely landed. I think
the vessel was the Ivameruka. Dunno the pig’s
name, Gott strafe him !
“Pick”: For a west-o'-the-mountains
(N.S.W.) red gum, “Corio’s” tree (B. 11/5/’l6) did
well to shed 143 posts, if they weren’t splinters; but
on the coast and southern slopes of the Monaro split-
ters would expect that yield from a sapling. In
those wonderfully-wooded regions sticks averaging 6ft.
in diameter for 40ft. upwards are common, and many ■
are larger. A free, back-splitting tree of those
dimensions, making ample allowance for heart and
wastage, would run out 308 7ft. posts, 9in. x 3in.
at the butt. At the base of Mount Dromedary, on
the South Coast, a spotted gum that I had a wedge
in splitting provided all the 12ft. slabs for a 40ft.
x 18't. stable, and then there remained sufficient of
the barrel to wall in with 4ft. slabs a piggery 20yds.
square.
“Viking”: Here, tell us before it is too
late! The cochineal insect was imported to Queens-
land by Dr. Jean White in 1914. Placed in prickly
pear it was supposed to kill the plants relentlessly.
So far, the insects have justified themselves to a
certain extent, having progressed for a fair distance
from their original home, leaving a trail of black,
dead pear. But now someone has volunteered the
information that the cochineal insect will eat cab-
bages, cauliflowers and every other garden vegetable.
If it will, we'd better hurry up and decide whether
we’ll put up with the devil we know rather than
encourage the Nick we don't.
“Silas Snell” : My friend Cutt. of Gipps-
land, having occasion to sequestrate W. Goat, locked
him in a stout outhouse over night. Shortly after
daybreak it was noticed that he had rejoined his
harem on the stony slopes. The outhouse was bat-
tered open. Repairs were effected, and again Willie
was incarcerated. Once again he was found out of
bounds, and examination disclosed the fact that the
house-breaking had been done from without. New
slabs were put in, William was returned to durance
vile, and a watch was kept, Cutt suspecting a pes-
tiferous neighbor whom he had had occasion to
throw into the creek. After an hour or so Wil-
helm’s lady friends began to drift in the direction
of the outhouse. Arrived there the Queen of the
Harem spoke some few brief interrogations at a
crack. William replied tersely. Then the Nam
got to work. . They went round the outhouse, test-
ing it with their heads. There were no slackers,
every Nan butted in. Presently one elderly dame
let it be known that she had touched the spot.
It certainly was the weakest section of the structure.
Here all the goats gathered, and the assault on
Verdun was begun in close formation. As only four
goats could hit the snot simultaneously four rushed
it, then a second four. The fifth dash carried the
sap-head, the outhouse burst, and the sovereign lord
of the herd stepped out through the aperture and
joined the ladies. There were no expressions of
thanks, no congratulations. He just headed the pro-
cession. Obviously he had taken it for granted that
love, which laughs at locksmiths, would find a way.
Loo Lear : Now. then. ll, n v f ar can
a .'oo leap in one bound? I'll hand over the <* jn *
any truthful gentleman who can get his hooper !
do more than 31ft. on level ground. X 0 wind.
P.A.C. ’: I was bred and brought up j n
the bush, but have never come across a more extraor-
dinary instance of adaptability to circumstances on
the part of animal life than obtains at the 15-mih
dam on the Warrego (Q.) River, about nine miles
above Ford’s Bridge. The water in this dam has
been completely dried up for the last three months
and the bed is only a circular hole of liquid mini
about 3ft. to 4ft. deep and 6ft. in diameter Yet
it is literally filled with living turtle of ail sizes
from the scarred old warrior of perhaps 100 years of
age to the baby no larger than a florin. These
shellbacks have apparently no means of obtaining a j r
except when they make their nightly perambulations
evidences of which may be seen in the muddy trails
on the sides of the hole. When stirred up with a
stick there is considerable movement in the board-
ing-house, and a rasping, rumbling noise, caused by
the hard cases down below rubbing together. There
must be several dozen lodgers. I should not be
surprised if there were several score. lias anv
bushman seen a parallel case, and, if so, can he teil
me how these reptiles exist without air for at least
i 2 hours at a time ?
* * * *
“Garbut” : “Bareoo’s” blacks(B. 18/5/16)
who turned up their facial peninsulas at curlew
must have been much more particular than the
crowd to whom I was a close neighbor for years
They’d stop at nothing with feathers on. The
Binghi who acted as retriever for me when duck-
shooting regularly took home both curlews and
plovers to his gin, who made as much fuss over
them as a Yankee missioner over the collection-box.
* * * *
“Nick Bottom”: Another timber indigen-
ous to the subtropical scrubs of the East Coast that
has yet to come into its own is the cudgera, or, as
it is oftener called, cudgery. The other day I saw
a house in course of reconstruction. It had been
built of teak 30 years ago. and was supposed to be
lined with pine; but the carpenter had slipped in
several pieces of cudgera. The pine had been
entirely destroyed by white ants, but the cudgera
was as good as when it left the saw-bench. If any
further evidence as to its white-ant-resisting powers
is needed let me cite the case of my own brain-
polishing studio. The records show that it was
built 24 years ago, and that on one occasion the
termites destroyed a bookpress, and, on another,
digested the school library. Many of the books
still bear traces of this second invasion. The build-
ing itself is of Australian teak, lined with cudgera,
and its timbers, with the exception of the window
headings, which are of pine, seem good for another
half-century.
* * * *
“Spinnaker” : This goes down on the big-
shout list. We were on the Lady Betty mine,
Niagara (W.A.), when a party of four struck the
town. The.v had just sold out their show, Edjudina
way, for £6OOO, and were on the road to break the
news to mother. They paid the bellman £5 to go
around the leases and ring the boys up. Three
hundred responded with enthusiasm. Niagara in
those days had a pub on each of four corners facing,
and in those pious kiosks we drank success at a
bob a time to the noble-hearted heroes.
RIDICULOUS.
HAMFAT: “Then, my dear, they wanted to
double me, and I left."
SHE: “Mercy! I should think so — you're
quite big enough already.”
“F.I-IIR.” : The rabbit soon accustoms him-
self to altered conditions. Here in New England
(N.S.W.), where rock too often takes the place of
soil, bunny doesn't burrow, but makes a nest as
the hare does. He and the missus reserve accommo-
dation iri hollow logs for their frequent progeny
making a lovely thirty-bob of grass and fur.


• H
a
j
m
m
N\\N^V\s\
\\x\
fm
\ i'
w
m
%
$
mimiiil
*k/ k~» y
LJ
m
j w
i.
i
i)li-l>M,u\\nmh l u>»( )iliiiii 1 ■ .»\\\i m i\i IvjimuTm
i
n
M
u-
-10
snn
W'H
s
in'Mllil
WM
ttWblJ
ms
iiwl
iil
IPII
m
\A
*smi
i'ii»
\ \IJJ‘
3
3
OJ
'l*
e/»
i
CSjf
si
\ k
V.
JJ Modern Brewery Series J\^3
This Illustration shows a portion of the New Kent Brewery,
looking from Carlton Street. The base of Engine-room Smoke-
stack —a familiar Sydney landmark —may be seen in the upper
left-hand corner of the drawing. Each room in the building is
fitted with doors that close hermetically, thus preserving the new
“Light Crystal Ale” from atmospheric contami-
nation. You will taste the difference in the flavor.
*
o
o
o
fr
1
at
t
o
A
00
■Hfii
'*■/><
003
in
II
ALE
Try a bottle to-night
in your own home .
Tooth's
Ti
l
«Ale


School Children
are very liable to catch
cold. They have to
go in all weathers
often having to sit in
school with wet feet. Apart from this, they are always face to
face with the risk from infection —especially when epidemics of
Whooping Cough, Measles, Diphtheria, Influenza, etc., are about.
Mothers of School Boys and Girls however can be always FREE
of ANXIETY if they have a bottle of
IT 9 Bronchitis
Hearne s = cure =
in tlie house, as one dose of this Medicine at the
first indication of a “cold will at once “nip in the
bud’ what might otherwise prove to be a serious
illness. Cork the bottle up—tke vest will keep.
For Coughs, Croup,
Colds on the Chest
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION.
From all CHEMISTS and STORES.
W. G. HEARNE & CO. Ltd.,
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Sydney, N.S.YV., Wellington, N.Z.
2/6
4/6
Double
Size
fL
A .
U'!.
W
s\-'X
*
r J 1
fz iss**— 1
S
/i
/
a
v
&
i
Jf
12.
'
“Harrison O.” : I am sick of that “Little
<Jrey Home in the West,” and "My H ame
’Mid th' Heather” has long been a pest, so
I’m anxious to know why the singer’ of
songs, no matter, it seems, to wliat class lie
belongs, should always be ready to holler
in praise of houses ’twould be "more judi-
cious to raze. They warble of second-rate
cottages solely; that home can’t be home-
like unless it is lowly (and probably some-
what insanit'ry too) is the notion bizarre
of the song-singing crew. “A little
thatched cot” may not be without points,
though it must be conducive to aches in the
joints, and to live in a place of the kind
would, I think, drive even the mildest of
tenors to drink. A soprano would suffer
from pains in the chest if her residence
were but “a tumble-down nest”—be it ever
so grey—in the east or the west. When
homes are the sort councils ought to con-
demn I hate to hear vocalists singing of
them; and the point that I’m anxious to
stress is just this: Love, constancy, kind-
ness and conjugal bliss, and similar things,
have been known to abound in a house that
was built in a nice piece of ground; and
no matter how modern, commodious and
neat a dwelling may be —even though in a
street where the drains are all right and
tin' rents rather high—its name may bring
tears into somebody’s eye! Which but
proves (and the object achieves of these
lines) that, e’en though a good architect
made the designs, and it’s been not a sub-
ject of song or of “pome,” and is not over-
"humble” it still may be home.
“Ilarcusian”: Paul Dufault, the French-
Canadian tenor, says that whilst America
has gained commercially by the war, the
boom has not done the artist any good. Con-
cert and operatic people rushed the country,
the market became overstocked and fees
began to fall. “Oh, it was terrible, I tell
you !” says the ’postle Paul. “What would
you? I have French prima-donnas coming
to me —they could not spik English—and
say, ‘Oh, please, M’sie Dufault, get me
something to do —anything to do. Look!
lam a great artist! You hear me sing !’
And they would sing beautifully; they were
great artists, and they were starving, hut
there was nothing to be done—-it was what
you call —um —um —ah, yes, the glut!”
“Stargazer”: How many hundreds of
superlatively excellent pupils does Melba
turn out in the course of a year? If
a girl with a nice voice gets an engage-
ment, she is advertised far and wide as
Melba’s favorite pupil. If a damsel sings
with effect at social functions, to Melba is
the praise. The fact is that Madame has
only to look at an aspiring warbler through
a lorgnette from 30 paces to convert the
songstress into a personally-conducted pro-
duct. Margaret Jewel was assiduously
trained by Melbourne’s most successful
voice-polisher, Anne ’Williams, and Anne
Williams was credited with her Conserva-
torium successes. But in her advt. Margaret
Jewel is now a Melba pupil. Anne Wil-
liams seems to be a particularly patient
sufferer in this respect.
According to a Yankee yarn Bayard
Veiller made £50,000 out of “Within the
Law.”
“Glen Huntly”: The Firm claims credit
for featuring a patriotic song made in Aus-
tralia in “So Long, Letty” ; but local song-
writers arc cautioned not to- become too
optimistic. The ditty was knocked together
on the premises by a J.C.W. press agent
and an orchestra conductor, and is a deplor-
able accident. If the firm wants Australian
songs, why not ask a professional versifier
to do them? If it wants a scenic set painted
it doesn’t give the job to its stipendiary
puff-paragraphist. At least three front-rank
Australian verse-writers —Edward Dyson,
Jack Barr and Guy Innes—have written
good patriotic rhymes that have been set
to music, and J.C.W. has shown no disposi-
tion to use them ; but a press agent can rush
in where professional verse-writers may not
tread.
“Eddyson” recalls a friend in the show
business:—•
True animal trainers are born, not made.
McKewan was a trainer by instinct. Without some
living creature to operate upon he was as miserable
as a damp cat. Being a hatter, and enjoying a
fair income from the saw-millers and case-makers
who were clearing his land for him, Mac, at the
time I knew him, had much leisure for experiment.
He had just failed in a long and patient effort to
school cheesemites, and had abandoned mites for
blackfish. “The worst of them jumpers,” said
McKewan, “yeh no sooner get ’em recollectin’ a idear
than you comes along one mornin’ ’n’ finds ’em some-
think else. Yiv got no chanet teachin’ a hanimal
what's a hi nsec’ one day and a bur-rd the next.
These ’ere blaekfishes I’m teachin’ t’ dance a sort iv
ballet.” Mac took up an old violin, and scraped a
few bars, and the fish certainly did fall into a kind
of drill, and circle with some sort of method. ‘ I
reckon they’ll come out all right,” McKewan con-
tinued with pride, ‘‘more particular that fat one
with the spots. I’ll have that feller doin’ a jig
afore I’ve done with him if he holds out; but he »
got the itch. Ordinary they don’t last long with
the itch. Me dog is trained, ’n’ I got a trained
magpie ’n’ a trained cockatoo. I’ve trained kan-
garoos, ’n’ parrots, ’n’ rabbits, bandicoots, ’n’ ’pos-
sums, ’n’ I had a trained wombat once. Wombats 1=
difficult. Suspicious they are. They got no trust
in no one. Worse ’n’ a Scotch storekeeper wombats
is. But what I'd like is a lion. S’pose you could' l t
put me in the way of a lion secon’hand ? Or a tiger.
I cud take to a tiger.” McKewan was growing
almost dreamy. “There’s somethin’ in a tiger,
once tried a croekerdile, but he died on me. Croekei-
diles is very delikit. Yes, a tiger ’d be very ’omel.'.
I suppose there is shops up Melbin where a man
might buy a tiger? I’d have a tiger sweet as a
pink rabbit’s kitten in two months. Knock in
round town a lot you might hear iv a tiger gom
cheap. A sick one, p'raps. I'd nurse him room •
It’s pretty rough on a bloke what's got a taste
tigers havin’ t’ take on blackfish an’ cheesemites.
I promised McKewan that I would keep my eye open,
and if a tiger came on the market I would let hnn
know. Do you remember the case of a man fine
for being illegally on the premises of the late Fitz-
geralds’ Circus after trading hours? He was caugi
monkeying with one of the cages, and was hande
over to the police. That was rny friend McKewan.
He was trying to steal a tiger.
Business. Robbery, etc.
“Kopje”: I suggest to “D.F.” (B.
11/5/T6) that his remarks on storing apples
in dugouts be mounted and placed in Hobart
Museum. Kangaroo Valley is justly noted
for long-keeping apples, and knows all about
Bealey’s underground-apple store, blit here’s
the acid: with hardly an exception, the
growers up that way run their late apples
into the local cold-storage warehouse. Apple
sheds hate their uses, but for long storage
they are rapidly padsing out. A few’ years
hence “D.F.” will be sending along their
epitaphs. Sufficient cold storage of the right
kind of apples will eventually deal tlie knock-
out to the American imports. A really’ pro-
tective tariff might hasten it, and help to
stop that particular leak in the caslibox.
Incidentally, it would also protect tbe grower
from unsuspected pests at present liable to
arrive any day under tlie neutral flag.
“Gustavus Gravelpit” reports an outbreak
of crime
Melbourne witnessed an unusual sight one after-
noon last week. A temerarious hawker had anchored
a harrow-load of fresh fish outside one of the most
popular picture-palaces in Bourke-street and was
doing a roaring trade. Business at the movie-house
was suspended; traffic was hung up while the fish-
starved populace pressed forward to secure a newly-
caught flounder or a not-too-dead schnapper. In
the midst of the excitement —I don't know whether
the Dago ring telephoned them —a posse of John Hops
appeared and the rising was suppressed. “Fish O"
and his harrow were directed into a side street,
followed by the determined remnant of the crowd
still intent on blewing its picture money. Although
I got trodden on in the crush, I managed to secure
a brace of good bream for tea before the hawker
sold out. When 1 left with my parcel, the Johns
were still moving the barrow on and feeling for
their handcuffs. 1 haven’t seen “Fish O ’ since.
I suspect he was hanged, drawn and quartered in
secret at sundown. But I shall never forget the
sweet taste of his bream and the ffact that I got
them for half the price I pay the Dagoes.
“Marius”: Algaroba or keawe (“.T.G..” B.
25/5/TO) is known by various names, such
as locust bean, mezquit tree, Carob bean and
St. John’s bread of the Mediterranean, where
it is sold as a sweet. There is a specimen
growing in the Kamerunga State nursery,
Cairns (Q.). The maximum height of the
plant is about 40ft., and its honey-bearing
blossoms are accountable for tlie prosperity
of tbe bee-farming industry in Hawaii.
Algaroba will thrive where oranges will grow,
and without protection in winter, but at pre-
sent it tails on to our long procession of
neglected assets, such as vanilla, pawpaw
juice, cotton and by-products, mangrove and
other tanning barks which are indigenous.
The gum resembles gum tragaeanth in ap-
pearance, and is used as a thickening agent
in tlie manufactuer of calico. Gum tragasol,
which has been on the market for some time,
is manufactured from the bean, and is said
to be in growing demand as a substitute for
gum tragaeanth.
“Haka”: At the Central Otago (M.L.)
stock sales two lots of twins from Border
Leicester ewes were knocked down at 395.
per head. The fleeces from the two mothers
averaged 175., so the gross return to the
owner was £4 15s. per sheep. The old
ladies were submitted to auction and changed
bands at £2 per head.
When the war began the half-century-old
iron barque Antiope was peacefully ending
her days as a coal hulk at Wellington
(M.L.). But the demand for ships of any
and every kind has dragged her out on the
high seas again, and she is in the running
between Maoriland and Australia. The old
hooker has seen some lively times. She
used to do the round trip from London to
Australia and back, and then ran to
South America for a while. During the
Russo-Japanese war she tried some blockade-
running, and was seized by the Japs, who
sold her as a prize to American buyers.
Officers’ wives eat puddens and pies, and
tbe rank and file don’t matter. At a meet-
ing of one of the Relief Committees the
other day it was proposed to raise tbe salar-
ies of the typists from 15s. to £1 per week.
The motion was carried, there being only
one dissenting foiee. Of course it belonged
to the sleekest tabby present.
Chateau Tanunda, Limited, one of the
biggest South Aus. winemaking concerns, has
told its shareholders that the recent big sales
of wine and brandy were made under pres-
sure from the mortgagees (Elder, Smith ancl
Co.), and that the Chateau building and
plant has been sold to Seppelt and Sons,
Limited. There are -a lot of other proper-
ties, including a distillery at Renrnark, and
a cfedit balance is hoped for. Voluntary
liquidation may be considered later.
“Bill”: I’ve just got this from a son of
the Prophet in lsmailia who lias the nerve to
style himself “English Grocery ’:
lsmailia, 9/4/'l6.
You wrote as to send you many things, which we
don’t have several rfumber. We send you only the
things which we have in jfjfbr chop. We much pray
to you to have the pleasu* to send as so soon some
more money because we lun’e need those da vs.
Your faithful
-i (Sgd.) N. Papastratis.
English Grocery.
“Mopoke” : From two colonies of bees, in
an apiary situated on the Blue Blocks, \\ im-
mera country (Vic.), I extracted during the
lmney-flow of 1908 and 1909 (a Period of
live months) 12001 b. of honey, or 0301 b. per
colonv. This beats ll.' L. Jones’s record L>y
781 b. Incidentally, a queen supplied by-
Jones was in charge of one of the colonies.
During the same season my apiary, consist-
ing of one hundred colonies, averaged oOOlb.
extracted honey per colony.
* * * *
“Sniktaw” : “Pick.” digging up another of
Wilhelm’s botanical finds, asks for informa-
tion re burrawang. From tflje leaves of the
plant a sort of pulu. a line, silky vegetable
wool, is obtained. The stuff is difficult to
collect, but if the fronds are cut and left in
the sun and w T ind for a few days, the pulu
conies off readily and is often found loose on
the ground. In. some districts it is plentiful
enough for young Billjim to go and collect
for mother, who stuffs it into mattresses and
pillows. Fritz is too wise a bird to waste it
that way, and he is most likely distributing
it in the form of nitro-cellulose per medium
of Jack Johnsons. The burrawang nut, by
the way, is much appreciated by black bro-
ther, and is said to give an arrowroot of
very good quality.
“Wangalee” : Re tlie warning yell of “G. A.
Morehouse,” who bought a cottage near Syd-
ney’, paid a deposit, didn’t re-insure, and
(thinking the vendor’s policy held good) lost
everything through fire, the office disclaiming
liability. The Post Office Hotel and adjoin-
ing buildings at Cloneurry (Q.) were burnt
some two years ago. The owner, a recent
purchaser, had neglected to have the insur-
ance policy transferred and endorsed,
although the sale included the premium for
tbe unexpired portion of the insurance. The
insurance co. concerned in course of time
paid that portion of the claim which it had
not re-insured, and thereby received a great
advertisement. The underwriting cos. with
which it had re-insured eventually eatae up
to the scratch, too, probably’ fearing litigation
and publicity. I think “G.A.M.” might also
have received an ex gratia payment from the
insurance people had he set to work the right
way and showed the co. that it would be the
gainer in business by it.
“Edo”: In Westralia the Federal Food
Prices Commission ordered the 21b. loaf to
be 4d. over the counter, or 4M. off tlie cart.
During the investigation several Ivalgoorlie
bakers swore that the cost of delivery was
considerably over Id. per loaf, and that there
was much loss in selling at sd. over the
counter and 6d. at the cart. Directly the
new prices were fixed, however, it was dis-
covered that it paid to transport at id. per
loaf. Anyway, the shops and bakehouses re-
fused to sell at 4d. while carts could get 4/)d.
It goes to prove that a tradex - ’s evidence
before a Royal or other Commission won’t
be of much value until somebody is helped to
tlu-ee years for perjury.
* * * *
“F.N.”: The Victorian Department of
Forests is going to plant 1300 acres of Crown
lands with hardwoods, mostly eucalypts, and
3600 acres with softwoods—-pine and fir.
Timber-expert Vincent Trapp, in a high-
pressure protest against the planting of
pines, declared the other day that “we have
robbed the future generation of tlie eucalypt,
and are paying it back in pinus insignis —-
in plain language, we have stolen a sovereign
from them and are going to pay back with
a halfpenny.” Tbe statement isn’t ‘far out.
Tlie low prices received by those who now
have pine trees for sale, as well as the recent
tests made at tbe Melbourne University’, in-
dicate very plainly that this vegetable is
not what Australia wants.
MY DANDY DAYS ARE DONE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Mv dandy days are. done indeed!
It hardl.y hurts me now
To walk in clothes long gone to seed,
And so to Fate 1 bow.
Perhaps one bows with greater ease
In old pants bagging at the knees.
My legs are straight enough inside
These elbowed pants of mine:
I wonder that I have the hide
To walk in rags that shine,
And tell the world that 1 am “broke”—
A very melancholy joke.
My old straw hat, all weather-stained,
Still roosts upon my brow :
Upon it many clouds have mined,
Yet I can't scrap it now,
Though it is far too old and wrecked
To thatch my one-horse intellect.
My tie is done, but I still wear
The old and faithful thing;
Once for new ties I’d cash to spare
(Alas, it's taken wing).
Yes, ev’rything’s “gone up” but me;
I'm well dug in, as you can see.
My dandy da.vs are gone, and so
No glad eye lights my’ way ;
I am an old insolvent beau
With married bills to pay ;
My spirit’s broken, trampled flat
Else I could never wear this hat.
Small trifles light Debt's dark abyss,
And raise the lost soul's hair,
While serpent debtors strike and hiss
At poor feet bruised and bare;
I’ve just found out —and Conscience squeaks—
“ You fool! You’ve worn odd boots jor weeks!”
Odd boots for weeks! Indeed, old son,
I and my dandy day’s are done!
N.sjv.
UNCERTIFICATED INSOLVENT.
THE UNRELIABILITY OF ATHENS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As we have often remarked, Athens is an unreli-
able source of information, and this news comes
from there.—S. M. Herald.
The whisper at the oyster place,
The rumor at the ice-cream stand,
The news from' one of Athens’ race
Who places peanuts in your hand,
Should never cause you much surprise,
For very often Athens lies.
When Constantine into your ear,
As deftly he removes your plate,
Remarks that Greece will interfere
To foil the Germans, do not rate
The news as some of high emprise,
For very often Athens lies.
As one who’s gone to dine, and dozed
Instead, but paid upon the word
Of Constantine, before lie closed,
Don’t credit everything that’s heard,
I say, through Athens. ’Tis not wise;
For very often Athens lies!
N-S.'K’*
THE UNFED DINER.


B
T-H
Sun for the Whole World!
MAZDA Lamps
BRITISH MADE THROUGHOUT.
With Drawn-wire Filament.
ft
-
******
/
m
/>
V
:•'.>• .
«
r.
0
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE-CITY 3510 (5 lines).
BRISBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.) : Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
— Agents —
“Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
TELEPHONE-CENTRAL 2646, 2647 ; CITY 9579.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock & Co., Ltd., Launceston; Oliver & Oliver, Ltd., MaeQuarie Stree-, Hobart.


4-Cup Egg Frame and
Spoons, pure Silver-plated, em-
bossed border, gilt-lined Cups and
Spoons, 27 /6.
Honey Jar and Spoon, pure
Silver-plated, richly burnished
Frame, Cut Crystal Glass, 12/6.
A
m
S&j
ib&Wr.
S**9
Teapot, pure Silver-plated, hand engraved
and fluted, 32/6.
Sugar Scuttle and Scoop,
pure Silver-plated, “Thistle”
design, 25/-
Nut Disll, pure Silver-plated
•pierced design, complete with two
pairs Nut Cracks, 30/.
Blitter Dish, pure Silver-plated, white
glass lining 1 , complete with Lid and Knife,
Specimen
Tube, pure
Silver-plated
Nickel Silver,
gilt lined,
richly
burnished,
Afternoon Tea stand, comprising handsome Floral China Dish,
Sugar Basin, Cream Jug, pure Silver-plated, highly burnished, gilt
lined. 25 /-
Specimen
Tube, Pure
Silver-plated,
on Nickel Sil-
ver, gilt lined,
richly
burnished,
5/6.
Cheese Dish, pure Silver-plated, hand-
somely engraved, £2/10/-
Presentation Folding Biscuit Box, pure
Silver-plated on Nickel Silver, hand-fluted “Shell”
design, £5/12/6.
Cake Basket, pure Silver-
plated White Metal, handsomely
embossed, 25/-
Serviette Ring,
pure Silver-plated, en-
graved and embossed,
m
l
Luncheon Cruet, pure Sil-
ver-plated, Nickel Silver, Cut
Crystal Bottles, 25 /-
Oak Ciscilit Barrel, pure Silver-
plated Mounts, richly burnished, with
Porcelain Lining, 30/-
807-817 George Street,
A. SAUNDERS,
Opp. Railway Station, Sydney.
Wm-
IMPROVED
Compass
Clynometer
For Taking LEVELS and ANGLES.
Reading inclinations in inches
per yard or degrees.
Invaluable to Prospector, Miner, Geologist,
Engineer ami Squatter.
Strong, Compact. Best lacquer brass,
2iin. dia., Solid Leather Case,
Printed Instructions, POSTED
22 16
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd
189=191 George Street, Brisbane.
TOOTH L CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from—whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough-you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in This by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustr
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Merrie
England, Bd. How to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dr.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art of Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston’s Card
TRiCKsj 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, II- posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle op the Uni-
verse, Bd., and all the Rational Press Re-
prints (send for list). Joys op Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
llandybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller's Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler's Science
op Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book op Fate (Dreamer’s Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. Sandow’s Book op
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History
of the Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook. 5/-. Not Guilty (Blutchford), lOd.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. Goo and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British,
Bd. How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins,
1/- posted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.
m
I
I
m
i
NON|E CYCLOPEDIA
embracing
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted
to ANY address for EIGHT SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
I«“BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
Prop. Fowler's Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Yamp on Piano, 1/-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6 Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speak-
ing Made Easy, 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/- ;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers’ Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wax nan’s Engine
Driver’s Guide, 6/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio,
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes. 1/6 posted.
Women’s Secrets, 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The Waybacks, 1/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. IW~Established 25 Years.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADYT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking «
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS' SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SEM-
How to Make -Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stag,
1/- posted. New Tricks with Cards, 1/- » APP ’
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 pest. ■
Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical i
trations, 2/C. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay h
don's Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical PaIML j
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers L •
Writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, l/o.
gan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Lieg ■ ’
New Edition, 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary
Bd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersolls >
Bd., 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), /
posted. Chevassf/s Advice to a Wife, 3/6 P ,
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugars
Assistant, 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/2 P ,
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at »/“ | ,
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New -
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and •
Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large C-' ab “' d a
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., l eatfl ®L «)
my price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 « D
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2 Dynamos and
Electric Motors, 1/2. Moores Uni versa
ant and Complete Mechanic. 1016 pa= s * b
bound, 10/6 posted. The Secrets of Clai r voia ■
1/- post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and n
complete), 1/6 posted. The Age ofI my,
Paine, posted Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE 10 O-
SIR ROBERT BEAR , Cheap Book Depot, 67 8 69 Market Street, Sydney (otlL^


IDEAL
BRAND
MSLK
■L:w
-HI l/M .1
n
\
vsta>_
v .M.Mh.k
V>
93
W\v
'l \
\V-'
A "V ''.
'-kiln
• >i
4 ,/ ! T
nfli
HU
IjTiTnfrrnTnt+i i ! (
:.Li
MADE BY NESTLE’S
Ever so much Better
Just use ‘IDEAL’ Brand MILK in
one baking—you’ll see at once
how much better it is than or-
dinary dairy milk! Into every-
thing you bake cakes, scones,
puddings, batters— ‘IDEAL’ puts
the full nutritive, digestive value
of absolutely pure,
rich milk.
(
MADE
BY
NESTLE’S
4
MADE BY NESTLE’S
‘IDEAL’
IS THE MOST DEPENDABLE
MILK PROCURABLE
r
It is guaranteed pure—always
the same perfect quality—always
fresh and deliciotisly creamy.
Diluted with water, it surpasses
t- .
dairy milk for every purpose
undiluted it is an econo-
mical substitute for cream
THE EVERYDAY MILK
IN TINS, OF ALL GROCERS and STORES
xxxx
TTTTpT^T. 7
xxxxxxxxx-
::::::
:::::.
m
1
xxxx
is
.V.V
s$
i
xx s
xxxxx
XXXXX
XX
XX
XXXX
X
XXXX
XXX
:xx
xx xxxxx
xx xxxxx
XXX
xxxx
■y??:
m
::::::
7:7/:
:::::
’://///:
V////
XXXX
/////.
V
v//.V-
-v.v.v
xxxxx
:::::::
xxxxxx
m
xxxx
xxxx
xxxxx
xxxx: xxxxx
•xxx
xx x
xxxxx xxxx:
WiWt
xxxx
Wi:
XX r
::::::
::::::
Siii
XXXX X
ixi
xxxx:
ix
X
XXXX XXX?
V
xxpx^j
is
xxixxxxx
xxxx
#■l
XXX
XXXXXXtXXXX;
itllfc
iiiSSSi
s
xxxxxx
m
w
xxxxxx
M
V/, v/
::r.
'///
p;fi
x.vy.y y/.y.y
Z
xxxx
XXX
\
V
i
I
rXX
■.v.v
XXXX
xxx
“Viyella” is dainty, refined,
very durable and unshrinkable.
When buying look for the name
“ Viyella ” on the selvedge.
ii
“Viyella” is pre-eminently the fabric for the whole
family. There are many reasons why you should use it-
There’s a health reason: “Viyella” absorbs and radiates the body’s moisture, and thus prevents
chill.
A comfort reason : “Viyella” is light, warm, and delightfully soft to the touch.
An economy reason: It is exceedingly durable, and does not shrink in washing.
A beauty reason : It is rich-looking in appearance, and is in a wide range of patterns.
K,. ~11 Draners and Storekeepers, or name of nearest dealer on application to T. & R. MORLEY,
r.<; Market Street, Sydney; 250 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; or 50 Willis Street, Wellington, X.Z.
OUg4. Trad* Mitki


A Correspondent writes: —-
•'Of course, the great thing
about Thermogene, apart from
its wonderful properties, is the
extremely convenient and easy
manner in which it can be
applied. Unlike a hot poul-
tice it can be worn night
and day’next the skin without
the slightest inconvenience or
interference with the ordinary
habits of life. No one need
know you are wearing it—in
fact you are not conscious of
any feeling yourself, save the
sensation of freedom from pain
which the application of Ther-
mogene brings.”
mr'ili.
% V
\\
I
\
ft
V.I
\
Thermogene is suitable f 0;
everyone, young and old. I u
needs no warming or prepara-
tion, but is ready to apply at
once. In most cases the wad--
ding is sufficiently secured ffi
position merely by the pressure
of the underclothing. If neces .
sary, however, you simply tack
a little piece of Thermogene tc
the underclothing just where
the pain is, or it can be applied
to the skin and kept in place
with a piece of lint, tape, linen
or any kind of bandage, and
you can go about your work
and forget you are wearing it.
THERMOGENE
1 ABSORBENT MADDING
Nothing equals the pain-easing properties of Thermogene. It
relieves by aiding nature, by stimulating a natural comforting warmth.
Thermogene thrills the blood and makes it tingle with new life from the
smallest capillary to the larger blood vessels.
The joint that is throbbing, the chest that is racked with coughing, the
back, the head, or limb that is aching with pain, will find immediate relief
when Thermogene is applied. Pain will subside, the throbbing will cease,
and the comforting warmth will permeate the whole affected part.
The soothing influence of the inner warmth generated by Thermo-
gene quickly relieves the pain caused by
RHEUMATISM SCIATICA SORE THROAT
Sprains Chest Colds Quinsy Neuralgia
Swollen Joints Bronchitis Inflammation Pleurisy
Backache Pneumonia Neuritis Lumbago
During the year hundreds of thousands of men and women have been
relieved by Thermogene. Why not let Thermogene help you ?
Buy a Box to - day and be free from pain to - night.
FREE.
Write, for illustra-
ted book on the
Thermogene treatment, which tells how
to get the best results. Send a post
card to-day to Thermogene Bureau.
5 & 7, Barrack Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Sols Agents for Australasia :
FASSETT & JOHNSON
5 & 7, Barrack St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Look for the orange-
coloured boxes in the
chemists* windows.
At All Chemists, 1/3 Per Box.
'm
ha ,s ’
0
&
E
irf»
kr
If!
II
4*
m
Thermogene is used by the Briti~h
Red Cross Society and the Royal Navy.
It is British owned and British nu de
and is used and recommended by
Doctors and Nurses throughout the
world.
Manufactured by
THERMOGENE Co., Ltd.,
Hayward’s Heath, Sussex, England.
Look for the orange-
coloured boxes in the
chemists' windows.
BRITISH - M ADE
BRITISH-OWNED


AGGREGATE BALANCE-SHEET
of the
Bank of New South Wales
3lst MARCH, 1916.
LIABILITIES.
.Votes in circula-
tion .. •• £158,197 0 0
Deposits, accrued
interest and
rebate. . • • 40,833,407 2 5
Wheat accounts.. 1,076,299 15 0
£42,367,903 17 5
Bills payable and other liabilities
(which include reserves held for ....
doubtful debts and amounts at
credit of Investments Fluctuation
Account, Officers’ Fidelity Guar-
antee and Provident Fund, the
Buckland Fund, and amounts due
to other banks) .. . . .. 11.368,836 6 4
Paid-up capital £3,500,000 0 0
Reserve fund .. 2,600,000 0 0
Profit and loss ..
£358,949 14 6
Less interim divi-
dend to 31st
Dec., 1915 ..
£87,500 0 0
271,449 14 5
6,371,449 14 5
Contingent liabilities—
Outstanding credits, a»
£60,108,189 18 2
per contra 1,957,251 16 3
£62,065,441 13 5
ASSETS.
l oin, bullion and
cash balances. .£10,419,809 1 6
Australian Com-
monwealth notes 7,305,839 0 0
1' iji Government
notes..
Notes of other
banks..
Money at short
call in London
Investments—-
British and
Colonial Gov-
ernment secur-
ities ..
Municipal and
other securities
Due by other
banks ..
Bills receivable
in London and
remittances in
transit..
8,247 0 0
8,247 10 0
520,000 0 0
5,086,355 3
431,000 0
167,354 8 7
7,204,666 1 8
-£31,151,518
Advances under Government wheat
nili? e T •• •• 3,147,937 6 2
tints discounted and loans and
advances to customers .. .. 24,966,234 6 11
Bank premises 842,500 0 0
T x £60,108,189 18
J.labilities of customers and others
on letters of credit as per contra 1,957,251 15
£62,065,441 13
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS, 31st MARCH, 1916.
Cr.
To interim dividend for quarter
ended 31st December, 1915, at 10
per cent, per annum, paid in terms
of Clause CV. of Deed of Settle-
ment out of the half-year’s profits £87,500 u o
Balance proposed to be dealt with as
follows:—■
To quarter’s dividend
to 31st March,
1916, at the rate
of 10 per cent, per
annum out of the
half-year’s profits £87,500 0 0
„ Xugmentation of
the lteserve Fund 75,000 0 0
„ The Buck land
Fund . . . . 20,000 0 0
„ Balance carried
forward .. .. 88,949 14 5
271,449 14 5
£358,949 14 5
By amount from last account .. £111,065 10 8
» Balance of half-year’s profits after
after deducting rebate on current
Bills, interest on deposits, paying
note and other taxes, reducing
valuation of bank premises, pro-
viding for bad and doubtful debts
and fluctuations in the value of
investment securities; and includ-
ing recoveries from debts previ-
ously written off as bad .. .. 247,884 3 9
£358,949 14 5
RESERVE FUND, 31st MARCH, 1916.
Cr.
To Balance ..
(Of which £750,000 is invested
in British Government securities
and £500,000 in those of States
where we are represented—in
all, £1,250,000. The balance
is employed in the business of
the bank.)
£2,675,000 0 0
£2,675,000 0 0
By Balance .. .. .. ..£2,600,000 0 0
„ Amount from Profit and Loss.. 75,000 0 0
Bv Balance .
£2,675,000 0 0
..£2,675,000 0 0
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
W. E. SOUTHERDEN, Chief Accountant.
S. E. LAIDLEY I
ALFRED G. MILSON )
Auditors.
Audited, 22nd May, 1916.
Real Hair Grower
Found At Last!
The Great American Discovery “Crystolis”
Grows Hair in 30 Days.
£2OO REWARD IF WE FAIL ON OUR GUARANTEE.
Try It At Our Risk. Post Coupon To=day.
7-ttv
This Man is Growing Bald “ Crystolis " is just the thing for such cases.
Here’s good news at last for men and women
whose hair is falling, who are growing bald and
grey, whose scalps are covered with dandruff tnat
nothing seems to keep away, and whose heads itcn
like mad. . . ~
Good news even for those who imagine themserve
hopelessly and incurably bald, or who suffer from
hair or scalp trouble of any kind. .
We have had granted to us the sole Australasian
rights for the great American discovery, Crystolis,
the new hair remedy that in America and Huiope
has beer, called the most wonderful discovery of the
century, having been awarded Gold Medals at tne
big Paris and Brussels Expositions.
Hundreds of men and women have written us to
tell of the phenomenal results obtained by its use.
People who have been bald for years tell how they
now glory in their beautiful hair. Others who have
had dandruff all their lives say they have now a
clean, healthy scalp and that hair stopped tailing
after a few applications of this wonderful new treat-
ment. , ...
We don't care whether you are bothered with
falling hair, prematurely grey hair, matted hair,
brittle hair, or stringy hair ; itching scalp,
or anv or all forms of hair trouble. We want you to
try “CRYSTOLIS” at our risk.
We give you a binding guarantee without any
“strings” or red tape, that it won’t cost you a cent
if we do not prove to you that “Crystolis” will do
all we claim for it, and, what’s important, we have
plenty of money to back our guarantee. We have
deposited £2OO in our local bank as a special fimd
to be forfeited if we fail to comply with this
contract. Cut out the coupon below, and post it
to-day to Creslo Laboratories, 200 8., Malcolm Build-
ings, 256 a George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
FREE COUPON.
The Creslo Laboratories, 200 8.,
Malcolm Buildings, 256 a George Street, Sydney,
N.S.W.
lam a reader of the Sydney Bulletin. Prove
to me without cost how Crystolis stops falling
hair, grows new hair, banishes dandruff and
itching scalps, and restores premature grey and
faded hair to natural color. Write your name
and address plainly and
Pin this Coupon to Your Letter.
Z.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Edison Blue Amberol
Records for June
There are three Concert and eighteen Regular records
this month, and the variety allows of the most satis-
factory choice being made by everybody.
“I’ll Sing Thee Songs of Araby’’ (Paul Althouse) will
be extremely popular.
Others that will make a special appeal: “Forgotten”
(Chalmers); “Drummer Boy” (R. Miller); “Hold
Your Hand Out, Naughty Boy” (Glen Ellison) ; and
“Josephine Polka” (Zither Trio). “Three Bears —a
Bed-time Story” (Edna Bailey) will delight both
parents and children, “(a) Ua Like No Alike; (b)
Medley of Hawaiian Hulas” (Palakiko Ferreira) is
a charming break from the ordinary.
You will be wise to order early—through your dealer.
Blue Amberol Concert Records
Contralto, orch.
Christine Miller
28211 Nightingale’s Song,
ace.
28212 Inflammatus—“Stabat Mater.” Soprano,
orch. aec.
Marie Rappold & Chorus
28213 I’ll Sing- Thee Songs of Araby. Tenor,
orch. acc. Paul Althouse
Blue Amberol Regular Records
2659 Forg-otten. Baritone, orch. aec.
Thomas Chalmers
2660 Hear Me, Norma —Norma. Flute and
clarinet, reed orch. acc.
Julius Spindler & Anthony Giammatteo
2670 Apple Blossoms
American Symphony Orchestra
2678 Quiet Little Evenings at Home —A
Modern Eve. Tenor, orch. acc.
Walter Van Brunt
2679 Josephine Polka
Zither Trio
2680 When I Was a Dreamer (And You Were
My Dream). Tenor, orch. acc.
George Wilton Ballard
2684 Gasoline Gus and His Jitney Bus. Tenor,
orch. ace.
Billy Murray k Chorus
2685 (a) Ua Like No Alike
(b) Medley of Hawaiian Hulas,
Hawaiian Guitar
Palakiko Ferreira
2688 Drummer Boy. Tenor, orch. ace.
Reed Miller
2689 Hold Your Hand Out, Naughty Boy.
Comic Song, Orch. aec.
Glen Ellison
2690 Peer Gynt—Suite No. 1. Part 1 —
Morning ; Part 3—Anitra's Dance
Sodero’s Band
2692 Beautiful Lady in Red —The Lady in
Red. Tenor, orch. acc.
Emory B. Randolph & Chorus
8693 By Heck—Fox Trot. For dancing
Jaudas’ Society Orchestra
2694 She Lives Down In Our Alley. Tenor,
orch. acc.
Irving Kaufman & Chorus
2697 Three Bears—A bed-time story
Edna Bailey
2698 Peer Gj-nt—Suite No. 1, Part 2—-Ase’s
Death; Part 4 —ln the Hall of the
Mountain King
Sodero's Band
23390 Pals. Baritone, orch. acc.
Stanley Kirkby
23391 Your Dear Brown Eyes. Tenor, orch.
Hughes Macklin
THOMAS A. EDISOX, LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
IN
STORY, SONG
& ART.
No page in history is
unrepresented. Every
part of the world
is dealt with.
Vivid and Matchless Word Pictures of all the splendour, tragedy,
folly, extravagance and sublime grandeur of past epochs
All the World's Great Actors, from the heroes of Homer down
to those of the twentieth century, pass before us in a be-
wildering and kaleidoscopic pageant
The Building of the Pyramids, the Battle of Troy, the death of
Socrates, Rome under the Caesars.
Thrilling tales of adventure in Mexico and Texas, the passing of
•the-Red Indians, the American War, the story of Modern Canada.
Fabulous Arabia comes to vivid life. Descriptions of Persian
weddings, stories from Sadi, accounts of Palestine and Meso-
potamia are all found in these wonderful volumes.
THt WORLD’S STORY is unique-
There is not a dull page in the
entire series, tach selection is
complete in itself and full of
interest. They have been
grouped according to coun-
tries. beginning with the
earliest known civilizations
of the Orient, and en-
circling the world. f.ach
instalment follows
naturally from its
predecessor.
■A'V
GSSfe
&5e
-
«»£
s*®*
f&SSffr
»
\
55532
as
?vv
,
>?«❖*
5 V^
Ss£
mm
m
172
IIIUSTRATIONS.
s
The World's Story, in fourteen handsome volumes, contains 1100 stories, descriptions, and poems, ci
the pages of over 600 of the foremost writers of the world—covering a period of over 5000 years. -fi
The various volumes are illustrated by reproductions of famous paintings of the world, there being i
than 172 illustrations. Every picture is accompanied by a full explanation of its historical significance.
The World’s Story it a great ttorehoute of entertainment. It it alto an education in history, an
in geography, an education in literature, and in art.
It it a library in itself—a work of reference, a guide to reading, an inspiration to the young. It
is a work which no family can afford to be without. It is the most human, the most vital,
contribution to human knowledge and pleasure ever published.
FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET
To enable vou to appreciate better the scope ol this great Work, we have prepared a 48-page Illustrated
Booklet, which gives full particulars. We will gladlv post this to you free ot Charge. We sell either
lor cash or on extended terms You make a small initial payment of tight Shillings The complete
set of books is then sent on to you by post, the balance of the purchase money being paid
monthly to suit your convenience. Our Booklet gives full particulars Send for il to-day You
will be under no obligation to purchase.
from
fewer
catio
THE STANDARD PUBLISHING CO. PTY. LTD.
100 Flinders St., MELBOURNE; IS Hunter St., SYDNEYs
13 Franklin St., ADELAIDE; and at Brisbane, Hobart and London
T« The
"STANDARD
"PUBLISHING £a
Ply. Lid..
100 Hinders Si., Melb.
r Please send me, free of
""charge,your 48-page Illustrated
Pamphlet giving full particulars
“ THE WORLD’S STORY " and
"of vour special terms of sale. I under-
r stand there is no. obligation to purchase.
(Send this form or o postcard mentioning
Addrent-


NSW.
YDM ELY.
The Wentworth Garden, with it > beautiful surroundings, is
ideal for Luncheons, Dinners, Afternoon Teas, Supper and
Wedding Parties, and all semi-outdoor functions.
Visitors to Sydney will find the Wentworth Hotel most popular,
central and up to date in all modern conveniences, including telephones
in bedrooms, communicating with the Exchange.
The Appointments, linen and Service are superb, and compare more
than favorably with the best Hotels in the Commonwealth.
Terras on application.
Mrs. H. MACLURCAN, Manageress.
Champion’’ Machinery
Has no Equal on the MarKet.
Steel Stone
Crushers, Steel
Wlard Road
Plows, Wheel and
Drag Scoops,
Road Rollers,
Road Graders,
Concrete Carts,
Concrete Mixers,
Steel Tubu 1 a r
Barrows, etc.
Carotin Machinery Co.
STANLEY STREET, WEST MELBOURNE,
and
Angel Place, Sydney.
ADELAIDE & BRISBANE.
POLITICAL
POINTS
This is by the much-travelled Mary
Gaunt:—-
In Singapore, the only place in the British Empire
where we have true conscription, every white man
oyer 18 and under 56 goes to his business armed
with his rifle, and at a p.m., instead of retiring to
his club, feeling the “need for recuperation,” goes
to the drill-ground and does his drill till 7 p.m.,
“and,” says my informant, who lias lived there for
many years, and is a. prominent member of the
community, “the health of that community has much
improved, and the consumption of strong drink gone
down,” the conscript, the willing conscript, finding
that he does his job (letter on “soft drinks.”
And it seems the natural thing—for two
reasons. First, the young man who has to
do his drill will try to keep fit; he isn’t
going to earn the contemptuous laugh of his
fellows. And. in the second place, if the
thing is handled properly, national service
arouses a patriotic seuse of duty due to the
nation—-just as it has among the Germans,
with pretty serious consequences to our-
selves so far.
TOO MANY OF BOTH AYES AND NOES.
DOCTOR: “ Allow me to congratulate you,
sir! You are the father of triplets!”
POLITICIAN: “ Impossible! I demand a
recount!”
When Temuka (M.L.) recently sent 27
recruits away to he trained at Trentham, an
excited Patriotic Committee leapt into the
telegraph office and wired Bill Massey to
the effect that conscription was not wanted,
because “to-day Temuka voluntarily sent 27
recruits to fight for the Empire, and 1000
people attended in the rain to farewell
them.” That’s the usual average under the
just-about-bust voluntary system— 40 people
turn up to cheer one man who is going
forth to fight. When 1000 men from Temuka
rush to grab a gun and 27 people turn up to
give them a cheer, this paper will begin to
think there is no need for conscription. But
even then universal compulsory service won’t
be any less just.
“The evil is so deep-seated that no con-
siderations of false delicacy should stand in
the way in dealing with it,” declares the
Argus in the course of a sub-leader ou the
Federal Medical Committee’s report on
syphilis. Yet the paper’s seuse of delicacy
is such that not once does it give a hint as
to the “evil” it is referring to. Anybody
who did not know of the existence of the
Federal report might easily imagine that
the Argus was handling meningitis or clergy-
man's throat.
Of course it isn't true that, after Justice
Higgins’s Arbitration Court lias made an
award, the workmen concerned can get as
much more as they are able to
enforce. When the waterside
workers at Strahan ( Tas>l lately
decided that they were tired of the
Court’s award for unloading coal,
they got another rate altogether.
But they didn’t enforce the new
rate; they merely intimated that
the Kakapo would stay unloaded
so far as they were concerned if
the Court’s award was insisted
upon.
Germany is not going to do all
the dumping after the war. Uncle
Sam reckons that the Germans will
be short of motor-cars when the
rumpus is over, and is planning to
pour waggons over the Fatherland
by the thousands. Sam is calcu-
lating that J. Bull will be short
if cars. too. and that the manu-
facturers, who are now making
munitions, will be a long time get-
ting into their stride. So he is
figuring out to dump some on John.
But J. Bull has lately been look-
ing at the foreign motor-car with
a cold eye and remarking that he
is going to continue looking that
way. He is a fool if he doesn’t.
Meanwhile Australia and Maori-
land are merly doing business with
Cincinnati as a preliminary to
making cars on the. premises in
A.n. 1980 or thereabouts. So the
Yank needn’t think lie is going to have it
all his own way.
Either the Westralian Profits Tax
measure lias a serious flaw in it or the
Supreme Court Bench has a kink in its mind.
At the end of last year the Lake View-
Oroya mining eo. could not see that £5447
spent in general development work should
he taxed. -V case came before the Chief
Justice, who decided for the company to the
extent of £.’>s7B, and said he was not sure
that £lN<>9 spent in shaft-sinking should
not be also exempt, and he would like more
evidence about it. Jack Scaddau could not
sec that if a mine is not developed, new
levels, etc., opened up, and shafts deepened,
there will soon be no ore for treatment, and
consequently no men employed and no profit.
So he appealed to the Full Court, aud two
out of the three Judges who sat saw almost
eye to eye with him. This is an encourage-
ment to a co. to root out rich patches and
let the future take care of itself. A better
way to cripple the industry and impoverish
the State could not be devised.
Despite a record harvest,
increased fares and freights,
aud a dust-up with the time-
table, the Victorian rail-
ways have another deficit
looking over the edge of the
tender. But the Commis-
sioners are doing their best
to shove it off. At an im-
portant country station
recently a potentate noticed
that the S.M. was wearing
a soft collar, and the
astounded official received an
intimation that he was ex-
pected to throttle himself
with a stiff starched fence in
future. At least the ser-
vice will steam into the
Insolvency Court looking
respectable.
N.S.AV. Arbitration Court Judge Heydon
dealt last week with au application to can-
cel the registration of the Railway Workers
and General Laborers’ Association on the
ground that it had fomented strikes in order
to coerce certain gangers who were mem-
bers of another union into joining the organi-
sation. Leaving the merits of the case his
Honor rambled among general principles
this way:—
My preferences are my own, and in a free country
need only be satisfactory to myself. I am no more
to be taken to task for joining a particular union
than marrying a particular wife. I am free to
please myself, and it is a gross impertinence to inter-
fere with my freedom.
Yet the Court has granted preference of
employment to members of the Tinsmiths’
Union, and tinsmiths who are members of
the Musicians’ Union don’t come in on the
deal. And what would his Honor say if a
barrister or solicitor joined the Cooks and
Waiters’ Uniou and insisted on his right
to be governed by its laws instead of by the
rules of the Law Society?
Another of the by-products of the Billy
boom m London is a shilling volume by
Stanhope Sprigg, published by Arthur
l’earson, and <‘iititled “W. M. Hughes, the
Strong Man of Australia.” How faithful a
summary it is may be judged by Spring's
remark that Hughes’s religion is embodied
in the phrase, “Deeds not Words.” Yet
perhaps Sprigg is right. A religion is some-
thing men practise on Sundays. That is
the day Hughes leaves off spouting and
tidies up the yard.
THE JUDGMENT OF BARIS.
PARIS, Tuesday.—The Matin says, now tin t Lord
Kitchener is gone, Mr. Hughes is the most popular
and most clear-sighted statesman in the Empire.
The Tasmanian branch of the Empire
Trade Defence Association is running an
exhibition of Tasmanian goods at Hobart
to show what the local factories are capable
of turning out. That is excellent; but it
is time to add to all such whoops a section
displaying the hundred-and-one things that
could and should be made in the Common-
wealth, but are being imported from some-
where a long way off.
Murphy, Chief Factories Inspector in Vic-
toria, asked by Peacock to suggest a way
of reducing the friction between employers
and workpeople, thinks of profit-sharing for
a start. Heaven only- knows whether under
that system friction would be less —for a
time, at any rate —but whether it would or
not the idea is sound and just. There are
two things Australia needs above all others:
ill To do more work; (2) to put the pro-
duct iuto the pocket of the actual producer.
And because profit-sharing is calculated to
help both of those desirable things onwards
it is well worth encouragement. Quite likely
(57 possible disadvantages may be suggested;
hut it’s an astonishing wife who hasn’t a
freckle on her, somewhere.
“B.”: The political acumen of the Holman
Cabinet was given another airing at the
recent Bingara by-election. When Labor-
man McDonald resigned his seat in the
Assembly in actual or pretended rebellion
against the Caucus, Holman’s lay was to
have recorded a formal protest, while refus-
ing to fight on the ground that the possession
of the seat for the balance of the life of
the present Parliament was not worth
wasting time and money on. Instead of
that the main forces of the Government,
headed by the Premier, took to the stump and
endeavored to out the deserter. So an elec-
tion that would for lack of opposition have
escaped notice has given the edifying spec-
tacle of a whole fleet of Ministerial dread-
noughts being defeated by one small cruiser.
From “Bosna” in London :
We’ll own the entire Strand in a minute. Aus-
tralia House is beginning to look something like a
peach among its scaffolding frills. Westralia has a
palace of its own further down, and Queensland a
mansion. South Aus. and the parent State think of
sharing a castle, and now the Maorilanders have
their cottage in the same locality. The High Com-
missioner MacKenzios pushed this open early in
May. It is, next to the Adelphi Theatre, and a
thousand hungry generals, dukes, governors and other
poor souls were entertained at tea there. It has six
floors and the marble hall you dreamt that you
dwelt in, to show what we can produce in the
cannibal islands. How much all this multiplication
costs I'm not supposed to know, being only a
woman; but I read the other day of a dreadful
smash a man came, and he only tried to maintain a
second villa—with accessories, of course.
X. S. Wales Legislature, which menu* ,
authorise the selling of food and di-imf Bl^ 0
Sabbath at holiday mLS,““v Tl-T
framing the Bill declared that' everyth! il f
purchased must be “consumed mZ
premises.” As the “premises” are , s„,
only large enough to allow one lemmiif'
bottle at a time to foam, the struggle «,f tK’
mob for lunch or afternoon tea promises
he something m Snowy Baker’s line ti
police have been told to wink th
desperadoes who take away sponge cakes i
hop beer to chew under the trees, hut the w
is the law, and as Wowserdom is strenuously
opposed to the provisions of the Act, huusVv
and thirsty Sunday picnickers will’eat mil
drink in God’s sunlight at their own risk.
Frojn a. khakied wireless operator who
had been lent to the Indian Government hv
Maori land: —
We entrained from Dhanascody to Bombay
Madras, riding in a truck as filthy as any' sheen l
truck in this country, with sanitary disarrange-
ments that made us sick. When we got to Bombay
we saw at once over the entrance to one i JU b-l
“Soldiers and Dogs not admitted Here,” and in
another hotel bar the legend: “Soldiers not Served
Here!” The trail of the rotten British Army system!
By their fruits ye shall know them. Yet
the anti-conseriptfonists call this present
system democratic.
As part of its new financial scheme Maoii-
land proposes to abolish the mortgage tax
making revenue from mortgages subject to
income tax instead. In justifying this
Ward will have to swallow about half a ton
of his old protestations. “Remove this tax ”
he used to say, “and the result will be to
encourage the execution of bogus mortgages
aud we will lose practically all the revenue
from the graduated tax.” The argument
hardly holds good since the taxation sched-
ules were tampered with; hut it ought to.
At a recent Land Board meeting at Castle-
maino (4 ic.) a 21-year-old immigrant
applied for a block. Answering the presid-
ing officer, the applicant said he hadn’t tried
to enlist, whereupon the Board passed him
out. If such a principle were applied to all
similar proceedings throughout Australia it
could at least be said that all applicants
were treated alike, though enlistment is none
of any Land Board’s business. But as it is,
one man gets his block, no matter whether
lie has tried to enlist or not, while another
merely gets a punch in the eye. Apart
from the injustice of this and various un-
pleasant probabilities, there is something
horribly undignified iu this back-stairs com-
pulsion.
Basil Parkinson led au anti-vaccination
deputation up to Vie. Chief Secretary
McLeod the other day and said a few ill-
chosen words in favor of abolishing State
interference with smallpox. Parkinson’s
most desperate argument was that, since
from 18S8 to 1900 there were 14 deaths
“from vaccination” and five from smallpox,
insistence on vaccination was “like asking
a man to pay a 00s. premium for the insur-
ance of 205.” And though 981 persons had
been safely lauded from the wreck, Basil
I’arkinson would presumably abolish life-
boats on the ground that 14 people were
killed by the upsetting of one lifeboat, while
only live people who hadn’t got into the
lif'-boats were drowned.
Ill,S ONE CONSOLATION.
ANTI-SIX OCLOCKER: "The wowsers hare
took away our hinderpendence, hit
thank Gawd , old frien’, they can't
destroy our thirst.”
Picture of “Billy” Hughes from the
Cologne Gazette:—
Herr Hughes enjoys in England a splendid press,
and the tougher statesmen of England are invited to
copy his rough and ready “strike-them-dead
manner. It makes a great difference whether, like Herr
Hughes, one is playing the strong man without
further responsibility, or whether one has to provide
some sort of harmony between words and deeds.
Herr Churchill was lacking in deeds, and so was
hissed oft' the stage. But Herr Hughes still con-
tinues, as a bold circus athlete, to swing hundred-
weights made of paper. It is a sign of the intellec-
tual decadence of England that this Australian is
hailed by many people as an ideal of statesmanship.
THE MAN WHO STANED BHIND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I watch those grim processions «f the lost
That totter sliorcwards from the ships of pain;
] watch, and watching estimate tile cost
Of owning what they call the “fighting strain.”
I see men pass, destroyed in form and mind,
And 1 am thankful that 1 stayed behind.
Before the war Brown fought me for my trade,
And did it with disquieting success,
lie fell at Anzae. His departure made
A diff'rence of a thousand, more or less,
In my own yearly profits. Fate is blind
To virtue —I am glad 1 stayed behind.
1 catch the bitter sneers of older men;
i sense the scorn and rage which I inspire.
What of if? I have joys beyond their ken—
Safety, good wines, cigars, soft chairs, my fire;
Aud women, where there’s cash, are always kind.
I am thrice thankful that I stayed behind.
Yet still—a black thought beats like some deep
drum:
Might it not have been wise to take a chance?
flow will it be with me in years to come,
When Egypt, the Peninsula and France,
Returning, war-worn, fill the nation’s mind
With fresh contempt of those who stayed behind?
May we not live as outcasts to the end,
Spurned as betrayers of our native land,
A gibe to stranger and a shame to friend,
Wearers forever of the pariah's brand ?
This is the danger, grim and well-defined,
To fill with terror those who stay behind.
N.S. W.
10-2-4.


L&BUSH
DELANEY
‘sLJ
Bookstall Books
are the most popular ever published
m Australia.
Every class of reader is catered for—
there is the appealing love story, the
historical romance, the stirring adven-
tures of Australian bushrangers,
humorous and other books.
V\ rite for a Complete Catalogue.
AUSTRALIAN
BARKERS
BITERS
Ar.
KALEJHI
1|- each —-all one price-—l/l posted.
Over 1,500,000 Already Sold.
“A REBEL OF THE BUSH,” by Don Delaney.
One of the best novels in the “Bookstall” Series. It is a splendid Australian his-
torical novel, introducing a number of incidents of the times of Governor
Macquarie. A story of rushing excitement that holds the reader’s attention from
tho nut page. A charming lovg story is written into the stirring events.
“AUSTRALIAN BARKERS AND BITERS,” by Robert Kaleski.
This is a cleverly-written and instructive book all about the Australian dog. “It is
a big thing to say, says the Sunday Sun, “but nobody lias ever written of dogs in
the English language in the same attractive way Mr. Kaleski writes of them.” And
it is not altogether a dog lover’s book. It traces the origin of the various breeds in
its serious pages, and it tells delightful stories of dog-fights in others.
Steele Rudd’s
Selection Stories.
Thos. E. Spencer’s
Humorous Bock?.
ADVENTURE IN THE SOUTH SEAS.
‘BULLY HAYES—BUCCANEER,”
By LOUIS BECKE.
THE TRADER,”
By C. ROSS-JOIINSON.
SOUTH SEA SHIPMATES,”
By A. J. BARRY.
‘THE ADVENTURES OF LOUIS
BLAKE,” By LOUIS BECKE.
GREAT STORIES OF THE BUSH.
“CHANDLER OF CORRALIXGA,”
By K. J. CASSIDY.
“ROCKY SECTION,”
By SYDNEY PARTRIGE.
“THE CALLING VOICE,”
By E. F. CHRISTIE.
“THE SPELL OF THE BUSH,”
By JOHN X. CAMERON.
“THE BULLETIN” RECITER.
A capital collection of recitations —rol-
licking and sentimental-*—-by the best of
Australian Authors. The most represen-
tative Australian Reciter published.
“ABORIGINALITIES.”
A collection of the gems that have
appeared in The Bulletin’s famous
“Aboriginalities” page. Forty splendid
illustrations by Lionel Lindsay.
ALL BOOKSTALLS AND BOOKSELLERS.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
476 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
10-incH
from
SI- each
BRITISH-MADE
Columbia
4 Records 4
12-inch.
from
5-each
COLUMBIA “No. 17” SUPPLEMENT.
12-inch Single-sided. Price 15/-
74000
( “Madame Butterfly”—Un bel di
Voflremo,” 111 Ttal’sm.
v Madame Elsa Stralia, Soprano.
12-inch Single-sided. Price 10/0.
75002
ILe Cor (The Horn). In French.
( Jean Vallier, Basso.
10-inch Single-sided. Price 6/-
51200
j “Faust”: The Calf of Gold. 11l
l French. Jean Vallier, Basso.
12-inch Single-sided. Price 7/6
-121
JOmbra mia fu (Handel's Largo),
Recitative & Aria. In Italian.
Madame Clara Butt, Contralto,
I with Orchestra. Conducted by
l Sir Henry J. Wood.
7122
A Song of Thanksgiving.
Madame Elsa Stralia, Soprano.
12-inch Double-sided. Price 6/-
BXOII
“Tristan and Isolde”—Prelude.
“Tristan and Isolde” —Isolde’s
Tove Song.
Sir Hy. J. Wood & Iris Orchestra.
1,1021
Grand March from “Tannhauser.’
“Corielan” Overture in C minor.
Sir Hy. J. Wood & his Orchestra
LlOl9
An Irish Melody—the London-
derry Air.
Molly on the Shore—lrish Reel.
London String Quartet.
LlO2O
[ Minuet de “Manon"
“The Rose Cavalier” Waltz.
Beecham Symphony Orchestra.
(Conducted by Sir Thomas
l Beecham.)
10-inch Double-sided. Price 4/3
D.13'28
\ Pity Me. (Old Russian Air.)
■I Troika. (Old Russian Air.)
I Imperial Russian Orchestra.
D 1329
C Tambourin.
! Mary of Argyle.
' Cello Solo by W. H. Squire.
(Mr. Hamilton Harty at the Piano.)
12-inch Double-sided. Price 5/-
574
Humoreske. (Dvorak.)
Romance.
Violin Solo. By George Steel.
575
/'“Eohengrin” : Elsa’s Dream. (In
English.)
- “Tannhauser”: Elizabeth’s Prayer.
(In English.)
Miss Bettina Freeman, Soprano.
12-inch Double-sided. — Continued.
583
Raymond Overture.
The Barber of Seville Overture.
Regimental Band of H. M. Grena-
dier Guards.
583
The Family Ghost.
The Best Man at the Wedding.
George Robey, Comedian.
581:
f Galway by the Sea.
Let Me Dream Again.
I Miss Perceval Allen. Soprano.
10-inch Double-sided. Price 3/-
2635
I Love Song-.
! Gavotte—The Nymphs.
I The Casino Orchestra.
!63fi
fThe Old Country. Part
Village.”
I The Old Country. Part
| don”
Descriptive—Bransby
l and Company.
I.—“ The
2.—“L,on-
Williams
2687
f Land of the Long Ago.
Two Songs: (a) Care Flies from
a the Fad that is Jlerry.
I (b) The Skew-ball Black.
I Fraser Gange, Baritone.
2638
( The House by the Hill.
To Be Near You.
\ Edgar Coyle, Baritone.
2639
I The Barrister.
The Pro.’s Landlady.
I George Robey, Comedian.
2620
fMy Rose From Argentine.
I I Rove a Dark Girl.
I Henri Leoni, Baritone,
l Orchestra.
with
COLUMBIA SPECIAL “JOYLAND”
SUPPLEMENT.
12-inch Double-sided. Price 6/-
1,1022
I The Tulip Song, from “Joyland,”
California, from “Joyland.”
I Miss Shirley Kellogg. Soprano.
1,1028
“Jojland” Vocal Gems. Part 1.
“Joviantl” Vocal Gems. Part 2.
Columbia Revue Company.
Introducing:—Part 1: Our Own
Dear Flag: Swing Song: Tulip
Song: That Raggy Refrain.
Part 2 : The Big Brass Band ; Cali-
fornia; the Girl in Ninon; Lan-
tern Land.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS—
SYDNEY, N.S.YV. —Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, Kawson Place. '
MELBOURNE, VlC.—Hinsdale's Proprietary, Ltd., 209 Swanston St.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A. —H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.—Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z. —Webley Sons and Gofton, Ltd., 213 High St,
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Hayward and Garratt, Ltd. /
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
THE LONDON BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £2,886 067 10 0
SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL 1,276,747 10 0
PAID-UP CAPITAL 669,785 0 0
RESERVE FUND AND UNDIVIDED PROFITS 377,987 19 0
RESERVE LIABILITY OF PROPRIETORS 606,962 10 0
BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
GEORGE SLADE, Esq., Chairman.
ROBERT JAMES BLACK, Esq.
GORDON HUNTLY CAMPBELL, Esq.
ANDREW CUNNINGHAM, Esq.
Hon Sir ARTHUR LAWLEV, G.C.S.I.
JOHN GRAHAM O’NEILL, Esq.
EDWARD VINCENT REID, Esq.
Presented
DIRECTORS* REPORT
ot the Ordinary General Meeting of Proprietors, held at Winchester House, Old Broad Street, E.C. (Hall Xo. 174), at 12 o'clock noon, on Wednesday, 10 th May, 191(5.
The Directors present their Report, accompanied as usual by Audited Accounts, for the year ended 31st December last.
The mofit as shown by the Annual Statement, after deducting management charges, all
taxes including the Federal Land Tax and State Government Land Taxes, providing
for all bad and doubtful debts, and writing down investments to values current at
31st December last, amount to . . ••
To which is added the amount brought forward • •
£74,866 19
28,317 13
making together ..
After providing for —
Transfer to Reserve Fund (making it £330,000)
Grant to Officers’ Provident Fund
£30,000
2,000
0 0
0 0
there remains. .
from which has to be deducted the Interim Dividends at 7% per annum for six months
ended 30th June, 1915, paid 3rd November, 1915
£103,184 12 9
32,000 0 0
£71,184 12 9
23,196 13 9
leaving a balance to be dealt with of.. £47,987 19 0
whinb the Directors recommend be appropriated as follows■
DtSfend 5' 7% % »n„„m on the Preference Share, ,or the 0
months ended 31st December 1915 .. • • • • • •
Dividend of 7% per annum on the Ordinary Shares foi the same g g
period 23,196 13 9
leaving a balance to be carried forward to next account of. ■ £24,791 5
During the year branches have been opened at Bundle Street, Adelaide, in South
Australia ; and at Wauehope, in New South Wales.
It is with profound regret the Directors have to announce the death of their late
colleague and Chairman, Mr. David Finlayson. The vacancy of Chairman has been
filled by the appointment of Mr. George Slade.
Under the provisions of the Bank’s Articles of Association, the vacancy thus caused
on the Board has been filled by the appointment of Mr. John Graham O Neill.
The Directors retiring under the provisions of the Bank’s Articles of Association are
Mr. Ernest Vincent Reid and Mr. George Slade, who, being eligible, offer themselves
for re-election.
The Bank’s Auditors, Messrs. Price, Waterhouse & Co., retire, and again offer
themselves for re-election.
The transfer books are closed from the 2Gth April to 10th May, both days inclusive.
Warrants for Dividends, less Income Tax, will be issued, payable on and after the
12th May next, to those Shareholders whose names appear on the Register on the 2bth
By order of the Board,
nOW Broad Street. W. H. BARBER,
London, E.C., 2Sth April, 191 G. London Manager and Secretary.
BALANCE-SHEET, 31st DECEMBER. 1915
Authorised Capital:—•
61,603 Ordinary Shares of
150,000 Preference Shares of
£22 10s.
£lO .
LIABILITIES.
.. £1,386.067 10 0
.. 1,500,000 0 0
£2,886,067 10 0
Subscribed Capital: —■
49,103 Ordinary Shares of £22 103. ..
Less Calls in Arrear •• •• 61 g 737 10
Reserve Liability
being £lO per share paid •• •
Amount prepaid by Trustees m respect
Liability
17,193 Preference Shares of £lO, fully paid ..
Capital Paid-up . • • • • • '' j ’
Reserve Fund ..
Balance of undivided Profit . •
Deposit and Current Accounts _ reserves for doubtfui debts)
Bills payable and other Liabilities (including reserves. 1;
Notes in Circulation (secured as per contra)
669,587 10
330,000 0
47,987 19
1,047,575 9
5,497,147 18
711.267 17
6,248 10
of? ofio oon 1 A
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Cash Balances, Government Notes, and Notes of other
Banks ..
Investments and Bills Receivable on hand and in transit
Investments held by Trustees against Notes in Circulation ..
Bills Discounted, Advances and other Assets . . .. • •
Bank Premises .. .. .. . • • • • • • • • •
£1,345,809 14 3
993,303 16 9
6,940 0 0
C 2.346.053
4,626,631
.. .. .. 289,555
11 0
3 8
0 0
£7,262,239 14 8
STATEMENT OF
PROFITS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31st DECEMBER, IQIS-
- K“r-i I, SS Vm D«u.r;'»H:
Profit in 'London .nd in *»«,««»pXviSTS M SfjSSS «« ,
Current Deposits,
directors, Rent,
Directors’ and Auditors’ Fees, Rent,
Land Tax,
Deduct :—Transfer to Reserve Fund•
Grant to Officers Provident l und
lass: Interim Dividend paid 3rd November, ag
£94,125 1 10
12.962 13
24,598 12
£206,553 7 2
131,686
30,000
2,000
£51,487 18
23,170 5
£28,317 13 0
74,860 19 9
£103,184 12 9
32,000 0 0
£71,184 12
23,196 13
£47,987 19 0
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
We certify that we have obtained all the informa-
tion and explanations we have required. We have
to report that vve have examined the above balance-
sheet with the books at the Head Office and the
returns from the Branches, and in our opinion it is
properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and
correct view of the state of the Bank’s affairs,
according to the best of our information and the
explanations given to us, and as shown by such
books and returns.
PRICE, WATERHOUSE & CO., Auditors.
London, 18th April, IQK>.
(iEORGE SLADE
R. J. BLACK
E. V. REID
Directors.
W. H. BARBER, London Manager and Secretary.


Once again Russia inspires the faith of
the optimist in the comparatively early
crushing of Hun savagery. A faith also
inspired by that wise spirit. King George IV.
topnotch Scotch.- — Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents : RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LIHITED, Redfern, Sydney.
SfcHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd.
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Men shaved years ago in a way
that gashed their chins and
spoilt their tempers. Why cling
to these old-time methqds ?
NO
NO STROPPING NO HONINO
combines safety, speed and
comfort with adjustability.
Sold everywhere, 23/6. British Made.
Write for free booklet. Agents: S.
Hoffnung & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney ;
Gillette Safety Razor, Ltd., London, Eng.
Over
A great many newspaper correspondents
seem to be a bit astray lately in a general
condemnation of oil engines in launches for
passenger and cargo traffic. However they
do not all blow up when you strike mateF-S
around the engine. There is one which
invites you to strike matches on the name-
plate, fuel tank, or any other old place.
This one is a crude oil burner, and appar-
ently above correspondents have been at the
war or asleep or dead or something for the
past two or three years, and though quite in
order when they draw attention to danger to
public safety, we advise them to sit up and
take notice of the Skandta, which allows
all hands to recline round her, and smoke
and smoke. She won’t blow up —neither
will she stop. The Imperial Government
uses her, so do the Federal and State Gov-
ernments out here. You find the Skandia
in tugs, trawlers, pleasure launches—ah
sorts of craft. This crude oil makes hte
worth living for all concerned, and the fuel
tank may be used as a repository foi
matches, cigar or cigarette butts, if the pas-
sengers, drivers or skipper should feel too
tired to heave them overboard. For verifica-
tion of these remarks write to. or call on.
Nelson & Robertson, of Loftus Street.
Sydney, who will sell you engines from
6h.p. up to IOOOh.p. which will NOT blow
up, no matter what brand of match y° u
strike, under, over or all round her. Am T.
‘
&
<y
Air Cushions
For SOLDIFRS _
Waterproof Cloth
Each Seam Sewn-
All Valves Guaranteed-
Complete with Bag
10/6, 12/6 each
Stamped Free of Charge
Name
ROTHWELL’S LTD.,
Edward Stree
BRISBANE
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The S. Aus. Parliament is to be asked to
have a look at the control of racing in the State.
Sportsmen are, as a rule, quite satisfied to be left
alone. There was one awful period, about 30 years
back, when the State’s Parliament had a virtuous fit
and wouldn’t allow the totalisator; and the Jockey
Club, convinced that local racing was hopeless with-
out the machine, kept the Adelaide Cup alive by the
■desperate device of having it run in Melbourne. Since
they got back the machine t.hev have not asked for
any more interference by the Legislature. Thomas
Ryan, however, promises to bring in a Bill for the
.control of racing by some Board of Control or
League, instead of by one club. This seems plain
f omjnonsense. Sportsmen are the most conservative
people going, and the English idea of letting one
autocratic ard self-appointed Jockey Club rule
lias been slavishly copied nearly everywhere ; but the
other clubs are not likely to refuse to be represented
pn a Board elected by all of them. Not a touch of
State control is suggested. Blundell, Minister of
Industry, has already gone out of his way to pro-
nounce a blessing on the idea, and hints that if the
elubs can arrange the reform among themselves no
legislation should be needed. Rvan, however, has a
plan which is not possible without an Act of Parlia-
ment. He wants to- see a half-crown tote on the flat.
At present the machine may be used in the enclosures
only, and, as betting by any other means is entirely
ill;gal in S.A., the myriads on the Flat have to bet
with bookies who do business furtively and are at
any moment liable to arrest. Democratic principles
clearly require that what is encouraged on one side
of the track should have facilities on the other.
One of the Maoriland jumpers, Morning,
sent over to Vic. for the winter meetings, was buried
last week instead, having been struck bv pleurisy.
As. his trainer, Alf Goodwin, was also taken
seriously ill . and conducted to the cemetery
it looks as if there was a hoodoo in the feed-
box. Morning was a good horse, of a type Australia
sees too seldom on* the racecourse. He won the
Canterbury G.N. Hurdles three years ago, and since
had done well over bigger country. He was owned
by Frank Armstrong, an extensive"cultivator of jum-
;bucks on the east coast of the North Island, and a
man with a healthy mania for suoplvirg weight-
carrying nags with oats. The deceased had been
weighted at 12st. for the big V.R.C. Steeple next
month.
* * * *
Those are the annual two months when
the. brightest of the Victorian jumping nags put
their best' leg foremost, and only, the fittest can
survive. Weights for the Nationals were declared
last week, the big Hurdle Race at Flemington being
due on July 1. The handicap this year seems kindest
to the 30 entrants weighted at something more than
9 stone but not more than lOst. 71b., although the
Maoriland. form of El Gallo is so hard to in
comparison with Australian ditto that nobody knows
whether this doughty newehrm is well in or other-
wise at list. 41b. Probably El Gallo with list.
41b. has a better chance than Jack Rice, the N.S.W
champion, with list. 71b., or Lord Grey and Capin-
testa, with list. 71b. and list. 31b. respectively.
All the same, he will need to be a smasher to beat
a number of younger and somewhat ela spy hones
that figure lower down on the list. In the hurdle
race at Caulfield last Saturday, worth £3OO to the
winner, a dozen or more likelv National candidates
had a healthy gallon. Shot Out, Strifeness and Hv"o
came off best. But the distance was a full mile
shorter than the G.N. course; and two miles and
(34 yards is a very different proposition to three
pules one furlong. Of the unplaced battlers Sir
Prim and Jnllnrder looked prettv certain to do
fetter in a longer journey. Sir Prim (who is now
only a five-year-old) has been jumping since he was
a juvenile, and was thought to be up to National
form two ?ea?ons apo. Also Beccassine, in the dan-
gerous Manifold stable; he has recently shaped well
pn the flat, and is let into the Hurdle' Race at 9st.
51b. W ith a dozen “real good things” to lay against
and a dozen rough outside chances of a turn up,
the books are feeling happy and hopeful.
*** * #
Ex-Sydneysider Meroo is a deceiving nag.
■Nothing gallops much better on the track, but that
about finishes the brute. Charlie Horan, a big
backer, owned Meroo when the horse was in N. S.
Wales, but recentlv passed him on. He was backed
from 10 to one down to seven to two for V.A.T.C.
Richmond Cup on Saturday, but the punters didn’t
collect anything. One of the best races Meroo ran
jn Sydney was at the A.J.C. Australia Dav meeting
J)n July 29 last year. He started at five to four
.against in the Army Welter, one mile, and finished
rthird. The dash down the straight was a desperate
; oue, Lingard beating Hobble Skirt bv a head, with
Meroo no further behind. This flash galloper is
likely to crop up at any moment, but the conun-
drum is “When?”
* * * *
The Australian sire got a bit of his own
back last week, thanks to Bobadil. The family of
Bill of Portland’s son won five races on Saturday at
the V.A.T.C. and Moorefield (Sydney) meetings.
Bob is still doing his duty at Blackwood Park
(Vic.). Royal Alice, winner of the Richmond Cup
for the second time, is a daughter any parent should
be proud of. At one time she was in Erie
Connelly’s all-conquering stable. She stays well and
may be worth keeping an eye on in the Spring.
That Valior appropriated the Moorefield
Handicap, one mile and a quarter, on Saturday,
shouldn’t have caused anybody to remark, “What
do you think of that!” She was not previously
regarded as a stayer, and that permitted her to start
*it 10 to one against. Not long ago she gave nothing
» chance in the Canterbury Welter Mile, leading
from end to end. Half a mile from - the finish o’’
■Saturday she was sooled along to the front and
tended the argument two lengths ahead. The time
(2min. 12sec.) wasn’t bad, considering the stickv
turf. Plasticine, imported, could only run third.
The performance was a trifle better than that of a
week earlier at Warwick Farm, but not nearly so
good as a sanguine public and the people behind the
animal were looking for.
Victor Foy had the right kind of a wel-
come to Sydney last Saturday, just after a trip to
Japan, his nag Bandoliero being so pleased that he
snared a double at Moorefield. Bandoliero carried
6st. 131 b. in the Flying Handicap, or 31b. more than
handicapper Wilson intended should have been the
case, and, starting at six to one against, beat the
favorite, La Balfour, by a head. Saddled up again
for the Flying Welter, Bandoliero was at odds-on
and landed the cash, well in front of the second
fancy, Istri"n. The 71b. penalty for the first win
went for nothing, as apprentice-rider N. Russell
claimed that oundage. The only previous race
won by Bandoliero was a Maiden Handicap some
months ago on the same course. In that race Cour-
ai.te, a flier in Cooks stable, was first choice and
headed for home many lengths in front of any other
in the event, but shut up like a knife in the straight.
Bandoliero then swooped down on the prize. He is
in Burton’s stable and should add further bullion to
Foy’s account.
Geldings helped themselves liberally to the
stake money at Moorefield on Saturday. They filled
the plages in Hurdle Race, Flying Handicap and
1 lying Welter, and were second in two other events.
Should things like that occur frequently there would
not be much in the business from a breeder’s point
of view, but it might be a good thing for the horse
business generally.
* * * *
This year’s Melbourne Cup ’ has attracted
the record entry of 266 horses. 'Nearly 50 are labelled
“imp.” But as entries grow larger, starters become
fewer. When Carbine won in 1890, in the record
field of 39, there were 149 entries. An even better
percentage was 34 starters out of 92 entries in 1891,
Mnlvclio’s year. Last year 24 started out of 254
entered; and half of them might as well have been
left in the paddock. Why entries are large and
starters few is an enigma the public cannot fathom;
but as there are over 61,000 ways of making a
Caulfield and Melbourne “doubles” this year, possibly
Ike is justified of his faith that it is all meant to
glorify Israel.
The smile of DR, A. NORMAN
McARTHLR, Chairman Boxing Committee
A.A.A. (Vic.).
One of the present racing problems in
England is the size of the fields, especially in juvenile
events, due to the curtailment of racing. At the
First Extra Meeting of the season 43 horses went
to the post for the first two-year-old event and for
the second 38 lined up. Fields of between 30 and 40
are common, while every event draws between 20 and
30 starters. To meet the difficulties arising from the
unwieldiness of the two-year-old fields the Jockey
Club has decided to divide these races into two
events. The added money in each race will be the
same, and the winner will take the sweepstake pro-
vided by the animals in the race he wins. In fact,
the new scheme really amounts to making two races
out of one, and is a new way of being an old hypo-
crite. We want to pretend to be taking this war so
seriously that we have cut down the number of races
tremendously, But we’ll be glad of any excuse for
really getting to the same old number of races.
Pommern, one of the leading speed animals
in Fogland, is getting a lot of limelight. Sporting
writers are hurriedly searching for adiectives to
dc nbe his appearance. One reckless individual re-
cent!/ asserted that he was the finest-looking urad
that ever decorated a racecourse. What he will do
on the track this year remains to be seen, but good
looks don’t earn oats. Last year as a three-vear-old
he started five times, bagged four firsts, including the
New Derby, and got one second, the Craven Plate. To
date he has collected £11,200 in stake-money, which
is a respectable total considering that his Derby was
worth only a little over £2OOO.
“F.N.T.”: Re the tricks and swindles of
“grass-fed” racing (B. l/6/’l6). In a section of
the Riverina where the true “sport” believed himself
to exist in large numbers, a well-known local sheep-
man entered a nag in a grassfed flutter—and won
with a stable-fed animal. Months later a loquacious
girl-pal of the sheep-man’s w’as dining at a homestead
in another district. By bad luck the man who helped
to keep her supplied with salt and olives that evening
happened to be a member of the racing club which
had conducted the grass-fed sprint. The subject -'<jf
grass-fed racing came up, and the gushing girleen
gave out the whole swindling story, telling it as a
merry jest. At the next meeting the sheep-expert
w-as blown out of his membership with a report that
echoed up and down the Riverina for years after-
wards. The report was all the louder because of the
deep silence which usually prevails on matters relat-
ing to the conduct of such events, no matter what
goes on.
» * * *
“Musketoon”: Meditating on the muta-
bility of life the other day in Forbes (N.S.W.) ceme-
tery I happened across the grave of “Gyp” Jones.
Twenty years ago the man in the interior thereof was
known on every racecourse and showground in the
State. Gyp w T as a Business Man, who sold purses for
a quid apiece when they looked as if they contained
three or four sovs. Of course, when the suckers who
rushed him waving cash examined the innards of
what they bought, they found four ha’pennies. He
was very smart and did w T ell, but he had one great
failing. He was a punter, and Ikey got the lot.
Several times Gyp’s clients wildly dragged the matter
before the Law, but as the defence was that purses
and not contents were sold, Costs and defendant' came
out winners. He sold his last purse of browns at
Forbes races 15 years ago, and a couple of days after-
wards changed his address to the local hospital. But
he couldn’t fool what was waiting for him there.
Westralian Turf Club finished the season
£10,143 short. Tote percentage dropped £3517.
Prize-money for the coming year will be chopped
by a fourth. Meanwhile the club is wondering how
long its legs are going to stand the strain.
There was not a great deal to choose one
way or the other when Tommy Uren. (N.S.W.) and
Moy (U.S.A.) had finished exchanging wallop at
Sydney Stadium on Saturday. There was more
emphasis about Thomas” and greater skill at close-
quarters. But he found it mighty difficult to get
past the Yank’s gloves, and received a push in the
face more often than he liked. Luckily for Thomas
they were quite ladylike pushes. If Moy could have
hit harder —if he had only put some shoulder into
his bash —then would Mr. Uren on Saturday have
been converted into bacon. As it is, much of Moy’s
work is purposeless and unenterprising. A reallv-
aggressive opponent would hurt him a lot. But Uren
had very little the best of it, and his display was
not worth playing the flute about.
* * * *
Richmond (Melb.) reckons it has estab-
lished the first municipal gymnasium in Australia.
For sixpence a week two lessons are given in physi-
cal culture, wrestling and the noble art of stoush.
The initial cost of the gym. was £l3O, and the annual
loss that the Council is called on to make up is
scarcely worth mentioning. The idea is one that
other municipal bodies might imitate, but probably
won’t.
* * * V *
Benny Leonard, of N’Yark, who lately
bashed his way into the limelight and looked more
like a champion than Welsh,, the Englishman, seems
to be a duffer, after all. In a recent collision
with an artist named Bloom he found the latter
hard to rub out, and hadn’t done it at the end of
10. The Hebrew is reported to have had the best
of it, but as he is also reported to have landed
many “heavy lefts and rights’-’ on the other fellow’s
jaw, and to have been himself shaken by some hard
punches, it seems as if Mr. Bloom was either a
mighty tough customer or Mr. Leonard’s wallops are
seasoned with mercy. Anyhow, whipping Welsh
doesn’t mean much these times. He seems about
the weirdest sort of circumstance called “champion”
the world has seen for a long while.
“Jake B.”: Have just witnessed a tree-
felling contest, the result of a challenge issued by
French wood-cutters working in the forest for the
British Army, and addressed more particularly to
some Maoris in khaki. Conditions were six aside; 12
trees to be felled by each team ; the stumps to be
left flush with the ground in regulation French forest
exploitation manner, and not to be trfinmed; the
team that felled 12 trees first to take the purse.
These conditions left everything in favor of the
Frenchmen except their axes, which are about a foot
long, four inches wide at the edge, and no weight
whatever behind the handle. They looked as if thev
might have been in vogue about the time of Rolf the
Ganger. However, they used them from choice, while
the Maoris worked with the orthodox ironmongery.
As the last tree fell to France, 26 minutes after the
start, one of the Maoris, whose crew had cut out four
minutes previously, casually remarked, “They came
te goot second, anyhow.” A protest was lodged \v
the French regarding the condition in w’hich the
Maoris had left their stumps, but the judges dis-
allowed it, and Hori smiled disdainfully as if lie had
been told that he couldn’t play te billiards. I heard
it basely suggested afterwards that the affair was
promoted as a ruse to get some timber felled.
The Yanks, who hold swimming carnivals
in pie dishes, have been giving Kahanamoku once
round again lately. The other day someone snuffed
him out over 200yds., and then someone else did
the same thing over 500yds. The Hawaiian said he
thought turning round 25 times in a race was a bit
hot, but the sporting newspapers assured him that a
straight, wet journey wasn’t a fair test of swimming
capacity. How about the Yank running 100-yard
sprints up and down a billiard-table? He would do
it quick and lively if he could win that way, any-
how, you bet!
* * * *
Ilobart golfers are now able to wield the
brassy on another course. Since the speculative
builder pounced on the links at Sandy Bav the
implements have been mostly having a rest —the
course at Lindisfarne being remote—while a new club
was being formed and bunkers secured at Rosny. The
course—lo minutes by ferry—is equipped with nine
holes, and another nine will be discovered directly.
Meanwhile enthusiastic persons laden with long sticks
are rushing out and remarking that the place is
fairly sporty and using; strange words at an „ ,•«
ally-constructed green which looks as if it ,
having a bad night. 11 nacj been
Alick McNeil, of Svdnoy, ono of +1
‘compelling salesmen” you read about? h!s npnfc'
himself a ltoyal Commission to inquire into m te<
business, and is off to Italy by the Medina m s°' v ,“
the latest things in the motor-car market w} 11 ''
A sometime resident of Sydney now living
m London writes that recent taxation has' he ,
car owners in the accelerator.: Cars of over IThT
get special attention. This persons RoUs-lw t
now taxed at £63 a year. Last year’stat fLV
same vehicle was £2l. Honk der Kaiser! f the
Deaf and dumb rep. football plavers
rare birds, but Canterbury (M.L.) until the other
da - v , ha ‘ . a u real good one in Jack Han'ey Th™
while alighting- from an electric-car in Chch S
slipped, and a wheel amputated his right leg. ’ ’ ll K
When it was decided not to stage anv
League football at Hobart this vear several enti, i
asts made a wailing noise like the dank, inscrufaht
ocean washing through the remains of the Fmden i
Cocos. Their woe was on behalf of “the aenfra!
public, deprived of the privilege of watchine th
great winter pastime, etc. But the
public has borne the result of losing its privilcel
very well and taken shelter at the pictures or some-
where. Henc-e when a military football eomueti
tion started the other day no one was killed iii the
crush at the gates. The attendance first time mini
bered 17. At the next spasm there was a o-reat
improvement, the crowd totalling fully 23. ”
To the end of the first rounds in Sydney
football, Balmain had played high jinks. The "suburb
was leading (with South Sydney) in the first-grade
of the League effort and was at the top in -second
and third grades; it is unbeaten in games under
Australian rules, and is well up in second position
in the Soccer table. There’s no doubt about the
vitality of the ball-chaser from Balmain; but it the
vim was hitched on to a rifle these times there would
be something better worth crowing over.
* * * *
,T. Ashley, who was top-notch hooter in
Adelaide last year, is nowadays in the limelight in
N.S.W. Rugby League in Sydney. Playing for Bal-
main against Glebe the other day, he" dropped the
ball beautifully over the bar from the touch-line
about 40yds. out, with a player hanging on. N. |(.
The player was hanging on to Ashley, not on to the
ball.
* * * *
The cutting-out of the Gardiner Challenge
Cup from N.S.W. Soccer fixtures hangs up the State
championship indefinitely. The Football Association
was influenced by the few entries guaranteed by North
and South Coast clubs, and rather than throw the
liters'! down for a scramble among city clubs, placed
the competition on ice till someone gets to Tipper-
arv. This Cup has been a bone of contention since
1888.
* * * »
Another old N.S.W. bowling identity has.
just gone—John Noble, who as contractor built a fair
share of Sydney’s big warehouses and had a hand in
putting up the Town Hall. Born in Yorkshire (Eng.)
83 years ago, he came to Sydney in 1862 from Uncle
Sham's country, where he had been working on the
building of the Grand Trunk railway. He was’tin-
father of bowls on the North Shore, and had nine
children besides.
Itoy Glenloth Brown, of Melbourne, lately
got some information as to the ethics of foot-racing.
He sued the officials of the Flemington Athletic Club
for £7O, due to him, he said, for winning a 75yds, ,
handicap. The club’s defence was that Brown, when
entering for the race, did not state all his previous
performances, as the rules required. Brown retorted
that the committee had expressly told him not to give
his performances at a rival running ground. This being
admitted, Judge Box made uncomplimentary remarks
about the committee, but held that the rules over-
rode orders and promises, and therefore Brown must
lose his case, his £7O and certain moneys mis-
named Costs.
* # *• *
What was stated to be a race for the
championship of the world was run lately over 10
miles at Edinburgh. The match was between Will
Kolehmainen, brother of Hannes, and George Mcßae,
o’ bomtie Scotland; and the Hielander projected
liimself over the earth so ran idly that W.K. was left
half a mile astern. The time, 52min. 22 sec., was
lmin. 19seo. worse than the record established by
Hannes Kolehmainen at Buffalo (U.S.A.) in 1913.
Nice "lace the Land o’ the Leal is for peds to catch
cold in. Three inches of snow had to be raked off
the track before the starter said “Off.” But while
Geordie was leaving the miles behind, his trainer
was cooking some parritch, so it was all right at
the finish.
There’s nothing wrong with the Lithgow-
made rifle or the eye of Trooper F. Rhoades, of the
6th Light Horse (19th Reinforcements). Shooting
at Randwick (Sydney) last week, this 20-year-old
Australian boy worked his comrades up to cheering
pitch bv pouring six shots into a six-inch circle.on
the bull from the 300vds. mound, and ail within
20src. It was done with bayonet fixed, service
sights and without a sling.


BE A HARD-HITTING, SKILFUL,
FORCEFUL BOXER—!
5-“* SVS - - » ***«
SBM, £3 w-MS"JBB 2*JBS
r-= vy? sir rs
account of youi lack of knowledge of the Noble Art?
iJ™’, ,° V® for . ew f ned . i R to be forearmed. You will do well in
a e Uhe E -wVr^ n r'!roek"oU When and h ° W t 0 hit ~ how t 0 Stop
I Teach Boxing by Post
' vill quickly develop your natural skill. Why
tical be ßimnl» of P u P’ ls? The instruction is prac-
exnln’in* fin a u d + ea ! lly understood. It thoroughly
in P Scientific Boxing 08 eVery serviceable “ mov e”
lou reap the benefit of my many years’ experi-
ence and keen observation of the best “moves” of
tne world s best boxers.
You ought t 0 write for my illustrated Booklet,
Scientific Boxing in Your Home,” vvhuh gives
tiller particulars, cost of tuition, etc. Just write
your name and address on this advertisement, and
post to me. 111 know what you mean. Send three
penny stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
509 Belmont Buildings
SYDNEY.
THESE ARE MY
CIGARILLOS
the little cigars I want you
to try. Their flavor, quality
and aroma are the same as
you get in a shilling
Havana Cigar.
For a short smoke —
something between a
cigarette and a cigar
—they are just the
thing.
In three sizes, but
all ONE QUALITY.
In Tins of
20:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
2 6 2 3 2 -
In Cedar
Boxes of 50:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
5/6 5/- 4/6
In Cedar
Boxes of
100:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
11- 10/- 9/-
Postage Extra.
On 100—
Hf.S. W. 6d.
Other States Bd.
My illustrated
catalog of
cigars, tobaccos,
cigarettes, etc.,
will interest
all smokers.
Write for a
Actual size of Cigarillos. copy.
A. M. SOLOMON,
“ CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
w^-
&
t r
4r*»A
giiiiimiiMiiiiiiniiiiminuitnmmiißiiimniiiuuiuiiUDmiuaiumßniiinflg
ilakc Your Tour
a Success
By
Using
liiiKitiiniflmntßnnii
J
ainiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiunii
uiiimmmnnmiiiiimiiiiii
lIUUUIIIUUIUI^
THE
Makes All Australia
Your Pleasure Ground
RHODES MOTORCYCLE CO.
err
l "
109-113 RUSSELL ST
MELBOURNE.
INSECTIBANE
This Popular Fly
Killer and Insect
Destroyer is now
obtainable.
ALL CHEMISTS and STORES.
YOU GET THE BEST STYLE
—THE BEST LEATHERS, THE BEST WORK-
MANSHIP AND THE BEST SERVICE IN
RICNEY SHOES.
In all shapes, styles and sizes.
We illustrate a Patent Colt Oxford Shoe, in
a very popular and high-grade “made-to-
order” style. The brogue cap affords very
reliable wear.
Price - 27,6
A.lso in Tan Y r elour Calf—same price.
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
f
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings. Edward Street, BRISBANE.
THE BEST FOR ALL
-Athletes
Bosisto’s
Parrot Brand
Eucalyptus Oil
Essential to
Athletic Fitness.
Ih Australian Remedy
for Colds, Bronchitis,
Rheumatism, etc.
CAUTION —Always ask for
BOSISTO’S
PARROT BRAND
as substitutes may be
offered to you.
“The Stockman-
Riding
15/6
fully-seasoned -Calf^—with -- lj
;
''DUst^aß^^aieirproof; light, - -
.ccsafprtable,- serviceable; —easy--
|fepdltoS-and off, the 41 Stock- -
booMhat -no Aus-_
I tralian horsemair should be with!
'out. Obtainable in_ all sizes.
r \A, f/i?
‘ i'T CgvHi’i/. ' 'v 5:
u.m i«
W|
,fe
>N]
V\
X>. \
s** > **£«&~ . .gjiy, ,)V
jlf
tjtrjtffj
'y%
ji j tiach return—
Scoln, Stuart & Co. Pty. Ltd
Ss^ksgi^s;
244-254


For Foot Comfort
We recommend this medium
American Foot-form shape—an
easy-fitting Derby Lace Boot in
Fine-grained Tan Willow Calf
at 27/6
Black Box Calf 19/6
Tan Year Calf 18^
Post Free.
Write for Catalogue.
Pl«
I!
Fur Distinctive Foot toectr,
135 King Street, SYDNEY.
The Famous
Wet Shampoos
Icilma Shampoo Sachets,
the famous English Wet
Shampoos, are in every way
excellent for the hair. Th v
can be used with or without
rinsing—they dry quickly, so
that the hair can be done up
immediately—they keep a vay
dandruff, and are the only
shampoos that help the hair
*o grow. Perl Lined with
s weet violet root
c^
Shampoo Sachets
(For Wet Shampoo).
Price 3d. Packet.
Of Chemists, DruggiUs, St res, etc.
Icilma is pronounced Eye-Silma ,
J. C. Gambles & Co., Agents,
11 Commerce House, Melbourne.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
Quickly removes SKIN ERUPTIONS,
ensuring A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable Pimples,
disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema disappear
by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Bedness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
S urf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
Sulpholineis prepared by the great Skin Specialists,
J. Pepper & Co., Ltd.. Beuford Laboratories, London,
S.E., England, and can be obtained from any
chemists and stores throughout the world.
Quickly removes the effects of Sunscorch.
Letters Copied While Writing
(in ink) by using your own Letter-paps'-
with this Book. You slip your
paper into the holder and write,
and by the act of writing you
secure a perfect letter and a
perfect copy. There is no
sign of copying. 400 octavo Sin. x 5:n., or 200 quarto
letters, can be copied in NSC/5.C0 Bock, size x
S 3, post free 4/6 ; or NSC/400 DOUBLE Capacity
for 6/-. Special Small Octavo Book, making 200
copies, Bin. x sin., post free 3/6 ; double capacity, 4/6.
Sample of the celebrated Zanetic Ink Paper, which
produces this result, free, if stamped-addressed
envelope sent to S. B. Zanetic. Leicester, England.
AO
'
XL
JEID
-\
Very “ faddy ” with bis food
Was Mr. well, let’s call him ‘A’
He shrank from eating, and his meals
They simply bored him in a way.
The Chef’s most wonderful creation,
M erely made him take to flight;
But ‘Jelloids, ’ happy inspiration!
Soon found for him his appetite.
After taking IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ the blood becomes enriched and
strengthened, the appetite is restored, vitality is renewed. Anaemia
quickly disappears, giving place to vigorous and buoyant spirits.
Mr. M. M. Hvatt, Islcworth, writes : —“ I have derived considerable
“ benefit from Iron ‘Jelloids ’ —my appetite has returned, and I am feeling
“ quite well again. They are the best and most convenient tonic to take.”
A fortnight’s trial (Price 1/6) will convince you.
For Women, No. 2. Special Tonic for Men, No. 2A. (containing Quinine).
For Children, No. 1. Sold in England at 1/1 i and 2/9. per box.
Obtainable at all Chemists throughout Australia.
Wholesale: Druggists' Sundries Ltd, cr . Clarence & Market Sts., Sydney.
How to Treat Your Hair and Complexion.
A Few Simple Beauty Hints.
By Mdlle. GABY DESLYS, the welUknown Parisian Actress.
OU ask me for a few hint§ on the thing is a good shampoo. Never use an.v-
treattnent of the hair and complexion, thing inferior to wash the hair with. Get
Well, the less “treatment” you give some good stallax from your chemist and use
the skin the better. I do not
believe much in massage, but a
little cream to the face is neces-
sary to counteract the effects of
wind or sun. What cream
would I recommend? Well, I
advise you to use a little mer-
colised wax every night and
again in the morning, after
washing the face. Rub it
gently into the skin, then wipe
off any superfluous wax and
dust a little barri-agar over
the face. You will find that
this will be the only “treat-
ment” necessary and will keep
your face fresh and youthful-
Photo: Wrather <£■ Buys.
a teaspoonful ill a cup of hot
water. Then rinse the hair
well and it will look bright and
glossy.
A tonic is necessary when the
hair is inclined to fall out more
than it should, and is always
good to use during the spring
and autumn. Then the hair
needs a little —what do you call
it? —stimulant, and for this l
would advise you to get a packet
of boranium and mix it with
some bay rum ; dab this into the
roots and it will not only stop
the fall, but make your hair
looking for all your life. The mercolised
wax removes all the dead outer skin, so
that. you have always a fair, fresh com-
plexion like a girl’s.
For the hair, the first and most important
hair a good brushing every night
will be all that you need do.
Blackheads Fly Away.
Instantaneous Remedy for Blackheads, Greasy Skin and Enlarged Pores.
A practically instantaneous remedy for
blackheads, greasy skins and enlarged pores,
recently discovered, is now coming into
general use in the boudoir. It is very
simple, harmless and pleasant. Drop a
stymol tablet, obtained at the chemist’s, in
a tumblerful of hot water. After the effer-
vescence has subsided bathe the face in the
liquid, using a small sponge or soft cloth.
lii a few minutes dry the face and the offen-
sive blackheads will come right off on the
towel. Also the large oily pores immedi-
ately close up and efface themselves natu-
rally. The greasiness disappears and the
skin is left smooth, soft and cool. Tins
simple treatment is then repeated a fe"
times at intervals of four or five days, to
ensure the permanence of the result.
Grey Hair—Home Remedy.
An old-fashioned Recipe restores Youthful Appearance.
There are plenty of reasons why grey
hair is not desirable, and plenty of reasons
why hair dyes should not be used. But, on
the other hand, there is no reason why you
should have grey hair if you do not want
it. To turn the hair back to a natural color
is really a very simple matter. One has
only to get from the chemist two ounces of
concentrate of tammalite and mix it with
three ounces of bay rum. Apply to the
hair with a small sponge for a few night*
and the greyness will gradually disappear
This liquid is not sticky or greasy and does
not injure the hair in any way. It has been
used for generations with most satisfactory
results by those who have known the
formula.
To Kill Roots of Superfluous Hair.
The most Effective Formula ever Discovered,
Women annoyed with disfiguring growths
of superfluous hair wish to know, not merely
how to temporarily remove the hair, but how
to kill the hair roots permanently. For
this purpose pure powdered pheminol may be
applied directly to the objectionable hair
growth. The recommended treatment i
designed not only to instantly remove tli
hair but also to actually kill the roots so t w
the growth will not return. About an ount
of pheminol, obtainable from the cnemis,
should be sufficient.
Good News for Fat People.
Something New in Obesity Cures.
A London chemist says: “The latest
method of reducing obesity certainly is far
more pleasant and convenient than all pre-
vious methods. It consists merely in eating
clynol berries. The fat person who wants
to reduce without the usual rigid diet, exer-
cise, sweating baths, etc., now puts a few
of these little brown berries in his or her
pocket and eats three or four each day/’
Clynol berries not only eliminate fat from
the body, but also correct the tendency,
which is usually coustiiutional. to crea
fatty matter. No discomfort whatevei >
caused by their action; in fact, except o
the loss of superfluous fat and the foe 1 »
of "fitness” so created, you would not .
aware that these little berries were oo 0
their work.
Local inquiry shows that clynol berries *
not very well known in this country
the demand is increasing daily. 811(1 ‘.y
chemist can quickly procure them if spec* B .
requested to do so.
If any illustration appearing i c
Btxletin takes your fancy, write to t
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Australian mainland knights over 80:
James Reading Fairfax (N.S.M.), Charles
11. Goode (S.A.), Edwin Thomas Smith
(S.A.), Arthur Snowden (Vic.), and ex-
Judge Matthew Henry Stephen (N.S.W.).
A good Australian wrote an apologetic
note to The Bulletin recently from back
in California, regretting that he was not
financially strong enough at present to get
home for his share of khaki. “I think it
necessary to explain in the meantime that
my son has been after the enemy since the
beginning. Now lam putting bv the dol-
lars to carry the rest of the family home by
Cnristmas, when I will take my share in
whatever is coming.” One of the great
Dinkuru family!
The shade of Lieut. Waghorn, 8.N.. the
British sailorman who was responsible for
the Suez Canal scheme, shook hands with
itself out in the sands when grand-nephew
Carr Comyns, of the Australian Field Ambu-
lance, was awarded the French War Cross.
Waghorn Comyns, a brother of Carr, was for
years with Melbourne Argus, and saw the
start and finish of the ori.d. t omyns
Carr, the English playwright and art critic,
is a cousin.
“P.O’R.”: A week or so ago The
Bulletin honorably mentioned Noel T. Bull
as medical officer in charge of Melbourne
Hosnital’s meningitis ward. That was the
position occupied by the doctor until, infor-
mation being desired regarding meningitis,
he supplied it, or some of it, in the public
interest. Whereupon the Melbourne Hospital
authorities showed their appreciation of Dr.
Bull's public spirit by promoting him to the
charge of another department where the
danger of his infecting the public with
meningitis information was nil or there-
abouts.
Horace Moore Jones, of the Sydney Royal
Art Society, was lately commanded to take
his Anzac sketches to Buck’n’ham Palace.
Jones—best known for his “Red Drought’
'listed as a sapper in the Maoriland Engi-
neers, but was discovered by Headquarters
and converted into a military artist; and
that is how these sketches came into the
world. So far, though many have looked —
including Buck’n’ham Palace aforesaid few
have bought; but there may be something
for him in a volume of reproductions of 10
of them in color, which the Rees firm of
London is publishing at five guineas.
“Billy T.”: The boy of to-day hasn't
that large, wholesome hatred for school we
had in my time. Possibly this is due to
new methods of teaching; possibly the
human kid is now more tractable. At any
rate, wagging is almost a lost enterprise.
Boys so rarely play it nowadays that the
specimen I have just discovered looks like
a survival. I had gone back to one or two
of the scenes of my youth. They were very
altered scenes, but here and there were sur-
vivals. notably an ancient alluvial mine,
its brace and puddler still standing. I
climbed about the old timbers to find if it
felt as it used to, and there, high up, a
hundred feet at least from solid earth. I
found the boy. He was lying along a beam
just wide enough to accommodate him. He
must have undertaken a perilous climb to
get there; his position was dangerous and
most uncomfortable. “Hello!” I said.
“Garn, shut up!” replied the boy. ‘‘What
are you doing there?” I asked. “Find out,
V then ye’ll know,” answered the dear
child. “Have you been there long?” “All
mornin’, if yeh. wanter know.” “Are you
going to stay much longer?” The boy’s
patience was exhausted. “Get out. yeh
nark !” he said. “Can’t yeh see I’m waggin’
it?”
Hefty old Surgeon O'Hara rot out of his
armchair the other day to deal with the
meningitis epidemic. His suggestion, applied
to soldiers, sounds a simple one. It con-
sists of the provision of an iron shed fitted
as a steam-house. This O’Hara would fill
with “medicated vapor” and daily march the
men into it. 100 at a time, keep them there
for a minute and then pass them out, dis-
infected in every part. It is just the old,
time-tried eucalyptus cure on a large scale.
For family use O’Hara recommends an in-
halation from half a jug of boiling water
with “an antiseptic” added—-“a method
superior to swabbing or douching, and sim-
pler to carry out.” Not much is heard now-
adays concerning the military precautions
taken to keep the epidemic within bounds;
but it is a significant fact that, on the day
when O’Hara came forward with his ancient,
inexpensive, preventive remedy, there were
33 meningitis cases in Bendigo hospital.
Eucalyptus, by the way, was long ago
declared by the bacteriological experts at the
Melbourne University to be an effective
coccus-killer. Considering that it is Aus-
tralian, cheap and easily procurable, while
nothing better, short of inoculation, has yet
been found for the prevention of meningitis,
it is hard to see why it is not universally
employed. Some people object to eucalyptus
in the drawing-room, of course; but it is
better than a corpse in the best bedroom.
"Try Fluke”: If there is anything in the
“Ancient Mariner” belief that ill-luck dogs
the sailorman who slays an albatross, there
should be a hot time in store for the tarry
breeks of the barquentine Westfield, which
put into Lyttleton < M.L.) the other day
with her pantry and her beef-casks swept
bare and her hands sprouting feathers from
the quantity of tough seabird they had con-
sumed. The Westfield was from South
Georgia Island—where Shackleton made
landfall after his long-distance small-boat
voyage—and wanted to get to Chili, but
unable to beat round Cape Corn had to come
wrong way about, past the Cape of Good
Hope. Flour, rice, spuds, vegetables, beef
and nearly all the biscuit ran out. and only
for the inquisitive, wandering albatross the
attenuated tars would have had to draw lots
or mesmerise one another and eat the less
important rigging as spaghetti. They caught
and ate about 150 of the Ancient’s pets
between South Georgia and Lyttelton, and
the mossy old waterfront men are filling
them with horrible tales of the fate that
waits them when they put to sea again


m
f■*' '■
A Youthful Great Grandmother
Writes us: —“The more I think of younger people and
their futures the more I want to say to them all, to
everyone —Never use anything but
Dr. Lyon's
PERFECT
Tooth Powder
The standard dentrifrice prepared for nearly half a century by a Doctor of Dental Surgery
and use that always, twice a day”
“Many people I meet, who are younger than I, envy me my fine teeth and the
health and youth and buoyancy my teeth have helped so much to retain. I have
used DR. LYON’S 47 years and I know I have it to thank.”
THERE are a host of others who have had
similar experience through the three gen-
erations that have used DR. LYON’S
Tooth Powder. Many we know; there are-
many we do not know. If you are one of these
do you not also owe it to younger people
to urge their use of DR. LYON’S Tooth Pow-
der ?
We should also greatly like to have a letter
from you telling of your experience with DR.
LYON’S to add to our invaluable files of similar
letters. The only secret of DR. LYON’S Tooth
Powder is its ability to keep the teeth thoroughly
cleansed and polished without the slighest in-
jury to the enamel in a lifetime of use. The
natural fragrance it imparts makes it easy to
form a highly pleasing habit.
The twice-a-day use of DR. LYON’S Tooth
Powder with the twice-a-year visit to the den-
tist has been established bv time as the ideal
method of GOOD TEETHK.EEPING. Your
children cannot begin too early to form this habit.
For those who have a preference for a Dental Cream
The use of Dr. Lyon’s Perfect Dental Cream is suggested.
Obtainable at all leading chemists and stores. Send 3d.
in stamps today for a dainty sample package of either
Dr. Lyon’s Perfect Tooth Powder or Dental Cream.
I. W. LYON & SONS, Inc.
Lower Cuba Street,
Wellington, N. Z.
109 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N. S. W.
1
0!
p E. ft F EC r «s
!!>•-
f*
rip
»*. %YINGTH?^
K is <'*H
s^>


ft
The least
exertion,
whether
it be
work or
p 1 e a s u re,
seems t o
quickly tire
you out and
makes you
feel weak
and languid.
This means
that both
your mental
and physical
vitality is
low. It may
much work,
but a course
be caused by too
worry or pleasure,
of
FISHER’S
PHOSPHERIKE
The Great Nerve Tonic
quickly restores the system to
its norma,! condition, and gives
you the vim and vigor necessary
o enjoy both work and pleasure.
In cases of Indigestion, Back-
ache, Malaria, Headache, Brain-
fag. Nervousness and Muscular
Rheumatism Fisher’s Phos-
pherine is the remedy which for
forty years has been unequalled.
Ah Chemists and Stores, 1/- per
+ C-~ a: / .r.
Chemists,
337 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W. F.149.P.
THE DEAF
HEAR! .
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing- Aurists of the
day. —The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
■■ - ■
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mpars Far PllAnd many times as efficient
, , L “‘ rnone and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and tor all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3910 City. SYDNEY.
MearsEar Phone Co Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
WESTERN MACHINERY
WHEELED SCOOPS and DRAG SCRAPERS,
PLOUGHS FOR CONTRACTORS,
WESTERN ROAD GRADERS,
ELEVATING GRADERS, RQCK CRUSHERS,
ROAD PLANER and FINISHER,
DUMP CARS, SCARIFIERS.
(Large Stocks Carried).
Catalog's and Full Information from
the Sole Agents.
E. D. MORRISON g CO. LTD.,
257 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
€>n?u
A^aaci'hl
[fell t
{ears.
‘Restore tjt
Hilr trill
KB
J
D r B. Allen’s
m% \&m
the • ji
NCUBATOP
£k
BROODY HENS for 12/6.
The “HATCHO” 15-egg Incubator
is a perfect substitute for a Broody
Hen, will hatch every fertile egg,
simple to use, cannot get out of order.
Over 4000 sold last season.
Price 12/6 complete, carriage paid.
Egg Testers 1/2 each. Agents wanted.
R. CASTON & CO., Dept, H.,
40 Hunter Street, Sydney.
■j
/
The Bulletin
Stock Saddle
This latest saddle of ours combines manv nf .
COMFORT INNOVATIONS in SaffilleL Z
dippy pigskin seat, the rough out-flaps for gn n „ ®
G.S. panel with the short stuffing and leather noiX
the long girth straps and long flaps. it is fitted units
illustrated with folded leather girth, stirrun leathers
4-bar nickel-plated stirrups and SURCINGLE TV
knee-pads are well made and strong and the right shine
for comfort. If you prefer all smooth leather instead of
rough-out say so when ordering, and give your heisrht
and weight. 61
Price £5-18-6
Freight Free
for Cash
' ,o anv port or railway station in N.S.W. or any direct
in the other States, New Zealand or -Fiji.
port
RING HEAD BRIDLE, with rein and billet in one
piece, and one inch cheeks and rein, 11/6, post free for
cash. If ordered with Saddle, 10/6.
Illustrated
Catalogue Post Free.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON LTD.
Saddlers &, Harness Makers,
393 George St. and 32 Hunter St., Sydney
HORROCKSES’
n
OMOCKS
6
in
n
FLANNELETTES
The Authors’ Alliance
Is prepared to consider and place MSS.
Literary work of all kinds dealt with by
experts who place Authors’ interests first.
Twenty years’ experience. Write for prospectus.
100 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE,
And at London and New York.
ESTABLISHED 1874,
FOR
COUGHS
T # ■
es
UjuittiTor
omc
FOR
COLDS
Public Speakers Singers, and all who
suffer from Throat Weakness find
it safe and effective.
SOLD BY RETAIL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
STOCKED BY ALL WHOLESALE
DRUG HOUSES in AUSIRALIA.
Prepared by W. T. OWBRIDGE, LTD.
HULL, ENGLAND.
AVON
trade mark
THe TYRES
which increase comfort
and give longer service
at reduced cost.
BRITISH THROUGHOUT
i
A
A Good Day's Sport
assured by using
“NITRO CLUB”
and “ARROW”
lined" Waterproofed
Smokeless Cartridges
Made in 8.10, 12, 16, 20, 24 and 2S gauge
Loaded in London with the
popular English powders.
Obtainable from leading dealers
everywhere.
Catalogue 'post-free on request
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
Woolworth Bldg-, New York City
St. Stephens House, Westminster, S. W., London
This interior steel band, the lining of all
“Nitro Club” and “Arrow” cartridges, gives
great strength where it is needed most, and
extraordinary penetrative power.
Australian Manager, D. D. BRYANT, Box 686, Melbourne.
POLI-SHINE Oil Compound Polish
A DEODORISER —KILLS GERMS. A U Stra/iCin-HI ClCfe.
For Cleaning and Polishing Furniture, Pianos, Linoleums, Hardwood
Floors, Leather Work, Automobiles, Woodwork, &c.
Does not lca\e a sticky surface. Restores Varnish to its original brilliancy.
From leading Stores in all States and New Zealand, or
POLI-SHINE MOP CO., 48 HUNTER STREET, SIDNEY.
AGENTS:—Melbourne: Paton & Co., 115 Elizabeth St. Adelaide: J. E.
ilorley, Grenfell St. Brisbane: A. Moore, Creek" St. Perth: H. G.
Fhrelkeld, William St. N. Zealand: Blair, Reed & Co., Ltd., Wellington.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. *'»
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
J.C.R.: The Censor is a married man with
a family. Do you want to give him apoplexy?....
N.C.S.: (1) Keep calm; (2) paragraph contribu-
tions cannot be acknowledged: (3) if what appeared
was “practically all your par. slightly altered, cut
it out, give issue and page, and forward to the
accountant; (4) don’t worry about the morality of
The Bulletin; (5) don’t worry about anything
likely to overheat you... .M.A.P.: Not suitable....
A.S.: “Absence of the Boss” not up... .W.J.D.:
“Moonstone Mine” crushes a few dwt. short... •
H.ILH.: Too slight.... D.S.: Stolen detectives yarn
doesn’t move brightly. .. .A.McD.: Your “Con-
fession” doesn’t mention any crime as great as the
prodjiction of the sloppy, careless copy you forced us
to read M.J.M.: Too obscure M.E.C.: Conven-
tional idea proving the moral value of thunder-
storms.... Lilac: Nothing in them. .. .F.D.: Thanks;
but it’s poor verse....R.D.S.: Too bumpy... .Chook:
Shoo! J.M.N.: We’re bruised all over after riding
your Pegasus. .. .W.J.C.: Don’t care for it. ... A.W.:
Dull stuff H.A.C.: You could say it all in one
line, and then it wouldn’t be worth saying.... Black
Sand; It misses, but not by much.... Pte. C. K.:
Sorry; but “Thoughts of Home” has only a senti-
mental value... .C.C.: Point too 5ma11.... MAY.:
Yours isn’t a case for a critic. Consult a doctor. ...
Capt. W.; No g00d... .G.R.: “Kitchener” declined.
. ...0.P.P.: You may have time for “that sort of
thing” on Sunday. We have no time for it any day
of the week... .R. 5.0.: “North Sea Fight” lacks
originality, fire and force. .. .Sankey: Sorry, but
there is no promise in the story... .W.C.: “Henry”
hasn’t enough in it....A.L.: Not even admiration
for the Anzacs by an Englishwoman can win it
acceptance. .. .M.P.: We want good verse, npt slip-
shod rhymes about nothing in particular.... Pte.
11. G.: Sorry, it can’t be done.... W.S.P.: Held for
inquest... .N.C.S.: Awful... .J.V.G.: Produce the
maids who ask for one burning kiss, and we’ll believe
you... .F.C.8.: “A Figtree” is not “really poetry”;
it is not even passable verse... .H.A.S.: How on
earth can “roses in wild debauch” make a “shrine”?
You might as well speak of a curate’s afternoon tea-
party making a piratical raid... . J.E.8.; Out upon
your modern Dante who rhymes “spud” with “good.”
. ...8.A.: Not quite. .. .M.E.F.: “Miracle Worker”
fails in telling... .R.C.: “Danks” is still out of
scansion and poorly told Still Trying: -Must be
better yet....H.G.: Yes, there’s a market for poetry
and good verse. We regret to say that your sample
is neither... .Ailsa: Thin idea.... Warre: Most un-
emotional “Rats” we have met....G.M.: “Dr. Jim”
is pretty dull business.... Eivadsel: Puzzle or riddle,
or what?... .H.P.8.: “Seven (7) stanzas of ballad
metre” are worth nothing (Od.) E.W.: Poor stuff.
....Ed. B.: Whale yarn spoiled in telling. Verse not
up.—W.K.P.: Seems anaemic verse, but the hand-
writing is such that it might be anything... .
Gerardv: Nearly. Have another shot Wyn Revell:
A poor sort of curse, but well meant F.F.A.: Try
again. .. .G.A.M.: They have only sentimental value;
not literary... .S.A.K.: Sentiment nearly carried it.
....Nip: No. .. . J.F.N.: It’s much worse than your
apology would suggest.... Record: Don't remember
your work. Send stamps with copy if you want it
returned G. 8.: There’s too much of “Bill” for
his interest.... L.G.: “Black Mare’s Hide” is horri-
ble.... Geo. L.: You mean well, but your verse is
very bad....G.H.: “North Sea Lament” doesn’t
appeal C.F.: No use A.G.S.: That was a
speedy wooing S.S.M.: It bumped itself off the
table. ... M.M.: What’s the point of screeching “A
dream, a dream of mine,” at the end of it when you
have merely called attention to the existence of a
star?... .Lo. B.: Not quite... .H.W.J.: One verse:—
And though failure was your portion,
Heroe’s efforts but abortion,
Proud were we, we must confess,
Had we been there to share your mess.
E.V.K.: It doesn’t work W.J.8.: N 0....
O’Keefe: Not for us Bugilbar: Read it to the
cows themselves.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.W.H.: It is terrible... .H.P.: Makes us think
shudderingly of the next w0r1d.... Fitz: No humor
in your line... .S.T.: Too late and too small. . . ,8.N.:
It is small, but you have managed to pack a wonder-
ful lot of mistakes in it.... Ned J.: Don’t scratch.
. ...H.C.: Neat idea. Probably make use of it....
E.H.0.D.: Thin little mistake... .J.M.P.: Ghastly.
. —R.P.: It's immature. But that is a failing that
can be remedied... .L.G.: You’re too young and early
for serious consideration... .E.M.: Angular and low-
spirited ... .C.R.C.: Home it goes !... . H.C. (Sale,
V.) : Lose your faint pencil and work in India ink.
One held as possible suggestion... .Ernest W.: Un-
suitable... .A.G.F.: Why not learn to draw?....
K.U.F.: Great expenditure of ink and paper for little
result... .T. 8.8.: Is it a Belgian atrocity?
“Y.Z.” : Have you ever met a footman out
of business hours? I had often wondered
what a footman was like when released and
off the chain. We were thrown together by
mutual misfortune, crouching over a small,
pale fire in a station waiting-room on a nasty
winter’s night, cursing a train hung up some-
where in the sloppy wilderness. He reminded
me that we had both been present at a cer-
tain large food-festival. “You wouldn’t have
noticed me,” he said. “I was the footman.”
But I did recollect the footman very dis-
tinctly. "He was one of the stillest and
most preposterous footmen I have seen out of
a burlesque,” I said. “And you look exactly
like a man.” He half-grunted, half-grinned.
“That’s professional etiquette.” he said.
“We’ve got to look like that and talk like
that. The average family that keeps a foot-
man insists on his acting and living up to the
old idea. I’d expect to get the sack if I neg-
lected to drop my aitches, or if I failed to
carry my elbows at the proper angle. I took
to the work in England. There a footman
who looked like anything but a traditional
footman wouldn’t last a day. The rich here
have the same idea. If they have a footman
lie s got to be the correct thing, and the
man who gets nearest to a grotesque automa-
ton is most likely to hang on to his job. I
am supposed to do the thing very well. I
was the first footman one very swagger Syd-
ney family ever had, and I assure you it was
so proud of me it gave more than one big
shivoo for nothing in the wide world excent
to show me off.” v


WHY DON’T YOU,
too, wear ABBEY SHOES?
Although they are so superior in
every way to the ordinary run of
footwear, they really cost no more
—judged by the extra service they
give.
\Ye illustrate a special, High-
Grade Patent Derby Shoe. A
smart, made-to-order style.
Price - 30/-
Also in Tan Willow Galf, same
price.
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
DAIMLER
Potor Carriages
Cojsjiercial Vehicles-
Agricultural Tractors
thc DAIMLER COMPANYws
COVENTRY, ENGLAND,
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68} PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
BEST - ALWAYS.
rn HI
mm
Velveteen
every yard is marked with
the letters L-O-U-I-S.
/
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPIIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady wines: “1 like the Celebrated ‘Alt AH lib
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best an
cheapest I have ever used.” cols of
“Arabia” Egyptian Henna has the Ingest sal*e
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market,
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look f ,
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and- 6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
II
SYDNEY N.S.W.
Location : Conveniently situated in
Castlereagh Street—a few doors from
King Street and nearly opposite
Theatre Royal, with separate entrance
in Elizabeth Street I
1
I I
J
fri
Ul
w
The Most Modern and
Palatial Hotel in Australia!
THE Hotel Carlton, completed at a cost exceeding £lOO,OOO,
and furnished sumptuously throughout by David Jones, Ltd.,
has, since its opening on March 30, 1916, been thronged
with crowds of delighted visitors ■ •
While its exquisite appointments —its perfect cuisine and courteous
service more than commend themselves to travellers used to every
comfort —the Hotel Carlton can hardly be described as being
merely the leading hotel.
It is more than that : •
It is from every point of view the most desirable place in Sydney
to stay.
Every detail in the perfect attention to visitors’ wishes has been
thoroughly studied, and reflects the careful thoughtfulness of the
management, who have had a wide experience in catering for the
best class of patronage -
One of the attractive features of the Hotel Carlton is that every
bedroom is naturally ventilated, unusually spacious, has hot and
cold water installed, and is artistically furnished.
It is absolutely fireproof, having marble staircases and concrete
floors throughout.
The general appointments include amongst others: Magnificent
Dining Hall (with separate accommodation for children), elegant
and comfortable lounges, reception, smoking, writing and reading
rooms, also private rooms for weddings, dinner-parties, afternoon-
teas, etc.
All Letters, Wires, etc., promptly answered.
TERMS ON APPLICATION.
CHAS. W. CUPIT,
Manager.
rar
j
j
WM
.SYDNEY -
N.S.W.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
POLITICAL AND LITE RA R Y
ESSAYS. THIRD SERIES. By
the EARL OF CROMER. Svo.
A POLITY FOR THE EMPIRE.
By J. 11. MORGAN, M.A., Author
of “Leaves from a Field Note-Book.’’
Bvo.
THE FOUNDATIONS & GROWTH
OF THE BRITISH EMPIRE. By
JAMES A. WILLIAMSON. Globe
Svo.
THE EMPIRE AND THE FUTURE.
A Series of Lectures delivered at
King’s College, London. Crown Svo.
Contents: The Universities and the Empire,
by M. E. Sadler ; Empire and Democracy, by
Sir Charles Lucas; Administration of Depen-
dencies, by H. A. L. Fisher; The People and
the Duties of Empire, by A. L. Smith; Com-
monwealth and Empire, by P. H. Kerr, editor
of The Koun.d Table ;-The Duty of the Emm re
to the World, by Dr. George R. Parkin, C.M.G.
MODERN EUROPE (1789-1914).
By SYDNEY HERBERT. With
Maps. Crown Svo. 2s. 6d. net.
The Mokning Post : “Mr. Herbert must be
praised for an exposition of significant facts in
some 250 pages, which, if carefully studied, will
prepare the reader for a study of larger works.”
ABRIDGED EDITION, Is. net.
ORDEAL BY BATTLE. Abridged
Edition. With a new Introduction.
By F. S. OLIVER. Crown Svo. Ls.
net.
The Times: “Mr. Oliver has .added an intro-
duction which virtually constitutes a new; poli-
tical tract.” -
AN INTRODUCTION TO THE
STUDY OF INTERNATIONAL
RELATIONS. By A. J. GRANT,
ARTHUR GREENWOOD, J. D. I.
HUGHES, P. 11. KERR, and F. F.
URQUHART. Crown Svo. 2s. net.
The New Statesman: “A remarkable achieve-
ment. It is a model of what a text-book should
be. In the first place it whets the appetite of
the reader to know more of the subject. It
maintains an admirable" balance between a
narration of facts and a discussion of prin-
ciples.”
THE PROBLEM OF COMMON-
WEALTH. With four Folded
Plates. Bvo. - Sewed, ls. 6d. net.
Contents: Part I. —What the Problem is:—
Introduction; Origin and Growth of Self-Gov-
ernment in England ; Institution of Self-Govern-
ment in America; Development of Responsible
Government in the British Colonies; Tariffs;
Immigration; How the Dominions became
Nations ; How the Dominions stopped short of
Self-Government; Dominion Navies; The Im-
perial Conference.
Part ll.—-The Conditions of its Solution —
Control of Foreign Affairs by Dominion Govern-
ments ; The British Electorate —Its Exclusive
Control over Foreign Affairs; The Practical
Criterion of Suggested Reforms; Proposals to
Reform the Imperial Executive; Proposals to
Reform the Imperial Legislature ; The Primary
Condition of Practical Reform ; The Inter-Rela-
tion of Foreign Affairs. Defence and Finance;
The Incidence of Imperial Taxation as Between
One Dominion and Another ; The Incidence of
Imperial Taxation as Between One Taxpayer
and Another; The Dependencies ; Results of the
Inquiry Summarised; The Case for an Imperial
Convention.
W. & A. K. JOHNSTON’S
WAR MAPS.
THE MIDDLE EAST. Illustrating
the Campaigns in MESOPOTAMIA,
PERSIA and THE CAUCASUS.
Size 35 x 23 inches. Colored Cloth,
folded, ls. Gd. net. Unmounted Sheet,
Gd. net.
THE BALKAN STATES. Size 25 x
20 inches. Colored Cloth, folded,
ls. 3d. net. Unmounted Sheet, Gd.
net.
A New Story by James Lane Allen.
A CATHEDRAL SINGER. By
JAMES LANE ALLEN. Author of
“The Choir Invisible,” etc. Crown
Svo. 2s. net.
The Athenteusi : “A touching idyll of
motherly and filial devotion.... Permeated with
the author's usual idealism and spirituality.”
MACMILLAN’S EMPIRE LIBRARY.
Paper Covers, 2/6; Cloth, 3/C per
volume.
651 THE SHEPHERD OF THE
NORTH. By RICHARD AUMERLE
MAHER,
The Times: “A Freneh-Canadian story with
for ‘Shepherd of the North’ a wise, good and
single-hearted Roman Catholic Bishop. . . .There
is a strongly religious tone about the story,
which contains, among other things of merit,
an extremely vivid description of a great forest
fire.”
652 THE RUDDER. By MARY S.
WATTS, Author of “The Rise of
Jennie Cushing,” etc.
*** Mrs. Watts s new volume contains the
history of an intelligent, well-bred girl, who
touches life at many points. The story is
told with the charm of manner, the know-
ledge of human nature, and the humor that
are always to be found in books by this
author, and it is consequently of very great
interest.
653 GOD’S PUPPETS. Bv WIL-
LIAM ALLEN WHITE, Author of
“A Certain Rich Man,” etc.
*** This volume contains some of the most
notable short stories of a novelist who has met
with much appreciation in America. The long-
est tale, “The One a Pharisee,” is a particularly
remarkable piece of work, and alone sufficient
to make the acquisition of the book desirable.
Complete Catalogues of Macmillan’s Empire
Library, etc., will be sent on application.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN S CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE and LONDON.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA—ENGLAN IT,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
Staterooms, with bedsteads: Single Berth Rooms,
Private Bathrooms, Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Regular sailings from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO.. Ltd.,
12 Martin Black, Sydney.
Kimkiiig. Public Companies. &c
You can obtain BETTER INTER-
EST and EVERY FACILITY FOR
SAVING at the
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
The STATE Savings Institution
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
DEPOSITS RECEIVED FROM t /-
UPWARDS,
Interest paid at per c: nt. on balances up
to £5OO, except on accounts opened with
the late Savings Bank of X.S.W., which are
limited to £2OO.
Cultivate the habit of making regular
deposits—no matter how small.
The Repayment of all Deposits is Guaran-
teed by the Government of Xew South Wales.
By Order of the Commissioners.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700.000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Directors : lion. Sir ALFRED COWLEY
lion. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, li.C.M.G.
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
Gen nit at. Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Oflice: 41 Queen Street,
liondon OHiee: 4 Queen \ ictoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE
Jlustralian jjank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (31st December, 1915) .. £1,196.108
RESERVE FUND £75,000
HEAD OFriOE: George A King Streets. Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: .3 < Thread needle Street, E.C.
DIR EC lORS — Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman ;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Arthur S. Barton,
Esq.; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.; Herbert R.
Lysagiit, Esq. ; George F. Todjian, Esq. ‘
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. \ . .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 200,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1898 specially protected.
Di rectors— Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman);
lion. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; Janies Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— W. V, RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland. Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking Qo.
of Sydney, [limited.
Capital Paid-up.. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,805.000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,805,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. 11. E. Kater. M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses. M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and J. J. Brenax, Esq.
General Manager; H. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street. SYDNEY.
Eondon Office: 18 Birchin I, an e.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S. Littleton.;
N. D. Cohen, Esq. Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South \Yales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Oank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH;
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. . . 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,006)
Paid-up .. • • ■ - 992,295
Uncalled Capital . . . . .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2.057,170
GRANTS DRAFTS
on .*u«intJm. New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other, places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Lino to Vancouver
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE, CALLING AT
AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (Fiji) and HONOLULU (Hawaii).
THE “ALL-RED" ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ItOCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES,
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN. UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
t Twin Screw. * Triple Screw. Fitted with Cabins De Luxe, Suites, Bedstead Rooms, Lifts, Laundry,
Nursery, Wireless, etc.
AROUND THE WORLD BOOKINGS, RETURNING VIA CHINA AND JAPAN, OR VIA
SUEZ CANAL OR SOUTH AFRICA.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco.
VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
STEAMERS SAIL FROM WELLINGTON (N.Z.).
*M AITAI, 20th July. * >IO AN A, 17th August.
Steamers leave Sydney—l3th July, 10th August.
Passengers Transfer at Wellington to the Mail Steamer immediately on arrival.
Vessels stay 24 hours at Papeete, “The Pearl of the Pacific.”
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
The Paradise
of the Pacific. ’
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in tlie Largest and Finest Steamers Trading to America—
R.M.S. Niagara and R.JI.S. Alakura.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing Nineteen Days’ Stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY — PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
RETURN FARES: First Class, £4B; Second Class, £33.
Winter to Fiji
Levuka,
Suva,
Lautoka,
Samoa Apia, Friendly Islands
Tonga
Monthly Sailings from Sydney and Auckland.
T.S.S. ATUA (3444 tons). S.S. TALUNE (2087 tons).
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, applv,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street,
Sydney,
Something Unique in
Island -Tours
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHiLP «Sc CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
AMERIC A—c ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
via
SAMOA-HONOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
Sailings from Sydney:—
JULY 12, AUU. 2, AUG. 23, SEPT. 13.
AppIy:—OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
COLORED POST-CARDS', bv Ilarrv J.
Weston—• WEEKLY WORRIES.” ' Set
of six. posted free. 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co.. 214 George Street. Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“ Uiimaroa,” "Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” " Victoria.”
All of Modern Constructioa
Fitted with Wireless Telegraph>
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH k ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Ana All Ports.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
I ¥B
£3,500.000
£2,675.000
£3,500,000
£9.675.000
Directors:
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G..
M.L.C., President.
Hobei't Lionel Eaithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
lhe Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, ci.Ai.o uL C
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.G.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
__ Editors: Shepheard Edgetliff Laklley, Esq.; Alfred George Milson.' Esq
' Bydne » t .. London Office 29 Threadneedle St ,E C
041 Blanches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand Fiii P-mn, i i ‘
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. ’ eaUnd * Hji, Eapua London.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DTUFCT f a , R;n '
and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular’Notes famed negotiablethroughout ?ho AVortd
-- TirFgFTJ. FTIFNriT. General Manager.
JBank ot Australia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY
Open
for all
General Banking Business
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
in the
principal
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world. 6
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth,
united Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened Interest paid on fixed deposits
Advances made against approved securities.
Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at over
1-
Minimum
Deposit
2550
Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua
Interest at ,
per annum >
up to £3OO
&
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings? Bank Facilities
JAMES KELL. Depn*? Governor
DENIS N MILLER.' Glover
Shipping.
THE ADELAipFsTEAMSHipco;
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and f
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUST ni»
VICTORIAN a„d QUEENSLAND POR TS '
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
FORT FIRIE
And GULF FORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
1 lansliipping at Fremantle
to all i.orth-Western Forts.
DI.MBOOLA, July 1 atHl
July 29.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
I
MORIALTA, June »,
-RUPaRa, July" 6 2i
PARIKGA, July 8 .
Saloon Pas-saare Tick-eta
£ arjsw .saarata;
G. S. YUILt & CO., LTI)
Age,,t8 ’ 6 STItEET H Vnv n .
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
* CAIRNS
(‘Transhipping for
tliis and other
Queensland ports).
north.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons)
Leaves Sydney J unc 24.
OOOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne June 28
. staves Sydney July 1.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne July 5
Leaves Sydney July 8.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A.antHV.A. ports)
SOUTH.
BOM BALA (4000 Tons)
Leaves Sydney July 1.
l ull Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
tinted Kingdom, via Suez Cana], Cape of Good floor
Torres Straits.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw—l2,soo tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIKPr.Fss
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine. Surgeon and
Stewardess. Electric Fans
FARE TO LONDON OR LIVERPOOL, £4B.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; TURN-
BULL, MARTIN & CO., Brisbane; McILWIHITH
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide-
H. JONES & CO. LTD., Hobart.
“J"HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
Hie Company s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to; —
1 A ELD, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, CORE'S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Comoiuatiou iicKeis are issueu m conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Beaus—steamer to Mnrwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
-teamer. a: 6 S>. Gd. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,000 tons
T.S.S. “ KANOWNA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ KYARRA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WVANDRA” 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a Health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel by
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy- and pleasant. After
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.'s steamers in the Fiji Trade;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Daily Papers.
BURNS, PHILP g COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Colonial fljutual [ifc
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOg
Mutual Li,fe Assurance, Endowments and .
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident. Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
11!) & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £0,000.000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible. _ v__
Premiums moderate and without restriction as io
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office For. New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts. C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in use since 1596.
Write for Book CURES Write
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES. WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210 Lambeth Rnad. London, bnfc
insist on “ Singleton s’ —refuse all substitutes.


EORGE HOTEL.
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria-
The Australia Hotel
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone 7260, Telegrams—
-4 lines. Australia,
P.O. Box 1610. Sydney.
The Premier Hotel of Australasia.
Has accommodation for 300 Guests. Single
and double Bedrooms and Suites, with Bath-
room attached. Hot and Cold Water, Auto-
matic Telephones and Electric Heaters
throughout. Visitors have the preference of
the American or European Plan of rating.
Two special Grill-rooms are attached, in
addition to Main Dining-room, seating 600
Guests. The Winter Garden is the largest
in Australasia, and is the meeting-place of
the Elite of Sydney, who foregather for
Afternoon Teas and Supper after the Theatre.
A High-class Orchestra furnishes Music twice
a day.
Single Rooms from 16/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Double Rooms from 32/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Room and Breakfast from 11/-
per day.
Suites of Apartments as per arrangement.
J. URE SMITH. Manaq-er.
*
ITUvCted
11UCfc
Stimulating —
Nourishing —
Palatable —
Easily Made —
Easily Stored —
Always an Ideal
Food-Drink.
!
©
(* MlIKtf 061
y-J* r* *„*&*,
' l *hi ini rn
JgffS
m.
The Lake Breeze Motor
Cooling Fan
Runs on Methy-
lated Spirits.
A remarkable inven-
tion. Fuel costs less
than one halfpenny
per hour. Practical,
proved, simple, sub-
stantial, handsome,
quiet. Superb mechan-
ical construction. Runs
anywhere without elec-
tricity and is portable.
Send for circular. Order
early.
ADDISON PARKER,
34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
'EASY- CHAIR 5 ROUTE
to the
WORLD’S BEST MUSIC
Sitting at home in comfort and lis-
tening to the Cabinet Grand Instru-
ment is the ideal way to hear the
greatest singers and musicians
The
“GRAMOPHONE”
gives you all the music of all the world
—to-day, to-morrow, any and every time
you desire.
You’ll find a “Gramophone” dealer near-
by. Ask him to play the instruments for
you.
FIRESIDE
CONCERTS
AT HOME.
“GRAMOPHONE”
Registered Trade Mark
TheGramophoneCo. Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
t?
His Masters Voice'
ds
&
00
DEVIL’S PUZZLE MATCHBOX.
The Matchbox, which is different from all
other puzzle-boxes. You’ll never open it until
vou read the directions. Made of Nickel-plate,
beautifully finished. Without doubt the most
ingenious Puzzle Matchbox that has ever been
made. Price, Post Free, with Instruc-
tions, 2/-
Jokes, Puzzles, Tricks,
Novelties.
Write for our New Novelty
Catalog—lT’S FREE.
SHOCKING
CIGARETTE
CASE.
A splendid have.
No sooner do you
open the case than
you drop it as
quickly.
Post Free, 9d.
H
. L. Hutchinson Ltd.
708-710 George Street, Haymarket, Sydney.
GET BUSY WITH A “PLUM.”
u*
All the experimenting in the world with so-called “Safety” Razors
will never yield the easy, time-saving experience tnat
THE. “PLUM” RAZOR
is noted for.
the blade.
The secret is in the marvellous finish and tempering
Thousands of Plum Razors are sold annually.
of
PRICE 10/6— post free.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/G.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Sin°le Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- This line makes a handsome present.
Mi the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITK.EN,
(354 GEOROE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
EIGHT CYLINDER
Sixty Horse-power Seven Passeoger
>
THIS powerful Model E Touring
car is the successor of our
pioneer eight-cylinder King,
which has been for the past year in
operation all over America and in
thirty foreign lands, there being
more eight-cylinder Kings in owners
hands than any other '‘Eight save
one.
Model E has a V-type motor, bore 3
inches, stroke 5 inches; improved King
Cantilever suspension; 120-inch wheel-
base; two auxiliary seats folding out of
sight; spiral bevel gears; automatic
gasoline system, and electric starting
and lighting. A five-passenger Sedan
body—the utmost in cloaed-car luxury
can also be supplied with this chassis.
EXPORT DEPT., KING MOTOR CAR
CO.,
50 Union Square, New York, U.S.A.
Agent for New South Wales:
John McGrath, Ltd., Sydney.
Agent for New Zealand:
Dominion Motors, Ltd., M eillington, X.Z.
Some people brush their
teeth to keep them white,
some also to keep the mouth
cleans sweet and free from
destructive germs. To both
The Oxygen Tooth Powder
appeals as nothing else can. Just
as pure air is now found to be the
greatest of all restorers (it con-
tains 21 per cent, oxygen), so
C'alox releases oxygen when moist-
ened.
It penetrates the recesses, purifies
and sweetens where the brush can-
not go—but where decay plays
havoc.
Oct Calox at
ALL CHEMISTS. DRAPERS, FANCY COODS STORES
AND TOBACCONISTS.
Wholesale
Distributors
GEO. WILLS & CO. LTD.
When something is wanted
to put on a burn or scald,
to heai a cut, scratch,
or skin sore, apply
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Ointment
It soon relieves the soreness and pro-
motes a qui k cure, while for a skin
wound especially its antiseptic virtue is
important. On other occasions also
it is useful—for insect bites or stings,
fo- eczema, ringworm, and skin ail-
ments generally—whenever a healing
antiseptic ointment is needed.
Local Stores and Chemists sell it.
Made by F.C.CALVERT & Co., Manchester,Em&
t'X'Wum
CURES
ECZEMA
Writing from Cobargo, in January, 1910,
Mr. J. McCleary says:—"l did not credit
there was such a wonderful liquid on the
face of the planet that could do what
Exzerma has done for me. I had tried
everything that I saw advertised, without
the slightest improvement; but with one
bottle of Exzerma I was almost cured—
this after two years’ suffering. I was afraid
to mix with people and got as far into the
bush as I could. Now I can once more
mix with the bunch.” All Chemists and
Driu/gisis. or from
S. FIELDER, Randwick, Sydney. 5 '-, 2 6
Body-building power proved
equal to from 10 to 20 times
the amount of Bovril taken.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 j’ears.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
TRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
!YOiIOAM~Wm]RTOFE!
(TWO BLADES
JAMES C. BALDWIN
ALBERT ROAD, HAMILTON.
excellent
QUALITY
SHEFFIELD
STEEL
Length lnches closed, thin and smooth. This is a<
serviceable gentleman’s knife, and to ensure it against lossi
have your name on one or both sides. Price 2/6> P ost i
free anywhere. Name and not more than three word,
address, 3/-- order very clearly, as inscription can
never be altered. The UNION Co., 299 Elizabeth Street, Me lb


IF CONSTIPATED TAKE
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Delicious “regulator” for stomach, liver
and bowels, for mamma, daddy,
aud children.
If you are headachy, constipated, bilious,
or if the stomach is disordered aud you want
to enjoy the nicest liver and bowel cleansing
you ever experienced, take a tablespoonful of
California Syrup of Figs—"Califig”— to-
night, and in the morning all the constipa-
tion poison, bile and clogged-up waste will
gently move out of the system without grip-
ing, and you will feel splendid.
Every member of the family should use
this fruit* laxative as occasion demands. It
is just as effective for grandpa as it is for
baby. It simply cannot injure. Even cross,
sick, feverish children just love its pleasant
taste, and mothers can rest easy after giving
it because it never fails to effect a good
“inside cleansing.”
For 30 years California Syrup of Figs—
“Califig”—has been recommended by physi-
cians as the ideal stomach, liver and bowel
cleanser. Millions of families who are well
informed use nothing else.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of “Califig"
—California Syrup of Figs—which has full
directions for babies, children of all ages and
for grown-ups printed on the bottle.
Get the genuine, made by the California
Fig Syrup Company. Refuse any other kind
with contempt. "Califig”—California Syrup
of Figs—is sold by all chemists in bottles
of two sizes. Is. l£d. and Is. 9d. [5
Used the
World Over
MOTOR
... CARS
Missing Friends.
Absent beneficiaries. -Re
HENRY ITNBAR FINUCANE, De-
ceased.—The present addresses of Mrs.
DELIA FINUCANE ( nee SKENE) and
Mrs. NORAH GERTRUDE SMITH (nee
SKENE), who resided in Charters Towers
about twelve years ago. are required by the
LOCAL DEPUTY PUBLIC CURATOR.
Townsville.
WILL WALTER TULLOCH, late of
tt Carnoustie. Scotland, please communi-
cate with JAMES WATSON & CO.. Ltd.,
433 Latrobe Street, Melbourne?
Legal Notices.
d RS.UANT to an Order of the Honor-
-L able Mr. Justice Shand made in the
estate of MARGARET LOGAN, otherwise
known as MABEL MOLLOY late of Towns-
ville in the State of Queensland married
woman deceased intestate who died at
Townsville aforesaid on the seventeenth day
of September 1914. WILLIAM LOGAN
and all other persons claiming to be the next
of kin of the said deceased are to come in
"U or before the thirty-first day of July
1916 and prove their claims before the
undersigned or in default thereof they will
be peremptorily excluded from any benefit
in the said estate.
1 kited at Townsville this twenty-ninth day
of May. 1916.
JAS. COMERFORD.
Local Deputy Public Curator,
Supreme Court House, Townsville-
“Fx & R”
WATCHES
Are the most extraordinary Watches of the age.
They are f-plate Levers.
They are jewelled in 15 holes.
They have brequet overcoil balance springs.
They have Jewel Ruby Rollers.
They have compensated and adjusted balance.
to stand ROIGH RIDING
and KNOCKING ABOUT.
They go with profound accuracv.
The - r „ a l e ?* ,ara . nteed %15 years, and kept in order
rears 01 cdlar^e (breakages excepted) for two
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney.
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
PLAIN FIGURES CASH ONLY.
1
/
*
s
fU*w*x a W»!»TI IT»
//
Gent.’s Full-sized. Open-faced Oxidised Steel
l’v f- T? T U'otfh with lo
33/-
IN BANANA LAND
‘“Strabo”: A derelict was hauled before the
I Brisbane Police Court the other day to
answer a charge of vagrancy. He had been
discovered fossicking amongst rotten potatoes
and cabbage-leaves preparing his breakfast.
After further evidence the poor human dirt-
box was invited to give his version, and as
a preliminary was handed the Book to kiss.
Then he explained that he was so rotten
with venereal disease that he was unable to
work. Who’s next for the Book?
At Rockhampton the other day the Meat
Industry Employees declared themselves such
thorough-going unionists that they demanded
of the Minister for Defence to tell them
what lie meant by giving a non-unionist a
commission at Enoggera military camp when
a unionist was available. And then, by
voting against conscription, these half-baked
unionists declared for the glorious and
inalienable right of every man to be a black-
leg and loaf on his fellows.
"YN'.J.M.”: Saw-millers are prize fools.
At Finch Hatton. Mackay, they use cedar
for any old purpose—for fowlhouses or fence
palings. A pub in the, township is built of
nothing else. There are two varieties, red
cedar and Mackay cedar, the former being
the better. Both varieties are becoming
scarce now, and they will probablv share
the same fate as the Xooza pine. The
millers supply either kind at the same price
as pine or hardwood, thereby helping it on
its way to extinction.
1 hough the Farmers I uion is quite satis-
fied that Socialism in our time is the verv
Devil, wherefore it supports the anti-LaboV
National Political Council, you can hear
little whines from all over the country asking
for small instalments of his tail. The Marv-
borough branch is clamoring for a State
butchery. Up at Babiuda they are plead-
ing for a State hotel. And on the Darling
Downs some of the prominent dairy-farmers
are asking for a State factory.
“D.F.”: Pastor Xiemayer, who was
mixed up in the Black Hand rows
amongst his interned countrymen in
X. S. W ales, is not the ordinary
Lutheran pastor, but the Stem of the
Apostolic Church. Years ago he was. so
the legend runs, toiling in the Fatherland
when a vision told him to chuck his job and
go to Berlin, where he would find a body of
true believers waiting for a leader. He went
and found them, and led them to Queens-
land, where they settled on the land. Later
he brought in more, till there was quite a
colony of them. There was no bother about
the collection-plate; the pastor took a tenth
of the income of the faithful. It is said to
have been an article of belief with them that
the Stem Apostle (the pastor, that is) died
every Good Friday and came to life' again
on Easter Monday. The Kaiser gave him
the order of the Red Rooster or something
when he was on one of his trips to Ger-
many.
Passed out at Nauango, T. M. S. Row-
lands, who commenced to chase Costs nearly
60 years ago and became one of the best-
known of country lawyers. His other fail-
ings included a predilection for cricket, foot-
ball, tennis and racing—he w r as president of
the Dalby Jockey Club—and hospital man-
agement. Between whiles he dabbled in
politics, and was once nearly an M.P.
“Chink”: Northern Anglicans have the
importing fever in a deadly form. They’ve
fixed a big mission move for some time next
year, and are busy entertaining two “pio-
neers” from England. The pair, Revs.
Perry-Gore and Langford-Brown—don’t trip
over the hyphens—are wooden speakers,
quite in the shade of Archbish. Donaldson
and dozens of others. If the projected im-
portations are no better, the mission is
going to have a cold time.
IN A FLAT SUBURB.
PROSPECTIVE BUYER (to land agent, after the recent rains): "How much arc you asking
a gallon for this land?"
“Premium” tries to explain:—
tie that life-insurance deputation to Fihelly, Min-
ister of Justice. He did not say that there would
be any State competition; on the contrary he
clearly stated that the A.M.P. was perhaps the best
society of its kind in the world. But he emphasised
this—that the A.M.P. and the other life companies
were using mortality tables based on English figures
of years ago and not on healthy Australian figures,
lie made this further point—that the immense
reserves of the insurance companies should not be
controlled by a few men, and that the iron industry,
the ship-building industry and other essentialiy
national requirements should, as patriotic and sound
investments, engage the attention of the insurance
magnates in preference to the gilt-edged Pitt- and
Collins-street properties. Indeed, Fihelly blamed the
companies aforesaid in this matter for the evils of
centralisation. By the way, hasn’t the A.M.P. got a
reserve fund of £33,000,000?
To which, briefly :
(1) No, the A.M.P. hasn’t got a reserve fund of
£33,000,000. It has merely accumulated that much
towards paying its debts. The only reserves it has
are a trifle to meet contingencies (such as shrinkage
in securities), and in this paper's opinion they are
not half enough.
(2) It doesn’t matter two straws whether the
A.M.P. uses an English mortality table or not. If
it is charging too much in premiums the policy-
holder gets the excess back in bonuses.
(3) When the Commonwealth sets up a respectable
Customs tariff, trustees (such as these directors are)
may possibly be justified in investing their trust
funds in the iron industry and in shipbuilding, etc.
piesent, if they did so, every serious financier
in the country would demand that they should be
sent either to gaol or to a lunatic asylum.
(4) The Bulletin didn't say that Fihelly pro-
posed that the State should compete with life offices.
But he did propose or suggest that it would be a
good thing to monkey with them, and this paper
showed that before he started he had better learn
something more about the subject.
The Bridal Chamber.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I decked a bridal chamber for my love:
White lilies, since my loved one is so white —
Through their pure petals shone the
trapped sunlight.
And in their cups Spring hid a treasure
trove;
I made a bed of blossoms of wild rose.
Since wliat may please a woman no man
knows.
I strewed the marble steps with rosemary ;
I carved a bath of agate, and a door
Of jade; I laid a carpet on the floor
Spice-scented from a sultan’s treasury;
•Tars of pot-pourri brought I for my dear.
Set wide the gate, and bade her enter here.
My love came in with little, lingering feet.
Her midnight hair, the flower of her hands.
She looked at me with tragic eyes and sweet.
"Why pile ye here the spoils of many lands?
A humble cot were better than that tomb.”
My love turned back. “This is a haunted
room !”.
I decked a bridal chamber for my love. . . .
<’old is rhe moon to-night.. and cold the bed
Wade of wild rose. The glowing carpet
spread
(.’rows livid in that light, and when I move
< hily crowd to me. vestured in their shame.
(Thosts of old loves that were before she
came.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, June 17. 1916.
My Dear Thargohindah,—
His Ex. is taking a lesson in the habits
of the man on the land in Central Banana-
land. He is due at Barcaldine on Wednes-
day, and reaches Rockhampton on Friday,
where he will open a show', address a patri-
otic meeting, visit the hospital, and amiably
perform all other duties of a half-sovereign
on the wallaby.
Yesterday was Golden Fleece Day. Nearly
£4OO was shorn from the man in the street,
and the money will be divided between the
25th Battalion Comforts Fund and the
Wool Spinning Guild. By the way, the
expert spinners of the Guild include tw r o
Swedes, one Finn, two Scots and an Irish
lady. A competition amongst them would
probably result in a tie, judging by the avool
they all turn out.
Musical Brisbane climbed into its best
clothes, hit its hair down with a brush, and
sallied out on Wednesday night to hear
Clarice Cox, Lena Hammond’s pretty pupil,
whose voice is undecided whether to become
a soprano or a dramatic contralto. Which-
ever way it develops it is likely to be some-
thing worth having. G. Kitson sang, and
Gladys Frost played two pianoforte solos to
fill in the corners of the night.
The Amateur Dramatics have been suffer,
ing from a marriage epidemic. Last Wednes-
day Miss Maibry Campbell, who elocutes
and sings, signed up with L. E. Wragge. son
of the Inclement weather-prophet. With
wonderful originality the pair refrained from
mooning in the Blue Mountains, and are
making the most of our own Blackall Bauge.
Contralto Tessie Muleahy and Mr. Bur-
nett signed their agreement at St. Stephen’s
Cathfdral in tho prosonco of a few relatives
and about a dozen friends. Four male mem-
bers of the Brisbane Operatic Players sang
a quartette and Miss Clancy did the usual
thing on the organ.
Dr. Lacaze and Eunice Drury, both of the
Brisbane Amateur Operatic Soeietv, also
laced a hail of rice and confetti on Wednes-
day. Earlier in the week the society had
handed over an armful of silverware ana
chorus of good wishes. e a
The Anglican Synod has been sin;
the week, and the town is full of shoJeM
and reversed collars. On .Monday at RLh
bourne, Synod and its friends frisked atT'
usual garden party. Archbishop Donalds
was not present, in consequence ofthX
cent death of his brother; J J ? re '
was boss of the bored—and otherwise * anu
The Red Cross Society is DrenntX t
“xt month OnLnl/TtKw,:
be a carnival at “Snowy” Baker’s XU to
t° be Showed by the inevitable street®
T 5,i rt c S ° Ciety has Promised aS'
.Mrs. Bill Grant, who as Gwen sXi '
made many friends in Sydney and Melbou£
in her student days, will do liX •
sketches; and Vida Lahey will »ft®
anybody who comes within range.
Mrs. Peunefather and W. 11. Clark hav,
begun a movement for supplying readhl
matter to the men on Australian waS5
Anyone who has a few magazines fp l '
ably in a reasonable state of preservation,
oi a spare book or two should send them t,
Mr. Clark at Watson and Ferguson’s. *
The committee of the Brisbane
Players handed over fS to
drens Hospital from the takings of 4'. ’
hour Major.” It has not yet been announced
what fund is to receive the rest of the
hts, but it is ear-marked for Billjim.
Five Bananalanders now hold commit
sions in the Royal Flying Corps, and four
others are aviator mechanics. The nine
members of the Queensland Volunteer Flyh l
Corps organised by barrister Tom .Macleod
who now sports two stars on his shoulder
AH nine expect to go Hun-raiding at an
early date. e an
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“IVit Jostler, Junior": I enter St. Law-
rence as the most decadent town in this or
any other State. Forty-fire years ago it
had four or five pubs, and a balancing
number of churches. It was the meeting
place of C.Q. squattocracy, and many
**»y dogs built seaside huts for revelry. The
port was the outlet of all the products of
Clermont and the copperfield, hundreds of
teams being employed carting minerals. Now-
adays one pub quenches the thirst of all
tnat are left; and one store and a couple
of cottages only manage to keep the place
on the map. Mt. Chalmers is another town
in C.Q. that is only a memory, but as
it was a mining town I suppose it is dis-
qualified.
How is this for military precision? At
the last cadet time-marching competition,
in which 100yds. are to be marched in lmin.
exactly, the Maekay youngsters thought they
would get the bun when they judged their
paces so well that they covered the ground
in 08 seconds. But they had to take second
place when the Towers boys did it in 59 3-5
secs. Can anybody parade a regular armv
to beat that?
Canon Hay. of St. Andrew's. South Bris-
bane. goes to Hobart, vice Dean Kite, who
went lately to England after 20 years in Tas-
mania. Hay was imported from the Cold
Country in 1891 by Dr. Webber, who then
bished in Brisbane. He has been in Bris-
bane diocese ever since—chiefly at Too-
woomba. In 1910 he passed to South Bris-
bane, succeeding Vicar Ashton, who moved
on to the tony tabernacle of All Saints'.
Nt. Kilda (Vic.).


The Soul of Music
‘Soul is the one thing which music must have to raise it to
the heights of intellectual appreciation. It is not a mere matter
of notes. It is not a mere matter of composition. It is a
combination of personal technique allied to a sympathetic and
responsive instrument of interpretation. The wealth and
richness of the greatest creations of Bach, or Wagner, or
Schumann can only be expressed through the medium of a
worthy instrument. Paderewski himself could not infuse soul
and feeling into his playing were the instrument to fail in
responding to his wonderful technique.
So, in choosing your Piano, let it be one which possesses the
capacity for true expression. Such is undoubtedly
THE
BEALE PIANO
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
“The Beale” deserves well of the Australian Public. It has
fought a good fight for National Industry and the fortifying
and encouragement of our own manufactures as against those
of our bitter enemies.
This is not loyalty—it is just ordinary commonsense.
These Australian Pianos are infinitely belter instruments than an 'thing
imported, and will outlast them, for they are made under our own patents to
stand in tune, no matter what the climate.
You can possess a “Beale” Piano to-day, and we will make its purchase an
easy thing—for we shall be happy to allow you full value for your old
instrument ard give you extended time to pay off the balance.
Beale & Co. Limited
Head Office and Factor.es, 41-47 TRAFALGAR ST.. ANNANDALE, SYDNEY
_ 333 Cora. SC, SVDN f 23a
GOULBURN, WAGGA. J OR '£i. N M £vANS LTD Adelaide. QUEENSLAND : 90-92 Queen St.. BRISBANE,
K A^sf S '\I L ARYBOROUGH, Flinders St.. TOWNSVILLE. ROCKHAMPTON. Sydney St„ MACKAY. CAIRNS.


Good Health, Good Looks,
Good Spirits, Good Sleep
A clear head, clear complexion, clear eye,
clear bowels are the reward
of keeping the liver clear:
and Carter’s Little
Liver Pills take
care of that. Don’t
wait to ,be bilious.
Keep them at
hand. Purely
vegetable.
Sale for
children.
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
CHRISTIE’S
SPECIALS if
rwo
L fNES
Si# 5
010
FOR
CATALOGUE
*N 0
PATTERNS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
t
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
ZC fIONTER §T NEWCASTLE
Rheumatism
SCIATICA, GOUT, LUMBAGO, etc.
In the majority of cases of Rheumatism,
Gout, Sciatica and similar complaints the
excruciating pain is caused toy sharp-pointed
crystals of T rie Acid penetrating the delicate
and hijthl.' -sensitive nerves of the toody. To
effect a pure this excess of T rie Acid must
be removed; and no treatment that does not
aim at > this result will effect a cure.
Dr. Parker s Greatfndian
Rheumatic Remedy
goes to the root of the trouble, and toy remov-
ing the cause quickly affords relief and
eventually effects a permanent cure. Read
the following testimonial: —
C. lb adore. Queensland, S 7 ‘O5.
Hear sir,—Soi.i medicine has -been a great
blessing to me: 1 proved it to toe excellent. I
suffered with acute Sciatica for three years.
After taking one and a quarter bottles of your
marvellous medicine 1 am perfectlv cured. I
am. Sir. very gratefully yours—>l.' J. BOTT.
Send 10. ti and medicine will be
forwarded by return, or write for
sample and book (postage 3d.), to
F. PARKER,
Specialist for Rheumatism.
11 1 Raws on Place. Railway, Sydney.
METAL POUSH
Cleans more brass signs, zinc signs,
brass railings, door knobs and door
plates than all other polishes com-
bined, because it is the quickest and
safest to use. Sold by all Grocery,
Hardware and Drug Stores. '
Look for Photo on Can C 7
Have You a BAD LEG
perhaps surrounded with inflammation and
swollen, that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Perhaps
your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored. The disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive vou of
the i>ower to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Try the great British Remedr;—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which you will find a certaiu remedy.
Also for Poisoned Hands. House-
maid Knees. Carbuncles. Absces-
ses, Snake and Insect Bites. «Sre.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store.
British Prices. 1/3 and 3 -
ALBERT & DO., Albert House, Farringdon St.,
Agents— LONDON, Eng
ELLIOTT BROS.
W. H. SOUL PATTIKSON CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ANTHONY HORDERN * SONS. etc.
COMMONWEALTH
mwMxz
OF AUSTRALIA.
4£ per cent. WAR LOAN, 1925.
PRICE OF ISSUE, PAR.
THE LOAN IS TO BE UTILISED FOR WAR PURPOSES ONLY, and will take the
INSCRIBED STOCK or TREASURY BONDS, at option of Subscriber. orm of either
The above Loan is issued under ACT OF PARLIAMENT of the Commonwealth .
authorising- the TREASURER to borrow £5O 000 000, and Itoth CAPITAL and I\Ti?iipcv», uslra '' a .
a CHARGE on the CONSOLIDATED REVENUE of the COMMONWEALTH ">» he
BONDS and TRANSFERS FREE of COMMONWEALTH or STATE STAMP DIITV
FREE OF INCOME TAX. and INTEREST
STOCKS or BONDS will be accepted at PAR in payment of Commonwealth ppn D ,»,
SUCCESSION DUTY The Stock is an authorised TRUSTEE INVESTMENT. and
TREASURY BONDS issued in denominations of £lO. £lOO. £5OO and £innn c.m
INSCRIBED in amounts of £lOO and multiples of £lO over £lOO wu ’ or STOCK
REPAYABLE AT PAR ON 16th DECEMBER. 1925
INTEREST PAYABLE HALF YEARLY. A FULL HALF YEAR'S INTFRRt
PAYABLE on 15th DECEMBER. 1916. WILI '
INSTALMENTS payable as follows £lO per cent on application. £l5 per cent
£25 pS cent, on 16th October” ’ sth
BE
August. 1916. £2O per cent, on 15th September, 1916.
£3O per cent, on 15th November, 1916.
ANY OR ALL OF THE INSTALMENTS MAY BE PREPAID.
1916.
APPLICATIONS must be accompanied bv a DEPOSIT OF £lO PER CENT and will h
at any Branch of the COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA, including Rabaul New B •f Ceived
may be forwarded through Head Offices and Branches of ANY BANK, STATE SAVINGS Rivi?’ 0r
any Member of a reoogni>ed STOCK EXCHANGE, or any POST OFFICE where Mone>- Order « •’ or
is conducted INSTALMENTS payable through the same sources. uslne *s
PROSPECTUS AND APPLICATION FORMS MAY BE OBTAINED FROM ANY m\i
SAVINGS BANK, OR POST OFFICE AS ABOVE. SUBSCRIPTION LIST CLOSES Ist AUGUST m TE
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA, Ist June, 1916 ’ 16,
/ A
w
m
An oil-less
metal polish
You don’t want an ordinary oily,
acid, poisonous metal polish on
your kitchen utensils; use Bon
Ami. It works just like a metal
polish rub it on, let it dry, wipe
it off. That is the quickest,
handiest, easiest kind of cleaning.
But Bon Ami is not oily or
greasy or acid or poisonous like
other metal polishes; it is a clean,
soft, white, finely ground mineral
combined with a little soap and
is perfectly safe to use on kitchen
utensils. (In fact, thousands of
people in America use Bon Ami
to brush their teeth to remove
tartar!)
Bon Ami leaves the utensil dry
and shining— no oily film. It
doesn t scratch tin or aluminum
as scouring soaps do.
onderful for windows, mirrors,
bath tubs, brass, nickel, paint
and tile.
<P El
the
Finer Kinds of
Cleaning
At your grocers, 6d.
'‘There is nothing 'else like it.”
Q
©
arc. the only Standard 12/*
Fountain Pens All British Made
by. a British Company with
British Capital ana Labour.
Thomas de Laßue aCo.Ltd. London.
Arsfj AfoMjXTx A^ei\f s . NormaKßAKfeß Lon cm- rst. Sydney,
Still the Most Popular
Gilt for a Soldier —a
Luminous Wristlet Watch
w/y &
r.
.SM S
—e-*>
\
N.
05
i a'\ Mi,itao ., W^tlet Watch ' * tro "S Silver Case, with
. \ rd ' e *°* em jewelled Lever Movement. A perfect
example or Match Manufacture.. Price 70 /-
It's a constant link of re-
membrance between >°
and your gallant defender-
and will certainly plea-<
him better than anytlnnj;
else you can give him.
The “ELGIN"
Military Watch.
has few if any superior*
for dependability w«®j
paign use. Its a '' at fy
worth every penny °
price, and its repnt.
is world-wide.
A handy illus-
trated LIST OF
SOLDIERS’ FS E -
FIL GIFTS sent
post free on appli-
cation to Stewart
Dawson's.
STEWART DAWSON’S.
Strand Corner, 412 George Street, Sydney
A female speaker at a recent Melbourne
meeting: “We should do our utmost to stop
this Avar —it is so tiresome.”
A man charged in a Vic. provincial court
the other day with persistent wanton cruelty
to a small boy in his charge, a ward of State,
offered a quaint defence. “The little ’ound's
always sayin’ he isn't happy with us.” said
he.
There was a row in a small Soustralian
town lately because the Mayor Avas fre-
quently referred to as “the Burgomaster.”
The Scottish residents were particularly
vehement in protest. The Bulletin sug-
gests a compromise. Why not the Burgoo-
master?
From an Australian engineer avlio
enlisted in England because he didn’t want
to miss any of Sheol by coming back to
Australia first:—
I'm in Greece, and enjoying life thoroughly. The
Bulgars aren’t after us, and we aren’t after them.
The Huns fly over and bomb us. That keeps us
awake, and doesn't do us much damage either. We
got one of them the other day. The pilot Avas a
Hun, and the observer a goldarned Amurkan with
a goldarned accent and enough cheek for a second
row of teeth. The German spoke perfect English.
Qh. the spicy letters they had written, but not
posted, to their Berlin girls! I've done a bit of sea-
fishing with bombs. Got 201 b. for the mess witli
three for a start; then another bomber tried it on
and blew his foot off. Brigade Order No. 99097089299
now says fish-bombing is prohibited.
The man Avitli a few pounds of dye to
sell is in clover. Practically all the syn-
thetic stocks in Australia are in-the hands
of the job dyers and Avoollen mills; and the
various extracts are at such a price that
vegetable dyeing is nearly as expensive as
dyeing with aniline colors. If Hughes
would stop making speeches and protect
people who would start exploiting our own
tannin resources, the heart of the Austra-
lian job dyer would rejoice. With tons of
tannin-bearing materials on our A'ery door-
steps Ave are paying the foreigner about
iiA-e times as much as the stuff costs him.'
And that money is being heaped up and will
be used to shoot us Avith should Ave dare to
start a baby industry of our own without
a high protecting tariff.
The G.-G. called at State Parliament
House the other day to look at the most
comprehensive shoAv of furniture, Victorian-
made from Victorian timbers, vet assembled
in one place. As usual. Martin Hannah.
M.L.A., conducted the case for the local
article, while the display also spoke for
itself in a loud, firm, confident tone. The
gathering included seAeral responsible Gov-
ernment officials, who seemed to take a
cheerful, reasonably intelligent interest in
the prophecies made by the hopeful
Hannah; so it seems quite likely that
within a few years the various State
departments may be fitted Avith locally-
turned penhandles, Victorian inkstands,
home-grown chairs and other items which
in the past it has been the policy to import
from Guam and the U.S.A.
Just before his machine was brought down
and he AA-as made prisoner by the Turks.
( aptain T. Y\ . W lute, of Melbourne, posted
this account of hoiv he spent Cup week :
I celebrated Cup Day by seeing Baghdad for the
first time—that Baghdad which to us in Mesopo-
tamia is what Constantinople is to the fellows at the
Dardanelles. I had the reconnaissance of the
Turkish positions of Zeub, Ctesiphon, Seleucia and
Qusaibah.
Ctesiphon is a very ancient city. Alexander the
Great, Avhen he conquered this countrv about
600 8.c., occupied Ctesiphon, and built Seleucia on
the opposite side of the Tigris. Seleucia presently
had a population of 500,000, tvhile Ctesiphon was
much larger. There is an enormous arch at the
latter place, built by the Babylonians, and many
great ruins. The Turks hate a A’ery strong position
'here, having many guns ; rheir works extend for about
12 miles. I spent an hour over their position that day.
They fired a good deal of shrapnel at me, but I was
flying at 5500 ft., and dodged about, keeping the
sun in their eyes. We made sketches of their trenches
and redoubts.
Next day I had a short flight only. My car-
buretter went wrong on the way back, after I had
landed once through my engine stopping; but I
was near our own camp, fortunately, and had the
machine brought in.
On Oaks Day I had the reconnaissance of the
Ctesiphon and Seleucia positions. This time I did
the map-drawing myself. They fired about a dozen
rounds of shrapnel at me, but the compliments were
not so well aimer) as on the preA"ious dav. I
found a road round the marsh, estimate*! the num-
ber of the Turks in the position, and took manv
photos. When I reported to General Townshend he
was pleased, and said my numbers corresponded with
his estimate. He remarked that the Turks were
taking up the same lines of defence as the Persians
hail to face 2500 years a^o.
On Steeplechase Day a -eaplane left beleaguered
Kut-el-Amara for here, with Major-General Kemball,
Chict of Staff, aboard, and flown by Major Gordon.
D. 5.0., of the Royal Xaval Air Service. They left at
5.20 a.m., and as they had not arrived by II a.m. I
had the job of going out to find them. There are
hostile camps of Arabs between us and Kut-el-Amara.
aid it was feared that the General might get into
their hands. I took two 201 b. lrorabs, rifles and
- |HI roun ds of ammunition, and some provisions. The
wind was with me and our time was very fast. I
understood that they were on one of the converted
seaplanes, which are white, and therefore nearlv
missed them. They were, in fact, on a grev
machine, and when at 2200 ft., and a little more than
half-way to Kut, I saw them alongside an island
in the Tigris. I came down to 20uft. to see if they
were all right, and to drop the bombs if thev were
in trouble. The island was just a sand heap and
as I could see one of them on it, I decided to land
as near as possible....
On looking over my machine I found that a
bullet had gone through my propeller: as I had
thought, the Arabs had been shooting at me when
I was flying about at only 100 ft. front the ground.
And I made another timely discovery: a piece of
string from a pencil attached to the map ease had
become entangled in the pulley- of the oil control.
I had very little room to get off the ground, but
had Hie machine held bade until the engine got its
full revolutions; then we got away with a rush, and
were back to Aziriveh in an hour, against a 30-miles
wind—a very rough passage. Thus far the Turks'
had wasted about ion shrapnel on roe. and I hope
they will waste more.


fi! -t
ifijl
111 !
r« -
si
The Vest Pocket
Kodak
for pictures
to send to soldiers.
With the Vest Pocket Autographic Kodak splendid little snapshots of your soldier friend can
be made by you before he leaves for the War. And when he has gone you can send him
delightful snapshots of home life to keep him in touch with those he has left behind.
There is nothing to equal the Vest Pocket Autographic Kodak as a gift for the soldier, for it enables him to bring
back his personal record of his own share in the great War.
It needs no focussing, is easy to operate, always, ready, -never gets out of order. Takes pictures 2V2 xl% inches, which
can be readily enlarged. Price 30/-. Other Kodaks up to £l5/2/-
Inspect this wonderful little camera, or write for new descriptive folder.
OF ALL KODAK DEALERS, and
KODAK
(Australasia)
LTD.
Incorporating BAKER & ROUSE PROP. LTD.
379 George Street, SYDNEY; “The 810ck,”284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE
250-252 Queen Street, Brisbane. 37 Bundle Street, Adelaide. 45 Eliza-
beth Street, Hobart. Ruthven Street, Toowoomba. Flinders Street, Towns-
ville. Denham Street, Rockhampton. 346 Argent Street, Broken Hill.
Dixon Street, Wellington, N.Z. 3 Eorne Street, Auckland, N.Z.; and 76
Stuart Street, Dunedin. N.Z.
The Famous Vest Pocket
Autographic Kodak.
STATIONARY
WKS
mi
Ma-:
BTtyi
I
"Kg**
1
Mfc
Entirely Made in Australia
by Australians.
Workmanship and Finish not
excelled in any Country.
ll
»■;. j
B
ml
cv
X-
n
7%
m
m
m
o 8
n
PORTABLE
jp;y£ HUNDRED of tHese Engines Have been
sold to Australian Farmers within 12
months. The Simplest and Most Eco-
nomical Engine for Chaffcutting, Pumping,
Woodsawing and all Power Purposes.
Handsome Illustrated Catalogue B 4 sent Post Free to any Address.
H. V. McKAY,
... Sunshine Harvester Works ...
STANLEY STREET, SOUTH BRISBANE (just across the bridge).
27-39 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY (opposite Tooth’s Brewery).
102 SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE (opposite Railway Station).
56 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE. 36 PIER ST., PERTH.


Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
I*n’Otl THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVENINGS AT S.
MATTNEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Plans at Nicholson's and Tivoli.
•yiYOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NIGHTLY AT EIGHT.
JIMMY FLETCHER. MENETTI & SIDELLI, MARIO
KING-SCOTT. BLANCHE COLVIN. ROCKWELL &
WOOD, BURT SHEPHERD, THREE KUNDLES, and
BILL PRUITT.
Plan at Glen's.
I—l E R MAJESTY’S. S Y D N E Y.
* 1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
ROYAL COMIC OPERA SEASON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF GIPSY LOVE.
SATURDAY, JUNE 24.
THE QUAKER GIRL.
Plans at Paling's. Day Sales Callose’s.
QUITEHION THEATRE. SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. announce a Season of
Merriment. Roi Cooper Megrue's Soap Comedy,
IT PAYS TO ADYKRTJSK.
Presenting a great Companv of Comedians headed
by HALE HAMILTON and MYRTLE TANNEHILL.
Plans at Paling's. Day Sales AVhite Rose.
ALACETIIEAT R E. S V D N E V.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
d&N.TAIT S NEW ENGLISH C?
PEG.
o’hy
HEART
ACOMEDY OF YOUTH
by J.HARTLEY MANNERS.
THE SUPREME SUCCESS OFSUCCESSES
Box Plans now open at Nicholson’s.
W. BARRINGTON MILLKR, General Manager
Union Theatres Limited, presents the new
k I A
4*
V
T RIANGLE PLAYS AT
1 THE LYCEUM.
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MOTION PICTURE ENTER-
TAINMENT as it should be.
SESSIONS: 11.45 a.m., 2 p.m.,
4.15 p.m. EVERY DAY, and
8 p.m.
6d. to 2 '6. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Von haven’t seen Sydney until vou’ve visited
THE PICTURE BLOCK THEATRES
* In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Pietuve Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world's best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-.
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barringtox Mii.mcr. General Manager.
IRTHS’ NEW HIPPODROME,
HAY MARKET, SYDNEY.
w
Proprietor's: Messrs. WIRTH BROS., LTD.
LAST WEEK
of
LAST WEEK
The Gigantic Water Spectacle,
IvULTUK,
KULTUU,
Tlie Most l nique, Surprising and Expensive Produc-
tion Ever Staged in Svdnev.
LAST WEEK. NOT A PICTURE.
LAST M EEK. 200 Australian actors and superrtum-
LAST WEEK, entries appear in this Wonderful
LAST W EEK. Piece, which is a telling illustration
LASI W I.EK. of the sufferings of Belgium under
LAST WEEK. German rule.
DON’T MISS IT. DON’T MISS IT.
Preceded bv
JACK WALLERS VARLEY CO.,
"THE IDEALS OF 1916.”
THE I’ROYEANIES.
Wonders Awheel.
MAXIMO, the Cuban Slack-wire Wonder.
POPULAR PRICES. 1 2-, 3.4- and 5
POPULAR PRICES. Children Half-price except to
POPI LAR PRICES. Family Circle.
BOOK NOW*. " BOOK NOW.
. Plan at Nicholson’s and Hotel Australia.
H
ER MAJESTY'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction- J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JUNE 24.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. revive
HIGH JINKS.
FOR TWELVE NIGHTS ONLY.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6'-. 4/-, 2/- and 1/-.
THEY TR E ROY a L. MELBOURNE.
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING at S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
0 X TR i A 1,.
The Mo-t Successful Drama in 25 Years.
Prices: 6/-, 41- and 2/-.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
r Sole Proprietors: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT. JUNE 24.
GEO. MARLOW presents the GONSALEZ ITALIW*
OPERA CO. in
LUCIA DI LAMMERMOOR.
Tues. and Wed. (June 27 and 28), UN BALLO IN
MASC’HERA : Wed. (Matinee), LA TRAVLATA:
Thur=.. CAVALI.ERIA RUSTICANA and I PAG-
LIACCI: Friday, RIGOLETTO.
Popular Prices: 65., 45., 2s.
KING’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Lessees BERT BAILEY A JULIUS GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
FIRST APPEARANCE OF THE BERT BAILEY CO.
in
DUNCAN McCLURE and
THE POOR PARSON.
An Intensely Funny Comedy Drama by Steele Rudd.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Allan’s,
A imisemeiil».
1" HE PLAYHOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Commencing SATURDAY, JUNE 24.
THE GREGAN McMAHON REPERTORY CO.
in
H. A. VACHELL’S brilliant Comedy,
QUIN N E Y S.
Box Plans at Glen’s.
1" he PLAYHOUSE, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY, JUNE 24.
For the opening night only, in conjunction with the
Repe rt ory Com pa ny,
MADAME MELBA
in
THE 4th ACT OF OTELLO.
Orchestra under the Conductorship of Mr. Fritz Hart.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
*-* FULLER’S THEATRES & VAUDEVILLE LTD.
Governing Director BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
Afternoon 2.30. Evening at 8.
Two Big Features—
WISH WYNNE and DAISY JEROME.
Also “FRED COY'NE'S REVUE, “The Dizzv
Limit,” The FLEMINGS, CUMBY and BROWN,
EDWARDES & PARKES.
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Matinfies: 1/6, 1/- and 6d.
QLACIA R I U M, MELBOURNE.,
REAL ICE SKATING.
EVERY AFTERNOON AND
EVENING.
O Y T’S PICTURES, MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.
TWO BIG SHOWS.
HOYT'S OWN: Bourke Street, next Theatre Royal.
OLYMPIA: Prince's Bridge.
gIRCH & CARROLL
** (Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in. all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Companv of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
liu»ine>B Notices.
Scrap Cast Iron
We are purchasers up to 200 tons good, clean, soft
machinery scrap. Will pay up to £5 per ton on
trucks, Alexandria. No white iron or wrought iron
wanted.
METTERS LIMITED,
ALEXANDRIA.
CONSTIPATION OR COMFORT.
There can be neither comfort nor good
health where constipation exists. Most
people suffer from this cause at intervals;
many are chronic victims.
The mistake many people make in treat-
ing this complaint is in adhering to the old-
time nauseating doses of some powerful pur-
gative that leaves the condition worse than
before. In the new laxative, Pinkettes, is
presented a dainty sugar-coated oval that is
free from unpleasant effects, does not upset
the stomach nor gripe, but simply gives
nature the needed assistance. You can get
a free trial sample by mentioning The
Bulletin and applying to the Dr. Wil-
liams’ Medicine Co., Sydney; or any dealer
will sell you a full-sized bottle for Is.
—Advt.
(gPILLdRINE
CROWS MOUSTACHES
I QUICKLY !
<?
Many a young offi-
cer’s Moustac he has
been produced with
the aid of CAPILi-
LARIXE, and those
who follow the Mili-
tary fashion can rely
on equal benefit
from this absolutely
genuine Hair-grower.
Make up your mind to send for a
jar to-day. Price 10/6 Jar—Post Free
Craig 8 Aitkcn, 6
Established over SO years.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy anil Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
"z I'* 1 '* l ' er ■i'HiJless potentialities, still in the process of initial development. Queens-
a ““bounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist the
prospective settler and to the honest worker. *
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOUIUST BUREAU, Brisbane.
Branch Office:
279 George Street, Sydney, X.S.W.
T. C. T ROEDSOX, Director.
*
of my very own
—and it’s that lovely
Three Sizes—
lli H.p.
2 H.p.
3* h.p.
w
is>
X
if
The EVINRUDE
:: DETACHABLE::
ROWBOAT MOTOR
is The mosT successful and perfect motor of
this kind on the market. Over 40.000 now
in use. Very simple and easy to operate.
Lan be attached to any boat in a few
minutes—adjustable to depth and angle of
stem. Speed up to eight miles an "hour
Equipped with high-tension, built-in-the-flv-
wheel Magneto. Fitted with Automatic
Reverse and Maxim Silencer. Operated bv
Petrol, and lubrication is automatic.
t invaluable assistance on the farm for pumping watpr Hri,-;.
To transform motor into a power machine is the work -.f S s f parator * etc.
Propeller is removed and a belt pulley substituted. ot a few minutes.
H A is°L et sent post free on application to
H. A. GODDARD, 3#6 Collms street, Melbourne* Pirr c*
404 Queen Street. Brisbane; Cliff Street Street, Sydney;
Chambers (opp. G.P.0.), Auckland. S.Z. ' rem «ntle; Remington
LOCAL AGENTS REQUIRED IN ALL TOWNS WHERE NOT REPRESENTED
Public Nnfjp»
The Tongkah Harbour Tin Dredsins[Vli 1
OTicE N i? T H 0F wvioeSS ' ,J *
Share, amounting to >•1 - n/l'',° ? wo Shillings
N
UI XU
per Share, amounting to 15,000 ’ has h*°
“ ' 22, 1916, and f or tl> een Glared
ill be f:i»‘ ;.i or ™ s Purpose th
pa\able on JULY iyio and fn*. +u* —*
Share Register will be Closed from £f„ P , u , r - --«
22 inclusive. u n Ju ly 15 to
Dated at Hobart this 9th dav of t„
By order of th? \olrd Jne > 19l «-
H - i^SK^Man a?er .
PATENTS.— n
Patent Law enables an
„„ lt3 an inventor tU a r t e embof lied j n
as. syci'tt. “"p. ie *«*»? »
, r " V v “ inventions
before he has been to the expense of workin*' ’ even
invention in practice, to procure “Pw” kin? °«t his
Don,” and thus save the priorkv of a Z 0 "* 1
full Patent rights in ch,. V'l r i-L of a . term to receive
full Patent rigbtsTn Ze KS&Sft *8
and in any or all of those 26 ' A ®rtralj a .
' jeountnes havi ng
Patent Laws, and which arp r\o\Z;* w ‘''° "avine
Commonwealth to the International the
During this term, which is nine month* ention '
Commonwealth of Australia and 12»Zl ln tllf
foreign countries, the inventor hu* „~iV. nths m the
foreign countries, the inventor has amnTZ in th e
to test the full question of value b> P L r ! Portu '%
invention and demnnstrato if„ 1, . ."OrK; out his
. r question ot value, to work
invention and demonstrate its practicabi h ' V, "
principles of his invention are seen tn ftl
success he can proceed to take out full p?!°"l lse ■
not, he need go to no further expense n tentS; ‘
period of provisional protection the ‘{mJ-?™ 8 thl
be made, used and sold without prejudicTnJ Vh”
of the inventor to obtain valid Letters Patent®
information on Patents furnished free on „?,' ul
to A. J. CALLINAN, Registered PatentZ? PPhcatlo '
Official Examination, 1906), 281 Coll inf" el
Melbourne—’Phone 5199; or 14 CastleZl S reet
Sydney—’Phone 8336. Direct and most reliable oZ*
in all countries granting Patents.—Am gent '
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL
£5OO.
Fire insurances
Marine Risks ..
effected ou all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
?? n"c°sf ercilan dise.
Hulls of Vessels, Freights
Passage Money, etc. ° '
Accident and Other Insurances
ot various classes.
The “Inited” is an Australian Institution.
FSARTIN* HAIGH. General Kanaaer.
VARICOSE VEINS
—Weak Legs
and Joints.
THE v'AROX SUPPORT is an ENTIRELY NEW
METHOD of dealing with varicose
VEINS, as well as any LEG WEAKNESS.
INSTANT RELIEF is obtained, together with
perfect ease and comfort from 'the FIRST
DAY’S USE.
Illustrations showing supports as worn:—
Thigh Support.
9/-
Knee Support.
9/-
Calf Support.
9/-
Some of the advantages of the
VAROX SUPPORT over all
Others.
1. Adequate Support with
2. Equality of Pressure.
3. The Support is
a Laced Appli-
ance.
4. Can be regulated
to Comfort of
Wearer.
5. Causes no Irri-
tation.
6. Keeps its Place.
Ankle Support.
9/-
-■ e
Chart,
IVe Pay Postage.
7. Eas i 1 y and
quickly put on
and taken off.
8. Can be washed
and repaired.
9. Will Last for
Years.
Invaluable for
weakness of the
legs and joints.
Every support is made to
measure, and a perfect fit
is thus assured. Give
measurements on accom-
pa living chart, giving
number of inches round
leg at A, B and C, for
thigh, C, D and E for
knee. E. F and G for calf,
H. L and M for ankle,
also length of part re-
quired. Enclose measure-
ments in your letter, to-
gether with amount neces-
sary, 3nd goods will be
forwarded by return mail.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street,
.MELBOURNE.
Motor Accessories
“We hare it — trill get
it — or it isn’t made.”
We have the Motor Accessories you want at
prices that drive away dull care. These are
a few: FORD Electric Lisrhting COX'EK-
SIOX SETS, 30 '-, complete with bulbs.
MEED Anti-skid CHAINS, all sizes, from
£2 set. SEMENTOL—to stop that leak-
ing radiator. 6 -. Hellensen Flash Cells, Hot
Shot Dry Batteries, all sizes. Write us for
full particulars.
Darby Auto Supplies
Co. Pty. Ltd.,
33-1 = 336 Elizabeth St., Melbourne-
Ray’s Hair Dye.
When Grey Hair begin*
to show, rejuvenate
your appear* 1 "*
with
RAY’S
DYE.
Harmless and In '
stantaneous.
33 different shade*.
Post pattern or
hair with order.
4/10,7/11. 10/0*
POSTED.
MADAME LEIGH,
*S * 53 Block Arcade, Collins Street, Melbourne.
X


Ears, Neck and Arms. Caused Much
Irritation. Went On Suffering for
Years. Cuticura Healed.
7 Victoria Parade. Fitzroy, Vic.—“l was
troubled with a redness of the skin on my
.-■r-
face, ears, neck and arms
accompanied by blotches and
pimples, causing me much
discomfort and irritation.
“I tried many skin soaps
and lotions but derived no
good results -whatever and
for years -went on suffering.
I was advised to try the Cu-
ticura Soap and Ointment.
I used the Cuticura Soap three or four times
a day at my office and then at night time
applied the Ointment with the result that
I am now completely cured.” (Signed)
Joseph V. Cormack, Jan. 1, 1914.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W,
Sold throughout the world.
Series
With
These
Braiute
are HONEST SERGES- Pure
Wool, Fast Dye and Thoroughly
Shrunk. Such Serges, in Blue or
Black, never fail to give satisfactory
wear and to keep their appearance
GENUINE
FOX SERGES
have these brands stamped once in
every yard so that discriminating
buyers may recognise them at once
Made by Fox Bros. &Co Ltd., Somerset, Eng. If
you cannot obtain Fox Serges locally, write to the
agents: Stoedalc & Sons Pty. Ltd., Box 1802,
G.P.0., Sydney, who will tell you the nearest
storekeeper stocking it.
Teach Cadets
ROSS "CADET,
.22 CALIBRE
to shoot
The Ross “Cadet” Rifle is a
.22 calibre rifle, made expressly
for Cadet Organizations to the
specifications of the
Canadian Government.
It is strong and
serviceable, shoots .22
calibre short, long, or
long rifle cartridges —
(the most inexpensive
made), and has self-
ejecting, straight-pull
action.
It iR an excellent and
safe arm to use to drill
youths and teach them
how to shoot, and is
powerful enough to use
for any except larger
game.
The price is £2-10,
in Canada; discounts
are quoted on orders
for quantities.
715
Full particulars on application.
Ross Rifle Co., Quebec, Canada
Information
Mr.
P.O. Box
and Prices can be obtained from
HUGH SCOTT-YOUNG,
1031, Melbourne, Australia.
START BUSINESS YOURSELF.
We supply Fancy Goods Post Cards, Dr *P e ’;'j’ Bazaar
eonists, Stationery, Jewellery, Id., 3d. ana o .
Goods, Toys, Confectionery, Cutlery, etc.
cases £5 upwards sent by return. Guide Catalogue,
“Success in Business,’’ 3d.
H. Michaels & Son,
14-15 Cromwell House, High Holborn,
London, W.C., England.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
pay
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best onua-
. ,ing office in the World. HEAD OFFICE .. 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman; lion. B. J.
Black, M.L.C. ; Hon. Jas. Burns, M.L.C.; Hon. F. E. Winchcombe. M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Lsq., K. 0.,
Samuel Hordern, Esq. r,nr>rv o f
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Accumulated Funds, £35,000,000. Annual Income, £4,770,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1915 .. £848,525. Total Bonuses distributed .. £20,6.0,000.
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. Write for prospectus
and full information without delay. ___
<BB
&
BOOTS have come back again and no mistake,
tint sue h dreams of boots, up-to-date,
dainty, delightful, fit accompaniment to the
flounced taffeta frocks of the day, which
combine smart modernity with old-world charm.
Paris and London both are now tripping to work
and play in short-fronted, high-heeled, suede-
topped boots like the Bostock style here illus-
trated.
It is a smart little boot, there is no doubt
about that, and every bit as comfortable as it is
smart. The beautifully fitting last on which it is
made sees to that, and lots of women, who have
never imagined they could wear a short-fronted
style, will be amazed to find how comfortable it
is, how jolly it makes their feet look.
Then for those who want something different,
who prefer shoes perhaps, there is a fine range of
styles to select from, all as up-to-date and charm-
ing as this model, and all safe to wear well and
feel as peculiarly one’s own as if they had been
made to measure.
Rostock No.
P 6476
m
630
None sennino unless
stamped “Uostoek.”
See that the name “Bosto< k’
is stamped on the soles
82S
SEA-SICK
REMEDY
has received the unqualified endorsement of the leading
papers of the world, and the finest testimonials from the
world’s greatest men, women and institutions.
Does not contain Cocaine, Morphine, Opium, Chloral or any of the
coal-tar products.
No Bad After Effects.
MOTHERSILL REMEDY CO. LTD.,
Cor. Clarence & Market Streets, Sydney.
Guaranteed to cure
SEA OR TRAIN SICKNESS
OR • MON E V RETURNED
:c*
The Right Pistol for
the Boys at the Front
Ask any of the returned Anzaes what they think of a good
Automatic Pistol, they will all say the same as they tell us:
“It’s absolutely the best thing to help a man out of a tight
corner.” _ ~ T
Full equipment, including Pistol, Holster, Special Lan-
yard and 200 cartridges, £5/16/-. This price is only for
men in uniform.
ALCOCK & PIERCE,
318 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
kb a
Waterman’s
Ideal)
Fountain Pen
The Parting Gifto
What Present could he more appropriate than
a Waterman’s Ideal ? It is the Gift which
will keep him in touch with home , the gift
that will enable him to write at length and
to write often A perfect fountain pen—and
there is only one—is just what every soldier
needs. His equipment is not complete with-
out one.
Thousands of Waterman’s Ideals, the
perfect fountain pen, are writing the
letters and diaries of the brave men at the
Front. If your relative or friend hasn't a
Waterman’s Ideal, claim for yourse f the
privilege of giving him one. Send the
“ Safety " type—it’s best for Active Service.
Every Pen Guaranteed. Nibs to suit all hands.
Three types—Regu’ar. Safety, and
Lever Pocket Self-Filling.
0/ Stationers & Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. SLOAN,
ChclJen Comer, festfSL
Australia; Harold D. Dixon,.
105, Clarence Street,Sydney.
m
<L
fj ■ -r
fly
■y^” l
g^ST'
w*sv.
■ m
■tc
V/.
«
Q
J
The Inky Way.
“Quidam”: James Stewart, the Senator
who has the idea that if Labor doesn’t do
something substantial when it has the power
it won’t have the power long, used to run
the People’s Newspaper in Rockhampton.
A pawky Scotchman with a great capacity
for work, he kept the bright, energetic but
impecunious little paper afloat when every
Tory in Rockhampton was anxious to see it
founder. Its machinery was a primitive
hand-press in a little back room where the
temperature used to get up near boiling-
point in summer, and we all used to take a
shift at turning the handle on publishing
days—editor, sub-editor, printer, everybody—
and by this sweat of our brow we did a bit
in converting Rockhampton from a Conser-
vative stronghold into a democratic centre.
From the editorial chair Stewart went to
Parliament, and was succeeded on the paper
by Wallace Nelson, about as gifted a Radical
writer and as rotten a business man as
Queensland ever knew. Senator Stewart
still remains a mon who wants to gang
forward, and continually chafes at the failure
of the Federal Government to do little more
than mark time, with a loud beating of
cymbals before elections.
Howard Ashton leaves the Argus to do
the cables for Sydney Sun. For some years
Julian’s versatile son has been one of Mel-
bourne’s journalistic Pooh Bahs. On the
Argus he Iras at various times acted as
understudy to that paper’s art, musical and
dramatic critics, in addition to spying on the
private affairs of ants, writing nature-study
articles and painting pictures that have fre-
quently been worth while.
* * * *
From London
Through the scarcity of paper The Times and Tin
Daily Telegraph are down to 10 pages, and The
Daily News and The Daily Chronicle are
mere featherweights of six and even four.
As the available space is thus abbreviated
and it doesn’t pay the newspaper to put on extra,
the demand on the advertising columns is so keen
that, for instance, notices in The Fimes which used
to be 7s. 6d. for four lines have leapt to 10s. 6d. for
three lines and 2s. 6d. for every additional line —
which is an excited leap at both ends, so to speak.
Sergeant IL G. Ritchie, of the Lyttelton
Times staff, Christchurch (M.L.), holds
the record for quick recoveries. He fought
on the Peninsula until the last big scrap,
and was returned invalided and wounded.
On June 2 the Military Board discharged
him as unfit for further service. On June 3
he was feeling so good after a night’s sleep
that he re-enlisted and was passed into the
line again.
“Black and Whiter’’ at a Punch and
Kaiser show :
George Duncey and Charles Nuttall are exhibiting
a number of their Punch war cartoons at Melbourne
Athenaeum. Dancev, who is Punch s principal aitist,
deals mostly with the Kaiser in a hundred large con-
ceptions in wash. The drawings hardly show a gleam
of irony or mischief, and leave the spectator wonder-
ing whether the artist is dismissing the foe with a
disdainful gesture or treating him trivially as a
comic object. Some of the cartoons like “The
Kaiser’s Last Industry” are quite solemn and im-
pressive ; others, callow in idea like “How the
Kaiser Stubbed His Toe,” seem only fit to dado a
nursery. But the drawing and composition of them
all is unimpeachable, and Dancey must be further
commended for his determination to make a picture
out of the cheapest little pun, even when the job is
suggestive of a laureate groaning to produce a
limerick. Nuttall, who works mostly in line, is
somewhat timid and perfunctory in slighting the
Kaiser, and his humor resembles the raillery of a
curate who throws paper pellets at a maiden and runs
away. Nuttall; however, is too genial and kindly by
temperament to put poison or passion into his satires.
His strongest point as an illustrator is a free and
effortless pen-play that takes the eye of the amateur
in black and white.
As a rule, it’s only when an Inky Waster
becomes a proprietor that he is made a J.P.
But the mere chroniclers of the fate of the
frequent drunk were elevated to the Bench
at Hobart the other day. It was raining
hard, and the rotten old building was leaking
like a sieve just over the press-box. So they
put tubs in to catch the water, and told the
reporters to get out of the flood by going
alongside the P.M.
“Q.C.”: The quick-change championship
goes to J. Donohoe, of the Hobart Daily
Post. About three vears ago he came from
W.A. to he sub-editor. Since then lie has
been sub., acting-editor, general reporter and
chief of staff. He’s chief now ; I don’t know
whether lie will be managing-director or
copy-holder next. The Post is democratic in
its arrangements; every private carries a
general’s baton inside his fountain-pep, and
every general wears a private’s bluchers on
his corns. Not long since the ex-editor and
the ex-sub editor toiled together as reporters
on the staff.
THE LEADER-WRITER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, a small man sat in a high, close room
(His liver.was wrong and his eyes' saw spots),
Compounding his visions of death and doom
’Midst the lonely roofs and the chimney-pots.
The sparrows flew past and the white clouds sailed;
But the small, still man with a fev’rish hand
Scribbled on and on till his brave heart failed,
For he saw Death sweeping a heedless land.
Oh, the sun shone bright and the wind blew free
As the small man sat with a dreadful stare
In a horrible, blcod-soaked ecstasy,
All alone in his stuffy, sightless lair.
And when he had frightened himself to death.
He put on his hat with a trembling hand,
And took up his bag with an indrawn breath.
So shaken was he that he scarce could stand.
He slunk down the street with his shoulders bowed ;
But the gay street-folk seemed to find life good ;
They will not be frightened, the careless crowd,
And really I don’t see why they should.
They suffer, the Thinkers, from this mean blight—
The Readers won’t read what the Writers write.
N.S.W.
THE ORGANIST.


GUNS and RIFLES
4 of Reliability and Accuracy.
as
weight 2 Jib
The above Rifle, fitted with sporting ladder rear sight
Postage—l/6 N.S.W.; 2/S Inter-State.
810. “WINCHESTER,” Single Shot, 1902 Model,
22 Cal. Rim Fire, peep or V sights, scroll
trigger guard, rubber heel plate, 21! m
22/6
WE STOCK . .
EVERYTHING
FOR EVERY SPORT
“Goods right Prices right.”
SPORTING REPAIR WORK A SPECIALTY.
5^5
817. “ITHACA” Arms Co.’s Hcmmer/ess
D. B. B. L. Pigeon Gun,
12-gauge, top lever, dense Trogan nitro steel, 32-inch barrels, both
choke, Greener cross bolt, high, file-cut rib, pistol-grip, chambered for
2fin. cartridges, walnut stock, tested for nitro ; weight, 71b. to 7Alb.
Delivered ’£7
We can supply the above gun in IG-gauge, at £7/10/-
812. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906 Model
10 shot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger, straight grip, slide
action, for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges. r~ r- /
Postage—2/- N.S.W. ; 3/S Inter-State. 55 -
SWEET CROP
Smoking
Mixture.
Really
Delightful.
Sample Tin
1/- post free.
828. BAYARD SEMI-AUTOMATIC RIFLE,
22 cal., 19in. Round Steel Barrel, length over
all 38Jin., weight 3flb., handles short or o*7
long cartridges, m / O
Postage—l/6 N.S.W.: 2/S Inter-State.
GUN AND
RIFLE
REPAIRS
a Specialty
fi - Irf—iiihm,Mi
25T
Stevens' “FAVORITE,”
22 Calibre Rim Fire, round steel, 22in. barrel, case-
hardened frame, solid breech block, take-down o O
action, open front and rear sights, weight 4Rb. <&*£/©
\\e can supply the above Rifles, fitted with Beach Combination Front Sight and
Vernier Rear fas illustrated), 4()/_ 1 ana
-2URF, 25 or 32 Rim Fire Calibres, same description as above, o/« eac i, pxtr .
Postage—l/9 N.S.W.; * ° 1
3/2 Inter-State.
Send for our Price
List of Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition and
all Sporting Goods.
Post Free Anywhere.
89. “ Winchester " Single Shot
Rifle, 1904 Model,
for 22 short or long rim fire cartridges, °lin
heavy round steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight'
length of rifle over bead front sight, with patent alloved *tir>’
which will not tarnish ; weight, about 41b. £2
Postage—l/9 N.S.W. ; 3/2 Inter-State. -S//D
m
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KING STREET; also at NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE.
What It Means to YOU
l
111
O- CEDAR Polish-Mop means relief from
the hardest part of housekeeping —the
hard, tedious, back-breaking drudgery
of constant cleaning, dusting and polishing.
And it means even more a clean, bright,
dustless home, without hard work, red
hands, tired back and tired knees.
Just a few minutes daily and your floors are
spotlessly clean bright and pretty as new.
The New the Improved—the Better
o^kM»p
[Registered in principal countries}
is even better than last year’s modeL And
there are over two millions now in use
all giving perfect satisfaction.
O-Cedar is indeed a blessing where you have a
large floor surface to clean and polish. It is used
extensively in hospitals, schools, churches, etc.
One Trial
Will Convince You
Purchase from any leading dealer. Try the
O-Cedar Polish-Mop on your own work.
You will be more than satisfied. Write our
local distributor if you have any
difficulty in obtaining.
Catalogues and Dealer Sample 3
and Prices can be had from
GIBBS. BRIGHT 8 CO.. 37 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
Also at Sole Austr -1 an Agents.
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Fremantle.
Manufactured by
Channell Chemical Co*
Factory: Ch icago , U.S.A.
Offices :
London, Toronto, Buenos Aires
Cable Address: Ocedar
BE GOOD
TO YOUR
COMPLEXION
USE
Face
Cream
1/6 & 2/6 per jar.
FOR SALE BY
CHEMISTS ONLY
Benger’s Food
is neither a pre-
digested food nor a
mixture of dried
milk and chemical
substances.
It is a natural food,
differing from all others
in combining the princi-
ples of natural digestion.
These enable Bengers
Food to be prepared
1 to suit individual needs;
to rest enfeebled di-
gestions, and nurse
them back to healthful
activity by regulated
stages.
With no other food
is this possible, and as
Benger’s Food never over- stimulates
as do many chemical foods, no re-
action follows
its use.
9
Food
For CHILDREN,
Invalids and the aged .
Benger’s Booklet—A little work of authority on
the special feeding of Children, Invalids, and n .
Aged, will be sent post free on application to.
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER,
Branch Offices- Pitt
nf.w York (u.s.a) 92 w.iiiam bt. Sydney w (n.s.w) » 7- r Ltd .,
- Asr■•n s National Dru, * .
<4, St. Gabriel Street, Montreal, and Branch..


Wins a Scholarship
and Praises
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
Jl/isS VERA CREE (from a photo by Sid, Walton).
Miss Vera Cree, the young
Sydney Contralto, who has
recentlv gained prominence
bv winning the much-coveted
Associated Board lteyal
Academy Scholarship, London,
is well known to Sydney
audiences, having sung at
many of our local concerts.
With her wonderful voice
she bids fair to add to the
fame that Australia has
already gained as the ‘ home
of song.”
Miss Cree is a true “New
Discovery girl,” and writes to
us as follows: —•
Thanks for your many
kind wishes. All my
friends have congratu-
lated me so heartily on
my success, which I
assure you I so much
appreciate, and there is
another friend, too, to
whom I am most thank-
ful. and that is DR.
SHELDON’S NEW DIS-
COVERY for Coughs and
Colds.
NEW DISCOVERY is
an old friend of
and before singing 1
always prepare myself
by taking a dose of this
famous Remedy, for if 1
have any trace of hoarse-
ness or a cold one close
of DR. SHELDONS
NEW DISCOVERY
always puts it right.
When I go away I shall
certainly make sure of
having a bottle in my
lu efface, for T rely on
NEW DISCOVERY,
and am sure I wish it
every success.
Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) VERA CREE.
Men, Women and Children all over the country "se and k no the w( ft
Sheldon’s New Discovery. Are you one of them? If not don t d y, appear .
bottle at once, and be ready to pounce on to the hist cold ™ frien( j that
ance. Don't forget, Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery « «e ever ready r
should be in every household to protect you from all W inter ms. i uct > '
D? Sheldon si
New Discovery
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
Baby is a Connoisseur
in his own little way
He likes—and must have—the best. You
cannot be too cautious in selecting his
food. Use a proved food a food which
has been in the front rank for years.
Meliiifc Fbod
Mellin’s Food is the proved
most efficacious equivalent to
Mother’s Milk, and satisfac-
torily fulfils all the require-
ments of an artificial lood.
Set out to feed
baby right. Next
to breast-feed-
ing, the Mellin’s
Feeding Bottle
has most adva 1-
tages. A trial
convinces you.
A qnmnlp of Me’lin's Food, with useful Handbook for Mothers, “The
lnfan s in Australia,” wdl be sent post Free. Write to-day to
MESSRS. GOLLIN & CO. PROPRIETARY, LTD., S\DN’EY.
The Sydney $ Suburban Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
Mutual Lite Building 14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
f Tiff Maintenance Repairs Renewals of Rifting Ropes and other parts
and High Pressure Stocks general.,.
Best Workmanship and Material supplied.
HlM.'.Bill til
MAKER
TO
fAsKYouR StatTonerTor a Sample ofi
William MITCHELL’S
THE I
KING)
WILLIAM
■ o MITCHELL’S
CD IST CLASS SHOULDER
N?.9.First ClassShouider Pen
the Original quality byThe Original MAKERj
6°
B
0
X
E
S
PENS TO SUIT Alt WRITERS
ask your stationer for
SAMPLE BOX OF 24 ASSORTED PATTFR^S.
A Pleasance of Speech.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[WANT a garden green and old
Where summer kindles bloom to Hume,
Some pallid liquid clear and cold,
\ short dark maiden, mild and tame,
And one chaste mouth which tastes the
As the hot kisses I'hryne sold.
T shall not ask those lips to toil
Too hard while on the ground I lie.
T would not have a bosom boil
Till love-steam issued in a sigh.
I only want to feel one nigh
Whose quiet tresses darkly coil.
r ove is a pastime linked with pain
J yin! wedded to gymnastic feats,
Mv heart would never stand the strain
Qf frequent vows and tears and heats.
I pass the golden thing that cheats
Maddened delight to wear a chain.
\nd yet a nice girl somewhere near
Is needful to my soft repose—
\ silent damsel warm and dear
With frills and patent-leather toes,
Who delicately comes and goes
And wears a pink and listening ear.
For I shall hold a discourse free.
Filling the air with pleasant sound,
As murmurous as some hot bee
Whose golden thighs are honey-bound ;
Dull grammar shall not hedge me round,
My chosen subject shall be me.
The girl shall listen all the day
Sitting beside me on the grass,
Or rising swiftly to obey
The call that bids her fill my glass;
For I shall be a bragful ass
With one to smile and hear my bray.
And I shall feel the world is mine,
Like elder gods when time was young,
Seeing my splendid person shine
With lights and glories round me flung,
The Avords of my delicious tongue
Making me drunken as with Avine.
And when the small moon cuts the sky
Above the flushed day’s afterglow,
And little stars all pale and shy
Sit smiling in a silver row,
My tireless eloquence shall grow
Around the noble pronoun I.
The night from out her bosom deep
Shall sow the world with dust of dark,
'While sickle breezes come to reap
A harvest of each large remark,
Till envious gods in anger stark
Strike down joy’s rhetoric Avith sleep.
N.S.W.
PAT O'MAORI.
Taking the Count.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
CONKLIN had set out with a thousand
cows, but by the time he reached his
journey’s end he was short by over
a hundred, and the stragglers were distri-
buted over the worst mulga, gidyah and
brigalow country in the West of Queensland.
It was a tragedy for Conklin. He would
either have to go back over three hundred
miles and collect them or else lose his money
and reputation; and just then he was not
very flush of either.
“The worst trip I ever had,” he said
gloomily, as he made his last count on the
edge of Barradale. “A mob of sneaking
cows to drive and another mob of sleepy-eyed
crawlers to drive them. And the country
as boggy as a cocky’s cowyard all the way .
It would have been a case of dead finish if
it hadn’t been for the cook and the dog.”
He glared at the beasts w T ith a fierce hos-
tility as they trickled past him, and flicked
a furrow in the hair of an old cow that
tried to dodge round the back of his horse.
They were a mean-looking lot of animals,
with boomerang backs and protruding hip-
bones, and the mud of the worst track
Conklin had ever travelled was plastered in
flakes over their hides. He was sick of the
sight of them and never wanted to see an
old cow again. It had been a case ot
punching them through an endless morass
every day and waking every morning to find
that a few had crawled off the camp.
Then the men he had with him were a
scratch lot and had manifested no energj in
anything save curses at the road, lhe one
going ahead to report never failed to find a
wayside shanty or incur the hostility o
some overseer, and Conklin was pessimistic
about the future of mankind. None of them
could be roused to any enthusiasm by the
fact that there were races in Brewarnna,
and that if he had a good trip he could get
down just in time to see a horse of his run
in the big handicap. ,
The one bright spot in the plant was the
cook, and as they made their last camp he
doled out comfort to Conklin with a lavisn
“Don’t you worry,” he said. Ive been
in worse holes than this and come out with-
out any mud or blood on me. r aiquia
will be out in the morning to take deliveiy
of them, and we’ll do him some way o
other.” , _ ... . +l
“What’s he like?” asked Conklin with a
flicker of interest. . . . ..
“It’s a syndicate place, said the cook.
“And he’s what you might call a
man. Wears silk shirts and new legging
and is particular how he eats. He comes fiom
some little horse-station down by the coast.
and he looks it.” . .
There was nothing very reassuring in this
except what was conveyed b> .'
manner and his general confidence in i s
power to work things. 1 onk in v .
first watch and went to sleep with his
mongrel dog curled up on the » rfeet
blanket; but nothing could Perfect
easiness to his mind. The count that da>
had shown eight hundred and a seven -
and he had dreams of a long, < _ • to
of cows reaching from Bindai 1 ■ st
Barradale, their heads and horns
showing above the mud. , . a bout
bad humor to something
the fire very -cheerfully, .
about a jolly swagman and a coolibah tree _
“I’ve got it,” he announced a little later
“it will be dead easy.
What?” grunted Conklin doubtfully.
I'he cook took some twigs from the ground
and illustrated his plan of campaign.
“Dead easy,” he repeated. “I know this
place, and 1 know Farquhar. He’ll have
cleared the cow-paddock before we come, and
he’ll count them into that. There’s a creek
about half a mile below the sliprails. and if
we keep them without a drink they’ll make
for it as soon as they get into the paddock.”
“I don’t see” began Conklin.
“You will, though,” said the cook. “Leave
it to me. I’ll get a few you’ve already
counted through the wires at the creek and
bring ’em along in the rear. But you’ll
have to work up an argument half-way
through to give me time.”
Conklin was still incredulous, but the
more he thought it over the rosier the world
seemed to grow.
“If you bring it off, cookie,” he said from
a full heart, “you can ask me for anything
I own. Y r es, even what I stand up in. This
means a lot to me.”
And he rode off ahead of the mob to call
in at the homestead and see Farquhar.
By noon the immediate future looked
considerably brighter, for Farquhar seemed
to be a soft kind of man who affected tailor-
made riding-trousers, wide in the seat, and
was very liberal with his overproof rum.
That rum was a revelation to Conklin. He
had had a hard trip at the end of a hard
year, and he felt as if he had been sleeping
for a month in wet clothes and his boots
had become glued to his feet. A couple of
nips made the most remote corners of
his being glow happily, and without losing
his clearness of brain he had the illusion of
being able to put his fist through a pise wall.
“I’ll be out to meet you about three,” said
Farquhar. “You can hold them on the fence
till then and we’ll count them into the cow-
paddock.”
“Right,” said Conklin cheerfully.
He was in an exalted frame of mind, and
his heart yearned toward the cook as he rode
back. The latter’s genius had lifted them
out of many an awkward hole, and genius
was a thing for which he had a profound
reverence. He knew he had only talent him-
self, and sometimes in the grey dawn he
was even doubtful whether he had much of
that. „ . ,
The mob had settled for its noonday rest
on a sandalwood flat well away from water,
and Farquhar came out punctually at
three, bringing with him one of the stock-
men ’and a dog. They moved towards the
cow-paddock, and Conklin took great pains
to get the cattle well strung out along the
fence. Now that the effects of the rum
were wearing off he was feeling less confi
dent in the success of his plan, but lie was
°lad that Farquhar had brought only one
stockman. And the cook was still ready
with reassurances. • , , <T „
“Don’t you worry,” he repeated. Leave
it all to me. But in case of accidents you
might as well try to beat him for two or
three in the count.” . ~ .
The number 876 was twisting itself in
queer spirals through Conklin’s brain as he
reined his horse up opposite Larquhar and
they let the cattle trickle between them.
The mob, strung out along the fence, seemed
to stretch to all eternity.
The first 300 passed without question, and
Conklin tied neat knots in liis whip. They
passed through the sliprails in batches, and
Conklin with a sigh of relief watched them
move through the flank-high barley-grass
toward the creek, lowing as they went. He
reached the fourth hundred a little befoie
Farquhar, and raised his eyebrows m aston-
-ISh“Ninetv-eight,” jerked out Farquhar.
it,” shouted Conk-
-I,l'“No!”'mfd*rargtihur. “It may be my mis-
take. We’ll have that last hundred back.
It took time, and that was all Conklin
wanted. Moreover his dog just then very
obligingly worked up a dispute with l ai-
ouhar’s dog, and the two of them were only
separated with difficulty. I arquhar s do
was a sensitive brute, that barked with
terror long after the combat had ended, and
the Barradale stockman was forced to come
from the rear of the mob to chain him up
t 0 Wlum 'the* 1 count recommenced Conklin’s
nerves were strung tensely. There were
specks before his eyes and he lost himself
among the sea of tangled horns _ but he
assented readily to the hundreds which Fai-
Juhar barked with the confidence of a
drill-sergeant. The sun was sinking slowly
behind the line of straggling niulga and he
knew that the end was very near. He begai
to wonder if the cook’s powers of accom-
plishment were equal to his inspiration; in
geniuses there was often a marked dispanty
between tlio two qualities.
“Hundred— ninth,” Farquhar rapped out
U Conklin sat up in his saddle and counted
b-ircl * Every nerve in his body was shout-
ing its triumph, for though there was only a
handful left his practised eye told him that
they were enough. When the thousand had
been counted Farquhar’s eyebrows lifted a
little, and he turned towards Conklin with a
PU “And eleven over,” he said. “How do you
’"'qq'iere^vas 1 a broad grin on Conklin’s face.
“An old dog for a hard road, he chuckled.
-Trust me to look after your interests. I
knew we wouldn’t have too good a so
T got in a few extra in case of accidents.
“You did?” said Farquhar. .
Conklin’s sides shook in self-appreciation.
“T haven’t been on the road twenty years
limit nicking up a trick or two, ’ he said,
night after we left Bindni I went back
;m( l got a few of the best from the fence.
erphe devil von did!” Farquhar jerked out.
‘•p,it damn it all, man. Bindai Downs be-
longs' to mv brother-in-law, and I can t take
him down for the sake of a syndicate. We 11
count those cows through the yard in the
morning, and I’ll pay him for the extra ones
or get them taken back.”
Conklin’s jaw dropped, and lie had an odd
feeling in the pit of his stomach. His gaze
wandered round weakly in search of the
00 “Qot any more of that rum?” he ven-
tured, at last.
VANCE PALMER.


ARE YOUR KIDNEYS ILL?
I lie kidneys are the life and .strength of the back When
they are ,11 the back is ,11-feels weak, and aches day and
ni § lt * ->narp, cutting pains run through you. Work is
impossible; and what with headaches, dizziness, nervousness
bladder and urinary troubles, your health is quite broken
down. A few doses of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills will
make a wonderful improvement in you, and a course of the
medicine will cure you to STAY cured. For Doan’s Pills
reacli and heal the kidneys themselves—help them to remove
from the body all the liquid and crystallised impurities that
poison the blood, irritate the nerves and cause such diseases
as rheumatism, dropsy (swelling of the limbs), Brioht’s
disease, gall-stones urinary disorders, gravel, headache, dizziness, sleeplessness
languor, sallow skin, weak, fluttering heart, diabetes, etc. eepiessness,
SERIOUS KIDNEY TROUBLE CURED
SEVERE IiACKACHE, HEADACHES AND DRINARY DISORDER.
>r good, by these Pills. I postponed the operation'' Tl WaS US bac \ as } was > and had been cured complet
fortnight later I returned to work! and the S phere ooliMnSTfr 1 T& D ° an ’ s Ba ekache Kidney Tills A
e been possible. There is no doubt it is wonderful. l am unite cmT 6 T cha they saw in me would ever
Twelve years later Mrs. Higgins says-—“ The above qmt ® F U \. ed ’ and as ht f or work as a man could he ”
ortant fact thnt -Mf -- - e a)OVe state ment is true, every word, and I can now°add the
important fact that my husband is still free from every iS tru f> word, and I can now add the
18 I,r " f I>os,,ive that Doaa ' s Kidney rills wiU cure SLeTidne" His lasti "e
Backache
Kidney
Jzvery
jP/cfi/re
7r//s A
Story"!
1 .
7
n'»
'* c
X
, /
I
a*
£S3
/■ /
>S
\\
v \
p
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold at 2/9
per bottle at all Chemists and Stores, or from
Foster-McClellan Co., 7(i Pitt Street, Sydney.
Be Sure You Get “DOAN’S."
The Men in the Burrows.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
COME with me and see what you
think of it. The entrance is a small
black hole at the base of the wall of
Ihe trench. Passing in, you immediately
assume a stooping position. The man who
knows tlie way leads a little distance, each
yard getting darker and darker, until day-
light stops altogether. Your khaki cobber
stops also. “Wait till I get a candle,” he
whispers; and in the black silence you hear
a few grains of dirt rattle to the invisible
clay floor, as he gropes against something
solid. Then there’s a rattling of matches.
ou take a free breath and stretch yourself,
but a bump on the crown of the head
reminds you of the clay above. Suddenly
tin- darkness is relieved by a. newly-lit
candle; and, looking about, you fin 1 you
are entombed in a low. roughly-arched
tunnel between close, straight walls. The
air is still fresh.
Your khaki cobber remarks in a hoarse
whisper that you are now out several yards
in front of the trench above. This fact is
very impressive, because, up in the world of
light you have just quitted, for months past
only a few ragged human remains, sprawled
amongst a tangle of rusted barbed w<re and
brambles, have held such an advanced
position. And now they are right over your
head! However, no enemy can see. no
bullet can reach here, and the creepy sen-
sation leaves you.
Gradually the path dips downwards;
but the roof begins to come even more
downward, and your head is forced almost
to the level of your waist.
“Does it go very far like this?” you ask
as you stumble along.
“S-s-sli!” whispers the bloke. “You
mustn t talk loud down ’ere. Sounds carry
a long way, an’ there might be only a foot
or two of earth between us and the enemy.
A ever know where lie’s tunnelling, too'”
The passage goes on, twisting and turn-
ing, until you must drop on hands and
knees to make any progress at all.
Suddenly your guide warns you that
there is a drop in the passage. You clam-
ber down after him, stern first, and feel
relieved to find your footing firm and that
the clay above you hasn’t dropped also.
V JU can now walk almost upright. “We’re
right under their trenches here,” he whis-
pers. The thought is rather startling for
a moment. Up above you may have oceu-
pied an enemy trench at some time or
other, after they had fled ; but this is the
nearest you have ever been to a trench full
of them—with their daily life in regular
swing. You can picture the dusty figures
but a few yards above your head—eating
and cooking, walking about and sleeping-
i™ es » packs, blankets, etc., always ready!
y\ hat a ludicrous scene of mutual surprise,
tlight and general excitement if the ground
above could fall in and precipitate them
amongst us!
While you are reflecting time the pas-
sage takes another drop and you are
walking upright, with only the darkness
and an occasional scrape on the head to
remind you that you are still underground.
“Look out for th’ hole!”
You look down and by the dim light you
see a black abyss at your feet, with a nar-
row plank thrown over. With much
wariness you negotiate the passage and
continue to follow the dim figure ahead.
He is holding the candle before him so as
to throw the glimmer ahead, and you are
walking in a medley of half-lights, grey
shadows and dancing black masses. Your
hip rubs against a dark, irregular mass
jutting out from the wall somewhere be-
side you, and it feels soft and yielding on
contact.
'AVhat was that?” you whisper.
“A listener,” replies the guide. “He’s a
bloke whose job is t’ listen to any sound
through the earth, an’ try to judge whether
the enemy’s working anywhere about an’
how far off he is. Kneel down an’ put your
ear to th’ wall an’ see if you can hear
anything.”
You kneel down and listen for a while;
and- through the black silence you hear a
very faint regular “tick-tack,” as well as
your own breathing and that of someone
else in the tunnel.
“Yes, I can hear a ‘tick-tack’ just like a
machine working.”
Your cobber drops down and listens too.
Presently he lifts his head up with a smile.
“Some silly blighter’s watch, further
along the tunnel. There —listen again, an’
cover that ear !”
You do as he directs, and after what
seems many minutes you pick up a faint
irregular tapping that is more of a vibra-
tion than a sound.
“I’ve got it now,” you whisper ; and with
your fingers signal the tap-taps as you hear
them afar oft'.
“That’s about twelve or fifteen feet
away,” the cobber volunteers ; though to you
it sounds like thirty or forty. “At least,
we think it’s about fifteen feet away,” he
continues. “But it may be only a bluff t’
make us think lie’s pickin’ a way through
there. P’raps lie’s busy now connecting
th’ fuse or wire while* that other bloke’s
doing a bit of kidding with a pick further
away,” he added with a grin.
You reflect a moment on this pleasant
possibility, then ask what we are doing in
the matter. “Remember that hole we
crossed?” he asks with a swing of his hand
back into the blackness behind. “Well, we’re
gettin’ at ’em from there. At the bottom
of that shaft there’s a drive goin’ right
under ’em; and we’re tamping the charge
now. The firing is timed for to-morrow
mghc.”
The passage has continued on with many
turnings and many black branchings oil
cither side. At the end of some there is
<i ghostly glow so faint that you wonder if
it is not an optical illusion born of the
candle and the pervading silence. Presently
you see a faint but distinct strip of light
m the blackness ahead. Coining up with it
Jou find it is reflected from a short tun-
nel, turning at right angles from the pas-
sage you are walking. Looking curiously
through you see that the way runs down-
ward a yard or two and ends in a small,
roughly-hewn chamber below. It is lit by
a solitary candle stuck in a niche in the
wall; and you notice that the opposite side
of the little cavern is a mass of loose earth
and sandbags tightly packed. In the dim
light a figure in khaki is seated, with rifle
and fixed bayonet resting across his knees.
“What’s this lot?” you ask.
“You noticed the sandbags?" Well, that's
where the enemy blew through early this
morning. There isn’t much solid between
us an’ him now—-so that’s why there’s a
guard on.”
“And couldn’t they get through?”
“No, our guard was too quick for ’em.
I hey hurried from their posts down to here
—there were a few shots in the dark, but
nobody got hit. Then the bags were built
up an’ that finished it. No, thank Gawd!
lint there was a bloke sleeping just round
the corner. It shook him up a bit, an’ he-’s
oil duty now, resting.
“It’s a pretty nervy business down in
these silent places, all right, never knowing
when or where hell’s goin’ t’ break
thiough, he added. “There’s sentries
posted every few yards through these tun-
nels at night. They know all about it. You
ask them !”
“And what would the enemy have done
had he got through?”
“ r xu wd knows.” lie said with a grin.
i olight push a machine-gun in
and enfilade these tunnels an’ hold th’
place while their cobbers hurried through
an laid mines under our trenches—«,r any
little joke like that.”
Reflecting on the abundance of possible
diversions in subterranean soldiering you
pass on, crawling down and up and round
and about, while the passages and workings
become more frequent and complicated Yt
intervals a glint of light from the candle
on a naked bayonet reveals the presence of
a shadowy form on guard in some dim niche
or at the end of a short tunnel. You branch
oir tor a tew moments down some passage
where there is a light at the end. Here is
another small cavern lit by a candle. A
pair of figures in dusty khaki are kneeling
down before a wall of sandbags let into
one side of the chamber and are working
silently at something. One holds another
candle nearer, as his partner manipulates
a con of wire; and you guess there’s
another surprise in store for somebody up
above. J 1
I’ast more tunnels, more dim. lights, more
silent sentries, more busy stooping men.
1 hough your back may ache, you do not—
m the main tunnel, anyway—feel incom-
moded by stale air. You remark on this
lact to the cobber. “In the part we’re eom-
m to there’s a bit too much air,” he says
1 resently you arrive at a fair-sized cavern!
the upper half screened almost level with
the wall by an army blanket. There is a
nanow plank across an abyss at your feet j
and deep down below is a glimmer "of light
and the glint of a bayonet revealing where
some man mounts guard at m,
post. b u at uis uncanr
Your guide crosses careful I v
dislodge earth on to whoever is not
turning round he leans over and h'n thf
light so as to reveal the w , hol(ls tl
in the wall over the chasm ca^
explosions,” he explains “Ti,«,° ne , of 01
is so thin between us and their ie
when th’ wind’s right smol-r / nch *ha
hres filters through g Tint tl Jy om the
there to shut off the draught ” ? Was 1,1
As he speaks he lift" tim’
blanket and reveals the «
semi-circular cavern You a 1 ~f
thing familiarly unpleasant. ‘ 1 Som «
‘Copped a couple of ’em hm- a ,
t a T- J! Ky buri™ '
o<ll til. An WP OfllVt" ohi-Pf *-1 • (
case the ground crumbles or
through and g.ves the show a wav " w gh
down here we’ve smt d.ia V * see
trench!” got llght Ulld «‘ thei
You agree that matters are best Wi
.you’re not detaining your’oobber fr 1 * th “
duties. “Oh, no,” h! chimips an !
AIG and Al 9 to explore yet if
You thank him. but von’ve tv ' vant to.’
to attend to. -Some other day U “j'S /l
he remarks “we’ll find a short W a ,t'-
' °u stumble along in silence fn>- o '
thTtrack t 0I Yo, be f or t • tunnel
fioor ends in a steep to'a Jhf , the
kelow where there s a £im°SringVf Sf 1 '
” Ve men lere a conple of day? aj 0
“Cood Lord!” you exclaim. “Thev’ve
added asphyxiating fumes to this pleas, a
underground business?” 1 asan *
“Well, not that way. Y’see we’d
charge into th’ beggars who were minii,!
after us. And th fumes came filtering- h,,v
through the sandbags into our tunnel ', s
usual. Well, these blokes went down V
it. before they’d cleared away That rh?"
there in the floor is about four-foot six t£
got as far as that an’ didn’t have strength
to climb up and get out. Only one was
alive when the volunteer party got down
But he died too, after.” e aown '
For yourself yon carry a rifle, and in
clean open “dinkum” fighting serve vour
country The sound of a shell droning
overhead seems exhilarating, and you J
press your sympathy for the Engineers in
tlieir rotten underground burrows.
“It’s th’ poor blanky sappers that have to
dip cm,” lie says—“and reach the right
point m spite of all the bloomers the Engi-
neers make in their calculations. And
don t forget that every foot of earth out of
those miles of winding tunnels had to he
carried in bags, dragged an’ pushed up
down an around inclines an’ through places
where it was hard work t’ drag even vour
body, let alone a load. Take it fruni'me.
old mate,’ lie added with a wry smile “ours
is a bonzer job—l don't think ! Know r'r
way out? Well, hooray! Come up any
time y’ wan ter look round.”
TED COLLES.


westinghou.se
(Morse) CHAIN DRIVES
.
-
Wm || ~ imm i w
waß^mr 11
m a -m
n
lapß wu
L"\
m
mrrs - m
MWfS
ns
For all types of high-speed power
transmission.
Positive in Action,
Silent in Operation,
Unrivalled in Efficiency.
Because their patented feature,
The Rocker Joint,
eliminates the friction due to sliding
surfaces. Consequently you have
Full Power,
Continuous Power,
Satisfactory Power.
Full Particulars from
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Asrents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
a Office : 93-107Teatheraton St., Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
DON’T LOOK. OLD!
But restore your grey and laded hairs to their natural color with
LOCKYER’S SULPHUR
HAIR RESTORER
1/0 SOLD E VERY WHERE. 1/ 6
I oekyer’s gives health to the hair and restoies the
" natural color. It cleanses the scalp, and makes
the most perfect Ilair Dressing
This world-famed Hair Restorer is preparedly the great
Hair Specialists, J. Pepper & Co. Ltd., Bedford Laboratories,
London, Eng., and can be obtained direct from them.r
post or from anv Chemists and Stores throughout the Atoild.
SAFEGUARD YOUR HealtH
The Original and Only Genuine,
the best medicine for
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS, and
.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery •
Of dll Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3, 3/-, 5/-.
1 ' Made in England.
FREE!
As worn by our Brave Soldiers*
Every Patriotic Person should
wear one of these Brooches.
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN
BULL DOG BROOCH.
These splendid Brooches made in Australia and finished m
Gold, Silver, orOxodised Metal are sold retail at 2/6 each.
For the purpose of making these Brooches more popular
throughout the Commonwealth, we have decided to give
everyone an opportunity of obtaining Valuable « nzes tor
acting as our agents. SEND NO MONEY, your name
and address will do, and by return mail we will send you
6of these Highly finished Brooches. When sold
remit us our money, and we will forward you the prize you
select from our Up-to-date Catalogue of Watches, Chains,
Clothing, Bracelets, Handbags, etc. Write To-day to the
SIMPLEX NOVELTY CO., Pitt-st., Sydney.
tooheys limited
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
— agents tor
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky
Dog's Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Water, and Cordial*.
DINNEFORD'sI
Magnesia j
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
rtf numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious AfiectionS..
Do you feel Throaty
Then fly to tne nearest Chemist and ask for
EVANS' Pastilles.
Invaluable for throat and voice, affording instant relief. A
never failing remedy. Doctors prescribe them.
Evans Sons Lescher & Webb, Ltd., London.
Take Care Of your Digestion
and your digestion will take care of you. At any rate, it isxertain that
when you exercise care with regard to this important function you are
safe-guarding your health at its base. This is perfectly easy
stand when it is remembered that unless the work of digestion and
assimilation is efficiently performed the system will not obtain the
nourishment it requires. It commonly happens when the stomach
becomes upset, that unless speedy attention is given to the matter, other-
organs of the body suffer derangement, resulting in general ill-health.
Bp Taking
Beecham’s Pills—the famous digestive medicine th ?{
has secured the favour and confidence of the pu aooetite
stomach, bowels, liver and kidneys, are quickly arrested. _ PP. f .
improves, the food is more thoroughly assimilated, an foundation of
For securing a sound digestion, which is the necessity and foundation ot
sound health, take
Beecbam's Pills
Sold in boxes, labelled, price 10». (36 bills) 1/H (56 p|s) & 2/9 (163 pills).
Little Lectures
by Nurse ‘Wincarnis.*
(Lecture No 3.)
Run-Down
When your system is under-
mined by worry or overwork
when your vitality ,is
lowered when you feel
“ any-how” when your
nerves are li on edge
when the least exertion tires
you —you are in a Run-down
condition. Your system is
like a plant that is drooping
for want of water. And just
as water revives a drooping
plant—so ‘ Wincarnis ’ gives
new life and new vitality to
a ‘ run-down ’ constitution.
Because ‘ Wincarnis ’ pos-
sesses a four-fold power.
It is a Tonic, a Restorative,
a Blood-maker and a Nerve
Food—all in one. Therefore
creates new strength, new
blood, new nerve force and
new vitality. The benefit
begins from the first wine-
glassful. You can feel it
doing you good. Over 10.000
Doctors recommend ‘ Win-
carnis,’ especially to those
who are Weak, Anaemic,
‘Nervy’ or Run-down.
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
‘Wincarnis’ is made in England by
COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Wincarnis
Works, Norwich. You can buy
‘Wincarnis’ from all Chemists ana
Stores selling wines, prices 4/- and
6/6, but if you experience any ditn-
cultv in obtaining it, write direct
to Sole Distributing Agents, Fassett
& Johnson, 5-7 Barrack St., Sydney.
RAMEY’S MEDIC ATOR
For the Treatment of Catarrh, Hay
Fever, Bronchitis, Influenza,
Catarrhal Deafness, etc.
Medlcator, with complete treat-
ment, only 10/-, P°&t free. r 2
Write for Free Pamphlet.
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
49b Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 110 High Hol-
born. London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use toe
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
TALKS ON BICYCLE BUYING-
No. 4.
JiA&o/f sorf-
•4^:
/
--
| ETTERS from B.S.A.
L- rtders all emphasise the
wonderful service their
bicycles are giving. After
exceptional opportunities for
testing they are unanimous
that a bicycle built through-
out of B.S A. Fittings is
unequalled for reliability.
So-called cheap "pattern
machines may be highly
polished, but remember ap-
pearances are no guarantee
of reliability. The B.S.A.
reputation is based on the
only sure foundation—service.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF GENUINE
ittlN^
‘THOROUGHLY BRITISH."
B.S.A. Handbook
free from
D. Y. RENNIE.
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings*
MELBOURNE.
\l
A
B.S.A.
Anthony Horderns’
Universal Bicycle.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with
E.ADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub, Free
Wheel on both gears. Back-pedalling
and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop
Tyres As ridden by FRANCIS
BIRTLES. £l2/10/-. Write for
Price List, post free.
Anthony Hordern § Sons
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


The All-At»stralian
Power Transmitter.
NCROYTT
LEATHER
mi
which is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square. SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
It’s the
Original
Look for
the Name
%
#
There
is only
ONE
I
!
Hardie’s Genuine
Used In place of Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE, ROT, HEAT, ACID g ANY PROOF.
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES NARPIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
“Courier” Buildings, Brisbane ;& Melbourne
"Tangye” Portable Oil Engine.
“Munro” Single Screw Bagger Cutter
M
m
Tangye” Suction Gas Plans.
“Clayton” Traction
Engine
“Clayton” Portable Steam
Engine.
A RELIABLE COMBINATION OF MOTIVE POWER
Mowing well-
CLAYTON
-known lines: —TANG YE Lampless Oil Engines, Benzine Engines, Steam Engines, Boilers, Suction Gas Plants, Pumps, Winches, Jacks,
& SHUTTLEWOBTH Portable Steam anti Traction Engines. NICHOLSON & MORROW Farm Implements. MUNRO Chaff-cutters.
VVOLSEXjEY Shearing Machines and Separators. GANE Milking Machines.
Write ns for particulars of above, also illustrated catalogues—Posted Free.
DALGETY (Si. CO. LTD>, Millers Point, Sydney.
SHEEP SHEARING MACHINES
The Wolseley is the pioneer Sheep-shearing Machine—the
machine in which both squatters and shearers have absolute
faith.
Write for free descriptive printed matter, which gives full
details of the latest improvements to the Wolseley Handpiece,
etc. Post free.
Sole Agents :
DALGETY & COMPANY LTD., MILLER'S POINT, SYDNEY.
.
tip
Buffalo Exhaust
Recommended for
Remova! and Conveying of Shavings from Woodworking
Plant—Elevating and Distributing Wool or Grain for the
Handling ©/ Smoke or Fumes —Ventilating'Public Buildings,
Factories, etc.
Apply for Catalogue, “Practical Data on Exhaust Systems,’’ and whether you are
ready to purchase or merely contemplating the installation of a Fan, submit your
conditions and requirements to us, and allow us to work upon your proposition.
' PARKE <& LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers & Machinery Merchants 60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE “CARD” CONCENTRATOR
MODEL “D” PATENTED.
Special Decks for Coarse and Fine Sands, as used by the leading
Australian mines on Tin, Copper, Gold, Silver, Lead, Wolfram, etc.
The “ CARD ” is manufaflured ONLY by the SOLE LICENSEES—
•9
Equitable Building, Sydney,
Camomile St. Chambers, London.
