

U B 'VST j£3l Jb& 7 £B The Genial Spirit
R. G. WA.TKLIKTS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining’ and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUC lIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
o
; •
0
'• •
a
UJ
h-
UJ
CL
US
a
h
z:
o
T
• . i
*
*; I
H
Office:
Opposite National Amphitheatre.
- .... A.Yi . " ...I,
TL
uti
REET, SYDNEY 74.
Telephone: City 9325.
186 Castlereagh Street; Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
EUSTACE BEHNETT, General Manager.
Bijilili
•»« Iniitlffffflnl fffnrafffm «m •«**
a mfflpi
tTtlnai, mm-« |
COMMERCIAL CHAMBERS l/A H.S.W MOW 01 *»EIC OIPOSI t SIMtSIHINI CtV •+
/
Used in plenty
Makes forty look
like twenty"
VALUABLE FOR TAN
AND SUNBURN i
\ustralia by
SYDNEY
MTTnM£
Snyiu)
“PINEAPPLE” HAMS & BACON
SPRINGLESS
LOCKS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
stive
J
HAN SEN’S
For INDIGESTION
ant/ DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
G
■ ■
OF ALL
vV?
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
GOLF
That’s
m
u
WALLBOARD!
“Good job, eh? Beats the old-time lath
and plaster, because it is easier to
handle; won’t chip; won’t break away
when a chair bangs against it. It’s
strong and tough. Takes any finish.”
Bet us send samples.
The Paraffine Paint Co. (D. S. Evans, Australasian
Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
THE CLYDE ENGfUEERINC COMPANY L°
LOCOMOTIVE, GENERAL 8c AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERS.
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL 8c FARM WAGGONS. IRON Sc MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
SHREDDER DISCS.
MINING
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. „
Roll Shells, Shoes
and Dies, and all
STEEL CASTINGS.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
—
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Vol. 37.—N0. 1894. J
[Thursday, June 1, 1916.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW TECHNICALS
(Postages shown
in 'parentheses.')
Swain’s Conservation of Water bv Storaae illus
16/6 (6d.). " ’
Machinery's Handbook, 1915. 25/- (6d.).
Kingsbury’s Telephone and Telephone Exchanges
illus. 16/6 (8d). “ ’
Richey’s Electrical Railway Handbook, illus 24/-
(4d.). ' ' . '
At GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP'T’Y LTD., ?38 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S
Eumenthol Jujubes.
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC AND
||g PROPHYLACTIC.
. JUj
YO\f£
c. Hudson:
SUITABLE FOR OLD AND YOUNG.
The Medical Press and Circular
says: “These Jujubes should be of spe-
cial service to Lecturers, Public Singers
and Speakers, and, indeed, to all who
are called upon to use their voices fre-
quently for prolonged periods.”
For Coughs, Colds, Sort
Bronchitis, Influenza and the
Prevention of Consumption.
SUITED FOR OLD AND YOUNG.
The Red Page
ANZAC.
High-hearted from the seas they came; the
morn
A'as grey with clinging mists that in a veil
Stern fastnesses concealed. Through flay-
ing hail
Of focman fire, in bleeding ranks and torn
They gripped the alien shore, and there was
homt.
A warrior race, to falter not nor fail
In long, dread days; self-pledged to never
quail
Before the direful task, the hope forlorn.
For us the lonely hours, the darkened heart.
In hush of purple nights the sore regret
For silent feet and voices stilled; for them
The hero's sleep to crown the splendid part.
And their bright fame imperishably set —
•Chief jewel in a nation's diadem.
M. 1..
LILLA GORMHUILLF. McKAY.
The Theatre
Ihere is a popular superstition held b
Australasians that we possess theatres —i
fact, it is an article of belief that we hav
quite a lot of theatres. A mere glance a
The Theatre of To-day, by Hiram Iv. Moder
well (Lane, 7s. (id.), however, absolutel
disposes of this childish delusion. We hav
a number of large, draughty, uncomfortable
garishly-decorated barns in which plays ar
presented, and some of these are of quit
recent date, but we haven’t a single moderr
theatre in the Commonwealth. Moderwell’
instructive book is a description and explana
tion of the new forces which have enterec
theatrical production in the last 10 years
for which, by the way, we have chiefly t
thank Russia and Germany. They do
lot of things well in Germany, in addition
to making war, and though their dramatist
have not contributed much to the develop
ment of the drama, in the presentation anc
housing of their plays they stood, and, for al
we know, may stand, supreme. The thorough
ness of Moderwell’s treatment may b
gauged by his chapter-headings. He deal
with the improvements in stage-equipment
the stage-setting, the artistic forces —the us
of color and lighting, stylisation. and modern
scene designing, the intellectual forces behinc
the drama, the literary forces of the variou
nations, the imaginative dramatists, the
,social forces—modern theatre organisatioi
and economics. And the book is fully illus
trated with reproductions of scene designs
and scenic effects, plans of theatres and theii
accessories.
Ten years ago, he says, this book wouh
have been written entirely about dramatic
literature. “At that time we thought of tin
institution of the theatre as being a collec
tion of printed plays together with a few
necessary buildings to present them in” —
conception of the theatre that still subsists
in the minds of our Australian theatrical
managers.
A drama is far more than characters speak
ing words and imitating, or attempting to
imitate, literal facts. It is a series of arehi
tectural designs: why not make use of the
fine art of the architect? It is a series o;
pictures: why not give them the beauty
which painters have, after centuries of study
given their canvases? It is often rhythmic
spectacle: why not apply to it the fine art of
the dance? It is a kaleidoscope of color:
why not make use of the art of color as the
painters have mastered it? Further, the
theatre, which is essentially a performance
for the crowd, is the most democratic of the
arts; why not organise it so that it shall
be the property and the servant of all men,
rather than the “cinematograph of the idle
rich” or the pink tea of the literary select ?
O*
The last 10 years have brought to the
stages of Germany and Russia (and in a
smaller measure to those of America) highly-
trained mechanicians and long-needed
mechanical inventions. These include the
revolving stage, permitting five or more
complete sets to be built at once
and changed in the space of a few
seconds; the sliding stage, permitting 6ne
scene to be built on one-half of the stage
while the other half is being used for the
play ; the rolling stage, by which any num-
ber of scenes can be set up at leisure and
quietly rolled before the proscenium when
their turn comes ; the Fortuny lighting sys-
tem. by which our present fiat and unreal
lighting is replaced with soft, reflected glows
of real beauty; the new types of theatre
architecture.
Moderwell’s picture of the hopelessly-unreal
“stage-picture” of 10 years ago Would afford
the Australian reader no sense of contrast, as
it would merely reproduce the crude effects
still produced on our stage; but his picture
of theatre architecture 10 years ago will be
appreciated in this land that is a decade
behind the world.
Most theatres of the old style are built in
utter contempt of the man with a small
income. One feels that the architect thought
he w r as doing us a favor to let us in at all.
Many seats in the ordinary “horseshoe”
theatre make the stage partly or wholly
invisible. Very frequently the back of the
balconies is so ill-ventilated that the evening
is torture. The acoustics of such caves are
often wretched.
In the theatres designed by Littmann. of
Munich, he says: “There shall be no bad
seats; there shall not even be any w'orse
seats.” His playhouse has all its rows prac-
ticaily parallel with the proscenium and its
floor rising at such an angle that every spec-
tator can look clean over the head of his
neighbor in front. The revolving stage has
not reached Australia. It is merely a circu-
lar portion of the whole stage, some 40 feet
in diameter, showing about a quarter of its
circumference before the proscenium. It
practically does away with the interval, to
which the Australian audience, ignorant of
stage-design over-seas, has grown hardened,
and even has learnt to like. But it is only
certain theatres that require such an elabo-
rate stage. The interval can be just as easily
cut out by other, and cheaper, means,
notably by the German waggon-stage, appar-
ently adopted in the recent Sydney produc-
tion of “On Trial,” where almost
instantaneous changes of scene are
necessary—-though, with characteristic cas-
ualness. the management still retain
the unnecessary intervals between the
arbitrarily-divided acts. The waggon-stage
consists of a number of platforms,
fitted with noiseless rubber wheels, on which
the various scenes are set up before the per-
formance, and in turn rolled into place. The
sliding stage avoids the necessity of placing
properties by hand, and is invaluable where
elaborate sets are required, since the whole
scene can be set ready to be slid into place;
but it requires more space than is usually at
the disposal of our type of theatre. Of
course, all these methods relieve the stage-
hand of much of his work. With a sunken
stage one theatre in Germany was able to
dispense permanently with one-third of the
stage-hands.
J*
Another important invention, lacking, of
course, in Australian theatres, is the dojne
of solid plaster built over the stage which
does afvay with the “sky-drops” or strips of
white canvas which so pitifully pretend to
represent the sky. Upon this white dome
the lights are played, giving a striking illu-
sion of depth and luminous atmosphere.
This neutral background permits of every
subtle effect of lighting and color being pro-
duced —even moving clouds—and simplifies
stage-setting, since there is no longer any
need for masking the wings and top with
canvas in order to cut off the scene from the
stage-wings beyond. But its chief merit is
that it solves the problem of lighting.
Ordinary sunlight is not a direct light, but
an infinitely reflected light. The mellow-
ness and internal luminosity of ordinary sun-
light is wholly due to this infinite reflection.
It is the lack of this that makes the lighting
of the Australian stage, with its blazing
direct artificial glare, so unreal. The For-
tuny system of lighting is the chief techni-
cal revolution in the contemporary theatre.
Instead of lighting the stage with incan-
descent bulbs of crude color, the Fortuny
method throws its brilliant illuminations
(from arc lights) away from the stage
against bands of colored silk which reflect
the light in any color or tint desired, either
on the whole stage or upon any desired
part. Sometimes the light is thrown mainly
against the dome, which reflects it a second
time. The whole apparatus is under the
control of one man, who, like most of the
mechanics of the modern art theatre, must
himself be an artist. . . .The whole system is
in reality economical, since one man can
operate one lamp, and a few lamps will
accomplish what formerly required hundreds
of bulbs and a complex system of wiring.
And what effects can be got by this system,
with an artist directing it, can only be re-
motely guessed from the vivid descriptions
of actual lighting schemes given us by the
author. Australian theatre-goers can have
no conception of the wonders of the new
realms into which the modern methods of
lighting would lead us. And the marvels of
color, stage color, in the hands of a
Leon Bakst, the Russian scene and costume
designer, are equally beyond our conception.
“Stage color now has two factors—two
dimensions, almost —pigment and light.”
Working on the principle that on the stage
a color painted on canvas will not become
visible until a light is thrown upon it which
contains at least some element of that color,
Josef Urban has developed a complex sys-
tem of coloring which he calls “pointillage.”
He spots or “points” his canvas with all
the colors he intends to bring out on it in
the course of the scene. At a distance the
spaces between the points are not visible as
such, so when he throws a red light on the
scene all the red spots jump out of the
canvas and blend together to make a red
surface. Similarly if he now throws a green
light, the red spots retire into darkness, and
the green takes possession of the whole sur-
face. The result to the observer is nothing
short of magical If the light is a mix-
ture of green and red then both the green
and red spots become visible, according to
the proportions of green and red in the
light. . . .A color once drawn out by a simi-
larly colored light is more brilliant than
under white.
The producer of a decade ago had but one
principle: Let there be light. If he needed
a second principle it was this: In case of
emotion, let there be green light. “One
easily recalls the stage table which shone
brighter on its Under side than on top. On
the old stage no one ever had a shadow. Or
if there was a shadow, it was east, life
size, on the distant landscape.” The tre-
mendous discovery of the modern producer
was that light must come from somewhere,
and. therefore, it must cast shadows. Foot-
lights, kept low. still have their uses, but
not to cast shadows.
J*
The “modern” theatres that dicorate our
main thoroughfares are anachronisms. They
are mere remnants of the theatre of royalty
and society. The old theatres were built to
exhibit the audience, not to exhibit the
play, to enable society to view itself or par-
ade itself. It is curious to notice how it
needed a new art —the cinematographic art
—before theatres were built with the deli-
berate intention of giving every patron a
clear view of the screen. The newer Sydney
movie theatres actually attain that aim:
the other theatres, with their boxes —pro-
viding the worst possible view of the stage,
obstinately perpetuate a bad tradition. The
conventional decoration of our theatres be-
longs to the same unhappy period: they
glare with the lavish gilt of the eighteenth
century. A theatre should be a place where
one goes to see a play in comfort, without
being hit by glaring colors. Moderwell pro-
vides plans and elevations of the modern
theatre that would prove illuminating to
our Australian managers.
The theatre as a social organism is a sub-
ject that makes to the Australian a special
appeal. Our theatre is not in the least
a social organism: it does not give to its
audience the commodity it desires, and it
is not owned by its audience. The idea
that an audience should own its theatre
may seem absurd to Australians; but there
is—or was, before the war —in existence in
Berlin a completely successful theatre of
this kind. The New Free Folk Stage is
owned by its audience of over 50,000. It
gives nightly and matinee performances to
its members, and tickets for each perform 3 ®
ance cost one shilling each. In addition,
the theatre has made arrangements with 12
of the best theatres in Berlin for special
evening or Sunday-afternoon performances,
at which it buys out the whole or part of
the house, and supplies the seats to its mem-
bers at the usual rate, or near it. This is
not charity—the commercial theatres are
only too glad to accept the offered income.
The theatre itself is not a charity. It is a
business organisation, and it pays its way.
The reason is that it supplies its market in-
stead of forcing it, answers its demand in-
stead of trying to create it. The middle-
man, organising commercial entertainment,
constantly endeavoring to raise the price,
low er the cost and pocket the difference,
has been eliminated. The audience owns
the theatre; and by means of its elected
officers it demands the plays it wants; but
the director is necessarily an autocrat in
his artistic activities. And it exercises a
real and steadily growing influence over the
choice of plays in the commercial theatres.
Moderwell has written a text-book from
which our theatrical managers might con-
ceivably derive some profit—if they had time
to spare from their paramount public
activities. '
Germany in Defeat?
j Gfiarles de Souza wrote Germany in
Defeat to prove that Germany, having
tailed in her strategic plan by being thrown
back from the Marne, was therefore
strategically in the position of a defeated
.Power. Unfortunately for us and for the
author, Germany has subsequently refused
to recognise that she is defeated; hence the
author now has to explain. iD Germany in
Defeat Second Phase (Kegan Paul, per
Dymocks Library), that she has been again
finally defeated at the first battle of Ypres.
llis book was apparently published before
the big battle of Verdun; and that event
will- certainly need a third volume from
Charles de Souza to explain that, once
again, Germany is done for. Perhaps by
then the author will have got tired of telling
Germany that she is down and out when the
liun is too busy smiting his opponents to
hear the referee’s count.
His fiist volume, however, was a valuable
contribution to the strategical history of the
war, since the author was the first to stress
the paramount importance of Joffre’s
strategy in retreating to the Marne, refusing
to be beguiled into Belgium, and correctly
gauging the Hun’s intention to break
through in force at Verdun. And there it
was that Joffre smote the Hun his first
death-blow. This volume shows how Joffre
got in his second death-blow—but the Hun
seems to take some time in dying. The
facts seem .to be that Joffre undoubtedly
smashed the Hun’s plans at the Marne; but
that individual thereupon evolved a new
scheme almost as good—which new scheme
the author shows in the second volume was
finally settled at Ypres.
The author disposes of the belief that
Germany was able to transfer armv corps
from one frontier to the other. Germany
had not even contemplated any such con-
tingency as a war being waged with equal
forces on two frontiers at once. In con-
tradiction to the assertion that the positions
on the Aisne at which the Huns stopped
had been prepared by them in the event of
a retreat, the author points out that in the
hurry of their retreat they unwittingly
abandoned several important positions which
afterwards they did their utmost to recap-
ture, such as the towns of Soissons and
Reims.
“The race to the sea,” the phrase that
picturesquely expressed the movements sub-
sequent to the battle of the Aisne, had, the
author assorts, no such
meant to rescue the Belgkn Joff *-e
order to do so. he honed & a my - in
on the Scheldt. &e il Position
getting this far, but hel! i u
*■>« «?(*>» amy and pCeS!?,;" ««
mans from reaching a *2?-, the Ger '
French coast. The German! i lp of the
advance, because they to
country between Calais and n . that th e
strongly occupied, and feared „ o^ en<l was
political influences almost ® ut
the capture of the bT\L f Ught a hout
Germans. The British So?ces “L £ the
Ostend were not really anded at
should have been meant to not &S they
between the Belgians' and the* A m* »«*
for the impossible defence of Antwerp’ H u |
the Belgian army evacuated il p ' Had
t me, the Germane wo,“Have i”*"?" *"
all access to the Belgian coast
was Winston Churchill.. . . Had Z 4 here
simply cut off the Belgian \.w a 1 , Hun *
sible line of retreat, there would hav/h° S '
no longer a Belgian Army in beS
the Huns failed to take advnnt„ g ' » yet
delay of three days that Winston Chur Si
persuaded the Belgians to make before S
evacuation of Antwerp. And tint n[ le
rendered Joffre’s attempt to
of the Scheldt no longer practical. So t
had to be evacuated. Still, the mktAi
were not all on one side. mistakes
“Contrary to public opinion, the German
leaders were quite aware that top
of the WW„ campaign had
already, a long time since. The battles
to P nC a Fe J 6 Champenoise hadbeen
the death-blow of their ambition. m at
they were attempting since then wal to
maintain their foothold and add to the
gains in the torntory they occupied in
order to blind the world as to the* defeat
and thereby secure the help of certain
neutral countries that they were «
upon. Tim first I,attic 'of Ypres “ g
be end of the great German offensive in
the Western theatre of war. L ate r it t
rue, at various periods in the siege’opera-
tions which ensued, the Germans made other
and vigorous efforts against the Allied line
efforts doomed to fail. But the titanic en-
counter (at 1 pres) was the last link in
the chain woven by the defenders around
the blustering aggressors. From that
moment the invaders were held tight as in
a vise. They could neither retrekt nor
advance, and, necessarily, they must suc-
cumb on the spot.... The eventual fall or
dissolution of the Central Empires became
as certain, as inevitable, as the mathemati-
cal descent of the solar disc over the horizon
at sunset. Such w-as the portentous mean-
ing of the battle of Ypres—a battle that
was not decisive in itself.”
tbe sun is a long time setting It
will be interesting to see what Charles de
Souza has to say in his next volume. Ger-
many in Defeat, Third Phase; also. Fourth
Phase. Fifth
J- H. Maiden’s big work, A Critical Re-
vision of the Genus Eucalyptus, has now
reached its 26tli part. Each part, price
2s. Gd., contains full and accurate descrip-
tions of some of the many eucalypts of our
flora, which can be further identified by
numerous botanical drawings of flower and
foliage.
. Nettie Palmer: Spoon River Anthology
is not poetry and not “Bellerive” (or
poetry manque) but something new. And
to show that it is not poetry. I have taken
your suggestion and put a scrap of it into
something like verse” and even “bothered
about rimes.” Being a woman, I chose the
druggist s wife for my labors. Margaret
P uller Slack: —
With deep-set eyes, far-searching, I would sit,
A mute, inglorious Eliot, chin on hand,
(As photographed long* since by Pennewit)
Till wooed by Slack, who let me understand
That leisure would be mine for writing Works.
I bore his children eight, no time to write.
A needle pricked me, washing baby’s serks,
Lockjaw, ironic death. Oh, sex’s spite!
Or Wordsworthian (eighteen stanzas
complete) :—•
1. Now Margaret Slack had surely been
An El-i-ot, no less.
As mark her chin by hand upheld
In a wise passiveness....
17. (A needle in the baby-clothes,
Half hidden from the eye,
Sharp as a thorn when only one
Projects its point on high.)
18. And oft to me it did appear
A somewhat bitter fate,
That she should die from lockjaw when
She bore him children eight.


a
Slj/lls/t <S> Inexpensive
Skirts ® Blouses —>
at
4 N T HON Y
/f ORDER/VS '
>
Vh
fm
5*
*/&
ss*
s
Q
% i
rrtVs
m
li-3
V-■
S&/0
1
03C/.2
«Vs/
307
■-.T.
&/6
v)
o/2
2/ /
37
3/M
3S
3//I
rr
06
8*74
30
332
fy/J
& II
15/6
5574.
f/j
23/G
32/ t
20/6
m
THE illustrations on
this page are re-
(luced fac-similes
of two pages in our
Portfolio of the Win-
ter Fashions, which
faithfully presents the
Season’s Styles. Write
for a copy, post free on
request. It is an
authoritative guide to
the prevailing modes,
and enables everyone
to combine Fashion
with Economy through
the agency of Anthony
Horderns’ Famous
Low Prices.
No. 372.—Fu11-flared Cheviot Serge Skirt, double folds
in front, strap across back, in Navy only 18/6
No. 34.—Shirt Blouse, of Roman Striped Cashmere Flannel-
ette, setdn sleeves, Roll Collar, front fastens at point, in Black
and Helio, Saxe and Fawn, Navy and Green, S.W., W., O.S. —
4/6
No. 8474. —Coating Serge Skirt, double inlet front,
pleated at foot, inverted folds down centre back, in Black or
Navy, Outsize only 28/6
No. 35. —Cashmere Flannelette Blouse, shaped yoke,
finished colored pebble buttons to tone, set-in sleeves, White
Roll Collar, Black and Helio, Saxe and Mixed Posy, Navy and
Mixed Posy. S.W., W„ O.S 3/41
No. 307.—Stylish Skirt, in Brown Heather. Mixture Tweed,
panel front, with Broad Scalloped Belt effect 19/6
Ao. 38. — Attractive White Delaine, Blouse, fullness
from yoke, finished tabs and buttons, semi-Military Collar,
Cable-stitching throughout. 8/11. O.S 9/11
No. 5574. — Gabardine Skirt, double inverted pleats hack
and front, shaped folds around hips, Empire waist, Black or
Navy 32/6
No. 26. — Ivory Japanese Silk Blouse, sleeves set in
with hem-stitching, soft Roll Collar, finished at throat with
Black Moire bow with long ends 11/6
No. 012. Three-piece Skirt, shaped stitched folds in front,
finished bone buttons and wide belt, in Black or Xavv Serge—-
217-
No. 411. Cheviot Serge Skirt, scalloped folds at sides,
gathered at back, strap across, in Cream Serge onlv. .. . 26/6
oe-~- smart styles in Cream Serge, 21/-, 22/6, 24/6, 29/6
No. 36. —Ivory Japanese Silk Blouse, hemstitched fronts,
Roll Collar, fastens Crochet buttons 6/11
Also in Black 7/6
No. 33.—Striped Flannelette Blouse, Roll Collar, with
yoke effect, pearl buttons, White Ground, with Black, Navy,
Grey, Saxe or Brown stripes 2/11
No. 0302.—Smart Walking Skirt, in Black and White
Shepherd’s Plaid, full flared, with patch pockets, finished at
Waist, wide belt effect 15/11
No. 37. Blouse, of Dice Check Cashmere Flannelette, saddle
yoke on shoulders, set-in sleeves, Velvet Ribbon Tie. Large
Check: Black and White, Navy and White, Saxe and White.
Small Check (as sketch) : Black, Navv, Helio, and Saxe ami
White ' 3/11
No. 332.—Neatly-cut Cloth Skirt, with deep self fold at
foot, finished strappiVigs, gathered waist, Black or Navy, 15/6
WE are Family
Drapers, Co m-
plete House
Furnishers and Fni-
versal Providers, and
offer three-quarters of
a million pounds’
worth of the World’s
Choicest Commodities,
in variety that puts all
competitive effort in
the shade. Write for
illustrated Price Lists
of anything you want,
post, free on request.
They placp the im-
mense resources of
the new Palace Em-
porium at the com-
mand of everyone, and
enable no end of sav-
ings to be effected
through the agency of
Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low r Prices.
-V l ' .
$i
C£>
A
1
M
V' ■'
I
»■.*>
i 4 '.;
‘\-
m
111111 l
ft ;
m
5 s :
*T-
. c
-H
\
:::
k¥
:::::
*:."T:
::::
::::::::
:::::::
:::::::
:::::::
• ;:;::u::::::::::::; : ;
I.:::::::::::::::::::;;:::;;
:::::::
IF;:;:!}
WMWMm
smnni
Sapp' ftbrofpers
at Aninonij
lorderns’'
No. 7. — Plain Fledgling Gown, collarless, trimmed Floral
Silk 22/9
Other prices for Fledgling Gowns, similar style—
-29/6, 35/-, 45/-
Tn Plain French Flannel or Figured All Wool Delaine —
27/6, 32/6
Same style in Figured Flannelette .... 8/11, 12/6, 17/6
And in Molleton Flannel 15/6
No. 1. Gown of Plain Cashmere, made with Elastic Band
at waist, Embroidery Collar »nd Cuffs 29/6
No. 3.—Figured Flannelette Wrapper, with self Collar
and turned-back Cuffs, edged with cord, all colors, . . 9 /fj
Other styles in Flannelette, with Collar, and also Collarless —
8/6, 8/11, 10/6, 12/6, 17/6
No. 2. Dainty Gown, in Figured All-wool Delaine, Collar and
Cuffs of Fine Muslin and Lace, Paisley and Floral designs.. 35/-
Also other smart styles in Figured Delaine .... 27/6, 32/6
No. B.—Plain Ripple Fledgling Gown, Collar and Cuffs
of Quilted Silk I 29/6
In extra quality 37/6, 47/6
No. (i.—Plain Ripple Fledgling Gown, Collar and Cuffs
trimmed Pipings, Cord Girdle 21 /-
Similar styles, suitably trimmed Silk and Cord to tone—
-29/6. 35/-, 45/-, 52/6
No. s. — Smart Padded Silk Gown, effectively-Embroidered,
square Collar and V nerk 29/6
Other Embroidered Silk Gowns, all colors and Black—
-22/6, 24/6, 32/6, 35/-, 37/6
No. 4. Quilted Silk Gown, Plain, with turned Collar, Cord
fast eners 18/6, 29/6, 37/6
Effectively Embroidered, all colors and Black 22/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Or\ly Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


W/A
7a
Vi
7A
Va
m
Va
Ya
9/A/
Ya
Y//A
m
rs«A
/*/'
■a
r
m
W
N
Hunting Rifles
There are more Winchester rifles used for
hunting than all other American makes com-
bined. That is because they are so generally
satisfactory. Experienced hunters know that
Winchester rifles can be depended upon
absolutely. Then, again, they are made in all
calibers and styles suitable for shooting any
kind of game. For a good, reliable rifle, one
that shoots strong and accurately, and gives
years of service, no rifle equals the Win-
chester. No need of hesitating as to which
make of hunting rifle to buy. Get a Win-
chester and you will never regret it. They are
THE FIRST CHOICE OF
EXPERIENCED HUNTERS
r&l
V
ITAFER is the Tonic Food which
invigorates without reaction.
VITAFER is the quickest restorative in ail cases of
Mental Exhaustion, and the physical condition described as
“below par.” It acts like a charm in Nervous Debility,
Dyspepsia, Anaemia, Insomnia, etc., and in all conditions
brought about by over-work and climatic dangers.
VITAFER is “ super-nourishment.” It is a great food,
and a great vitaliser.
VITAFER is non-constipating.
Vitafer
has the unqualified recommendation of British Medical
Men, and is superior to all other Tonic Foods.
VITAFER is produced entirely by SOUTHALL BROS.
& BARCLAY, Ltd., of BIRMINGHAM, Eng., an old
established and well known English Firm of high repute.
(FOUNDED 1820). All the processes of VITAFER
manufacture are carried out in their own works at
TIPPERARY and BIRMINGHAM.
N.B. —The moderate price places it
within the reach of all.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists, 4 oz., 8 oz. and 16 oz.
Prices 31- 51- and 91-
BRITISH
therefore
BE
ST
Die Booty-Croaker
CHEAPER THAIS
Eleclricity, Coal Gas, Acetylene or Kerosene.
and BETTER THAN All.
aSD**
m
INTER-STATE AGENTS
Buzacott & Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Dangar, Gedye & Co.,
Young St., Sydney.
J. Bartram & Son ESf:
Bourke St., Melbourne
Works: 269 Toorak Rd..
Melbourne
THROUGHOUT -
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
’OmrIS
m
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Works: Birmingham, England
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
TO SOLDIERS and SHOOTERS.
Revolvers and Guns at
Greatly Reduced Prices
TRADE MARK
Special REVOLVER for trench warfare, 320-calibre, throw-open, blued 5-
chambered, complete with pouch. PRICE, 27 /6. D.8.8.L. Hammerless
GUN, W. IV. Greener wedge-fast crossbolt, 12-gauge, box spring triggers, auto-
matic patent safetv snap action, pistol grip, walnut stock, engine-turned rib.
MONTHS TRIAL.' Usually £lO/10/-. REDUCED TO £7/5/-. D.8.8.L
GUN, walnut stock, pistol grip, best blued steel barrels, tested, left barrel full
choke, right modified, rebounding locks, solid strikers. Y\. W. Greener
patent wedge-fast crossbolt. MONTH’S TRIAL. £3/12/6. D.8.8.L. GIN
—FARMER'S FRIEND —12-gauge, choke bore, pistol grip, English walnut
stock. PRICE 45 /-. Orchard RIFLE, will not damage the trees, kill at
40 yards. PRICE 20/- Special line Rabbit Rifles, snipers, take 22 short
and 22 long cartridges, kill at 100 yards. FOR ONE MONTH ONLY, 12 6
each. Cartridges, 1/- 100. Write for our Illustrated Catalogue.
SMALL ARMS CO
•J
Importers and Indentors,
229-231 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
Two Distinguished Conduct Medallists
write to
Clements T onic
A Journey from Gallipoli to Good Health.
CLEMENTS TONIC CURED.
(Returned Soldiers’ Series, So. t.)
CORPORAL E. J. ROBSOX, D.C.M., No. 1088. D. Company, 4th Battalion,
who comes from Tamworth, says:
CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD.,
“Since taking your Clements Tonic I have found considerable
improvement in my health generally, hut more especially to my nerves,
which were quite undermined in consequence of the strenuous times in
the trenches, and being subsequently wounded. I was seven weeks in
the trenches before I was disabled, but I did not feel the strain until
getting away from the din and roar of the firing line. Then I collapsed,
and my recovery has been very slow until I got on to Clements Tonic.
A Second Military Letter to
Clements Tonic.
(Returned Soldiers’ Series, So. 2.)
Invalided Back to Australia with Nervous Breakdown and General Debility.
PRIVATE GEORGE PAPPAS, D.C.M. (Distinguished Conduct Medallist)-
Xo. 305, C. Company, 13th Battalion, who hails from West End. Briso -
states: —
CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD., . .
“I was a member of the first expedition at the landing at oa
Tepe, and was in the trenches for over five weeks .before being wonnde
by a bomb. I was operated upon at the No. 2 General Hospital, t al * •
and then invalided back to Australia with nervous breakdown a
general debility.
“However, Clements Tonic lias done me a lot of good, and I am co
vinced that after taking a few more bottles I shall soon be all riff ll !’
“I know many of the boys have derived considerable benefit fro
this Tonic, and I shall always recommend it to others.”
Anyone suffering from over-study or worry caused by arduous training
commercial work, who cannot sleep, rest, nor eat well, should use tins i or
cases of Wasting Illness, Operations. Influenza. Typhoid. Low or Dengue. lua bie.
for Constipation. Indigestion. Nervous Breakdown or Biliousness, it is
Send to your chemist or store for it. Get it to-day.


Protect
Your
Throat!
It’s largely a matter of
care. Don’t leave it to
chance, be on your guard
against attack.
Wilson’s Pino-Mentho
Pastilles
are the surest protection you can get; you
can rely on them warding off Coughs and
Colds successfully. Keep them handy.
If you are unfortunate to have a cold,
Pino-Menthos will relieve you instantly.
They have a remarkable manner of getting
right at the root of the trouble.
Pleasing to the taste. 1/- per tin, of all
Chemists and Storekeepers.
ALEX. WILSON 8 CO., 17 Pitt St., Sydney
PREPAID TO YOUR PORT,
m
Ten Days’ Trial allowed. Direct from
Factory. Highest-grade British MEAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears, Flyer
or Brook’s Saddles, etc.
LATEST
MODELS
£3,10 to £9
Tyres and accessories at half usual prices.
Wri»e at once, using sufficient postage,
for Free Art Catalogue and special
Offer on sample machine. Agents wanted.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY.
Dept A 282 LIVERFCGL,
Whatour Troops Think
Iloldsworthy Camp, 7th October, 1915.
S. Fielder, Esq., Randwick. Dear Sir—On
behalf of our Company I wish to state that
w.: have derived great benefit from your
famous Exzerma. A great number of our
Company suffered from ; >re feet caused
through marching ; also sunburn and chapped
lips, and were quickly cured by Exzerma.
Believe me, Yours faithfully,
Corporal Brown of the 10th, A.I.E.F.
All Chemists and Druggists, or from
S. FIELDER, Randwick, Sydney.
5/-, 26
[i
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORES
Just wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSONS
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
. and you’ll have the skin healed and healthy
quicker than with any other ointment on earth
Everyone says so who has used it. Write for ;
tin now. 1/6, posted 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist.
W’ickliam Street. Valley, Kriwhane.
ARE YOU
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not onlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and wo
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIK CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE vet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can vou ask for more ?
PERFECT EASE. COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM TIIE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
Tobacco
Kills!
tar,
MOST MEN would
cure themselves of
the Tobacco Habit if
they knew they could
do so easily and also
without causing
themselves discom-
fort. . . . It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse. tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harm-
less, vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for good. Jt not destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating
from the system the Nicotine Poison of
Tobacco.
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you, under
sealed cover, a Free Sample, also our Book-
let. ” The Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces.” Write for particulars and Book to-day.
11. SINCLAIR (Sb CO.,
Dept. G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. [4
Bern nine ton’
Jubes
For the VOICE * #
THROAT (Si LUNGS
Possess many of the unique and valuable curative properties of Bonnington’s Irish Moss.
They afford immediate relief in ease of Sore or Relaxed Throat, Loss of Voice, Huskiness,
Spasmodic Cough, BronehialTrouble etc Whilst soothing and antisepticin their action,
these Jubes are entirely free from all poisonous or other harmful substances.
g&sm
</Vc
75
9*/.
'Jifsv.
(y
&
*s
A PLEASANT ANO EFFECTIVE COUCH PASTILLE
SUITABLE FOR BOTH ADULTS AND CHILDREN
BONNINGTON’S JUBES are highly recom-
mended for use by Public Speakers and
Singers. The Travelling Public will also find
them ihe best and most convenient Throat
Pastille. SOLD EVERYWHERE
Price, 1/3 per tin
If not obtainable locally, send price in
stamps to
Bonnington &. Co., Ltd.
179 HARRIS STREET - - SYDNEY
't
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
r
&
%
u 4 Mirror Like Polish
on your car adds to the pleasure and prestige of motoring
and increases the market value of your machine. With but
very little effort you, yourself, can keep the finish of your
car like new —use Johnson’s Cleaner and Prepared Wax.
Cleaner
really cleans —it entirely removes all stains, discolorations, scum, road-
oil, tar and grease from body, lvood and fenders. Even those spots that
are ground in—mud freckles—and surface scratches which you thought
were permanent —will disappear like magic under Johnson’s Cleaner.
And it doesn’t injure or scratch the varnish —simply cleans and
prepares it for the wax polish.
Johnson’s Prepared W3.X
is a boon to the man who takes care of his own car —it makes a “wash”
last twice as long. OLD CARS require both Cleaner and Wax —the
Cleaner two or three times a year —and the Wax every six or eight weeks.
NEW CARS need only the Wax —to protect the varnish. This will keep
your car like new indefinitely.
JOHNSON’S PREPARED WAX is conveniently put up —always ready
for use—no tools or brushes required—all you need is a muslin or woollen
rag.
Will Not Collect Dust
There are many other uses for Johnson’s Prepared Wax —try it for cleaning and
polishing your
Floors
Linoleum
W oodwork
Piano
Furniture
Leather Goods
Shoes
Golf Clubs
Gunstocks . etc.
JOHNSON’S PREPARED WAX is the standard polish for motor vehicles. It
gives a thin, protecting coat over the varnish, adding years to its life. It covers
up mars and scratches, prevents checking, sheds water and imparts a perfectly
hard, dry, glass-like finish that cannot gather dust.
Post the Coupon for General Trial Packages
—sufficient for cleaning and polishing two small cars.
Sydney: Holdsworth, Macpherson & Co. (Whol.) ; D. C. Ramsay & Co.; Jas. Sandy & Co.;
H. H. Groth & Co.; Mark Foy’s Ltd.; F. Lassetter & Co. Melbourne: Jas. Hardie & Co.
(Whol.) ;H. J Confer ; Mutual Stores ; Win. & Geo. Dean; John Danks & Son. Adelaide:
King & Co., Weymouth Street. Brisbane: Jas. Sloan & Co.; R. S. Exton & Co. Pert”:
Hamer & Co. (Whol); Jas. Eastward Ltd. Launceston: Hart & Sons Co. Hobart: Davis
& Co. Auckland: Hill & Plummer Ltd. Wellington (N.Z.) : Gollin & Co. Pty. Ltd.
S. C. JOHNSON & SON, Racine, Wis.
Cable Address: “JOHNSON, RACINE.”
Australasian Office: 379 Kent Street, Sydney.
S. C. JOHNSON & SON —(Address c/o your nearest distributor). AC
I enclose 6d. for a trial tin of Johnson’s Prepared Wax, sufficient for polishing several pieces
of furniture, a small floor, a square of linoleum or a motor-car. Please also send me your new
1/- Color Book free.
Name
Address
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Idyll.
If things remained an idyll!
An idyll is a weaving delicate
Of honey-horn and tendril, and the blue,
The sempiternal blue of summer skies.
If there are grey grubs curled inside the
leaf
And the moist cubes of caterpillar shrouds
And wliite-ants working in the dark, behind
The filigree of biscnit-colored bark,
They show not in the idyll. Gentle winds
Dance some green-skirted tango. in the trees,
And twigs together do a gaby glide,
And mouths kiss light moth-kisses. Easy
gifts!
As cool and soft as down on thistle-tops.
There is no red wound on the passing sun,
No storm cloud pennon blots the lilac hill;
The buttercups turn tenderly to sleep,
The river’s tinkle is a vesper bell.
If things remained an idyll!
Breaks through the bark the blind, instinct-
ive mite,
Crash to the earth falls the deluding bough.
Smears o’er the leaf’s rayed veining, horrible,
Obscene and slow, the progress of the grub,
And crystal-hard grow those dear hazel eyes
That were so fond and mystical with
dreams;
The leaves are staggering in a peevish wind
Angry and hot, and thirsty with the dust,
And dry and sated are the-lips that clung.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The Scarf.
Yellow gold is the color note
For ivory chin and ivory throat!
’Tis a golden scarf for a golden girl!
Oh, every heart shrines a girl of gold !
And I twine it under a dusky curl
And cover a kiss with its silken fold.
Oh, yellow gold may be lost or won,
But the girl of gold is the girl to win ;
And a golden scarf brings a gleam of sun
To the curve o’ the throat an’ the point o’
the chin!
The color note is the yellow of gold
For an ivory throat which mirth doth hold!
There is more than sound in your lilting
laugh,
O throat which thrills to my finger tips !
And I twine my heart in the golden scarf
With a smile that is more than a twist o’
the lips.
Oh the hue of a laugh is a golden hue;
An you’ve taken my kiss you must give a
kiss
For the bright little scarf I have brought
for you,
An’ I’ll tuck it close under your chin —•
like this!
Oh the hiss of lips and love's own laugh
Make fair exchange for a silken scarf!
MAORILAN D.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
The Telephone.
Out of the still, expectant dark
The bell rings
Shrill and insistent;
With hopes caught up, and heart afire
I answer it.
Yes, I hear. The cold room catches fire,
And all the living current of my voice
Speeds on the vibrant wire.
So far it goes, and yet not far ;
Just to him,
The giver of warmth.
I have forgotten all those lonely moments
When I waited —
The sick doubts of all those chilly moments,
Now that the eager calling bell has loosed
Its message in the dark.
TASMANIA.
NANCY WEIR.
The Poet’s Tragedy.
A poet with a razorable chin
Came to a lady (who was. very sweet)
And said: “Your eyes agleam are deep as
sin ;
My life of dream lies anguished at your
feet!”
To whom the dame: “Strange that love’s
flame burns purest
In persons who disdain the manicurist.
It leaves you, sure, this ardent, ceaseless
raving.
No time for sin,, since you’ve no time for
shaving.”
The poet crooned: “Your bosom’s chaste
cool snow
Sqft woos, as doves coo soft against the
moon.
Your slender, exquisite feet that come and go
Are pearls ablossom in your envious shoon !”
To whom quoth she: “Queer that in linen
shady
The poet evermore must seek his lady.
And yet I'd go with you in this glad
weather....
We’d risk it, would your shoes but hold
together.”
The poet cried : “With loyal heart and time
I bring my joyous Muse to praise you, dear.
The stars are gold, and all the world is you ;
The mountains deeplier breathe to feel you
near !”
“True,” she agreed, “you glorify the passion
Divinely, when you hymn it in such fashion.
Love calls, but, oh! his world a world of
strife is^
And, ah, the little patient dear your wife is !”
His cup that brimmed thus muddied to the
dregs,
He scurried home , his tail between his legs.
N.S.W.
JOSEPHUS Q. HARRIS.


RELIEF for RUPTURE
Our SPECIAL
ELASTIC TRUSS.
D ENYE R
PRICES
Single, 17 6.
Double, 22 6.
Why suffer discomfort? You can
secure relief by wearing our ELASTIC
TRUSS, which is COOL.SAFE, STRONG
and DURABLE. It has no steel spring
to chafe the body. The merits of this
truss are attested by all who use it.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
Denyer Brothers,
281 George St., SYDNEY.
(Opposite Hunter Street)
INCORPORATED 18SS BY SPECIAL ACT OF PARLIAMENT.
The Permanent Trustee Company
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LTD. 25 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
TRUSTEES, ADMINISTRATORS, ATTORNEYS, AGENTS, Etc.
Trustee and Administrative Work of Every Description.
Estates and Properties Managed. Rents and Funds Collected.
Full Details on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
ISJ ! 4
TsTO
i § 'a"**:
!:B « t > 4
IXIII
a. IB
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s.
Gd. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Par-
ticulars posted on application to
The Manages.
THe New 1916 Model, 4-24.
CAR COMPANY.,
AMERICA'S FINEST PRODUCTION
AT A POPULAR PRICE.
A PERFECT SPECIFICATION.
MOTOR—Four cylinder; enclosed valves, adjustable, tappets. Cylinders—Cast en bl"c,
bore 3j, stroke 4j. FRAME —Channel, pressed steel. HORSE POM ER—224 R.A.C. OILING
SYSTEM —Force feed and splash system, with sight feed on dash. POWER PLANT —Unit in
construction. COOLING SYSTEM —Thermo syphon. RADIATOR —Honeycomb ; special
Pullman type. CARBURETION —Schebler Model R. IGNITION —High-tension magneto.
TRANSMISSION —Selective sliding type, ball bearing, three speeds forward, one reverse.
CLUTCH—SingIe steel plate drive, having two wire-woven asbestos discs, between which the
steel driving plate is located. Clutch completely housed and runs in oil, and requires no adjust-
ment. AXLES —Front, solid drop-forged 1-beam; rear full-floating. BRAKES —Internal and
external. lOin. WH EELS —Wood ; demountable rims. SPRINGS—Front, semi-elliptic; rear,
full cantilever. STEERING—ITin. wheel, worm and sector irreversible, special Pullman
make and design. BODY —Beautiful stream-line; five passenger; standard color, putty grey, nickel
radiator, nickel fittings. DOORS —"U” type; concealed hinges. FENDERS —Special Pullman
type; crowned. DRlVE—Right-hand centre control, emergency brake lever forward of centre and
out of way. WHEEL BASE—II 4 inches. LIGHTING —Electric, 12 volt., storage batten-, Apple
Co. dynamo. lOin. headlights, dimming attachment for street and city use, and electric tail
light. STARTING—Electric self-starter. Apple Co., most reliable and efltcient. WIND
SHIELD —Clear and rain vision, ventilating, exclusive Pullman type, conforming to and built
integral with curved cowl dash. HOOD—One-man khaki hood, easy-folding, quick-acting side
curtains, carried in hood; hood fastens rigidly to wind shield. HORN—Electric Klaxon.
SPEEDOMETER—Stewart trip and season mileage. GASOLINE TANK —Carried in cowl;
capacity, 10 gallons. INSTRUMENT BOARD —Electric light switch; ignition switch, speed-
ometer, gasoline filler ami sight-feed oiler and light on dash. REGL'LAR EQUIPMENT —Wind
shield, one-man top, quick-acting curtains, speedometer, electric horn, pump, jack, tyre repair
outfit and tools, tyre irons, and extra rim in the rear; weight, fully equipped, ; 4in.
tyres, “Batavia.” Genuine full-leather upholstery.
A Complete Car can be supplied in
Roadster i v Singld-seater'i Models.
PULLMAN. —Right-hand Drive-
French Crey -Khaki Top.
a
m •
V
Tear off slip on this pa are and mail to any of the firms named below, and bv return vou
will receive “Pullman” literature.
PULLMAN OAKS.
Without any obligation to me please forward copy of Illustrated Pullman Car Booklet.
yam
Address Bclletix.
Melbourne:
FINLAY BROS.,
615 Elizabeth Street.
Brisbane:
t T. G. O RYAN & Co..
128 William Street.
New Zealand:
J. A. REDPATH &
SON, Cashel St.,
Christchurch.
Sydney:
HI C.HES BROS,.
196 Elizabeth Street.
Tasmania:
Dt'XCAX LOAN'S,
The Esplanade,
West Devonport.
Adelaide:
VIVIAN LEWIS Ltd.,
Gawler Place.
Perth:
LLOYDS LTD.,
888 Hay Street,
Perth.
y^,^ s ,y
The DETACHABLE OUTBOARD MOTOR
%
See also Page 52.
Unequalled
Compression.
Cost of
Running:
3d. per hour.
2# B.H.P.
Guaranteed for
12 Months.
The Latest Improvements.
Patent, Self-locking Steering Device
Propeller turns with Rudder, which
means the most effective steering possible
High Tension (waterproof) Rever
sible Magneto Ignition, of the verv
best make.
Submersible Parts made from best bronze-
rust-proof.
Remarkable Simplicity.
Highest Efficiency.
Perfect Reliability.
Unexcelled Durability.
“The ‘Alka’ will propel you through life.”
Arrange for a demonstration, or write
to-day for Catalogue and Price to
NELSON S ROBERTSON,
Australasian Agents, 11-17 Loftus Street, SYDNEY.
If any illustration appearing in T::e
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
N
X
X
\
X
V
r
r
i
9
-A-
-l:
J
/
/
-j
r
j
/
BEST
in the
long
RUN.
DUVAL & CO 13 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY: 140 Collins Street.
ULV L ** MELBOURNE; 300 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
CORNELL LTD., Adelaide.
A. C. McCALLUM, perth.
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD, hobart.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol* 37.—N0. 1834,
THURSDAY, JUNE 1, 1916.
I’uice 6d.
"WHEN THE GUARD IS WITHDRAWN.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleop, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin' Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Otfiee of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED OXCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Ouly.)
For £ 1 (is. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Xumber, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., xvhich should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright. by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable ), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 4)1 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A.— Panama-Pad tic News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. IT. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia. U.S.A.: IF. E. Lenehan, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets. Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egtrpt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ifong Kong.
Ceylon. —lP. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —TTAif/en Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth. Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord lloice Islands.
10 os., id.: United Kingdom, All Sea Route. 1602..
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Soz., Id.; Sloz. to 1003., Sid.;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, lor., Id., and id. each
additional 2o :.
THURSDAY. JUXE 1. 1916.
THE BLISTER OX THE AUSTRA-
LIAN’S HEEL.
The bill is piling up all the time, and in the
House of Reps, the other day Treasurer
Higgs remarked that one of the items in
the document by June next year would be
a little matter of £109,000,000. He was sure
of that much. About various other millions
for pay and army maintenance he was a
hit doubtful —as to the exact total,
at any rate. But as someone would have
to hand out £5.550.000 for interest and sink-
ing fund on what he was certain of. Higgs
reckoned that the debt generally is worth
a little consideration. It certainly is
Before the House of Reps, shut down and
bolted into seclusion last week it gave sanc-
tion to the borrowing of £75.000.000. Add
this to the prior Commonwealth debt, and
ornament the total with the plaster that
the States have put on Australia, and it
becomes clear that at the end of the financial
year the mortgages held by Cohen over this
bright young nation will amount to the dis-
reputable sum of at least £530,000.000 —
possibly £55u.000.000, because there are
various chickens cruising round which have
not yet arrived on the roost. Cohen has
been lately collecting nearly fl3.otXi.ooo a
year for the accommodation. Xext year he
will be holding out his hand for well over
£20.000.000. And he will have to be paid.
The job of doing this may. in the main,
according to well-established practice, be
fobbed off upon the Australian kid. But
not wholly. The business of finding these
additional millions has in great part to be
faced now. The politicians, aware of this,
are trusting to Inek and muttering "God
help ns!" am mg themselves. And the average
fool-citizen, with a mouthful of loose talk
about heaps of money somewhere in the
country, reckons that the bill can be paid
with hot air as usual and that everything is
all right.
* * * *
There are two ways, and only two. by
whieh the tremendously increased charges
can legitimately be met. One is by_ cutting
down public expenditure, thus setting free
part of the present revenue to meet interest
and sinking fund. The other is by so greatly
extending the production of exportable com-
modities and of goods now imported that the
credit margin will be sufficientlv great to
permit of an additional seven millions being
annually raised without inflicting hardship
on the general body of the people. A pos
sible third way is to let tliinss slide, and
have a shot at scraping up the seven mil-
lions from existing sources of income and
such others as may be devised. By one of
these methods or a combination of the first
two Australia has to get the money. The
only alternative is to borrow it. thus keeping
up the disgraceful old drunk. It might be
possible to do this, but it doesn’t look like
it. It would mean bankruptcy, anyhow.
♦ * * *
In any case, whether the multitudinous
Treasurers and Parliaments of Australia
get sane under the pressure of necessity or
grow still more mad. it is as certain as the
sunset that unless production is greatly in-
creased in Australia there must be a revo-
lution in public and private life. The pour-
ing in of the products of other countries
represents a leakage of financial strength
irreconcilable with sanity. We are five
million people who have piled up a debt of
over five hundred million pounds, with
more in sight: and for us, thus placed, to
be importing foreign goods in excess of our
exports, while cheerfully pushing up by
millions the ordinarv cost of government, is
simple madness. And the tragedy of it is
that every Australian Parliament knows it
to be so, yet goes blindly on. plunging deeper
and deeper into debt, levying larger and
larger toll upon the earnings of the people,
and discounting by these exactions the
power of the community to meet the in-
creasing burdens placed upon the public
shoulders. The demoralisation of most of
these Parliaments is absolute. They have
become mere mendicants, whose existence is
a peril to the nation ; they are afraid to do
anything but borrow, boom and spend. The
Federal Parliament, hearing even the
Treasurer express alarm at the development
of the importing disease, and knowing that
the interest bill is leaping un to a figure
that would have looked incredible a year
or two ago, did —what? Xothing. except
pass loans and indulge in crude vote-catch-
ing debates on a couple of jerry-built bills.
And from the State Premiers picnicking at
Adelaide there is nothing to be heard except
meaningless words and agitated whispers
mostly about how they can get hold of more
millions to drug the constituencies with.
For a long time the nolitieian with the loud
mouth deluded the mob that his borrowing
was in some occult way strengthening the
nation. Well, how about it now. in the light
of the degrading confession that, with a
quarter of a million Australian men under
arms, the rest will be without a job unless
they borrow some more? Judging by the
cowardice of Parliaments and the banal talk
that is going on about employment and the
repatriation of our soldiers, it looks as if
there are ideas abroad that war may be more
desirable than peace!
♦ * * *
Australia’s borrowings in the past have
been a social disgrace—the negation of
every national ideal. They have been per-
petrated. however, and it is no use weeping
aDout them. But the result of them has to be
grappled with, and it is no use pretending
that the mountain of debt is something that
will evaporate under the influence of talk.
It is real and very solid; and it can be made
less fearsome only by getting to work, and by
enterprise and toil and a wiser distribution
of the burden of taxation. Borrowing for
war purposes has been unavoidable in the
circumstances. But while this war-borrow-
ing is in progress continued borrowing by
the States is criminal and any waste of
cash anywhere a monstrous wrong. Yet
State borrowing still goes on. The Federal
Parliament is a party to it. too. through a
dishonest. Fiji-uncle arrangement f«>r trans-
ferring money raised in London for "war”
purposes. And the Federal Parliament, too.
has sanctioned the expenditure of nearly
three millions more during the current year
than in the preceding 12 months —this not
for war but for ordinary departmental
purposes. The demented Seven Parliament
system is still in full blast; bloated civil
services are in existence in every State.
For any sign of economy in administration
or prudence in spending the wretched tax-
payer, harassed by the cost of living and
the distant yells of Hughes, looks as vainly
as the Kaiser for Uncle Sam's final Xote.
The frequent assurance that our debt is "of
small consequence and can be easily pro-
vided for” is a lie. It is of tremendous
consequence, and if the obligation to meet
it with constructive legislation, with strict
economy in expenditure and determination
to ent away the idle wheels cumbering the
machinery of government, is evaded much
longer, the consequences are going to be
swift and disastrous.
SIX O’CLOCK AND LIQUOR REFORM.
The useless wrangle over the Liquor Refer-
endum in X. S. Wales, which on alleged
patriotic grounds is diverting attention from
decent patriotic endeavor, will find it hard
to make excuses for itself before those who
in the cold future count up the cost of onr
war hysteria. Xo referendum at all was
needed. There is not the smallest reason
to suppose that liquor has in any
way retarded recruiting: and if it
could be shown that it had retarded
training, the fault must be traced to
the military authorities, who refused to
have a wet canteen which would have placed
the direct control of Billjim's beer in
their own hands. Deliberately, and with
full knowledge of the position, theso authori-
ties decided that the men in training must
go beyond the camp to look for the refresh-
ment they had been accustomed to. and
when trouble arose they placed the blame
on the hotel bars instead of shouldering it
themselves. Getting the hint from some
lofty military persons who had side-stepped
the real issue, the no-liqnor enthusiasts of
the Ma State gathered all their umbrellas
and rushed to battle, declaring that the
salvation of the army and the Empire de-
pended upon the hour at which the beer-
taps were turned off. After some delay
and a good deal of backing and filling, the
Holman Government agreed to take a
referendum on the question, although
everybody knew that the military authori-
ties had the power to close the hotels at
any hour they pleased. So the attention of
the State has been once more concentrated
on the noise and fury of a meaningless
battle, a lot of money is being wasted, and
there is not even a suspicion that any solid
good can come out of it.
* * * *
The proposal to close hotel bars at six
o’clock is not only likely to be futile as a
reform, but it is illogical and absurd. The
argument that the business of providing
refreshment and. in the old phrase, "enter-
tainment” for the public should be limited
to the hours when the public is not free to
be refreshed and entertained is of the kind
that might find a place in comic opera, but
can hardly be taken as a grave and serious
contention. Why not compel all other
forms of entertainment to keep within busi-
ness hours? Why should milk-shake and
ice-cream and vaudeville and Shakspearian
tragedy and picture-show and tea-meeting
not come under the same rule? They are
all similar in their nature and intent —all
intended to tickle palate, eye or ear. If
liquor is to be used at all—and the people
of the State have again and again sanc-
tioned its use —it must be clear to any sane
person that after business and working
hours is the time when its flow is most in
order. Xo-liquor zealots have utterly failed
to show that an ordinary consumption of
good liquor under decent conditions is in-
jurious to the community as a whole. They
have not even succeeded in proving that an
extraordinary consumption of middling
liquor under those inferior conditions to
which they have been almost criminally in-
different did much in the past to lower
national standards. But there is evidence,
and plenty of it. that undue restrictions in
the matter of liquor sales, when unwisely
pressed, have resulted in evils far greater
than those which the persons applying the
restrictions set out to remedy.
* * * *
But the claim of those who clamor for
six o’clock is that they are looking after the
interests of the soldier; and in this con-
nection they are more wildly incoherent
than usual. Their argument appears to be
that because a man makes the fine sacrifice
of enlisting for the service of his country
and is prepared to face toil and death to
keep up Australia’s repute in the eyes of
the nations, he should at once be treated
as a convict and deprived of those ordinary
rights which he enjoyed when he wasn't
worrying himself about anything except get-
ting the best out of the job of living. The
insanity goes further than this, and would
deny the ordinary comforts to which they
were accustomed in time of peace to those
returned soldiers whom in one breath they
acclaim as strong heroes, and in the next,
by inference, describe as lawless ruffians or
poor weaklings who must be kept in moral
fetters. This picture of a pair of infuri-
ated coat-tails whirling to the tune of six
o’clock and attempting to prescribe his
habits for the big, strong, clear-eyed Aus-
tralian is one to rouse the laughter of a
continent.
* * * *
Tet Australia has a liquor problem : and
it is for this very reason that The Bulle-
tin is sorry to see the wasted effort and
the "reform" which is no reform at all. The
real problem has no special reference to our
military arrangements, save insofar as
the establishment of a wet canteen would be
a benefit both to Private Billjim and the
people in charge of his training. The one
visible remedy for the great real evil lies
in the public ownership of the whole trade
in alcohol. Let ns take the matter in our
own hands, cut out our bad liquor, our
frowsy drinking dens, and onr bad drinking
conditions, let in light and air on the entire
business, turn the profits into the public
purse and get rid of all private interest in
the manufacture and sale of beer, spirits
and wine. Then we shall have eliminated
all those grosser evils which are touched
neither by six o’clock closing nor by Local
Option.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Habit of Downing Tools.
There are times when the Law is more of
a rogue than an ass. Last week it penal-
ised a Melbourne baker who gave his em-
ployer ten minutes' notice of his intention
to go on strike and by hurriedly dropping
the dough caused the boss some small
monetary loss. The employee had some
grievances about wages and his employer's
conduct in the bakehouse; and. in any case,
having knocked off, he had the grace not to
insist on being paid for the time he was
going to be idle. Tet on the very day the
Law rubbed it into this person 111 other
employees ceased work in Melbourne and
left their employers in the lurch, without
the semblance of an excuse, bnt solelv lie-
cause they were too tired to toil. Not only
so. but they impudently demanded and will
accept their full working salaries. That
these salaries are considered adequate is
proved by the fact that they fixed them
themselves: and they not only "signed on"
for that remuneration, bnt effusively pro-
mised. when engaged, to do certain specified
work immediately—notably, to build a
Tariff Act and an Initiative and Referen-
dum Act. That is nearly two years ago.
and two years is a long "immediately." If
the baker's case is a precedent every and
any employer of these ill employees should
have a good claim for damages on account
of loss occasioned through their refusal to do
their work, more especially through their
knocking off just when there is a loud call
for the job to be finished in a hurry. That
the Law would probably disallow the claim
is luck for the 111; if it were granted they
would certainly be ruined, for the loss caused
to their employers by their traitorous neglect
is simply incalculable.
The Great Danger of Xot Being Mad.
Thebe are two recognised methods of treat-
ing appendicitis. One is to dig it out aud
trust that the tools were clean. The other
is to leave it alone and trust the under-
taker to do the rest decently. According t
the available evidence it looks as if a | v
cates of the latter system were chosen as
delegates to the recent Chambers of Com
meree Conference at Brisbane. Anyhow"
when someone proposed a resolution to sot
at the importing disease by digging some of
it up, the Conference jumped on him with
great emphasis. The motion was:
That the Conference, having in view the import
ance and necessity for the developing and fosterir, ■
of industries, and providing employ inert f or work J*
is of opinion that the Commonwealth and StatP
Governments should not import for their respectiy
uses anvthing that ear. and ia being manufactured
in the Commonwealth. lureo
It was a mild proposition, Heaven knows
expressive of nothing more than a desire to
sec the fair thing done; yet it was thrown
heavily out —because it was “too drastic”'
These people probably imagine they are
gf>od Australian patriots. They certainly
think they are capable of expressing reason-
ably sane ideas on national finance
They passed at this very meeting several
nebulous resolutions about fostering new
industries and encouraging production and
all the rest of it. But this motion, which
was patriotic and practical and aimed at
the destruction of a lunatic system of finance,
was found objectionable. Because it was
really “drastic”? No! Simply because it
was definite. There can be no possible
defence of an Australian Government
taking work away from Australian work-
men and giving the cash to foreigners. Such
conduct is merely a bad form of maladmin-
istration. Xot only does it directly rob a
particular Australian industry but it pre-
judicially affects every other industry by
lowering the common power of purchase.
Further, if Governments systematically buy
lceally-made goods the general body of the
population is liable to contract the same
habit —partly because the bigger the out-
put the cheaper the supply in most cases—
and this cuts the importer’s income off at
the meter. Doubtless that is the drastic
proceeding the Conference was thinking
about. But the fact that an indent agent
may miss 21 per cent, on a big deal in
machinery is no reason why Australia
shonld drop 071 per cent, into an outsider's
bank account instead of keeping the whole
100 per cent, on the premises. Apparently
the people who were a little time ago say-
ine that "The time is not ripe” are now
going to start on “Don't be too drastic.”
4.
The Results of Earnest Bishing.
After wrestling with the spirit, the confer-
ence of Australian Anglican Archbishops
and bishops the other day issued a series
of notes from which it transpired that gait-
erdom had decided —
(1) To postpone an all-round “call” to the com-
munity to arise and awake and repent and amend its
life.
(2) To remind the clergy that they are exempt
from military service and ought to stay at home,
unless they go away as chaplains.
If the reasons given for these decisions
satisfy the righteous they will also make
the unholy scoff. It turns out. for instance,
that as “the labor and self-sacrifice of those
who stay at home is as essential to victory
as the courage and endurance of the soldiers
on the field" —a fine, large slab of assertion,
which is only true in a limited sense —
the real patriotic job before the rector and
curate is "to labor with untiring zeal to
foster such spirit as will support and up-
hold those who are at the Front.” Boiled
down to simple terms the meaning of this
is that the essential requirement of the
moment is a series of "Buck up!” sermons
adaressed to non-combatants. The Bishop
of Cheltenham, who guards his flock some-
where in England, remarked the other day
that, after prolonged reflection, he was com-
pelled "to say with all reverence that God
is sitting on the fence in this struggle."
This paper side-steps the theological issue
involved, but suspects that when Australian
gaiterdom was framing these resolutions it
reckoned the top rail of the slip panels was
the best place, too. Meanwhile, pending
the regeneration of the elect, which is also
affirmed to be necessary. The Bulletin’
takes off its hat to the memory of such men
as Hutton Sams, of Bananaland. and Pe
la Touche, of Sydney. They didn't sit on
any fences or uphold Billjim at the Front
by prayerfully supporting someone at the
rear. They died like men beside men. with
bayonets in their hands and a love for
human liberty in their souls.
A Relic of Barbarism.
The unfortunate Y.D. subject has a hard
row to hoe on active service. His misfor-
tune is the result of a passion which is as
insistent as any; yet. while the detected
drunk (say) is let down lightly, the V.D. is
treated very like -a criminal. He is sent
to an establishment which is half-?aol
half-hospital, or he is dealt with behind a
barb-wire enclosure, which is guarded by
soldiers with fixed bayonets. He gets no
pay so long as he is ill. Any separation
allowance which he may have made con-
tinues to be paid: but the money is deducted
from the pay accruing to him when he re-
joins his unit, as an outcome of which n
draws nothing, or next to nothing, for
after his discharge from hospital—a
hardship in a hishly-paid army such as tna
of Australia. Rut the cruellest and
needless stab of all is the regulation enjoin-
ing that his name and shame shall be rea
out in General Orders before a full P®
of his regiment. The effect is practoca .
to make him a pariah. So seriously do jun -
regard this matter that it is a crimm:
offence to impute certain forms of venere n
disease to a citiien; and there seems
Yalid reason why a soldier should lack
same protection. One reform and one on .
has been instituted in connection with .
cal eases since the beginning of the war. lo .
are no longer returned to the Commonwea _
Instead, they are sent back to the trenc


as soon as they have been patched up suffi-
ciently to be of use there. This, of course,
is no concession to the wretched V.D. It
arose from the fact that the States objected
to a stream of tainted humanity being
directed at their already polluted cities,
while the military authorities realised
that a convalescent V.D. can hold a rifle as
straight, for a time at least, as any other
man. The basic mistake about our attitude
towards this class of sufferer is the spirit
of revenge which inspires it. Little or no
effort is made to check the evil; the object
which is advanced on with misguided
enthusiasm and infernal ingenuity is the
punishment of the invalid. The British
navy—or, at any rate, a portion of it—de-
vised a scheme many years ago which was
put into operation in some of the more
notoriously-diseased ports—notably Sydney
and Auckland (M.L.) —and which had the
effect of reducing venereal troubles amongst
the sailors by from 40 to 50 per cent. There
is no need to specify the device ; it is enough
to say that it is one which can be employed
efficaciously on any body of men subject to
discipline. Where, as in the case of our
Expeditionaries, prevention of the affliction
is comparatively easy, given an earnest and
watchful medical officer, it is surely an
insane arrangement to go on trying to eradi-
cate original sin according to a recipe of the
Dark Ages. The commonest justification
of the appalling treatment meted out to the
V.D. subject, and one which is put forward
with particular frequency and smugness by
civilians, is that “he deserves it all and
more.” This, coming from members of a
community which is afraid of compulsory
notification of venereal disease, for the excel-
lent reason that close on half the total popu-
lation are suffering or have suffered from a
“secret complaint,” is a unique and likewise
very loathsome form of Pharisaism.
The Y.M.C.A. in the War.
A striking feature of the war, so far as
Australian troops are concerned, is the grow-
ing importance of the part which the
Y.M.C.A. plays in it. Two years ago the
average Billjim thought of the Y.M.C.A.
as a genteel anaemic blood relation of the
red-corpuscled Salv’army, and he had little
or no fellow feeling for it. To-day he thinks
of it as a practical friend in need, and a
real good sort. It started, apparently, by
providine refreshment and library tents in
the various camps for the convenience firstly
of the many members who had enlisted.
The young Christians in khaki helped to
popularise the Y.M.C.A. kiosks, and so the
organisation went on. It followed the
forces to Egypt, and proved in a
little while to be a most valuable restraining
influence on a large majority of the boys.
From the outset the aim of the organisation
has been to keep the reasonable Billjim out
of serious mischief; and medical men back
from the Front testify to the magnificent
work done after the first disastrous experi-
ences of the greenhorns in Cairo. The lied
Cross had a terrible number of syphilis cases
to deal with, but there is universal testi-
mony that the tally would have, been greater
had there been no Y.M.C.A. influences on
the side of health. As the war goes on, trie
Australian fighting forces are scattered over
a wider field, and the Association is looking
for the means to befriend them and give
them healthy recreation wherever they are.
The present need, according to the hard-
headed business men who manage the con-
cern, is for 150 new ‘‘huts,” a necessary
equipment of secretaries and all the
stationery and sundries which count as the
comforts of home for soldiers on active ser-
vice. The national secretary, «T. H. Lang.
is a very live and able man of business, and
what he and all the secs, in all the States
are looking for is the good big cheque from
the good big capitalist and the smaller
cheque from the smaller capitalist. On the
evidence of dozens of old Bulletin men at
the Front this paper has no hesitation in
saying that it believes very excellent use
will be made of every pound.
Democracy—or What?
Dear Bulletin, —It is all very well for
* Boomerang’’ ( B. 25/5/’l6) to say that the
Initiative and Referendum are more “live”
as issues than ever they were, but where
is the evidence of this? What he probably
means is that among many earnest demo-
crats there is something more than a sus-
picion that we have all our lives been work-
ing with a blunt tool—that Parliamentary
government under a wide franchise is not
materially different from the animal sus-
tained by the other sort of franchise. It
lost some of its bad habits with the change
in diet, but it contracted new ones, and it is
just a matter for speculation whether the
fresh hag of tricks is any less bad than the
old one. Anyhow, I am not ashamed to
confess that I have not made up my mind
whether an animal which bit me is any
more desirable when it abandons that prac-
tice in order to kick me. Of course what
“Boomerang” wants is to tack the Initia-
tive and Recall on to.the brute as a sort of
combined hobble and muzzle ; but is that
going to prevent the brumby rolling on us
or enticing us on to its back merely to buck
us off into the hospital for repairs? Per-
sonally I don’t know, but I have my sus-
picions. Also I have heard of the cry “Give
us Barabbas,” and of the Second Empire,
and have a deep distrust of the results that
may follow attempts to secure democratic
government with an instrument of which
handle and blade were fashioned for the pro-
tection of an oligarchy. Incidentally you
may have observed that Fat is contemplat-
ing the referendum with much indulgence.
Of course we have not got democratic gov-
ernment. But we have Party Government;
and if “Boomerang” can show that the
Initiative and Recall will not result in in-
tensifying Party Government he ought to
tackle the job. Everyone has heard a lot
about what the I. and R. will do—or what
various persons suppose it will do. Now,
is it not a historical fact that popular specu-
lation on what was going to be the result
of this, that and the other political device
has invariably been wrong? Personally I
can recollect talking with great assurance
about what was going to be the result of
the Labor platform. Perhaps “Boomer-
ang” is in the same position. Was he
right? I wasn’t, anyhow, and I don’t know
anyone who was. The same with one-man-
one-vote. The vital point about the I. and
It. is not what w r e think it will do, but
what we have reason to believe it will fail
to do. If it will not protect the nation from
the effects of brain storm, from the gusts of
lunacy which periodically sweep over
society, then it is no good. I don’t think
it will. I am sure it will not with Party
Government in full blast. An issue is not
“live” merely because some of us say it is.
If it was, the questions of electoral reform,
taxation reform and land ownership would
be agitating every citizen in the land, and
the Federal Parliament would have got
busy on the tariff long ago. The question
of how to win the war might reasonably
be suspected of being a live one. But is it?
—Yours, Tracker.
*
The Dean of Sydney in appealing for six
o’clock closing the other day gave as remark-
able an exhibition of logic as has been heard
for some minutes. In the trenches at Anzac
the Dean demanded and obtained rum; but.
on patriotic grounds, he opposed liquor being
available all day in N. S. Wales while it
could be obtained only every second day at
the Front. On the same line of reasoning
he ought to set his face against hot baths,
daily newspapers and church services, be-
cause all these were scarcer at Anzac than
they are in Sydney. The chaplain at Gal-
lipoli was in very little more danger than
thousands of the workers at their daily toil;
and lie was paid much better for any risks
he took than most of those toilers can ever
hope to be. In ordinary decency, then, the
fact that he wanted rum at Anzac ought to
convince him that others who carry on the
rough trade war at his own door
may want a stimulant also. Had the
Dean tested rum at the Front and
found it of no use, he might reasonably
enough have been expected to denounce the
stuff and all its relatives when he came
back to Australia; but seeing that he found
it good and insisted on having it, his atti-
tude is about as absurd as that of a pawn-
broker denouncing interest. If patriotism
required rum in the trenches, patriotism may
equally require rum or beer to help it
through its hard physical tasks at home.
Whether it is required in either case may be
open to doubt; but to admit its value in one
case is to assert its value in the other. Why
doesn’t the Dean say honestly that he is join-
ing in a meaningless parrot cry because it
seems up to a churchman to do it?
Justice Higgins’s recent outburst of indig-
nation because somebody had talked of
workmen getting what they could “enforce”
was very magnificent; but surely his Honor
had his tongue in his cheek all the time. If he
hadn’t he takes himself and the Arbitration
Courts much too seriously. The Naval Dock
clerks supply a recent illustration. These
men had been promised certain conditions
months ago; but there was continued delay
in giving effect to the promise. Why?
Without a doubt simply because clerks are
supposed to be poor worms who won’t turn.
It is impossible to conceive of a militant
union being treated that way. It ought to
be unprofitable for men to strike. Unfor-
tunately, it isn’t; and so long as employers
delay justice to men who don’t look as though
there is a kick in them, so long will there
be the incentive to skirmish round and find
a kick.
Every day the man who hasn’t gone to the
war because the papers are so confident
about the foolish mistakes of the enemy is
further cheered by the news that General
Von Slush has been appointed Minister for
Rations, or that sausage riots have broken
out in Berlin, or that some rich frau of
Dresden is being hissed 14 hours a day be-
cause she asked for a milk card for her lap
dog. “Ah,” says the delighted reader, “the
British blockade is beginning to tell! Noic
they know what a war of attrition is!”
Then he goes off confidently to his peaceful
job and remains cheerful until he gets the
bloodstained evening sheet and reads that
the Hun chemists have discovered how to
make a high explosive out of violets and
are extracting ham and eggs from the air.
That depresses him for the evening. But he
braces up for his next day’s shirk when he
is told very gravely that, owing to the
shortage of macaroni, the noblest Germans
are now lacing up their boots with rushes
brought from the Masurian Lakes. After
17 months of this sort of thing and “volun-
tary” recruiting, a heavyweight English
publicist has seen fit to warn his fellow-
countrymen that this isn't exclusively a
war of attrition, or boot-laces, or lap-dog’s
milk. “It is,” he gravely concludes,, “a war
of ivar.” It isn’t what you could call a
wildly original remark; but there is so
much mental fog about that it needed
stating.
♦
“Centurion’s” yarn from the desert: —
The Sermssi, who have been giving us a little
recreation recently on the western border of Egypt,
are the champion wowsers of the world. They are
a religious sect and not a tribe, as most people sup-
pose, and their adherents are scattered all over the
Mohammedan world, though the main body of the
cult is located in oases in the great desert
between Egypt and Tripoli. They have their rivals
in the Wadani, who are equally convinced that
theirs is the only satisfactory brand of religion.
These two sects hate each other heartily for the
love of Allah, but have joined together in the pre-
sent trouble because they hate the Christian more.
The peculiar feature of the Senussi community
is the provision of Zawais, or sacred towns, in the
different oases. These are the headquarters
of each community and contain a sort of
university for students. As far as is known, no
white man has ever entered one of these Zawais.
The sect was founded about the beginning of the
nineteenth century by a Mohammedan John
Wesley, who came to the conclusion that too much
dog was decorating the old ritual. He stood pat
on the Koran with no trimmings. His son made
the venture a success. El Senussi, as this wowser
Pope is called, is now a big temporal as well as
spiritual personage. His method of taking, up a
collection is the envy of his Christian brethren, or
would be if they knew anything about it. When
the crops, etc., are in, the Senussi adherent takes
enough to satisfy his needs, and El Senussi takes
the rest. Rich absentee adherents are assessed and
have to “kick in” promptly.
Contrary to popular opinion, the Senussi has a
fairly well drilled and armed regular force, aug-
mented by ragtag and bobtail irregulars. Many
Turkish and a few German officers were with them
recently. The infantry are great marchers, and last
January, when the country was very boggy, they
actually outflanked an Australian Light Horse regi-
ment, though the latter did their best to outpace
them.
The severe defeat recently inflicted on them will
probably end their half-hearted rising. What will
happen to the wowser Pope the Christians’ Lord
only knows. Snowy Baker might import him into
Australia and match him with Archdeacon Snuffle.
4
Since it was decided to grant rejected vol-
unteers something that they might flash in
the face of suspicion there has been a curi-
ous feature about the recruiting figures.
The standard has been modified in many
ways, yet the proportion of rejects has in-
creased enormously, sometimes reaching
half of the total volunteers. One day lately
7(5 out of 156 men, who attended at Vic-
toria Barracks, Sydney, were turned down.
It is quite certain that many of these men
are bluffers, who, while wanting to skite
about their willingness to fight, are con-
fident that some physical incapacity will
save them. Amongst the material offering
was a man with one leg inches shorter
than the other and several heroes who
refused to strip for examination. But they
demanded the hard-luck certificates. Now,
what’s the matter with finding jobs for
them as clerks or rouseabouts or sanitary
experts? There are a lot of good soldiers
being wasted in those departments.
This ought to be the limit as a fact or a
dangerous misstatement. It came from R.
McCallum in Maoriland’s House of Reps
a few days ago. After referring to the bar-
riers which kept Billjim out of first-class
hotels in Egypt, McCallum said
Our men in Egypt were not allowed to sit in first-
class railway carriages, even if they paid their fares.
If it is impossible to give an official denial
to this, then Pearce may at least be ex-
pected to ascertain whether the same prac-
tice is still in force. If it is he should
be required to say what measures he has
taken to plainly intimate that Australia
simply won’t put up with it.
4
The prophecies of a renewed Victorian epi-
demic of meningitis, repeated at intervals
by qualified prophets ever since last year’s
outbreak, are being duly fulfilled. The whole
business has been shamefully mishandled.
The Commonwealth authorities, according
to quarantine-director Cumpston, can do
nothing whatever unless the disease comes
from outside Australia. On the other hand.
Dr. Noel Bull, who runs the meningitis
ward at the Melbourne Hospital, recom-
mends the isolation of all military camps
for seven days, since “last year a history
of contact with soldiers was obtained in
practically every case” —a suggestion which
throws scorn at the plaintive refusal of the
Commonwealth to accept any responsibility.
The Argus deprecates undue alarm—“seri-
ous as the outbreak is. there is no occasion
for a scare” —while Dr. Robertson, chair-
man of the Board of Health, declares that
“everyone should assume that he harbors
germs of meningitis and take steps to dis-
infect his nose and throat.” He also thinks
it may be necessary to close picture-theatres
and similar places. Aikman, M.L.C., de-
clares that “the Minister for Public Health
is wrangling in a most undignified manner
with municipal councils as to whether they
or the Minister should undertake to fight
the scourge”; and Donald McLeod, the
Minister, replies that he isn’t wrangling at
all. The position, which seems to be that
everbody in any sort of authority is wait-
ing for somebody else to do something, is
disgraceful. Incidentally it is a lamenta >le
thing for Liberalism that, in the last resort,
the responsibility for the administration o
the Health Act should fall upon a casual,
undistinguished old fellow who, having pui-
sued office for many years, doesn't know
what to do now that he has got it.
“Carburetter” : The time is ripening for a
nice family disaster on a motor-boat. The
X. S. Wales Marine authorities have grap-
pled with the problem to the best of their
limited ability, but accidents on these craft
are increasing. Within a few weeks this
list has been posted:—
1. An oil launch destroyed by fire on Port Hun-
ter. The crew scrambled ashore in what they
stood in. Launch destroyed.
2. An oil launch caught Are off Wollongong. Crew
got ashore in boat. Launch disappeared.
3. Launch caught fire in Newcastle. Occupants
swam ashore. Launch ruined.
4. Naval launch at Cockatoo blew up when cox-
swain struck a match.
5. Launch at Lane Cove, Port Jackson, damaged
by fire. Sunk.
Fires on motor-cars are bad enough, but fires
on launches are the devil, owing to the appal-
ling speed of the flame-bursf. According to
a recent Gazette the Marine Department
has licensed scores of motor-boats, carrying
up to 100 passengers, all over N. S. Wales’s
navigable waters. At Easter these boats,
crowded with men, women and children, ran
long distances to all parts of the Hawkes-
bury Inlet, from Brooklyn to Gosford, from
Broken Bay to Wiseman’s Ferry. And of
supervision I saw none. One boat with at
least 80 people on board (including me) ran
a 20-mile trip. The driver and others
smoked en route, and if assistance had been
urgently needed there was nobody in the
vicinity but Davy Jones. In the regula-
tions I can’t see any sort of provision as to
oil supply. No standard is fixed ; even a
flashing point isn’t named, nor is there any
stipulation as to testing the oil. Elaborate
care is taken in prescribing chemical fire
extinguishers and sand and scoops, but recent
accidents show that there is never any time
to put the fire out. More care should be
taken to prevent its outbreak. Providence
is giving those responsible a decent sporting
chance; on the launches recently destroyed
there weren’t any passengers. But the
luck can’t last and in some remote water-
way, probably, Ma will have her first well-
patronised crematorium. The Bulletin
(11/5/’l6) said that the British Board of
Trade won’t stand passenger seagoing petrol
launches. I find this is correct, and. further,
the B. of T. insists on paraffin on till motor-
launches. Why shouldn’t N. S. Wales follow
the lead ?
c
IN the seventeenth century, when despotic
kings were being toned down into limited
monarchs by the simple process of chasing
them with spears and occasionally removing
their heads, one of the burning questions
of the hour was whether the king was his
own first subject or whether he was above
his own laws. Something of the same sort
has been worrying the North Sydney Coun-
cil, where a Government building is to be
erected in defiance of the regulations. The
Council condemned the plans because cer-
tain party walls were not continued through
the roof. The Commissioners of the Gov-
ernment Savings Bank, who were concerned
in the erection of the premises, replied that
the plans were all right, and that as the
Government wasn’t bound by the Local
Government Act they were going to do as
they darned well pleased. Naturally the
North Sydney Council is indignant and
wants to raise Cain about the matter.
Whatever the merits of the particular case
may be, it seems pretty bad that local
endeavors for the beautification or safety
of a town should be liable to be thwarted
by any Government department which likes
to build a glorified dog-kennel in the main
street. Judged by its efforts in and about
Sydney, the State .Government doesn’t run
much to taste; and practically any local
body could give it points. Before the
Greater Sydney scheme drops in, it would
be well therefore to have this point settled.
If a party of real reform got to work on
the congested city and tried to wash its
face and straighten its deformities, it would
be bad business to have an unsympathetic
Government with power enough to blunder
in, pile up fresh dirt and make new crooked-
ness. The position seems too clear to re-
quire argument. What is wrong when
done by the individual cannot be any less
wrong when done by the mob.
“J. 8.5.”: If Australians had nous enough
to conserve their internal trade by adopting
a national Protective policy, the result
wc aid work out somewhat as follows in
very brief time. Industries likely to be
established and capital invested, with the
ap iroximate amount of capital expended in
W! ges alone in establishing the industries,
wl ich industries will in a very few years
so cheapen the cost of commodities that the
pound sterling will be worth to the wage-
earner 255. in comparison with the 15s.
purchasing power of the pound to-day:—
Capital Expended
Industries. Invested. in Wages.
20 paper mills .. ..£10,000,000 £4,000,000
10 iron works . . . . 6,000,000 3,500,000
6 smelting works . . . . 2,500,000 1,000,000
4 ship yards . . . . 2,000,000 600,000
8 woollen mills . . . . 1,500,000 400,000
2 oil refineries . . . . 1,000,000 300,000
25 metal and machinery works 5,000,000 2,000,000
1200 general factories . . 40,000,000 22,000,000
£68,000,000 £33,800,000
General factories include cotton mills,
chemical, glass, crockery, enamelware,
motor-car, machinery, mechanical, tool im-
plement, watch, clock, paints, varnish, rope,
lime, twine, yarn, liquor, cigar, lace, em-
broidery, silk, woollen, trade and household
utensils, carpet and a hundred or so other
works and industries; and in addition there
will arise innumerable industries subsidiary
to the foregoing, necessitating the investment
of another 10 or 15 millions sterling. Close
on 40 million pounds expended in wages
alone. The biggest bonanza a nation could
have; and Australia can have it, at once,
provided the Federal Government will con-
struct a scientific tariff.
The Conscripts.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From scrub, and plain, and river bend
They’ve torn the best away :
The sound of wind and clean of limb
Must pay the toll to-day,
But exemptidn for the piebald, the skew-
bald, and the grey.
No one has asked for their consent,
Or cheered the chosen ones,
But far behind the trenches, where
The line of battle runs,
They’re hauling in the transport teams and
dragging up the guns.
Their hoofs have bruised the desert dust,
Where Egypt’s heat-waves dance,
Their backs have known the harness gall
On shot-torn roads in France;
No pomp and pride of war for them, or
trappings of romance.
And do they dream of sheltered ways,
Where once they wandered free,
From Gippsland’s timbered hills to where
The Flinders finds the sea,
The scrubs that line the Warrego, the flats
that hold the Bree?
And do they hear the crack of whips
Above the screaming shell?
(The colts come racing to the yard,
Clear chimes the cattle-bell)
And, dreaming there of home and peace,
awake to war and hell?
The Flemish plains will find a grave
For hearts the Barwon bred,
The Aisne will spill its overflow
Beside the Cooper’s dead.
Horse and man, it matters not, when all
the world is red.
From ridge and creek and cattle-camp
They’ve trucked them all away,
The best alone are good enough,
And so the buyers say,
But exemption for the piebald, the skew-
bald, and the grey.
VICTORIA.
VANCE PALMER.


Every Second
New Car a
Goodyear Car
at the R.A.S.
Show, Sydney,
1916.
Got this down before you go further
that of 143 Cars —new Cars—exhi-
bited or sold at the Sydney R.A.S.
1916 Show 82 were equipped with
Goodyear Tyres, of which a majority
were the popular “all weather tread.”
Makers of Motor-cars are jealous of
the tyre performance of their cars. If
tyres do not last—perhaps the car is
blamed. They are constantly on the
alert to determine which tyre meets
with the widest popular approval.
They have almost 200 different makes
of Tyres to choose from, and out of
this list Goodyear is given overwhelm-
ing preference. These motor-car manu-
facturers could “?a ve ” money by
selecting one of many other tyres.
Hut their deliberate and combined judg-
ment is that they will do better by
themselves and for their public, and for
the reputation of their car by paying
a little more money and fitting onlv
Goodyears.
They translate that conviction into
action by the marked preference which
they invariably give to Goodvear
Tyres.
Do you not begin to see that this con-
stitutes the strongest kind of a moral
and practical endorsement for Good-
year Tyres?
Does the fact that Goodyear Tyres are
preferred by the Motor-car manufac-
turers above all other brands really
mean anything to you as an individual
tyre buyer?
Goodyear Tyres and Tubes are now obtainable throughout Australia and N.Z.
One of the wonders of modern motion picture
photography is revealed in the Lasky production ot
“The Cheat,” featuring Fanny Ward, which will be
seen here at
an early
date. During
the action of
the picture
Miss Ward
is branded
on the barf
shoulder with
a red hoi
iron. The
audience sees
this done be-
fore its eyes
and later sees
the flowing
scar on her
shoulder, yet
of course, she
is unmarked.
The manner
in which this
scene is taken
is one of the ,
carefully-guard«d secrets of tho Lasky studio, _
no persons but the most trusted employees
permitted to see it done. To the others it
always remain a mystery.
Sessue Ha.yakawa, the famous Japanese actoi,
Miss Ward in this production.
Edith overhears her husband
account oj his ruin.
A Further Postponement of Applause.
All the talk about strategy and tactics and
munitions and industrial advantages, and all
the weary harangues about national psy-
chology and the “will to conquer,” boil down
to this—-that the other fellow’ is again on the
offensive, and going strong. He is pounding
away at Verdun, pushing the Italian back-
wards, marching into Greece, keeping the
Russian busy around Riga, and violently
scrapping at the old address in Flanders.
There may be something in all this which
discloses weakness on the part of the enemy
—an indication that he is nearing the end
of his tether or something—-just as the in-
sistence of the German on losing men along
the Meuse was reported by various “experts”
two or three months ago to be proof that
he was running short of reserves. Also there
may not. Taking a broad view of things,
this paper at any rate can see no indication
that Lewis Habcourt, a member of the
British Government, was talking wildly the
other day when he remarked that “the Allied
armies will have to endure much before the
time comes for talking of peace.” This is
the inescapable conclusion from the meagre
supply of facts available. The position
has been critical all along, and every month
makes it more critical —for the enemy and
for the. Allies. The war has not yet
been won nor has it been lost, but
between winning and resisting defeat there
is a very wide difference; and the thing cuts
both ways. Nevertheless we have this to
the good; only through something in the
nature of an earthquake could the German
at this stage achieve what he failed to
accomplish when the ball was at his feet.
But a Germany on the defensive w’ould
more than likely be as stubborn a proposi-
tion as the Allies have so far found the
Turk. The main point at the moment is
that the enemy has not begun to be on the
defensive. All of w’hich means that the
time is not ripe anywhere for bursting into
cheers, but that, so far as the opponents of
Kultur are concerned, the moment continues
to lie opportune for getting to the top of
their form. For when the enemy does be-
gin to move astern it will do no harm if
the punch he gets keeps him going that
way. Australia’s own are concealed some-
where in the middle of the unpleasantness
and their doings from day to day are
wrapped in impenetrable gloom except when,
by the indulgence of some brilliant genius,
news is flashed through that Billjim was
a competitor in a bush-whacking competi-
tion or had listened to a speech by someone.
-♦
In spite of its “Nonconformist conscience,”
South Aus. had too much sense to treat its
one big statesman, the late C. C. Kingston,
as the British public treated Dilke ; and
the City of Adelaide does honor to itself
as well as to him in erecting a statue of
the great democrat eight years after his
death. Two men could hardly be more un-
like than he and Chief Justice Way; yet
the old Judge took a leading part in arrang-
ing the details of the statue. But he did
not live to see it erected, and the final
details had to be settled by Bonython,
whose Advertiser was a sound supporter
of Kingston in his prime. The statue,
unveiled by the G.-G. last week, is of bronze,
the work of Drury, R.A. It stands on the
west side of Victoria Square, looking to-
wards Kingston’s faithful district of West
Adelaide. The pedestal, of S. Australian
marble, calls him simply “patriot and states-
man.” At the sides of it are bronze
reliefs showing him presiding at the
Federal Convention and with his col-
leagues in the Commonwealth’s first
Cabinet; and there is a striking
panel of his father, George Strickland
Kingston, a pioneer of S. Aus., Speaker,
and President of the Leg. Council. King-
ston’s widow, a pathetic figure, laid a
wreath of violets at the foot of the statue
when it was unveiled. There is only one
feature about the work which the democrat
himself might not have cared for. It is in
Court dress, which may be due either to
Way’s influence or to the sculptor’s desire
to avoid modelling modern trousers when-
ever they can be avoided. “A born leader of
men,” was the Governor-General’s epitaph,
and Barton added this: “He was generous,
sympathetic, and loyal to a degree. He
never deserted a friend—although some
deserted him.”
The attempt to bring Pemberton Billing
into ridicule for his attack on the Govern-
ment in the matter of its aerial fleet is quite
characteristic of the laissez-faire party in
the House of Commons. Billing, the new
member who had no party political influence
to back his candidature, is a man who does
things. Starting as a trooper in the Natal
Mounted Police, he got himself into des-
patches during the Boer War. He founded
the first aerodrome in England seven years
ago, and is the inventor and constructor of
aeroplanes as well as the designer of an
ingenious anti-aircraft gun. No wonder the
average M.P. disparages him.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Mother Goose”
Criterion “It Pays to Advertise”
Palace “Peg o’ My Heart”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
Mirths’ New Hippodrome “Kultur”
Town Hall The French Fighting Front
MELBOUHNE SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “So Long, Letty”
Royal “On Trial”
King’s “Just a Girl”
Princess’s “The Spoilers”
Bijou Fuller Vaudeville
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s Own & Olympia Hoyt’s Pictures
Glaciarium Ice Skating
An advance report from the secretary of
the N.S.W. Film Censor Board: —
The Board, or as many of its members as could
fit into the Criterion Theatre (Sydney), sat in judg-
ment upon “Madame X” on Saturday evening, as a
sort of dress rehearsal for the more exacting duties
to be presently done in connection with the flickers.
The Inspector-General of Police turned down his
thumb when he heard the evidence of Fontaine, of
the Bordeaux Police, during the trial of Madame X.
If such a play were allowed, he said, the effect
upon young policemen would be dreadful: they
would be lured into giving their evidence in a pain-
fully unofficial manner, and might even be tempted
to arouse laughter in the court. Such misbehavior
would be subversive of all police discipline.
The representative of the B.M.A. gave his vote
emphatically against the licensing of the play. He
pointed out that Arthur Greenaway’s name is not
upon the B.M.A.’s books; and the B.M.A. felt that,
in the interests of the public, an unauthorised actor
should not be allowed to practise even on the
stage. He might be tempted to go and cure a
school-child.
The representative of the Arts Society voted
“No” on account of the furniture in the room of
the Bordeaux pub. The exhibition of such articles
would have a bad influence upon the minds of the
public.
The representative of the Labor Leagues thought,
that the play might pass as an allegory of the
way the worker is sweated by the capitalists, though
before it received his permission the author must
put in a reference to the necessity of abolishing the
Upper House.
The representative of the Bench pointed out vari-
ous technical errors in the argument and the plead-
ings and in the murder trial. Although these
might with fairness be put down to the fact that
the trial was held in France, still they might con-
fuse young counsel when they appeared before him
—and that would hinder the course of justice. Also,
he noted with disapproval that the President of
the Court did not make a single epigram. This would
convey to the public the impression that the Bench
did not make epigrams, which might serve to bring
the Bench into disrepute.
The Council for Civic and Moral Advancement,
through its representatives, said that its condemna-
tion of “Madame X” was unequivocal. Unanimously
its delegates had resolved that they could not
countenance the public performance of a play which
showed the heroine drinking absinthe and ether
and liking both, leaving her husband for a lover,
and finally sinking to the lowest depths that a
woman is capable of—a woman, too, who murdered
her lover and was acquitted against all the evi-
dence. The spectacle of this degraded wretch was
not one that could be publicly shown to the civic-
ally and morally unadvanced, especially the uncivic
and immoral youth of this city.
The representative of the Catholic Federation
objected to the play on the ground that no priest
was present at the death of the heroine.
In their report to the Chief Secretary conveying
their emphatic and unanimous refusal to license
such a shocking and uncivic spectacle, the members
of the Board admit that Madge Fabian robs the
ruin of the heroine of its utter degradation, though
she thereby spoils the moral, and that this actress
is surprisingly effective in the earlier scenes, dis-
playing an unsuspected reserve of dramatic power.
But they regret that in the final court-scene she
misses that thrilling revelation of a mother’s feel-
ing shown by Muriel Starr in what remains that
actress’s finest piece of work on the Australian
stage. They also note that in the first act Sydney
Stirling is at times emotional without being stac-
cato ; that Gerald Kay Souper is a rather stodgy
husband ; that Harold Moran, though excellent, fails
to achieve the subtle effects of his predecessor in
the part; that Charles Lawrence and Arthur Cor-
nell clown their comedy parts with the exuberance
evidently necessary as relief in a melogloom; that
Leonard Stephens’s speech to the jury is almost as
good as it is long; that Frank Harvey, as Laroque,
is delightfully insouciant, stressing rather the
comedy element than the dramatic; that his
trousers are a dream; and that Gwen Burroughs
makes a charming chambermaid and Alma Rock
Phillips a quite innocuous ingenue. The Censor
Board finally insists that such an immoral drama
should not be allowed to contaminate the Criterion
Theatre for longer than to-night.
It is understood that the Firm will there-
fore withdraw the play, and on Saturday
something harmlessly soapy, entitled “It
Pays to Advertise,” will be substituted,
with Myrtle Tannehill and Hale Hamilton
in the leading parts.
War is a nice, clean outdoor business if
it’s what it’s pictured by the French Gov-
ernment's Official Films, now showing at
Sydney Town Hall. The newspaper readei
will find them as mild as watered milk aftei
his usual morning orgy of Verdun —“slopes
covered with German dead,” “ravines
choked with storming parties lashed by
whips of fire,” “trenches converted into
smoking rubbish heaps,” and so on. If tin
French movie-operators had any such
material available, they either didn’t film it
or else the French authorities didn’t want
to stress that side of war. What is shown
might have been made very comfortably 20
miles behind the lines; wherefore the pic-
tures have about the same blood interest
as the photograph of the suburban street
where the murder occurred with the actual
house marked with an X. A public that has
been banqueting on horrors for nearly tw’o
years is not going to be satisfied with sw-ept
and mopped battlefields. Still the films have
an interest of their own in that they show
a good deal of the working of the elaborate
war machinery. The wonderful simplicity
of the French .75 —an artilleryman is set-
ting the fuses with a sort of beex--engine, and
the long, lean gun is swallowing and spitting
shells as fast as they can be fed to it—
is a joy in itself. So is the box-kite photo-
graphic section putting its war toys to-
gether and sending an electrically-operated
camera aloft to map the enemy’s trenches.
Altogether it is an unsensational but educa-
tional show; and no Australian who sees it
can doubt the need of long and elaborate
preparation for the highly specialised busi-
ness of war.
“Mother Goose” and the feathered gold-
mine called Priscilla are still strengthening
the gold reserve at Her Majesty’s,
Sydney. What a beautiful show Premier
Holman would put on if only he owned a
bird like that!
Looking at “Peg o’ My Heart” these even-
ings one remembers poor old Dublin and
wonders whether Peg’s father, whose patri-
otic speeches she quotes so prettily, would
have been operated on by a firing party. If
the audience allows its attention to wander
in that way, the Sydney Palace applause
begins to sound like the rattle of musketry.
Allan Wilkie’s splendid Richard 111. will
be seen for the last time at Sydney Adelphi
on Friday, after which the co. will adjourn
to the property rooms to sort itself out for
“As You Like It” on Saturday. The trans-
formation threatens to be interesting, par-
ticularly the migration of Frediswyde
Hunter-Watts from the wailing Lady Anne
to the coquettish Rosalind.
“MOTHER GOOSE," PANTO AT
SYDNEY MAJESTY’S.
Dame Darrell returns from the hunt.
Queen Vera Pearce, of the Sydney Tivoli
Follies, attained her 21st theatrical birth-
day last week-end ; but the heavens neglected
to fall and no tidal waves were reported
along the coast. The only signs given to
the outside world were (1) some official
agitation visible in the Tivoli advts., (2) a
frequency of bouquets, and (3) a few new
artists in the first part. Jimmy Fletcher,
a new talking contortionist from the U.S.,
strikes Woodrow Wilson attitudes, and Mary
Dorr, a bright girl from the same vaudeville
address, works off some singing impersona-
tions. Norton and Earle, in songs and
sketches with dance trimmings, also win
respectful mention. The front car of the
bill now’ compares better with the rear one,
which contains the Follies.
The Wirths folded up their circus in
Sydney on Saturday and, as soon as the
elephants were out of the way, commenced
unpacking the aqua-drama “Ivultur”; but
the job was so tremendous that the exhaust .
■n-opr etary had postpone the
until lust night. So the chapter on w Tf
happened to the minions of Von Turnip,l!
next® wieT «*"• till
Amidst a glitter of amber- and heliohr.n„
shaded lights, and decorations
sm.es from the soft and glowing
tin: Mediterranean (artist Lionel Lindsay
is here the responsible party), T II t
has once more wafted the Spirit of Carnival
among _ Sydney’s merry-hearted—a It,
crowd, judging by the numbers that tanfod
and two-stepped at the resplendent TGii.
dium on Saturday evening. PS- Ti
Spirit of Carnival has just sent’ aW ,'
wireless to say that her magic is extended
V> heavy hearts as well as light ones.
"PIANO SHIFTING." BY THE SYDNEY
TIVOLI FOLLIES.
Billy Rego endeavoring to place the piano
correctly and satisfy the fickle drunk
( George Welch).
Sydney filmings for this week :
Lyceum: Hale Hamilton in “Her Painted Hero”;
“The Beckoning Flame,” a romance of India ; and
“Martha’s Vindication.”
Crystal Palace: “New York,” scraps of sensation
from its gay night life; and more “Mutt and Jeff’
by Bud B'isher.
Empress: “Naval Guns in the Making”; “The
Village Blacksmith” as a comedian; and “Terror
of Twin Mountains,” a scenic drama.
“So Long, Letty,” remains in hilarious
possession of Melbourne Majesty’s. Every
evening Dorothy Brunton, Connie Ediss.
Workman and Fisher shoo Gloom off the
premises with the gallant support of the
Exquisite Eight, Daisy Yates and Sidney,
and a host of other people.
* * * sfc
Selinsky, violinist, made his first appear-
ance in Melbofirrie on Saturday night at
the Auditorium. Melba had made boom-
raising remarks in praise of the young man.
but was unable to be present to "give him a
first clap. The house was thick as bees —
and ail muffled up in furs or its warmest
clothes, for a fog drifted in from out-of-
doors and wrapped everything in a romantic
haze. The same fog got into Selinsky’s pre-
cious violin and worried the young man.
Still he made his music sing and sway
deliciously. And he gave a final little en-
core waltz or dance-of-sorts that sent the
crowd swinging home at a Pied Piper pace.
Frank St. Leger accompanied. He is the
thin youth whom Melba took round the
U.$.A. with her, and then entertained at
Coombe Cottage. He was once an infant
prodigy, but on every fresh appearance in
Australia he seems to add a foot or two
of length. Miss Elsie Treweek padded the
intervals with song.
“The Spoilers,” Rex Beach’s meaty novel
minced into a melodrama sausage, wgs
served at Melbourne Princess’s on Satur-
day in the gunpowdery atmosphere of the
original. Most of the play characters rely
strongly on their artillery in an argument,
three of them, Alec McNamara, Roy Glenis-
ter and Bill Dextry, being pre-eminent in
military readiness. The drama is a conflict
between McNamara, a claim-jumper, and
Glenister and Dextry, representing the
jumped, so the proceedings naturally bristle
with threatening weapons, voices being lost
in the din of high explosives. Mac., of
course, gets the worst of the deal, for, after
the smoke of the last battle has cleared
away, he is found in the custody of the
Alaskan law whose aid he had invoked to
down the mining men. There is the usual
girl in the play, and she is alleged to be a
radiant influence who turns the most law-
less ruffian into something like a curate.
Even the deadly McNamara, who has made
the damsel his unwilling associate, finds her
sufficiently taking to offer her marriage;
whilst his accomplice, the furtive Struve,
suffers paroxysms of emotion when she is
about. The young lady, Helen Chester, who
eventually weds Roy Glenister because lie


HENKES’ SCHNAPPS
DIBTILLED IN HOLLAND.
An absolutely ideal tonic. Awarded many gold medals for purity.
HAUNTING MUSICAL SUCCESS !
“THE PERFECT SON 6”
(Being the Love Strain from the incidental music of the successful film
production, “The Birth of a Nation.”)
BY JOSEPH CARL BREIL.
Piano Solo (Continental Fingering) 2/-net
Vocal Arrangement in D (B-E) & Ek 2/-net
CHAPPELL & CO. LTD., 235 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
MAY BE HAP of ALL tyUSK-SELLERS
“QUICKCLEAN” Collars Now Available.
Another •shipment has arrived.
Men who could not get repeat
orders fulfilled may now pro-
cure these remarkably con-
venient and economical collars.
They are non-celluloid and are
pure white. Easily cleaned
with soap and water. Non-
inflammable. Hygienic and
durable. Style as shown, If,
2 and 2f inches deep ; single,
with turn-down peaks, 2
inches only.
Please state size and style. SO YEARS’-JUBILEE CATALOGUE sent on request.
PEAPE.S (Si CO. LTD.
Men’s
Outfitters,
309 & 311 George Street, SYDNEY.
once kissed her on a steamer and aroused
expectations of happiness to come, is
not thrillingly pictured by Maisie
Carte. Maisie is probably one of the
spoilers whom the title mentions; any-
way, she damages every scene by her inability
to deliver plain English effectively. Ethel
Buckley as Cherry Malotte, a music-hall
tart, pants in her ecstasy at the discovery
that a vaudeville artist would under any
circumstances behave like Ethel Buckley.
Greater verisimilitude is attempted by the
men. Vivian Edwards as McNamara and
Charlie Taylor as Bill Dextry are gener-
ally convincing enough. The most notice-
able defect about lan Maclaren as Roy
Glenister is that his persistent melancholy
is as much out of place as a high collar at
a Yarra Bank meeting. Also he speaks in
a depressing monotone which suggests that
his voice is not in his work. Fred Neilsen
arouses some public interest in the Bronco
Kid; and J. 11. Booth as a shambling,
decrepit miner with pistols sticking out of
the tops of his boots, acts as if his awful
make-up had upset his mental balance.
Frank Warde as Judge Stillman is a dull
burlesque of judicial decorum, and Jake, a
bar-tender, is taken by a young man who
sounds as if he would answer to the name
of Percy. As regard's Struve, by J. P. O’Neil,
he only shows signs of animation when mak-
ing unseemly advances to the much-wanted
heroine. The scenery is only passable in
quality, but it sustains the management’s
reputation for accuracy in depicting bare
Alaskan interiors.
Melbourne Royal continues to relate by
biograpli how a Nation was Born with
Sambo blood in its veins. This lengthy
view of the Murkan Civil War is sanguin-
ary, riotous, and only occasionally impres-
sive, but it serves to reveal that when Abe
Lincoln was Boss the U. S. Government
never rushed to the dictionary in defence of
its principles. Lincoln is the greatest fig-
ure in “The Birth of a Nation,” and the
passages in which he occurs afford a wel-
come relief to the intelligent spectator
fatigued by the yards of massacre, hugger-
mugger and protracted nigger-hunting by
the Ku Klux Klan. The Ku Kluxers are
the limit in comic-opera frightfulness, and
when they gallop across the scenery in their
flapping nightgowns, the colored populace is
expected to shiver with dread. After to-
morrow (Friday) night “The Birth” shifts
over to the Auditorium to make room for
the first appearance on Saturday of Miss
Madge Fabian in “On Trial.”
Rose Berry, another songster and talker
from the U.S.A., was the only fresh face at
Melbourne Tivoli on Saturday; but Blanche
Colvin, a new songaloguist, and Jack Born-
hold, whose turn is described as an “amaz-
ing novelty,” were to happen on Monday
and cause further changes in the entertain-
ment. . Meantime Horace Goldin proceeds
with h,is exhibitions of trickery, mostly de-
voting his time to the mechanical illusions
wherein his own visible work is limited
to firing a pistol and looking blandly
surprised at the result. In other parts
of the programme Cardo and Noll
maintain their operatic intensity, while
Marie King-Scott continues her pretence of
rustic artlessness just to aggravate the
effect of her songs and jests.
“Something Doing” remains the busiest
half of the show at Melbourne Bijou. The
revue contains some interesting features,
not the least whereof is the Futurist Ballet
by Gick Watson and other flappers. In
Part I of the present bill the proceedings
are slow so long as the Littlejohns juggle
their glittering implements, but matters liven
up when the Paulastos tumble about and
Harold Parkes recites C. J. Dennis’s “Sing-
ing Soldiers.” Also Harold gets loud
applause by declaiming “No Sport,” which
discloses Den’s views of Hun methods of
warfare.
❖ * * *
The liquor sermon, the title of which,
“The Curse of a Nation.” involved the Hoyt
Proprietary in legal discussion with the
Williamson firm, was exclusively screened
at Melbourne Olympia last week. This
week the Olympia films can also be in-
spected at Hoyt’s Bourke-street emporium,
the long-distance narratives being “The
Sins of Society” and “The Bigger Man.”
Robert Warwick is the star of the first-
named subject; in the other Australia’s old
acquaintance, Henry Kolker, is most fre-
quently under the eye of the camera.
Kitty Claire is still the petite skeleton in
“The Cupboard” at Melbourne King’s.
Kitty is the hussy who, after canoodling
with Charles Nelson and exhausting the
resources of his precious son, lifts away
with the vaudevillain in the crushed-oatmeal
clothes. It is a shameless defection of
Kitty’s, and it is not surprising that an
huppah servink like Potter, the butler, has
to show his disgust by lifting his nose an
inch higher. However, Miss Claire will
iiot much longer upset the Nelson house-
nohl ; on Saturday she is to withdraw in
ta\or of something more wholesome called
Just a Girl.” This vision of loveliness
and maidenly virtue is the creation of
Charles Garbage, England’s immortal story-
teller.
** * *
At Adelaide Royal, “It Pays to Adver-
tise shows itself to be of the usual modern
tW-. * n . which to address a lady
lvid” is an intimation that you have dis-
covered her to be a fraud and need not be
respectful any longer. It is not a Crook
drama, but one of Business—though the
two things are so nearly allied in the U.$.A.
that all the principal characters are on the
«'dge of earning gaol. It is a play of sur-
prises, nearly everybody making a quick-
change of sentiments or morals some time,
ilale Hamilton has only to be the talkative
tat man of Yankee farce, and Myrtle Tanne-
lull has only to be natural. In a strong co.
attention centres on two others. Beatrice
Nichols, as a charming swindler-ess, recalls
the departed Mary Worth; and Donald
Bowles makes the plucky but ineffective
hero a nervous, jerky, almost neurotic
youth. One can imagine the part played
quite differently; but -it is good acting. "At
the Tivoli, Brandon Cremer put in another
fine study as “Uncle Tom,” and he is for-
tunate in having two strong leads in Fitz-
herbert and Conway. The King’s is having
its final week of variety before turning to
drama. The mixed goods move to the new
Majestic. War pictures have held the Town
Hall, and the new “Patriotic” orchestra
gave a stirring Exhibition concert. The
“THE FAMILY CUPBOARD,” AT
MELBOURNE
KING'S.
Florrie Gleeson as a George Bryant as
vaudeville artiste. Charles Nelson.
brightest picture in sight is at West’s, where
a shipload of girls may be seen on the way
to marry the French settlers in old-time
Louisiana.
From an old Westralian campaigner:—
The Country Party got a severe bump at the
recent AVestralian Legislative Council elections.
Patrick, the sitting member, turned his Liberal coat
to run as a farmers’ candidate against a Laborite
for the Central Province, and was licked. For the
South-West Province (two vacancies) and the East
Province there were straight-out fights between Lib-
eral and Country party nominees. In each case the
hayseed was blown away, although Hamersley, the
old member for the East Province, only scraped in
with the help of the returning-officer after a recount
had knocked out his first-count majority of one
vote. For the remaining (North-East) Province
the Labor man beat an Independent for the seat
previously held by R. D. McKenzie, who is running
a motor-ambulance somewhere, in Joffre’s district.
Although the Hayseed organisation extracts a pledge
from its Parliamentary reps, to abstain from taking
office while in a minority in the House, it looks
as if they will combine with the Liberals to bring
about a dissolution when Parliament does reassemble
-—-some time in July. But unless a Redistribution
Bill can be forced through first, the solid Goldfields
block of electorates practically settles the chances
of the anti-Labor section securing a decent working-
majority. The wilted mining centres are a satire
on the one-vote-one-value theory, but they may pos-
sibly save the Scaddan Government from the kick-
out its awful administration has earned.
The notorious negro convict William
King, who gave Pentridge more uneasy
hours than any other man for 25 years past,
was recently discharged, conditionally on his
exiling himself to America. But Wilson’s
luck still holds; for the human wild-beast
died and was buried at sea.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Stargazer”: I see there is some talk of
bringing American evangelist Billy Sunday
to Australia to awaken this democracy to
a sense of its unholy shortcomings. Sun-
day, with charming Yank candor, has
avowed that he will not “quit hosing these
guys with the scaldin’ waters of all holi-
ness,” till he has coopered one million solid
in dollars; and if he comes to Australia it
will be in strenuous pursuit of dollar No.
909,000. The suggestion is that he be
accompanied by “a well-chosen party of
American evangelists, of peculiar excellence
in their different specialities.” What is
wanted is an Evangelical Variety Company.
With the assistance of a popular vaudeville
manager I have fixed up in advance a little
dodger as my contribution to the Cause: —
ENGAGEMENT EXTRAORDINARY.
Absolutely the Highest Salaried Evangelist Ever - .
For a Brief Revival Only.
Billy Sunday,
Most Successful Gospel Comedian ever known;
unequalled in Rough Stuff and Knock-about
Burlesque. A Perfect Scream 1
The Best Ever.
Silas Q. Snifflepitt,
Silas Q. Snifflepitt,
Silas Q. Snifflepitt,
America’s champion sandjig revivalist.
Sadie and Slimm,
The Perfect Pair, Rag-time Hymners and Refined
Biblical sketch artists.
Bud Buncum and Billy P. Bald,
The Finest Comedy Acrobats and Eccentric Tumblers
ever exhibited on a Revival Platform. These Per-
formers have converted more souls to Righteousness
than any other Acrobatic Turn on Earth.
Washington Bros, and Colbert’s
Performing Dogs,
Canine marvels and inevitable plate fillers. Bred
and trained in ways of Righteousness by the Rev.
Syrus K. Washington.
Evening Prices: 45., 35., Is. (Saturdays and
holidays excepted.)
Pews may be booked at the Gospel Hall. Reserved
Seats, Is. extra.
“Barmitzoah”: The Hebrew can still
paddle his own canoe as cleverly as did the
clipper ship Ark, Noah master, outward
bound to Ararat for orders. In witness
whereof I cite the experiences of two of the
Chosen on the s.s. Dongarra, whose crew,
in view of their rough passage, might well
have regarded the pair of seafarers as
blood-brothers to Jonah. Ten days out
from N’Yark one of the Dongarra’s officers
noticed a stranger on the fo’c’s’le. Brought
to bay, he unearthed a companion. The
strangers were an American and a Dutch
Jew, who, hoping to obtain engagements as
vaudeville artists which the States had
failed to yield them, had stowed away to
Maoriland. The skipper put them in cus-
tody, and soon afterwards the trouble be-
gan. The Dongarra made such heavy
weather of it that even the ship’s cat was
glad to reach Auckland. There the Hebrew
brethren were brought before the local
beaks, charged with having stowed away,
and a fare of £2O was claimed from each.
They proved that they had good chances of
supporting themselves as vaudeville per-
formers, so although convicted —not of being
vaudevillains, but of being stowaw r ays—they
were merely ordered to come up for sentence
when called upon, the question of the fare
being held over. With the keenness of their
race they lost no time in getting in on their
boom, and next night were appearing at an
Auckland theatre billed as “The Stowaways
from the Dongarra.”
“Up Stage” : The threatened movement to
form a United Arts Corps of actors and
artists for home defence has evidently been
dropped overboard. The circular that
reached our theatre stated: “It [the move-
ment] would do much to kill that peculiar
apathy which is part and parcel of our
make-up.” To date 35 native-born actors
have volunteered, and 26 are on active ser-
vice. Max Clifton (late Bilanderson’s),
Alf Scarlett (Bland Holt’s), and Wilfred
Hilary (Meynell and Gunn’s) hold com-
missions ; and with a few exceptions the
others are n.c.o.’s. This list doesn’t include
Lieuts. Dartnell, Y.C., and G. E. Kelly,
D. 5.0., both good Australians w r ho have
since taken the final call. Kelly had mana-
gerial aspirations around the Sydney
suburbs before he answered his cue at the
Gallipoli landing. Where is that “apathy”?
Sumner Locke, the bright Australian girl
who looks through pince-nez on the world
and finds it mostly a joke, has written a
dramatic version of her “Mum Dawson,
Boss,” stories, which is to be put ou shortly
at Melbourne King’s by the Bailey-Grant
Company—an Australian play by an Aus-
tralian company. Sumner reckons that she
will be the first Australian woman drama-
tist to be played professionally, and she is
probably right.
Theatrical history was made quietly ou
May 22 when the compact Howard Vernon
Co., with the veteran himself in the lead,
lit the first professional footlights that ever
glimmered at Canberra—the place where a
continent is pretending to make a capital
out of a rabbit warren.
“Kaniva”: The death of “Lou” Carina
deprives Melbourne of its premier drummer.
Heaps of people will remember his father,
Pietro Canna, who was regarded as the
world’s champion on the bladdery instru-
ment. In 1862 he was appearing in Mel-
bourne at the old Alhambra Concert Hall,
where he gave an exhibition with 25 of his
pets, from the small side-bomb to the larg-
est of kettles. The piece, which was very
descriptive, was entitled “The Siege of
Sebastopol,” and the way Canna skipped
round producing the sharp volleys from the
rifles, the dull booming of cannon and other
orchestral battle effects was terrific even
from an athletic point of view. Canna.
senior, played in orchestras for many years
in Melbourne, and was drowned off Burmah
in 1884 by the overturning of a surf-boat.
The new Majestic Theatre in Adelaide is
being rushed to be ready for its opening
next Saturday. It is on the site of the old
Tivoli, which was Hudson’s* Bijou before
that, and originally, as White’s Rooms, the
chief assembly-hall of infant Adelaide. The
new house is (of course) to be the last word
in comfort and effect; all new houses are. It
has two features claimed to be new to Aus-
tralia —a counter-weight curtain-raising
idea and no internal pillars. Sayers and
Lennon have been behind the scheme, Wil-
liams and Good being the architects; and
the Majestic Amusements Co. will run a
Brennan-Fuller variety show twice daily—
a new idea for Adelaide.
Clayton Hamilton, in N. Y. Bookman,
makes the painful computation that every
season he has to attend about 150 new pro-
ductions ; and only one play in every 23 is
worth some afterthought. Wonder if it
would cheer him up to come to Australia?
(Continued on page 38.)
For the most cutting thing said of late
about the Holman Government its own
Attorney-General is responsible:—■
In my opinion there will be an overwhelming
majority in favor of the retention of the Upper
Chamber.
In other words, Davy Hall and his colleagues
have made such a horrible mess of things
that the people will not trust the House in
which the Government has a majority.
That good Australian and Protectionist,
Senator Stewart, made his usual kick in the
Senate last week against the tariff delay,
and received the usual answer that Hughes
being absent, the tariff must wait. To that
Stewart replied that the presence of Hughes
is not needful to the rising of the sun,
which is scarcely more vitally necessary to
Australian health. That was all he got,
however—the Government is so busy with
things alleged to be Imperial that things
that are Australian don’t matter.
State frights are not feeling very well in
Adelaide just at this moment. The other
week a Victorian youngster set out for
South Aus., burgling as he went. Crossing
the border at Wolseley he was easily
nabbed by the S. Aus. police as soon as he
had done his first “job”; whereupon he
spread out his trophies gathered from
Ararat, Horsham and other towns in his
grand tour. The S. Aus. police for a
moment thought they had been smart where
the Vies, had been merely dull; but pre
sently, when S. Aus, suggested that Vic.
should take back its young imp and Vic.
said that S. Aus., having arrested the imp
for a crime committed in that State, must
keep him there, the local Law began to won-
der whether there hadn’t been method in
Victoria’s dullness.
Alf Edden, who has sat for the district
now called Kahibah ever since the first
N.S.W. Parliamentary Labor party arrived
in 1891, has just been turned down by his
local P.L.L. There are not many of those
ninety-oners left in politics now. Only
McGowen and Cann have stuck to their
seats throughout. George Black has been
m and out, J. D. Fitzgerald is leading the
House which the 25-year-old party came in
to wipe out, Joe Cook and A. Gardiner are
in Federal politics, and Arthur Rae will be
there again after the next Senate election.
Alf Edden, though he battered a few of the
letters of the alphabet, was one of the
natural orators of the House, and few more
telling speeches have been heard there of
late years than those in which the old man
pleaded for better treatment for the coal-
miners. But he was no administrator, and
never ought to have been given the Mines
Department.
FATTENING FOOD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Melbourne playgoers have a keen sense of humor
and are real ‘sports.’ And they are most lavish in
their applause, which is food and drink to the
artist.” —Connie Ediss.
If plaudits are in Connie’s eyes
To nourishment akin,
No one beholding Connie's size
Will fail at once to realise
Her appetite for din.
VICTORIA.
JEAN S.


Have You Tried
AN “ORIENT” SUIT?
T
HE demand for an every-day Suit that will serve its
purpose to the greatest advantage, for the minimum
cost, is met in David Jones’s
“ORIENT” SUIT MADE TO MEASURE FOR
80/-
Rough Naval Serge and the newest stripe and check
designs in Greys and Browns are included in the variety
of materials for selection.
Made to your exact requirements 807-
In Superior Quality 847-
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
Opp. C.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Actress Tells Secret
A Well-known Actress Tells How She
Darkened Her Grey Hair and
Promoted Its Growth with a
Simple Home-made Mixture.
Miss Blanche Rose, a well-known actress,
who darkened her grey hair with a simple
preparation which she mixed at home, in a
recent interview made the following state-
ment: “Any lady or gentleman can darken
ther grey hair and make it soft and glossy
with this simple recipe, which they can mix
at home. To a half-pint of water add loz.
of bay rum, a small box of Orlex Compound
and ioz. of glycerine. These ingredients can
be bought at any chemist’s at very little cost.
Apply to the hair twice a week until it be-
comes the required shade. This will make a
grey-haired person look 20 years younger. It
is also fine to promote the growth of hair,
relieves itching and scalp humors, and is
excellent for dandruff and falling hair.” [1
A DVERTISER, who controls Commonwealth and
New Zealand Rights of real good canvasser’s
selling line among farmers, would be pleased to
give territory to responsible agent who could recipro-
cate by giving in return an equally good New
Zealand Agencv. Correspondence invited.
BOYD’S AGENCY, DUNEDIN, N.Z.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
now complete in every detail, an< ’
under the management of oS
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare fatoi
ably with any Hotel in Unglnm l '
America or the Continent. ,a
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
C Squadron of the a?th Light Horse
arrived to do patrolling duty at a spot where
the Libyan Desert meets the irrigated area.
There is a big population of Christian Copts
and Mussulman Arabs thereabout, and they
love each other about as well as Satan and
Father Peter do. The advent of Australian
soldiers pushed the local Copt potentate up
in importance, wherefore he was moved to
tears of joy and this address of welcome: —
To the Commander in-Chief of the British
Force of Behnasa.
Dear Sir, —With the deepest respect and admira-
tion, I beg to present you some nut. ment for the
victorious English Army our protector. The
materials present are
Number. Kind of Material.
1 .. A Calf.
2 .. Rams.
40 . . Okkas of Bread.
16 . . Okkas of Milk.
230 . . Eggs.
1 . . Pot of Butter.
At last I hope that you will kindly accept this
humble offer as a sign of true loyality, thankful
feeling and hearty love toward the British Crown.
It was the proudest moment in that squad-
ron commander’s pious life.
* * * *
Solemn warning given by a Sydney
magistrate to two lads last week: —
“When you see a crowd of persons gathered on
Sunday night, keep away from them. Rest assured
they are up to something you should keep out of.”
Dear, dear —are even our archbishops now
as bad as that?
“E.L.C.W.”: The new frightfulness has
been giving a lively time to a party of Aus-
tralians in London. The Kaiser s confi-
dants may deny torpedoing the Tubantia
till they’re black in the face; but if they
didn’t torpedo it they made it a physical
impossibility for any boat to dodge death.
They’ve strewed the North Sea so thick
with mines that you can hardly help hitting
them. Agag isn’t in it with the ship’s
captains these days when making the Hook
of Holland offing. That was the experi-
ence of four Sydney men, B. R. Wise,
Jones, Pratten and Mason, who went over
to see how Holland runs its Red Cross.
They stood all the time of the crossing in
their lifebelts, and in dodging the high explo-
sives took two days to come back instead of
the usual ten hours.
* * * *
At Melbourne, which is less particular
about disease than Sydney, with its past
experiences of plague and smallpox, they
“board” most of the military invalids on
the hospital ship, and thereafter let them
go home without “reporting” at a hospital.
A Light Horse officer, with his left leg off
at the hip, faced the three young doctors
who constituted the Board in Port Phillip
a while ago. “Well,” said one of them,
cheerfully, as the repatriated ruin subsided
into a chair, “and what’s your trouble?”
*■*-**
By the Office Curate :
As a set-off to the proposed closing of Cathedral-
street and granting part of Phillip Park to provide
an ornamental approach to Sydney’s R.C. Cathedral,
Lord Mayor Meagher has suggested to the City
Council a favor which it might do to St. Peter’s
Anglican Church in Woolloomooloo. The church
at present is hidden from view by a row of shops
in William-street and a terrace of five houses in
Bourke-street, none of them with more than 40ft.
depth. 'The Council’s scheme for widening William-
street will mean that the shops in that street and
two of the Bourke-street houses must come down.
The Gaud Mayor’s proposal (made after a deputa-
tion from the church had whispered something in
his ear) is that the remaining three houses in the
Bourke-street terrace should also be resumed, and
their site handed over to the church, the latter to
pay off the cost of the resumption by annual in-
stalments. The narrow lane at the back of the
houses would be thrown in free, and the church
would thus have a frontage to both William and
Bourke streets. If the scheme goes through, it will
settle a long-standing grievance. When St. Peter’s
fine stone church was built, in the fifties of last
century, the site was given by old-time Sydney
merchant Burdekin, who had big blocks of freehold
thereabouts. A few years later he had a row with
the church authorities, and as the title to the land
had never been legally conveyed to St. Peter’s, he
built the aforesaid shops and houses so as to hide
HIS EXPERIENCE.
S HE: “But how do you know their affair is
not platonic?”
H E: “Well, Eve never met a platonic
widow."
church and school from view. Probably two-thirds
of the passengers along William-street don’t know
of the church’s existence, in spite of signboards at
corners of by-streets pointing “To St. Peter’s
Church”—one a few years ago was affixed to the
wall of a well-known Temple of Venus. On the
corner of William and Bourke streets Burdekin
planted a pub, called after him, which passed out
in the slaughter following a local-option vote.
Narrow lanes were made along two sides of the
church to give access to the back of the shops
and houses, leaving church and school on a sort of
island bounded by lanes and backyards.
PROOF.
HIM: “So you let Lieutenant Bungle hiss you?"
HER: “Yaas —how do you know?”
HIM: “Heard him brag he'd smelt powder!"
The Melbourne Bumbles who asked Town
Clerk Ellery for a report on local municipal
matters after his 10 months’ experience of
them are sorry they spoke. Ellery had a
pocketful of blue metal, and aimed it with
enthusiasm at the trams, the dust, the smoke,
the untidy parks, the practice of driving pigs
to market at all hours, and the partly-
neglected Yarra. But his weightiest missile
was reserved for the city’s electric supply
scheme. About this he remarked that though
it was started in ’94, while Sydney’s was set
going 10 years later, the latter had more
than twice the annual revenue and now
makes a profit of £64,758 as against the
older scheme’s £36,960. It looks from all
this as if Ellery has the quaint idea that
Melbourne’s councillors are elected to serve
the public.
* * * *
“Rule Nisi” : Re the suggestion that
Judge Docker deserves a rest, it is an
opportune moment to consider the N. S.
Wales District Court more comprehen-
sively. Last week the venerable Judge
Murray, presiding in a criminal court,
handed out seven years to a man who stole
£lO worth of chocolates. He sentenced to
penal servitude for life a husband convicted
of shooting with intent to maliciously
wound his wife. The man, under provoca-
tion, had fired at the woman, but missed.
Maybe the chocolate-stealer deserved seven
years; maybe the bad shot deserved life.
What I wish to remark is that if a man is
owed over £5OO he can’t sue for it before a
District Court Judge. That person is only
thought to know enough about law to decide
questions under £5OO. But he can award
half a lifetime to a person accused of steal-
ing a box of sweets. A District Court Judge
can’t decide a divorce case. He has not
power to separate man and wife for any
conjugal shortcoming. But he may sen-
tence to death or separate from his or her
life-partner for ever any man or woman
guilty of a serious offence against the per-
son. The whole business is so anomalous
that it screeches for overhaul.
A return shows that between March, 101"),
and February, 1916, there were 40,007
attendances of venereal patients at Prince
Alfred Hospital (Sydney), and there were
2105 new patients. If in a city of three-
quarters of a million there are 40,007 atten-
dances of venereal patients at one hospital
during one year, and if there are 2105 new
patients in that time, how many
patients were treated privately, and
how many weren’t treated at all,
during the same period? The answer
can't even be guessed at, but it’s safe
to say that the figures wouldn’t be nearly
so awful if the Law were to (1) compel doc-
tors and chemists to report venereal cases
and (2) inform every patient who came
within ear-range that he’d have to be a very
unobtrusive citizen until he was cured.
COWARD!
“ Enlisted , have yer, yer dirty coward-- cos
you're frightened to live with me!
Breathless cable from Wellington:
The Union Steamship Co. has presented the
Maoriland Government with an aeroplane.
For examining the fare and fi'eig >
schedules, no doubt.
THE PERFECT MAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When first this dreadful war began my young friend
Snitchford’s mar
Said “What about it, Herbert? I suppose you mean
to go?”
To which he had to answer “Yes,” though poor young
Snitch was far
From wishing to be shot or stabbed by any foreign
foe.
But my old mar says: “Algernon, let volunteering
be:
Remember what the Good Book says, ‘Them persons
also serves
What only stands and waits.’ Your safest game’s to
bide with me.”
An ideel mother, that, for one, like me, with chronic
nerves.
Bill Smith, although the owner of a wife and pleasant
home,
A fambly and a job worth fully sixty bob per week,
Chucks ev’rything, enlists, and hurries off across the
foam.
My mother says: “You go straight down to Gridyard,
Sons and Bleek
(Bill’s firm) ; take all your ref’rences, your hymns,
and in your fob
The watch they gave you at the Dodgecombe Sunday-
school last year—
Take all of ’em along, my son, and try and get his
job.”
Now can you wonder that I hold my mar so very
dear ?
I never got Bill’s job. I may remark the boss
announced
That young and healthy applicants might just as
well hop off;
lie also said some youngsters there would presently
be bounced
Unless they did “the proper thing.” I scoffed a
scornful scoff
And left, to find my own soft job, which I had held
for years,
Had that same day been promised to a cove of forty-
eight.
My mar says: “What’s the odds? Stay home till
something fresh appears.”
Ah! looked on as a mother she undoubtedly is great.
Through all the months that followed, when they
tried to make me join
By rallies, public meetings and brief personal
appeals,
By bitter sneers, white feathers and the cutting off
of coin
(All treatment which a Christian lad emphatically
feels),
My good old mar stood firm and said: “No, Algie,
don’t you stir.
What cause have you to plunge in bloodshed, dirt,
disease and strife?”
Ah J friends, they give V.C.’s to them as do no more
than her.
I reckon that that grand old soul has saved my
precious life.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


WHEN “OUT OF SORTS” TAKE
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
If fretful, feverish, constipated, bilious
or tongue coated, take this delicious
fruit laxative at once.
The vague, general discomfort of being
“out of sorts,” when the stomach turns
against food, the eye is dull and the tongue
coated and heavy, can be banished in a tew
hours by a dose of California Syrup of r lgs
—“Calitig.” There is no need to put up
with these things until waiting
for bedtime to take medicine. California
Syrup of Figs—“Calitig”—will begin to do
you good the moment you take it any
hour—and cause no discomfort. This plea-
saut-tasting, refreshing fruit laxative
cleanses the stomach, gently sweeps away all
act mnulations of undigested food and stimu-
lates the liver to assist in relieving the
bowels. By evening the tongue will be cleat
again and the overflow of bile swept away ,
vou will be yourself again, with a good appe-
tite and digestion. This is the medicine
which does such wonders for children of all
ages • but it is every bit as good for grown-
up people, and there are full directions for
every age with the bottle. Take care to buy
the genuine, as there are imitations on the
market. Ask for “Califig —California
Syrup of Figs, and look for the name and
trade mark of the California Fig Syrup Co.
All chemists sell “Calffig”—California Syrup
of Figs—in bottles of two sizes, 1/1* and
1/9.
HOTEL SYDNEY
-Opposite Central Railway Station =====
TARIFF—Bed and Breakfast, 6/6 each person.
Board and Residence, 11/- per day.
Board and Residence, 70/- per week.
HANDSOME APPOINTMENTS, PERFECT SERVICE,
EXCELLENT CUISINE.
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
CYRIL EDWARDS, Manager
“Up Stage” : I am an actor. Heaven help
mP ;— iV mere strolling player who moves
from place to place and sleeps in suburban
barns that are full of hash instead of sweet-
smelling hay, as in the olden times. Being
what I am, I suppose I shouldn’t have in-
dulged in the luxury of fatherhood ; but
this is a fine, new country, crying out for
population, the wife and I are fond of chil-
dren —and there you are! He’s a rosy,
good-tempered little fellow —the sort of
baby that decent, home-living people always
seem eager to play with. But each time
we encounter the usual landlady with the
cameo brooch we are made to feel that any
sort of stinking, flea-bitten hound would
be more welcome than our young Aus-
tralian. I may be unduly optimistic, but
I'm hoping that after this war has combed
out the world it will be made a criminal
offence for any pub or lodging-house to
refuse shelter to the indispensable infant.
If not I’m afraid I’ll some day strangle the
soured star boarder on whom the ’lady
always puts the blame.
* * * *
Time plays some ungentlemanly jokes. A
recent lady applicant for an old age pension
could not produce her birth or baptismal cer-
tificate, but brought along instead some
INCURABLE.
"Only two things keep
yon from being a
splendid dancer.”
“ Gam—what are they?”
"Your two feet!”
verses written to her by an admirer ’way
back in 1802 as proof of age. This is what
the young man of long ago had to say:—
The yellowed scrap of sentiment was after
due consideration accepted as circumstantial
evidence, and Rosalie got her pension.
I tom 3 lie Oldest Inhabitant”:—
To make way for the city mostly-underground
railway, some very ancient houses in Castlereagh-
street South are being demolished. They were the
early homes of Sydney's aristocracy ere Potts Point
and Mrs. Darling’s Point came in vogue. “Upper”
Castlereagh-street they called it in those days.
Macpherson, a big Treasury man, afterwards high
up in Parliament House, and Edward Deas-Thomson,
JUST THE JOB HE WAS LOOKING FOR.
THE SOLICTOR: "Do you drink?”
THE WINTNESS : “ That's my business.”
THE UNREGENERATE ONLOOKER: "Gripes! I wonder if he wants a partner !”
Clerk of the Council, afterwards Colonial Secretary
and son-in-law of Governor Bourke, resided there.
The founder of the Suttors, George, built
a fine house near by; in it the late Frank Suttor
lived while attending the Normal School. When
Paddy’s Market came into existence the swells fled,
making way for the “general dealer” and old clo’
vendor, who traded Saturday nights and made
money. Then the heathen Chinee flooded the locality,
and now Cohen takes possession. He mostly does in
the end.
* * * *
“Deir” : Among the surprises of Egypt are
the incredibly ancient Christian monasteries
scattered about the
Western Desert, far
from the tourist’s track.
I recently ran into one
at Wadi Natrun, an oasis
on the edge of a vast
soda deposit which has
been worked from time
immemorial. It was, of
course, Coptic; but the
R.C. padre with our
regiment got in touch
with the hermits who in-
habit it and gathered
some details. It claims
to- be the oldest Chris-
tian monastery in the
world, and scornfully re-
pudiates the Greek show
at Mount Athos as being
a thing of yesterday.
Its records go back 1200
years. The inmates do
no proselytising; they
are just hermit men and
women —for there are
nuns, too —entirely - self-
contained within a stone
wall 50ft. high and 30
thick, outside which they never go.
“Dalriada”: Sometimes the Irish fairy-
story does come true, and the “crock iv
gould” sheds its Danae shower into the lap
of the deserving. In this case it has filled
a widow’s cruse after lying unclaimed for
vears, the beneficiary being Mrs. I*. O.
O’Brien, of Millbrook, in the Ballarat dis-
trict. Her late husband, Patrick O'Brien,
was, with his brother John (also “the
late”), a legatee under the will of a Queens-
land relative, Patrick O’Callaghan. The
property devised was a well-stocked station
in the northern State. It was bequeathed
to the O’Briens, and, in the event of then-
death to their widows, O Callaghan s
brothers in Ireland also being left a share.
Mrs. Patrick is believed to be the only
O’Brien left; and she is said to have been
offered £30,000 for her whack of it. The news
of the existence of the legacy only arrived
through a casual Queensland visitor to
Ballarat, who accidentally furnished links
of knowledge which joined those held by a
local man, and made a complete chain. Mrs
O’Brien’s solicitors, Pearson and Mann, did
the rest.
“W.C.M.”: The crack shot mentioned
recently by “Y.Z.,” who was rejected because
he stuttered, would have been useless in a
bayonet charge. My infantry text-book
says: “In a bayonet charge the soldier will
cheer.” Now we really couldn’t have a man
who ran forward yelling, "Hip-pip-pip-pip-
pip!” You can’t terrify a civilised enemy
by pretending to be a motor car.
The man in khaki has settled one of Aus-
tralia’s most vexed problems—“ What shall
we do with our girls?”
* * * *
A Queensland girl baby was recently
dated “Dardanellie” by her enthusiastic
parents. But even she hasn’t quite so good
a case against her parents as the infant
who a few weeks later was solemnly bap-
tised Y erdun.
* * * *
“Barber Joe”: Let the soldier look to
his hair. A pink, bald head glistening with
honest sweat and wanking in the sun over
the edge of a trench is like a full-page
advertisement to the watchful sniper who
knows his business. The mates of any bald
warrior should insist that he keep his hat
on, or stain his bare cranium a neutral
tint. A hairless patriot now in camp in
N. S. Wales was almost stung to mutiny
last w T eek by a command to march down
to the other end of the paddock and bare
his skull to the sun in order that his com-
pany officers could judge what sort of
sniper-bait he was. Head and hand-stain
will be the next field requirement of the
fighting man.
* * * *
“J.F.H.” (London) : Kalgoorlie and
Bockhampton are 2000-odd miles apart on
the map, but they are next-door neighbors
in London. A few hours after the gold-
fields Church of England diocese had made
a pitiful appeal to English charity to save
it from financial collapse, the Bishop of
Stepney was presiding over some Londoners
brought together to help Rockhampton keep
its dusty old head above water. This con-
stant circulation of the hat in London in
aid of alleged poverty-stricken Australian
Anglican bishoprics is the worst possible
advertisement for the Commonwealth, and
it is time it was made a statutory offence.
The Rev. E. Iv. Streeton, late of St. Paul’s,
Rockhampton, remarked that people might
ask why the diocese of Rockhampton does
not support itself. It certainly is a reason-
able question. The R.C.’s, ' Presbyterians,
Baptists and Methodists all manage to do
it Why can’t the Anglicans? Streeton
says “the desire to be stlf-supporting is
very strong among the churchmen of Rock-
hampton, but it is not possible to realise
it in its entirety.” Why not? They can
if they will put their fingers as deeply in
their pockets as the people of other de-
nominations. The Bishop of Stepney, by
the way, advocated an exportation of super-
fluous London curates to Bananaland. He
thought they should be sent in gratitude
for the gallantry of the Australian soldiers
at Gallipoli and the “splendid speeches of
Mr. Hughes in London.” Heaven help
you! Heavily burdened with war and
other debt you ask for somebody to make
two loaves ,of bread grow wffiere none grew
before, and instead they propose to send
you somebody who will now proceed to take
lip the offertory.
In a little article on feather-boning and
the use of starch, a fashion-writer has
broken the news that “the day of the stif-
fened skirt is undoubtedly at hand, and a
cachet of the smartest style of skirt rs the
‘whisk’ which the wearer of full flounces
is able to give as she turns. Stiffened
skirts mean that starch will again be neces-
sary.” And they mean, too, that life is
presently going to be a much less simple
matter for Clarence, sitting in the dark-
ened front-parlor with his crackling, inac-
cessible Clara, qnd trying to be truly affec-
tionate in a decorous and noiseless manner.
The All British Society, of Perth —the
crowd which raved at Jack Scaddan be-
cause he told them that if they wished to
hound out of the public service all persons
of German descent they had better start
with King George—struck a snag the other
day. In their “All British Newspaper,”
under the heading “German School
Teachers,” they published a list of teachers
in' W.A. State schools wffiose names were
alleged to suggest a German .origin, and
called upon the Minister for Education to deal
with them. One teacher in the list, named
Shugg, fired in a writ for libel. At the
trial he proved that Shugg was an old
Cornish name, and that he hailed from the
western duchy. The All Britishers claimed
that if it wasn’t a German name, it ought
to be; but an unsympathetic jury said the
libel was worth £75 to Shugg and Heaven
only knows how much to Costs.
Melbourne’s “queen of the carnival” con-
flict goes on amid an alarming hubbub of
meowing and scratching, with hardly a purr
to be heard above the uproar. Even the
pleasant noises which arose when Sol
Green handed in a million votes or so in
the name of Queen Healy, of the Federated
Books, were drowned in a sudden storm of
squalls and hisses as the barrackers for the
rival “queens” expressed their variegated
opinions of the matter. Old friends of a
month’s standing are sending one another
piles of tickets for sale. The morning billy
and bacon are accompanied by sheaves of
letters imploring assistance. Ting !—the
telephone. “Mrs. Canberra-Smith speak-
ing. Oh, Mrs. Sockdolager, would you
make a pair with Mrs. Hogget Boggs to
sell tickets on the Block this afternoon for
the Queen of the Pastoralists —Mrs. Mad-
dox-Paddox, y’ know?” When the baker
calls with the daily loaf, he leaves a leaflet
with the bread upon the doormat; and the
effusive Duchess of the Private Bar has the
whole lot of “queens” up her sleeve, ready
to produce any one of them at a moment’s
notice. They call it charity.
UP-TO-DATE.
Numerous marriages of convalescent Australians
in England are reported. —News item.
CUPID: “By Jove, I wonder how I ever
managed to get along with that old how
and arrows for so long."
“E.”: If you don’t want trouble, don’t
lake a chorus girl aeroplaning—you’re bound
to meet somebody who will tell the other
cat. A lieutenant of artillery was roosting
on the top of a French haystack “observ-
ing.” Another officer crawled up, and, with
a word of apology for the intrusion, began
“observing” for his lot. The pair presently
started yarning. First they discovered that
they both hailed from Maoriland ; then they
narrowed it down to Auckland ; finally they
discovered that their mothers’ backyards
adjoined. It’s no good—the old world’s too
small to conceal one live man in.
THE FERRIES SPEAK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There have been complaints of the noise made by
the ferry sirens when a transport is leaving Sydney.
From every point and jetty, from all the little bays,
We’ve borne them morn and evening across the Har-
bor ways-
The brawny fact’ry workers, the men who served in
shops,
The swanking members of a “push,” the Blockite's
seeming fops.
And now they’re at the railings, the transport lies
mid-stream ;
“Good luck to those in khaki,” we shout with all our
steara.
Why are our planks so flimsy? Were we of stronger
build
We might have braved the ocean, our decks with
soldiers filled —•
We who have borne them daily to find their work
and play
Might bear them out to exile, as resolute as they.
Bound for the Great Adventure, led by the war-
sword’s gleam,
Through misted eyes they watch us, and hear our
cheering steam.
0 ye that bore them daily, know ye their manhood’s
dream t
Let loose, let loose all bravely, your soul of prisoned
steam!
x.s.w.
J. E.
Time steals along, dear Rosalie,
No one his course can stay ;
Another varied year has fled,
Again is thy birthday.
Accept this humble gift of love,
On thine eighteenth birthday,
From one who loved thee when a bov,
And loves thee to this day.


THE EVANGELIST.
William HUGHES (at the close of impassioned haransue): "All in favour of a
Protective Tariff hold up the risth hand."


ANOTHER DUFFER.


XLeveRX
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
For an
Ideal Shave
Chaving
(2JTICK
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
"wearing qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's.
/
£*M
Tut
INI'
LEWIS&
WIiITTY
MAKERS
s
Yino
■': v>. *• • ;*A? »>Vj •. luxkZ
W%!&
■~i?-yr-y
COUGH FIVE YEARS OLD CURED
WITH TAR SYRUP.
VALUABLE HOME-MADE REMEDY
A liighly-recommended recipe for a hoiia
made cough-syrup was published m i ,
press a short time ago, and a reade
tried it now writes vpl . v
“I have been sorely troubled bj, a ■
bad throat cough for the last hve y e ® A js
tin only remedy that has given me
Bitrate of Tar Syrup, which has complet .
driven away the cough.”
Another reader writes: t
-It acted like magic; my huskiness "e
after the first dose, but I continued
it until my cough left me. It is rea
soothing and seems the very thing '.
the constant tickling at night. 11 ,
of its remarkable efficacy other rea 1
fering from coughs will doubtless .
give it a trial, and for their benefit «
should be stated that the syrup rs ea- .
made at home by dissolving halt * 1 ,
of sugar in half a pint ot hot ‘
then adding 2 ounces of pure burutc . tt]p
Stir thoroughly and pour into a pint bn
One or two teaspoonfuls ot this tar U ’'
will quickly stop tickling coughs, and
two or three times a day will a If old ,
the most stubborn, cough, cold or -
catarrh. It is also of great value in ~
treatment of throat and bronchial n( j
arising from exposure to the da 1 <
cold. Care should be taken to g
bitrate. as other forms of tar are no
recommended for this purpose. Am
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The Premiers’ Conference in Adelaide is
the first big thing of the kind held there
since the Federal Convention of 1897. It
has set people with memories—Fred Johns
of course at the head of them—reminiscing
about that great gathering. Elliott Lewis
(Tas.) and Peacock (Vic.) were the only
two officially delegated to both, but of the
S.A. team of 1897 Judge Gordon and J. H.
Howe were both present at last week’s
functions, and Barton (leader of the Con-
vention) and Isaacs looked in as High Court
Judges.
The proudest man in Melbourne these
Sundays is “Chummie” Fleming, the tame
anarchist, who discovered the Yarra Bank
some 30-odd years ago, in company with
about a dozen others, including the Rev.
“Polly” Hopkins. Anyone in search of
entertainment may now take L’is choice of
some 14 different shoivs, including the
1.W.W., Australasian Socialist Party (non-
political), Victorian Socialist Party (politi-
cal), Women’s Peace Army, Freedom
League, Non-Conscription Fellowship, Re-
cruiting Sergeants, two or three religious
cranks, a couple of evangelists, a chemist
who talks on health, and a peanut monarrh.
On a recent Sunday the Bank gave change
to 10.000 people, a dozen foot police and
six troopers. When “Chummie” surveys
this lot from his own particular soap-box,
the front of his back sticks out with the
pride of a pioneer showman. He says so
himself.
11. A. Nichols, member of the Tasmanian
House of Dodery, has the luck of Jonah’s
whale. Five times has he run a dead-heat
for some public position, and every time
he has lost the prize. He has had it both
ways, too. Four out of the five times the
result has been decided by drawing lots,
and every time he has pulled the wrong
straw. The other day he had a run for a
job 'on the Parliamentary Public Works
Committee. It was settled by the casting
vote of the President, and again the other
name of Nichols was Mud.
Dr. Norris, who preceded Dr. Robertson
as chairman of the Vic. Board of Health
and was after-
wards Common-
wealth Director of
Quarantine, left
Australia for Eng-
land in connection
with immigration
matters shortly
before the war be-
gan. After the
slaughter com-
menced Dr. Norris
helped to organise
the Harefield Park
Hospital; then his
special abilities
•were recognised by
the Rockefeller
Institute at New
York, with the re-
sult that he is
now on a scientific
mission to China
and the neighbor-
hood, at a salary
which makes his
late Health and
Quarantine job
look like a weevil.
BOYNTON,
Director of
Supplies and
Transport,
Federal Railways.
Corporal Fern, M.L.A. (N.S.W.), is now
an inmate of an English hospital, having
been invalided from the Western Front
almost as soon as he got there.
J. B. A. Reed, Supt. of Stores in the
N. S. Wales Public Works Dept., has been
dismissed as a result of the Petrol Commis-
sion. The Commissioner found that Reed
was not guilty of improper practices; but
he knew there was a bad smell and didn’t
report it. He goes out under clause 65 of
the Act, which places every public servant
absolutely in the power of his Minister with-
out appeal. Few civil servants are aware
of this volcano until it blows up under their
feet. Four eruptions have taken place
while the present Labor Government has
been in office—all in the Works Dept.
John Story Jamieson (The Bulletin’s
“Calico Jimmy” and a great rag-trader of
his day) died last week at 84. A man who
has known York-street (the Flindersdane of
Sydney) for 40 years, still chuckles over
the way he bustled into Jimmy’s office in
the misty long ago and confidently applied
for the job of second haberdasher to the firm
of Prince, Ogg and Co. “What salary d’ye
want?” growled the boss from the other
side of his desk. “Well, yours is a good
firm,” chirped the youngster—“l’d be willing
to take £175 to begin with.” “Are you get-
ing that 11010?“ breathed Jimmy. “Yes, sir!”
“Well.” snapped Calico James, “you take
my advice and stick to it —I don’t pay my
heads of departments that much!” Rag-trade
salaries have moved up since then; but so
has the price of steak.
Died the other day, at Ulverstone (Tas.),
Mrs. Crawford, one of the survivors of an
interesting experiment. She and hey' hus-
band, Colonel Crawford, were amongst the
first Anglo-Indians to settle on the
North-west Coast. They planned to work
up a big Anglo-Indian settlement at Castra,
so called because it was expected that the
settlers would be mostly from the Indian
Army camps. It never came to much, for
most of those who did emigrate got tired of
the scrub. But Mrs. Crawford stuck to it,
and was 93 when she died.
“Cocky” Bennett, said to be 120, and
probably Australia’s oldest inhabitant, died
the other day at the Woolpack Inn, Canter-
bury (N.S.W.). For many years he lived
wnth Mrs. Sarah Bennett, at Tom Ugly’s
Point, but w-ent over to that lady’s nephew
when she retired from business. “Cocky.”
who was a sulphur-crested Australian par-
rot, well known to tourists from all the
world, had for many years past owned not a
feather. Still he was merry and bright,
and to the end cheerfully swore that he’d
fly yet.
Toko Rua, the long-haired Maori “pro-
phet’s” son, was a fine example of the old
tamatane stock. At the arrest of his dad’s
crowd recently he was wounded twice
through the upper part of the body; then
a bullet almost took his arm off at the
elbow. He didn’t yell for the Red Cross,
but just dropped the rifle, took up the re-
volver and fired through the stockade fence
until he dropped from loss of blood.
William Pile, who died at Glenelg last
week, at 75, was S. Australia’s nearest
approach to the typical sporting English
squire. He was known to his intimates as
“The Baron.” The Pile brothers _ were
notable Darling squatters from 1850 till the
end-of-the-century droughts, but lived mostly
in Adelaide. William was a committeeman
of the S.A. Jockey Club from its foundation
almost to the end of his life, and had many
good stories of the old days of “good” living
and high play. He had many local suc-
cesses on the turf, and won an Australian
Cup with First Water. The Assyrian's
Melbourne Cup should also have been his,
but in a moment of characteristic impati-
ence he had sold the S.A. Derby winner be-
fore the big event came on.
.Tune birthdays: Justice Hood (Vic.),
70 on Ist.; ex-Minister for Home Affairs
Archibald, 66 on 3rd ; Professor G. Arnold
Wood (Sydney), 51 on 7th; Timothy A.
Coghlan, ex-Agent General for the Ma State,
61 on 9th; T. Burgoyne, ex-S. Aus. poli-
tician, 89 on 10th; Alexander Peacock, 55,
and Mrs. Humphry Ward (born in Tas-
mania) 65, on ,11th; Judge Herbert, of
Papua, 56 on 12th ; Federal Statistician G.
H. Ivnibbs, 58 on 13th ; Henry Lawson, 49
on 17th; Robert Best, M.H.R., 60, and
Frank Tate (Vic. Director of Education)
53, on 18th; E. H. Sugden (master of
Queen’s, Melb.), 62 on 19th; Professor
Anderson Stuart (Sydney), 60 on 20th;
Samuel Griffith, 71 on 21st; T. G. Ellery,
Town Clerk of Melbourne, 44 on 23rd; ex-S.
Aus. Chief Secretary J. G. Bice. 63 on
24tli; Tas. Senator J. H. Keating, 44 on
28th.
MIGHT BE WORSE.
BUBBLER : “Is your wife an actress ?”
CYNIC: “Only slightly .”
A noted Maoiilander of a bygone age,
Kov. William Gittos, has passed on at 87.
lie was a Durham man, who reached Auck-
land in 1841, and was present at the battle
of Okaihau in 1845. Hater he joined the
Methodists and missioned the Maoris for 60
years. Most of his work was Kaipara
and in Waikato, where he did much to
modify the native disaffection.
Harry Ivauper, the Victorian boy who
was principal mechanic to Harry Hawker
during his air-
trips in Australia
a while ago, is a
valuable young
nian in Britain
these times. He
is manager of the
Sopwith biplane
works, wherein
050 toilers are
turning out a
hydroplane and
a n aeroplane
daily for the
use of Bull’s
naval and military
tliers. Things like
that hearten The
Bulletin. It be-
gins to think tliat
S'ven a tariff,
these Australians
might yet make
a mousetrap at
home.
W. H. BURGESS,
Treasurer of
Tasmania over 30
years ago, and now
again elected to the
State Assembly.
John Tebbutt:, Australia’s oldest astrono-
mer. began to be 83 last week. Born at
Windsor (N.S.W.) on May 25. 1834, he
has spent his whole life in the old Hawkes-
bury township. At 19 he began star-gazing
with a small marine glass, which he still
keeps on a pension. Nine years later he
bought his first refracting telescope, and
iii 1801 built a modest observatory to keep
it in. Two equatorials and a transit instru-
ment followed, and
are now housed in a
b r i c k observatory,
built in 1879, and
recognised as one of
tlio world’s important
stations. He was the
first to discover the
two biggest comets
which came along last
century—in 1861 and
1881 respectively—
and has detected
dozens of minor ones
which tried to slink
past the earth unseen.
In 1862, after he had
bagged his first big
comet, the Ma Stab 1
asked him to become
its Government Astro-
nomer, but he pre-
ferred to keep his in-
dependence as a pri-
vate worker. When
he pleases, he can
wear the Jackson
Gwildt medal of the
Royal Astronomical
Society of London,
which that body, of
which he has been a
Fellow since 1873,
presented to him in
1905 for services to
astronomy extending
even then over nearly
50 years. Comets and
planets keep late
hours, which don t
suit an octogenarian,
and Tebbutt has not
spent many nights at
his telescopes this
last year or two, but
he still personally at-
tends to the meteoro-
logical records which
he lias been keeping
for over half a cen-
tury, and- the other
dav he published a
further volume giving
the results' of _ his
observations of wind and weather at Vine
sor for the past 17 years.
After 30 years of it. J. F. Stump. has
given up the monotony of being Cit.v T''*;
urer at Hobart. Ho could have been I<> >
Clerk long ago, but preferred to stick to «*•
old and less limelit job.
HUM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
When he was in Gallipoli he sent his soldier ser-
vant to the quartermaster for his issue of rum, but
the answer was sent back that no provision had
been made for chaplains. He replied, “Well, I want
to be put on the same footing as soldiers whilst in
the trenches. The Turks make no distinction with
me, so why should 3'ou ?” After that his issue of
rum was sent along regularly. —Dean Talbot.
The warships lay in the sapphire bay,
Their big guns smoked and roared ;
And in that hell of shrieking shell
The cups of wrath were poured ;
Yet none might fear that foe anear —
For Death must surely come —
But one might dread he should be dead
Ere they had served his rum.
Tea for the parson,
Sugar for the queen,
Muffins for the curate —
Such have always been.
Beefsteak for the boxer,
For the horse a drench,
And rum for the soldier
A-fighting in the trench.
By sap and trench the acid stench
Of friend and foeman dead ;
And through the night the roaring light
Of shell that burst o’erhead ;
By day the flies that raw the eyes,
The nerves unsheathed and numb;
The mouth of dust that has one lust —
And that a tot of rum.
Water for the Baptist,
Tripe for aldermen,
Titles for the <LP.,
Lions for the den.
Rye for the Yankee,
AVhisky for the Scot;
But for Australian soldiers
The good rum in the tot.
The soldier who did not imbrue
In blood, but helped in prayer—-
Who turned the wheel, and burned the stick,
And taught the josses there —-
By diction free and rule of three
He proved to the canteen
That he who fights Old Nick o’ nights
Is soldier, though a dean.
Beer for the brewer,
And for the curate buns,
Bromide for the wowser,
And Epsom salts for Huns.
Callan Park for Tories,
Grey top-boots for a wench,
And rum for the soldier
A-fighting in the trench.
VICTORIA.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


1
7*
7//;
r#S
f£
$0
\\st
o^
S M
a
m
■/r>
&
i
«»
«s
*cr.
ECsir^~
i
‘,-
?*<3S
-r~
-a
IT
,
1
*
2c<
p
>7
vN
i >*?r
m
W
Ml
\v
£3B
f
Ci
to?
2^-
/.a
>vU
3
Virc-
asa
£
=J
K
!'<\
v;
»
Bf?
3^
For the Man in Peace or the Man at War,
A Companion, a Comfort, a Pleasure in store!
Try It Now!
and send some to the
Hhahi Boys !
Special HavelocK
Smoßing Mixture
3 Strengths: Mild, Medium, Full
In 2-oz. Airtight Tins
PIPE
THE
400
OF PEACE AND QUALITY
( LM N
very Pl P e Guara^e eci
m
LMN
B


Overall, McCray, Ltd.
Bald Rock,
BALMAIN.
SPECIALTY
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS—Deep and Shallow—
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES
Large Stocks also
Sheep and Cattle
on hand—Samson Windmills, Galvanised Water Pipe and Fittings,
Troughing, Pumps, &c. Send for Catalogue. i]
BUCYRUS CO. MilwauKee
Steam Shovels, Drag Line Excavators.
Sole Agent* WILLIAM ADAMS CEb COMPANY LIMITED,
v Sydney, Melbourne, Krisbane, Pe
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Maoiulani) State Fire Insurance
Office, which began regular business early
in January, 11)05 (the deficit up to then
represents preliminary expenses) :
Ex- Added to
Dec., Revenue. Claims, penses. Reserves. Deficit.
1901.. £1,026 £1,026
Reserves,
1905 .. £13,136 £2,418 6,738 £3,980 2,954
1906 .. 20,991 10,312 7,215 3,464 6,418
1907.. 23,302 12,701 8,355 2,246 8,664
1908 . . 26,909 18,904 10,146 6,523
1909 . . 34,038 18,535 10,155 5,348 11,871
1910.. 41,788 18,914 11,478 11,396 23,267
1911 . . 48,930 27,537 13,125 8,268 31,535
1912 . . 56,315 25,111 14,526 16,678 48,213
1913 . . 61,281 27,975 15,847 17,459 65,672
1914.. 67,693 28,110 17,832 21,751 87,423
1915 . . 76,299 27,476 19,562 29,261 116,684
The £116,684 is made up this way:—
1914. 1915. Increase.
Formal reserves.. ..£61,565 £88,218 £26,653
Current risks reserve.. 25,858 28,466 2,608
£87,423 £116,684 £29,261
To start this office the Government provided
for the issue of £lOO,OOO worth of deben-
tures ; but it actually called for only £2OOO,
and that little lot it paid back years ago.
So, on a capital of £2OOO, which has been
returned to the proprietors, the latter have
in 10 years made a profit of, say, £88,218;
and in that reckoning the premiums put
aside to provide for claims under unexpired
policies are not regarded as profit.
The figures are quite attractive enough
to make you want to go out and start a fire
office. But perhaps you won’t be quite so
successful. This office had the business of
the Government behind it, to begin with;
and Maoriland, perhaps because it hasn’t
had any Labor Government to block them,
has an extraordinary number of very im-
portant Socialistic businesses. For instance,
it has a big Public Trust Office, possibly the
largest mortgagee in Maoriland; a Life
Insurance office; a State Coal department,
with numerous retail agencies; and a large
interest in the principal bank in the coun-
try, the chairman of directors being origin-
ally the State’s nominee. And all up and
down the land you will hear the puffiest old
sheep-raisers cursing Private Enterprise
and demanding that, for instance, the State
shall run boats between Wellington and
Lyttelton. So this office started under
exceptionally favorable auspices—-and all
the more favorable because the private cos.
were just then in bad odor.
But that wasn’t altogether the fault of
the cos. The fact is that for years what
is called the moral hazard was exceptionally
serious in Maoriland. In plain English,
Maoriland had a bad habit of having a fire
when things were dull. Things have been
the reverse of dull during the past few'
years, and especially during the past 12
months. It may or it may not be cause
and effect; anyhow, the loss experience of
this office has been unusually good during
these prosperous years, and most unusually
good during the last year of most unusual
prosperity. That it was a bogus prosperity
which will be followed by heavy taxation
and hax-d times isn’t reflected in the figures.
Of the year’s revenue of £76,299 the pre-
miums supplied £71,166; so the losses were
only 38.6 p.c. of the premiums and the
exes, were a remarkably moderate 27.5 p.c.
The reserves, w'hich are the total funds of
the office, are equal to 164 p.c. of the year’s
premiums; and that gives this office about
the same strength, on paper, as the average
of English cos., but much less than the best
Australian and Maoriland cos. The Act
contemplates the payment of bonuses to
policy-holders who haven’t burned up their
premiums; and there is some talk of soon
giving these bonuses a start. But it is
early days yet. Much better to wait till the
office has reserves equal to at least 200 p.c.
of the year’s premiums: even then it will
have less funds actually in hand, in propor-
tion to its risks, than most of its local
competitors. It is all the more important
to go cautiously because the past few years
will probably be found to be quite mislead-
ing. They represent the swing of the
pendulum towards champagne and chicken.
An insurance office, above all others, must
be prepared for the rebound to husks and
headache.
* * * *
The Sun Newspaper, Ltd. (Sydney),
which bought the assets of the Australian
Newspaper Co. in March, 1910, for £28,000,
or £3132 less than they were then alleged to
lie w'orth
Written To Re- Re-
Mar., Loss. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1910.. £3,132
1911.. £2,063 Nil £B5B 211
Premiums on shares . . £5773 5,984
Profit.
1912.. 3,109 Nil 2,042 1067 7,051
1913.. 3,795 Nil 7,273 3,573
Premiums on shares . . 5503 9,076
1914.. 13,411 9lp.c.= £B,OOO 6,000 8,487
Premiums on new shares . . 6237 14,724
1915.. 12,836 8 p.e.= 8,624 10,017 8,919
Net
Profit.
1916. . 12,760 8 „ „ 10,080 2680 11,599
Don’t know' how much they wrote off this
year against depreciation. Previous year
£2OOO was taken out of revenue to provide
for wear and tear; and presuming that a
fair charge has been made each year, net
profits for the past four periods have been
as followslol3. £2293; 1914, £9570;
1915, £10,836; 1916, £12,760. If the
figures are like that after making a uniform
percentage charge on plant and machinery
to cover depreciation, the shareholders
wouldn’t be overdoing it if they asked
everybody concerned to come across the
road. What the investor neeus to poke his
inquisitive nose into is this matter of de-
preciation. Plant and machinery stand in
the books at £61,553. Some will last longer
than the rest; but it. is a safe thing to say
that in 20 years practically everything has.
to ; be made new. That means, besides_doing
odd repair jobs, putting by at least £50,000
of gross profit in the 20 years to replace the
old stuff—£2soo a year. The co. lias a
plant and machinery reserve, which it has
built partly out of share premiums and
partly out of profits (shown in the table
as written off). In the past year nothing
has been added to that reserve; but the
plant and machinery item has been reduced
by £2645, so it seems probable that depre-
ciation is being provided for. Still, as men-
tioned before, it is a thing the accounts
don’t tell a definite story about; and it is
a thing the investor must have a definite
story about before he can be dead sure
about the profits. The only other thing he
can do is to size up the directors and de-
cide whether he will swallow their bare
word. In this case he probably will.
But there is no shadow of doubt about
one thing: the progress made by the busi-
ness has been wonderfully good. The Her-
ald Co., which owns the Melbourne even-
ing paper, paid £198.000 for goodwill. That
meant a capital of £250,000. The Sun
hasn’t a penny of its capital represented by
goodwill. What the Herald Co. paid
£198,000 for the Sun Co. has got for no-
thing through the energy and skill of a few
people, backed, no doubt, by a bit of luck
in being born at the right time; and that
wasn’t all luck either. Its own capital is
£122,050, and it owes £27,490. On the
other side it has freeholds £62,870; stocks
(at cost, and no doubt worth much more,
as paper has been tearing along from £lO
to £4O a ton), £39,252; liquid assets,
£19,601. This table shows the movements of
these items: —
1911. 1913. 1914. 1915. 1916.
Capital . .£24,950 £62,993 £83,598 £108,274 £122,050
Liabilities 44,334 18,414 26,140 22,492 27,490
Freehold . . 21,277 23,298 41,650 46,809 62,870
Plant . . 36,238 34,037 60,118 64,198 61,552
Stock . . 4,958 7,301 11,682 26,450 39,252
Book debts 6,825 17,918 19,435 16,744 14,110
Cash, etc... 1,056 2,424 2,670 7,551 5,962
Under normal conditions and with reason-
able economy the Sun ought presently to
make a profit of £25,000 a year; and con-
sidering that the bulk of the share capital
is represented by solid, marketable assets,
this is a handsome prospect.
* * * *
Arthur Rickard and Co. Extended,
Ltd., property subdivisionists and salesmen,
Sydney. The co. acquired the business of
Arthur Rickard and Co., Ltd., and most of
the shares in the Haymarket Building and
Investment Co. The deficit of £1145 with
which the co. began represented flotation
expenses:—
Dividends.
r“ A n To
Profit. Pref. Ordinary. Reserves. Deficit.
£1,145
Dec., p.c. Reserves.
1914. .£33,152 £4782 10 p.c. =£15,000 £13,370 £12,225
Deficit.
Haymarket Co.’s assets over-valued £15,051 2,826
3$ p.c. Reserves.
1915.. 20,744 4709 Nil 16,035 13,209
A paragraph printed some time ago ex-
plained what had happened: “The directors
relied for the correctness of the amounts
alleged to be owing by land buyers [from
the Haymarket Co.] on the amounts appear-
ing in the balance-sheets issued by the Hay-
market Co., and on the certificates of that
co.’s auditors that such balance-sheets were
true statements of the affairs and position
of the co.” Of course the auditors didn’t
certify anything of the kind. The wise
auditor never does. What Pratt and Pratt,
for years the auditors to this concern, did
certify was that, “as disclosed by the books,
the balance-sheet is a true statement of the
affairs and position of the co,” Which is
a different thing altogether.
But if the published accounts of the Hay-
market misled this co., its own accounts are
still less likely to be of serious value to its
shareholders. The assets are as follows :
150,000 shares in Arthur Rickard & Co. Ltd. £150,000
Balance P. & L. Account A. R. & Co., Ltd. 23,448
44,248 shares in Haymarket . . .. 84,964
A. R. & Co., Ltd., current account . . 35,8*24
Bank 9
Total .. £294,245
Now, obviously until you know the position
of Arthur Rickard and Co., Ltd., you know
nothing that is worth knowing about this
Extended Co.; and the accounts of A. R.
and Co., Ltd., are not given to the public.
As to the Haymarket, there are 44,903
shares, and this co. owns 44,248 of them.
Whether it has paid any dividends or not
this co. doesn’t say. The Haymarket Co.
itself, however, lately issued accounts, from
which it appears that, after writing off the
buyers’ balances which shouldn’t have
figured in the books at all, the old reserves
were all absorbed and the P. and L. balance
was £3584 on the wrong side. No dividend
was therefore paid. The whole business is
complicated and unsatisfactory. There
should be one co., not three; and then in-
vestors might possibly be able to get some
general ideas about the concern. For in-
stance, from the accounts of this A. R. and
Co Ex.. Ltd., you only know that 44.248
shares (out of 44,903) in the Haymarket
are valued at £84,964. You don’t know
that that Co.’s assets carry a debt of over
£115,000. In other words, the assets are
covered by a first mortgage to certain credi-
tors, to whom the eo. owes £115,000 ; what
A. R. and Co. Extended owns is merely a
sort of equity of redemption. What Arthur
Rickard and Co., Ltd., owes this paper has
no idea. And what the time-payment land
business in Sydney is going to feel like
three years hence this paper wouldn’t care
to guess. * * *
The Co-operative Wool and Produce
Co. (Sydney) •
Bonus Added
to to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
June, ’03.. 1,625 6 p.c. =1306 319 7,787
June, ’04.. 2,012 6 „ ~1335 677 8,464
June, ’05.. 4,783 6 ~ ~1335 1742 1706 10,1<0
June, ’06.. 9,526 6 „ ~1335 3183 5008 15,1*8
June, ’07.. 10,669 7 ~,,1559 4523 4087 19,760
Written off securities, £2615 . . 17,100
June, ’OB.. 8,066 7 p.c. =1560 2504 4002 21,152
Written off securities, £2840 . . 18,312
June, '09.. 9,5*2 10 p.c. =2229 2924 4419 22,731
June ’lO.. 16,482 10 ~,,2229 6283 7970 30,701
June, ’ll.-10,779 10 ~,,3973 5311 1495 32,196
Mar., ’12.. 7,555 10 „ ~3000 3669 886 33,082
£4OO written off . • •• •• 32.682
Mar., ’13.. 5,976 6 p.c. =2400 3164 412 33,094
Mar., ’l4*. 10,018 7 ~,,2800 3784 3434 36,528
Mar., ’15.. 3,457 7 „ ~2800 2945 34,240
Mar., ’l6. .10,670 7 ~ ~ 2800 4547 3323 37,563
For six months after the war started it
looked as though Australian wool-growers
were in for a shocking time; and, as growers
who usually sold in Australia were sending
their clips to London to catch the market
whenever it might have a momentarj’ spurt,
it looked as though local brokers might do
still worse and just about starve. Then,
suddenly, the tide turned, and, as the Co-op.
directors say, “although faulty lines have
been in relatively poor demand, growers
have every reason to congratulate themselves
on the prices which have been realised, tak-
ing the clip as a whole.” But as against
that there was the drought and the shrunken
clip, so it isn’t likely that the co. would
have shown so good a profit if it hadn’t been
helped by the previous year’s caiTy over. The
co. had on hand on April 1, 1915, 14,720
bales, which was 12,500 bales more than
the previous year started with. So, as a
certain amount of money had been spent on
that 14,720 bales without return, the past
year’s profits were inflated at the expense
of those for the 12 months ended March,
1915.
The commission on wool, produce and
grain for the past year is, by the way, sub-
ject to the now-usual rebate of 30 p.c.; and
that reduces the actual selling charge in the
case of wool to 2 p.c. The existence of a
co. of this co-operative type, from which the
shareholders are content to draw a very
moderate dividend, returning the balance to
the co-operators, is doing a good deal to save
the trade from State competition. In
Queensland there has for some time past
been a demand for Government action, especi-
ally on behalf of the small grower. And
the State will probably do something, though
the chances are that the result would be far
more satisfactory if it encouraged co-opera-
tion. Of that there isn’t one-tenth part
enough in Australia, not only in marketing,
but in buying as well. We badly want the
Maorilanders over here to teach us some of
their lessons. Maybe it is because the other
brokers are beginning to see that the Co-op.
stands between the trade and State competi-
tion that there isn’t quite the same bitter
feeling towards this co. as there was a while
ago. In fact there is a tendency to care-
fully watch some of those in the selling
brokers’ ring rather than the Co.-op., which
is outside it.
This co. has a capital of £40,000, and its
accumulated profits amount now to £37,563;
and practically the whole of it has been put
into the stores at Pyrmont (£71,357) and
odds and ends of furniture and petty cash.
To finance the business —always some ad-
vances have to be made —the co. is indebted
to “sundry creditors” to the extent of
£96,309. What these sundry creditors are
this paper doesn’t know, and the accounts
would be all the better if they told. Just
now there seems to be special need to empha-
sise this: that the nature of a co.’s liabilities
has proved quite as important in times of
financial stress as the nature of its assets.
In the days of the bank smashes there
w quid n’t have been any smashes to speak of
if the cos. had borrowed wisely. They lent
foolishly, too; but it was the imnrudent
borrowing that was at the root of all the
rottenness.
The Grand Hotel, Ltd. (Melbourne) :
Nominal
Written To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividend. Off. serves, serves*
1901.. £ 2061 Nil £2061 £27,191
1905.. 2018 Nil 2018 29,209
1906. . 3511 2} p.c. = £843 2668 31.877
1907.. 1323 Nil 1323 33,200
1908.. 3021 2f p.c. *= 843 2178 35,378
1909.. 2044 2J „ „ 843 1201 36,579
1910.. 2713 25 „ ~ 843 1870 38,449
1911.. 5597 3J „ „ 1124 £11,553 31,369
1912.. 4848 5 „ „ 1686 3162 34,531
1913.. 3211 5 „ „ 1686 10,613 25,443
1914.. 1116 2 J ~ ~ 843 2,305 23,411
Loss.
1915.. 2511 Nil 20,900
1916.. 1590 Nil 19,310
It is a depressing document that the direc-
tors issue. All that they can comfort the
shareholders with is that the loss is less
than the previous year’s. And there is this
sting in the tail: “Meanwhile the directors
announce that it has been found necessary to
make a call of 10s. per share, payable in
four instalments, the first to be made on
July 1.” Probably the mortgage is the
trouble: the freehold (book value £92,500)
has a plaster of £52.000 on it. There looks
to be an ample margin there ; but these are
times when a lender is liable to want to
know what his security will produce. You
might have a herd of hippopotami worth
allegedly £100.000: bqt any sane money-
lender would consider (1) that the beasts
would have to be fed and (2) that they
probably wouldn’t earn tuppence a week.
The Grand is certainly not a very produetiv,.
beast. Though the average dividend for Hi!
past 10 years has been less than 21 n
the lay-by has been very small: ~ 2 ''"
1906. 19lfi
Liabilities .. ..£63.549 firmer
Assets (other than premises ’ ' J
and furniture) .. .. 1,672 955
Excess liabilities .. £61,877
The gross profit from the business last vear
was £7(51 : in the previous year there Va«
a loss of £220. That’s no good to a mort-
gagee. The whole position so far as these
first-class residential hotels are concerned
calls for review. Costs have raced ahead
during the last few years—both labor costs
and the food bill —and it is a very serious
question whether the “guests” have been
paying enough.
N.Z. Consolidated Dental Co. (Wei.
lington, M.L.) :
Bonus on R e .
Mar., Profits. Dividends. Purchases, server
1909 ..£1737 71 p.c. = £ 1475 £255 £l3 616
Reserves transferred to capital, £9756 5’o fin
1910 .. 1921 6 p.c. = 1766 230 -<7^
1911 .. 3912 6 „ „ 1766 . 251 5 Ran
1912 .. 2524 7 „ „ 2060 253 5 891
1913 .. 2506 7 „ „ 2060 222 6 115
1914 .. 2456 7 „ „ 2060 230 6’981
1915 .. 3198 7 „ „ 2060 405 7’oi4
1916 .. 3682 7 „ „ 2060 374 8*262
This is a nice little thing in the dental-
supply business; and apparently the mili-
tary idea that we may chew our way to
victory has been responsible for something
extra in trade during the past couple of
years. No doubt, also, the enhanced price
of dental goods has meant increased pro-
fits. The present capital is £29,431 and
£9756 of that was transferred from reserves
six years ago. The return is thus a bit
better than 10 p.c. to those who were then
shareholders at par; and there was enough
put by last year to pay another 6 p.c. on
the old capital. While the return is thus
good the finances cause no anxiety. Total
liabilities are under £2OOO, while assets
apart from stock amount to over £25,500,
including deposits £7876, severely written
down premises £4500, and book debts £8059.
For a trading concern the security for the
principal is thus quite exceptional.
* * * *
The Mount Lyell Mining and Railway
CO. (Tas.) :
Dividends and Written Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. senes.
£ £ £ £
Mar., ’OB.. 141,730 20 p.c.= 126,168 9,723 559,429
Sept., ’OB.. 168,130 174 „ ~ 110,364 12,006 605,189
Mar., ’09.. 141,683 „ ~ 110,372 10,153 626,317
Sept., ’09.. 155,081 174 „ ~110,300 9,930 661,198
Mar., ’lO. . 131,506 17l „ ~ 111,094 10,076 671,534
Sept., TO. . 106,274 174 „ ~ 110,594 10,147 657,067
Mar., ’ll. . 100,022 124 „ „ 79,282 9,964 667,843
Sept., ’ll.. 83,775 12| „ „ 80,098 9,468 662,052
Mar., 'l2. . 31,596 Nil 11,082 682,566
Premiums on new shares, £21,685.. 704,251
Sept.* ’l2. . 122,009 124p.c.= 80,922 9,608 735,730
Mar., ’13.. 5,014 Nil 32,7 3 8 708,006
Sept., T 3.. 53,462 Nil 32,249 729,219
Premiums on new shares, £738 .. 729,957
Mar., T 4. . 72,812 80,424 14,455 707,890
Sept., T 4. . 40,724 10 „ .. 64,460 11,417 672,737
Mar., T 5.. 115,480 Nil 80,383 707,834
Sept., T 6. . 158,509 10 p.c. = 64,460 20,123 781,760
Written off mine property 168,088 613,672
Mar., T 6. . 130,563 124p.e.= 80,575 20,691 642,969
But. as mentioned a week or two ago, the
past half-year’s profit has been cut down
heavily to provide for special taxes, no less
than £65,054 having been set aside for that
purpose. Still, the profit that is left is
more than that for any term since the begin-
ning of 1910. with the solitary exception of
the six months which ended in September
last.
And it is not only because of the greater
profits shown in the half-year that share-
holders have good reason to feel very
pleased with themselves. Pretty well every-
thing has been going their way. The addi-
tions to the ore reserves, especially of
North Lyell, have been very fine. This
shows, so far as the two principal mines
are concerned, what has been taken out
since the present co. was formed in 1903
and what general-manager Sticht estimates
to be now in reserve:—
13 years’ Present
Extraction. Reserves.
Mt. Lyell .. 2,999,259 tons 1,815,505 tons
North Lyell .. 1,426,130 „ 1,140,341 „
In addition the co. has 464,352 tons in the
South Lyell. But the average value of the
reserves isn’t quite as good as that of the
ore extracted :
Extracted. Reserves.
LyelL North. Lyell. North.
Copper, p.c. .. 0.75 6.09 0.53 6.00
Silver, oz 1.89 1.44 1.96 1-33
Gold, oz 0.0 6 0.00 5 0.04 o.ooa
The only serious fall is in the Lyell copper
values; and that is more or less counter-
balanced by the developments in the JNorti
Lyell. which have permitted the co. to
feed a much larger proportion of that ore
to the furnaces. The ore treated hist Hal -
year was 99,243 tons from the Lyell and
South Lyell and 59,141 tons from the
North. At that rate the Lyell and North
reserves will last just under 10 years, uu
that period will be lengthened by the woi
ing of the South ores along with those o
the Lyell, while further ore development
will certainly take place in the North, l
latter, for instance, notwithstanding
heavy extraction, has now 167,131 o -
more than it had six months ago.
dividends paid since 1903 amount
£2,059,918, which is equal to 9s. 3d.
ton of ore. If the ore left and pro v e f i
the three mines can do as well, then
£1,580,000 of dividends still waiting ror
shareholders. There are 1,289,190 s
in the co. *
But the co. has something more than the
mines and reduction works. It ha 5 £443,674
£443,674 of liquid assets in excess of HaDii
ties. Then there is the superphosphate
business, into which the co. has put oj.
quarter of a million of money: after dII
ciation, the factories stand in the books


The British Westinghouse Electric & M!g. Co.. Ltd.
Westinghouse
Rateau Impulse Type
Steam Turbines
HIGH ECONOMY
SIMPLE DESIGN
STURDY CONSTRUCTION
As the largest builders of Steam Turbines in Britain we
are in the position to give early delivery of Steam Turbines
and Turbo-Sets up to 10,000 kilowatts.
Manchester
Send enquiries to Head Office for Australia .
Ouoonsland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne. 11
(Queensland S MiiiiiiiimmmiimimiimmiHimimiHiimimmMiiimHiHiiimiill
3]
c ARt BOfIWTO
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
Th ‘ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Capital ..£250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up ... ... 82,500
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
“Proof is better than platitude,” and the experience
of plant owners who have used “Chronvol” Leather
Belting for their power transmission is conclusive
evidence that “Chromol” has no equal. It will
stand the test under the most severe atmospheric and
industrial conditions —it is durable, pliable and
thoroughly efficient—it possesses heat- and moisture-
resisting qualities that preserve it and prevent
deterioration. Used exclusively on many of the
most important drives in the largest mining plants
in the Commonwealth. “Chromol” Belting is mineral-
tanned, which gives longer fibre and consequent
increase in strength. J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd.,
“Pioneer Leather Works,” 117 York Street (Opp.
Q. V. Markets), Sydney. Interstate Agents: —\ ic-
toria: Geo. Russell Pty. Ltd., Flinders Street, Mel-
bourne; South Australia: J. McKell, Timpson Street,
Port Adelaide; West Australia: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth; Queensland: Queensland
Machinery Co., Brisbane; Broken Hill: Geo. C.
Dempstei, Argent Street. — Advt.
Aladdin may have had a very wonderful lamp,
but we have our doubts. Anyhow if it was true,
then the lamp must have been a Mazda. There are
no doubts about a Mazda Lamp, and it is within
reach of all. Its light combines durability and
brilliancy, together with a caressing, soothing soft-
ness devoid of all glare, and clear as the light of
day.— Advt.
ALUMINOFERRIC is used by the Sydney Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards and graziers
for precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is simply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours’
time the most discolored water will be as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless.
Sole agents: William Adams & Company Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.— Advt.
* * * *
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. 3d. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is. ;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. 10d.- — a saving of 2s. sd.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow 16in. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers. — Advt. [2
» . * •
Extract from Insurance Times, London, dated
September, ’l5: “Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society of Australia. —‘Colonial Mutual’ policies are
well worthy of study, especially those which combine
in a single contract Life and Endowment assurance,
together with Accident and Sickness benefits. Since
its inception, in 1873, the Society has paid in claims
to policy-holders in its Ordinary branch alone a total
sum exceeding £6,500,000. It possesses assets
amounting to nearly four millions sterling. It holds
a Government testimonial (scarcely needed, we
should think) as to the soundness of its position and
the prudent and business-like character of its
methods, and in every way it is deserving of the
whole-hearted support of the insuring public.”—
Advt. [4
* * * *
“Pioneer” Wood Stave Pipe lasts indefinitely, and
the sole condition to ensure durability is that the
pipe shall be kept saturated. In addition Wood Pipe
is the most economical pressure pipe obtainable.
Catalogue from The Australian Wood Pipe Co. Ltd.,
57 York Street, Sydney. (Contractors to all State
Governments.) — Advt .
* * * *
Patents.— Have you an idea worth patenting ? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
The celebrated “Leplastrier” Road-Graders are
most suitable for Australian conditions. Prices
range from £25 upwards. Full particulars from
the Australian Machinery Co. Ltd.. Charlotte Street,
Brisbane, or Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Sydney.
— I ADVT.
Vislok is a single, self-contained lock nut, consist-
ing of two sections hydraulically forced together.
Vislok has a solid, continuous thread throughout, and
when locked gives a regular and positive hold on the
thread of the bolt. Vislok is so constructed that the
energy of the working load and vibratory force
exerted upon it tend to increase the locking action.
Vislok can be used as an ordinary nut, and is easily
applied in confined spaces. Vislok will not injure
the bolt-thread, and is quickly locked or unlocked
with an ordinary spanner. At the present time
Vislok is proving its usefulness on the Government
Railways and at the Cockatoo and the Naval Dock
Yards. Agents: B. J. Ball, Limited, Sydney and
Brisbane; Elder, Smith and Co., Melbourne and
Adelaide; Elder, Shenton and Co., Fremantle and
Perth; Colin J. Shields, Launceston.— Advt.
* * * *
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia. —Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Silberberg & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney;
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne. — Advt.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. £545,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,351 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 81,500 0 0
£782,611 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. ■=-
Gen. Man. : Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Chaliis House, Sydney
£lB9 072- Tbe profit from this industry Is
kept’a deep secret. One thing, however, is
certain: the chemical fertiliser business is
g'oing to be a tremendous one in Australia,
\vhoever does it. Finally there are the
options over the West Coast complex zinc
mines, which have become of far greater
potential value through (1) the develop-
ment of the flotation process, (2) the agree-
ment made with the Tasmanian Government
for the delivery of 50,000 li.p. from the State
hydro-electric mains, and (3) the proved
technical success of the electrolytic treat-
ment of zinc-blende. The future of this
business is of course indefinite as yet; but
there are bright prospects of the Lyell, aided
by the State, developing into a very im-
portant industrial concern apart altogether
from copper production.
Lyell, however, isn’t the only co. with its
eye 'on electrolytic treatment. Amalga-
mated Zinc, the Broken Hill concern which
makes a zinc concentrate by the De Bavay
process, will probably start first. The Bail-
lieus are in this, and talk of putting
£lOO,OOO or more into a plant in Tasmania
at once. For a start the Hydro Electric
Department has contracted to let them have
30,000 h.p.
The other day four or five reputable Syd-
ney men were hit heavily by a Judge who
declared that, as directors, they had shame-
fully neglected their duties. It was about
time somebody was made to sit up. But if
that was a bad case, what do you think
of this extract from the directors’ report of
the Ilaymarket Permanent Land, Building
and Investment Co.? —
Your directors [they are new directors, of course]
regret to have to inform you that, some months
since, a special audit of the eo.’s books disclosed the
tact that the assets of the co. had been overstated
ii) the last published balance-sheet to the extent of
A 20,674. For a number of years past this co. has
been carrying on its books “secured buyers’ bal-
ances” in'the total above stated, which should long
since have been written off, as the sales in respect
of which the balances were alleged to have been
owing had lapsed, and the land resold to other pur-
chasers.
These were “secured buyers’ balances,”
according to the accounts of this co., sum-
maries of which were issued by the direc-
tors! Doesn’t it matter what sort of
figures or statements men put their names
to in N. S. Wales? Is there no guardian
of financial morality? Is there no body to
protect the investor?
* * * *
The old Lucknow mine, near Orange
(N.S.W.), is to be given another run, this
time by L. Edgley, storekeeper, of Bathurst.
T’he oid battery has been disintegrated and
distributed around the State —10 head to
Spfala, 10 head to Dad’s Millions, 10 head
to Breakfast Creek —-so Edgley proposes to
cart another 10 head from somewhere or
other and re-erect. It is a good illustration
of the remarkable manner in which one
crowd drags machinery away from one mine
to another, while another crowd drags
machinery from another mine to the first
mine and puts it up again. If the Lucknow
proves payable again it will do better than
the shows that hopefully installed the vari-
ous parts of its old battery. At any rate,
Edgley knows the game pretty well,
having owned shows at Swallow’s Nest,
Caloola Creek and elsewhere, and a private
proprietor with capital and experience and
grit may make a do of a proposition that
will beat a company.
* * * *
The idea of establishing copper smelting
and refining works at Townsville or Bowen
is up again for consideration. The Bowen
coalfield is an attraction, although it has
yet to be proved that coke suitable for smelt-
ing can be made there. Cheap coal means
cheap electricity, and that begins to be an
important matter. Queensland is so rich
in minerals that it certainly deserves better
smelting facilities somewhere.
* * * *
- Mount Elliott owns a big interest in the
Dobbin group, Cloncurry (Q-). and is direct-
ing most of the prospecting and development.
At the 200 ft. level the Dobbin itself is show-
ing an ore body 10ft. wide, worth 10 p.c.
copper, which looks like improving as it is
driven on north. Beyond is the King VV il-
liam, which is owned by Mt. Elliott; and
further on is the Orphan, which was recently
acquired by Mt. Cuthbert on the recommen-
dation of manager Powell. The King Wil-
liam at 75ft. has 6ft. of 15 p.c. ore.
* * * ' *
'Annan River Tin (N.Q.) lost £3170 last
half-year: 24,500 cub. yards were treated in
035 hours for only 6 tons 13cwt. of black
tin. The average value of the wash was
only 0.611 b. against 6|d. for costs. But
even if the tin had been produced for nothing
there wasn’t enough to pay the bill for inter-
est and prospecting (£1681). Recovering
11b. or so of black tin at a cost of 6d. is
simply hopeless, so the management intends
to confine operations to the “contact” area
which contains the best values. The latest
return is 30cwt. for a run of 119 hours,
which is more hopeful than six tons in six
months.
J-P-C. : U i» amimag how little use
Queensland has made ofits coal* That “big
seam , near Ma ckay,“ to which The Bulle-
tin lately referred, has been known for over
40 years. The first seam was discovered as
far back as 1873, in a gully near Bu Creek,
and several loads were taken away and tried,
with excellent results. Later Dr. Jack
reported: “A gratifying and promising
feature is the absence of any intrusive or
igneous rock in the district.” Government
analyses gave volatile hydrocarbon, 8.71;
fixed carbon, 84.74; ash, 3.56. Two or three
years ago a bore was put down a few miles
further up the creek, and at a depth of 26ft.
a seam of very clean semi-anthracite coal
was struck and proved 27ft. ' thick, with
another of Bft. below. This coal should be
not only excellent for coke-making, but
invaluable for navy use.
The mostly-Sydney people interested in
the Ida Bay (Tas.) cement proposition
recently offered the whole show to the Tas-
manian Government. The Ministry side-
stepped the question by referring it to Gov-
ernment Geologist Twelvetrees, apparently
to see if he will say the same now as he did
last year, when he pronounced it a good
thing. As he has been given a sort of rov-
ing commission to report on any other pos-
sible State cement shows, he has a chance
of putting in quite a lot of time on the job.
Meanwhile the State is going on buying a
good many thousands of tons of cement a
year and scratching round for imported
stuff to fill the bill.
Chairman T. Dunster and his colleague on
the Board, John Nicholson, of the still-water
flotation process, are scattering circulars
concerning the Tasman and Crown Lyell
(Tas.) like autumn leaves. Thinking he
had a soft snap in this show for his process,
Nicholson picked up 234,000 forfeited shares
out of 300,(XX) on the register for each.
When he got into the Board-room feathers
began to fly, and Dunster says he was given
10 minutes to quit. Dunster blared out
defiance, so Nicholson appears with a three-
page reply. Amongst the pleasantries is
one to the effect that Dunster received
10,000 shares at which, if unloaded
afterwards at 6d. to 9d., wasn’t bad business
for him. He adds in large type that he
hasn’t jobbed on the Stock Exchange, and
says he intends to have a free hand in the
Board-room, and that he won’t be hampered
by unsympathetic colleagues. The special
meeting to deal with Dunster promises to
be particularly lively, but of course the man
with the most votes will win. And that is
Nicholson.
After 35 years’ trudging through deep-
lead mines, E. Visick comes forward with a
scheme for tackling a couple of unworked
blocks of the Indigo and Chiltern Valley gut-
ters, He springs this surprise after discov-
ering that the miner can’t be kept out of
the Rutherglen Viticultural College property,
through which the lead curves. As a recom-
mendation for the float Visick points to
John Cock’s Chiltern Valley, the classy
neighbor to the south-east which has paid
£237,000 in divs., and to the pretentious
Great Southern Consols to the west. Visick
estimates 12,000 ft. of lead 500 ft. wide, gold
averaging 80s. per fathom, and profits about
265. per fathom. He has secured the old
Wallace Consols ground as the base of his
operations, so he has a shaft ready for opera-
tions as soon as the £6OOO he requires for
equipment and driving is forthcoming. Fred
Tricks has in hand the job of planting the
30.000 contribs. necessary to start. The
water squeezed into the show is 10,000 paids
of 20s. each, most of w-hich goes to vendor
Alex. Henderson; but Valley
also bags 2500 paids and £750 cash for hand-
ing over its block of 521 acres, in which is
the Wallace Consols shaft. The Rutherglen
district badly needed a mine to keep it alive,
so Treasurer Higgs did not hesitate to
bestow his non-committal blessing on the
modest capitalisation proposed.
The latest clean-up of Cock’s Pioneer.
Eldorado (Vic.), shows what a close thing
the co. is working. The last three runs
.have been as follows : —-
Run. Drift, cub. yds. Gold, oz. Tin, tons.
No. 5 .. 240,000 2732 38
No. 6 . . 100,000 1199 15J
No. 7 .. 167,000 1848 18
With gold at £4 and tin oxide at £lOO per
ton, results work out at about 13d. per cub.
yard. Two-thirds more ground was handled
than in the previous run, and on averages
the co. should have got 150 oz. more gold
and another seven tons of tin oxide. How-
ever, the yield ought to be payable at 13d.
per cub. yard if Moline s costs are at ..he old
level. But that depends on the distance he
is from the face, the percentage of worked-
out ground and whether the old miner left
him a wood-yard to shift in the ground
sluiced. Ahead he ought soon to be swing-
ing out of the range of the mined area.
* * * *
Edna May Consolidated’s figures to March
31 show that the lucky ones so far have been
the vendors who pouched the £ll,OOO tnai
came from the float. Since manager Lam-
bert donned khaki N. S. Stuckey oas been
overseeing things at the mine, with J. T.
Bremner as understudy. They are not lack-
ing in confidence, for they talk of the next
six months’ work establishing the mine on
a payable and permanent basis. The future
depends upon whether the make of stone in
No. 2 and No. 4 shafts extends to No. 5,
and on the possibility of some fresh forma-
tion coming in from under the cement in
the Golden Point claim. The reef now
showing has a measurement of about sft.,
with patches of lOdwt. stuff here and there.
Not much of that grade has been developed,
and at present even a strike at the main
shaft or at No. 5 wouldn’t do more than
help shares to go sky-rocketing.
* * * *
“Oof Bird’’: Some queer newspaper esti-
mates of the value and prospects of
Edna May Central have been dangled before
the public in the West. Thfe latest is that
if the 150 ft. proves as good as the 75ft. level
the mine will begin to rival the Edna May.
Even if the 150 ft. does turn out to be as good
as the 75ft. level the co. cannot hope to put
the tape round more than 35,000 tons, and
the mill average is not likely to exceed 50s.
Allowing £1 per ton for getting the gold,
less than £1 per share'is left. Of course
official assays show the value of the ore to
be much more than 505., but battery returns
will prove it otherwise.' Meanwhile if the
directors are anxious to get at the real value
of the mine and wish the public to know,
too, they should get a first-class engineer to
report on it. Are they game ?
* * * r% ‘ * *
Perth boomsters are cursing the Federal
Treasurer for his refusal to sanction certain
mining flotations. A number are mentioned
as “genuine things,” and Higgs’s veto, they
angrily declare, will have a serious effect
on the West’s gold industry. Well, there
is no reason to suppose that any of the
shows are bursting with gold; and what
metal there is won’t evaporate.
* * * *
Broncho Horseshoe (W.A.) is said to
have got the Federal Treasurer’s consent to
a reconstruction. The co. has hung on for
some time to a group of leases adjacent to
the Great Victoria on the South Yilgarn
field and reckons that with the expenditure
of a fair amount of capital it will become
possessed of a big money-making low-grade
mine. If, however, as a visiting expert
pointed out, only a small amount of capital
is raised, and the bulk of it is collared by
the promoters, nothing but failure can
result.
The Chamber of Mines (W.A.) is trying
hard to get the Kalgoorlie miners to sign a
new wages agreement, so as to obviate the
necessity of asking the Arbitration Court
to butt in. As spokesman for the local
mineowners, the Chamber offers to increase
the surface minimum from 10s. 9d. to
11s. 3d., and the underground from 11s. 2d.
to 11s. Sd. But the offer applies only to
married men or single men with proved
responsibilities, and' for this reason the
unions have turned it down.
* * * *
Associated Northern (W.A.) is busy
opening up the Gimlet at Ora Banda and
slowly working out the adjacent Victorious
leases. The Gimlet shaft is to be sunk
another 100 ft. to ascertain the value in
deeper ground of the two shoots worked at
285 ft. The western shoot assays up to £5
in the winze, or about double the average
of the mine. Everything depends on how
the latter shapes at the next level. The
Victorious has been persevered with down
to 700 ft., where prospects are disappointing.
Some good values were bored through below
this depth, but the shoot is so patchy and
unreliable that it is doubtful if any more
sinking will be donp. The co.’s old show
at Kalgoorlie is likely to snuff out at any
time, while the fate of its Mexican venture
is still unknown. Nobody connected with
the management has been able to get within
sight of it for some time.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia has sent its first “part
wages and part interest” prospectors to Mt.
Luck, near Linden (W.A.), to look for a
new mine. Another party will probably
be sent later on to see what it can find in
the vicinity of Mt. Ida.
New Chaffers Ltd. (W.A.) has raised the
wind and acquired the Aucland mine, near
Leonora, for £lOOO cash and a few thousand
paid shares. In .the hands -of its late
owners the show lias furnished about 600
tons of £4 ore and it is said to be a mine of
possibilities.
* * * *
New Boddington (WIA.) has had its
name added to the Stock Exchange lists.
Sufficient gold was won during the option
to pay the vendors’ £6OOO. The co. reports
50dwt. ore at 73ft., and divs. are promised
at an early date. The show is one of the
rich specimen variety, ami everything fie*
pends on further development.
Mary Mac (W.A.) is adding to its treat-
ment plant, and hopes shortly to handle
2500 tons a month at a cost of 15s.
Meanwhile preparafions are being made to
open out and drive a level at 500 ft., to get
as many working faces ready as possible.
In the last 2-J years the co. has obtained,
principally over the plates, £26,127, but
shareholders do not appear to have had any
of it. Their turn is still to come.


✓
Caid* jsfCl«ti»<“ h
HEERIHG
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. 1818.
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
i*\" vvwr nn mv nr rtf,
' ‘ ' / m^MUU4UU(liUUU.iiAiiw\Vk\\S9l
.METAL POLISH
Makes old metals new. Keeps all pol-
ished metal bright. The only safe polish
to U9© on aluminum as it contains
neither acid nor ammonia. Puts on a
Quick, lasting luster. Sold in two size
cans by all Grocery, Hardware and Drug
Stores. Look for the Photo on Can.
Ray’s Hair Dye.
Whe
to
RAY’S
DYE.
Ilarmlesf and In-
stantaneous.
33 different shades.
Tost pattern of
hair with order.
4/10,7/11,10/9.
POSTED.
MADAME LEIGH.
n Grey Hair begins
show, rejuvenate
’our ap p e arance
with
22 & 23 Block Arcade, Collins Street, Melbourne.
PAULINE et CIE
of SYDNEY and MELBOURNE,
Have received EXCLUSIVE MODELS in
HATS and BLOUSES.
Sydney Showrooms-3rd Floor,
Denison House Chambers, George St.
CURLY HAIR.
“WAVCURL” imparts Beautiful PER-
MANENT CURLS. One packet sufficient, how-
ever listless your hair. One testimonial sajs. 3 ■
hair soon became a mass of wavy curls.” Result ce -
tain. Price 2/9. Special reduction for few
Send ] /d onlv for large-size 2/9 packet, lne
New Waveurl Co., 67 Cromwell House,
Fulwood Place, Holborn, London, W.C., England. 2
SINCE 1679.
SINCE 1679.
HAIG & HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, May 29. 191 G.
My Dear Arini, —
Woman reflects the era in her clothes,
.lust now her millinery is built on biplane
lines. Silk bows that look like the wings
of an aeroplane, and hats shaped like the
body of a monoplane, show that the bird-
men's cages are the models of the moment.
Papua’s Governor Murray gets here in
June —a little later than usual —for his
yearly spell from the mosquitoes’ evensong.
Wife and daughter are waiting for him.
Rupert Carrington, junior, who stands
next to the title which Uncle Lincolnshire
will leave behind, has met his best girl at the
parson’s. News of his engagement to the
good-looking Sybil, a daughter of Lord Col-
ville, came this way some time ago. In
doing his bit in France the youngster was so
mishandled that he is likely to carry the
marks to his grave. Father was the elderly
beau with the sweeping moustache —of course
you remember him —who used to adorn the
Block years ago.
Saw it stated somewhere that Auntie
Sam (she’s a mere step-auntie nowadays)
has just discovered the choko. That’s
nothing ! Our G.-G. found it weeks ago. At
a battalion-fund garden party here, a Gen-
tleman Help, in silk hat, spats, etc., was
sent to buy and carry home a small con-
signment of the little vegetable. Whether
he was waylaid and robbed before he reached
the vice-regal chaise I don’t know. If he
dodged the lady brigands the G.-G. had
choko for dinner that night. It’s a delicate
morsel when it’s properly cooked. And
with plenty of ginger it will make jam. In
its life it is tucked away under a glossy
thatch of spreading vine.
The National Council emitted a little mild
thunder under the vice-regal roof the other
afternoon. The Strickland lady sat on the
little dais in the ballroom —the place where
once the Elect in stars and garters used to
watch the Gilded Youth pursue the Butter-
fly in the mazy dance. After Miss Ruby
Board had alluded to the bleak effort to
induce women to tell other women their ages
and other painful fictions in the Council’s
• “War Census” papers, the boyish-looking
Meredith Atkinson gave the company its
meat. A clever address urged economy that
would contribute to military efficiency,
instead of the more miserly quality of thrift
which only helped the individual. Then
came the tug of war. Ruth Beale opened it
with an admirable curtain lecture on the
support of Australian industries. The
remarks had - only one fault —there were
too many of them for a meeting so
thick with embryo lady orators. Mrs.
Hugh Dixson, having cleared her throat,
got into action after this star turn,
and regretted that she had once bought a
German piano. Gentle Rose Scott ambled
peacefully in home paddocks and talked, too,
of employment for our own people. The
tragedy of a lady who had to go out scrub-
bing floors in her nightie with an old wrap
thrown over it, as instanced at this crisis,
was too much for Aide Firth, who fled to
the baronial hall to look for a chaperon.
The Tom Hughes lady, Mrs. George Earp,
Mrs. Laura Luffmau (who snatched 40
winks while Our sex expounded its views)
and Prof. Andy Stuart’s slim missus were
amongst the party. Outside the ballroom a
fierce combat of feathered warriors in a
Moreton Bay fig supplied a chorus to the
feminine corroboree.
Mrs. Prideaux-Brune, who used to be
Miss Garvan, lias presented the world with
a potential fighting man and polo-player.
The small son was born in Cairo. Still an-
other Egyptian-born Australian recently
opened her eyes to the dazzling Cairo sun-
shine. The new girl wall address Eric Bar-
hour (over there with the A.M.( J.) as
Daddy so soon as she masters that wild
animal, the English idiom. And Sydney’s
fine cricketer will, no doubt, reply in suit-
able language.
That restless athletic parson, Stacey
Waddy, is getting into khaki. He goes as a
chaplain to the Front as soon as he can get
inarching orders. In consequence, the old
King’s School, Parramatta, is looking for a
new headmaster. He asked the Council for
leave, but for some unexplained reason it
wasn’t forthcoming.
yTust back from the fringe of Verdun, S.
AY. Thornton had an interesting story to
tell the Red Cross workers the other after-
noon. In Paris, as in London, he visited
the procession of hospitals which follows up
the great war. Beyond Verdun he saw the
wonderful French in their healing work,
and admired the now-perfectly-organised
British Red Cross which runs its own trains
for wounded across France to the Channel
ports. For some months a toiler in
Pharaoh’s sandy vineyard for our own Red
Cross, the traveller emphasised the. occa-
sional weakness of a trio of commissioners.
“It’s better than the former arrangement
of two —particularly where they are both
strong men —hut not so good as one. For
instance, what help is an Australian com-
missioner, say, in Marseilles to the man in
Egypt?” The Cullen lady took the chair
at this chat. Mrs. A. Lee returned thanks
for the lucid Thornton’s address. The mild
acclamation which comes from the smack-
ing together of kid gloves followed.
Here is a photo,
of soprano Carrie
Lanceley, who learnt
to sing first with
Madame Christian
a n d afterwards
with Alfred Harris
in London. He is
the noted Trinity
College organist
and composer.
Carrie, a daughter
of E. R. Lanceley,
of North Sydney,
had been nearly
five years in Eng-
-1 a n d when she
stepped off the
Osterley the other
day. For her patri-
otic work after , the
war broke out she was handed a silver
tray and diamond ring, bejewelled with
emeralds. Lord Ivillanin passed the goods
on to the Australian at her farewell concert
in London. Ivillanin. as I’m sure you won't
know, is a literary heavyweight ivho wrote
“Spiritual Realism.”
A recent English bride. Nora Somerville,
who married Captain Cecil Fox, of H.M.S.
Powerful, is related to the Lloyds, of
N. S. Wales. Charles Lloyd, senior, now
in England, a one-time pastdralist here, be-
longs to a Shropshire family. I don’t know
how they missed Taffy’s Land, but there’s
probably a Llewellwyn somewhere in the
back-centuries. Leslie Wade, the late charm-
ing irrigation engineer, married a Charles
Lloyd daughter. The Fox bride, described
as a girl who can turn her hand to art and
music and her feet to intricate figures'on
the ice, is a Shropshire lamb.
Northern Maoriland received a sad shock
when a cable the other day reported the
death of Enid Hamilton. The only child of
squatter Charlie Elgar, of Fernside. Feather-
ston, she was married a few years back to
Governor Islington’s one-time aide, now
Lieut.-Colonel Gavin Hamilton, of the
Grenadier Guards. Mrs. Hamilton, who
had a rose-tinted existence, had only lately
been joined in England by an old girl-pal,
Miss Monekton —some relation of the comic-
opera Lionel —who was to keep her company
during the strife.
In these strenuous times Eaditli Walker
spends four of her week days flatting at
Craig-nish. Between meals she serves tea
and red cross buns to recruits at Padding-
ton. Others of the gilded grade give help.
The other day a sunburnt soldier-to-be waved
his cup energeticallv in the face of the mil-
lionaire spinster-lady, demanding: “Give us
some more tea, mother!” And “mother”
obediently poured it out just as if she hadn’t
another job to go to.
A. L. Blythe, one of the pillars of the
Amelioration Committee, has givfen himself
a brief holiday—the first since Europe
caught fire. He is spending it in Maoriland.
The Tom Moore concert on Saturday
night wasn’t the success that last year’s
effort proved. Probably the hungry war-
funds have chastened the public desire to
rush Tom’s birthday party. Still the Town
Hall was fairly full, and “the Harp that
Or.ce” was twanged at frequent intervals.
Flavor was given to a thin musical potage
by the first-rate orchestral work of the
schoolgirls from the Convent of Mercy.
Parramatta. Carl Gotch conducted this
beautifully-trained string band. That ever-
green art enthusiast. Dr. Charles McCarthy,
adjusted his specs, to accompany Sid
Macdonald’s warble, “Bendemeer’s Stream.”
set to a McCarthy composition. Winifred
Carter, at the harp, was an agreeable inter-
lude in a wearisome reiteration of popular
airs. Lilian Frost, ut the organ, gave “God
Save,” as Miss Strickland with General
Finn and ’an official tail marched on to the
sub-regal carpet. The encore fiend was
rampant. The most dismal singers were
frantically recalled, and at 10 p.m. the con-
cert threatened to finish up at the end of
the war.
One of the numerous Antill familv—this
time it is Doris, of the Walcha offshoot—
is quite sure she likes khaki best. Her
young man is Lieut. Graham Gilder, son
of the solicitor who catches a morning train
at Pymble. Gilder junior is now on his
way to the innumerable Front.
Again the Moreton Bay fig and the axe.
This time and once more it is a Melbourne
visitor, Curator George Cooper, of the Alex-
andra Gardens, who yearns to grub out some
of the beautiful shade trees in Hyde Park.
Sydney’s long hot summer clamors for leafy
foliage. But the average gardener wants
flower-beds all the time. Yet whoever
heard of perspiring citizens cooling down
under the shade of a pansy? If modern
Eve, a few years hence, wants to make fig-
leaf’kilts. so as to put her dress allowance
into war loans, .she’ll have to travel to
Moreton Bay to find the material.
Walter Lucas, Burns-Philp’s _ coconut
(they don’t spell it with an “a” in Island
circles, my dear) specialist, demonstrates
that neither matrimony nor malaria is
necessarily fatal by celebrating his silver
’moon on June 1. The ’groom was nearly
nailed in German New Guinea on the
break of war, but slipped out at the 59th
second. Two engineer sons took to the
water at the same time. One was on a
collier carrying diamonds for the North
Sea Fleet until March, when a submarine
broke up the floating home. After 48 hours’
boat picnic and two days’ spell ashore sonny
was off to sea again with more coals for
Jellicoe. The baby, a six-foot Australian,
attained his 21st year the other day, and
is now training for service as a sub-looten-
ant in our own navy.
Surgeon Acland O’Hara (his brass
plate has brightened up a front gate on
Bayswater-road for ever so many years)
took in a life-partner a couple of weeks ago
—Alice, the daughter of brother-medico and
man-of-many-arts Charles McCarthy, who
is father also to Maud, the violinist.
Howard Hinton, a Sydney collector, de-
serves the cheers of all art-lovers for pre-
senting two water-colors by the late J. J.
Hilder to Sydney National Gallery, at a
time when Ililders are being jealously
treasured. The Gallery now hangs four
examples of the dead Australian’s genius.
The Rose Seaton
lectures on the
right way to talk
the English lan-
g 11 a g e, neither
chewing it up nor
hurling it forth,
are catching on.
Proceeds of these
incursions into lit-
erature go to the
Centre for Sol-
diers’ Wives and
Mothers. The next
and last Seaton
gossip is on June
5 at the Conserva-
tor! um.
Grade Peterson, youngest daughter of
Warrant-officer Peterson, R.A.G.A., said
the right thing when a Randwick man,
Raymond Barrie, produced the ring. Ivory
plumage with a train from here to the
Quay (or nearly), lined with shell pink,
was worn by the leading lady. A Ploniton
lace veil (have you noticed how the old-
fashioned English lace beats “Mechlin” of
late?) floated from a garland of orange
blooms. About 90 guests saw the cake cut
at Sargent’s.
A former Mosman man, George Wootten,
is getting close up to Jack Dyer’s
record. Jack was a major on Active
Service on his 22nd birthday. George had
just said good-bye to his 22nd anniversary
when he got his majority. He’s an ex-
Duntroon cadet.
Dr. Norman Kater, of this State, is now
attached to the French Army as a Medecin
Aide-Major.
There’s a hive of industry in Ash-street,
where the display of pumpkins alone is
worth seeing. It’s the fruit and vegetable
depot which, under the Red Cross banner,
passes on its goods to the returned wounded
and their dependants. On the floor above
there’s a condiment factory to tickle the
palates of the boys. The factory ’ands—
daughters of judges and such like—are
getting an education in the art of making
sauce and pickle and chutney from Mrs.
Jocelyn. That slender lady in a mob cap
is an expert, brought up in a bush home,
where Mother taught the girls how to make
everything except the beef, the mutton and
the weather. Plelp rolls in so fast that the
Ash-street factory will need a building to
itself if the war drifts into 1917.
Stripes are still in—most helpful of de-
signs to the lady who is five feet in her
Louis XIV. heels. Mixtures of olive green
and navy striped shimmer, like the frock
in which Mrs. Jim McMaster dazzled local
society a week or two ago, are considered
It. But the frock-builder who turns out
these blends is a highflyer in the business
or the result is liable to be a shriek.
Another comforts fund has hoon u
into this troubled world. This'‘ time
9th Brigade Machine Gun baby
Arnold is president and Mrs. Alec JnLnn
lion sec.; and they will have their
m the Perpetual Trustee Co.’s new palace
A Mosman girl. Bavina Wright snbl « T
will” in the presence of a Mosman soldie,
Marcus B Welch, the other afternoon E
son Roseby extracted the promise in i ’
parental homo, Boombilla. Father
th ' r the treasures of
the Mitchell Library, gave his
away to her soldier, who is a Bg c B ; n
his bookish moments. Bridesmaidons D fl „
mar Wright and Lalage Welch attended in
the wake of the bridal silk and tulle.
Artist Ruby Winekler, the Sydney
girl who spent two years or so in
Boston, brings home vivacious anecdotes of
that serious city. “You’ve got-to be von-
rich, or get along as best you can with a
sub-conscious feeling that your hats are too
few and a failure at that. When I went
abroad at sale time to pounce on a millinery
bargain, the Boston friend who went with
me bought three hats for herself. She didn’t
want them—it was just a sort of duty to
herself. Yet she was considered badly' off
according to the local standard, as she only
paid the dollar equivalent of £lO a week
for her home. Money? Boston eats it'
Yet the squalor and poverty of the poor
(there seems to be no medium) makes an
Australian ill. We aren’t acquainted with
poverty as they know it in George Wash-
ington’s country. There, in beautiful Bos-
ton, with its wealthy Amazonian women
is a woeful underworld. In it the people
are so small and shrivelled with want, and
the children so famine-stricken and tiny,
that they seem to belong to a different race.
But while the knowledge of these things
doesn’t offend stately Boston society, color
is considered too “loud” for every-day
wear and therefore to be shuddered at
behind half-drawn blinds. Hence black and
navy are the general garb of the Socially
Correct. The gifted Ruby is settling down
here with father and mother for two years.
A N’York publishing firm, E. B. Dutton &
Co., has commissioned her to illustrate the
Odyssey, and it’s going to take that time
to complete the job.
Ex-Governor Carrington’s youngest
daughter Victoria is putting aside her
widow’s weeds for a new wedding frock.
Iler first husband, Lieut. Nigel Bourke, of
the Coldstream Guards, was killed in the
first dreadful days of the Hun rush in
France. Victoria’s second choice is also a
Guardsman—of the Royal Horse. He is
Major the Hon. (etc.) Weld-Forster.
Miss Brace has bought a poultry farm in
the Regents Park district. It is some-
where behind Granville, and you get there
in a light spring cart. This is the off-sea-
son for eggs, but I understand the Regents
Park hens are not going back on their new
missus.
At the Feminists’ Club the other evening
the ’Murkan Miss Elsie Simpson read Prof.
Irvine’s lecture, as he was unable to deliver
it in person. The Club, which is new and
solemnly banded together to boost Woman,
received the Word with applause. Irvine,
as you know, is the first man to sit in a
chair of Economics in Sydney ’Varsity, and
the U.S. visitor, who is a graduate of Colum-
bia. is his Associate.
A cyclone of foreign tongues sweeps over
hitherto peaceful suburbs. The association
for spreading the French language has a
new rival. A B. Piddington, who has been
interested in the struggle with irregular
Parisian verbs, is lion, boss of the latest
scheme for attacking Spanish vowels.
They melt, of course, like honey in the roof
of the mouth, and are usually accompanied
by a guitar. The indefatigable French
Consul Chayet took part in the preliminary
meeting.
The Women’s Horticultural Society is
looking for a depot. Something central and
not too expensive—-you can guess how easy
the quest is ! They’ll use it as a clearing-
house for the members’ home-grown radishes
and personally-stirred jam and sweets. A
tea-room is to be a side-line.
Vera Cree, a 19-year-old Sydney girl,
hopes soon to give up clerking in tlm City
and leave for England and two years’ free
tuition at the Royal Academy of Music.
The Associated Board gave only one scholar-
ship in Australia for 1915, and Vera Cree’s
mezzo-contralto won it. Sydney hasn t
heard anything of her; but Miss Ada Gee,
her teacher, is full of enthusiasm, and has
built plans for a concert in Sydney and an
early flight to London afterwards.
In a very new house that looks very old,
photo-artist May Moore (she is now Mrs.
Harry Wilkes) and her 6ft.-and-more hus-
band have set up their household gods. It s
in Spit-road, where the view reaches out,
in varying blues, between the Pleads.
Yours affectionately.
VANDORIAN.


HARDY BROTHERS LTD
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
THE “SERVICE” WATCH
GUARANTEED A THOROUGHLY RELIABLE TIMEKEEPER, AND SPECIALLY ADAPTED
stand the rouch usage of campaicninc.
WITH LUMINOUS HANDS
AND DIAL AND COVERED
PIGSKIN LEATHER STRAP.
SPECIAL VALUE,
£3 8 0
m
.
m
PLAINLY VISIBLE AT NIGHT
FORWARDED ON APPROVAL IF DESIRED.
FIVE PER GENT. CASH DISCOUNT.
13
Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
116-118 Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
HARDY BROS. (SYDNEY and BRISBANE) LTD., 32 OLD BURLINCTON STREET, LONDON, W.
m
%
v
1
ft
This safety razor is by far the most convenient and satis-
factory for use in Field, Camp, Bat racks, or on Shipboard.
It is self-contained, even to the strop, which is hinged in the
case itself and cannot be mislaid or lost. With a single
touch it springs open for stropping or cleaning, and witn
another touch it snaps together into accurately adjusted
shaving position. (See sketches at top right-hand corner.)
Invaluable
for Field Service
or Shipboard
mm
Safety Razor
Every purchaser of a “7 o clock
Safety Razor set retail is entitled to
nominate a friend who has joined
the colours, and to this friend
a set of equal value will be sent
absolutely FREE of Charge.
Ask your dealer for full particulars.
Sergeant L. ]. VICCANS, Ist D.C.L.1., writes : 1
“Up to the time of first using a“7 o clock I
Safety Razor out here shaving was a task
to be avoided. Now it is a delight.
O’CLOCK ” STANDARD SET
Consists of heavily silver-plated stropping razor,
six finest lancet steel renewal blades in compact
blade sheath, special strop in hinged
partition as part of the case —the
whole in handsome case measuring
only 5 in. by 2 in. by If in. deep
Managing Agent for Australasia:
RALPH ABERCROMBY
380*2 George Street, Sydney.
Of all high-class dealers
throughout Australasia.
Price in Australia
Price in New Zealand ...
12 6
13 0
Wjfar/wr's
\r ,11\ s'us6-Pno
Corset-
(flarners
Corsets
Guaranteed not to
rust, break or tear .
Drapers everywhere have the autho-
ritative styles for Autumn and Win-
ter. Make your selection now, and
wear it when your gowns are fitted.
A Warner’s is sure. If
it fails, send it back.
Proving' K.0K.0
*
5...
)
the Pleasantest Preparation
for Thin and Falling Hair.
■‘Everyone admires my hair, which reaches below
my waist. I attribute it all to KOKO, which I have
used for many years. I know nothing to excel KOKO
for making the hair bright and glossy and stimulating
the growth. It is also an exquisitely clean dressing
for making the hair soft and wavy.”
“I never believed there could be such a delightful
dressing as KOKO for the hair. I find that everything
my friends told me about KOKO is quite true. It is
most cleansiug and refreshing to the scalp, without
oil or grease or any unpleasant odor. One can hardly
credit the improvement KOKO makes in the hair.”
“It is only fair to tell you that KOKO is the most
satisfactory dressing for the hair I have ever used.
It makes the hair soft and glossy and gives a delight-
fully natural ‘wavy effect.’ After using the first bottle
of KOKO the dandruff had entirely disappeared, now
my hair looks lovely; all my friends remark on its
improvement.”
“I think KOKO is marvellous. My hair was fall-
ing out so much as to leave bald patches, but through
rising KOKO constantly I have now a thick growth
of hair. A Mend of mine had a bald patch, but
KOKO is causing the hair to grow quite thick again.
“My hair stopped coming out after using KOKO for
five nights. I consider this wonderful, as my hair was
falling out in handfuls. KOKO has since made my
hair beautifully soft and glossy. I am very pleased
with KOKO, it is neither sticky nor greasy, and
splendid for dandruff.”
(Names given on request.)
The first application of Koko will prove that it is the elec. >est
dressing you-ever used, while the immediate improvement in the appear-
ance of your hair is ample promise that its former growth and beauty
will quickly be'" restored with the delightful • “wavy” effect that the
consistent use of *Koko always brings.
SHAMPOO WITH PI-NO occasionally and you will have done all
that is possible to aid IvOKO in promoting an abundance of blight, wavy
hair, shining with the lustre of perfect health.
A 4/6 Trial Bottle for 2j-
Those who have never used
“Koko” may obtain a large 4/6
Trial Bottle for 2/-, Posted 2/9, once only, from the “Koko” Trial
Bottle Depot, 2nd Floor, Denison House, 380 George Street, between
G.P.O. and King Street, Sydney, if this offer, No. 58516, is used.
CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE:
KOKO for the Hair, 1/3, 2/9, 4/6.
PI-NO SHAMPOO, 3d. packet.


Chamois Leather Vests
ARE MUCH APPRECIATED
BY MEN ON ACTIVE SERVICE.
They have proved invaluable under service condi-
tions, affording protection from sudden climatic
changes, and giving double protection over chest and
complete cover up to the neck. These Vests must
prove a valuable acquisition to any kit, being wash-
able and practically vermin-proof. Numerous
letters of appreciation have reached us testifying to
their usefulness.
Each garment is cut and finished in Farmer’s best
style, and has Wool Lining. We undertake to
despatch them to any address at the Front.
Orders booked in the TAILORING
DEPARTMENT
27/6
FARMER'S,
Pitt, Market
and
George Streets,
SYDNEY.
u
22
Gage Hats
are the Correct Expression of Good Style.
[6
The Marvellous , Contrivance
that makes it possible to dis-
pense with buttons, hooks, ana
eyes and press-studs in men s and
women’s garments. One simple
movement and the garment * s
opened or closed.
The World has been Wait-
ing for the Hookless
Fastener.
It saves time, trouble and tem-
per. Is fixed in a few minutes,
and is indestructible.
Ask to see it at your draper’s
or tailor’s.
The Hookless Fastener Co.
Elizabeth House, (AuBtralaBla) '
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, May 29, 1916.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Larry Rentoul was not trying to be either
funny or insulting, but he convulsed an
Empire Day gathering at the Town Hail,
when eulogising Brigadier-General Hughes,
by declaring; “Nobody was surprised when
General Hughes went to the war. for is he
not the husband of Mrs. Eva Hughes?’’
Tony Mason, son of a former Speaker
who died just a year ago, is back in Mel-
bourne after doing the round trip to the war.
Wounded at Gallipoli and patched up at
Alexandria, he left there with a limp for
England, where he took a degree for,. some
special branch of homicide at Bisley. He
is now instructor in machine-gunnery at
Seymour Camp, and his lonely widow-mother
lives quietly at South Yarra, thanking the
Fates that ‘she has her boy within cooee.
The general exodus of men is having its
effect in the fashionable flats. Cliveden is
beginning to advertise its bachelor roosts at
bargain prices.
Instead of penning lines, poet Hugh
McCrae now stands in ’em. He looks taller
than ever in khaki.
Dr. Helen Sexton, who has been working
at a French hospital since the early days of
the war and was long ago made a major, has
been standing up to the collar ever since.
Now word comes that the strenuous woman
is at length on holiday. But that is only
because she was damaged in a street-acci-
dent and can’t walk, much less perform
surgical operations.
Edward Rigby’s lad Harry, who went to
Hendon to try for a job in the R.F.C., has
got his wings and the stars that go there-
with. But the British authorities have now
closed this avenue of army-employment to
would-be fliers from Australia, so a healthier
interest may be taken in aviation at our
own Point Cook. It was time, too. Many
of the bright young men who left for Eng-
land ostensibly to take part in the great
adventure per aeroplane are actually driv-
ing motor-lorries instead of petrolling splen-
didly through the blue, empyrean.
Arthur St. Clair Tisdall. a naval lieu-
tenant who has just been given the v.C.
ten months after his death in action, was
a son of Dr. W. St. Clair Tisdall, a cleric
one-time of Maoriland. The youngster
was a scholar of Trinity College, Cam-
bridge, and Chancellor’s Gold Medallist for
1913 and he wrote some verse which is to
be put into a little book. The \ .C., by the
way, was won in connection with the land-
ing at Gallipoli, when he brought boat-load
after boat-load of wounded back to the ship
under a deadly fire.
Should soldiers’ grass-widows smother
themselves in sackcloth and ashes and hide
away in obscure flatteries, or should they
try to get a reasonable amount of enjoy-
ment out of life and clothes? If a vote isn’t
taken soon to decide the question, some of
the more critical squaws will die of mind-
ing other people’s business. The new. fur
coat of a senior officer’s dashing grass-widow
is now tantalising the gossips; and that is
only a sample case of hundreds. Could the
Arbitration Court be asked for a ruling on
the question?
Guy Madden’s wife —Charlie McEvoy’s
daughter—is just beginning to sit up and
ask for a few particulars of the motor smash
in which she was hurt.
The customary messages of sympathy to
the widow of John Murray reminded the
public of the almost-forgotten existence of
the lady, who dwells, almost a recluse, in. a
lonely house on a high hill between Mit-
cham and Bayswater. A neat garden sur-
rounds the home, but it is Mrs. Murray’s
whim to leave the rest of the 100-acres to
gardener Nature. An overgrown track leads
to the door and the rest is just wild bush.
’Enry Weedon was tipped a while ago as
a “possible” for the mayoral catskins next
year. But lately his stock has slumped,
and William Cabena is now first in the
betting. It was on Cabena’s recommenda-
tion that the council lately extended its
activities in connection with the supply of
electric power ; and generally, though he is
an importer, he has a less narrow political
outlook than the conventional Weedon.
The programme for Empire Day at the
Town Hall was arranged, on behalf of the
Women’s National League, by bright-hued
Mrs. Edward Collins, who used to be Violet
Singleton in the peaceful days when politics
were never mentioned except by the male
members of the family. Young Mrs. Robert
Singleton, Mrs. Collins’s mamma-by-
marriage, belongs to a different political
camp, having a record of considerable
activity with the Women’s Political Asso-
ciation —certainly a brainier affair than the
Irrational League, though it probably
doesn’t do any more in the way of pushing
ahead this country than the more fatheaded
body.
RiveHna Squatter Charles Mills passed
out at his Toorak home last week, after
many months of ill health. Three sons and
two daughters survive him. The eldest son
Ainslie, who married Colonel Tom Price s
only daughter, died a few years back. An-
other son married Melba’s pretty prot£g6e,
Sylvia Ffrench. The younger daughter
married one of Colonel Price’s sons, the
naval Vivian, who died at the Dardanelles.
Photographer Mina Moore and Tainish,
who was on the stage before he became
secretary of the Savage Club, . have entered
into an engagement with a view to matri-
mony.
Rich girl Beryl Atkinson is to become
the wife of Captain Gerard Blitz early in
June.
Jean Knox’s finger (third left) is spark-
ling with a signal lamp placed there by a
soldier-son of the S. Australian house of
Robertson.
Reggie, of the Frank Graham tribe, who
stopped woolsorting to pass compliments,
etc., to the Turks at Gallipoli, and was
finally shrapnelled off the active list, has
resumed civilian clothes and gone off to the
London office of the in which he earns
his crust. Before he went aboard his
steamer the young man presented a half-
hoop to the widow Langdon’s handsome
youngest daughter Marjorie. Poor Mrs.
Langdon is mourning the loss of her only
son, Leslie, who, after being listed as miss-
ing since the day after the confused and
terrible landing, is now written off as
killed in action.
A son of the Lush clan, of Kew, having
put his Western district sheep-run out to
nurse, has gone to one of the fronts. Before
he went he persuaded Vera McCall to say
“Yes”; but as Vera’s father does not
approve of war weddings the orange blos-
soming will happen when Johnny comes
marching home.
St. John Ambulance Association, which in
more peaceful days was led by medicine-man
Springthorpe, is asking for a lifebelt. It
has a debt of £l5OO, mostly caused by the
2234 calls that were answered last year free.
If you’ve got a last leaf in your cheque-
book, and there is no collector clamoring for
Something else on your mat —well, here’s
your chance.
Mrs. Alex. Cameron and Miss Laidman
are secretarying a dramatic outburst in aid
of the Malvern Nursing Division of St.
John. The Australian National Theatre
Co. (from Oakleigh, if you please) is to
appear at Malvern Town Hall (within wav-
ing distance of State Government House)
on Saturday, June 10, at eight o’clock.
There will be two original Australian plays,
“Mother Mine” and the “Moon Child,” the
authors of which are remaining in ambush
for the present. The affair is going to be
stiffly fashionable, with reserved seats at
three shillings.
The past pupils of the Loretta Convent
have dropped their knitting and started to
get in cash for their free kindergarten. Last
week they mixed a tea-party and sale of
gifts, and are now preparing for another
tremendous Verdun effort on June 28.
Adelaide tells All: —
Two Conferences and a visit from the Q.-G. have
given us a nervous headache. We have already
weathered (1) a Government House lunch, (2) a
Parliamentary dinner, (3) an Empire Day demon-
stration, (4) a Mayoral reception, (5) another lunch
at Waterfall Gully, (6) inspection of various camps
and military hospitals, (7) a visit to a school or
two, and (8) the presentation by the Wattle Day
League of some more motor ambulances. I doubt
whether George Reid or Hughes could go at such a
pace for long. A Victoria League meeting, at
which Lady Galway presided and her Excellency
and Professor Darnley Naylor were the speakers,
brought the whirling week to a close. (P.S.: I am
writing this in bed.)
Eugene Alderman, whose orchestra has been worth
many a pound to patriotic funds since war
began, has arranged with local musicians for the
organisation of a Patriotic Orchestra. It will give
three concerts during the winter, one half the pro-
ceeds to go to patriotic funds and the other to the
performers. It is about time something of the
kind was done.
A Rejected Volunteers’ League is to be added to
the list of local societies, at the instance of Corporal
E. C. Evans, who is also treasurer of the
Returned Soldiers’ Association. In the early days
of the war rejected volunteers waxed indignant at
any suggestion that they should be labelled as such;
but when the choice lies between being known as a
shirker or a reject it is a diiferent matter.
Mrs. Walter Hawker and her daughter are back
from England, and the incoming mail has amongst
its passengers W. J. Isbister, K.C., who has been a
Red Cross Commissioner in Egypt for the past six
months.
William Pile, who died at Glenelg at the end of
the week, was the son of the James Pile who came
to the State about 67 years ago and subsequently
took up land on the Darling in partnership with
McKinley, the explorer. At his death the three sons
carried on the properties in a partnership that lasted
till about eleven years ago.
Tba winter lectures have been started at the Art
Gallery. President E. Davies, of the Fine Arts
Committee, kicked off. .
No Bundey poetry prize is to be awarded this
year. Various efforts on the set subject—Matthew
Flinders —were received, but none of them were up
to standard. Next year’s subject is “The Great
War of 1914 and After.” I don’t know why people
want to encourage the manufacture of poetry about
the war. No printer would do it.
E. F. Playford, assistant Chief Draughtsman of
the Lands Titles Office in Adelaide, has been so-
longed by the staff, of which he is the 12th member
to enlist. He goes with the rank of captain, and
is of the same massive build as his father, “Honest
Tcm,” the lately-dead politician whose big boots
and cherries were almost equally well-known to
Adelaide.
Organist Dr. William Price, of Oxford,
has been succeeded at St. John s, the
Toorak- holy of holies, by Nickson, I .R.C.0.,
one of the University Conservatorium s
instructors. Besides being an organist
Nickson is a choirmaster of much patience
and practice, so Toorak should now break
out into spots of melody upon the Sabbath
morn.
Resplendent in white furs, Evelyn Scot-
ney White was welcomed back from the
U.S.A. at the Austral Salon. Her Yankee
husband is also a singer. Likewise he is
large, and, I should imagine, a joy for ever
to his tailor.
A musical matron of considerable weight
and wealth pants to play Mimi in
“Boh&me” ; so she has hired the new Reper-
tory Theatre on off nights for family-party
rehearsals, and the unfinished building
creaks to the dying agonies of the well-
nourished singer.
At the opening of the new Music Club,
Melba made a fighting speech to the effect
that the institution was new and the only
one of its kind in Australia. It had no
connection with other clubs hereabout, and
was determined to do or burst in pursuit of
the highest musical ideals. Then the party
settled down peacefully to coffee, cakes and
chatter, when it shpuld have quaffed wine
and danced the carmagnole around bonfires
made of the worst music.
At the Selinsky recital in the Auditorium
on Saturday the. young man whom Melba
had blessed* in advance stood on a delicate
carpet of vieux-roses quite unsuited to his
style of beauty. The Russian looks every
inch a —ski, but with no trace of the Jew-
ish nose of many —skis. He is a rugged-
faced, brown-skinned creature with a mop
of thick-curled hair like the fleece of a
black merino. He is unduly solemn and
leaves all the laughing to his violin. Elsie
Treweek, who filled in intervals with song,
wore a flame-colored dress which made me
wonder all the more at the carpet of vieux-
roses. The flame-colored crepe was ankle
length and fur-edged. Several inches of
flame-silk stocking, atop of flame-red satin
shoes, gleamed below the fur hem. Her exit
showed a marvellous obi-sash of Allied flags,
and she wore a ferocious bunch of red and
white tulle bon-bons in her hair. She was
determined to brighten up the fog-grey a
bit.
The Bj-itish Bull Dog Club of Victoria
holds its annual bark at the Guildhall pn
Friday and Saturday, June 2 and 3. Chief
Justice Madden will make a speech, and
Dorothy Brunton will act as judge, with the
expert assistance of some man who really
knows what dogs should be. A fifth of the
“gate” goes to the Fund for Sick and
Wounded Soldiers.
The woman dispenser is here to stay all
right. The Victorian chemist has to put
in a year at the College of Pharmacy, with
a four years’ apprenticeship and a qualify-
ing exam, at the end thereof, so dispensing
isn’t a pursuit which is likely to attract any
except bright misses. But the wages beat
those of most women’s occupations outside
the learned professions and Government em-
ployment, while there is always a chance
of striking a sov. a day as chemist to a
manufacturing concern. Muriel Archer is
one of the latest recruits in Melbourne. She
came from the tall timber of Gippsland, and
is fresh from the tutelage of dispenser
Ethel Leon, of the Queen Victoria Hospital
—which, by the way, is staffed throughout
by women.
The Victorian Artists’ smoke night at the
Albert-street Galleries was a laboriously gay
function. Libations of lager from a keg
and melody from an instrumental trio didn’t
add much sparkle. Many honest people who
do not paint put on what they imagined to
be the uniform of art, namely wide sash-
ties and velvet jackets. They hadn’t heard
that modern art is a plainclothes job.
Magaret Baskerville’s blanc-mange cupids
loomed large in the middle of the room and
almost cried aloud for raspberry jam gar-
nishings. Some “fancy-dress” Bacchantes
(it was a mixed smoke-o) wore diamond
combs in their hair as well as vine-leaf
wreaths, and jumped aboard the last tram
convinced that they had been the right sort
of Bohemians.
Conductor Fritz Hart gays that h c
doesn’t know how Trantbam Fryers man
aged to evolve a portrait of him for the
Victorian Artists’ show seeing that hi
never sat for the thing. Perhaps the artist
was The Face at the Window when Frit?
thought he was alone and unobserved.
The old Austral Salon is preparing to
improve its collective mind this winter On
June 2, the learned Enid Derham will‘read
from “Hamlet.” After that Professor Wal
lace will explain how Shakspeare did it
and why he doesn’t do something 0 f the
kind himself. Then Dr. J. P. Wilson will
orate on the “Genesis of the Shakspearian
Society.” Altogether the sort of evening that
makes young people feel as if they had
been sandpapered.
In drapery, according to a commercial
expert, “a better volume is being done than
might be expected at the high prices anv
slackness in sales of men’s apparel being
frequently offset by liberal expenditure on
the part of the other sex.” For one thing
there is an epidemic of fur-coat madness’
Much of it is rabbit-fur, sold as conev
ermine or spotted dingbat, at from six to
sixteen guineas the garment. As a good
rabbit coat can be dyed and made at a
cost of about three sovs., even the six-
guinea cloak shows a clear profit of 100
per cent. The time-payment shark helps
to dispose of the goods; and some of the
“best” shops now tout for that kind of
trade. The customer goes in to spend ten
guineas. “This is a very nice coat,” declares
the saleslady. “Twenty guineas.” The
customer’s face falls a couple of inches
whereupon the sales-countess lowers her
voice: “Of course, we can arrange terms
if you like this one. This one is twelve
guineas; but you can see the difference for
yourself.” The ten guineas goes as a
deposit—and the firm is all right whatever
happens. In the case of the kitchen maid
and the factory miss -who want something
to match their sweet little faces, and can’t
resist spending their last bit of available
cash on an interest in a fur coat, extended
payments are the very thing. But the
reckoning is liable to be a brutal business.
Old Tom Pockett, curator of the Malvern
Gardens, might have been a rich man if he
had known how to turn his particular hobby
into coin. As things are he simply owns
an international reputation. In some of the
most expensive, exclusive gardens of Britain
and the U.S.A. the name of Pockett stands
for quite a lot. Indeed, had there been such
a thing as copyright in chrysanthemums
Pockett would have been floated into a com-
pany long since. Still, there have been some
rewards. Though an unpolished diamond,
he had the time of his life on his last trip
’Ome, exchanging intimacies on chrys-
anthemums with all kinds of nobility
and gilded gentry, hobnobbing at dinner with
the peerage after viewing the conservatory
and grounds, and engaging in abstruse dis-
cussions of shallow-planting and liquid-
manuring over the nuts and nerve-tonic.
Pockett’s account of that trip, published in
book form, would undoubtedly qualify as a
best-seller in the Court Gossip class.
I have found a job for the Censor when
the war is over —to expurgate the tramcar
conversations of Respectable Married Women
I continually hear with inward shudders
the most intimate details of operations
whereby they have been practically made over
again like worn-out hats or rebuilt type-
writers. In between whiles they babble of
castor-oil and flannel next the skin till it
seems to me as if half the world hasn’t got
its clothes on.
“Adelaide” at the Premiers’ picnic:—
Holman did not reflect any credit on N. S. Wales
at the Conference. To a discussion on a suggested
strategic railway he contributed the remark that
‘‘the only good that would come out of it was that
it would enable the soldiers to travel quickly from
anywhere to Brisbane, the only capital in Australia
where the pubs do not close early” ; which remark,
the papers record, ‘‘knocked all the seriousness out
of the debate.” On a claim by Blundell that South
Aus. always keeps its pledges, he retorted with the
cheerful insult: “Yes, when it suits you!” Another
joke, possibly ? His State Frights attitude was
something S. Aus. hadn’t seen for years. He
admitted not having taken the trouble to understand
the Tasmanian electoral system, even though it
“gives most satisfactory results” ; he had to be
told that the N.S.W. system of preparing rolls is
not that which obtains in the other States; and he
nearly blocked a common-sense proposal to have
State and Federal rolls identical by objecting to
let the Commonwealth officers prepare them. Hol-
man, if you please, “would not trust them. There
has been enough Federal bungling as it is. IV hat
are you going to have? Some mysterious Common-
wealth functionary sitting’ in Melbourne, and about
as conveniently situated, so far as the States are
concerned, as gentlemen in Melbourne usually are.
So there the cat was out of the bag, and the other
men round the table sat and stared. Was this the
big-minded Holman they had heard so much about!
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


! ' <£' 4 TT//v
** *
■
;■ _ . j
...
IPS
■
■a*
■
■VV*Y • ••<;;
;>V"
as
fefj
• %
v:-' Vj
\ !
y '-Ji
as
■ waa
' m
\\\ Xx |. :.;
A
\ \\\
'
\N
\ '
ivui
■ -r,'
&
i • A
Sif •$ m
m
: i '
X
\v
I '
Rt fTon.H.IiASQUITH
frinu? Hinishr of Great Britain
MAKERS OF HISTORY.
above reproduced portrait drawing of Rt. Hon. H. H. Asquith, Prime Minister of Great
I Britain, is one of a series of Twelve Present Day Men who are Makers of History. The
series, specially drawn for us by W. Jardine, have been reproduced on the finest art paper,
and retain the freshness and technique of the original drawings, and, being entirely free
from advertising, are suitable for framing. We will be pleased to forward the complete set
to any address within Australasia or New Zealand on receipt of 6d. in postage stamps to cover
cost of mailing, etc. Owing to a limited number of these sets, we advise you to write early to
JAMES WATSON & CO, LTD., Bromley House, Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
D
r
I —l
I
K.V


Keep up
Your Strength
by taking
Chemists, VS. 2/9, 4/6.
Angier’s Emulsion promotes appetite,
soothes and strengthens the organs of
digestion, overcomes nervous depression
and builds up strength. Its tonic, invigor-
ating influence makes it of special value
for nervous debility and all ** run-down ”
conditions. It is a very real help in
preventing and correcting digestive troubles
and restoring proper tone to a’l the
digestive functions. Angier’s Emulsion is
pleasant to take and is absolutely harmless.
It is endorsed by the medical profession.
FREE TRIAL
BOTTLE.
Send name and address, 4d. postage, and mention this paner.
Angier Chemical Co., Ltd., 7, Barrack Street, Sydney.
Calverts
USiletSoap
is an excellent soap to choose
for everyday toilet use. It
is an antiseptic soap of the
highest quality, delicately
perfumed and decidedly
refreshing. A healthy soap
to use particularly in warm
climates.
(In 3-tablst boxes.)
Sold by Local Chemists and Stores.
Made byl-'.C. Calvert & Co.,Manchester, Ent[.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BV
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KINO.
SGRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/- PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE. VICTORIA,
The Black Squad.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
/’YE sung of his good points and bad ’uns,
And the music rings true to life;
You can laud his virtues to skyward,
But hush on the rest to his wife,
His mother, and genteel sisters;
They know that he travels his span,
But there’s lots they don’t know for certain,
And women aren’t built like a man.
When a steamer’s heaving ashes to the broad
blue ocean’s bed,
There’s a youthful tribe aslaving sick of
heart and sore of head;
When a steampipe goes to glory or the
gauges burst and fly,
There’s a youthlet standing handy who gets
it in the eye.
He’s a junior engineer, a blue-robed overseer,
With coaldust on his features and grease
spots on his rear;
He’s the junior engineer, the brand new
engineer,
Deploring ocean motion with innards feeling
queer.
When a gland is oozing vapor where the
packing wasn’t tight,
Or a winch snaps its eccentric in the ’witch-
ing hours of night,
There’s a nasty sniff of burning where the
piston got no drink,
And a youth is rudely wakened to get it
into pink.
He’s a junior engineer, a youthful engineer,
Groping in the darkness with sleepy eyes
ablear;
It’s a brand-new engineer, blaspheming most
severe,
Around the winches crawling with a little
bag of gear.
When the stormy seas are weathered and
the Indies loom in sight
The greenhorn feels that strangeness and
lure of tropic night;
Temptations strong beset him ; good resolu-
tions go,
As suddenly and surely his wild oats start
to grow.
It’s the junior engineer and a painted, poic-
dered dear
Baying things she shouldn’t in liis eager,
list'ning ear;
It’s the junior engineer, the brand-new
engineer
Canoodling icith his first 'un, icith the devil
lurking near.
When the beer is freely flowing in a Black
Squad-haunted inn.
The jobs are pulled to pieces and the tales
begin to spin
Of hell-fire chiefs and seconds, of breaking
down in gales,
Huge firemen smashed to atoms, and the
punch that never fails.
It’s a junior engineer, ashore upon his ear.
(Oh, the language waxes louder and dead
marines appear !)
It’s a brand-new engineer explaining rake
and sheer,
And building Deisel engines on fumes of
frothy beer.
When a steamer’s moored in harbor and the
fireman gets his pay,
It’s ten to one he’ll spend it along the liquid
way;
Then it’s lush for Lil and Liza, and he’s on
the Devil’s hob,
While the Black Squad bends its shoulders
to keep him in his job.
It’s the junior engineer, the brand-new over-
seer,
Sweeping hard and sweating till the smutty
tubes are clear;
It’s the youthful engineer, with slice and
shovel gear,
Getting down to double duties ichile the fire-
man mops his beer.
There is little kudos given to the toilers of
the Squad ;
There are few that know the value of the
rousing stoke-hold god ;
The skipper claims the glory for the record-
breaking run,
And the Chief collects the leavings, so
“Stoke her up, my son !”
It’s the junior engineer who wipes out the
arrear,
Who finds the extra mileage and keeps the
stokehold clear;
And daily proves a maxim, in'spite of slight
and sneer,
The backbone of his calling is the youthful
engineer.
TRANSPORT OUT
OF SYDNEY.
JACK H. HAMILTON.
The Mule-breaker.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SOUP,” said one at the next table;
“soup, and then some fixings that I
' ~ can work with one wing. I’m a
hand short —understand ?”
He leaned back in his chair and sprawled
his feet abroad. His left sleeve was empty
and tucked into a pocket, and from the open-
ing of the loosened khaki jacket his fingers
stuck, straight and stiff, bound to a deal
board. I touched him on the shoulder, and
he wheeled where he sat.
“Good Lord! It’s you? Just when I was
dying for someone to talk to!” His great
brown hand cramped my arm to the elbow.
“This is making me feel better already,”
he said. “I’ve been looking for old mates
all day, but not one could I find. And then
to bump against you in this ancient place!
This is my lucky day.
“I’ve been seeing life since I met you last
at Dubbo. It’s been a lovely time. Left-
right, left-right. At the halt on the left
form platoon. Even numbers, take one pace
to the front with the hind-foot. I know it
all backwards. But the three-stripe bloke
that pounded it into us! He was just the
sweet pea. What that man didn’t know
about cursing doesn’t count. He could make
a horse blush.
“But he taught us. Oh, yes, he taught us,
and out Maadi way we don’t fall over our
rifles now much. A dependable push, our
lot; and when they get going, something’s
got to give. There’ll be dents.
“Been to Gallipoli? Not much! All I've
seen of the firing-line you could put in a pint
billycan. But there’s plenty of time....
Oh, my arm you mean? It was like this.
After I’d been treading desert sand for
about ten weeks the O.C. asked me what I
was good for.
“‘Ah!’ he says. ‘Horse-breaker, eh?
Ah! Then you know something about
stock, what?’
“I wasn’t going to argue. I couldn’t see
the back of his mind, but anything was
better than drilling in sand.
“ ‘Horse-breaker?’ he says. ‘Then per-
haps you know something about mules?
Report yourself to the farrier-sergeant.’
That was what I got for blowing.
"Breaking in mules! I’d sooner teach
snakes to salute by numbers. There was
one in particular. She took a dislike to me
from the jump. You couldn’t see her when
she put her head down and really got going
—only a sort of haze.
LINE ENGAGED.
ABSENT-MINDED DOCTOR: “Hello! Central? 00)3 Windsor, please."
“Gerty her name was. A noble animal
with a leg at each corner and several spare
ones stuck on in between. When she blew
out her nostrils and laid her lips back, which
she mostly did all the time, her mouth looked
like the front of a piano. A peevish crea-
ture, but very earnest.
“One day, when she was looking pensive,
I got astride of her. She turned her head
round, nodded to me and started semaphor-
ing with her ears. Flip-flap, flip-flap-flap!
“I patted her neck just to let her see I
was friendly, but ydu might as well have
tickled the corner post of a bush pub with
a straw. She had no time for patting. Just
turned round and tried to eat one of my
boots. . , .
“So I started to deal to her with a whip,
and that was where I did my dash. Her
feelings were hurt, and she started off in
the direction of Luxor, mostly sideways and
on two legs—any two that came handy.
Then she tried turning cartwheels and
standing on her head, but that didn t do any
good.
“Her imitation of an aeroplane was both
intellectual and elevating, and it was on a
bit of hard ground that she shed me over
the tail-end. As I spun, she reached out
her left and landed me a beauty.
“I took the count to nine, and decided to
miss the next round, and when I got the
sand out of my mouth and eyes there was
Gerty doing a corroboree all on her lonesome
about a mile away.
“That was the end of my mule-breaking.
There was an inquiry about a missing mule,
and I had to hand in a written explanation
full of ‘wherefores,’ with two carbon copies.”
BILL BOWYANG.
The Victim.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ORSTRUTII ! See what the bloke
-w- says here: —
Ai Our heroes are often the victims of the
well-meanin’ but mistaken hospitality of
people who think it necessary to show their appre-
ciation of the service they have volunteered to render.
Gorstruth !” Further words failed him.
I had noticed Bill on the Manly boat in
the morning. He wore his khaki, and he had
a girl with him. The enterprising chocolate-
boy with the clothes three sizes too big for
him had seen an opportunity for trade, and
by judicious flattery and giggling assistance
from the girl he had worked up to a half-
crown box of chocolates. After I had seated
myself for the return trip the same lad in
khaki had wandered on board, and,
remembering my smile upon his transaction
of the morning, had dropped himself beside
me.
“That tart gave me the dirty go-by,” he
said. “I bought her half a dollar’s worth
of chocolates, paid the fares and all that,
and I’d gone in to get her some fruit she
asked for when she does a bunk. I’m off
looking for her for an hour or so; and I
just misses the boat before this. There she
was, sitting down with another bloke, eating
my chocolates with ’im ; and, as the boat’s
moving off, blow me if she don’t wave to
me!”
“Pretty hot!” I said.
“It’s up to dirt !” he returned. “If I find
them over at the Quay I’ll towel him up, I
promise you! I reckon this paper yarn
about misplaced hospitality to soldiers is all
rot. It don’t exist!
“First leave I get after I come to camp
in Sydney I swank into town feeling like a
moving picture for people to look at. I
think there’s a bit of free beer for me. But
nobody holds me up and drags me into a pub
to pour admirin’ beer into me. When I feel
I want a drink I have to go in and shout
for meself. And I’ve hardly started my pot
before a cove edges up and says: ‘You’re the
kind of bloke I like to meet —a chap that
isn’t skulking away when his country needs
him.’ ‘Have a drink?’ I says. ‘Thanks,’ he
says; ‘I was just going to ask you !’
“He orders a beer, and by-and-bye he
THE CHEQUE.
“Well, what's the matter? It's right, isn't
it?"
“Yes, young man, .it is. But be careful—
it's only just right.”
seems to nod across the bar, and another
chap comes to our elbow. ‘Joe Smith—
friend of mine; soldier in camp—didn’t get
your name,’ he says. ‘Kelly,’ I says; and of
course I asks the new chap to have a drink.
When the beer got low they were busy telling
me what lots they thought of me for enlist-
ing. so what could I do but fill ’em up
again? Then they reminded one another of
the meeting they had to go to and they told
me I’d have to look ’em up some time, and
have a drink with them.
“Another time a chap who’s in a bar with
a friend invites me and another khaki bloke
into the shout. He seems a good sort. By
and by the barman says, ‘Note, then, who’s
paying?’ The bloke says, ‘That’s all right,
they’re mine—l'll pay you to-morrow.’ The
barman says it can’t be done, and there’s a
bit of a barney, so I weighs in. ‘lt’s damn
good of you,’ says the bloke; ‘you come down
with me to the office after, and I’ll return
the bob and we’ll have another drink.’ ‘Oh,
what rot!’ I says. ‘lt’s only a bob!’ ‘I
asked you to have a drink,’ he says, very
stiff. Then he says if I lent him a traybit
he could jump on the tram and get down to
the office and back in no time. So I lent him
sixpence; and his friend says he had to slip
over to the markets, but he’d be back in a
minute. That was the last I saw of them.
“There was one chap I met, though, who
was all right, only he didn’t have the money,
lie was a poet or something. He held me
up in the street —put one hand on my
shoulder and shook with his other. Then he
said: ‘You’re a soldier —glad to meet you!
Always glad to drink with a soldier!’ After
feeling in his pockets a long time he forked
out fourpence, and showed it to me. ‘Tup-
pence,’ he says—‘give me tuppence, and
we’ll have a drink.’ He was a good bloke;
but he was a poet.”
When we reached the Quay I was almost
leaving him : but I remembered in time to
do my little bit to remove his grievance. As
we consumed a glass of beer a seedy person
obtruded himself upon us.
“Soldier!” he said, extending his hand.
“If I hadn’t just spent my last bean I’d have
asked you to have a drink with me. I spend
all me money shouting for soldiers!”
“Gorstruth!” gasped my khaki friend.
HAMER.
Zanetic entirely eliminates the danger of unread-
able copies. By using it in Penduplicate books per-
fect, permanent Pencopies are secured, with unsoiled
originals. From Stationers or from S. B. Zanedc,
Zanetic Works, Leicester, England.—Advt.^___^^


BLACK a WHITE
’
: --r
■
ass
•* :
•---- - " -
m
■ :-• ' .
* -
M
■v>
..
: : :
■ i
1
.•
■
■ ' r
TTf l
C I % IJ
** :
S.i
li mmm ~ <aym
' l v «p$ 5
»*r t-i6m33 r ,r~v r -’du '
m
’MZB
.
m?
S*
■ \ .
A*
mm
m
■
:■
;
t«i@S
iiif
Si®
m
:
_ £ #§s
“DUBLIN FUSILIERS.”


*3*
h
SHIRTS THAT GIVE
FULL SATISFACTION
are the kind we specialise. Everything is introduced to
add wearing life to the garment. Our popular
“DOUBLE-LIFE” SHIRT
is winning constant approval and new customers, because
the fit and cut are right and
OUR NOTED COT-TAFFETA MATERIALS
give splendid wear and look smart always. The Neck-band is
reinforced. Our Sleeve Lift adds comfort. Made in Blue,
Black and Helio Stripes. Colors guaranteed.
Marvellous Value.
POST FREE 4/6 TO ANY STATE.
CHfIS. LANE & CO. PTY. LTD.
ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
[2.
“The Mail-order
House for Men.”
" Jhe N oTCfL' scoTCH
Whisky
Belle Vue Hotel
Reconstructed. BRISBANE.
Electric Lift. Perfect Sanitary Arrangements.
Incomparable Position. Easterly Aspect
Overlooking Botanical Cardens.
MRS. A. FINNIGAN, Proprietress. _
The BLACK OPAL STORE.
OPALS, PEARLS, SAPPHIRES.
Specialty Australian Gems
89 Market Street, near Hyde Park, Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, formerly Manager White
Cliffs Opal Mines, Proprietor.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Pick”: When a shepherd-boy on the
cold Bibbenluke Plains (N.S.W.) I once found two
rams that had starved to death owing to their horns
becoming interlocked. Another pitiful death was
that of a steer on the sea cliffs near Bermagui. He
slipped over and went down a converging fissure in
the rocks until suspended some 10ft. from the beach
below. As he became emaciated he gradually low-
ered away until his hoofs reached the sand, where
the incoming tide finished him. At Kiandra, just
over the summit of Governor’s Hill, the skeleton of
a wild horse hung for months in the fork of a tree
30ft. up. He got there when floundering over a
frozen snowdrift. A magpie by some undiscoverable
means became held by the claw on the upper side of
a branch that belonged to an unclimbable tree near
the Corunna cheese factory. The poor fellow stayed
there calling distressingly and struggling for free-
dom, until after many days we ended his misery
with a pea-rifle.
“liimington”: “Stingo,” in his argument
in favor of high-velocity rifles against the older
types (B. 20/4/’l6), forgot to state that the bullets
must be softnosed or hollow pointed. With solid bullets
they do not come within cooee of the Martini-Henry,
whose heavy lead bullet puts a full stop to
the proceedings. Years ago, on Las Pampas, in
Argentina, I one night mistook an old creamy mare
lying in the long grass for a puma, and, dismount-
ing, took a prone shot at a distance of about 60yds.
The bullet struck the poor brute near the eye, lifted
the lid of her brainbox and left it as empty as Hol-
man’s Treasury. The mare belonged to a neighbor-
ing estancia, so I got back home in quick time.
Afterwards I heard the gauchos, for want of better,
blame the lightning—which couldn’t have made a
cleaner job of it. By the same token, any reliable
make of .38 .41 or .44 revolver is, at close range, a
more deadly weapon than the average automatic
pistol, yet it is not its equal for rapidity of fire,
range and penetration. As an ideal weapon for savage
places (like Western Europe) I think the palm goes
to the Mauser pistol, with a 20-shot magazine filled
with soft-nosed cartridges. But don’t go t and get
captured with soft-noses in your pouch.
* * * *
“Scaler”: My method of exterminating
dead stumps is easier and cheaper than “Leo Lear’s”
(B. 6/4/’l6). Pile a few sticks around the tree or
stump, cover the stack completely with sods, and
set fire on one side. The sods, which must be placed
with the grass side in, will force the heat down and
prevent the flames from rising more than a foot up
the trunk. Consequently the butt burns like
November 5 until the tree falls and breaks /off,
as a rule, about three inches above the ground. It
requires only another sod or so to cover where the
tree has broken off, and in a fortnight stumps with,
say, a diameter of 4ft. or sft. are settled, as the
sod fire burns many feet into the ground. This
method is in use all over the Wide Bay district
of Queensland, and for cheapness and efficiency can-
not be equalled.
“Billy T.” : Herne, on my right, is a rabid
amateur entomologist. His collection of domestic
and dog fleas is the most comprehensive in Aus-
tralia, and includes a stuffed old-man red ’roo, 7ft.
high, for it’s Herne’s intention to demonstrate that
the red kangaroo is the ultimate development of the
Putex irritans or familiar bedfellow. Yesterday
Campbell at the back was burning rubbish in his
yard. Herne came over my fence, landing in my
narcissus bed. He had his wife’s large yard hat in
his hand. He then went over Cable’s -fence. Never
did I see a man of 50 negotiate a 7ft. fence with
such celerity. He simply ran up the palings like
a cat, and fell off the top. Then he smashed through
Cable’s hotbed, overturned a perambulator and went
over the fence into Brown’s yard. Brown, who was
licsing the dahlias, turned the water on him in
alarm. But Herne had now got the hat pinned down,
and he hung on. “Stop, stop!” he said. “It’s only
a butterfly. I’ve got him! A wonderful specimen
of bisexual Kallima inachis —extremely rare. I’ve
got him!” Very gently he raised the hat, very
carefully he grabbed the rare specimen—a scrap of
burnt paper sent eddying in the wind from Camp-
bell’s fire.
HIS TREAT.
CUSTOMER: “Hey, what’s this? I'm not going to be shaved by this kid!”
HAIRDRESSER: “It’s only my boy, sir. Let him have Ins fun — it’s his birthday.”
ANOTHER VOLUNTEER.
“You want ’em plenty men, Boss? You gibit stick 'bacca, I big pfeller black-tracker.
Mine tinkit I quick pfeller catch that plurry Kaiser.”
“Block 10”: The mutton-birds that hail
from the Bass Strait Islands are short-tailed, and
abound in millions. Salted, smoked or pickled, they
form the chief food of the half-castes on Cape Barren
Island reserve, and are also on sale in most fish-shops
in Tassy and Melbourne. But there is another
species, which abounds in the Five Islands, near
Wollongong (N.S.W.). These chaps winter some-
where out over the Pacific, return to the islands in
September, clean out their burrows and otherwise
fill in time till about the first week in November,
put to sea again and return three weeks later, when
each hen-bird lays a single egg, white in color, 2Jin.
long and 14in. through. If any abo. thinks of tramp-
ing down from the Queensland side in search of
mutton-bird for breakfast let me advise him to drop
Five Islands astern and keep on till he strikes the
Bass Strait species, which are also to be found in
Southern Victoria. The difference between the two
is worth it. If the traveller brings as much of his
landlord’s hide with him as will cover the hand he
shoves into the mutton’s dug-out, so much the better ;
the average bird would peck a hole through a boot.
* * * *
“X.Y.”: “A.G.8.” (B. 11/5/T6) asks for
information concerning smut in cereals. From long
and extensive experience I advise the Jensen treat-
ment. It gives results far superior to any chemical
lay-out. The process is described in the N.S.W.
Agricultural Gazette, March, 1893, vol. 4, part 3,
page 188. As the publication may not be readily
available, and, as the matter is of national import-
ance, I pass on a condensed description of the treat-
ment : Two vessels of water, one heated to a tempera-
ture of from llOdeg. to 130 deg. F., the other to
135 deg. F. The first is' for raising the temperature
of the grain before it is introduced into the actual
sterilising bath. Unless this course is adopted it
will be difficult to maintain the correct temperature
in the second vessel. The grain should be placed in
a bag of light, open texture, such as a chaff bag, so
that the water can readily enter. According to the
size of the vessels the amount of grain treated at one
time may vary from half a bushel to a bushel. Dip
the grain into No. 1 vessel (llOdeg. to 130 deg.),
raising and lowering it two or three times to secure
equal warming. This process will only take a couple
of minutes. Then dip the bag of grain into the
warmer vessel, and stir the grain so that it may
become uniformly heated. It may also be lifted and
plunged in several times, for the same purpose. This
should be continued for from 10 to 15 minutes
according to the temperature of the water, and the
grain is then spread out to dry. An assistant should
regulate the temperature of the sterilising vessel, and
this may readily be done by having one, or more,
kerosene-tins of boiling water at hand. The tempera-
ture should be 135 deg. F., when the grain is put in.
If at the end of 10 minutes the temperature of the
water has not fallen below 133 deg. F. the grain should
be removed and plunged into cold water. If below
133 deg. F: at the end of 10 minutes it should be
left in 15 minutes, or even longer if the temperature
should fall below 130 deg. F. In treating oats, the
temperature of the sterilising-bath should be 140 deg.
F. when the grain is dipped. If the temperature
does not fall below 135 deg. F. at the end of 10
minutes the oats may be removed and plunged into
cold water. Should the temperature be below 135 deg.,
but above 130 deg., the oats may remain for five
minutes longer. Although only a bushel is treated
at a time a considerable quantity may be dealt with
in half a day. The plunge into cold water, for a
finish, is an essential part of the process. Do not let
the treated grain come into contact with the original
bags, or with anything liable to be infected. Bags
and planting machine may be sterilised with boiling
water. The grain may be sown by hand immediately
after treatment, but must be quite dry to run
through a machine properly. I used this process for
many years, and I was unanimously satisfied. Only
one heating vessel was used, a large, galvanised
washtub in which the water was heated by steam
from a boiler. A thermometer must be used; any
cheap make that will register up to 140 deg. and
will not be injured by hot water will serve.
“Saltwater” : Now that you’ve all wasted
time with cumbersome methods of finding the points
of the compass when you're bushed, I’ll explain how
it’s done. Sight the Southern Cross after sunset
(before, if possible). Then if a straight line start-
ing from the top star of the long leg and passing
down that leg be extended beyond the bottom star
of the long leg for about four lengths of the Cross,
it will locate pretty closely the south pole of the
heavens. Our national emblem always points towards
this pole.
“Sarto”: I stirred up a big ugly toad
this morning while he was trying to get outside one of
those huge moths that come out of the ground after
the first autumn rains, leaving the three-inch shell
that held the pupa behind. These shells are brcwr
and yellow, and anything from sixpence to a shilling
in diameter, so you can imagine the size of the
moth. Last year and this they were here (Southern
Riverina) in thousands. The brown monsters bang
against the roof and window-panes like clods, and
this is not exaggerating a bit. The end of the moth
that this toad hadn’t yet swallowed was fully two
inches long and three-quarters of an inch thick,
tapering to a point. I tried to turn the malignant
party over with my boot, and he blew himself out
until I thought he’d burst with rage.
(Continued on page 26.)
NIRVANA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I am done with this blasted war
I will go where the bul-bul sings,
And sit at my ease
Under suitable trees
Discoursing of scandalous things.
I will buy me a mug that shall hold a quart,
And charge it with foaming ale,
Which I’ll frequently quaff
And as constantly scoff
At any heroic tale.
Others will tell how the bullets sang,
And how good blood ran red.
But I will relate,
In contemplative state,
How (’ tention! ) the generals fed.
I will tell of the mountains of tins at the base-
There was pate and chicken and tongue ;
And their beautiful beds,
How around the heads
Immaculate network hung.
Oh, yes, I will tell of the portly men
In dugouts with soft settees,
And bottles and corks
And asparagus forks
At the shrines of our bold O.C.’s.
Then loudly I’ll laugh at the tales of strife,
And I’ll leer at my tankard’s brim,
For my soul shall find peace
When their babblings cease
And the clamor of war grows dim.
SOMEWHERE.
ADAM TOSSPOT, Sapper.


Have You Seen Murdoch’s
Splendid Range of
Vicuna Suitings?
&
III: §'/
.1
DESK R.
Messrs. Murdoch's In Park St., Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
Please forward patterns of Vicuna Suitings
at 63/- Suit-to-measure, with tape and self-
measurement form.
Name
Address
They are a special line that will
appeal to men who want serviceable
Suits for the Winter.
Quality Cloths in Black Grey,
Dark Grey and Mid
Grey shades —they
are decidedly attract-
ive tailored in the
Murdoch way.
The Price is
63|-
Suit-to-Measure.
These Suits feature that
distinction that every man
admires. Superior fabrics,
faultless fit, fashionable
styles and skilled tailoring
combine to give you an
impressive Suit that will
enhance your appearance.
Every Suit carries the
Murdoch guarantee —Money
back if you’re not satisfied.
NOW IS THE
TIME TO ORDER.
Call and see these fabrics
and leave your order with-
out delay. If you can’t call
fill in the pattern coupon.
Murdoch’s
IN PARK
ST. LTD.,
Sydney
“Where the GOOD Hats are.”
A GOOD PROPOSITION!
YOUR SODA FOUNTAIN CAN
EARN PROFITS ALL THE
YEAR ROUND!!
- .JTTT"
f*S
You’re missing much, both in volume
of trade and in percentage of profits if
you are not running the Hot Drink
Business. Your Fountain otherwise
lies practically idle all the Winter,
which represents capital at a stand-
still instead of earning.
The popularity of Hot Drinks have
increased wonderfully the last two or
three seasons. It means that if you-
cater for this business you can make
a big thing out of it.
The outlay is very small.
The “PERFECTO” URN, as illus-
trated, is the medium you require; it’s
the best Winner for Trade in the hot-
beverage department yet placed before
the public.
The whole method is wonderfully
simple: you just drop into the cup of
boiling water one of our flavoring
Cubes, stir and then serve as delicious
and nourishing a drink as it is possi-
ble to produce.
1 Gallon Handsome Nickel-plated
Hot Water Urn, complete with
Taps, £l/5/-
1 Boz. Tin Beef Tea Extract.
Boz. Tin Celery Bouillon.
Boz. Tin Chocolate Bouillon.
Boz. Tin Tomato Bouillon.
1 Quart Bottle Coca-Cola.
Yz Boz. lOoz. Beef Tea Mugs.
THE EOT COMPLETE WITH
URN, £2/10/- CASH.
There’s big business to be done,
and you ought to see to it you get
your share.
“Speed up” and get into it.
Write us at once if you are inter-
ested. We’ll supply you with full
information.
NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. LTD.,
219 QEORQE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at Turbot Buildings, Turbot Street, BRISBANE.
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH.
I U :
m
r -
■ ■ '
» ? •>
■-!
A Wonderful New Instrument!
The Aeolian-Vocalion
Tones from a disc record you never heard before
Have you heard the Aeo-
lian-Vocalion that tonal
instrument whose voice
is art?
There are many features in the Aeo-
lian -Vocalion that contribute to its
pronounced musical superiority and
its extraordinary tone. Some of these,
like the marvelous Graduola device
for controlling tone, are entirely
novel and startling. Others, like its
new and scientific Sound Box and
Symphonetic Horn, are in the
nature of higher developments of
existing features.
How these features have been de-
veloped —the origination of some of
them in single brilliant inventions,
and the slow processes attending the
attainment of others, constitutes one
one of the most interesting stories in
musical history.
Jmiitatiott
We invite you to try one of your own
records on the Vocation — as we be-
lieve that your comments to your
friends concerning it will be valuable
to us.
KePianolaCo
You can buy a Vocalion for as little as £25 for a small initial payment
and payments thereafter as low as 35/- a month.
Also at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE & BRISBANE. [ Write to us for Illustrated Catalogue B.L. j
384
GEORGE ST.
SYDNEY


Martin’s Pills are sold by W. H. Soul,
Tattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
Obtainable all Chemists and Stores
Produced entirely under the British
Flag by British Labour* from
Australasian Wool.
99
Quality Stockings end Socks
for Ladies, Children £i Lien.
Comfortable in all weathers, Jason Stockings and Socks lie snug to
the skin, and possess a remarkable silky finish. Many tasteful)
designs plain, embroidered, lace ; anklets, clox, pendants.
Insist on Jason Stockings and Socks—which are all-wool, and oft
soft, silky finish. See the Jason Tab on every pair. Drapers
and Outfitters everywhere, in case of difficulty write *o
JASON HOSIERY CO., I EICESTER, ENG.
Aa63 op
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
“Hay” : I don’t know whether carnivorous
horses are common, but I once owned an old chestnut
in Centralia that was quite ready to share steak and
damper with me. He was what bushmen would call
a hard-doer, and would keep in good fettle where
most other horses would starve. But as an eater
of flesh the horse isn’t in it with the donkey. On a
station in the northern part of South Aus. where
mules were raised I have seen two old jacks come up
to the men’s hut regularly for their meals. A
shoulder of mutton or any other kind of cooked
meat would be thrown out to them, and holding the
joint down with one foot they would tear the meat
off just as a dog would. They seemed to thrive on a
meat diet and to prefer it to any other. When tank-
making on a West o’ Darling station a pet wether fol-
lowed the camp and boarded with us for a year and
a half. He ate everything that we had to spare from
the table, and shared the men’s tobacco as well. He
was a handsome jumbuck, and grew to a great size,
but died eventually of gout.
* * * *
“Oopabella” : There had been a little argu-
ment between the newchum parson and his horse. The
rescuing cocky gathered up a parson here, a surplice-
bag there, hat, coat, cushions, sermon, Bible and
prayerbook in other places. “Spreadin’ the gospel a
bit, Mister!” he said, affably.
* * * «
“Bill Bedsox” : As a kick off for a further
arboreal shindy, what about W.A. York gum for
length of grain ? A representative of this variety
shattered by lightning some years ago, and exhibited,
I believe, by the Agricultural Department in Perth,
had splinters 12ft. long. For wheel-hubs it is ideal
timber, but trees of any size are rarely sound, and
straight logs of more than seven or eight feet in
length are the exception. York gum is difficult to
kill, and will sucker from the roots for seven years
at least after being cleared to ground level. There
is a tradition that the hobs of Hades are composed of
green York gum stumps. Have known Pommies to
burn a ton or more of wood round one stump and
then only make crackling of the bark.
* * * *
“Agricola”: As the summer dries the
swampy flats at the head of Wapengo Lake (South
Coast, N.S.W.), the eels in residence suffer their
annual Gehenna. In older days the blacks played
the part of the devil and waxed fat, but nowadays
snakes and gohannas run the show. The snakes go
right in among the eels and consume them on the
premises; the ’gos pay regular visits from the
surrounding scrub and carry their catch home for
dinner. They wade into the mud, seize the local
inhabitant, and paddle out again. Pigs belonging
to neighboring cookies also revel there and look the
picture of happiness with 2ft. of slimy tucker hang-
ing out of each side of their mouths. If the porker
roots out a snake by mistake, it appears to trouble
him not, except that he seems to be careful to grab
it near the head.
“K.G.C.”: Some George-street bush-
whacker wants to know if the Clarence is the only
river in which freshwater cod and eel live together.
No ; it is not, Ethelbert. Here on the Upper Bris-
bane River, near Toogoolawah (Q.), we often catch
them on the same line—a set line, which is a whip
running from bank to bank, with hooks at intervals
of sft. to 6ft. The cod denounces the eel as a
cannibal, and with good reason. I have opened a
191 b. wriggler with a 31b. cod in his safe deposit.
THE COMEBACK.
RANDOLPH : “Letsh sign er pledge, Heddie.”
HEDDIE : “Well, letsh have a last drink be-
fore we do.”
RANDOLPH : “No; lesh have one after.”
“Ma’feesh”: The conversation drifted
round to the cost of living. Says Alf: “Gorblime.
Larst week I humped it inter Carcoar ter git a job in
ther mines, an’, ’struth, d’yer know the cost o’ livin’
in that joint?” I didn’t. “Sixpence a bloomin’
pint,” says Alf. Pass Carcoar for me.
NO TRADING WITH THE ENEMY.
N URSE: “Look, Willie, here’s the new baby.”
WILLIE ( suspiciously ): “I wouldn’t have it, if I was you. Hom’d you know it wasn’t
made in Germany?”
“Cholmondley Fitzmaggot”: In the won-
derful museum of antiquities at Cairo is a collection
of carved wooden objects labelled “boomerangs,”
quite like some of ours. The application of this
essentially Australian word to these weapons of
ancient Egypt puzzled me, and I hunted up the
director to find out all about it. He told me that
these “throw-sticks” were used by the ancients as
weapons of the chase, and showed me some pictorial
(ancient) representations of their use, particularly
in securing such birds as ducks. He could not deter-
mine definitely (though he inclined to the negative)
whether or not these “throw-sticks” returned to the
pitcher in similar manner to our boomerang. There
is no written or other evidence that they did. What
interests me is how the Egyptian failed to discover
the gyrating possibilities of the weapon. The word
“boomerang” was applied by the museum authorities
as representing a generic term for all “throw-sticks.”
I was able to tell the director that the word had no
such meaning in its blaekfellow application; that it
was an aboriginal word applied to a special weapon,
and did not comprehend the nulla-nulla and spear,
the other “throw-sticks” of our natives. Honors
in connection with the boomerang—if not in its
discovery, then at least in its development—seem to
rest wholly with our abo.
* * * *
“Harry Gee”: I thought after a long resi-
dence in the north-west of W.A. that I had nothing
to learn of the habits of aboriginals; but this one
was new to me. I was convoying sheep to a station
on the Murchison and had for assistance a combo
and his native better half, Julia. Rows between the
two were frequent, and at last for the whole of one
day they were not on speaking terms. That night
w-hen Combo was seated at the camp fire I saw Julia
approach him holding at arm’s length a kangaroo
tail. Combo took no notice, and the lady retired.
Presently she reappeared, this time carrying a fair-
sized bungarra by the neck. By almost impercept-
ible movements the gin got closer and closer to the
man and no words were spoken. At last the bunga
hung straight down from the rim of Combo’s hat,
passing in a line with his nose, the tail reaching
the end of his long grey beard. Slowly Combo put
out his hand, and with a deft movement Julia laid
the bunga on his upturned palm. Then the silence
was broken. The bunga was cooked and shared
between them, and they were still holding wongi
when I went to sleep.
* * * #
“Gecko”: From my observations so-called
water snakes flirt in a fashion foreign to all other
Australian fanged fauna. Like the African puff adder
they possess the power of inflating their throats for
the purpose of producing a weird ventriloquial call.
I saw a couple of the black crawlers, on a sheep
track close to a creek, standing up and cooing like
doves to one another. Suddenly her ladyship lovingly
looped the loop around Othello until her paramour
formed the last letter of the alphabet.
“D.F.”: The protection of our native
fauna is about as big a farce as the alleged conserva-
tion of our native timber trees. Some years ago
the Tasmanian Government set aside a large part of
Schouten Main, on the East Coast, as a reserve where
the kangaroo, the wallaby, the ’possum and other
native beasts and birds could dwell and multiply in
peace. Several alleged settlers got in ahead of the
proclamation, and took up little blocks of worthless
land on the peninsula, which is pretty poor at the
best. There’s nobody to look after the reserve except
the infrequent local policeman, who has all the work
he can manage without that. So the net result of
the supposed “sanctuary” is that it is a first-class
hunting park for poachers. Some recent visitors
found snares set all over the place and mighty little
native game about. The Lands Department
was warned, and the officials said they’d see if
something could not be done about it. You know
what that means. A Sceneries Preservation Board
has just been appointed to look after national re-
serves, but it hasn’t any money and its chance of
getting enough to jingle is vague and afar off.
* * * #
“Hay”: “Barcoo” (B. 6/4/T6) describes
two different kinds of emu. I have known the emu
for many years all over Australia, except part of
N. S. Wales east of the Darling, and so far have
only met with one species. I have gathered eggs
from their nests in settings varying from one to a
dozen. To one camp enough of them were brought
to fill a bullock dray, and on the menu they
appeared boiled, fried, roasted in the ashes, and
mixed in cakes and puddings. In flavor there
seemed to be no difference between them and the
fruit of the common or garden fowl. The emu
makes its nest on the ground beside a bush so as
to get a little shelter from the noonday sun. The
blacks say the male bird sits on the fruit at night
and the female in the daytime. The dark, coarse
beefy meat of the emu, especially when bordered
with a nice rim of oily yellow fat, is highly
esteemed by Binghi, while the shredded sinews of
its legs yield serviceable lengths of material for
sewing and net-making. They are better than even
kangaroo-tail sinews for Binghi’s requirements.
* * * *
“Greenhorn”: Will the cook for the Aho.
camp inform me whether the flesh of the black
cockatoo (with the yellow tail), which feeds on white
grubs extracted from the stringy-bark, is worth
sharpening an appetite for? Also, I want to know
a simple method of tanning or dry-curing opossum or
wallaby skins, either singly or about half a dozen at
a time. That’ll be all to-day.
* * * *
“Hambidge”: If it’s queer grub for
animals you’re talking about, my cat ought to be
heard from. Her craving was for beetroot, pickled.
So strong was her appetite for this that I’ve known
her to knock a glass-jar of beet off a shelf and gorge
on the mess until she was just about drunk with the
vinegar.
i red Ellen” : Range me up with the Abn
choir that is singing the ’ymn of ’ate about 1 b
nacitv of the jumper. There is
SaTor r Is
the spot Peel the root of a bracken fern Z* 2
the exuding juice on the wound. The n L r
pears almost instantaneously, but the fllsap-
mains for an hour or so. SWellll1 S «■
*
“Merrigal”: Occasionally, along the ™ .
of New Guinea, between Giabada and Manu \r
regiment after regiment of soldier crabs are to h’
seen marching with true military bearing to *s®
orders apparently of commanding officers V 6
cohorts sometimes stretch out for miles-' n t Jf®
times they form squares and rhomboids. ’ Evident
conscription obtains, as any of the race me w£
by the advancing hosts ask no questions but strait
w.y oi„ the colors. As , they
quickly, and when approached by man tliev d
arms and break into the double. J pe
* * * *
iSgatilt ’: Sharks are probably more plan
tiful on the reef skirting the Satowan Lagoon fCen
tral Pacific) than anywhere else in those parts anrl
presumably because of such facilities suicided are
common. If a native is crossed in love or become
I too much ashamed” he merely bounces off th
reef and is promptly minced. The women are not so
sporting They grip the tongue between two finger!
and hold it m position until suffocation ensues.
* * *
‘‘Ckee Tah”: Only spasmodic efforts are
made to enforce the Thistle Act in Northern Victoria
where the shire councillors who are supposed to ad-
minister the law are mostly large landowners and
arch-offenders in regard to dirty paddocks. Star- and
saffron-thistle areas are the rule rather than the
exception away from the irrigation and wheat-raising
areas. The lazy grazier affects to see a virtue in the
pests on the plea that they keep the dry grass from
being blown away ! When a shire council does sum-
mons Victorian ratepayers (often absentees residing
in the city) for their long-standing derelictions, the
police magistrate’s favorite fine is a fiver. Seein»
the cost of eradicating the star and saffron nuisances
is at least fourpence per acre, it can be easily calcu-
lated that it pays the big estate owners to hand up a
series of fines. Until the Thistle Act is administered
by the Government on the same drastic lines as the
Rabbit Extermination Act, the present farce will
continue.
* * * *
“Woychugga”: Eet me help you to some
mere mutton-bird. Matthew Flinders, accompanied
by Ross, in December, 1798, calculated a flock that
ho saw in the vicinity of Hummock Island, Bass
Strait, at some 132 millions. Maybe be was right,
for Davies, in the Tasmanian Journal, recorded that
he sailed through a flight of young muttons from
Flinders Island to the Tamar Heads, a distance of
89 miles. Anyhow, one and a half million of the
young birds are captured annually on Babel and
Chappel Islands.
A GENIUS FOR IT.
MRS. MURPHY : “Sure, and what is Ryan's
girl learning at the hoarding-school at
all?”
MRS. BROWN : “Oh, music, drawing, wood-
carving and poker work —and such
like."
MRS. MURPHY: “Poker work, is it? Well,
now, if her old mother had been alive
it’s herself that could have shown ho
the way; and well old Ryan knew it.
“J.J.C.”: We were arguing the point, Bill
and me, as usual, and being an ignorant bloke he
would have it his way that Christ made the woik.
I talked to him firmly about the Prophets and the
Ancients and them coves. No good. So I
him round to the School of Arts and read some 0
Testament to him. “Yairs,” he drawled; “but yer
can’t believe all yer see in th’ papers.”


s oWe.y o„;
/ guaJities./i
w4t
S7*r7
tits
c\&2
HIGH-CLASS CIGARETTES
AT MODERATE PRICES.
come and Cigar-
ettes g'o. State Express
Cigarettes, However, are
firmly establisHed. The
reason is not far to seeK: —
Supreme quality and a per-
fect system of manufacture
Keep old friends and make
new ones.
CIGARETTES
No. 333
THE FAMOUS
RED PACKET
STANDARD WEIGHT
NOT LESS THAN
Sole Manufacturers s
ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD.
London, England.
These delicious high-grade Cigar-
ettes are obtainable of all high-
class tobacconists and stores
throughout Australasia
o
o
■v
ih
*
A^o/.
K
&
m
s!*
GS
*
XT*
w
*
o
*
i 9
Co
n
c*
Kv
<?>


A W
Pain in Back, Tired Feeling,
’5 MISERY
Scalding Pain, Cloudy Urine,
V/S •?
Vi
v
Oh,
my Back !
Snappy Temper, Rheumatism.
All women suffer—some more than others—during some periods of their lives. Have you
ever stopped to think why this should be? Long-suffering women become so used to it as to
think that they must suffer for the rest of their natural lives. This is wrong. Most of this
suffering is absolutely unnecessary, and is in many cases due to kidney or bladder trouble—
nothing more. And you can prove it.
Kidney and bladder trouble is far commoner than most people would imagine. It is
i eported that at least six out of every ten people who “go sick” do so through kidney disease.
And, moreover, five out of every ten sufferers die from this same cause. If people only knew
how to tell whether their kidneys were diseased or not it would not be so bad, but thousands
upon thousands of men and women to-day are content to suffer and die in ignorance. Weak
kidneys lead to deadly Bright’s Disease in many cases.
Sure and Certain Symptoms of Kidney Trouble.
How are you to really recognise Kidney Trouble? Here is the way: —Have you a nasty
taste in the mouth the first thing in the morning, puffiness under the eyes, general feeling of
weakness and irritability, aches and pains in various parts of the body? Have you constipa-
tion, cloudy urine, or sharp stabbing or aching pains—a pain “as though my back will break ?
People who suffer from backache, rheumatism, gout, sciatica, gravel, stone, cystitis
(inflammation of the bladder), or pains in the muscles and joints, are all suffering these pains
through weak or diseased kidneys, for these are positively the symptoms of kidney trouble.
These signs of kidney or bladder trouble are caused by the poisonous acid in the blood
which the kidneys should remove, but they do not, owning to their being in a w r eak state. De
W itt s Kidney and Bladder Pills quickly remove these symptoms. You should go to your
chemist at once for a box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, and prove for yourself that
within twenty-four hours these wonderful pills have without doubt commenced their healing
work guaranteed. Do not put off, because w r eak kidneys very often means Bright s Disease
m the end. But when you buy the pills be sure you get De Witt’s, in large white boxes printed
in blue and gold wdtli a blue wax seal on the top of the bottle. Refuse any of similar name
without this special seal.
Kidney (El Bladder Pills.
Of chemists and storekeepers everywhere, 2/9 and 5/6 per box. If you have any difficulty in getting genuine De Witt’s Pills with the blue seal on cork
—send your money to E. C. De WITT & Co., Ltd., 42-44 Pitt Street, Sydney, who will gladly supply by return.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Murrabit”: War and high freights are,
thank God, bringing a few Australian lines
before the public, i lately had to renew my
stock of a well-known English modelling
medium. It was not procurable, but I found
an equally good plastic clay manufactured
at Echuca. A patent was obtained for this
as far back as September, 1912; yet this
was the first time the local article was
stocked by the large firm from which we get
our supplies. It’s cheaper, too; though this
idea that the local stuff should always be
cheaper is an unmitigated curse.
* * * *
“Pick”: Since Europe started to lose its
temper and tear its uniform, shipments of
Rhodesian and Magaliesberg (S.African)
tobaccos to N. S. Wales have apparently
ceased. The nearest approach to the
S’African smoke is an Australian manufac-
ture with the brand of “Yanco” upon the
tin. Among smokers whose taste inclines
them to the pure, unpressed weed, this home-
made article might now get its chance. Try
it, brothers, in your patriotic pipes.
“Quidam”: It was in the early days of
Charters Towers that a miner met a mate
and asked him if he could do with a share
in a show. He explained that he had a leg-
in in the Day Dawn and another in the
Wellington, and he believed in them both,
but could only finance one. The chum ex-
plained that he, too, was full-handed, but he
knew a young chap, just arrived from Syd-
ney, who was earning good wages as a car-
penter, and perhaps he might take it. When
the young chap was interviewed he said he
didn’t believe in risking money in mining—
he’d come to the Towers to saw wood. After
a lot of arguing, however, he gave in, and
accepted the Day Dawn share and the calls
hanging to it. The Wellington turned out a
duffer at depth ; the Day Dawn P.C. turned
out a mint of money. Further, the carpenter
did well with his lot, and eventually be-
came one of the very rich business men of
Sydney.
* * * *
During 1915 four Hobart milksellers were
found guilty of adding H2O to their cow-
juice, and the city health-officer observes
that the severest punishment would not be
too heavy for dishonest traders who adulter-
ate the children’s food. He does not say a
word about the local beaks whose idea of
punishment worked out, including fine and
costs, at £3 os. 44d. per time.
Tasmanian clay is good enough to make
drain-pipes and flower-pots with, but in the
past it has ben rank heresy to talk of making
it into chinaware. Now even Agent-
General McCall has seen a glimmering of the
light. He reports with great regret that it
would, he is afraid, not pay to drag the clay
to Britain and then freight the cups and
saucers back again. But with an inspira-
tion as brilliant as it is rare, he suggests
doing the work —-right—on—the spot!
* * * *
“Moana”: The New Zealand Shipping
Co.’s new route between the lOU Isles and
Fogland recalls that about 50 years ago a
line of steamers owned by the N.Z. and
Panama Co. started a service between Wel-
lington (M.L.) and Panama in conjunction
with a line running from Colon to Plymouth
on the Atlantic. Passengers and mails were
hurried by rail across the strip of land where
the canal now is. Two brig-rigged steamers,
the Kaikoura and the Ruahine, pioneered
the service in the Pacific, calling on the way
at the island of Rapa-iti, out in the Eastern
Pacific, for coal. Within a few years via
Panama will probably be the sole route for
cargo beween Volcanolaud and the Northern
Hemisphere.
* * * *
An 8000-gallon tank built of kauri pine,
put up in the Hobart railway yards in 1874
and in use throughout the intervening 42
years, was pulled down the other day. The
whole of the timber, except three or four
staves, was found to be as good as new.
Anyway, it is to be used to make another
tank somewhere else on the railway. Tas-
manian Huon pine lasts equally well, for
some tanks of this timber built at the same
time (when the old Main Line railway
was put through) are still sound.
“Hamer”: A number of business sharks
have a habit of addins interest on overdue
accounts ; and although the charge is a pure
bluff it is no doubt pulled off very fre-
quently—like the “collection fees” . that
debt-collecting agencies tack on to their de-
mands. The whole thing is entirely illegal;
yet how well it may succeed, was. illustrated
in a recent series of cases in Victoria. A
firm sued a batch of debtors, securing judg-
ment in each case for the amount claimed.
Then, luckily, a contentious defendant up-
rose to say that what he objected to about
the proceedings was the claim for interest
on his account. That set the Court ferret-
ing, and eventually it recalled all the other
orders, and, while deducting the interest
charge from the totals, told the firm’s repre-
sentative that he was lucky to escape prose-
cution for perjury for swearing that the
amounts claimed were “for goods sold and
delivered.” But if it hadn’t been for the
one contentious hard-case the whole lot
would have gone through.
* * * *
“Ivinso”: A large rabbit-freezing factory
is going up at Oberon (N.S.W.), and already
Bunny is putting on airs in that district.
-Even now 5-id. a pair is being paid by
carters who have to run them 16 miles ; and
the prospect of much more when the freezer
gets to work is making prosperous land-
owners take a benevolent interest in the old
curse. The factory w’ill cost about £4OOO,
and it will take a pair or two to pay exes,
and give dividends on that lot.
* * * *
“M.E.H.”: A contributor (B. 24/2/TO)
says that, “with all its faults, the automatic
[i.e., Wheatstone] is the only possible means
of coping with telegraph traffic.” I suppose
it is for this reason that the M.L. service,
which discarded the Wheatstone years ago,
can produce a profit of £50,000 per annum.
What kills the Wheatstone is the army of
skilled men required to dance attendance on
it at each end. For years M.L., which had
already shelved the apparatus during ordi-
nary traffic, wheeled in the 'Wheatstone at
what is termed the “annual endurance test”
—Christmas Eve. After the onslaught
scores of enervated lightning-jerkers wearily
dragged themselves homewards, and tumbled
into their beds with a curse on all perforated
and Morse-inked tapes, while mentally kicking
the automatic and all its gear 10 miles past
Tophet. It has been down and out for a few
years now, but it took more than one
straight to the point to out it. The Wheat-
stone was the pioneer of automatic signalling-
and-recording telegraphy, but some later sys-
tems knock it into a cocked hat. Recently
I flitted through some of the Australian
offices, expecting to see something. I did—
Chaos! Specimens of the tape contrap-
tions seen in country offices have been in the
M.L. departmental museums for years. A
paucity of quadruplex sets, which enable one
line to do the work of four, was very appar-
ent. This method of economising lines, per-
fected by some person named Edison, is see -
in even third-rate offices on this side of the
Tasman. Failing the quad., a few new lines
(which are now undoubtedly necessary before
the Wheatstone can be oblivioned) would
probably help things along.
* * * *
A Drouin (Vic.) man wins the prize for
a butcher’s motto. Over the slain ox and
the slaughtered lamb he has written : “Live
and let live.”
RUBBER ONIONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The dodge was discovered by one of the boarding
party dropping an onion on the deck. It bounced,
and on examination was found to be pure rubber.
—Blockade item.
Ho! I have taken coal from Wales to Egypt’s burnin’
sands,
An’ carried rice from ’ot Rangoon to fill a Chow-
slave’s ’ands ;
I've beat the sea with tons of grain from River
Plate to ’Ull,
An’ staggered back with rusted rails in spite o’
shark an’ gull;
Around th’ world an’ back again with breakfast
foods an’ soap,
Riskin’ me life for ’ides an’ tea, an’ toilin’ without
’ope
To get a bale o’ rag to port—’twas all the same
to me;
But them there rubber onions took the pie we make
at sea.
They’d filled the ’oiler masts wi’ some, th’ rumblin’
shaft ’id niore,
An’ rubber onions ’ung above, an’ ’id .beneath th’
floor;
They looked like onions always do, for they ’ad made
’em well,
An’ there was real live onions to give tli’ proper
smell.
We turned around an’ went to sea to do our rummy
trade,
When somethin’ grey came smokin’ up—we’d struck
the d —d blockade !
An’ w’en th’ boat’s crew boarded us we got it in th’
neck,
For one o’ them damn sailors dropped a onion on
the deck.
It bounced an’ bounced, that onion did, like any
kid’s toy ball,
For it was rubber through an’ through an’ couldn’t
be let fall;
An’ pretty soon the cruiser said with flags, “Please
foller me,”
An’ so we ’awked our onions ’ome across th’ cold
North Sea.
If raftin’ rice from old Rangoon an’ takin’ coal from
Wales
Is not enuf to make a song or fill a book o’ tales,
I’d like to ask if anyone can thumb an ’arp with
me
On sneakin’ rubber onions o’er the same ole boundin’
sea ?
N.S.W.
THE CARPENTER’S MATE.
A DREAM OF BILLJIM'S VENGEANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The way was long, the world was cold,
The stockman sat his weary moke.
For years he had not tasted gold,
For days he had not known a smoke.
The State in both its feet was cold
When Cohen aimed his counterstroke.
The merry war had blown to peace;
No more the loans were large and free.
The noisy cannon had to cease
In ravaged lands beyond the sea;
Yes, graves were green in utter peace,
And Cohen shrieked for £ s. d.
He battled for his pound of flesh—•
In fact, for many pounds he strove;
And every day he tried afresh
To drag the whiskers off some cove.
His trade was both in souls and flesh;
His face was harder than a stove.
Pawn-tickets were the nation’s wealth,
Sad things finance could not redeem ;
Nor oaths, nor prayers, nor force, nor stealth
Could make one pale State surplus gleam;
For all about the Commonwealth
To think of tuppence was to dream.
The way was long, the world was cold.
The stockman sat his weary moke;
The happy sunbeams minted gold,
The merry breeze enjoyed the joke
That Billjim knew he had been sold,
And thought about his counterstroke.
Where were the men that borrowed so,
And spent the cash with lavish hand?
He thought of days of long ago
When things went well in all the land;
And then his hot blood bubbled so
It almost burst his singlet band.
And still the folk in whispers tell,
When night is soft and very brown,
Of stirring matters that befell
When Billjim in his wrath came down—
Yes, with a shaking lip they tell
How sudden vengeance came to town.
I know not all the things he did
To those who pawned his priceless years:
One statesman in a drainpipe hid,
One filled three buckets vyith his tears;
But none escaped of all who did
The country in for Mo’s arrears.
And this I know, that in the night
Men wake with sudden gasp and yell,
The cold sweat sitting on their fright,
Though summer slumbers warm and well:
Ar.d these remember that' wild night
When Billjim on the traitors fell.
The Kaiser swinging on his rope,
The hempen knot beside his ear,
Felt blithe as Joy and gay as Hope
Compared with these when fate was near;
Had things been simplified to rope
They might have thought it mild as beer.
And now, though all the land were broke,
And Cohen offered wealth of gold,
No statesman e’er would dare to yoke
His name with loans, like those of old;
He thinks of Billjim's counterstroke,
And feels his ten pink toes grow cold.
x.s. w.
PAT O’MAORI.


RADIATORS!
Warm and Mellow is their Glow
As the Golden Rays of the Setting Sun.
mmmm
?v i: >' :
■
■ ; -v
; .y*'
v
•V
v
■■
'
M
»
£
/
/
m
&
m
£V
■
G.E. Electric Radiators—clean, portable and convenient
prove an Ideal Winter Finish for the Artistic Home.
Write us for Particulars, or Visit our Showroom.
©
#
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE-CITY 3510 (5 lines).
BRISBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
—Agents—
“Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
TELEPHONE—CKNTRAL 2646. 2647; CITY 9579.
ADELAIDE (S.A.) : Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch. Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock & Co., Ltd., Launceston; Oliver & Oliver, Ltd., MacQuarie Street, Hobart.


A. Saunders’ Cheese Dish, pure silver-plated,
A 1 quality, highly burnished, fancy, embossed edges,
£2/15/-
A. Saunders’ Sugar
Scuttle (Al), Silver-plated,
richly engraved, 25/-
A. Saunders’ Luncheon
Cruet, pure Silver-plated Nickel
Silver, A 1 quality, 25/-
A. Saunders’ Nut Dish, pure
Silver-plated Nickel Silver, highly
burnished, 20/-
With Cracks, 25/-
to
WEDDING GIFTS
A. Saunders’ Preserve
Dish pure Silver-plated, Cry-
stal Glass, 11/6.
With Covers.
.. d
A Saunders’ Tea and Coffee Service, A 1 quality, “Concave” design, Fancy, Embossed
Border, Gilt-lined, with Covers, £9*
A. Saunders’ Hot
\Vater Jug, pure Sil-
ver-plated, richly en-
graved, 30/-
A. Saunders’ Toast and Butter
Combination, pure Silver-plated Nickel
Silver, 15/6.
A. Saunders’ Butter Dish,
pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
20/-
A. Saunders’ Butter Dish, pure Silver plated
“Shell” design, 25/-
T,
A. Saunders’ Sugar and Cream
Stand, Silver-plated Frame, Floral
China, 11/6.
A. Saunders’ Biscuit Barrel,
Solid English Oak, pure Silver-
plated Mounts, 25/-
» A. SAUNDERS, (Opp- Railway Station), Sydney
807-817 George Street
IMPROVED
Compass
Clynometer
For Taking LEVELS and ANGLES.
Reading inclinations in inches
per yard or degrees.
Invaluable to Prospector, Miner, Geologist,
Engineer and Squatter.
Strong, Compact. Best lacquer brass,
dia., Solid Leather Case,
Printed Instructions, POSTED
22 16
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.,
189-191 Qeorge Street, Brisbane.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from—whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough-you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled-
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
th rotighout A ustralasia-
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Merrie
England, Bd. llow to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dr.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art op Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston’s Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, 1/- posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle op the Uni-
verse, Bd., AND ALL THE RATIONAL PRESS RE-
PRINTS (send for list). Joys of Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler’s Science
of Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. Sandow’s Book of
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History
of the Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook. 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British,
Bd. How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins,
1/- posted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.
S 3
8
i
I
i
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted
to ANY address for EIGHT SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
£•“ BOOKSELLER TO THE- COMMONWEALTH, -ms
Prof. Fowier’s Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speak-
ing Made Easy., 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Siaiple (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. W annan’s Engine
Driver’s Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio,
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes, 1/6 posted.
Women’s Secrets, 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The Waybacks, 1/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. && Established 25 Years.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADA T.
: ♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking•
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS' SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SEM-
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to th «
1/- posted. New Tricks with Cards, 1/- ’
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1,3 ;
Milford’s Midwife's Handbook, 92 practica
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Gor
don's Poems, complete, 1/6. Practigal m^
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6.
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers
Writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6.
GAN'S Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all lie,.
New Edition, 1/3 posted. "Nest Pooket
Bd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 post, ' j/g
Bd., 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas. C °7 fi L ste( l.
posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a '' if s E ' g^° B i ,,kks'
Bread and Biscuit Bakers
Assistant, 1/6. The Wife's Handbook 1,2 P d
Bennarr Macfadden's Works, ail at 6/b gcITA .
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. Po®t* 100 - ITS
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervous. - * ED
Cure. 1/2 posted. Large‘ g£ B ™ ndf
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 “^foeas?).
my price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and P and
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2. L vssist-
F.lectric Motors, 1/2. Moore s Lnive al , th
ant and Complete Mechanic 1016 P a | e v s ’ TAXC E,
bound, 10/6 posted. The Secrets n( j m usic
1/- post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words am by
complete), 1/6 P ost ®d- tJ^PpataT OGUE TO-DAY.
Paine, posted Bd. WRITE lOR CATAL
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Depot, 67 8 69 Market Street, Sydney
Cheap Book


THERMOGENE
WAS
INVENTED
BY A
BELGIAN
CHEMIST
IN BRUSSELS.
The Truth about Thermogene.
Thermogene was discovered by Charles Vanden Broeck, of the Boulevard de
Waterloo, Brussels, a Belgian Chemist of high repute. In the year 1901, Charles
Vanden Broeck sold the British rights of Thermogene to an English Family, who are
the present owners. Since that date Thermogene has been British-owned and
manufactured entirely by British Labour at Hayward’s Heath, Sussex, England.
In S 909, when the steadily increasing demand for Thermogene called for a larger
output and an extension of the factory, the owners formed themselves into a private
limited company, known as the Thermogene Co., Ltd. The Shareholders, seven in
number, were all British, and, although one of the original Shareholders is now deceased,
the entire ownership remains in the hands of the same private British Company.
Thermogene, besides being a British property manufactured in Britain by British
labour, has not only secured the goodwill of the British Public on its own merits, but
is used by the British Red Cross Society and the Royal Navy.
General Manager and Secretary.
THERMOGENE
IS
BRITISH OWNED
AND
BRITISH MADE
BY
BRITISH LABOUR.
INo matter how acute or how long-standing
your pain may be, Thermogene will bring
you comfort and relief.
The joint that is throbbing, the chest that is racked with coughing, the back, the head or limb
that is aching with pain, caused by damp and cold, will find immediate and certain relief
when Thermogene is applied The pain will subside, the aching will cease, and the
genial, comforting warmth will permeate the affected part. Thermogene is a scientifically
prepared, light, dry, fleecy wadding, which entirely supersedes the old-fashioned poultice. It
requires no preparation whatsoever—no boiling water, no mess, no fierce blister-raising heat.
A piece can be taken straight out of the box and applied at once. It can be secured by
means of a simple tape bandage, or may be lightly tacked to the underclothing over the
affected part, and can be worn without the least inconvenience or discomfort night and day.
ABSORBENT
MADDING
Thermogene is Nature’s sovereign remedy for aches and pains.
The secret of its wonderful efficiency lies in its subtly stimulating
effect upon the blood.
At all Chemists, 1/3 per Box.
PR F P Write for our new Illustrated
“ *-*Book on the Thermogene treat-
ment. You will find this little book very in-
teresting, as it describes in detail the action of
Thermogene, and tells you how to get the best
results from its use. Write for a copy now to
Thermogene Bureau, 5 & 7 Barrack Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
FASSETT & JOHNSON,
5 & 7 Barrack Shred, Sydney, N.S.W*
Manufactured by
THERMOGENE Co., Ltd.,
Hayward’s Heath, Sussex, Eng.
m
1 !uP^*rk
Sill
VV V
-A
/... V/V.WS
*
Thermogene Absorbent
Wadding as applied for
the relief of Sciatica,
Lumbago, etc.
BRITISH OWNED and BRITISH MADE by BRITISH LABOUR.


Mother and Child
Baby SYi months.
r-j
Fed
rth on the ‘Allenburys
- cods.
Are you Worried about Baby ?
HOW to feed Baby is often a great worry to
mothers who are unable to nurse their
babies themselves. Ordinary cow’s milk —
however prepared at home —is not a suitable
substitute for the mother’s milk. It is acid in
reaction, contains harmful germs and forms
dense curds in the stomach that cannot be
digested. Decide to use the ‘Allenburys’ Foods
which arc the only series of Foods scientifically
adapted to the growing requirements of the
child. You will be delighted when you see
how well your baby thrives on this Method of
Infant Feeding. The ‘Allenburys’ Foods are free
from all dangerous organisms; they are portable,
being in powder form and packed in sealed tins.
The Milk Foods Nos. 1. and 2 require the addition
of hot water only to prepare them for use.
A PURE. COMPLETE AND PROGRESSIVE DIETARY.
sSllenburgsFcDds
UMILK FOOD No. 1. MILK FOOD No. 2. MALTED FOOD No. 3.
From birth to 3 months From 3 to 7 months From 7 months upwards
Unsolicited Testimony.
A Mother in Couth Australia writes:
Sirs, ’ •
“1 see by your circulars you have pamphlets on infants feeding and
management. Kindly send me one, it may prove very helpful now or
in the future. I have a beautiful boy fed on your foods since infancy,
we tried other foods (not knowing of yours) and they almost killed
hjm, he became so thin and old looking that I felt compelled to have
the doctor’s advice. Directly he saw the child he said he was being
starved, he was nothing but bone ; he told me to try Allen & Hanbury’s
food j and see how they would act. I did so with a marvellous result,
in a week there was a big change, he is now eleven months old and
such a big boy—not flabby fat but proportionate. He is just starting
to walk and has eight teeth so you see his illness has not made him
backward. I feel I cannot say enough for your foods and advertise
them all I can. Trusting you will send the pamphlet I asked for,”
Yours ever grateful,
Mrs. H. Pearson.
A Doctor In New Zealand writes:
Gentlemen,
“It may interest you to know that your Infants Foods are largely
prescribed by us out here and are found to fulfil all they promise
to do. I find the No. i Food most invaluable. The young mother of
to-day seems quite unable to nurse her offspring.”
I am, faithfully yours,
Doctor H. D.
w
&**■**s
# TYRES %
ALL BRITISH
Write for free book “Infant Feeding and Management'
64 pages of valuable information for every mother.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., 13, Market St.. Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 1715.
u
&
THREE
RIBBED
TYRES
are made by a
special process to
withstand the ex-
cessive strain of
tropical climates
and Colonial roads.
They have proved
consistently suc-
cessful under the
most rigorous tests,
and will appeal
strongly to motor-
ists on account of
their staunch ser-
vice and quite ex-
ceptional durability
Write for Booklets to —
GEORGE SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., Ltd.,
77-79, Cannon Street, London, England.
e
Stockists :
MELBOURNE:
MOLLOY & CO.. 129. King Street.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
COTIOX BROS., 2i2, Aladras Street
H Thirsty? I
Don’t be! All you need is a
wax-wrapped packet of this
delicious chewing sweet
WRIGLEYSw
SPEARMINT
It’s refreshing, soothing and
cooling. When you’re dry
and hot it hits the spot. It
helps appetite and digestion
3d. per packet of five big bars, at
Chemists, Confectioners and Stores.
Sample packet by post for three penny stamps from
J. C. GAMBLES & CO., Commerce House, Melbourne.
Ask for free copy of “ WRIGLEY’S MOTHER GOOSE ”
Book.
m
o
o
c
85
9
<#
BE SURE IT’S
WRICLEY’S!
Made in Australia
for Australians
by Australians
Chew it after every meal!
Ams No. 98AT.
Double Seamer.
mm
r —n i t
Do you know
of the superior features of the
MAX AMS complete line of Can-
making Machinery, from the Power
Press or Gang Slitter to the
Double Seamer and Tester?
Have you considered
the value of the AMS features,
and how they would affect your
production figures, convenience of
operating, cost of upkeep, time
in changing from one can diameter
to another, floor space and many
other items too numerous to list
here.
It will cost you nothing
to get these facts, and it may
result in a big saving to you.
ktituf
WE INVITE CORRESPONDENCE on this subject and
would be particularly interested in showing you how the
MAX AMS System will give you greater efficiency and
a greater output per dollar invested.
ASK FOR "BOOKLET W.” NO OBLIGATIONS.
MAX AMS
Machine Company,
Bridgeport, Conn., U.S.A.
Agents :
BERGER. C£L CARTER. CO., San Francisco, Cal*
W. E. HUGHES C&L CO., London, E.C., England.
If any illustration appearing in ,j .he
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
■t. < '
rX
■'JT'V'/
SJ
k P-
K-
&
w
\
W'
mi
tr
x-
-43?
<*>>V
nt
vr-i-"
mu
tn V N b
I * '^V'fV
l\\«^CSSCy
-x
:h
% <’
iLi4^sf
5
■ v^ifcv*»c£4> ,, ** ~! (
te!£s±--
„.fr r C
p ■
■nra
Vi
*m*r
>X
mm
v'
y
SH.T
-
tx>;
«?&!****
f ' h
■-^r
n
/,!
i ?/V
SSS®**
."X
-
X
•1
pi
IT’'*
m
’
JM>X ></''' ■.!..'
ST' y,"' '/ C- -
lift
“ >V
M/
•V
•■'i/:
K ’ll
i :
/ CiSrf'/r <° ✓*-'• --1 '■•'•' '••"■• c '1&*- *l.-uX ,i-vs«Wr** , * ,; *
< r
\ i ■y
®sp
/Wy
///W / A £ ■ /
p ~ •*
I It *3»
'll*
Sfrgt
«M
p % J v&v
fe?*
% %Wi-5
Xflv
3 Ha-;
7.
32>
£4
55 v
t ij * p£m %■
i \ ? /y
m
v**SZi®a«s*
fc-Xf-
KJ W""s
f j
a
%VX'
~%sp
TChJ^V'u-*.-.-.. i
/W
' /
V.l
t
: i-'.
; i. -
ft ~/ / W/J
|i #®~ # /'V/4^
i„ yy ypy
I / /..x/
I J£j/y
ti,/ Ays#
li/ P,f
<s«bM. J4T /• / ///
. yfxp/
r
X“
,>
■/•
. :•
>•:
73
s
i
t:
l c \
’■/ 7
Sf
X/
RB
'
C 7
9
-,r J .
-;'; - t :
/
\
7>x
X
1 h
Pi
'/M
p.
r
y
?5
;-• .-
■y ;
)
*'£jgfr
y - t
M?
*M
■' i j
LP® NtU
«
Cobra” Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Has his
Imitators, too.
H ere with “COBRA”
Blackened face
Isa juvenile
D isgrace,
Playing Chunder
In the yard
Where no sorts of
Gaines are barred.
For smart boys
There is no grief
If they play the
“COBRA” Chief.


'ljfmtwcyrffi. 'ddotel
Sydnc.y. IN.SW.
The Wentworth Garden, with its beautiful surroundings, is
ideal for Luncheons, Dinners, Afternoon Teas, Supper and
Wedding Parties, and all semi-outdoor functions.
Visitors to Sydney will find the Wentworth Hotel most popular,
central and up* to date in all modern conveniences, including telephones
in bedrooms, communicating with the Exchange.
The Appointments, Linen, and Service are superb, and compare more
than favorably with the best Hotels in the Commonwealth.
Terms on application.
Mrs. H. MACLURCAN, Manageress.
THE
t\° N
AL
*r
1 ' -
C.= »
#rr-
<
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858
Capital Paid Up, £1.498.220. Reserve Fund, £610,000.
Reserve Liability of Shareholders, £715.464.
rectors: JOHN GRICE, Esq., Chairman: EDWARD TREXCHARD. Esq., vi^^»™ an :
H. M. STRACHAN, Esq.; J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq. Chief Manager: E. H. BRtron^.
Sydney Office, 60 Pitt St.; and George St. City Office, 350 George St.
Manager: R. S. GREGSON. Accountant : M. T. COSTELLO.
Branches in Victoria, South Australia. Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE: 5 Bishopsgrate, E.C.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The S. M. Herald nearly burst its moral
boiler when it indignantly reported “a most
disgraceful” recruiting meeting last week.
The recruiting officers, it appears, had
hardly commenced operations when a street-
singer and his accomplice, with a degraded
harmonium, arrived nearby and spoiled
their pitch by drawing away the crowd
“until a tactful policeman moved the
singers on.” But this paper thinks it was
most unfair of the policeman. If the
authorities are content to assemble armies
on side-show fines, there should, anyhow,
be fair competition.
None of Hughes's new-fangled Protection
for 'Siali Thomas, the Federal Laborite
from Broken Hill! Treasurer Higgs said
the Australian Government had no desire
to continue to receive so much as
£15.000,000 in Customs revenue. “Then,”
said ’Siah, “do you want ships to come
out in ballast for our wheat, instead of
bringing goods?” 'Siah, who has an idea
that he is a very devil of a wild Socialist,
is really a sort of twin brother of B. Smith
and the most respectable old English Tory
iu the Reps.; so The Bulletin has no
hope of ever convincing him that, with a
tariff, we might presently get a population
to eat our own wheat. Precisely why we
should send gram 15,000 miles to Europe
to feed people who are doing things for us
that we might do for ourselves, nobody but
Bruce Smith’s twin-brother can explain.
The uumber of new industries that neu-
tral nations have started since the Hun blew
Belgium to bits is astonishing. Someone was
lately bemoaning the scarcity <>f enamel ware
in Australia, and wondering why it wnsn t
made here. Of course it is made in Australia
but there is n.» need now to keep the indus-
try going, because considerable quantities
are coming forward through England. It is
branded "Ivor. Sweden.' with a small
Swedish flag burnt in. The consular cer-
tificates. etc., are all in order, and the stuff
-may be Scandinavian : still, what if it is?
What does it profit the Australian manu-
facturer to be saved from being squeezed
to death by the German if his life is to be
crushed out of him by the Swede?
In the House of Commons somebody
asked - Asquith for an assurance that mil-
lions of people will not be driven back to
starvation wages when the war is over. In
reply Asquith the Unready merely asked:
“How can I give that assurance?”. instead
of saying (with an oath if he liked t : “There
shall be no more starvation wages if the
Government eau help it.” Anyhow, he gave
the munition workers no encouragement to
redouble their efforts. The only assistance
they can be sure of getting from the Asquith
Government is fair wages whilst the war
lasts. After that? Well, the Free-
trader thinks of his dear old friends, the
large employers of labor, and asks: “How
do / know?”
N.S.W. Attorney-General Hall is at any
rate a cheerful ass. At the State Premiers'
Conference in Adelaide last week the pic-
nickers were expressing apprehension about
the unemployment there would be if the
troops happened to come back in the absence
of copious supplies of loan, and they re-
fused to be comforted until Hall threw the
light of a brilliant intellect across the
gloom. “Oh. they won't all be unemployed,”
he explained, “because the increased demand
for bread will require the exertions of 5<k 5
additional bakers.” Yes. and if they will
eat cake, with icing and figures of doves on
the top of it, there will be room for 1000
confectioners. Then if everybody has a 10-
course dinner, it will call for 5000 cooks
and 10,000 waiters, with 500 to make tooth-
picks. Why, it all seems quite easy now
that Hall's radiance has lit the dark.
DELIGHTFUL ECOYOMY.
The Acting-Premier is overjoyed at the fact that
his department has carried out certain works at New-
castle at under the estimated cost. —Sydney paper.
GRANNY: “My goodness! What are you
doing?”
THE OVERJOYED ACTING-PREMIER: "Hoo-
ray! Just spent an unnecessary mil-
lion and saved one and tuppence. Hoo-
ray!"
Now we know what The Argus means
when, mumbling over polities, it talks about
the wisdom of proceeding cautiously:—
Major-General Gorringe's army was within 17
miles of Kut-el-Amara when that place fell. Sime
that time the British have no doubt proceeded
cautiously, and apparently are now practically
where they were a month ago.
The Argus knows which is the greatest
machine ever invented. It is the treadmill,
of course.
All this ground and lofty oratory by our
Mr. Hughes about the Allies blotting out
the enemy with tariffs, boycotts, etc., can
bo summarised in one sentence: “The hand
that blocks the trade'll rule the world.”
WAR PROFITS.
THE CROWN PRINCE: “Yes, father, der cost
is terrible. But I must have enough to
make me a Field-Marshal’s uniform."
The War Pensions Act, as amended, pro-
vides that a married soldier totally incap-
acitated and with one child shall be paid
£2 10s. a week. If he has a second child
he gets an extra 10s. a week ; but he has to
have three more children before he gets
a second 10s. Apparently the Govern-
ment reckons that the parents of one or
two young Australians are entitled to con-
sideration, but that anything larger in the
way of a family is rather an impertinence.
The Vic. Chamber of Commerce has
resolved that the Federal Parliament be
urged to prohibit the importation of enemy
goods after the war, and to arrange a sys-
tem whereby neutral goods shall be certified
as being produced or manufactured in those
countries. And who is going to do the certi-
fying? The Customs were lately warned
about a consignment of ladies' fancy leather
bags. They were certified all right as
Yankee; but experts were ready to swear
they were German. Importers themselves
had doubts; but they were cheap, and that
settled the argument. The simple and dead-
easy solution is an unsealeable tariff; but.
then, how would the Chamber of Commerce
live?
In moving at the Hobart “Labor” Con-
gress a resolution expressing uncompromis-
ing hostility to the “conscription of life and
labor,” and declaring war against any
attempt to “foist conscription” on the people
of Australia, one Howard said -
When they thought of the teeming millions of
India and the teeming millions of Russia and of
the Allied countries, it would not make the slightest
difference, as far as the successful termination of the
war was concerned, if conscription of males was
brought about.
It is a pretty dreadful argument that we
ought not to bother about protecting our
liberties if anyone else will do it for us;
still it seemed to go with the “Labor” Con-
gress, for the motion was passed unani-
mously.
There is a man in Maoriland who cocked
his hat on three hairs when he heard about
John Bull going in for daylight saving. This
is T. K. Sidey, who sits in the House of
Reps, as member for Caversham. Nearly
every session for about 15 years Sidey. u
mild-spoken, faded-looking Liberal, solemnly
introduced his Daylight Saving Bill, and
after earnestly explaining its admirable fea-
tures saw it booted out. Daylight saving with
Sidey was a holy crusade, and had it not
been for the ponderous witticisms of the
bucolic Massey and the cow-cockies from
Taranaki he would by his sheer persistence
have carried the innovation long ago. But
faith in what J. Bull does is strong enough
to move mountains in M.L., and there will
be a loud howl directly from Dunedin for
national economy in candles and a knight-
hood for Tam Sidey.
After spending a couple 0 f weeks „
ting with two or three public questions ff!'
ing a mock debate on a m.Kk RuS ° ld ;
expeditiously issuing orders to inf/ 1 ; anil
fnv f~,0.10,000. .h 0
which had just had fi,!'.
months' holiday, bolted £
\'vh k f int ‘' . recess
W hat justification the**
people are going to advance
for their cynical neglect f
<lut.v this patter ,etu2
guess What it hwws k
that the neglect is without
parallel. Industrially and
financially the country i s
m a state of chaos. 'rCl
problems of war are many
The problems of peace are
clamoring for attention
They are all allowed to e„
to Hades. The sole obje<-
tive is to avoid responsi-
bility, throttle criticism
and squander cash.
Even the Argus has
taken to patting the tiger
and calling him Towser
Concerning the activities
of the Imperial Govern-
ment Supply Department
uf Maoriland. the dear old
lady declared the other day
that the affair “had demon-
strated the fact that a
Government department
can be run upon strictly
business lines,” the Admin-
istration having handled
over £10.000,000 worth of
meat and cheese since the
date mentioned, “to sav
nothing of the distribution
of butter to camps and
transports, and the scheel-
ite and kauri-gum exports.”
The timid old lady will yet be discovered
furtively offering the savage animal a saucer
of milk and the hearthrug in the drawing-
room.
The Speck s Public Works Department is
prepared to put up a good fight against
all-comers in a championship contest to
settle who is able to spend the maximum
amount of money on a given job with the
minimum result. Recently it built a
miles tramway to carry limestone from Mel-
rose to Devonport for the Broken Ilill Prop.
Co., and on this simple little job it managed
to work off nearly £3O.(XK) of borrowed coin.
One little incident which helped to this re-
sult was that an official or two were bowled
out in stuffing the paysheet and pocketing
the wages of non-existent toilers. About
the same time the Broken Hill Frop. itself
was building a very similar tramway for the
handling of its iron ore at Iron Knob (S.A.).
For about £70,000 it got 35 miles of tram-
way, a pier 180 ft. long ( with accessories for
the shipping of the ore) and a number of
cottages for its employees.
TIME.
London, Monday.—The daylight-saving came into
operation to-day, when all clocks in the United King-
dom were advanced one hour. — Cable.
THE FACE AT THE WINDOW: “ Himmel! He
is putting der clock on. Gott! If I
could only put it back!"
Keep, president of the \ ictorian Em-
ployers’ Association, wants to pat fi' es
life into the Liberal party in ' ictoim.
Meanwhile Premier Holman and some others
are trying to help Liberalism by putting
fresh death into the Labor movement eteiy
where.
THE PARABLE OF BLOGGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He had a decent job and liked
The racecour.se and the bar,
And did not mean to give these tip
To hasten to the war.
The powers agreed 't would not be right
To force young Willie Bloggs to fight !
He lived a pleasant sort of life;
His girl was passing fair;
His only worry was he had
Of late been losing hair.
His friends departed, one by one,
To make things nasty for the Hun.
Soon when recruiting posters met
His gaze, upon liis brow
Sat trouble; when lie read “Your King
And Country need you now !”
He sometimes felt his color rise,
And would not meet his Phoebe's eves.
It seemed to Bloggs, as time went on,
The whole world had conspired
To force him khaki cloth to don ;
Large jaws that never tired,
Allied with paunches round and sleek,
Urged him a uniform to seek.
The bar where, when his work was done,
lb garnered Bacchic fire
Was closed ; but still to fight the Hun
Was not young Bloggs' desire;
And e’en when racing was curtailed,
To seek enlistment Willie failed.
Next flappers whom he knew by sight
Approached him in the street
And gave him feathers large and white,
Instead of glances sweet.
He cleaned his pipe with them : but, still,
These presentations worried Will.
Young men in uniform arrayed
At corners he would meet.
Who asked him to enlist and made
Remarks anent his feet :
He swallowed insults by the score.
But loved his “freedom” more and more.
And then his firm began to think
Of sacking single men.
Although it caused his heart to sink,
Bloggs saw in marriage then
His only chance; and sorrow’s crown
He wore when Phoebe turned him down!
He still held out, until one day
The grand surrender came.
To the Town Hall he made his way
And handed in his name.
He shortly went to camp and then
Fair Phoebe's smiles were his again.
His bosses shook him by the hand,
Stout oldsters bought him beer,
Because, I trust you understand,
He was a volunteer — -
One of the kind that's worth much more
Than laggard “pressed” men by the score!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


PALING’S PIANOS
and PLATER PIANOS
Sames Piano
Model 94.
Good to Look at —
Good to Play upon
The ordinary piano-buyer knows very little about what
is most important in a new piano. Therefore, it is most
important to take our advice. WE, with our vast experience
of successful and honest piano-selling, know real piano value
and are not satisfied till we get it. YOU, when you buy a
Piano or Player Piano at Paling’s, get the benefit of this in
lasting satisfaction.
Chappell
Bijou
Grand.
See the . ,
Chappell Pianos
and Sames Pianos
When a piano leaves our showrooms we
have the satisfaction of knowing that we have
given the customer genuine value, whether the
purchase made was an exquisite Boudoir Grand,
a massive Upright Grand, or an ordinary
Cottage Model. Every piano we sell sells
another, because of its beautiful tone-quality
and extraordinary durability in severe climates.
We will gladly write
you full particulars.
Hsass
Hear the . .
Estey Pianos
and Victor Pianos
If you have an old piano we shall be pleased
to take it in exchange for a new Piano or
Player Piano, and allow you its honest valua-
tion.
We cordially invite you to call at our ware-
house and inspect the beautiful models now
showing. If you cannot conveniently call, please
Write for Free Catalogue
and printed Price List.
W. H. PALING ca CO. LTD.
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Brisbane, Toowoomba
Newcastle &. Lismore
Harringtons
A FREE BOOK ON PHOTOGRAPHY
For the Beginner, the Advanced Amateur,
and, above all, for the Intending Photographer.
HARRINGTONS' HANDBOOK OF
PHOTOGRAPHY
A Complete and Up-to-date General Price List, and Ten Chapters of
Valuable Information and Advice that will be particularly useful to the
Beginner in Photography.
DO NOT BUY A CAMERA TILL YOU HAVE FIRST OF ALL
CONSULTED HARRINGTONS’ HANDBOOK OF PHOTOGRAPHY.
IT IS FREE.
SEND US YOUR NAME NOW.
lIP
Photographic anti Cinematographic Merchants,
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Auckland & Wellington, N.Z.
Ik Recalls with Pleasure
and comments on it to the partner of his life’s joys
and sorrows how 30, or even 50 years ago he bought
his engagement ring from Fairfax and Roberts. How
often we hear that remark made, and of late years
it has often been our pleasure and' privilege to sell
Engagement Rings to men whose grandfathers bought
Engagement Rings from us over tjrree-quarters of a
century ago.
It is indicative of the Australian character for
constancy that our oldest customers to-day are our
best customers, and many—very many—old customers
leave design and price absolutely to us.
Years of experience have shown them that we know
more of Diamonds than they do, and th<ty trust to us.
No house the world over does Dialmonds better
than we do.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
PLAIN FIGURF.S-
-CASH ONLY.
'/ 6ou§/i( dcm 8t
Fawfax'sgohertj;
50years ago.':
>-
... ■
“ Pyjama time ”
is his time for using
DEVIL’S PUZZLE MATCHBOX.
The Matchbox, which is different from ail
other puzzle-boxes. You’ll never open it until
you read the directions. Made of Nickel-plate,
beautifully finished. Without doubt the most
ingenious Puzzle Matchbox that has ever been
made. Pi.ce, Post Free, with Instruc-
tions, 2/-
Jokes, Puzzles, Tricks,
Novelti es.
Write lor our New >ovelty
Catalog—lT’S FREE.
SHOCKING
•CIGARETTE
CASE.
A splendid have.
No sooner do yon
open the case than
you drop it as
quickly.
Post Free, 9<l.
H
. L. Hutchinson Ltd.,
708-710 G iprge Street, iteynaarket, Sydney.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
This is war-time ! Minutes are
precious. Be up and doing.
Waste no time. Shave your-
self. Do it quickest and
safest with the
NO STROPPINO NO HONINt
Sold everywhere, 23/6. British Made.
Write for free booklet. Agents: S.
Hoffnung & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney;
Gillette Safety Razor, Ltd., London, Eng.
Too cowardly to admit their guilt the
Hons add to their colossal crime by insist-
ently accusing the innocent, indignant!,
affirms that royal spirit, King George It • top
notch Scotch. — AdyT.
EORGE HOTEL*
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
The Australia Hotel
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Te'epho^e.,
P.O. Box 1610. , o
The Premier Hotel of Austral** •
Has accommodation for 30°
and double Bedrooms and S u ,, { Vqtpr Auto-
room attached. Hot and Cold . jj ea t e rs
matic Telephones and of
throughout. Visitors ha\e the P ra ting’-
the American or European riat .t, in
Two special Grill-rooms are attain'
addition to Main Dining-room, • j ar g e st
Guests. The Winter gf
in Australasia, and is the for
the Elite of Sydney, who Theatre.
i , H™h“te"r , SiS P ta r n.U* M».ic »>«
Single Rooms from 18/6 P er lla> '
including Telephone.
Double Rooms from 32/6 pe ■ ’
including Telephone.
Room and Breakfast fioni
per day. ,
Suites of Apartments^
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Pommy horses are earning more hay than
they can devour these times. Two of them got
away with the big prizes at the Adelaide meeting-
on Saturday, Polybius winning the City Handicap
(£750) and Cyklon helping himself to the £5OO
hung up for the Parkside Stakes. Polybius belongs
to Walter Hickenbotham, who seldom has anything
of his own much above the ordinary these days.
The last good one he had was Fidelio. Polybius
made no mistake and romped home three lengths
in front of the unlucky lownit, covering the seven
furlongs in lmin. 27Jsec. In Sydney alone this
season imported animals have won 21 races, includ-
ing the Challenge Stakes, with which Quinn’s Post
bolted at 50 to 1. Others, William the Silent and
Green Cap, were second in the Metropolitan Stakes
and Sydney Cup respectively.
'** * *
Anybody bringing a horse to Sydney from
Maoriland is the cause of awful suffering among
punters. They remember the memorable day on
which Maorilanders secured every event on the
programme at a big Randwick meeting. Barley
King is a case in point. Except that he showed
pace at Warwick Farm about two months ago there
was nothing to justify the take-vour-boots-off rush
which set in for him as soon as betting began on
rhe first division of the Park Stakes at Canterbury
( Sydney) on Saturday. Wild-eyed citizens swooped
into the Land of Israel waving such large wads that
Moses rushed for shelter and asked 6 to 4 against.
He finished fifth.
* * * *
The push which aids and abets the pony
owner by hanging up cash for him to chase is
making hay while the boom lasts. For last meeting
at Victoria Park (Sydney) 304 entries were re-
ceived. This is proudly claimed as “a record.” To
allow all the ponies a chance to start, the “sport”
was commenced at noon. The time is more than
ripe for something to he done about this sort of
thing. It is getting indecent.
* * * *
Randwick trainer Kelso and the lads
associated with his stable are having an innings.
Twice -within the past month Kelso has picked up a
double on outside courses with his own nags, and
his lads Pike and Meddiek have been kicking home
more than their share of winners. At Canterbury
Park (Sydney) on Saturday, Meddiek nearly per-
formed the hat trick. He was aboard Lace Front,
backed from twelves down to 5 to 1, in the Nursery,
and followed it up by steering Albuna to the
front in Canterbury Handicap. Had Valior not
shown so much toe in the Welter Mile Meddiek
would have been first to reach the judge on top of
the equal favorite Malheur. About the best perform-
ance of this boy was when he won the Melbourne
Cup on L. K. s! Mackinnon’s Kingshurgh. Only the
wonderfully fine condition of the mannikin enabled
the horse to down Sir Alwynton by a short neck in
record time. Meddiek is a ball of muscle and is
always as fit as a fiddle. Pike on Saturday won
the Flying Handicap on Herbie, who had not won
in these parts since landing a similar event a
couple of months hack. Herbie’s proprietor, V.
Berney, also got away with the second division of
the Park Stakes with Ruenalf Maid.
* * * *
Because the stewards didn’t like the way
she performed at Gosford recently Amuse has been
sent into retirement for a year with her owner
(McLean) and the jockey (McCabe) to keep her
company. Amuse was a fair performer. Some time
ago she ran a- close second to Willow Green in the
Rosehill Handicap, but a week later went one better
and appropriated the Moorefield Handicap. Early
in her career the frivolous damsel was trained at
Randwick, but crossed to Bananaland, where she won
several races. McCabe must have received the shock
of his life. He was in Brisbane with engagements
to fulfil on Saturday when the joyful news was sent
to him. Owner and rider are appealing to the
A.J.C. to have a look into the matter.
• * • *
Brisbane two-year-old Amberdown stands
out of the ruck. Ridden by Myles Connell the
youngster won the Stradbroke Handicap on Satur-
day, beating the consistent La Steppe by a head.
A' week earlier La Steppe finished just in front of
Amberdown in Brisbane Thousand, which was a
furlong further than Saturday’s dash. La Steppe
gave the winner a heap of weight—over three stone
—-so that the honors were with her. The only Syd-
ney nag to do any good at the meeting was Secret
Service. Ulva’s Isle could get no nearer than third
in the King’s Plate, w.f.a. This looks like some-
thing worth thinking over. Bananaland prads are
seldom good for an investment in Sydney, but on
their own ground nearly always manage to down
the cracks from outside. Apparently they are firm
State Righters.
t> * * * *
Paddy Piggott, a once famous jockey —
amongst other winners he rode Chester in the Mel-
bourne Cup and V.R.C. Derby of ’77 —is in Brisbane
Hospital. He was employed at Noud’s training
stables at Ascot. A horse trod upon his foot and
blood poisoning followed. Up to the time of the
accident the old-timer used to “ride work” in the
mornings, and wouldn’t knock off until his hoof
became too bad to stand oh.
* * * *
The Australian-liorse boom in racing in
India looks like a thing of the past. At the Cal-
cutta meeting on February 5 only five of the 39
runners hailed from these parts. At the meeting a
week later only three out of the 34 were of Aus-
tralian birth and pedigree. India is no longer a
profitable market for Australian prads, the slump
being due to several sultry-priced purchases having
been easily downed by cheap animals from Fogland.
So the fashion just now is to drag horses from the
North, the idea being that they are both better and
cheaper than those from the South, and the brutal
truth is that they are.
Gilgandra (X.S.W.) Jockey Club is
going to run a dry race meeting next month, partly
because Bung declined to give more than £7 10s.
for the right to make it wet, and partly “because
it would be a blessing to the bookmakers not to be
delayed in their work by persons under the influence
of drink.” Meanwhile the local Stiggins is won-
dering whether these reasons are a revelation of
piety or hypocrisy. But Ikey won’t mind. He’ll get
the lot now.
Over in the Speck something different is happen-
ing. There the Devonport Racing Club is inviting
Bung to tender for the irrigation rights, it .being
explained that this is necessary because the official
auctioneer is ill in bed and the other auctioneers
in the district, being on the: waggqn, “have con-
scientious objections to doing business” with anj
thing in the soda.
* * *
Two good horsemen passed from ietorian
courses lately—Charley Wakefield, amateur, ki e
in a pony-race at Yarra Glen; and J. 1 .
pro., fatally damaged by falling with Expeditio e
at Epsom. Wakefield made his first stir by riding
Quarry Park a winner at 100 to 3, and set the stipes
looking to see if he had a battery concealed in his
ear or somewhere. Edwards was one of the bo e s
cross-timber riders in Vic., and in bygone years gare
some dashing displays on Leah Kleshna. He was a
rare judge of pace and won many of his races in
the run over the last hurdle. His two biggest
wins were on Zephuron, in the 1 .R C. Granu
National Steeple a couple of seasons ago, and on
Battleship at Caulfield. Edwards had a nasty ride
recently at Mentone when Expeditioner, a good
jumper when he liked and a rotten one yyhen he
didn’t, ran off and then bolted. Edwards pulled
the brute on to the training track, then back on to
the steeple course, and there managed to stop up.
It’s a desperate game riding over fences, and to
to the top men have to take a lot of risks that
punters never notice. #
Died recently, a very ancient English
jockey who rode a historical second for the Derby.
It was in 1857, and Jim Covey’s mount was a rank
outsider—Black Tommy, owned by a miserable old
hunks named Drinkald. Black Tommy had been
treated as a joke. One of the bets laid against him
yvas £2OOO to a suit of clothes, Drinkald stipulating
that the togs should be inexpensive. He posed as
the infatuated owner of a tenth-rate prad yvho was
running it in the Derbv to please his vanity. Rut
when the field came flashing down the straight with
Black Tommy in front, Drinkald’s wicked old head
lost its cunning. The dark horse seemed to get
first past the post, and Drinkald threw up his hat
and chuckled aloud: “Won a hundred thousand
pounds, by God, and not another soul has got a
penny on it!” His delight in bis own good fortune
was less pronounced than his joy in the thought
that he had no friends to share it. Then he found
that he had viewed the finish from a flattering
angle. The judge decided that another outsider had
pipped Black Tommv on the post. The immortal
turf story of Drinkald’s fond delusion must have
given origin to the axiom that you never can tell
till the numbers are up.
* * * *
Randwick, which is popularly regarded as
the home of horse owners, trainers, punters, bookies
and jockeys, leads the Sydney Metropolitan area in
rifle shooting, supplying seven teams to the three
grades of the championship. Four of these are from
the Randwick Literary Institute. It seems to be
an unusually militant kind of Institute.
* * * *
A Yankee writer recently mentioned three
marvellous cases of racing horses showing excep-
tional form on the turf after meeting with bad acci-
dents. The famous Waterbird broke his hip-bone
near the socket when running in a race at Morris
Park (U.S.A.), and although it was thought he
would have to be destroyed, he was patched up and
the following season became champion of the Yankee
turf. When running in the Saratoga Handicap of
1903 a nag named South Trimble was thrown against
the rails and had his skull so badly smashed that
his owner was going to destroy him. But a cley-er
vet. objected and made an astonishing save. The
following year South Trimble appeared in public
with a silver plate where his frontal bone used to
be, and it didn’t prevent him from winning a lot
of good races. Another great prad got so much
knocked about that it was decided to remove about
an inch of the metacarpal nerve—a very ticklish
operation. It saved the moke and he proved a
better speed animal the next season than he had
ever been before.
* * * *
The Maori’s hospitality to the pakelia,
once the latter has ingratiated himself into the
native’s confidence, is as limitless as the seas, and
is often carried so far as to be positively injurious
to the Maori himself. For instance: A native race
meeting was organised at Otaki. Maoris acted in
all capacities, from judge to jockey. But a pakeha
trainer lived at Otaki, and he was beloved and
honored with the respect due to a king of the turf,
especially as he rode his own horses at the local
meeting. • Qn these occasions he was the victim of
much lionising, and when he breasted the tape he
yvas invariably- given the inside running. One race
day the native starter, in a spontaneous outburst of
enthusiasm for the white race, determined to break
all precedents and shoyv his appreciation in a tangible
way. A race yvas about to start, and the usual
confusion yvas being experienced at the post. But
the starter only had eyes for the white man, and,
regardless of the Maori-ridden prads, he waited until
the pakeha and his nag had secured the best position.
Then, fearful lest the other horses might suddenly
come into the line, he cried: “Are you ready,
Charlie?” and Charlie nodding in the affirmative, the
starter y-elled “Go!”
# ■ * * *
“Barcoo”: Fur the .frnre article give me
amateur grass-fed racing. A year or so ago, at one
of the leading centres on the Central Queensland
railyvay, the horses were paddocked for the forth-
coming congregation of “sports.” Two horses be-
longing to friends were exactly alike in color, con-
formation and height. The 'brands were alike as to
the first letter and numeral, -and after a little
scientific plucking the two were almost undistinguish-
able. One nag was to carry almost top weight; the
other was near the minimum. When the races came
off the lightweight accepted. He romped off with
the “double,” and left by train for the “siding’
where the other had been turned out. The oyvner
removed a white star from the prad’s forehead
before releasing him.
* - * * *
Buck Crouse, of the U.S.A., who has'his
first battle in Australia with Darcy on Saturday,
had three rounds yvith Harry Marquet and performed
like a tradesman. Buck is a cheerful, hefty-looking
customer. He seems to know his job. He cer-
tainly yy ill know a bit more about it in a day
or two, because Darcy is feeling very well just now
and knows his job too.
La victorie! Ferdinand Quendreaux, who
had taken a walloping from Frank O’Connor at
Sydney Stadium a few months ago, put the punch
which counts on to Frank in the ninth at Brisbane
on Saturday. O’Connor, after that first meeting,
went on his conquering yvay through five successive
knock-outs. Then pugdom took a tumble to his
right syy-ing. and there were frequent playings of
the Dead March, with someone else O’Conqueror.
Surely the performance doesn’t call for another
encore. #
Mick King was in fine nick for sprinting
on Saturday night at Melbourne, and made the
elderly-looking Fritz Holland do a strenuous run.
Fritz' wanted fight and hinted to this effect with
solid rights to the head and body; but Mick yvas
usnallv half-way to somewhere else yvhen they
arrived and took delivery yvhen the sting had evap-
orated. Holland yvas leading at half-time, but at
this stage Michael commenced dropping his left
into Fritz’s face, lifting himself away each time
with great precipitancy. The harder Fritz tore into
the frav the more abrupt was the bump. Result.
Verdict" for Mick. Holland had the worst of the
luck on the toss up. It was one of those disturb-
ances in which judgment hinged on whether the
referee thought most of Continued aggressiveness or
defence in retreat. Anyhow, it was up to Mick to
have a win. # *
Llew Edwards, the Lonsdale belt holder,
who has been fluctuating between the feather and
lightweight divisions since coming to Australia,
pulled on the gloves with Herb McCoy at
Stadium on Saturday and proceeded to show the
Victorian several points in the game. McCoy couiu
do nothing with
him and was out-
boxed from first
to last. The lim-
ber, quickly-shift-
ing Englishman
W'as not to be
rushed with the
kind of stuff
McCoy usually wins
with." His left is
an awkward thing
to get past, and a right that
is swift to move looks un-
pleasant to meet. The fre-
quent arrival of that left in
the commissariat department
and its habit of suddenly
appearing on the end of
his nose warned McCoy to
beware. For the first half
of the scrap the Australian,
though beaten, held his end
up fairly well. The rest
of the journey was a pil-
grimage of misery. In the
thirteenth and fourteenth
rounds he was on the verge
of being passed out, and
only weathered the rest of
the* gale by rapidly retreat-
ing and hanging on. By
the end of the twentieth he
had t n ken a rare hiding and
■was mighty glad to adiourn.
Edwards has not the same
kick as McCoy, but as a
boxer he is an artist.
LLE W EDWARDS.
“Hold my coat!” says the Collingwood
lad who is about to make things willing But Miss
Collingwood, when determined to “mix it, uoesn t
worrv about her coat. At the local court, M .
Margaret McOrmish charged Elsie McMahon, a boot-
factorv damsel, with assault, for which Elsie was
fined 10s. —merely for “four or five good upper-cuts
On the auestion of disrobing, one witness said
that before the ultimatum was issued she heard
Elsie exclaim: “Hold my hat while I get at her.
A girl will hazard almost anything except her hat.
The Rev. P. Mullineux, who captained
the English football team to Australia in the late
’9o’s, turned up in Wellington (M.L.) the other
day, having worked his way over from Frisco on
the Moana in order to enlist. He has been sky-
piloting among the seamen of ’Frisco for some time
past. When he couldn’t stand it any longer, he
approached his Bishop for leave to quit. Ihe
Bishop said no —he looked to “Mull” for the finances
of the mission. “Mull” then asked if he would be
allowed to get awav if the. sugar was guaranteed
for a vear, and the Bish said, “My oath, ’ or some-
thing like that. So the game little half-back chucked
in his salary for the year, roped in other funds,
and, penniless, approached Capt. Stringer for a job
on the Moana. Stringer gave him a berth for ard
and, right through, the skv-pilot took his watch
with the scrub-broom or down below' with the shovel.
Said he thought he knew the sailor-man through
and through, but found it was only his shore-going
veneer he knew. Now he knows him right to
the backbone, and reckons his was a profitable trip.
He is wearing the khaki of a private in the M.L.
ambulance now.
• * * *
Jim Cameron, the Glebe (Sydney) foot-
baller who has “signed on” for the third time,
sniffed powder at Rabaul and Gallipoli. It w T as_ a
Turkish bomb which sent him back to N.S.W. ;
now, patched up, he is off for another dash towards
the goal posts.
* * * *
Troubles with uproarious players in
N.S.W. Rugby League are not going to end with
milk-and-water chastisement. On successive week-
ends unruly offenders have been ordered off by the
referee; but the League blessed one erring brother
with a week’s stand-down, and the worst that two
others received was a caution. On Saturday another
player was sent off. How about giving him a purse
of sovereigns ? Unless the League does the sensible
thing it will find the heroes who use their fists
instead of kicking the ball increasingly difficult to
handle.
* * * *
N.S.W. Rugby League’s policy of cutting
out 10 per cent, of the “gate” for patriotic purposes
is turning in a fair handful. Four rounds have
already gathered about £150; but if the affluent
League had trebled the percentage to help those who
are doing their bit with the gun instead of booting
a football, it would have achieved something better
worth throwing bouquets about.
* * * *
As a trooper in a Light Horse regiment
Albert Cotter is bowling nearly as well as he ever
did in his civilian days. He began the season in
Cairo by getting five wickets for 15 against the
Gezira Sporting Club. That is not to sav that the
club is weak. Cotter's regiment, which contains
at least three other first-class cricketers, only won
by 26 runs. <
* * * *
“Myhn” : Exit the last of the male mem-
bers of the most famous cricket family the world
has known. Dr. H. M. Grace, the father, ceased to
prescribe for his patients as far back as 1871. His
enthusiasm for the game knew no bounds. George
Frederick, the baby, followed in 1880, aged 30 just
a fortnight after making “a pair” in the first test
match played in England. It was in this match
that W.G. made his famous 152, and Billv u,
doc-h went better with 153 not out. Henry the
firstborn, was the next to cease troubling the'scnJi
—Nov., 1895, aged 62. Then there was a 2
break till 1911, when Edward Mills, 69, i n a wav
as remarkable a player as W.G., had a trip
Charon’s Ferry ; and William Gilbert, the Great fin
ished his innings in October, 1915. Alfred ’ the
second son, kept going till a few days ago, when hr
innings closed at 76. He was thus'the patriarch nt
the family. W.G., E.M. and G.F. played in
tests; Henry and Alfred were good batsmen' in less
important company in earlier days. Four out of
the five were doctors.
* * * *
Jack Marsh, outed at Orange last week
was the greatest bowler N.S.W. cricket ever s hel’
tered. But he was a darky troubled with manners
which white brother found it often impossible to
put up with. In Svdnc.v premier cricket he captured
the greatest number of wickets three years in succes-
sion (1901-1901). In 23 premierships the oniv
other trundlers to get the “greatest wickets” honor
more than once have been S. Austin (’95-’96 and
’97-’9B), and A. J. Bowden (1906-7 and 1908-9)
His ability to bowl straight and fast was uncannv
In the professional ped. boom days of the ’9o's
brothers Larry and Jack Marsh were “even-timers”’
who boiled over many a pot. Lithe, and a bundle
of muscle, Jack Marsh was an athlete of great possi-
bilities, if his enemy could have been cgst into
darkness among thousands of other devils.
Marsh had been on a bad wicket this last few years,
wandering round the country mostly, looking for
work without much enthusiasm. Six weeks ago he
struck Orange. One night last week he turned up in
a billiard room. It is alleged that he started to
throw things about. Anyhow, the next that trans-
pired was a badly knocked about blackfellow at the
hospital just in time to die. Subsequently a couple
of -arrests were made. Jack was bom at Yugilbar
(N.S.W.) and his innings closed at 42.
* * * *
N.S.W. All-Schools’ champion, J. H.
Leadlev, was the only winner of two races at Syd-
ney ’Varsity sports last week. He gathered the
100yds. in llsec., and 220yds. in 24isee. Others
who graduated with first-class honors were R.
Potter’s 440yds. in 55sec. —1 4-ssec. better than
his effort in 1915; and K. M. Garrett’s broad jump
of 21ft. The meeting was held on a mudheap.
* * * *
Central Cumberland’s “all powers” motor-
cycle championship at Rooty Hill (N.S.W.) gave
the 7h.p. Excelsior its opportunity. Driven by B.
Wiekham, the machine at one part of the trial
whirled along at 80 miles an hour and afterwards,
from a standing start, put a half-mile behind in
35sec.
* * * *
A fine tribute to Anthony Wilding was
given by a French Cabinet Minister when the war
was only threatening: “Many of our young men,
fired by his example, have added at least five years
to their lives since they began to use the punchball,
run on the track and eschew late hours at caffe. We
in France have always envied the British method of
physical training, of inculcating discipline by games.
In a sudden emergency, such as the mobilisation of
our young manhood, this factor would be of supreme
value.” Wallis Myers, the English veteran, analyses
and compares Brookes and Wilding in his biography
of the lat'ter. “Brookes had more inherent genius. He
was the artist, Anthony the athlete... .Brookes may
be described as a born player; Wilding was essen-
tially a player brought to maturity by assiduous
practice.” On a hard court Wilding was practically
unbeatable. On grass his extraordinary physical
fitness —he had no vices and no “parlor tricks” —was
always liable to bring him through in any company.
Wilding won the world's championship at Winibledon
four times, but always with Brookes away. “Norman
is perfectly' sure,” he said himself, “both before and
during a match, that nothing but some dreadful catas-
trophe could ever cheat him of victory.” So, when a
great English authority says that he “can only call
to mind one who was so evidently confident and self-
reliant as Wilding,” it must be the other Australian
champion that he meant. Their last time together
in U.S.A., the week after war was declared—they
won back the Davis Cup for Australasia, after beating
a jolly pair of Germans —who were gathered in by a
British warship on their way home afterwards. Then
the one other great interest of Wilding's life, motor-
ing, took him to the British transport-service in
France, where he did fine work till he was killed.
The cheap animal goes on its conquering
way! At the big Noo Yark dog show lately an
Airedale terrier named Vickery Amen Gem, compet-
ing against many famous tykes that had cost hun-
dreds of quids, was declared to be the best in her
class. Y’et the lady’s pedigree was a blank, one
had been bought bv the exhibitor in a London dog-
pound for 16s. She won the first time she was
exhibited, and now bags what is practically the cha -
pionship of the planet. And why shouldnt
cheap quadruped do big things, anyhow? The cheap
man elbows his way through mighty often.


a
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
YOU WILL BE
SURPRISED
how you can build up your strength by a Course of
Physical Culture under My
Postal Instruction.
The results you will secure, even after the first month’s
tuition, will be sufficient proof of the efficiency of my
methods.
Learn a good system, such as mine is, where every move-
ment is prescribed for the reason that it will effect
improvement rapidly and permanently.
I simply study your individual physical shortcomings, and
then map out a course to meet your requirements.
Read this extract from a pupil’s letter after only two
months’ training:—
“I have gained 91b. in weight, and my chest has
expanded 1-Jin. Indigestion and constipation have
entirely disappeared, and I feel much fresher in the
morning than ever I did.” 11. M., Riverstone, N.S.W.
So be guided by the experience of others.
Be wise in time. Write for a copy of my profusely-
illustrated Booklet, “Health and Strength from Self Culture,”
which fully describes and gives cost of tuition of my Course
of Physical Culture by post.
Just write your name and address on this advertisement
and post to me. I’ll know what you mean. Send three
penny stamps for postage.
502 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
High Hills Look Low
on the
0
Write for Catalogue “D.”
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co.
109=113 Russell St., Melbourne.
I AM A CAROLINA
CHERUTO—
FROM HAVANA
safe
t-
-0 V-
Z.M$;
*%O. .
' l
Actual Size.
discovered in 1498, in the
time of Christopher
Columbus, and lately re-
discovered.
Because I am a Cheruto —
open at both ends —I cost
ever so much less than my
expensive b r °th prs —t li e
choice HAVANA cigars.
Y'et I am just as good to
smoke.
Will you give me a trial ?
I’m sure you will enjoy me,
just as you do your fine,
expensive Havana cigars.
You can buy me in Silver-
foil Bundles of 5 for 2/*
Carolina Cherutos,
5 for 2 -; 35/- psr 100
Postage on 5,2 d.
100, N.S.W., 9d. ; Inter
State, 1/2.
WRITE FOR A FREE COPY
OF MY CATALOG. IT WILL
INTEREST ALL SMOKERS.
A. M. SOLOMON,
■■i “CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
gjiniiiiuiui
lugtßiunninituwn^i
m\sf[
*a
ss3DDns e
jnox 2)>|BU)
miiiuMmifliuimiHnmtniiiiiu!iniiiuiUiiniiiiiiiuiiiiitiii!iiinan!!iii
J
COOL and SWEET
smoke „,irHT$
.adPYTH oL,G
TOBACCO
I
ALL
CUT and PLUG. jg
I
STRENGTH
y
wm
W.A
i
„ .++*** "■'<? A) -f ™W4'\
ms sa
The Delight
of Every Man.
The unique perfection of the “Plum" Razor
is the delight of every man who uses it.
The silver-steel blade of
The “PLUM” RAZOR
is tempered to the highest point of scientific
accuracy, and its keenness is unmatched
anywhere.
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE.
We keep it in perfect order for two years,
free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle,
15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITREN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYPNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
British
Crushing, Grinding, Mining
and Cement Machinery,
Ball Mills, Tube Mills, etc.
Manufactured by EDGAR ALLEN & CO. LTD.,
Sheffield, England.
NOYES BROS.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD.,
499 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD.,
115 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Just the Style for You
—with comfort such as you have never
known. This is the ideal combination you
get in Rigney Shoes. There’s a model to
suit every taste, and a shape for every foot.
We illustrate a High-grade Patent Kid
Golosh Bal., with Interwoven Glace Kid
Leg. Very light, hand-sewn welts.
Price - 40/-
Also in Tan Willow Calf
37/6
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
•‘The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY-
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
Maoriland’s Old Age Pensions Dept, got
a shock the other day. It noticed that a
pensioner, 67 years old. had not drawn his
money for over a year. When it started
to inquire if he had come into a fortune or
was merely dead, it discovered that the
ancient had enlisted as a youth of 44, had
got past the doctor, scrambled through the
training-camp at Trentham and gone away
to fight at Gallipoli with Maoriland’s sth
Reinforcements. He lasted through the
disturbance on the famous peninsula until
the evacuation, and is probably now in
France bashing Germans. A warrior of his
type makes the hard-and-fast age limit look
silly.
DII HtOP
TYRES
/
c&ti always be retied on- -
for Service £- Satisfaction
niiniiij
3
r*
m
'N
Q\
EJ
errs
er~r
THERE ARE MANY REASONS WHY
IT IS ADVISABLE TO FIT “DUNLOPS.”
Their undoubted strength and quality means
the maximum of service at the lowest cost
for tyre upkeep. They mean the minimum
of trouble—because specially constructed to
withstand rough usage on our roads. Their
first cost is less than imported tyres, and
after—well there is no tyre that gives better
results. AND THEY ARE AUSTRALIAN!
OBTAINABLE ALL SIZES. ALL GARAGES.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY
ADELAIDE, BRISBANE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
WELLINGTON AND
CHRISTCHURCH


Little Friends
of the Liver
They’re little but they’re good: they’re gentle
and they're kind: the)’’re full*of health that
leads to health and please be sure they’re
signed:—
Carter’s Little Liver Fills bear the
above signature.
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS*
A
Purely
Vegetable :
famous for
two genera-
tions.
Small pm,
Small Dose,
Small Price,
Every Blemish
REMOVED IN
TEN DAYS
I WILL TELL EVERY REA- F?D|7r
DER OF 1 HIS PAPER HOW * IVIjL
Your Complexion Makes or Mars
your Appearance.
GRACE DUNCAN, former actress, who now offers
to tell women of the most remarkable complexion
treatment ever known.
This great beauty marvel has instanly pro-
duced a sensation. Stubborn cases have 1 e n
cured that baffl. d physicians and beauty specialists
for years. You have never in all your life used or
heard of anything like it. Mak- s muddy com-
p.exions, red spots, pimples, blackheads, freckles,
eruptions vani-h almost like magic. No ere m,
lotion, enamel, salve, plaster, bandage, m sk,
mas-age, d.et or apparatus, nothing to s » al ow.
It doesn’t matter whether or not your complexi -n
is a "fright,” whether yotr face is full o nuu-dv
spots, peppery* blackheads, embarrassing pimples
and erup.ions, or whether your skin is rough and
"porev,” and you’ve tried almost evervthing under
the sun to get rid of the blemishes. This wonder-
ful treatment, in just ten days, positively remo r. s
every blemish and beautifies your skin in a n ar-
vellous way. Y'ou look 'ea s younger. It gives
the skin the bloom and tint of purity of a freshly
b'owTi rose, m ten days you can be the subject
of wild admiration by all your friends, no matter
what your age or condi ion of health.
ALL METHODS NOW
KNOWN ARE CAST ASIDE
There is nothing to wear, nothing to take inte’--
nallv. Y’our face, even arms, hands, shou'dersa-e
beautified beyond your fondest dreams. All this
I will abvolutely prove to you before vour own
eyes in your miiTor in ten days. This treatment
is abso’uteiy har t les> to the most delicate skin,
and very pleasant to use. No change in your mode
of liv ng necessary’. A few minutes dai vdoes it.
To every reader f this paper I wifi give full
de ai sof this really astounding treatment. Let
me sho >v you You risk nothing. Send me two
penn stamps and you' name and address and I
will give you ull details bv return mail.
FREE COUPON
GRACE DUNCAN Suite 52 ),
178 CasUereagh St-, SYDNEY
I am a reader of this paper and am entitled
to know full details of this sens tional, h?rm-
less, scient-fic method or giving marvellous
beauty to the complexion and removing e erv
blemish in ten days. Thee is no obli ation
whatever on my part for this information. I
enclose 2d. stamps for postage.
N -me
Address
State
Have You a BAD LEG
perhaps surrounded with inflammation and
swollen, that when you press your fuiger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Perhaps
your knees are swollen, the joints bei:g
nicerated; the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored. The disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive vou of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Try the great British Remedv:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which you will find a certain remedy.
Also for Poisoned Hands, House-
maid Knees, Carbuncles. Absces-
ses, Snake and Insect Bites. &e.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store.
British Prices. 1/3 and 3/-
AL3ERT & CO.. Albert House, Farringdon St ,
Agesw- LONDON, Eng.
KLLIOTT BROS.
W. H. SOUL PATTIXSOX £ CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
AXTH'tXY HORDKRX .V SOXS. etc.
Australian
Mutual Provident
Established 1849.
Society.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the TW »
paying office in the World. HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDXEY° nus '
Directors: —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman: Hon ii ,
Black. M.L.C. ; Hon. Jas. Burns, M.L.C.; Hon. 1. E. W mchcombe. M.L.C.; Adrian Knox Esn r'c
Samuel Hordern, Esq. ’ '* •
BICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, Secret
Accumulated Funds, £35,000.000. Annual Income, £4,770,000. aiy ‘
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1915 .. £848,528. Total Bonuses distributed .. £2O 670 000
The Societv issues everv desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. Write fnr"™ ’
and full information without delay. Prospectus
k.
SHOES are exquisitely cool and light in the
hottest weather, yet none of your dowdy,
canvas shoes either but smart, elegant, in
the fore-front of fashion. Most Australian
women will have sighed for such shoes, and here
thev are in the latest shipment of Bostocks. The
model illustrated is delightful even in picture
form. But think of it in reality, a light, grace-
ful shoe of finest moire, built in that new, short-
fronted shape so thoroughly French, and made
with a dainty Louis heck If ever there was
an ideal shoe' for smart wear in hot weather, it
is certainly this one. Then for other tastes,
there are other shoes equally charming in this
Bostock selection. The shoes are unmistakable,
and have the name Bostock stamped on the soles.
Bostock So.
P 6458
t
j
r
£
N* o n e genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
Do not mi« the lnte't Rostock ship-
tnents now on view at the leading stores.
-Z
id
>c
%
rV
(?
1
4
O
se
.-■■;-*<
*
: •■■/•/.
_
. - ;
9
•>
f>, >>f rV A^L*?".. A: LM, of Lotkloo. would appreciate your st^
??**}■ subst3h f t ® not baring their iurm. you would post the package J* 0 ®”!. oost«e
MESSRS. ASHTON & PARSONS LTD. W been
honoured by
Royal Commands
TO SUPPLY PHOSFERINE TO
the Royal Families of Great Britain, Russia,
Greece, Roumania, Spain and to the principal
Royalty throughout the World.
This means that PHOSFERINE is approved by
practically every Court Physician in Europe.
Vhosferine
Proven Remedy
FOR
Neurasthenia
Brain Fag
Nerve Troubles
Anaemia
Sleeplessness
Indigestion
No other Medicine h's received such absolute proof of it*
extraordinary properties in restoring Shattered Constitutions,
and in giving back the prematurely aged New Lile and Energy.
See what a well-known Medical Man writes :
DR. GORDON-STABLES
The famous Dr. Gordon-Stables, probably the greatest
authority on all matffcrs relating to health writes:
"1 have the utmost faith and reliance in Messrs. Ashton
& Parsons' Pnosferine as a tonic in cases of Debility.
Nervous Deoression. and Neurasthenia generally.
(Signed) W. GORDON-STABLES, M.D.. C.M..
Surgeon, Royal Navy.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate. Enchanting Scenery. Liberal Land La«*
A ni ! i ?‘. d .fie eio turt n o t uSrt l^
° V, 11 v I lit 11l I II OV V Itv »
Umitteiss potentialities, still in the process of initial deve
nrn d n!,i rj a fie , !d of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist,
prospective settler and to the honest worker. ;
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU. Brisbane
Branch Office:
-•9 George Street, Sydney, N.S.YV.
Melbourne's new theatre, The Playhouse
(it used to be the Snowden Picture Theatre
and is on the south side of Prince’s Bridge),
will be opened on June 10 by the Repertory
people with G. B. Pshaw's "Man and Super-
man,” in aid of the French Red Cross. A
fortnight later (June 24) the first repertory
season will begin with H. A. Vachell’s
“Quinney’s,” which reads well and was a
big success in London. Later in the season
"Yellow and White,” by E. H. Oliphant,
who helps to run the Mining Standard
and specialises in Hun-hatred, will be put
on.
“Monkbarns”: Reference was made by a
Pointer (B. 27/4/Y6) to Edward Emery act-
ing in "Treasure Island” at New York. He is
the son of Sam Emery, and brother of
Winifred (Mrs. Cyril Maude), both of
whom visited Australia. Sam Emery’s fav-
orite yarn was about his own birth. His
father, John Emery, was a distinguished
London comedian. One night “Pizarro" was
acted at Drury Lane, with John Kemble as
Rolla. Mrs. Siddons as Elvira and Mrs. Jor-
dan as Cora. The end of the third act
seemed to be bungled somehow. When the
curtain fell, Kemble came forward in a
rage and said: "Ladies and gentlemen, I
regret that the finale of that act was spoilt
through the non-arrival of Mr. Emery as the
Sentinel.” Emery then rushed panting
before the curtain, and exclaimed: "Ladies
and gentlemen, you will excuse me when I
say that 15 minutes ago I became the happy
father of a squ.” Excused, of course, and
even Kemble burst out laughing.
“Tito” : The only pub was miles away over
the moonlit hills; but that didn't matter,
because every man who came to the darnce
had a bottle or two planted in a hollow log
or behind a prickly-pear bush. Now that the
city pubs are being shut like oysters at the
commencement of the evening, why don’t the
theatrical managers bring the idea to town
and have a hollow-log room for the con-
venience of their parched customers?
“Glen H.”: At least three English plays
have exceeded 1000 performances each—"A
Chinese Honeymoon” (1075). "Our Boys”
(1362) and “Charley’s Aunt” (1466). Are
there any others?
Some idea of what the flicker picture
business must mean to L ncle Wilson can be
gained from the fact that the industry occu-
pies fifth place amongst Yankee manufac-
tures. £100.000,000 worth of capital is
invested in it and it gives permanent emplov-
ment to over 100.000 people, several regi-
ments of which make faces all day. The
average daily attendance of the nation at
the flicker palaces is reckoned to be not less
than 15 millions.
“Found drowned” ends the record of
Graham Moore. Australian musician and
pianist. Born at Ballarat 50-odd years ago,
he learnt a lot in his native land and then
went to England, where he became a pro-
fessor of the piano at the Royal Academy
of Music. He edited a lot of works for his
instrument, and visited Australia about 15
years ago as an examiner for the R.A.M,
Returning to Melbourne again a few months
back, he got a chair at Fritz Hart’s conser-
vatorium. But somehow pupils did not seem
to want him. and he talked about getting
off to England. But he gave the coroner a
job instead.
“8.J.”: "C. Ockney” mentions (B.
IS 5/16) that actor Charles Wyndham,
who has just married, is "over 70.” He is
indeed. Two years hence he will be over
'Rosna (London) : Willie Murdoch, the
sane-haired Victorian pianist, has been mak-
ing his best noises in "the Provinces." and
even gave a concert in London on April 5.
He sp irts a khaki armlet nowadays as evi-
dence that he's ready to go and pot Germans
when George Rex gets short of warriors. In
fact, there are mighty few of the slacker
brigade among 'Roolanders in London, and
there would be fewer still if the Comm on -
wealth would come down from its elevated
steed and permit Australians to join their
own army. Maorilanders and Canadians in
London may link up with their own con-
tingents. but Australians must fling them-
selves into a British regiment and can only
join the Australian army by paying their
own fares back to the Commonwealth to do
it. And we flatter ourselves we don't grow
red tape in the Commonwealth !
"Private Boxer ': Haddon Chambers, late
of Sydney, mostly of America these days, is,
like a number of his fellow-playwrights, very
quiet just now as far as new productions
are concerned. But. not to be idle, he has
started brushing up the old stuff. Recently
New York staged, mostly with British
mimes, “The Great Pursuit.” with Cham-
bers’s name attached. It turns out to be an
old-time success. “The Idler,” which Haddon
has re-written and brought up to date.
THE CIGAR ACTOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One time the villain in the play
Was glad a simple smoke to get;
He chased the maiden all the way
From rural bliss and meadow hay
To gilded halls in London set
On one pale, little cigarette.
But now he apes the Yankee dart—
A black cigar he needs must bring
To work upon dramatic art.
And not content to play the part
Of smoker, see, with roll and swing,
He fairly eats the awful thing!
In every play the peeler’s plight
Is demonstrated by the fuss
The pro. makes with cigars. I quite
Believe he eats a score a night.
He chews, and champs, and gulps—the cuss !
With motions simply ravenous.
I hoped this pro. of stage and screen
With smoker's heart would be attacked, or
Destroyed with subtle nicotine!
No chance! Just recently I’ve seen
This shop-ad. of a sweetmeat factor:
“Cigars of Chocolate for the Actor!”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


The Mirror Test
A handsome mirror will show
every speck and smear and
scratch. There is only one
cleaner that cleans perfectly
enough to be used on mirrors
—that is Bon Ami. This is a
very soft mineral soap which
works like a metal polish. You
apply a thin, white lather of
Bon Ami on the glass, let it
dry and wipe it off.
It will not scratch. It is not
oily. It leaves no smears be-
cause it comes off dry.
Bon Ami is the only cleaner
in its class. It is a special
cleaner for mirrors, windows,
polished metals and enamel.
It is not for hard scouring, but
just for cleaning and polish-
ing smooth surfaces which are
too delicate to be cleaned by
scouring soaps.
At your grocers. Sd.
“There is nothing else like it.’*
r/t.
*rs
t
W
v
r°r all the
Finer Kinds of
Poiishing&Cleaning
Three Sizes—
-Ili H.p.
2 H.p.
3' 2 H.p.
The E VINRUDE
:: DETACHABLE ::
ROWBOAT MOTOR
is the most successful and perfect motor of
this kind on the market. Over 40.000 now
in use. Very simple and easy to operate.
Can be attached to any boat in a few
minutes—-adjustable to depth and angle of
stern. Speed up to eight miles an hour.
Equipped with high-tension, built-in-the-fly-
wheel Magneto. Fitted with Automatic
Reverse and Maxim Silencer. Operated by
Petrol, and lubrication is automatic.
Of invaluable assistance on the farm for pumping water, driving separator, etc.
To transform motor into, a power machine is the work of a few minutes.
Propeller is removed and a belt pulley substituted.
Descriptive Booklet sent post free on application to
H. A, GODDARD, 376 Collins Street, Melbourne; 82 Pitt Street, Sydney;
404 Queen Street, Brisbane; Clifl' Street, Fremantle; Remington
Chambers (opp. G.P.0.), Auckland. X.Z.
LOCAL AGENTS REQUIRED IN ALL TOWNS WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
L.
Si
: ■
THE BEST
SMOKE
IS
YELLOW
ASTER
>*' TOBACCO
Dinnefords/
Magnesia
imports.::?
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“ DINUEFORD’S ”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
Th n Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach. Headache*
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections,.
KSt
Mj
In
the SicA roonx^
The evaporation of a small quantity of
LUCE’S EAU-DE-COLOGNE in hot water 1
y eveiy two or three hours in the sick-room, wi 1
not only clarify the atmosphere and destroy the
germs of disease but will have a most tonic and
restorative effect on the patient.
ORIGINAL
Jersey
7/1
i
I*2
Famous sine- the early days of
Queen Victoria.
EAU-de-COLOGNE
British & BBest
will counteract the pungent odour of
heiling and antiseptic lotions, and
impart to the room a delightfully
refreshing fragrance. Excellent
results will also follow the use
of a spray.
Of all Stores, Chemists and
Perfum rs.
Is. 6d. to 21$. per bottle.
Australasian Agents:
J. C. GAMBLES & CO.,
Commerce House.
MELBOURNE.
\\
f\
is*
r
i.-
New Rings
at Stewart Dawson’s.
0628.—Five Diamond
and Rubv Cluster Ring,
£5/10/-
Our unique position' as large buyers of
Diamonds enables the purchaser to effect the
biggest savings at Stewart Dawson's—from
20 to 25 per cent. Economy of price is a
striking feature of all our Diamond Rings.
Make a point of inspecting our present
unrivalled stock. If you cannot call send
for our ARTISTIC BOOKLET OF ENGAGE-
MENT RINGS.
M7.—lBct. Gold and
Five Diamond Ring,
carved setting,
£7/10/-
THE “ANZACT” (Regd.) BATTALION
COLORS RING, showing- the colors of your
Soldier Friend’s Battalion. All Battalion Colors
kept in stock.
Ladies’ sizes, in Set. Gold, 21 /-
Gent’s sizes, in 9ct. Gold, 25/-
STEWART DAWSONS,
Strand Corner, 412 George Street, Sydney
Certain-teed
the Roofing
IDEAL
'THOROUGHNESS of method and especially developed processes make Certain-teed
the roofing ideal. Finished with a hard, protecting surface of mineral asphalt,
it possesses the same appearance and durability as the surface of an asphalt-topped road.
Certain-teed is used the world over. Prominent architects everywhere specify
Certain-teed— Because:
Suddenly changing temperatures do not affect it mi the least.
It will not buckle, blister, creep, nor crack, and it cannot dry out.
It is impervious to the destroying action of vapors, acids, smoke
and gas-laden atmosphere. -1 j
Your distributor carries a full local stock. He will fill orders promptly. Secure samples and prices from bim.
GENERAL ROOFING MFC. COMPANY
Manufacturers of world-known Certain-teed products:
Reinforced Flat Rocfins Roll Roofing Damp Course Buildipg Paper
Insulating Paper Paints Wall Board
EXPORT OFFICES: FACTORIES:
New York and San Francisco, U. S. A, York, Pennsylvania; Marseilles and
Cable Address: ‘Genromco' ‘ K- St. Louis, U. S. A.
Australian Office : Perpetual Trustee Building, Hunter Street, Sydney.
Full local stocks carried by John Danks & Sons Pty. Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney.
I
i
Trade
Mark
11l
'T
Restore the Voice with
ROAT
allaying all irritation of
the throat and clearing the
voice perfectly.
Evans Sons LeScher & Webb, Ltd., London.


a
ISHKRS I'tfOSPHERINE
j y
FISHERS
PHOSPHERINE
Is appreciated by
All Who Use It
& Its Merit in Cases of B
Nervousness, Neuralgia,
Indigestion, Acidity,
Rheumatism, Backache and
Headache is proved by the
GRATEFUL TESTIMONIALS RECEIVED.
Dear Sin, —In a very few words—though volumes
may be written —I wish to praise your wonderful
Pbospherine. For nervous headaches and indigestion
I find it a valuable remedy and most excellent for
rheumatism, (Mrs.) L. Middleton
This preparation has been manufactured by Ftsher & Co. for
tbe past forty years.
1-
ALL CHEMISTS AND BTORES
per bottle, four times the quantity
2e
337
GEORGE
SYDNEY
F. 137 P.
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Auri'sts of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
m
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
WESTERN MACHINERY
WHEELED SCOOPS and DRAG SCRAPERS,
PLOUGHS FOR CONTRACTORS,
WESTERN ROAD GRADERS,
ELEVATING GRADERS, ROCK CRUSHERS,
ROAD PLANER and FINISHER,
DUMP CARS, SCARIFIERS.
(Large Stocks Carried;.
Catalogs and Full Information from
the Sole Agents.
E. D. MORRISON § CO. LTD.,
257 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
6reu' feipjTcU l
&dt>ancm<| % ears.
Reisrare isJur
e -Talc <sf:
Udl
or B. Allen’s
m%]Q AM
HA
■ncubato*
BROODY HENS for 12/6.
The “HATCHO” 15-egg Incubator
is a perfect substitute for a Broody
Hen, will hatch every fertile egg,
simple to use, cannot get out of order.
Over 4000 sold last season.
Price 12/6 complete, carriage paid.
Egg Testers 1/2 each. Agents wanted.
R. CASTON & CO., Dept. H.,
40 Hunter Street, Sydney.
—
Drs. Wimpole and Harley-Streete,
Compare their notes whene ’er they meet,
And it pleases us to hear them say,
They ’re prescribing' Jelloids ’ every day.
After taking Iron ‘Jexloids’ the blood becomes enriched and
strengthened, the appetite is restored, vitality is renewed. Anaemia
quickly disappears, giving place to vigorous and buoyant spirits.
Iron ‘ Jelloids ’ are commended by the Medical Profession.
The “ Nursing Record and Hospital World ” : —“The prices of them
"are very moderate, and the invention deserves the approval of the
" Medical Profession, which it is obtaining in such a marked measure.”
A fortnight’s trial ( Price lib ) will convince yon.
For Women, No. 2. Special Tonic for Men, No. 2A. (containing Quinine).
For Children, No. 1. Sold in England at l/ll and 2/9. per box.
Obtainable at all Chemists throughout Australia.
Wholesale: Druggists' Sundries Ltd., cr. Clarence d Market Sts., Sydney.
How to Treat Your Hair and Complexion.
A Few Simple Beauty Hints.
By Mdlle. GABY DESLYS, the well-known Parisian Actress.
YOU ask me for a few hints on the
treatment of the hair and complexion.
Well, the less “treatment” you give
the skin the better. I do not
believe much in massage, but a
little cream to the face is neces-
sary to counteract the effects of
wind or sun. What cream
would I recommend? Well, I
advise you to use a little mer-
colised wax every night and
again in the morning, after
washing the face. Rub it
gently into the skin, then wipe
off any superfluous wax and
dust a little barri-agar over
the face. You ■ will find that
this will be the only “treat-
ment” necessary and will keep
your face fresh and youthful-
looking for all your life. The mercolised
wax removes all the dead outer skin, so
that you have always a fair, fresh com-
plexion like a girl’s.
For the hair, the first and most important
Photo: Wrather A Buys.
thing is a good shampoo. Never use any-
thing inferior to wash the hair with. Get
some good stallax from your chemist and use,
a teaspoonful in a cup of hot’
water. Then rinse the hair
well and it will look bright and
glossy.
A tonic is necessary when the
hair is inclined to fall out more
than it should, and is always
good to use during the spring
and- autumn. Then the hair
needs a little —what do you call
it? —stimulant, and for this 1
would advise you to get a packet
of boranium and mix it with
some bay rum: dab this into the
roots and it will not only stop
the fall, but make your hair
grow long and thick. Give your
hair a good brushing every night, and that
will be all that you need do.
Blackheads Fly Away.
Instantaneous Remedy for Blackheads, Greasy Skin and Enlarged Pores.
A practically instantaneous remedy for
blackheads, greasy skins and enlarged pores,
recently discovered, is now coming into
general use in the boudoir. It is very
simple, harmless and pleasant. Drop a
stymol tablet, obtained at the chemist’s, in
a tumblerful of hot water. After the effer-
vescence has subsided bathe the face in the
liquid, using a small sponge or soft cloth.
. Qrey Hair—Home Remedy.
An old-fashioned Recipe restores Youthful Appearance.
In a few minutes dry the face and the offen-
sive blackheads will come right off on the
towel. Also the large oily pores immedi-
ately close up and efface themselves natu-
rally. The greasiness disappears and the
skin is left smooth, soft and cool/ This
simple treatment is then repeated a few
times at intervals of four or five days, to
ensure the permanence of the result.
There are plenty of reasons why grey
hair is not desirable, and plenty of reasons
why hair dyes should not be used. But, on
the other hand, there is no reason why you
should have grey hair if you do not want
it. To turn the hair back to a natural color
is really a very simple matter. One has
only to get from the chemist two ounces of
concentrate of tammalite and mix it
three ounces of bay rum. Apply to t h
hair with a small sponge for a few mg s
and the greyness will gradually disappea ■
This liquid is not sticky or greasy and does
not injure the hair in any way. It has o
used for generations with most satisfacto
results by those who have known
formula.
Women annoyed with disfiguring growths
of superfluous hair wish to know not merely
how to temporarily remove the hair, hut how
to kill the hair roots permanently. For
this purpose pure powdered pheminol may be
applied directly to the objectionable hair
To Kill Roots of Superfluous Hair.
The most Effective Formula ever Discovered.
growth. The recommended treatment -
designed not only to instantly remove
hair but also to actually kill the roots s
the growth will not return. About ant
of pheminol. obtainable from the c '
should be sufficient.
Good News for Fat People.
Something New in Obesity Cures.
A London chemist says: "The latest
method of reducing obesity certainly is far
more pleasant and convenient than all pre-
vious methods. It consists merely in eating
clynol berries. The fat person who wants
to reduce without the usual rigid diet, exer-
cise, sweating baths, etc., now puts a few
of these little brown berries in his or her
pocket and eats three or four each day.”
Clynol berries not only eliminate fat from
the body, but also correct the tendency,
which is usually constitutional. j s
fatty matter. No discomfort "ha
caused by their action: in tact, ex i jj n g
the loss of superfluous fat and th
of “fitness” so created, you .would .
aware that these little berries tv
their work. , , . „ rr ; es are
Local inquiry show r s that cljnol jj U t
not very well known in this con anV
the demand is increasing daily, j a lb
chemist can quickly procure them 1 -P
requested to do so.
If any illustration appearing ,B T ”J
Bulletin takes your fancy, wri e
Manager, who will quote you price oi
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Vo notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Varne and address must appear on the SISS. Ns
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
L..J.P.: And do you really think those
French schemes are equal to one-half of what Aus-
tralia offers in pay and pension ? No, friend! What
Australia needs isn’t more bait to the recruiting
hook, but more patriotism... .E.0.L.: Don’t know;
anyhow, you’d deserve to lose your money if you
invested it in a foreign sweepstakes.... Avery: Jack
Boast is on active service with a Queensland batta-
lion. .. .L.F.Y.: Not up....H.5.: “Fishin’” doesn’t
appeal.... Toki: “Temptation” thin and unpleasant.
M.A.; Misses G.R.H.: What a shocking
“angel”! Almost as wicked as aunt Tabitha....
M.C. J.: We don’t reprint; and, anyhow, the verse is
poor stuff J.L.C.; “Song of the Stream” is no
use. ...L.H.: If you don’t send stamps with copy it
is understood you don’t want it back.... Oliver
Rowland: Promising... .F.S.: Interesting to know
the wowsers won’t “shout”.... Billie Farr: Yes,
they’re pretty bad. Things generally are when they
are written in a “spare half-hour.” Try putting in
some honest work next time.... Jim Lan: “Tess”
staggers drunkenly both in metre and sense....
S.D.L.: “Mah-lesch” has only sentimental interest.
. ~.S.C.S.: No story in it E.C.: Not up....
5.8. C.: Glad you think they’re songs. The}' might
easily be mistaken for something else... .Fraser I.:
Good stuff. Glad of more... .F.0.C.: A poor, dull,
lame thing; and you made us pay sixpence on it
tor - deficient postage... .J.H.E.: “Hard Case” very
nearly good enough... .Australis: You’re a good
prophet. It is hurled out, as you said it would be.
.. .. S.A.K. : Purposeless yarn of the person from the
“backwoods” who knew all about gum trees and
spoke like a Woolloomooloo Quaker... .T.H.J.:
Doesn’t say anything... .L.J.P.: Send us something
when you’re 25....H.F.: Fine finish:—
Sing of Freedom crush out Enver
Choose one Leader to abet.
Things remain whate’er we make them
Good or Bad, ’tis ours the Debt.
. ...H.T.8.: Horrible depravity!... .W.D.8.G.:
Can’t be traced. You don’t give the titles of the
things. If no stamps are sent, the matter is not
returned... .R.W.T.: They won’t do; but they show
some original fancy.... Wollongong: Heavy jest....
B. : Shakspeare yarn not our sort. ... Gneila: Dull,
ungrammatical verse; passed 0ut....X4X.: Where’s
the humor or the point or the story ?... .A.P.F.:
“Dawn” is out of tune, and we are out of patience.
....Her Lover: We’d rather eat curried sandstone
than read that Coleraine horror again.... J.A.:
“Lake Clarence” and other verses not nearly up.
We liked to know about the cottage “reclining on
its side.” But don’t the goats walk in through
the chimney ?... .C.F.: Bad verse.... Stonie Staffer:
Sorry, but verses are poor. .. .W.A.8.: Why steal
another man’s method? Strike out a line for your-
self... .R.S.: But Australia isn’t bound to support
every soldier who ever fought in any war....J.8.:
You're a fake; and, anyhow,. you couldn’t write
like “Bellerive” if you tried for a hundred years....
A.G.: Verses too immature; but keep on hoping.
Try simple verse forms and read good models....
G. : It’s dull “Rain”.... Gordo: Difficult to find
the humor —unless it’s humorous to write badly in
faint pencil... .D. 8.: Couldn’t tell you all we
think about them without getting into trouble....
Sergeant X.: Murphy drove his donkey into this
paper months ag0.... Hori Wiremu; Dreary com-
monplace written on two sides of paper.... Bodiam:
Out... .A.AV.: Not quite enough in it....W r . 0.:
Don’t want it....Arjay: It’s a hideous thing....
M.M.: P00r... .C.W.: Smith moves feebly.... V.T.:
Far from being unkind, we hope something can be
done for you. Couldn’t you rest in that crochet
thing?... .Lila M.: No; it doesn’t strike u 5....
D. : Not quite. Be careful of your rhymes....
H. : “Bill’s Cobber” too long spun out.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.G.: Did you ever hear the story of the man
who patted himself on the back so violently that he
fell down on his face and broke his spectacles, valued
at 25 shillings?... .W.S.P.: No life in it. Varia-
tion of old stock idea.... .Thos. G.: The railway is
out of perspective and the joke is a sick chicken....
E. J.: Destroyed. You're a very raw amateur yet.
....Jim M.: AVash won’t cover all your sins....
Alec B.: You fail both as poet and artist.... A’ictor
C. : Sorry, no value whatever to us C.R.: It’s all
dead wood.—H.P.: AA'ould have been better left
undone... .Jay Gee: Sentenced to 100 years’ retire-
mefl from art unless you can improve.... Semper:
Well worth while trying. But be bolder—don’t
scratch.
“Copy Boy”: “Nemo” (B. 18/5/’l6) is
in error in speaking of Dave Watterston as
the oldest member of Melbourne Yorick Club
and in referring to Bartrop as one of the
original members. The club was formed in
1868, Watterston joined the following year
and Major Bartrop not till 1873. Three of
the original members who survive are Byron
Moore, the bearded Bajah of Flemington;
R. S. Smythe and Tom Carrington, art
editor of the Australasian and dramatic
critic of the Abgus. Among the founders of
the club were Marcus Clarke (who was its
first hon. sec.), Dr. J. E. Neild (then
dramatic critic of the Australasian), G.
W. Rusden (the first Victorian Clerk of
Parliaments), George Walstab and Howard
Willoughby.
“J.F.H.’ (London): Dropped out, the
London Standard, long-time a prosperous
morning paper, and recognised official organ
of the Conservative party. It was known
to be in difficulties for some months past;
and on St. Patrick’s Day nobody would
finance it any further, so editor W. A. Wood-
ward called his staff together and drowned
it in the inkpot. As the Standard was
started as an evening paper 80 years ago to
oppose Catholic Emancipation, it was a case
of the whirligig of time having its revenge
on the 17th of March. The usually stodgy
old thing reached its zenith under the 30
years’ editorship of W. H. Mudford, when
its profits were £lOO.OOO a year. The late
Marquis of Salisbury wrote its political
leaders for six years. After he became Prime
Minister he was going into the House of
Lords one afternoon when he caught sight
of an old chum of the Standard editorial
room. “Hello, Billy,” he exclaimed, “who
pays for the beer to-night?” “Billy” reckoned
it was Salisbury’s turn, so they went round
to the House of Lords’ dining-room, and had
—I don’t think either of them remembered
what.


Model 75
w*
n
u
Electric Lights
Electric Starter
Five-Passenger Touring Car
Single Sealer - - - -
£.325
£315
This new Overland stands out alone —boldly —unapproached —a light, economical
car with a sum total of advantages and conveniences heretofore found only on much
larger and higher-priced cars.
It is a car complete , at a surprisingly low price.
Note that word “ complete/’
That means electric starter and electric lights, electric horn, magnetic speedometer
every necessary item. Nothing is lacking. There are no extras to buy.
And note the headlight dimmers, electric control buttons on the steering column,
demountable rims with one extra, one-man hood —all big features high-pnced-cai features.
ur -j ;v _ ' •' ' ' '
This Overland is the only light car sold at anywhere near the price that gives you
half of these big advantages.
Then note that the engine is the very latest en bloc, long-stroke type. It is
powerful, smooth-running, yet exceedingly light in fuel consumption.
The car is a perfect beauty—stylish, speedy, comfortable and dependable.
A demonstration will convince you that this is just the car you want.
COMPLETE CATALOGUES ON REQUEST FROM
CO-OPERATIVE MOTOR SOCIETY LTD., Sydney.
KELLOW-FALKINER MOTOR CO., Melbourne.
MURRAY A UNGER LTD., Adelaide.
E. G. EAGER & SON LTD., Brisbane.
ANDERSON & ADAMS, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., Hobart.
Messrs. A. HATRICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
NEW ZEALAND FARMERS' CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, Christchurch, N.Z.
Tike Willys-Overland Company, Toledo, Ohio, U.S.A.
Cable Address Overlandis, Toledo (ABC sth, General, Western Union, and Lieber Codes).


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA EN GLAN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
ORMONDE . .Geared Turbine 15,000 Regd. Tons.
Pitted with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-luxe;
Staterooms, with bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms,
Private Bathrooms, Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Regular sailings from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
l2 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking.
Public Companies, &c.
You can obtain BETTER INTER-
EST and EVERY FACILITY FOR
SAVING at the
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
The STATE Savings Institution
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
DEPOSITS RECEIVED FROM 1/-
IPWARDS.
Interest paid at 3J per cent, on balances., up*,
to £5OO, except on accounts opened with
the late Savings Bank of N.S.W., which are
limited to £2OO.
Cultivate the habit of making Tegular
deposits—no matter how small.
The Repayment of all Deposits is Guaran-
teed by the Government of New South Wales.
By Order of the Commissioners.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700.000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY.
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G.
Hon. A. J THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian gank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (31st December, 1915) .. £1,196.108
RESERVE FUND £75,000
HEAD OFFICE : George & King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37ThreadneedleStreet, E.C.
DIRECTORS — Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Arthur S. Barton,
Esq. ; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq. ; Herbert R.
Lysaght, Esq.; George F. Todjian, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .._ .. .. 200.000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since IS9S specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
lion. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, • Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking (Jo.
of Sydney, [imited.
Capital Paid-up.. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,805,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,805,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. Chairman,
lion. 11. E. Rater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and J. J. Brenan, Esq.
General Manager: H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq. Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
gank of D eu| Z ea|anll -
- BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. • •
Preference Shares.. .. ••
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up
Uncalled Capital • • • • • ■
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
£529,988
750,000
992,295
500,000
2,057,170
grants drafts
on Australia, New Zea-
_ land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transact! all other
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
usual Banking business.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line to Vancouver
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETW . -
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE, CALLING AT
AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (Fiji) and HONOLULU (Hawaii).
THE “ALE-RED”
RAILWAY, Across
ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with * } «fVt VaKFS
the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES,
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
t Twin Screw. * Triple Screw. Fitted with Cabins De Luxe, Suites, Bedstead Rooms, Lifts, Laundry
Nursery, Wireless, etc.
AROUND THE WORLD BOOKINGS, RETURNING VIA CHINA AND JAPAN, OR VIA
SUEZ CANAL OR SOUTH AFRICA.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco.
VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe. _
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
STEAMERS SAIL FROM WELLINGTON (N.Z.).
*3IOANA, 22nd June. *MAITAI, 20th July.
•Connecting Steamers leave Sydney 15th June, 13th July.
Passengers Transfer at Wellington to the Mail Steamer immediately on arrival.
Vessels stay 24 hours at Papeete, “The Pearl of the Pacific.”
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
“,The Paradise
of the Pacific.”
A BENEFICIAL, SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers Trading to America-
R.M.S. Niagara and R.M.S. Makura.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing Nineteen Days’ Stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach —“The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCEXEftY—PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
RETURN FARES: First Class, £4B; Second Class, £33.
Winter TsHiii Fiji
Levuka,
Suva,
Lautoka,
Samoa Apia, Friendly Islands
Tonga
Monthly Sailings from Sydney and Auckland.
T.S.S. ATUA (3444 tons). S.S. TALUNE (2087 tons).
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street,
Sydney.
Something' Unique in
Island Tours
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Every Three Weeks
IX SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
via
SAM OA-HONOLU LU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
Sailings from Sydney:—
JUNE 21, JULY 12, AUG 2, AUG 23.
AppIy:—OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
COLORED POST-CARDS, bv Harrv J.
Weston—“WEEKLY WORRIES.” * Set
of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street. Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
" Zealandia,”
“ Ulimaroa,”
“Riverina,”
"Westralia,
“Wimmera,
“Victoria."
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
£3,500.000
£2,600,000
£3,500,000
£9.600.000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.'M.G,
M.L.C., President.
Robert Lionel Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Directors:
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, e .ji.G., AI.E.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: Shepheard Edged iff Laidley, Esq.; Alfred George Milson, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Bydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St , E.C.
344 Branches ar.d Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
■T. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.*
Commonwealth
I HEAD OFFICE
JBaitk° ( Buotralta
SYDNEY |
Open
for all
General Banking 1 Business
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
in the
principal
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth,
United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits.
Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at over
1/-
Minimum
Deposit
2550
Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua
Interest at «o/
per annum u/ 0
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
James KELL, Deputy Governor. June, 1915 DENIS >N MILLER. Governor
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO
(LIMITED). U *
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DIMBOOLA, June 3 and
July L
BKISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
MORIALTA, June 3
RUPARA, June 10.
PARINGA, June 17,
,Jij?r£r a resu™ sassy**«.
on all services subject to conditions?which C anT
ascertained on app],cation at the Company's Office 6
G. S. TOLL & CO., LTD
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows
(circumstances permittii
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
‘CAIRNS
(•Transhipping foi'
this and other
Queensland ports). v
north.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney June 3.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, June 7,
Leaves Sydney June 10.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne June 14
Leaves Sydney June 17.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports)
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney June 10.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom, via Suez Canal, Cape of Good Hope,
Torres Straits.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine. Surgeon and
Stewardess. Electric Fans.
FARE TO LONDON OR LIVERPOOL, £4B.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Svdney and Brisbane; TURN-
BULL, MARTIN k CO., Brisbane; Me ILWRAITH,
McEACIIARN k CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH k CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES k CO. LTD., Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to:—
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COEE’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
CoinLunauon Tickets are issueu in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer. £6 Bs. 6d. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
The Colonial (flutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOB
Mutual Lite Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident. Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 jfc 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000. ..
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £G,ooo,uuu.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible. .
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: .
The Hon. C. J. Roberts. C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
SU LPHOLINE
*» THE FAMOUS LOTION
Quickly removes SKIN ERUPTIONS,
ensuring A CLEAR COMPLEXION-
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irrUable
disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema d ppc
by applying
SU LPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
S-urt
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
Sulpholineis prepared by the great Skin
J.PEPPER&Co.,Ltd..BedfordLaborato >
S.E., England, and can be obtained from
chemists and stores throughout
Quickly remove* the effects of SuPS corc
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Ceuhj
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTNIENi.
In use since 1596. ———
tgr Book
Write for Boot CURES MII * s?*.*
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLIN6 EYELASHES. WEAK
S. GREEN. 210. Lambeth Road. London, tn*.
Insist on •• Singleton s' -refuse all substitute*.


*
a
*
“ Get the Bolt Valve smile''
Thanks to the
Michelin
Bolt Valve
Security bolts are
quite unnecessary
The Michelin Bolt Valve is a great
improvement over the cumbersome and super-
fluous security bolts which it has rendered use-
less. It also makes possible a new method ol
fitting and detaching Michelin Tyres with the
New Michelin Levers, which is simplicity itself.
The Michelin Bolt Valve is absolutely safe. A motorist can easily effect
the change from security bolts to the Bolt Valve himself : it is the work of a few
moments. Ask your stockist for particulars.
v?
Save time, trouble and the danger of tube nips
by using the
Michelin Bolt Valve
with
Michelin Tyres.
Michelin Tyres and Accessories can be
obtained from all the Leading Garages.
6 A. 1516
' /"?/' 6 )_
u
“ Uy name is Simplicity
“ I am carried everywhere—”
“ evert up to the clouds by the airmen. For 1
am Onoto—the pen that makes writing easy
everywhere
The Onoto fills itself instantly from any
ink supply and cleans itself in filling. Get
one to-day and save time, trouble and mess.
Onoto Pen
the self filling pen.
Price 121- and upwards of all Stationers, Jewellers
and Stores. Booklet about the Onoto Pen free on
application to THOS. DE LA RUE &• CO., Ltd.,
i76,Bunhill Row. London , E.C.; or the Australasian
representatives, Norman Baker Longhurst, JO
York Street, Sydney.
Atk for ONOTO INK-Best for all Pena.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
INSECTIBANE
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd. y ‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
ALL CHEMISTS and STORES,
This Popular Fly
Killer and Insect
Destroyer is now
obtainable.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOLi & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. I Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WOKE
Are You Deaf?
EXPLOSIVES
ARE THE PRODUCTS OF
OVER A CENTURY’S EXPERIENCE
Explosives packed especially to com-
ply with requirements of Australia
and other foreign countries.
Our SAFETY Explosives for use in
dusty and gaseous coal mines have
Eassed the rigid tests of the United
tates Government’s Bureau of Mines.
Thirty factories in the United States.
Plants on both the Atlantic and Pacific
Coasts assure prompt shipments.
OBTAIN MAXIMUM RESULTS
BY SPECIFYING
DUPONT EXPLOSIVES
E.l.du Pont de Nemours & Co.
WORLD’S LARGEST MAKERS
OF EXPLOSIVES
Wilmington, Delaware, U. S. A.
A US TR ALLAN A GENTS:
Henry W. Peabody & Co;, Sydney, N. S. W.
If so, you can be
relieved by using 1
WILSON’S C'MMON-SENSE EAR-DRUMS
A new scientific invention, entirely different in
construction from all other devices. Assist
the deaf when all other devices fail, and where
medical skill has given no relief. They are
soft, comfortable and invisible ; have no wire
or string attachment.
Write for Booklet. Mention this Paper.
STAR NOVELTY CO., 498, Elizabeth St.. Melbourne. [1
&
vv
Little Lectures
by Nurse ‘Wincarnis
(Lecture No 4.)
Weakness
Every movement of thebody
uses up a definite amount of
vitality. When you overtax
yourself, or your vitality is
undermined by illness, your
whole system becomes too '
exh lusted to recover its lost
vitality without assistance.
Your system is like a plant
that is drooping for want
of water. And just as
water revives a drooping
plant—so ‘ Wincarnis ’ gives t
new life and new vitality to 1
a weakened constitution. I
Because 4 Wincarnis ’ pos-
sesses a four-fold power.
It is a Tonic, a Restorative,
a Blood-maker, and a Nerve
Food —all in one. Therefore.
creates strength, new
blood, new nerve force and
new vitality. The benefit
begins from the first wine- |
glassful. You can feel it
doing you good. Over 10,000 ‘
Doctors recommend 4 Win-
carnis,’ especially to those
who are Weak, Anaemic,
‘Nervy’ or Run-down.
Begin to get well (
TO-DAY* ,
‘Wincarnis’ is made in England by
COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Wincarnis
Works, Norwich. You can buy
‘Wincarnis’ from all Chemists and
Stores selling wines, prices 4/- and
6/6, but if you experience any diffi-
culty in obtaining it, write direct
to Sole Distributing Agents, Fassett
& Johnson, 5-7 Barrack St., Sydney.
/
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/-and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.


ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Bbitish Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tne
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
Ideal Parting Gifts
for Soldier Friends
Show what vou think of his patriotism
before he leaves Australia’s shores to ngnt
for King and Country. There’s many a use-
ful remembrancer amongst our up-to-aa
selection of Soldiers' Gifts, and all
moderately priced. Note these value ■
Soldiers’ Money Belts, with
pockets, from
Soldiers’ Wristlet Watches from
Wristlet Watches, with luminous
dials, special value • • • •
Knife, Fork and Spoon, in leather
case • Tin
Soldier’s Metal Shaving Mirror, 1
leather case, pocket size -/
Tobacco Pouches from . . .
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over 30 Years.
The SIGNS of SUPERIORITY
in Blue and Black Serges, Coatings,
and Dress materials are proclaimed
by the trade-marks here illustrated.
Every yard of
Genuine FOX Serges
bears these trade-marks. Ask for
“Fox” Serges—look for the trade-
marks—insist on these guarantees of
quality.
Manufactured by FOX Brothers & Co. Ltd., Somerset,
Eng. If you cannot obtain Fox Serges locally write
the agents. Stogdale & Sons Pty. Ltd., Box 1802
G.P.0., Sydney, who will tell you the nearest store-
keeper stocking it.
m
GO Your
way in
Why ni>£take advantage of the comfort
offered by Barnet Glass Rubber Heels ?
The springy, resilient-rubber stops all jars
and shocks to the spine and drfutte me
pleasures of walking. Barnet Gl4»Rybb e r
Heels are' made of the purest trraterials
a view to giving faithful
service. on "Barnet Glass."
jYom All Boot and General Stores.
BAR NET'LL ASS
RUBBER CO. LTD. .
AU STATES
and
MX
BAPNCI^H
GLASS
RUBBER
hcels^H
Made in Auslra^liak —-1
IN BANANA LAND
“Barcoo”: Big shouts? Blackall, after
25 years of agitation and political tug-of-
war, got its railway. A week of high car-
nival was topped off with the toasts of
"Success to Blackall” and “The Wool
Industry.” To do the first in style Arthur
Whittingham. godfather of the hamlet,
ordered up 200 large bottles of champagne ;
and Harry Hart, of Springfield, on the
Barcoo, followed his friend’s example to
the glory of the jumbucks.
J. S. Badger, the autocrat of Brisbane
Tramways, is looking for trouble again.
Hill, M.L.A. of S. Aus., and several other
officials of the Australian Tramway
Employees' Association, dropped in to dis-
cuss a few matters the other day. The
’Murkan potentate, however,, declined to dis-
cuss anything, and further refused permis-
sion for Hill to inspect the Countess-street
depot. Later on he explained :
The matter of the wages of our own men is at
present under consideration, and we do not want any
outside assistance on the question.
Which is a splendid eruption from the man
who had the assistance of armed police when
things were not going quite his way in
1912.
There lias been a rumpus among the
clerks of Brisbane over the anti-conscrip-
tion resolution adopted by the recent con-
ference of quill-drivers in Sydney. Collings,
who sponsored the fatuous motion, got
hack to Brisbane just in time to find his
action publicly disowned by ten members of
his union. Thereat Colli ngs put an extra
point on his whiskers and berated the ten
decent Australians for “disloyalty” to their
union—loyalty to their couutry being, of
course, a matter of no consequence. The
alarmed half-score wobbled at the knees and
apologised for expressing their views out-
side the union. Now it is announced that
the loyal band have been suspended from
membership. It’s all very diverting; but
what sort of a condition of affairs is union-
ism creating when a man is throttled for
putting up a patriotic shout when it is most
needed ?
“L.T.”: Toowong Cem'otery, Brisbane, is
on a high ridge, and the ground is so hard
that a grave takes some time to sink. In
slack days the' cemetery staff therefore digs
graves on spec., and generally has a few
“empties” on hand in case of a rush. Which
reminds me of the early days of Cue. on
the Murchison goldfields (W.A.). There
were only two divisions for the dead —the
Catholic portion, on a siding of hard iron-
stone gravel, and the Protestants’ allotment,
in sandy loam. If there was any doubt as
to the religion of the deceased the under-
taker always made him a Baptist.
“Chink”: There rolled into a Brisbane
fish-stall the other day a mackerel, from
Wynnum waters, which broke the market
record by registering 421 b. Keeping it com-
pany was a jew of 601 b. They were almost
black with age and riotous living. Queens-
land waters are turning out an extraordi-
nary number of fish just now. On a recent
night the mart took in 1000 cases and trays,
approximately 55,0001 b. The deplorable
part of the business is that the hapless
householder still has to pay 9d. per lb. for
the food. The fish unsold at that price rots
and is returned to the sea with the city
refuse. We’re a great and mighty people
for economies in war time.
Mrs. Boardinghouse is not so particular
about her paying guests up North. This
from the Rockhampton Bulletin :
Vacancies 3 Gentlemen, shady side, close Trams
Even the patriotic hat hasn’t exhausted
the generous spirit of the Westerners. At
Duiacca recently, during the progress of an
entertainment, a house was totally destroyed
by fire. Promptly the hat was passed round
the 40 persons present and £5O was handed
over to help replace the sticks.
It seems that the Queensland Railways,
by turning down the Australian linseed oil
in favor of the Indian article, made, not a
penny per gallon, but a whole threepence.
This was a magnificent achievement. If
only we were all as careful of the pence
we should get our clothes from China (and
Germany as soon as the war is over), and
our railway engines and rolling stock and
ships and machinery from Japan, and our
sugar from Java, and our butter from
Russia and our maize from India. Then
we shouldn’t want any railways to speak
of, and could do without sugar farms and
mills and butter factories and woollen
mills and all the rest of it. In fact, if the
fine, patriotic lead of the Queensland Rail-
ways were followed, we could save three-
pence and do without Australia.
THE IMPETUOSITY OF THE RAVE.
P AT: “ Don't he ’walkin' so fast, Mary."
M ARY: "An' why not?"
P AT: "Sure, we’ll he home before we’re half-way there."
Barrister Hart has abandoned his .wig and
a cartload of briefs to take part in the Big
Argument. Learned counsel did not talk
much of what younger men should do, but
packed the wife and bairns safely away
and promptly went into Raining.
“North Q.”: The talk of big Queensland
“shouts” recalls to old residents of the
Maranoa an election fight of 30 years ago.
One candidate hired a special train, loaded
it with barrels of beer and sundry tangle-
foot, and ran it from one end of the elec-
torate to tlie other over the line which was
then in course of construction. The outing-
cost £5OO.
The Government effects a saving of about
£OOO per annum by abolishing the job of
Medical Inspector for North Queensland.
The office was established at Townsville in
1912 in response to urgent representations
of the then Commissioner, Dr. J. C. S.
Elkington. It started well, but its authority
to act was gradually withdrawn, until when
the axe arrived the medical officer in charge
had practically nothing to do with Public
Health" administration. The apparent fail-
ure of the Townsville office was not due to
lack either of possibilities in the North or
of effort on the part of the men who have
held the job, but to the inept administration
of the Health Department.
INTERLUDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Love is but a scented kiss
On a wine-bowl’s rim
When two lips go “Ps-s”—like this —
And the light is dim.
Bertram, kiss me once again!
Damn! Here’s Auntie Kate.
Hope is ever cut in twain
By the swish of Fate.
QUEENSLAND,
ZORA CROSS.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, May 27, 1916.
My Dear Thargomindaii.—
Brisbane adjourned to Eagle Farm to-day
to see the Stradbroke Handicap run. His
Ex., who is human enough to believe the
war can be won even though he patronises
the gee-gees, brought his missus along in a
cream coat and skirt, and a black hat with
a crown of corn-colored brocade. Mrs.
Cosens backed winners in a coat and skirt
of fiavy serge and a blue hat trimmed with
flat nink velvet camellias. Mrs. Stuart
Hyslop was a delightful autumn study in
green and brown. Mostly the gathering was
tailor-made, toqued and furred and clinging
to the taffeta garments of waning autumn.
The chief interest in a Spin tea held in
the grounds of the Junction Park State
School this afternoon (proceeds to the Red
Cross) was a match between the Stephens
Shire riflemen and the ladies of the Bris-
bane Miniature Rifle Club. And what do
you think ! We won; hut to save the feel-
ings of the vanquished heroes I won’t men-
tion the extent of the slaughter. Doesn’t it
conclusively prove that we should be allowed
to go to the Front?
On Wednesday night, at the Glideway
Skating Rink, a carnival is to he held in
aid of the War Nurses’ Fund, which was
started by some returned Billjim admirers.
On Empire Day the veterans of the
Crimea, the Mutiny, the Maori war and
other ancient scraps were mobilised and
ordered to assault a dinner provided by
the Defence Department. The Gov. made
a speech; and the spokesmen for the
glories of the past were Capt. Vernon, of
the 88th Connaught Rangers, and an old
salt who had seen service before the A.I.F.
band which was tuning up on the verandah
was born.
Among the soldiers who returned from
Gallipoli too seriously wounded for further
active service was an Irishman who had
seen trouble in S’Africa and on the Indian
frontier. He "ot a billet in an office, and
the curious asked him to show them his
museum of war medals. The old chap un-
comfortably explained that Uncle Cohen
borrowed them many years ago and had not
returned them. A week later he was called
before a full gathering of the staff and
handed his trinkets, which had bee
recovered by the law and the profits— the
latter contributed by the staff.
A deputation of ladies, headed bv tin-
Mayoress (Mrs. Hetherington ), dropped in
on acting-Chief Sec. Hunter during the
week and asked him what he W as
going to do about the proposed Residential
Club for Returned Soldiers. The deputation
was invited to return when it had something
more definite to put forward. In the mean-
time he guaranteed the sympathy of the'
Government. The club should be open for
business in a couple of months.
Wounded Anzaes in England, while appre-
ciating all the hospitality that is shown
them, weary of. the rigid class distinctions
A party of Bananalanders, who had been
marked by a titled dame as her own exclu-
sive property, hit on a bright scheme for
escaping the aristocratic frills. One dav
they were all lined up ready for motoring
and as each Tommy Kangaroo passed into
tin; car he grasped the hand of the waiting
.Teames, and greeted him with a “Goodav.
Bill.” They also persisted iu. including
Jcames in the conversation, until his kneo
buckles rattled with self-consciousness. All
parades in that motor-car were from that
awful day cancelled.
Recently returned from England Alice
Davenport, a Brisbane girl with a beautiful
voice that has been cultivated by some of
the best of the world’s masters. Those
who remember her voice as it was before
the special cultivation began are eagerly
waiting for her first concert.
The Brisbane Operatic Players fare-
welled Mrs. Arthur Hunter last Monday
night and put silver-backed brushes on her
table. She returns about the end of August
to coax the 8.0.P.’s “La Mascotte” into
shape.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Concerning a Northern row:
The blundering military authorities and the
Churc-h of England are having a scrap now. Some
weeks ago the Church of England opened a hut in
one of the camps, and at the opening the chief pilot
delivered himself on the subject of the Department
refusing to allow the Church to send unpaid chap-
lains on troopships. Tommy Dodds happened to be
in Brisbane, and rushed into print. The chaplain
prepared an answer, but found himself against a
dead wall. He could not get publication in the
papers. Subsequently Archbishop Donaldson, the
Senior Chaplain, applied for permission to publish a
statement. This also was refused. Then the
smouldering fire burst out in a number of places,
Women, mothers and other relatives.of soldiers gof
to work, wrote all over the country, got the clergy
to work, and even the inoffensive elderly
bishops were stirred to activity. The net
result is that the Military Department will
now have something sizeable to handle. The chap-
lain who started the hubbub is well known all over
Australia —Garland by name, the most successful
recruiter in Queensland.
Brisbane City Council recently practised
its bit of war economy by raising the
salaries of a number of officials get-
ting more than £4OO a year. No one
knew the reason until Aid. Diddams
announced “that these officials eat
better food than the laborers.” Eating capa-
city thus seems to be the test of a civic ser-
vant's value —not earning capacity. That
being so, “A fair round belly with good
capon lined'* would be an appropriate in-
scription for the portals of the new Town
Hall that is coming by and bye.


I
m
tammmm
-
* -r
iJll
.O
R3f J
mm
sr* r. ««ac4
-V\ If
/ * \v' •' /%•
■»%. v x v» ,■ r
..... i... ... J i i
, *.< ;vHf : : i
i
*#»** .
• <?«
' ■ ■■' ItfSi&Sm&i ’ '
W
H HP*:;*:::: V JL
mmm
«w»«
Lt.U>T>
1
I
Q
W 1
r»-
.
■ ■
■■; ■
m
SOUR GRAPES.
Owvfr of £l°oo Motor-Car : “TF/ia# /» that beastly rattle w your car. WI
Forp Owner! **OA. that is merely the jingle of the 1000 sovereign* / saved through not buying a bus hke yours, hh. what. Who .
dxyjcd
THE
UNIVERSAL
CAR
People really are buying Fords
FRANS-AUSTRALIAN MOTOR TRIP.
With no more demonstration than the noise made by his own “cut out,” Francis Rirtles,
the exploring motorist, left the G.P.0., Melbourne, at 7.30 p.m., on 20th March. 1910, for
the Northern Territory. Birtles, who is accompanied by his brother Clive and his dog
“Chance It,” expects to be away for about 12 months. He is driving the FORD CAR
which has already taken him 37,000 miles in Trans-Australian trips. His intention is to
proceed north to the Gulf of Carpentaria, and round the coast to Darwin. He will spend
some time in prospecting about the King Leopold Ranges in North-western Australia, and
he carries an assaying plant to assist him in his work. The back of the car was loaded up
with petrol, and a complete equipment for the tour, including a motion-picture camera.
This is Birtles’s sixth Trans-Continental trip. —Melbourne press.
1,006,835 (one million six thousand eight hundred and
thirty-five) Ford Motor Gars were actually sold at 110/1915 !!
Australian Representatives of Ford Motor Co. of Canada Ltd.
QUEENSLAND: Queensland Motor Agency Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Davies 8 Eehon Motors Ltd., 112 Hunter Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: Tarrant Motors Pty. Ltd., 104-112 Russell Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Duncan 8 Fraser Ltd., Franklin Street, Adelaide.


Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
Is the best medicine for babies.
“ Mothers who have never used this medicine often ask me why Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy is best for babies. Well, there are several reasons, but here are the three
most important: —
FIRST.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is the most
successful medicine known for the treatment
of coughs, colds, croup and bronchitis and at
the same time is perfectly harmless and can
be given with every confidence to the
youngest child or the oldest person. It is an
ideal remedy for both children and adults and
the most perfect and effectual yet produced
in any country.
SECOND.
It is free from all narcotics. You not only-
liave the manufacturers’ assurance of this but
each bottle bears the Government analysis
showing that it has been officially declaied
free. I condemn no honest medicine but
when the safety of your life or that of your
child is at stake take no chances—be sure
that you get a medicine that you know
is safe.
THIRD.
Children like it and no persuasion is needed to get them to take it. For the above
reasons alone it is impossible to get a better remedy for babies than Chamberlain s Cough
Remedy, but aside from its safety it cures coughs and colds and prevents pneumonia.
It is the best remedy for croup and when given as soon as the croupy cough appears it will
prevent the attack. It is mothers of young children that most appreciate Chamberlain s
Cough Remedy and it is not easy to persuade them to use any other cough medicine
after once giving
tyjpuXz Jox
it a trial.”
Official Endorsement.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
is the only cough remedy sof*J
in Australasia that has been
officially declared free from aft
narcotics.
This is a guarantee of safety
to mothers of small children.
So be sure and see that you
get the genuine Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy.
It is sold by all reliable
chemists and medicine vendors.
1/6 small size; 3/- large
S 3
1
a
n \
k
6
zs
hivWi^l!
phamberuin's
COUGH
FOR
Coughs, Colds
CROUP,
SORE THROAT
INFLUENZA
O OTNtn AMCCTktNS OF THI
iTHROAT and LUNGS.]
tflMMNr' InAMBCITUUN
- 3
FREE
OFFE
I ' ’
1
YOU CAN WEIGH AND MEASURE WHAT YOU SHOULD IN
PROPORTION TO WHAT YOUR HEIGHT 15!
During the past eight years 10,000 immaturely-
developed men and women have been developed to
correct weight and proportions by Dr. Falliere’s
Flesh-Food Treatment.
An advertiser who offers something for a coupon and attempts to co
it later is guilty of endeavoring to obtain money under false pretences,
we collect we would be liable to a criminal charge. _
SEND COUPON TO=DAY.
OFFER FOR 30 DAYS
‘CUT OUT THIS COUPON.
Good for 134 worth of our
Famous Treatment.
(FOR 30 DAYS ONLY.)
FALLIERE CO., Sydney.
Please send to me, in exchange for this coupon, which is
the equivalent of the actual cash, 13/Jf worth of Dr.
Falliere’s Flesh-Food treatment. I enclose sd. in stamps
to ensure prompt delivery. I have never had a free trial.
STATE
MR., MRS.
OR MISS.
Name ■
Bui,.
Address
ANY PERSON may
use this COUPON,
free supply allowed one family. There are no strings to this offer. |
SEE
WHAT
OTHERS
SAY OF
FLESH-
FOOD.
LET US
SEND YOU
SCORES OF
SUCH
GRATEFUL
LETTERS.
GAINED OVER 141 b.
The Manager,— Midlaton, S.A.
Dear Sir, —Since using Flesh-Food
I have gained over 141 b., which
makes me now 11 stone, so that I
have no need for any more treat-
ment. Thanking you for your kind-
ness, —I remain, yours truly,
S. DANNBNBEBG.
The Manager,— Atherton, Qld.
Dear Sir, —I am very pleased to
tell you that I have improved under
your treatment, having gained 101 b.
in a couple of weeks, and my ne'gh-
bors are remarking the great change
in my appearance. I need no further
treatment, and am showing your
papers to any of my friends whom
I think I can induce to take your
treatment. —Yours faithfully,
MRS. ,J. W. JAGGERS.
GAINED SATISFACTORILY.
The .Manager,- ,'Vhall
Dear Sir, —I do •*?* h _j- o od, aS 1
require any more * le j n weigh*
have gained satisfacto . j, e alth
and measurements, »“* han king
has never been better. kind
you very much for an • yonr s
attention to me. I .. d q> : ALl>
faithfully. MBS. H. McDUn
Kiara, WestviUe, N.S.M-
The Manager,— - , she( j the
Dear Sir,-I "jU' plea-ed
treatment, and mii mo jne( j both
with the result. I ha y*_ f“ e „ts, a"f
in weight and '» fa * urf ~ r Siealth
find myself in much bette
than for a long time tm ent are
the results of your * r * a * hor t time,
wonderful, and in sue a n you
too! Thanking you tor. rfy ,
have done for
FALLIERE CO., 1103 Ash St., Sydney


The “Glenbrook”
A Well-Finished Shoe.
A popular Macnaught style, neatly
moulded on English last. Tan Wil-
low Calf, Oxford lacing, with perfor-
ated Cap and Golosh, medium welted
Soles, wide, medium or narrow
fittings.
257-
Black Box Calf, 19/9.
We Pay Postage.
Write for Catalogue.
For Distinctive Footwear,
135 Ring Street, SYDNEY.
CHRISTIE?
specialise
TWO
L/NES
Klif
s
CATALOGUE
/kN°
PATTERNS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
Zr fIOMTER S T NEWCASTLE
m
mzz
When you
want a quick
Shampoo
and have not the time or wish
to wash your hair, just sprinkle
a little of the wonderfully
cleansing Icilma Hair Powder
over it —leave for a few min-
utes —then b i sh out again.
Icilma Hair Powder cleanses
and brig l tens the hair, removes
all grease and dust, and leaves
it beautifully fresh and glossy.
No wetting —no trouble —
no danger. The only dry
shampoo that readily brushes
out. British made.
Hair Powder
(For Dry Shampoo).
Price 3d. Packet.
Of Chemists., Druggis's, Stores, etc.
Icilma is pronounced Eye-Silma,
1. C. Gambles & Co., Agents,
11 Commerce House, Melbourne.
A H. 7.
IE any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Bags of Money can
be made with
A
FIAT.
LORRY
i
y
n •-
Messrs. W. E. BRAMBLE & SONS, Newcastle, have found their Lorry
factory that they added two more to their fleet.
SEND FOB PARTICULARS OF WORKING COSTS.
satis-
ALICK McNEIL,
Gen. Manager.
GARRATTS LTD.
173-175 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Soldiers’ Presents
Latest Novelty, Case with Metal
Mirror, Silver Pencil, fountain
Pen, Pocket Knife .. 18 6
Other Combinations.
12,6, 7/6, 6 6
I The New Bullet-proof Pocket
Book, steel through both
covers 12 6
Send for latest List of 80 Gifts
to select from.
ROTHWELL'S LTD.
Edward Street,
Brisbane
AVON
I
trade MARK j
THe TYF.ES
which increase comfort
and give longer service
at reduced cost.
BRITISH THROUGHOUT
The Lake Breeze Motor
r
lent
Cooling Fan
Runs on Methy-
lated Spirits.
A remarkable inven-
tion. Fuel costs less
than one halfpenny
per hour. Practical,
proved, simple, sub-
stantial, handsome,
quiet. Superb mechan-
ical construction. Runs
anywhere without elec-
tricity and is portable.
Send for circular. Order
early.
ADDISON PARKER,
34. Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
CAILLEI9I6 MODEL 5-SPEED
OUTBOARD MOTOR-
With Bosch Kigh-tension Magneto.
The motor that you do not have to stop and
start the reverse way to go astern —you just
press the button to go astern, ahead, or
remain stationary without stopping engine.
Improved Silencer, etc., etc.
Caille Yankee Outboard Motors with
Battery and H.T. Magneto Ignition.
Caille Marine Engines, 2 to 8 h.p. in stock.
SCRIPPS 4=CYCLE ENGINES.
LATEST MODELS JUST LANDED.
All Spare Parts and Complete Boat Equipments Supplied
Sole Australasian Agents t
Benson Brothers Limited
51-53 Druitt Street, SYDNEY; 60 Queen Street, MELBOURNE
Fireside Concerts
with the “Tasman”
ssa
5$
GRAMOPHONE
ii
NO MORE DULL HOURS AT HOME.
Let it blow tempeSt-hard outside —what care you, when indoors there are the
fireside, your cheery folk, the “GRAMOPHONE,” and you!
Buy the “Tasman.” Its price of £l6/10/- is as nothing in proportion to
the entertainment, aye, and the musical education, it will bring to you—for
“Gramophone” productions are the very best in the whole world.
The “Tasman” is made of Oak
—a portable, hornless model, with
all the most recent “Gramo-
phone features.... £l6/10/-
In Satin-finished Mahogany,
£l7/17/-
Horn Instruments from
£7/15/-
Instrument catalogue, record
lists and name of nearest
accredited dealer on request.
The “Tasman” Gramophone.
“ GRAMOPHONE '•
Registered Trade Mark
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
The Inky Way.
“Deo et Litteris”: Space for the In
Memoriam of one who, at the age of 20
years, was prevented by a Turkish bullet,
10 days after his landing at Anzac, from
filling jais destined place among Australia’s
press poets! He was Corporal J. D. Burns,
sometime editor of the Scotch Collegian,
Melbourne, and soldier of the 21st Infantry
Battalion, lie Was on board the transport
Southland when she was torpedoed, and
wrote up the incident in graphic style. Vice-
captain of his school, he had rowed in the
college eight, and had gained notable honors
in English and literature. A son of 11. M.
Burns, a Lilydale minister, he maybe drew
his talenr for versifying from a Presbyterian
grandfather, author of some of the kirk’s
finest hymns. Why he should have gone to
meet his death in D company’s trenches is
best explained in the verses he left behind :
Sydney Sunday Times has changed
hands, after being the property of the
Evans family for over 30 years. A co., of
which Hugh D. Mclntosh is chairman, has
bought it and the associated papers, and
fresh men are to be set to work in place of
several of the old hands. A new
editor (Bert Toy, of the S. M.
Herald) and news-editor (Claude Cor-
bett, of Sydney Sun) and several good
men of the local dailies will see what can
be done to improve things. But the question
is whether the Times will be improved by
improvement. A large proportion of its
readers take the paper because it offers the
style of goods they can appreciate. Mcln-
tosh says the policy will not be altered, but
there’s a suspicion that politics will be a
larger feature than formerly. With that
in view r the new bosses had hopes that
Peters would cross over from the D.T. and
take charge ; but they couldn't coax him.
“Copy Boy”: The Herald and Weekly
Times office, Melbourne, has the best
army of newspaper veterans in Aus-
tralia. The collection includes 16
Herald employees with over 30 years’
service each. A man in the publish-
ing department attached himself to the office
40 years ago, and in the lino, room is one
who started type-snatching for the propri-
etary 39 years ago. There are four others
—all now on the linos. —with tallies of 36,
34, 31 and 30 years. On the Weekly
Times side are men with records of 39, 38
and 30 years ; and three —a comp., a reader
and a front-office man —who have hung on
for 35 years. Another who had been on the
job for 39 years retired a while back. Among
the new-chums are lads who have been in
the office for 28, 27. 25 and 20 years; and a
fellow has only just looked in if he hasn’t
been there 15 years.
* * * *
The span of life —as measured by Sydney
D.T. on 18/5/T6 :
HAWKINS. —17th May, 1916, suddenly, William
Hawkins, of 173 George Street, Redfern, and late
of Dural; aged 83 yards.
* * * *
By the author of The Table Groaned :
That war on journalese, which used to delight
Hilaire Belloc before a more serious conflict occupied
his mind, still seems to be waged with success, if
the Age (16/5/’l6) is a reliable witness for the
prosecution. The death of that Crown Prince of
abbreviations, “etc.,” was announced by the Argus
some years ago, when it stated that “sheep,
cattle, etc., have been drowned.” Unfortunately the
rumor was exaggerated, and “etc.” is still among
the verbal battalions with which the slovenly reporter
storms the impregnable Verdun of literature. Now,
however, it would appear that one of the stodgiest
Romans of them all has been at the least interned,
as witness this heading from the Age of the date
above quoted : —•
THE LAW’S LONG ARM.
CAPTURED AFTER MONTHS OF LIBERTY.
This news has spread dismay in the ranks of the
tripe-dressers. “Old Sol” is trembling in the sky,
“the devouring element” has lost its appetite,- ‘ the
long arm of coincidence” is paralysed, “green old
age” is tottering, “quite a gloom is cast without
hope of illumination, and the Law’s elongated limb
leaves a large family of country correspondents to
mourn its loss. “The funeral cortege” and the
“numerous and costly floral tributes are obtainable
at the usual address.
Jack Flanagan, the young Australian
<renius in black-and-white, arrived in \an-
ccuver early in March and found one ot his
own miracles staring at him from the book-
stalls. His “Coming of Spring.” published
as a front-page cartoon in The Bulletin
on January 27, had been reproduced by an
admiring local print, and the bookstalls
hung it forth to catch the flying lankee
e y e - , * * .
“Black Rock”: Melbourne Argus will be
70 years old and a jolly good fossil on
June 1. William Kerr, its founder and first
editor, used to dip his pen in vitriol many
times daily, and pray to all his gods to
deliver the enemy into his hands. As a
result the law took a tight grip on the vig-
orous journalist, and the sheriff sold the
paper to satisfy a libel-action judgment.
Respectability descended upon the wreck
when Edward Wilson, then a grazier at
Dandenong, decided to turn his plough-
shares into pens, and bought the plant for
£3OO. His descendants have never been
sorry that he made this bargain. Lachlan
Mackinnon joined Wilson early in the
’fifties, and the firm has been Wilson and
Mackinnon ever since. The Argus is only
the third-oldest paper in Victoria, Mel-
bourne Herald and the Geelong Advertiser
having been hatched out six years earlier.
The bugles of England were blowing o’er the sea,
As they had called a thousand years, calling now to
me;
They woke me from dreaming in the dawning of the
day,
The bugles of England—and how could I-stay?
The banners of England, unfurled across the sea,
Floating out upon the wind, were beckoning to me;
Storm-rent and battle-torn, smoke-stained and grey,
The banners of England—and how could I stay?
O England, I heard the cry of those that died for
thee,
Sounding like an organ-voice across the winter sea ;
They lived and died for England, and gladly went
their way,
England, O England—how could / stay?


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“ THE, CHILDREN S FOOD.”
Miwsing Friends.
INFORMATION is sought as to the
whereabouts of GEORGE WILLIAM
LINCOLN MACIvAY, who left New Zea-
land some live years ago for Australia. Me
is reported to have died in Western Aus-
tralia. When in New Zealand he followed
the occupation of auctioneer and estate
agent. Will anyone knowing anything of
the person enquired for please communicate
with
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
WELLINGTON.
LILAS expects letter at once, care C. J.
McFARLANE, 420 Little Collins
Street, Melbourne. Very important.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
“J* IV OLI THEATKE, SYDNEY
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE 1)E LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Plans at Nicholson’s and Tivoli.
“yiVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NIGHTLY AT EIGHT.
THE ONLY HORACE GOLDIN,
The Royal Illusionist.
Also, MENNETTI AND SIDELLI, JACK BORN-
HOLD, BLANCHE COLVIN, GOSIVARD, ROSE
BERRY, MARIE KING SCOTT, AND CARDO AND
NOLL.
Plan at Glen’s.
E R MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present their Gorgeous
Annual Pantomime Extravaganza,
MOTHER GOOSE.
A HOST OF NEW ARTISTS. A RIOT OF FUN.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales, Callose’s.
/CRITERION TREAT R E, SYDNEY.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 3.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. announce a Season of
Merriment. Roi Cooper Megrue’s Soap Comedy,
IT PAYS to adyi:rtjsi<:.
Presenting a great Company of Comedians headed
by HALE HAMILTON and MYRTLE TANNEHILL.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
ALAI H T H E A T RE. S V D N E V.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
JaN.TAITS NEW ENCLISH C?
PEC
OM Y
HEART
ACOMEDY OF YOUTH
by cJ HARTLEY MANNERS.
THE SUPREME SUCCESS OF SUCCESSES
Box Plans now open at Nicholson’s.
Town hall, Sydney.
Direction .. .. ROLAND STAVELY.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
Matinees WED., SAT. and HOLIDAYS.
THE FRENCH FIGHTING FRONT.
FRENCH GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL WAR FILMS.
Popular Prices: 2/-, 1/-, 6d.
Reserves at Paling’s, 2/6.
WIRTHS’ NEW HIPPODROME,
HAYMARKET.
Proprietors Messrs. WIRTH BROS. LTD.
Mr. Leonard F. Durell’s
GIGANTIC MILITARY AQUA DRAMA OF THE
WAR,
KULTUR.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
A PERFECT PRODUCTION.
WONDERFUL EFFECTS,
ABSORBING PLOT,
COLOSSAL COMPANY.
200.000 GALLONS OF WATER USED AT EACH
PERFORMANCE.
FIRST MATINEE TO-DAY.
Preceded by
Jack Waller’s Variety Company,
THE IDEALS OF 1916.”
THE PROVEANIES,
Wonderful Trick Cyclists.
MAXIMO,
The Cuban Slack Wire Wonder.
PRICES: Arena Stalls and Dress Circle, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/-; Back Stalls, 3/-; and Family Circle 2/-.
Children in arms not admitted.
BOOK NOW. BOOK NOW.
Plans at Nicholson’s and Hotel Australia.
W. BARRINGTON MILLER, General Manager
Union Theatres Limited, presents the new
T RIANGLE PLAYS AT
1 THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MOTION PICTURE ENTER-
TAINMENT as it should be.
SESSIONS: 11.45 a.m., 2 p.m.,
4.15 p.m. EVERY DAY, and
8 p.m.
Prices: 6d. to 2/6. Box Plan at Paling’s.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
The picture block theatres
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world's best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-.
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD
VV. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
SO LONG, LETTY.
A WHIRLAVIND OF GAIETY.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and !/•■
H E A T R E It O Y A L, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JUNE 3.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
O N T 111 AL.
The Most Successful Drama in 25 Years.
Prices: 6/-, 4/- and 2/-,
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietors GEO. MARLOW LTD.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
GEORGE MARLOW presents lAN MACLAREN,
the eminent English actor, in Rex Beach’s Master-
piece,
THE SPOILERS.
Popular Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-
INCUS THEATRE, M E L B O U R N E.
Lessees BERT BAILEY & JULIUS GRANT.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JUNE 3.
FIRST APPEARANCE OF THE BERT BAILEY CO.
in
JUST A GIRL.
A Dramatisation of Charles Garvice’s Novel.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Allan’s.
BIJOU T H E A T It E, M E L II O l R N E.
FULLER’S THEATRES & VAUDEVILLE LTD.
Governing Director BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
Afternoon 2.30. Evening at 8.
FRED COYNE’S London Revue, “SOMETHING
DOING,’’ also GERALD GRIFFIN, THE LITTLE-
JOHNS, CHARLES EDENBURY, THE PAN-
LASTOS. STAIIR AND STAHR, EDWARDES AND
PARKES.
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. MatinOes: 1/6, 1/- and 6d.
QLACIA R I U M, MELBOURNE.
REAL ICE SKATING.
EVERY AFTERNOON AND
EVENING.
O YES PICTURES, MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.
TWO BIG SHOWS.
HOYT’S OWN: Bourke Street, next Theatre Royal.
OLYMPIA: Prince’s Bridge.
D I R C II & CARROLL
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba t(
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Companv of Australasia Ltd.
Heap Office : ROTIIWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
Medical.
TRY BEFORE BUYING.
Write to-day for a free trial sample of
Pinkettes, the new laxative, lately put on
the Australian market by the well-known
Dr Williams’ Medicine Co., of Pink Pill
fame. Pinkettes are intended to take the
place of the big, old-fashioned purgative
pills, that always cause sickness and grip-
ing when they are used. Although mild in
their action, Pinkettes will be found to do
all that an efficient laxative ought to do.
Mention The Bulletin and write at once
to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Sydney,
for a sample. Full-sized bottles are sold
by all dealers at Is. — Advt.
DAIMLER
sotor Carriages ~
Cos#erciai Yehicies ~
Agricdotrai Tractors
tmiDAIMLER COMPANY w*
COVENTRY, ENGLAND.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68* PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
BEST - ALWAYS.
Velveteen
every yard is marked with
the letters L-O-U-I-S.
The Edison
STORAGE
BATTERY
is Reliable.
It can be put on charge at any time
without detriment—regardless of how
little or how much of the previous charge
has been used.
The Edison Storage Battery embraces an
entirely new and correct principle; re-
quires no expert attention, and is superior
to any other storage battery.
Contains neither lead nor acid, but is iron
and nickel in an alkaline solution.
There is no sulphation or other similar
diseases; no breaking of jars nor plate
renewals, and severe vibration and con-
cussion do not affect it.
Write for full details, and please state
what you require batteries for.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
kS
s§
a;
m
wm
TTIGH flying, fast-
*- going game ne-
cessitates a powerful
Loaded in London
with the popular
English powders
and ac-
curate
cartridge.
Try the
r “ARROW” Brand
Obtainable from leading dealers every-
where — catalogue post-free on request.
Remington Arms-Union
Metallic Cartridge Co.
Woolworth Bldg., New York City
St. Stephens House
Westminster, S.W.
London
m
m
m
Made
"in 8, 10,
12,16, 20,
24 and 28 gauge
Australian Manager, D. D. BRYANT, Box 686, Melbourne.
IT
ALWAYS
PAYS
to buy articles of the highest
quality, therefore it pays to wear
ABBEY SHOES.
We illustrate one of our latest
models—a Choice All-Patent Derby
Dal., with Dull Calf Legs.. 35/-
In Highest-grade Tan Willow
Calf 32/6
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
WHITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between (j.P.O. and hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
I
ST’S'
* r *MT3. IK*/^
t" 0 * or mux
VU n >
h. "*•-*■ .- » })L$.
No
trouble.
In ■every household there
comes the sudden emergency
when a child is seedy a
husband is home late
a wife has to be put on a
specially light diet. That is
the moment when Horlicks
Malted Milk comes in so
handily. It is no trouble
to make, always proves
palatable, and can be given
with impunity to sick child,
tired husband, or dyspeptic
wife unhesitatingly, as it bcs
all the required ingredients
(Milk, Wheat and Malt) to
meet each case.
Ask for Horlick’s
Malted Milk at the
Soda Fountain
Write for sample, sending
2d in stamps, to Hutchin-
son & Co Ltd . 26 Jamieson
Street, Sydney, N S W.; or
Sharland & Co. Ltd., Lome
Street, Auckland, & Dixon
Street, Wellington, N.Z.
HORLICK'S


\\
> *’;s
V
n>
REAL SKIN COMFORT
Follows Use of Cuticura Soap
and Ointment. Trial Free.
By bathing and anointing these fra-
grant super-creamy emollients impart
to tender, sensitive or irritated, itching
skins a feeling of intense skin comfort
difficult for one to realize who has never
used them for like purposes.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
Ilk f
turn
UtMcin* *
Tools
Work
Fine
when oiled with
“3-in-one”
Cutting, planing and
shaving edges keep
bright and sharp.
Drills and automatic tools
run smoothly.
“Three-in-One” does not
heat up or clog at any speed.
Prevents rust and tarnish.
Cleans wooden handles.
WON’T SOIL HANDS
OR CLOTHES.
Buy from your dealer, or
write for Free Sample.
REID AND REID,
Australasian Agents,
HARRIS STREET.
WELLINGTON. N.Z.
Food enjoyed is
Food more nourishing.
TASTY DISHES
are easily, quickly
and cheaply prepared
when Bisto is at hand.
For soups and gravies,
Bisto is thickening,
colouring and season-
ing all in one.
“ Everything
hut the meat."
All Grocers. In Tins. Made by Cerf.BOS, LTD.
Hunters of Big Game
use the Ross .280 Rifle and its
Special Sporting Cartridge (Pat’d)
Every day we receive letters praising the
accuracy and low trajectory of our .280
High Velocity Rifle and the tremendous
shocking power of the Ross .280 Sporting
Ammunition with copper tube expanding
bullet—patented.
The combination is esteemed, by the hun-
dreds of expert sportsmen and guides who
use it, to afford the very best equipment
for any hunter of larger game.
You increase the
chances of a suc-
cessful trip by
having the Ross
. 280 and its Special
Sporting
Ammunition
Catalogue on applica-
tion to
Ross Rifle Co.
Quebec* Canada
1115
3
Information and Prices can be obtained from —
Mr. HUGH SCOTT-YOUNG,
C.O. Box 1031, Melbourne, Australia.
f |'V«#
Kjm
V\\\w"'' V
ftfil
9
10
9
8
EIC
BEN
les
as
A Sleep Measure
Set Big Ben for
your rising hour and
forget him —he won’t
forget you.
Tick by tick he counts
off your sleep hours.
Steady, accurate, reli-
able, he gives you full
measure —not one minute
more.
When wake-time comes you’re
aroused by a lively alarm on a
mellow-toned gong that brushes
the sleep out of your eyes and
puts you in fighting trim to
tackle the work ahead of you.
Big Ben makes your last hour
of sleep as restful as your first —
as free from worry about
waking on time.
Big Ben is seven inches tall,
well built, handsome, punctual.
He has a big, easily read dial—
a cheerful, deep toned voice—
large, comfortable winding keys
a light running movement
with watch-like escapement—an
alarm that calls steadily for five
minutes or intermittently for
ten.
Big Ben undergoes a hundred inspec-
tions in the making and six rigid timing
tests before leaving the factory of the
Western Clock Co., La Salle, 111.,
U.S.A., Makers of Westclox. At all
clock dealers, price 12/6; postage 1/-
extra.
Lumbago
The case of Rheumatism or Gout
which Kruschen Salts cannot benefit
- has yet to be discovered. This
famous British remedy is also
recommended by Medical Men in
cases of Lumbago, Sciatica, Eczema,
Constipation, and Liver and Kidney
Disorders.
KRUSCHEN AT THE FRONT
Since the outbreak of the War, enormous
quantities of Kruschen Salts have been ordered
by. and delivered to the British Authorities, for
the use of the British Forces overseas and in
the Base Hospitals at Home. Kruschen Salts
are prescribed by Medical Men the world over.
THE WORD KRUSCHEN
The trade mark “ Kruschen ” is a legacy—
handed down from generation to generation of
the family of Evan Griffiths Hughes, the sole
Manufacturers of Kruschen Salts, and one of
the oldest firms of Manufacturing Chemists in
the County of Lancashire. Established 1754
160 years ago.
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754.
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers,
and stores throughout Australia,
Wholesale Distributing Agents :
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
68, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester,
England.
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
“8.W.” : Allow me to rise above the
storm of curses and give a cheer for prickly-
pear. Use it as a whitewash. In South
America we slice the leaves of the blessing
and steep it in water for a day. Then we
add some lime to the creamy solution, and
have a wash which gives an endurable
glossy-white covering able to withstand any
climate except the one that Freetraders are
going to.
“Chink”: At a Brisbane suburban blow-
out the other night an amateur elocutionist
weighed in with “How We Beat the Favor-
ite.” He got his field away pretty right;
he even sprinted finely for the first few fur-
longs. Then he struck a hurdle that his
memory baulked at. Dead silence. En-
couraging applause. Silence some more.
Then young Australia shot in to the rescue.
“Well, any’ow,” chirruped the impatient
“sport”—“’oo won the race?”
McAndrew’s million miles at sea was a
short trip compared with the run of Cap-
tain H. E. Greenstreet, of the New Zealand
S.S. Co.’s Remuera. When he got home the
other day he was on his 90th trip to Maori-
land by the Cape of Good Hope and back
by the Horn or Magellan Straits. This
means that he has reeled off nearly 2,500,000
miles without counting in his other travels.
If he had made five trips to the moon he
wouldn’t have gone farther.
A Vic. forestry school is to be established
wherein the pupil will be taught how to
grow a tree, keep it in good health and value
it at various stages of its growth. After
one year’s tuition, and on passing an exami-
nation, the pupil will become a “forest
cadet” with a weekly wage. Later, when
he is wiser in timber lore and bush econo-
mics, he may become a chief forester with
a wage of £5. After that—-well, thus far
there is no thereafter in the Livingston
scheme. And a promise of only £250 per
annum for Victoria’s chief foresters looks
merely as though Livingston was trying to
get his scientists on the cheap.
“Thraso” wants Australia to grow its
own medicine :—■
The Medicinal Plants Board of Victoria is testing
nearly 40 vegetables in the field and in the laboratory
with a view to advising the public which to grow.
The question of the production of medicinal plants
and herbs has become an urgent one owing to the
war. We still rely on troubled Europe for our drugs
and medicines when nearly all of them can be raised
here. In fact, many medicinal local plants are
noxious weeds, like dandelion and stramonium.
Others would be dangerous to grow except under
proper supervision, such as opium poppy and henbane.
Some, like liquorice and peppermint, are easy, and
one ought to be careful to put in the right castor-
oil plant, as there are SO varieties. Camphor can
be produced from a native laurel. Climate, soil, lati-
tude and altitude of almost every degree exist in
Australia, and plant life thrives nearly everywhere.
There are over 80 varieties of eucalyptus oil, each
with distinct characteristics, and all saleable either
at home or abroad. This is another of the innumer-
able things we can do better here ourselves if we
can only drag ourselves out of bed.
As a school teacher, Jack Healy, late
secretary of Vic. Cricket Association, whom
a weak heart has just killed in his chair,
had his own methods. Yet the youngsters
who sat under him when he was master at
Yarra Park School remember his honest
nature no less than his heavy hand. His
pet aversion was the girl who allowed her
hair to fall about her face and screen her
whisperings. His plan was to march her
out in front of the class and tie up her
crowning glory with a piece of string,
apparently kept for the purpose. His prin-
cipal failing was a delight in atrocious
puns, but with this exception his sense of
fair play was notable, as befitted a cricketer
of his standing; and as “Markwell” of the
Australasian, his writings on football
were' a law unto those scholars whose
parents bought the paper.
Rumor is busy preparing a shift for Pre-
mier Scaddan from his Ivanhoe-Brownhill
pocket borough to a metropolitan constitu-
ency. Incidentally, it is assumed that the
election will tread on the heels of the ensu-
ing meeting of Parliament. John de-
clines to talk about it; but unless he has
wind of a stronger Jack in the field for the
Labor selection, or presses a Redistribution
Act, he is unlikely to forsake the district
which gave him his political baptism. The
Labor party lost every metropolitan seat but
one at the last general election, and its record
in the interim gives it small ground for hope
of recovery. With his deficit of a million
and a half Scaddan is not the Laughing Jack
of the early days of his Premiership; but
he is not so depressed that he yearns to
commit himself to the shadows.
Horace Stevens, who until a few months
ago was one of Melbourne’s best-known den-
tists, has laid down the forceps for good.
Chess men and musicians will miss him.
Singer Horace Stevens, now a lieutenant
in the A.1.F., was his son, and a son-in-law
is “Billy” Steele, the beauteous organist of
Scots’ Church. One of the late toothsmith’s
hobbies was pocket agriculture, especially
in connection with experimental wheat-grow-
ing. In the days when Jack Davidson, now
editor-in-chief of Melbourne Herald, was
editing the Weekly Times, which was
strong on the land and the harvest thereof,
Stevens- put before him some wonderful re-
sults in grain production. “Davy” was
greatly struck. “What area did you have
under cultivation?” he asked. “Ah,” said
Stevens, apologetically, “only a kerosene tin,
you know.” That was Davidson’s first in-
sight into the real meaning of “intense
cultivation.”
HIS LETTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He toiled, his small head bending o’er his pen,
Nor thought that grown-up folks did silent note
His secret heavy enterprise, and when
He something to his satisfaction wrote,
They watched him to the garden speed away,
And dig and dig for all his little worth
To hide his precious letter from the day,
lo post it safely in the soft brown earth.
The child then gone, they dug it up to scan
Its words in labored letters, thin and thick—
Dear Mr. Devil, come and take Aunt Ann ;
And please be quick!”
N.R.W.
MAUDE B. JACOB.


of Quality
and Stability.
SUNOL TOBACCO.
Highest-grade Virginian.
Dark or Light.
Sample 2oz. pkt. 11 d., or 11b.
6/6 (post free to any address).
Si
1
m&i
Bil. ISAAC HOLLIS 8 SONS’ “ THE RELIABLE ” D.8.8.L. Gun,
12-gauge, top lever, bar action. 30m. real twist or steel
barrels, Greener cross bolt, both choke, rebounding locks,
snap fore-end, chambered for2£in. cartridges. Guaranteed for all Smokeless Powders
half-pistol grip, walnut stock; weight from 7£ib. to r>
DELIVERED, <*' * US.
812. Same Gun, with 32in. barrels DELIVERED, £7/15/
GOLDEN KEY
CIGARS DE LUXE.
British made.
Sample box of 5 cigars,
2/6 (post free).
•V--.
826. C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun,
12 or 16-gauge, top lever, double bolt, 30in. barrels,
ieft choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved, bar locks, Greener cross-bolt,
nitro proof; weight of 12-gauge, about Tjlb. ; of
16-gauge, about DELIVERED,
£5 5s
Same as above, 12-gauge 32in. barrels or 20-gauge 30in. barrels, 5/- extra.
GUN and all
kinds of
SPORTING
REPAIR WORK
a Specialty.
WE STOCK EVERYTHING
FOR EVERY SPORT
Bfo. Boswell’s High-grade D.8.8.L. Hammerless Pigeon Gun, “The Reliable,
Send for
our Price
List of
Guns,
Rifles,
Revolvers
and all
Sporting
Goods,
Post Free
to any
address.
12-gauge, top lever, Anson and Deeley action, barrels both choke, side clips Greene v
Bolt, chambered for 2f cartridges, nitro proved, pistol grip, elaborately engraved • iA
about 71b. soz Delivered JEIV lOs
“Goods right—Prices right.”
830. DOMOULINS’ D.8.8.L. GUN,
12-gauge, top lever, 30in. real twist barrels,
choke, side clips, square Greener cross bolt,
highly engraved, pistol grip, walnut stock.
patent fore-end ; weight about 71b. POST FREE, J Q ' m
HAYMARKET
•SYbNEY-
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KING STREET; also at NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE.
LONDON HAIR SPECIALIST’S GENEROUS GIFT.
Test this Splendid Hair-growing Preparation FREE.
A LIBERAL TRIAL OFFERED TO EVERY READER.
Every reader of this paper, man or woman,
who is distressed by falling, splitting hairs,
lank, “damp” hair, over-dry or over-greasy
hair, total or approaching baldness, seal}) ini-
tation, dandruff, or any other hair defect,
should avail themselves of this opportunity
to test free of charge the renowned TRUE
HAIR GROWER. Mr. Burleigh announces
that he has so much faith in the merits of his
preparation, which it is well known has been
used extensively by persons in all walks of
life and in all parts of the world for up-
wards of 20 years, that lie again invites our
readers to use the coupon below and make
early application for a FREE TRIAL. Xo
matter what the present condition of your
scalp may be, no matter what so-colled reme-
dies you have tried, until you have tested-this
remarkable preparation you cannot appreciate
the value of a truly scientific method of hair
culture. You can prove in a few moments
each morning or evening how simple it is to
grow beautiful hair with Mr. Burleigh’s
TRUE HAIR GROWER, and how surpris-
ingly one’s whole appearance, brightness and
personal charms are improved by slight atten-
tion to the hair.
Hair troubles, like many other diseases,
have been wrongly diagnosed and altogether
misunderstood. The hair itself is not the
thing to be treated, for the reason that it is
simply a product of the scalp, and wholly
dependent upon its action. The scalp is
the very soil in which the hair is produced,
wmm
W&i:
ssrf
W:W*
m :
Sis®
vS
• y- •:
.••• • •
•Wi-kK?
Mrs. M. IIALL and her two (laughters, aped 7 and 10. (From a photo.)
Mr. John Craven Burleigh, Mica Street, Broken Hill NSW
321 Pitt Street, Sydney. 'March 2, 1916.
Dear Sir, —• „ ’
I have now been using your True Hair Grower for the past three months, and find that
it accomplishes all that you claim for it. My hair was falling out considerably before
using your treatment, but 1 am pleased to say that it has entirely stopped fallino- and
is much thicker and longer. Your treatment has also been successful in improving
the length and thickness of my two daughters* hair, aged 7 and 10 years respectivelv *
and, to give you an idea of the extent of our hair, I am enclosing herewith a couple
of photographs, which you may use in any way you think fit
Thanking you for the benefits received, "and assuring you that I will do mv
utmost to increase the demands for your preparation in this town
I am, yours very truly, (Signed) ’ Mrs. M. HALL.
nurtured and grown, and it alone should
receive the attention if results are to be
expected. It would do no earthly good to
treat the stem of a plant with a view to mak-
ing it grow and become more beautiful—the
soil in which the plant grows must be
attended to. Therefore, the scalp, in which
the hair grows, must receive the attention if
you are to expect it to grow and become more
beautiful. Loss of hair is caused by the scalp
drying up or losing its supply of moisture or
nutriment; when baldness occurs, the scalp
has simply lost all its nourishment, leaving
nothing for the hair to feed upon. (A plant,
or even a tree, would die under similar condi-
tions.) The natural thing to do in either
case is to feed or replenish the soil or scalp,
as the case may be, and your crop will grow
and multiply as Nature intended it should.
Mr. Burleigh’s TRUE HAIR GROWER, we
understand, has a most wonderful effect upon
the hair glands and tissues of the scalp. R
is the only remedy for the hair ever discov-
ered that is similar to the natural foods or
liquids of the scalp. It penetrates the pores
quickly, and the hair soon shows the effects of
its wonderful, exhilarating and life-produc-
ing qualities.
Tost the COUPON below TO-DAY, enclosing
3d. stamps for postage, etc. By return you wi
receive (1) a liberal supply of Mr. Ciaven
Burleigh’s True Hair Grower, (2) an interesting
32-page booklet entitled “Concerning the Ham
This book has been carefully written, and contains
much valuable information concerning the hail t a
could not be obtained from any other source,
will prove a valuable guide and reference boo'.
POST TO-DA Y
To JOHN CRAVEN BURLEIGH,
Dept. 7 Macdonell House, 321 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Dear Sir—Please send me your free trial of True Hair Grower, also a copy of your book entitled “Concerning the Hair.’
Name
I enclose 3d. stamps for postage,
Address
State
SPECIAL NOTlCE.—Readers who are interested in the above announcement are requested to make early application. Mr. Burleigh states that the
demand tor free trials is sure to be large, and that he may be obliged to withdraw the offer at an early date.


I/I X
m
n
•n
Hk
Lf3£i£!
'ifill
<r Vs*»ea»
i4''i
£
c
A
n
ALL EYES ARE TURNED
TOWARDS
Do You
Dread
the
Winter ?
Most, people do,
for it means
coughs & colds,
but you need
not fear if you
have a bottle of
Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery
in the house.
A doss taken
at the beginning
of a cold will
relieve and pre-
vent Influenza,
Bronchitis and
all Throat
Troubles. You
can buy Dr.
Sheldon’s New
Discovery
everywhere.
>££
DISCOVERY
I
Coughs
colds
CROUP
INFLUENZA
AND ALL
Bronchial
AND
Pulmonary
Affections
OF THE
TMROffILUNGS
and chest
Prtet>*R£o bv'
Price lie
Best for
A. 11 the
Family.
Dr. Sheldon’s
Vew Discovery
is the mother’s
helper, and the
children’s friend
through all the
winter months.
It can be given
to the youngest
child and to the
sturdy school
children, to the
college student,
or to the father
of a family.
Wherever there
is a cold Dr.
Sheldon’s New
Discovery is the
shortest path-
way to good
health.
I
Price
1/6
Dr. SHELDON’!
NEW DISCOVERY
Tke Jollywells
Recruits parade
For war arrayed
The Jollywells cheer,
Our troops to aid.
At dawn of day
They sail away,
To climes afar,
Old scores to pay.
A word or two
Should interest you,
Our boys are sick
Of jam and stew.
We trust that you
Give them their due,
And send “REX” GOODS
As others do.
“What Shall I
Send to Billie
at the Front?”
£
X
BRM'J
a
5
PRO DU^
FOOD
HE
Ml TT
BSS
asked a little girlie of her mother—Billie being her brother who
had enlisted and gone away.
“Send him a tin of
‘REX’
Luncheon
Cheese,”
replied the good woman. “He always
liked it when at home; besides, it
isn’t very heavy and it is of good
Food Value.”
“REX” Luncheon Cheese is something a Soldier can carry in his kit. It
contains the maximum nourishment with the minimum of bulk.
It’s a fighting man’s food —beyond any shadow of doubt —being piquant to the
taste and a good keeper under all climatic conditions.
Spreads without butter, too.
Sold by all Grocers. Ask for “REX” Brand and refuse substitutes.
Other “Rex** Canned Delicacies ares
Temporarily out of stock.
“Rex” Pork Brawn, 111), tins.
“Rex” Pigs’ Feet in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Punch Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
Fogg'itt, Jones ®. Co. Ltd.,
Curers of “Rex’* Hams and Bacon;
PacKers of “Rex** Pure Food Products.
The Big Ten-Ten,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HEAT of the summer had worked its
will;
The grass was tinder-dry ;
Mile after mile, on plain and hill,
The bush was withered and limp and still
Where winds once whispered by.
Glare as of furnaces seemed to fill
The eyes of a blinded sky.
Close to the track where the railway went.
The trees leaned in to feel
The sighing wind, like a breath nigh spent,
That passed, with clamor and discord blent
Of clattering car and wheel,
When quivering, burning metals bent
To the beat of a giant’s heel.
Low in the hills the night-mail paused
Where the block-bells clanged their code.
Leagues of a flame-lit plain she’d crossed,
Paths through the burning foothills forced
Where gathering flames had glowed.
Leaning out, like a knight well horsed,
Her driver spoke of the road.
“How are the fires at Snowbound Creek?
Ask him to flag me in.
The smoke’s been thick ; in the yellow reek
A semaphore’s but a murky streak.
It was hot work, once, between
Two walls of flame —aye, a narrow squeak,
But the Big Ten-Ten can wfln !”
Skirting the sidings dry and brown
By winding, rising ways,
The mail swung put of the foothills town
Where flames were raging and roaring down,
And treetops were ablaze;
She fought her way towards the mountain’s
crown,
Unseen in the smoky haze.
Down in the dried-up river beds
The dead scrub never stirred.
Loudly she blew at the winking “reds,”
While sleepers woke' in their rocking beds.
And the knight of the engine spurred
Till the punch of the steam on her piston-
heads
Were the only sounds he heard.
Snowbound Creek was a lurid place—
The red fires hemmed it round.
They flagged him through at a headlong
pace,
And saw the set of his flame-lit face
And the loom of her, vapor-crowned—
A monster, filled with the agile grace
And leap of a hunting hound.
Upwards, into a hell of flame,
The reeling engine strove ;
Here was the test of her mountain fame.
Speed on the grades, that the drivers claim
As test, all else above;
And the shudder of power in her mighty
frame
Was balm to the man who drove.
Fires of the forest were nearer now.
She cleared their clutch in time;
Straining yet to the mountain’s brow
She dared the threat of the blazing bough
With the lilt of a shouted rhyme.
Oh ! true were the tales men told of how
The Rig Ten-Ten could climb!
The song of her rocking funnel seemed
To shout to the heavens wide.
Rushing, rising, the Ten-Ten steamed
Nor slackened speed when a signal gleamed
Or a flange on the metals cried ;
Upwards, ever, and still there streamed
Red lights on the mountain-side.
Grey was the dawn when she topped the
crest
And the hissing brakes took hold ;
Dim stars shone in the shadowed west.
The east was warm as a maiden’s breast
’Neath royal cloth of gold :
But down where the mists of morning rest,
The smoke still rose and rolled.
Her counlings clattered, she grumbled, then
Moved off, to a muttered rhyme ;
They’d earned their rest, her engine-men,
Till stars rode over the hills again ;
But they smiled at the block-bell’s chime
Passing the word that the Big Ten-Ten
Had come through the fires, on time.
MAORILAND.
WILL LAWSON.
Bonzolino.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I STARTED up in bed.
“What the h-h-heaven is that?”
I waa curing myaelf of the swearing
habit, but I had been ao suddenly wrenched
out of slumber that the accustomed word
had very nearly slipped. Surely I hadn’t
dreamt such a flaring flourish on a big
brass instrument. No! —there it came
again; a rapid scale-passage, rushing, cres-
cendo, to a far-resounding summit; then
descending slowly over longer and longer
lapses to the very bottom of the phonetic
abyss.
This time the swear-word did come—
good and hard. It was my first night in
my new quarters; the time was half-past
twelve; yet here was some lunatic in the
next room diverting himself untimeously
with diabolical diapasons. With assault-
and-battery in my mind. I sprang out of
bed, but while I was getting into my trou-
sers I decided that expostulation should
come first. I went to the next door and
tapped thrice —unheard ; so I banged.
“Com’ een!” said a small, tired kind of
voice.
Stretched upon the bed was a coatless
little man. with beady black eyes and a
grizzling dark moustache. I looked hard at
him for a few moments; then my eye
travelled inquiringly round the room. The
occupier started up and stared angrily at
me. Then his face lighted, and he laughed
—the airy, spontaneous laugh of Southern
Europe.
“You look-a for da eenstruments?” he
said. “You no can tell-a vere I put zem,
eh ?”
“I certainly don’t see any; but you must
allow me to say that”
He bounded off the bed so suddenly that I
thought he was going to rush me, but he
merely grasped me impulsively by both
hands.
“ Perdonatemi , signor!- —a tousan’ par-
dons ! You sleep-a. een da nex’ r-r-room,
eh? Dat ees—you no sleep-a, because dat
r-rascal, Benedetto Bonzolino —dat ees me
—’e make-a da ongodlee dam row vis ’is
eenstruments.”
‘‘Ungodly damned row!” I repeated.
“That’s pretty idiomatic for an Italian, as
I presume you are, but”
“Say no more-a !” he cut in. “I make-a
you da apologee for deesturba you, but da
padrona —landleddee, you call —she no tella
me dat da nex’ appgrtamento vas occupy.
Taka da seat”—he darted to a cupboard in
the corner—-“an ve ’ave von glass of vine
togezzer, to show-a dere is no eel-veel.”
The queer little animal interested me. I
sat down and tasted his wine. “Sono stato
in Italia,'’'’ I remarked, casually. It was as
if I had touched a spring. Bonzolino liter-
ally jumped at me,' and, before I know what
was happening, I had been swiftly kissed
on both cheeks—infinitely to my British
discomfiture. Then off he went in his own
tongue, at a rate that left me hopelessly
in the rear, though I tried to catch-on with
an occasional “Si” or “ Certamente .” I
could make out, nevertheless, that his
Italian was high-class, and I began to scent
a mystery—perhaps a romance—about this
electric little performer upon invisible
musical instruments. lie grinned amiably
at me when he saw me looking round again
for them.
“Too late-a now,” he said ; “but I show-a
you dem domani— to-morrow, you call eet.
An’ den you no see dem not-at-all.”
This was cabalistic, but next day I under-
stood. I had brought Bonzolino into my
room, and was requiting his Marsala with
good old Scotch, when a bassoon began to
play, and I discovered, to my huge aston-
ishment, that my small friend was vocally
producing the sound. Next, he gave me a
bit of the bass-saxophone, and then of the
trombone; and so on, from instrument to
instrument —all imitated with such marvel-
lous fidelity that I simply sat and stared at
the performer.
“Why,” I said at last, “where, in the
name of all that’s miraculous, do you bring
that magnificent tone from? You don’t
speak in it.”
“No, I no spik een eem, an’ I no seeng
een eem. I shust play-a een eem.”
“Well, you are nothing short of a pheno-
menon. Why don’t you go on the variety-
stage? You’d simply coin money!”
If I had struck the little man in the face
be could not more suddenly have flashed
into anger. He grabbed himself violently
by the hair with both hands, and hopped
about the room like a demented sparrow
before he could find words.
“You dare-a ! You ’ave da eensolence to
—vat you call eet —suggaist—dat I go on
da stage-a? Vat you taka me for, eh?”
“Well, Mr. Bonzolino,” I began, “I don’t,
see anything very dreadful”
“Bah!” he broke in. “I not Bonzolino!
I no ’ave da nem of da dam beeliard-ball!”
“Why—you told me”
“Yais, I tol’ you Bonzolino. Good nuff
dat for nome-di-guerra; but, ven you talk-a
me about go on da varieetee-stage-a, I tella
you dat een my own countree I am nobile.
II Conte di Montegiallo, al vostro servizio .”
I was more amused than impressed, but
I sought to speak the little spitfire fair in
his own tongue. “ Con tutto rispetto,” I
began.
“ Basta!” he cut in. “I no spik no more-a
da Italiano viz you. You ’eve eensulta me,
an’ I Spik now onlee your own —vat you
call? —rottain Aingleesh —da lingua of da
porco —da peeg, you call!”
Tired of this teapot-tempest, I got up.
“Now, Mr. Bonzolino, or Montegiallo, or
whatever you are —out you go ! I haven’t
any use for high-explosives of your sort.”
lie made me a magnificent bow.
“I go,” he said, solemnly ; “but you ’ear-a
from me ver’ soon!”
“Ver’ soon” was next day, when I met
Collachini in George-street. He was an
Austro-Italian. whose modifications of Eng-
lish are too slight to be worth reproducing.
He smiled significantly as we shook hands.
“You know Bonzolino?” he said.
“Dropped across him the night before
last. Bit of a crank, isn’t he?”
“More of a rascal, I should say. Well-
educated man, though, and calls himself
sometimes Count of Montegiallo. At all
events, he says you insulted him grossly,
and he demands the satisfaction of a gentle-
man, as he-calls it. Of course the thing is
ridiculous, but I promised him I’d give you
the message. By-the-way, he didn’t tell me
what the insult was.”
Collachini had an enormous laugh, and,
when I had explained, his mighty guffaw
made the passers-by turn to look at us.
“Well,” he said, “I’ve given you the mes-
sage, anyhow. What shall I tell him you
said to it?”
“Tell him I said ‘Rubbish !’ ”
“Just that?”
“Just that.”
Collachini grinned and departed, and I
shoved the whole silly matter out of my mind.
But that evening, as I was hanging up my
hat in the hall, I became aware of half a
dozen fellow-residents grouped about the
foot of the staircase. Amongst them was
Bonzolino, and in the eyes of the others
was expectancy.
“Codardo!” the little man shot at me, as
I approached the stairs.
“Poltrone !” he added, as I made to ascend.
Ironically I thanked him. “Vi ringrazio
molto!” I said, and would have passed on,
but Bonzolino the Brave blocked my way,
and the dignity of him would have been
magnificent if it hadn’t been so ludicrous.
“I senda you a reques’ for la sodisfasione
—da satisfac’ of da gentlemans; an’ you
reply onlee ‘Rubbaish !’ Ees dat so?”
“Precisely. And that is what I say to you
now. Rubbish ! —get out of my way !”
“Den I ’ave da onore to pulla you da
nose !”
He thrust out his arm quickly, and—
w r hat would have happened if he had really
(Continued on next page.)


Don’t Neglect Y our Skii
]
Rub ZAM-BUK In, &nd Avoid
All Winter Skin Troubles.
The skin is one of the most sensitive parts
of the human body; and because it is also the
most exposed to injury and disease, it ought
to get more attention than most people thinir
is necessary. -
A sudden chill, dirt in a cold-crack or small
abrasion, and skin-weaknesses are all likelv
to lead to trouble. Neglected chafing
chaps, chilblains, cold-sores, or
cuts may also cause more serious
disease in the shape of festering
wounds, ulcers or itching sores, and
even chronic eczema is often trace-
able to neglect in the early stages of
a simple affection.
Zam-Buk is the ideal application
for the skin at this season^
No ordinary ointments or salves,
concocted from rancid animal fats or
mineral irritants, can do for the
skin what Zam-Buk does. Such
coarse and harmful preparations
never give lasting satisfaction— the
sort that is undoubtedly got from
rubbing in Zam-Buk.
“ ROB
IT IN."
Smearing the skin "with Zam-Buk has an almost instantaneous
cleansing and restorative effect. So pure are the juices in Zam-Buk
that they sink deep into the pores, permeating all the minute
“machinery” of the tissue, and they just go to work right away to
end the trouble thoroughly.
No skin looks so well—or is, in fact, so soft, sound and healthy
throughout—as the skin that has had frequent dressings of Zam-Buk,
And this perfection is more than “skin-deep,” seeing that a healthy
skin exerts a wholesome influence upon the rest of the body. The
Zam-Buk treatment can reasonably claim to be a revival of one of the
LOST ARTS of the old Grecian days, when proper care of the skin was
universal.
THE HOME HEALER. |
Zam-Buk is excellent for eczema, ulcers, ringworm, bad legs, rashes, erup-
tions, pimples, sores, scabs, scales, piles, pains, swellings, chapped hands, sore
faces, cold sores, chilblains, cuts, burns, festerings, gatherings, poisoned wounds,
children’s sores, and injured and diseased, irritated, inflamed and unhealthy
conditions of the skin. Of all chemists and stores at 1/6 and 3/6 per pot (3/0
holds nearly
four times
the Is. 6d.) ;
or post free
from the Sole
P r oprietors,
C. E. Fulford
(Austral-
asia), Ltd.,
3 9 Pitt
St., Sydney.
See also Page
NO Water Drip.
NO Cams, Valves
or Gears to get
out of order and to
repair.
NO skilled labor
necessary.
Automatic Igni-
tion.
'"'Runs on Crude
Oil, at less th •»* 6d.
per gallon.
Runn in g Ex-
penses less than
half of those of
Benzine Engines.
Fuel Economy
higher than that
of any other Crude
Oil Engine on the
market.
Designed for con-
tinuous hard
service.
More than 50 “Skan-
dia” now running in
Australia and the
Islands. 1
Write for
Catalogues
and Prices
to-day.
State
Service
and
Hone-
power
needed.
J 5
KMANSHI^
[PERFi
PERFECTION in DESIGN. MATERIALS ini WORKMANSH
Marine, Stationary 8 Portable Engines.
Unequalled in SIMPLICITY,
ACCESSIBILITY
RELIABILITY.
DURABILITY
and
ECONOMY.
We
always
Stock
these
engines.
4 to 600
H.P.
NELSON & ROBERTSON,
Sole Agents for Australasia
and South Sea Islands.
11-17 Loftus Street, SYDNEY.
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
SWA
FOWNTPEN.
Catalogue Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only) :
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255aGeorgeSt., Sydney
Sold by all
Stationers.
zlZelzn.
If any illustration appearing in ®
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
pulled my nose I can’t say; but he merely
touched the end of the feature with a swift
forefinger—then stood aside and made me
an elaborate bow. “Kindlee conseeder your
nose pulla !” he said.
I laughed and passed on.
* * * *
About a fortnight later I strolled into one
of the variety theatres, and was looking care-
lessly down the programme when I struck: —
“The Celebrated Herr Gelbberg, in his
Astonishing Vocal Imitations of Musical In-
struments. An Absolute Marvel. Must be
Heard to be Credited,” and so on.
“Gelbberg?” I said to myself. “Oelb berg;
yellow mountain! Why, it’s a monte-giallo
—Montegiallo. Bonzolino, for a thousand !”
It was; and, when his turn was over, I
went round to the stage-door and waited.
Presently he came out —looked at me—made
to pass on—then turned and faced me.
“Veil?” he said.
“Well, Mr. Bonzolino-Gelbberg-Montegi-
allo; you appear to be doing pretty decently
out of the advice you wanted to assassinate
me for. Fifty pounds a week, eh? That’s
about the figure, I suppose?”
“Dat avviso you givva me ! Ila ! I onner-
stan’. You vanta me pave you for dat
avviso? Ah, dat ees da Aingleeshman
alvays. Da nazione of sliopkeepair, as da
gret Napoleone say! Veil, Meester Shop-
keepair—’owmosh you vant?”
With intentional insult he displayed upon
his palm a couple of half-crowns.
“Seems to me,” I went on unheeding, “that
the commercial instinct is pretty well devel-
oped even in the blue —or is it the yellow—
blood of the Haughty House of Montegiallo.”
At this not very brilliant play upon his
alleged name the little man simply blew-up ;
there is no other word for it. He glared—he
skipped—he spluttered. “I pulla your dam’
noce vonce more-a!” he hissed, as he rushed
at me with outstretched arm; but, expecting
no more than another figurative or hypo-
thetical assault, I didn’t lift a finger until I
found that my nose was being violently
tweaked in good earnest. Then I sent up a
half-arm “chip” to the jaw, and Mr. Bonzo-
lino sat down with great celerity.
* * * *
“For the defence” —said next evening’s
paper—“ Charles Cockerell, stage-doorkeeper
at the "Whirligig Theatre, deposed that he
saw the whole affair. The tw' men had been
talking quietly for a couple of minutes, when
Gelbberg became suddenly excited and
grabbed the nose of the defendant, who then
propped him and knocked him down.
“The Magistrate: ‘Propped him and
knocked him down’? Why, I always thought
propping anything kept it up! (Laughter.)
I dismiss this charge. The solicitor for the
complainant has laid great stress on the fact
that his client is the smaller man and
doesn’t know how to use his hands. Well,
that is all the more reason why he shouldn’t
go pulling the noses of other people who may
be better equipped for hostilities. If he had
merely struck the defendant, I might have
taken a different view ; but, to pull a nose —a
Britisher’s nose, at all events —is as deadly
an insult as to spit upon the beard of a
Mohammedan. Next case!”
* * * *
Here, for the first time, are the facts about
what has been so often charged against me
as the “Bumping of Bonzolino.” I trust I
shall hear no more of that extremely tired
misconstruction.
ALEX. E. MONTGOMERY.
Finn’s Head.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
nyy ORAII was the fine girl, tall and
straight, with hair to her blacker
than Quinlan’s pig—the same that
slid greased through the flues of Hell for a
wager—and the bluest blue eye out of Ire-
land, saving none. Norah Iveely took ser-
vice to Finn’s trifling hotel at Bogtrot, Bun-
garee East, from her mother’s arms, with
the school ways to her still, and the face
that dimpled with innocence. You’d think,
maybe, she was nothing but a cherub at all
that had come by the figure of Venus in the
way of an accident. Norah had nothing to
do anyone would mind the least, but wipe
up the few dishes, and scrub the seven
floors, and dust, and clean, and cook, and
milk, and make the beds, after chopping a
trifle of hard wood, or digging over the small
garden couldn’t turn a ten-horse team and a
waggon in. ’Twas Mrs. Finn attended the
bar, and himself did all the A T ork.
Phil Finn was the cocky bit of a man,
that impudent you’d think him six foot from
his boots, and thirteen stone after the long
fast, and him no taller than a small man,
and little heftier than a sound turkey bird
well plucked and stuffed for the Christmas
eating. Phil had a good idea of himself as
the bad boy of the family, and his airs with
women would tire the patient Job. Natur-
ally so a silly man got frisking with Norah
in the kitchen while Mrs. Finn was diverted,
tending the bar, giving drinks to hot,
droughty travellers and the like of that.
And Phil would throw an arm round Norah,
and tell her a tale of her blue eyes and his
heart breaking in two within him. Nothing
would Norah say in answer, but take up a
neat china plate and snap on his head. And
Mrs. Mary Finn, coming in, would look at
the broken crockery strewn on the floor, and
say ’twas a mortal pity, since the plate was
a great piece of fine metal, belonged to her
mother, and prized more than is ordinary.
And Norah would blush, and say nothing.
Finn, with a burning red patch to bis bald
bead, would be fussing most righteous in the
yard all this time.
But Finn was a monotonous man of sad
persistence, and his sore head would no
sooner be gone that back would he be at
Norah, making foolishness, and without any
ado but in defence of her self-respect, and
for the honor of the house, “Bang!” Norah
would crack the soup-tureen across the keel
of his skull. ’Twas only natural, hearing
the crash, Mrs. Mary Finn would come
again, and look sad towards Norah, clicking
her tongue the time, and saying that tureen
was her old grandmother’s 81 years since,
none finer out of China. Norah bore it all,
with a tear perhaps, and a sigh maybe, but
was not one to make trouble ’tween man
and wife. So the destruction went on. Was
never a day when Phil Finn did not have
a plate or two, or a big dish as like as not,
cracked over the head of him, and some times
lie bled a bit, and other times be took a
black bruise till his head looked like one
six Tipperary boys would be practising on,
and there was not a plate left to the hotel
you could set down to a decent customer.
Then when it came to correcting Phil
with the opal shade from the bar lamp she
was cleaning, Norah got more of the length
of Mrs. Mary’s tongue, Mrs. Finn being a
patient and quiet-spoken lady by nature and
custom, but one that knew her rights. “Have
yeh no sense to yeli at all, Norah Keely, and
you the daughter of a curious sane man?”
said she. “Nothin’ will be left me with yer
foolishness and your smashin’s and breakin’s,
’n’ is a body t’ feed her gentle guests, well
brought up ’n’ educated ivery one, wid
nothin’ but pig-tins ’n’ irun dishes no better?
’Tis come t’ this, though I like you well, ’n’
have a mind that you’re a honest, clean
girl, you’ll not stay here if me good new blue
dinner-set comes tumblin’ about me ears the
same way.” Norah gave no answer, but her
face was a flaming sign, and when she
blinked the falling tears would fill a cup.
Only next morning, at eleven about, Mrs.
Finn heard a great crash in the kitchen.
One hand to her heart for the fate of her
expensive new dishes of clear white China
you could see through, she ran for the door,
and there lay Phil Finn on the deal boards,
with a swelling lump to his head like the
big handle of a wide hall door. Over against
the hurt man stood Norah Keely, weeping
with her whole heart and soul, and in
Norah’s right hand, clutched for a weapon,
was a large, sound iron frying-pan. ’Twas
Norah Mrs. Finn went to, ’twas Norah she
soothed and condoled. “There, there, darlin’
sweet,” says she, “don’t you take on, will
you. Nothin’s broke that matters a penny.
Glad I am you’ve come to your siven sinses
at last. You stay where you are, me girl,
wid a two-shillin’ rise, ’n’ what crock’ry
you break you pay for, but all the irun
pans that’s cracked up you can charge
to the house.” Then she went off without a
glance to Phil sitting up, smoothing out his
grand, tender swelling.
Norah is with the -Finns still. ’Tis near
two year since Phil had any manner of hurt
to his head at all.
EDDYSON.
On the Old Highway.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
O BAKER, baker, give me a loaf,
For I met to-day
A red-cheeked wench and a lazy oaf—
Folk of a kind on the Old Highway.
“There’s gold in the town and work to do,”
1 sang as I sped;
But the sun was bright and the sky was blue,
And the air as sweet as your new-made
bread.
I sang within me: “I’ll do my share,
As to do is right,
In the round of toil”; but the gold, tossed
hair
And the eyes of the wench undid me quite.
From the crown of my head to the tips of
my toes
I tingled to see
That wench as red as a roadside rose,
And that oat as gay as an oaf might be.
Ah, the oaf at her side, were his thoughts
all vain,
And his hours all waste,
With never an ache in his heart or a pain,
And the mouth of his red-lipped wench
to taste?
With hands a-swing and a heedless glance
The twain went by ;
For the world was theirs, and the world’s
romance,
And as thistle-down on the wind was I.
’Tis pleasant to think of the glowing smiles
Each gave to each —
The long, long road with its meal-dust miles,
And the red, red roses within their reach.
My heart cried “Stay!” and a couch I
sought
Where the sun shone bright;
And I threw me down for a moment’s
thought
On vonder hill in the morning’s light.
I said, “His face is a face I know —
I knew in youth !
Her eyes,” I said, “where the wonders
glow—■
Her rose-sweet mouth.... it is she in
truth!”
The shadows shortened to meet the noon
From rock and tree;
And I lay full-stretched, like a man in a
swoon,
And a bird was singing of Arcady.
I mused to music—and what do you think
I thought of there?
Not bread nor honey, nor wine to drink,
But Youth the Reckless and Pleasure the
Fair.
It was they I met on the road, good man,
As to toil I strode ;
And ever and ever, since Time began
Till time grows old, they shall walk that
road.
I watched my Youth and my Youth’s Desire
Till the trapee-hour sped,
And my joy died down like a dying fire,
And I roused me up, and I yawned and
said:
“This air is sweeter than wine to breathe ;
Yon skies are blue ;
But there’s new-made bread in the town
beneath,
And money to earn and work to do.”
So baker, baker, give me a loaf
New-baked, I pray ;
Too long I’ve tarried, a wayside oaf.
With a red-cheeked wench on the Old
Highway!
N.S.W.
RODERIC QINN.


estinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
Me /Zealand ok ice: 93-107 ( Feathorstoii St, Welling
S. WALES.
D O N’T LOOK OLD!
But restore your grey and faded hairs to their natural color with
LOCKYER'S SULPHUR
HAIR RESTORER
1/6 SOLD EVERYWHERE. 1/6
Lockyer’s gives health to the hair and restores the
natural color. It cleanses the scalp, and makes
the most peifeet Hair Dressing.
This world-famed Hair Restorer is prepared by the great
Haig Specialists, J. Pepper & Co. Ltd., Bedford Laboratories,
Lohdon, Eng., and can be obtained direct from them by
post, or from any Chemists and Stores throughout the World.
S*feSUARO YOUR health
otJ.CoHis Brownes
CWorodyae
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
I Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM,
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysent
Of all Chemists.
1 ’4
ices in England, 1/8, 3/
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN
BULL DOG BROOCH.
As worn 3jy our Brave Soldiers.
Every Patriotic Person should
wear one of these Brooches.
These splendid Brooches made in Australia and finished in
Gold, Silver, orOxodised Metal are sold retail at 2/6 each.
For the purpose of making these Brooches more popular
throughout the Commonwealth, we have decided to give
everyone an opportunity of obtaining Valuable Prizes for
acting as our agents. SEND NO MONEY, your name
and address will do, and by return mail we will send you
6of these Highly finished Brooches. When sold
remit us our money, and we will forward you the prize you
select from our Up-to-date Catalogue of Watches, Chains,
Clothing, Bracelets, Handbags, etc. Write To-day to the
SIMPLEX NOVELTY CO., Pilt-st., Sydney.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky
Dogs Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
MR. HOIELKEEPER, you will make your business more profitable
by installing in your Hotel
Eckersley’s Dispensers
W
for the rapid and economic production of
Draught Aerated Waters.
These Machines are now used in many of the leading
Hotels throughout Australia, and we give below names of
a few' Sydney users;-
Mr. J. B. Belli eld, Belfield’s Hotel, George Street,
Sydney. •
Mr. \V. H. Watson, Paragon Hotel, Circular Quay,
Sydney.
Mr. W. B. Richardson, Railway Hotel, George
Street, Sydney.
Mr. J. P. Barry, Lansdowne Hotel, George Street,
Sydney.
Mrs. Messenger, Hotel, Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Commonwealth Hotel, George Street, Sydney.
Grand Pacific Hotel, Manly.
Mr. P. A. McCormick, George Hotel, Albury.
W. Gardiner, Albury Hotel, Albury.
A large number of our Machines are also in use in
Suburban and Country Hotels in New South Wales.
Catalogs from MACHINES SUPPLIED ON TERMS.
ELLIOTT, DONALDSON & DOUGLAS, Brisbane, Queensland.
SAMSON & SON, ClifF Street, Fremantle, W.A.
ECKERSLEY & SONS, 25a George Street West, Sydney ; and South Melbourne ,
10-NIGHTS THE NIGHT
m
r.
m
m
%
n.
m
K
«l
vV
Sa
y
X
I
N vw
V,
v 2v ' l
> Sv.
v .. V’■*!
\ Vilf
r-UK Tf’ W
Beechams pills
THEY KEEP ME FIT AND WELL.
The tool with 5 big features
Is the „ _
features are:—
1. Self-locking dieg.
2. Self-locking guides.
S. No resetting dies after each cut.
No loose bushings to lose or mislay.
No small parts to break.
Moving: the releasing: lever to the
expands the dies—-then the stock
off the threads. Greater speed,
labor, cleaner-cut pipe-threading
produced by
left
lifts
less
are
Made in
11 Useful
Sizes
I? any illustration appearing in Thb
Bulletin t • !:es your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
AT any height, at any temperature, in any
climate, under any atmospheric conditions,
at any speed, up any grade, under any load,
S-l
The Famous
Schebler Carburetter
“The Heart of the Auto=
mobile” sends a never=
failing power stream
pulsing through your
motor.
Illustrative and descriptive
leaflets and all information free.
Robert C. Swan & Co. Ltd.,
304 Pitt Street, SYDNEY* sole Agents for Australasia. [1


The All-Australian
Power Transmitter.
NGROyiTE*
LEATHER
Hi
which is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
EverythingfajhiMechanical
Transmission of Power—
PULLEYS,
SHAFTING,
BELTING,
HANGERS,
PARKE 8 LACY CO. LTD.,
SELF-OILING BEARINGS,
COUPLINGS, COLLARS,
COUNTERSHAFTS, FRICTION. CLUTCHES, etc.
Large Stocks on Hand. All Sizes.
Write for our Catalogue, “Power Transmission Appliances.”
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
It is the Power
Your Belt V
Transmits
that
Counts.
52
jtxr
%
■s
Be
Sure
and
Specify
DICK’S
BELTING
Sole Agents
Jas. Hardie 8 Co.
Circular Quay,
SYDNEY.
And MELBOURNE.
THE
LAGGING
YOU WANT.
LOED MAGNESIA BEND,
& CLOSED ON PIPE.
NEWALL*S
MAGNESIA
COVERINGS.
WRITE FOR SAMPLES.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD.,
82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth; Wellington, N.Z.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, F/uming,
Patent “Ne/yambo” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work .
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, FoQtscray, Victoria.
HARD SERVICE
ELECTRIC DRILLS.
Stocked in
AC and DC.
Rugged
Highest Grade
Ball Bearings.
Gearing; of
Special Alloy
Steel.
These Drills are Practical, Dependable
and Powerful, and Develop more Power
for Size and Weight than any other.
DELIVERY FROM STOCK.
REASONABLE PRICES.
The
Illustrated Pamphlet on Application.
Austral Engineering Supply Co.
189 Clarence Street, SYDNEY. Ltd.
OIL ENGINES
MARINE or STATIONARY.
Sole Australian Agents :
WARBURTON, FRANKI, Ltd.,
307-311 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
en
s
THE LATEST
HANDPIECE
Fitted with, one long Bush for main spindle, also adjustable Lid Bush.
A 11 British
made, and the
most up-to-date
machine.
m/em
In
Improvements
the
Lister Leads.
9-13 YOUNG STREET
SYDNEY
Agents in all
v the States.
THE “CARD” CONCENTRATOR
MODEL “D” PATENTED.
Special Decks for Coarse and Fine Sands, as used by the leading
Australian mines on Tin, Copper, Gold, Silver, Lead, Wolfram, etc.
The “ CARD ” is manufactured ONLY by the SOLE. LICENSEES —
. 1
r 4
s m
•9
■
Equitable Building, Sydney.
Camomile St. Chambers, London.
